About This File

This file is part of a corpus compiled by Caitlin Matheis (University of Nebraska-Lincoln) for a 2021 computational text analysis project for the One More Voice recovery project (onemorevoice.org). This corpus encompasses a wide range of plain text (TXT) files containing nineteenth- and early twentieth-century literary works centered on Africa by several dozen different British and African writers. Questions about the corpus and project can be directed to Caitlin Matheis (cmatheis2@huskers.unl.edu), the creator of the corpus, and Adrian S. Wisnicki (awisnicki@unl.edu), lead developer for One More Voice.

File Source: Internet Archive, https://archive.org/details/castupbysea00bakegoog/page/n8/mode/2up

--------------------------------------


CAST UP BY THE SEA. 


BY

SIR SAMUEL W. BAKER, M.A. F.R.G.S. 

GOLD MEDALLIST OF THE ROYAL GEOGRAPHICAL SOCIETY; GRANDE MÉDAILLE D'OR DE
LA SOCIÉTÉ DE GÉOGRAPHIE DE PARIS;
AUTHOR OF "THE ALBERT N'YANZA GREAT BASIN OF THE NILE," "THE NILE TRIBUTARIES
OF ABYSSINIA," "THE RIFLE AND THE HOUND IN CEYLON," "RIGHT YEARS'
WANDERINGS IN CEYLON," ETC. ETC.



WITH ILLUSTRATIONS BY HUARD. 


London: 
MACMILLAN AND CO. 



[ The Right of Translation and Reproduction is reserved. ] 



LONDON : 
R. CLAY, SONS, AND TAYLOR, PRINTERS, 
BREAD STREET HILL. 



DEDICATION. 



Since the publication of the "Albert N'yanza," 
and the " Nile Tributaries of Abyssinia," I have 
received numerous letters from boys to whom I 
was entirely unknown, and who are at this moment 
unknown to me except through their spontaneous 
correspondence. Their letters were written in the 
youthful enthusiasm of the moment, when, having 
shared in the excitement of our African journeys, 
they had closed the book, and, full of sympathy, 
they wrote to me effusions which I prize as the 
outburst of boyish admiration for a successful 
struggle with difficulties. 

As a proof of the value that I attach to these 
warm expressions of interest taken by the young 
in our past adventures, I now dedicate to all boys 



vi DEDICA TION. 



(from eight years old to eighty) a story of fiction, 
combined with certain facts, that will, I trust, relieve 
the dreariness of a long Christmas evening. 

At the same time that I have endeavoured to 
avoid all improbabilities, I must apologize for having 
taken an astronomical liberty, in producing an eclipse 
of the sun which is not in the Almanac. 

S. W. BAKER. 



CONTENTS. 



CHAPTER I. 



Sandy Cove — The 19th of August, 1791 — A strange Figure — Paul and 
Polly Grey — Captain Smart — The old Hag, Mother Lee — Looking 
out for a Wreck — A Ship in a Storm — The Wreck — A Prize cast 
up by the Sea for Polly Grey Pages 1 — 30 



CHAPTER II. 

A Body from the Wreck — Dr. Jones — Paul and Polly examine their 
Prize — Counsel of Dr. Jones Pages 31 — 38 



CHAPTER III. 

¦ 

Twelve Years after — News for Mistress Grey — A Smuggler's Cave — 
Polly watching for her Husband — Mother Lee again — Paul's 
Danger on Sea — His Arrival at Home — Ned Grey — His Account 
of the Voyage — The Revenue Cutter on the Iron Rock — Mother 
Lee's fearful Revenge — A Nigger Boy cast up — Captain Smart 
lx)ards the Polly — The King's Officer and the Smuggler. 

Pages 39 — 68 



viii CONTENTS. 



CHAPTER IV. 

Ned Grey at School — Edith Jones and Nero — Jem Stevens — Expelled 
from School — His Fight with Ned Grey .... Pages 69 — 83 



CHAPTER V. 

Choice of Business for Ned — Edith and Ned in the Graveyard — A 
Love Scene interrupted by Mother Lee — Ned's Dream — On the 
Beach with "Nigger Tim" — A Man-of-war's Boat and Crew — 
Friendly Offer to take in Ned and Tim — Kidnapped for the King — 
Tim's Account of his Rescue by Ned — Under Canvas — Meeting 
with Stevens Pages 84 — 101 



CHAPTER VI. 

Polly Grey watching the Man-of-war's Boat — The Search for Ned — 
Constables in possession at Paul Grey's — Murder of Rector Jones — 
His last Words, "Ned Grey" — Dreadful Charge against the 
absent Ned — Mother Lee divulges the Cave — Seizure of the 
Smuggler's Stores — And of the Relics of the Wreck cast up by the 
Sea — Arrival of Captain Smart — Polly Grey and Edith Jones — 
Damaging Evidence against Ned — Verdict of Wilful Murder against 
Paul and Ned Grey and Nigger Tim — Apprehension of Mrs. Grey — 
The Rectory — Removal to Paul Grey's Cottage —More " Luck from 
the Sou'- West " Pages 102—125 

CHAPTER VII. 

Lugger and Cutter off Sandy Cove — Mother Lee's Stratagem— The 
Fires lighted — Mother Lee herself becomes a Signal Fire — Her 



CONTENTS. ix 



awful Death — Polly Grey on the Cliff— Joe Smart's Account to 
Polly of his Cruise — Joe's Hopes and Fears — Edith's Visits to the 
Grave of the poor Lady cast up by the Sea . . Pages 126 — 141 



CHAPTER VIII. 

Return to Paul on his Voyage to the French Coast — Dick Stone's 
Suspicions — The Frenchman's Politeness — Betrayed, and Prisoners 
— A French Jail — The Jailer's Daughter — Inquires for her Brother, 
a Prisoner in England — Dick Stone's Imposture, as a Stratagem of 
War — Paul and Dick resolve desperate Things — Paul's Opinion of 
his Friend's Conscience — Dick's Gallantry to Leontine. 

Pages 142—159 



CHAPTER IX. 

The Polly at anchor — Preparations for Escape— "Now or never" — 
"Luck from the Sou'- West" — Sapping and Mining— Leontines 
Soldier Lover — Her Plan for his Capture— Success of the Plot — 
Recapture of the Polly — Under Sail — Dick's parting Salute — " Nor'- 
nor'-east" Pages 160—178 



CHAPTER X. 

Paul Grey in sight of Home— A Revenue Cutter bearing down on the 
Polly— -Putting about from Home— A Sail ahead— Suspicions- 
Realities— The Frenchman's Politeness— Dick Stone's Reply— The 
Fight— Paul and Dick side by side on the Deck— Death of Dick 
Stone Pages 179 — 193 



CONTENTS. 



CHAPTER XL 

Ned Grey, Nigger Tim, and Nero at Sea — A Man overboard — The 
three Friends to the Rescue — Nero's Discovery and Refusal to act — 
Jem Stevens — Ned called to the Quarter-deck — Jem's Ingratitude 
— Arrival off the Coast of Ceylon — Looking out for the French. 

Pages 194 — 208 



CHAPTER XII. 

News of the French Frigate Forte — In Sight of her — The Action- 
Ned and his Friends and Jem Stevens — The Prize Crew — For 
England — A Hurricane — Disasters to the Frigate — Preparing to 
abandon the Ship — Treachery of Jem Stevens . Pages 209 — 227 



CHAPTER XIII. 

Ned, Tim, and Nero abandoned — Rummaging the Stores — A Coral 
Island — Jem Stevens' Box — Making themselves at Home — Tim's 
Oyster Trick— Turtle— Taking in Stores— Putting off to Sea— Land 
ahead — A Shark Hunt— Canoes from Land — Tim's Opinion of 
them Pages 228 — 251 



CHAPTER XIV. 

Nero's Reception of the Strangers — A Negro Welcome — Female 
Curiosity — Nero's Position among the Negroes — Ned's Hut — 
Arranging the "Grounds" — Ned married to the Chief's Daughter 
— Refuses the Happiness conferred on him — The Chief solves 
the Difficulty by giving him two Wives instead of one — Anger of 



CONTENTS xi 



the People— Determine to escape — The Departure — Captured by 
Slave-hunters — Tim's Opinion of the Position, and of Ned's Refusal 
to marry the Chiefs Daughters — Ned faces a Lion with Nero — And 
is victorious Pages 252 — 276 



CHAPTER XV. 

Marching to the West — Fine Scene — A populous Country — The Negro 
Town — Tim among his own People — Becomes the Spokesman — 
His Illustration of the Power of the Gun — Petitions the King for 
Freedom — Favourable Reception of the Petition — Purchase of Ned 
and Tim by the King — A Negro Supper — Ned summoned to 
Council — Pronounced a " Rain-maker " — The Compass — And 
Quicksilver — The Telescope as a Magical Instrument — Seizure of 
Slaves — Inhumanity of the Slave Traffic — Tim's Opinion of it. 

Pages 277—292 



CHAPTER XVI. 

Life among the Negroes — Ned's Distinction, and its Danger — An 
Expedition by Sea — Successful Hunting — An Enemy in Ambush — 
Ned's Generalship — His victorious Retreat — His Prowess cele- 
brated — His Attempts to teach the Natives Religion — The Nauti- 
cal Almanac — The King's Opinion of European Astronomy — Ned 
ventures to predict an Eclipse — Tim's politic Advice — The King's 
Anger and Threats — Ned's Danger — The Eclipse Pages 293 — 325 



CHAPTER XVII. 

Leontine at Falmouth — Her Brother set free — The News of Paul's 
Death— Grief of Polly Grey — Joe Smart's Kindness — His Visits to 
Polly at the House of Widow Jones — Jem Stevens at Home again, 



xii contents: 



and "Squire"' — Mrs. Jones' Opinion of him — Jem's Account of 
his Adventures — Widow Jones speaks to Edith — Edith's Resolu- 
tion — Jem's declaration of Love — What came of it 

Pages 326—349 



. : t CHAPTER XVIII. 

Mrs. Jones compares Jem with Ned — Joe Smart's Love for Polly 
Grey — Sets off to learn what he can of Paul's Death — A Stranger 
on the Road — The Stranger's Inquiries — Visits Polly Grey — Paul 
once more at Home Pages 350 — 364 



CHAPTER XIX. 

Paul's Account of himself— Joe Smart's Welcome of his old Friend — 
Joe meets Jem Stevens in the Dark — Apprehension of Paul — Ned 
and Tim in Africa — A Demand for Rain — Ned's Dilemma — Tim's 
Statesmanship — The Escape — Sad Fate of Nero — His Burial — A 
Prairie Fire — Among the Natives again — A Negro Village — The 
Queen — Her Beauty — Her Affection for Ned — Her Proposal — 
Pursuit by Ned's former Friends — Battle — Death of the young 
Queen — Departure of Ned, Tim, and Nero . . Pages 365 — 403 



CHAPTER XX. 

In the Desert— Want of Water— Death of the Guide— The last 
Draught of Water — Tim's devoted Faithfulness — And Death — Rain 
— Burial of Tim — An Arab Village — The Union Jack — The Lizard 
Light — Falmouth Pages 404 — 420 



CONTENTS. xiii 



• CHAPTER XXI. 

Jem Stevens and Edith — A Letter to the latter — Reads it — Jem pur- 
poses to depart— Edith locks the Door — Arrival of Ned — He shows 
Jem the Door — Apprehension of Ned .... Pages 421 — 431 



CHAPTER XXII. 

Message to Edith from a dying Man— Who confesses himself guilty 
of the Murder of her Father — Evidence against Jem — Deposition — 
The Sessions — Paul and Ned at the Bar — Evidence of Mrs. Jones — 
The Defence — The Murderer in Court — The Judge examines the 
Trinkets so long ago "cast up by the Sea" — Ned finds his 
Father Pages 432 — 445 



CHAPTER XXIII. 

Story of Ned's Parentage — Arrest of Jem Stevens — Marriage of Ned 
and Edith — Fate of Jem Stevens — The Cottage on the Cliff at 
Sandy Cove ... r .,,,,.. . Pages 446 — 456 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS. 

PAGE 

cast UP BY THE sea ! Frontispiece 

NED SAVES TIM FROM THE WRECK 57 

THE FIGHT 82 

DESTRUCTION OF MOTHER LEE 1 33 

PAUL GREY BOARDING THE FRENCH SCHOONER 1 88 

DESERTION OF NED AND TIM BY STEVENS 226 

NED AND THE LION 274 

DEATH OF THE AMAZON QUEEN 4OO 

DEATH OF TIM 413 

DISCOVERY OF THE BODY OF JEM STEVENS 452 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 



CHAPTER I. 

On the rugged coast of Cornwall, where the waves 
of the Atlantic break in their rudest force against the 
inhospitable cliffs, there stood in the year 1784 a 
/ small fishing village. 

This hamlet was hardly wprthy of the name, as it 
consisted of merely two or three clusters of huts, 
chiefly formed of decayed vessels which, no longer 
seaworthy, had been sawn in halves and inverted ; 
thus their well-tarred bottoms became the roofs to 
protect the occupants, who in former days had 
navigated their dwellings in the double capacity 
of fishermen and smugglers. 

The spot was well chosen. In the rough wall of 
precipices which rose from the water's edge to the 
height of several hundred feet, there was a sudden 
break, and a narrow cleft in the face of the cliff of 
about fifty yards' width opened into an inclosed bay 
so completely land-locked as to form a natural 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 



harbour of exceedingly small dimensions, the entire 
diameter of the horse-shoe form being within two 
hundred yards in width. 

This bay, surrounded by lofty precipitous cliffs, 
formed an amphitheatre excluded from the rest of the 
world, as its very existence would be unknown to a 
stranger until he suddenly approached the verge, and 
observed the calm basin below, with the sea horizon 
beyond the narrow gap that formed the entrance to 
the bay. At low tide the sand was exposed for a 
considerable extent, while at high water the waves 
rippled upon the shingly beach, upon which were 
arranged the boats belonging to the villagers, while 
fishing nets with crab and lobster pots were stretched 
upon the stones to dry. 

Strewed upon the beach in all.jdirections was an 
ominous amount of ship timber, the fragments of 
wrecks that had been washed into the bay ; while 
staves of casks, wooden hoops, and remains of broken 
cases attested the loss of ship and cargo that had 
been driven on this fatal shore. Among the nume- 
rous casualties upon that portion of the Cornish coast, 
few shipwrecked persons survived to tell their tale. 
There was no landing-place for many miles along the 
shore but Sandy Cove, except at low water during 
calm weather, when certain exposed points that had 
been worn away by the waves afforded a rough 
beach of broken crags that had fallen from the cliffs 
above. These slippery rocks, covered with long sea- 
weed, were often the hopeless refuge of the strong 
swimmer, who had struggled with the storm only to 
be dashed to pieces against the cruel shore that re- 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 



fused him shelter. It was reported vaguely that the 
inhabitants of this pitiless coast were equally inhos- 
pitable, and that the fishermen of Sandy Cove com- 
bined the professions of smugglers and wreckers with 
their more honourable occupation. 

The huts or cabins that composed the village 
might have amounted to twenty. These were erected 
in various localities, without any regard to arrange- 
ment, in such positions as were most favourable, — 
generally about fifty feet above high-water mark, — 
upon .the level plateaux that had been formed by 
the detachment of portions of the cliff. Upon these 
narrow terraces, the boat cabins were built directly 
against the abrupt face of the wall-like rock that rose 
for several hundred feet above them ; while the tiny 
gardens that faced each hut were fenced with the 
remnants of ship timber, that was the principal fea- 
ture of the locality. Many of these gardens showed 
the care and taste of the owners ; and the bright 
flowers that bloomed in that warm and sheltered nook 
contrasted strangely with the plain black cabins of 
inverted boats that formed the rude dwellings of the 
fishermen. 

Before these huts, were high forked sticks whitened 
by long use, upon which were stretched the drying 
lines, whence dangled in the breeze the dark blue 
Guernsey frocks, checked shirts, and grey stockings 
of the men, with blue petticoats distended by the 
wind, and square queer-shaped shifts that evidently 
belonged to the females of the establishment. 

So completely were the dwellings sheltered and 
concealed by the high cliffs above, that a stone might 

B 2 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 



have been dropped perpendicularly upon the roofs, 
and the only approach from the higher ground was 
by zig-zag paths, winding down the rocks to the 
beach below. 

Only one exception to the rule of general con- 
cealment showed that the coast was inhabited. About 
two hundred feet above the bay, but sheltered by 
the still higher cliff at the back, there stood upon 
a natural terrace a neat cottage formed of clay, 
built up with portions of wreck, the whole white- 
washed, excepting the timber work, that was care- 
fully blackened with a coating of pitch. The garden 
which fronted the dwelling was luxuriant in dense 
bushes of myrtle, while sweet verbena ornamented 
the walls of the cottage, at the back of which the 
red marble cliffs rose about a hundred feet to the 
summit. There was no approach from the higher 
ground, but it was necessary to ascend from the 
village below by a winding path hewn out from the 
rough face of the cliff. 

From this lofty point the sea view overlooked the 
entrance to the bay with an unbroken line of horizon, 
while from the low wall of stone that bordered the 
narrow garden was a bird's-eye view of the little 
harbour beneath, in which were lying at anchor 
several small fishing boats, but above all, a smart- 
looking lugger of about forty tons. This vessel was 
said to be a trawler, and was called the Polly. 

It was a sultry night in August. The day had 
been oppressive; it was a dead calm upon the sea, 
and, as the sun had sunk, a yellowish glare of haze 
had obscured the horizon, while long thin streaks of 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 5 

fleecy clouds, tinged with vermilion with the sun's 
last rays, turned ominously black when the bright 
light faded. The swallows had been flying so low 
as to merely skim the ground, and the sea-gulls had 
been screaming in a wild manner as they followed 
the shoals of porpoises that chased the mackerel at 
the entrance of the bay. For some weeks no rain 
had fallen, and unusual heat had parched the country. 
Such was the sunset of the 19th of August, 1791 : 
the sea and atmosphere were so mingled together 
that, in the dull twilight, nothing could be distin- 
guished on the surface; but an unnatural stillness 
pervaded the darkening scene. 

At this time, a strange figure sat upon the low 
garden-wall that overlooked the sea, and, apparently 
motionless, strove to pierce the mysterious haze that 
shrouded the horizon. At the first sight it would 
have been difficult to determine the sex, but a closer 
examination showed it to be a female. She sat at 
that giddy height crouched and balanced upon the 
unstable wall, with her knees close to her thin and 
scantily-bearded chin, while, to steady her position, 
she tightly clutched her ankles with her long and 
wiry hands. She wore neither shoes nor stockings. 
A ragged petticoat of blue serge, with a long jacket 
of the same coarse material, formed the whole of 
her clothing, while an old sailor's oil-skin cap, known 
as a " sou'-wester," covered her head, and descended 
to her gaunt shoulders. It would have been impos- 
sible to have guessed her age — she might have been 
seventy or ninety ; her hair was white, and fell in 
long grizzled locks that had been uncombed for 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 



years; her face was weather-beaten and brown, but 
so wrinkled and cadaverous as to resemble nothing 
earthly, and a long, sharp, hooked nose descended 
to a level with her thin compressed lips. In the dead 
stillness of the evening this ill-omened figure gazed 
intently upon the dark sea. Presently she mut- 
tered, " Sou'-west ! sou'-west ! luck comes from the 
sou'- west — fog on the sea, and fire on the cliff! 
Ha, ha ! ha, ha ! The storm's a-coming." 

The darkness increased, until the figure of the 
old hag first dwindled to a shadow and was soon 
utterly obscured ; her presence in the same spot 
being only revealed by a low guttural rattle, . or 
chuckle, at every increased moan of the wind, which 
now rose at intervals, although the air was still death- 
like calm. 

At this moment a light shone from the window 
of the cottage about twenty paces distant. 

The interior of this cottage was a combination of 
neatness and disorder; fishing-nets were hung from 
beams in the ceiling, spare corks and leads for nets 
were strung upon ropes and hung in festoons upon 
various hooks upon the walls, while oars and boat- 
hooks were arranged across the beams, upon which, 
planks werie fitted to form a loft : upon these were 
piled a variety of objects in great confusion. The 
floor was paved with red brick strewn with white 
sand ; the lattice windows were ornamented with 
geraniums in pots brightened with red lead ; and the 
mantelpiece was arranged with shells: in the centre 
stood a large wooden clock, above which hung a 
print in a black frame of King George the Third. 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 



(t 



There were several prints of vessels hanging on the 
walls, but there was one that was in a superior frame 
as though of more importance : this was a lugger in 
full sail with a spanking breeze, beneath which was 
written in gold letters, "The Polly — 40 tons." On 
either side of this were hung a brace of ship pistols 
and a cutlass, while half-a-dozen muskets were ranged 
above the fireplace. 

The cottage consisted of a bedroom and sitting- 
room, with a small back kitchen, one wall of which 
was formed by the cliff against which the dwelling 
was erected. The clock struck. 

" What o'clock's that ?" inquired a man from the 
inner room ; " nine or ten ? " 

I hardly listened," said a sweet woman's voice ; 
for I am too sad to think of time, but I see it is 
already ten." 

At this moment a fine-looking seaman entered the 
room, and approaching the table at which the last 
speaker was sitting, he drew his chair to her side. 

" Don't be cast down, Polly, my girl," he exclaimed, 
in a rough but sympathizing tone ; " it's a bad job, 
but it can't be helped. Cheer up ! Sobbing won't b/ing 
him back again ; we must bear the loss and wait for 
better luck ; he's saved from many a rough night, 
poor child." 

This attempt at comfort, far from giving consola- 
tion, produced a burst of tears, and the lovely girl to 
whom the words were addressed buried her face in 
her hands, and gave way to unrestrained emotion as 
she bowed her head upon a much-worn old family 
Bible that lay open before her. 



8 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

Mary, or, as she was commonly called, Polly Grey, 
was the young wife of the manly specimen of a 
British sailor who now, sitting by her side, vainly 
sought to soothe her affliction. She was the only 
daughter of a respectable farmer in the neighbour- 
hood, and she had been nearly a year married to 
Paul Grey, the happy and much-envied husband 
whose frank straightforward manner and handsome 
person had won the prize that had been sought by 
many of greater wealth and position. 

Polly Grey was a fair sample of an English rustic 
beauty ; of middle height, finely, but vigorously 
formed, a lovely complexion, with large deep blue 
eyes, and rich blonde hair that, when released from 
the simple but neatly twisted coil, fell in heavy 
masses far below her waist. She was now in her 
twenty-first year : she had been the happiest of the 
happy since her wedding day; two months ago she 
had first known the joy that a mother alone can feel, 
when she pressed a lovely child to her heart. The 
scene had changed : she was now in black ; hardly a 
week had passed since her first hope was shattered, 
and the child upon which all her joys had centred 
had ceased to live. That first grief pressed heavily 
upon her. Till now her life had been all sunshine : a 
husband that she loved, her infant boy born in the 
image of his father ; but hardly had he learnt to 
smile upon her than he died. "Why was he born 
if only to die ? Why was he given if only to be 
taken away ? Why was she a mother if only to 
be a mourner ? " These were the thoughts that 
added to her sorrow, and vainly the young mother 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 



turned to her Bible for consolation ; she could not 
unravel the mystery, she could only feel her loss. 

Paul Grey, although a warm-hearted man, had been 
too much accustomed to the rude chances of his life 
to allow this domestic sorrow to oppress him. Two 
days ago he had carried the little coffin to the grave, 
and as the father's tears fell upon the spot, so they 
were the last he shed, and with a sailor's curt philo- 
sophy he had consoled himself, and strove to console 
his wife, with the idea of " better luck next time." 

At this time, Paul was about twenty-eight years of 
age, but the rough life of a sailor had so bronzed his 
features that he appeared somewhat older ; he was 
remarkably handsome, and considerably above the 
middle height, but his herculean width of shoulders 
reduced his appearance to that of a man of five feet 
ten. When the heart of Mary Dale was won, and 
she became Polly Grey, Paul had not only put his 
cottage in order to receive his young bride, but he 
had also invested the whole of his ready cash, and 
had even borrowed money, to complete the new 
lugger which now lay anchored in the bay: this 
vessel was the darling of his heart, and next to his 
wife it shared his affection ; therefore the new boat 
had been christened the Polly, under which beloved 
name it formed a member of the family. There was 
no smarter craft on the Cornish coast; neither was 
there a better or more lovely wife than Polly Grey. 

Now, although the Polly had been afloat no longer 
than a year, she had already gained a great reputation ; 
but, mingled with the reports of her good qualities 
as a sea-boat, there were vague rumours that were 



io CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

connected with her mysterious disappearance and 
rapid . return voyages which raised the suspicions of 
the coast-guard ; and in the public-houses of the 
neighbouring village, about five miles distant, it was 
more than insinuated by jealous fishermen that the 
Polly was a smuggler, and no trawler. At the time 
that I describe, the occupation of wrecking or of 
plundering the cargo of vessels that had perished on 
the coast was by no means considered unworthy of 
the Cornish fishermen ; and in those days smuggling 
was regarded in no unfavourable light by the am- 
phibious inhabitants of the southern shore, but the 
profession was considered more honourable; than 
otherwise, provided that it could be prosecuted with- 
out discovery ; even should the smuggler be appre- 
hended by the authorities, the sympathy of the coast 
inhabitants sided with the offender. Certainly the 
fishermen of Sandy Cove deserved the reputation that 
had been earned by successful enterprise both in 
wrecking and in contraband adventures, but how far 
Paul Grey was connected personally with such acts 
was a matter of simple suspicion. The Polly be- 
longed to him, but the crew of the vessel were natives 
of Sandy Cove ; and such was his influence, and the 
general respect in which he was held, that few of the 
revenue officers would have ventured to insult his 
dwelling by a visit of search. It was currently re- 
ported that even among the coast-guard Paul had 
friends who closed their eyes to the voyages of the 
Polly. The station was about six miles distant, and 
the detachment was commanded by an old school- 
fellow of Paul's, a lieutenant in the navy, who had lost 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. ii 

his left arm in an action with a French frigate. This 
man, who was known as Captain Smart, had been 
an unsuccessful admirer of Mary Dale, now Polly 
Grey; but, as an old and honourable friend of his 
more fortunate rival, he had advanced Paul the sum 
required for the completion of the Polly, with no 
other security than his note of hand for 200/. This 
was a private affair, only known to the parties con- 
cerned, and the visits of Captain Smart to the neat 
white cottage of Sandy Cove were equivalent to a 
certificate of Paul Grey's character. In fact, Captain 
Smart, or Joe- Smart, as Paul familiarly called his 
old schoolfellow, was a true friend ; and, although his 
honest heart had, as he described it, " struck hard and 
well nigh gone to pieces" when Mary Dale refused 
him, he consoled himself with the fact that she loved 
his old friend Paul, who had two arms while he had 
only one. Joe Smart was well to do in the world ; 
he had a permanent appointment in addition to a 
comfortable independence left him by his father ; but 
he had made up his mind since his first disappoint- 
ment never to love again. He was an active resolute- 
looking sailor, with a peculiarly open expression. He 
was about two years older than Paul, and on the day 
that had just closed he had been down to Sandy 
Cove to ask after the "little sailor," as he termed 
Paul's child, to whom he was to have been godfather ; 
he had then heard the mournful news, and, seeing the 
distress of the young mother, he had simply pressed 
her hand in sympathy, and had hurried back to the 
coast-guard station, feeling almost as much as though 
the loss were his own. 



12 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

The old wooden clock had just struck ten when 
Paul's rough attempt at comfort was addressed to 
Polly Grey. They were now sitting at the table, his 
arm round her waist, while, as her head rested upon 
his shoulder, he tenderly wiped the tears from her 
large blue eyes, and warmly kissed her forehead. At 
this moment there was a hurried tap at the window. 

"What's that?" said Polly. 

" Only a bird that has flown against the glass at- 
tracted by the light," said Paul ; but several taps in 
quick succession drew their attention to the window, 
against which was pressing the hideous face of the 
old hag who had been seated as sentry upon the 
terrace wall ; her thin nose was flattened against the 
glass, and an expression of fierce excitement increased 
the horror of her appearance. 

" Come out," cried the old woman ; " there's work 
to-night. D'ye hear the bell ? " 

" What is it, mother ? " said Paul. " It's coming on 
to blow, I know, but the Pollys all snug ; she's got two 
anchors down, and she won't hurt in the cove." 

In another instant the face disappeared from the 
window, and the door opening from without, the old 
woman hobbled into the room. 

" Such a night I never saw," said she ; " it's black as 
pitch, and thick fog on the sea, and not a breath of 
wind except above, where its moaning like a dying 
man. It's the last night for many, but a good night 
for some ; I heard the bell ! " 

" What bell, Mother Lee ? " inquired Polly Grey, 
"you couldn't hear the church bell under the cliff." 

" Ha, ha ! the church bell ! " replied the old woman ; 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 13 

" very good, very good ! The church bell ! It's tolling 
for the dead before they die — the church is at sea and 
the bell's tolling in the fog — the fog bell's tolling, and 
the ship's coming on the shore : it's a good night for 
some ; the tide's running in. Out with yer, Paul, and 
get the first pickings ! " 

Mother Lee, as the old hag was called, was the 
widow of a certain Stephen Lee, who had been 
hanged about fifty years before for piracy. Report 
said that the old woman had deserved the same fate ; 
but it was certain that so long as the oldest inhabitant 
could remember Sandy Cove she had been the evil 
genius of the spot : half-prophetess and fortune-teller, 
always promoting evil, she had so worked upon the 
superstitions of the people that she was considered to 
possess more than human power, and to be capable 
of producing mischief and calamities through spiritual 
agency. Thus Mother Lee subsisted upon charity ; 
she lived in an old inverted boat, and gathered fuel 
for the winter from the pieces of wreck upon the 
shore. Clothes she had none, except those cast off 
by both sexes ; these she adopted without choice, and 
she usually appeared in a hybrid attire of male and 
female. From long practice she had become so 
thoroughly acquainted with the tide, currents, weather, 
and other local phenomena that the superstitious 
fishermen of Sandy Cove thoroughly believed in her 
prophecies, and even accredited her with the power ot 
raising a storm, and of drawing a vessel upon the 
coast. As the wreck of a ship was considered a bless- 
ing to the neighbourhood, Mother Lee was an im- 
portant person in Sandy Cove, and although feared, 



14 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

and certainly not loved, she was never refused a re- 
quest. The only person who disbelieved in Mother 
Lee was Polly Grey. This had reached the old woman's 
ears, and curses that she had muttered in the village 
against the young mother were quickly succeeded by 
the fading away and death of the child : this fact was 
generally accepted as a proof of witchcraft. 

As has been already mentioned, Paul Grey's garden 
was the best spot for a look out, as commanding the 
entire sea view ; thus, to the intense dislike of Polly 
Grey, old Mother Lee would take her seat like a vul- 
ture for hours together upon the terrace wall, undis- 
mayed by the precipice of two hundred feet that 
sank sheer below her to the beach. 

There was something horrible in the delight that 
the old hag exhibited in the approaching calamity. 
Paul knew that she was to be trusted, and, rising from 
his seat, he whispered to his wife, who clung to his 
arm as though spell-bound by the fixed look of the 
old woman, and, accompanied by Mother Lee, he 
opened the door to look at the night. In the same 
moment, a sudden puff of wind extinguished the 
candle, and Polly Grey, left in the dark, felt chilled to 
the bone as she heard the coarse chuckle of the old 
woman, as she muttered on the threshold, " There's 
luck from the sou'-west. There's the bell in the fog ! " 

Mother Lee was right. Hardly had Paul quitted 
the house, than the puff of wind that had extinguished 
the light was succeeded by a momentary but violent 
gust. Almost at the same instant a distant flash of 
lightning shone hazily through the foggy darkness : 
the old woman had vanished. Presently, a low roll 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 15 

of thunder was heard, and again a violent gust of cold 
air swept along the cliffs direct from the sea. This 
was succeeded by a few moments of dead calm, in 
which Paul started, as the distant sound of a bell 
struck distinctly upon his ear. The bell was on the 
sea. There could be no doubt that some vessel 
obscured in the fog had been carried out of her 
course by the strong current that set towards a rocky 
point within half a mile of Sandy Cove, which, 
stretching far into the. sea, formed a bluff cliff, against 
which many a good ship had gone to pieces. The 
fog-bell was repeatedly sounded, and, as the breeze 
came directly towards the land, it could be heard 
from a great distance. Paul had concluded that the 
vessel was a mile and a half from the shore, in which 
case her position was one of great danger, as there, 
could be no doubt that a severe tempest was about to 
commence from the south-west, which would infallibly 
drive her upon this dangerous coast. There was not 
much time for consideration, for the few heavy gusts, 
that had been succeeded at intervals by unnatural 
calms, were suddenly followed by a terrific squall, that 
blew the sand and small pebbles clattering against 
the windows, which were now once more illumined by 
Polly Grey's rekindled light. A long roll of thunder 
sounded like heavy artillery in the distance, but the 
roar of the wind, and the angry rumble of the waves 
upon the rocky beach, had so much increased that all 
other sounds were deadened. 

Paul entered his cottage, and quickly closed the 
door. His wife had been anxiously awaiting his return. 

" Where is that dreadful old woman ? " asked Polly- 



16 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

" Although I believe in nothing but her wickedness, 
and despise the superstitions connected with her, I 
cannot help my blood freezing when she glares upon 
me as she did to-night." 

" She's gone," said Paul. " I don't know where, if 
she's not blown over the cliff by the squall that nearly 
took me off my legs. But the old woman's right, 
Polly. There's a vessel in the fog not far from shore, 
and nothing but a miracle can save her in the gale 
that's now driving dead upon the coast." 

" How dreadful ! " replied the kind-hearted wife. 
" What can we do to save her, Paul ? Think of the 
poor creatures, if wrecked upon this horrible shore ! 
What if we light a fire upon the cliff to give them 
warning ? There may yet be hope ! " 

Polly Grey had never been at Sandy Cove on the 
happy occasion of a shipwreck, and she little knew 
the feelings of the villagers in a moment of such 
excitement ; even Paul from long experience had 
ceased to regard a wreck with the sympathy that 
such a calamity should awaken, but he accepted it 
as a natural consequence upon bad seamanship that 
ought to have been avoided. 

"You can't save her, Polly ; and the people of the 
Cove wouldn't thank you if you could. It isn't often 
that they get a good turn, but they count a wreck 
as good luck to the Cove if its bad luck to the ship. 
But there's no harm in lighting a fire," continued 
Paul; "it may give her a chance. So help me while 
I roll out an old tar-barrel that lies in the shed. You 
get an armful of shavings, Polly, and we'll soon have 
a blaze." 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 17 

In a few minutes Paul had rolled a large tar-barrel 
to the front of the cottage, and with his wife's assist- 
ance he had crammed it full of straw and shavings. 
" Don't go too near the cliff, Polly," said Paul, as 
the tremendous force of the gale nearly lifted her off 
her feet. "Sit down on that stone by the window, 
while I get some fire;" and he quickly returned 
from the cottage kitchen with a couple of blazing 
sticks that he had taken from the hearth. These he 
thrust into the interior of the barrel, and in an instant 
the strong breeze ignited the inflammable material, 
and the flames wrapt around the mouth. In a 
few minutes the fire flared to a great height, and 
brightly illumined the white cottage and the high 
cliff behind. Paul brought fresh fuel in the shape 
of old staves and pieces of broken boats, which, 
being thickly coated with pitch, created an intense 
light. 

"They'll see that, anyhow," said Paul; "if the fog 
will only lift. It can't last long in this gale." 

These words were hardly uttered when a bright 
flash at sea was shortly followed by the heavy boom 
of a cannon. 

"They've seen the fire," said Polly. "Please God, 
they are safe !" 

Another gun now sounded from the same quarter. 

" They are driving on the rocks," said Paul ; " those 
guns are signals of distress. Our fire has given them 
the warning of the coast. There's no hope except in 
their cables and anchors ! " 

At that moment the fog rose like a curtain, and the 
moon that had been obscured shone brightly between 

C 



1 8 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

the dark clouds that hurried rapidly across her. 
The scene was at once changed, and the mist having 
dissolved, there was no longer any doubt of the 
position. A fine full-rigged ship was close-hauled to 
the wind with double-reefed topsails, and was endea- 
vouring to clear the coast. No sooner, however, had 
the fog lifted than those on board at once perceived 
their hopeless situation as the bright fire showed them 
their true distance from the shore ; accordingly with 
great alacrity two anchors were let drop, and, the 
ship swinging head to wind, the sails were quickly 
taken in, and the cables were veered out to their 
full extent. During this time the storm had fright- 
fully increased ; the sea was white with the crests 
of angry breakers, which dashed with such violence 
against the rocks that the roar of water and rolling 
shingle almost equalled the thunder that reverberated 
overhead. The ship was now the plaything of the 
waves. Tremendous rollers came surging towards 
the bay, threatening to beat down the noble vessel 
beneath their falling crests ; but she gallantly rose to 
each breaker, and, although the seas swept across 
her decks, she always recovered herself in time to 
withstand the shock of the succeeding wave. 

The gale had increased to a hurricane, and as the 
enormous waves dashed against the perpendicular 
cliffs, the spray flew a hundred feet above the sea 
level. ' The night was wearing away; it was about 
two A.M. ; and Paul and his wife had been watching 
the exciting scene, and keeping up the fire until the 
fuel was well-nigh exhausted. "Go to bed, Polly!" 
he exclaimed. "Nothing can be done. If she can 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 19 

hold on till morning the storm may moderate, or 
perhaps the wind may change, and, if so, there may 
be a chance of safety." 

The fire had burnt low, and, as Paul spoke, a shadow 
flitted upon the cottage wall, and the low chuckle of 
Mother Lee was heard, as she approached the fire, 
and warmed her skinny hands. 

"Ha, ha!" she muttered; "the luck comes from 
the sou'-west. Therms no hempen cable that'll 
stand a Cornish rock. She'll cut before the morning. 
Get to bed with yer ! " cried the old hag ; " and 
wake fresh for the pickings. There'll be work for 
all hands before sunrise." 

Horror-struck at the cold-blooded prophecy of 
Mother Lee, and glad to escape from her presence, 
Polly retired to the cottage, and throwing herself, 
without undressing, upon the bed, in spite of her 
anxiety she fell into a sound sleep thoroughly tired 
out with watching. Paul would not sleep, but busied 
himself with preparing ropes for the expected emer-*- 
gency. In the mean time Mother Lee scraped together 
the hot embers, and arranged the few unburnt pieces 
that remained to restore the fire, over which the old 
woman crouched, apparently without heeding the 
hurricane, which at every gust swept showers of 
sparks against the cottage wall. 

There were many watchers that night in Sandy 
Cove, who had been aroused by Mother Lee, who 
had gone her rounds" to the various cottages, and pro- 
phesied " luck from the sou'-west." 

It was about five o'clock in the morning, and Paul, 
having first completed his coils of lines, had slept 

C 2 



20 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

for an hour, when he was awakened by a sharp knock- 
ing at the door. In another instant it opened, and 
Mother Lee entered the room. " Get up with you ! 
get up ! " she cried ; " one cable's cut, and a mast is 
just gone overboard, she won't last long ! " 

Paul hurried out, accompanied by his wife, who had 
hastily thrown her cloak across her shoulders, for the 
morning was cold and raw. " God help them ! " ex- 
claimed the kind-hearted Polly as she first looked 
upon the terrible scene. The storm was if possible 
more intense than before ; the ship had changed her 
position during the night and had apparently dragged 
her anchors; she was now lying about half a mile from 
the coast, exactly opposite the entrance to the little 
bay of Sandy Cove, which, not being above fifty yards 
in width, was unseen and unknown by the crew of the 
vessel. As Mother Lee had already made known, the 
rocks had chafed through one of the hempen cables, 
the slack end of which now hung loosely in the water, 
while the remaining cable was as tight as an iron bar 
whenever a tremendous wave struck the bows of the 
ship. In those days chain cables were very rare, and 
many a vessel and crew would have been saved from 
destruction had they been provided as now with 
the faithful metal. When anchored among sharp- 
edged rocks, it was next to impossible that a hempen 
rope should escape the friction. One rope as we have 
seen had just parted, therefore the ship swung by a 
single cable in a storm that rendered her position 
hopeless. She appeared to be an Indiaman of about 
1,200 tons. The mizenmast had been carried away 
a few feet above the deck, and the crew were actively 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. ?.i 



employed in cutting away the mainmast to lighten 
the ship, and to lessen the strain upon the anchor. 

The natural feeling of the sailor now burst from 
Paul. "Fools!" he exclaimed, as he stamped his foot 
upon the ground, and gesticulated vainly to the fated 
vessel ; "up with the jib ! Slip the cable, and bring 
her head to the shore ! Loose the foresail, and run for 
the mouth of the bay !" Alas ! they knew nothing of 
the coast, neither could they distinguish the narrow 
entrance in the midst of spray and white-headed 
breakers that, burst upon the rocks. Even the little 
bay, usually so calm, was now a heavy sea, as every 
wave, although broken in its force, swfept through the 
gap and rolled heavily upon the beach. The Polly, 
rode safely at anchor, with a long cable, and although 
every now and' then the surf broke over her forecastle, 
her hatchways were secured, and there was nothing to 
fear in Sandy Cove for so good a vessel. 

The Indiaman was, as usual with that fine class of 
vessel, exceedingly well manned ; and, had the crew 
been aware of the little harbour that lay concealed 
so near them, there would have been no difficulty, 
with good seamanship, in running in and beaching 
the ship upon Sandy Cove. However, there was no 
means of communicating with the doomed vessel ; 
and, although a harbour of refuge was actually at 
hand, the axes were plied at both the remaining masts, 
which presently fell by the board. 

Paul was watching these operations with a tele- 
scope, and explaining to his eager wife all that passed 
upon the deck. " They are making a raft with spars," 
said he ; " but it will be of little use among those 



I 

\ 



22 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

breakers." After a little pause, he continued, " Poor 
things ! There are women and children on board, all 
clinging to each other on the poop deck." 

" Oh Paul, dear Paul, can we do nothing to help 
them ? " cried his wife in intense excitement ; " how 
dreadful for the poor children and mothers ! " At this 
moment her own recent loss awakened in her heart a 
deep sympathy for those who were shortly to part for 
ever, even before her eyes. 

Suddenly Paul lowered the telescope. " The cable's 
parted ! " he shouted ; " they're lost ! " 

At that moment the ship, that had hitherto been 
lying with her stern toward the shore, and her head 
direct to the wind, leaping over the opposing waves 
although almost buried in surf and spray, suddenly 
altered her position, and her head turning slowly 
away from the gale, she fell into the trough of the sea 
with her broadside to the wind. A tremendous wave 
with curling crest came towering towards her, and, 
hardly rising to meet the shock, the ship merely 
heeled over, and the terrific wave swept clean across 
her decks. For an instant nothing was visible but a 
confused mass of foam and spray, with a dark object 
in the centre ; but in a few seconds the hull again 
appeared. The decks that had been thronged with 
people were nearly empty ; only a few of the strongest 
men remained hanging on to any rope that offered a 
secure hold. Another sea struck her, and once more 
the powerless hulk lay buried. Again she righted, 
and still fewer people remained upon her decks ; she 
now rolled helplessly on, buried by every sea, and 
nearly turning bottom upwards as each successive 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 23 

wave struck her. The current set rather away from 
the entrance to Sandy Cove, but the wind being dead 
on shore she would evidently strike a little on the 
left of the mouth. 

" She'll strike on the Iron Rock before she reaches 
the shore," said Paul. 

This was a black mass that only now and then 
reared its threatening form above the surface, about 
three hundred yards from the entrance to the bay, 
over which the breakers dashed in a tremendous 
surf. As Paul foretold, the vessel was evidently being 
driven directly against this rock. 

Again Paul searched the wreck with his telescope ; 
she was now within a short distance of the fatal rock. 
" They're lowering a boat," said Paul, " some women 
have just come on deck from the cabin. Well done ! 
the boat's lowered, and they are getting the women 
down ! Off she goes ! That's right : now pull hard for 
the mouth of the Cove ! Keep her straight ! — here 
comes a breaker ! — sit close together in the stern ! 
Ha ! what's that ? the tiller broken ? My God ! she's 
over ! " 

A raging breaker burst directly over the boat, and 
after rolling over several times she disappeared. Polly 
sobbed aloud. 

In the mean while, the once noble ship, sometimes 
lifted upon a wave, sometimes half buried in the surf, 
rolled heavily towards the Iron Rock. At length 
a wave higher than the rest bore her forward with 
resistless power, and, raising her far above the general 
level, it appeared to drop her bodily upon the rock, 
the crash of the collision being distinctly heard on 



24 CAST UP BY THE SEA, 



shore; she remained fast, lying athwart-ship, and in 
another instant a wave burst against her as though 
she had been a portion of the cliff, and the spray flew 
high in air, while the sea rolled completely across her 
decks. 

" She can't stand that for half an hour," said Paul. 
" Stay here, Polly ; or better go in, doors, she'll break 
up directly, and there's no soul living on her now." 

But Polly could not quit the dreadful scene, and 
as Paul now descended from the cottage to the beach 
below by a zigzag path, she accompanied him to the 
bottom of the Sandy Cove. Here all the fishermen 
had congregated with their wives and children, intent 
upon the plunder that the cargo would afford when- 
ever the wreck should break up and the prize would 
be washed on shore. In such a storm it was impos- 
sible to descend the cliffs, as the waves beat against 
the face; when the storm should abate, at low tide, 
there would be a narrow beach at the base of the 
precipice, upon which the cargo would be washed on 
shore, if not previously destroyed by being beaten 
against the rocks ; but they now all waited, in 
expectation that some portion of the spoil might 
be washed upon the shelving beach in Sandy Cove 
by the narrow entrance, especially as the vessel had 
grounded at no great distance from the mouth of the 
bay, where she now lay within view of the village. 

For about an hour the hull of the vessel withstood 
the fury of the sea which dashed against her with 
irresistible force; but, as each wave retired, large 
volumes of water poured in cascades from her opened 
timbers, showing that she could not much longer 



t 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 25 

hold together. At length the entire deck floated off 
the poop as a heavy wave broke full upon her; a 
short time afterwards the stern rose bodily to an 
advancing breaker, and as the sea rushed over her 
it separated and disappeared, leaving only the fore- 
part of the vessel fixed upon the rocks; from that 
moment the waves became enriched with the cargo, 
which was to be seen floating in the surf in all 
directions in the shape of bales, cases, tea-chests, 
barrels, and packages of all descriptions. This was 
the signal for a general cheer from the wreckers and 
their families who now thronged the shore. A few 
minutes later, a couple of large casks were seen at 
the entrance of the Cove which, lifted by a rolling 
wave, were driven directly into the harbour; they 
were apparently lashed together. There was a 
general rush forward on the part of the people who 
lined the beach in their eagerness to secure the prize. 
Among the men who dashed into the surf were some 
of the most desperate wreckers of the coast ; but the 
force of the breakers was so great that they were 
not only beaten down by the curl of the waves, but 
they were dragged back by the under-tow, and only 
regained the shore by the assistance of the crowd 
who, with joined hands, formed a line and were thus 
enabled to resist the rush of water. There was only 
one man who had been able to force his way through 
the breakers and swim out to the floating barrels — 
this was Paul Grey, who had thrown off his coat and 
boots, and, with a coil of thin line across his broad 
shoulders, now struck out manfully through the rough 
sea ; sometimes he was for the moment buried in the 



26 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

broken waves, at others he would dive through the 
advancing wall of water just as it curled above his 
head and threatened to beat him down. "Bravo, 
Paul!" shouted many voices, especially those of 
women, who were standing on the beach ; " he'll 
have it now!" "There's good spirits in those casks, 
or they wouldn't swim so light!" said a grim-looking 
ruffian, who had just failed in his attempt to swim 
through the surf. " Paul's the cat's-paw, but we'll cry 
halves when it comes ashore." " He can't drag the 
casks ashore," said another fellow ; " we must all give 
a hand and share the profit." "He's got it now!" 
shouted many voices, as Paul having reached the 
barrels, dexterously fastened a hook that was attached 
to his line, and, turning towards the shore, having 
thrown off the coil while he held the end of the rope 
in his teeth, he swam vigorously for the beach. 

There was one heart that beat with pride as the 
powerful form of Paul Grey struggled bravely with 
the surf that had beaten back all others, and Polly 
clapped her hands with enthusiasm, and headed the 
crowd to dash into the water to help her husband 
when he gained his footing on the rolling shingles. 
Her hair had blown from its fastening, and now 
flowed in long waves driven by the wind in wild 
confusion, while the excitement of the moment had 
flushed her cheek, and added a fire to her large eyes 
that rendered her perfectly beautiful, and, as Paul 
pressed her hand when he landed, dripping from the 
sea, he thought he had never seen his Polly look so 
lovely. 

"It shall belong to you, Polly, whatever it may 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 27 

be!" said Paul; "it's my prize, and you shall have 
it" 

" Halves !" cried the surly ruffian, who had already 
spoken in the crowd ; and one and all, seizing the 
line, began to haul the barrels towards the beach. 

"Avast hauling!" cried Paul, as he pushed two 
or three men on one side, as though they were chil- 
dren ; " the line is mine, and you shan't break it when 
I've had the trouble of the job." He then carefully 
drew in the rope, hand over hand, until the barrels 
approached the surf; in an instant, as a broken wave 
hurried them towards the beach, a dozen men rushed 
into the water and dragged them to the shore. 

Hardly had they pulled the barrels high and dry 
than they surveyed them with an air of disappoint- 
ment. " They're empty ! " was the general exclama- 
tion. 

This was evident. Two empty rum puncheons that 
would contain ninety gallons each were firmly lashed 
parallel together by means of broken oars that formed 
a frame-work, in which the casks were beautifully 
secured. At one end was a strong rope that had 
apparently been arranged for the support of some 
person who should have clung to the raft: to this 
rope some long fair hair was attached, as though it 
had become entangled with the hands that had vainly 
attempted to keep their hold. On the top of the 
buoyant raft, and well secured in the centre between 
the two casks, was a box covered with a piece of 
tarpaulin that had been fastened down with nails to 
the side in order to preserve the contents dry. Some 
treasure of importance was evidently well secured. 



28 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

"Halves again!" shouted the first ruffian, as he 
rudely pushed Polly on one side and grasped the box 
with both hands ; at the same time he staggered" and 
rolled upon the shingle as Paul's fist descended 'full 
upon the side of his head. 

"Now, my lads, fair play," said Paul; "the prize 
belongs to me ; and I don't mind sharing a portion 
after I know what it is. But hands off, till Polly 
takes her share ! " 

Paul was a match for any two men in the village ; 
and, as none could contest in the present case either 
his strength or his argument, the crowd immediately 
agreed, and standing around the mysterious prize 
they watched with much curiosity the opening of the 
box. It was an old wine-case, and as Paul broke off 
the nail-heads with a stone, and removed the tarpaulin, 
a few bars of wood beneath that had supported the 
waterproof cover were easily withdrawn. A rich 
cashmere shawl was loosely arranged above some 
object : beneath this was a wrapper of pink flannel. 
With extreme curiosity Polly now removed this cover- 
ing, and started back with an exclamation of surprise 
that was echoed by the crowd, as the mystery of the 
box was suddenly revealed. Apparently asleep or 
dead, lay the body of an infant about two months old : 
around its neck was a locket suspended by a thin gold 
chain. Was it possible ? Could a miracle restore the 
child that she had buried but a few days since ? It was 
the facsimile of her own boy, but pale as alabaster. 

" Is it dead ? " asked Polly, trembling with emotion 
as she regarded the motionless figure that lay before 
her like an apparition of her own child. 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 29 

"I fear it is," said Paul, who was himself not 
unmoved at the wonderful resemblance ; " but there's 
no water in the box ; the clothes are damp, but not 
absolutely wet : it has died for want of air. I said the 
prize should be yours, Polly ; so I'll carry box and all 
up to the cottage, and we'll see what can be done." 

" Luck comes from the sou'-west, ha, ha ! " muttered 
a hoarse voice succeeded by a chuckle, and Polly saw 
the wrinkled face of old Mother Lee peering into the 
box ; and, laying her skinny fingers upon the chest of 
the infant, she once more muttered, "Luck comes 
from the sou'-west; yer'll get no other, Polly Grey, 
except what's cast up by the sea — ha, ha ! " 

" Go, wretched old woman," replied Polly, stung by 
the taunt ; " frighten fools who are worthy of you, but 
leave me and mine alone." 

The old woman's face changed to something devilish, 
and scowling upon Polly she spat upon the ground, 
and hoarsely croaked, " We'll see, we'll see ! " 

" Come along, Polly," said Paul, who had uncorded 
the fastenings of the box, and raised it upon his 
head ; "don't quarrel. with Mother Lee ; and look you, 
mother, if you're going to bring bad luck on my 
Polly, I'll heave you over the cliff to feed the crabs 
the next time you come up the hill ; d'ye hear ?" 

Paul now left the crowd, and followed by his wife, 
he ascended the zigzag path with his burden, and 
quickly reached his cottage on the cliff. Having 
placed the box gently on the floor, Polly took away 
the damp shawl and wrappers ; and, covering the child 
with a warm flannel, she held it close to her breast, 
and briskly rubbed its back and spine. It was very 



30 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

cold, but the limbs were not stiff, she had therefore 
hope ; and with the door and window opened to 
give fresh air, which blew violently from the sea, she 
anxiously watched for some sign of returning anima- 
tion. In a few minutes it gasped faintly, and to her 
intense delight, after an hour's careful attention, she 
was rewarded by hearing it cry lustily. She now 
dressed it in some clothes that had belonged to her 
own child, and, pressing it gently to her bosom, she 
felt a mother's happiness as it clung eagerly to her 
breast, as though she had been its proper parent. As 
she watched the lovely infant now peacefully resting 
in her arms, she could hardly believe in her recent 
loss. It appeared as a dream. Her boy had been 
replaced by another that she might have mistaken 
for her own. She felt bewildered; so many scenes 
had changed in rapid succession within the last few 
hours : her loss, the storm, the wreck, the infant now 
her child, that had been thus mysteriously Cast 
up by the Sea. 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 31 



CHAPTER II. 

The day following the storm was a harvest for the 
people of Sandy Cove. The wreck had entirely 
broken up, and not a vestige of the ship remained, 
except the fragments that, together with the cargo, 
strewed the coast for miles on either side the bay. 

Paul Grey had been out at daybreak, and when he 
returned to breakfast he found his wife happier than 
he had seen her for many days. The table was 
spread. The newly-arrived baby was snugly asleep 
in its cradle, looking as blooming as though nothing 
extraordinary had happened ; and, as the storm had 
passed, and the day was fine, the sun was shining 
gaily through the open window. 

When breakfast was finished, Paul took his tele- 
scope and sat upon the terrace wall above the sea. 
He had not been long seated before his attention was 
attracted to some object floating in the water beneath, 
at no great distance from the shore ; as the waves 
gave it motion, sometimes it was completely sub- 
merged, while at others a portion appeared upon the 
surface. 

" Polly," he said, " can you make out what that is ? 
Sometimes it looks like a long mass of sea-weed, but it 
is too white." 



32 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

Neither could distinguish the object clearly ; there- 
fore, descending to the beach, Paul, accompanied by 
his wife, launched a small skiff and rowed out of the 
harbour towards the spot. Rounding the point that 
formed a natural breakwater to the small bay, they at 
once discovered the cause. Upon nearer approach 
there could be no doubt that it was the body of some 
unfortunate who had perished in the wreck of yester- 
day. A few more strokes brought them close to it. 

" It is a woman," said Polly, who was steering the 
boat. " Look, Paul, your oar will now touch her. 
Help me to lift her from the water." 

It was the body of a beautiful woman of about 
two-and-twenty, which the united exertions of Paul 
and his wife soon placed on board the boat ; her long 
blonde hair he had mistaken in the distance for sea- 
weed. Although they knew that she was dead, they 
arranged her in a reclining position, with her back 
resting against the seat of the boat. 

" Poor creature ! she is a lady," said Polly ; " and 
so beautiful !" 

She hftd no other clothes than a night-dress ; several 
valuable rings of diamonds and rubies were on her 
fingers, in addition to her wedding-ring, and a neck- 
lace of large brilliants was hung round her neck. 
Some of her long hair was twisted among her delicate 
fingers; the button of the collar of her night-gown 
had burst, and her beautiful snow-white bosom was 
exposed. 

" She had a baby," sighed Polly ; " poor woman, 
how sad ! Who knows whether she is the mother of 
the child we have saved ?" 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 33 



" Very likely," said Paul ; " for the hair that we 
found upon the rope handle attached to the barrels is 
exactly the same as that now twisted in her fingers. 
See ! the inside of her soft hands is chafed with 
holding on to the hard rope. Her long hair must 
have become entangled while struggling in the water, 
and she has had no strength to keep her hold/' 

The expression of this beautiful but unfortunate 
mother was one of calm serenity ; and as Polly Grey 
straightened her gracefully-formed limbs, and covered 
her breasts with her long flaxen hair, she kissed her 
pale cheek, and vowed inwardly never to forsake her 
orphan child. She then took off her cloak, and spread 
it gently over the body. 

" Take off the rings, Polly, before we get to the 
Cove," said Paul. " We must take care of them, as 
some day they may.be wanted if the child should 
live. It wouldn't do to let the people at the Cove 
see the gold and stones." Accordingly Polly, not 
without some difficulty, drew the rings from her taper 
fingers, and unfastened the snap of the necklace. 

It was well that this had been done, for on their 
arrival at the Cove they found a great influx of people ; 
the news of the wreck had spread rapidly through- 
out the neighbourhood, and people from all quarters 
had flocked to the spot. Among others was the good 
clergyman of the neighbouring village, Dr. Jones, who 
with his excellent wife had driven down to the Cove 
with a good supply of warm clothing and restoratives 
in case they should be required by the survivors 
from the shipwreck. Alas ! there were none ; the 
little child was the only soul living of all those who 

D 



34 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 



but a few hours before were happy in their near 
approach to their native land and homes after a long 
and tedious voyage from China. 

"What have we here?" cried Dr. Jones, as Paul 
approached the shore. " Ah's me ! ah's me ! here's a 
disaster," exclaimed the good man. "No hope, Mr. 
Grey ; no hope, I'm afraid ? No, no hope/' he mourn- 
fully and slowly repeated, as he looked at the figure 
covered with Polly's cloak. The boat struck the 
beach, and Polly uncovered the face of the drowned 
mother. " Ah's me ! ah's me ! Poor thing, so young, 
so lovely ! And did you say a mother ? " asked Dr. 
Jones in a tone of despair. In a few minutes Paul 
had explained the incident and his suspicions, which 
touching story at once enlisted the sympathy of the 
good doctor ; but Paul said nothing about the trinkets, 
and merely stated that his wife had determined to 
nurse and to adopt the child. 

A few days after this event, a simple funeral entered 
the churchyard of Stoke ; the coffin was carried by 
some of the fishermen of Sandy Cove, foremost of 
whom was the powerful figure of Paul Grey. Many 
women and children followed as mourners one whom 
they had never known, but whose fate had engaged 
their sympathies ; and Polly Grey carried the infant 
smiling unconsciously in her arms as it followed its 
dead mother to the grave. The good Dr. Jones not 
only paid the expenses of the funeral, but some weeks 
afterwards he erected a stone in the form of a cross 
upon the spot, with this short inscription : " A lady 
unknown, aged about twenty-two, cast up by the sea 
at Sandy Cove, 21st August, 1791. " 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 35 

Paul and his wife had returned to their cottage 
after the funeral, when a sudden thought struck him. 
" What was in the box with the child ? Was there 
nothing except the Indian shawl and the wrapper ? " 
he asked Polly. 

" Only some thick cotton wool at the bottom for 
the child to lie upon," said Polly, "which I did not 
remove; but if you like I will fetch the box and 
empty it" 

In a few minutes she brought the box. " There 
is nothing here, you see, except the wool that makes 
a kind of bed at the bottom." As she spoke she 
quickly emptied the contents in double handfuls. 
" What is this ? " she exclaimed, as something heavy 
in a canvas bag suddenly arrested her hand. Paul 
lifted it up from a mass of cotton wool in which 
it was securely packed. 

" It is gold ! " said Paul, Marked in ink upon 
the bag was " 200 guineas." 

" Oh Paul," said Polly, " this is dreadful ! We have 
no right to this money, and its possession will bring 
some trouble ; what can we do ? Is there no paper 
in the box — no writing to give some clue to the 
name of the owner ? " 

"Nothing," answered Paul, "nothing, except this 
bag of two hundred guineas, which no doubt the 
poor lady packed with the child. We must stow it 
away with the trinkets in some safe place, until per- 
haps some day we may learn something more about 
it It's lucky that we found it, and still more lucky that 
we didn't unpack the box in the crowd at the Cove : 
there would have been a pretty scramble for the gold." 

D 2 



36 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

At this moment a knock at the door disturbed the 
conversation. Paul quickly concealed the bag of gold 
in the wool within the box from which he had taken 
it, while Polly, blushing deeply at the act of caution, 
hesitated until the knock was repeated before she 
gave a reply. The door opened, Dr. Jones entered. 

"Good morning, Mrs. Grey; I feared you were 
not at home, which would have disappointed me 
much, as I wished to have some conversation with 
you about your new charge. How is the poor little 
castaway ? " 

"Doing very nicely, sir," replied Polly; "thank 
you. It is a lovely child, and as strong and healthy 
as could be wished. It does not miss its mother, and 
there is no fear that it will not thrive." 

" It is a strange thing," said Dr. Jones, " that we 
can find no clue to the name beyond the letters 
*K. N.' upon the night-dress. Was there no paper 
enclosed in any portion of the clothes or wrap- 
pers that were contained in the case that held the 
child ? " 

Polly could not help a slight confusion in manner. 
It was true that no paper had been found ; but her 
natural honesty felt repugnant to the idea of con- 
cealment, and she would gladly have entrusted the 
good Doctor Jones with the secret, had not a warn- 
ing glance from her husband suggested caution. She 
could only reply, "There was nothing that could 
give the slightest clue to a discovery ; and strangely 
enough, no portion of the wreck bears a name. No 
boat has been washed on shore, but everything 
appears to have been dashed to pieces against the 



CAST UP BY THE SEA, 37 



rocks, — thus we have no idea of the vessel, except 
that portions of the cargo, such as bales of silk, 
suggest that she must have sailed from India. Many 
parts of the beach are strewn with tea-leaves, as every 
chest has been entirely destroyed." 

" Well," said Dr. Jones, " we must remember care- 
fully every circumstance connected with the disaster, 
as the time may arrive when it will be necessary to 
prove the identity of the child. There can be no 
doubt, from the appearance of the poor mother's 
body, that she was a person in a high position. 
Poor thing ! so young and so beautiful ! — so very 
beautiful ! " 

" I have cut off a quantity of her long hair," said 
Polly, " which I have carefully packed with the — the — 
the India shawl and night-dress." 

Polly had very nearly said "the diamond necklace," 
and, once more annoyed at herself at the necessary 
concealment, she looked imploringly at her husband 
for permission to relieve herself of the secret. A look 
from Paul closed her lips. 

"Well," said Dr. Jones, "the hair may some day 
be of service : it was a good thought, Mrs. Grey — a 
very good thought. Then so the matter rests. The 
child has fallen into kind hands, thank God ; and 
when you have done your portion of the good work, 
and he grows to the proper age, I must begin my 
share, and he must come to school." 

Dr. Jones was the clergyman, and also the school- 
master, of the village of Stoke; he was much be- 
loved, and, being a man of considerable fortune, 
combined with a generous disposition, he was looked 



38 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

upon as the father of the poor in his neighbourhood. 
He kept a school simply because he loved to bring 
up boys according to his own ideas of morality ; 
therefore, without considering pecuniary profit, he 
received the pupils of the wealthy as boarders, while 
he gratuitously admitted as daily scholars many of 
the poorer classes, but judiciously arranged them in 
separate forms: in fact, Parson Jones, as he was 
generally called, was a thoroughly good specimen 
of a Christian minister, and he had the rare quali- 
ties of good common sense and judgment combined 
with other virtues. The case of the drowned lady 
and the infant child that was supposed to belong to 
her had struck deeply upon his imagination, and 
Parson Jones had resolved to keep an eye upon 
the child throughout his career ; he had known Polly 
Grey from her infancy, as her parents, who were now 
both dead, had been his parishioners, and he had 
almost regretted that she had married Paul, who 
followed the hazardous occupation of a fisherman, 
while so many well-to-do farmers had striven for her 
hand. However, it was he who had himself married 
them, therefore he took an additional interest in their 
welfare, and he felt perfectly satisfied that the child 
had fallen into the kind hands of Polly Grey. 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 39 



CHAPTER III. 

Twelve years had passed awaysince the storm of 1785. 
There had been few changes in Sandy Cove, except 
that boys had grown to manhood, and those who 
were girls were now mothers of families ; but among 
the adult population there had been little alteration, 
with the exception of a few deaths among the older 
people. The cottage stood upon the cliff as neatly 
whitewashed as before; the myrtles in the little 
garden had grown larger, but otherwise there was 
no change; and Polly Grey, almost as charming as 
ever, but rather saddened in expression, sat before 
her cottage door knitting a woollen comforter, and 
anxiously watching the sea. 

It was about an hour before sunset in the same 
month of August, when twelve years ago the Indiaman 
had been driven on the shore. There was a silence 
about the cottage and an absence of many little 
trifles that showed that Polly Grey had no children at 
home ; indeed, there was a superstition in the village 
that old Mother Lee had once cursed her, and some 
pretended a recollection of certain words that she 
had uttered when, in a fit of rage, she spat upon the 
ground, and said, "Yer'll get no other, Polly Grey, 
except what's cast up from the sea." Certain it was, 



4o CAST UP BY THE SEA. 



that Polly had never had a child since the death of 
her first, and her adoption of the little castaway. 

The small land-locked bay was quite empty — not a 
boat floated upon the clear blue water, but a few 
skiffs lay upon the beach where nets were spread out 
to dry, and the smart lugger the Polly of olden times 
was nowhere to be seen. In the silence of the 
moment, Polly was startled by the rattle of pebbles on 
the steep zigzag path. This was almost immediately 
followed by the appearance of a fine bronzed-looking 
man about forty years of age in the uniform of a 
revenue-officer, with the empty sleeve on his left 
pinned up to the shoulder. 

" Good evening, Mrs. Grey. Are you alone ? for I 
have a few words to say to you in particular," said 
Captain Smart. 

" Ah, my good friend," said Polly, " I am glad to 
see you, for I was just feeling melancholy ; the boat 
should have returned yesterday, and, although the 
wind is fair, I see no sign of a sail even yet : what 
can have happened ? The weather is fine, and Paul 
promised me that he would not be away two days — 
this is the third ! " 

Joe Smart, the old friend of the family, looked 
serious ; and, sitting upon the bench by Polly's side, 
he explained his errand. 

" My dear Mrs. Grey, don't be alarmed about his 
safety ; but, as your oldest friend, I have come to give 
you a timely warning. A revenue cruiser has been 
sent to capture the Polly, and Paul is either taken at 
this moment, or he is chased by the Government 
cutter, as the Polly is declared to be a smuggler. 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 41 

Now as Paul's old friend I have often given him 
advice upon this point, and as his Majesty's officer I 
have hardly done my duty ; but let me implore you, 
should he escape this chance, prevent him from such 
a course, which must lead to ruin." 

Polly shook her head. 

"I fear that I have not the influence that I once 
had," said she. " Paul is always kind, but I feel 
sure that there are thoughts on his mind that he does 
not share with me. It is good of you to be our 
friend, but that will do but little good should Paul 
be caught. Do you know where the Polly went ? " 

" The information we have received is this," said 
Captain Smart "Although we are at war with 
France, there is a league between the French smug- 
glers and those of this coast. They have their private 
places of appointment, and they meet at sea out of 
sight of land, where they exchange cargoes. The 
French then run English goods upon their coast, 
while our people smuggle spirits, lace, silks, and other 
valuable articles that pay a high duty. The Polly 
has always been suspected, but nothing could be 
proved until evidence was given a week ago that has 
confirmed their suspicions : thus an order has been 
received from head-quarters to chase and board her, 
and to capture her should contraband goods be found." 

Although Polly Grey was anxious at this intelli- 
gence it was not absolutely new to her. In those days 
there was nothing that was considered dishonourable 
in a smuggler's occupation among the fraternity, and 
now that Polly heard of the intended capture of her 
husband's boat, her sailor's blood was up. " It will 



42 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

be no revenue cutter that will catch the Polly* 1 said 
Polly Grey ; " there's nothing on the south coast 
that can touch her, and there's no man that dare lay 
a hand on Paul ! " 

Joe Smart smiled at her woman's pride, and rose to 
say good-bye. He good-naturedly shook her hand, 
and said, "I'm your true friend, Mrs. Grey; there's 
no friend like an old one, and I have done my duty 
in giving you a hint. Heaven forbid that I should 
ever be forced to act as a revenue-officer against Paul 
Grey ! Good-bye, and may he have no ill luck." 

As Joe Smart disappeared, Polly could not help 
looking once more anxiously towards the sea, at the 
same time she pondered over the warning of their 
old friend. The real fact was, that Paul had gradually 
increased in his daring adventures, and he had now 
engaged in the contraband trade to an extent that a 
few years ago he would have believed impossible. 
He had never confided these acts to his wife, although 
he had frequently brought packages to the cottage 
which he confessed he had purchased from French 
boats without paying the duty; these were usually 
secreted in a long but narrow cave, which entered 
the cliff from the kitchen. This room, being built 
directly against the rock as a wall, was arranged, as 
usual in kitchens, with many cupboards. One of these 
against the rock had a false back, so that the door 
when open, merely showed what appeared to be the 
cupboard itself arranged with shelves. By removing 
a bolt, the entire affair moved backwards upon hinges, 
and opened into the gallery of the cliff. This cave 
was about fifty feet in length, and, although only the 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 43 

width of the cupboard at the entrance, it widened 
towards the extremity to a chamber of about twenty 
feet square. It was in this chamber that Polly had 
originally concealed the necklace and locket, together 
with the bag of two hundred guineas that had been 
found in the box with the child after the wreck. 
They were carefully packed together with the shawl in 
the same case in which they had been washed ashore. 

Although Polly had no more idea of the dis- 
grace of smuggling on a small scale than a lady 
might have in landing with a dozen pairs of gloves, 
she had always been afraid that Paul was more deeply 
engaged in contraband than he chose to admit, and 
she had now no longer any doubt, after her conver- 
sation with Joe Smart, that he was embarked in a 
most dangerous course. Paul had drifted so gradually 
into the trade that he could not see the dishonesty. 
He was like many others in those days who, scrupu- 
lously correct in all other matters, yet thought it no 
sin to cheat the Government. Thus with his great 
experience of the coast, and his excellence in seaman- 
ship, combined with the fine sea-going qualities of the 
Polly y he was one of the most successful in his trade. 
He had long since paid off the sum advanced upon 
his boat by his friend Joe Smart, and he was now sole 
owner, with a crew of eight picked men. 

The sun was just sinking half imbedded in the sea 
in a broad glare of ruddy light, when a sail was sud- 
denly descried, illumined by a red glow which rapidly 
sank, and shortly gave place to grey : it was now no 
longer visible, and the anxious wife strained her eyes 
along the darkening horizon almost believing that 



44 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

the sail had been a fancied apparition. The breeze 
was blowing freshly from the sea, and, the twilight 
having ceased, the night became perfectly dark, as 
there was no moon. 

Polly lighted her lamp, which she hung at the 
window, in addition to the candles that burnt upon 
the table. " They will see that light far out at sea," 
she thought ; " it's a dark night to find the entrance 
to the Cove ! " 

More than one hour passed away; there was no 
sound except the whistling of the wind and the sullen 
roll of the breakers against the rocks. Somehow the 
sound that night reminded her of the storm twelve 
years ago : there was a moaning in the air that re- 
called the commencement of the disastrous hurricane. 
Another hour struck, and although for many years 
she had known the tone of the old wooden clock, 
it seemed to beat the hour with a peculiar sound that 
again recalled the scene of that fearful night, when 
old Mother Lee had appeared like an evil spirit and 
prophesied disaster. The wind was now blowing 
a gale ; another hour passed. Again the old clock 
struck, it was eleven ; and the sea . was now roaring 
against the cliffs : but there was no sound of man. 
She rose in a great state of nervous excitement and 
looked out of the window ; it was pitchy dark, and the 
wild peculiar moan of the gale betokened a sou'-wester. 
Borne down with anxiety, she sat at the table and 
buried her face in her hands as she offered a fervent 
prayer for the protection of all she loved. Suddenly, 
with a suppressed scream, she started from her chair 
as a horrible chuckle struck upon her ear, followed by 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 45 

the low muttered tones, " Luck comes from the sou'- 
west, ha, ha ! " For an instant she had covered her 
eyes, but, upon withdrawing her hands, the hideous 
figure of Mother Lee stood before her. 

"What brings you here, Mother Lee, at this late 
hour ? " exclaimed Polly ; " has anything happened ? 
Do you come with evil news ? " she asked, her anxiety 
for the moment overcoming her repugnance to the old 
woman. 

"That's as you choose to take it; but you're a 
pretty watcher ! " said Mother Lee. " Your eyes are 
like a mole's that yer haven't seen them coming ! 
You're a pretty sailor's wife, to mope in the house when 
the storm's brewing, and yer husband's running before 
the cruiser ! Fie on yer ! yer not the wench for Paul 
Grey. To go moping over yer Bible ! That won't help 
him like a fire on the Point ! Look out and see what 
Mother Lee has worked ! The cruiser won't be long 
before she strikes the rock ! Blow out your lights !" 
Polly had hardly recovered from her surprise before 
the old woman, having suited the action to the word, 
had extinguished the candles and the lamp — they 
were in total darkness. " Now you'll see Mother 
Lee's handiwork ! Come out and look at the Point. 
I came here to blow out your stupid lights ! " 

Polly instinctively followed the old woman as she 
left the house. She could hardly stand against the 
wind, but she at once saw two bright lights ; one 
upon the extremity of either Point that formed the 
narrow entrance to the Cove, while far out at sea she 
observed something like a star that occasionally dis- 
appeared. In a few minutes a long streak of fire 



46 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

ascended from the sea at a great distance, and burst 
into a number of red balls. 

"What a bright meteor! or was it lightning?" 
exclaimed Polly. 

"There's meaning in the flash," muttered Mother 
Lee ; "yer'll see another presently." In a few minutes 
a similar light shot up from the dark sea. "Now 
look to the east," said Mother Lee, " and yer'll 
soon understand it." Hardly had she spoken the 
words when on the high cliff about five miles distant, 
occupied by the coast-guard station a rocket flew 
to the clouds and burst into a cluster of blue stars. 

" Now Paul Grey, lead 'em a dance ! and steer 
straight between the fires ! " chuckled Mother Lee, 
"while I go and put 'em out when all's right : she'll 
break her bones if she follows, — yes, — ha, ha ! ha, ha ! 
What a night ! There's all luck from the sou'-west ! 
Mother Lee knows a trick or two, — ha, ha, ha ! " 
and the old woman with astonishing activity disap- 
peared down the steep declivity, and left Polly alone 
in the dark and stormy night. All other feelings now 
gave way to the wife's anxiety ; she saw that the old 
woman had better informatioh than herself: there 
could be no doubt that Paul's boat was chased by a 
revenue cruiser that now exchanged signals with the 
coast-guard on shore ; thus he would run a double 
danger, as, although he might possibly avoid the 
cruiser, he would most probably be met upon arrival 
in the Cove by a party that would be immediately 
despatched from the coast-guard station to search 
his vessel. Polly now understood Mother Lee's 
reason for extinguishing her lights : there could be 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 47 

little doubt that the two fires to guide the entrance 
to the Cove were the result of a preconcerted arrange- 
ment with which her third light would have interfered ; 
but she could not help feeling hurt that her husband 
had not reposed the same confidence in her that he 
had evidently shared with others: this corroborated 
all that she had heard from Captain Smart, and she 
had no longer any doubt that Paul was far more 
deeply engaged in smuggling enterprise than she had 
imagined. 

She had been watching nervously for about half an 
hour since Mother Lee had departed in the midst of 
the violent storm, when suddenly a bright cloud of 
sparks flew from one of the fires upon the Point, and 
it was almost immediately extinguished ; a similar 
effect was nearly at the same time produced on the 
opposite fire, and the two bright lights disappeared ; 
the entire scene was total darkness, while the wind 
and waves roared louder than before. Polly with- 
drew into her cottage, and striking a light she once 
more waited anxiously ; she could not sit down, and 
she paced the room in intense excitement. What 
could have happened? Had the boat arrived ? She 
had neither heard nor seen anything, only the sudden 
extinction of the fires ; the noise of the storm and the 
darkness had obscured all else. 

The old clock struck one, and hardly had the 
vibration of the bell ceased, when the sound of 
hurried footsteps was heard on the outside. Polly 
flew to the door as it opened suddenly, and Paul 
Grey quickly entered the room, carrying on his broad 
shoulders an immense bale. He was immediately 



48 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

followed by a handsome young sailor boy who ap- 
peared to be about fourteen years of age, who also 
carried with difficulty a heavy package, which he 
threw down upon the floor, and in the next moment 
he was embraced in the arms of Polly Grey. 

"Now, Polly, this is no time for kissing," cried Paul, 
" there's much to be done and little time to do it ; 
open the cupboard as quick as you can, for this is a 
heavy load, I can tell you, and there's more to come." 

As Paul said, there was no time for kissing, for 
six men now entered the room, each laden with a 
heavy bale, which by Paul's directions they deposited 
upon the floor, and immediately withdrew. In the 
mean time Polly had gone into the kitchen and opened 
the secret door of the gallery, into which, after about 
ten minutes' labour, Paul, with the assistance of his 
wife and the young sailor, had carried and concealed 
the eight packages. 

With great despatch, Polly then spread a clean cloth 
upon a round oak table, upon which in a few minutes 
appeared a large round of cold boiled beef, with a loaf 
of brown bread and a huge jug of ale. 

"I must have a pull at the beer before I can speak," 
said Paul ; " but here, Ned, you must be thirsty too," 
said he, as he poured out a large hornful for the lad 
before he drank. In the next instant both man 
and boy were silent — the only sound was the rapid 
gurgling as the grateful drink poured down their 
throats. 

" Now, then," said Paul, as he took a deep sigh as 
he replaced the half-emptied jug. " Polly, we've had 
a sharp run for it ; haven't we, Ned ? But there's 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 49 

nothing afloat that can catch the Polly, especially 
when it's blowing a gale like to-night" 

"I didn't like the running, mother," said the boy; 
" I would rather fight the cutter than see the Polly 
run away." The bright blue eyes of the lad sparkled 
with excitement, at the same time a deep blush tinged 
his cheek when he added, " I don't like the work of 
to-night, for, although not ashamed to be beaten in a 
fair fight, I should have felt disgraced had we been 
taken by the cruiser. I hope we are not doing wrong, 
.mother, but I felt as though we were not in the right" 

Paul took another long pull at the ale to avoid the 
necessity of a reply. 

" Tell me what has happened, Ned," said Polly, as 
she drew her chair to his side, and parted the bright 
waving hair from his forehead. "How hot and tired 
you look, my dear boy! What made you so late? 
Tell me the whole story, for I have had a miserable 
time since your father left" 

Although Ned Grey was only twelve years old (as 
it was exactly that time since he had been first pressed 
to Polly Grey's bosom, when she recalled the uncon- 
scious infant to existence after the memorable ship- 
wreck), he looked at least fourteen. He was remark- 
ably tall, and powerfully and gracefully built ; his 
features were almost too regular, as the small mouth 
and curled lip and delicately-arched nose would have 
been almost feminine had they not been contradicted 
by a brow of most decided character, with deep blue 
eyes that, although large and soft, brightened with 
unmistakeable fire in a moment of excitement There 
was an air of noble frankness and honesty of expres- 

E 



50 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

sion that, independently of other attractions, would 
have stamped him as a boy of high character at first 
sight. This, combined with his handsome and manly 
appearance, had gained him friends among all who 
knew him. 

"Well, mother," said Ned; "it was simply this. 
When we left the Cove the other day, we went to 
the coast of France, and on our way back we spoke 
a French lugger about half-way between this and 
France, and father made some purchases from her 
captain, — those very bales that we brought home to- 
night, and a dozen kegs of brandy ; but hardly had 
we got them stowed on board, than a strange sail hove 
in sight, and the French lugger was off in a minute. 
We followed her. The strange sail chased us ; and, 
as the French lugger could not sail as fast as the 
Polly, we went on another tack, and the strange sail 
that father thinks was an English brig-of-war chose 
the slower boat, and went after the Frenchman. We 
were now free ; but the wind being northerly we had 
to beat up against it to get home. However, at 
daybreak this morning we met a fishing-smack from 
this coast, from which we learnt that the revenue 
cutter had been sent out on purpose to look after 
the Polly. Sure enough, a few hours later, we saw a 
fine smart-looking cutter bearing down upon us, with 
the English flag flying, and, as we did not alter our 
course, she fired a gun. As we took no notice, she 
fired another. This time it was shotted, and we could 
see the white spray leap three times from the water 
as the shot bounded along the surface, quite a mile 
and a half too short to reach us. 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 51 

" Suddenly the wind dropped, and it turned calm for 
hours, and neither of us could go ahead. At length 
the wind changed, and came in puffs from the south- 
west ; this soon turned to a gale, and the race began 
in earnest. The cutter sailed well, and the Polly could 
just hold her own until the sea got up ; then we had 
the best of it, for nothing can touch her in a fc heavy 
sea : the cutter plunged bows under, while the Polly 
hardly wetted her decks, but scudded along like 
a bird. Night came on, and although we could not 
see the cutter, 'we could now and then distinguish a 
light on board. We knew we were running on the 
land, and the gale had turned to a storm. It was 
awful work, as we knew the danger of the coast, when 
all of a sudden we saw a bright light to the north ; 
then we saw another close to it, as though they were 
almost touching. At this time we saw a rocket sent 
up from the cutter, which, as nearly as we could 
guess, was about three miles astern. Again she fired 
a rocket, which was quickly answered from the shore. 

" ' This is touch and go ! ' said father ; still on we 
flew with the gale right a-beam, and the lugger in her 
best trim going like a racehorse. ' Hurrah ! ' cried 
father, ' Mother Lee has got her lamps trimmed,' 
and as we approached, the two lights widened apart. 
' That's the mouth of the Cove,' said father ; ' we are 
all fight if we can see to clear the Iron Rock.' 

" Father had the helm, and not a word was spoken 
on the deck as we went hissing through the water. 
The lights were now pretty wide apart, and we knew 
we were getting close in. ' Starboard ! ' shouted a 
man at the foremast, as we could just see the white 

E 2 



52 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 



foam surging in a huge breaker over the Iron Rock 
within a cable's length of us ; in another moment we 
passed within thirty yards of the breakers, and pre- 
sently we shot direct into the mouth of the bay 
between the two fires on the cliffs. We could see the 
old woman at one fire and a man at the other : directly 
we had passed, both fires were suddenly put out. We 
anchored in the bay ; father left two men in the Polly 
with orders to sink the kegs of brandy while we landed 
in the pinnace with the bales which we have just put 
away ; and glad I was, mother dear, to see the light at 
home, and to find you waiting for us. But I don't like 
the work, mother ; and I don't think it's all over yet" 

" Well, Ned, you shan't go again unless you like," 
said Paul ; " but there's no harm in buying and selling 
fairly. All's honest and above-board ; and if the 
Polly's too long in the legs for the King's boats she 
has a right to earn a penny for a new set of sails. 
We don't rob the Government of the duty; if we 
didn't bring the silks through, the Frenchmen would, 
so the country loses nothing and we gain." 

The conversation was suddenly interrupted. At this 
moment the windows of the cottage shook violently 
at the loud report of a cannon that appeared almost 
close to the cliff All sprang to their feet, and, look- 
ing through the window, rocket after rocket whizzed 
high in the air. Again a vivid flash was followed by 
the concussion of a gun, and as Paul and Ned rushed 
out to the terrace, a fearful sight was presented. 
Brightly illumined by the burning of a blue light 
which rendered not only objects on the deck but every 
rope distinctly visible, the fine revenue cutter lay fixed 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 53 

upon the Iron Rock. A wave rolled completely over 
her, and at once extinguished the light that had for a 
few moments exhibited her distress; at the same 
instant a tremendous crash was heard as her mast 
fell over the side. Again a flash and heavy report, 
then once more a blue light burned, and showed the 
fearful havoc that had been wrought in a few minutes : 
dismasted, and with her decks confused with the 
fallen sail and rigging, and her immense boom lying 
across the quarter-deck. The crew were attempting 
to save themselves on the spars. Several men clung 
to the mast ; but again the sea broke completely over 
her, and swept away not only the light but the unfor- 
tunate man that held it. All was complete darkness ; 
but above the tumult of wind and waves a cry of 
distress could be distinctly heard. 

Without loss of time, Paul and Ned had seized two 
coils of rope from the cottage stores, and were making 
the best of their way along the edge of the cliff to the 
projecting point at the right of the entrance to the 
bay upon which Mother Lee had originally lighted 
the fire. This point was not far from the Iron Rock, 
and, should any strong swimmer be able to reach it, 
he would either be able to enter the Cove, or should 
he miss the mouth he would be dashed to pieces 
against the perpendicular cliff. Paul thought that the 
mast with the clinging crew might be driven in this 
direction, he had therefore taken ropes to haul them 
up the rock, should it be possible to save them. He 
had also provided himself with a crowbar to drive 
into the ground, to which he could make fast a 
rope, should it be necessary for him to descend. Ned 



54 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

carried a lantern, but the way was so dangerous along 
the edge of the cliff that much caution was required 
in their advance. 

In the mean time, a person was already at the ex- 
tremity of the Point, exactly opposite to the Iron Rock 
upon which the cutter lay. Mother Lee, after having 
extinguished her fire, had remained upon the spot to 
revel in the calamity that she had expected. 

As the Polly, guided by the two fires, had scudded 
through the mouth of the bay beneath her feet, she 
guessed that the cutter would approach so near in 
pursuit as to be unable to weather the Iron Rock in 
so violent a gale on a lee shore. Mother Lee was 
always 'in ecstasy amidst scenes of suffering ; but, as 
her husband had been hanged for piracy and murder, 
she bore an infernal hatred to all officers of the 
Crown, but more especially to those of the coast- 
guard, by whom he had been captured. She now sat 
crouched like an owl among the loose fragments of 
rock upon the extreme point of the cliff ; but could 
her face have been distinguished, an intense earnest- 
ness would have been observed as she bent her head 
on one side, and, with one hand raised to assist her 
hearing, she strained her ears for any sound that should 
be heard beneath. At length she started. There could 
be no doubt — it was a voice, then another still more 
distinct, from the raging sea, two hundred feet below ! 

" Hold on, my lads, never fear ! stick your feet out 
when we near the rocks !" 

" I can't hold on much longer. Oh my poor 
Sarah !" exclaimed a despairing voice in reply. 

At this moment the mast, with # six men clinging to 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 55 

it, including the captain of the cutter, was washed 
against the cliff exactly below the Point, upon which 
the old woman was perched. Fortunately the spar 
was brought at right angles across the extreme point 
of the entrance to the bar, so that, could the men only 
retain their hold in the frightful surf that beat against 
the perpendicular rock, both the mast and themselves 
would have a good chance of being washed directly 
into the mouth of the Cove, in which case they might 
be saved. 

" Hold fast, my lads ! Never say die !" shouted the 
same manly voice of encouragement from below, as 
one end of the mast struck violently against the 
rock. 

"Lord help us!" screamed a voice of agony; 
"help!" 

"Hold fast!" was again heard, as the breakers 
forced the entire length of the mast broadside on 
against the rocks, and jammed the unfortunate men 
against the cliff. 4 

Old Mother Lee had stood up, and she leant over 
the cliff, listening to the terrible struggle for life. 
"Ha! ha!" she chuckled. 
"Lord help us!" 

" I'll help ye ! Yer helped my Stephen, didn't yer > 
Here's help for yer ! and here ! And here's more 
help ! Curses on yer ! here's more help ! Ha ! ha ! 
I heard that strike ! D'ye like it ? Here's another !" 

The old woman, with incredible strength, in a 
frenzy of fury lifted large blocks of stone from the 
rocky ground, and showered them at random upon 
the unfortunate sailors below. A fragment of stone 



56 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

of many pounds' weight fell upon the head of the 
gallant captain with a dull crash, and his lifeless 
body slipped from the mast and disappeared amidst 
the surf. Another, and then a third, succumbed 
to the pitiless shower of stones which the old hag 
rolled without intermission from the height. Two 
men had been crushed to death against the cliff by 
the mast driven by the surf. Only one remained; 
several rocks bounded past him, and two had struck 
the mast within a few inches of his hands. 

Just at this moment Paul and Ned arrived, and 
found Mother Lee in the act of heaving another piece 
of rock over the edge of the cliff ; in her excitement 
she had neither heard them approach, nor had she seen 
the light, as her attention had been directed below. 

Startled at the unexpected sight of the old woman, 
Paul halted for a moment just as she hurled a large 
stone over the precipice. At the same time, a loud 
cry of distress from beneath rang upon his ear. The 
horrible truth flashed upon him as Mother Lee turned 
round, and he read the deed in the fearful expression 
of her features. 

" Cursed old fiend !" shouted Paul, as he seized her 
by the waist, and lifting her like an infant in the air, 
he swung her above his head ; and in another moment 
Mother Lee would have been flying over the rock 
into the boiling surf had not Ned caught Paul's arm, 
and checked his first impulse of retribution. 

Throwing her upon the ground behind him, Paul 
hallooed out, " Who's below ? " 

" Help me ! I'm nearly done, massa," replied a foreign 
voice. 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. $7 

" Hold on, my good fellow ! " shouted Paul, " I'll be 
with you directly ! Don't give in." 

Just at this moment a heavy sea sweeping round the 
corner turned the mast end on against the Point, and 
another sea striking it quickly after, it was driven 
directly into the mouth of the Cove against the face 
of the cliff. Once more Paul leant over the precipice 
with the lamp in his hand. " Are you all right ? " he 
shouted. 

" Nearly done, massa," was the only reply. 

" Hold on for a couple of minutes, and you're safe," 
cried Paul ; at the same time, with a few vigorous 
strokes, he drove the iron bar deep into a fissure of the 
rock. Taking a round turn of the rope upon the bar, 
he slipped a noose between Ned's legs. " Now Ned, 
my boy, prove yourself a man ; all depends on you ; 
take this spare rope with you while I lower you down, 
and secure it round the poor fellow's body. Mind 
yourself when you get near the mast that you don't 
get jammed, and halloo to me when you're all right." 

Without a moment's hesitation, Ned fell upon his 
knees and hands, and crawling to the edge of the 
cliff he grasped the tightened rope, and, as Paul 
slacked it off rapidly, in a few seconds he was swing- 
ing in the air descending quickly to the rescue. 

The noise of the waves increased as he drew nearer 
to the water. " I'm coming ! Cheer up ! " he shouted 
to the person below, whom he could presently dis- 
tinguish as a dark object clinging to the cross-trees 
of the mast ; this was so frequently and violently 
driven against the cliff as to render it impossible for 
him to reach the man in distress. Accordingly, when 



58 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

only a few feet above the water, he shouted to Paul, 
" Hold hard ! " at the same time he threw an end of 
the spare coil to the nearly exhausted sailor, and told 
him to make the loop fast by putting one leg through 
it and holding on. Three times he threw the rope 
without success, but on the fourth time it was caught, 
and in a few instants it was properly secured. " Haul 
away on the spare rope," he shouted to Paul. " I'm 
all right." 

Almost immediately, the dark object was raised 
from the boiling surf, and swinging in the air. It for 
an instant struck against Ned as it continued to ascend. 
" Hurrah ! " shouted Ned, as he patted him on the 
shoulder as he passed, dragged quickly up the cliff 
by the tremendous strength of Paul's muscles. In 
the mean time, Paul worked like a machine ; " Take 
care of your hands now ! " he shouted, " you're just 
at the top ! I'll give you a hand over the cliff ! " 
In another moment, Paul had caught him by the 
wrist, and dragged him in safety to the surface. 

" Tank God, massa ! tank God ! " said the dark 
object, as it fell and clasped Paul's knees. 

" Halloo !" exclaimed Paul, as he held the lanthorn 
to the face of the new arrival ; " a nigger boy, I 
declare ! poor fellow ! why he's nearly perished with 
cold ! Here, my lad, give us a hand, and help me to 
haul up the boy, for you owe your life to Ned, who's 
down below." 

" Look out, Ned ! " cried Paul, " hold fast ! Now 
haul away, boy ! " and in a few minutes Ned arrived 
safely on the top, and warmly shook the nigger boy 
by the hand. 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 59 

The young negro was a fine lad of about fourteen, 
and he immediately grasped the hand that Ned 
had given him, and pressed it to his thick lips, 
while he endeavoured to express his gratitude in 
a few sentences rendered almost unintelligible by the 
excitement. 

" Nigger boy almost gone — hear good massa call ; — 
then nigger pray to God, and hold fast like de debbel. 
— Then big stones come down from rock, kill de poor 
cappen — break his 'ed, all smash close to nigger boy. 
— All de people knocked off de mast by de waves — 
only nigger stick tight. Oh, my poor cappen ! he's 
gone ! only cappen love de nigger boy — he my fader 
and my moder." At this painful remembrance the 
boy burst into a fit of sobbing, and looking over the 
edge of the dark cliff, he wished to descend again, in 
the hope of finding the body of the captain, his late 
master. 

" It's of no use," said Ned ; " there's no one left, 
and nothing can be done. But cheer up, lad," he con- 
tinued, "if the poor captain's dead, my father and 
mother will be good to you." 

" Yes," said Paul ; " come along, boy, and get some 
dry clothes, we'll do the best we can for you. Be a 
man, it's of no use crying over the bad job ; but if 
that isn't a cold-blooded murder I never heard of one, 
and old Mother Lee should swing for it. If it hadn't 
been for you, Ned, I think I should have chucked her 
over ; but I'm glad I didn't, for she'll come to a worse 
end if there's justice in the world." 

They now cautiously picked their way among the 
loose stones on the dangerous path, and soon arrived 



60 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

at the cottage, where Polly Grey was anxiously waiting 
for their return. The negro boy was made comfort- 
able and fed, and was shortly snoring upon some 
clean straw in the kitchen, forgetting all his troubles 
in sound sleep. 

About two hours before daybreak a party of the 
coast-guard arrived, under the command of Captain 
Smart ; they had heard the guns and seen the signals 
of distress, but they were too late to see a vestige of 
the cutter, which had already broken up and totally 
disappeared ; not a soul had been saved, with the 
exception of the negro boy. 

It was hardly light when they shoved off from the 
beach in a skiff, and quickly boarded the Polly that 
was lying at anchor, and rolling heavily in the bay. 
Her decks had already been washed, and every rope 
was in its place ; the strictest search could discern 
nothing, except a supply of provisions and water, 
together with a certain amount of pig-iron ballast. 

" You don't often use the trawl-net," said Captain 
Smart to one of the Polly's men ; " your decks are as 
clean as a man-of-war/ ' 

"D'ye like 'em dirty ? " replied the sailor, "'cos if you 
do you must come along with us when we're fishing." 

" When's that ? not often, I think," answered Cap- 
tain Smart. 

" We'll send up to the station and let you know," 
said the sulky smuggler, who was by no means 
pleased with the visit. "You'll be safer on board 
along with us than on the King's cutter." 

" That's very likely," said Captain Smart ; " how 
did the cutter manage to get ashore?" 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 61 

" It don't want much management to get ashore here 
in a sou'-wester," replied the dogged sailor : " it don't 
want much laming on a dark night to bump on the Iron 
Rock : even a King's officer knows enough for that? 

" What brought her here ? " asked Captain Smart, 
in the hope of getting some account of the chase. 

" Well, I suppose it was the same wind as brought 
us here," continued the ill-tempered fellow ; " and 
sarve her right that she's broke her bones, for her 
conduct was what I call ungenteel. 

" Yer see, the Polly was waiting for a chance to fish 
on a good bit of ground that we knows of, when up 
comes a cutter with a fine breeze, and without more 
ado she bangs a shot right into we, that came so close 
between the captain and me that it knocked the 
pipe out of my mouth, and took his cap off. 

" ' That's purliteness,' says I ; ' praps she's been 
edicated in France,' says I ; when bang ! comes 
another shot, which luckily missed us. 

" ' It's only the French that has such uncivil man- 
ners,' says the captain ; ' it's a privateer ; so we'd 
better show 'em the Polly's stern, and run for home ; 
praps we'll meet with a King's ship that'll be a 
match for her.' 

" So off we went, and the Polly showed 'em the way, 
I can tell you. Well, it blowed a gale to be sure in a 
short time, just what the Polly likes, and ^ye came in 
like a duck through night as dark as pitch ; but the 
Polly knows her way. Then yer see it turns out that 
the cutter wasn't a Frenchman after all, more's the 
pity she began talking French ; so yer see she got in 
a mess, and I say sarves her right for her unpolite- 



62 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

ness as a King's ship in firing at we just as though 
the Polly had been a Frenchman ! " 

Having delivered himself of this veracious account, 
Dick Stone proceeded to fill his short pipe, that had 
apparently recovered from the shock of the cannon 
ball, and, having struck a light, he leant against the 
mast, and shortly became enveloped in a cloud of 
tobacco-smoke; nothing would induce him to utter 
another word. 

Joe Smart was rejoiced in his heart that his search 
had been unsuccessful. Nothing pained him so deeply 
as the necessity of acting in his official capacity 
against his old friend Paul ; but such stringent orders 
had been received to keep a watch over the pro- 
ceedings of Sandy Cove that he had no choice. 
Returning to the shore he left his men, and ascended 
the zigzag path to visit Paul's cottage on the high 
cliff. The smoke was already issuing from the kitchen 
chimney as he arrived, and Paul Grey met him at 
ti}£ door. 

"^^Ha, Joe !" he said, "you're up betimes this morn- 
ing ! But I don't wonder ; we had but little sleep 
ourselves last night." 

" Is no one saved ? " asked Joe Smart. 

" Only a poor little nigger," replied Paul, " and it 
was a wonder that we rescued him." He then nar- 
rated the entire adventure faithfully from the com- 
mencement ; differing considerably from the account 
of Dick Stone, on board the lugger. 

While the two friends were sitting together on 
the bench at the cottage door, Polly was preparing 
breakfast ; in the mean time, Joe Smart took the 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 63 

opportunity to explain to Paul the severity of the 
instructions he had received, and to implore him to 
consider the position in which not only he, but also 
his wife, would be placed should detection lead to 
their ruin. 

But Paul had his own private opinion concerning 
smuggling; he had persuaded himself that any tax 
was an act of oppression, and that the principles of 
free-trade should be supported to the fullest extent ; 
thus no argument of Joe Smart's had the slightest 
influence upon his mode of reasoning, and he remained 
obstinate in his dogma that every man had a right to 
supply his wants from the, cheapest market, and that 
any impost upon foreign goods that had become the 
private property of an Englishman was a direct 
robbery. He would not deny that he had dealt in 
contraband articles, but " Never mind me," he replied 
to his friend Joe Smart, " friends or not, if you ever 
catch the Polly, don't hesitate to seize her, if you 
find smuggled goods on board. I'll take my chance, 
Joe ; you do your duty and I'll look after mine. But 
now come in to breakfast, and Polly '11 give you such 
a cup of tea as you won't get every day, and, what's 
more, it never paid the Government a penny." 

In a few minutes the party were sitting at the 
table. Polly had prepared a substantial breakfast 
of fried soles fresh from the bay ; while a huge brown 
loaf and masses of bright yellow butter, with a sturdy 
joint of cold beef, were ready for the sharp morning 
appetites. 

There was a curious contrast in the fair waving hair 
and the large blue eyes of young Ned Grey and the 



64 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

black woolly head and the dark eyes of the negro 
boy, as they sat together at the table ; but Tim, as 
the latter was called, was looking his best, and was 
no longer the miserable half-drowned object of the 
previous night ; he had washed his black face with 
soap till it shone like a well-polished boot ; he was 
dressed in a suit of Ned's clothes, and as he looked 
at the well-spread table, a grin of happiness exposed 
a long row of snow-white teeth, and for the moment 
the affectionate but hungry Tim forgot the loss of the 
captain of the cutter. 

Tim was an abbreviation of Timbuctoo. At the 
time of our story, the West India Islands were the 
gems of our colonies, as the labour required for the 
plantations was supplied by negro slaves imported 
from the West Coast of Africa. These people were 
collected at various stations on the African coast by 
native dealers, who purchased them for beads, fire- 
arms, cotton cloths, &c, from the native chiefs, who 
brought them from the interior. As the whole of 
Central Africa is composed of separate tribes who 
are constantly at war with each other, the prisoners 
taken are invariably retained as slaves unless they are 
sacrificed as offerings to the fetish or god of the victor. 
A special demand for slaves naturally aggravates the 
existing anarchy, as every prisoner becomes of addi- 
tional value; thus man-hunting, although a natural 
institution of Africa, has been extended by the neces- » 
sities of European colonists. As the greater portion 
of the West Coast of Africa was the regular slave- 
market for the supply of the French, English, Portu- 
guese, and Spanish American possessions, man-hunting 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 65 

became the all-engrossing profession of every petty 
negro chief: razzias were carried into the very heart 
of the African continent for the sole purpose of kid- 
napping slaves, who w£re exchanged for the neces- 
saries of the country, and handed from tribe to tribe 
until they reached the agents of the coast dealer, 
who kept them like cattle penned in certain stations 
until the arrival of ships that were to carry them to 
their various destinations across the Atlantic. The 
distances from which these unfortunate people were 
marched were almost incredible. They generally 
arrived in long strings, fastened by leathern thongs 
from neck to neck like a living chain ; and, being per- 
fectly ignorant of geography, they had no idea of 
the countries through which they passed ; but upon 
arrival, few slaves could give any description of the 
route beyond the simple name of their native places 
obscured in the wilderness of Africa. The sufferings 
on the march were frightful. If poor women were 
footsore, or broke down under the weight of some 
burden they were forced to carry, they were first 
cruelly beaten, and if too weak to proceed they were 
killed by the blow of a club or the thrust of a spear: 
children who fell ill were thrown into the thick 
jungle, and left to die or to be devoured by the wild 
beasts. It was thus that Tim had been captured 
when about twelve years old ; and, being a well-grown 
and powerful boy, he had arrived with a large gang 
of slaves in sufficiently good condition to fetch a 
high price at Sierra Leone, from which port he was 
shipped with many others to Jamaica. In the latter 
colony he was purchased by a rich sugar-planter, 

F 



66 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

. — i 

a kind-hearted good man, who would neither have 
harmed an animal nor human being; but unfor- 
tunately it was poor little Tim's lot to be handed to 
the care of a cruel overseer. 

For more than a year Tim had led a life of 
bitterness; not a day passed without some severe 
lashes of the whip, accompanied by the uncalled-for 
abuse of the nigger-driver. It was in vain that he did 
his utmost to please — he received nothing but threats 
and blows : he would sometimes steal away and hide 
among the thick sugar-canes, and think of his little 
village so far away in Africa, and cry till his heart 
nearly broke when he thought of his distant home 
that he should never see again, with his mother, and 
the flock of goats that he was minding in the forest on 
the day that he was stolen away. It was too much 
for Tim, and he longed to die. Once he had com- 
plained to his master, who had accordingly repri- 
manded the overseer ; but from that time his lot was 
even worse than before, as the natural cruelty of his 
tyrant turned to actual hatred. At length Tim deter- 
mined to run away ; he knew not where to go, but 
anywhere was better than his present position. He 
left the plantation one night, and ran and walked 
alternately until, at sunrise, tired out and footsore, he 
reached Port Royal. A man-of-war's boat was just 
pushing off from the shore, and Tim rushed into the 
water, and in a few broken words explained his dis- 
tress and implored protection. The lieutenant who 
commanded, with sailor-like charity, took him on 
board, and Tim quickly found himself on a first-class 
frigate which sailed that day for England. During 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 67 

the voyage, Tim, who had learnt to cook in the cruel 
overseer's service, made himself useful in the ship's 
galley, and soon became not only a great favourite 
with his master, but with the rest of the crew. A 
few days after quitting Jamaica, the frigate fell in 
with a French ship, which she captured after a severe 
engagement, during which Tim's master (the lieu- 
tenant) distinguished himself greatly, and was badly 
wounded. Tim nursed him with much devotion until 
their arrival in England, when the lieutenant was 
rewarded with an appointment to the command of a 
revenue cutter. From that time Tim regarded his 
brave and kind-hearted master with intense affection, 
and, having learnt a sailor's work, he formed one of 
the cutter's crew, of which he was now the only 
survivor, the gallant commander having been 
destroyed by the rock rolled down upon him by 
Mother Lee. 

After breakfast was over he told this simple story 
of his career, which at once gained him Polly's heart, 
while the bright eyes of Ned sparkled at his descrip- 
tion of his adventures, more especially at the account 
of the action with the French ship, when the brave 
lieutenant was wounded. From that time Tim 
became a member of Paul Grey's family ; he made 
himself generally useful, sometimes assisting Polly 
Grey in the cooking, but more frequently he attended 
Paul and Ned in fishing when the Polly went upon a 
cruise, or when the boats pushed out with the seine- 
net to capture a shoal of mackerel. 

Tim did not forget his old master. Although happy, 
he had fits of gloom when his thoughts wandered 

F 2 



68 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

back to that fatal night when he clung to the drifting 
mast in the raging storm, and heard those last manly 
words of encouragement, " Never say die ! hold fast, 
my lads!" before he lost sight of his brave captain 
for ever. 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 69 



CHAPTER IV. 

The holidays were over. Ned Grey had had a 
happy time during the past seven weeks, that had 
been full of adventure ; in addition to the ordinary 
pleasures of his home, and the occupation of fishing, 
he had made several voyages to the coast of France 
in the fast clipper Polly, and had escaped two or 
three French cruisers after an exciting chase ; his 
holidays had wound up with the wreck of the cutter 
and the rescue of " Nigger Tim," as he was now called, 
in Sandy Cove. 

Ned Grey excelled in all manly pursuits — there 
was no better swimmer in the Cove, neither was there 
a more active sailor, or better fisherman ; at the same 
time he ranked as high at school in the more serious 
branches of education. No mother could have sur- 
passed the fondness of Polly Grey for her adopted 
child, and she was now well repaid for her care, not 
only in the physical perfection of the boy, but in the 
filial affection that he returned. She had taught him 
herself until he was nine years old, by which time he 
could read and write fluently, although it must be 
confessed that his juvenile industry was less visible 
on his slate and copy-book than in his untiring energy 
and resources in setting lines for fish, making crab- 



jo CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

nets and lobster-pots, and in catching the said crabs 
and lobsters with which the rocky coast abounded. 
In all these pursuits he had been an apt pupil of Paul 
Grey's. But, as the watchful Parson Jones had often 
warned Polly, the time had arrived when he must be 
sent to school ; therefore she had to part with her much- 
loved boy, and resign herself to the solitude of home. 

Thus Ned had first gone to school as a boarder in 
the House of Parson Jones when he was nine years 
old. Polly had prepared his mind for his entrance 
among his fellows by the simple but stern principles 
of morality : that he should be too proud to tell an 
untruth, or to do a mean action : that he should be 
rigidly honourable in all his dealings ; and that he 
should never bully, nor allow himself to be bullied. 
With this advice, which he never forgot, Ned parted 
from his parents, as he considered Paul and Polly 
Grey, and went to school. Although Parson Jones 
and his wife were the perfection of kindness, Ned felt 
the difference between home and school : he had 
never known the want of a mother until then ; and 
there were many hours when his thoughts returned to 
the little white cottage on the cliff, and he longed to feel 
her loving arm around his waist and her warm kiss 
upon his cheek. Then, as the scene of his dear home 
appeared, he would recall all the fond words of ad- 
vice that had fallen from his mother's lips, and these 
he resolved should always be his guide. 

Four years had passed, and Parson Jones declared 
that Ned was the best boy in his school. He was ex- 
ceedingly gentle in his manners, clever for his age (he 
was just turned thirteen) : at the same time he was the 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 71 

best cricketer and the fastest runner, although there 
were boys several years his seniors. With such quali- 
fications it was natural that he should be a general 
favourite ; but there was one exception to the rule, 
which had for several years been a source of much 
annoyance to Ned Grey. The largest landed pro- 
prietor in the neighbourhood was a certain Squire 
Stevens, whose eldest son was a boarder in Parson 
Jones's school. This lad was slightly older than Ned, 
to whom he had, without any valid reason, taken a 
peculiar aversion. It was in vain that Ned had at 
first endeavoured to win his friendship : there was a 
jealousy in the unmanly heart of Jem Stevens that 
nothing could remove. The fact that Ned excelled 
him in the various games of football, cricket, and 
others that tested the activity of boys was sufficient 
to make him an enemy. Added to this meanness of 
disposition, he was a notorious liar ; and had not 
Parson Jones hesitated to offend his father, who was 
the great man of the parish, he would, on more than 
one occasion, have expelled him from the school. 

The holidays being over, Ned Grey once more left 
home and returned to school ; it was only five miles 
from the Cove, therefore, as the Polly was going 
out fishing, Paul managed to put him and his trunk 
on board, as he could land him within half a mile of 
Parson Jones's house. 

u Good-bye, Ned," shouted many voices, as having 
taken leave of his mother he descended to the beach. 
The children ran out of several huts to shout " Good- 
bye" likewise, and to shake hands with Ned, who 
with Tim's assistance carried his heavy trunk along 



72 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

the beach and placed it in the boat They soon got 
on board the Polly, taking the pinnace in tow ; and 
with a light but fair breeze they sailed out of the 
Cove, and waved a parting farewell to Polly Grey, 
who stood upon the terrace on the cliff watching 
their departure. 

In less than an hour they landed, and, assisted 
by a powerful sailor, who carried his trunk, Ned 
followed the well-known path up the cliffs, and shortly 
arrived at the village. It was a lovely spot Shel- 
tered in a deep dell, the grey spire of the old church 
rose above the rich green foliage of the woods ; a 
clear rippling stream flowed through the bottom of 
the glen, where Ned had often caught a basketful of 
small trout upon a holiday afternoon; at times the 
brook was hidden between cliffs of reddish and 
grey limestone, upon which grew a rich fringe of 
underwood, broken at intervals by a noble oak; in 
other places the water was as smooth as glass, in deep 
black pools in some sudden bend of the stream where 
the torrent had hollowed out a resting-place. Cross- 
ing a rude bridge, formed of a tree felled across the 
brook, Ned passed the meadow that bordered the 
high road and arrived at the church, close to which 
stood the rectory — Dr. Jones's school. It was a large 
gable-ended house, with lattice windows, and was 
completely covered with ivy, except in several places 
where the exuberant growth had been checked for 
the cultivation of the myrtle and magnolia which 
were carefully trained upon the walls. The garden 
was beautifully kept ; a small but rapid stream flowed 
through a large lawn ornamented with flower-beds 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 73 

tastefully arranged, while the natural undulations of 
the ground were in some places levelled into terraces 
of fine turf that descended to the rippling brook. 
Several ancient mulberry trees afforded a delicious 
shade; beneath which, rustic seats were arranged; 
it was on one of these that Ned had been accustomed 
to sit in the heat of the day and read, when Dr. Jones 
permitted the boys to enjoy themselves in his private 
grounds. The sailor had carried his trunk to the back 
entrance, and Ned, having opened the garden gate, 
advanced quickly along the approach to the front 
door. As the gate clanged when Ned had closed it, 
the sound attracted the attention of a light and 
youthful figure that was seated in Ned's favourite 
spot upon the lawn, beneath the spreading branches 
of a venerable mulberry. She had been reading, but 
upon seeing Ned approach she quickly closed her 
book, and springing up, — 

"Ah! Ned," she exclaimed; "how you startled 
me! I was just reading about Edward the Black 
Prince, and I was wondering whether he was called 
' Ned' when he was a boy, and then the gate slammed, 
and I jumped, and saw you !" 

"I am sorry that I startled you, Edith," said 
Ned ; " I didn't know that you were here until this 
moment when I first saw you rise ; pray forgive me." 

"Oh yes!" replied Edith laughing, "it was no 
great sin, but I'm so glad you are come home again ! 
Papa and mamma will be so very glad also, for you 
know you are their great favourite. Come in : I think 
papa is in his study." 

There was a blush of pleasure on Edith's lovely 



74 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

face as she thus welcomed her old playfellow, and led 
him towards the house. Edith Jones was born a 
month after that fatal night, now thirteen years ago, 
when JTed was rescued from the sea. She was, there- 
fore, nearly the same age, and as both her father and 
mother had taken the warmest interest in Ned, and 
had frequently told her of the extraordinary manner 
in which he, a helpless infant, was saved, she had 
regarded him with a tender sympathy ever since he 
had first entered the school, when they were both 
children of nine years old. Both Dr. and Mrs. Jones 
had treated Ned more like one of their own family 
than an ordinary schoolboy ; therefore it was natural 
that Edith, as an only child, should have regarded 
Ned almost in the light of a brother ; in fact, as they 
now walked together, hand in hand, across the lawn, 
they matched as though sprung from the same parents. 
Edith was tall for her age, and beautifully formed, while 
her long waving blonde hair, that fell in a dense mass 
below her shoulders, agreed exactly in colour with 
the rich locks of the handsome boy by her side. She 
had the same large blue eyes, fine complexion, and 
delicate features ; and, better than all, the same warm 
heart and generous disposition. 

In a few minutes they entered the house; and 
upon Edith's knock at the study door being quickly 
answered, they entered. 

" Here's Ned come back, papa," said Edith ; "he's 
looking as brown as a gipsy, and so grown, isn't he ? " 

" Ha, ha, Ned, my boy!" exclaimed the delighted 
schoolmaster, " I'm very glad you've come to us 
again, we have been quite dull without you ; even 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 75 

the canary won't sing as usual when you're away. 
How are your father and mother ? All well, I 
hope ? " 

Ned having replied, now gave them an account 
of the wreck of the cutter, and the rescue of the 
nigger-boy, Tim. Edith's eyes brightened during the 
description. 

" Where is he ? " she presently exclaimed. " Oh 
Ned, how I should like to see a black boy! And 
does he love you for having saved him ? " 

" Oh, yes," replied Ned. " I've heard that niggers 
don't feel, but I'm sure that's not true, for Tim's as 
fond of me as possible, although we've only had him 
a few weeks, and he loves father and mother like a 
dog." 

"Like a dog-/" exclaimed Edith; "but is he 
not like us ? Is he not better than a dog in his 
affection ? " asked the hesitating girl. 

At this moment there was a rush against the half- 
closed door : in another instant it burst open, and a 
large black Newfoundland dog, bounding into the 
room, at once recognised Ned, and, springing towards 
him, it almost knocked him down as it placed its 
fore-paws on his shoulders and attempted to lick 
his face. 

" Ah, Nero ! Down ! down ! " cried Edith. 

"Poor fellow!" said Ned, as he returned the dog's 
caress, and patted his silky sides and neck; "don't 
drive him away. Nero, my boy, how did you know 
that I was here again ? " said Ned, as he affectionately 
hugged the faithful dog. " I wish all people were 
as good as dogs," said Ned ; " I believe Tim is, 



76 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

and both Tim and Nero are niggers, for they're both 
the same colour, only Nero's not so woolly." 

" Well," said Edith, half convinced ; " Nero loves 
me dearly too, don't you, Nero ? Nobody loves me 
so well as you, Nero, do they, old boy?" This she 
said as she caught the dog by both his ears, and 
looked lovingly in his face. 

Somehow Ned blushed deeply as he was about to 
make some remark, which was interrupted by the 
entrance of Edith's mother. 

Mrs. Jones was a good-looking woman of about 
thirty-eight. There was a great excitement in her 
manner, as she merely shook hands warmly with 
Ned, and then addressed her husband. 

" My dear, you're wanted immediately ; there's a 
terrible affair. Really that boy Stevens must be 
expelled ; he has nearly or quite killed little Norris. 
They had a quarrel, and he has stabbed him with 
a knife ! " 

In an instant Dr. Jones left the room accompanied 
by all present, and upon arriving at the schoolroom 
they found a crowd of boys around the wounded boy, 
who had fainted from loss of blood, and was lying on 
the floor, while a tutor supported his head. The 
doctor, who lived close by, had already been sent for, 
but before he arrived young Norris had revived, as 
the usual remedies of cold water and smelling salts 
had produced an effect. In the meantime the culprit, 
Jem Stevens, who had been disarmed by the other 
boys, stood sulkily in a corner with his arms pinioned 
behind him. He was an ill-looking fellow, very pale 
and freckled, with a quantity of tightly-curling, sandy 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 77 

hair ; his features were coarse, and the expression of 
his large mouth, with exceedingly thin lips, was pecu- 
liarly forbidding ; he was tall, but clumsily made, and 
his general appearance was far from prepossessing. 
The doctor quickly arrived, and happily pronounced 
the wound to be trifling, although the haemorrhage had 
been alarming. The blade of the knife had entered 
the shoulder, and had fortunately been stopped by 
the bone. 

" Now, then," said the doctor, as he strapped the 
wound tightly together with plaster, " as Horace says, 
' Jam satis terris nivis ' — ' Now we've had enough of 
knives,' and as Virgil says," he added, looking sternly 
at Jem Stevens, " Arma virumque cano !' — ' Cane him 
on the arms and the rump ! ' " 

It was seldom that Dr. Jones had recourse to 
corporal punishment, therefore whenever such a 
course was absolutely necessary it had ten times 
the ordinary effect as an example. But on this 
occasion he considered it to be his duty ; accordingly 
he now appeared with the cane, and he called upon 
Stevens to stand in the middle of the room. 

" I didn't do it, sir," faltered the cowardly fellow. 
" I was cutting a stick when Norris tried to snatch it 
from me, and he fell against the knife." 

This was quickly proved to be a complete false- 
hood, and the cane was about to descend with extra 
warmth for the lie, when the wounded boy Norris 
interceded in his behalf, and endeavoured to save 
him from punishment ; he was quickly joined in his 
petition by Edith, and for the moment the school- 
master's arm was arrested. 



78 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 



" James Stevens," he said, " I regret to say you are 
a disgrace to your family and to this school. I have 
pardoned many of your faults, and I have corrected 
others, trusting that you would improve; but after 
nearly five years' trial, you have ended in an act 
of cowardice, cruelty, and in falsehood. I have little 
hope of you, but I give you your own choice. Will 
you receive a severe chastisement, and then ask 
pardon of the boy you have injured, and endeavour 
to improve during this half-year, or will you rather 
be expelled the school at once ? " 

" I hate the school," said the sullen coward, " and 
I'd rather leave ! " 

A yell of contempt burst from the crowd of boys, 
while the good Dr. Jones grew pale with emotion at 
the thought of this lamentable result after all the care 
he had bestowed on the wretched boy. 

" Untie his arms," said he. " Go, Stevens, to your 
room, and at once pack up your things while I write 
to your father." 

The culprit left the room amidst the general hissing 
of his comrades, in which Ned Grey and little Norris 
were the only two who did not join. In the mean 
time Edith had also disappeared, while Dr. Jones 
sorrowfully retired to his study to write the final 
letter to Squire Stevens of Heron HalL 

Jem Stevens quickly packed up his clothes, and 
doggedly determined that, when the fly should come 
to the door, he would depart without taking leave of 
any one. Accordingly, having prepared his things he 
descended to the garden, and entered the shrubbery 
as he imagined unseen ; in this he was mistaken, for 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 79 

he had been watched by two persons, who, although 
unconscious of each other's presence, were actuated 
by the same feelings. Edith quickly followed him. 
She hoped to soften his hard heart, and to persuade 
him to ask her father's pardon, and to be friends with 
little Norris. 

Ned Grey had no idea that Edith had such an 
intention, and although, if he had an enemy in the 
world, Jem Stevens was the person, he was generously 
determined, if possible, to persuade him to act like a 
boy of honour, and to apologise and receive the 
punishment in a manly manner. As Ned followed 
in the direction where Stevens had disappeared, he 
started at seeing the figure of Edith for one moment 
as she vanished among the trees. She was evidently 
searching for Jem Stevens. 

Now it would be difficult to explain why, but the 
fact remained, that Ned did not like to hear Edith 
intercede with her father so warmly for Stevens when 
he was about to be flogged ; and now that he had 
caught sight for an instant of her pretty figure hurry- 
ing in the direction that Stevens had taken, a bitter 
feeling seized upon his heart, which beat double time 
at that same moment. 

"Why should Edith take so much interest in 
Stevens? that blackguard, Jem Stevens ? " as he could 
not help muttering aloud, as he now angrily followed 
through the thick shrubbery. He heard voices close 
to him, on the other side of a clump of trees : before 
he could appear in view, he heard Jem Stevens rudely 
reply to Edith, — 

" I wish the knife had been through Ned Grey's ribs !" 



80 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

In an instant he rushed through the bushes, and 
appeared on the small lawn upon which Edith and 
Stevens were standing. 

" Through Ned's ribs, you cowardly brute ! " cried 
Ned, as in the same instant he threw off his jacket 
and waistcoat. " You may try those tricks on poor 
little Norris, but not oa me, you coward. Now come 
on ; and Edith, you stand on one side," said Ned, in 
a voice so stern and so different to the soft tone 
to which she was accustomed, that the tears started 
to her eyes. 

"Off with your coat!" shouted Ned to Jem Stevens, 
who did not appear very impatient for the fray; how- 
ever, in another minute the two boys stood in sparring 
attitude, opposed to each other. Stevens was the 
heavier of the two, and equally tall, but there was a 
superior activity in Ned that made up for his inferi- 
ority in weight ; both were fair boxers, and the fight 
began with a considerable amount of skill. Although 
Ned was angrily earnest he did not lose his temper, 
and he walked round his antagonist coolly waiting for 
his opportunity. With his left hand well forward and 
his right ready, and keeping steady time with each 
step, as Stevens with great caution kept on the defen- 
sive, Ned suddenly made a feint with his left which 
Stevens attempted to stop, at the same moment he 
received a heavy blow with Ned's right in the chest 
that sent him reeling backwards. Without a moment's 
loss of opportunity Ned followed him up with a heavy 
left-hander straight between the eyes, that fairly 
knocked him down. Stevens's cold blood was now 
heated, and springing from the ground, he rushed 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 81 

forward utterly regardless of science, and with his 
head down, protected by his bended arm, he closed 
with a swingeing right-handed hit that unfortu- 
nately caught Ned upon the ear, and sent him reel- 
ing, and for the instant half stunned, upon one side. 
Stepping back with consummate coolness and dex- 
terity, with both hands well forward on guard, Ned 
waited, and defended himself until he lost the buzzing 
sound in his ears, and recovered from the serious, 
blow. 

" Stop !" cried Edith. " Ned ! Stevens ! dear Ned r 
she cried, "do stop — that's enough — for my sake,. 
Ned ! " 

At this appeal Ned looked on one side fondly at 
the peace -maker; but, taken off his guard for that 
instant, he received a crushing hit from his opponent 
straight in the face. 

"Don't talk now, Edith," he replied, "till I've 
polished this fellow off ! " and, rendered doubly steady 
and determined by the blow that stung him, he lashed 
out left and right, after stopping a wild attempt from 
Stevens; both blows told, and Stevens staggered 
several paces backward, but, profiting by his first 
success, he again guarded his bowed head with his 
bended arm, and rushed in with great fury, once 
more delivering a swingeing right-hander. Ned sprang 
quickly on the right, and met him with an upward 
cut with the left exactly on the nose : at the same 
instant he turned, and floored him with a right-handed 
blow on the ear. Jem Stevens lay upon the ground,, 
thoroughly beaten. 

" Get up ! " cried Ned, " don't cry craven yet ! " but 

G 



82 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

¦ " ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ^^ ¦ ' "" " ¦"¦ — " ¦- ' - ¦ ¦ ¦ ' ¦ ¦ I ¦!¦¦¦¦¦¦ 

Stevens only replied by sitting upon the grass, and 
allowing the drops to fall from his bruised nose. 

"Do you give in?" said Ned; "if not, get up and 
finish it like a man." 

" Ned, that's enough : he's beaten ! " cried Edith ; 
but at those words from her, even Jem Stevens's soul 
was aroused, and starting suddenly up, he rushed 
desperately at Ned with his head down. Ned this 
time stepped quickly on the left, meeting him with a 
sharp right-handed blow, at the same time that he 
caught him round the neck with his left arm, and 
secured his head in the unpleasant position that is 
known by the name of " chancery," owing to the fact 
that the property must be seriously damaged before 
it can escape from the Court. A sharp dig with 
Ned's right in the face of Stevens was quickly "fol- 
lowed by a cry, " I give in ! " Ned released him. 
The fight was over. At this time the sound of wheels 
was heard as the fly arrived that was to take Jem 
Stevens from the school. 

Both boys were disfigured by the fight. Ned had 
no marks that could not be immediately removed by 
soap and water ; but Stevens had a pair of swollen 
eyes that would be perfectly black in a few hours. 

"I'm sorry for it, Stevens," said Ned, as he advanced 
and offered him his hand. " We've had a fight once 
before, and I had hoped that we had made it up ; but 
don't let us part as enemies now that you must leave 
school." 

"That's right, Ned," said Edith, who had picked 
up his jacket and waistcoat from the ground ; " shake 
hands together and make it up, and go and wash your 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 83 

faces. Now, Stevens, it is not too late ; be friends, 
and go and ask pardon of papa ; I'm sure it may be 
all mended even now." 

For an instant Jem Stevens regarded the lovely 
Edith as though he hesitated in his decision, but 
his evil disposition overcame the first good impulse ; 
he replied sullenly, " No, Edith ! I love you, but I 
hate the school ; and I hate you, Ned Grey, for ever ! " 
he added, as he looked spitefully at the fine generous 
countenance of his conqueror. If Ned had been 
beaten in the fight he would not have felt so hurt as 
he now did when his friendly hand was thus con- 
temptuously spurned. 

" Come away, Edith," he said ; " Dr. Jones will be 
very angry, but I'll take the blame ; if Stevens won't 
be friends I am sorry for it, but it's not my fault." Ned 
then put on his jacket and waistcoat that Edith gave 
him, and went away. Edith lingered for a moment in 
the hope of yet being able to soften Stevens ; but he 
only pressed her hand, and said, " Good-bye, Edith ; 
I hate every one but you, and sometimes I even hate 
you because you love Ned Grey better than me." 
Confused by such a confession, Edith could only reply 
by a cold " Good-bye, Stevens ; I hope you will live 
to grow more generous," and she turned sorrowfully 
homeward. Half an hour afterwards, the noise of 
carriage- wheels was again heard as the fly took Jem 
Stevens and his trunk away from the school. 



G 2 



84 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 



CHAPTER V* 

Twelve months had passed away since Jem Stevens 
was expelled the school, and from that time nothing 
had disturbed the quiet happiness of Parson Jones's 
flock. As to Jem Stevens's career, his father, the old 
squire, had found him incorrigible ; he had therefore 
sent him to sea very shortly after his disgraceful 
return from school. He was now a midshipman on 
board one of his Majesty's frigates. Ned Grey was 
upwards of fourteen, and Dr. Jones had already ad- 
vised that he should be placed in a merchant's office 
in some great seaport, in which capacity he would 
have a good chance of improving his position. To 
this proposal Polly had agreed, as she wished that he 
might be brought up to some profession that might 
eventually lead to competence. On the other hand, 
Paul, who had successfully evaded the revenue autho- 
rities, claimed the active and adventurous boy as his 
own son, and would not yield him to what he called 
" an old woman's trade." For Ned, the position was 
extremely perplexing. He could not please all par- 
ties. To his mother he owed everything; to Dr. 
Jones much; to his father, as he considered Paul, 
hardly as much as others, although he had been 
always kind. And then there was another. Edith 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 85 

had been almost a sister. What did she wish him 
to do ? They had often walked together in the lovely- 
green lanes, and strolled among the romantic glens 
and cliffs to gather wild flowers, at which times they 
would sometimes sit beneath some shady rock over- 
looking the blue sea, while Edith arranged the flowers 
in tasteful nosegays. It was then that Ned would 
gaze'at the boundless horizon, and his boyish impulse 
yearned to wander far beyond, when suddenly a 
change would come over his features as he looked 
at the lovely Edith, and thought how hard it would 
be to separate from her. On the other hand, it would 
have been difficult to define Edith's feelings ; she was 
so perfectly innocent and yet loving, that she had 
always looked upon Ned as one that was inseparably 
connected with her parents and herself. The idea 
of his ever belonging to any one else had never been 
suggested to her imagination. They had grown up 
togther for years without the slightest restriction 
placed upon their intimacy ; and, now that they were 
approaching the age of fifteen, for the first time the 
warning had been given her that Ned would have 
to part. 

It was a calm Sunday evening in August. The 
snn was low, and constantly shaded by fleecy clouds 
that travelled slowly across the disc. There was 
hardly any perceptible breeze. The cattle stood or 
lay lazily in the meadows, and all Nature appeared 
to enjoy the calm rest of the Sabbath. The after- 
noon service had been concluded for about an hour, 
and the usual throng of idlers that were wont to con- 
gregate and chat at the church door had retired to 



86 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

their respective homes, and the churchyard appeared 
forsaken. It was not entirely deserted. There were 
two figures sitting on the greensward, within a few 
feet of a stone in the form of a cross. Upon this 
cross was written, "A lady unknown, aged about 
twenty-two. Cast up by the sea in Sandy Cove." 

" How sad this always seems to me ! " said Ned ; 
"poor lady, only twenty-two ! I wonder who she was ? 
Even her name was unknown ; perhaps she had a 
husband who may even now be alive, and be grieving 
for his lost wife without knowing what became of 
her; perhaps," added Ned thoughtfully, "she had 
a child, who lost its mother, and will never know 
where she lies ! " 

" I have always heard," said Edith, " that this poor 
lady was a beautiful person, who was wrecked and 
drowned. Papa recollects having seen her, and he 
has told me how lovely she looked when she was 
brought to shore, and he saw her lying dead, as pale 
as marble, and almost covered with her long fair hair. 
You were wrecked too, Ned, when you were a little 
baby," continued Edith, " at least, I have heard so." 

" I don't think it is true," said Ned. " Some people 
have told me so, but my mother must know best ; and 
when I have asked her, she has only pressed me in 
her arms, and asked me if I wish for any other 
mother ; there cannot be a dearer one than she." 

Edith and Ned had been working a wreath of flowers 
upon a circle of ivy ; the evening was darkening. 
u Give me that wreath, Edith," said Ned, " if you don't 
want it. I should like to hang it upon that cross, 
it seems so desolate : that cold inscription, ' Unknown, 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 87 

cast up by the sea/ chills me to the heart. To think 
that she should lie here so utterly forsaken ! " 

" Let us clean that moss from the stone before we 
arrange the wreath," said Edith. " I wish we had some 
everlastings, as those flowers will so quickly fade." 

In a few minutes the wreath hung upon the cross. 

" Shall we always attend to this ? " asked Edith. 

" I shall be gone," sighed Ned, " but you will remain 
at home ; perhaps, Edith, you will forget it ; and — 
you may forget me also — I may not see you for 
years ; and," continued Ned, hesitating, " you may 
some day marry before I shall return ; and we may 
never meet again." 

" Marry ! marry ! did you say, Ned ? how could I 
marry if you go away ; who should I marry if you 
forsake me, Ned ? I would rather die, and lie some- 
where here next to this lonely grave ; and then if 
ever you should come back again, you might perhaps 
come here, and think how we once sat here together, 
and you might make a wreath for me like that we 
have now hung upon this cross." 

" I'll never marry any one but you, Edith, if you 
will have me," answered Ned ; " but first I must work 
to earn a livelihood, for I could not see you in want ; 
and I have nothing ; but no one loves you as I do, 
Edith." 

As Ned spoke, he gazed intently in Edith's large 
blue eyes, and then suddenly clasped her in his arms, 
and kissed her unresisting lips. 

" Hallo, that's nice goings on ! " said a peculiar 
hoarse voice ; " ha, ha ! ha, ha ! Nice goings on ! But I 
was once young myself, although you mayn't believe 



88 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

it But, Ned Grey, yer'U have bitter times, and 
may be yer'll never see the day so long as Mother 
Lee's alive." 

" Out, you old witch ! " cried Ned ; " be off with 
your croaking tongue, you wicked old hag, whom I 
could hang for what I saw when you stoned the 
drowning men!" 

" Don't quarrel with Mother Lee," said Edith, "she's 
a witch, they say ; she'll do some harm, after this," 
continued Edith ; " I saw her spit upon the ground 
as she hobbled off, and she scowled at us like a 
demon." 

Mother Lee had in fact hobbled off, and as she 
retreated, muttering curses, she clenched her skinny 
fingers, and shook her withered fist at the innocent 
pair, and then vanished among the tombstones. 

"What can she want here?" said Ned; "she's up 
to some mischief, or she would not wander so far 
from Sandy Cove." 

" Come, Ned," said Edith, " I do not like to remain 
on this spot ; it's getting dusk, and that horrible old 
woman frightens me ; she may now be hiding behind 
some gravestone." 

As Edith spoke, two dark figures were seen to glide 
stealthily by on the other side the churchyard ; they 
appeared to be men, but they were quickly concealed 
by an intervening hedge. 

" Come home, Ned," said Edith, "it may be foolish, 
but I have a curious feeling of uneasiness that I never 
felt before — a kind of dreadful foreboding of mis- 
fortune. God grant that it may be only my weakness, 
but that horrible old woman has chilled me through 



CAST UP JBY THE SEA. 89 

and through !" She seized Ned's arm, and, trembling 
in every limb, she hastened towards her home. 

" I must run over to the Cove to-night," said Ned. 
" Dr. Jones gave me permission to spend a day at 
home, to talk over the future with my father and 
mother, and I promised to be there this evening; 
but I will see you safe home first, Edith." 

" Oh Ned, don't go to-night," exclaimed the ner- 
vous girl ; " I don't know why, but I feel that some- 
thing's coming. I am certain — yes, positive — that 
something dreadful is hanging over us ; don't go until 
to-morrow, Ned ! " 

" This is foolish, Edith," replied Ned. " Why, how 
is this ? You who are so brave, you are frightened at 
old Mother Lee ? Shake off this silly feeling. Never 
give way to nervousness : it grows upon one if indulged 
in. Do you think I am so weak that I could not 
defend you from an old woman ?" 

Edith felt abashed, and, clutching Ned's arm, 
with rapid steps she soon reached the rectory. 
Ned hastily said, "Good-bye," and taking a small 
bundle slung upon his stick, he set off at a trot towards 
the Cove. It was just early night, but the moon was 
nearly full, and Ned could easily run the five or six 
miles within the hour. As he left the rectory, Nero 
came bounding after him, and seeing him run, the 
dog considered that he was in pursuit of some object, 
and accordingly followed him, sometimes running on 
in advance. Presently Nero gave a short bark, and 
growling fiercely he returned to Ned with his hair 
bristled up, looking angry and yet frightened. 

" What is it, old boy ?" said Ned, "go at it, Nero !" 



90 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

The dog did not fly forward, as was his custom at 
such a command, but he walked a few paces in ad- 
vance, and suddenly dashed back again to Ned, giving 
at the same time a sharp bark, followed by a deep 
growl, as a curious shadow like the figure of an old 
woman with a long stick glided along the clean 
surface of the ground in the clear moonlight. Ned 
for the moment felt a chilly sensation creep over him ; 
but, recovering quickly, he rushed forward with the 
dog, but nothing was visible, and Nero, refusing to 
search, would only keep resolutely at his master's heel. 

"The dog's bewitched," exclaimed Ned. "That 
shadow looked like old Mother Lee ; but perhaps it 
was only the shadow of a cloud crossing the moon." 

With this assurance Ned trotted on, followed by 
the dog, and without any adventure he reached his 
parent's cottage on the cliff at Sandy Cove. He was 
greeted with the accustomed warmth of welcome from 
Polly Grey and the nigger Tim ; the latter was much 
grown, and was a fine strong lad. But Paul was not at 
home ; he had sailed about an hour before Ned's 
arrival upon some sudden and unexpected errand ; 
Tim, who was slightly unwell, had been left behind. 

Before retiring to rest, Ned had confided to his 
mother his boyish love for Edith, with all the youth- 
ful hopes and fears that attended his uncertain future. 
From many little expressions that she had frequently 
remarked, Polly Grey had almost suspected that he 
was too fond of his old playfellow, but, her experience 
having taught her that a boy's heart was easily cured 
of love's wound, she had attached but little import- 
ance to the fact ; however, she now received his con- 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. gt 

fession with maternal tenderness. At the same time 
with much judgment she cautioned him of the. many 
difficulties that lay in his career, and yet gave him 
hope that Edith might some day become a prize when 
he should have earned her by such industry as would 
raise him to a position worthy of her. 

Ned went to sleep that night without a fear. As 
he laid his head upon his pillow Edith's image was in 
his mind, and in his dreams, life seemed to hurry 
through each successive stage, until he again stood 
hand in hand with her, who then belonged to him. 
All was bright — a happiness that was indescribable 
pervaded his heavenly vision. Could such love only 
last, such beauty as was painted in his sleep, what 
other heaven could he wish ? But the magic touch 
of sleep is most inconstant. Presently the bright 
image began to fade; a mist obscured the fairy-like 
form with which he had been wandering through 
infinite space. The scene grew gloomy, then dark ; 
he was among cliffs and precipices ; there was a roar 
of angry waves deep beneath him, but he could not 
see ; he could only feel the warm soft hand that he 
guided on the dangerous path. Ha ! his foot slipped ! 
Jhe lost the hand ! one desperate clutch, and again he 
held it fast, but it was cold and bony ; it felt as skinny 
as an eagle's foot. The moon now rose blood-red, and 
he could see ; but he led not his Edith : it was the 
horrible hand of old Mother Lee that was in his 
grasp. "Ha! ha! ha!" sang in his startled ears, as 
he felt a sudden push; he overbalanced from the 
precipice, and fell — down ! down ! down ! always 
falling, with the roar of water below, in the darkness 



92 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

and the blood-red moon ; at length a crash ! and he 
awoke. He was in bed in his mother's cottage. It 
was about half-past four in the morning ; and, feverish 
with the bewildering dream that he could not at once 
shake off, he rose and dressed himself, and calling Tim, 
who was quickly ready, he sought the fresh air of the 
sea beach. 

The tide was low, therefore upon reaching the 
bottom of the cliff they could walk some miles upon 
the rocky beach. Nero had accompanied the two 
boys, and, delighted with the opportunity, he dashed 
into the sea, and amused himself with bringing mouth- 
fuls of long sea-weed to the shore. 

It was not long before the invigorating sea-breeze 
completely chased away the effects of Ned's miser- 
able dream, and he had regained his usual spirits. 
They had strolled about two miles when Ned sug- 
gested that it was time to return for breakfast, as 
they were far from home. Just at that moment they 
turned the corner of a projecting cliff, on the other 
side of which was a small sandy beach that formed 
one of the few landing-places along the rock-bound 
coast. Upon the sand, but half afloat, lay a large 
boat, in which were two or three men, while reclin- 
ing on the beach was a party of twelve sailors ; these 
men were dressed in blue shirts and trousers, and 
evidently belonged to a ship of war that was standing 
off the shore, about six miles distant. The loud 
barking of Nero at once attracted the attention of 
the party. 

" Good morning, youngsters," said a good-natured, 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 93 

i 1 ¦ 1 1 ¦ 1 

stout-looking fellow, in a lieutenant's uniform ; " what's 
brought you here ? " 

Ned explained that they had merely strolled in 
that direction, without any particular object, and 
were now about to return to Sandy Cove. 

" We'll give you a lift," said the lieutenant, "we 
may as well go to the Cove as stay here. Come along, 
my lads ; shove the boat off ! " And before Ned had 
time to reply, he found himself surrounded by the 
party, who had taken his acceptance of their offer for 
granted. "Jump in," said the lieutenant, as they 
pushed the boat off the sand ; " never mind the dog, 
he can find his way back." But Nero had no idea of 
being left behind, he therefore sprang into the boat, 
and took his place by Ned, dripping with water. 

The lieutenant sat in the stern, but, instead of 
steering for Sandy Cove, he kept the boat's head in a 
direct line for the ship of war in the offing ; while the 
steady stroke of eight oars rapidly increased their 
distance from the land. 

" That's the way to France, and not to Sandy Cove!" 
said Ned, who began to be suspicious. 

" Never mind, young fellow ; you hold your tongue," 
said a sailor ; " we know our way better than you can 
tell us." 

" You seem to be a bit of a sailor," said the lieu- 
tenant. 

" I know how to handle a lugger," replied Ned ; 
"but I've never sailed on any other craft than my 
father's." 

" Oh ! you are a real sailor, are you ? That's right, 
then, we'll soon make a man of you on board the 



94 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

frigate. You can see Sandy Cove at any time ; but 
it isn't every day that you can see such a ship as the 
Sibylle!" 

The truth now flashed upon poor Ned : he was 
entrapped by a pressgang, and kidnapped into the 
King's service. The blood rushed to his face as the 
thought struck him, and the next instant he turned 
deadly pale as he thought of his mother, and of 
Edith, who would not even guess his fate, and whom 
he might never see again. He turned to the lieu- 
tenant " For God's sake do not deceive me," said Ned, 
despairingly ; " it will be my utter ruin — my mother 
expects me even now, there, in that white cottage 
on the cliff," continued the almost heart-broken boy, 
as he pointed eagerly to his little home, now plainly 
visible. A loud shout of laughter from the crew was 
the only reply to this appeal. 

"Jump, Massa Ned! make a swim!" cried Tim, 
who had slyly slipped off his shoes, and at the 
same moment he dashed head first into the water; 
but a powerful hand seized Ned firmly by the 
collar, and rendered it impossible for him to follow 
this advice. 

"Back-water, all!" shouted the lieutenant: at the 
same time he seized a long boat-hook, and caught Tim 
by his collar, as he reappeared upon the surface. 
Poor Tim was hauled ignominiously into the boat 
like a black porpoise, amidst a roar of laughter ; and, 
to prevent any further attempts at escape, his wrists 
were secured with a piece of rope. 

" You'd better make up your mind to it," said the 
lieutenant to Ned ; " there's many a lad as good, and 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 95 

perhaps better, than you, who's proud to serve the 
King; now you have a good chance without your 
own seeking. You will be as happy as a prince 
when you're once on board." 

" Shall I be able to write a letter home ?" asked 
Ned, whose tearful eyes were straining fixedly at the 
white cottage on the cliff that was rapidly diminishing 
to a mere speck. 

" Well, perhaps you may, if anything should detain 
us. You see we took some letters ashore this morn- 
ing, and left them with the coast-guard ; but we are 
bound on foreign service, and only left Plymouth 
yesterday, so there's not much chance for writing." 

Poor Ned sat with his head resting upon his hand 
that shaded his aching eyes. Was it a dream? — a 
part of that disturbed vision of the past night ? He 
could hardly believe in the reality of the situation. 
What would Edith think of his mysterious disappear- 
ance? What would his mother and father think? 
They would naturally suppose that the tide had over- 
taken them, and that both he and Tim had been 
drowned, as there was deep water at high tide, and 
no footway beneath the cliffs. If Edith thought him 
dead, and received no intelligence for years, she might 
marry some one else ! 

As these crushing thoughts passed through his 
brain, Ned felt as though his head was being pressed 
within a vice, and for some minutes he closed his 
eyes, overpowered with the deepest distress. This 
prostration did not last long. Ned was a boy of the 
most undaunted courage, both moral and physical; 
his most tender feelings had been tortured by an 



96 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

outrage that he could not resist, and he had yielded 
to the agony of the first shock ; but he now brushed 
his eyes roughly with his jacket sleeve, and assumed 
a manner of perfect coolness and determination. 

"Don't think me a fool, sir," he said to the lieu- 
tenant, who had been calmly watching him ; " it's all 
over now, and 111 do my duty, whatever it may be. 
She's a fine-looking ship. What guns does she 
mount, sir ? " 

"Bravo! that's your sort," said the lieutenant; 
" you'll do, my lad, there's no fear ; you're none the 
worse for thinking of your mother: shell be all 
right ; we'll manage to let her know somehow or 
other, and you'll bring her home a lapfull of prize- 
money some fine day. Well soon have a brush with 
a Frenchman when we clear the coast What's your 
name, my boy ? " 

"Edward Grey, sir; but I am always called 
Ned." 

"And who is the young nigger?" continued the 
lieutenant. 

Ned replied, "He is called Tim, sir. He was 
wrecked, and was the only one saved of the crew." 

"Yes, sar," exclaimed Tim, who now broke into 
the conversation ; " de poor nigger Tim nearly dead ; 
then Massa Ned come down de rock like a monkey, 
and pull de nigger out. Dat a long time ago, when 
my poor captin dead. Him swim like a fish. He 
cry, ' Hold on, my lads ! ' Captin nebber 'fraid. 
Captin cry out, ' Nebber say die, my boys ! ' den a 
big rock tummle on my poor captin's 'ed. Break 
him like a pumpkin. Nebber see him more ! " 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 97 

" That's a long story," replied the lieutenant, " and 
I'm not much the wiser for it — what's it all about ? " 

Ned then explained the catastrophe, and for the 
first time Tim heard that old Mother Lee had thrown 
the stone that killed the unfortunate captain. The 
effect was extraordinary. " Let me go ! let me go ! " 
he shouted, as he strove to release his hands from 
the rope, " I stick a knife in Moder Lee ! Oh cuss 
de ole moder debbel ! Why Tim not know before 
de ole debbel kill the poor captin ? Oh my poor 
captin ! Neber mind ! One day Tim stick a knife in 
ole debbel beast, Moder Lee ! " 

The lieutenant and crew had already taken a more 
than usual interest in their prisoners, and Tim's 
excitement had already made him a favourite with 
the sailors, especially as they witnessed his affection 
for his late captain. In about half an hour from this 
time they neared the frigate, which presently bore 
down upon them, and backing her main topsail she 
waited for the boat. As they approached her, Ned 
could not help admiring her beautiful lines, and her 
taut spars, with the numerous guns on either side 
peeping wickedly from her open ports. At this 
moment the shrill boatswain's whistle was heard as a 
rope was thrown from the vessel, while a man in 
the bows of the boat hooked on to the rope ladder 
that hung over the gangway, and in less than a 
minute they stood upon the frigate's deck. 

" Take the lads for'ard," said the lieutenant, as he 
went to the quarter-deck to report himself and the 
new arrivals to the captain. Ned now found himself 
upon the broad white decks of one of the crack ships 

H 



98 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

in the King's service. There was no more gallant 
captain among the many fine fellows that thronged 
the English navy than Cooke, of the Sibylle ; he 
was what the sailors called a tight hand, at the same 
time that he was the sailor's best friend by enforcing 
a rigid discipline. Ned was a sailor ; therefore he had 
no sooner cast an admiring glance at the rows of 
polished guns, that shone like bronze with a varnish 
of boiled oil, and the ropes all neatly disposed in 
Flemish coils upon the deck, than his eyes wandered 
instinctively aloft to the immense yards and the taut 
rigging of the beautiful ship. The sails had just 
bellied out with a fine breeze; the boat that had 
brought them on board was already hanging on the 
davits ; and the foam was now rolling from her bows, 
as the Sibylle held her course W.S.W. running at 
about ten knots an hour. Ned looked towards the 
land ; for a few minutes he could just distinguish a 
faint white spot apparently not very far above the 
sea ; he knew this was his home, in which his mother 
was even now awaiting him ; again he strained his 
eyes ; it was gone ! A faint grey outline like a bank 
of cloud was all that remained of the lofty cliffs of 
Cornwall, and in less than half an hour there was 
nothing to be seen but the boundless blue sea, 
through which the noble ship was flying like a bird. 

Although Ned was distressed at the sudden and 
unexpected change in his situation, he was neverthe- 
less excited by the scene that was entirely in sym- 
pathy with his tastes. As he followed his conductor 
to the fore part of the vessel in company with his 
two black companions, Tim and Nero, he was full of 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 99 

admiration. The sailors were beautifully clean, and 
dressed exactly alike ; the red-coated marines, were 
on guard in various parts of the ship ; the hammocks 
were neatly stowed along the nettings as though they 
formed a portion of the bulwarks, while the grateful 
smell of cooking as they approached the forecastle 
betokened the hour of breakfast. 

Just as Ned was passing the fore-hatchway, a mid- 
shipman who had been mast-headed for some mis- 
conduct was descending the shrouds, and he sprang 
upon the deck exactly facing him ; for an instant he 
started backwards, and stared him in the face, as Ned 
in his turn gazed upon him with astonishment. 

"Jem Stevens !" exclaimed Ned. 

" Why what brought you here ? and the dog ? and 
the nigger?" replied Stevens, recovering himself. 

" Kidnapped by the boat's crew an hour ago near 
Sandy Cove," said Ned, who in a few words explained 
all that had taken place. 

"Oh, that's it, is it?" replied Stevens; "then I 
suppose you know your position : you're a common 
sailor, and I am an officer bearing the King's com- 
mission. You and the nigger will do well by giving 
strict obedience, and you'll be so good as to look 
sharp when I give you an order. D'ye hear," con- 
tinued Stevens, as Ned looked at him in amazement 
without making a reply. 

Ned turned pale with suppressed emotion. Never 
had such angry feelings boiled within him as at this 
moment; at the same time he clearly perceived his 
position. It was too true: Stevens was an officer, 
while he was in an inferior position ; therefore he must 

H 2 



ioo CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

obey the bully whom he had thrashed heartily at 
their last parting. 

" Here ! look after these fellows, and tie that dog 
up," cried Stevens to the men, as he rudely turned his 
back upon Ned, at the same time that he bestowed a 
kick upon Nero's ribs. ^ 

But Nero was no judge of navy aiscipline, and he 
immediately replied to the kick by a short gfowl ; at 
the same time flying at Stevens' throat, he threw 
him on his back and pinned him to the deck before 
Ned had sufficient time to interfere. 

" Loose him, Nero ! loose him ! drop it ! " shouted 
Ned, as he caught the furious dog by the neck, and 
with both hands upon his throat he succeeded in 
choking him off. " Down Nero ! Ah, would you again ? 
down!" he cried, as the dog showed an evident 
intention of returning to the attack. 

" Throw him over !" shouted several voices. 

" No, don't," cried others ; " it warn't the dog's fault, 
lie kicked him first !" 

"You shall throw me over with the dog," said Ned, 
M if you drown Nero ; he is the best dog in the world, 
and would never bite if not ill-treated." As Ned said 
this, he hugged the dog round the neck for protection, 
while Nero growled, and seemed prepared to fight all 
comers. 

" He set the dog at me," cried Stevens ; who now 
began to recover from the sudden attack, while the 
blood trickled from several wounds in his neck. 

u That's a lie, if ever I heard a good *un," said a 
sailor in a loud whisper to a comrade. " I saw and 
heard the whole of it, and it warn't the dog's fault, no, 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 101 

not at all; the dog's a good *un, I know, and so's 
the lad." 

At this time Lieutenant Manger, who had com- 
manded the boat that had captured Ned, appeared 
upon the scene. 

" What's all C&s about ? " asked he, as he looked at 
the discomfited Stevens, who was generally disliked 
on board the frigate. 

"May I be allowed to explain, sir?" asked Ned, as 
he stepped boldly but respectfully forward. " I have 
just recognised an old schoolfellow in Stevens, who 
when we last parted, a twelvemonth ago, expressed a 
wish to run his knife through my ribs. As that was 
rather un-English, I made him take his coat off, and 
after a few rounds he gave in like a coward ; he now 
insults me, as he says he is an officer while I am a 
common sailor, and to prove his importance he kicked 
my good dog in the ribs. If I had not saved him, the 
dog would have torn his throat out in a couple of 
minutes ; he rewards me by declaring that I set the 
dog on. I can only say it is a wilful falsehood, 
equalled by many for which he was celebrated when 
at school." 

" Well, it's not the first he has told here," replied 
the lieutenant ; " but don't let us have any rows on 
board. Go and get your breakfast, Ned. And," said 
he, turning to a sailor, "see that the dog is taken 
care of." 

In a week from that time there were three special 
favourites among the officers and crew of the Sibylle ; 
Ned, Tim, and Nero. 



io2 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 



CHAPTER VI. 

We must leave the Sibylle, with a fair wind, steering 
for the Cape of Good Hope, on her way to the India 
station, while we return to Ned's home at Sandy 
Cove. 

On the morning that he had been carried off by 
the frigate's boat, Polly Grey was sitting upon the 
terrace wall overlooking the sea, awaiting his return 
to breakfast. The breeze was off the shore, therefore 
the sea was calm, and from the high cliff upon which 
the cottage stood, Polly Grey enjoyed the grand sea 
view, and watched the snow-white sails of a large ship 
in the distance, which her experienced eyes discovered 
to be a man-of-war. Presently, on the smooth surface 
of the deep-blue sea, she perceived a boat pulling 
from the shore about two miles distant : it was so 
unusual for a boat to pull directly out to sea from 
that particular direction that she could not help 
observing it with curiosity. It never altered its 
course, and at length it became a mere speck in the 
distance as it steered towards the King's ship. Little 
did Polly know that Ned's eyes were at that moment 
straining towards the white cottage on the cliff from 
that boat she was so curiously watching. At last she 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 103 

lost sight of the boat ; she saw the frigate in full sail 
until, hull down in the far distance, the white canvas 
merely resembled a sea-gull's wings ; it then grew 
faint, and disappeared below the horizon. 

" How late Ned is for breakfast ! " said Polly to 
herself; "what can have become of the boy? The 
tide is coming in, and should he be too slow his 
retreat will be cut off, as the high-water rises to the 
cliff!" 

As this thought struck her, she looked anxiously 
at the sea below. Already the tide had reached the 
base of the cliff, which rose from the water perpen- 
dicularly like a wall. She felt convinced in her 
suspicion ; and, on the impulse of the moment, she 
rushed into the cottage, and, seizing a coil of rope, 
she hurried down the zigzag path to the Cove, where 
she collected several men to assist her in her search. 
Women and children joined the party, as Ned and 
Nigger Tim were general favourites, and the danger 
of the rising tide was well known to the fishermen of 
Sandy Cove. 

They arrived, breathless, on the summit of the 
high cliff, and presently looked down upon the natural 
terrace upon which Paul's cottage was built ; then 
continuing along the edge, they skirted the precipice 
with great rapidity, constantly looking below in the 
hope of discovering Ned and his companions. 

The tide had already risen above the beach ; but, 
as the sea was calm, there was no immediate danger, 
as the water was still shallow at the base of the cliff; 
but Polly hurried forward, with increasing anxiety, 
until she at length became so excited that she wildly 



104 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

shouted his name as she looked over the precipice in 
despair. 

" Ned ! Where are you, Ned ? " 

There was no answer. Sometimes a sea-gull 
screamed, and for a moment gave her hope, as she 
imagined it to be a voice ; but the time passed, and 
the tide rose still higher ; and, as one of the men 
rolled a large rock over the cliff, it fell into the water 
with a hollow sound that proclaimed its depth. Still 
they might have climbed to some rock, and be 
clinging to the side of the cliff. At this thought 
Polly redoubled her shouts, and urged her com- 
panions forward in the hopeless search. They had 
already passed the spot where the frigate's boat had 
landed; but the waves had risen high above the 
sandy beach, and now broke against the sides of 
the cliff Polly Grey was frantic with despair; 
nothing would induce her to give up the search. 
Hours passed away ; and, thoroughly worn out with 
fatigue and anxiety, she sat down and sobbed bitterly 
as she gazed hopelessly at the sea. Many of the 
women and children did the same. 

" Who knows ? " suddenly exclaimed one of the 
men who had been the most active of the party, 
" perhaps Ned may have gone back to school. Cheer 
up, Mrs. Grey ; don't begin to cry for him yet. Ned's 
not the lad to get drowned ; depend upon it he's 
forgotten something, and run back to the school ; he 
thinks nothing of five or six miles, and may be we'll 
find him looking for us by the time we get back to 
the Cove." 

This idea, which was generally accepted by the 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 105 

sorrowing party, now gave them courage, and it was 
decided that they should at once return, while two 
men should be despatched to the school ; accordingly, 
with vigour renewed by hope, Polly Grey retraced her 
steps. 

Upon arrival at Sandy Cove they found the little 
village in great commotion ; those villagers who had 
not accompanied them were standing together in a 
crowd, discussing some topic with great anima- 
tion ; and upon seeing Polly Grey they immediately 
shouted — 

" Run up to your cottage, Mrs. Grey ! YouVe got 
some unwelcome visitors there, and we'll just chuck 
'em over the cliff if you'll say the word !" 

"Is Ned come back?" cried Polly, who was be- 
wildered with her anxiety. 

" No, no, there's no such luck ; they're looking after 
him and Paul," replied a woman in the crowd. 

Half crazy with this wild intelligence, Polly hastened 
up the steep path and arrived nearly dead with fatigue 
at her cottage. Several persons were sitting on the 
terrace wall, the cottage door was wide open, and 
when she entered she found old Mother Lee and half 
a dozen constables in possession of her home. 

"What insult is this ?" exclaimed Polly. "Where 
is Ned ? Who are you that dare to enter Paul Grey's 
house in his absence ? You, Mother Lee, leave the 
house immediately ! How often have you been warned 
never to set foot upon the terrace ?" 

As Polly in a state of intense excitement uttered 
these words, old Mother Lee merely grinned at her 
with a ghastly smile of contempt as she quietly took 



106 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

her seat upon a wooden chair without replying a syl- 
lable. The head constable of the party now came 
forward, and, delivering a printed paper to Polly, he 
explained that it was a search warrant, upon which 
his. party must examine the premises of Paul Grey. 

" I am nearly distracted," said Polly, as she gazed 
abstractedly upon the warrant. "I understand no- 
thing ; where is my boy Ned ? Oh tell me, I beseech 
you, where he is ! What does all this mean ? — what 
does all this mean ? Tell me the worst at once, I can 
bear anything but the misery of this suspense. Say 
what has happened !" 

Polly was a beautiful woman ; although no longer 
in her youth, she was hardly thirty-five, and as she 
now appealed to the constable, her face was flushed 
with excitement, and her large blue eyes shone with 
a brilliancy and tenderness that softened the hearts 
of all present except the wretched hag, Mother Lee. 

" Sit down, Mrs. Grey, I beseech you, and be calm," 
replied the constable, "and I will relate all I know 
in as few words as possible." 

Polly seated herself upon a sofa, and with an ex- 
pression of calm despair she listened anxiously to the 
explanation. 

"In the middle of last night" (continued the 
officer), " the village was disturbed by the loud ringing 
of the alarm bell at the rectory* accompanied by 
violent screams and shouts for ' Help/ and ' Murder !'" 

" Good heavens ! what next ?" exclaimed Polly. 

" The watchman quickly sprang his rattle and ran 
towards the spot, shortly followed by others, who had 
heard the alarm. Upon arrival at the rectory they 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 107 

¦ — . 

found the door broken open, while the screams con- 
tinued. At this time I myself arrived upon the scene 
and upon rushing up the stairs I entered a room by 
a door that was wide open, where I found Miss Edith 
Jones endeavouring to support her father, who was 
lying on the ground, bleeding from a wound in his left 
breast. Several maid servants were screaming for 
help, and a strong smell of gunpowder filled the 
apartment. At the same time Mrs. Jones had fainted, 
and was lying helpless upon the floor. 

" It appeared that the house had been broken into 
and robbed at about one o'clock in the morning, and 
that Parson Jones, hearing a noise in the room where 
his papers were kept in a chest with a large sum of 
money, got out of bed, and upon entering the room it 
is supposed he must have disturbed the robbers in the 
act, as a large parcel of plate packed up in a blanket 
was left behind in their flight. At that time one of 
the robbers fired a pistol, which struck the unfortunate 
gentleman in the left breast. A few moments after 
the report of the pistol, Mrs. Jones and Miss Edith 
arrived with a light, and found the poor gentleman 
dying. Mrs. Jones fainted on the spot, and Miss 
Edith endeavoured to raise her father from the 
ground ; but he was at the last gasp, and could only 
press her hand, and, with a struggle for utterance, he 
whispered faintly, but most distinctly, ' Ned Grey/ 

" The robbers had escaped with all the money, 
which amounted to two hundred guineas, and the 
poor gentleman is now lying dead ; while Mrs. Jones 
is gone almost frantic, and Miss Edith won't hear 
of it when her mother says it must be Ned Grey 



108 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

who did it, because the parson said so in his last 
moments." 

During the relation of this dreadful narrative Polly 
Grey had stared fixedly at the constable as though 
she were in a dream. At the conclusion she uttered 
incoherently, as though thinking aloud, " Ned Grey ! 
Ned Grey ! What Ned Grey ? Not my Ned ! But 
where is Ned ? " 

"That's exactly the question," replied the officer; 
"as his presence is required before the magistrate, 
also that of his father." 

" Paul left the Cove last evening in the Polly, and I 
do not know when he will return ; but Ned arrived 
here last night after his father's departure, and this 
morning at a very early hour he, with the negro lad 
Tim and the dog, started along the sea-beach, and 
they have never since been heard of. I am almost 
distracted with anxiety, as I cannot tell what has 
become of them, and I fear some terrible accident by 
the high tide." 

A hoarse chuckle was succeeded by a murmur from 
Mother Lee — " He's not born to be drowned, not 
he ! more likely for the gallows ! and Paul '11 swing 
in company if he gets his right ! " 

Polly looked at the horrible countenance of Mother 
Lee. with undisguised contempt ; but the old woman, 
who had vowed vengeance upon Paul and his family 
ever since the night of her narrow escape when she 
hove rocks upon the cutter's crew, now glared at 
Polly with a malicious triumph that made her 
naturally repulsive features still more hideous. 

At this moment the constable having risen from his 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 109 

seat apologised for the intrusion, but declared that 
he could not avoid acting upon the search-warrant, 
therefore he must proceed to examine the premises. 

"With all my heart," replied Polly, who could 
hardly realize her situation; "search the house and 
outbuildings. There is no one here — I wish there 
were!" . 

Without more delay, the officer with four of his 
men proceeded to search the various rooms, while a 
constable remained with Polly and Mother Lee. It 
is needless to add that nothing could be found that 
threw the slightest suspicion upon the house, and the 
officer shortly returned and requested Polly to unlock 
certain cupboards in the kitchen that were erected 
against the cliff, which having been cut perfectly 
straight formed a natural wall. 

Polly handed him the key, and he opened the right- 
hand door ; there was nothing but a few jars, with 
sundry bottles and other domestic articles. Perfectly 
satisfied with the result of his examination, the officer 
opened the left-hand cupboard. The shelves were 
nearly filled with trifling articles that belonged to 
a fisherman's occupation : sail needles, skeins of 
twine, packets of sail cloth, &c. and, having cast a 
hurried glance at the contents, the officer carelessly 
closed the door. 

« Ha ! ha ! ha ! Ha ! ha ! ha !" yelled a harsh shrill 
voice, as Mother Lee, who had been eagerly watching 
the examination through the open door, now hobbled 
into the room. " Your eyes ain't worth much if yer 
can't see through an inch plank," said the old woman, 
as she threw open the door of the cupboard that the 



no CAST UP BY THE SEA. 



officer had closed ; at the same time she struck the 
back with the end of her stick, which resounded with 
a hollow tone like a large drum. " There's music for 
yer to dance to ! if your eyes are no good, your ears 
may help yer if yer ain't deaf as well as blind," 
screeched the wretched old hag, who to the astonish- 
ment of Polly knew the secret of the cave. 

The constable approached the cupboard with 
curiosity, and, half incredulous, he obeyed the direc- 
tion of the old woman as she cried — 

" Push the bolt back under the bottom shelf, and 
put your shoulder to it — that's the secret." 

In an instant the back of the cupboard together 
with the shelves flew open, and exposed the dark and 
narrow gallery in the rock, to which it formed an 
entrance. 

"We must have a light !" said the officer. " Per- 
haps you were not aware of this secret, Mrs. Grey," 
he continued, as Polly, deadly pale and trembling, 
struck a light, and shortly handed him a candle with- 
out making him a reply. 

The officer followed by several of his men cautiously 
entered the cave as though fearing a surprise. In 
about five minutes they returned heavily laden with 
various packages, and again entered the gallery, as 
much remained to be removed. 

On the completion of their task it was discovered 
that contraband goods of considerable value had 
been concealed, and a list was immediately made out, 
specifying the number of bales of silk, kegs of brandy 
and hollands, and packages of tobacco that had been 



/ 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. in 



X' 



seized, while notice of the event was immediately 
despatched to the coast-guard station. 

There was one old box that was hardly worth 
examination, as it appeared to contain little beyond 
some loose cotton-wool ; but, as this was brought into 
the kitchen from the cave, Polly immediately rushed 
forward. 

"You must not touch that;" she cried, "that box 
is Ned's own, although he does not know it : the con- 
tents are sacred. For heaven's sake do not interfere 
with that, as all depends upon it ! — his future — his 
very identity — everything in the world." 

As Polly, in great excitement, thus addressed the 
constables, their suspicions that had already been 
justly aroused were rendered still more keen, and the 
chief officer calmly but determinedly insisted upon an 
examination of the contents. In another instant a 
bag containing two hundred guineas was discovered 
lying as though for the purpose of concealment 
among the loose cotton-wool which nearly filled the 
box. Hardly had the gold been produced, than a 
small parcel containg a valuable diamond necklace, 
several rings, and a gold locket was likewise brought 
forth, to the amazement of the officer. 

A large sum of gold had been stolen from the 
rectory; here was a bag, evidently concealed, con- 
taining the exact amount (two hundred guineas), also 
diamonds that could not possibly belong to a person 
in Polly Grey's position. Contraband goods, also 
concealed, proved that Paul Grey, and probably Ned 
likewise, had been engaged in lawless and desperate 
adventures ; both were now absent. The whole affair 



U2 CAST UP BY THE SEA, 



looked extremely suspicious ; Polly might have misled 
the constables respecting their absence; they might 
possibly be concealed in the neighbourhood; decidedly 
she had not volunteered any information, and the cave 
had been discovered simply through the instrumen- 
tality of Mother Lee. 

There was only one course to pursue ; in spite of 
Polly's entreaties, the officer declared that he must 
take possession of the gold and diamonds, as he sus- 
pected them to be a portion of the property stolen 
from the rectory, and he would wait for the arrival of 
Captain Smart, of the coast-guard, to whom he should 
hand over the articles of contraband. 

About two hours passed, during which Polly Grey 
was in an agony of suspense, and she at length hailed 
the arrival of Captain Smart with unrepressed delight 
as the door opened and he entered the room. 

" Thank God you are come at last !" cried Polly. 
" Before you speak a word, drive that insolent old 
hag from the house. Begone !" shouted Polly, to old 
Mother Lee, who had hitherto sat like an evil spirit, 
watching her misery. 

Joe Smart, without more ado, seized the old woman 
by the arm, arid in spite of her curses he bundled' her 
out of the door : at the same time he remarked to the 
chief constable upon the gross impropriety of allowing 
her to have remained so long against the wishes of the 
owner of the cottage. 

" She is our principal witness," replied the con- 
stable ; " and without her we should never have 
discovered the cave. Look at this mass of property ; 
we owe the whole to Mother Leo. Take your share. 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 113 

All the contraband belongs to you ; and this comes 
to my department," exclaimed the constable, as he 
produced the bag of guineas and the glittering neck- 
lace of brilliants. 

It would be impossible to paint the surprise and 
consternation of Joe Smart at this intelligence. He 
glanced first at the numerous articles that lay upon 
the floor, and then he turned inquiringly to Polly, 
with an expression of mingled curiosity and despair. 

" Judge for yourself," continued the officer, as he 
led the way to the cave, followed instinctively by the 
astonished friend of the family. 

There was no possibility of doubt respecting the 
smuggled goods, but upon Joe Smart's return to the 
room, Polly immediately called him on one side, and 
in a few words she confided to him the long-kept 
secret of the gold and diamond necklace, with the 
locket, and all that had been discovered in the box 
when the infant was washed ashore ; and that her 
only object in secreting them was to ensure their 
safety, in case they might at some future time be 
required to prove Ned Grey's identity. 

-"A$ to the other goods," continued Polly, "they 
belonged to Paul, and he will explain all concerning 
them upon his return. I do not presume to interfere 
with his affairs. The existence of the cave he always 
wished to remain a secret, and I should be a faithless 
wife to divulge what he concealed." 

At the first glance, Captain Smart, as a revenue 
officer, perceived that the affair was exceedingly 
grave, for, although he had not the slightest doubt of 
Polly Grey's integrity, he saw that the absence of 

I 



H4 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 



both Paul and Ned, together with the young negro, 
would be a natural cause for suspicion, especially as 
Paul's antecedents would not add to his good reputa- 
tion. He thoroughly believed Polly's explanation of 
the bag of guineas and the diamond necklace. The 
latter was worth at least a thousand pounds, and he 
saw that the fact of its possession by Paul would 
render such a story as that of the shipwreck most 
improbable, if not actually incredible. At all events 
it would not be believed by the hardened authorities 
of the law. It was now his painful duty to seize as 
articles of contraband the large amount of property 
that lay before him, and, even worse, it would be 
necessary to take the person of his old friend into 
custody immediately upon his arrival. How should 
he be able to lay hands upon Polly's husband ? Joe 
Smart had always loved her, first as a suitor, but 
after her marriage with Paul he had resigned himself 
to his fate, and had controlled his affection to the 
strict degree of friendship ; he now saw her in dis- 
tress, and in Paul's absence she had hailed his arrival 
as a deliverer ; but it would be his own hand that 
must press most heavily upon them, while his heart 
burned with the keenest sympathy. 

" My dear Mrs. Grey," said the straightforward Joe 
Smart, "this is a very serious affair, and you must 
make up your mind to bear many severe trials before 
it can be concluded : at the same time, depend upon 
me as your truest friend, although, as the King's 
officer, I may be forced to act in a manner that may 
belie such a profession of friendship. I am obliged to 
retain in custody the whole of the articles that have 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 115 

been discovered in the cave, and I only trust that my 
old friend Paul will land upon some other part of the 
Cornish coast, where I have not the command/' 

" But where is Ned ?" asked Polly, in a voice of 
unnatural calmness, as though the oppression of so 
many misfortunes had rendered her callous to adver- 
sity ; " you cannot suspect Ned ; neither would Tim 
do anything that was wrong. The dog also is with 
them, and they all slept here last night, and only left 
the house early in the morning. What can have 
become of them ? I fear that horrible old woman 
is at the bottom of this," continued Polly. "She 
vowed vengeance against Paul for having threatened 
to throw her over the cliff on the night when the 
cutter was lost with all the crew. Me she has 
always hated ; and Ned told me that he saw her in 
the churchyard by the rectory only last evening. 
What business had she so far from the Cove ? The 
whole affair is a fearful mystery. You know how 
Ned loved dear old Parson Jones, and Edith. It was 
only last night that the boy opened his heart to me, 
and told me how he loved her, and how he would try 
by industry to win a position worthy of her. Edith 
loves him. Perhaps her poor father suspected it, and 
would have spoken of him to her with his last breath, 
as he died with the name of * Ned Grey' upon his 
lips. The mother is a good but foolish woman, and 
she is carried away by her distress. But Edith knows. 
She knows as well as I do how good and true is Ned. 
I must go to her this moment ; perhaps she can throw 
some light upon his absence. At all events, it will be 
a comfort to see some one who loves my boy !" 

I 2 



n6 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

Joe Smart could find no words of comfort. He 
knew that it would be impossible for such a boy as 
Ned to commit a crime. At the same time he saw 
that the circumstances of the case would naturally 
throw a certain amount of suspicion upon parties who 
had been seen at the rectory on the previous night, 
but who had disappeared as mysteriously a few hours 
later, during which interval, robbery and murder had 
been committed, while the exact sum of money that 
was missing had been found concealed in the house 
occupied by those who were now suddenly absent 

"When do you expect Paul home?" asked Joe 
Smart. 

11 1 have no idea. His return is always uncertain/' 
replied Polly. 

" Well," said Joe, " in the mean time, Mrs. Grey, it 
it will be better to return these heavy parcels to the 
cave. You will give me the key of the cupboard 
entrance, and I will trust to your honour that they 
shall not be removed until I can bring the men neces- 
sary for the purpose." 

Captain Smart now turned to the constables, and 
explained the affair of the shipwreck nearly fifteen 
years ago, how Ned had been saved as an infant, and 
the gold and precious stones now discovered had been 
found with the child, and secreted for an excellent pur- 
pose by Polly Grey and Paul, who had acted through- 
out as though they were the parents of the boy. 

" That's all very well, and it may be perfectly true," 
replied the chief officer; " but under the circumstances 
it is my duty to deposit the valuables with a justice 
of the peace. If the tale can be proved, it will be all 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 117 

» 
right ; but surely Mrs. Grey must be aware that such 
valuable articles as diamonds, and a large sum of 
gold, should have been placed in the hands of a 
magistrate at the time that the infant was saved, 
when the discovery was first made. The neglect of 
this caution is now manifest, if the tale be true ; 
but, as a burglary and murder have been committed, 
and a sum of guineas stolen, while her son Ned was 
supposed to be at the rectory, and he is now suddenly 
missing, what other conclusion can be arrived at but 
that he is in some way implicated in the affair? 
Especially as we have now found a bag of guineas 
carefully concealed, with other suspicious property, 
while the last words of the murdered gentleman 
appeared to point to the lad in particular." 

"It's of no use arguing the question here," said 
Captain Smart, " the affair will be sifted and decided 
by the proper authorities ; I know Ned Grey, and I 
would stake my life upon his character. It is very 
distressing, Mrs. Grey," added he, turning to Polly, 
"but it will all come right in the end, you may 
depend upon it ; only have patience, which I confess 
is sorely needed, and if I can help you in any way, 
only point out the manner, and it will be my greatest 
happiness to serve you. 

"Just put back those packages into the rock, my 
lads," continued Captain Smart, as he addressed the 
constables ; " and give me the key." 

In the mean time the chief officer made up the gold 
and jewels in a sealed packet, and gave a receipt in 
writing to Polly Grey. The party then withdrew, 
leaving Polly and Joe Smart alone. 



n8 CAST UP BY THE SEA, 

"I don't like the complexion of this affair, Mrs. 
Grey," said Joe Smart. " I have no fear for Ned, as 
he is a boy who can take good care of himself; but I 
feel sure that there is some underhand work that 
must be brought to light. I cannot allow you to walk 
alone to the rectory ; the goods are all safe now that 
they are replaced in the cave, and you must permit 
me to accompany you. As you say, Miss Edith may 
be able to throw some light upon Ned's absence." 

" You were always a good friend," said Polly, " but 
I never appreciated kindness so much as now ;" and, 
hastily throwing a shawl over her shoulders, she took 
Joe's arm and started for the rectory. 

It would be useless to describe the meeting between 
Polly Grey and Edith. There was a natural sympathy 
between them which their distress only served to 
strengthen. Edith could give no other account of 
Ned than the fact of his having parted with her late 
in the preceding evening, when he had been followed 
by Nero. 

"Oh!" exclaimed the sobbing girl, "if Nero had 
only remained here, no thieves could have entered the 
house, and my dear father might have been still alive !" 

On the other hand, her. mother, who was naturally 
weak, and a woman of impulse, leant to the opinion 
that Ned was in some way implicated in the burglary 
because her husband had mentioned his name ; and 
the fact of the dog having been allured away from 
the premises on the fatal night only served to rivet 
her suspicion. Edith was furious at the idea, and in 
the evidence that she had given before the magistrates 
she laid much stress upon the appearance of old 



CAST UP BY THE SEA, 119 

Mother Lee, that had been so quickly followed by 
the figures of two men who had furtively passed by 
the churchyard on the previous evening, when she 
and Ned had conversed together. This testimony 
was but slightly regarded, and, in spite of her protest, 
the general opinion leant strongly towards the guilt 
of the absentees. 

One fisherman declared that he had seen a vessel 
in the dusk of the evening which he could not exactly 
swear to as the Polly, but he thought it was the 
lugger hovering about the coast. Thus a party might 
have landed, and effected their escape by sea after 
having committed the burglary. Rumours of all kinds 
more or less extravagant found credence throughout 
the village, but when towards evening the news spread 
of the discovery of a bag containing two hundred 
guineas, together with jewels and a quantity of con- 
traband articles, in a secret cave connected with Paul 
Grey's dwelling at Sandy Cove, there was a general 
conviction that the Grey family were concerned in the 
robbery. One woman said that she had dreamt a 
few nights ago that a black man was cutting her 
throat, therefore she believed that the negro Tim had 
shot the parson ; another woman had had a cold 
shiver run down her back as she crossed the church- 
yard on the Sunday afternoon, therefore she knew 
that a murder was to be committed ; while a third 
had always said from the beginning "that no good 
would come of Ned Grey, as he was a deal too hand- 
some to live." However absurd, there was nothing 
that could be too ridiculous to be believed ; even the 
watchman declared that, when he took his quart of 



120 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

ale at the White Hart, just before midnight, he had 
a taste of blood in his mouth, and so he " thought as 
how there'd be a murder before morning ;" but this 
warning had not kept him on the alert, as he had 
been fast asleep until awakened by the pistol-shot and 
screams from the rectory. 

That night was one of misery for many. Although 
Polly Grey was fatigued with the bodily exertions of 
the day, she was far too troubled to be able to close 
her eyes, and she begged the widow Mrs. Jones to be 
allowed to remain at the rectory, to sit up with her 
and Edith, as all were too sorrowful to sleep. 

Although Mrs. Jones in the agony of her distress 
had given way to the first impulse of her suspicion 
owing to the simple testimony of her husband's last 
words, which were entirely unconnected, she was natu- 
rally a kind and warm-hearted person, and, when 
closeted throughout the midnight hours with Edith and 
Polly Grey, she mingled her grief with theirs, and 
before the grey light of morning gleamed through the 
shutters she had been almost converted to a belief in 
Ned's innocence. 

The day following only increased Polly Grey's 
suspense. No tidings could be heard of Ned. It 
was difficult to say which suffered most deeply — 
whether those who mourned for one dead, or those 
who lived in the torture of a constant anxiety. Un- 
fortunately Edith had to bear the double trial : she 
had lost a father whom she had loved tenderly, and 
not only was Ned missing, but his name was 
blackened with suspicion. 

That same afternoon the jury at the coroner's in- 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 121 

quest brought in a verdict of Wilful Murder against 
Paul and Ned Grey, together with the negro, Tim. 
The principal witness had been Mother Lee, who 
swore that she had seen all three persons lurking 
about the premises shortly before midnight, and that' 
they afterwards took the road in the direction of 
Sandy Cove. A warrant was immediately issued for 
their apprehension. 

The news of this danger and disgrace added to her 
father's death was too much for the excited nerves of 
Edith. On the day of her father's funeral she was 
seized with a violent fit of shivering, and a few hours 
later she was prostrated by a burning fever. In addi- 
tion to other calamities, Polly Grey had been arrested 
upon suspicion of connivance at the robbery and 
concealment of stolen goods; and this innocent and 
lovely woman had been taken to the common gaol, 
until she was bailed out by the promptitude of Captain 
Smart and the widow Mrs. Jones ; the latter had now 
insisted upon her remaining at the rectory until some 
news should be received of her husband and Ned. 

Polly was now able to repay this kindness by the 
careful nursing of her youthful patient Edith, who 
lay in delirium for several days, almost beyond the 
hope of recovery. Although she was in a state of 
perpetual suspense at the unusually long absence of 
Paul, in addition to the mysterious disappearance of 
Ned, Polly Grey's spirit rose against the pressure of 
adversity, and she sought consolation in that trust in 
Providence which religion taught her was the only 
help in the hour of need. Bereft of all that had 
made life happy, she now devoted herself to the care 



122 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

of Edith, whom she loved with increased affection as 
the sharer of her anxiety for Ned. 

For three weeks Edith lay in the greatest danger ; 
but at the expiration of that time a sudden change 
took place, and, as the restless and weary night passed 
away, the morning dawned upon a pale thin face, 
which had suddenly lost the deep scarlet flush that 
for so many days had overspread the features. For 
a moment, as Polly opened the shutters and looked 
upon the finely chiselled face that looked like the 
whitest marble, she thought the spirit had fled for 
ever, and she hastened to the bedside, and gently 
took the slender hand that lay upon the coverlet. 
There was a faintly perceptible pulse, and the sharp 
hard throbbing of fever had ceased ; she leant over 
the lovely face, and placed her cheek close to Edith's 
lips ; she breathed gently and regularly ; the breath 
was no longer hot, and the patient calmly slept : it 
was the first natural sleep that she had had for many 
days. 

" Thank God ! " whispered Polly to herself, and she 
quietly left the room to carry the happy intelligence 
to the mother, who had been so broken down with 
sorrow as to be almost helpless. 

From that hour Edith mended ; she woke from her 
sleep refreshed ; her mind was calm and clear, and, as 
she saw Polly's thankful face beaming over her, she 
gently placed her thin white arm around her neck, 
and drew her lips towards her. 

" You have been very kind to me, dear Mrs. Grey. 
But how tired you look ; lie down and sleep ; I am 
well now," said Edith, as she endeavoured to sit up, 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 123 

but fell back exhausted in the bed. Polly was a 
careful nurse, and she had already prepared a stimu- 
lant to refresh the patient upon waking, and after a 
short time she again fell asleep. That day dated the 
commencement of her recovery. 

In a few weeks Edith was once more in the open 
air, but the rectory was no longer the same. The 
noisy shouts of schoolboys had long ceased, as the 
school had been broken up, and a profound stillness 
made the formerly happy spot almost unbearable. 
It was a large house, that required a considerable 
family to enliven it, and, now that this sudden deso- 
lation had taken place, it appeared like a miserable 
solitude. Polly Grey had become almost one of the 
family since the general affliction, and Edith could 
not sufficiently express her gratitude for the tender 
care that had saved her in her dangerous illness. The 
good but weak Mrs. Jones now leant upon Polly as 
her right hand, and she had not only forgotten her 
suspicions of Ned Grey, but, upon hearing of the 
valuable diamond necklace, she had taken a vast 
interest in the boy's fate, as she felt no doubt that he 
was the child of some person of considerable position. 

Dr. Jones, as has before been stated, was a man of 
independent fortune : the rectory, together with a 
farm of several hundred acres, was his own freehold ; 
in addition to which he had left a fortune of nearly 
50,000/. A life interest in 20,000/. had been left to 
his widow, while the remainder was bequeathed abso- 
lutely to his only child, Edith. 

As Edith was now sufficiently recovered to bear 
the open air, the doctor proposed a change, and Polly 



124 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

suggested that they should retire to her pretty cottage 
on the cliff at Sandy Cove, where they could rough it 
in a snug and clean dwelling, with the beautiful view 
of the sea, and a fresh breeze that was a finer tonic 
than all the doctor's drugs. This proposal was at 
once adopted: a cart-load of sundry little luxuries 
was despatched to the care of Captain Smart, of the 
coast-guard station, who not only received them, but 
with a sailor's neatness and assiduity he arranged 
everything in readiness for the reception of the party, 
so that the cottage never had looked so pretty as 
when they all arrived, and found the proud and good- 
natured face of Captain Smart to welcome them at 
the door. 

There was a certain excitement in the move and 
the change of scene that had a marvellous effect 
in quelling the pangs of their recent affliction. There 
is an extraordinary power in the nerves of the eye 
that exerts an immediate influence upon the mind, 
and the scene being changed, the miseries of the past 
were, for the moment, left behind in the localities 
with which they were associated. 

On the following morning they sat together at 
breakfast, looking out of the open window upon the 
blue and now peaceful sea. Polly Grey was the 
saddest of the party, as she was in her old home, and 
her eyes were fixed upon several articles that were 
arranged upon the walls, which belonged to Paul 
and Ned. There was a new red woollen comforter 
that she had knitted for Paul when he had started. 
This was to have been given to him on his return ; 
it had now been folded carefully by Joe Smart and 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 125 

placed upon the mantelpiece, beneath the picture of 
the Polly. 

At this moment Edith started as a figure passed 
the window. " Mrs. Grey !" she suddenly shouted, 
" take care." 

The next instant the figure of old Mother Lee 
stood peering into the cottage. "You're a pretty 
thing to call yerself a wife !" screamed the old woman 
in her most horrible key. " Doesn't luck come from 
the sou'-west?" 

Polly rushed to the door. "What did she mean?" 
cried the almost frantic wife, as the figure of the old 
woman vanished before she could unfasten the latch. 

" I see !" cried Edith, " it is a ship !" 

Polly Grey gazed intently from the window at a 
small white spot on the horizon. 

" It is a sea-bird," said Mrs. Jones. 

For some minutes not a word was spoken ; all eyes 
were fixed upon the vessel. Presently Polly Grey 
tured pale as death as the vessel, altering her course, 
distinctly exposed the three masts and rig of a lugger. 

"It is the Polly! it is Paul!" shouted Polly Grey, 
as she fell heavily on the floor, overpowered by hopes 
and fears. 



126 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 



CHAPTER VII. 

The wind was blowing hard from the north, and the 
lugger presently stood off on another tack. At this 
moment the white sails of a revenue cutter were 
suddenly perceived as she rounded a point, and with 
a spanking breeze she bore down direct upon the 
lugger. Polly had quickly recovered from her emotion, 
and the three now watched with intense interest the 
movements of the two vessels, feeling convinced that 
Paul was within a few hours of home. 

As the lugger was close hauled to the wind, endea- 
vouring to beat up towards the shore, she had no 
chance of escaping the cutter, should that be her 
intention, unless by altering her course and running 
before the wind. This she presently did, and in a 
few minutes she disappeared below the horizon, while 
the cutter in full sail chased in the same direction. 
This was a terrible disappointment to Polly Grey, 
who with natural eagerness had expected her husband's 
quick return. More than a month had passed without 
the slightest tidings since Paul had left Sandy Cove. 
At that time the Channel was full of British cruisers 
and privateers which preyed like falcons upon the 
French commerce, while on the other hand the French 
ships of war .were ever on the look-out for British 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 127 

merchant vessels returning deeply laden from the 
colonies. Accordingly there was much risk attending 
unarmed vessels that ventured too near the coast of 
France. Polly Grey's chief anxiety was, that Paul 
might have been captured by the French ; but, as she 
had now recognised his vessel, she had no longer any 
fear of the common enemy : the danger lay in the 
revenue cutters. There was a real cause for appre- 
hension; should he return in safety, he might be 
immediately arrested upon the charge of smuggling, 
even should the ridiculous accusation of complicity 
in the burglary fall to the ground. This latter charge 
was only supported by the false evidence of Mother 
Lee, who had sworn that she saw him near the 
rectory on the night of the murder. 

The day passed away in watching the sea ; the 
cutter had quickly disappeared in chase of the lugger 
in the morning. It was now past six in the evening, 
and for the last two or three hours the wind had 
changed ; and, although there was no appearance of 
actual bad weather, it was blowing hard from the 
south-west, and, as usual, a heavy surf was breaking 
upon the rocky coast. 

As the wind was now fair, Polly, and other inhabi- 
tants of the Cove, who were experienced in the locality, 
expected that the lugger would run for the bay during 
the night. Among others, Mother Lee was also of 
this opinion ; and, true to her natural instincts, she 
had already collected some staves of old tar-barrels, 
and a quantity of inflammable material, for the pur- 
pose of making the fires necessary as guides. 

As has been already described, this wretched woman 



128 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

had vowed vengeance against Paul, and all that be- 
longed to him, ever since the memorable night on 
which he had dashed her to the ground when caught 
in the dastardly act of stoning the drowning crew of 
the cutter. From that moment, there was no villany 
that Mother Lee would not have perpetrated in order 
to effect his ruin. Thus she had endeavoured to 
swear away his life, together with that of Ned, in the 
false evidence given in the case of the burglary. She 
also had betrayed the secret of the cave ; and this 
night she intended to complete his ruin and death by 
in act of treachery still more diabolical. 

Paul Grey, as is well known, was a daring, and 
hitherto a successful smuggler ; and whenever it had 
been necessary to run straight for Sandy Cove on a 
dark and stormy night, when all other vessels would 
have avoided the coast, he could depend upon his 
knowledge of the locality, and upon the fires which 
were generally lighted on the heights upon either 
side to guide the Polly into the entrance of the bay. 

Mother Lee felt certain that the Polly ', being chased 
by the cruiser, "would, as usual, run for the bay during 
the night, as the wind was blowing hard directly upon 
the shore, therefore the cutter would hesitate to ap- 
proach the rocks. She accordingly determined to 
arrange a snare that must inevitably wreck the Polly y 
and destroy all on board. Having collected a large 
quantity of fuel, which she tied in many bundles, she 
left word in the village that she would take care of 
the fires as usual, if a couple of men would give her a 
hand in carrying the faggots to the proper points ; 
this was done without loss of time. 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 129 

Immediately after dark, the old woman, unseen by 
any one, busied herself in carrying several bundles of 
shavings, and a quantity of barrel-staves, to the cliff 
against which, upon a former occasion, the mast of 
the cutter had been dashed, with the clinging crew. 

She found the pile of fuel properly arranged by 
the fishermen upon the edge of the precipice over- 
hanging the narrow entrance of the bay ; on the 
opposite side, upon a corresponding height, they had 
piled the fagots for the parallel fire ; but this it was 
not Mother Lee's intention to light. Guessing as 
nearly as possible the width of the entrance to the 
bay, the old woman carried her faggots to an equal 
width from the fuel already piled upon the cliff 
Here she carefully arranged the shavings and the 
.staves of tar-barrels in readiness for the occasion. 

There were now three piles of fuel instead of two ; 
thus should that on the left of the bay remain dark, 
while the other two on the right were lighted, the un- 
fortunate vessel, that might trust to the fires as guides, 
would be led at full speed directly against the cliff, 
instead of to the mouth of the harbour. Such was the 
snare that the treachery of the old hag had designed. 

It was a dark night, there were neither moon nor 
stars, and a heavy surf roared against the rocks, 
while the cliffs trembled with each heavy shock as the 
waves dashed against their sides. 

" Ha, ha, ha ! " chuckled the woman, as she leant 
over the pile of dry wood and smeared a quantity 
of fresh tar from a small keg upon the shavings. 
44 This'll make it burn brightly, and keep the fire alight 
till it's all over, I know. Mother Lee knows a trick 

K 



130 CAST UP BY THE SEA, 

or two, cuss them all !" she muttered, as she continued 
to dip small pieces of wood into the keg of tar, which 
she arranged beneath the pile, wiping her skinny- 
fingers occasionally upon her tarred and greasy old 
rags, with which she was thickly clothed. " Mother 
Lee knows a trick or two," she continued ; " I'll have 
revenge to-night. It was here down below, I paid 'em 
out ; just here where the cutter's people caught it, 
cuss 'em all ! and here, Paul Grey, you'll catch it too ; 
it was here you laid hands on Mother Lee, and here 
she'll teach you that she knows a trick 6r two." 

Thus the old woman muttered to herself as she 
arranged her yet unlighted beacons ; she had pre- 
pared herself with about a gallon of tar in order to 
keep up a strong blaze, by pouring it upon the fire 
whenever it should be required. 

In the mean time the villagers had gone to sleep, 
and the only persons who watched were Mother Lee 
upon the Point, and Polly Grey from the cottage 
window ; Edith and her mother had retired to rest. 

The wind had increased in violence, and nothing 
could be seen in the thick darkness. Mother Lee 
was shivering with cold, but she had never ceased 
muttering curses through her chattering gums. " He's 
sure to come with this wind ; I never knew a stiff 
sou'-wester without some luck." These words had 
hardly escaped from her thin lips when a bright light 
flashed like a fiery thread into the dark clouds far 
out at sea. 

" Ha, ha, ha ! There's a rocket ! I said so, I knew 
it ; here's luck from the old quarter ! p'raps we'll 
catch 'em both ; p'raps it's the old story again, and 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 131 

the cutter's chasing ; then we'll catch 'em in the same 
net, and make a night of it. Here's luck from the 
sou'-west with a vengeance !" 

As the excited old wretch now speculated with 
delight upon the probability of wrecking both vessels, 
she drew out a tinder-box from a deep pocket in the 
many and intricate folds of her clothes, and, with 
hands trembling with devilish eagerness, she struck a 
light with a flint and steel. 

"Rot the sparks, they won't catch!" exclaimed 
the old womafl in a rage, as she vainly struck the 
flint, and cut her knuckles in the dark with the steel. 
At length the tinder caught, and, shading the box 
carefully with her hands, she placed it under the 
shelter of the shavings beneath the pile; she then 
blew the spark while she applied a match, and in a 
few seconds the tarred shavings took fire and ignited 
the entire pile. Taking a lighted stick from the fire, 
she carried it to the remaining beacon ; presently it 
blazed brightly, and the snare was completed. 

Polly could see from the cottage window the rocket 
at sea, quickly answered by one from the coast-guard 
station and by the beacons on the cliff, but she could 
not detect any unusual change in their position, as 
the entrance to the bay was so exceedingly narrow 
that the wrong direction of one fire could not be 
appreciated in the darkness.. She accordingly waited 
in earnest expectation of Paul's safe arrival, as she 
knew that his vessel would sail straight for the 
entrance of the bay. Polly's heart beat so loudly that 
she could hear it throb as every half-hour increased 
her anxiety, and, clasping her aching breast with her 

K 2 



i 3 2 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 



hands, she prayed fervently for her husband's safe 
return. Once she thought of waking Mrs. Jones and 
Edith, but on second thought she wished to clasp 
Paul in her arms on his arrival without other wit- 
nesses to her joy; thus Edith and her mother slept 
soundly. 

In the mean time the vessel neared the shore, 
running straight for the beacons at about ten knots 
an hour. Mother Lee stood upon the cliff, and vainly 
strove to pierce the darkness. 

" She can't be far off," said the old woman ; " I'll 
put another dose of tar upon the fires to give 'em a 
blaze. That'll do it ! " she muttered ; " ha, ha, ha ! 
Mother Lee knows a trick or two, cuss 'em all ! " She 
chuckled as she poured a quantity of tar upon the 
second fire at the point of the harbour's mouth, which 
was followed by a roar of flame. " Now for the 
other fire, so they'll make no mistake and come in 
prettily!" she again muttered as she approached the 
other beacon ; but on her way among the loose 
stones her foot stumbled, and she fell over her open 
keg and became covered with the contents. "Rot 
the stones, and rot the tar ! " she exclaimed in a 
rage, as she wrung her saturated clothes into the keg 
lest she should lose a drop of her precious fuel. At 
this moment the clouds parted, and the moon in 
all its unexpected beauty burst upon the scene and 
illumined the hitherto dark surface of the sea. " Here 
they come ! ha, ha ! Close in ! It's all right ! " 
almost shouted the old woman in ecstacy, as, having 
thrown the tar-keg into the blaze, she shaded her 
brow with both her skinny hands so as to keep out 




DESTRUCTION 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 133 

the dazzling light which was directly behind her. 
The fire now roared upwards with increased fury. 

The brilliant moonlight plainly discovered a vessel 
within a quarter of a mile of the rock, driving in 
full sail directly upon the cliff with the evident 
intention of passing between the beacons. Mother 
Lee crouched down lest her figure should be seen in 
the bright light. " Cuss your light ! " she muttered, 
as she shook her skinny fist at the unwelcome moon ; 
"yer'll be showing 'em the rocks," and she stooped 
still lower to avoid being seen. In doing this, with 
her back to the fire, her thick stuff dress, already 
saturated with tar, became ignited behind without 
her knowledge, until the violent wind rapidly spread 
the flame. Quickly springing to her feet, she turned 
round, and in an instant the rush of air lashed the 
flames into forked sheets, which caught with wonderful 
velocity every portion of her inflammable dress. The 
awful truth flashed upon her, and with a yell that 
might have been heard a mile distant, she rushed 
away from the edge of the cliff in a volume of red 
fire that ascended high in the air. Thick wreaths of 
black smoke reddened by the bright glare rolled 
upward in a murky volume. Shriek succeeded shriek 
in the wildest agony of fright and bodily torture, as 
the fire now thoroughly enveloped her, and searched 
out every portion of her clothing. In a waving 
pillar of flame she rushed to and fro in . her frantic 
endeavours to escape from the relentless enemy, and 
the hitherto bright beacons sank into insignificance 
before the blazing pyramid of fire. 

The apparently doomed vessel was within three 



134 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

hundred yards of the cliff when this third beacon 
startled the Captain and crew. " Luff ! " shouted a 
powerful voice on board the ship "Let go the 
anchor ! " 

Almost in the same instant the sudden order was 
obeyed, and the bows of the trembling vessel were 
brought quickly to the wind, as a heavy sea struck 
her, and washed her decks. At this moment, as she 
lay broadside on the waves, the rattle of the anchor 
could be heard as it fell. Once more a sea struck 
her and washed clean over her, but as it passed she 
was seen to swing to her anchor, and ride easily with 
her head to wind. Another anchor was let go, the 
cable veered out, and the vessel was saved^when in 
the jaws of certain destruction. 

In the mean time Polly Grey, having seen the 
frightful calamity that had befallen some one (she 
knew not whom), had rushed instinctively towards the 
spot. Some jew minutes elapsed before she neared 
the still screaming figure ; the fire burnt with a steady 
blaze, although the clothes were nearly consumed, 
as the quantity of tar had converted them into a 
torch ; but, before Polly reached the spot, the figure 
was reduced to a blackened mass, with bright patches 
of fire adhering to many portions of the flesh ; there 
was no semblance to a human form, excepting the 
fact of two black skeleton arms and legs which were 
moving with frantic energy^as the figure danced to 
and fro in attitudes of the wildest madness. 

Polly was horror-stricken. She knew not who it was, 
as the face was burnt to a cinder; but, as she ap- 
proached within a few yards without knowing what to 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 135 



do, the monkey-like figure uttered a terrific yell, and 
bounded over the perpendicular cliff. 

As the fiery body fell with increasing velocity from 
the height of two hundred feet, the rush of air re- 
vived the flames, which shot out from all parts of her 
scorched carcase as Mother Lee rushed headlong 
into the boiling surf. One splash ! as the waves 
received her, and extinguished the bright flame that 
had marked her fall, in the exact spot where with the 
rock she had once crushed the struggling captain 
of the cutter. 

Upon the cliff stood Polly Grey, appalled with the 
horrible catastrophe ; but, as the bright moon now 
clearly revealed the scene, she regarded with dismay a 
revenue cutter lying at anchor in the heavy breakers, 
instead of the long expected lugger. She took a 
hasty glance in the harbour; it was empty. The 
Polly had not arrived ; all her hopes of seeing Paul, 
and of pressing him in her arms once more, were gone! 
Sickened by her vain desire, and by the scene she 
had just witnessed, she sat down by one of the fires 
that had destroyed the infamous designer of the snare. 

The truth now flashed upon her, that the false posi- 
tion of the beacons could only have originated from 
Mother Lee, and she had no longer any doubt that 
the attenuated and dreadful figure that she had seen 
dancing and writhing in the flames could have been 
no other than the old woman, who had met with this 
just but fearful retribution. 

It now began to rain violently, and the wind 
suddenly changed to the north, blowing off the 
shore ; the beacon fires hissed as the heavy rain-drops 



136 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

blackened the hot embers, and Polly, cold and shiver- 
ing, was driven to the shelter of her barren home. 
Tired with watching, and saddened with constant 
anxiety, she threw off her wet clothes, and fell asleep 
as soon as she lay upon her bed. 

The next morning found the inhabitants of the 
village in great excitement, as, instead of the Polly, 
the revenue cutter, commanded by Captain Smart, 
was lying snugly within the bay. The wind off the 
shore had produced a calm sea, and they had towed 
the cutter into the Cove for better security. 

Joe Smart was a welcome guest at the cottage on 
the cliff, and Polly Grey had met him at the entrance 
full of eager curiosity. 

" Where is Paul ? where is the Polly ? " she ex- 
claimed, as she opened the door ; " tell me all you 
know, I beseech you," she added, as she gave him a 
chair by the window overlooking the sea. 

" I know nothing, unfortunately, my dear Mrs. 
Grey," replied Joe Smart ; " my story is simply told. 
It was my duty to examine the character of a suspi- 
cious-looking lugger that we observed in the offing 
as she appeared to be beating up for the coast. We 
ran towards her with a fair wind, but she sailed like a 
witch, and, upon seeing our approach, it was a case of 
' up stick and away ;' for she altered her tack, and, 
going free, she left us out of sight, and we have 
never seen her since. The wind then changed, and, as 
evening came on, it blew hard from the sou'-west 
I knew that the good people of Sandy Cove were 
attentive in lighting the beacons to guide the Polly, 
or any other friend, into the bay upon a dark night, 



.CAST UP BY THE SEA. 137 

so I thought I might as well take advantage of their 
lamps and come in myself. The night was stormy, 
and so dark that we could not make out the coast, 
therefore I sent up a rocket, which was not only 
answered by the station, but by two fires that were 
almost immediately lighted on the cliff; these we all 
considered to be the guides to the harbour's mouth. 
Accordingly we steered directly for them, with the 
intention of sailing straight into the Cove. As we 
neared the fires within a cable's length, I suddenly 
caught sight of a horrible figure that looked like 
some old witch, that sprang from the earth blazing 
with fire, dancing in tremendous flames with frantic 
gestures to and fro, actually between and on a level 
with the beacons. Thus providentially warned of our 
danger, I knew that the beacons were false guides, 
as there was the high cliff between them instead of 
the harbour's mouth. We were running at nine 
knots, and apparently close to the danger; but, 
luffing quickly, we checked the cutter's way in time 
to let go a couple of anchors : after a good ducking, 
as several seas swept us before she came fairly round, 
we rode out the gale until the wind changed. If the 
gale had increased, we must have been lost, as the 
cables must have chafed through upon the rocks ; 
even now a couple of strands are cut through, 
although we remained but a short time at anchor. 
I now find," continued Captain Smart, " that I am 
indebted to old Mother Lee for the false beacons, 
as I have just heard in the village that the pile 
on the east side of the entrance was never fired, 
although the two real beacons were prepared by 



138 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

the fishermen ; thus the old woman had laid a trap 
that had nearly proved fatal to us, although there 
can be no doubt that it was intended for the Polly. 
For what reason this diabolical scheme was prepared 
I cannot say." 

Polly Grey now described the sight she had wit- 
nessed, and there could be no doubt that Mother Lee 
had perished by a frightful death. She also explained 
the uncalled-for hatred that the old woman had enter- 
tained for her and Paul, and the endeavour she had 
made to wreck the Polly was only the climax to a 
long career of crime which had now met with its 
reward. 

During this conversation, Edith and her mother 
joined the party, and learnt with astonishment the 
startling events of the past night. Some weeks had 
elapsed after this event, and the affection between 
Edith and Polly Grey had increased to a degree that 
rendered the idea of parting insupportable. The widow, 
Mrs. Jones, proposed that Polly Grey should live 
with them at the rectory, and that occasionally they 
should pass a month or two at the cottage on the 
cliff for change of air and scene ; but that at any 
rate Polly should not reside alone until something 
should be heard of her missing husband and her 
boy Ned. 

In the mean time, as week after week passed by 
without any intelligence of her husband, Captain 
Smart lost no opportunity of soothing Polly's anxieties, 
and he proved his affection for his absent friend and 
his devotion to his old love by buoying up her hopes 
with plausible suggestions, as to the cause of Paul's 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 139 

absence and the probability of his return ; at the 
same time he took care to supply all that she could 
possibly require. This was the more important, as 
Polly was entirely without money : several debts 
were pressing; as Paul had suddenly disappeared, 
those who were his creditors sent in their bills and 
demanded a settlement of accounts. Joe Smart had 
foreseen this difficulty, and he at length prevailed 
upon Polly Grey to intrust him with the management 
of her affairs, until the happy day should arrive when 
Paul should appear in person. At first, Polly had 
declined his well-meant offer, as she knew that it 
placed her in a difficult position. Joe Smart was a 
man of honour, but at the same time he had been 
her unsuccessful suitor : thus, in the absence of her 
husband, it was an affair of exceeding delicacy to 
define the exact degree of intimacy that should exist 
between them. At the same time it was necessary 
that the debts should be paid ; but how was that 
possible without money ? She had no claim upon 
Mrs. Jones, the widow, who although rich, was totally 
ignorant of business affairs, and she herself required 
advice ; therefore, although much against her incli- 
nation, Polly had no alternative but to accept the 
assistance of Joe Smart, until her husband should 
return. 

While pondering over her difficulties, she was struck 
by an idea which in some measure relieved her posi- 
tion ; it occurred to her that the widow Jones might 
be equally assisted by Joe Smart, should he consent 
to undertake the management of her property, in 
which case, his attentions to her individually would 



HO CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

be shared by another, and would not appear so 
personal. 

To her great satisfaction, Mrs. Jones agreed to 
the proposal. The indefatigable Captain Smart was 
always ready to render assistance ; and the arrange- 
ment was shortly concluded that he was to have the 
entire control of her affairs, and that a small room at 
the rectory was to be fitted up as an office to which 
he could at all times have free access. 

Accordingly there was no restriction upon his visits, 
3nd he contrived that he could attend to his new 
duties three times during the week without interfering 
with his official occupation. 

This was a source of much comfort to the widow 
Jones, and she quickly learnt to rely upon the one- 
armed captain with implicit confidence, and even to 
look forward to his periodical visits with pleasure, and 
almost impatience ; while, on the other hand, as the 
hopes of Paul's return grew more distant, it cannot be 
denied that Joe Smart's sympathy for Polly Grey was 
fast returning to the warm affection that had caused 
the disappointment to his youth. He would hardly 
dare to acknowledge to himself that he loved her in 
any other light than as his old friend, and the wife of 
his friend Paul ; but, as he secretly analysed his 
feelings, he started at the throb of his own heart 
when the thought passed through his mind, "that 
Paul was, perhaps, still alive, and might again re- 
turn !" It was a dangerous position for the generous 
and sensitive Joe Smart. He was now thrown con- 
stantly in the society of the love of his boyhood, 
who was still beautiful, and who always met him 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 141 

with a warmth of welcome that evinced her gratitude 
for the many kindnesses she had received from his 
hand. But in Polly Grey's breast there was only 
one feeling : this was a devotion to the true objects 
of her affection, Paul and Ned ; not a thought of 
another love ever crossed her mind. Next to them 
her heart clung to Edith, and she regarded Joe 
Smart with the warm but pure feelings of an old 
friend. 

Edith had grown sad. She loved Polly Grey as a 
new mother, and this love had sprung from a common 
sorrow. She now frequently visited the churchyard 
to sit by her father's grave, which was built by the 
side of the cross-stone where she and Ned had 
last parted. This she had tended with care, as had 
been proposed by Ned when they last sat together, 
and read the mysterious epitaph, " A lady unknown, 
aged about twenty-two. Cast up by the sea at Sandy 
Cove." 

Polly Grey had since told her the whole sad story, 
and her suspicions that the poor lady was Ned's own 
mother. Edith had planted some myrtles around 
the spot, and with her pretty white hands she kept 
the grass closely clipped ; and every Sunday she 
twined a new wreath, and hung it upon the cross, for 
it was on the evening of a Sabbath that she had pro- 
mised Ned to attend to the lonely grave. 



142 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 



CHAPTER VIII. 

We must now return to Paul Grey, who some 
months since had sailed from Sandy Cove, expecting 
to return after an absence of a few days, but of 
whom nothing had been heard. 

On the evening that he sailed, the wind was north- 
erly, and the Polly quickly lost sight of the English 
shore ; by daybreak on the following morning they 
could plainly distinguish the coast of France. The 
Polly now hoisted French colours, and stood in for 
Ushant. As the lugger neared the land, a rowing 
boat was seen to approach from the shore; Paul 
sto6d upon the deck, and carefully examined the sus- 
picious object with the telescope. 

" It's all right," he at length exclaimed to Dick 
Stone, who stood at the helm, " keep your course and 
meet her : it's Dupuis' boat." 

The Polly accordingly held her course, and the 
spray dashed from her bows as with a brisk breeze 
on the quarter she flew gaily over the waves towards 
the advancing boat, that belonged to Paul's French 
partner in the contraband trade. There had been 
some slight alteration in the lugger's equipment since 
we last described her. Around the mainmast by 
the deck was a rack for muskets and boarding-pikes ; 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 143 

an armchest, well filled with pistols, muskets, and 
cutlasses, and rendered waterproof by a thick tar- 
paulin cover, was securely lashed and cleated in front 
of the mizen-mast ; while amidships was a long 
brass six-pounder, fitted upon a traversing carriage 
upon a pivot, which could be trained upon any point 
of the horizon. There could be no doubt that the 
vessel was arranged for a determined defence in the 
event of attack, as the crew consisted of fifteen men 
including Paul. These were carefully selected, and a 
finer set of sailors would rarely be seen ; amongst 
them was the surly Dick Stone, who had so stub- 
bornly resisted the inquiries of Captain Smart on his 
visit to the lugger. This man was an extraordinary 
character : he was devoted to Paul, and to the clipper 
lugger in which he sailed ; he was brave to a fault, 
and his coolness in the midst of danger was remark- 
able ; he hated the entire nation of Frenchmen, whom 
he termed "the Mounseers;" next to them he disliked 
the whole race of revenue authorities. For several 
years he had served on board a man of war; but 
the varied occupations of smuggling and fishing, with 
the dangers attendant upon such professions, formed 
an excitement that was the charm of his existence. 
He was seldom seen to laugh, neither was he ever 
in a passion : if anything disturbed him, he in- 
variably turned to his pipe as his counsellor and 
comforter; a few deep puffs from the ever-present 
companion would either be followed by perfect silence 
and contentment, or by some carefully considered 
reply. 

Dick Stone was at the helm, and, as he had been 



144 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 



directed by Paul, he kept a course that would meet 
the advancing boat. " Take the tiller for a moment," 
said he to a sailor who stood by on the farther side, 
and without moving from his place," he took from his 
pocket a blackened clay pipe, about three inches long, 
at the same time he inserted a plug of tobacco ; then, 
striking a light, with a flint and steel and a piece of 
burnt rag, he gave two or three sharp and rapid puffs, 
that brought a brilliant glow to the mouth of the 
bowl. He then took a long and steady suck at the 
never-failing adviser, until his cheeks became quite 
hollow with the exhaustive effort ; this was followed 
by a dense cloud of smoke, as though from the explo- 
sion of a gun. He rested for a moment, and took 
the pipe from his mouth, as though to give his brain 
an opportunity of testing the effect. Once more it 
was applied, with a similar result as in the first 
instance ; and, as the wind carried the smoke to lee- 
ward, he quietly handed the magic instrument to the 
sailor from whom he now took the helm, and with 
invigorated intelligence, he directed his attention to 
the boat. 

u She's made the signal," said Paul, who still ob- 
served her with the glass. "She has hoisted the 
English flag in exchange for the French." 

" Can you see the Mounseer, Captain Doopwee ? " 
asked Dick. 

" I can't swear to him," replied Paul, " but there's 
some one very like him, in a pilot coat, in the stern." 

"Perhaps we'd better have the muskets ready," 
continued Dick, as he again took his pipe from the 
sailor, and asked fresh advice by a vigorous puff. 



CAST UP BY THE SEA, 145 

"Just put a pistol and a cutlass on the deck by my 
side," said Dick to the sailor who had assisted him, as 
though the tobacco had suggested the idea. " I don't 
trust those Mounseers, they're too purlite by half; and 
I can't see Captain Doopwee." 

Although Paul had no suspicion of the boat that 
was now rapidly. approaching, he saw no objection to 
Dick's practical advice. 

" Are those muskets all loaded ? " he asked, as he 
pointed to those in the rack around the mainmast. 

" Yes," replied Dick ; " if a musket ain't loaded, 
it's like a pipe without baccy. I loaded those mus- 
kets myself, early this morning, as I don't trust the 
Mounseers." 

" Well," said Paul to a sailor near him, " unlock the 
arm-chest, and let each man strap on his cutlass, and 
put a pistol in his belt ; lay a dozen muskets on the 
deck, in addition to those upon the rack, and keep a 
bright look out as we near the French boat." 

In about twenty minutes the boat was within a 
pistol-shot of the lugger ; Captain Dupuis was not 
among the crew. A man in the bow of the boat now 
waved- a small English flag, at the same time he held 1 
a letter in his outstretched left hand. The lugger 
now hauled close up to the wind, and lay to, as the 
boat was allowed to come alongside, and the person 
in command nimbly leapt on board, while the boat 
dropped astern, and was secured by a rope to the 
Polly, 

u Bon voyage, Monsieur le Capitaine ! " said the 
sprightly individual who now accosted Paul. " I have 
de plaisir to introduce to you von lettre of de part 

L 



146 CAST UP BY THE SEA, 

de notre ami Monsieur Dupuis, who makes to you 
ses compliments, but is engaged vith les m6grimes, 
or vith some seekness detestable, dat ties him to 
his bed." 

With this introduction, the dapper little Frenchman 
presented his letter, which Paul immediately read. 

Monsieur Dupuis described that he was unwell, and 
therefore could not meet him in person, but that the 
bearer was a trustworthy agent, who would act as 
pilot, and guide the Polly to a secure hiding-place, 
where she could disembark her goods and receive a 
fresh cargo without fear of interruption. After hav- 
ing asked a few questions, which were satisfactorily 
answered, Paul ordered Dick Stone to obey the direc- 
tions of the French pilot; and the lugger, having been 
allowed to fall off the wind, immediately filled her 
sails, and once more she scudded over the waves with 
the French boat and crew towing astern. 

" Vest-sou'- vest, if you please, mon ami," said the 
polite pilot to the imperturbable Dick, " till I show 
you von leetle port vare no one know." 

As Dick slightly altered the lugger's course, he 
took a long puff at his pipe, and emitted a cloud of 
smoke that for a moment obscured the Frenchman, 
under cover of which he muttered, — 

"Too purlite, too purlite by a long chalk, these 
Mounseers ; " then, as the smoke cleared, he addressed 
the pilot direct. 

" What's become of Captain Doopwee, Mounseer ? " 

"Ah, mon cher ami, dat is my deer fren," 
replied the vivacious Frenchman, " our fren le Capi- 
taine Dupuis has caught a coup d'air, he has taken 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 147 

to him a cold with mal k la t£te, vat ve call de 
' megrimes/ together vith a spasm in his ventre, vat 
you call de intestines." 

"What we call the belly-ache," replied Dick, 
thoughtfully. "I never knew a Frenchman without 
the belly-ache. It's along of their sour wine. But 
what's the name of the place you're taking us to ? " 
continued Dick. 

" Ve go to one charmant petit endroit, von leetle 
basin cachd deniere dat high rocher." 

" Very likely ! " replied Dick, suspiciously ; " but, 
Mounseer, what have you got to do with us ? Captain 
Doopwee's the mounseer that I want to see." 

" Ha, ha, ha ! " laughed the Frenchman. " Patience, 
patience, mon ther, vait von leetle half hour, nous 
verrons Monsr. Dupuis tout & Theure — all in de hour. 
You understand ? " 

" Too purlite, too purlite to be honest," muttered 
Dick Stone, as he mechanically obeyed the directions 
of the French pilot. In the mean time the lugger 
rapidly approached the bluff headland, behind which 
lay the secure harbour described. It was in vain 
that Paul scanned the rocky coast with his glass ; 
no signs of a dwelling could be seen ; all appeared 
dangerous and desolate in the extreme. They 
now neared the high cliffs of a long projecting 
headland. 

" Give to me de helm, mon ami, dis is one vary bad 
place," said the pilot, as the Polly just passed a 
sunken rock, over which the surf broke in curling 
foam, and taking the tiller from the unwilling Dick, 
he now steered along the coast direct for the rocky 

L 2 



148 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

headland, which rose abruptly from the water to the 
height of about two hundred feet. 

In a few minutes the lugger neared the point ; the 
breeze was brisk, and the spray dashed high upon the 
face of the cliffs as the heavy waves of the Atlantic 
burst against the rocks ; but the pilot evidently knew 
the coast, and, steering within a hundred paces of the 
rocky point, he suddenly rounded the headland, and, 
turning sharp, he ran before the wind direct into a 
long and narrow bay. A lofty rocky island presently 
lay before them ; the Polly flew along in the calm 
harbour, and suddenly rounding the island, she passed 
within fifty paces of a large vessel that had been con- 
cealed by the high cliff; at the same instant, the pilot 
brought the lugger sharp up to the wind, and she lay 
helpless under the guns of a French eighteen-gun 
corvette. All this had happened so quickly and un- 
expectedly, that the trap was first discovered when 
they were fairly caught. As the Polly had rounded 
the rocky island, and the corvette first burst upon 
their view, a cloud of smoke had puffed from Dick's 
pipe ; but now that the fatal truth flashed upon them 
as the lugger lay motionless, with her sails flapping 
in the wind, he quietly took his pipe from his mouth, 
shook the last remnants of tobacco-ashes from the 
bowl, and muttering, — " Too purlite by a long chalk, 
these Mounseers," he suddenly seized the little French 
pilot by the collar, and catching one leg with his left 
hand, he swung him overboard as though he had 
been a child. Hardly had he splashed into the deep 
water than the French boat, that had cast off the rope 
astern, pulled to his assistance, and hoisted the polite 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 149 

pilot on board like a drowned cat In the mean time 
a boat full of armed men approached them from the 
corvette, that was only a few yards distant. There 
was no chance of escape. They were fairly caught by 
a well-planned trap, devised by the treacherous Captain 
Dupuis, who owed Paul a considerable sum of money, 
and who thus intended to avoid the debt, at the same 
time to gain the prize, by consigning Paul to a French 
prison. 

"The Mounseers shan't take my pipe without a 
fight for it, I know," said Dick, as a number of 
Frenchmen suddenly boarded the lugger. As he said 
this, he replaced his trusty ally within his pocket, and 
picking up the cutlass and pistol from the deck, he 
advanced a pace in front of the helm in an attitude 
of defence. " Come on, Mounseers ! Komprenney ? 
Where's Captain Doopwee? I'll cure his miggrims, 
the purlite varmint." 

Dick Stone was perfectly ready to fight either one 
or all, but Paul, who had at once perceived the trap 
into which they had fallen, and the utter impossibility 
of resistance, immediately gave the order that all 
men should lay down their arms, as several of the 
most desperate had followed Dick's example, and had 
already drawn their cutlasses. 

A French officer now approached Paul, and for- 
mally announced that the Polly was the prize of the 
corvette ; at the same time he assured him that both 
he and the crew would be well treated. Without 
further delay they were ordered to pack up their 
clothes, and to go ashore in custody of a guard of 
marines. 



150 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

In an hour after the arrival of the Polly in the 
deceitful port, Paul and his entire crew were marched 
through the streets of a French village, and were 
drawn up opposite the prison entrance. 

It was a curious old building, in the Norman style 
of architecture, with tall conical towers of great height, 
in which were numerous small grated windows ; a 
heavy iron gate closed the entrance to a gloomy 
courtyard, and a large crowd of people thronged the 
approach to this uninviting spot to see English 
prisoners led in triumph to the jail. 

Upon their arrival at the gate, they were met by the 
governor and the principal jailer, who received them 
formally, and entered their names upon the prison 
books ; after which, a receipt was given to the officer 
in command of the escort, and they were allotted to 
various cells in separate parties. Paul, as their captain, 
was placed in a superior apartment, together with 
Dick Stone, whom he had requested might be per- 
mitted to accompany him. 

As the door of the prison had closed upon their 
admittance to the courtyard, Paul had noticed a re- 
markably pretty girl, of about eighteen, who had fixed 
her eyes upon him with extreme earnestness. As he 
was now led with Dick Stone to the room that they 
were to occupy, he observed that she accompanied 
the jailer, and appeared to observe him with great 
interest. Taking from his pocket a guinea that was 
pierced with a hole, he slipped it into her hand, at 
the same time laughingly he told her in a few words 
of broken French, to suspend it as a charm around 
her neck to preserve her from everything English. 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 151 

Instead of receiving it with pleasure, as he had ex- 
pected, she simply looked at it with curiosity for an 
instant, and then, keeping it in her hand, she asked in 
her native tongue with intense feeling, "A tu vue 
Victor ? mon cher fr£re Victor, prisonnier en Angle- 
terre ?" 

" Silly girl," said the jailer her father, " England is 
a large place, and there are too many French prisoners 
to make it likely that Victor should be known :" at 
the same time the feelings of the father yielded to a 
vague hope as he looked inquiringly at Paul. 

"There are many fine fellows," answered Paul, 
" who have had the misfortune to become prisoners of 
war, but they are all cared for, and receive every 
attention in England. When was your brother 
taken ?" he asked, as he turned to the handsome 
dark-eyed girl who had just questioned him. 

"A year ago next Christmas," she replied; "and 
we have only once heard from him ; he was then at a 
place called Falmouth, but we do not know where 
that is." 

"Falmouth!" said Paul; "why, I know the place 
well ; with a fair wind the Polly would make it in a 
few hours from the spot where I live. Your brother 
then is imprisoned only half a day's sail from my 
house!" 

" Oh ! what good fortune, mon Dieu !" exclaimed 
the excited girl, as she clasped her hands in delight, 
as though the hour of her brother's deliverance was 
at hand. "How can we reach him? surely you can 
help us ?" 

" Alas ! I am also a prisoner," replied Paul " At 



152 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

this moment my wife is sorrowing alone in our cottage 
on the cliff, and she is looking vainly upon the sea 
expecting my return ; how can I help you ? Believe 
me, if it were possible, I would." At the recollection 
of Polly's situation, Paul hastily brushed a tear from 
his eye with the back of his rough hand, which 
instantly awoke the sympathy of the sensitive girl 
before him. 

" Ha ! you are married," she exclaimed. " Is she 
young, and perhaps beautiful ?" 

" Young enough for me, and handsomer than most 
women," replied Paul. 

At this moment Dick Stone had lighted his pipe, 
and as he gave two or three tremendous puffs, he 
screwed his face into a profoundly serio-comic expres- 
sion and winked his right eye mysteriously at Paul. 

" I know the young man," said Dick, who now 
joined in the conversation, and addressed the jailer 
whom he had been scrutinizing closely ; " I saw him 
once at the prison in Falmouth. Rather tall ?" said 
Dick, as he surveyed the six-foot form of the jailer. 

" Yes," said the jailer eagerly, " as tall as I am." 

"Black hair?" continued the impassive Dick, as he 
cast his eyes upon the raven locks of both father and 
daughter. 

" Yes, as dark as mine," exclaimed the now excited 
jailer. 

"Roman nose?" said Dick, as he looked at the 
decided form of the parent's feature that was shared 
by the handsome girl. 

" Precisely so, well arched," replied the father. 

" Had not lost an arm ?" said Dick. 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 153 

" No, he had both his arms," said the jailer. 

"And his name," said Dick, "was Victor ?" 

"Victor Dior6!" exclaimed the jailer's daughter. 

"Victor Diarrhoea! Precisely so — that's the man," 
replied the stoical Dick Stone; "that's the man. 
I know'd him soon after he was captured ; and I 
believe he's now in Falmouth jail. I'd almost forgot 
his name, for you Mounseers are so badly christened 
that I can't remember how you're called." 

The jailer and his daughter were much affected at 
this sudden intelligence ; there could be no doubt 
that their new prisoner had seen their lost relative, 
who appeared to be imprisoned not far from Paul's 
residence, and their hearts at once warmed towards 
both the captives. 

They were led into a large, but rather dark room, 
scantily furnished with two tressel-beds, a table, and 
a couple of benches. 

" We must talk of this again," said Paul to the 
jailer's daughter ; " perhaps an exchange of prisoners 
may be arranged at some future time that may serve 
us all." 

" Yes," added Dick Stone, " I think we can manage 
it if we're all true friends ; and may I ask your name, 
my dear ? for you're the prettiest Mounseer that I've 
ever set eyes on." 

" Ldontine," replied the girl. 

" Well, Leonteen," continued Dick, " if you'll come 
and have a chat sometimes up in this cold-looking 
room, I dare say we'll be able to hit off some plan 
that'll make us all agreeable. I've got a secret to tell 
you yet, but I don't want to let it out before the old 



d 



154 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

'un," said Dick mysteriously, as he winked his eye at 
her in masonic style ; then, putting his lips very close 
to her pretty ear, he whispered, " I can tell you how 
to get your brother out of prison : but you must keep 
it close!' 

The door had hardly closed upon the jailer and his 
daughter, who had promised to return with breakfast, 
than Paul turned quickly towards Dick Stone and 
exclaimed, "What do you mean, Dick, by such a 
romance as you have just composed ? Surely all 
is false ; you never met the French prisoner at 
Falmouth ? " 

" Well," replied Dick, " may be I didn't ; but per- 
haps I did ; who knows ? You see, captain, all's fair 
in love or war, and it struck me that it's as well to 
make friends as enemies; now you see we've made 
friends all at once by a little romance. You see the 
Mounseers are very purlite people, and so it's better 
to be purlite when you're in France. You see the 
pretty little French girl says her brother's in jail in 
Falmouth ; well, I've seen a lot of French prisoners 
in Falmouth with black hair, and two arms apiece, and 
a Roman nose ; so very likely I've seen her brother. 
Well, you see, if we can make friends with the jailer, 
we may p'raps get the key of the jail ! At all events, 
it ain't a bad beginning to make friends with the 
jailer's daughter before we've had our first breakfast 
in the French prison." 

As Dick Stone finished speaking, he looked out of 
the narrow grated window that in the thick stone 
wall appeared as though it had been intended for 
musketry ; from this aperture he had a beautiful view 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 155 

of the bay and the French corvette, near to which 
the unfortunate Polly was now lying at anchor with 
the French colours flying at the mizen. 

" Well, that's a bad look out, I must say," said 
Dick. " Look here, captain, there's the Polly looking 
as trim and as saucy, bless her heart ! as though we 
were all aboard : and there's the ugly French flag 
flying, and she don't seem to care more about it than 
a woman with new ribbons in her bonnet." 

Paul looked at his beautiful lugger with bitter 
feelings ; he had sailed in her for many years, and 
she had become like a member of his family: 
although fifteen years old, she had been built of 
such well-seasoned timber, and had been kept in 
such excellent repair, that she was better than most 
vessels of half her age, and he sighed as he now saw 
her at anchor with the French flag fluttering at her 
mast-head. For a long time he gazed intently upon 
her without speaking a word ; at length he turned 
sharply round, and in a quick, determined voice, he 
said, " Dick, I'll never live to see the Polly disgraced. 
If you'll stick by me, Dick, we'll retake her yet, 
or die !" 

For some moments Dick Stone stared Paul care- 
lessly in the face without a reply ; he then tapped the 
bowl of his empty pipe upon the prison wall, and, 
carefully refilling it with tobacco, he once more 
lighted it, and puffed for about a minute in perfect 
silence ; he then spoke, after emitting a dense volume 
of smoke. 

" If I'll stick to you, captain ? well, p'raps I never 
have ? and p'raps Dick Stone's a coward ? Well, you 



156 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

see, of course I'll stick to yer ; but there's other things 
to be thought of. What's your plan, captain ? It's 
of no use doing anything without thinking well first ; 
now, if you'll tell me what you mean, I'll have a little 
smoke, just half a pipe, and I'll tell you my opinion." 

"My plans are not absolutely defined," said Paul, 
"but I think that by making friends with the jailer's 
daughter we may induce her to risk much in the 
endeavour to rescue her brother. We might prevail 
upon her to assist in our escape — she might even 
accompany us to England .Could we only free our- 
selves from these prison walls on a dark night, when 
the wind blows strong from the south, why should 
we not surprise the French crew, and carry off the 
Polly? Once at sea, there is nothing that could 
touch her!" Paul's eyes glistened as he spoke, and 
the muscles stood out from his brawny arm, as he 
clenched his fist, and added, " If I could only once lay 
hold of Dupuis's throat, and save the Polly, I ask no 
greater fortune!" 

Puff, puff, puff, came in rapid succession from Dick's 
pipe at these words ; at last, the long exhaustive suck 
arrived in its turn, and the usual cloud of smoke 
enveloped his head, which always exhilarated his 
brain. 

" Well, captain, d'ye see," replied Dick, " I'll stick 
to you in anything, and there's no doubt that there's 
a chance of success if the pretty little Mounseer will 
only help us. But you see, from what I know of 
woman-kind, they're very fond and very purlite for 
their brothers, but they won't run much risk for 'em. 
Now if they're in love, they're as good as bull-dogs ; 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 157 

and so I think it's a pity as how you told her that 
you'd got a wife a looking out for you at home ! If 
you'd have told her that you were a single man, and 
p'raps given her a kiss, when you gave her the lucky 
guinea, we might have got a little love to help us, and 
then we'd have had a better chance, as she'd have 
gone off with us all of a heap." 

"Dick, you have no conscience" replied Paul; "you 
surely would not deceive the girl in such a heartless 
manner? No !" continued Paul, "I have told her the 
truth, and if she can help us, I'll do my best to save 
her brother ; but, on the other hand, why should not 
you, Dick, make yourself agreeable to her ? You're 
not a bad-looking fellow, why should not you do the 
love-making?" 

Dick made no reply, but thoughtfully puffed at his 
pipe ; then laying down his smoking counsellor upon 
the window-sill, he thrust his right hand into a deep 
breeches pocket, and extracted a black horn pocket 
comb, with which he began at once most carefully to 
arrange his hair. 

Despite the loss of the Polly, and the misery of his 
situation, Paul burst out laughing, as he witnessed 
Dick's cool determination to prepare for love-making. 

" I don't know how these Mounseers begin," said 
the methodical Dick, "they're a very purlite people, 
and so they mayn't like our customs. In England we 
take 'em round the waist with both arms and give 
'em a kiss ; but p'raps it's better not to begin all at 
once. I'll just ask her to sit on my knee at first, r so 
as not to frighten her." 

" Better not, Dick," said Paul, laughing, " I'm 



158 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 



afraid she wouldn't understand your modesty. Only 
make yourself agreeable, but don't touch her, and let 
time do the rest." 

They were interrupted in their conversation by the 
turning of the creaking door-lock, and* the jailer and 
his daughter entered with a loaf of black bread, and 
two jars of water and of milk, which they placed upon 
the table. Ldontine had already strung the guinea 
upon a cord, which was now suspended from her 
neck. 

" Ha ! that looks very well !" said Paul ; " few 
French girls wear the English king's image round 
their necks." 

" I know an Englishman who wears a French girl's 
picture in his heart," said Dick, who with a sly wink 
at Paul as a preface thus made his first bold advance. 

"A what?" inquired L6ontine. 

" A poor devil," replied Dick, " who doesn't care 
how long he's shut up in a French prison with such 
a pretty little Mounseer for a jailer? 

" Ha, ha ! you English know how to pay compli- 
ments," answered L^ontine, who knew just sufficient 
English to understand Dick's attempts at French. 

"Yes, we're considered a very purlite people," 
replied Dick, " and we have a purlite custom when we 
goes to prison of shaking hands with the jailer, and 
kissing the hand of his pretty daughter." As # Dick 
said these words, he first grasped the hand of the jailer, 
and then raised to his lips, redolent of tobacco, the 
pretty hand of L6ontine, at the same time he whispered 
to her, " Don't forget that I have a secret." 

Far from being disconcerted at Dick's politeness, 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 159 

Ldontine naively remarked : " You can't tell a secret 
before three persons, but we shall have plenty of 
opportunities, for you may pay us a longer visit than 
may be agreeable." 

Dick in reply to this remark suddenly assumed one 
of his most mysterious expressions, and winking one 
eye at L6ontine, he placed his forefinger upon his 
lips as though to enjoin silence, and whispered in her 
ear : " Make an opportunity : the secret's about your 
brother." 



160 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 



CHAPTER IX. 

MORE than two months had passed wearily in the 
French prison, during which both Paul and Dick 
Stone had been buoyed up in inaction by the hope of 
carrying into execution a plan for their escape. The 
only view from the prison windows was the sea, and 
the street and beach in the foreground. The Polly 
still lay at anchor in the same spot, as some difficulty 
had arisen between Captain Dupuis and the captain 
of the corvette that had to be settled in the law 
courts. 

In the mean time both Paul and Dick Stone had 
not only become great friends of the jailer Jean Dior6 
and his daughter, but Dick had quickly found an 
opportunity to disclose his secret, which succeeded in 
winning the heart of the enterprising L6ontine. Dick 
had made a declaration of love, and to prove his sin- 
cerity he proposed that he should conduct her direct 
to her brother in the English prison, whose release 
should be effected by an exchange ; and he had 
persuaded her that, if she should aid in the escape of 
Paul and the entire crew of the Polly, there would be 
no difficulty in obtaining her brother's release, when 
the facts should become known to the English 
authorities. Paul had added his persuasions to 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 161 



those of Dick Stone; he had excited the sister's 
warmest feelings by painting the joy she would feel 
in rescuing her brother from a miserable existence, 
and he had gained her sympathy by a description of 
the misery and suspense that his own wife must be 
suffering in her ignorance of all that had befallen him. 
L6ontine was won : she was brave as a lion, and, her 
determination once formed, she was prepared to act 
without flinching. 

Many times Dick Stone had lighted his pipe, and 
puffed, and considered as he took counsel with Paul 
on the plan that the latter had proposed; all was 
agreed upon. 

Paul had thus arranged the attempt at escape. All 
was to be in readiness for the first gale that should 
blow from either west or south. L6ontine had pro- 
vided him with a couple of large files and a small 
crow-bar about two feet long, which she had pur-» 
chased in the village with money supplied by Paul ; 
these she had introduced to his room by secreting 
them beneath her clothes. 

At various times she had purchased large supplies 
of strong twine in skeins, which to avoid suspicion 
she had described as required for making nets ; these 
she had also introduced daily, until sufficient had 
been collected for the manufacture of ropes, at which 
both Paul and Dick Stone worked incessantly during 
the night, and concealed them in the day-time within 
their mattresses, by cutting a hole beneath. When- 
ever the time should arrive, it had been arranged 
that L6ontine was to procure the keys of the cells 
in which the crew of the Polly were confined, and 

M 



162 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

she was to convey the prisoners at night into the 
apartment occupied by Paul and Dick ; whence they 
were to descend from the window by a rope into the 
fosse that surrounded the prison ; fortunately, this 
ditch was dry, and L6ontine was to fix a stake into 
the ground above the fosse, from which she was 
to suspend a knotted rope after dark, to enable the 
prisoners to ascend upon the opposite side. 

The great difficulty would be in avoiding the sentry, 
who was always on guard within fifty paces of the 
spot where they would be forced to descend, and 
whence they must afterwards ascend from the ditch ; 
the affair was to be left entirely in the hands of 
L^ontine, who assured Paul and Dick that she would 
manage the sentry if they would be ready at the right 
moment to assist her. When freed from the prison, 
they were to make a rush to the beach, seize the first 
boat, of which many were always at hand, and board 
and capture the Polly; once on board the trusty 
lugger, in a westerly or southerly gale, and Paul knew 
that nothing could overtake her. 

Such was the plan agreed upon, and everything 
had been carefully prepared and in readiness for 
some days, but the favourable weather had not yet 
arrived. Daily and hourly Paul looked from the 
grated windows upon his beloved Polly, which lay 
still at anchor idle in the bay, about fifty yards from 
the French corvette. 

At length, as one early morning, he as usual looked 
out from his prison, he saw a boat pulling from the 
shore, followed quickly by several others conveying 
cargo, and steering for the Polly ; the bustle upon 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 163 

the deck, and the refitting of ropes and rigging, 
plainly discernible from the prison window, left no 
doubt upon Paul's mind that the Polly was about 
to leave the harbour, and perhaps be lost to him 
for ever. 

At this painful sight Dick lighted his pipe, and 
smoked with violence until the tobacco was half con- 
sumed, when suddenly, in a fit of excitement that 
was quite unusual, he hastily put his adviser in his 
pocket, and seizing a file from beneath his mattress 
he immediately commenced work upon the bottom of 
an iron bar that protected the narrow window. 

" That's right, Dick," said Paul ; " now or never ! 
The clouds are hurrying up from the sou'-west, and I 
think it's coming on to blow; as old Mother Lee 
says, 'Luck comes from the sou'-west;' so bear a 
hand, and give me the file when you get tired." 

As Paul had observed, the scud was flying rapidly 
across the sky from the right quarter, and both men 
worked hard alternately, and in an hour they had 
divided the thick iron bar close to the base. 

" Now for the top," said Dick We'll soon cut it 
through, although it's harder work, as we can't put 
our weight to the file." 

" Never mind the file," said Paul, who now grasped 
the severed bar in his iron hands ; " with such a pur- 
chase I could wrench the bar asunder. Something 
shall give way," he said, as with the force of Samson 
he exerted every muscle, and wrenched the bar from 
its loosened base. The stone in which it was fixed 
first crumbled at the joint, and then suddenly crack- 
ing, Paul fell sprawling on his back with the bar in 

M 2 



164 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

his hands, while a heavy fragment of stone fell upon 
the floor. 

"Take care, captain," said Dick ; "gently with the 
stones. We shall alarm the jailer if we make so 
much noise! Why, you've settled the job in one 
pull ! " 

" Here, Dick/' continued Paul, as he sprang from 
the floor, " take the bar while I move" a stone from 
the side with the crow. We won't take it right out 
lest the jailer should notice it if he comes with the 
breakfast ; but we'll loosen it so that we can remove 
it quickly when necessary, as the window is too narrow 
for our shoulders." 

Paul then inserted the thin edge of the crowbar, 
and by gently working it backwards and forwards 
he removed the stones and enlarged the aperture 
sufficiently to admit the passage of a man ; he then 
replaced the stones, together with the bar, and so 
arranged the window that no one would have observed 
any disturbance unless by a close inspection. Hardly 
had they completed their work when footsteps were 
heard without, succeeded by the turning of the key in 
the creaking lock of their door. In an instant Dick, 
who had lighted his pipe, leant upon the window-sill 
and looked stedfastly out of the window, at the same 
time he puffed such dense clouds of smoke that would 
have effectually screened any damage that had been 
done by the work of the crowbar. 

The door opened, and fortunately L6ontine 
appeared instead of her father: she brought the 
breakfast. 

" Quick ! " she exclaimed, " there is no time to 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 165 



lose. The wind has changed, and people say we 
shall have a gale from the sou'-west. The Polly is 
to sail to-morrow; Captain Dupuis has loaded her, 
and he will himself depart in the morning should the 
wind be fair. You must all get ready for the work," 
continued the determined girl, as her large eyes flashed 
with energy. 

" We have not been idle, my pretty Ldontine," said 
Paul, as he exhibited their morning's work, " but we 
now depend upon you. It will be quite dark at eight 
o'clock. You must have the rope ready secured to 
this small crowbar, driven into the earth on the other 
side the fosse ; the bar is sharp and heavy ; it will 
make no noise if you can manage to strike it into the 
ground in exactly the same spot three or four times, 
and simply hang this loop upon it, pressed close down 
to the base." At the same time he gave her the bar, 
and a rope coiled, about twenty feet in length. Paul 
continued, "You must also be punctual in bringing 
the other prisoners here at half-past eight, and tell 
them to take their shoes off and to tie them round 
their waists. But how about the sentry?" asked 
Paul. 

" Don't be afraid," said Ldontine ; " I have already 
arranged everything this morning. Fortune has 
favoured us ; Francois is to be on guard to-night : 
the guard is relieved at eight o'clock, at which time 
he will come on duty, therefore we have nothing to 
fear for some hours. I will manage Francois ; leave 
him to me. He is an old lover of mine, and I have 
appointed to meet him to-night." 

At this confession, thus boldly made, Dick Stone 



166 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

puffed violently at his pipe, and was almost concealed 
by his own smoke, when L6ontine continued : — 

" He is a sad fellow, and has given me much 
trouble, but I shall pay him out to-night Look 
here, Dick," she continued, " if you are worth having 
you'll help me quickly to-night, for I shall depend 
upon you. I have agreed to meet Francois [this 
evening at half-past eight, as I have pretended to 
accept his love. To avoid detection (as he will be on 
guard), I am to be disguised as a soldier, and he will 
send me the clothes and arms to-day. I shall keep 
my appointment, and engage him in conversation so 
closely that he will not hear you ; but, at the last 
moment, you must be ready to rush upon him and 
secure him, while I endeavour to prevent him from 
giving an alarm. At the same time," continued L£on- 
tine, " you must promise not to hurt him, for Francois 
is a good fellow, and is very fond of me." 

"Only let me get hold of him," cried Dick 
Stone. 

"Will you?" replied L6ontine; " then the enter- 
prise ceases at the very beginning. You shall not 
escape unless you swear that no harm shall befall 
Francois." 

"Do not be afraid," said Paul; "but," he continued, 
"it may be a difficult affair if he is a powerful man — 
what size is he?" 

" Oh," replied L6ontine, laughing, " a little fellow, 
about as big as I am. You could soon manage poor 
Francois : he would be a mere child in the grasp of 
such a man as yourself." 

"All right," said Paul, "then there's no fear of 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 167 

murder ; depend upon me, Ldontine, no harm shall 
touch him." 

"Mind you seize, the right man," said the gay 
Leontine, "when I give the signal, as I shall be in 
a soldier's uniform and you may mistake me for 
Francois. The signal will be, 'A friend ;' the instant 
that I give the word, seize and disarm him before he 
can fire his musket. You will then have two muskets, 
mine and that of Francois, with which you must take 
your chance in boarding the Polly" 

" That will do," said Paul ; " let me only set foot 
on the Polly's deck, and I'll soon settle accounts with 
Monsieur Dupuis. But now," added Paul, "we are 
agreed upon all points, and we depend upon you, 
Leontine ; do not forget to visit the beach, and see 
that the oars and a boat-hook, with a sharp axe to 
cut the cable, are placed in readiness within a large 
boat, to which you must guide us when we leave 
the prison." 

"Never fear," said Leontine, "I shall not fall in 
my part, and I shall give the signal as the clock 
chimes half-past eight; you must be ready on the 
instant. Here is a letter," continued the girl, as the 
tears started to her eyes, "that I have written for 
my father ; you must leave it on the table when you 
escape, and it will explain all ; he will then, perhaps, 
forgive me when he knows that I risk my life for 
Victor." Saying which, she left the room and locked 
the door behind her. 

Ldontine now hurried her preparations, while the 
day passed wearily away to those who were awaiting 
the hour of their deliverance. 



168 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

Paul and Dick Stone counted the hours as the 
neighbouring church clock struck heavily on the belL 

" We shall run to the Cove in twelve hours," said 
Paul, " if this breeze lasts ; it's blowing a gale out at 
sea, and the Polly ''11 fly like a witch on a broomstick." 

"We've got to take her first," replied the wary 
Dick. " There's many a slip 'twixt the cup and the 
lip ! " 

" We are short of weapons, no doubt," said Paul ; 
" but we must take off the sword-bayonets from the 
muskets, and give them to two of the men. I will be 
first on board, and knock down Dupuis. Let the men 
rush to the main-mast and secure the arms from the 
rack the moment that they reach the deck ; while you, 
Dick, seize the helm. I will tell off four men to loose 
the sails and to cut the cable directly that we get on 
board. This will leave us ten men to do the fighting. 
If all goes well, we shall find the better part of the 
French crew down below, and, once in possession of 
the deck, they will be at our mercy. This gale of 
wind will start the Polly like a wild duck the instant 
that the cable is cut, and we shall be round the corner 
of the island before the corvette can bring her guns to 
bear upon us. Then, with a dark night and a heavy 
gale, the Polly can take care of herself." 

The day at length passed away, and the sun set. 
The wind roared through the narrow streets of the 
town, and whistled loudly around the pointed towers 
of the old prison. 

" There could not be a better night," said Paul ; 
" the wind roars like a lion, and nothing will be heard 
by the sentry." 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. r69 

As he was speaking, the clock struck eight. As 
the last tones of the bell died away, the lock of the 
door creaked as the key turned from the outside ; and 
presently, without a sound of footsteps, thirteen strap- 
ping fellows, who had been liberated by L6ontine, 
softly entered the room, carrying their shoes strapped 
to their belts, as had been directed by Paul. 

No time was lost in useless greeting ; but the 
severed bar of the window was at once made use of 
as a lever to remove the heavy stones, and in less than 
ten minutes an aperture was made sufficiently large 
for an exit. 

Paul now fastened the rope that had been concealed 
in his mattrass to the centre of the iron bar ; then, 
lowering the other end from the window until it reached 
the fosse, he fixed the bar across the base, so that it 
was secured on either side by the masonry. 

All was now ready, and, lest they should be dis- 
turbed, Dick Stone, having received the key from 
X^ontine, locked the door on the inside. 

Paul went first. It was with some difficulty that 
he squeezed his broad shoulders through the narrow 
opening; but, once without the wall, he nimbly 
lowered himself to the bottom, — a depth of about 
sixty feet. 

In a much shorter time than might be supposed, 
the active sailors had succeeded in reaching the 
bottom of the fosse, without having made the slight- 
est noise. The wind blew louder than before ; there 
was no moon, and merely a faint light was given at 
intervals by the stars, that every now and then peeped 
from between the driving clouds. 



i7o- CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

Carefully leading the way, Paul crossed the broad 
fosse, and felt with his hand the opposite wall, against 
which he expected to find the rope that was to have 
been arranged by L^ontine. He was followed noise- 
lessly by the crew for about twenty yards, when he 
suddenly halted, as he caught the dangling rope. 

With extreme care, Paul now climbed, hand over 
hand, to the top, having previously whispered to Dick 
Stone to hold the end of the rope, and to ascend 
when he should give a jerk as a signal of safety. 

Arrived at the top, on the soft green turf at the 
edge of the moat, Paul lay flat upon the ground, and 
listened ; he could see nothing, therefore he knew that 
he could not be seen ; but he fancied that he could 
hear a suppressed voice in the direction of the sentry. 
He gave a slight jerk to the rope, and presently Dick 
Stone arrived, and crept to Paul's side, quickly fol- 
lowed by all the others. They all remained flat upon 
the grass, which, being about a foot in height, effectu- 
ally concealed them in the darkness of the night* 
Paul now crept forward upon his hands and knees, fol- 
lowed in the same manner by Dick Stone : — the other 
men had received orders to jump up and join them 
immediately upon hearing the signal, " A friend." 

In a few minutes, Paul was within a dozen yards of 
the sentry ; and, as he and Dick then lay flat upon 
the earth, they could faintly distinguish two figures 
standing close together; and, in intervals between the 
gusts, they could hear voices. 

We will return to Leontine. 

She had not failed in any of her arrangements : the 
unsuspecting Francois had fallen into her snare, and, 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 171 

delighted with the assignation, he had run great risk 
in the hope of securing the love of the charming 
Leontine. He had borrowed for her a comrade's 
uniform and arms ; and, thus accoutred as a soldier, 
she had met him at the appointed hour. They were 
now standing together by the edge of the moat, and 
Leontine had listened to his warm declarations of 
affection. Francois was enraptured ;, for more than 
a year he had vainly sought to win her love. As the 
belle of the village, Leontine had many admirers; 
a certain lieutenant was reported to be a favoured 
suitor ; thus what chance was there for a private 
such as Francois ? True or false, the jealous heart 
of Francois had believed these reports, and he had 
yielded to despair. Judge of his transport when, 
within the last few hours, he had been led to hope ; 
and now, when he had nearly given her up as lost, 
he almost held her in his arms. Alas ! for military 
discipline when beauty leads the attack ! Francois 
thought of nothing but his love. There was a railing 
by the edge of the moat, against which Leontine had 
rested her musket ; the unwary sentry did the same ; 
and the two weapons leant peacefully side by side, as 
the soldier, intoxicated by his love, suddenly caught 
her round the waist with both arms and pressed his 
lips to her cheek. At this moment the dull clang of 
the prison clock struck the half-hour. Struggling in 
his embrace, Leontine exclaimed, 

" Oh if I could call ' a friend!' " 

At the same instant, with both her hands, she 
slipped into his mouth a wooden instrument called a 
gag, that was used to silence uproarious prisoners. 



172 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

The signal, " A friend," had been given in a loud 
voice, as though in reply to the usual challenge, and, 
before the unlucky Francois could relieve himself 
from the gag, he was caught from behind in the 
tremendous grasp of Paul's arms, while Dick Stone, 
by mistake, rushed upon L^ontine ; a vigorous smack 
on the face from her delicate hand immediately 
undeceived him. 

" Take that musket," whispered L^ontine quickly, 
" and come along ! " 

At the same time she seized the remaining musket, 
while Paul pinioned the arms of their prisoner with 
his handkerchief, and threatened him with instant 
death should he resist. 

No time was lost. Paul threw the sentry over his 
shoulder, as though he had been a lamb, and the 
whole party hurried after L^ontine, who had led the 
way to the beach. 

This affair had been managed so dexterously and 
quietly that no sound had been heard except the 
reply, " A friend," that was the preconcerted signal of 
attack ; but, upon arrival at the beach, the rattling of 
the shingle, as the large party harried towards the 
boat, threatened to attract a dangerous attention. 

A large number of boats were drawn up upon the 
beach, but Ldontine, without a moment's hesitation, 
led Paul and his party to one that had the oars 
already arranged ; and the powerful crew, seizing it 
by the bow and the stern, ran it along the steep 
incline and launched it through the waves. 

Not a word had been spoken, but there was a 
sound of many feet as the crew jumped into the boat 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 



that could not be mistaken. Paul laid his struggling 
burden upon the beach; and Ldontine, before sh< 
leapt into the boat, whispered in the captive's ear, — 

" Francois, if you give the alarm, I'll never love 
you again." With this coquettish adieu she followed 
Paul and Dick Stone, who were the last of the party. 

" Steer straight for the Polly, and give way, my 
lads ! for there's no time to lose," said Paul, who 
had taken his position in the bow of the boat with 
Dick Stone, both of whom were armed with muskets, 
while two men with sword bayonets were ready to 
follow them. 

"Make a rush on board," said Paul, "and knock 
down everybody without asking questions ; then seize 
the arms from the rack and chest." 

The water was deep in the rocky bay, thus the 
Polly was moored to a buoy little more than two 
hundred yards from the shore ; a light was visible 
on board, and the lanterns of the corvette were also 
burning about fifty paces distant, where she lay moored 
by stem and stern. 

They now pulled swiftly but silently towards the 
lugger; Paul's heart bounded with hope, while Dick 
Stone, as cool as ice, but determined upon the event, 
waited for the command ; they neared the vessel. 
" What boat's that ? " was the sudden challenge from 
the lugger's deck, as their boat came within a couple 
of oars' length. " A friend ! " shouted L^ontine, in 
French, and almost in the same instant, a man in the 
bow of the boat caught hold of the mizen shrouds of 
the lugger with his boat-hook, and held on. 

Paul seized a rope, and in one bound he was upon 



174 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

the lugger's deck, while Dick Stone followed like his 
shadow. To knock down the first man with a double- 
handed thrust with the barrel of his musket was the 
work of a moment, at the same instant, Dick struck 
^nd felled a Frenchman who had rushed to the arm- 
chest ; a shot was now fired by one of the French 
crew, and several men made a dash at the arm-rack, 
but Paul was there before them, and with the butt 
•end of his musket he struck down the leader of the 
party. At this moment a loud shrill cry of alarm was 
heard from the shore. 

" Ha, le sacre Francois ! " exclaimed Leontine, who 
had in the meantime attached the deserted boat to 
the lugger's stern. " Ha, le miserable ! " she cried ; 
" this is a return for my love ! " 

Two or three shots were now fired by the French 
crew, but without other results than to alarm the ship 
of war ; the drum beat to quarters, lights were seen 
at her ports ; a tremendous flash was accompanied by 
the report of a cannon as she fired an alarm-gun ; this 
was quickly answered by a shot from a battery above 
the town. 

The bells of the church and the prison rang wildly 
as shot after shot was fired from the battery, and the 
alarm spread like wild-fire throughout the port. 

In the mean time, while the fight had been hot 
upon the Polly's decks, Captain Dupuis, who had 
been asleep when the vessel was first boarded, now 
rushed up from the cabin, and, meeting Paul, he fired 
a pistol within a few feet of his chest ; fortunately, 
at that moment Paul was in the act of raising his 
musket, and the ball lodged within the tough walnut 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 175 

stock ; the next instant, the weapon fell with a crash 
upon Dupuis' skull, who reeled backwards, and, stum- 
bling against the low bulwarks, he fell overboard and 
sank. , 

Dick Stone, with his musket in one hand that he 
had not yet discharged, was now standing at the helm. 
The English crew had gained the arms from the rack, 
and several shots were fired as they drove the French 
towards the bows of the lugger, following them up with 
the bayonet. Many of the French jumped overboard, 
calling loudly to the man-of-war for assistance, and 
those who were down below were already helpless, as 
the companion-ladder was guarded by two armed 
men. The surprise was complete ; L6ontine had 
hauled her boat alongside, and had climbed on board ; 
the cable was cut, and the sails were let loose : but the 
danger had increased. The French crew who had 
jumped overboard called to the corvette to fire and 
sink the lugger. This they had hitherto been afraid 
to do, as their own countrymen were on board. A 
blue light was now burnt upon the decks of the 
corvette, and distinctly illumined the scene just as 
the sails of the Polly filled, as her head turned from the 
severed cable, and she met the full force of the gale 
from the shore. In an instant she leant over, and as 
the water rippled from her bows, and the boom was 
slacked off, she started like a wild duck frightened 
from its nest. 

" Hurrah ! hurrah ! hurrah ! " rang three hearty 
British cheers as the clipper lugger glided rapidly 
throughthe dark water and passed the terrible broad- 
side of the corvette within fifty or sixty yards. But 



176 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

hardly had the Polly cleared the deadly row of guns, 
when, a flash ! and the shock seemed to sweep her 
deck as the dense smoke rolled across her in the 
midst of the roar of a twenty-four pounder, fired from 
the last gun of the tier. 

A terrible crash almost immediately followed the 
shot, and the painter or rope that attaches the boat 
to the stern of the lugger, suddenly dangled loosely 
in the water, as the shot had dashed the boat to 
atoms ; fortunately the Polly had just passed the 
fatal line of fire. Another wild " Hurrah 1" replied 
to the unsuccessful gun, as the lugger, released from 
the boat's weight, seemed to fly still quicker through 
the water. 

"Take the helm for a moment," said Dick to a 
sailor by his side, and running amidships he called 
upon Paul, " Give a hand, captain, and we'll get the 
Long Tom round." 

In an instant Paul put his powerful shoulder to the 
long six-pounder that worked on a pivot, and together 
with joint exertions they trained the gun upon the 
stern windows of the corvette. Dick Stone had just 
beforehand lighted his pipe when standing at the 
helm, and as the long gun bore upon its object, he 
suddenly pushed Paul upon one side and emptied his 
fiery bowl upon the touch-hole. Bang ! went the gun, 
as the six-pound shot crashed through the cabin win- 
dow's of the corvette, and through the various bulk- 
heads, raking her from stem to stern. 

"Hurrah !" again shouted the crew, who like true 
British sailors were ready for any fight without 
reckoning the odds, when the cannon once began to 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 177 

¦ ' — ^* 

speak, while Paul and several men sponged and re- 
loaded the long gun, as the corvette had lowered 
several boats to give chase. 

"Hurrah for the saucy Polly!'' shouted Paul, as 
he and Dick now trained the gun upon the leading 
boat ; but at that moment they turned the sharp 
headland of the rocky island, and both the corvette 
and her boats were obscured from their view. 

It was blowing hard, but the water in the bay was 
perfectly smooth, as the wind was directly off the 
shore, and the Polly flew like a racehorse towards the 
open sea. In a few minutes she passed the last head- 
land, and rushed at foaming speed over the long swell 
of the Atlantic. With the gale fairly on her quarter, 
there was nothing that could touch the Polly. There 
was no fear of a chase, although the heavy booming 
of the alarm guns could still be heard in the distance. 

Three Frenchmen had been killed in the fight, and 
their bodies, which now lay on deck, were thrown over- 
board ; two were prisoners down below ; the remainder 
of the crew had escaped by jumping overboard, with 
the exception of the treacherous Captain Dupuis, who 
had sunk when knocked down by Paul. 

Dick Stone was now at the helm ; his pipe was well 
alight ; and could his features have been distinguished 
in the dark, they would have been seen to wear an 
unusually cheerful expression as he said to Paul, " It 
wouldn't have been purlite of us to leave the Moun- 
seers without a salute, and without my pipe we 
couldn't have fired the gun. It's a wonderful thing 
is a pipe ! Ain't it, captain ?" 

" Nor'-nor'-east is the course, Dick," replied Paul, 

N 



i 7 8 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 



who was at that moment thinking of his wife, and the 
happiness it would be to meet her on the following 
day ; at the same time he was anxious lest any mis- 
fortune should have occurred during his long absence. 

" Nor'-nor'-east it is, captain," replied Dick with a 
sailor's promptitude, " but I can't help larfing when I 
think of Captain Doopwee, who has put a cargo on 
board the Polly all for nothing, and has got knocked 
on the head into the bargain. Well, sarve him right, 
sarve him right," continued Dick, musingly ; " he was 
a tfery purlite varmint, too purlite to be honest, by a 
long chalk." After this curt biographical memoir of 
the late Captain Dupuis, Dick Stone applied himself 
to his pipe, and kept the Polly's course N.N.E. 

While Paul and Dick Stone were upon deck, 
Leontine was lying upon a cot within the cabin ; the 
excitement of the day had nearly worn her out, and, 
despite the uneasy movement of the vessel,- which 
tried her more severely than any danger, she fell 
asleep in the uniform of a private in the French 
chasseurs, and she dreamed happily that her brother 
Victor was released. 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 179 



CHAPTER X. 

At daybreak on the following morning, the gale, that 
had moderated during the last hour, suddenly changed 
its quarter, and, chopping round, it blew directly from 
the north. The lugger had run at such speed through- 
out the night, that the high cliffs of Cornwall were now 
distinctly visible ; and Paul, who had not yet slept, 
felt the bitterness of disappointment as the head 
wind now checked their way, and the Polly, instead of 
rushing swiftly towards home, was forced to tack. 
Dick Stone had steered so carefully, that he had 
exactly made the right point, and shortly after sunrise 
Paul's heart beat doubly quick as he descried, with 
the telescope, a speck in the distance which he knew 
to be his white cottage on the cliff. The time went 
wearily, as the lugger, close-hauled to the wind, made 
each successive tack, but the cottage grew larger as 
they gradually approached, and Paul fancied that 
perhaps his wife might by this time have descried the 
well-known Polly, and that she would be waiting to 
receive him with joy upon his arrival. 

" I'll tell you what, captain," exclaimed Dick Stone 
suddenly ; " we musn't forget the cargo ; if we can run 
it through it will be a pretty haul, but we must keep 
a sharp look-out for the revenue cruisers now we are 

N 2 



i8o CAST UP BY THE SEA. 



getting near the coast. Wouldn't it be safer to stand 
off a little and wait till dark ?" 

Paul's heart yearned for home, and, instead of adopt- 
ing this cool advice, he determined to press on for 
another hour against the head wind, until they should 
be within an easy distance of the coast, when they 
would be able to run in and land the cargo after sun- 
set. Accordingly they stood on the same tack : and, 
as the lugger worked well to windward, they gradually 
neared the shore. 

Paul's eyes were riveted upon his cottage on the 
cliff, and he vainly endeavoured, with the telescope, to 
descry some figure on the terrace that might resemble 
the form of Polly Grey. He could not distinguish more 
than the dwelling : even the terrace wall was invisible 
in the distance. He now swept the line of coast care- 
fully with his glass, and presently he fixed upon some 
object with peculiar attention. 

"What do you see, captain?" inquired Dick, who 
had his suspicions. 

" A cutter bearing down upon us in full sail, with 
a spanking breeze from the shore," replied Paul, 
thoughtfully, as he lowered his glass. 

" Then we may make up our minds for another 
night at sea," said Dick. " That's a revenue cruiser, 
I'll be bound ; and if the wind is fair for her, it'll be 
fair for us when we 'bout ship, and the Polly shows 
them her legs." 

" Take the glass, Dick, and try to make her out, 
while I take the helm," said Paul ; saying which, he 
handed the glass to Dick Stone. 

For about a minute Dick peered steadily through 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 181 



the glass ; he then slowly lowered it, and, returning 
the instrument to Paul, he said, — 

" They are steering so as to reach us on our next 
tack, so we'd better not come upon it, I'm thinking ; 
there's no doubt about her, she's a revenue cutter, so 
the less the Polly sees of her the better. We'd better 
wear, captain, and we'll run out of sight in an hour : 
nothing can touch the lugger going free." 

Paul was quite of this opinion, and he decided 
immediately to alter the course, and run S.W. with 
the wind on the quarter : he thus hoped to lose sight 
of the cutter, and, should the wind change, he would 
be able to return, and run into Sandy Cove during the 
night In an instant the order was obeyed, and the 
Polly y that had been thrashing the crest of the waves 
as she had been pressed close to the wind, now 
bounded forward like a greyhound slipped from the 
leash. In less than an hour the coast of Cornwall 
had disappeared, neither could a trace be discovered 
of the revenue cutter ; nevertheless Paul thought it 
advisable to continue on the same course, as the 
cutter might be still in chase. Accordingly the Polly 
was kept running towards the S.W. until about three 
o'clock P.M. At this time the wind slackened, and 
then came in puffs from various directions ; the sails 
constantly flapped, and, in expectation of a change, 
Paul determined to lie to. The Polly now rode easily 
with her sails trimmed, so as to keep her head to 
the sea. 

She had been lying for about half an hour in this 
position, awaiting a change of wind that would enable 
her to turn to the north, and perhaps reach Sandy 



182 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

Cove during the night, when a vessel was observed 
in the distance with a fair breeze from the south-west ; 
she was coming along at a rapid pace, and had the 
advantage of the approaching south-west wind, that 
had not yet reached the Polly. She was quickly- 
made out to be a schooner of about a hundred and 
forty tons, and she neared the Polly to within a mile 
before the latter vessel felt the breeze. 

" That's a nice-looking schooner," said Paul, " and 
she has the Union Jack at the peak ; what kind of a 
craft can she be ?" 

" Well," said Dick, " she's a pretty, smart-looking 
thing as ever I saw ; painted all black ; raking masts ; 
and the biggest mainsail for her size that ever I set 
eyes on. She ain't a revenue cruiser, anyhow ; and 
she ain't a man of war ; and she looks too trim for 
a merchantman : I'm blowed if I know what she is/' 
said Dick, as he gave the helm to a sailor and lighted 
his pipe, while he kept his eyes fixed on her. 

" I can't see a man on board," said Paul, who had 
been watching the fast approaching ship with the 
telescope; "but get the decks cleared, and have some 
cartridges ready for the Long Tom, and a match 
lighted ; we may just as well be prepared. Call the 
men on deck, and let all be ready for action in case 
of necessity." 

Dick left the helm to a ^sailor, and in ten minutes' 
time the entire crew of the Polly were on deck; 
the long gun was already loaded, and many rounds 
of ammunition were stowed in readiness in a large 
chest. The men were at their places around the 
gun, while the remaining portion of the crew were 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 183 



thoroughly armed. Paul had stuck a brace of pistols 
in his belt, while a well-sharpened cutlass lay near 
at hand. The breeze now reached the Polly in its 
full strength, but the suspicious schooner was within 
half a mile, and was sailing at a rate that would test 
the best powers of the lugger. 

" I don't like the look of her," said Paul ; « we 
have the breeze now, and we may as well let the Polly 
take care of herself." 

In an instant the lugger came round to the wind, and 
in a few moments she was hurrying along at full speed 
towards the English coast, with the British flag at the 
mizen. Hardly had the Polly altered her course, than 
the Union Jack on board the schooner was run down, 
and the French tricolour was seen flying in its place. 
This change was effected with great rapidity, and at 
the same time a puff of dense smoke from her bows 
was followed by the roar of a shot, that flew above 
the masts of the Polly and plunged into the sea some 
hundred yards ahead. 

" That's purliteness ! " said Dick Stone ; " that's the 
Mounseer's way of saying bong joor ! I suspected 
this all along, but the Polly knows a word or two of 
French as well as she does: suppose we send the 
Mounseer a message ! " 

Paul had already taken his stand by the long gun, 
which he now trained carefully upon the pursuing 
schooner. " Now, Dick," said he, " give the French- 
man a steady shot well into the rigging, and try to 
break a wing." 

Dick squinted along the gun, and presently as the 
Polly steadied herself before the wind, he touched the 



184 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 



priming with the match. The brass gun rang with a 
loud report. All eyes watched eagerly for the effect, as 
the strong breeze cleared the smoke forward ; in about 
two seconds the top-gallant mast of the schooner was 
seen to fall in two pieces, which dangled loosely in 
the rigging. 

" Well done, Dick," said Paul ; " load away, my lads, 
and let me try my hand ! " 

" That's my answer to the Frenchman," said Dick, 
who now puffed at his pipe. " Yer see, he very 
purlitely said in French, ' Bong joor !' so I says, 
'Very well, I thank you ; komprenney, Mounseer ?'" 

Dick Stone had hardly finished his sentence when 
a cloud of smoke shot from the schooner's bows as 
she fired a gun, and presently the ball struck the 
water within a few yards of the lugger, and actually 
dashed the spray over her deck. 

"They have the range now," said Paul, as he 
quietly aimed the gun with extreme caution, and 
quickly applied the match. A loud hurrah burst 
from the crew of the Polly as the schooner's fore- 
topmast suddenly broke off, in about half its length, 
and was carried overboard by the force of the gale 
as the shot struck fairly through its centre. 

" That's ' Bong swore' to the Mounseer ! " exclaimed 
Dick ; " we'll now leave 'em to mend their stick as well 
as their manners." At this moment another puff of 
smoke dashed from the schooner's bows ; the gun 
was fired almost at the same instant that the fore 
topmast came down, and, as the French had ob- 
tained the exact range* by the preceding shots, the 
ball came screaming through the air with fatal pre- 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 185 

cision, and striking the mizen-mast of the Polly, 
about ten feet above the deck, it cut it off like a carrot, 
and then passed through both the lug sails, and rico- 
chetted along the sea. The spanker, together with the 
sail and a portion of the mast, fell overboard, and 
at once checked the Polly's way. 

" Cut all adrift," said Paul, who at the same moment 
severed several ropes with his cutlass ; " we can't let 
them close. Clear away, my lads!" and his men 
with great alacrity hauled upon the sail and cut it off 
the spanker, allowing the wreck to float astern. 

In the meantime the schooner had likewise cleared 
herself, and she evidently gained upon the lugger, 
which severely felt the loss of her mizen-mast. Once 
more Paul fired the long gun, and the shot passed 
through the schooners foresail, doing no serious 
damage. Again the smoke issued from the schooner's 
bows, which had now decreased her distance to about 
six hundred yards, and luckilythe shot flew too high, 
and missed its aim ; but after a running fight of about 
a quarter of an hour, during which the Polly hulled 
her adversary twice, there could be no doubt that, 
unless some lucky shot should cripple the schooner's 
speed, she would shortly succeed in bringing the Polly 
to close action, in which case there would be little 
chance for the lugger against so powerful an enemy 
as the French privateer of six carronades and one 
long six-pounder bow-chaser. During this time the 
brave but helpless L^ontine lay in the cabin utterly 
unable to stand; the misery of sea-sickness had 
quenched a spirit that nothing on land could have 
subdued. 



186 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

There was an expression of stern determination on 
Paul's face as he once more fired the gun, and the 
shot crashed into the bows of the schooner, that was 
now within three hundred yards of them. Paul threw 
off his coat and waistcoat, and turning up his shirt 
sleeves close to the shoulders he exposed a pair of 
arms with the muscles of Hercules ; he then clutched 
his cutlass in his right hand, and whispered to Dick 
Stone, who prepared himself in the same manner for 
the struggle. 

Paul turned to his men, and said, in loud clear 
voice — " Now, my lads, the Polly has lost a leg, and 
it's of no use trying to run. Let those who would 
like to return to a French prison lay down their 
arms at once ; but those who are men follow me, 
and rush on board the schooner as she closes. 
Leave one man at the helm, and fourteen fine 
fellows like yourselves will clear the Frenchman's 
decks in five minutes.' Three cheers for the Polly 
and Old England ! " 

At these words a loud hurrah rose simultaneously 
from the gallant crew, who at once divested them- 
selves of their upper clothing; and, with pistols in 
their belts and sharpened cutlasses in their hands, 
they prepared for the desperate attempt of boarding 
the French schooner. 

" Let's have another shot at her before we close," 
said Dick Stone. " Luff a little," cried Dick to the 
man at the helm ; " not too much ; that's it ; now 
I've got her." At that moment the gun fired, and 
the shot once more entered the bows of the schooner. 
" Too low," said Dick discontentedly. 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 187 

" Reload, and close with her," said Paul. " Fire 
the gun as we touch her sides, not a moment before ; 
and spring upon her decks with me under cover of 
the smoke." 

The schooner was now within a hundred and fifty- 
yards of them, when the Polly luffed suddenly up, 
but, as her broadside became exposed, a shot from 
the enemy's bowchaser struck her fairly in the 
forecastle, and, passing through the vessel, it killed 
both the unfortunate French prisoners, who were 
sitting together on the cabin deck. A few moments 
later, as the schooner came up, the Polly luffed 
sharp up and ran as though attempting to cross 
her bows, then, suddenly falling off, the schooner 
passed her within a foot ; and, the grappling irons 
being thrown into the fore-chains, the two vessels 
hung together. In the same instant Dick Stone 
fired the long gun as the muzzle almost touched 
her side ; and, in the cloud of smoke, he followed 
Paul, who sprang at the given signal into the lower 
rigging. 

The manoeuvre of the Polly had been so sudden 
and unexpected, and the shock of the gun fired 
against the schooner's side was so great, that her 
crew were taken almost by surprise as Paul's powerful 
form appeared for an instant upon the bulwarks, and 
quickly discharging a pistol, which killed the first 
man opposed to him, he leapt upon the deck, sword 
in hand, and without reckoning the fearful odds he 
slashed right and left in all directions. Before the 
French crew had recovered from their surprise, Paul 
had cut down three men and wounded a fourth. 



188 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

Dick Stone was the first to support him ; and dis- 
charging a pistol, with extreme coolness, at the only 
man that he saw in uniform, he killed the captain of 
the privateer almost as soon as he set foot upon her 
deck; dashing his empty pistol into the face of a 
sailor, which sent him staggering backwards, he then 
rushed into the fight with his cutlass. Three of the 
Pollys men jumped upon deck almost at the same 
instant ; and had the entire crew been able to board, 
as originally intended, although the schooner's crew 
consisted of forty men, it would have been impossible 
to deny that the Polly might have had a chance of 
success. Unfortunately, as the crew were endeavour- 
ing to follow their impetuous leader, one of the French 
sailors fired a carronade through the very port before 
which they swarmed up her sides. This sudden 
explosion killed two men, and not only blew several 
others back upon the Polly's deck, but burst the 
grappling chains, and likewise carried away the 
lugger's mainmast close by the board. 

The Polly, utterly disabled, now drifted away 
before the wind, and parted from the schooner with 
only five able men on board ; five men were fighting 
like bulldogs on the schooner, while two men were 
killed by the shot, and three badly wounded by the 
explosion. In the meantime, a sailor at the schooner's 
mast-head descried a large vessel bearing down 
upon them in full sail, and he immediately gave the 
alarm. 

In the heat of the fight, surrounded by tremendous 
odds, Paul had, by his immense strength, beaten 
back all who opposed him : he had fired both his pistols. 




FRENCH SCHOONEA. Pap \1 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 189 

with fatal effect, and, although wounded in several 
places, he fought with undiminished vigour, well 
seconded by Dick Stone, and the only survivor of the 
three gallant fellows who had followed them on board : 
the others had fallen. Dashing his way through the 
opposing crew, he reached the quarter-deck, and, 
felling with a blow of his left hand a man who stood 
upon the step of the raised deck, he quickly seized the 
stock of an immense ship's blunderbuss that was 
fixed by a pivot on the quarter-deck rail. "Stand 
clear ! " he shouted, as Dick fought his way to the 
spot ; but at the same moment Paul saw the last of 
his men shot through the head, and fall. He hesi- 
tated no longer ; and, turning the heavy blunder- 
buss upon its pivot, he fired it into the crowd on the 
main-deck, only a few feet distant. About twenty 
bullets crashed from this one discharge into the 
middle of the enemy, and they fell like birds from 
a flock ; some killed, and several wounded. Had 
the Polly's entire crew now been on deck, one gallant 
charge would have won the day : but Paul was alone. 
Dick Stone had just fallen to a shot fired from the 
main-top. 

The cry of " A sail ! " was heard, and as Paul, who 
was growing weak from loss of blood, for an instant 
looked at the sea, he saw the Polly, with two masts 
gone, drifting disabled some hundred yards away 
before the wind. His eyes became hazy ; a giddiness 
seized his brain as the blood flowed rapidly from his 
wounds ; he knew no more ; he fell upon the deck by 
the side of the staunch Dick Stone. 

The loss of life had been fearful in this desperate 



190 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

hand-to-hand struggle ; out of a crew of forty men, 
the schooner had lost her captain and twelve men 
killed, and fourteen wounded, leaving only fourteen 
sound men on deck. The shots from the Pollys long 
gun had hulled and raked the French vessel repeatedly, 
and upon every occasion there had been a loss of life ; 
the discharge of the blunderbuss alone had killed 
three men and wounded six, and the schooner's decks 
were strewed with dead, and slippery with blood. 
The remaining portion of the crew were demoralized 
at the loss of their captain, and upon seeing the large 
vessel that had been reported as a strange sail now 
rapidly approaching, they determined to leave the 
Polly to herself, and to run from what they correctly 
suspected to be a British man-of-war. The schooner 
at once altered her course, and with the loss of her 
fore-topmast, she attempted her escape, leaving the 
Polly, whose crew were busily engaged in repairing 
damages. 

Hardly had the French vessel sailed a quarter 
of a mile, when a cloud of smoke for an instant 
obscured the Polly, as a shot from her long gun 
passed through the schooner's rigging. The English 
crew had seen the approaching succour, and they 
continued to fire shot after shot in the hope of 
disabling a spar or yard to enable the cruiser to 
overtake the enemy. 

In less than three quarters of an hour a brig of 
war, with the English colours flying, hailed the Polly, 
and heaving to, she lowered a boat, and upon hearing 
an account of the late fight she took the lugger in 
tow. The French schooner was out of sight, and as 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 191 

the captain of the brig was under orders to proceed 
to Falmouth, he declined to begin a chase that would 
lead him in an opposite direction ; especially as the 
schooner might have altered her course, which would 
render her discovery most uncertain. 

Within an hour of the action the brig was under 
full sail towards Falmouth, with the disabled lugger 
in tow, while the wounded men had been transferred 
to the King's ship, and placed under surgical treat- 
ment. 

We must now return to the schooner, which steered 
direct for Dunkerque. As she lost sight of the 
English cruiser, the crew regained their spirits, and, 
heaving the dead bodies overboard, they washed the 
soiled decks and carried the wounded down below. 
As one by one the dead were examined, and stripped 
prior to being committed to the waves, the sailors who 
were thus employed came upon the bodies of Paul 
and Dick Stone. They had just commenced their 
examination, and had turned Paul upon one side, 
when blood was observed to flow from one of his 
wounds, and upon a closer inspection it was discovered 
that he was not yet dead. As buckets of water were 
thrown upon the deck in all directions, the heave of 
the vessel occasionally rolled the water in a consider- 
able depth into the scuppers, where the bodies of Paul 
and Dick Stone were lying. Having left Paul, they 
now attempted to lift up the apparently lifeless body 
of Dick for the purpose of throwing it overboard ; 
with this intention, two men laid hold of it by the 
shoulders and the heels, and dragged it towards the 
open gangway on the main deck. Before heaving it 



i 9 2 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

over they laid the body down, and one man exclaimed, 
" Mon Dim ! what heavy people are these English ! 
We could throw two Frenchmen overboard with less 
trouble than one rosbif Englishman !" 

As he said these words, to the horror of the French- 
men, the body of Dick Stone suddenly sat up, and, 
looking around with an expression of extreme cool- 
ness, he appeared to understand the unpleasantness 
of his situation, as he exclaimed in a calm but faint 
voice — 

"You Mounseers are a very purlite people, but 
I'll not trouble you to heave me overboard, as I can 
do that for myself whenever it's agreeable." 

Having said this, he instinctively put his hand into 
his trousers pocket, and drew forth his faithful pipe, 
which he deliberately filled : he then searched in his 
other pocket, and produced his flint and ste^l ; strik- 
ing a light with difficulty, he faintly puffed his pipe, 
and then asked — 

" Where's my captain ?" 

The Frenchmen pointed to Paul's body; Dick 
stared mournfully at his commander's lifeless figure. 

" Where's the Polly — the lugger ? " continued Dick, 
still more faintly. 

The Frenchmen pointed to the far horizon : "Gone!" 
they exclaimed. 

Dick's eyes glazed, and became fixed ; the pipe 
dropped from his mouth ; he fell backwards on the 
deck, and his features became rigid ; a dense puff of 
smoke issued from his mouth ; the gallant spirit of 
Dick Stone had parted for ever ! 

" What droll people are these English ! " said the 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 193 

Frenchman, who now examined the body with much 
curiosity ; " at last he is dead ! Give me a hand, and 
lift his feet while I take his shoulders ; now ! one ! 
two ! three ! " 

A dull splash was heard, as the schooner steadily 
continued upon her course. 



O 



194 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 



CHAPTER XL 

WHEN we last parted from Ned Grey, the Sybille, 
one of the finest frigates of the British navy, was 
ploughing along with a fair wind at the mouth of 
the Channel on her voyage to the Indian station. 
Although strangers on board, it was not long before 
an incident occurred that raised the new-comers in 
the estimation of both officers and crew, with whom 
they had already become favourites. It would have 
been hard to say which was the greater pet with the 
sailors — the nigger boy Tim, or the dog Nero : the 
former had become cook's mate, and was domiciled 
in the galley ; while the latter was allowed to range 
anywhere except upon the quarter-deck, which sacred 
spot Nero learnt to respect after he had been only a 
few days on board, and nothing would induce him to 
trespass beyond the forbidden limit unless called by 
the captain, who had specially adopted him. 

Captain Cooke was one of the brightest ornaments 
of the service. Beloved by his men, they were ready 
to follow him through any danger ; and, although he 
was well known to be heedless of a superior force, his 
attack was invariably attended with success ; he was 
accordingly considered to be a lucky captain, and 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 195 

when others found a difficulty in manning their ships, 
the Sybille was always certain of a superior crew. 

The frigate had passed the boisterous Bay of 
Biscay, and had made a rapid run to the Cape Verd 
islands. It was about an hour before sunset that the 
high peak of St. Antonio was first observed by a man 
at the masthead bearing S.S.E., and, as the evening 
closed, this lofty landmark faded from view, and 
mingled with the grey bank of clouds that concealed 
the horizon. 

The night was fine and starlight, and the noble 
vessel flew through the water, as, with studding-sails 
set, she sailed like a huge white swan over the phos- 
phorescent waves that sparkled with ten thousand 
lights, as though in mockery of the bright stars above. 
The foam rushed from her bows in sheets of mimic 
fire, while a brilliant stream of light washed her dark 
sides and glistened in her wake like a river of molten 
metal, as the Sybille woke from their sleep the billions 
of animalcule; those glowworms of the deep that 
light the sailor's path in the dark and fathomless sea. 
Now a huge polypus gleamed in the depths as though 
some mermaid wandered with her lamp below : then 
smaller lights twinkled in the creaming waves, and 
huge and fiery serpents seemed to chase each other 
in wild speed as the swift porpoises left their long 
and brilliant trail illumined in the dark blue sea. 

It was a lovely sight ; it was one of those glorious 
ocean scenes that are unknown by those whose lives 
are passed on shore. Each drop of water teemed 
with life : there was the so-called barren sea, the 
watery desert peopled with its countless myriads ; 

O 2 



196 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 



the bright universe above ; the heavens with their 
hosts of brilliant worlds so distant, so incompre- 
hensible, equalled only in their infinity by the ocean 
waves, each of which contained a thousand worlds — 
life within life — world without end. " The Spirit of 
God moved upon the face of the waters." 

Ned Grey stood upon the quarter-deck and gazed 
below at the sparkling current as the ship flew rapidly 
on her way ; he thought of home, of his mother, and 
of Edith ; every instant the distance increased between 
them as the wind hurried the noble vessel farther 
and farther away. When, if ever, should he see their 
loved faces again ? These thoughts engrossed his 
attention, and, although he still looked fixedly at 
the phosphorescent water beneath, he almost ceased 
to observe the brilliant scene, but merely gazed 
abstractedly, until a dark object struggling in the 
silvery stream roused him from his reverie ; almost 
at the same instant a loud cry was raised in the fore 
part of the ship—" A man overboard ! " Instinctively, 
and without a moment's hesitation, Ned threw off his 
jacket, and repeating the alarming cry, he sprang 
boldly into the sea. 

Rising quickly to the surface after his deep plunge, 
Ned struck out in the direction of the object that had 
first attracted his attention — this had vanished. 

"Where are you ? " shouted Ned. A voice was heard 
far astern, at the same time Ned felt himself seized 
from behind by the shirt near the collar ; in another 
instant he felt a mass of silky hair as he reached 
back, and found himself grasped by the strong teeth 
of his faithful dog Nero was by his master's side, 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 197 



apparently sleeping on the deck, when Ned had 
sprung over the ship's gangway ; but, upon seeing 
him disappear, the dog immediately leapt overboard, 
and had succeeded in catching him quickly after his 
reappearance on the surface. 

" Good old boy ! " cried Ned, as he endeavoured to 
free himself from the dog ; " loose it, old fellow ! 
Let go, old man !" he continued, as Nero resolutely 
maintained his hold. After some difficulty he released 
himself from the, dog, who then accompanied him 
towards the object of their search, which could now 
be clearly made out by the extreme brightness of one 
particular spot in the water, caused by the struggles 
of the person in the phosphorescence. 

" Keep up till I come ! " shouted Ned, to encourage 
the individual in question, who was about sixty yards 
distant, and without a thought for his own safety he 
struck out with increased vigour, with Nero swimming 
by his side. 

" Help ! Fm sinking ! " cried a despairing voice as 
Ned arrived within twenty strokes of the struggling 
sailor. 

" Don't give in ! " cried Ned, " Til save you ! " and 
he redoubled his exertions to reach the drowing man ; 
he was within a few feet of him, when he suddenly 
threw his arms above his head, and he disappeared 
just as Ned was about to seize him by the hair. At 
that moment Nero dived, and following the bright 
light caused by the struggles of the sinking man, he 
caught him by the shoulder and dragged him once 
more to the surface : without an instant's delay Ned 
grasped him by the collar. " Hold him, good dog ! " 



r\ 



198 CAST LP BY THE SEA. 

cried Ned, who found it difficult to support the 
weight ; but to his astonishment Nero relaxed his 
grip, and quitting the man, he caught Ned by the 
shirt at the shoulder sleeve. At this moment the 
head of the half-drowned man turned, and the bright 
starlight shone upon the pale features of Jem Stevens. 
The dog had recognised him quicker than Ned, and 
nothing would induce him to assist ; it was in vain 
that Ned urged him on : occasionally he relaxed his 
hold of his master and swam by his side barking 
loudly, but he avoided Stevens with a stubborn 
determination. Several minutes elapsed in a severe 
struggle for life : Jem Stevens was an enemy, but this 
fact only served to awaken the chivalrous nature of 
Ned Grey, who clung to him with a gallant tenacity 
that endangered his own life. Stevens was utterly 
helpless, he was half dead, and Ned would have been 
unable to support his head above the surface had not 
the dog added to his buoyancy by holding him by the 
shoulder : even with this assistance he was nearly 
exhausted. Several times he had swallowed large 
quantities of water, as for a few seconds the dog had 
relaxed his hold, when the shirt gave way, and Ned 
sank until Nero once more grasped a fresh portion of 
his clothes ; he was almost done, and he feared that 
for self-preservation he would be forced to relinquish 
his prize ; he felt heavy in the water, and his limbs 
became almost leaden. Whenever the dog lost his hold 
he barked loudly, as though calling for assistance, 
but the Sybille was far away ; she had come sharp up 
to the wind at the cry of "a man overboard/' and 
had laid her foretopsail aback, but she was nearly 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 199 

half a mile away from the spot before she could come 
round and lower a boat 

Once more Ned's shirt gave way, and again he 
sank, and for an instant he loosed his hold of Jem 
Stevens ; the dog barked loudly, and again he seized 
and supported his young master, who once more 
clutched the almost lifeless form of Jem Stevens, 
although himself in the last stage of distress. At 
that moment, when it became positively necessary to 
sacrifice Stevens to save his own life, he heard a 
voice at no great distance. 

" Hold on, Massa Ned ! Lord, hab mussy 'pon us ! 
Hold on, my dear Massa Ned ! Tim got de life-buoy ! 
Tim coming quick catch Massa Ned ! " 

There was no mistaking the voice, — it was hardly 
a hundred yards distant, and the hope of succour 
instilled fresh vigour into the sinking frame of the 
exhausted Ned. Nero had also heard the well-known 
voice of Nigger Tim, and, for an instant relaxing his 
hold, he barked loudly in reply, and then again 
supported his master. 

" Come quick, Tim, I'm very nearly done ! " cried 
Ned. 

" All right, Massa Ned ; tank God for Tim and de 
life-buoy ! I's a coming ! " 

In another minute, when Ned could no longer have 
supported his burden, the dark and welcome figure of 
Tim was seen within a few yards ; he was swimming 
in the centre of the life-buoy with all his strength, 
and, gaining Ned, he slipped from his position, and 
assisted him to the secure place that he had vacated, 
at the same time with their joint endeavours they 



200 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 



supported Stevens above the surface. Tim held on 
stoutly, while the dog, released from his labour, swam 
easily by the side of the party. 

In the meantime a boat was hurrying to their as- 
sistance from the frigate. The barking of the dog was 
the first guide, but upon a nearer approach the 
extreme luminous appearance of the water caused by 
the friction of the struggling swimmers directed the 
rowers to the spot. Although comparatively safe 
when clinging to the life-buoy, much exertion was 
required to support the almost inanimate body of 
Stevens, and it was with a joyful sense of relief that 
Ned Grey hailed the arrival of the boat. 

" Back water ! " shouted a voice as the boat neared 
them ; at the same time a sailor in the bow reached 
Ned with a boathook, grasping which, the floating party 
were gently towed to the side and taken on board. 

Stevens showed no signs of life, and upon arrival at 
the frigate his body was hoisted on deck by a sling 
and at once consigned to the care of the doctor, while 
Ned and Nigger. Tim quickly changed their clothes, 
and, refreshed by a glass of grog, they soon forgot 
their recent danger and escape. Nero had given 
himself a good shake, after which he was rubbed dry 
by several admiring sailors with a new swab. 

Ned Grey had only just reappeared on deck in a 
dry suit of clothes when he was summoned to the 
captain's cabin ; the door was opened by the steward, 
and Ned found himself in the presence of Captain 
Cooke, who was engaged in the examination of a 
chart of the Indian seas. As Ned appeared, he rolled 
up the chart quickly, and, looking steadfastly for some 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 201 



moments at the lad without speaking, he at length 
asked his name. 

" Edward Grey, sir," replied Ned. 

"You joined the ship against your inclination?" 
said the captain. 

" I was sorry to leave my home without a chance 
to say good-bye, sir ; but I'm proud to serve the 
King under you, sir," replied Ned. 

" Well, Ned," continued the captain, " the King may 
be proud of such a lad as yourself: you have done a 
gallant act to-night, and I am glad to have the 
command of one so young who has shown such 
courage and devotion. There are many men who 
shine in the heat of action, but few who will risk 
their lives as you have done to save another. Tell 
me," continued the captain, " is it true that the lad 
you have saved is an old schoolfellow and a personal 
enemy ? " 

"He was a schoolfellow, sir," replied Ned, " and I 
am sorry that he is an enemy. I trust he may now 
forget the past, for I never gave him cause for 
dislike." 

" Where do you live, and what is your occupation 
in England ?" asked the captain. 

Ned in a few words explained, and gave a short 
outline of his career, including the history of the 
Nigger Tim's escape. 

" Well," replied the captain, " I congratulate you. 

\ There are few lads of your age who have already 

\ saved two lives, and I trust that you will yet earn 

other laurels on board the Sybille. I need not tell 

you to do your duty, but I trust the opportunity may 




202 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

soon arrive when you will prove yourself as brave 
under fire as you have been under trials by water. 
Go, Ned, do your duty, and I wish I had many like 
you." 

Ned's heart beat with an honest pride as he left his 
captain's presence. He felt at that moment as though 
he could dare the whole world to win his approbation, 
and he yearned for the moment when in the smoke 
of battle he should be able to gain a smile from his 
gallant commander. At the same time that these 
feelings occupied his thoughts, he longed to stretch 
out his hand to his old enemy, Jem Stevens, and to 
bury all enmity in the deep from which they had 
emerged. 

He had no sooner gained the deck, than he 
requested to be allowed to visit Stevens, who was 
slowly recovering under the doctors care. He found 
him lying on the berth only half conscious, and 
apparently with a desire to sleep. 

The doctor had other patients to visit, and, as all 
immediate danger was past, he gave Ned a bottle 
that contained a stimulant combined with a gentle 
narcotic, of which he ordered him to give a table- 
spoonful, should he remain awake for more than 
half an hour. Ned sat by his berth, and watched the 
pale features of Jem Stevens by the dim light of 
a lamp. 

The half-hour passed, and, as he was still awake, 
Ned wished to give the draught that had been 
prescribed. He therefore gently took the hand of 
Stevens that rested on the bed-clothes, and, pressing 
it affectionately, he whispered — 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 203 

" Stevens, take this from me. I promised the 
doctor to attend to you. Are you feeling better ?" 

There was no return on the part of Stevens to 
this friendly greeting; but, after gazing fixedly at 
Ned for a few minutes, he coldly withdrew his hand, 
and, turning upon his side with his back to Ned, he 
muttered sullenly that he required no medicine, but 
would go to sleep if left alone. 

Ned felt a pang as he quietly left the cabin, and 
ascended to the fresh air of the deck. There was an 
unmistakable feeling in the withdrawal of the hand, 
and he knew that the stubborn nature of Jem Stevens 
was proof against all generosity. 

From that day Ned Grey held a high position in 
the opinion of both officers and crew of the Sybille ; 
his ready obedience and alacrity in the performance 
of his duty, together with his more than ordinary 
strength and activity, ensured him the goodwill 
of his superiors, while his general good nature and 
cheerful disposition, added to his well-proved courage, 
gained for him the admiration of the men. He 
had become an especial favourite with the captain, 
who had been much struck with his gentlemanly 
appearance and demeanour. Upon several occa- 
sions he had drawn from Ned certain descrip- 
tions of his former life that increased the interest 
he had taken, and he comforted Ned with the 
assurance that upon their arrival at the Indian 
station he would be able to write home to his 
parents, and thus relieve their anxiety. At the 
same time, he advised him to stick to the pro- 
fession, and that he would apply for his promotion 



204 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 



to enable him to enter as midshipman on the next 
voyage. 

There was only one individual among the entire 
crew of the Sybille who did not share the general 
feeling towards Ned Grey. This was Jem Stevens, 
who, although he had in some degree abated the 
insolence of his former demeanour, now sullenly 
passed him upon every occasion, without conde- 
scending to notice his presence. 

Generosity of character is one of a sailor's virtues, 
and the ingratitude of Jem Stevens, thus publicly 
exhibited, increased the dislike with which he was 
generally regarded. In the midshipmen's berth he 
was positively hated ; by the superior officers he was 
despised ; and the sailors had on more than one 
occasion declared that the dog Nero had shown more 
discretion than Ned in refusing to assist so worthless 
a fellow. 

This was the state of feeling among the officers and 
crew of the Sybille when, after a prosperous voyage, 
during which she had captured several prizes, she 
arrived off the coast of Ceylon, which was the first 
land she had sighted since leaving the Cape Verd 
islands. 

The frigate had coasted the southern portion of 
Ceylon at a distance that obscured all but the beau- 
tiful deep blue mountains of the interior, which rose 
to an altitude that concealed their summits in the 
clouds. Upon rounding the eastern point, the Sybille 
steered directly north, and as the south-west monsoon 
was blowing strong, she coasted within ten miles of 
the shore to make the harbour of Trincomalee. 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 205 



Nothing could be more beautiful than the appear- 
ance of this Paradise of the East. At times the lofty- 
mountains, although upwards of sixty miles distant, 
appeared to be within a day's march of the vessel. 
The sea was the deepest blue, and as the frigate 
stood close in shore when passing a projecting head- 
land, the white surf was seen to break upon the coral 
reefs almost at the feet of the waving cocoa-nut palms 
which formed dense groves even to the water's edge. 
At times the native villages could be perceived nestled 
among the shady palms. At length the latitude of 
the wished-for harbour was reached, and the Sybille 
steered direct for the shore towards the heights that 
rose near the entrance to Trincomalee. As the 
frigate approached, the scene increased in beauty ; 
the palms appeared to spring from the surface of the 
waves, and the hills, clothed with verdure to their 
summits, were reflected in the calm waters of the 
magnificent harbour which, completely land-locked, 
lay like an inland lake surrounded by the most lovely 
vegetation of the tropics. 

With her sails close hauled, the Sybille steered 
through the narrow entrance, and shot after shot 
rang from her decks and re-echoed from the sur- 
rounding hills as she saluted the fort upon the Point ; 
she then came sharp up to the wind, and cast anchor 
within a hundred yards of the shore, while the men 
swarmed up the rigging at the sound of the boat- 
swain's whistle, and in a few minutes every sail was 
furled, and the Sybille looked as snug as though she 
had been lying for a month in port. 

At that time the beautiful island of Ceylon had 



206 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 



not been long in our possession since England had 
wrested it from the Dutch. The latter people had 
contented themselves with the seaboard and adjoining 
lowlands, as they considered that the great importance 
of Ceylon consisted in the peculiar harbour of Trin- 
comalee, which not only would contain a powerful 
fleet to command the Indian seas, but was sufficiently 
large to float half the navies of the world ; in addition 
to its vast capacity, the water was of sufficient depth 
within a few feet of the land to enable a first-class 
ship of the line to lie with her bowsprit overhanging 
the shore. Trincomalee may be called the key of 
India ; in the hands of a powerful enemy, a fleet 
would lie in perfect security that could defy attack, 
as the vicinity of the harbour is specially arranged by 
nature for defence. At the time of which we write, 
there was no other protection than the Dutch fort at 
the Point, which exists at the present day, and it is 
a curious instance of neglect that this magnificent 
harbour remains otherwise unprotected. 

With a fleet of fast cruisers concentrated at Trin- 
comalee by an enemy, the trade of India would be 
almost annihilated, as such vessels would scour the 
seas like falcons, and when chased by a superior force 
they would run for the impregnable nest. On the 
same principle, the possession of Trincomalee affords 
incalculable advantages as a great depdt and arsenal 
for naval and military stores. There is no other safe 
harbour in the island, neither is there any secure port 
nearer than Bombay ; thus, in the event of a naval 
action in the Indian seas, there are no ports to which 
the crippled ships could retreat for repairs, except 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 207 

those of Port Louis in the Mauritius, Trincomalee, 
and Bombay ; it was accordingly of vital importance 
to our Indian possessions that these three harbours 
should belong to England. 

Unfortunately for our Indian commerce, at that 
time Mauritius belonged to the French, with whom 
we were at war, and the extreme importance of our 
position was painfully exhibited to the English by 
the havoc committed on our trade. In the strongly 
fortified harbour of Port Louis a French fleet of 
powerful frigates was established, with which our 
vessels of inferior force upon the station were unable 
to cope. In consequence of our inferiority, several 
actions had been fought in the Indian seas, which 
added more to French renown than to the glory of 
England ; nevertheless our Admiralty authorities con- 
tinued to send to the Indian station a number of 
second-class frigates and corvettes that were totally 
unadapted for a collision with the large ships and 
heavy metal of the enemy. 

Although this inferiority was admitted, it did not 
interfere with the ardour of our captains, who with a 
reckless intrepidity hovered around the coasts of 
Mauritius, and challenged every combat without con- 
sidering the overpowering odds. Thus many severe 
losses had befallen us. 

Among those French vessels that had gained a 
high reputation was a powerful frigate, the Forte. 
This vessel had been newly built in France ex- 
pressly to harass our commerce in the Indian seas ; 
and, as our naval supremacy was generally admitted, 
the French had constructed this ship upon a scale 



2o8 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

and armament so superior to anything that the 
English possessed, that without some gross mis- 
management success would appear almost certain. 

As the English losses had become of serious im- 
portance, it was resolved that the fleet upon the 
Indian station should be reinforced. Thus, among 
other vessels, the Sybille had been despatched from 
England, and it was the determination of her captain 
to seek out and fight the renowned Forte upon the 
earliest opportunity. 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 209 



CHAPTER XII. 

A WEEK after the Sybille had arrived in the harbour 
of Trincomalee she looked as though she had only 
just been rigged and fitted for sea ; her lower rigging 
had been tightened and retarred, her topmasts fresh 
varnished, and the vessel had been newly painted 
from stem to stern. There was not a ship in the British 
navy that looked more like a perfect specimen of a 
man-of-war ; her guns were not only in beautiful neat- 
ness and finish of polish, but her crew were constantly 
trained in their use, as Captain Cooke was of opinion 
that a shot thrown away was worse than wasted : thus 
he instructed his men never to fire at a useless range, 
but to wait patiently for close quarters : " Close 
quarters and good seamanship will win the battle" 
was a well-known saying of the Sybille s captain, in 
which his men had learnt to thoroughly believe. 

During the frigate's stay at Trincomalee, she on 
several occasions put to sea to exercise her guns, 
until at length the day arrived when she was to sail 
in search of the renowned depredator, the Forte. 

At that time the French Indian squadron under 
Admiral Sercey was cruising with great success in 
the neighbourhood of Manilla, and throughout the 
China seas, in which direction our losses of homeward- 

P 



210 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

bound Indiamen had been most severe ; it was 
reported that the Forte was also in those seas, and 
the Sybille left the quiet harbour of Trincomalee with 
her officers and crew in high spirits at the expected 
rencontre. 

After a rapid voyage to Manilla, to the great dis- 
appointment of Captain Cooke he heard that the Forte 
had left, and that she was cruising in the Bay of 
Bengal. Without losing a day the Sybille ran for 
Madras, where she expected to gain some intelligence 
of the proceedings of her enemy. 

Upon arrival at the Madras roadstead, Captain 
Cooke heard to his intense satisfaction that the Forte 
was cruising along the coast, and that she had already 
intercepted several vessels. Having gained this wel- 
come intelligence, he sailed without delay for the 
mouth of the Bengal river. 

When near the Sandheads the Sybille met a vessel 
containing French prisoners, some of whom had been 
on board the Forte; these upon seeing the armament 
of the Sybille ridiculed the idea of an encounter with 
their heavy frigate. Upon the same vessel was an 
English captain of a merchant vessel that had been 
captured by the Forte: he also expressed an opinion 
that the risk of an engagement would be most dan- 
gerous to the Sybille, at the same time he gallantly 
volunteered his services. The Forte was reported to 
be near at hand off the Sandheads. 

It was on a dark night that the Sybille was 
standing under easy sail, with the wind light but 
steady from the sou-'sou'-west, when flashes were 
remarked in the far distance which resembled sheet- 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 211 



lightning. At first this appearance attracted no more 
than ordinary attention, but, upon their quick and 
repeated occurrence, Captain Cooke concluded that 
they originated from the explosion of cannon ; it was 
therefore natural to suppose, that, as the Forte was 
within a short distance, the flashes must proceed from 
her in some engagement with an English vessel. 

Having carefully extinguished all lights on board, 
the Sybille tacked to the west at 9 P.M., and at 9.30 
P.M. she distinguished three vessels in a cluster in the 
south-east; these were the Forte and her two valuable 
prizes, the Indiamen Endeavour and the Lord 
Mornington from China. In her action with these 
ships the flashes from the Forte's guns had attracted 
the attention of the British frigate. 

The Sybille 's drum beat to quarters, and as the 
crew stood at their guns a finer lot of seamen could 
never have been selected. Not a light was to be seen 
on the English ship ; but standing on the quarter-deck, 
in a silence in which a pin might have been heard to 
fall, the gallant Captain Cooke addressed a few spirit- 
stirring words to his brave followers : — 

" My lads," he said, " youVe long been looking for 
the Forte; there she lies before you : go in and take 
her ! Double shot your guns, and don't fire until 
you rub against her sides." 

" Rightly conjecturing that one of these ships would 
prove to be the object of his search, Captain Cooke 
continued to stand to the westward in order to get the 
weather-gage ; and soon afterwards the Sybille passed 
about two miles to leeward of them. At 10 P.M. having 
brought the three ships sufficiently on her quarter to 

P 2 



212 CAST UP BY THE SEA. . • 

enable her to weather them by going on the other 
tack, the Sybille put about, and taking in her top- 
gallant sails and courses, kept the centre ship, which 
from her superior size and the lights in her stern 
marked her out as the Forte, on her lee or larboard 
bow. 

"The water was at this time quite smooth, with a 
light and steady breeze still blowing from the sou- 
sou'-west, and the Sybille under her topsails, jib, and 
spanker, was going about two knots an hour. At 1 1.30 
P.M. the Sybille saw that the three ships were lying-to on 
the starboard tack, or that on which she was standing. 

"At midnight, when the Sybille had approached 
within a mile of the Forte, the latter's two rows of 
ports, lighted up as they were, gave the ship a very 
formidable appearance. The Forte then filled, hove 
in stays under the Sybille y s lee bow, and as her lar- 
board guns began to bear, fired six or seven of them, 
the instant and principal effect of which was to 
bring down her opponent's jib. The Forte as she 
passed on fired also her after guns, and one of the 
prizes opened her fire ; but still the Sybille, as a proof 
of the judgment of her commander and the steadiness 
of her crew, reserved her fire for a shorter and more 
effective distance. 

" The patience of the latter, however, was put to no 
longer a trial than until the Forte passed abaft the 
beam of their ship : when, at three-quarters past 
midnight, the Sybille put her helm ujd, and fired the 
whole of her broadside into the Forte s stern, at less 
than pistol-shot distance; so close indeed that the 
French ship's spanker-boom was scarcely cleared. 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 213 

Luffing quickly up, the Sybille was presently close 
alongside her antagonist to leeward, and poured in a 
second broadside, as well directed as the previous 
raking one. The bearing-up of the Sybille had been 
so sudden and unexpected that several of the Forte's 
larboard or weather guns went off after the former 
had passed to leeward. 

"Thus this furious night-action commenced. For 
nearly the first hour, during which the two ships lay 
broadside to broadside, at a distance that never 
exceeded point-blank musket range, and was some- 
times much nearer, the Forte returned a spirited but 
far too elevated, and consequently an almost harmless, 
fire. At 1.30 A.M. on March 1, Captain Cooke was 
mortally wounded by a grape-shot, and the command 
devolved upon Lieutenant Lucius Hardyman. About 
ten minutes after Captain Cooke had been carried 
below, Captain Davies, of the army, an aide-de-camp 
of Lord Mornington's, and a volunteer upon this 
occasion, while encouraging the men at the quarter- 
deck guns, of some of which he had charge, was 
killed by a cannon-shot that nearly severed his body." 

Ned Grey was splashed with his blood, as, stripped 
to the waist, he fought his gun with the brave fellows 
around him, with that cool intrepidity that has won 
all of England's battles. He had seen his beloved 
captain struck down by a shot, and for the moment 
he would have rushed to his assistance ; but a stern 
sense of duty overcame this first impulse, and, as 
others supported his captain's sinking frame, Ned cast 
a sorrowful look behind him, and then lent double 
strength to his work as they ran the gun out, and the 



214 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

shot crashed into the sides of the French frigate. 
For upwards of two hours there had been an unin- 
terrupted roar of artillery, but at this time the fire 
from the Forte began to slacken, and at 2.30 A.M. it 
entirely ceased. 

"On this the Sybille discontinued her fire, and 
hailed to know if her antagonist had struck. Receiv- 
ing no reply, although the ships were still so close that 
the voices of the Forte's people were distinctly heard, 
the Sybille recommenced firing with renewed vigour. 
Finding no return, the British frigate a second time 
ceased, and a second time hailed, but again without 
effect. At this moment, perceiving the Forte's rigging 
filled with men, and her top-gallant sail loose, as if 
with the intention of endeavouring to escape, the 
Sybille recommenced her fire for the third time, and 
set her own foresail and top-gallant sails. 

" In five minutes after this the Forte's mizen-mast 
came down, and in another minute or two her fore 
and main masts and bowsprit. The Sybille ceased 
firing, her crew gave three cheers ; and thus at 
2.28 A.M., being about two hours and a half from its 
commencement, the action ended. 

il The Sybille immediately dropped her anchor in 
seventeen fathoms, and all hands began repairing 
the rigging and bending new sails. At about 3 A.M. 
one of the English prisoners on board the Forte, find- 
ing that the ship was drifting upon the Sybille, hailed 
the latter to request that a boat might be sent on 
board, as all theirs had been shot to pieces. Although 
no doubt existed on board the Sybille as to the name 
of the ship of which she had made such a wreck, the 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 215 



question was put, and ' the French frigate Forte ' was 
the answer returned. While possession is taking of 
the prize, we will give some account of the damage 
and loss of the ship, that had so gallantly captured 
her. 

" The Sybille had most of her standing and all her 
running rigging and sails shot to pieces, all her masts 
and yards, particularly the main and mizen masts, 
and the yards on them badly wounded, but with all 
this the Sybille had only received in the hull and 
upperworks six shot ; one of which, however, had 
dismounted a gun, and another, a twenty-four pounder, 
having entered one of the officer's cabins, had shivered 
to atoms a large trunk and a smaller one near it, 
carried away two legs of a sofa, and passed out 
through the ship's side. The Sybille had lost Captain 
Davies, one seaman, one marine, and two soldiers 
killed, and Captain Cooke (mortally), fifteen seamen, 
and one soldier wounded ; total, five killed and seven- 
teen wounded. 

" When Lieutenant Nicholas Manger, third of the 
Sybille, with his boat's crew, went on board the Forte, 
the scene of wreck and carnage that presented 
itself to their view was such, by all account, as nc 
other persons than the actual spectators could form 
an adequate idea of. The bowsprit had gone close 
to the figure-head, the foremast one foot above the 
forecastle, the mainmast eighteen feet above the 
quarter-deck, and the mizen-mast ten feet above the 
poop. As the masts had fallen with all the sails set, 
it was remarked that the three topsails were very 
slightly injured ; the Sybille 's shot had taken a lower 



216 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

and more fatal direction. All the boats, booms, the 
wheel, capstan, binnacle, and other articles on deck 
were cut to pieces. 

u The Forte's upper works were lined with cork to 
prevent splinters ; and, for the same purpose, nettings 
were fixed fore and aft as well on the main deck as on 
the quarter-deck, forecastle, and gangways. Another 
stout netting was spread like an awning over the 
quarter-deck. This is common on board French 
ships ; and, being put up to prevent blocks and other 
heavy articles from falling from aloft, is appropriately 
named " la sauve-tete." The starboard quarter-deck 
and forecastle barricades were completely destroyed ; 
and the same side of the Forte from the bends 
upwards was nearly beat in. Upwards of three 
hundred round shot were counted in her hull ; several 
of her guns were dismounted ; and the very cables in 
her tiers were rendered unserviceable. 

" The loss on board the Forte may well have been 
severe. Her original crew, including a portion of 
Malays taken on board at Batavia, amounted to 5 1 3 
men and boys. Of this number she had sent away in 
various prizes, according to the account given by her 
officers, 143 ; leaving 370 as the number present in 
the action. Of these she lost, as appears, 65 killed, 
including her captain, first lieutenant, and some other 
officers, and 80 wounded, including also several of 
her officers." * 

At the close of the action the two prizes now 
manned with French crews (the Lord Mortiington and 

1 The description of this celebrated action between the Sybille and 
the Forte is extracted from James's " Naval History." 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 217 

Endeavour), made sail and effected their escape after 
an ineffectual chase by the Sybille, the shattered 
condition of her rigging preventing the possibility 
of carrying sufficient sail to overhaul them. 

The joy of the Sybille } s crew was terribly damped 
by the grievous wound received by their captain ; a 
grape shot had entered the fleshy portion of his right 
arm, and tearing its way through the ribs it had 
passed out at the back near the spine ; the doctor 
had no hope of his recovery. 

A few days were passed in rigging the Forte under 
jury masts, after which she was taken in tow by the 
Sybille to Calcutta, where she could be repaired suffi- 
ciently to enable her to proceed to England. Upon 
arrival at Calcutta, there was universal gratification 
at the sight of the dreaded Forte thus brought in as a 
capture by the gallant Sybille. But the unfortunate 
Captain Cooke could enjoy no share of the honours 
that were heaped upon them ; the glory of this world 
was passed, and he gradually sank, and died a few 
days after his arrival. Before his death he had re- 
quested to see Ned Grey, in whom he had taken the 
warmest interest, and he confided him to the care of 
Lieutenant Hardyman, requesting that, as he had 
been forcibly taken from his home, he might return to 
England on board the Forte, together with Nigger Tim 
and the dog Nero. The latter had so attached himself 
to the captain that he had seldom stirred from his 
cabin since the day he had received his mortal 
wound. 

The body of Captain Cooke was buried at Calcutta 
with military honours, followed to the grave not only 



218 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 



by the Sybiltis officers and crew but by an enormous 
assemblage of people, among whom there was no 
more sincere mourner than Ned Grey, who had lost 
his best and most powerful friend. 

True to the instructions that he had received from 
Captain Cooke, Lieutenant Hardyman, who had suc- 
ceeded to the command, placed a prize crew upon the 
Forte, including Ned Grey and his party, that had 
originally been kidnapped, together with Jem Stevens, 
who had shown so much nervousness in the late fight 
that the officers requested to be rid of him, and the 
vessel, having been partially repaired, set sail for 
England. 

The Forte was commanded by the same officer who 
had taken Ned Grey from the beach on the morning 
that he and Tim had left Sandy Cove with the 
intention of returning home to breakfast, and the 
good-natured lieutenant now looked forward to return- 
ing to his friends the same lad covered with honour that 
he had originally misled : as he had left England on 
board the Sybille, so he would return on board the 
Sybille's prize, which he had bravely helped to win. 

On the 25th March the Forte sailed, and had fair 
weather until she arrived in about 17 south latitude. 
Ned Grey was acting as midshipman, having received 
this temporary promotion for the voyage. Nigger 
Tim was, as before, in the galley as cook's mate ; and 
Jem Stevens was as sullen as usual, but ever since the 
action with the Forte he had very little to say, as 
during the fight he had been found lying upon his 
back, at first supposed to be killed, but upon ex- 
amination there was no wound, and he could only 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 219 



explain the situation by declaring that he had been 
knocked down by the wind of a shot at the com- 
mencement of the action, and that he had not recovered 
his senses until it was over. Various remarks had been 
made by the officers and crew, who were sufficiently 
uncharitable to attribute his prostration to fear ; the 
word " coward " had been used by more than one in 
connexion with this affair, and even Nigger Tim had 
ventured a remark that had become a bye-word with 
the sailors — " Massa Stevens smell de powder, Massa 
Stevens get de belly-ache." Ned Grey had long since 
discontinued his attempts at reconciliation ; and, to 
avoid unpleasantness, he said as little to his old school- 
fellow as possible. 

It was on the 22d April that the Forte suddenly 
lost the wind, and lay becalmed. The barometer had 
fallen in an alarming manner since the morning, and 
it continued to sink with great rapidity, although the 
sky was perfectly clear. At about an hour after noon, 
snow-white and dense clouds, like mountains of frozen 
snow, rose upon all quarters of the horizon, and, were 
it not for the oppressive heat> the scene might have 
been imagined in the Arctic regions. Quickly ascend- 
ing from the sea, and darkening as they rose, the 
clouds massed together, and uniting from all direc- 
tions, in about an hour they formed the densest 
canopy, that totally concealed the heavens. The sky 
was solidly black, as though covered by thick folds 
of velvet, only in certain points the colour varied to a 
dark purplish grey, as one edge of an overlapping 
stratum was exposed. It was the hurricane season 
in that particular latitude and longitudinal position, 



220 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

and there could be no doubt that a cylone of the 
most fearful description was about to burst upon them. 
The Forte was badly manned, as few could be spared 
from the Sybille, and the greater portion of the crew 
were Lascars ; in addition to this disadvantage she 
had only been patched and otherwise hastily repaired 
since her recent engagement, in which she had been 
terribly shattered, and her rigging was made up of 
old stuff that had been procured at Calcutta simply 
to enable her to complete the voyage to England 
preparatory to a general refit. Altogether, the Forte 
was in no condition to contend with a tropical 
cyclone. 

There was a painful stillness in the air, and the 
vessel rolled heavily in the long, irregular swell of 
the sea, as there was no wind to steady her. Sud- 
denly there was a scream as though ten thousand 
furies yelled and flapped their wings high up in the 
dense mass of inky vapour ; but still the sails hung 
listlessly without a breath of air ; these were a storm- 
stay-sail, double-reefed foresail, and spanker. 

It was nearly dark, although hardly 3 P.M. ; the sea 
was black. Presently, in the far distance a bright 
white streak appeared low upon the horizon, which 
increased with amazing rapidity until it resembled 
an endless line of rolling snow. There was no doubt 
in the minds of all on board — the hurricane was upon 
them ! There was no breath of air to trim the sails 
and bring the vessel's head to the advancing squall. 
She lay helplessly rolling in the disturbed and heavy 
swell. 

In the meantime the roar of the approaching storm 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 221 

could plainly be heard as the ghastly line of foam 
swept over the darkened sea with incredible velocity. 
Every man was on deck and at his post, but as yet 
nothing could be done. The roar increased, and as 
the white line advanced, the surface of the sea behind 
was like a sheet of snow after a heavy fall ; the 
water appeared compressed and flattened by the 
enormous pressure of the gale. On it came ! nearer 
and nearer, in all the madness of the hurricane, until 
with a shriek of wind and tumultuous rush of foam- 
ing water, the white line reached them, and pressed 
the noble frigate on her beam ends. 

The foremast snapped short off by the deck ; 
every sail had been blown to shreds ; the bowsprit 
was gone ; and thus relieved, the ship slowly re- 
covered her position, and drifted at a fearful speed 
before the storm. It would be impossible to describe 
ithe tempest which now hurried the frigate from her 
course ; the sea, that had at first been vanquished by 
the wind, now rose in all « the ocean's majesty; 
mountain and valley could be reckoned as the over- 
whelming masses of water swept in wild waves before 
the hurricane, their curling crests blowing off into 
misty spray as their tops became exposed to the force 
of the wind. Nothing more could be done than to 
loosen a few reefs of the main-topsail, and run before 
the storm. 

Night came on. The darkness was hardly felt, as 
every half minute a bright flash of lightning illumined 
the scene, succeeded by roars of thunder, before which 
the artillery of the ship would have appeared like a 
faint echo. Running before the gale, the frigate 



222 CAST. UP BY THE SEA. 

rolled to such an extent in the heavy sea that no 
one could stand upon the decks without holding 
on. Upon several occasions she had shipped green 
seas that rushed bodily across her decks from port to 
port ; everything was battened down securely, and 
thus the Forte rushed headlong before the resistless 
storm. 

When day broke, the hurricane if possible increased, 
and a little before noon a sudden whirlwind carried 
away the maintopmast. Cutting the wreck adrift the 
Forte rolled worse than before, and it was considered 
necessary to heave some of her guns overboard to 
reduce the deck load. This was effected with great 
difficulty, and one by one her heavy guns plunged 
into the deep. All those from the upper deck had 
disappeared, and the effect was quickly observed : — 
although she still rolled heavily she no longer shipped 
a sea at every lurch. 

Three days and nights thus passed away in the 
gloom and misery of the hurricane. The world ap- 
peared to be made up of thunder, lightning, wind, 
waves, and darkness ! 

On the fourth morning the storm began to abate, 
and the wind, although still blowing a violent gale, 
was no longer the hurricane which had driven them 
from their course. As yet the sky had been com- 
pletely overcast, thus no observation could be taken, 
and the position of the ship could only be vaguely 
guessed by dead reckoning. The vessel had been 
running afjabout an average of eleven knots an hour 
throughout the storm ; and as the direction, although 
varying, tended principally to north-west, it was con- 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 223 



sidered that she must have either run past the northern 
extremity of Madagascar, or be still on the east of 
that island. In either case it was a most dangerous 
position, as the storm still blew with great violence, 
and was driving them towards a lee shore. The sea 
was exceedingly heavy, as the hurricane had forced it 
towards the west, thus the full power of the Indian 
Ocean was surging in that direction. 

The day passed away as usual in deep gloom, but 
as night came on there was a decided improvement 
in the weather, which, although bad, was as nothing 
compared to the storm to which they had been for so 
long exposed. The men began to breathe again ; the 
ship had leaked badly, owing to the numerous shot- 
holes, some of which were insecurely stopped ; thus 
the pumps had been kept going throughout the storm, 
and the men were nearly worn out. As the night 
closed in, all hoped for fine weather on the morrow, 
and Ned Grey, who had had little sleep, swung in his 
hammock cheered with happy dreams, in which he saw 
the cottage on the cliff, and Edith and his mother. 
Suddenly he was almost thrown from his hammock 
by a sharp jerk, and waking quickly, he heard a con- 
fused noise and trampling of feet, together with the 
sound of a heavy rush of water ; he sprang from his 
hammock, but hardly had he reached the deck than a 
tremendous shock sent him staggering against the 
bulkhead ; at the same instant he heard a loud crash 
upon the upper deck. 

Recovering from the shock he rushed up the com- 
panion : at the moment that he arrived he fortunately 
grasped a rope in the pitchy darkness, as a heavy wave 



224 CAST UP BY THE SEA, 

swept across the vessel and carried several men over- 
board, which would also have been Ned's fate had he 
not held firmly on. Nothing could be seen. The wind 
was blowing hard, but it had much abated, and the 
storm was evidently dying out ; nevertheless the sea 
was running very high, and presently the vessel rose 
upon a tremendous wave, and once more Ned felt a 
shock that for the moment threw him off his legs. 
Again a heavy sea swept the decks, and rolled 
completely over the hapless frigate, which, having 
weathered the storm, had now been driven on a reef 
in the darkness of the night. The mainmast had 
fallen overboard at the second shock of striking ; the 

* 

vessel now rested immoveable, the fore part firmly 
wedged upon the coral reef, while every sea swept 
over her with fearful violence. 

Some of the crew were in the mizen rigging ; this 
was the only remaining mast, and there was no fear 
of its loss as the vessel was now stationary : a crowd 
of men had therefore occupied the mizen-top. 

As the night wore on, the clouds began to break, 
and the stars peeped out from the thick veil that had 
so long concealed them ; the wind had also sensibly 
decreased, but the sea struck heavily upon the frigate, 
and as the stern hung in deep water, while the fore 
part was fixed upon the reef, she had already broken 
her back and had filled with water; her sides had 
opened amidships, and there was great danger of her 
going to pieces. 

When morning broke, after a long and weary 
night, the first person that Ned saw was Nigger 
Tim, shivering with wet and cold and clinging to the 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 225 



windlass, to which he had secured Nero with a rope. 
The sea still broke over the ship at intervals ; but, as 
daylight had dawned, Ned left his secure position and 
went aft to receive orders. 

Amidships the deck was torn up, and the stern was 
hanging lower than the fore part of the ship. The 
lieutenant in command was missing, with many of 
the crew, who had been washed overboard during the 
night, and the scene of confusion was beyond descrip- 
tion. There was no one to command except Jem 
Stevens and another midshipman, and the men had 
lost all discipline, and merely thought of saving them- 
selves by the boats, of which few were left as they 
had been dashed to pieces by the surf. It was in 
vain that Ned attempted to restore order ; the Lascars 
had attempted to push off from the ship unobserved, 
upon the discovery of which a fight ensued, and the 
English, being the stronger, threw many of them over- 
board. The men would listen to no commands, and 
simply united in their endeavours to launch the cutter, 
as they momentarily expected the vessel would part 
asunder and sink in deep water. 

Others of the crew succeeded in launching two 
smaller boats, and, leaping wildly into them, they 
pushed off from the ship ; but, being overcrowded, 
they almost immediately filled and upset, disappear- 
ing with all hands in the raging surf. At length, 
after many fruitless efforts, the cutter was safely 
lowered, and kept away about three boats' lengths 
from the ship ; Jem Stevens was already in her, 
and many men now sprang into the water, and 
endeavoured to reach the boat by swimming. About 

o 



226 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

twenty were taken on board, and, seeing the necessity 
of self-preservation, Ned called to Tim to follow him, 
and both lads, accompanied by the dog, sprang into 
the sea and swam towards the boat. In a few strokes 
they arrived at her side just as the crew, having 
manned the twelve oars, were preparing to pull away 
from the ship. Ned clung to the stern, his example 
being followed by Tim. 

"Give a hand!" cried Ned to Jem Stevens, who 
was seated in the stern. 

"Hands off!" cried Stevens; "the boat's full! 
you're too late ! " at the same time he threatened to 
cut Ned's fingers with his knife (which he quickly 
opened) unless he let go his hold. " Give way, my 
lads!" he cried at the same time to the crew, who 
had not observed Ned Grey, who was concealed by 
the stern of the boat; at the same instant the ten 
oars dipped in the water, and the large boat started 
forward at a powerful stroke. Ned had clung to the 
boat; but, seeing that Stevens actually cut at his 
fingers, he relaxed his hold just in time to avoid 
the knife, and the boat left him swimming in the 
water. 

Tim was still clinging to the gunwale, but, upon 
observing Ned deserted, he relinquished his hold and 
swam back to his young master, at the same time he 
shouted, " Catch de ship, Massa Ned ! nebber mind 
de boat. Debbel take care of Massa Stevens ! " 

Ned followed Tim's advice, and struck out for the 
frigate, and fortunately both lads caught hold of a 
floating mast just as the vessel parted amidships, 
and the after portion disappeared entirely in deep 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 227 

water; had they not clung to the mast they must 
have been sucked under by the vortex of the sinking 
hull. Nothing now remained but the fore part of the 
frigate, which was firmly fixed upon the reef. To 
this portion of the wreck the two lads swam, and 
climbed on board by means of the broken shrouds 
hanging from the fore-chains ; they then secured the 
dog by a rope and hauled him upon deck. Another 
boat in addition to the cutter had succeeded in 
leaving the wreck : many people had perished with 
the sunken stern ; others had been drowned in their 
attempts to reach the boats ; some had been washed 
overboard during the night; and as Ned and Tim 
now stood upon the forecastle with the faithful Nero, 
they were the only living beings that remained upon 
the wreck of the once powerful frigate Forte. The 
boats had pulled out to sea in a direction north-west. * 
By degrees the wind died away as the sun sank in 
the evening ; the clouds had broken, and as the moon 
rose they gradually dispersed ; the stars shone 
brightly ; the stormy sea had spent its rage, and 
subsided into a long and sullen swell, and peace once 
more reigned among the exhausted elements. Hungry 
and tired, the three living creatures on the wreck lay 
down and slept upon the deck of the forecastle. The 
sea no longer broke over the fragment of the hull, but 
simply dashed harmlessly against the sides, and 
splashed into the interior of the hold where the vessel 
had parted amidships. 



Q 2 



228 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 



CHAPTER XIII. 

Another morning broke ; it was clear and beautiful* 
Not a cloud dimmed the sky in the grey dawn, and 
the sun rose upon a calm sea ; no vestige of the tem- 
pest remained but the broken wreck — the SybilUs 
prize, that was to have conveyed Ned to England and 
his home. 

Ned and Tim had both slept soundly, in spite of 
the chill of wet clothes ; the weather was warm, and 
as the sun rose, the heat soon dried them. Ned 
Grey was not deficient in romance, but he felt that, 
however exciting the adventure, much remained to 
be done to save their lives. Tim was entirely, 
practical, and as he felt extremely hungry he desired 
something to eat : judging from Nero's demeanour, 
he was of the same opinion, as he constantly pawed 
his young master Ned, and looked wistfully in his 
face, as though he thought he had forgotten to order 
breakfast. 

All the fowls had been washed overboard together 
with the 'hencoops, and half a dozen sheep that had 
been taken on board for the officers : there was 
literally nothing to eat, unless they could discover 
some casks of provisions among the mass of miscel- 
laneous cargo that occupied the fore-hold. Descending 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 



229 



into the interior of the wreck among a chaos of bar- 
rels, Ned broke in the head of a cask with a heavy- 
iron marling-spike, and to his great joy he found that 
it contained biscuits, which were perfectly dry and 
uninjured ; accordingly, lest the sea should again rise, 
both he and Tim employed themselves in carrying up 
a large quantity, which they piled on deck, nor did 
they relinquish their work until, by means of a piece 
of canvas cut from a sail, they had conveyed away 
the whole contents of the barrel. Upon a further 
search they discovered a cask branded "India Mess 
Beef," whereupon the head was removed, and a suf- 
ficient supply was transported to the upper deck. 
Fortunately several casks of fresh water were dis- 
covered, therefore their immediate wants were sup- 
plied. They had no means of lighting a fire until a 
further search should yield the materials, therefore 
they breakfasted off biscuits and uncooked salt beef, 
and never had they eaten with better appetites. 
Nero feasted upon biscuits soaked in water, with a 
few pieces of small chopped meat. 

Having satisfied their hunger, Ned carefully sur- 
veyed their position. The vessel was lying upon a 
sunken reef, many portions of which were within two 
or three feet of the surface. About two miles from 
this spot there was a long but narrow reef that formed 
a coral island, to which Ned at once determined to 
transport all that they would require lest another 
storm should destroy the wreck : from this reef he 
trusted they might be able to reach the mainland. 

Without any delay both he and Tim set to work. 
Several empty water-casks were floating about in the 



230 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

fore-hold, and having selected ten, Ned, with Tim's 
assistance, succeeded in lashing them together with 
spars, so as to form a most buoyant raft, twenty-two 
feet long by ten in width. The sea had sunk to a 
complete calm by the afternoon, and, as the fore-part 
of the vessel was thrown high upon the reef, it was 
rather above its natural level, therefore the water only 
covered the bottom cargo. Fortunately the lower 
deck was dry, as the ship having parted in the middle, 
the water that she had shipped during the storm had 
run out when the sea subsided. When Ned descended 
he at once found the carpenter's tool chest, with a 
large quantity of all kinds of stores, and forcing away 
the bulkheads he made use of the planks to cover the 
raft, so as\o form a deck. From sunrise to sunset 
the two lads worked without ceasing, by which time 
they had decked their vessel ; but much remained to 
be done. 

On the following morning they again set to work, 
and having discovered a spare boat's mast among the 
carpenter's stores, they fitted it securely on the raft, 
and arranged a sail. At the same time Ned con- 
structed a rude rudder with an oar, and improvised 
a false keel by running a plank perpendicularly 
through the deck, both fore and aft, so that it should 
project about three feet below the bottom of the raft, 
and thus prevent it from drifting to leeward. 

By the evening of the second day the raft was 
thoroughly complete. Ned had arranged two empty 
water-casks amidships, to which the mast was lashed. 
Both he and Tim then busied themselves in carrying 



CAST UP BY THE SEA, 231 

fresh water in buckets from the full casks on board 
the wreck, until they had completely filled the casks 
on the raft. 

Everything was in perfect order by the evening of 
the second day, and Ned looked forward to the 
morrow with eagerness, as he would then try the sea- 
going properties of their vessel. 

Before sunrise, both Ned and Tim were engaged 
in collecting all that they considered useful. They 
had discovered a couple of double-barrelled guns 
among the gunner's stores, and, having selected half 
a dozen good muskets and pistols, they took a barrel 
of gunpowder, a hundred flints, and a large quantity 
of bullets and shot, together with a couple of cut- 
lasses and a quantity of fishing-tackle, including a 
shark-hook and harpoon. They then emptied the 
carpenter's chest, together with several of the sailor's 
boxes, and carried them to the raft, where they 
stowed them around the mast, after which they 
replaced the tools in the carpenter's chest, and filled 
the others with biscuits and salt beef. 

Tim, having been cook's mate, did not forget his 
pots and pans, but visited the galley, and selected 
a good kettle and a couple of saucepans, with a grid- 
iron. By noon they were ready to sail, and having 
carried down a large parcel of the best clothes they 
could select from the sailors' kits, together with a 
supply of needles, thread, buttons, &c, they placed 
several large sails upon their cargo, that would after- 
wards serve as an awning on shore, with a quantity of 
small spars and ropes, and pushed off from the 
wreck. 



232 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

The wind was light and the sea smooth ; thus the 
raft, although very heavily laden, sailed easily, without 
wetting her cargo ; and as the breeze set directly 
towards the coral island, there was no difficulty in 
the navigation. The two boys were in high spirits 
at the success of their raft, which both sailed and 
steered well ; and, although alone on the wild east 
coast of Africa, with no other companion than the 
dog Nero, such is the elasticity of youth, and the 
excitement of vanquishing a difficulty, that they were 
for the moment thoroughly happy, and free from 
every care. 

The water was as clear as glass, and as they passed 
over the coral reefs at various depths, they could be 
seen below like gardens of brilliant flowers glistening 
with every colour, while the fish of many kinds, also 
varying in bright colours of gold, red, and blue, swam 
in large shoals among the coral groves, and sometimes 
sprang high from the water in their delight at the 
warm sun and the calm surface of the sea. 

Sailing quietly along the beautiful gardens of the 
deep, the raft approached the coral island, which ap- 
peared to form the centre of the surrounding shallow 
reefs. It was a long and perfectly flat island, that 
might be upwards of a mile in extent, although not 
many hundred yards in width ; it was protected by an 
outer reef, which girded the island like an artificial out- 
work upon which the waves broke as upon a break- 
water, and left a perfectly smooth harbour within, but 
extremely shallow. Such are the wonderful works of 
the minute coral insects, those apparently insignifi- 
cant but mighty engineers, whose works are never 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 233 

washed away, and who alone can safely struggle with 
the power of the ocean. 

Although the sea was calm, the swell broke with 
considerable force upon the outer reef, and it required 
some caution in coasting along the line, until an 
entrance could be discovered through the natural 
breakwater ; the raft now felt the advantage of Ned's 
false keel, without which it must have drifted directly 
upon the reef. 

After having coasted about a quarter of a mile, 
a gap was discovered in the reef, through which the 
raft safely steered, and in the next minute they found 
themselves in a perfectly calm basin of crystal water 
of that beautiful pale green that is exhibited in the 
precious stone called aqua-marina. The basin was 
shallow, and once or twice the planks that formed 
the false keel touched the rocky bottom as the raft 
slowly glided over the lovely corals, and disturbed 
the numerous fish. Beautiful shells were seen among 
the coral branches, while in many places large rocks 
were entirely covered with dense masses of oysters, 
that looked as though they had swarmed like a hive 
of bees. Many delicate but widely spreading branches 
of coral were a brilliant scarlet ; others were a deep 
blue, some were variegated with several colours. But 
Tim, who could not resist the temptation of dragging 
some on board, quickly discovered the deception, as 
the bright tint rapidly faded upon being exposed to 
the air ; these flowers of the ocean, like the flowers of 
the earth, soon lost their beauty when broken from 
the stem. 

Gliding over this fairy-like sea they neared the 



234 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

island, and as the water was very shallow, Ned took 
in the sail, and both boys jumping overboard they 
gently towed the raft to the land, and moored it to a 
large mass of coral. There was no necessity for pre- 
caution, as the natural but well-protected harbour 
could never be disturbed ; and the island, that was 
flat and sandy, was perfectly uninhabited. A large 
quantity of drift timber, portions of the wreck, had 
drifted through the gap, some of which was stranded 
on the island, while much was still floating in the 
calm basin ; among other things Ned observed a box 
that had evidently belonged to the late frigate. As 
the raft was secured, and both boys were already wet, 
they waded towards the case and dragged it from the 
water. It was a strong and well-finished oak chest, and 
being locked they were obliged to break it open. It 
contained several suits of officers* clothes : with shirts, 
socks, shoes, a looking-glass, brushes and combs, a 
brace of beautiful pistols with ten-inch barrels carry- 
ing an ounce ball, a bag of bullets, powder-flask, a 
telescope, sextant, and compass, a silver pint drinking- 
cup, and a Prayer-book and Bible, in the latter of 
which was written the name, " James Stevens." 

" Jem Stevens's chest ! " exclaimed Ned, in asto- 
nishment ; " what luck to find the sextant and the 
compass ! " he continued, as he examined both the 
instruments, of which he had fortunately learnt the 
use when on board the Sybille and the Forte, 

Tim had in the meantime taken the looking-glass, 
in which he was scrutinizing his own countenance 
with evident satisfaction; but, upon hearing that it 
was Stevens's property that had thus fortuitously 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 235 

come into, their possession, he burst into a fit of 
laughing, exclaiming, " Ha, ha ! Tim knows. Debbel 
take care of Massa Stevens, God take care of Massa 
Ned, send him Massa Stevens's chest ! Ha, ha, ha ! " 
continued the delighted Tim, "what Massa Stevens 
do ? Get no chest ! no clothes ! no looking-glass ! 
can't see his ugly face ! Ha, ha, ha ! don't want 
Massa Stevens, got his chest. Debbel catch Massa 
Stevens, Tim catch his box ! Ha, ha, dat's what Tim 
call de right ting 'xactly ! " 

No one would have supposed from Tim's merriment 
that they were two wretched castaways on a desolate 
coral reef upon the savage coast of Africa. Although 
Ned did not share the full extent of Tim's hilarity, 
he was delighted at the inestimable treasure that had 
fallen into his hands in the shape of a sextant and 
compass, which was further increased by the discovery 
of a small bottle of mercury and trough for an artifi- 
cial horizon, which had been packed up by the optician 
in case astronomical observations on shore should be 
requisite. Not only were the instruments of vital im- 
portance, but the box likewise contained the Nautical 
Almanac and the charts of the Indian Ocean, including 
the east coast of Africa, together with drawing and 
writing materials. Next in value to the astronomical 
instruments was the brace of excellent pistols. 

People in civilized life have but a faint idea of the 
happiness that such an unexpected treasure can afford ; 
riches depend upon their actual value, and at that 
moment all the gold of the earth would have been 
utterly useless to Ned ; but, under their present cir- 
cumstances, no gift could have equalled that which 



236 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

h JWM. ntlally fc„e„ int „ ,He ir Ha„ d , K^ 

at their good fortune the boys commenced work, and 
having fixed four poles into the ground, which they 
had brought from the ship for that purpose, they 
steadied them by cross-pieces firmly lashed across, 
over which they stretched a couple of sails, which, 
being doubled, effectually protected them from the 
burning sun ;. the roof of their tent being completed, 
they strained the canvas upon either side at an angle, 
and pegged it to the ground. In some places the rock 
preventing them from driving in the pegs, accordingly 
they rolled large masses of coral into convenient 
positions to which they attached the cords that 
stretched the sides of their tent. They now arranged 
a few chests, which they carried with some difficulty 
from the raft, and, having heaped up two masses of 
sand in an oblong shape like raised asparagus beds, 
they threw a sail over each, and forming a pillow by 
an extra hillock at the end, they completed a couple 
of couches more roomy and comfortable than the 
hammocks in which they had been accustomed to 
swing on board the frigate. 

By the time their work was complete they were 
hungry and thirsty. Taking a draught of water they 
determined to boil a piece of beef, and, choosing a nice 
fat joint from their stock, Tim collected a quantity of 
firewood from the drift-timber on the shore while Ned 
prepared a fire. He had no tinder, neither were there 
any small twigs nor anything that is requisite to light 
a fire; however, they had plenty of wood, and as some 
fragments of deal cases had been cast ashore, and 
thoroughly dried in the sun, he selected a piece with 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 237 

a straight grain, and with his large and sharp knife 
that hung from his side he split it into fine slips ; 
he then took a plane from the tool-chest, and with 
another portion of the wood he supplied a few hand- 
fuls of fine shavings. Cutting off a portion of dry- 
canvas from the ragged end of a sail, he bruised about 
a teaspoonful of gunpowder, with which he rubbed 
the sail-cloth until it was perfectly blackened ; he 
then spread a small pinch of powder on the surface as 
he placed it in the pan of an unloaded musket, and 
pulled the trigger. In an instant it ignited and burnt 
fiercely. Ned now rolled up the burning cloth, and 
placed it in the centre of the shavings like a bouquet, 
which he swung rapidly round with the full force of 
his arm until the draught of air fanned it into a 
blaze ; upon this he placed the small wood that he 
had already prepared, and as it readily took fire he 
piled cautiously larger pieces in proportion to the 
strength of the flame, until a large oaken log at 
length rested on the top of the pile. 

The fire now blazed brightly, about ten yards dis- 
tant from the tent. It was near sunset, and the great 
heat of the day was past — there were no sharks in the 
shallow water within the outer reef, therefore Ned 
took off his clothes to bathe while Tim was cooking 
the dinner. He plunged into the clear water, and 
revelled in the luxury of a bath, especially as he 
would be able, to change his clothes and enjoy a clean 
shirt from Jem Stevens's stock. He dare not put his 
feet to the bottom on account of the sharp coral and 
shells, but, having incautiously done so as he was 
coming out, he discovered that the object that had cut 



238 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

— ¦¦ »¦¦¦¦ ¦¦¦¦¦ .- ¦ -¦-¦¦ ¦¦¦ — i i _. ¦. , , 

his foot was a huge mass of fine oysters cemented 
together so as to form a rock of about two hundred 
weight. Calling to Tim for assistance, after much 
labour by their joint exertions they rolled it to the 
shore, and surveyed their prize in some perplexity, 
as the oysters were curiously contorted, and most 
difficult to open. Ned had already broken the point 
of his good knife when an idea happily struck him. 
" Give a hand, Tim," he cried, " and let's roll the 
rock close to leeward of the fire ; the wind will blow 
the heat upon it, and the oysters will open by 
themselves ! " 

" Massa Ned know de trick ! " replied Tim exult- 
ingly, as he put his shoulder to the work, and they 
presently rolled the rock to the desired position. The 
heat was intense ; the surface of the mass first became 
dry, then several oysters gaped widely, and in a few 
minutes the example was generally followed, and, as 
Ned turned the other side towards the fire, the entire 
rock bristled with gaping shells. 

Tim was delighted, and enjoyed the feast, but being 
a cook he contrived a good dish, and stewed some of 
the oysters with broken captain's biscuits and small 
portions of salt beef. Salt they had none, but they 
had a fire, a kettle, and the sea-water ; thus they kept 
the kettle boiling briskly, which they re-filled as it 
evaporated, until the brine became strong, when it 
was boiled nearly dry, and a considerable supply of 
salt was procured of excellent quality. 

After an excellent dinner, which they finished as 
the full moon rose, Ned determined to discover the 
latitude by the meridian altitude of a star ; accordingly 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 239 

he walked some distance from the blazing fire, and, 
looking attentively at the heavens, he singled out 
Capella as the brightest star near the meridian. After 
a careful observation with the sextant, he completed 
his calculations, and found that the reef upon which 
they stood was situated in south latitude io°.3o\ 

He could only guess vaguely at the longitude, but 
upon considering the run of the frigate during the 
hurricane, upon reference to the chart of the east coast 
of Africa, he came to the conclusion that their position 
was not more than fifty miles from the mainland, 
and that the current must have carried the ship into 
the northern mouth of the Mozambique channel, 
to the west of the extreme point of Madagascar. 
The latitude of Zanzibar was J°.2&. This being 
a Portuguese settlement, Ned hoped to reach it 
either by sea should the wind be fair, or should 
they gain the mainland he trusted to arrive there 
on foot. In either case the voyage upon the raft 
would be most hazardous, but, as the weather would 
most probably be settled after the recent storm, 
Ned resolved to start without loss of time, lest the 
present fair wind should change. He accordingly 
communicated his intention to Tim, and he arranged 
to start on the following morning. The night was 
cool and delightful, and as bright as the full moon of 
the tropics could shine, without a cloud. Ned wished 
to stroll round the narrow island before he left on the 
morrow, therefore, calling Tim and Nero to accompany 
him, he walked along the edge of the coral reef. 

They had proceeded about half a mile when they 
arrived at a spot where the rock was no longer abrupt, 



240 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

but a beautiful snow-white sand, the debris of wasted 
and wave-worn coral, formed a wide shelving beach 
for some hundred yards in length. Upon this plain 
white surface were a number of low dark objects that 
looked like casks, which, washed ashore, had become 
half imbedded in the sand. The nearest was about a 
hundred yards from them, and as they approached, to 
their astonishment it began to move towards the sea. 

" Turtle ! " shouted Ned, as he dashed forward to 
cut off the creature's retreat. " Go at him, Nero ! " 
he cried, as the dog shot ahead of his master in the 
race. In a few seconds Nero was vainly attempting 
to hold by the hard and slippery shell ; but, as the 
turtle had withdrawn its head under cover, it stopped 
until Ned arrived, when he dexterously turned it upon 
its back. In the meantime Tim had run on and cut off 
the retreat of several others, which he had turned 
upon their backs, in which position they would be 
helpless until righted. In about a quarter of an hour 
eight large turtle had been thus captured, and Ned 
quickly discovered that this bank of fine sand was a 
favourite spot for depositing their eggs. There were 
numerous holes that had been freshly scraped in the 
sand to a depth of about eighteen inches ; in some of 
these were several hundreds of eggs, that had been 
laid from time to time during the nocturnal visits of 
the turtles. These curious creatures are in the habit 
of visiting the shore after sunset, but seldom or never 
during tbe heat of the day, during which they remain 
either floating lazily on the surface of the water, or in 
the cooler depths below. At night the female seeks 
some sandy beach, in which with her horny head and 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 241 

fins she excavates a hole some distance above high- 
water mark : in this she lays the number of eggs that 
may be ready for the deposit, after which she care- 
fully covers them with sand, and conceals the recent 
excavation. Every night she returns to the same 
spot and re-opens the hole, in which she deposits a 
fresh batch of eggs, as a hen daily visits her nest, 
until from three to six hundred have been laid. 
When the number is complete, the female leaves the 
nest to the action of the sand heated by the sun's 
rays, and by this simple process of incubation the 
young turtles,' when no larger than a crown piece, 
free themselves from the eggs and work their way 
through the sand : upon arrival at the surface they 
follow their natural instincts, and scramble to the sea 
in crowds, where a great portion are devoured, not 
only by the larger fish but by other turtles. The 
eggs are good eating, and are extremely rich ; as the 
exterior is never hard like the tgg of a bird, but is 
tough and flexible like fine white kid, they are easily 
packed without danger of breakage. 

Ned rejoiced in this unlooked-for supply of fresh 
food for their voyage. Several turtles could easily 
be stowed upon the raft, and be kept alive by simply 
pouring a few buckets of sea-water over them during 
the day. Food they would not require, as the stomach 
of the turtle has a wonderful power of contraction ; 
and one of the peculiarities of this creature is, that 
he can continue for many days without eating, and 
still retain its original weight, if only wetted with 
salt water. 

Ned determined to leave his immoveable captives 

R 



242 v CAST UP BY THE SEA, 



on their backs during the night, and to call for them 
with the raft early on the following morning, as he 
perceived a much wider and more practicable outlet 
from the reef than that by whichthe raft had entered. 
It was through this wide entrance that the waves had 
washed the sand that allured the turtles as a resting- 
place. 

Delighted with their evening's work, Ned and Tim 
returned to their tent, and in the cool and bright 
night they replaced the chests upon the raft, struck 
the tent, and got everything on board in readiness for 
their departure at sunrise. At the same time they 
did not forget to lay a piece of canvas upon the deck, 
on which they piled about two hundredweight of 
sand. The canvas beneath was to prevent the sand 
from running through the crevices between the 
planks, and disappearing like water through a leak : 
the pile of sand was to be the foundation for the 
cooking-fire. After this, all was completed by the 
stowage of a quantity of firewood around the foot of 
the mast. 

Ned rose after a sound sleep in the fresh open air. 
The stars were still faintly twinkling in the grey sky, 
and the moon was bright, although as pale as frosted 
silver. It was an hour before sunrise, and he woke 
Tim, who was snoring like a young pig. 

As all preparations for departure had been wisely 
made on the previous day, there was nothing to be 
done but to shove the raft off the shore, and with a 
delightful breeze the sail filled, and they glided 
pleasantly along the smooth water. In about ten 
minutes they arrived at the sandy beach, where they 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 243 

found their turtles as they had left them. Some 
were so heavy that they could hardly carry them ; 
but, as the great object was to keep a supply of fresh 
provisions, they rejected the largest, and selected 
three that weighed about seventy pounds each. 
These they carried down to the raft, and then turned 
the rejected and heavier turtles upon their flappers, 
which they at once made use of by waddling down 
to the water, in which they disappeared. 

Both Ned and Tim hurried in their work, and they 
were not long in collecting several hundred eggs, 
which they stowed in one of their chests. They then 
set sail. 

The exit from the basin was broad, and, as the 
wind was fair, the raft steered into the open sea 
without any difficulty. The extra weight of the 
turtles, and the sand, firewood, &c, had made the 
raft so heavy, that Ned determined to steer for the 
nearest shore: he therefore directed the course due 
west, in the hope of reaching the African coast 
within about fifty or sixty miles. The wind, being 
light, was extremely favourable, as the sea was 
smooth, and the steady pressure upon the sail 
propelled the raft at about three miles an hour. 
Although this appeared tedious, Ned computed that 
twenty hours of even progress would bring them to 
the land, and he only trusted in the continuance of 
the breeze. 

The raft was well supplied : they had about eighty 
gallons of water, which would last twenty days at a 
fair consumption for three, including that required 
for cooking. They had a large quantity (about 

R 2 



244 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

iSolbs.) of salt beef, three turtles, and some hundred 
eggs. Thus there was no fear of starvation, and the 
only danger rested in foul weather. Ned arranged 
that one should sleep while the other steered in 
alternate watches of four hours, thus neither would 
be fatigued. 

It was about seven A.M. when the raft fairly cleared 
the coral island, and as she insensibly glided along 
the water, they soon lost sight of the wreck of the 
frigate, and then of the hospitable but dangerous reef; 
around them was the sea horizon, with the burn- 
ing sun above. While Ned had the helm, Tim 
placed some thickly-folded sails across the chests and 
barrels, and, creeping into the shade beneath, he soon 
fell fast asleep. At the expiration of the watch he 
relieved Ned, who in his turn crept into the snug 
shade and slept till three P.M. when he once more 
took the helm. 

The evening came, and with it the same cloudless 
sky and the bright stars. At length the moon rose, 
and continued with them throughout the night, and 
the wind blew steadily, but a little fresher than before ; 
the water rippled as the raft increased its speed. 
Nothing could be more beautiful than the night 
they floated quietly on as though in a dream, and 
the placid sea glistened tranquilly in the moonlight, 
and looked as though it must for ever rest in peace. 

As Ned stood at the helm alone, and his faithful 
companion and his dog sleeping side by side, he 
looked steadfastly at the heavens and their countless 
revolving worlds, and with a heart overflowing with 
gratitude, he fervently thanked the Almighty Creator 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 245 

for the preservation of his life, and prayed for His 
help and guidance in the unknown path before him. 
The breeze blew steadily and fresh, and the night 
passed away ; the raft had never altered her course 
from the west ; once more it was Ned's turn at the 
helm before the sun rose. 

A haze from the sea covered the horizon ; the 
morning was grey, and the first red streaks shone low 
upon the eastern sky ; the wind was faint, and the 
raft moved slowly forward. The morn grew lighter, 
and soon the crimson flashes in the east turned to a 
golden blaze, as the sun rose glorious from its ocean 
bed awakened for the day. The haze dissolved as 
the warmth increased, and clear and blue the long 
wished-for scene burst upon Ned's view. " Land ! ! " 
he shouted ; Tim sprang from his hard couch at the 
startling sound, and Nero too rose, and, although 
ignorant of the cause, the dog shared the enthusiasm 
of his master. 

Apparently not far distant were lofty mountains, 
the outlines of which were sharply defined upon the 
sky as the sun shone vividly upon them. Within six 
miles of the raft the shore was distinctly visible; 
unfortunately, at this moment it fell calm, and the 
sail hung listlessly upon the mast at the very time 
when they longed for a brisk breeze to conclude their 
voyage. Ned determined to lighten the raft and to 
paddle her forward with oars ; accordingly, they 
threw overboard the sand and firewood, together 
with a quantity of the salt beef, also one of the heavy 
chests ; this made a great difference in the buoyancy 
of the vessel. The water was the heaviest portion of 



246 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

the cargo, but this they dare not waste, as there might 
be no supply on shore. " Throw over some more 
beef/' cried Ned; "we have three turtles, and biscuits 
enough to last a couple of months." 

Tim looked wistfully at the good beef, as one by 
one he threw the large pieces overboard. 

"Dat's enuff, Massa Ned," said he; "don't trow 
all de good meat away : 'pose we get hungry one 
day, eh ? " 

" Suppose the wind should change and blow off the 
shore before we land," replied Ned, " what will become 
of us ? We must lighten the raft as much as possible ; 
throw all the beef overboard except half a dozen 
pieces ; then heave the heavy chest away likewise." 

Tim obeyed the order in exceedingly low spirits, 
and being of a careful disposition, and deeply in- 
terested in the commissariat arrangements, he pushed 
the large chest overboard first, after he had emptied 
the contents, and then he reluctantly threw another 
piece of beef into the clear water. Hardly had the 
joint splashed into the sea, when a dull cloud-like 
appearance was seen in the deep water close to the 
raft ; this became more dense, until a distinct and 
huge brown object rose rapidly to the surface, and 
turning upon its side, a long white belly was exposed 
as it opened its huge jaws and swallowed the piece of 
beef that Tim had just thrown overboard. It was an 
enormous shark, and as the water was as clear as 
crystal, it could be distinguished as minutely as though 
it were in a glass case as a specimen — the long scimiter- 
shaped back fin frequently protruded above the surface 
as it swam fearlessly and apparently lazily around the 




CAST UP BY THE SEA. 247 

raft with its large white eyes gleaming as it hunted 
for fresh prey. 

" Oh my eye, Massa Ned ! " cried Tim, " dere's a 
big shark been and swallered de beef! Tank God 
Tim's not de beef ! " 

" Shoot him with one of the muskets," cried Ned, 
who was at the helm, and on the instant Tim snatched 
a loaded musket from the chest in which they were 
stowed, but upon second thoughts he laid it down, and 
diving among the miscellaneous articles in the car- 
penter's tool box, he quickly produced a large shark- 
hook about sixteen inches long ; a chain of about two 
feet in length was already attached with a swivel, and 
Tim with great quickness fastened it to a rope. 

Having prepared his tackle within a couple of 
minutes, he now stuck a fat and tempting piece of 
beef upon the hook ; but the shark had disappeared ! 

" Why didn't you shoot him as I told you ? " asked 
Ned, " now we've lost him ! " 

Tim replied by throwing his large bait far into the 
water, and the fat beef could be distinctly seen deep 
below as it hung about four fathoms beneath the 
surface. 

" He'll come again, Massa Ned," said Tim, " don't 
be 'fraid — if he see Tim take a swim, de shark come 
catch him quick, I knows : now Tim catch de shark. 
I seed him when he swim round de raft, wink'd his 
big eyes, he thought ' Dere's Tim, like to swaller 'im!' 
Now, Massa Ned, wait a little, see Tim swaller de 
shark." 

As Tim gave this little programme of the enter- 
tainment, he slowly drew in the line, and as the piece 




248 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

of white beef came near the surface, several small fish 
striped like perch, of about two pounds weight, fol- 
lowed the bait, which having smelt, they darted away 
as though afraid. "Ha, ha!" exclaimed Tim, "his 
little frens gone to tell him Tim cooked de beef 
ready ; now de shark won't be long ! " 

Tim was well up in shark-fishing, as he had seen 
many caught ; and as he saw the arrival of the pilot 
fish that almost invariably accompany the shark, he 
was not wrong in expecting its return. In a short 
time the monster issued from directly beneath the 
raft where he had most probably been concealed, and 
swimming slowly towards the bait, he first smelt it, 
then with a quick . and sudden turn he bolted it, 
together with the hook and chain, and dashed off into 
the deep Water. 

" Ha, ha ! " roared Tim, " now's got it tight ! now 
Tim swaller de shark ! " at the same time he allowed 
the rope to run from the coil on deck until about 
eighty yards had been expended ; then as the fish 
had halted and turned, he drew in some slack line, 
with which he took a turn round the base of the 
mast ; after this he drew in line hand over hand until 
he felt a tug that would have pulled Tim overboard 
had he been unprepared, and away dashed the shark 
once more. This time Tim was determined to make 
him work for his line, and having grasped the rope 
between a portion of a sail to prevent it from chafing 
his hands, he held on with all his might, and merely 
allowed it to slip through his grasp as he felt himself 
compelled. 

The fish was not many feet shorter than the raft, 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 249 

and as he ran out the entire length of line that Tim had 
fastened to the mast, he now dragged the raft slowly 
along in whatever direction he chose to take. As it 
was perfectly calm, Ned left the helm and came to 
Tim's assistance, and the two strong lads of sixteen 
gave the shark some trouble, as they hauled together 
on the line with all their might. At times they were 
obliged to let the fish run, until once more it had 
regained the full extent of the rope ; but as the raft 
acted as a buoy against which the shark had to pull, 
it became exhausted, and the united strength of Ned 
and Tim at length prevailed. 

For about half an hour the struggle had continued, 
when having hauled in the greater portion of the line, 
the shark was seen within ten yards of the raft ; it 
still persisted in keeping in the depths, but as the 
two lads were equally determined that it should come 
to the surface, they hauled away with such vigour 
that by degrees the immense creature was secured 
by a short rope, and it lashed about in the rage of 
its capture within a few feet of the raft. Ned now 
prepared a bow-line which he threw over the shark, 
and slipping it cleverly over the tail, he drew the noose 
tight, and fastened the line to the stern of the raft. 

" Now, Tim, give me a musket," cried Ned, as he 
tied the knot, " and I'll finish him off." 

In an instant Tim handed the musket, and Ned 
went to the centre of the raft to obtain as close a shot 
as possible at the nape of the neck, if we may so 
describe that portion of a shark where the first 
vertebra of the spine is connected with the head. 
Taking a steady shot at a moment when the fish was 



^ 



250 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

quiet, Ned fired, and the shark gave a convulsive 
shudder, and then stiffened like a log of timber, as 
every muscle strained in the pang of death ; the 
ball had divided the spine at its junction with the 
brain. 

Ned and Tim now surveyed their prize in triumph 
as it lay by the side of the raft ; it was about 
seventeen feet in length, and so heavy as to be 
perfectly unmanageable. Tim proposed that they 
should cut off as much as they required for food, 
and then let the carcase adrift. Ned did not see 
the force of the argument : as they had just thrown 
the beef overboard to lighten the raft, why should 
they exchange weight for weight ? They were thus 
arguing the question, when an event occurred which 
relieved them from the difficulty. As Ned looked 
towards the shore, which appeared much nearer, as a 
current had taken them closer to the land, he was 
surprised to see hurrying towards them six canoes, 
which he had not before observed, as he had been 
so busily engaged in the capture of the shark ; 
they were about a mile distant, and there could 
be no question that the raft was the object of their 
attention. 

Although both Ned and Tim expected assistance 
upon arrival on the shore, they were somewhat dis- 
turbed at the appearance of so many canoes, and 
they immediately held a council of war. Tim was 
as brave as a lion, and was ready for a fight should 
Ned only give the word ; but the latter wisely con- 
sidered that fighting should only be resorted to in 
the last extremity : they were utterly helpless, unless 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 251 

they could make friends ; therefore it was of the first 
importance that they should establish amicable rela- 
tions with the natives. Having well considered their 
position, Ned determined to load all the muskets, 
and he prepared for a resolute defence should it be 
necessary ; at the same time he cautioned Tim, that 
he should avoid all chances of dispute. The muskets 
and double barrelled guns were quickly in order ; 
spare ammunition was arranged so that it would be 
immediately at hand, and Ned loaded Jem Stevens's 
handsome pistols, which he at once stuck in his belt. 

The canoes approached with great quickness, and 
with the telescope Ned discovered them to be full of 
blacks. 

" If dey real niggers, Massa Ned, we make 'em 
frens," exclaimed Tim. "Tim knows de niggers ; 
fill de nigger's belly, make de nigger frens ; dat's de 
trick 'xactly ! Tim knows ! fill de nigger's belly wid 
de shark ! dats de trick 'xactly ; niggers dance and 
sing when dey see de big shark." 

There was much truth in Tim's philosophy. 



!¦"¦ 

1. 



252 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 



CHAPTER XIV. 

The canoes, quickly paddled by a number of men, 
neared the raft, which still lay helplessly becalmed. 
As the leading boat approached within a hundred 
yards, both Ned and Tim made signs of friendship, 
and, as the latter was as black as themselves, the 
negroes no longer hesitated to come alongside. Tim 
now called to them in his own language, which they 
did not appear to understand, but a small amount of 
pantomime quickly explained the capture of the 
shark, and, as they caught sight of the huge fish float- 
ing in the water, they paddled rapidly to the raft. 

Without a moment's hesitation many leapt on 
board, and, hardly noticing Ned or Tim, they seized 
upon the shark, and with their sharp lances, which 
they used as knives, they at once began to separate 
the flesh from the bones. There was a third party, 
however, who had no idea of submission to this sudden 
invasion of the raft ; this was Nero, who, having 
bristled up his back at the rude intrusion, presently 
fastened his teeth in the naked thigh of a savage who 
had roughly run against him. In an instant the 
negroes sprang back to their canoes in fear, as, never 
having seen a powerful Newfoundland dog, they had 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 253 

no idea that Nero belonged to the race, and they 
regarded him as a ferocious animal. 

At this sudden retreat Tim burst into a roar of 
laughter, while Nero barked his loudest at the dis- 
comfited blacks, until he was quieted by Ned. Tim's 
merriment quickly restored confidence, but not a negro 
would again venture upon the raft, and they set to 
work in earnest upon the shark from their canoes. 

In a much shorter time than could be imagined 
they had divided the flesh into large pieces, which 
were distributed among the canoes ; these w$re heavily 
laden : then cutting off the head for the sake of the 
teeth, which they prized as ornaments, they allowed 
the bones to sink, and taking the raft in tow, they 
paddled to the shore in high spirits, singing and chat- 
tering in delight at the prey they had unexpectedly 
gained. 

A heavy surf drove upon some reefs that protected 
the land, but the canoes avoided the danger by 
passing through an opening which presently led them 
into still water ; this narrow bay ran inland for a con- 
siderable distance, and was surrounded upon all sides 
by dense groves of cocoa-nut palms. 

The water was beautifully clear, and as Ned looked 
over the side he could distinctly see the bottom at a 
depth of about twenty feet ; this was a mass of coral, 
and the low shore around appeared to be of the same 
peculiar formation; it had become covered with a 
poor sandy soil, upon which the cocoa-nut palm 
invariably thrives. 

The canoes towed the raft for about half a mile 
along this lovely inlet, until, bending to the left, a 



254 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

small village of circular huts was observed close 
to the water's edge, beneath the shade of the cocoa 
palms ; to this spot the canoes slowly paddled, as 
the raft was heavy, and they were themselves deeply 
laden. 

A long shrill tremulous cry was now raised by a 
crowd of women who stood upon the bank to welcome 
them, and as the canoes touched the shore, many 
sprang into the water and assisted to unload them, 
which they completed with wonderful quickness, and 
laid the masses of fish upon a row of neat palm mats, 
which had been immediately prepared. As the women 
were naked, with the exception of a small ornament, 
composed of fringe and cowrie shells, that formed a 
short apron from the hips, they could move with 
great activity, and they took to the water and washed 
themselves like amphibious animals, after they had 
arranged the oily fish upon the mats. They would 
now have unloaded the raft had not Nero barked 
angrily as they approached, which sent them hurrying 
back amidst the laughter of the crowd of men, who 
had been similarly repelled when they first boarded 
from their canoes. 

Ned and Nero, the white boy and the black dog, 
were now the objects of the women's curiosity. As 
Nero could protect the raft, that was now moored to 
a palm-tree close to the shore, Ned jumped on land 
and took his seat beneath a shady tree, at the same 
time he made signs to the crowd that they should sit 
down. At this moment a girl brought him a new 
mat, neatly woven with the split leaves of palms, 
upon which he was requested to sit instead of on the 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 255 

bare ground. He now attempted to explain, by signs 
and gestures, the shipwreck and their escape. The 
chief now appeared ; he was a grey-headed old man, 
of a tall and commanding figure. Upon his arrival 
Ned rose from his seat and offered him his hand, but 
instead of receiving it according to European custom, 
he took both his hands and raised them three times 
above his head as the native form of welcome ; he 
then made a sign that Ned should resume his seat, 
upon which he also sat down upon a leopard-skin that 
one of his followers carried for that purpose. Once 
more Ned was obliged to go through the pantomime 
that he had already performed, to explain the acci- 
dent that had befallen them ; in this he was assisted 
by a number of volunteers, who conceived that they 
had understood the story : accordingly they broke in 
upon the conversation as interpreters, and concluded 
by a general chaos of noise and confusion. 

The palaver ended by the old chiefs expressing a 
wish to examine the raft : accordingly Nero was 
whistled for by Ned, and, as he came bounding 
towards him, the whole crowd took to their heels in a 
general panic ; the old chief had followed the example, 
but being at length re-assured as Ned fastened the 
dog to a tree, he ventured on board the raft with a 
few of his people, the rest of the crowd obeying his 
orders by keeping at a respectful distance. Ned 
exhibited the various articles that he had saved from 
the wreck, but nothing pleased the old chief so much 
as the sailcloth, of which he immediately begged a 
portion. A large sail was at once presented to him, 
which he ordered to be carried to his hut. It was 



256 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

now proposed by the chief that the raft should be 
unloaded, and the stores arranged within a hut set 
apart for that purpose, while another dwelling should 
be prepared for Ned and Tim. There could be no 
objection to this ; as the two lads were entirely in the 
power of the natives, the best policy was to secure the 
chiefs goodwill, therefore Ned at once acceded to 
the proposal. A number of men were called, and 
the process of discharging cargo was quickly accom- 
plished. 

Two huts were set apart for Ned and Tim with 
their effects, in one of which the heavy luggage was 
stowed, while the tool-chest, ammunition, and Jem 
Stevens's box were placed in Ned's own hut, together 
with the guns. 

Ned's hut was exceedingly pretty. Like all the 
others it was circular, and about fifteen feet in diameter; 
the walls were formed of large bamboos neatly fixed 
together like the pipes of an organ ; the inside was 
smeared with a mixture of clay and cowdung, with 
which the floor was thickly cemented, and the roof 
was built of a framework of bamboos neatly thatched 
with plaited palm leaves. Around the two huts was 
an enclosed garden, in which were gourds and water- 
melons of different descriptions : these climbed as 
creepers over the high bamboo fence by which the 
little garden was enclosed on three sides, while the 
fourth was protected by the water, as the hut stood 
within a few yards of the margin. Although there was 
no view behind the hut, owing to the height of the 
enclosure, the greater portion of the inlet could be 
seen from the front, from a beautiful position beneath 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 257 



a thick clump of palms which produced a delightful 
shade. 

Ned was well satisfied with their reception, and 
both he and Tim busied themselves in arranging 
their only room. A sail was spread upon the floor, 
upon which were laid two sleeping mats ; beneath 
these the women placed a quantity of palm leaves 
stripped from the stalks, which formed clean and com- 
fortable beds. The large chests served for both chairs 
and table, and, as bamboos were plentiful, Ned soon 
contrived a neat gun rack, against which he placed a 
row of loaded muskets and the two double-barrelled 
guns. Pegs were then driven into the wall in many 
places, upon which were hung pistols and cutlasses, 
with the shark-hook, harpoon, and a variety of 
objects. 

After a couple of hours' work, the hut was con- 
verted into a comfortable home. Tim, true to his 
occupation, arranged his cooking utensils in the other 
hut, where he constructed two simple fire-places, by 
cutting a trench in the floor about six inches deep, to 
create the draught, on either side of which he placed 
some blocks of coral to support his pots. 

Two of the turtles were secured by a rope to one 
fin, and were then allowed to enjoy themselves in the 
water, while the third was killed for the day's con- 
sumption ; a portion of this was sent as a present to 
the old chief. 

Tim's original proverb of "fill de nigger's belly, 
make de nigger frens," was proved to be correct ; 
there was great feasting in the village, pots were 
boiling in all directions filled with shark's flesh and 

S 



^t 



258 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

pumpkin, and the natives were in the best of humours, 
and had taken a great fancy to the new comers. 
The women and girls were much struck with Ned's 
handsome appearance : his rich fair hair and blue 
eyes had been discussed by a crowd of admiring 
ladies, who had already declared that he must become 
a member of their tribe. Tim was also a favourite, 
his good humour and fearless straightforward manner 
had at once gained their confidence ; and the fact that 
the two lads unassisted had been able to capture so 
large a shark was in itself the best introduction to a 
people who held all hunting exploits in the highest 
estimation. 

It was their first night on shore, and Tim's turtle- 
soup and boiled beef were nearly ready for dinner. 
He had cut the under-shell of the turtle into small 
pieces, which is the most delicate portion when well 
boiled ; this had been simmering for some hours, toge- 
ther with the green fat and a few of the turtle's eggs. 
A quantity of red chilis grew in the garden : he had 
accordingly added sufficient of these hot peppers, 
with salt, and a species of wild thyme, with the peel 
and juice of small ripe lemons, that grew in profusion 
around the village. There were few better dishes 
than Tim's turtle-soup when it appeared on table in a 
large gourd shell, steaming hot ; they had no spoons, 
but Ned had strolled along the shore before dinner, 
and had collected some long mussel-shells, which 
were admirable substitutes, and far more beautiful 
than silver. Ned had also scooped out some cocoa- 
nuts, and had converted them into drinking-cups ; 

at night they mixed a little rum which they had 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 259 



saved from the wreck with cool water and fresh lime 
juice, together with some honey which the chief had 
presented to them, and, in this impromptu punch, 
Ned silently drank the healths of all those left at 
home. 

When the moon rose, the natives were sitting round 
their fires revelling in the feast, and the night was 
subsequently employed in singing and dancing, with 
a beating of drums, blowing of horns, and the usual 
wild sounds that accompany savage festivities. 

Several weeks passed away, during which Ned 
employed himself, with Tim's assistance, in perfecting 
his dwelling and arranging the gardens, while his 
leisure hours were devoted to fishing in one of the 
native canoes, and in shooting the wild fowl that 
swarmed upon a small lake within a mile of the 
coast. In all these excursions he was generally suc- 
cessful, and the return of his boat was eagerly looked 
forward to by the negroes, who had learned to regard 
him with much respect, especially as he supplied 
their wants and added to their commissariat. As 
time flew on, Ned gained so high a position in the 
estimation of the old chief that he determined to give 
him one of his daughters in marriage ; and, as matri- 
monial arrangements in those countries are reduced 
to the most practical simplicity, Ned was one evening 
astonished, while sitting in his garden by the sea, 
upon observing a crowd of women, who advanced 
towards him raising the loud and thrilling cry that is 
used upon all joyful occasions. They led a pretty 
young negress of about fourteen. As they approached, 
two of the women brought her in advance of the 

S 2 



260 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

crowd, who had now sat down, and upon arrival 
before Ned they took both his hands and placed* 
them within those of the young girl, after which they 
again raised their disagreeable cry, and the girl took 
her seat upon a mat by Ned's side, who, not having 
received any warning of the intended ceremony, was 
at a loss to understand its meaning. A loud burst of 
laughter from Tim attracted his attention, and Tim's 
mirth having in some degree subsided, he explained 
to Ned that this was the marriage ceremony of his 
own country, and common among many tribes : thus 

¦ 

the young negress, who was the chiefs daughter, was 
now his wife. 

It would be impossible to express Ned's astonish- 
ment and confusion when the girl suddenly rose, and 
throwing her arms round his neck, she half smothered 
him with her embrace. This was too much for Tim, 
who once more burst into a fit of merriment, at the 
same time he exclaimed, "Now Massa Ned got de 
nigger wife, wot Massa Ned's moder say when take 
her home? Ha, ha!" continued Tim, "why de chief 
not send Tim one wife, all for Massa Ned ! noting 
for poor Tim, 'cos he's black he get noting, nigger 
don't like de nigger !" 

This was great fun for Tim, but very unpleasant 
for Ned, and he quickly found out the truth of the 
saying, that " it is much easier to get married than to 
get #«married." Determined, however, that he would 
not be led like a lamb to the slaughter, he now rose 
from his seat, and taking the girl by the hand, he 
led her through the village towards her father's hut, 
accompanied not only by the women who had brought 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 261 

her, but by a great crowd, who followed them with 
the usual yelling to the old chief's dwelling. 

Upon arrival at his hut, the old man was found 
busily engaged in deciding a controversy between two 
of his people, but upon seeing the approaching crowds 
headed by Ned and Tim, he immediately directed 
his attention to the deputation. Tim endeavoured to 
act as interpreter, but to no purpose; then Ned 
attempted an explanation, which was so imperfectly 
understood that the chief imagined Ned was not 
satisfied with his daughter's personal attractions. 

" Ah ! " he at length exclaimed, as an idea struck 
him as the real cause, " you do not like Fernina ; you 
shall have the ox-eyed Bokha, instead. Here, Bokha !" 
he cried ; and almost immediately a large-eyed, hand- 
some girl approached from a neighbouring hut. 

" Go to the white man and take his hand," said the 
chief, "and you, Fernina, go to your hut, he don't 
like you ;" but the latter had no idea of yielding her 
claims so easily, and she clung to Ned with a deter- 
mination not to forsake her prize. At the same time 
the ox-eyed Bokha seized his hand, and Ned was 
fairly captured by the swarthy beauties, who at once 
commenced to quarrel for his possession. The women 
of the crowd now interfered ; some took the part of 
Fernina, others sided with Bokha, until the argument 
grew so hot that they proceeded to blows, and the 
authority of the old chief was obliged to be exercised 
without delay to quell the riot. " Silence ! " he cried, 
in a loud and commanding voice, and at once the 
tumult ceased, and the chief, who was a Solomon in 
his way, addressed them. 



262 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 



"Women," he said, "the white man declines Fer- 
nina, but on the other hand, she desires the white 
man : he would prefer the ox-eyed Bokha, she also 
desires the white man of the yellow hair; do not 
quarrel among yourselves, for I have decided that he 
shall have them both, thus all parties will be satisfied." 

Upon this judgment, delivered by their chief, a 
prolonged yell of satisfaction was raised by the crowd 
of women, in which the men also joined, and the two 
young girls, now rendered happy, held the unwilling 
Ned by each hand. Never did a marriage tie appear 
more binding than when he thus stood in the firm 
grasp of his would-be wives. It was in vain that he 
endeavoured to offer an explanation: not one word 
was understood, until Tim once more came forward and 
apparently cleared the mystery, as the old chief drew 
a long breath, and having obtained silence, he ex- 
claimed, " Ha, now I understand ; at length I under- 
stand ! The black lad also demands a wife ! he shall 
have one : call Goolah of the thick lips." 

Almost immediately, a fat unwieldy girl, whose 
name of the " thick lips " was thoroughly deserved, 
was led forward by two women to be presented. This 
was more than the patience of Ned could bear ; a third 
offering had now been added, although he had waited 
upon the king to decline the first ; he therefore led 
his two lady candidates to an empty hut, and made 
signs that they should enter, which they immediately 
did. " Goolah of the thick lips " was then requested 
to follow, and when all the three were within, Ned 
closed the door, against which he placed with Tim's 
assistance an immense block of coral. The wives 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 263 

were prisoners, and Ned, with unmistakable panto- 
mime, explained to the old chief that they should 
remain in that hut, but that he would not accept 
them ; annoyed with the savage hospitality, Ned 
then hastily withdrew, and accompanied by Tim he 
returned to his own hut, amidst the silence and 
astonishment of the crowd. 

Some weeks had passed since this memorable occa- 
sion, and Ned had observed that the chief and ako 
his people had much changed in their demeanour 
towards him ; they no longer came to sit and stare at 
him in crowds, neither did the chief visit him as he 
had done before, but he was evidently regarded with 
suspicion ; in fact, it could not be otherwise, as he had 
declined the offer of friendship that had been made 
by the old chief in presenting him with his daughters 
as wives. The women had taken a great dislike to 
him, as their vanity had been injured by his refusal to 
belong to the tribe through marriage. 

Under these circumstances, Ned thought that it 
would be advisable, if possible, to escape from the 
negro hospitality and march to Zanzibar, where the 
Portuguese had a settlement, whence he might per- 
haps obtain a passage to Europe in some trading 
vessel. He calculated that Zanzibar was about 200 
miles distant ; thus, could he only follow the right 
direction by compass, he should be able to reach it in 
about twenty days. Should he decide upon this plan 
it would be impossible to carry anything beyond 
ammunition ; all else would have to be forsaken. Tim 
was as faithful as the dog Nero, thus all was quickly 
agreed upon, and it was decided that if possible they 



264 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

should escape on the following day, by pretending 
to go upon a shooting excursion, from which they 
would not return. On more than one occasion Ned 
had requested the chief to supply him with a guide 
to Zanzibar, but he had always been met by some 
frivolous excuse, after he had been asked, " why he 
wished to desert the tribe?" and Ned felt that, 
although externally civil, it had been inwardly deter- 
mined that he should not forsake the country: thus he 
was merely a prisoner unless he chose to enter the 
tribe by accepting a wife from the chief. 

Having determined to act, no time was lost in 
making preparations for escape. The great difficulty 
lay in the lack of means of transport ; but Ned was 
not to be beaten by any obstacle ; thus he quickly 
decided upon the necessary arrangements. His first 
work was to prepare two roomy knapsacks, which, 
with Tim's assistance, he constructed from a piece of 
strong tarpaulin lined with canvas. He then formed 
small saddle-bags of the same material, together with 
a soft pad, which he proposed to arrange on the back 
of Nero, who would be able to carry twelve pounds 
with great ease ; thus if he and Tim could carry forty 
pounds each, they could travel with ninety-two pounds' 
weight of supplies. 

Great management would be necessary in the ar- 
rangement of the luggage ; accordingly, he made six 
small tarpaulin bags, into each of which he packed 
two pounds of gunpowder, making a stock of twelve 
pounds, in addition to one pound each that he and 
Tim were to carry in two horns, which he had fitted 
for that purpose when the last ox had been killed by 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 265 

the negroes. When the bags were filled, he sewed 
them neatly up, and rendered the seams watertight by 
smearing them with the thick milk of the india-rubber 
trees which grew in great abundance ; this was a tree 
of the fig tribe, the milk of which exuded in large 
quantities from the bark when incised; this rapidly 
evaporated, and became solid india-rubber when 
smeared upon any substance and exposed to the air, 
thus it formed an excellent waterproof packing when 
rubbed repeatedly upon canvas. 

Having thus carefully protected the gunpowder, 
Ned selected his supplies : — 2 cutlasses ; 2 double- 
barrelled guns, with two dozen spare flints ; 2 brace 
of pistols ; 2 knives ; 1 cooking-pot ; 20 lbs. bullets, 
and 12 lbs. gunpowder ; 10 lbs. shot ; 2 steels for 
striking fire ; 1 axe and 2 files, and a number of fish- 
hooks and lines ; 2 pairs of shoes ; 1 change of clothes 
for himself, in addition to others for Tim ; a case, con- 
taining sextant, telescope, compass, artificial horizon 
and nautical almanac, with paper, pencil, &c; a few 
medicines, with two gourd bottles of rum, and about 
twelve pounds of biscuits. 

These stores were divided equally between himself 
and Tim, while Nero carried a portion of the bullets, 
and a supply of biscuits for his own use. 

It was on a bright moonlight night that Ned had 
determined to start. At about 1 A.M. when the 
people of the village were asleep, Ned strapped the 
small saddle packs upon Nero, and, with knapsacks 
upon their backs and double-barrelled guns in the 
hands, he and Tim forsook the comfortable hut, and 
struck into the depths of the forest. They marched till 



266 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

daylight upon a narrow footway, that resembled the 
run of sheep ; this was already well known to them 
for a distance of about six miles, as they had often 
travelled upon the route during their shooting excur- 
sions, but beyond that limit all was unexplored. 
When day broke, Ned found himself in a dense forest, 
where giant trees rose to the height of upwards of a 
hundred feet, springing from a thick and tangled 
underwood, through which it would have been impos- 
sible to penetrate except by the narrow path already 
mentioned. They had marched five hours when the 
sun rose at six o'clock ; thus Ned calculated that they 
had made fifteen miles : he accordingly determined to 
push on until eight at the same rate of three miles 
per hour. 

The night had been cool, and they had marched 
almost without fatigue until sunrise, but the last two 
hours had been extremely hot, and Ned was thankful 
when he suddenly arrived on the banks of a clear 
stream that rippled over a bed of pebbles between 
two overhanging cliffs. It was a lovely spot, shaded 
by the dark foliage of the tamarind trees that grew 
in the deep clefts among the rocks, and Ned had no 
sooner arrived than he unstrapped Nero's load, and 
quickly throwing off his own clothes he plunged into 
a pool of cool water that formed a natural basin in 
the river's bed. The dog followed his master, toge- 
ther with Tim, and all revelled in the luxury of the 
morning bath. 

After bathing, Ned arranged the packs upon some 
bare rocks beneath the shade of a large tamarind 
tree, and all being extremely hungry he looked 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 267 



despairingly at the bag of biscuits which formed their 
scanty fare. Tim had already lighted a fire, although 
there was nothing to cook, when Ned suddenly 
listened to a distant sound, and, jumping up, he took 
his gun, which he loaded with shot instead of ball, 
and started along the bed of the stream in quest of 
guinea-fowl that he had heard cackling in the dis- 
tance. He was followed by Nero, and, after a rough 
scramble among the rocks in the bed of the winding 
stream, he arrived close to the sound. As he care- 
fully turned a corner in the river he observed a large 
number of guinea-fowl sitting close together upon 
the branches of a tree, from which they kept up an 
incessant cackling at a falcon which, having captured 
one of their party, was now eagerly devouring its 
prey upon a high rock above the stream. Creep- 
ing through the bushes while the attention of the 
guinea-fowl was attracted by the falcon, Ned arrived 
unseen within thirty yards of the tree, and, aiming 
at the centre of the flock, he fired. To his delight 
five birds fell to the ground, one of which, being 
only winged, would have escaped in the thick bushes 
had not Nero at once secured it ; they were in ex- 
ceedingly good condition, and as Ned felt their fat 
breasts with satisfaction, he tied their legs together 
with a strip of tough bark, which he tore from the 
stem of a mimosa, and then joyfully returned to 
breakfast. They had now sufficient for the evening, 
as the birds were so large that even their appetites 
could hardly manage two for breakfast ; therefore the 
pot was placed upon the fire and two were boiled, 
while three were stuck upon spits for roasting. Tim 



268 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 



was a good hand at jungle cookery, thus he placed a 
straight bamboo across two forked sticks which rested 
in the ground close to the fire; against this he laid his 
spits, with one end fixed in the earth, these he occa- 
sionally turned when they required it, and in about 
forty minutes the fowls were beautifully roasted. 
Breakfast was ready : they wisely determined to eat 
the boiled fowls and to carry the roast upon the after- 
noon march, as they would better support the heat of 
the journey. A few biscuits stewed up with the soup 
of the boiled fowls, together with the bones left from 
breakfast, afforded Nero a hearty meal, and both Ned 
and Tim lay down beneath a shady tree, against the 
stem of which they placed their guns : in a short time 
the whole party, including the dog, were sound asleep. 

They had slept for about four hours when Ned was 
suddenly awoke by a low growl from Nero, and 
sitting up, he saw the dog rush into the jungle and 
bark furiously at some object unseen ; but almost at 
the same instant Ned felt himself seized from behind, 
and before he had time to offer the slightest resist- 
ance, or even to discover the cause of attack, his arms 
were firmly bound, and he was entirely helpless. Tim 
had been secured in the same manner. A loud yell 
was now raised, and Ned was surrounded with a party 
of naked savages armed with spears and bows. Nero 
upon hearing the noise came bounding back from the 
man whom he had attacked in the jungle, and, seeing 
Ned, he immediately took his stand by his side. 

All this happened so suddenly and unexpectedly 
that Ned could hardly believe his eyes, but putting a 
bold face upon the matter, he smiled as the leader of 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 269 



the party confronted him, at the same time he made 
signs that the twisted palm-leaves that confined his 
arms caused him much pain. This man was an im- 
mensely powerful negro, with a ferocious expression 
of countenance, but upon seeing Ned smile he ex- 
amined him closely with surprise ; he then looked at 
the dog and at Tim, as though completely puzzled at 
the nature of his prisoners. In the meantime Nero 
was growling fiercely, although restrained from attack 
by Ned's voice. 

Having satisfied himself that the party consisted of 
only two persons and the dog, the negro chief gave 
an order to his men, who at once prepared two long 
forked sticks, about the thickness of a man's arm. In 
a few minutes Ned found his neck firmly secured in 
the fork by means of a cross piece of wood that was 
lashed across the points. Tim was fettered in a 
similar manner; a rope was then attached to the 
extremity of the handle, and thus led by two powerful 
negroes, both Ned and Tim found themselves in the 
possession of a gang of slave-hunters. Without 
further delay several men took- possession of the 
guns, knapsacks, and various effects that lay upon 
the ground, and they marched rapidly forward for 
about an hour, until they arrived at a narrow path 
which turned to the west, upon which they hurried 
without once halting until nearly sunset. 

Ned was suffering severely from thirst and fatigue, 
the heat was excessive, and upon arrival at a con- 
siderable stream he made signs to the man who led 
him that he wished to drink. At that moment the 
party halted, and the negro descended to the river, 



270 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

and, having slaked his own thirst, he returned with a 
large gourd-shell full of clear water. iNever had Ned 
enjoyed a draught of water with such delight, and he 
drained every drop from the gourd. He now made 
signs that they should release him from the yoke, and 
that he would not attempt to escape. Upon this, a 
consultation was held, which ended by the approach 
of the leader of the party, who, with violent threats 
and gesticulations, explained that, should Ned attempt 
to desert, he would be immediately put to death. 
He then drew a knife from a sheath slung upon his 
arm above the left elbow, with which he cut the rope 
that secured Ned's neck in the fork, at the same time 
he released his arms. 

Ned was so stiff that he could scarcely raise his 
hands to his forehead in gratitude for his freedom, but 
having performed this simple act of courtesy to the 
negro chief, he explained by signs that Tim also 
should be released. Without further delay Tim's 
bonds were cut : at the same time he was given a 
gourd full of water. Having taken a long draught, 
Tim stretched his stiffened arms, and then rubbed his 
elbows as he sat down by the side of Ned, who tired 
out, had thrown himself at full length upon the 
ground. 

" Dis is a pretty kettle ob fish, Massa Ned ! " ex- 
claimed Tim ; " pity Massa Ned didn't marry all de 
ole chief's gals ! Now we run away we got into bad 
bus'ness. Tim knows dis work ; not de fust time 
Tim had his neck in de fork. Dese black fellers big 
blackguards, Massa Ned ; catched we for slaves. 
Tim knows dis work ; catched Tim before now," 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 271 

Tim's former experience had been severely prac- 
tical, and he rightly surmised that both he and Ned 
were captured for the purpose of being sold to some 
neighbourfhg tribe ; thus they might be handed about 
from one to the other as slaves for the remainder of 
their existence. At the same time, when he had 
reflected upon Ned's want of diplomacy in refusing 
the old chief's daughters, he in no way faltered in his 
allegiance, as he was thoroughly prepared to suffer 
any misery so long as he could share the lot of his 
young master; but it was Ned's misfortune that he 
regretted, 

" Do you think they mean to sell us, Tim ? " asked 
Ned. 

" Yes, Massa Ned, pr'aps sell Tim to one man ; 
sell Massa Ned to anocfer." 

"Brutes!" exclaimed Ned, "this slave-trade is, 
indeed, an accursed traffic ! " 

" Yes, Massa Ned," rejoined Tim, " very bad 
bus'ness — almost bad like King George's bus'ness." 

"What do you mean, Tim ?" asked Ned. 

"I say," replied the practical Tim, "de black 
nigger fellows almost bad as de pressgang fellers, 
only not quite. King George's fellers steal de boys 
to let de Frenchmen shoot 'em ; de black niggers 
steal 'em, make 'em do de work : pressgang more 
bad, take de white slaves let de Frenchmen kill 'em." 

Ned would not question Tim's logic : there was no 
doubt of their situation ; the tribes were at perpetual 
warfare with each other for the purpose of capturing 
slaves, some of which were exchanged for ivory with 
distant countries, while others were transported to 



272 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 



Zanzibar, which was the great Portuguese depdt for 
the trade. One fact was clear, that it was necessary 
to find favour in the eyes of their captors, and to trust 
in Providence for tjieir future guidance, fietermined 
upon this policy, although stiff and tired, Ned rose 
from the ground and assisted the party in collecting 
wood for the night fires, that were necessary to protect 
them from wild animals. There was a large quantity 
of fallen timber in the forest, and in a short time the 
united efforts of the people had collected numerous 
trunks and branches of dead trees, which were 
arranged in several piles. All being completed, a 
negro commenced the tedious operation of producing 
fire by the friction of two pieces of wood. He first 
X procured a stick, in which he cut a notch ; he then 

4 

selected a piece of straight and dry wood about as 
thick as the little finger, this he sharpened to a point, 
which he inserted in the notch, and holding this 
firmly upon the ground with his toes, he rapidly 
twirled the upper stick between the palms of his 
hands, so that the point revolved within the notch 
as though it were a drill. In about three minutes 
it began to smoke, but as the success in producing 
fire by this method depends upon the quality of the 
wood, much labour was vainly expended, and the 
friction brought no spark, as the wood was of the 
wrong kind. Ned immediately produced a flint and 
steel from his pocket with a piece of tinder formed of 
canvas : with this he at once struck a light, to the 
astonishment of the natives who crowded round him 
to witness the extraordinary operation. For at least 
ten minutes he was obliged to continue the perform- 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 273 



ance of producing a shower of sparks by the blow 
of the flint and steel, to the intense delight of the 
natives, who vainly attempted it, but only succeeded 
in knocking the skin off their knuckles. 

It was nearly dark, and the forest appeared in deep 
gloom, as the pile of dry wood blazed brightly and 
illumined the trees upon the bank of the river 
where the party had bivouacked. The chief, accom- 
panied by one of his men, had been some time absent 
in a search for wild yams, which abounded in the 
forest, and climbed like gigantic convolvuli around 
the stems of the trees. Tim had already placed his 
pot upon the fire, and the water was boiling in ex- 
pectation of the supply of vegetables, when suddenly 
a loud shriek was heard in the dense wood at no 
great distance ; this was almost immediately succeeded 
by a terrific roar : — another loud cry of alarm was 
heard, and all men rushed to their arms crying, " the 
lion ! the lion ! " 

In an instant Ned seized the gun loaded with ball, 
and without the slightest hesitation he rushed towards 
the spot through the thick bushes, followed by Nero 
and the entire party. In the excitement of the 
moment, his stiffness and fatigue had vanished, and he 
dashed forward with a speed that was hardly equalled 
even by the naked negroes who accompanied him. 
In less than a minute they heard a rush in the jungle 
before them. Ned immediately cocked his gun, but 
in that instant the figure of the powerful negro-chief 
appeared, flying towards them as he shouted the 
dreaded name, " The lion ! " 

A loud roaring and growling was now distinctly 

T 



274 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

heard within a hundred paces of them, and the 
negroes hesitated to advance. Ned resolutely pushed 
forward, followed by Tim and Nero ; and presently 
the dog, who had heard the terrible sound, dashed 
from his masters side, and rushing towards the spot, 
was heard barking loudly at the lion. In a few 
moments Ned arrived at a small open glade in the 
middle of the forest, in which to his horror he saw 
the lion upon the body of a man whom he had seized 
by the throat, while Nero stood within a few yards 
baying him furiously. Upon Ned's arrival in the 
open spot, the lion angrily shook the neck of the man 
as a dog would shake a rat, and then slowly dragged 
the body towards the thick bush. Ned rushed 
forward, and stood within ten paces of the immense 
brute, who seeing himself thus challenged, turned, 
and releasing his hold of the neck of his victim, he 
placed one of his paws upon the chest, and crouched 
upon the ground, facing, and glaring upon his un- 
expected adversary. At this moment Nero sprang 
towards him and barked loudly ; this diverted his 
attention, and the lion turned his shaggy head towards 
the dog ; profiting by the opportunity, Ned took a 
steady aim at the temple, a little in front of the ear, 
and fired. 

. At the report of the gun, the lion rolled over upon 
his back, and convulsively stretched out his prodigious 
paws, which trembled in the palsy of death, as the 
ball had passed through his brain. Hardly had 
the smoke cleared, when Nero rushed in and seized 
the lion by his hairy throat, which he shook and tore 
in desperate fury, at the same time he received a 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 275 

deep scratch from one of the claws that contracted in 
the death struggle. 

At the report of the gun, the natives had rushed 
back in terror, but now that they witnessed its effect, 
they crowded around Ned, and taking his hand, they 
kissed the palm and embraced him after their fashion, 
by raising both his hands three times above his head. 
The ferocious looking negro, who was their chief, also 
drew near in the ecstacy of the moment, and throwing 
up his arms, he shouted an address of admiration, 
which was succeeded by a loud yell of praise from all 
present. The dead body of the negro who had been 
killed, was then drawn upon one side, and left for the 
beasts of prey that would devour it during the night, 
while with exciting shouts of victory, the negroes 
dragged the lion through the forest, and laid it by the 
night fire that was brightly blazing at the place of 
bivouac. 

It appeared that the chief and the deceased negro 
were returning from their search after yams, when the 
lion suddenly sprang upon them from the thick jungle, 
and seizing the man by the throat, he quickly stran- 
gled him ; the chief had thrown his spear without 
effect, as it had glanced from the stem of a tree ; he 
had then shouted for help ; which had been so quickly 
and courageously given by Ned. 

For several hours after the moon rose, the con- 
versation continued upon the recent event, and there 
was a general feeling of astonishment and admiration 
at Ned's courage and the power of the gun. Nero 
also shared in the praise, as the negroes were de- 
lighted that the dog had flown so directly at the lion's 

T 2 



276 CAST UP By THE SEA. 

throat when the fatal shot was fired. While the 
exciting topic was discussed by the blazing fires, the 
heroes of the night, Ned, Tim, and Nero, were 
Stretched upon some dry grass fast asleep, tired out 
with the long day's march ; they had gone supperless 
to rest, as sleep was more desired than food ; in the 
meantime, the natives, having carefully skinned their 
late enemy, made use of Tim's cooking pot and 
feasted on the lion. 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 277 



CHAPTER XV. 

For several weeks following the recent event, Ned's 
captors led him by long and constant marches towards 
the west, but since his gallant behaviour in the 
encounter with the lion, he had been kindly treated ; 
both he and Tim were allowed to march free, and, 
moreover, they were permitted to carry their arms, 
which were useless to the natives. Hardly a day had 
passed without a supply of meat, as the country 
abounded with game, and Ned had killed many large 
antelopes and buffaloes that had fed the entire party ; 
thus upon Tim's proverb, " Fill de nigger's belly make 
de nigger frens," an alliance was established between 
the captors and their prisoners that was exceedingly 
favourable to the latter. 

After a march of three weeks, during which Ned 
calculated that they had travelled 320 miles due west, 
they arrived in an elevated country, where the tem- 
perature was much cooler than any to which they had 
been accustomed. For several days they continued 
to ascend immense slopes of waving grass lands, 
interspersed with clumps of mimosas, whose dark 
green tops were an attraction for large herds of beau- 
tiful giraffes; it was the first time .that Ned had 
seen these stately animals, and as he sat upon a high 



278 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

rock during a halt upon the march, he looked down 
with admiration on the beautiful country before him. 
As far as the eye could reach were undulating plains 
ornamented with trees, while lofty mountains formed 
a dark blue chain in the distance, and abrupt rocky 
hills rising here and there, broke the monotony of the 
vast prairie. Animals of great variety and numbers 
gave life to the scene ; herds of beautiful zebras 
galloped over the plain when disturbed; ostriches 
stalked proudly upon a carpet of bright green turf, 
which afforded pasturage for thousands of antelopes 
and buffaloes that were scattered in large troops 
throughout the landscape. 

The first rains had commenced, thus all was ver- 
dant, but the march was drawing to a close, as the 
rainy season was unfavourable for travelling. 

Another week was passed in steady progress of 
about fifteen miles per day. Every night Ned took 
his latitude by the meridian altitude of a star, and as 
the natives watched him communicating (as they 
thought) with these heavenly bodies, they regarded 
him with feelings of profound respect, as they con- 
sidered that he had brought down the recent showers 
that had so refreshed the land ; thus he was looked 
upon as a rain-maker; a most important person- 
age throughout the interior of Africa. Ned found 
that they had travelled due west, as they had seldom 
diverged more than a mile north or south of the same 
parallel of latitude upon which they had first started ; 
therefore, allowing fifteen miles per day in a direct 
line as the distance marched, he knew by this dead 
reckoning his approximate position. 




CAST UP BY THE SEA. 279 

It was on the twenty-eighth day of marching that 
a scene burst upon Ned's view that almost repaid 
him for the fatigues of the long journey. During the 
morning they had passed through a more than 
usually populated country, and by ten o'clock they 
were near the summit of a hill, to which the negroes 
pointed as the end of their pilgrimage. Upon several 
occasions the guides had endeavoured to explain some- 
thing important connected with this day, and they 
now quickened their pace as they approached the 
brow of the steep slope, the negroes still pointing 
before them as though something extraordinary 
would be seen. The path now wound through a 
narrow rocky gorge, that cleft the summit of the 
hill ; passing through this cleft, overhung with 
beautiful trees and climbing plants, a magnificent 
scene burst suddenly upon them. Ned stood for a 
few moments rivetted to the spot. He looked down 
from a height of about a thousand feet upon a vast 
inland sea, which sparkled in the sunshine, like a 
valley of diamonds, as every ripple on the surface 
reflected the bright rays. On the western side of the 
lake a clear blue outline cut the sky, as a range of 
lofty mountains walled in the mass of waters ; while 
from the spot on which Ned stood, the ground sloped 
in rapid undulations of green turf, ornamented with 
numerous forest trees. Upon the rich pastures were 
innumerable cattle, that belonged to the many vil- 
lages that were scattered at irregular intervals upon 
the slopes ; some of these dwellings appeared to be 
within a few yards of the waters edge, and upon the 
beach could be plainly distinguished rows of canoes, 



2 8o CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

many of which were engaged in fishing, but upon none 
could Ned perceive a sail. 

The country was extremely populous, and as the 
party now rapidly descended the hill, Ned observed 
that every village was strongly protected by stockades, 
while large cattle kraals were erected in the vicinity 
equally fortified, with the addition of a live hedge of the 
impenetrable thorny cactus. There could be no doubt 
that he had arrived at a place of great importance, as 
he had seen nothing approaching to the wealth of 
this country throughout the long march from the sea- 
coast, and Ned felt that if he were to become a slave, 
this spot would most probably be the scene of his 
captivity. As this thought passed through his mind, 
he observed that the more level portions of the 
ground at the bottom of the valley were cultivated 
with various crops, which as he descended, he could 
plainly distinguish to be the tall millet, and sweet 
potatoes, while thick groves of bananas surrounded 
every village, and afforded both fruit and shade. 
There could not be a more lovely country, and Ned 
congratulated himself that his lot appeared to have 
fallen in pleasant places, when, having completed the 
descent, the party passed through a large field of 
millet nearly twice the height of a man> and presently 
entered a plantation of bananas upon a path which 
conducted them to the gateway of the principal 
town. 

They arrived at a curious archway in the thick 
stockade; this was formed of innumerable sharp- 
pointed boughs of extremely hard wood, so closely 
fixed together, and apparently interlaced with their 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 281 



points outwards, that it was necessary to walk exactly 
in the middle of the narrow entrance, which would 
only permit the passage of men in single file. This 
peculiar arrangement was to prevent a sudden sur- 
prise by a rush of men in a large body; and to render 
the approach still more difficult, there was a turn at 
right angles in the middle of the sharp-pointed pas- 
sage, which continued for a distance of about twenty 
feet. The stockade fence was composed of a double 
row of large trees, firmly fixed in the ground, and 
laced together with bamboos interwoven with the 
branches of the hooked thorn mimosa, which would 
be perfectly impenetrable to any naked men, and 
the defence might be considered impregnable unless 
destroyed by fire. 

It was through this fortified work that the party 
now entered the town, when they were almost imme- 
diately met in a large open space by a number of 
the natives, who were lounging beneath the shade of 
an immense tamarind tree ; they immediately rose 
and surrounded them, with expressions of much 
curiosity upon seeing Ned. These natives were 
entirely different in appearance to those who had 
captured Ned and Tim ; their language was per- 
fectly unknown* to the guides, and they were unable 
to converse except by signs, until an interpreter 
could be found who had lived for some time among 
the other tribe. Suddenly Tim came forward, and 
listening for a few moments with intense eager- 
ness to the buzz of voices in the crowd, he ex- 
claimed to Ned, " Dis my people ! dis my talk, 
Massa Ned ! Tim knows de talk !" and without more 



282 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

ado he spoke fluently to the native who was nearest 
to him. 

The effect of this was extraordinary ; Tim was at 
once the centre of attraction, and the people crowded 
round him to hear the account of their journey and 
capture by the band who had led them thither. The 
crowd increased, and as a man of some importance 
appeared, they were at once conducted to a large 
open place in the centre of the town, where they were 
brought into the presence of the chief or king. He 
was a fine man of about forty, and was seated upon a 
carpet of leopard skins beneath the shade of a large 
banian tree, surrounded by many of his people. The 
large crowd that followed Ned and Tim now halted, 
and sat down respectfully at some distance, while the 
two strangers, together with the band of slave hunters, 
were introduced to the king. He now made a sign 
to a negro by his side, who at once struck a large 
drum three times, with slow but heavy beats; the 
effect was instantaneous, every voice in the crowd of 
more than a thousand persons was hushed. 

Complete silence having been restored, the king 
addressed Ned in a few words, desiring the entire 
party to be seated, and to explain whence and for 
what purpose they had arrived. 

Tim now became the spokesman, and in a long but 
clear discourse he gave an account of the shipwreck 
and their subsequent journey ; he also described his 
first arrival in England, to which country Ned 
belonged. 

The king and his people were intensely interested ; 
they had never heard of any white nation; and he 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 283 



at once requested to know whether all men were 
white in England, or whether Ned was an excep- 
tional curiosity ? 

Tim gave him a description of the people, and the 
immense power of the country ; at the same time he 
endeavoured to explain the nature of our weapons, 
and he at once exhibited his gun. 

The king took it in his hands, and nodding com- 
placently, as though he thoroughly understood it, he 
placed the muzzle in his mouth, and pronounced it 
to be an exceedingly inconvenient form of tobacco- 
pipe. As the gun was loaded, Tim explained the 
danger of the weapon, and as several fowls were run- 
ning about in the open square, he asked permission 
to exhibit the effect. At about thirty yards' distance 
he fired his gun, which being loaded with large shot 
killed three fowls ; he then quickly fired the remain- 
ing barrel, which killed two more. At the instant of 
the discharge, a panic seized upon the crowd, who 
having never heard a gun, were terrified at the report, 
and rushed off in all directions, falling over each 
other in the scramble to get away; as the first 
shot was repeated by a second, they expected a con- 
tinuation of the terrible noise, and having witnessed 
the death of the fowls, they dreaded a similar fate. 

Although the king had shared in the panic, he had 
recovered his self-possession sufficiently to enable him 
to strike the drum, at the sound of which the fright- 
ened crowd resumed their seats, while Tim explained 
the nature of the weapon and the tremendous power 
of gunpowder. 

Order having been restored, Tim continued his 



284 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 



discourse, and explained how the largest animals 
could be killed by the gun as instantaneously as the 
fowls that had been just shot ; he then described the 
attack of the lion that Ned had destroyed by a single 
bullet, at the mention of which a loud murmur of 
applause was uttered by the throng of listeners. 

When Tim had finished his narrative, he wisely 
concluded by a petition to the king for assistance ; he 
described how he had been stolen as a slave when a 
child, and he gave the name of the tribe to which he 
had. belonged. Upon hearing this name, the king 
exclaimed in surprise, as the chief of that country 
was his great ally, and his principal town was situated 
at the extreme end of the lake, which he described as 
ten days' journey for a canoe, or about 250 miles to 
the west ; thus Tim was not far distant from his own 
home. 

After some minutes' reflection, the king spoke to 
his councillors, who sat at his feet, and at once gave a 
command that the gang of slave-dealers who had 
captured Ned and Tim should be brought before him. 
Through the medium of an interpreter he questioned 
the powerful negro who was the chief of the party, and 
as he explained that he had arrived for the purpose of 
buying slaves in exchange for beads and brass coil 
bracelets, the king offered to supply them on condi- 
tion that he should receive Ned and Tim as presents, 
together with all their effects. The parcels that had 
been carried by the slave hunters were now brought 
forward and examined. Mats were spread upon the 
ground, upon which large piles of glittering beads of 
all colours were laid ; these were sorted into numerous 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 285 

small heaps, each of which was supposed to represent 
the price of a slave. The brass bracelets were next 
produced ; these were formed of about four feet of 
wire, of the thickness of a drawing-pencil, twisted into 
a coil to fit the arm from the wrist upward. One of 
these highly-prized ornaments was the value of a 
female slave. After much bargaining, during which 
a small number of beads were added to each pile, and 
a couple of bracelets thrown into the general offer, 
it was decided that, on the following day, one hundred 
and fifty slaves should be delivered to the leader of 
the gang. 

The meeting was broken up, and Ned was shewn 
a hut that was to be appropriated by him and Tim ; 
the crowd made way for them as Nero growled 
angrily and bristled up his back when intruded upon 
too closely, and in a few minutes Ned found himself 
in possession of a clean circular dwelling within the 
king's private court, in which were numerous huts 
enclosed within a ring fence of palisades ; these were 
occupied by the king's wives, and by other members of 
his family, who now issued from their doors to exartiine 
the new arrivals. There was nothing remarkable in 
Tim's appearance, with the exception of his clothes, 
as the only difference between himself and the natives 
consisted in their nudity ; the men had not a vestige 
of clothing beyond a scarf * of tanned antelope's hide 
that was fastened across the shoulders and hung 
loosely before the body ; the women wore a neat 
apron of finely plaited twine that was spun from the 
fibre of the wild aloe. 

The usual thrilling cry of welcome was raised as 



286 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

Ned and Tim were led to their hut. It was exceed- 
ingly clean, and was surrounded by a court neatly 
cemented with a hard coating of clay and cowdung, 
which is general throughout Africa. The view was 
extremely beautiful, as the front of the hut com- 
manded the lake, which was about a quarter of a mile 
distant ; in this spot it appeared to be about twenty 
miles in width, and the opposite side was bordered by 
lofty hills which looked a rich purple in the distance. 
Towards evening several slave women brought a large 
circular wooden bowl with a steaming mixture of kid 
stewed with sweet potatoes and bananas ; this was 
exceedingly hot with red pepper, and Ned thought it 
almost surpassed Tim's art in cookery. 

" Not too good, Massa Ned/' said Tim, who 
was jealous of the strangers' success ; " too plenty 
pepper got in de stoo. E-e-ch£!" continued Tim, 
sneezing violently, but shamming* "bad cook dis 
people ; not cook like me. Tim knows de trick 
'xactly." 

In spite of this criticism, Tim eat heartily, and by 
the time that dinner was concluded the bowl was 
nearly empty. The boys were both tired, and throw- 
ing themselves down upon clean mats, they slept 
soundly. 

On the following morning, before sunrise, Ned was 
awakened by the loud beating of drums and blowing 
of horns, and upon rising hastily, he was surprised to 
see a vast crowd of people assembled in the king's 
court, headed by himself in person, who came to 
summon him to a council. The fact was that, during 
the night, much feasting had been going on, and the 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 287 

chief of the gang that had formerly captured Ned 
had communicated the intelligence to the king that 
he was a renowned rain-maker ; thus Ned's presence 
among the tribe would be of inestimable benefit to the 
country, that was subject to severe droughts. He had 
described how Ned conversed with the stars and moon, 
and how he stared at the sun with an extraordinary 
instrument, although the eyes of common men could 
not for a moment support its light. He also repeated 
the account of the conflict with the lion, and he 
declared that he had no doubt that Ned possessed 
the power of magic As the king was surrounded 
by many of his people when this description was 
given, an immense excitement was created, and after 
a long consultation it was determined that, on the 
following morning the king and his people should 
visit the fair-haired sorcerer, and request him to 
perform some feat of sorcery. Ned had left his hut 
to meet the king, and Tim, who acted as inter- 
preter, shortly informed him of the object of the 
deputation. 

It was in vain that Ned declared he had no super- 
natural power ; the more that he protested, the firmer 
was their belief; and the king requested to examine 
all the curious articles that he possessed, and that 
their use might be explained. Tim at once unpacked 
the knapsacks and produced the sextant, which the 
king declined to touch, as he was not sure that it 
might not explode like the gun on the preceding 
day. Ned then exhibited the compass : this perfectly 
delighted him, as the needle followed the blade of a 
knife which Ned passed around it ; the king wished 



288 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 



to touch the needle, but was astonished that his 
finger could not reach it on account of the glass 
which covered the surface of the instrument. This 
was a matter of extreme curiosity ; glass was un- 
known, therefore the nature of the obstruction was 
not understood. The needle could be seen, but not 
touched, as an invisible substance protected it from 
contact with the hand ; this was handed from one to 
the other of the king's great men, and at once declared 
to be magic. Among others in the crowd were the 
king's sorcerers ; these were old men whose heads 
were ornamented with chaplets of dried lizards and 
toads, with pieces of the roots of certain trees that 
were supposed to be charms. Around their necks 
were long necklaces composed of entire tortoiseshells 
about three inches long, together with crocodiles' 
teeth, lions' claws, and the black seeds of the wild 
plantain. When the compass was handed to them 
they at once declared it to be a spell, and advised the 
king to return it immediately to the owner. 

Ned having already gained the reputation of a 
magician, was now obliged to continue a performance 
which tended to increase the belief in his, power. He 
produced the quicksilver that belonged to the artificial 
horizon ; some of this he poured into a cocoa-nut shell, 
which he handed to the king, and requested him to 
touch it. Both the king and his sorcerers dipped 
their fingers in the supposed water without being 
able to wet them ; this was still more wonderful than 
the compass ; the shell was passed from one to the 
other, while each attempted to moisten the tips of 
his fingers, which he carefully examined after every 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 289 

experiment. At last a small quantity was spilt upon 
the ground, which forming into numerous globules, 
afforded general amusement as they vainly attempted 
to secure them with their fingers and thumbs. The 
mercury was at once declared to be magic water that 
had the power of producing rain. 

The telescope was now exhibited and its use 
explained. Ned then raised it to his eye, and directed 
the sight to a herd of cows that were being milked at 
some distance : upon seeing this, the king suddenly 
snatched it from him, and begged him never to look 
at either cows or goats with such an instrument, or 
they would assuredly lose their milk. Yielding at 
once to the superstition, Ned requested the king to 
observe some object through the telescope ; this he 
vainly attempted, and his example having been fol- 
lowed by his sorcerers with the same want of success, 
it was returned to Ned as a magic instrument that 
could only be used by himself: accordingly Ned 
unscrewed the large magnifying glass, and, as the sun 
was bright, he requested the king to stretch forth his 
hand, then directing the focus of the burning glass 
upon his black skin, the king suddenly sprang back- 
wards with the pain. Recovering from his first sur- 
prise, the king now insisted that a similar experiment 
should be tried upon all his sorcerers, as their charms 
and spells, if potent, should protect them from the 
white man's magic. Each offered his arm. The first 
bore the pain heroically for a few seconds as the skin 
burnt and smoked in the fire of the sun's focus : he 
could then support it no longer, and he suddenly cried 
out and quickly withdrew his arm, which was severely 

V 



290 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

scorched One by one each sorcerer was subjected 
to the ordeal, and all having suffered alike, the king 
declared that their magic was inferior to that of the 
white man, and that they were useless in comparison 
with him. Ned then set fire with the glass to a piece 
of canvas rubbed with gunpowder ; this was handed 
from one to the other with admiration, amidst general 
exclamations of delight and astonishment. 

" What are they saying, Tim ? " asked Ned. 

" Dis black niggers stoopid people, Massa Ned/' 
replied Tim ; " dey say de white man got de fire in 
one eye and de water in de odder eye, so he make 'em 
fire when he like, and rain when he please. Dat's 
all right ! " continued Tim. " Tim knows de niggers ; 
give 'em little 'stonishment, dat's de right trick 'xactly. 
Now de black king make Massa Ned a big man." 

Perfectly satisfied with the treasure he had gained 
in Ned, the king lost no time in collecting the 150 
slaves that he had agreed to supply to the negro 
dealer ; he at once gave an order that a certain 
refractory village in the neighbourhood should be pil- 
laged, and the inhabitants sold as slaves. Accord- 
ingly, at about 3 A.M. on the following morning, a 
party of a thousand men started by moonlight for the 
purpose of surprising the village before the people 
should awake: this brutal order was given because 
the headman of the village had refused to pay the 
customary tribute. A little before daybreak Ned 
perceived the flames of the burning huts, as the fire 
destroyed the inflammable constructions of thatch 
and wood, at a distance of about four miles from the 
principal town. The king was standing in his own 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 291 

court-yard enjoying the scene of destruction, and in a 
few hours his army returned, having killed many of 
the men, and captured several hundred women and 
children of both sexes. These unfortunate people 
were secured in a living chain, tied neck to neck by 
thongs of hide ; others were fastened by the necks in 
forked sticks, similar to those in which Ned and Tim 
had been confined when first taken by the slave gang. 
Some of the young girls were crying bitterly ; there 
were mothers with infants in their arms, others who 
had lost their children in the massacre, and many 
children who had seen their parents ruthlessly speared 
before their eyes. The prisoners were now ranged in 
several rows in the large enclosure that formed the 
court, after which they were inspected by the negro 
slave-dealer, who selected 150, according to the bar- 
gain he had made with the king; these were taken 
without the slightest regard to the relationship of the 
individuals. An infant was torn from the arms of a 
pretty young mother, while she was led away with the 
lot selected for transportation, without the smallest 
attention to her cries of agony at the separation, 
from her child. Children of twelve and fourteen, 
were taken sobbing bitterly from their parents,, 
and the whip of hippopotamus hide descended 
cruelly upon their naked shoulders, when they strug- 
gled to remain with their mothers, from whom they 
were torn. At length the requisite number was com- 
plete, and the band of slave-dealers that had brought 
Ned to the country now commenced their return 
march, with 150 slaves to supply other black dealers 

U 2 



292 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

who would conduct them to the Portuguese posses- 
sions on the coast near Zanzibar. 

As they disappeared from the town, the remaining 
slaves were distributed by the king among a number 
of his people, who were allowed to have the use of 
them, provided that they agreed to restore them or 
others in their stead whenever they might be required. 
There were many heart-rending scenes as they saw 
their relatives disappear, while they were themselves 
divided and apportioned to strangers. 

Ned looked on in horror at the infamous traffic, 
while it recalled to Tim's recollection the scene of his 
first day of slavery. 

" So de nigger eat de nigger ! " exclaimed Tim 
philosophically. " Bad fellers dese black chaps," he 
continued ; " where 'spect to go to ? eh ? God shut 
is eye, let de debbel catch de nigger. Pray God take 
care of Tim." 

This theological sentiment closed the melancholy 
scene. 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 293 



CHAPTER XVI. 

Several months passed away, and with them the 
rainy season closed, and the harvest was gathered in. 
The sun now resumed its sway, the clouds had given 
place to a spotless sky, and the vivid green gradually 
faded, and the country parched into a bright yellow ; 
the smaller streams all dried up, and even the great 
lake sank a few feet below the former level. 

It was now the season for hunting, and parties were 
organized for killing elephants and hippopotami, the 
flesh of which was the principal food of the people ; 
this was dried in strips, and then hung up in the 
smoke of their cabins in sufficient quantities to last 
for many months. 

The harvest of meat was considered almost as im- 
portant as that of corn ; therefore while a portion of 
the men and the whole of the women were engaged in 
the cultivation of their fields, those who were most 
active and courageous formed bands of hunters, and 
provided a supply of flesh. To be distinguished for 
exploits in the hunting grounds was considered to be 
even more meritorious than acts of valour on the field 
of battle, and as Ned had gained a great reputation by 
the death of the lion, he was expected to perform 
prodigies in the chase of wild animals. Next to the 



294 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

king, he was already the greatest man in the country, 
as his supposed power in magic had given him an 
extraordinary influence Among his medicines he 
had a large supply of calomel and emetic tartar : the 
effect of these drugs upon the sick had gained him 
much repute, and his success as a physician was also 
attributed to sorcery. Although Ned was no charla- 
tan, he found it impossible to stem the tide of public 
opinion, and he was forced to allow the natives to 
indulge in their superstitions. There was, however, 
much danger inseparable from his exalted position : 
the king was an ignorant savage, and although he 
believed thoroughly in magic, his confidence in the 
individual sorcerer depended upon success, and the 
law of the country determined that three successive 
failures should be punished by the death of the rain- 
maker or magician. To Ned's horror and disgust, two 
of the king's sorcerers had already been put to death 
in his presence for having repeatedly failed in their 
prophecies of success to the hunting parties. The 
fault was considered to exist in a lying spirit in the 
inside of the sorcerer: the unfortunate wretch was 
therefore put to death before all the people, by being 
ripped open with a sharp knife, when his vital organs 
were carefully examined by other sorcerers, who pre- 
tended to discover the traces of the evil spirit. 

It was not long before Ned was requested by the 
King to foretell the result of a hunting expedition 
that was about to start upon a large scale. With the 
horrible fate of the unlucky prophets before him, Ned 
declared, with much tact, that great success would 
attend the hunting party should he and Tim accom- 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 295 

pany the hunters; it was accordingly arranged that 
he should take the entire command. 

At daybreak on the following morning, Ned, 
accompanied by Tim and Nero with fifty picked men, 
started upon their expedition in five large canoes, 
formed from the straight stems of gigantic trees. 

The sun had just risen when the little fleet 
paddled rapidly along the shore ; the men were in 
the highest spirits, as Ned's presence among them 
inspired a confidence of success. For ten hours they 
paddled without ceasing, merely halting to relieve 
each other at the oars, and Ned reckoned that they 
had travelled about thirty-five miles, when, at four 
o'clock, the leading canoe steered into a narrow bay, 
with a clean sandy beach, upon which the crews dis- 
embarked and dragged their vessels high and dry. 
A ridge of precipitous rocky hills of several hundred 
feet high bordered the lake about a quarter of a mile 
from the water, which appeared to extend to their 
base during the floods of the rainy season; the 
flat, sandy ground between them and the lake was 
scantily covered with a fine silky grass, and the 
soft earth was deeply imprinted with numerous 
tracks of elephants, hippopotami, giraffes, and other 
large animals. 

This part of the country was uninhabited, and 
therefore it abounded with game. 

While the hunters removed their weapons and 
light baggage from the canoes, Ned strolled with his 
gun to the base of the rocky hills, and perceiving that 
they were too precipitous to ascend, he concluded 
that the wild animals must descend to the lake by 



296 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 



some pass from the high ground above. Continuing 
along the base of the hills, it was not long before he 
arrived at the dry bed of a torrent that descended 
between two walls of rock that formed a ravine from 
the high lands to the lake ; this was completely 
trodden down by the feet of the ponderous animals 
that nightly arrived by that path to drink. It imme- 
diately struck Ned that, if he were to watch the pass 
by moonlight, with Tim and their two double- 
barrelled guns, he would be able to cut off any 
animals that should descend, as he would have the 
advantage of a secure position about twenty feet 
above them. Determined to carry out his plan, he 
hurried back to the party, who had already settled 
themselves for the night behind some high rocks 
which effectually concealed their fire. Ned now 
explained his plan to Tim and the people, and having 
dined off a large fish, which one of the hunters had 
harpooned during the voyage, he tied Nero to a tree, 
telling him to watch his knapsack of clothes and 
ammunition, and with a caution to the hunters to 
observe the greatest quiet, he started with Tim to 
watch the pass. 

Upon arrival at the mouth of the gorge, which 
formed an alley or narrow street through the hill-side, 
Ned climbed up the steep ascent and took his position 
beneath a small tree that grew among the clefts of 
the rocks exactly on the edge of the ravine ; thus he 
commanded the pass, as he could drop a pebble upon 
any animal that passed below. This curious pathway 
was of great length, as it was by no means precipitous, 
but descended at a gradual inclination with many 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 297 

windings from the table-land on the summit of the 
hills. 

The wind blew towards the lake, thus it was 
favourable for the watchers. 

The moon was nearly full, and not a cloud dimmed 
the face of the heavens ; thus it would be almost as 
easy to shoot correctly as in daylight, especially as 
Ned had taken the precaution to fasten a piece of white 
paper, cut into a sharp point, as a sight at the muzzle 
of the guns. At length, as daylight entirely faded, 
the moon seemed doubly bright, and the night set in 
with that brilliancy that can only be seen within the 
tropics. There was not a sound to be heard except 
the occasional splashing and loud sonorous snort of 
the hippopotami among the reeds by the margin of 
the lake, and the hum of mosquitoes that tormented 
Ned without ceasing. 

About an hour passed in fruitless watching; the 
moon was now high enough to throw her light 
directly into the ravine, and suddenly, although no 
sound had been heard, Ned perceived a dull grey 
mass, that looked like a large portion of the rock, 
moving slowly forward from an angle in the gorge. 
The mass suddenly halted, when, in the distance, a 
sound rang through the still night air like the shrill 
note of a trumpet. A low and deep growl, like the 
rumbling of distant thunder, seemed to shake the 
rock upon which Ned lay concealed. Suddenly a 
tremendous trumpet sounded from the gorge where 
the dull grey mass had halted, and, growling deeply, 
the bull elephant advanced unconscious of impending 
danger along the bottom of the ravine. Another and 



298 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

another elephant followed until the leader passed 
directly beneath the spot where Ned and Tim were 
concealed; the entire alley was crowded with the 
herd of enormous animals as they followed their 
leader in single file towards the lake. 

Ned's heart beat loudly with excitement as one 
by one the elephants passed below him; but he 
reserved his fire until eight or ten had made their 
exit from the gorge, as he rightly conjectured that, 
at the alarm of the first shot, those who had already 
passed out would endeavour to return whence they 
came ; this would create great confusion in the narrow 
pass, during which he would have an opportunity of 
selecting the finest animals. 

As the elephants slowly filed below, Ned whis- 
pered to Tim to hand him the spare gun as quickly 
as possible when he should require it, and aiming 
behind the ear of a large bull that was not more 
than five paces distant, he fired. The huge animal 
fell dead to the shot For some minutes the herd 
of elephants remained stationary as though suddenly 
turned to stone; the flash of the gun and the un- 
known report had completely astonished them, and 
they waited in uncertainty of the position and nature 
of the danger. During this time Ned reloaded his 
gun, and aiming at the temple of a large elephant 
that stood exactly before him, he again fired. To 
his delight this animal fell likewise ; but now an 
indescribable scene of confusion arose. At the last 
flash of the gun those elephants that had already 
passed from the gorge turned quickly round, and 
charged desperately in their retreat up the narrow 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 299 

¦ — t ¦¦ — ¦—¦¦¦ — . ¦ 

pass, which was blocked, not only by the bodies of 
the two dead elephants, but by the dense mass of 
animals which, seized by the panic, now wedged 
closely together in their frantic endeavours to escape. 

There was no necessity for concealment, and Ned 
quietly stood upon the edge of the rocks, just out of 
reach of the elephants' trunks, and steadily selected 
his shots, aiming generally behind the ear as the 
most fatal spot Six elephants fell to his guns before 
they could extricate themselves from their helpless 
position ; then, having regained their formation in 
single file, they disappeared at an extraordinary pace 
in the gloom of the ravine. 

This was a good beginning. Tim had handed the 
gun quickly, and had reloaded as fast as Ned had 
fired, and their six prizes now blocked the passage of 
the narrow gorge. But more remained to be done, as 
the night was young and the moon bright ; therefore 
Ned proposed that they should follow the edge of the 
ravine for a considerable distance where it had been 
undisturbed : there they might pass another hour in 
watching before they returned to their party. 

They picked their way among loose rocks until 
they arrived at the summit of the high ground : they 
then discovered what they had supposed to be a hill 
from the level of the lake was merely a cliff, or pre- 
cipitous slope descending from a beautiful expanse 
of table-land, that was a combination of forests 
and plains. From this elevated land the torrents 
descended to the lake by deep gorges that had been 
worn through the hill-side, and Ned once more took 
up his position behind a large tamarind tree that 



yoo CAST UP BY THE SEA. 



overhung the ravine which the elephants had recently 
quitted. The white sand at the bottom of the gorge 
was trodden deeply by the feet of the numerous herd 
that had now retreated to the jungles, in which they 
could be distinctly heard trumpeting and roaring in 
the distance. 

More than an hour passed away without the 
appearance of any animal, and Ned was thinking of 
his return, when he suddenly heard the clatter of 
stones as some hard-footed beast was descending 
the ravine. In a few moments he observed several 
spectre-like forms advancing along the bottom, their 
heads being sometimes on a level with the rocks that 
overhung the edge : they were giraffes who were thus 
descending to drink at the lake. 

As they passed within a few feet of Ned, he fired 
at the head of one that nearly touched him ; this fell 
to the shot, and, as the herd dashed round and rushed 
off with amazing speed, Ned fired his remaining barrel 
at the shoulder of another animal, but, apparently, 
without success, as it retreated with the rest This 
was great luck ; Ned had killed six elephants and a 
giraffe, and he resolved to return to the spot where his 
party had bivouacked, as he had done sufficient work 
for the night The easiest path was by the ravine 
through which the elephants had arrived ; Ned there- 
fore clambered down the rock, followed by Tim, until 
he gained the sandy bottom of the gorge, by which 
gradual descent they arrived at the dead elephants. 
In passing these Tim cut off their tails, as he had also 
done with the giraffe, and with these trophies they 
continued on their way. After passing through a 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 301 



dark strip of forest, they observed the light of the 
fires around which the natives were sitting in anxious 
expectation of their return, as they had distinctly 
heard the shots and the loud trumpeting of the ele- 
phants. Tim, in great triumph, exhibited the tails, 
and recounted the story of the night, to the astonish- 
ment of the natives, who had now obtained as large 
a supply of meat in one night as they were accus- 
tomed to collect in a fortnight's hunting ; they deter- 
mined to visit the spot before daybreak, to prepare 
the flesh and secure it from putrefaction. 

At about 4 A.M. they sallied forth with knives, axes, 
and sacks, to cut up the game ; this they performed 
with great dexterity by dividing the flesh in long but 
thin slips, which were at once hung upon the trees in 
festoons to dry, while fires were lighted beneath to 
preserve it from the flies. While they were thus 
engaged, Ned, with the dog, strolled up the ravine to 
the body of the giraffe which had already been at- 
tacked by hyenas, whose tracks were visible in the 
sand. Knowing that he had wounded a second giraffe, 
he now continued along the ravine, and presently he 
discovered tracks of blood upon the stones upon the 
right hand side of the gully, which proved that the 
animal was wounded. He now carefully followed 
upon the marks until he emerged from the ravine 
among some roughly-broken ground near the summit 
of the table-land ; this was in some places covered 
with thick bush, but Ned remarked that in one spot 
the white sand was reddened with blood, and trampled 
in all directions by the tracks of lions mingled with 
the wide-spreading hoofs of giraffes. It was evident 



yn CAST UP BY THE SEA. 




that some great straggle had taken place, as the sand 
was marked in one direction by a weight that appeared 
to have been dragged across it, as though the giraffe 
had been carried off by the lions. As he followed 
upon the track along which the heavy body had been 
dragged, Nero bristled up his back, and cautiously 
approached a dense covert of thorns within a small 
hollow among the rocks. The dog halted, and ap- 
peared to wind something within the thick jungle, as 
he advanced a few steps nearer and then barked in 
great excitement. Ned felt sure that either one or 
more lions had dragged the body of the giraffe within 
the den of thorns ; accordingly, when within twenty 
paces of the spot, he threw several large stones into 
the middle of the bush. With a loud roar, a magnifi- 
cent lion rushed out from his lair and crouched before 
the bush, eyeing Ned fiercely, and growling deeply as 
though prepared to spring. The lion moved his tail 
rapidly from side to side, striking the ground with the 
tuft of black hair at the extremity with a force that 
made the sand fly like puffs of smoke. This was a 
sign of extreme fury, and Ned momentarily expected 
an attack that would have been difficult to avoid. For 
several minutes they faced each other determinedly, 
Ned all the while keeping his eyes fixed unflinchingly 
upon those of the lion. At length, as the dog con- 
tinued to spring around him, barking without ceasing, 
the lion rose from the ground and stalked proudly 
backwards and forwards before the covert, as though 
to guard the entrance. This was a grand opportunity 
for a side shot at the shoulder, and never did Ned aim 
with greater coolness and accuracy, as he knew that 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 303 



his life depended upon the shot ; trusting to break the 
shoulder-bone, and thus disable him, he fired. With a 
terrific roar, the lion charged with one bound into the 
smoke of the gun ; at the same time that he descended, 
he struck a random blow with his right paw that 
would have felled a buffalo. Fortunately for Ned, at 
the moment of firing he had sprung upon one side, 
and thus avoided the crushing blow. The lion now 
rolled over almost at his feet, and, recovering himself 
immediately, he rushed upon Ned, receiving at the 
same instant the contents of the second barrel in his 
mouth. With great activity, Ned had again avoided 
him in the thick smoke at the moment of firing, and 
Nero rushing in had seized the lion between the hind 
legs, where he hung on with a furious tenacity that 
no efforts of the animal could relax. Ned had Jem 
Stevens's pistols in his belt, one of which he had 
quickly drawn; but the struggles of the lion with 
the dog were so great and extremely rapid, that he 
had no chance of taking a correct aim. The blood 
was pouring from the lion's mouth, as well as from 
a wound through the shoulder, and presently, amidst 
his tremendous efforts to turn and attack the dog, 
he reared to his full height upon his hind legs, and, 
with a savage roar, he fell upon his back with the 
staunch dog beneath him. As quick as lightning, to 
save Nero, Ned rushed in and fired his pistol within 
a few inches of the lion's head, scattering his brains 
upon the faithful dog. The lion never moved a 
muscle. Ned, pale with the excitement of the fight, 
now caressed the dog, who fiercely shook the dead 
lion's throat; after which, he wiped the perspiration 



304 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

from his forehead, and looking up to the clear heavens, 
he devoutly thanked God for protection in the strife. 
He was surveying the carcase of the lion with a hun- 
ter's pride, when Tim suddenly appeared, accom- 
panied by several of the natives who had heard the 
shots and hurried to discover the cause. They could 
hardly believe their eyes when they saw the lion lying 
dead; and, upon entering the jungle, they found the 
remains of the giraffe, which had been partially de- 
voured. They now took possession of the prize ; and, 
having skinned the lion and cut his flesh from the 
bones, they severed his head from the body, together 
with the skin, and returned to their party who were 
busily engaged in taking the meat of the elephants. 

The whole day was occupied by the natives in 
cutting up the elephants, and transporting them to 
the place of bivouac. In the meantime Ned, who 
had no taste for that branch of the expedition, took 
possession of one of the canoes with the assistance 
of Tim, and determined, if possible, to procure some 
fresh fish for dinner. Many drift bamboos were lying 
upon the beach, from which he selected one about 
sixteen feet long and tapered ; he then lashed a thong 
of elephant's hide to the point, so as to form a stiff 
loop in the place of a ring, through which he passed 
a strong line made of the aloe fibre ; to this he at- 
tached a large hook and a piece of light wood as 
a float. With a coil of about a hundred yards of 
line wound upon two pegs a foot asunder, that he 
drove into the butt of his rod in the place of a reel, 
Ned was ready for a day's fishing, with the exception 
of the bait. Tim quickly secured the latter necessary 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 305 

article by forming a line with half a dozen single hairs 
of the giraffe's tail, to which he attached a small book 
baited with a minute piece of elephant's fat. The 
small fish of about half a pound weight bit greedily, 
and, having caught five or six, Tim kept them alive 
in a large gourd-shell of water, and Ned pushed the 
canoe from the shore. The small fish were bright 
and silvery, but they had a tough skin like that of 
an eel instead of scales ; through this, just beneath 
the back fin, Ned inserted the large hook, and throw- 
ing his lively and alluring bait into deep water within 
a few yards of a bank of tall reeds, he patiently 
waited the result. 

About half an hour had passed in perfect silence 
when Ned was startled by a tremendous snort, ac- 
companied by a splash in the water close to the canoe; 
in another instant he felt a severe shock as the head 
of a hippopotamus struck the bottom, and lifted the 
canoe several inches above the surface. As though 
proud of his performance, the angry old bull now 
raised his head above the water, and again snorted 
loudly. Tim snatched up his gun, and, taking a good 
aim, he fired into the middle of its head in a line from 
between the eyes. With a splash the animal dis- 
appeared. Several other hippopotami now showed 
their heads, but at a more respectful distance, as they 
were alarmed at the report of the gun. 

"Dat's what I call a ugly feller," remarked Tim; "he 
got a pair of lips same like de nigger, got a flat nose 
like de nigger, he's de reg'lar water nigger— dat's a 
fact 'xactly." 

Having expressed this opinion upon the natural 



306 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 



history of the hippopotamus, Tim reloaded his gun, 
and Ned was about to make some remark, when his 
float darted off, and the rod was nearly jerked out of 
his hand ; fortunately he held a loose coil that was 
not wound round the pegs, and allowing this to fall 
upon the ground, he grasped the line with one hand, 
and struck hard to fasten the fish. It was impossible 
to check the rush, and for the moment Ned feared 
that a crocodile had seized his bait, and that he 
should lose the tackle, but he was presently un- 
deceived, as an immense fish sprang high out of the 
water, at about eighty yards distant, firmly hooked. 
For about twenty minutes the struggle continued 
between Ned and the fish, which constantly leapt 
from .the water, and, shaking its head violently, 
endeavoured to free itself from the hook. At length, 
as Ned had kept a severe strain upon the line, the 
fish showed signs of exhaustion, and Tim paddled 
the canoe towards a sandbank for the purpose of 
landing their prize in shallow water. Jumping out 
of the canoe, Ned ran backwards upon the bank, 
and keeping a tight line, he presently succeeded in 
leading the fish into the shallows, where it struggled 
helplessly upon its side ; Tim got behind it, and 
falling bodily upon it, he grasped the gills with both 
hands, and dragged it to the shore. The scales were 
as bright as silver, except upon the back, where they 
were a dark slaty blue ; it was a species of perch that 
weighed about eighty pounds, and both Ned and Tim 
rejoiced in their beautiful prize. To preserve it fresh, 
Ned fastened a piece of strong line around the tail, 
and then placed it in deep water secured to a peg 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 307 

upon the bank : thus it quickly recovered from its 
fatigue. 

In about an hour Ned had another run, and 
captured a fish of the same species that weighed 
nearly forty pounds, which he landed upon the sand- 
bank in a similar manner to the first. They had 
again pushed off" in the canoe, when Tim perceived 
something like the back of a large turtle above the 
surface of the water, and upon quietly paddling 
towards it, he discovered that it was the flank of the 
hippopotamus at which he had fired, which now 
floated. This animal always sinks to the bottom 
when first killed, but in about an hour and a half, 
when the gas has distended the body, it rises to the 
surface. Here was an additional supply of food ; and 
returning to the shore, Ned procured a rope, which 
they made fast to one of the hind legs, and towed 
the carcase to the bank, where it awaited the arrival 
of the natives. 

In the evening the hunters returned, having com- 
pleted their task, and upon hearing of the fresh 
supply, they immediately set to work upon the 
hippopotamus. 

In the meanwhile, Tim, ever mindful of the 
cooking department, dug a hole in the ground, about 
four feet deep and three in diameter, like a well 
with perpendicular sides, and having collected a large* 
quantity of fuel, he lighted a fire within the hole, 
which he fed with logs of dry wood, so that it burnt 
fiercely for four hours : by the expiration of this 
time the sides of the pit were red hot, and the 
bottom was a mass of glowing embers. Into this 

x 2 



308 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

natural oven he placed the two fore feet of an 
elephant with a portion of the trunk and the four feet 
of the hippopotamus. He then covered the hole 
with bars of green wood, upon which he piled a few 
armsful of green and well-wetted flags, that he 
procured from the lake. He then plastered the whole 
surface thickly with mud, upon which he piled earth 
and sods firmly beaten down until it resembled a 
grave ; this was to retain the heat within the oven. 
This supply of meat would be thoroughly roasted in 
about thirty-six hours. 

Having dined sumptuously off hippopotamus liver 
cut into steaks and grilled, with slices of the fish fried 
in hippopotamus fat, Ned and Tim threw themselves 
upon their mats close to a blazing fire, and slept 
during the night. 

On waking upon the following morning, Ned found 
the camp already astir — the natives had made numer- 
ous fires, upon which large earthenware pots were ar- 
ranged, and the whole party was occupied in boiling 
down the fat of both elephants and hippopotamus. 
The residue of the meat, after boiling, was carefully 
stored in goat-skin sacks, and was considered a great 
delicacy. No fat can equal that of the hippopotamus 
in mildness of flavour ; this was poured while warm into 
gourd-shells, and allowed to harden. The bladders of 
the elephants were also filled with fat, and not even 
the smallest portion of the numerous large animals 
was wasted. Another day was passed in drying and 
packing their harvest of meat. On the next day 
Ned opened the subterranean oven. Upon removing 
the earth, the coating of mud was found to be per- 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 309 

¦ 

fectly hard like a thick crust ; beneath this the flags 
had retained sufficient moisture to prevent them from 
being burnt, although the oven was still hot and 
steaming. With some difficulty the men now lifted 
out the immense feet of the elephant, together with 
the other baked meats, all of which were laid upon a 
mat strewn with green reeds. The elephant's feet 
were extremely curious, as the soles became detached 
from the foot upon a gentle pressure, and exposed a 
white and inviting surface beneath ; this was a firm, 
but fatty substance that was extremely rich and 
gelatinous. Having taken off the elephant's shoes, 
the feet were divided among the party, and Ned 
thought that he had never eaten anything more 
delicious. 

As the labour of preparing the store of meat was 
completed, the natives wished to return home, as 
the canoes would be nearly filled : they accordingly 
launched their vessels and loaded them with dried 
flesh, fat, and elephants' tusks, together with pieces of 
giraffe hide cut into oblong shapes, that were to be 
manufactured into shields. Everything was ready 
for a start on the morrow, and Ned strolled about 
half-a-mile from the camp before sunset, and climbed 
a high rock to enjoy a more extensive view of the 
landscape. From this position he looked down upon 
the camp, at the same time he commanded a view of 
the pass in which he had killed so many elephants. 
As his eyes instinctively wandered to the scene of his 
first night's sport, he was astonished to see issuing 
stealthily from the gorge into the low ground a long 
string of blacks in single file, all armed with bows 



310 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

__¦_. i m__p_i imi_i_i_M^_^_i_i_ ii i -*- 

and spears. For about ten minutes he watched them 
attentively. Some were painted a bright red : these 
Ned supposed to be chiefs, as they were at regular 
intervals in the file of men which still continued to 
pour from the ravine. Marching directly for a small 
thicket that was near the edge of the lake, the entire 
party of about five hundred men was suddenly con- 
cealed. This had taken place so suddenly and 
quietly that Ned could hardly believe his eyes : there 
could be no doubt that the large armed force was 
lying in ambush for some hostile purpose, and as 
Ned would be forced to pass within a few hundred 
yards of the thicket to regain the camp, he felt that 
his position was extremely hazardous. It was neces- 
sary to give an immediate alarm to his party, but the 
great difficulty lay in effecting a junction. There was 
a small dry watercourse that led from the hill to 
the lake, and Ned immediately determined to crawl 
along the bottom until he should gain the rushes that 
bordered the water, after which he would have no 
difficulty in reaching the canoes, were the men were 
still engaged. There was no time to lose ; sliding 
upon his back down the steep hill-side, Ned reached 
the watercourse : this was tolerably deep in parts, so 
that he could cover his advance by simply stooping ; 
but in the more rocky portions of the trench it was 
shallow, and he was forced to crawl upon his hands 
and knees. He had gained one of these exposed 
positions when he turned his head towards the 
thicket, and he distinctly observed two natives 
peering out from the place of ambush. Ned lay 
flat upon the ground, and did not move for several 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 311 

minutes. Again he slowly raised his head : he could 
see no one, and once more he crawled along the 
ground until he arrived in a deeper portion of the 
watercourse : he then hurried along in a stooping 
position, and at length gained the reeds at the water's 
edge. Under cover of the reeds, he splashed through 
mud and water until he at length reached the canoes. 
Tim was the first person whom he met, as he had 
been fishing in the lake, and had just returned with 
several natives. Upon hearing Ned's account rapidly 
delivered, Tim immediately informed his native com- 
panions. In an instant they rushed to the camp for 
their arms, followed by Ned and Tim. Upon arrival, 
the entire party would have been seized with a panic, 
had not Ned at once assumed the command. 

Upon order being restored, the natives explained 
that the people whom Ned had seen must be men 
of a hostile tribe who had, upon a former occasion, 
massacred a hunting party similar to the present 
expedition ; they had no doubt been informed by 
spies of their presence, and they would attack from 
their ambush during the night. It would be impos- 
sible to resist them, as they were warriors renowned 
for the impetuosity of their onset : thus a force of 
500 men would annihilate a small party at the 
first rush. 

As the canoes were loaded, Ned proposed that 
they should embark at once and push off* from the 
shore. It was growing dusk, and they would avoid 
the confusion of a night attack, should they be 
assailed when the enemy perceived their retreat to 
the boats. Not a moment was lost. Ned ordered 



312 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

the natives to march in a compact body to the 
canoes, while he and Tim would bring up the 
rear. Drawing the bullets from their guns, the two 
lads recharged them with buckshot, which, in the 
event of a fight, would take a greater effect upon a 
mass of men. Ned had the brace of pistols in his 
belt that he had found in Stevens's chest, and he felt 
no doubt that the report and effect of fire-arms would 
paralyse the attack sufficiently to allow them to push 
off in their canoes. He gave the word "forward," 
and his little body of fifty men, with their arrows 
ready fixed upon their bows, advanced steadily but 
quickly forward, while he and Tim followed a few 
paces in the rear. 

Hardly had they quitted the screen of jungle which 
protected their camp, than their retreat was observed 
by the party in ambush in the thicket some hundred 
yards on their right. In the instant a wild yell was 
raised by an invisible enemy, who almost at the same 
moment burst from the wood, and with savage 
screams and shouts came rushing across the open 
ground to intercept the route, and to cut off the 
canoes. 

" Steady ! " cried Ned ; " keep together, my men ; " 
which Tim interpreted immediately, and the party 
continued their course at a quick walk. 

They were much nearer to the canoes than the 
enemy, and Ned, with cool judgment, calculated that 
they would reach them at a walk before the hostile 
party could gain them at full speed. They would 
accordingly have time to push off from the shore, 
provided that the embarkation were conducted without 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 313 

confusion. They were within a hundred yards of the 
boats that were afloat in the little bay among the 
rushes, while the enemy was about three times that 
distance from them, advancing at full speed, in a con- 
fused mass of yelling naked savages. Ned quickly gave 
the order, that every man should run to his own boat 
in which he had arrived. In an instant his fifty blacks 
rushed forward, and dividing into tens, the individual 
crews of the five canoes leapt on board and took 
their places with the paddles in their hands by the 
time that Ned and Tim had reached the bank. A 
flight of arrows now fell around them as the enemy, 
already within eighty yards of their expected prey, 
shot wildly at full speed and happily missed all but 
the canoes, in the sides of which several arrows re- 
mained fixed. Ned and Tim now jumped on board 
two canoes^ and as the paddles struck the water with 
the powerful stroke of ten men, both opened fire from 
the stern upon the crowd of savages at about fifty 
paces distant. Thirty buckshot rattled among them 
like hail, and five or six men fell, while others were 
wounded. This unexpected volley for the instant 
checked their advance, and before they could recover 
from their confusion, the left hand barrels opened and 
scattered destruction among their ranks. Ned now 
loaded with ball as the canoes increased the distance 
between them, and two or three shots fired into the 
baffled crowd sent them scampering off in all directions, 
leaving several dead and wounded upon the ground. 
A loud cheer was now raised by the crews of the 
canoes, who ceased paddling, and waved their paddles 
in the air in defiance of their beaten enemy. So 



314 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

excited had they become, and so thoroughly confident 
in their leader, that they besought Ned to allow them 
to return to shore for the purpose of attacking their 
crest-fallen antagonists. 

Ned was unwilling to shed blood except in self- 
defence, therefore he restrained their exuberant 
valour, and desired them to pull steadily along the 
coast towards their own home, where they would be 
received with a hearty welcome, as they were heavily 
laden with hunting spoils. For some hours they 
paddled in silence, as the night was dark and they 
were obliged to keep a good look-out ahead ; but 
when at length the moon rose and shone brilliantly 
over the calm surface of the lake, they burst out into 
songs that lasted until sunrise. The substance of 
their minstrelsy was a description of all that had 
taken place during their expedition ; this was gene- 
rally improvised by one man who sang in a kind of 
recitative, and, at the end of each verse a wild chorus 
was joined in by the whole crew. Thus were Ned's 
praises sung, neither was Tim nor even Nero omitted 
from the ode, but all the principal performers were 
introduced, and the various scenes described, even to 
the yells and shouts of the attacking enemy, and the 
reports of the fire-arms in the defence. 

In spite of the savagery of the music, there was 
an indescribable enthusiasm and an energy in the 
chorus that was contagious, and in the pale moonlight, 
with the regular splash of the paddles that kept an 
even accompaniment, Ned found himself joining with 
the wild voices around him ; while Tim, not content 
with forming one of the chorus, improvised several 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 315 

verses in his native tongue in honour of "MassaNed" 
that produced roars of applause. 

The rowers had worked well during the night, and 
at about ten o'clock the canoes were within sight of 
the village to which they belonged. Their approach 
was quickly observed, and crowds of people assembled 
on the shore to welcome them on landing. Hardly 
had the canoes touched the sandy beach than they 
were dragged in triumph to the land, while the 
women yelled in honour of their arrival. The cargo 
was discharged with great rapidity by a numerous 
band, and was transported to the village where Ned 
was quickly brought into the presence of the king. 
Drums were beaten, horns blown, and great rejoicing 
accompanied their return. The king was seated 
upon his leopard skins, and he received Ned with 
great courtesy, while the principal man of the hunting 
party recounted the incidents of the expedition. 
Loud shouts of applause were raised at various por- 
tions of the narrative when Ned's hunting exploits 
were described ; but when the attack and defeat of 
their old enemies were told with extreme energy, the 
crowd could no longer restrain their enthusiasm, but 
broke out into wild yells of approbation, and crowded 
around Ned to kiss his, hands after their peculiar 
fashion, by touching the palms with the tip of their 
tongues. 

From that day Ned was almost as great a man 
as the king, to whom he acted as councillor and 
guide in all the affairs of his territory ; he was thus 
enabled to materially improve the condition of the 
people ; they, in common with all negroes, were 



316 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

exceedingly improvident, and neglected the cultiva- 
tion of their fields, rather depending upon the pre- 
carious success- of their hunting expeditions than 
upon a system of steady industry. Thus they were 
liable to periodical famines. Ned advised the king 
to insist upon the cultivation of a certain area of 
ground in proportion to the number of the population, 
which should ensure a supply of corn that would 
render them independent of a bad harvest on the 
following season. Although this law was at first 
extremely unpopular, it was rigidly obeyed, and in 
the course of a few months a large tract of land was 
cleared and brought into cultivation. Various im- 
provements were gradually effected, and Ned, having 
almost supreme power, considered it to be his duty 
to engraft, if possible, in the native mind a belief 
in a Supreme Being; at present they were utterly 
devoid of a religious sentiment, they had neither an 
idea of a God, nor of a future existence. 

The task of conversion that Ned contemplated, 
with the sanguine hopes of youth, was far more 
difficult than he had conceived ; there was a complete 
void in the native mind of all spiritual belief; they 
had neither idols nor temples, but their ideas were 
concentrated upon things temporal, and they could 
understand nothing concerning a future state, unless 
the God of that future should grant them the desires 
of the present. Thus Ned laboured in vain ; his 
descriptions of spiritual blessings were listened to 
with apathy, or encountered with practical remarks 
that entirely paralysed Ned's attempts at theological 
explanations. "If your God is good," replied his 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 317 

hearers, " why does he kill us ? why do mothers 
die and leave their children helpless ? If you say 
that He will hear your prayers, call upon Him that 
our cows shall give more milk, and that the locusts 
shall disappear from our crops." 

Ned could make no impression upon their obtuse 
intellects ; they were too selfishly practical to under- 
stand the theory of religion ; their only idea of a 
God was a temporal benefit that could be derived 
from the object of worship ; to pray, was to solicit 
a favour ; to ask for a reward, to beg for some special 
thing. Should this demand not be granted, where 
was the use of prayer ? They did n*t require a God 
unless He would grant them all that they desired. 
When Ned endeavoured to convince them of a future 
existence, they flatly denied the fact, and, moreover, 
they did not wish to live again when they once 
should die. " To live twice is to die twice ! nothing 
can last for ever : we die, and all is ended like a 
fire that is burnt out," declared one of the king's 
sorcerers with whom Ned attempted to argue. It 
was simply impossible to make the slightest impres- 
sion upon their feelings ; their belief did not extend 
beyond the power of sorcery, which had no connexion 
with spiritual agencies ; this faculty was supposed 
to be possessed by particular individuals who could 
produce rain, foretell events, and create spells and 
charms that would preserve the wearer from evil. 

Ned was always curiously watched whenever he 
referred to the "Nautical Almanac;" as he turned 
over each leaf, the king's sorcerers would gaze 
intently at the mysterious characters on the page 



318 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

and wonder at the hidden meaning. One day, as 
Ned was examining the book for the declination of 
a star, he happened to observe that an eclipse of 
the sun would take place upon a certain day, and 
that it would be visible from the position of the 
earth which he then occupied ; he at once seized 
upon an idea by which he hoped to explain to his 
obtuse hearers the existence of a God. The sun was 
bright and the sky without a cloud when the king 
and his chief people, together with his sorcerers, were 
sitting beneath the shade of a huge sycamore, while 
Ned with his sextant took a meridian altitude; 
as usual, his proceedings were watched with great 
curiosity. Ned had by this time learnt sufficient 
of the native language to converse with tolerable 
ease, but upon difficult occasions he obtained Tim's 
assistance, who was now present as interpreter. Ned 
had just noted down his observation, when the king 
asked why he regarded the sun and the stars so 
frequently ? 

" Because," replied Ned, " they are the most won- 
derful works of God ; each star is a world, many 
are far larger than this globe ; some revolve around 
certain suns, as our earth revolves round our glorious 
sun, which is the mainspring of all life." 

Tim put this into his native tongue, and the king 
made a short remark. 

" What does he say ? " asked Ned. 

" He says, * Dat's a lie !' " replied Tim. 

At this flat denial of the planetary system, Ned 
felt the impossibility of an explanation : he accord- 
ingly requested Tim to ask the king for his opinion 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 319 

regarding the sun. The question having been put, 
the king consulted the sorcerers around him, and 
after an animated discussion, Tim interpreted his 
reply : 

" De king say, Massa Ned, dere no such ting as 
one sun ; got plenty suns ; every morning one new 
sun come up out of de 'arth same like a pumpkin ; 
den he climb up de sky all day, and die when de 
night come, and bury 'sself in de ground." 

"And what does he think of the moon?" asked 
Ned. 

After considerable discussion between the sorcerers 
and the king, Tim replied : 

"De king say, de young moon come very thin 
and hungry up in de sky, den she swaller a lot of 
stars ebery night and grow a little fat ; den at last 
she swaller too many stars and swell 'sself out and 
bust herself right off 'xactly." 

"Tim," said Ned solemnly, "these people are 
stupid creatures, but tell them that there shall be 
a sign in six days from this time that shall teach 
them the truth. Tell them that the Great Spirit 
who made all things shall darken the sun, and the 
moon shall pass across its face." 

" Massa Ned," replied Tim thoughtfully ; " p'raps 
better not tell 'em dat story ; now de nigger brieve 
all Massa Ned's talk, but tell 'em one lie, den upset 
deboat 'xactly!" 

Ned was highly amused at Tim's honest but 
ignorant advice, and he had some trouble in ex- 
plaining to him the nature of an eclipse ; but when 
at length he showed him the exact hour in the 



320 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

" Nautical Almanac" at which the event would take 
place, Tim at once appreciated the importance of the 
phenomenon, although half-incredulous of the fact. 
He now interpreted Ned's prophecy, that at the 
expiration of six days a sign should be seen that 
would prove the existence of the Great Creator, as 
the sun should be darkened at mid-day. 

At this announcement the entire crowd raised a 
shout of incredulity, and the king, having applied 
to his sorcerers, who shook their heads in derision, 
turned angrily towards Ned and spoke for some 
minutes in great excitement. 

"Massa Ned," said Tim, " better not tell dat kind 
of talk; de king very angry, look what he say!' 
He say : ' How de white man dare trow de dust in 
de king's eye ? Tell him one big lie like dat make him 
look like one big fool Yore his people!' Den de 
sorcerers say, ' Try him ! if he make de sun black, 
all right ; if he not make de sun black, kill him, 
dat's de trick ! ' " 

At this moment loud murmurs arose among the 
crowd, and the king rose and retired with his sor- 
cerers without taking the slightest notice of Ned. 
The sorcerers had always been jealous of Ned's 
supremacy, and they now seized the opportunity of 
prejudicing the king's mind against him ; several 
gave advice that he should at once be put to death 
for having attempted to deceive by so gross a false- 
hood, but the king, having duly considered the 
matter, came to the conclusion that some great evil 
might befall the country should he take Ned's life 
unjustly, therefore it would be wiser to await the 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 321 

time when the phenomenon was to take place : should 
Ned's prophecy be correct, there could be no doubt 
that he was a wonderful sorcerer ; but should it fail, 
he would be an impostor who should be justly 
punished. In the meantime Ned was regarded with 
great suspicion. 

On the morning of the promised day one of the 
king's cows had twin calves at sunrise ; and upon 
the intelligence being received, he immediately arose 
in astonishment and beat his huge drum to summon 
the attendance of his sorcerers and councillors. They 
had hardly arrived and heard the news from the 
king's own mouth, as he sat upon his leopard skins 
beneath the great sycamore, when a messenger rushed 
in haste to his presence and informed him that one 
of his wives had just presented him with twin boys. 
Loud murmurs of astonishment were raised by the 
assembled crowd, and the sorcerers immediately 
advised the king to beat the drum and summon the 
whole population to hear the wonderful news that the 
favourite cow and the favourite wife had produced 
twins almost in the same hour. Upon this the king 
beat the drum, and every headman of a town quarter 
replied upon his drum, which general summons was 
almost immediately followed by a crowd of people 
who collected from all quarters and sat upon the 
ground, completely thronging the open space around 
the sycamore. 

The king now addressed the multitude, and ex- 
plained that he considered this unexpected blessing 
must be the result of magic ; that the white man had 
promised a wonderful sign upon this day when the 

Y 



322 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

moon should darken the face of the sun, which they 
all knew must be impossible. If indeed this should 
take place, there could be no doubt that he was the 
greatest sorcerer that had ever lived ; but if, on the 
other hand, the sun should remain bright, there could 
be little doubt that the birth of two sets of twins was 
a sign that must be followed by the death of the 
white man. A loud cry of assent from some thousand 
voices followed the king's address, and a messenger 
was immediately sent to summon the attendance of 
Ned and Tim. Upon their arrival the decision of 
the king was at once made known to them. 

" Dis a very bad job, Massa Ned," said Tim ; " a 
foolish bus'ness 'xactly ; if de sun not turn black, dese 
black niggers kill Massa Ned. What can do to change 
dis bus'ness, Massa Ned ? " 

"Don't be afraid, Tim," replied Ned; "the eclipse 
must take place between noon and one o'clock; we 
shall triumph if you translate what I tell you without 
flinching. Tell the king," continued Xed, as he rose 
and fixed a lance perpendicularly in the ground, 
u that before the shadow shall reach this line (which 
he marked in the dust with his foot) the sun will be 
darkened ; and, if my words are untrue, he may drive 
that lance through my body." 

With much reluctance Tim interpreted the ominous 
sentence, which was received by the king and the 
crowd in deep silence. 

With much tact Ned then demanded of the king 
that twenty oxen should immediately be slaughtered 
and distributed to the multitude to celebrate the 
occasion. A loud cheer burst from the crowd at this 



CAST UP BY THE SEA, 323 

demand, and the king having assented, the oxen 
were shortly brought to the spot and slaughtered ; at 
the same time a huge fire was lighted, and long strips 
of flesh were thrown into the blaze and divided when 
half-cooked among the thousands present. 

This savage feasting consumed the interval, and 
twelve o'clock arrived by the time that the remnants 
were cleared away and the feast was over. 

Ned now rose from the ground and drove the 
people from the spot in which he had placed the 
lance, while he deepened the line with a burnt stick 
that was to mark the limit of the shadow. The king 
and his sorcerers now anxiously watched his proceed- 
ings ; but none more eagerly than Tim, who dreaded 
the result of failure. 

At first the lance threw no shadow, as the sun was 
vertical ; but slowly the dark line began to lengthen 
towards the east. Many of the crowd now stood up 
in their excitement to watch the gradually increasing 
shadow, while some attempted to gaze at the glaring 
sun that shone in a spotless sky with a power that 
appeared unquenchable. 

The time passed on, and the shadow of the lance 
grew longer, and stretched nearer and nearer to the 
fatal limit. Tim's heart beat quick, and he fixed his 
eyes upon Ned in despair, as at length the dark line 
extended within a few inches of the mark. The 
crowd began to murmur, and the sorcerers whispered 
to the king and shook their heads in derision of 
Ned's presumption. The king's features assumed an 
expression of angr$ discontent as he leant forward 
to see whether the shadow had reached the defined 
limit, at the same time he beckoned to a.Yv\\^\&a.3*L 

Y 2 



1 



324 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

whom Ned knew to be his principal executioner. 
This brutal looking fellow advanced with a rope 
wound round his waist, with which he was accus- 
tomed to tie the arms of his victims, and he smiled 
grimly at Ned, as though he considered him already 
in his power. 

Ned himself began to fear that he had made some 
error in the calculation of the hour, as the shadow of 
the lance almost reached the line; when a sudden 
gloom, as though a passing cloud, caused the shadow 
to disappear. Ned sprang from the ground, and 
raising his extended arms towards the heavens, he 
invoked the protection of the Almighty in a loud 
clear voice that produced a startling effect upon the 
king. The gloom increased, and, shortly, a black 
shadow veiled a portion of the sun, and a dark sphere 
crept slowly but surely over its disc. It was like the 
dim twilight of evening gradually increasing towards 
darkness, and the round black object could now be 
seen creeping across the sun, until merely a thin 
crescent of its light remained. 

With a loud cry, the king and all his people threw 
themselves upon the ground, and hid their faces in 
their hands ; Ned and Tim alone remained standing 
amidst the crowd of prostrate savages. 

"Cry out, Tim, in your loudest voice," said Ned, 
" this is the work of the Great Spirit that the white 
man serves ! this is the hand of his God ! " 

Tim repeated these words with great energy in 
the native tongue; the whole crowd groaned with 
terror. 

" Cry out again, Tim," said Ned : " Rise up, and the 
sun will regain ltsWgJcvtl" 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 325 



At these words the king arose trembling, together 
with some of his people; but the greater number 
still remained prostrate upon the earth. Ned then 
approached the king and directed his attention to 
the sun, which slowly resumed its brillant proportions 
as the eclipse passed away. 

Turning to his chief executioner, the king gave 
some directions, and before Ned could interfere, the 
sorcerers who had advised his death were seized and 
strangled upon the spot, and their bodies were 
dragged outside the town to be devoured by the 
hyenas that prowled around the entrance during 
the night. 

The king and all his people were now thoroughly 
convinced that the birth of the double twins was 
the work of Ned's magic, and he was looked upon 
as the most wonderful sorcerer that had ever been 
known : — thus from that day he had the highest 
position in the state, and he was hourly tormented 
by applicants of both sexes for charms and talismans 
against every imaginable evil. 

With all this influence he had been unable to 
inculcate the true ideas of religion in their savage 
minds. Some few indeed professed to believe in 
the Great Spirit that had darkened the sun; but 
the death of a goat or a cow was in all cases 
sufficient to dispel their belief in a God who allowed 
their cattle to die. 

Prisoners in this land of heathens, and apparently 
cut off from the rest of the world for ever, and from 
his loved home and Edith, we must leave Ned and 
Tim and return to other scenes. 



326 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 



CHAPTER XVII. 

Five years had passed away since the memorable 
day when the body of the brave Dick Stone had 
been committed to the waves, and the dismasted 
Polly had been towed into Falmouth by the British 
cruiser. The gallant defence of the lugger against 
a superior force, and the dexterous escape of the 
crew from a French prison through the intervention 
of L6ontine, had made a great sensation at a time 
when hardly a week passed in England without 
some deed of daring that claimed the admiration 
of the world. L6ontine, upon her arrival in Fal- 
mouth, had found herself in the position of a heroine 
rather than a prisoner, and upon her devotion and 
brave conduct being made known to the authorities, 
she was rewarded by the freedom of her brother 
Victor who was in the Falmouth gaol. It was a 
happy day for Leontine when the order for his 
release arrived, and she was permitted to visit the 
prison and throw herself in her brother's arms as 
his unexpected deliverer. She had been kindly 
received by the mayoress of the town, who had 
supplied her with clothes, and after a few weeks 
delay, both she and her brother, with other French 
prisoners, were forwarded to France in exchange 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 327 

for British sailors who had been captured in merchant 
vessels. 

In the meantime, while Ldontine had been rendered 
happy, a cloud of misery had shrouded the cottage 
on the cliff at Sandy Cove. The few men who had 
remained among the Polly's crew after the fatal 
engagement returned to the Cove from Falmouth, 
and the wailing of women in the little village for 
husbands and sons lost in the action was the first 
sound that had struck upon Polly Grey's ears a few 
minutes before Joe Smart arrived and gently broke 
the dreadful intelligence. Paul Grey had been seen 
to fall in the heat of the fight, and there could be 
no doubt of his death. 

Polly was stunned by the shock of this over- 
whelming affliction ; her heart was withered by the 
blow, as all the fond hopes with which she had 
comforted herself in her husband's absence were 
thus crushed for ever. It was long before she could 
weep, and for days she sat upon the terrace wall and 
gazed at the barren sea, as though she still hoped 
that the well-known sail would reappear, and that 
she might once more clasp her arms around Paul's 
neck. She would then retire to her cottage and open 
the drawers and look at the clothes in which she had 
often seen him ; everything that he had worn had 
become dear to her, and all that had been his was 
now sacred ; there was the red woollen comforter 
that she had knitted for him, and this she took in her 
hands, and letting it fall upon the ground, she fell 
upon her knees, and burying her face upon the bed, 
she sobbed bitterly — 



328 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 



"Oh God! I am a widow, and my boy Ned is also 
gone ! " she cried, as she appealed in the agony of 
her grief to Him for comfort. 

In this hour of deep affliction she was not alone : — 
she had a devoted friend and comforter in Edith, who 
loved her fondly, and who strove with affectionate 
care to soothe her distress. Mrs. Jones, who had 
passed through a similar bitter trial, showed her the 
greatest kindness, and it was resolved that the 
cottage at Sandy Cove should be sold, as the scene 
of the old home only served to awaken painful 
recollections. 

When a few weeks had passed, and the first burst 
of grief was over, Polly mournfully turned her 
thoughts to her late husband's affairs. She was in 
debt to Captain Smart, as he had advanced consider- 
able sums to liquidate various claims. She therefore 
proposed that all the effects, together with the cottage, 
should be sold, and that the Polly should be put up 
to auction at Falmouth, as it would be useless to 
enter upon the expense of the necessary repairs. 

It went to Polly's heart to part with Paul's old 
lugger; but as Joe Smart was her councillor, and 
he declared it to be positively necessary, she at length 
decided, and it was sold at Falmouth for £160. 

The cottage remained ; and this, together with the 
furniture and nets, &c, was shortly advertised for 
auction, and upon the appointed day the people of 
the neighbourhood assembled at the sale. Joe Smart 
was not only the active manager of the affair, but he 
had determined to become the purchaser of the 
cottage, which would thus relieve him from the 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 329 

unpleasantness of receiving money from the widow 
of his friend Paul for sums that he had advanced. 
He therefore outbid the highest offer, and became 
the proprietor, not only of the cottage, but of the 
principal articles of furniture. 

When all the little property was realized, through 
the care and industry of Joe Smart, Polly found 
herself possessed of about ^300. Although the 
interest of this small sum was only fifteen pounds a 
year, it was sufficient for her simple wants, as she 
resided with Mrs. Jones and Edith at the rectory as 
one of their family, while Captain Smart called twice 
a week to arrange the accounts of the estate. 

As some months passed by, Joe Smart appeared to 
find an increase of business that claimed a greater 
share of his attention ; at all events his visits became 
more frequent at the rectory, and Mrs. Jones felt at 
some moments qualms of uneasiness, as she imagined 
that she was the object of more than his ordinary 
attention. 

Years had passed, and the widow, Mrs. Jones, had 
long since thrown off her weeds, and had quite re- 
solved that Captain Smart's constant visits to the 
rectory were directed specially to herself. In the 
meantime, Polly Grey had never forsaken her mourn- 
ing ; although saddened in manner, she still retained 
the sweetness of her youth with much of her 
original beauty ; she devoted herself chiefly to 
visiting the poor of the neighbourhood, and attending 
to the village school, trusting that the charitable 
duties of life would afford pleasures to compensate 
in some measure for a past happiness that could 



33o CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

never be renewed. The world might have supposed 
that Polly had no care except the recollection of 
old times, but she had one cause of deep anxiety — 
Joe Smart loved her. She was the love of his 
boyhood, and he had proved his affection through 
life with unvarying devotion ; he had been her 
adviser and guide in PauPs absence; and since 
his death she was under countless obligations to 
him, as he had stood more in the position of a 
brother than a friend. It was natural that Polly 
should regard Joe Smart with warm affection : on 
the other hand, although he loved her with devotion, 
he almost dreaded to declare his feelings, lest she 
should consider that she was forced to accept him 
after the numerous obligations she owed to him. 
At length the warmth of his passion overcame this 
generous delicacy of feeling, and Joe Smart declared 
his love, and offered her as honourable and manly a 
heart as ever beat in a sailor's breast. 

It was with real sorrow that Polly witnessed the 
effect of her refusal. The active and sprightly Joe 
Smart became an altered man : his early hopes 
had been destroyed by her marriage with Paul, 
and with unchanging love he had almost wor- 
shipped her; in the distress of her widowhood 
he had been her comforter, and he had looked 
forward, not only to complete his own happiness, but 
to render her once more joyous by making her his 
wife. Polly had received his declaration with tender 
regret, and she had gently but firmly assured him 
of her love and respect, together with her deep 
gratitude for all the acts of kindness and affection 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 331 

that he had bestowed upon her through so many- 
years, but she implored him, as her truest friend, 
never again to speak of marriage, as she was deter- 
mined to die a widow. It was in vain that Joe Smart 
endeavoured to change her determination. Polly 
loved him as a brother, but she would not hear of 
marriage. She had frequently declared to him that 
she was happy in her present position, and that she 
considered it to be her duty to remain a widow. 
She cherished Paul's memory with deep affection, 
and she loved to talk with Joe Smart over all the 
daring acts that he had performed in his adventurous 
life : the last scene of his bravery, when he met his 
death, she dwelt upon with untiring energy and pride, 
and she expressed impatience upon only one point, — 
for death, that she might join him once more in 
heaven and tell him how true and devoted she had 
been. This example of her affectionate constancy 
only served to heighten Joe Smart's admiration and 
love, and although firmly refused, he still hoped 
that at some future time she would relent and 
sympathise with his feelings. In the meantime, 
Mrs. Jones had a great regard for the handsome 
one-armed sailor, who was always welcome at the 
rectory, and was received almost as a member of 
the family. 

In this manner five years had passed away. Polly 
was now a handsome woman of forty, and was but 
little changed, but there was one in whom a few 
years had made a wonderful alteration. It was on 
a fine summer Sabbath that Polly was on her way 
to church accompanied by a lovely girl about twenty 



332 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

years of age, who leant upon her arm and shaded 
her with her parasol from the glare of the morning 
sun : her beautiful complexion and large blue eyes 
would alone have made her striking, but her regular 
features and the peculiar amiability of her expression 
rendered Edith a perfection of charms that is rarely 
seen. 

She was seated between her mother and Polly 
Grey. It was during the second lesson, when the 
church was perfectly quiet, a somewhat heavy foot- 
step sounded in the aisle as a person entered the 
door and walked straight towards Squire Stevens's 
pew, in which he took his seat The old squire 
had been dead for some years, and nothing had 
been heard of his son. The action between the 
Sybille and the Forte had been a theme of glory 
for the day ; but having been duly chronicled among 
other brilliant achievements of the navy, it had 
ceased to be of public interest, — the dead had been 
mourned for, and the crape had long since been 
laid aside : and as the Forte had never been 
heard of, she was considered to have been lost with 
all hands. 

Nothing had been heard of Ned. In those days 
there was no regular mail from India, but the letters 
for England were despatched by the first vessel that 
chanced to sail ; thus, as the Forte had been rapidly 
repaired, she was the first upon the list, and Ned 
had expected to bring home the glad tidings of his 
arrival in person. 

Edith had never forgotten the love of her girlhood, 
and although time and altered circumstances had 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 333 

so far modified her sorrow at Ned's mysterious 
disappearance that she had ceased to be absolutely 
unhappy. She rigidly executed her promise, and 
every Sunday evening she strolled with either her 
mother or Polly Grey through the churchyard, and 
removed the weekly weeds from the neatly kept 
grave beneath the cross marked " A lady unknown." 
Here she would frequently sit and recall the time 
when Ned sat with her as a lovely boy and talked 
of the future with the enthusiasm of his age ; and 
then a blush would tinge her cheek, and a tear for 
an instant dim her eyes, when she thought of the 
warm kiss he had given her at parting, and the 
vows that the determined boy had made to work 
his way to win her. 

In the night these old scenes were "frequently 
renewed in dreams, and all the characters that were 
associated with Edith's early youth reappeared in 
their accustomed places : her father, who had been 
so mysteriously murdered, she had sometimes seen 
as though in life ; Ned had again sat by her side 
beneath the old mulberry tree, that was still her 
favourite haunt ; she had heard Nero's bark as he 
came bounding towards her; and then, in wild fit- 
fulness, the characters had become confused and 
faded into nothingness and mist, through which 
sometimes flitted the horrible figure of an old hag 
that resembled Mother Lee. The events of her 
youth had thus left a somewhat melancholy impres- 
sion upon Edith's character ; although so beautiful, 
she was utterly unconscious of her attractions, and 
her chief happiness depended upon the duties of her 



334 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

daily life. Deeply religious, without appearing to be 
so, except in her general conduct and unostentatious 
charity, she found an intense pleasure in minister- 
ing to the wants of the poor in her neighbour- 
hood, by whom she was almost adored : her lighter 
pleasures consisted in sketching and attending to 
her flowers, and in charming the ears of all who 
heard her with, her beautiful voice ; for of all accom- 
plishments Edith shone most prominently in music — 
in fact, many of the poor people of the village 
declared that the Church Service would be nothing 
without Miss Edith's singing. 

At the time that the stranger took his seat in the 
Squire's pew, all eyes were for the instant turned 
upon him, as it had long been vacant, and it was 
seldom that an unknown person of the upper class 
appeared in the secluded village. He was a tall and 
powerful man, exceedingly weather-beaten, with a 
face bronzed by exposure to a hot sun, and much 
freckled ; his large sandy whiskers gave him an ap- 
pearance of advanced manhood ; but upon closer 
observation his age might have been guessed at 
twenty-two or three. As Edith for a moment 
observed him, she could not help thinking that she 
had seen his face before; but, chasing all other 
thoughts from her mind, she directed her attention 
to the service until it was completed. 

When the throng of the congregation passed down 
the aisle at the conclusion of the sermon, Edith 
remarked that the stranger's eyes were fixed intently 
upon her ; and hardly had she quitted the churchyard 
in company with her mother and Polly Grey, than 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 335 

he turned round and approached her, and stretching 
out his rough hand in a familiar manner, he exclaimed, 
" Edith Jones, have you forgotten me ? " 

Edith paused, and, without accepting his hand, 
she examined his features for a few moments, and 
replied, "I hope you will forgive my want of memory. 
I think I may have seen you before, but I cannot 
recall the occasion." 

At that instant a peculiar unpleasant expression 
passed over the stranger's face, and Edith imme- 
diately recognised Jem Stevens ! 

She could no longer withhold her hand, which 
he pressed warmly as he exclaimed to her mother, 
" I am your old schoolboy, Jem Stevens, Mrs. Jones !" 

The latter lady looked at him for some moments 
with astonishment, and then grasped his hand warmly. 

" How wonderful !" exclaimed Mrs. Jones. "Why 
it's only the other day, not seven years ago, that you 
left us a mere boy! and you look five-and-twenty ! 
and your poor father's dead ! and the Hall's empty ! 
and all sorts of changes have taken place ! My poor 
husband too ! but of course you know. But no, let 
me see, I don't suppose you do. How should you ? 
You have been away from England all this time 
haven't you ? When did you come back ? Come 
along with us and lunch at the rectory, and tell 
us all about yourself!" continued the voluble and 
impatient Mrs. Jones, who overwhelmed him with 
a string of questions without giving him time to 
reply. 

Now, if Mrs. Jones's thoughts could have been 
analysed as they rapidly passed through her mind, 



336 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 



* 

they would have discovered a natural instinct that 
she would have at once denied had the fact been 
asserted. It really did occur to the mother in one 
moment that Heron Hall would be no bad home 
for Edith! In another moment she reflected that 
Stevens had been a bad character when at school ; 
and subsequently, with the rapidity of lightning, she 
concluded that he must have changed for the better, 
and she therefore asked him to lunch. Stevens 
accepted the invitation without the slightest hesita- 
tion, and offering his arm to Mrs. Jones while listen- 
ing to her long list of questions and her rambling 
conversation, he accompanied them to the rectory. 

During luncheon, Stevens made himself unusually 
agreeable to Mrs. Jones, and gave her a long de- 
scription of his voyages, and of the engagement 
between the Sybille and the Forte, in which he 
described his own prowess^ as having in no small 
measure contributed to the victory. Mrs. Jones was 
charmed ; and when he narrated the subsequent ship- 
wreck of the prize, and the destruction of all the crew 
with the exception of those saved in the cutter, which 
he declared he was the last man to enter, the amiable 
but weak lady was moved to tears. Stevens then 
described the voyage of the cutter to Madagascar, 
where the crew and himself were made captives by 
the natives, until, after years of suffering, he was at 
length released by a Portuguese trading vessel that 
took him to Zanzibar, whence he had only arrived on 
the preceding evening. 

There was much in the story of his adventures 
that interested Edith, but she little knew how much 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 337 

that would have been dear to her he had as yet 
concealed. He said not one word of Ned. 

" What a wonderful change ! " exclaimed Mrs, 
Jones, as Stevens took his departure late in the 
afternoon. " I never could have believed that so 
bad a boy would have turned out so nice a man ; 
he is really a charming young man ! and so clever ! 
and evidently so very truthful ! There was some- 
thing in his way of telling his stories that seemed 
to assure one of their truth. Well, ,, continued the 
enraptured Mrs. Jones, " as your poor father, Edith, 
used to say, 'When the wicked man turneth away 
from his wickedness ' (and of course that meant the 
boy, as men are only bigger boys), ' he shall save his 
soul alive.' He was quite right. This is a wonderful 
instance of the works of Providence, my dear child, 
that you should observe attentively. How changed ! 
He is a very nice young man ! so very gentlemanly ! 
and so good-natured for a man who has fought the 
French, and seen so much of the world. Not at all 
proud or stuck up; and remembered you, Edith, 
directly, and me, too ; but, of course, a few years 
make no difference at my age ; as Captain Smart 
remarked the other day, 'an Englishwoman never 
begins to look her best till she is turned forty.' A 
very clever man is Captain Smart ; very sound judg- 
ment ; if he only had another arm there would be no- 
one like him. Then, you see, Heron Hall and a very 
good fortune belong to him, now his father's dead., 
don't mean to Captain Smart, as he died, or rather 
his father died, long ago, but I mean Stevens, as we 
used to call him, Jem Stevens. James is a very 

z 



338 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

pretty name ; one of the apostles was called James ; 
I wonder whether they ever called him Jem ? I hate 
abbreviations, but Jem is not so very ugly ; not so 
bad as Ned, for instance," said the discursive Mrs. 
Jones, thoughtfully. 

" Ned an ugly name ! I would not wish for a 
prettier !" exclaimed Edith. u Edward is quite beau- 
tiful, and Ned is a loveable name, / think." 

At this juncture Polly Grey joined in the con- 
versation, and warmly supported Edith, until the 
argument grew hot, and only terminated by each 
retaining her own opinion. 

From that day Stevens's visits to the rectory be- 
came frequent By a little judicious flattery he had 
succeeded in captivating Mrs. Jones; and as Edith, 
when a girl, had been the love of his boyhood, he 
shortly found himself hopelessly smitten with her now 
ripened charms. 

Edith was fond of riding, and as she daily cantered 
her pony along the springy green turf, above the cliff 
by the sea-side, she was invariably met by Stevens, 
who joined her in her ride. After some months, the 
object of Jem Stevens's visits to the rectory had 
become unmistakeable. He had offered Edith a 
beautiful horse, which she would have declined, but 
her mother had insisted upon her acceptance of the 
present 

Polly Grey had watched the growing intimacy 
with anxiety. She had no fear that Edith would 
lose her heart, but she was much afraid that the 
folly of Mrs. Jones would compromise her by giving 
Stevens an undue encouragement. She accordingly 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 339 

took an opportunity of speaking to Edith on the 
subject, and the innocent girl was startled at the idea 
that she would be expected to return Jem Stevens's 
love. 

On the other hand, Mrs. Jones was determined 
that, if possible, the match should come off. She 
had really learnt to like Stevens, and as he was the 
great landed proprietor of the neighbourhood, and 
Heron Hall was a fine old place, she considered 
that it would be a very desirable marriage for 
her daughter; accordingly, she one day placed the 
matter clearly before Edith's view. 

It was late in the autumn ; and as Edith and her 
mother were returning from their evening walk, they 
were met by a gamekeeper, who had been sent by 
the young squire with a leash of pheasants for Mrs. 
Jones. 

" Really, my dear Edith/' said Mrs. Jones, as, 
after having thanked the keeper, she passed on, "I 
do not think that I ever saw a more loveable young 
man than James Stevens has become." 

Edith said nothing. 

After a pause, her mother continued, " I think he is 
a deeply religious young man, and you know, my 
child, that your sainted father was partial to religious 
young men." 

Edith still remained silent. 

" I think, my dear Edith," continued Mrs. Jones, 
impressively ; " I think, — that is to say, I do not 
think, for I feel perfectly convinced, — that the good 
and amiable, the warm-hearted and deeply religious, 
James Stevens, who is now the proprietor of the 

z 2 



340 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

Heron Hall Estate, comprising, I believe, about 5,000 
acres, is an unhappy man." 

"Unhappy!" replied Edith, "what should make 
him so ? Surely he has enough of the world's riches 
to be happy. He is young and has no cares. 
What can you mean, mother ? " 

u I mean," said Mrs. Jones, u that he is in love. I 
can see it in his manner ; he is nervous, Edith. You 
should be kind to him. Your poor father was ner- 
vous, and I believe he never would have proposed 
at all had I not given him some slight assistance. 
Not that I was too forward, quite the contrary ; but 
some men require that particular kind of courage, 
although brave in other respects. James Stevens 
requires assistance, my dear child ; you alone can 
afford it ; you would make him a happy man. 
Think what a blessing it would be to confer hap- 
piness upon a fellow-creature, .... especially with a 
large landed estate in our immediate neighbour- 
hood," added Mrs. Jones, who had wound herself 
up to a pitch of enthusiasm. 

Although Edith loved her mother, she was not 
blind to her peculiarities, and she had long suspected 
that she favoured the suit of Jem Stevens. Edith 
was more sensible than most girls of her age, and she 
well remembered the character that he had borne 
at school. She had often heard her father remark 
that " the boy was the father of the man," and she 
thoroughly believed in the theory that the man was 
merely an older boy with the same natural character, 
perhaps in some instances modified by circumstances : 
thus, although Stevens was much improved, and 



k 



CAST UP BY THE SEA, 341 

made himself as agreeable as most men, she could 
not persuade herself to trust him. Even had she 
liked him, there was a something which Edith could 
hardly have defined in the fond recollection of 
younger days, when her girlish heart had loved 
Ned Grey. The mystery of his disappearance had 
given a romantic interest to his name, which, although 
half-forgotten by many, was warmly remembered by 
her, and if she did not consider herself absolutely 
bound by the vows of a childish affection, she could 
at present feel no other. She did not positively 
dislike Stevens ; at the same time she had no confi- 
dence in her mother's judgment Accordingly she 
replied cautiously to her enthusiastic remarks. 

" My dear mother," said Edith, " I cannot think 
that you are serious. James Stevens has never said 
anything that would allow me to presume that I had 
gained his affection ; neither should I wish for his 
love. Although he is certainly much changed and 
improved, I can never forget his conduct when a 
boy, and his unmanly hatred of poor Ned Grey. I 
do not believe that boys really change in character 
when they become men. They may be too clever 
and cunning to exhibit their true feelings, but the 
heart remains the same." 

"Edith, my dear," replied her mother, "you can- 
not possibly know anything about men's hearts, 
therefore your remarks are sheer nonsense. You 
must be guided by me in these matters. Do you 
not believe in conversion ? Was not St. Paul con- 
verted ? and did he not become one of the most 
faithful apostles ? St. Paul must have been an ex- 



342 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

ceedingly bad boy, if he ever was a boy, for we 
hear nothing about his having been a boy in the 
New Testament, and I believe nothing except what 
is written in the Holy Book ; but anyhow, he was 
converted : therefore why should not James Stevens 
also have changed in disposition ? especially now that 
he has succeeded his father to the estate ? " 

" I do not doubt that you are right, mother dear," 
replied Edith, who knew that contradiction would be 
useless ; " but I have not the heart to love any man. 
In fact, I never did feel an affection of that nature, 
except " Edith hesitated. 

"Except what? when? who?" asked Mrs. Jones 
in the same breath. 

" Except long ago. I was very fond of poor Ned. 
He was only a boy of fifteen, and I a girl ; but those 
were very happy days. Oh, mother ! what can have 
become of Ned ? I so often think of him, and won- 
der whether he was drowned, poor boy, with my dear 
old Nero and the negro Tim, on that day when they 
walked on the beach beneath the cliffs and the tide 
came in ! " 

" It is a dreadful mystery indeed," said Mrs. Jones ; 
" but life is full of mysteries, my dear. For my part, 
I have always believed that he was drowned, since 
I changed my mind about his complicity in your 
father's death." 

"That idea was too absurd, mother. My dear 
father, I know, wished to give me some advice about 
Ned Grey at his last moment, but he had no strength 
to complete the sentence. I have often thought of 
that sad night since I have been more able to form 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 343 

an opinion, and I feel sure that my father knew that 
I loved Ned, and he would have spoken to me about 
him." 

"Well, my dear, he would, I am sure, have said 
it was a very foolish thing for two mere children to 
talk of such nonsense as love ; and as to Ned Grey, 
a poor little foundling, what in the world could he 
expect ? He was a good boy certainly, but there are 
plenty of good boys. Now a good position in life is 
of great importance to a woman, and a good boy has 
seldom a good position." 

" Poor Ned ! " sighed Edith ; " the last time that I 
saw him, his fine honest face brightened up, and his 
large blue eyes sparkled like fire, as he vowed that 
he would win a position worthy of me. I can see 
him now ; that manly and generous heart that could 
think no evil, and would even have forgiven Jem 
Stevens, and have made him his friend, if it had been 
possible to soften such a Oh, mother ! " con- 
tinued Edith, " do not talk to me of Stevens ! . When 
I look back to the past and compare him to dear 
Ned Grey, and think what he would say were he 
alive and knew that you counselled me to love his 
enemy, I feel unworthy of him, and almost despise 
myself that I could listen to such advice." 

The colour had rushed to Edith's cheek, and the 
tears to her eyes, as she thus compared the past with 
the present, and clung with fervour to the warm 
feelings of her youthful days. "No, mother," she 
continued, "I should be grieved to displease you, 
but my heart is my own, and I cannot give it to 
Ned's enemy." 



344 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

Although Mrs. Jones was a weak woman, she was 
not devoid of a certain amount of tact ; and upon 
seeing that Edith was not in the humour to be driven, 
she wisely determined to postpone her attack until a 
more favourable opportunity : at the same time, with 
a pertinacity peculiar to her sex, she was resolved not 
to give up her point, as she had persuaded herself 
that the match with James Stevens, of Heron Hall, 
would be exceedingly satisfactory. There were 
several families in the neighbourhood who were 
anxious that their daughters should be intimate with 
Stevens ; thus, although Mrs. Jones would not have 
confessed it to herself, she had a feeling of pride that 
would have delighted in their disappointment, should 
Edith triumph in the love match. She accordingly 
closed the conversation with the following remarks, 
which were really sincere : — 

" My only child Edith, do not worry yourself when 
there is no cause ; my only wish is to see you happy, 
and I advise you in order to ensure your happiness 
as far as I can foresee. I do not press you to love 
James Stevens ; but as I feel sure that he loves you, 
I give you timely warning with the advice that you 
should at all events not throw cold water upon his 
attentions. You may like him more when you know 
him better ; and as to his having been Ned Grey's 
enemy, why, I feel sure, had he lived, James Stevens 
would now have been his friend." 

On their arrival at the rectory, Edith had a long 
conversation with Polly, whom she regarded as a 
second mother, but upon whose opinion she placed a 
much higher value than upon that of Mrs. Jones. 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 345 

It was natural that Polly Grey should regard Stevens 
with suspicion, as she had heard much of his character 
in former days from Ned ; but on the other hand, as 
she felt convinced that Ned had been drowned by 
the rising tide, she had no feeling of jealousy should 
Edith form a suitable engagement with another 
person. Had Ned been alive, a marriage between 
him and Edith, whom she dearly loved, would have 
been the joy of her heart. She knew that Stevens's 
position in life would be considered, in a worldly 
sense, as an excellent match for Edith ; but she was 
unable to give her other advice than to wait patiently 
until she should feel assured, not only of Stevens's 
sincere affection, but of his altered character. 

Not long after this conversation, Mrs. Jones took 
an opportunity of sounding Stevens upon his in- 
tentions ; he at once declared his love for Edith, 
which he asserted had never varied since the time 
when he was a boy at school. He expressed his 
regret at the bad conduct of his younger days, 
and showed such contrition for the past, that he 
entirely won the heart of the weak Mrs. Jones, who 
thereupon explained to him the state of Edith's^ 
feelings respecting Ned Grey, and the resentment 
that she felt towards him as his former enemy: 
could that dislike be overcome, she did not doubt 
that in a short time Edith's heart would soften to- 
wards him. 

At this intelligence, Jem Stevens turned deadly 
pale, which Mrs. Jones attributed to the violence of 
his affection, and hastily filling a glass of cordial 
from the sideboard, she insisted upon his swallowing 



346 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

it, which, as it was an excellent mixture of French 
brandy and bitters, he did without a moment's hesi- 
tation. 

A few days after this explanation, Stevens, who 
daily rode over to the rectory, found himself alone 
with Edith in the drawing-room. She had been 
singing at the piano with such exquisite sweetness 
of voice, and taste in execution, that even Stevens 
appeared to be touched with the softening spirit of 
her music. Mrs. Jones had prudently left the room, 
and as Stevens was standing by Edith's side, as 
though enraptured by her song, he gently took her 
hand and raised it to his lips; at the same time 
he said, 

" Forgive me, dearest Edith, but the fault is yours 
if I am wrong; your song has driven me from my 
senses! I can conceal it no longer! I love you to 
distraction ! Say that I may love you, and do riot 
make me miserable by a refusal ! " 

At this sudden declaration, Edith hastily withdrew 
her hand from Stevens's grasp, and rising from the 
piano, she regarded him fixedly and blushed deeply ; 
while, with a trembling but decided voice, she said, 

"I cannot say who you may or may not love, 
Stevens ; I have known you many years, and I used * 
to think that you loved no one but yourself." 

"Dearest Edith!" exclaimed Stevens, "pardon 
me for the faults of my boyhood. I acknowledge 
that I was often wrong and bad. Say what you will ; 
and I will bear anything from your lips, except a 
word of coldness! Those days are long since past. 
Try me in every way, and see if am not changed ; 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 347 

only in one thought and feeling I am the same, I 
always loved you when a boy, and I love you now 
dearer than ever, Edith !" 

Edith was for some moments silent; then, fixing 
her large blue eyes upon Stevens, as though to read 
his inmost heart, she said in a calm low voice, as 
though she had screwed her courage determinedly 
to the task, — 

"James Stevens, there shall be no misunderstanding 
between us ; we have known each other too long for 
unnecessary concealment. You say that you loved 
me when a boy : I did not love you, Stevens ; but I 
did love Ned Grey, — the good, generous, dear Ned 
Grey, — -whom you hated. If Ned Grey were alive, I 
would love no other; — if he were poor, I am rich, 
and I should esteem his love as of more value than 
wealth or titles. I should consider it an honour to 
be loved by one so good and true ; so brave, and so 
incapable of a mean action as was poor Ned Grey, 
your enemy ! " 

As Edith said this with almost fierce energy, her 
voice choked with emotion towards the latter part of 
the sentence ; then, almost overpowered with her 
excited feelings, she continued bitterly, " Oh ! why 
did you hate him ? Why did you hate all that was 
good and true ? one whom all loved ? one who tried 
to be your friend ? one whom / loved, and now you 
ask me to love you ? Oh, Stevens, Stevens, we had 
better say no more ; you have mistaken your own 
feelings ! " Edith hid her face in her hands to conceal 
her emotion. 

Stevens turned a ghastly white, and trembling from 



348 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

head to foot, he suddenly seized both her hands, and 
drawing them from her face while he held them firmly 
in his grasp, he said in a hoarse voice, with intense 
earnestness, " Look at me, Edith ; look at me, and 
forgive me. If you loved Ned Grey, I have a secret 
that will distress you, although it will be a comfort." 

The blush that had overspread her features sud- 
denly vanished, and a deadly pallor, that turned her 
beautifully chiselled face to marble, seized upon her. 
Releasing her hands from his grasp, she caught him 
by the arm. t( Speak !" she cried, in a deep unnatural 
voice : " what secret can Ned's enemy know that he 
has concealed till now ?" 

" I am not his enemy," said Stevens, who, looked 
like a man guilty of murder. "I was his friend. 
It is now nearly six years ago that I was on board 
the Sybille. We had left Plymouth the day before, 
and were bound for India. We lay to off this coast 
to send a boat ashore with our last letters : it landed 
near Sandy Cove. When it returned, two lads had 
been found upon the beach, and the boat's crew had 
kidnapped and pressed them into the service. A 
black dog was with them. The lads were Ned Grey 
and the negro Tim ; the dog was Nero." 

Edith stared wildly at Stevens, and sighed deeply. 
" Go on," she said calmly, but despairingly. 

" Ned was in distress, as he had no means of 
communication with home. The ship sailed to 
India. We fought a French frigate, the Forte, 
which I have before described to you : Ned dis- 
tinguished himself in the action, and he was sent 
to England in the prize ;with myself. As you 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 349 

know, she was wrecked. I have never dared to 
tell you his fate, as I thought it better to let it 
remain a mystery. When the ship was wrecked, I 
saw him and the negro swimming in the surf. I 
stretched out an oar from the boat to save him ; 
at that moment a tremendous wave rolled over 
him, and neither he nor the negro appeared on the 
surface again. We rowed for some time backward 
and forward in hopes of finding him, at the risk of 
swamping the boat, but we saw no more; both he 
and the negro were drowned." 

Edith sank upon her knees, and clutching vainly 
at something for support, she fell stretched upon 
the floor. 

For the moment Stevens thought she was dead, 
and, terrified at the result of his story, he rang 
the bell violently, and then endeavoured to place 
her upon a sofa. In a few moments the house was 
in a state of excitement. Edith's mother, Polly 
Grey, and several servants, were endeavouring to 
restore animation. Some time elapsed before Edith 
recovered sufficiently to be supported to her room, 
when, as her mother was questioning Stevens below 
stairs, she threw her arms around Polly's neck and 
gave way to a burst of grief. When sufficiently 
calm to speak, she described the dreadful story in 
a voice broken by deep sobs, and Polly Grey became 
overwhelmed with sorrow. 



35o CAST UP BY THE SEA. 



CHAPTER XVIII. 

A FEW weeks after the supposed fate of Ned Grey 
had been described by Stevens, Mrs. Jones, who had 
felt deeply for her daughter, endeavoured to renew 
the topic that was nearest to her heart. 

" A very gallant act, my dear, of James Stevens ! 
Indeed it was an act of generous devotion ; he 
risked his own life, and nearly swamped the boat, 
to save poor Ned. He was Ned Grey's friend, no 
doubt ; or, if he were his enemy, the act was doubly 
generous. Sailors are always gallant fellows ! I am 
glad that Stevens was a sailor. Should I ever 
marry again, I should like to have a husband of that 
profession." Here Mrs. Jones thought of Captain 
Smart. At the same time she continued, — 

" You should make up your mind, Edith, my child ; 
if you loved Ned, you are under an obligation to 
Stevens for his brave attempt to rescue him. I am 
sure that the reason of his long silence upon Ned's 
fate was his excessive modesty : he was over sensitive 
and feared to extol himself. Your poor father used 
to say in Latin that 'modesty was a good sign in 
a young man/ I believe this is in the Latin 
grammar. I wonder they said nothing about modesty 
in young women ; perhaps the grammar was only 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 351 

written for boys* schools. However, I am sure that 
James Stevens is a very modest young man, and I 
confess that I should like him as a son-in-law. 
Think it over, my dear child ; forget the past as 
much as possible. We should always endeavour to 
escape from painful recollections ; we should look 
forward and not back. Ned Grey was a charming 
boy : a gentleman born, there can be no doubt. I 
always thought so from the moment that I saw 
his lovely mothers corpse ; but then he would have 
had an uphill life full of cares and troubles. Death 
has released him. Think of him only as a dream 
of childhood, and make use of the present time. 
There are many worse than James Stevens, and 
in my opinion few are so good. Heron Hall is a 
beautiful place ! I don't think I ever saw such 
magnificent oaks or so fine a park! Then I can 
come and see you, my darling child, and you will 
be perfectly happy ! Don't say no, my dear Edith ! 
Trust to me, for I know better than you do what 
would tend to your future happiness ; all this cloud 
about poor Ned will pass away, and the future 
will be as bright as sunshine." 

Edith listened abstractedly to her mother's glowing 
picture of her future life. Since the day when 
Stevens had described the shipwreck, and Ned's 
death, she had certainly leant more towards him 
than before, and, as his visits to the rectory had 
been constant, she had often led the conversation 
to the sad event, and dwelt with a painful interest 
upon all the details of the voyage from the time 
that Ned had first joined the Sybille. With con- 



S 



352 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

summate hypocrisy, Stevens pretended an extreme 
friendship for Ned Grey, and appeared to sympathise 
with Edith in her regard for his memory ; he 
described, with well-feigned admiration, his courage 
in the action with the Forte, and also Ned's daring 
act in plunging Jnto the sea to save his life when 
he fell overboard in the voyage from England. 

These, and many other anecdotes in which Ned 
was concerned, served to awaken a common interest 
between Edith and Stevens which her mother lost 
no opportunity of supporting ; nevertheless Edith's 
heart was as yet free from all warmer feelings than 
those of a friendly intimacy. 

While Mrs. Jones was endeavouring to fan 
Edith's first spark of friendship into a brighter 
flame, Joe Smart was burning with love for Polly 
Grey. He had used every argument that the 
warmest passion could suggest to persuade her to 
overcome her scruples and to become his wife. 
Polly had always regarded Smart with great 
affection ; but although their intimacy was upon a 
footing that rendered the slightest hesitation dan- 
gerous, she still resisted his proposals. "Not until 
some eye-witness swears that he saw Paul's body 
buried, will I listen even to you, Joe Smart, who 
were Paul's best friend," such was Polly's final 
determination. 

Joe Smart was in a difficulty ; how would it] be 
possible to procure the desired witness ? It at 
length struck him that the only chance of obtaining 
information would be through L^ontine, assisted 
by one of the lugger's crew, who might have 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 353 

obtained the name of the French privateer upon 
which Paul and Dick Stone had been killed. For 
this purpose, Joe Smart set off for Falmouth, in 
order to discover from the authorities of that town 
all the particulars of the exchange of prisoners 
that had been effected when Leontine returned 
to France with her brother Victor: this information 
might be a guide to L6ontine's address, and she 
might probably discover some members of the 
privateer's crew who could swear to the fact of 
Paul's death. 

It was the eve of Christmas-day when Joe Smart 
started upon this important mission ; the snow was 
falling heavily, and was drifting in the wind that 
howled across the hill-tops, and scattered the few 
withered leaves that at this late season still clung 
tenaciously to the oaks. It was bitterly cold, and 
Joe Smart's fingers were so numbed that he could 
scarcely feel the bridle through his thick woollen 
gloves ; buttoned tight to the chin, he had raised the 
high collar of- his great coat, around which he tied a 
large red woollen comforter that Polly had given him 
at the last moment of starting. This was the same 
comforter that she had knitted years ago as a present 
for Paul when he should return. Thus secured from 
the weather, with a sou'-wester oil-skin cap drawn 
tightly over his head and ears, and tied beneath 
his chin, Joe Smart trotted along upon a powerful 
cob and took the road for Falmouth. The wind was 
directly in his face ; and as the snow froze as it fell, 
the mane of his horse was covered, and the eyes of 
the animal, like those of the rider, were so pained by 

A A 



S 



354 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 



the drift that it bent its head upon one side to avoid 
the cutting wind. The earth was white with snow, and 
as Joe Smart rode along, he closed his eyes to avoid 
the needle-like sharpness of the sleet, trusting to the 
sure-footedness of his careful horse. It was about 
3 P.M. when he passed along the road above Sandy 
Cove ; and as he glanced below, he recalled to mind 
the old times when Paul's clipper lugger lay anchored 
in the bay, and Polly had always welcomed him at 
the pretty cottage on the cliff, which now was his. 

" Poor Paul !" exclaimed Joe Smart to himself, " he 
was as gallant and fine a sailor as ever lived ! God 
rest his soul, and bring happiness to his dear wife !" 

Occupied with these thoughts, he trotted steadily 
along, meeting no object upon the road except a man 
well wrapped up like himself, who bent his head 
before the blast as his horse cantered quickly by like 
a phantom, leaving no sound of hoofs in the snow 
that was already many inches deep. 

As Joe Smart is trotting onwards on the road to 
Falmouth, we will follow the stranger whose horse 
was hurrying in the opposite direction. 

There was no road visible, and the recent tracks of 
Smart's horse were rapidly disappearing beneath the 
fast falling snow, but without an instant's hesitation 
the stranger spurred his powerful black horse over the 
white surface, regardless of hidden holes or drifts ; he 
was so muffled up that hardly his eyes were visible ; 
and thus he galloped on until he arrived at the steep 
footpath that led down the cliff to Sandy Cove. 
Springing from his horse, he drew the reins over its 
head, and led it carefully down the zigzag path. 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 355 

— ¦ ¦ ¦>¦¦¦¦ -¦ -^^— — —^^ mm- mm ¦¦ T , .. -^ ¦ « . ¦ ...»¦¦¦¦, » ¦" ™ " 

Upon reaching the bottom, he knocked at the door 
of a hut formed of a well-tarred inverted boat, in 
which windows had been fitted. 

"Who's there?" cried a shrill woman's voice from 
within. 

"Open the door, my good woman, for I'm very- 
cold," said the stranger, " and I won't delay you for 
two minutes." 

The door immediately opened, and securing the 
reins to a hook upon which crab nets were suspended, 
he left the horse outside and entered the hut, closing 
the door behind him to keep out the cold wind. The 
occupant of the hut was a woman of about forty-five, 
with several children, the youngest of whom was a 
boy about six years old. 

"Does a man named Paul Grey live here?" asked 
the stranger. 

" Paul Grey live here ?" replied the woman. " No, I 
wish he did ; he's dead long ago, poor fellow, on the 
day that my good man fell fighting by his side, and 
they're both now in heaven. This child," continued 
the woman, as she took the youngest by the hand, 
" was then at my breast, when the news came home 
that his brave father was shot through. The Polly 
brought some wounded men to Falmouth, but my 
poor man lies in the sea ; God only knows the spot." 

" Poor fellow ! he was a brave sailor," said the 
stranger; "but what of Paul Grey's wife ; is she too 
dead ?" he asked in a hollow and uncertain voice. 

"No, she's alive and well, poor soul, but always 
sorrowing," replied the woman. "She often comes 
over here and sees us all, and talks of Paul as though 

A A 2 



356 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

he were still alive ; and she goes up to the cottage on 
the cliff, and looks upon the sea as though she thought 
the Polly would return again as in old times." 

" Is the old boat gone, too ? " asked the stranger. 

" Lord bless you ! the boat, the Polly } do you 
mean ? Why, she never came back to the Cove after 
the fight ; she was almost knocked to pieces, and was 
sold at Falmouth to pay Paul's debts ; there's nothing" 
left except the cottage on the cliff, and that was 
bought by the one-armed captain, when all the things 
were sold." 

"Where is Paul's wife ?" inquired the stranger. 

" She lives at the rectory with Mrs. Jones and Miss 
Edith, who were very good to her ; they come here 
sometimes now, and never forget the poor, God bless 
them ! I don't know what my poor children would 
have done this cold Christmas had it not been for all 
their goodness. And the one-armed captain, too, is a 
good man, and helps us often ; he'll make Mrs. Grey 
a good husband, if she'll have him, but they say she 
won't listen to him till she sees where Paul's buried. 
Poor soul, she's a good wife, and true as steel." 

" And is it supposed that she will then marry the 
one-armed captain ?" asked the stranger. 

"Well, it's most likely to come off, I think," 
replied the woman. " You see, Captain Smart was a 
good friend of Paul's, and he did everything for Mrs. 
Grey when she was mourning for him ; he paid all the 
debts, and never let her want ; and she must have a 
harder heart than flint if she doesn't love the man." 

" And the lad, Ned Grey ? " said the stranger ; 
"where is he?" 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 357 

"Ned Grey?" replied the woman. " Why, there's 
a long story about Ned Grey ; he was missing ever 
since the night of Parson Jones' murder, together 
with the nigger Tim, and was never heard of since. 
Some say as how he did the murder, but that I know 
is a lie : but for all that they issued a warrant to 
apprehend all three — Paul, and Ned Grey, and Tim 
— because the old woman, Mother Lee, witnessed 
against them." 

" Parson Jones murdered!" exclaimed the stranger. 
"Ned Grey and Tim missing, and never heard of! 
Mother Lee witnessed against them ! Good heavens, 
what shall I hear next ? Where is Mother Lee ?" he 
asked. 

"Why, you know something and yet nothing of 
these parts," replied the woman. " Mother Lee hated 
Paul, and she tried to wreck the Polly by lighting 
false beacons on the cliff in a sou'-west gale; her 
clothes were covered with tar, and she caught fire 
and blazed for half an hour till she was burnt to 
a cinder : it was the devil's work for his own that 
night." 

"Have the murderers of Parson Jones been dis- 
covered ?" asked the stranger. 

" Nothing has ever been heard of them," replied 
the woman; "but as two hundred guineas were 
stolen, and the same amount was found in a bag 
concealed in a cave in Paul's house, together with a 
lot of jewels and smuggled goods, suspicion fell upon 
his family, and a verdict of wilful murder was brought 
against Paul, Ned Grey, and Tim, for whom a 
warrant was given." 



358 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

The stranger made no reply, but, giving the woman 
a shilling, he left the hut, and once more encountered 
the fierce blast Leading his shivering horse to the 
summit of the cliff, he remounted and galloped hard 
in the direction of the village. 

After the first two miles were accomplished, the 
dusky twilight gave way to darkness, and he was 
obliged to slacken his speed to a walk : it was about 
five o'clock when he first saw the lights twinkling In 
the windows of the village. Riding through the quiet 
and desolate street of snow, he halted at the door of 
the White Hart Inn, and put up his tired horse. 
Leaving a small valise that was strapped upon the 
saddle, in charge of the boy that took his horse, he 
left word that he should require a room, and without 
changing his clothes, or in any way altering his 
muffled appearance, he at once disappeared in the 
darkness of the street. 

In a few minutes he entered the garden gate of the 
rectory, and stealthily approached the house by the 
lawn ; he observed a bright light at a window on the 
ground-floor, and he was soon sufficiently near to 
distinguish the persons within. A large fire flamed 
up the chimney of the drawing-room, in which were 
several ladies. Having drawn near to the window, 
the suspicious-looking stranger peered through the 
glass. Mrs. Jones and Edith were unconsciously 
sipping their tea, while Polly Grey was seated by 
the fire in an arm-chair, reading. Presently Edith 
rose from her seat, and drawing her chair near, she 
placed her arm round Polly's neck and kissed her 
cheek. 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 359 



The stranger left the window, and retiring as 
quietly as he had arrived, he passed round the house 
to the back door, and rang the bell. 

A woman-servant answered the summons, and for 
the first moment she screamed and slammed the door 
at seeing the tall, muffled figure that looked black 
and huge upon the white snow. 

" Open the door, my good girl," cried the stranger, 
"and don't be afraid. I have a message of much 
importance to deliver to Mrs. Grey." 

Once more the timid girl opened the door, and the 
stranger entered the house. 

" Say to Mrs. Grey immediately," said the stranger, 
" that a sailor who fought with Paul Grey, when he 
fell, wishes to speak with her; but show me into 
a room, where I can see her alone." 

The girl led him into the library, and leaving the 
candle, she left him in the gloomy chamber while she 
delivered the message. 

A chill of surprise thrilled through Polly Grey. 
€t How strange," she said, " that Captain Smart should 
only have started to-day, and that already some 
person brings intelligence of the event ! They must 
have met upon the road ! What kind of person is 
this who has brought the message ?" asked Polly. 

" He's a horrid-looking man, Mum, if you please," 
said the timid maid ; " you can't see anything of him 
except a tremendous great coat and a slouched cap, 
and a big comforter, and a shawl tied round his throat 
that hides his face altogether, and he looks as cold as 
shivers," continued the girl, " for the snow's sticking 
all about him." 



» 



360 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

a Is there a fire in the library ?" asked Polly. 

" Yes, Mum, there's a blazing fire. 

" Then tell him that I will see him immediately. 

The girl left the room, and having said a few words 
to Edith and Mrs. Jones (who felt rather nervous at 
the idea of a strange person having been thus 
admitted into the house after dark), Polly shortly 
followed her. 

As Polly Grey entered the library, lighted only by 
one candle that the maid had left, she at first hardly 
distinguished the dark and muffled form of the 
stranger, who was standing by a bookshelf. Startled 
for the moment, as he came forward, she said, " I 
believe you are the person who wishes to speak with 
Mrs. Grey ? I am the widow of Paul Grey." 

The tall figure of the stranger for an instant ap- 
peared to reel forward, but almost immediately 
recovering himself, he said, in a deep and trembling 
voice, " Widow of Paul Grey, I was with him in the 
fight when he fell." 

Polly pressed her hand for some moments against 
her forehead in silence. " I know he fell," she said, 
" and that bravely ; but I have always hoped against 
all hope that he was not killed, but perhaps gravely 
wounded, and that I might again see him in this 
world. Did you see him die ? Oh tell me, I beseech 
you, all! Hide nothing from me; for now that I 
know he is really dead, I can bear to hear all con- 
cerning him." 

" I came here to tell you all I know," replied the 
stranger. "lama sailor who fought and bled in that 
hard fight when Paul and Dick Stone were both 




\ 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 361 

struck down. Poor Dick lies in the sea, and Paul — 
but I will not harrow your feelings, Mrs. Grey. I had 
heard that you were about to marry again, and that 
Captain Smart was to fill Paul's vacant place. I am 
an old friend of Joe Smart's, and I could wish him no 
better fortune than to win Paul's wife." 

" Alas ! " said Polly, " that such reports have stirred 
abroad. Captain Smart was Paul's best friend, and 
he has well befriended me, but never was woman 
truer to her husband's memory than I have been ; it 
has been a life of sorrow to me for many a long 
year, and I have prayed to God for death as my 
greatest comfort, that I might see dear Paul again 
in heaven. I never can marry. I could not take 
another vow : my heart would break ; but still, there 
could not be a better or more honest man than 
Captain Smart." 

As Polly spoke these words, the tall, muffled 
figure drew nearer to her, and said in a hoarse 
whisper, "Mrs. Grey, did you ever dream of Paul? 
Did you ever pray for him when away ? " 

"Dream of him?" said Polly; "I have passed 
such nights of happiness with Paul in my arms, only 
to wake and find myself alone, and the world a 
wilderness without him ; and I have prayed till my 
heart has nearly broken, that God should restore 
him to me. I have lived in hope till now ; and you, 
evil messenger, have broken the last reed on which 
N . I leant, now I know that Paul is gone for ever. O 
God ! why did I pray ? Let me die rather than live 
this life of anguish!" said Polly bitterly, in her 
despair. 



362 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

For some minutes Polly leant upon the mantel- 
piece and buried her face in her hands; the tall 
stranger also appeared to be affected. "And if," 
said he, "Paul Grey were to return to life, what 
would become of Captain Smart ? Does he not love 
you, Mrs. Grey?" 

" Question me no more. You have delivered your 
fatal message ; I thank you for the sad news. You 
must be tired and hungry : I will order supper." 

" The moment is too serious for thoughts of hunger. 
I have yet more news to tell, but I must have your 
thorough confidence," replied the stranger : " tell me 
plainly and upon your oath, does not Smart love 
you, and do you not return his love ?" 

" He does," said Polly ; " and for him I have the 
affection of a sister. Since Paul's death he has 
been more than a brother to me, and he now asks 
for his reward, that I should consent to become 
his wife." 

"What is your reply?" asked the stranger. "I 
must know all before I proceed with my story, for 
the end has not been told." 

Polly hesitated. " Why should I be ashamed to 
declare my feelings ? I cannot love again as I loved 
Paul, and yet I owe Captain Smart so much that, 
although I have always refused his offer, I feel that 
if Paul's spirit could know all he has done for me, 
and for his interests, he would himself counsel me 
to accept his hand. I have told him," continued 
Polly, " that I can hear no more until he can discover 
an eye-witness who saw my dear Paul's body buried. 
He has left this house to-day for Falmouth, and if 



CAST UP BY THE SEA, 363 



you came from that direction you must have met 
him on the road. I fear you are the witness that 
would have rendered his journey unnecessary ; would 
that I were dead!" 

" Mrs. Grey," said the stranger solemnly, and in 
a voice broken by his excited feelings, "prepa're 
yourself for the remainder of my tale. Can you 
bear more?" he asked earnestly. 

" I can bear anything," said Polly ; " my distress 
has been so great that nothing can impress me 
now that Paul is dead; my feelings have grown 
callous." 

" Then hear the end, and fortify yourself for what 
will be as severe a shock as you ever had to bear. 
Are you prepared? Is your courage screwed to its 
highest pitch ? Can you support the trial ?" 

"I can bear anything," she repeated; "only 
tell me quickly ! What can be worse than all I 
know?" 

The stranger sat down upon a chair, and apparently 
overcome by emotion for some moments, he leant 
his elbows upon the table and buried his face in 
his hands. As though feeling oppressed, he unbut- 
toned his great coat and loosened the numerous 
wraps around his throat; then standing up, he ap- 
proached Polly, who calmly awaited his mysterious 
announcement. 

. In a deep hollow voice, he said, " This is the end 
of my mission.' . . .. Paul Grey is still alive !" 

" Alive ! alive ! alive ! Oh, for God's sake don't 
deceive me ! My Paul not dead ! Where, where is 
he ?" exclaimed the almost frantic wife. 



364 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

"Here, in your arms, my own sweet wife! God 
has heard your prayers! I am Paul Grey!" 

In an instant he had thrown off his overcoat and 
shawl which concealed his features, and once more 
Paul pressed his devoted Polly to his heart, while 
she clung around his neck in a paroxysm of joy 
that almost approached to madness. 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 365 



CHAPTER XIX. 

WHEN the first violent shock of delight was past, 
Paul explained in a few words the history of his 
captivity and escape. After the fight with the French 
privateer, he had lain apparently dead upon the deck, 
but as the water which washed the scuppers in which 
he lay flowed over him when the vessel rolled, he 
recovered sufficiently to show some signs of life, 
which saved him from being thrown overboard. 
Upon arrival at Dunkerque he was sent to the hos- 
pital, and when sufficiently recovered, he was com- 
mitted to a French prison. There he lay for years, 
until one day he was informed that he had permis- 
sion to see a friend who had called at the prison-door. 
He reached the barred gate, and looking through the 
small iron grating, he saw to his astonishment and 
delight his old and true friend Ldontine. Upon her 
arrival with her brother Victor in her native town, she 
had been arrested and confined in gaol, for a certain 
period, for having aided in the escape of the prisoners ; 
but upon the whole affair becoming known, it caused 
a great sensation, and she shortly received a pardon. 

The unfortunate Francois, her old lover, who had 
been on guard when the prisoners escaped, and who 
had borrowed a comrade's uniform and arms to aid 



366 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

in her disguise for the nocturnal meeting, had been 
severely punished; and Ldontine, having recovered 
from the loss of Dick Stone, had rewarded the 
hardly-treated Francois with her hand. They were 
married, and Francois soon forgot his hardships in 
the delight of his gallant prize. 

Some years afterwards, Francois, who had risen 
to the rank of lieutenant, happened to meet at a 
cate a French sailor who was describing to a comrade 
an action in which he had been engaged with an 
English vessel. Listening attentively to his story, he 
heard him relate the daring manner in which the 
English had boarded the French privateer, together 
with the escape of the disabled lugger, owing to the 
arrival of a British cruiser. Francois naturally con- 
cluded that this was a description of the action with 
the Polly, and joining in the conversation, he gave an 
account of the manner in which Paul had escaped 
from prison and recaptured the lugger, when L^ontine 
had played him the trick, long since forgiven. He 
then heard that Paul had recovered from his wounds 
and was confined in prison. From that moment 
L£ontine was determined to obtain Paul's release, 
but she could not discover the place in which he 
was imprisoned. At length she found that he was in 
Dunkerque gaol. Thither the faithful L^ontine at once 
set off and found him as described. She at once 
went to the governor of the gaol and related the cir- 
cumstance of her brother's release, and the kindness 
she had received in Falmouth ; and she besought him 
to forward her petition for Paul's release to the 
proper authorities. Struck with L^ontine's romantic 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 367 



tale, and with her extraordinary beauty and energy 
of character, the governor exerted himself in Paul's 
behalf, to whom he had taken a special liking from 
the moment that he had entered the prison, as he had 
heard of his daring behaviour in boarding the priva- 
teer. After much delay, Paul was included in a list 
for an exchange of prisoners, and was sent to England. 
Landing at Falmouth, he had hastened towards his 
old home. 

In a few days the news of Paul's return was spread 
throughout the neighbourhood. Edith shared in 
Polly Grey's happiness. Often had Polly mourned 
on Christmas-day, when others seemed so happy, and 
she was miserable ; but now she had spent that day 
together with her long lost husband. They had knelt 
together in the church, and poured out their hearts 
to God in humble thanksgiving for a joy that few 
in this world can know. But joy was not for all. 
Slowly and mournfully a powerful brown cob, tired 
with its journey in the deep snow, carried its rider 
along the road from Falmouth to the rectory. 
Although the wind was cold and piercing, his great 
coat was unbuttoned, his throat was unprotected, and 
the empty sleeve of the left arm dangled neglected 
at his side. Joe Smart had heard the news, and was 
on his return; he was on the way to welcome his 
old friend Paul, and to take a farewell for ever of 
Paul's wife. He could not trust himself again to be 
her friend ; he knew that his happiness in this world 
was gone. 

Thus broken down in spirit, Joe Smart travelled 
slowly on. He did not feel the cold, for the hard 



368 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

frost was nothing to the chill that was in his heart. 
He loved Paul, and he had thoroughly believed him 
dead ; thus he had never curbed his passion for Polly 
Grey, and his whole soul had become devoted to that 
one object of his affection. Paul's return was an 
avalanche of misery to him, that had crushed every 
hope. At the same time his love for Polly was so 
thoroughly devoted and sincere, that even in his 
misery he rejoiced at the intensity of happiness that 
she must feel at her husband's resurrection from the 
dead. He dared not think of the future : to him the 
world must be a blank. Thus he rode slowly on. 

It was late in the evening when Joe Smart reached 
the rectory, and warmly pressed his old friend's hand. 
He would not trust himself to see Paul's wife, but he 
wrote her a letter of farewell, full of touching ex- 
pressions of affection, concealing as much as possible 
his own distress, and dwelling more upon her future 
happiness. He explained that he had not the courage 
to meet her to say " good-bye," and he concluded by 
begging her to accept from him, as a souvenir of many 
happy days, a present of the cottage on the cliff at 
Sandy Cove, that he had purchased at the sale of 
Paul's effects ; in which he trusted once more to see 
her and Paul together at some future day when 
time should have lessened the agony of his disap- 
pointment. 

It grieved Paul's heart to see his friend's distress. 
"Cheer up, Joe, my dear friend, and more than 
brother," he said, as he almost crushed his hand in 
his affectionate but iron grasp. " It might have been 
better had I died, but I trust to live to repay you, if 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 369 

ever possible, for all the kind acts and generosity you 
have shown to Polly. You have been sorely punished, 
my dear Joe, by my return ; but believe me how I 
grieve to see you feel so keenly. You must come and 
see us often in the old place, and Polly will welcome 
you with all her heart, as I will ; and we will forget 
that I was lost, and we shall live as we did before: 
the door always open to you as our truest friend." 

Joe Smart choked in his attempt to reply to Paul's 
feeling words ; but biting his lips until the blood 
flowed, to suppress the emotion which this kind 
sympathy had awakened, he could only return the 
pressure of Paul's hand, and hurriedly left the house. 
As he rushed from the front door in the dark, he 
came in sudden contact with some person who fell 
with the shock, and almost immediately afterwards, 
although he had apologized, he felt a smart blow 
with a heavy whip across the face. Stung with the 
pain and with the unmerited insult, Smart instinc- 
tively struck his adversary a severe blow on the eye 
with his only fist, but quickly found himself closed 
with in return. This had happened in a few seconds, 
and as Paul had followed Smart with the intention of 
insisting upon his return, he opened the door and 
found him engaged in a struggle with Jem Stevens. 

"Holloa, what's the row?" exclaimed Paul, as he 
collared Stevens in his powerful grasp and separated 
the combatants. "What! fight with a one-armed 
man, you coward ?" saying which, he gave Stevens a 
push, which sent him staggering some paces distant. 

Stevens was half blind with passion when he found 
that his adversary was Joe Smart, of whose position 

B B 



370 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

at the rectory he had been for a long time jealous, 
as he imagined that he counselled Edith against his 
proposals. Turning quickly upon his heel, he ex- 
claimed, " You shall hear more of this!" and retreating 
to the stable, he remounted his horse, muttering, 
" Coward, he called me ; that ruffian, Paul Grey ! " 

On the following morning, as Paul was sitting at 
the breakfast table with Polly, Mrs. Jones, and Edith, 
a ring was heard at the front bell. In about five 
minutes the door opened, and several constables 
entered the room, one of which exhibited a paper, 
and, laying his hand upon Paul's shoulder, he said, 
"I apprehend you, Paul Grey, upon a charge of 
wilful murder." This was the original warrant for 
his apprehension that had been issued many years 
ago, when Parson Jones was murdered. 

It was useless to resist : however false the charge, 
there could be no doubt that the warrant was strictly 
legal ; and Paul, rising from his seat, took leave of 
Polly, saying, "I shall not be long in settling this 
farce. ,, He accompanied the constables, who led him 
before a magistrate. That worthy functionary was 
James Stevens, Esq., of Heron Hall. 

****** 

We must now change the scene and return to 
Africa, at a period of about twelve months before 
Paul's return. 

It was the rainy season in the country where we 
left Ned and Tim, but no rain had fallen. Not a 
drop of dew moistened the ground ; but, parched and 
withered, the whole land was a bright yellow glare 
of sunburnt grass. In a large circular hut sat a tall 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 371 

handsome young man of about twenty years ; by his 
side was a clean-skinned powerful young negro of 
about the same age : these were Ned and Tim. 
They were dressed in clothes of beautifully prepared 
skins divested of the hair, resembling chamois leather. 
These they had themselves manufactured by tanning 
with the fruit of a mimosa, as their stock of European 
clothes had long since disappeared. The king had been 
dead for some time, as he had been murdered by his 
subjects, and Ned had been, much against his will, 
elected chief. This was a dangerous position, as few of 
their governors had died a natural death; but they had 
generally been sacrificed to some popular superstition. 
Ned was, at the present time, in a state of great per- 
plexity, as the people were vainly crying for rain. 

Daily the sky clouded over, but when all hopes 
were high, the clouds would gradually disappear 
without yielding a drop, and the sorcerers had de- 
clared to the people that Ned withheld the rain by 
magic. Added to this unlucky drought, a murrain 
had broken out among the cattle, which had pro- 
bably originated from the absence of green fodder ; 
the cows died in great numbers, milk was hardly to 
be obtained, and the people dreaded a famine, as 
they would be unable to sow their crops in the 
burning soil. They flocked to their sorcerers, who, 
having always been jealous of Ned's supremacy, now 
boldly declared that it was he who inflicted this curse 
upon the land. 

Thousands of natives congregated from all parts of 
the country, and they determined to wait upon Ned 
in a vast assemblage to petition him for rain. 

B B 2 



m 



372 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

It was early morning when a hum of distant voices, 
together with the beating of drums and blowing of 
horns, approached the town. Quickly the drums of 
many head men responded to the call, and an immense 
body of people assembled beneath a grove of large 
fig-trees or sycamores, upon a clear spot outside the 
palisades, as there was no open space within the town 
sufficiently large to contain them. In a short time 
the sorcerers waited upon Ned, and requested him to 
appear before the people. 

It was not without some misgiving that Ned, ac- 
companied by Tim and old Nero, responded to the 
call. The dog was no longer the bounding and 
playful animal of former days ; his muzzle had grown 
grey, and his expression had become solemn ; while 
his eyes, deeply sunk within his head, showed the 
effects of age. A loud shout from the multitude 
welcomed Ned's appearance, and he took his seat 
beneath a sycamore, with Tim by his side. There 
was no shade, as the long-continued dry weather had 
withered the leaves, few of which remained upon 
the trees. 

As Ned sat down, the air rang with the shouts of 
many thousand voices : — 

" Rain ! rain ! great chief. Give us rain, or we all 
perish ! " 

These cries continued with increasing vehemence, 
until the excitement became so great that many 
brandished their lances in menacing attitudes, as 
though to imply that they would have recourse to 
violence should their demands not be complied with. 
Ned had now mastered the language so as to 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 373 

speak fluently ; and as the tumult increased, he was 
about to address them, when Tim interrupted him 
with advice. 

" Massa Ned, dese niggers not like us. Dey all 
same like a mad bull ; just give ' em an idea, dey 
knock dere heads against it.. Now dey got de idea 
' no rain come cos of Massa Ned ; ' now dey run dere 
heads slick at Massa Ned, and kill us sartain ! " 

" You are right, Tim," said Ned, " they are merely 
brutes in impulse, and I fear we shall be the victims 
of their ignorant passions. I see no hope except in 
delay. We must endeavour to keep them patient 
for a few days, and take the chance of rain." 

" De rain not come, Massa Ned. I know de cus- 
tom of de sky in dis bad country ; four or five years 
praps de rain come, den one year come dry as tinder ; 
not a <drop of water. Den de niggers kill de king and 
all de rain-makers. Dis year no rain come, and we 
be killed if not run away. Tim don't care for self; 
but bad job for Massa Ned." 

" Escape is impossible," said Ned. " How often 
would we have escaped from this hateful land if it 
had been practicable. Our only chance would be 
Zanzibar; that is at least five hundred miles from 
here. How could we accomplish such a journey 
without means of any kind to pass through the 
various tribes, all of which are hostile to each other ? " 

"I know all dat, Massa Ned," replied Tim. "Praps 
we get killed on de road, but dats only praps ; if we 
stop here, dere's no praps, only killed for sartain. 
If we not look sharp," continued Tim, " we be killed 
to-day ! Look at de niggers now, see how dey cuss 



374 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

and hark what dey say — ' Kill de white man and 
de black dog ! ' Now dey tink de poor Nero stop de 
rain, stoopid niggers ! " 

At this time the excitement had reached scr high 
a pitch that, as Tim had described, the crowd were 
shouting for the death of Ned and the dog, as strange 
creatures that must have brought the calamity upon 
the country. 

" I know de trick, Massa Ned ! " exclaimed Tim, 
suddenly, when the tumult was at its height, and one 
man had in his excitement thrown a lance at Ned, 
which he narrowly escaped. " Massa Ned holler out, 
' Stop de row ! de rain's a-coming V Holler quick ! 
or we be killed sartain ! " continued Tim, as another 
lance whizzed past his ear. 

On the impulse of the moment, Ned rose from the 
ground, and, throwing his arms high above his head, 
he shouted in a loud voice that the people should be 
silent. The tumult quickly subsided, as Ned's tall 
and commanding figure produced a sudden effect, and 
they expected that he would speak. 

"Now, Massa Ned," said Tim, quickly, "tell 'em 
you call de rain in six days, but you want to go to 
fetch it. Tell 'em you know de place where de rain's 
shut up. De niggers, stoopid fools, believe all dis. 
Den we get six days' start, and cut and run. Dat's 
de trick 'xactly ! " 

Ned qualified Tim's sagacious idea, and having 
obtained perfect silence, he addressed the multitude 
in a forcible speech, blaming them for certain crimes 
that they had committed, and declaring that the 
drought was thoroughly merited for the murder of 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 375 

their late king. He continued by threatening them 
with the vengeance of the Great Spirit should they 
persist in their determination to sacrifice him and the 
dog, and reminded them that, although the drought 
and the murrain had visited them, the locusts and the 
small-pox had not yet arrived — two plagues infi- 
nitely worse than the former — that -would punish their 
offences. Ned concluded by demanding six days of 
seclusion, during which he was to be left entirely 
alone, with Tim and his dog, in a grove of palm trees, 
about three miles from the town, on the borders of 
the lake, as he wished to observe the sun. Should no 
rain fall before the sixth day, he offered to become a 
sacrifice for the good of the people. 

Wild shouts and immense confusion followed this 
speech. Some of the people would have agreed to the 
proposal, while others declared that he should be 
put to death at once. The tumult rose to such a 
pitch that the riot became general, and the parties 
were proceeding to blows, which would certainly 
have ended in the slaughter of Ned, had not 
Tim promptly struck several loud blows upon the 
great drum, which important signal restored tran- 
quillity. Tim did not lose the opportunity, but at 
once addressed the people, and, being thoroughly 
conversant with their ways, he made a proposal that 
met with general approbation and satisfied all parties. 
As he explained this suggestion to Ned : " I tell dese 
black stoopid niggers, Massa Ned, dis much. Says I, 
' You all right on the one side, my good fellers, and 
you all right on de oder side too. Now, if everybody 
all right, nobody all wrong ; dat*s a fact 'xactly ! Now 



376 CAST UP BY THE SEA. ' 

one side say, " Kill him to-day," — quite right ; but de 
Oder side say, " Wait six days," — quite right. Now I 
say, " Make it half of de one and half of de oder, — dat's 
de proper way, den everybody's right. Wait tree days 
'stead of six ; dat's de trick ! den nobody's wrong and 
everybody's right ! " ' Dat's de way to talk to de 
niggers, Massa Ned. Now dey understand ; now dey 
quite pleased. If get de rain in tree days, very good 
fun ; if not, dey kill us all, dat very good fun too for 
de niggers ; but we'll cut and run, and get de start for 
tree days ; dat's de trick 'xactly ! " 

Tim's speech had completely satisfied the savages. 
The shouts lately so angry, quickly turned to those 
of merriment, as they all looked forward to rain 
within three days. Ned lost no time in preparation, 
and determined to start at once. 

To avoid suspicion, it was arranged that the 
natives should carry a certain amount of provisions 
to the grove of palm-trees by the lake ; shelter 
was not required, as there was neither dew nor 
rain. It would be impossible to carry much, as 
Ned determined to make forced marches ; therefore 
the two old knapsacks were quickly arranged with 
longer straps that would fit the broad shoulders 
of the two powerful young men, and these were 
packed with strips of dried meat, with a quantity 
of native bread that, dried in the sun, would serve 
in the place of biscuit during a long journey. The 
sextant, compass, &c, and ammunition, completed the 
outfit ; but of the original stock of the latter no more 
than sixty rounds of ball cartridge remained, and the 
shot had been expended years ago. The cartridges 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. • 377 

were divided between them; and with their two double- 
barrelled guns with new flints, and a sharp cutlass 
each, they accompanied the natives to the palm- 
trees, where they were to be left in perfect seclusion 
for the stipulated three days. 

. The natives quickly left them, and as the moon 
would be nearly full, Ned determined to start shortly 
after sunset. 

. At that hour, when the natives were engaged in 
penning their cattle, which they had driven within 
the kraals, Ned and Tim departed, followed by 
old Nero. They knew the country for the first 
twenty miles : thus they accomplished that distance 
in about five hours ; and then continued to march 
throughout the night over vast plains of withered 
grass interspersed with large trees. 

By sunrise on the following morning, they had 
marched about forty miles, and had gained a fair 
start of the natives in case they should be pursued. 
During the entire distance they had found no water, 
but happily shortly after daybreak they arrived 
at a ravine, which, although a formidable torrent 
during the rainy season, was now reduced to a dry 
rocky bed, with small pools of clear water at 
intervals. Having bathed in a pool, they slept 
beneath an overhanging rock which gave a delight- 
ful shade, which was the more grateful as the trees 
were all devoid of leaves, owing to the intense 
drought They woke at about 2 P.M., and im- 
mediately buckled on their knapsacks, and refilled 
their goat-skins with clear water for the march. 

Ned's greatest anxiety lay in the want of water. 



378 • CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

The country was entirely unknown to him, and he 
knew that ferocious tribes of negroes existed between 
them and Zanzibar, but these he did not fear so 
much as a frightful death by thirst The entire 
country was burnt up, the underwood in the jungles 
was dead, the trees leafless, and the plains were a 
bright yellow ; the ground was cracked in all direc- 
tions into broad and deep fissures, and the ravines 
that generally held water were completely dry. 
Trusting in Providence, but fully sensible of the ex- 
treme danger of the journey, which was simply a last 
resource to escape certain death, Ned led the way. 

They had hardly started, when he perceived a large 
herd of buffaloes coming across the plain towards the 
ravine, and raising a cloud of dust from the parched 
ground as they galloped towards the drinking place. 
As fresh meat for themselves and the dog was sorely 
needed, Ned determined to obtain a shot, if possible ; 
accordingly both he and Tim concealed themselves, 
and watched the herd of thirsty animals, who now 
rushed headlong to the water. Presently they 
arrived at the margin of the ravine, down which 
they hurried in a dense mass, and Ned distinctly 
heard the clattering of the loose rocks which fell 
as the numerous hoofs dislodged them. Creeping 
quietly towards the spot where the herd had dis- 
appeared in the ravine, Ned reached, the precipitous 
bank, accompanied by Tim and Nero. Looking 
cautiously over the edge, he observed a herd of 
about a hundred buffaloes wallowing in the pool 
below. As he required meat of a good description, 
he selected a cow instead of a bull, and aiming 




CAST UP BY THE SEA. 379 

steadily at the shoulder of one that stood about 
fifty yards distant, he fired. For the moment she 
fell to the shot, and Nero, with his usual courage, 
dashed forward to the attack, and seized her by the 
ear. Recovering on the mstant, the buffalo sprang 
upon her feet, and tossing her head with immense 
force, she swung the dog high in the air. Un- 
fortunately poor old Nero had lost many of his 
teeth, and the ear slipped from his hold. Falling 
from the height of several feet, the buffalo with 
great adroitness caught the dog, upon her sharp- 
pointed horns, and bored him upon the ground. 
The herd had in the meantime remained standing 
in astonishment, as they had never before heard the 
report of a gun, neither could they distinguish the 
cause ; but as they saw the wounded cow attacking 
the dog, they were seized with £ sudden fury, and 
one and all, headed by an enormous bull, charged 
desperately forward upon the unlucky Nero. There 
was a savage and tremendous tumult of hoofs and 
horns. The wounded cow that was streaming with 
blood from the shoulder became the object of attack 
as well as the dog; she was bored to the ground 
by a phalanx of maddened animals, who now fought 
with each other in their rage, while others tossed in 
the air and alternately trampled under their feet a 
black woolly mass that had entirely lost the shape 
of a dog. All this had happened so quickly that 
Ned had neither time nor power to render assistance. 
The rage of the buffaloes was such that he fully 
expected they would turn their attack upon him 
should he be discovered ; accordingly he dared not 



380 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

fire until both he and Tim had climbed to the top 
of a large fragment of rock about seven feet 
above the level of the ground, on the margin of 
the ravine. From this secure position he fired at 
the shoulder of a large bull in the midst of the 
mitee, now within twenty paces of him. For an 
instant the struggle ceased, and the entire herd, 
leaving the cow dead upon the ground, charged 
recklessly towards the spot where the smoke of 
the gun hung heavily among the bushes. It was 
well that Ned and Tim had taken the precaution to 
secure a strong position ; the herd came thundering 
up the steep bank of the ravine, and as a wave 
is broken by a reef, so the dense body divided 
on either side the rock upon which Ned stood, 
against* which they were pressed by the weight of 
those behind. Although ammunition was scarce, 
Ned could not resist a downward shot in revenge 
at the neck of a huge bull, whose tough sides rubbed 
against the rock close to his feet as he rushed blindly 
past ; the ball passed through the spine, and he fell 
dead, the rest of the herd galloping over his body. 
Following their mad impulse, the herd dashed wildly 
on, they knew not whither, and shortly nothing 
could be distinguished but a dense cloud of dust 
upon the plain, as they disappeared in the distance. 

Ned and Tim jumped from their stronghold and 
ran quickly down to the spot where the poor dog lay, 
crushed to a mummy by the infuriated herd. 

It was Edith's dog, and Ned recalled the day when 
he left the rectory and saw her for the last time, and 
Nero came bounding after him. From that moment 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 381 



the dog had been the faithful companion of all his 
wanderings, and the partaker of every danger and 
hardship ; he had slept by his side at night, and 
watched over his safety ; and, next to Tim, Nero was 
his greatest friend. His soft curly coat was now a 
mass of matted gore, and nothing remained that bore 
the faintest resemblance, to the fine old dog that a 
few minutes before was full of courage and vigour. 

Tim fairly blubbered like a child as he and Ned 
dug a hole in the sand with two stakes that they had 
sharpened with their cutlasses, and they buried their 
faithful companion. As they covered the grave with 
large stones and thdrn bushes to prevent the body 
from being exhumed by hyaenas, Ned lingered for a 
few minutes on the spot, and then sorrowfully buckled 
on his knapsack and slung his water-skin upon his 
shoulders. Taking up their guns, they silently com- 
menced their dreary march : neither could speak. 

It was intensely hot, and not a cloud shaded the 
sky. They had cut a few steaks off the buffalo, and 
the air was already swarming with vultures that had 
observed the carcases from the immense altitudes 
where, themselves invisible from the earth, they soared 
throughout the day upon their untiring wings, and 
watched for prey beneath with telescopic sight. 

They had marched for about four hours over arid 
plains, almost devoid of trees, when they arrived at 
a broad belt of forest ; passing through this, they 
entered upon a vast tract of high tangled grass that 
was nearly double the height of a man : this was 
perfectly impenetrable, and, after having vainly 
endeavoured to discover a path, Ned came to the 



382 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 



conclusion that they must alter their course, or trust 
to a broad track that had been made by the trampling 
of elephants. Tim suggested that the latter might 
possibly lead them to water. It was nearly dark ; 
and after wandering fruitlessly upon the tracks which 
turned in various directions, there was no other course 
than to halt for the night. They now felt the loss of 
their good friend Nero, who had always been their 
faithful sentry ; and fearful of sleeping without a 
watch being kept, it was resolved that, although tired, 
they should take it in turns to keep guard throughout 
the night. They cleared a small space in the high 
grass, made a fire, upon which they threw, for a few 
minutes, their strips of buffalo meat which served for 
their dinner, and Ned first went to sleep. The moon 
was bright, and had the country been clear, the night 
would have been the most favourable time for march- 
ing. Tim, being on guard, had taken his station 
on the top of a large white ant-hill, about twelve 
feet high, at the foot of which Ned was asleep ; 
from this elevated position he had an extensive view 
of the bright yellow plain that glistened in the moon- 
light like burnished gold. Lions were roaring in the 
distance, but Tim was so accustomed to this sound 
that it made little impression upon him, and for about 
an hour he kept a vigilant watch. As Tim was a 
Christian, he never omitted to say his prayers, and it 
suddenly occurred to him that he had forgotten his 
evening devotions ; accordingly, as he sat on guard on 
the conical summit of the ant-hill, he repeated his 
accustomed prayer, and being thoroughly fatigued, he 
fell asleep before he had actually concluded it. How 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 383 

— — ^ ^~~- 

long he slept he could not tell, but he suddenly woke, 
as what he imagined to be the bright sunlight was 
streaming in his eyes. A vivid glare shone upon the 
sky, and an intense line of light streamed along the 
surface of the earth. Recovering from his sleep, Tim 
shouted "Fire !" and at once scrambling down from his 
high post, he drew his sharp cutlass and set to work 
like a madman to mow down the high grass by 
which they were surrounded. 

Ned woke in an instant, and, quickly made aware 
of the danger, he joined Tim in his work with a 
desperation incited by the extremity of the moment. 
The wind was blowing strong from the direction they 
wished to pursue on the following morning, and the 
prairie being on fire, an immense volume of flames, 
that extended in a long line that appeared to have no 
limit, was driving towards them at a prodigious rate. 
As Tim had been asleep for some hours, he had not 
observed the fire until it was within a mile of their 
position, and the bright light had awakened him. 

Keeping the ant-hill for a centre, they now worked 
desperately, and cut down the grass in a circle until 
the mound stood in a clear space, about seventy feet 
in diameter ; they now dragged the cut grass to the 
leeward side of the circle, and piled it against the 
wall of dried and inflammable material that was to 
be ignited to clear a space before them. Taking a 
brand from their fire that was still burning, Ned 
lighted the pile to leeward, and they both immediately 
retreated to the windward side of their cleared circle. 
The grass was so intensely dry that it burnt like flax, 
and the flames at once leapt upwards to a height 



384 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

of about thirty feet with a loud rushing sound, 
accompanied by cracking reports resembling pistol 
shots, as the reedy stems burst in the blazing fire. 
The heat was almost insupportable, and Ned was 
forced to retreat into the high grass to windward, while 
Tim sheltered himself behind the ant-hill, as the 
flames spread with wonderful velocity, and, swept 
by the strong breeze, they licked up the grass before 
them and rushed forward, leaving a dark and level 
surface behind them like a pall of black velvet, in 
which flared the withered stumps of numerous trees. 

In less than ten minutes several acres of ground 
were cleared by the fire to leeward, and although 
the grass had ignited around the circle, so that Ned 
was forced to join Tim at the ant-hill, it burnt slowly 
to windward, and did not produce the distressing 
heat to which he had at first been subjected. 

The warning had been short, and had Tim slept 
a little longer, nothing could have saved them from 
destruction. The ground left by the receding fire 
was scarcely cool enough to be endurable by the 
feet, when dense volumes of smoke rolled over them 
from the advancing fire, accompanied by a terrific 
roar, as the flames, fanned by the wind, leapt forward 
as though rejoicing in their power to annihilate all 
before them. Ned and Tim were obliged to rush 
far forward upon the burnt ground to avoid suffo- 
cation. The sight was grand in the extreme, as 
the whole earth appeared to be in a blaze of fire 
farther than the eye could reach. Presently it reached 
the cleared circle, and in an instant the flames ceased 
in that portion of the line, which, now broken, 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 385 



swept by on either side, and vanished as it met the 
limits already burnt. They were safe ! And as Ned 
looked forward now in the rear of the advanced 
line of fire, the earth was cleared of every particle 
of vegetation, and was covered with a light black 
ash, as though with a light fold of crape. 

There was no longer any danger to fear from either 
man or beast, and the two tired and blackened 
figures, Ned and Tim, lay down and slept till 
morning. 

They rose before sunrise, and, as the ground was 
even and perfectly cleared from all obstacles, they 
marched rapidly by compass, steering direct for the 
position of Zanzibar. Ned had his chart with him 
that he had preserved throughout his first journey 
from the coast, which he knew to be correct ; there- 
fore there would be no difficulty in discovering the 
right position, provided that the nature of the country 
should permit a direct line of march. Aware of the 
great importance of speed, they pushed on at a rapid 
pace throughout the day, and only halted when they 
arrived at water in a beautifully wooded hollow at 
about four in the afternoon. Ned calculated that they 
had travelled thirty-five miles since the morning. 

They had now reached the origin of the prairie fire, 
which had evidently commenced on the high bank 
of the stream which they discovered in the wooded 
hollow beneath. In the wet season this was a con- 
siderable river, but the dry weather had reduced it to 
a trickling brook of beautifully clear water, that rip- 
pled over the pebbly bed in a depth of only a few 
inches, except in certain bends where the torrent \saA 

C C 



386 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 



hollowed out deep pools : these were some acres in 
extent, and hardly had Ned descended to the river's 
bed, than his ears were delighted by the loud snort of 
hippopotami, and he noticed several of these animals 
with their heads above the water. He lost no time 
in endeavouring to procure a dinner. A large tama- 
rind tree grew in the steep bank above the deep pool ; 
hiding behind this, Ned sent Tim to the opposite side 
of the pool to shout and to throw stones at the hippo- 
potami, so as to drive them over to the spot where he 
was lying in ambush. This had the desired effect, 
and presently, after a succession of loud snorting and 
repeated diving, the hippopotami retreated from 
Tim's side of the pool, and a large head suddenly 
appeared on the surface, exactly beneath Ned and 
within five or six yards of the muzzle of his gun. 
He fired in the back of the head between the ears, as 
the animal was looking away from him, its attention 
being engaged by Tim. It sank immediately, but 
Ned felt certain that it was killed ; he therefore 
determined to waste no more ammunition, but to 
wait until it should float, which would be in about an 
hour and a half. 

They now strolled up the bed of the stream to seek 
for a convenient spot for the night's bivouac. 

They were passing across a broad sandy surface, 
when they suddenly arrived at a footpath well-trodden 
by human feet ; this led to a well that had been dug 
in the sand to a depth of several feet, and there could 
be no doubt that it was the regular watering-place of 
some village in the immediate neighbourhood. 

As the opposite bank was thickly covered with fine 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 387 

forest trees and dense jungle, Ned proposed that they 
should conceal themselves and watch for the women, 
who in those countries always fetch water in their jars 
at a little before sunset : it was now about five o'clock. 

They had hardly concealed themselves when a long 
string of women appeared from the forest. They 
were almost naked, and each carried a large earthen- 
ware jar upon her head ; some were accompanied by 
their little children, all of whom carried jars of various 
dimensions proportioned to their size. 

As they filled their jars at the well, Tim stepped 
forward and accosted therrf in his own language, while 
Ned remained concealed lest his strange appearance 
should frighten them. At first they were startled at 
Tim's sudden arrival among them, but as they spoke 
a dialect that somewhat resembled his language, they 
quickly understood him, and after some explanation 
Tim called to Ned that he should join him. Some of 
the women were young and exceedingly pretty, with 
remarkably well-shaped noses and fine eyes, although 
their hair was woolly. They showed some signs of 
surprise dt seeing Ned, who had appeared to Tim's 
summons, but without the slightest fear they examined 
his white skin and light brown hair, which Tim had 
pointed out for their admiration. Ned then spoke to 
them and explained that they were lost, and had 
strayed there from a distant tribe that had threatened 
to kill them. He ended by asking to be received as 
a friend, and explained that he had just killed a hip- 
popotamus in a pool a few hundred yards distant that 
would supply them with meat. At this announce- 
ment several of the women started with their jars for 

C C 2 



3 88 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 



the village, which they declared was at no great dis- 
tance, and they requested the strangers to remain 
until they should return with some of their people. 

In about half an hour a large number of men, 
armed with lances, were seen to issue from the forest, 
accompanied by the female messengers. Upon arriv- 
ing within fifty yards of Ned, they stuck their lances 
in the sand, and advanced unarmed towards him as 
a sign of friendship, and upon a near approach they 
went through the customary salute of raising both his 
hands above his head. When Tim had been sub- 
jected to a similar operation, they all sat down, and 
Ned described their history from the time of the 
shipwreck, and their escape from the tribe, which he 
now discovered to be their deadly enemy. 

By the time that he and Tim had concluded their 
stories, Ned expected that the hippopotamus must 
have floated ; accordingly he led the men to the spot, 
and happily discovered that it had risen to the sur- 
face. The natives, having heard that it had been 
killed, were already provided with ropes and axes. 
Rushing into the water in a body, with loud shouts to 
scare the crocodiles, they attached ropes to the legs 
and hauled it to the shore. It was a fine large male, 
and Tim's proverb of " Fill de nigger's belly make de 
nigger frens," was quickly exemplified, as they cut up 
the massive animal, and, heavily laden with fat and 
flesh, they conducted Ned and his companion to their 
village with great rejoicing. 

It was a small but pretty village, situated about a 
hundred feet above the level of the river, in the rocky 
hollow of a mountain that rose to the height of several 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 389 

thousand feet. This had been a landmark by which 
Ned had steered for the last two days. The ascent to 
the village was exceedingly precipitous, and it was 
entered by a narrow cleft in the rock like a small 
alley, the cliffs of which rose like walls, on either side, 
to the height of several hundred feet. Having 
ascended the rough blocks of granite that formed 
natural steps up to the cleft, a strong gateway of 
hooked thorns that protected the narrow entrance 
was passed through, and the party entered the pecu- 
liar hollow in which the village was situated. This 
was of considerable extent, comprising about three 
acres, in which were beautiful groves of bananas, 
shady sycamores, and neat gardens, surrounding about 
a hundred circular dwellings constructed of bamboos 
thatched with reeds. The village appeared like a 
huge bird's-nest in the heart of the mountain, which 
rose abruptly on all sides, and completely encircled it 
with perpendicular cliffs : these could only be scaled 
by a narrow and dangerous pathway that had been cut 
out of the rock, to enable the inhabitants to escape 
to the top of the mountain in the event of an attack. 
Altogether it was an exceedingly strong position, as 
there was no way of ascending this side of the moun- 
tain, except by the narrow cleft already mentioned. 

Ned and Tim slept soundly in a clean hut that had 
been allotted to' them. On the following morning the 
women brought them a quantity of fresh milk, con- 
tained in large gourd shells, and a wooden bowl or 
broad dish of excellent porridge, mixed with pounded 
hippopotamus flesh and pumpkin, and flavoured with 
red pepper and salt. After breakfast they washed 



390 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

themselves in a shallow pool among the rocks in the 
river's bed, and returned to the village to attend a 
general meeting of the inhabitants. 

The people were already assembled beneath a 
large sycamore in the centre of the village, and Ned 
observed with surprise that a beautiful young girl of 
about nineteen sat upon a raised seat as their chief or 
queen. She rose as Ned advanced, and smiling gra- 
ciously, she raised his hands three times above his 
head, and requested him to be seated upon a lion's 
skin by her side. 

The whole story of the shipwreck and Ned's wan- 
derings up to the present time had to be repeated, 
during which the queen's large black eyes were 
riveted upon Ned's handsome countenance and fine 
manly figure. The story was completed, and loud 
murmurs arose upon all sides, until an old man with 
snow-white hair arose and addressed the queen and 
her people. 

"Great queen," he said, "it is the custom of our 
tribe to receive the stranger with hospitality, as we 
ourselves may require assistance when in a strange 
country. According to our rule, we have wel- 
comed the man with the yellow hair ; we have 
lodged and fed him and his companion, and we will 
keep them for three days, as we are bound to do by 
our custom, but at the expiration of that time they 
must depart. We are weak, and the Mazita, from 
whom they have escaped, are strong. There is no rain 
to wash away the footprints : they will follow on 
their tracks, and we shall suffer at their hands for 
harbouring those who have escaped from their lances. 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 391 

Is this not true, my brothers ?" said the old man, as 
he turned to the assembly. 

"True!" shouted every voice, except that of the 
young queen. 

" We have no wish to remain," said Ned. " We thank 
you, great queen, for your welcome," he continued, 
as he turned towards her and raised her hands above 
her head, "and we should be sorry to bring misfortune 
upon you in return for your kindness. I only beg 
you to keep us until to-morrow shall have passed, as 
our feet are sore with the hard march, and that you 
will give us a guide across the desert on the following 
day." 

A shout of approval followed this speech ; but the 
queen commanded silence. She rose and spoke, and 
Ned thought he had never seen a more graceful 
figure. She was tall and rather slender, although her 
limbs were beautifully developed. Her head was 
prettily ornamented with a chaplet of various coloured 
beads interspersed with bright feathers; the rest of 
her scanty attire consisted of a short fringe of about a 
foot in length, formed of innumerable single rows of 
small beads threaded upon the twisted fibre of the 
plantain, and fastened to a leather belt around her 
waist, from which they descended like a short kilt to 
a few inches above her knees. The beads were taste- 
fully arranged in various- colours, and their weight 
retained them in the necessary position to conceal the 
figure. She had bracelets of polished brass rings 
upon her wrists and above the elbows, and anklets 
of the same metal, ornamented with minute bells 
that tinkled as she moved. Her complexion was 



392 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

a deep copper colour, and when she spoke she ex- 
posed a beautiful row of teeth as white as pearls. 
Looking proudly at the assembly around her, she 
said, "Are my people like the apes that fear the 
approach of the leopard, or are they like the lion that 
guards his own den ? Did I not slay this lion upon 
which I sit ? and am I not a lioness that will protect 
my cubs ? The strangers that seek my protection 
are my children, and I will guard them as the lioness 
fights for her young." 

As the beautiful young queen said these words 
with determined emphasis, she cast her eyes upon 
Ned, who was not slow to perceive an expression 
of tenderness that he at once feared might lead to 
a difficulty. The people whom she addressed, na- 
turally feared their powerful neighbours ; and not 
being smitten to the heart by Ned's personal attrac- 
tions, they did not enter into their queen's feelings. 
But the old man who had already spoken had already 
too much experience to contradict the passionate 
young Amazon who ruled them ; accordingly he 
replied, like an old courtier, that "the queen's will 
was her people's pleasure, even should she command 
them to die." 

After a long conference the assembly broke up; 
every one looking discontented but the young queen, 
who, shortly after she had retired, sent one of her 
maids as a messenger to request Ned's attendance 
in the royal hut. 

After a rest of three days in this delightful village, 
Ned requested a guide to lead them through the 
desert, which was described as a hard journey of 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 393 

three days without water. Tim had at once perceived 
that the young queen had fallen desperately in love 
with Ned, and he dreaded the consequences, as she 
would endeavour to detain them in her country ; he 
therefore advised Ned to leave the village and to 
push on as rapidly as possible, as the fickleness of 
a passionate young savage might eventually lead to 
a danger equal to that from which they had just 
escaped. Ned was equally aware of the dilemma, 
and he agreed with Tim that it was absolutely neces- 
sary to be off without further delay, as he had 
determined to push for Zanzibar at all hazards, 
where they would receive protection from the Por- 
tuguese, and be forwarded to England. Already 
Ned had discovered that the beads worn by the 
queen and others of the tribe were brought by 
Arab traders from the coast in exchange for ivory 
and slaves, and he trusted that when they should 
have accomplished the terrible desert journey, the 
great difficulties of the march would have been 
overcome, and they would meet trading parties of 
either Arabs or Portuguese, from whom they could 
obtain assistance. 

Tim had already engaged a guide who professed 
to know the desert route, and it was agreed that 
they were to start after sunset by stealth, and march 
throughout the night as rapidly as possible, so as 
to travel in a cool temperature and to consume as 
little water as possible. The goat-skins were in good 
order, and Ned proposed that the guide should pro- 
cure an ox, which should be loaded with two extra 
water-skins : they could then drive the ox throughout 



394 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

the night, and kill it when it should become dis- 
tressed from thirst ; they could then replenish their 
own water-skins, and eat what they might require 
of the animal. 

It was about noon when these preparations were 
completed, and Ned anxiously awaited the hour of 
sunset. He was sitting in his hut, and had just 
packed his few articles of baggage, when he was 
sent for by the queen. When he entered her hut, 
she was reclining upon an immense lion's skin ; the 
shaggy black mane was supported by a bundle of 
sweet-scented grass so as to form a pillow, upon 
which she leant her beautifully rounded arm, and, 
without rising from her position, she told Ned to sit 
upon a leopard- skin by her side. 

" Son of the yellow hair," she said, as she looked 
fondly at him, "we are alone, and I wish to speak 
to you on a matter of great importance. I had a 
dream last night that has disturbed me. I was 
sitting before my people beneath the sycamore, when 
the air suddenly became dark, and I heard a noise 
like thunder in the sky. I fell, and knew nothing; 
but, when I recovered, I felt as though I were falling 
from a dizzy height ; at length, when I expected to 
be crushed against the ground, I was caught and saved 
by a pair of strong white arms, and I found that 
I was in the grasp of the son of the yellow hair. 
I woke, and I was alone ; he was not there ! Again 
I slept, and dreamt I was sitting before my people, 
and the son of the yellow hair sat by my side ; 
the crown of beads that I wear was upon his head, 
and three birds with bright feathers flew around me 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 395 

¦¦ - * — — — — — ^ 

and cried, in a loud voice, ' Take to thyself the son of 
the yellow hair, and let him sit upon the lion's skin V 
We cannot disobey the birds," continued the queen. 
"Now come and sit with me upon the lion's skin 
and be my chief, and all my people shall obey you 
as their king." 

This was a climax to Ned's worst fears : the lovely 
queen had determined that he should share the throne 
with her, and he knew not how to reply without 
giving dire offence. As Ned had directed his steps 
towards Zanzibar and broken through his long im- 
prisonment, his thoughts were engrossed with the 
fond recollections of home and the Edith of his 
boyish days, and he longed to see her grown into 
womanhood, and to prove whether her childish love 
had been as sincere and lasting as his own ; he now 
found himself proposed for by a beautiful young 
savage from whom there appeared but a faint hope 
of escape. 

At this difficult moment he was suddenly relieved 
by the loud beating of an immense drum in the 
court of the queen's dwelling; it was almost imme- 
diately followed by loud shouts and blowing of horns, 
while the old man who had spoken at the assembly 
rushed into the queen's presence and shouted : " My 
words are true : the Mazita are upon us ! Up, son 
of the yellow hair, and fight ! We suffer for you ! 
we shall all be slain!" 

Ned started to his feet, as did the young queen 
also. A few moments before, her eyes had beamed 
with love ; but at the sound of war, another expres- 
sion took possession of them, and they brightened 



396 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 



with a fire of determined courage. Before making 
a reply, she coolly took from a peg a long bow made 
of an elastic wood : this was already strung, according 
to the custom of that country ; she then took a piece 
of bees-wax and carefully rubbed the string. There 
was a large quiver on the wall containing about forty 
arrows frightfully barbed and poisoned ; this she 
slung across her shoulders, and addressing Ned, 
she exclaimed: "Son of the yellow hair, fight by 
my side! If we fall, we die together: the lioness 
will protect her cubs." 

Following the undaunted and beautiful young 
savage, Ned left her hut, and, upon entering the 
court, he was met by Tim, who assured him that 
about two thousand of the Mazita were in sight, 
advancing upon the village : they had first been ob- 
served by the herd-boys who were minding the 
goats on the other side of the river, and they had 
immediately rushed to the village and given the 
alarm. 

The Mazita had discovered Ned's escape on the 
morning after his start ; and, as the sorcerers declared 
that no rain would fall until he and the dog should be 
killed, they had at once collected a large force, and 
followed so rapidly upon the tracks, that they had 
before the evening arrived at the skeletons of the 
buffaloes to which they had been directed by the 
clouds of vultures hovering in circles in the air. 

They guessed the direction of Ned's flight until 
they had at length arrived at the footprints of Tim 
and himself upon the ashes of the newly-burnt grass, 
which conducted them straight to the village in 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 397 

which they had been received by the queen of the 
Mapondas. 

There was no time to be lost ; and Ned immediately 
armed himself, and determined to ascend the rocks 
that commanded the narrow approach to the village, 
which he felt confident he and Tim could defend so 
long as their ammunition lasted. . He communicated 
his intention to the warlike queen, who was eager for 
the fray. 

Already about two hundred natives of the village 
had armed themselves with bows and arrows, and 
waited for her commands. Ned advised that they 
should be stationed among the rocks, well concealed, 
and that they should guard the difficult approach by 
a constant flight of arrows, while he and Tim, with the 
undaunted queen, should protect the narrow defile. 

In a few minutes the natives had disappeared, and 
had taken their respective positions among the rocks 
without the slightest noise, while Ned and Tim 
followed the active queen up the precipitous cliffs, 
and at length took their stations upon a broad ledge 
of rock about a hundred feet above the gateway, 
which, although an exposed spot, completely com- 
manded the approach. 

They had hardly reached their station, before the 
dense mass of the enemy were perceived advancing 
to the attack from the grove of bananas below the 
village : with wild shouts, intermingled with the harsh • 
braying of their horns, they rushed up the steep 
ascent, and delivered a shower of arrows directed at 
Ned and Tim, who, with the heroic queen, were the 
first objects that met their view. 



39* CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

The arrows all fell short, and struck harmlessly 
against the face of the cliff. It was now the turn of 
the defenders. The queen stood erect upon the high 
shelf of rock, and drawing her bow steadily, with her 
left arm as rigid as an iron bar, she let an arrow fly at 
a chief who was leading the attack ; he carried a 
shield before him, in the centre of which the swift 
arrow struck with a sharp sound that could be dis- 
tinctly heard. Passing through the tough giraffe's 
hide, it nailed the shield to his breast, and he fell 
backwards to die, after a few brief struggles. A loud 
cheer from the defenders followed the successful shot. 
With admirable coolness, the queen exposed herself 
to a flight of arrows, some of which she escaped by 
nimbly springing on one side ; but, quick in return, 
she shot her poisoned arrows in rapid succession, 
nearly the whole of which buried their points in the 
enemy, or stuck in their tough shields. She was a 
beautiful type of the Amazon, as she stood fearlessly 
upon the rock, and with a face beaming with courage 
and determination she sent death into their ranks at 
almost every twang of her bow-string. • 

" Well done, son of the yellow hair ! " shouted the 
excited Leona, as Ned opened fire, and two of the 
enemy fell to one bullet that had passed through them 
both. For an instant this checked the attack ; but as 
Ned's fire-arms were nothing new to the Mazita, they 
again pressed bravely forward, and that with such 
determination and courage that they gained the 
narrow alley which led to the gateway. This was 
directly below the spot upon which the queen stood, 
supported by the guns from Ned and Tim, every shot 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 399 

of which told upon the dense throng which pressed 
through the difficult approach. Ned requested Leona 
to kneel behind a large, loose mass of rock that would 
protect her as she shot : but although the arrows were 
flying thick, the dauntless young queen scorned con- 
cealment, and with extraordinary strength she put her 
shoulder to the heavy fragment and moved it towards 
the edge of the perpendicular cliff. Ned laid his gun 
upon the ground, and assisted her to roll the rock upon 
the heads of those a hundred feet below. It crashed 
with a dull echo into the dense throng of fighting men. 
This was the signal for a storm of rocks and stones 
that were now showered upon the attacking party 
from all sides, as many of the defenders had manned 
the cliffs, upon which a large store of such missiles 
had been prepared to resist an assault upon the gate- 
way. Leona had shot away her last arrow, and she 
now threw stones with great rapidity from a large 
pile upon the ledge. The alley was choked with the 
dead, as the rocks hurled down upon the enemy were 
more destructive than bullets from a gun. Ned and 
Tim directed their fire at the leaders, and brought 
them down one by one with fatal certainty, as they 
reached the gate, and attempted to force an entrance. 
At length an enormous rock of several tons weight, 
that had been an original portion of the cliff, upon 
the edge of which it almost balanced, was set in 
motion by the united efforts of about twenty men^ 
who had worked the supporting stones from beneath 
it with long bamboos. For a moment the huge mass 
tottered, and the next instant it fell forward, carrying 
with it one of those who had assisted to dislodge it 



4oo CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

from its bed. This avalanche of stone rushed through 
the air, accompanied by a shower of smaller rocks 
that had been loosened by its fall. 

With a tremendous crash it descended upon the 
heads of those below, crushing to instant death about 
twenty of the enemy, and completely blocking up the 
alley, so that those between it and the gateway were 
shut up in a prison of rock. With a loud shout of 
triumph Leona leant over the edge of the cliff to 
watch the effect of this tremendous fall, but at almost 
the same moment her beautiful arms were thrown 
convulsively in the air, as an arrow pierced her bosom 
and penetrated completely through her back. Ned 
saw the barbed point as it protuded some inches 
through her soft dark skin, and catching her in his 
arms, just in time to prevent her from falling over the:. 
cliff, he supported the dying Amazon. The arrow 
had passed through her heart ; she had instinctively 
clasped one arm around Ned's neck, and she fixed 
her large eyes fondly upon him for a few moments, as 
she vainly strove to speak. With a smile of love and 
triumph upon her beautiful features, Leona's brave 
spirit fled. Ned laid her body gently down, and 
straightening her lovely limbs, he placed her bow 
and empty quiver by her side, and then renewed the 
fight. 

There was little left to complete the victory. The 
fall of the huge rock had created a panic ; those who 
had been hemmed within the narrow passage had 
been massacred to a man, and Ned and Tim now 
opened fire with fatal effect upon the retreating 
throng, who fell pellmell down the steep approach in 




QUEEN. P<W 400. 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 401 

their frantic efforts to escape from the cloud of arrows 
and the bullets that whizzed among them. 

The fight was over. The defenders had not lost 
many men, as they had been more or less protected 
by the rocks, but several were wounded by poisoned 
arrows, whose death was certain, as the slightest 
puncture would be fatal. 

The body of the courageous queen was laid out 
upon the lion's skin upon which she used to sit, 
beneath the sycamore, and all the women wept and 
raised their loud shrill cry of distress, in which the 
men joined as they mourned for the beautiful Leona. 
Her bow and quiver lay by her side ; and although 
her lovely features were placid, the stern smile of tri- 
umph still lingered upon her face as Ned, for the last 
time, looked upon her with deep regret that he should 
have been the unwilling cause of her untimely end. 

" Massa Ned," said Tim, " dis a bad job 'tirely ; de 
poor queen's dead ; but if she alive, dat's a worse job, 
she never let Massa Ned go away. Nebber see in all 
my life such eyes ! De queen love Massa Ned like 
mad ; bad ting dat. I know de nigger queen. All 
fire one day, all water de next ; love you in de night, 
kill you in de morning; dat's de trick 'xactly. Bad 
job de poor queen's dead, worse job if she alive ; dat's 
a fact 'xactly. Now, Massa Ned, let's cut and run 
before anoder job begins." 

The philosophic Tim having given his opinion, with 
which Ned could hardly disagree, however much he 
might have admired the beauty and courage of the 
unfortunate young queen, he determined to start 
without delay, as fortune had hitherto smiled upon 

D D 



402 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

their journey beyond his most sanguine hopes. Once 
across the terrible desert, he would have little to 
fear. 

Ned addressed himself to the old man of the vil- 
lage, and declared that he would not remain any 
longer among them, lest he might bring fresh cala- 
mities upon their tribe ; and deploring the queen's 
death, he begged that he might depart at once. His 
determination was applauded by all present, and 
as the guide was a native of a tribe to which he 
wished to return on the other side of the desert, 
there was no difficulty. All was prepared for the 
journey ; an ox was loaded with two large water- 
skins, and after a hearty meal, Ned and Tim took 
leave of their hosts and started. The guide was a 
fine powerful man who knew the route thoroughly ; 
he had distinguished himself in the late fight, but he 
had received a slight scratch upon the arm from an 
arrow, as it had grazed his skin during its flight ; he 
had simply bound a piece of plantain leaf around the 
scratch to prevent the flies from troubling him. After 
an hour's quick walking, they left the forest that 
bordered the river, and entered upon a boundless 
plain of sand and pebbles, devoid of all vegetation 
except a few stunted mimosas, and scattered tufts 
of a withered wiry-looking grass. 

Although this portion of the country was a frightful 
desert during the dry season, it abounded with grass 
and water during the rains ; but when the drought 
arrived, there was a general disappearance of all 
herbage, as it became so Completely dry that the fine 
grass broke into minute pieces, and was carried away 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 403 

by the wind, leaving bare the hot and barren soil that- 
did not appear capable of producing vegetation. For 
a distance of about a hundred and twenty miles there 
was neither well nor stream : thus, as no drop of water 
could be procured during this dry season, it was 
necessary to force a march of about forty miles per 
day to accomplish the journey in three days. Ned 
did not fear any distance provided the supply of 
water was assured, but any accident to the water- 
skins would terminate in the destruction of the entire 
party. 

They now pushed forward over the barren surface 
of the desert ; their ammunition had been reduced by 
the late fight to ten rounds of cartridge each, there- 
fore they had not much to carry beside their guns, as 
they had fastened their knapsacks upon the ox, which, 
having drunk water before starting, would be able to 
travel for two days, or about eighty miles. 



D D 2 



404 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 



CHAPTER XX. 

The moon rose, and the night air was cool and 
delicious. It was past midnight, and the party- 
travelled rapidly along the even surface, unimpeded 
by the tangled vegetation that had retarded them in 
some portions of their journey. There was no 
wind, and not a cloud upon the sky, in which the 
stars shone with extraordinary brightness, although 
those near the moon were nearly eclipsed by her 
extreme light. There was a silvery glow upon the 
wild desert that gave an indescribable beauty to the 
scene : the rocks that rose abruptly from the sandy 
plain appeared to assume the forms of monsters, as in 
the indistinct haze of distance Ned sometimes fancied 
that they moved ; but in reality there was no life 
within the parched and dreary desert — all was 
solitude, sand-rocks, and rounded pebbles. The ox, 
laden sparingly with the knapsacks and water-skins, 
marched well ; the tinkle of an iron bell suspended 
from its neck was the only sound that disturbed the 
silence of the spot, while the tall powerful figures of 
Ned and Tim, following the guide, seemed to glide 
like spectres along the sandy waste, upon which their 
footsteps left no sound. 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 405 

The night passed away, and the moon grew pale 
as the first streaks of dawn appeared in the east. 
Quickly the stars disappeared, and the planet Venus, 
lately so brilliant, faintly glimmered as the last of 
the bright host, and then vanished from view as the 
gorgeous orb of gold rose suddenly from the horizon 
of desert, and glowed all mighty upon the sterile 
scene. It was the horror of sunrise. The pitiless 
destroyer rose vigorous in the sky, rejoicing in his 
power. The air, lately so cool, now quivered with in- 
supportable heat ; the sand of the desert scorched 
the feet ; the poisonous breath of the Simoom, that 
destroying wind that seems to own a furnace as its 
birthplace, blew upon them : still on they journeyed 
rapidly, as there was no shade in which to halt. 

For fourteen hours they had marched without a 
rest, as it was necessary to push on with the greatest 
rapidity at the early part of the journey, that the ox 
might carry the water and knapsacks as far as 
possible before it should become exhausted from 
thirst, when it would be necessary to kill it. All 
were fatigued with intense heat, and the guide 
suffered from the slight scratch upon his arm, which 
had swollen, and was extremely painful. 

For some time they had seen a lofty rocky moun- 
tain in the distance among a chain of lower hills ; 
they determined to push on for the higher ground, in 
which they might discover some rock that would 
shelter them from the burning sun. For nearly four 
hours they marched, until they at length reached an 
overhanging rock in a rugged pass, through which the 
dry bed of a broad torrent formed a stony road. 



406 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

Here, tired and thirsty, the party rested. Tim cut 
some brittle straw that was all that remained of some 
wiry herbage in the bed of the exhausted stream, and 
this he gave to the famished ox, that was too thirsty 
to eat ; after vainly endeavouring to swallow a few 
mouthfuls, it refused the food. Tim now opened a 
water-skin, and moistened the straw by sprinkling it 
with a few handfuls of the precious fluid ; the ox then 
ate it greedily. 

The whole party lay down and slept. They woke 
at about 3 P.M., and immediately prepared to start ; 
but all were footsore, as they had marched about 
forty-eight miles. The guide's arm was dreadfully 
swollen and painful, and the ox was suffering from 
extreme thirst. Ned commenced loading the tired 
animal. With Tim's assistance he strapped on the 
knapsacks, and then he went to the spot where they 
had laid the water-skins in the shade. Horror of 
horrors ! they were empty ! 

It would be impossible to describe the shock that 
this terrible sight produced upon the whole party. 
The skins were literally torn to pieces by the horns 
of the ox ! The thirsty animal had seen Tim sprinkle 
water from the skins upon the dry straw ; during 
their sleep it had risen, and, discovering the water, it 
had attempted to drink by tearing open the leather 
sacks with its horns. Every drop had immediately 
disappeared in the sand. Not even the ox had 
procured a mouthful ; it could only lick the damp 
sand and the empty water-skins. 

Both Ned and Tim had a small supply in the skins 
which they carried on their backs ; the guide had 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 407 

none, as he had depended upon those carried by the 
ox. They had at least seventy miles of desert before 
them. 

Ned and Tim looked at each other, but neither 
dared to utter a word ; the future appeared certain, 
and too horrible to think of. They agreed to put the 
small quantity of water that remained into Ned's 
water-skin, as that of Tim leaked slightly, and the eva- 
poration from one skin would be less than from two. 

The guide was in dreadful pain, but, as no time 
could be lost, they started, and it was agreed that they 
must push on for their very existence, and march the 
seventy miles without a halt ; this Ned hoped to 
accomplish in about twenty-four hours, but, in his 
own mind, he did not feel certain of the distance, as 
the native accounts could never be depended upon. 

The guide appeared stupified with pain, but he 
pointed with his lance in the direction that they were 
to take, and he declared that they would arrive at a 
river upon which was a village and trading dep6t of 
Arabs from Zanzibar ; but that it was two days' fair 
marching distant. Ned took the bearing with his 
compass, and with heavy hearts they pushed on. For 
about five miles they followed the steep and winding 
watercourse, until they arrived at the summit of the 
mountain range, from which they had a distant view, 
and Ned hoped to have discovered some point that 
would have been the limit of their journey. The 
guide pointed to a far distant cone, which could 
faintly be distinguished on the horizon ; that was the 
mountain beneath which the village was situated. 
Ned felt certain that it was at least sixty-five miles 



408 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

distant. He was already thirsty, but he dared not 
drink. For some minutes they had sat upon a rock 
to observe the country ; they now would have started, 
but the guide could not rise from the ground ; his 
arm was swollen to the size of a man's thigh, and he 
complained of giddiness and total paralysis of the 
lower limbs. 

" The arrow was poisoned," he faintly uttered ; " I 
must die. I thirst ; give me water !" 

" Don't give de water, Massa Ned," said Tim ; " de 
pison kill him quick. What for give de water ? Water 
or no water, de pison kill him. Save de water for 
God's sake, Massa Ned, or we all die !" 

It was a painful trial, but Ned felt that Tim's advice 
was just; the unfortunate guide was doomed, as the 
poison of the arrow had become thoroughly absorbed 
into the system. He was already delirious, and, 
raging with a burning thirst, he raved for water. His 
sufferings were pitiable, and Ned felt half inclined to 
share the last small portion with him, when the guide 
suddenly seized his lance that lay by his side, and 
drove it deep into the throat of the ox that was 
standing by him. As the animal fell to the blow, 
pierced to the heart, the dying guide fell upon it, and 
glueing his parched lips to the wound from which the 
blood spouted, he drank madly his last draught. 

Although each moment was precious, as delay 
added to their thirst, Ned could not leave the guide 
alone to die upon the desert. For about three hours 
he remained to witness the agonies of the miserable 
man, who, as the poison wreaked its fatal work, 
swelled in all his limbs, and in his body until he 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 409 

appeared to be inflated. At last the throat swelled 
also to such an extent that, after a few convulsive 
struggles for breath, he stretched himself out and 
lay upon the burning sand a corpse. 

Both Ned and Tim were horror-struck ; they were 
themselves in the agony of thirst, but no more than 
about a quart of water remained ; it had evaporated 
from the nearly empty water-skin. They pushed on 
down the mountain side and reached the level 
ground. 

The sun had sunk. Once more the air was cool ; 
and although thirsty and fatigued, they freshened 
for their work and determined to accomplish the 
night's long march at as great speed as possible. 
They pushed on and marched until sunrise at the 
rate of four miles an hour, without drinking. The 
moon had been their friend, but once more she be- 
came pale, and the dreadful enemy again appeared 
— the sun ! 

As the sun rose upon the two unfortunate young 
men, it shone upon tired and haggard-looking crea- 
tures that had scarcely signs of youth. Their cheeks 
were livid and sunken — their eyes bloodshot, and 
their lips swollen ; while they still marched forward 
with an expression of fearful distress and despe- 
ration. 

They had walked about forty-eight miles from the 
spot where they had left the guide. The blue 
conical mountain appeared to be within fifteen miles 
of them; once at the foot, they would find water, 
as the river flowed at its base. The sun rose hot 
as fire, and again the dreadful Simoom blew, and 



410 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

they felt faint at the terrible heat. They both 
reeled with fatigue and thirst. Ned could support 
the latter no longer. During the cool night the 
water had not evaporated, but he knew that the 
Simoom would dry up their scanty store within an 
hour. 

"Drink, Tim!" said Ned; "we will each share 
the last drop, and, please God, we may then hold 
out till the end, but we must not halt or we are 
lost. Drink, my dear Tim, a full half, and leave 
the rest for me ! " 

Tim was fearfully distressed from thirst, and he 
clutched the water-skin from Ned's hands. For an 
instant he hesitated, as he gazed intently at his 
loved master, who was in a lamentable state of 
exhaustion ; he then eagerly pressed the mouth of 
the water-skin to his lips and appeared to drink. 

" Drink more, you have not had your share ; and 
I will then finish it," said Ned. 

Again Tim appeared to drink, after which he 
handed the water-skin to Ned, who ravenously 
finished it, devoutly exclaiming, "Thank God !" as 
the last drop gurgled down his throat. 

"Tank God, Massa Ned," repeated Tim, as he 
watched Ned's refreshed countenance with a mingled 
expression of intense affection and agony. 

Throwing the empty water-skin upon his shoulder, 
Ned now led the way, followed by Tim. They could 
no longer walk fast ; their feet were terribly swollen, 
and although they had thrown away their knapsacks, 
and Ned had reserved nothing but his compass and 
chart, they could barely march at the rate of three 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 411 

miles an hour. The sun rose higher, and the heat 
increased. They walked slower and slower, until 
they almost crawled. 

Tim lagged many yards behind ; several times 
Ned halted and waited for him. As he came up 
he reeled from side to side, and his tongue was 
hanging from his mouth parched and furred like a 
hare-skin. Once more he lagged more than a hun- 
dred yards behind. Again Ned waited ; he was 
himself also exhausted from a frightful thirst and 
prostration ; he could scarcely feel the ground with 
his feet. 

At length Tim staggered slowly up, and stopping 
suddenly, he clasped his head with both his hands, 
and reeling backwards, he fell heavily upon the 
ground. Ned endeavoured to raise him. 

"Tim! my dear Tim, for God's sake don't give 
in!" cried Ned; "I am nearly done myself; but if 
we can only march a few hours more, we may yet 
be saved from this horrible death." 

Tim fainted, and lay for some minutes insensible. 
Ned thought he was dead. At length he recovered 
consciousness, but he could hardly articulate, as his 
tongue was as dry as leather. " Go on, Massa 
Ned!" he said; "leave Tim to die. I can't move 
again. I going to die, Massa Ned." 

Tim's features were drawn and contracted, and 
he breathed with difficulty. Ned felt a giddiness 
overcoming him, and he feared that he should 
faint as the blood rushed to his head, as he leant 
over the prostrate Tim and endeavoured to support 
his head. 



412 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

"Pray God forgive Tim, Massa Ned; go on, go 
on ! Leave Tim to die." 

" I'll never leave you, Tim ; my true, my faithful 
friend," said Ned, in an agony of despair, as he saw 
the unmistakeable signs of death stealing across 
Tim's face. "We'll die together, if die we must. 
Oh for one draught of water!" cried Ned, — "one 
draught to save my poor Tim's life ! " 

A faint smile crossed Tim's haggard face as he 
heard these -words, and, looking at Ned, he said 
painfully, " Pray God forgive me, Massa Ned ; I 
told one lie : I told one lie." 

. " What lie, Tim ? " said Ned ; " you have never 
told me a lie." 

" Yes, Massa Ned ; praps God forgive me if you 
ask Him. I told one lie about de water, and now I 
die. I told Massa Ned I drink my half, — dat one 
lie. I not touch one drop ; I leave it for my dear 
Massa Ned. Dat save him praps, if go on quick and 
leave Tim to die. God bless you, my dear Massa 
Ned ! Tim got no frens, only one poor nigger ; 
nobody cry for- Tim. Let him die ! Go on, my dear 
Massa Ned ! Go home ; see fader and moder ; de 
Miss Edit ! see all— all— all ! " 

Tim could speak no more. Ned wrung his hands 
in an agony of despair. Now, for the first time, he 
knew that heroic act of devotion in his brave and 
all-suffering follower. Although dying of thirst, he 
would not drink his share of the scanty pittance ; 
but he had practised the too generous deception to 
save his master's life. 

" Oh, Tim, dear friend ! too good, too generous ! 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 413 

how shall I forgive myself for this ? " cried Ned : 
" that you should die that I might live ! Rather let 
us both die as we have lived, together, and trust to 
God to bless us both hereafter ! " 

At these words, Tim convulsively raised himself 
upon his elbows, and looking up to the burning sun 
with fixed eyeballs that never contracted before the 
blazing light, he laughed wildly in delirium. For 
some minutes he uttered this frightful mirth, and 
then a change came over his face. Still looking 
fixedly at the sky, his features became placid and 
assumed an expression of intense happiness and 
peace. Smiling as though tasting the joy that the 
next world alone could give, he said, " My God ! my 
God ! I see de water springs ! tank God Almighty !" 
Tim fell gently back upon the ground ; his soul was 
at the water-springs ; and Ned wept over the body of 
his beloved friend. 

A giddiness seized Ned's brain ; his tongue hung 
from his mouth, and he fell insensible by Tim's side. 
Had he not drunk that one long draught that Tim's 
devotion offered, he would have been the first victim 
to a death by thirst. 

There was a rumbling sound far distant in the air 
when Tim's last words spoke of the water-springs. 
Again it sounded louder, and nearer than before, and 
from the southern horizon rose a cloud like that of 
Elijah, no bigger than a man's hand. Again the deep 
muttering sound vibrated through the desert, as dis- 
tant thunder spoke to ears that could not hear. And 
now, from every point of the horizon, clouds arose, at 
first snow-white, but rapidly increasing in size, and 



4 i4 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

darkening in colour, until they became an inky black, 
and the fierce sun himself was veiled. Within an 
hour from the time of poor Tim's last gasp, as 
though his spirit had petitioned the Great Mover of 
the water-springs, not one speck of blue sky could be 
discerned, but pitch-black clouds formed a thick 
canopy above the earth. 

The lightning played incessantly; the thunder 
roared and cracked enough to waken up the dead ; 
and the rain, — that heaven-sent torrent ! — poured like 
a waterspout upon the famished earth, and almost 
flooded the lately withered desert. Oh! had that 
rain descended one hour sooner! — but no! it would 
have condemned to longer life on earth one who was 
now in heaven. 

For more than two hours the rain poured in an 
uninterrupted deluge. Cascades of clear water fell 
rushing from the lately torrid rocks : and deep water- 
courses, filled with a muddy fluid, tore their wild 
course along the sandy desert : the whole of the 
level ground was ankle deep in water. In this, lay 
the bodies of Ned and Tim, side by side. Suddenly, 
as though awakened from a deep sleep, Ned sat up, 
and stared wildly round him. The rain still poured, 
and the thunder burst heavily at intervals. 

Rubbing his eyes, he exclaimed, (i It is a dream ! — 
where am I ? I dreamt that Tim had died of thirst 
in the desert. Ha ! here he is. Wake up, Tim, or we 
shall be drowned !" saying which, Ned, half delirious 
from over-exhaustion and thirst, placed his lips to the 
flood that covered the ground, and drank deeply. 
Taking a deep breath, as he slaked his thirst, he now 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 415 



turned towards his silent companion, and, taking one 
arm, he endeavoured to arouse him. He dropped the 
arm, as the fatal truth flashed upon him— the body- 
was cold and stiffened ! 

Ned could find no tears to relieve his feelings ; but 
he knelt by the side of all that remained of his faithful 
friend and follower, and gazed upon his swollen 
features in intense affliction. The dreamy delirium 
passed away, and he remembered all. He was in the 
desert alone, and he had lost all that had cheered his 
many years of captivity, together with every joy and 
sorrow. Tim was dead ! 

He heard a sudden noise — a rushing sound in the 
air — and, looking up, he perceived a huge vulture 
descending from on high, with closed wings, with the 
noise of a rocket in its eagerness to be a sexton 
for the dead. Many of these birds were circling in 
the air above the spot, while several were already 
perched upon the neighbouring rocks waiting for their 
opportunity. A thrill of horror ran through Ned's 
veins. There was a deep crevice in a plateau of solid 
rock a few yards distant. Thither, as a labour of 
love, he carried, with much difficulty, the rigid body, 
and gently lowered it within the narrow vault. He 
then fetched rocks as large as he could lift; 
these he placed across the crevice until he had 
effectually protected it with a pile of heavy frag- 
ments that would defy the attacks of vultures or 
wild animals. 

Ned drank once more, and half filled his water-skin 
from a clear stream that spouted from a rock, and, 
slinging it upon his shoulder, he took Tim's gun and 



416 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

ammunition in addition to his own. Thus loaded, he 
took a last farewell of the fatal spot, and in a few 
words, as he stood by the grave, he offered up a 
heartfelt prayer for the dead, and for guidance on his 
lonely way. 

Strengthened by the cool rain, and rendered callous 
to fatigue by sorrow, he wandered on direct for the 
high blue cone that had been pointed out as a land- 
mark by the guide. This appeared to be nearer than 
before, as the rain had rendered the atmosphere 
doubly clear, but it was in reality about fourteen 
miles distant. Ned plodded on. 

It was nearly sunset when he reached a grove of 
tall palm-trees that grew in a long line at the base 
of the mountain, and extended as far as the eye could 
reach. Passing through these for about two hundred 
yards, he perceived a considerable village upon a high 
rocky ridge, which looked down upon a roaring 
torrent now swollen by the rain. Without caring for 
his reception, Ned slowly ascended the rocky path 
and entered the village. To his astonishment he was 
met by a number of Arabs, instead of the natives to 
whom he had been accustomed. These people were 
engaged in storing elephants* tusks within a large 
shed that was constructed after a different fashion to 
the huts of the natives. Upon seeing Ned, they 
gathered around him ; and he, tired, hungry, and 
dispirited, threw his two guns upon the ground, and 
then lay down exhausted at full length. 

For some time Ned lay half asleep, but at length, 
having recovered sufficiently to speak, he endeavoured 
to explain his situation. Although only a small 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 417 



portion of his narrative was understood, it was suffi- 
cient to arouse the sympathy of his hearers, who 
declared that Ned had brought good luck to the 
country, as the rain had arrived with him. 

The Arabs were ivory and slave-traders belonging 
to Zanzibar. Many of their slaves had been pur- 
chased from the country in which Ned had so long 
been a captive ; thus, as he spoke their language, it 
was not difficult to procure an interpreter, and he 
shortly discovered several people who had served 
the Arabs for some years, and therefore had a know- 
ledge of Arabic. 

There was no further difficulty in describing the 
adventure. Ned, having arrived among them with 
the first storm of rain that had fallen for nearly 
twelve months, was regarded by the natives with a 
superstitious reverence that was also shared by the 
Arabs; the latter agreed that he should join their 
party and accompany them to Zanzibar on their 
return. 

Some months passed away in the Arab camp, 
during which their parties made long excursions in 
the interior, and returned laden with ivory, together 
with many slaves. At length the long wished-for 
period arrived, and Ned, who had sadly missed and 
mourned for his faithful companion Tim, hailed the 
day of departure with joy, as the Arabs beat their 
drum, and assembled a body of five hundred porters 
to transport the tusks to Zanzibar. Long strings of 
slaves of both sexes accompanied the march ; many 
were fastened by ropes from neck to neck, while 
others were fettered by the forked stick similar to 

E E 



4i8 CAST UP BY THE SEA, 

that in which Ned had been secured when first 
captured. 

In six weeks' march they reached Zanzibar without 
any incident worthy of notice, and having delivered 
the ivory, the captain of the party introduced Ned to 
his employer, who was a wealthy Parsee merchant 
from Bombay. This man not only received him 
kindly, but furnished him with clothes and money, 
and promised to send him to Egypt on board one of 
his own vessels that would shortly proceed to Cosseir, 
on the Red Sea. Ned presented the captain of the 
trading party with his two guns as a return for the 
kindness he had received, and, when the day of 
departure arrived, he warmly thanked the Parsee 
merchant for his hospitality, and sailed on board a 
large Arab dow loaded with ivory and slaves for 
Egypt. 

Once more Ned's heart bounded with joy as he 
felt himself again upon the sea, and steering towards 
home. 

The wind was favourable throughout the voyage, 
and without an accident of any kind they reached 
Cosseir. There they disembarked, and the cargo was 
transported on camels, while the slaves marched on 
foot across the desert to the Nile. Ned was provided 
with a camel, as the Bombay merchant had ordered 
that he should be well cared for, and be delivered to 
his agent at Alexandria. 

Upon arrival at the Nile, the slaves were divided 
among several large-decked vessels, upon one of which 
Ned was furnished with a cabin, and they sailed down 
the stream. They were detained at several large 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 419 

towns on the banks of the river, and especially at 
Cairo, at which place many of the slaves were dis- 
posed of at good prices ; and, after a voyage of three 
weeks, the boats arrived at Alexandria, and Ned for 
the first time looked upon the blue waters of the 
Mediterranean. He felt almost at home; and having 
been kindly received by the agent of the Parsee 
merchant, he was provided with a passage on board 
an English vessel that was about to sail. 

The sight of the Union Jack flying at the mast- 
head, that Ned had not seen for many years, filled 
him with delight, and, as the boat took him alongside, 
he sprang up the ladder and found himself on the 
clean deck of a fine merchant vessel of about three 
hundred tons. The captain and crew were English, 
and Ned once more could speak his native tongue 
and associate with his own countrymen. The captain 
was a fine hearty fellow, who took a fancy to Ned at 
first sight, and sympathised warmly with the history 
of his adventures, which quickly made the round of 
the ship, and Ned was looked upon as a second 
Robinson Crusoe. 

After a voyage of six weeks the vessel passed the 
Lizard light and entered the Channel. They were 
within sight of the coast on the following day, with a 
light but favourable breeze, when they met a large 
fishing smack, which they spoke, being anxious to 
obtain the earliest news from England. To Ned's 
delight she hailed from Falmouth, which would be 
his most favourable landing-place ; therefore he took 
leave of the captain and crew of the vessel, with whom 
he had shared a most agreeable voyage, and, going 

£ £ 2 



430 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 



on board the smack, the sails filled, and the two ships 
parted on their different courses. 

On the following day they sighted Falmouth, and 
once more Ned set his foot upon the soil of old 
England. 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 421 



CHAPTER XXI. 

Ned Grey happened to arrive at Falmouth a few 
days after Paul had been committed to prison by 
the magistrates on the original warrant for his appre- 
hension ; thus he was lying in jail at that town to 
await his trial at the Sessions at the very time that 
Ned unconsciously hurried through on his way home. 

The committal of Paul to prison had been effected 
through the instrumentality of James Stevens, who 
had no sooner got rid of him from the rectory than 
he once more renewed his visits and pressed his suit 
with Edith. With consummate hypocrisy, he had 
persuaded her, and also Polly Grey, that he was 
forced to commit Paul upon the warrant, but that, 
as the Sessions were drawing near, he would shortly 
be tried and acquitted, as there could be no doubt 
of his innocence. 

Although Edith felt no love for Stevens, she had 
learnt not to dislike him : she had been so constantly 
talked to by her mother and impressed with the idea 
that he was really a worthy object for her affection 
that, she regarded him as a person whom it was not 
impossible that she might some day learn to love. 
Nevertheless, she lingered fondly upon the recollec- 
tions of the past, when her heart had first known 



432 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

the feelings of real love. It was by a pretended 
sympathy for her early affection for Ned Grey that 
Stevens had succeeded in winning her regard, and 
well aware of the influence thus obtained, he appeared 
to delight in frequent allusions to the time when Ned 
and he served together on board the Sybille, during 
which he declared that he had been his greatest 
friend. 

It was the morning after Ned's arrival at Falmouth, 
that Stevens, having slept at the rectory, was at 
breakfast with Mrs. Jones, Polly Grey, and Edith. 
A fine young Newfoundland dog was sitting by her 
side, watching her face intently, in the hope that 
some morsel would fall to his share. This dog 
had been given to her by Stevens on the previous 
day. 

"I shall call him Nero," said Edith, "in memory 
of poor dear old Nero who, you say, was drowned 
in the shipwreck." 

" Yes," replied Stevens, with a hypocritical sigh ; 
"on the day that I saw poor Ned sink when the 
Forte was lost. Poor Ned," he continued, "I would 
have given the world to have saved him. Had I 
only had a boat-hook instead of an oar, I think I 
could have caught him by his clothes. I shall never 
forget his last look as the water closed over him." 

Stevens took out his handkerchief and wiped his 
eyes. At this moment the servant entered with the 
the letters. 

" Ha ! a letter for me ! I am so glad. I am so 
glad, for I seldom receive one!" said Edith. "I 
wonder who it's from," she continued, as she ex- 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 423 

amined the seal that was simply the impression of 
a shilling. 

" You had better open it, my dear," said her mother; 
" that's the quickest way of ascertaining the name of 
your correspondent. ,, 

Edith broke the seal and read the letter. She 
turned deadly pale ; then a deep blush flushed across 
her face ; it was only for a moment, when she again 
changed to the whiteness of marble. 

" What's the matter, my child ?" exclaimed her 
mother. " Are you ill ? What are the contents of that 
mysterious letter that affect you so deeply ?" 

For a few minutes Edith was silent, and holding 
the letter in her hands, which rested in her lap, she 
seemed lost in reflection, and her lips quivered with 
emotion. Both her mother and Polly Grey regarded 
her with astonishment. At length, subduing her 
excitement, and entirely commanding her feelings, 
she fixed her large blue eyes upon Stevens, who sat 
opposite, and appeared to search him to the very 
heart. Her beautiful features gradually assumed a 
stern and determined expression, as she calmly said : 
"Mother, shall I read this letter aloud ?" 

" By all means," said Mrs. Jones, " I'm quite curious 
to know the contents of this wonderful epistle." 

Edith, in a clear voice, that trembled slightly, read 
the following letter : — 

"Falmouth, January 8. 

" Half mad with joy, and yet wilder with uncer- 
tainty, I am hurrying to the spot where my happiest 
days were spent : where last I parted from her whom 
I then called my own Edith. God grant that she 



424 CAST UP BY THE SEA, 

and my dear parents are yet alive, and that she still 
remembers the love of her youthful days, and that 
her heart is as unchanged as mine. 

" My story is short. The morning after I left you 
I was taken by a press-gang, together with Tim and 
Nero. I was carried on board the Sybille, a frigate 
on her way to India. I could not write. On board I 
met Jem Stevens, God forgive him. In India we 
fought and captured the Forte. We were both sent 
home in charge ; she was wrecked. Stevens went off 
with the frigate's cutter, well-manned, and hacked at 
my hands with a knife when I swam up and clung to 
the boat. I was forced to let go and swim to the 
wreck. Tim would not leave me. We saved our- 
selves with a raft, together with Nero, and at last 
reached the coast of Africa, where we were captives 
among the savages for many years. We at length 
endeavoured to escape. Poor Tim, alas ! is dead. 
Nero is also dead ; and I am, thank God, alive and 
well, and hurrying on horseback, post haste night and 
day, to see if my Edith is still my own ; if not, 
would that I had died With my devoted Tim, and 
left my bones in Africa. 

" If you are alive, Edith, dearest remembrance of 
my boyhood, I shall be with you almost as soon as 
you receive this letter, as I rush to meet my fate. 

" Your own, Ned Grey." 

Edith folded the letter carefully together, and 
handed it to Polly Grey ; at the same time she rose 
from her seat, and with extraordinary calmness she 
regarded Stevens fixedly. "Yes," she said, as her 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 425 

voice trembled and became hoarse with suppressed 
emotion, " his own Edith until death shall part us." 

" An explanation, if you please, Mr. Stevens," con- 
tinued Edith, as she gazed contemptuously at the 
miserable guilty object that sat before her, bowed 
dpwn with shame and confusion. 

Stevens rose hurriedly, and saying, " I will explain 
everything," was about to leave the room, when Edith, 
who was near the door, quickly turned the key, 
which she took from the lock and retained within 
her hand. 

" You will have the. kindness, sir, to amuse your- 
self with the newspaper until the arrival of your dear 
friend, Ned Grey, whom you endeavoured to save 
from drowning ; he will be rejoiced to return you his 
thanks, and to express his gratitude in person ; he is 
expected every instant." 

" Edith, for God's sake, let me depart, and I will 
shortly explain all !" exclaimed the terrified Stevens. 

"You do not leave this room, sir, until Ned Grey 
arrives," replied Edith, with a disdainful calmness and 
determination before which Stevens quailed. 

" What is all this ? what is all this ?" cried Mrs. 
Jones. "Edith, my dear, are you going mad?" 
continued the astonished mother; while Polly, 
having read the letter, now regarded Stevens with an. 
expression of horror as though he had been some 
poisonous reptile. 

At this moment the loud clattering of a horse's 
hoofs was heard upon the frosty road. Mrs. Jones 
looked from the window, " Dear me !" she exclaimed, 
"the horse has run away with somebody. "Stop 



426 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

him!" she cried; but as nobody was there to hear 
her commands, the rider reined up his horse, and 
quickly dismounting, he rang the bell. 

The bell continued ringing with such violence that 
the servant ran with more than his usual alacrity to 
the door. 

Although Edith had, with wonderful self-possession, 
assumed a calm demeanour, she was in reality in- 
tensely excited. The suddenness of the shock that 
would have prostrated most of her sex had nerved 
her for the moment of trial, and perceiving at a 
glance the treachery and hypocrisy of Stevens, she 
was determined that the explanation should be made 
face to face with the long lost Ned. At the same 
time that, insulted by Stevens' base deception, she 
resolved upon this course, Edith's mind was in a 
tumult of conflicting feelings. An intense disgust 
for Stevens was mingled with an overpowering 
ecstasy of delight at the knowledge that Ned not 
only had returned, but that his love for her was un- 
altered by years of absence. For the moment she 
felt independent of the whole world, and she was 
absorbed by a feeling of intense and perfect happiness 
that almost made her shudder, as she imagined that 
it was too bright to last. 

The servant attempted to enter the room, and 
Edith unlocked the door. 

Almost as soon as he was announced, Ned Grey, 
who had thrown of his great coat in the hall, entered. 

For a few moments he stood confused as he looked 
at the various persons around him. Neither Polly 
nor Mrs. Jones were much changed, but he stared 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 427 

for some instants at the beautiful girl, who in her 
turn regarded his tall and handsome figure with an 
expression of surprise, mingled with the deepest 
affection. 

Their eyes thus met, and in a few short seconds, 
without one word spoken, they explained their un- 
changed love. 

" My Edith ! " exclaimed Ned Grey. " Oh, Ned ! 
dear Ned ! " cried Edith, as they both instinctively 
rushed forward and were locked in each other's arms. 

After a few moments of indescribable happiness, 
the blushing girl released herself from Ned's embrace. 
Polly Grey was also hanging round his neck in a 
transport of delight ; but Edith had a sterner task to 
perform, and drawing herself up to her full height, 
with an air of haughtiness that was entirely foreign 
to her usual character, she said — 

"Mr. Stevens, you have now the pleasure of 
meeting your dear friend, Ned Grey, whom you so 
generously attempted to save from drowning in 
the wreck ;" then turning to Ned, she continued : — 
" Mr. Stevens has honoured me by a proposal of 
marriage, as he declared that he saw you drowned 
after he had vainly endeavoured to assist you." 

For some moments Ned regarded Stevens with an 
expression of the lowest contempt. For one instant 
Stevens had attempted to meet his glance, but he 
quailed before it, and turned his eyes upon Mrs. Jones, 
who was in a state of utter confusion. 

" Liar ! and would be murderer ! " said Ned, as he 
grasped the unresisting Stevens by the collar with his 
powerful right hand, and led him to the door, " leave 



428 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

this house, and never again cross the threshold, as 
you value your life ! " 

As the servant slammed the front door upon the 
disgraced Stevens, the wretch, pale and trembling, 
with a mixture of rage and despair, muttered, as he 
walked rapidly towards the stable for his horse, 
" There was a charge of wilful murder, and a 'warrant 
for Ned Grey as well as for Paul." 

It would be impossible to describe the happiness 
of Edith and Polly Grey. Ned had completed the 
long history of his adventures, during which Edith 
had shed tears at Tim's devoted martyrdom, and 
Mrs. Jones had on several occasions exclaimed, €€ Well, 
I never!" when he had described the base conduct of 
James Stevens. It was now Edith's turn to relate all 
that had happened since Ned's departure, and for the 
first time he learnt that Paul was in custody, and that 
a warrant had also been issued for his own apprehen- 
sion, upon the suspicion that he had been concerned 
in the burglary and murder at the rectory. Although 
such a charge appeared ridiculous, Ned did not fail to 
perceive that the sudden disappearance of Paul, Tim, 
and himself, on the day of the burglary, was sufficient 
to justify the suspicion, combined with the discovery 
of the two hundred guineas at Paul's house, together 
with the jewels and articles of contraband. He now 
recalled to mind the fact of the two strange men 
having stealthily passed through the churchyard at 
the same time that Mother Lee had appeared, -when 
he and Edith were sitting at dusk by the grave- 
stone of the unknown lady : and he had no doubt 
that the old hag was in some way connected with the 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 429 

robbery. The complexion of the affair caused him 
some uneasiness : for, although he had no fear of the 
ultimate result, the fact of so horrible a suspicion 
having fallen upon Paul and himself was sufficiently 
embarrassing. 

Ned's life had been so full of adventure and difficulty 
that he quickly resolved to bear patiently with this 
dilemma. The daily prayer of many years past had 
been granted : he was once more at home with his 
Edith, who was changed, only in appearance, from 
the girl he had left, to the beautiful woman whose 
heart had always been his own. 

When the first shock of Stevens's disgrace had 
passed, Mrs. Jones regarded Ned with much curiosity 
and admiration. " He certainly is handsome — very 
handsome ; in fact, extremely handsome," she said, as 
she sat alone with Edith, as Polly Grey had retired 
with Ned to have a chat with her boy alone for half 
an hour. "You see, my dear child," continued Mrs. 
Jones, " that the ways of Providence are wonderful, 
and sailors are especially watched over." Here Mrs.' 
Jones thought of Captain Smart. " Sailors are the 
finest class of the human race. St. Paul was a sailor ; 
or if he wasn't, he ought to have been ; for he was 
almost always at sea, and seemed to me to know much 
more about it than the other people on board the ship, 
when she was wrecked ; and all would have been lost 
if it had not been for his knowledge of the profession, 
when he was bitten by the boa constrictor, or the 
viper, or whatever the snake was, — which can't possibly 
be known, my dear, as the name was never written, — 
very likely because St. Paul had no British Museum 



43° CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

to refer to. However that does not alter the fact th 
Providence watches over sailors : thus we must thai 
heaven for Ned's safe return. A very handson 
young man, he is, indeed : so like his poor mother, 
I remember her beautiful body when she was broug! 
on shore, only she had no whiskers nor moustachi 
like Ned. I think he is rather young to have sue 
fine whiskers," continued the voluble and discursii 
Mrs. Jones ; " only I have heard that in hot climati 
the hair grows at a much earlier age than in the ten 
perate or the arctic zones. Ned must have been boi 
in a hot climate, as the vessel that was lost was z 
Indiaman, therefore that may account in some measui 
for his very early whiskers. I think he is now aboi 
nineteen ; is he not, my dear ?" 

" Twenty-one, mother," replied Edith ; " but I thin 
he looks some years older." 

" Well, my dear, it's all the same, and there's r 
doubt that he is a gentleman born, for his appearan< 
is most noble ; and, in fact, he might be a king, or eve 
an archbishop, for I never saw a more commandir 
figure, but as there is no doubt about your affectic 
for each other, it would be a comfort to know whethi 
he ever had a father — that is to say, of course he mu: 
have had one, but it's of no use having one if yc 
don't know who he is. You see, my dear, it woul 
look so very odd in the papers to read the announa 
ment of your marriage ' to Edward Grey, son t 
blank .' Very odd, and not altogether proper." 

At this moment Ned re-entered the room, and Mr 
Jones, with much consideration, found an excuse fo 
absenting herself, and left him alone with Edith. 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 431 

An hour of intense happiness passed as though the 
interval had been but a few minutes, when a sudden 
ring was heard at the door bell, and shortly after, 
the door opened and several constables entered the 
room. A man approached Ned, and drawing a paper 
from his pocket, he presented a warrant for his appre- 
hension, signed by James Stevens, upon the original 
charge for which Paul Grey had been committed. 

Never had Edith known the terrible feeling of 
hatred that now for the first time seized upon her. 
Base as Stevens was, she had never expected this 
quick revenge : he had dashed the cup of happiness 
from her lips. 

Pressing Edith to his heart, with a few words of 
comfort, as the Sessions were drawing near, when he 
was certain of an acquittal, Ned left the rectory in 
custody of the constables to be lodged in Falmouth 
gaol. 



432 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 



¦ . 



CHAPTER XXII. 

The news of Ned Grey's return had spread through- 
out the neighbourhood, and his almost instantaneous 
arrest had excited the sympathy of all the female 
portion of the population. The whole county was 
interested in the event, which became the current topic 
of the day, and James Stevens, of Heron Hall, was 
regarded with universal detestation as the story 
became widely known. In the meantime, full of 
revenge, he lost no opportunity of seeking for evidence 
that might lead to Ned's conviction. 

It was about a fortnight after Ned's arrest, on a 
cold and stormy night, that a ring was heard at the 
back door of the rectory, and, shortly afterwards, a 
servant entered the room in which Edith was sitting, 
with a message that a poor person from Sandy Cove 
wished to speak with her immediately. A woman 
was shewn into the room, who, wet and cold with the 
! journey, had been sent by a dying man at the Cove 

, to request the immediate attendance of Edith, as he 

had a most important communication to make that 
concerned her particularly. Regardless of the late 
hour and the stormy weather, Edith ordered the 
carriage without delay, and, accompanied by the 
messenger and Polly Grey, she at once drove to 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 433 

Sandy Cove, about five miles distant. Alighting at 
the cliff, they descended the zigzag path, and shortly 
arrived at the door of a hut formed of an inverted 
boat, from which a feeble light shone through a pane 
of glass fixed in the side. The messenger opened 
the door and they entered. 

Lying upon a miserable bed was the emaciated 
figure of a man, who appeared to be in the last stage 
of his existence. One of the neighbours was sitting 
by his side, who retired when Edith appeared, and 
the messenger, having approached, informed him in 
a gentle voice that Edith was present. 

" Where is she ? " said the dying man ; " it's very 
dark, bring her nearer to me. Yes!" he continued, as 
she drew near, " now leave me with her alone, as I 
have much to say, and little strength to say it." 

The messenger withdrew, and Edith, not without 
some hesitation, leant her ear close to the mouth of 
the exhausted man. 

He clasped his skinny hands together, and looking 
earnestly to her face, he exclaimed : "Pardon, par- 
don ! give me pardon for my sins before I confess the 
whole!" 

" What can I pardon, my good man ? " said Edith. 
" God alone can grant forgiveness ; but tell me, if it 
will relieve you, what weighs so heavily upon your 
mind ? " 

"Murder!" gasped the wretched man; "it was I 
that murdered your father ! " 

Startled with horror, Edith covered her eyes with 
her hand, and remained speechless. 

" Yes," continued the man ; " I will tell you all, for 

F F 



434 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 



I shall not see another day, and I feel that hell awaits 
me if I die without your pardon. It was Mother 
Lee who planned the robbery, but I never intended 
murder. Jack Cain and I were always pals, and 
drink and dice led us to ruin. Mother Lee found out 
that the parson kept large sums of money in the 
house, and she put us up to the robbery. We hadn't 
had a wreck for a long time, and we were hard up for 
cash, so we took the job. I saw you and young Ned 
Grey sitting in the churchyard that evening as we 
went to lie in wait. It was a Sunday night ; and we 
broke in at the kitchen window. We got the cash, 
and had packed up the plate when we heard a noise. 
' Don't let us be nabbed/ said Cain. Just as he said 
this, the parson came into the room, with a candle in 
one hand and a pistol in the other. € Shoot him ! ' 
said Cain, and I shot the poor man down, and we 
escaped without the plate. We got off through 
Mother Lee, who threw suspicion upon Paul and Ned 
Grey to serve them a bad turn, for she hated them 
to death." 

" Wretched man ! " said Edith bitterly ; " why did 
you not confess this earlier ? Paul and Ned are now 
in prison on this false charge. Where is your com- 
panion, Cain? ,, 

"He was hanged two years ago for another murder, 
and left his poor wife to die of starvation. Since that 
time I took ill, and have never been well since. My 
lungs are gone. I shall never see another sunrise. I 
feel my end is close at hand. But I have still more 
to say," said the dying man, as he was almost 
suffocated from exhaustion. 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 435 

Having rested for a few minutes, he recovered 
sufficiently to continue. 

"I confessed all this two weeks ago to a magistrate/' 
he said ; " but he's a bad \in, and worse than I. I 
mean Squire Stevens of the Hall," continued the 
man. " I told him all, as I knew that I must die, and 
I didn't wish innocent blood to be shed for me. I 
knew that Paul and Ned Grey had been arrested. 
The squire hates them both, and he gave me five 
golden guineas to hold my tongue. There they are, 
tied in the corner of that handkerchief beneath the 
bed. I had them behind the pillow, but I couldn't 
get a wink of sleep since I took them, so I threw 
them under the bed. Give them to Paul, or to the 
poor. Give some to the woman who looks after me ; 
but beware of the squire, for the devil isn't blacker 
than his heart, and he'll ruin Paul and Ned if he 
can do it ! " 

Polly Grey had been a witness to this important 
confession. 

"I'm lighter now," continued the sick man. "Say 
that you forgive me, Miss Edith, for I cannot die 
without shuddering at the future ; but if you pardon 
me, perhaps — perhaps God may also ; — but I don't 
know how to ask Him. I never prayed to Him. I 
tried the other night, but I couldn't do it. Pray for 
me, Miss Edith ; for Heaven's sake, pray ! pray ! — 
pray quickly, for I'm sinking down, down through the 
ground ! " 

In the fearful excitement of the last troubled hour, 
the man who had never prayed sought for his neglected 
God. 

F F 2 



436 CAST UP BY THE SEA, 



"May God forgive you as I do, poor miserable 
man," said Edith ; " but," she continued, " there is 
much to be done before you die. Your confession 
is worth nothing unless it is in a proper form : it 
must be written down." 

" Go ! " said Edith to Polly Grey, " and tell the 
coachman to drive quickly to Captain Smart. Tell 
him to bring paper and ink, and to come himself 
without losing a moment. ,, 

Polly ran from % the hut, and arrived breathless at 
the summit of the cliff. The rattle of the horses' 
hoofs quickly replied to her message. 

A little more than an hour had passed, and Edith 
looked anxiously at her watch as the man appeared 
to be fast sinking, and she knew the importance of 
his dying deposition. At last hurried footsteps were 
heard without, succeeded by a quick and decided tap 
upon the door. 

" Come in," said Edith, and Joe Smart entered, 
accompanied by one of the coast-guard. 

In a few words, spoken in a whisper, Edith had 
explained all. Polly shook him affectionately by the 
hand as they had not met since Paul's return, and 
without loss of time he wrote down the statement 
which the dying man feebly but distinctly repeated. 
The handkerchief, with five guineas tied up in one 
corner, was found beneath the bed. With much 
difficulty the sick man, supported by Joe Smart, 
{ subscribed his name to the deposition, which was 

witnessed by Smart and the coast-guardsman, to- 
f 'J gether with Edith and Polly Grey. 

" This is all important," said Captain Smart, " and 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 437 

it will checkmate that villain Stevens. We must be 
off to Falmouth by daybreak to-morrow," he con- 
tinued ; u the Sessions open, you are witnesses, and 
Paul and Ned will be tried on the following day. 
This deposition will save them both, and be the 
ruin of Stevens." 

That night Captain Smart accompanied Edith and 
Polly Grey to the rectory, while the woman who had 
brought the message attended to the sick man. 

On the following morning Mrs. Jones, with Polly, 
Edith, and Captain Smart, started in the old family 
coach with four post-horses for Falmouth. As they 
had to pass Sandy Cove, they took various comforts, 
in the shape of cordials, jellies, and good substantial 
food, in case the sick man should be still alive. 

On arrival at the cliff, Edith accompanied Joe 
Smart to the hut, and, to her delight, she found the 
man was not only not dead, but better than during 
the previous night ; thus, leaving the wine and little 
luxuries with him, she returned to the carriage and 
posted rapidly towards Falmouth. 

The town was crowded, as the Sessions had com- 
menced, and some difficulty was found in procuring 
rooms at an hotel. Without a moment's delay, Joe 
Smart went to the prison, accompanied by Polly 
Grey and Edith, to visit Paul and Ned, against whom 
a true bill had been found by the grand jury, upon 
which Stevens sat as a magistrate. The good news 
of the wrecker's confession relieved their minds from 
all uncertainty, and Joe Smart immediately intrusted 
the deposition to the counsel for their defence. 

The day for the trial arrived, and Joe Smart having 



43* CAST UP BY THE SKA. 

obtained seats, Edith and Polly Grey accompanied 
him to die court, which was much crowded. Paid 
and Ned were already standing at the bar. Two 
finer or more manly figures could hardly have been 
seen than those of the prisoners, who surveyed the 
crowded court with a simple curiosity and complete 
indifference, until their eyes caught those of their 
own party. A murmur ran through the court as 
the people regarded Ned's handsome face and dig- 
nified bearing, and loud whispers were heard, " Im- 
possible; he must be innocent !" until silence was 
enforced by order of the judge. 

They were both arraigned on the same charge, 
and in clear and decided tones they pleaded, " Not 
guilty." 

The counsel for the prosecution in a short [speech 
explained to the jury the prominent features of the 
case, dwelling upon the salient facts that Paul and 
Ned, together with the negro Tim, now dead, had 
been missing in a mysterious manner on the day 
following the murder: that Mother Lee had sworn 
that she had seen them, on their way to the village, 
on the same night that the burglary was committed ; 
and that the sum of two hundred guineas, which 
was the exact amount stolen from the rectory, had 
been discovered concealed, with valuable articles 
of jewellery, in a secret cave within the house of 
Paul Grey. Both the prisoners had been absent 
for years, and they had appeared in England within 
a few weeks of each other, with strange stories that 
required confirmation. The counsel then called as 
first witness the widow, Mrs. Jones. Having given 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 439 

her umbrella to Captain Smart until her examination 
should be concluded, she pushed her way with some 
difficulty to the witness-box, and was duly sworn. 
She then proceeded to describe the event in the 
following words, — 

" I remember the night well. My sainted husband 
was in bed with me, on the right side. He never liked 
to sleep on the left, poor man, as he said the world 
turned round from west to east ; or from east to west ; 
I'm sure I forget which, but it doesn't much signify. 
As I was saying, he was on my right side, fast asleep. 
He was a very good sleeper, poor* man, but was very 
quick at hearing a noise in his sleep. Presently he 
was disturbed, which, of course, awoke me, for I am a 
very light sleeper, and he said : ( Do you hear a 
noise, dear ? ' ' No, darling/ I said, ' I do not ; unless 
it's the cat, that is always upsetting things under the 
pretence of catching mice ; ' (in fact I believe, taking 
them as a whole, that cats do much more damage 
themselves than the mice and rats) ; don't you think 
so, my lord?" continued Mrs. Jones, who now 
addressed the judge. 

" Proceed with your description, Madam, in as few 
words as possible," replied the judge ; and Mrs. Jones 
continued : 

"Well, my lord, and ladies, and gentlemen of the 
jury — I beg your pardon, gentlemen, I forgot there 
were no ladies on the jury ; but why there should not 
be, I'm sure I cannot understand, for ladies are just 
as 

Here Mrs. Jones was stopped by the judge, and 
informed that she must confine herself to the actual 



440 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

description of what took place on the night of the 
murder. 

. "Well, my lord and gentlemen of the jury," she 
continued, " as I said to my dear husband, I think it's 
the cat : for you know how he broke my large china 
bowl the other night with his mouse-catching, which 
I daresay was an excuse for love-making or milk- 
stealing, for they're deceitful creatures. € Well/ I said, 
' my dear, there's nothing like seeing for oneself, so you 
had better get up and look if you can see in the dark; 
but, perhaps, it would be better to light a candle.' 
My dear husband then got out of bed and put on his 
dressing-gown for fear of catching cold, for he was 
very subject to sore throat ; and then taking a pistol 
(which I was always afraid of, for I think firearms 
are dangerous things, and I think it's a pity .that they 
were ever invented), he said to me, ' My darling, that's 
not a cat ; I hear people in the house, they are thieves !' 
My dear husband was afraid of nothing, and he 
begged me to ring the alarm bell, but I was too 
frightened to do anything but lie beneath the bed- 
clothes. Presently I heard a shot fired, and I got out 
of bed and fainted on the floor. That is all I knew 
of the affair, my lord, until I saw my poor husband's 
body." Here Mrs. Jones became deeply affected, and 
she sent to Captain Smart for her handkerchief, which 
she had entrusted to his keeping with her umbrella. 

During this rambling description, that was delivered 
with her usual volubility, the jury had been engaged 
in an examination of the various trinkets that had 
been discovered in Paul's house, together with the 
bag of two hundred guineas. 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 441 

Edith having' been called as a witness, gave her evi- 
dence in a plain straightforward manner, that excited 
the admiration of the court. She concluded by declaring 
her conviction that, when her dying father had men- 
tioned the name of Ned Grey, to whom he was much 
attached, he had intended to give her some advice 
concerning their intimacy, as the subject that was 
nearest to his heart ; and that he had no intention of 
connecting his name with the fearful tragedy. 

At this stage of the proceedings, the counsel for 
the defence rose suddenly, and holding in his hand 
the deposition of the sick man, he requested per- 
mission to make a few remarks, as from respect to 
the court, he could no longer allow the case to pro- 
ceed without laying this important document before 
the judge. 

" My lord," he continued, " and gentlemen of the 
jury, I am prepared to prove that the charge against 
the prisoner is not only false, but that it originated in 
the conspiracy of a woman named Lee, now dead, 
which has, I am ashamed to declare, been supported 
by a man who not only occupies a high social position 
in this county, but who is himself a magistrate, and 
at the present moment is a member of the grand 
jury. The document that I hold in my hand, and 
which I am about to read to the court, to save 
valuable time, and to stay further proceedings, is the 
actual confession of the true murderer ! deposed by 
him when he imagined himself dying, and witnessed 
by four persons. It is as follows : — 

"I, Thomas Jackson, a dying man, do positively 
declare upon my oath, as I hope for pardon for my 



442 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 



sins hereafter, that I am the murderer of the Rev. 
Henry Jones ; and that, in company with one, John 
Cain, since hanged for murder, I broke into the 
rectory of the said Henry Jones, and effected an 
entrance by forcing the kitchen window. Having 
stolen in cash a bag containing two hundred guineas, 
which we took from a writing-desk, we were disturbed 
whilst packing up the plate within a blanket, by the 
appearance of the Rev. Henry Jones, who held a 
pistol in one hand and a lighted candle in the other. 
Cain cried, 'Shoot him !' and I fired the pistol which 
shot him down. We then escaped with the money. 
The burglary was planned by a woman of Sandy 
Cove, well known as Mother Lee, since dead. She 
swore falsely that she met Paul and Ned Grey, 
together with a negro named Tim, on the road from 
the rectory on the night of the murder. These 
persons are perfectly innocent, and knew nothing 
of the matter; but, to save us, and to spite those 
whom she hated, Mother Lee conspired against them. 
I feared to die with this load upon my mind, and 
about fourteen days ago, I sent to a magistrate to 
say that I wished to tell him all about the murder. 

" Squire Stevens, of Heron Hall, was that magistrate. 
He came to me, and I told him all. He told me not 
to be such a fool as to inculpate myself, as I should 
be surely hanged ; but to let the law take its course, 
as it would be better for me if I saved my neck and 
let Paul and Ned Grey be hanged instead. He gave 
me five golden guineas to hold my tongue. I took 
the guineas, but I couldn't sleep, and got frightened 
at night when I was alone. I knew the squire was a 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 443 



scoundrel, and I could not wrong Miss Edith by- 
letting her marry such a man without some warning, 
after having killed her father; so I sent to her to 
make this confession, and to ask her forgiveness for 
my crime. — Signed Thomas Jackson, in the presence 
of Edith Jones, Mary Grey, Joseph Smart, and John 
Edwards." 

" My lord," continued the counsel, " and gentlemen 
of the jury, this confession terminates this extra- 
ordinary case, and, leaving the prisoners in your 
hands, I shall call no other witnesses but one. I 
charge James Stevens with fraudulent conspiracy, for 
which he shall • answer to the laws of his country. 
Call Thomas Jackson," continued the counsel. 

After some little delay, during which Stevens, who 
was pale as ashes, had endeavoured to slip out of 
court, but had been recalled, a miserable-looking 
man, who appeared nearly dead, was brought in upon 
a stretcher, and Thomas Jackson, who had been 
secured for the occasion by Captain Smart, and con- 
veyed in a carriage from Sandy Cove, repeated the 
substance of his deposition, and pointed out Stevens, 
to whom he swore personally. 

The Court was amazed at the confession of the 
spectral murderer who thus declared his guilt. Paul 
and Ned Grey shared in the surprise occasioned by 
his unexpected and cadaverous appearance. The 
sick man was immediately taken possession of by the 
police, and the stretcher was raised by four men to be 
carried out of court. At this moment a violent con- 
vulsion seized upon the now really dying man, whose 
last energies had been expended in the struggle to 



444 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 



deliver his confession. With drawn and contracted 
features he fell back upon the stretcher, and, after a 
few painful gasps for breath, his body remained in 
custody of the earthly authorities ; but his soul was 
summoned before a higher judge. 

Great excitement was caused in court by this dis- 
tressing scene ; it was hardly quieted when the Judge 
addressed the jury previous to their dismissal. He 
was a calm, dignified looking man, of about fifty-five 
years of age, tall, with handsome features, but shaded 
with a peculiar cast of sadness. He requested that 
the trinkets and the bag of guineas should be handed 
to him for inspection. The diamond necklace and 
locket, together with the rings, and also the parcel of 
hair that Polly Grey had saved from the drowned 
lady, were laid before him, while the counsel for the 
defence, in a few words explained how they had come 
into the Greys' possession when Ned, as an infant, 
was washed ashore with the locket round his neck. 

The judge examined the trinkets for a few minutes, 
and turned deadly pale. He then touched a spring 
in the locket, of which Polly had been ignorant ; it 
flew open, and exposed the portrait of an exceedingly 
handsome man of about thirty, in a cavalry uniform : 
this strongly resembled the judge. 

" What is the matter with his lordship ? Bring 
water !" said several voices, as the judge, having 
opened the parcel that contained the long fair hair, 
fell back on his seat for the moment overpowered by 
faintness. Water was quickly brought, and recover- 
ing his calmness by a great effort, he looked fixedly 
at Ned Grey for some minutes in silence — " Edward 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 445 

Grey," he at length said, " retire with the usher to my 
private room." Ned Grey shortly found himself 
alone in the judge's private chamber. 

Excusing himself for a few minutes on the plea of 
indisposition, the judge left the court, and entered the 
room where Ned remained alone. Advancing directly 
towards him, he seized both his hands, and as he 
stared intently in his face, the tears rolled down his 
cheeks. Suddenly clasping him in his arms, the 
judge pressed him fervently to his breast, as he ex- 
claimed in an agony of intense feeling : " My son ! — 
my child! cast up by the sea!" At last I know 
your poor mother's fate ! — this is her own dear hair ; 
the necklace — the rings, all were hers ; the locket — 
with my portrait, I gave her on our wedding day. 
She left for England with you an infant, on [the 
Calcutta Indiaman; the ship was never heard of; 
and until now I never knew her fate. You are 
Edward Neville — not Edward Grey. My own child ! 
my son ! " 

Ned was bewildered with astonishment. He re- 
turned with affection his father's passionate embrace ; 
he could hardly realize the situation. He had already 
been told that Polly was not his own mother, and he 
now discovered that the grave upon which he had 
often sat as a boy, and wondered at the melancholy 
epitaph, covered the bones of a parent whom he had 
never known. 



446 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 



CHAPTER XXIII. 

Katherine Neville, Ned's unfortunate and lovely 
mother, had been forced by ill health to leave her 
husband in India after the birth of her first child, the 
hero of this story. At that time Sir Charles Neville 
was a cavalry officer in the East India Company's 
army, but after the mysterious disappearance of the 
vessel in which his young wife and child were lost, he 
had become melancholy, and had given up the army. 
Returned to England, he entered at the bar, and dis- 
tinguished himself by extraordinary ability until he 
at length became a judge. The early sorrow of his 
life had made a deep impression upon him, from 
which he had never recovered. He was a man of 
large fortune who had inherited the title and estates 
from his father, who was a baronet in the county 
of Devonshire ; thus Ned, as we must still call him, 
suddenly found himself a man of both means and 
position. 

The Sessions were over, and Sir Charles Neville 
now formed one of the party at the rectory of Stoke, 
as Ned had confided to him his affection for Kdith, 
to whom he could have no possible objection ; in fact 
he was perfectly delighted with her good qualities, 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 447 

which, in addition to her beauty, brought her as near 
to perfection as any woman could attain. 

Sir Charles Neville's, first visit was to the church- 
yard of Stoke,. where he found the simple inscription 
on the cross stone above his young wife's grave, which 
he shortly changed, as the mystery of the "lady 
unknown " had been dispelled. He accompanied Ned 
to Sandy Cove, where Paul and Polly Grey had 
already taken possession of the pretty old cottage on 
the cliff; there he sat upon the terrace wall and 
listened to the sad story of the wreck, as Polly de- 
scribed that fatal night, and pointed out the spot where 
she and Paul had discovered his lovely young wife 
floating drowned upon the surface ; with her long fair 
hair that they had at first mistaken for yellow sea-weed. 

Polly Grey then shewed him the spot where Ned, 
as an infant, had been washed on shore, and she 
omitted nothing in her description of the boy's early 
life, until the time when he had been taken on board 
the Sybille. 

A few days after he had visited Sandy Cove, Paul 
Grey and Polly received a letter from Sir Charles 
Neville expressing his warm acknowledgments for 
all the parental kindness they had shown his son Ned, 
when friendless and destitute, and informing them 
that a sum of ^3,000 was lodged to Paul Grey's 
credit at the bank in Falmouth, which he trusted 
would in some measure testify his admiration of their 
generosity, and render them independent for the 
remainder of their lives. 

This sudden and unexpected wealth hardly com- 
pensated Polly Grey for the loss of Ned, whom she 



448 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

loved as her own son, and who now would most pro- 
bably leave the neighbourhood of his old home. 
Neither could Ned quite enjoy his new position with- 
out a feeling of regret at the startling change. He 
had received from Polly the care and affection of 
a mother, which he returned as warmly; and he 
determined that no alteration in his social position 
should lessen the filial gratitude that he owed to her. 
Delighted that his father had thus generously pro- 
vided for his adopted parents, Ned now longed to 
make Edith his own without delay. 

In the meantime, James Stevens had been arrested 
on a charge of conspiracy. He had been liberated 
upon bail to appear at the next Sessions, but although 
freed from arrest, he was scouted by all who knew 
him. When he rode through the village, the boys 
pelted him, and he was insulted continually in the 
streets ; his life was a constant torment. In spite of 
his callous nature he had loved Edith to desperation ; 
he had been scorned by her; she was now in the 
arms of his rival, who, no longer the foundling Ned 
Grey, was heir to his father's title and estates. Every- 
thing had turned against him. Edith had returned to 
him the horse and dog that he had presented to her. 
He shot them both immediately. 

But it was not only the world that was against him, 
it was the law that he dreaded ; he could hardly 
escape imprisonment for the conspiracy of which he 
had been guilty. At all events, he would be for ever 
disgraced. 

' Thus tormented in mind, Stevens was without a 
single friend to whom he could turn for comfort or 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 449 

advice : he had not even a dog that loved him. 
Months passed away ; the day drew near when the 
Sessions would commence, and Stevens* bail would 
expire : he would have to surrender himself for trial. 

It was a lovely day in spring, as warm as midsum- 
mer; the bright green leaves had clothed the trees 
with their new-born foliage ; the hawthorn was in full 
blossom ; the blue-bells, and primroses on the banks, 
and the wild roses in the hedges, gave a hopeful glow 
to the scene, as Nature seemed to rejoice that the icy 
fetters of winter were broken, and she was once more 
free to revel in her beauties. It was a time when all 
should have been happy : there was a peaceful calm in 
the soft air, broken only by the songs of the skylark, 
and other birds that sang joyfully among the tall trees. 
The hens, proud of their young broods, busied them- 
selves in a search for insects for the newly-hatched 
chickens ; goslings, like balls of golden down, floated 
upon the ponds of the farmyards ; young foals 
gambolled in the fields, which resounded with the 
bleating of the now hardy lambs, and the earth had 
awakened to the command, "Increase and multiply." 
Could anyone be unhappy in such a scene ? 

It was the morning, and James Stevens walked 
hastily to and fro on the broad terrace before his 
mansion that commanded a view of the sea, with the 
tall spire of the village of Stoke sheltered in the 
vale, about three miles distant. All was beautiful 
and calm in nature, but there was no peace within his 
heart. His face was haggard with care, and deep 
lines already furrowed his features, while a gloomy 

G G 



45o CAST UP BY THE SEA. 



frown had settled upon his brow. There was a mighty 
oak upon the lawn, whose gnarled branches cast a 
shadow far and wide : beneath this tree was a rustic 
seat, upon which Stevens presently sat for a few 
minutes, and then rose again in his restless humour. 

He started. " Ha ! " he said, " the bells ! all happy 
but myself. Death and confusion seize them ! They 
are the Stoke church bells! He marries her this 
morning ; and I am lost, despised, trampled down, 
disgraced, and my enemy triumphs ! " 

Stevens folded his arms, and biting his lips till the 
blood flowed, he slowly raised his head and looked 
stedfastly among the branches of the tree. 

In the meantime, while his evil spirit held pos- 
session of him, and he brooded savagely over his 
defeat, all was joy and happiness at Stoke. It was 
the day for Edith's marriage. The church bells were 
ringing merrily, and the village people were gaily 
dressed in their best clothes, while the approach from 
the rectory to the church was ornamented with tri- 
umphal arches of leaves and flowers ; the pathway 
through the churchyard was carpeted and thickly 
strewn with sweet-scented blossoms, and lined on 
either side by rows of prettily-dressed children, all of 
whom loved Edith and delighted in the happiness of 
the day. 

Ned was already standing in the church, accom- 
panied by Captain Smart, who acted as bridegroom's 
man. The noise of many wheels was heard, and the 
string of carriages approached, as Edith, having 
alighted, was received with cheers from the assembled 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 451 

throng of village children, as she was led by Sir 
Charles Neville along the flowery pathway. Never 
had she looked so lovely, and as Ned received her at 
the altar, before which they knelt together, the bless- 
ings of the multitude were expressed in simple but 
earnest words, "God spare them to live happily 
together." 

Once more the bells pealed merrily as Ned led his 
bride from the church-door, and the children and 
women showered sweet nosegays before their feet, 
amidst the loud hurrahs of many hundred voices. 

" One cheer more," shouted Captain Smart, as with 
his only remaining hand he waved his cap above his 
head, and led the " Hip ! hip ! hip ! hurrah !" 

" What a nice dear man he is ! " said Mrs. Jones to 
Polly Grey ; " how I do love a sailor ! What a pity 
that he does not marry ; he would make such a per- 
fect husband ! although, by-the-bye, my dear, with 
only one arm he would be an ^perfect husband, 
certainly, but it's all the same thing in the end. t I do 
so wish Captain Smart would think of marriage." 

The happy day was nearly over ; the guests were 
gone, and only Mr. Banks, the clergyman who had 
officiated, remained. Ned called him on one side. 

"My dear sir/' said he, "to me this is a day of 
such true and perfect joy, after all the difficulties and 
dangers of my life, that I cannot rest so long as I 
have an enemy whom I have not forgiven. There is 
one whom you know, James Stevens, the squire — who 
has through life, even from early boyhood, hated me 
with an uncalled-for intensity, although I would have 



452 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 



made him my friend Act for me as a peacemaker, 
I pray you. Go to him and tell him from me that I 
will forget every injury, and I trust that the past may 
be forgotten on both sides. Say to him that I stretch 
out my hand, and let him receive it in sincerity. ,, 

The good-natured clergyman would hear of no 
delay, but, happy in the office of peacemaker, he 
returned home, and mounting his pony, he rode at 
once to Heron Hall. 

The moon was full when he started, and upon his 
strong black cob he trotted quickly forward. 

On arrival at the entrance lodge he had to dis- 
mount to open the gate, as the porter and his family 
were enjoying themselves in the village, where a grand 
feast for all comers had been prepared by Mrs. Jones. 
Having* passed through, he rode up the long avenue 
of elm-trees until he arrived at the oak upon the lawn, 
the branches of which overhung the carriage-drive. 

As the moon shone through the tree, it cast a 
horrible shadow upon the ground before the horse's 
feet ; the animal shied, and nearly gave the clergy- 
man a fall. At this moment an owl upon the boughs 
gave a shrill and wild " too hoo, too hoo, too hoo, too 
hoo, too hoo-o-o-o-o ! " The pony startled, turned 
sharp round, and threw its rider heavily upon the 
lawn beneath the tree, while it galloped off in the 
direction of the village. 

Mr. Banks, half-stunned and giddy with the fall, 
rose from the ground. He was not naturally super- 
stitious, but he had an indescribable feeling of some- 
thing terrible. There was an old swing upon the oak, 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 453 

and the creak of the iron hook now jarred in his ear 
as the wind swung it to and fro. He started at a 
shadow on the ground. It looked like a human 
being suspended by the neck to a naked and 
withered branch. He looked up, and the first object 
that met his view was the body of a man hanging 
from one of the ropes that had formed the swing. 
The feet were only a yard from the ground. 

Without an instant's delay, the terrified clergyman 
rushed frantically to the Hall, and rang the door-bell 
loudly. It was quickly answered. "A ladder and a 
knife ! " cried the clergyman. " Where is the squire ? " 

"The squire said he was going to Stoke, srr," 
replied the astonished servant. 

"Quick with the knife and ladder! A man has 
hung himself on the oak-tree!" continued Mr. Banks. 

In a few minutes several servants, with a knife and 
a ladder, had accompanied him to the oak, and the 
rope being quickly severed, the body was let down. 

A cry of horror and surprise was uttered by all 
present, as they recognised the swollen and dis- 
coloured features of James Stevens. 

***** 

Nearly two years had passed away since that fatal 
night. The rectory once more resounded with the 
shouts of merry boys, as Mr. Banks had married Mrs. 
Jones, and kept a school. She had comforted herself 
with the idea that " a minister of the Gospel was a 
more godly man than a sailor ; not that sailors were 
ungodly, as St. Paul was a sailor, or very nearly one ; 
it didn't matter which, so long as he went to sea : but 



454 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 



the hearts of ministers of the Gospel were not so hard 
as those of sailors, as they were not so much exposed 
to the wind and weather. Captain Smart had been 
very much exposed. It was a very great pity, for 
he was a very perfect specimen of a British sailor — 
that is to say, he would have been if he hadn't lost 
an arm ; but a minister of the Gospel, with a tender 
heart and two arms, was certainly a more perfect 
husband than a British sailor with a tough heart and 
only one arm." Thus Mrs. Jones comforted herself 
with her own peculiar logic. 

The cottage on the cliff at Sandy Cove had been 
much beautified and refurnished. There was a large 
porch, fitted with seats, and shaded with woodbine 
and sweet clematis : here Paul Grey delighted to sit 
with his still handsome wife, and smoke his pipe on a 
long summer evening, and talk over old times as he 
looked upon the sea. It was then that the well-known 
step was often heard, and Joe Smart appeared as in 
days of old ; and the two friends, who loved each 
other like twin brothers, would chat over the adven- 
turous deeds of their youth, while Polly knitted and 
listened untiringly to their oft-repeated tales. There 
was a pretty smart-looking lugger anchored in the 
bay, much resembling the old Polly, and christened 
with her name. Now that Ned Grey was gone, this 
vessel was Paul's only child. Often would he cruise 
with his old friend Joe Smart, (for he had long 
given up all dealings in contraband,) and he de- 
lighted to point out to the revenue officer the places 
where he had run a cargo, and tell how the old 



CAST UP BY THE SEA. 455 

Polly had dodged the Government cruisers and 
laughed at their fastest cutters. 

"Ah, those were good old times!" Paul would 
exclaim, as he laughed at his friend Smart. "The 
old Polly was a saucy boat, that was too sharp even 
for a certain Captain Smart of his Majesty's coast- 
guard." 

Whatever the good qualities and questionable vir- 
tues of the old Polly might have been, Paul's new 
lugger bore an unblemished reputation. 

Ned and Edith lived happily with Sir Charles 
Neville at Elmley Court, his seat in Devon, whence 
they sometimes went to visit the cottage at Sandy 
Cove, to the great delight of Paul and Polly Grey. 

It was a lovely day in August, the anniversary of 
that when Ned as an infant had been washed on shore. 
He and Edith were expected at the Cove. The car- 
riage wheels were heard upon the cliff, and Polly 
rushed out upon the terrace to meet her anxiously 
awaited guests. 

Edith had a treasure that she longed to exhibit to 
her old friend Polly Grey. It was her first child, a 
boy about four months old; she had christened it 
Edward Grey Neville. 

Descending the zigzag path with the child in her 
arms, wrapped in a warm shawl, Edith followed Ned, 
and then ascending from the little village by the steep 
footway, she arrived on the terrace in front of the old 
cottage. 

After the first loving greeting, Polly, who con- 
sidered herself the grandmother of Ned's child, hastily 



456 CAST UP BY THE SEA. 

withdrew the shawl from the face of the lovely infant, 
and took it in her arms. Gently kissing its sleeping 
face, she regarded it attentively for some moments, 
and exclaimed, " Three and twenty years have passed 
away this very day, and they seem but as yesterday ! 
Here is the child ! the same in face and age as that 
little Ned Grey that I pressed to my breast and 
nursed as my own — a blessing from God to my child- 
less home — a son cast up by tJie sea ! " 



THE END. 



LONDON : R. CLAY, SONS, AND TAYLOR, PRINTERS. 



July, 1868. 
16, Bedford Street, Co vent Garden, London. 



MACMILLAN AND CO.'S 

A Son of the Soil. 

Crown 8vo. 6s. 

JEschyli Eumenides. 

The Greek Text with English Notes, and an Introduction. By 
Bernard Drake, M.A. 8vo. 7 s. 6d. 

Agnes Hopetoun. 

16mo. cloth. See Oliphant. 

Airy.— Works by G. B. Airy, M.A. LL.D. D.C.L. Astronomer 

Royal, &c. 

Treatise on the Algebraical and Numerical Theory of 
Errors of Observations and the Combination of Obser- 
vations. 

Crown 8vo. 6s. 6d. 

Popular Astronomy. 

A Series of Lectures delivered at Ipswich. 18mo. cloth, 4s. 6d. 
With Illustrations. Uniform with Macmillan's School Class 
Books. 

An Elementary Treatise on Partial Differential 

Equations. 

With Stereoscopic Cards of Diagrams. Crown 8vo. 5s. 6d. 

On the Undulatory Theory of Optics. 

Designed for the use of Students in the University. Crown 
8vo. 6s. 6d. 

On Sound and Atmospheric Vibrations, 

With the Mathematical Elements of Music. Designed for the 
use of Students of the Universities. Crown 8vo. 9s. 

Algebraical Exercises. 

Progressively arranged by Rev. C. A. Jones, M.A. and C. H. 
Cheyne. M.A. Mathematical Masters in Westminster School. 
18mo. 2s. 6d. 

A 

A. 

30C0.5 G8. 



2 MACMILLAN AND CO.'S 

Alice's Adventures in Wonderland. 

By Lewis Carroll. With Forty-two Illustrations by Tenniel. 
12th Thousand. Crown 8vo. cloth. 6*. 

Allingham. — Laurence Bloomfield in Ireland. 

A Modem Poem. By William Allingham. Fcap. 8vo. 7*. 
Ansted. — The Great Stone Book of Nature. 

By David Thomas Ansted, M. A. F. R.S. F. G. S. Fcap. 8vo. 5*. 
Anstie. — Stimulants and Narcotics, their Mutual Relations, 

With Special Researches on the Action of Alcohol, -dEther, and 
Chloroform on the Vital Organism. By Francis E. Anstie, 
M.D. M.R.C.P. 8vo. 14*. 

Neuralgia and Diseases which resemble it. 

8vo. [In the Press. 

Aristotle on Fallacies ; or, the Sophistici Elenchi. 

With a Translation and Notes by Edward Poste, M. A. 8yo. 
Ss. 6d. 

Arnold. — Works by Matthew Arnold. 
New Poems. Second Edition. 

Extra fcap. 8vo. 6s. 6d. 

A French Eton; or, Middle-Class Education and 
the State. 

Fcap. 8vo. 2s. 6d. 

Essays in Criticism. 

Extra fcap. 8vo. 6s. 

Schools and Universities on the Continent. 

8vo. 105. 6d. 

Baker. — Works by Sir Samuel W. Baker, M.A. F.RG.S. 

The Nile Tributaries of Abyssinia, and the Sword 
Hunters of the Hamran Arabs. 

With Portraits, Maps, and Illustrations. Third Edition. 8vo. 21s. 

The Albert Nyanza Great Basin of the Nile, and 
Exploration of the Nile Sources. New and cheaper 
Edition. 

With Portraits, Maps, and Illustrations. Two Vols. Crown 

8vo. 16.9. 

Harwell. — Guide in the Sick Room. 

By Richard Barw ell, F.R.C.S. Extra fcap. 8vo. S s . 6d. 

Barnes. — Poems of Rural Life in Common English. 

By the Rev. W. Barnes, Author of " Poems of Rural Life iii 
the Dorset Dialect." Fcap. 8vo. 65. 



LIST OF PUBLICATIONS. 3 

Baxter, — National Income. 

By R. Dudley Baxter, M.A. "With Coloured Diagram. 
8vo. 3s. 6d. 

Bayma. — Elements of Molecular Mechanics. 
By Joseph Bayma, S. J. 8vo. 10s. 6d. 

Beasley. — An Elementary Treatise on Plane Trigonometry. 

With a Numerous Collection of Examples. By R. D. Beasley, 
M.A. Second Edition. Crown 8vo. 3s. 6d. 

Bell. — Romances and Minor Poems. 

By Henry Glassford Bell. Fcap. 8vo. 6s. 

Bernard. — The Progress of Doctrine in the New Testament. 

In Eight Lectures preached before the University of Oxford. 
By Thomas Dehany Bernard, M.A. Second Edition. 8vo. 
8s. 6d. 

Bernard. — Four Lectures on Subjects connected with 
Diplomacy. 

By Mountagtje Bernard, M.A., Chichele Professor of Inter- 
national Law and Diplomacy, Oxford. 8vo. 9s. 

Bernard (St.) — The Life and Times of St. Bernard, Abbot oj 

Clairvaux. 

By J. C. Morison, M.A. New Edition. [Nearly ready. 

Birks. — Works by Thomas Eawson Birks, M.A. 

The Difficulties of Belief in connexion with the Creation 
and the Fall. 

Crown 8vo. 4s. 6d. 

On Matter and Ether ; or, the Secret Laws of Physical 
Change. 

Crown 8vo. 5s. 6d. 

Blake. — The Life of William Blake, the Artist. 

By Alexander Gilchrist. With numerous Illustrations from 
Blake's Designs and Fac-similes of his Studies of the "Book of 
Job." Two Vols. Medium 8vo. 32s. 

Blake. — A Visit to some American Schools and Colleges. 

By Sophia Jex Blake. Crown 8vo. 6s. 

Blanche Lisle, and other Poems. 

By Cecil Home. Fcap. 8vo. 4s. 6d. 

Boole. — Works by the late George Boole, F.RS. Professor 
of Mathematics in the Queen's University, Ireland, &c. 

A Treatise on Differential Equations. 

New Edition. Edited by I. Todhunter, M.A. F.RS. Crown 
8vo. 14s, 

a2 



4 MACMILLAN AND CO.'S 

Boole. — Treatise on Differential Equations. 

Supplementary Volume. Crown 870. 8s. 6d. 

A Treatise on the Calculus of Finite Differences. 

Crown 8vo. 10*. Qd. 

Bradshaw. — An Attempt to ascertain the state of Chancers 
Works, as they were Left at his Death, 

With some Notices of their Subsequent History. By Henry 
Bradshaw, of King's College,- and the University Library, 
Cambridge. [In the Press. 

Bright. — Speeches on various Questions of Public Policy. 

By John Bright, M.P. Edited by Professor Rogers. 

[In the Press. 

Brimley. — Essays by the late George Brimley, M.A. 

Edited by W. G. Clark, M.A. With Portrait. Cheaper 
Edition. Fcap. 8vo. 3s. Qd. 

Brook Smith. — Arithmetic in Theory and Practice. 

For Advanced Pupils. Part First. By J. Brook Smith, M. A. 
Crown 8vo. 3s. 6d. 

Bryce. — The Holy Roman Empire. 

By James Bryce, B.C.L. Fellow of Oriel College, Oxford. A 
New Edition, revised and enlarged. Crown 8vo. 9s. 

Bucknill. — The Mad Folk of Shakespeare. 

Psychological Lectures by J. C. Bucknill, M.D. F.R.S 
Second Edition. Crown 8vo. 6s. Qd. 

Bullock. — Works by W. H. Bullock. 

Polish Experiences during the Insurrection of 1863-4. 

Crown 8vo. With Map. 8s. Qd. 

Across Mexico in 1864-5. 

With Coloured Map and Illustrations. Crown 8vo. 10*. Qd. 

BuRGON. — A Treatise on the Pastoral Office. 

Addressed chiefly to Candidates for Holy Orders, or to those who 
have recently undertaken the cure of souls. By the Rev. John* 
W. Burgon, M.A. 8vo. 12s. 

Butler (Archer). — Works by the Rev. William Archek 
Butler, M. A. late Professor of Moral Philosophy in the 
University of Dublin. 

Sermons, Doctrinal and Practical. 

Edited, with a Memoir of the Author's Life, by Thomas Woop- 
•ward, M.A. Dean of Down. With Portrait. Seventh an>J 
Cheaper Edition. 8vo. 8s. 



LIST OF PUBLICATIONS. 5 

Butler (Archer). — A Second Series of Sermons. 

Edited by J. A. Jeremie, D.D. Regius Professor of Divinity at 
Cambridge. Fifth and Cheaper Edition. 8vo. Is. 

History of Ancient Philosophy. 

Edited by Wm. H. Thompson, M.A. Master of Trinity College, 
Cambridge. Two Vols. 8vo. 11. 5s. 

Letters on Romanism, in reply to Dr. Newman's Essay 
on Development 

Edited by the Dean of Down. Second Edition, revised by 
Archdeacon Hard wick. 8vo. 10s. 6d. 

Butler (Montagu). — Sermons preached in the Chapel of 

Harrow School. 

By H. Montagu Butler, Head Master. Crown 8vo. Is. 6d, 

Butler (George). — Works by the Rev. George Butler. 
Family Prayers. 

Crown 8vo. 5s. 

Sermons preached in Cheltenham College Chapel. 

Crown 8vo. Is. 6d. 

Cairnes. — The Slave Power; its Character, Career, and 
Probable Designs. 

Being an Attempt to Explain the Real Issues Involved in the 
American Contest. By J. E. Cairnes, M.A. Second Edition. 
8vo. 10«. 6d. 

Calderwood. — Philosophy of the Infinite. 

A Treatise on Man's Knowledge of the Infinite Being, in answer 
to Sir W. Hamilton and Dr. Mansel. By the Rev. Henry 
Calderwood, M.A. Professor of Moral Philosophy at Edin- 
burgh. Second Edition. 8vo. lis. 

Cambridge Senate-Honse Problems and Riders, with 

Solutions. 

1848— 1851.— Problems. 

By Ferrers and Jackson. 15s. 6d. 

1848— 1851.— Riders. 
By Jameson. 7s. 6d. 

1854. — Problems and Riders. 

By Walton and Mackenzie, M.A. 10*. 6d. 

1857. — Problems and Riders. 
By Campion and "Walton. Ss. 6d. 



6 JilACMILLAN AND CO.'S 

Cambridge Senate-House Problems and Riders — continued. 

1860. — Problems and Riders. 
By Watson and Routh. 7s. 6d. 

1864. — Problems and Riders. 

By Walton and Wilkinson. 10*. 6d. 

Cambridge Lent Sermons. — 

Sermons preached during Lent, 1864, in Great St. Mary's 
Church, Cambridge. By the Bishop of Oxford, Rev. H. P. 

LlDDON, T. L. CLAUGHTON, J. R. WOODFORD, Dr. GOULBURN, 

J. W. Burgon, T. T. Carter, Dr. Pusey, Dean Hook, W. 
J. Butler, Dean Goodwin. Crown 8vo. 7s. 6d. 

Cambridge Course of Elementary Natural Philosophy, for 
the Degree of B.A. 

Originally compiled by J. C. Snowball, M.A., late Fellow of 
St. John's College. Fifth Edition, revised and enlarged, and 
adapted for the Middle-Class Examinations by Thomas Lund, 
B.D. Crown 8vo. 5s. 

Cambridge and Dublin Mathematical Journal. 

The Complete Work, in Nine Vols. 8vo. Cloth. 71. 4s. Only 
a few copies remain on hand. 

Cambridge Characteristics in the Seventeenth Century. 
By James Bass Mullinger, B. A. Crown 8vo. 4s. 6d. 

Campbell. — Works by John M'Leod Campbell. 

Thoughts on Revelation, with Special Reference to the 
Present Time. 

Crown 8vo. 5s. 

The Nature of the Atonement, and its Relation to 
Remission of Sins and Eternal Life. 

Second Edition revised. 8vo. 10s. 6d. 

Carter. — King's College Chapel : Notes on its History and 
'present condition. 

By T. J. P. Carter, M.A. Fellow of King's College, Cam- 
bridge. With Photographs. 8vo. 5s. 

Catulli Veronensis Liber. 

Recognovit R. Ellis. 18mo. 3s. 6d. 

Challis. — Creation in Plan and in Progress : 

Being an Essay on the First Chapter of Genesis. Bv the Rev. 
James Challis, M. A. F.R.S.F. R. A. S. Crown 8 vo." 3s. 6d. 



LIST OF PUBLICATIONS. 7 

Chatterton. — Leonore; a Tale. 

By Georgiana Lady Chatterton. A New Edition. Beauti- 
fully printed on thick toned paper. Crown 8vo. with Frontis- 
piece and Vignette Title engraved by Jeens. 7s. 6d. 

Chetne. — Works by C. H. H. Cheyne, B. A. 

An Elementary Treatise on the Planetary Theory. 

"With a Collection of Problems. Crown 8vo. 6s. 6d. 

The Earth's Motion of Rotation {including the Theory 
of Precession and Nutation). 

Crown 8vo. 35. 6d. 

Choice Notes on St. Matthew, drawn from Old and New 
Sources. 

Crown 8vo. 4s. 6d. 

Christie (J. R) — Elementary Test Questions in Pure and 
Mixed Mathematics. 

Crown 8vo. 8s. 6d. 

Church Congress (Authorized Report of) held at Wolver- 
hampton in October, 1867. 

8vo. 3s. 6d. 

Cicero. — The Second Philippic Oration. 

"With an Introduction and Notes, translated from Karl Halm. 
Edited, with Corrections and Additions, by John E. B. Mayor, 
M.A. Third Edition. Fcap. 8vo. 5*. 

Clark. — Four Sermons preached in the Chapel of Trinity 

College, Cambridge. 

By W. G. Clark, M. A. Fcap. 8vo. 2s. 6d. 

Clay. — The Prison Chaplain. 

A Memoir of the Rev. John Clay, B.D. late Chaplain of the 
Preston Goal. "With Selections from his Reports and Corre- 
spondence, and a Sketch of Prison Discipline in England. By 
his Son, the Rev. "W. L. Clay, M.A. 8vo. 15s. 

The Power of the Keys. 

Sermons preached in Coventry. By the Rev. "W. L. Clay, M.A. 
Fcap. 8vo. 3s. 6d. 

Clemency Franklyn. 

By the Author of "Janet's Home. Crown 8vo. 6s. 

Clergyman's Self-Examination concerning the Apostles 9 Creed. 

Extra fcap. 8vo. Is. 6d. 



8 MACMILLAN AND CO.'S 

Clever Woman of the Family. 

By the Author of «.« The Heir of Redclyffe. " Crown 8vo. 6*. 

CLOUGH. — The Poems of Arthur Hugh dough , 

sometime Fellow of Oriel College, Oxford. With a Memoir by 
F. T. Palgrave. Second Edition. Fcap. 8vo. 65. 

COLENSO. — Works by the Right Rev. J. "W. Colenso, D.D. 

Bishop of Natal. 

The Colony of Natal. 

A Journal of Visitation. "With a Map and Illustrations. Fcap. 
8vo. 5s. 

Village Sermons. 

Second Edition. Fcap. 8vo. 2s. 6d. 

Four Sermons on Ordination and on Missions. 

18mo. Is. 

Companion to the Holy Communion, 

Containing the Service and Select Readings from the writings of 
Mr. Maurice. Fine Edition, morocco, antique style, 6s. Com- 
mon paper, Is. 

Letter to His Grace the Archbishop of Canterbury, 

Upon the Question of Polygamy, as found already existing in 
Converts from Heathenism. Second Edition. Crown 8vo. Is. 6d. 

Connells of Castle Connell. 

By Janet Gordon. Two Vols. Crown 8vo. 21s. 

Cooper. — Athenae Cantabrigienses. 

By Charles Henry Cooper, F.S.A. and Thompson Cooper 
F.S.A. Vol. I. 8vo. 1500— 85, 18s. Vol. II. 1586— 1609, 18s! 

Cope. — An Introduction to Aristotle's Rhetoric. 

With Analysis, Notes, and Appendices. By E. M. Cope, 
Senior Fellow and Tutor of Trinity College, Cambridge. 
8vo. 14s. 

Cotton. — Works by the late George Edward Lynch 

Cotton, D.D. Bishop of Calcutta. 

Sermons and Addresses delivered in Marlborough College 
during Six Years. 

Crown 8vo. 10s. 6d. 



LIST OF PUBLICATIONS. 9 

Cotton. — Sermons, chiefly connected with Public Events 
of 1854 

Fcap. 8 vo. Bs. 

* Sermons preached to English Congregations in India. 

Crown 8vo. 7s. 6d. 

Expository Sermons on the Epistles for the Sundays of 
the Christian Tear. 

Two Vols. Crown 8vo. 15s. 

Cbaik. — My First Journal. 

A Book for the Young. By Georgiana M. Craik, Author of 
"Riverston," "Lost and Won," &c. Royal 16mo. Cloth, gilt 
leaves, 3s. 6d. 

Cure. — The Seven Words of Christ on the Cross. 

Sermons preached at St. George's, Bloomsbury. By the Rev. E. 
Capel Cure, M.A. Fcap. 8vo. 3a. 6d. 

Dalton. — Arithmetical Examples progressively arranged; 
together with Miscellaneoiis Exercises and Examination 
Papers. 

By the Rev. T, Dalton, M.A. Assistant Master at Eton 
College. 18mo. 2s 6d. 

Dante. — Dante's Comedy, The Hell. 

Translated by W. M. Rossetti. Fcap. 8vo. cloth. 5s. 

Davies. — Works by the Rev. J. Llewelyn Davies, M.A. 
Rector of Christ Church, St. Marylebone, &c. 

Sermons on tlie Manifestation of the Son of God. 

With a Preface addressed to Laymen on the present position of 
the Clergy of the Church of England ; and an Appendix, on the 
Testimony of Scripture and the Church as to the Possibility 
of Pardon in the Future State. Fcap. 8vo. 6s. 6d. 

The Work of Christ ; or, the World Reconciled to Ood. 

With a Preface on the Atonement Controversy. Fcap. 8vo. 6s. 

Baptism, Confirmation, and the Lord's Supper. 

As interpreted by their outward signs. Three Expository 
Addresses for Parochial Use. Fcap. 8vo. Limp cloth. 1*. 6d. 

Morality according to the Sacrament of the LordJs Supper. 

Crown 8vo. 3*. 6d. 

The Epistles of St. Paul to the Ephesians, the Colossians, 
and Philemon. 

With Introductions and Notes, and an Essay on the Traces of 
Foreign Elements in the Theology of these Epistles. 8vo. Is. 6d. 



10 MACMILLAN AND CO.'S 

Dawson. — Acadian Geology, the Geological Structure, 
Organic Remains, and Mineral Resources of Naoa 
Scotia, New Bruriswwk, and Prince Edward Island. 

By J. W. Dawson, LL.D. F.R.S. F.G.S. Second EdUim, 
revised and enlarged, with Geological Maps and Illustrations. 
8vo. 18«. 

Days of Old ; Stories from Old English History. 

By the Author of "Ruth and her Friends.' New Edition, 
18mo. cloth, gilt leaves. 3*. 6d. 

Demosthenes, De Corona. 

The Greek Text with English Notes. By B. Drake, M.A 
Third Edition, to which is prefixed ^Eschines against 
Ctesiphon, with English Notes. Fcap 8vo. 5s. 

De Teissier. — Works by G. F. De Teissier, B.D. 
Village Sermons. 

Crown 8vo. 9s. 

Second Series. 

Crown 8vo. Ss. 6d. 

The House of Prayer ; or, a Practical Exposition of 
the Order for Morning and Evening Prayer in the 
Church of England. 

18mo. extra cloth. 4s. 6d. 

De Vere. — The Infant Bridal, and other Poems. 
By Aubrey De Vere. Fcap. 8vo. 7s. 6d. 

DlLKE. — Greater Britain. 

A Record of Travel in English-speaking Countries durin< r 
1866-7. By Charles Wentworth Dilke. Two Vols. 8vo. " 

[In the Press. 

Dodgson. — Elementary Treatise on Determinants. 

By C. L. Dodgson, M.A. 4to. 10.9. 6d. 

Donaldson. — A Critical History of Christian Literature 
and Doctrine, from the Death of the Apostles to tfo 
Nicene Council. 

By James Donaldson, LL.D. Three Vols. 8vo. cloth. 31$. 

Doyle. — The Return of the Guards, and other Poems. 

By Sir Francis Hastings Doyle, Professor of Poetry in the 
University of Oxford. Fcap. 8vo. 7s. 

Drew. — Works by W. H. Drew, M.A. 

A Geometrical Treatise on Conic Sections. 

Third Edition. Crown 8vo. 45. 6d. 



LIST OF PUBLICATIONS. 11 

Drew. — Solutions to Problems contained in Drews Treatise 
on Conic Sections. 

Crown 8vo. 4s. 6d. 

Early Egyptian History for the Young. 

With Descriptions of the Tombs and Monuments. New Edition, 
with Frontispiece. Fcap. 8vo. 5s. 

East India Association Journal. 

Parts 1 — 3, each 2s. 6d. 

Eastwood. — The Bible Word Book 

A Glossary of Old English Bible Words. By J. Eastwood, 
M.A. of St. John's College, and W. Aldis Wright, M.A. 
Trinity College, Cambridge. 18mo. 5s. 6d. Uniform with 
Macmillan's School Class Books, 

Ecce Homo. 

A Survey of the Life and Work of Jesus Christ. 20th Thousand. 
Crown 8vo. 6s. 

Echoes of Many Voices from Many Lands. 

By A. F. 18mo. cloth, extra gilt. 3s. 6d. 

Ellice. — English Idylls. 

By Jane Ellice. Fcap. 8vo. cloth. 6s. 

Elliott. — Life of Henry Venn Elliott, of Brighton. 

By Josiah Bateman, M.A. Author of " Life of Daniel Wilson, 
Bishop of Calcutta," &c. With Portrait, engraved by Jeens. 
Crown 8vo. 8s. 6d. 

Essays on Church Policy. 

Edited by the Rev. W. L. Clay, M.A. incumbent of Rainhill, 
. Lancashire. 8vo. 9s. 

Essays on a Liberal Education. 

By Various Writers. Edited by the Rev. F. W. Farrar, M. A. 
F.R.S. &c. Second Edition. 8vo. 10s. 6d. 

Evans. — Brother Fabian's Manuscript, and other Poems. 

By Sebastian Evans. Fcap. 8vo. cloth. 6s. 

Farrar. — The Fall of Man, and other Sermons. 

By the Rev. F. W. Farrar, M.A. late Fellow of Trinity 
College, Cambridge. 6s. 

Fawcett. — Works by Henry Fawcett, M.P. 

The Economic Position of the British Labourer. 

Extra fcap. 8vo. 5s. 

Manual of Political Economy. 

Second Edition. Crown 8vo. 12s. 

Fellowship : Letters addressed to my Sister Mourners. 

Fcap. 8vo. cloth gilt. 3s. 6d. 



FORBES. — Life of Edward Forbes, F.K.M. 

By George Wilson, M.D. F.E.S.E., and A&chibj 

F.R.3. 8to. with Portrait. 14* 
Forbes. — The Voice of God in the Psalms. 

By Granville Forbes, Sector of Bronghton. I 

Fox. — On the Diagnosis and Treatment of the V 
Dyspepsia, considered in Relation to the Pb 
Origin of the different Forms of Indigestion. 
By Wilson Fox, M.D. Lond. F.R.C.P. Holme 1 
Clinical Medicine at University College, London, an 
to University College Hospital. Second Edition. 
It. 6U 
Freeland. — The Fountain of Youth. 

Translated from the Danish of Frederick Palitdan 1 

Humphket William Freeland, late M.P. for 

With Illustrations designed tiy Walter Allen. Crow 

FREEMAN. — History of Federal Government from 

dation of the Achaian League to the Disrupt 

United States. 

By Edward A. Freeman, M.A. Vol. I. General li 
—History of the Greek Federations. 8vo. 21a. 
Frost. — The First Three Sections of Newton's Prit 
With Notes and Problems in Illustration of the R 
Pkrcival Frost, M.A. Second Edition. 8vo. lc 

Frost and Wolstenholme. — A Treatise on S 
metry. 

By the Rev. Percival Frost, M.A. and the Rev. 3 

holme, M.A. 8ro. 18s. 



LIST OF PUBLICATIONS: 13 

Galton. — Meteorographica, or Methods of Mapping the 
Weather. 

Illustrated by upwards of 6,00 Printed Lithographed Diagrams. 
By Francis Galton, F.R.S. 4to. 9s. 

Geikie. — Works by Archibald Geikie, F.RS. Director of 

the Geological Survey of Scotland. 

Story of a Boulder; or, Gleanings by a Field Geologist. 

Illustrated with "Woodcuts. Crown 8vo. 5s. 

Scenery of Scotland, viewed in connexion with its 
Physical Geology. 

With Illustrations and a New Geological Map. Crown 8vo. 
10«. 6d. 

Elementary Lessons in Physical Geology. 

[Preparing. 

Gifford. — The Glory of God in Man. 

By E. H. Gifford, D.D. Fcap. 8vo. 3s. 6d. 
Globe Editions ; 

The Complete Works of .William Shakespeare. 

Edited by W. G. Clark and W. Aldis Wright. Eighty-fifth 
Thousand. Globe 8vo. 3s. Qd. ; paper covers, 2s. 6d. 

Morte D Arthur. 

Sir Thomas Malory's Book of King Arthur and of his noble 
Knights of the Round Table. The Edition of Caxton, revised 
for Modern use. With an Introduction by Sir Edward 
Strachby, Bart. Globe 8vo. 3a. 6d. 

The Poetical Works of John Milton. 

Edited, with Introduction and Notes, by Professor Masson. 

[In the Press. 

The Poetical Works and Letters of Robert Burns. 

Edited, with Life, by Alexander Smith. Globe 8vo. 3s. 6d. 

The Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 

Edited, with Introduction, by Henry Kingsley. Globe 8vo. 
3s. Gd. 

Globe A tlas of Europe. 

Uniform in Size with Macmillan's Globe Series. Containing 
Forty-Eight Coloured Maps on the same scale, Plans of London 
and Paris, and a Copious Index. Strongly bound in half morocco, 
with flexible back, 9s. 

Godfray. — An Elementary Treatise on the Lunar Theory. 

With a brief Sketch of the Problem up to the time of Newton. 
By Hugh Godfray, M.A. Second Edition revised. Crown 8vo. 
5s. 6d. 



U MACMILLAN AND CO.'fc 

Godfrat. — A Treatise on Astronomy, for the Use of 

Colleges and Schools. 

By Hugh Godfray, M.A. 8vo. 12s. 6d. 

Golden Treasury Series : 

Uniformly printed in 18mo. with Vignette Titles by Sir Noei 
Paton, T. Woolner, W. Holm an Hunt, J. E. Millais, Ac. 
Engraved on Steel by Jeens. Bound in extra cloth, 4s. Qd. ; 
morocco plain, 7s. 6d. ; morocco extra, 10*. 6d. each volume. 

The Golden Treasury of the Best Songs and Lyrical 
Poems in the English Language. 

Selected and arranged, with Notes, by Francis Turner Pal- 
grave. 

The Children's Garland from the Best Poets. 

Selected and arranged by Coventry Patmore. 

The Book of Praise: 

From the Best English Hymn "Writers. Selected and arranged 
by Sir Roundell Palmer. A New and Enlarged Edition. 

The Fairy Book : the Best Popular Fairy Stories. 

Selected and rendered anew by the Author of "John Halifax, 
Gentleman." 

The Ballad Book. 

A Selection of the choicest British Ballads. Edited by "William 
Allingham. 

The Jest Book. 

The choicest Anecdotes and Sayings. Selected and arranged bv 
Mark Lemon. 

Bacon's Essays and Colours of Good and Evil. 

With Notes and Glossarial Index, by W. Aldis "Wright, M.A. 
%* Large paper copies, crown 8vo. Is. 6d. ; or bound in half 
morocco, 105. 6d. 

The Pilgrim's Progress 

From this World to that which is to Come. By John Bunyax. 

*»* Large paper copies, crown 8vo. cloth, 7s. 6d. ; or bound in 
half morocco, 10s. 6d. 

The Sunday Book of Poetry for the Young. 

Selected and arranged by C. F. Alexander. 

A Book of Golden Deeds of all Times and all Countries. 

Gathered and Narrated anew by the Author of « « The Heir of 
Redclyffe." 

The Poetical Works of Robert Burns. 

Edited, with Biographical Memoir, by Alexander Smith 
Two Vols. 



LIST OF PUBLICATIONS. 1§ 

Golden Treasury Series — continued. 

The Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 

Edited from the Original Editions by J. W. Clakk, M.A. 

The Republic of Plato. 

Translated into English with Notes by J. Ll. Davies, M. A. and 

D. J. Vaughan, M.A. New Edition, with Vignette Portraits 
of Plato and Socrates engraved by Jeens from an Antique Gem. 

The Song Book. 

"Words and Tunes from the best Poets and Musicians, selected 
and arranged by John Hullah. With Vignette by Caroline 

E. Hullah, engraved by Jeens. 

La Lyre Frangaise. 

Selected and arranged, with Notes, by Gtjstave Masson. With 
Vignette of Beranger, engraved by Jeens. 

Tom Brown's School Days. 

By an Old Boy. With Vignette by Arthur Hughes, engraved 
by Jeens. 

Milton. 

Edited by David Masson. [In the Press. 

Book of Worthies. 

By the Author of "The Heir of Redclyffe." [In the Press. 

Beligio Medici. 

By Sir T. Browne. [In the Press. 

Green. — Spiritual Philosophy. 

Founded on the Teaching of the late Samuel Taylor Cole- 
ridge. By the late Joseph Henry Green, F.R.S. D.C.L. 
Edited, with a Memoir of the Author's Life, by John Simon, 
F.R.S. Two Vols. 8vo. cloth. 25s. 

Guesses at Truth. 

By Two Brothers. With Vignette Title and Frontispiece. 
New Edition. Fcap. 8vo. 65. 

Guizot, M. — Memoir of M. de Barante. 

Translated by the Author of "John Halifax, Gentleman." 
Crown 8vo. 6s. 6d. 

Guide to the Unprotected 

In Every Day Matters relating to Property and Income. By a 
Banker's Daughter. Third Edition. Extra fcap. 8vo. 
3s. 6d. 



16 MACMILLAN AM) CO.'S 

Hamekton. — A Painter's Camp in the Highlands; 

By P. G. Hamerton. New and Cheaper Edition, one vol 
Extra fcap. 8vo. 6*. 

Etching and Etchers. 

A Treatise Critical and Practical. By P. G. Hamekton. "With 
Original Plates by Rembrandt, Callot, Dujakdin, Paul 
Potter, &c . Royal 8vo. Half morocco. 31$. 6rf. 

Hamilton. — On Truth and Error. 

Thoughts on the Principles* of Truth, and the Causes and Effect 
of Error. By John Hamilton. Crown 8vo. 5s. 

Hard wick. — Works by the Yen. Archdeacon Hardwick. 
Christ and other Masters. 

A Historical Inquiry into some of the Chief ParaUelisms and 
Contrasts between Christianity and the Religious Systems of the 
Ancient World. New Edition, revised, and a Prefatory Memoir 
by the Rev. Francis Procter. Two Vols, crown 8vo. 15s. 

A History of the Christian Church. 

Middle Age. From Gregory the Great to the Excommunication 
of Luther. Edited by Francis Procter, M.A. With Four 
Maps constructed for this work by A. Keith Johnston. Second 
Edition. Crown 8vo. 10s. 6d. 

A History of the Christian Church during the Refor- 
mation. 

Revised by Francis Procter, M.A. Second Edition. Crown 
8vo. 10s. 6d. 

Twenty Sermons for Town Congregations. 

Crown 8vo. 6s. 6d. 

Hemming. — An Elementary Treatise on the Differential and 
Integral Calculus. 

By G. W. Hemming, M.A. Second Edition. 8vo. 95. 

Herschel. — TJie Iliad of Homer. 

Translated into English Hexameters. By Sir John Herschel. 
Bart. 8vo. 18s. ^ 

Hervey. — The Genealogies of our Lord and Saviour Jesus 
Christ, 

As contained in the Gospels of St. Matthew and St. Luke, 
reconciled with each other, and shown to be in harmony with 
the true Chronology of the Times. Bv Lord Arthup Hervey 
M.A. 8vo. 10.9. Gd. 



LIST OF PUBLICATIONS. 17 

Hervey (Rosamond). Works by Rosamond Hervey. 
The Aarbergs. 

Two Vols, crown 8vo. cloth. 21*. 

Duke Ernest, 

A Tragedy ; and other Poems. Fcap. 8vo. 6s. 

Hill (Florence).— Children of the State. The Training 
of Juvenile Paupers. 

Extra fcap. cloth. 5s. 

Historical Extracts. 

A Series of Readings from the best Authorities on English and 
European History. Selected and Arranged by E. M. Sewbll 
and C. M. Yonge. Extra fcap. 8vo. [Shortly. 

Historicus. — Letters on some Questions of InternationalLaiv. 

Reprinted from the Times, with considerable Additions. 8vo 
7s. 6d. Also, ADDITIONAL LETTERS. 8vo. 2s. 6d. 

Hodgson. — Mythology for Latin Versification. 

A Brief Sketch of the Fables of the Ancients, prepared to be 
rendered into Latin Verse for Schools. By F. Hodgson, B.D. 
late Provost of Eton. New Edition, revised by F C. Hodgson, 
M.A. 18mo. 3s. 

Hole. — Works by Charles Hole, M.A. Trinity College, 

Cambridge. 

A Brief Biographical Dictionary. 

Compiled and arranged by Charles Hole, M. A. Trinity College',. 
Cambridge. In Pott 8vo. neatly and strongly bound in cloth. 
Second Edition. 4s. 6d. 

Genealogical Stemma of the Kings of England and 
France. 

In One Sheet. Is. 

Horner. — The Tuscan Poet Ouiseppe Giusti and his Times. 

By Susan Horner. Crown 8vo. 7s. 6d. 
Household (A) Book of English Poetry. 

Selected and Arranged with Notes by R. C. Trench, D.D. 
Archbishop of Dublin. Extra fcap. 8vo. 5s. 6d. 

Howard. — The Pentateuch ; 

Or, the Five Books of Moses. Translated into English from the 
Version of the LXX. With Notes on its Omissions and Inser- 
tions, and also on the Passages in which it differs from tLe 
Authorized Version. By the Hon. Henry Howard, D.D. 
Crown 8vo. Genesis, One Volume, 8s. 6d. ; Exodus and 
Leviticus, One Volume, 10s. 6d. ; Numbers and Deuter- 
onomy One Volume, 10*. 6d. 

B 



18 .MACMILLAN AND CO.'S 

Hozier.— The Seven Weeks* War ; 

Its Antecedents, and its Incidents. By H. M. Hozier. 'Witk 
Maps and Plans. Two Vols. 8vo. 28*. 

Humphry. — The Human Skeleton {including the Joints). 

By G. M. Humphry, M.D., F.R.S. With Two Hundred and 
Sixty Illustrations drawn from Nature. Medium 8vo. 11. Ss. 

Huxley. — Lessons in Elementary Physiology. 

With numerous Illustrations. By T. H. Httxlky, F.R.S. 
Professor of Natural History in the Royal School of Mines. 
Uniform with Macmillans' School Class Books. Second Edition, 
18mo. As. 6d. 

Hymni Ecclesice. 

Fcap. 8vo. 7s. 6d. 

Jameson. — Works by tlie Rev. F. J. Jameson, M.A. 
Life's Work, in Preparation and in Retrospect 

Sermons preached before the University of Cambridge. Fcap. 
8vo. Is. Qd. 

Brotherly Counsels to Students. 

Sermons preached in the Chapel of St. Catharine's College, 
Cambridge. Fcap. 8vo. Is. 6d. 

Janet's Home. 

A Novel. New Edition. Crown 8vo. 6s. 

Jevons. — The Coal Question. 

By W. Stanley Jevons, M.A. Fellow of University College, 
London. Second Edition, revised. 8vo. 10s. 6d. 

Jones. — The Church of England and Common Sense. 
By Harry Jones, M.A. Fcap. 8vo. 3s. 6d. 

Jones. — Algebraical Exercises, 

Progressively Arranged by the Rev. C. A. Jones, M.A. and 
C. H. Cheyne, M.A. Mathematical Masters in "Westminster 
School. 18mo. 2s. 6d. 

Journal of Anatomy and Physiology. 

Conducted by Professors Humphry and Newton, and Mr. 
Clark of Cambridge ; Professor Turner, of Edinburgh ; and 
Dr. Wright, of Dublin. Published twice a year. Price t» 
subscribers, 14s. per annum. Price 7s. Qd. each Part. VoL 1. 
containing Parts I. and II. Royal 8vo. 16s. Part III. fo. 

Juvenal, for Schools. 

With English Notes. By J. E. B. Mayor, M.A. New awl 
Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo. [Tn the Pretty 



LIST OF PUBLICATIONS. 19 

Keaky. — The Little Wanderlin, 

And other Fairy Tales. By A. and E. Keary. 18mo. 3s. 6d. 

Kempis (Thos. A). — De Imitatione Christi. Libri IV. 

Borders in the ancient style, after Holbein, Durer, and other 
old Masters, containing Dances of Death, Acts of Mercy, 
Emblems, and a variety of curious ornamentation. In white 
cloth, extra gilt. 7*. 6d. 

Kennedy. — Legendary Fictions of the h*ish Celts. 

Collected and Narrated by Patrick Kennedy. Crown 8vo. 
Is. 6d. 

Kingsbury. — Spiritual Sacrifice and Holy Communion. 

Seven Sermons preached during the Lent of 1867 at St. Leo- 
nard's-on-Sea, with Notes. By T. L. Kingsbury, M.A. late 
Rector of Chetwynd. Fcap. 8vo. 3*. 6d. 

Kingsley. — Works by the Rev. Charles Kingsley, M.A. 
Rector of Eversley, and Professor of Modern History in 
the University of Cambridge. 

The Roman and the Teuton. 

A Series of Lectures delivered before the University of Cam- 
bridge. 8vo. 12s. 

Two Tears Ago. 

Fourth Edition. Crown 8vo. 6*. 

" Westward Ho/" 

Fifth Edition,. Crown vo. 6s. 

Alton Locke. 

New Edition. With a New Preface. Crown 8vo. is. 6d. 

Hypatia. 

Fourth Edition. Crown 8vo. 6s. 

Yeast. 

Fifth Edition. Crown 8vo. 55. 

Hereward the Wake — Last of tlie English. 

Crown 8vo. 6s. 

The Saint's Tragedy. 

Third Edition. Fcap. 8vo. 5s. 

Andromeda, 

And other Poems. Third Edition. Fcap. 8vo. 5s. 

The Water Babies. 

A Fairy Tale for a Land Baby. With Two Illustrations by Sir 
Noel Paton, B.S.A. Third Edition. Crown 8vo. 6s. 

b2 



20 MACMILLAN AND CO.'S 

Kingsley (Rev. Chakles). — The Heroes ; 

Or, Greek Fairy Tales for my Children. With Eight Illustrations. 
New Edition. 18mo. 3*. 6d. 

Three Lectures delivered at the 'Royal Institution on the 
Ancien Regime. 

Crown 8vo. 6*. 

The Water of Life, 

And other Sermons. Fcap. 8vo. 6s. 

Village Sermons. 

Seventh Edition. Fcap. 8vo. 2*. 6d. 

The Gospel of the Pentateuch. 

Second Edition. Fcap. 8vo. 4s. 6d. 

Good News of God. 

Fourth Edition. Fcap. 8vo. is. 6d. 

Sermons for the Times. 

Third Edition. Fcap. 8vo. 3*. 6d. 

Town and Country Sermons. 

Fcap. 8vo. 65. 

Sermons on National Subjects. 

First Series. Second Edition. Fcap. 8vo. 5*. 
Second Series. Second Edition. Fcap. 8vo. 5*. 

Discipline, 

And other Sermons. Fcap. 8vo. 6*. 

Alexandria and her Schools. 

With a Preface. Crown 8vo. 5s. 

The Limits of Exact Science as applied to History. 

An Inaugural Lecture delivered before the University of Cam- 
bridge. Crown 8vo. 2s. 

Phaethon ; or, Loose Thoughts for Loose Thinkers. 

Third Edition. Crown 8vo. 2s. 

David. 

Four Sermons : David's Weakness — David's Strength Daviil'i 

Anger — David's Deserts. Fcap. 8vo. cloth. 2s. 6d. 

Kingsley.— Works by Henry Kingsley. 
Austin Elliot. 

New Edition. Crown 8vo. 6s. 



I 



; LIST OF PUBLICATIONS. 21 

Kingsley (Henry). — The Recollections of Oeoffry Hamlyn. 

Second Edition. Crown 8vo. 65. 

The Hillyars and the Burtons: A Story of Two 
Families. 

Crown 8vo. 6s. 

Ravenshoe. 

New Edition. Crown 8vo. 6s. 

Leighton Court 

New Edition. Crown 8vo. 6s. 

Silcote of Silcotcs. 

Three Vols. Crown 8vo. 31s. 6d. 

Kirchhoff. — Researches on the Solar Spectrum and the 
Spectra of the Chemical Elements. 

By G. Kirchhoff, of Heidelberg. Translated by Henry E. 
Roscoe, B.A. Second Part. 4to. 5s. with 2 Plates. 

Kitchener. — Geometrical Note Book, 

Containing Easy Problems in Geometrical Drawing, preparatory 
to the Study of Geometry. For the Use of Schools. By F. E. 
Kitchener, M.A., Mathematical Master at Rugby. 4to. 2s. 

Lancaster. — Works by William Lancaster. 
Prceterita. 

Poems. Extra fcap. 8vo. 4s. 6d. 

Studies in Verse. 

Extra fcap. 8vo. 4s. 6d. 

Eclogues and Mono-dramas ; or, a Collection of Verses. 

Extra fcap. 8vo. 4s. 6d. 

Latham. — The Construction of Wrought-iron Bridges. 

Embracing the Practical Application of the Principles of 
Mechanics to Wrought-iron Girder Work. By J. H. Latham, 
Civil Engineer. 8vo. With numerous detail Plates. Second 
Edition. [Preparing. 

LATHAM. — Black and White : A Three Months 9 Tour in the 
United States. 

By H. Latham, M.A. Barrister-at-Law. 8vo. 10*. 6d. 

Law. — The Alps of Hannibal. 

By William John Law, M. A. Two Vols. 8vo. 21*. 

Lectures to Ladies on Practical Subjects. 

Third Edition, revised. Crown 8vo. 7*. 6d. 



22 MACM1LLAN AKD CO.'S 

Lemon. — Legends of Number Nip. 

By Mark Lemon. With Six Illustrations by Charles Keene. 
Extra fcap. 8vo. 5s. 

Lightfoot. — Works by J. B. Lightfoot, D. D. Hulsean Pro- 
fessor of Divinity in the University of Cambridge. 
St. Paul* 8 Epistle to the Oalatians. 

A Revised Text, with Notes and Dissertations. Second Edition, 
revised. 8vo. 12s. 

St. PauVs Epistle to the Philippians. 

A Revised Text, with Notes and Dissertations. [In the Press. 

Little Estella. 

And other Fairy Tales for the Young. Royal 1 6mo. 3*. 6d. 

Lockyer. — Elementary Lessons in Astronomy. With 
numerous Illustrations. 

By J. Norman Lockyer, F.R.A.S. 18mo. 5s. 6d. 

LUCKOCK. — The Tables of Stone. 

A Course of Sermons preached in All Saints*, Cambridge, by 
H. M. Ltjckock, M.A., Vicar. Fcap. 8vo. 3s. 6d. 

Ludlow and Hughes. — A Sketch of the History of the 
United States from Independence to Secession. 

By J. M. Ludlow, Author of "British India, its Races and its 
History," "The Policy of the Crown towards India," &c. 
To which is added, "The Struggle for Kansas." By Thomas 
Hughes, Author of "Tom Brown's School Days," "Tom Brown 
at Oxford," &c. Crown 8vo. 8s. 6d. 

Lushington. — The Italian War, 1848-9, and the Last 
Italian Poet 

By the late Henry Lushington. "With a Biographical Preface 
by G. S. Venables. Crown 8vo. 6s. 6d. 

Lyttelton. — Works by Lord Lyttelton. 

TJie Comus of Milton rendered into Greek Verse. 

Extra fcap. 8vo. Second Edition. 5s. 

The Samson Agonistes of Milton rendered into Greek 
Verse. 

Extra fcap. 8vo. 6s. 6d. 

Mackenzie. — The Christian Clergy of the First Ten 
Centuries, and their Influence on European Civili- 
zation. 

By Henry Mackenzie, B.A. Scholar of Trinity College, Cam- 
bridge. Crown 8vo. 6s. 6d. 



LIST OF PUBLICATIONS. 23 

Maclaeen. — Sermons preached at Manchester. 

By Alexander Maclaren. Second Edition. Fcap. 8vo. 
4s. 6d. A Second Series in the Press. 

Maclaeen. — Training, in Theory and Practice. 

By A. Maclaren, Oxford. With Frontispiece, and other Illus- 
trations. 8vo. Handsomely bound in cloth. 7s. 6d. 

Maclear. — Works by G. F. Maclear, B.P. Head Mas- 
ter of King's College School, and Preacher at the Temple 
Church : — 

A History of Christian Missions during the Middle 
Ages. 

Crown 8vo. 10s. 6d* 

• 

The Witness of the Eucharist ; or, The Institution 
and Early Celebration of the Lord's Supper, con- 
sidered as an Evidence of the Historical Truth of 
the Gospel Narrative and of the Atonement. 

Crown 8vo. 4s. 6d. 

A Class-Book of Old Testament History. 

"With Four Maps. Fourth Edition. l8mo. 4s. 6d. 

A Class-Book of New Testament History. 

Including the connexion of the Old and New Testament. Second 
Edition. 18mo. 5s. 6d. 

A Class-Book of the Catechism of the Church of 
England. 

18mo. cloth. 2s. 6d. 

A Shilling Book of Old Testament History. 

18mo. cloth limp. Is. 

A Shilling Book of New Testament History. 

18mo. cloth limp. Is. 

Macmillan. — Works by the Rev. Hugh Macmillan. 
Bible Teachings in Nature. 

Second Edition. Crown 8vo. 6s. 

Foot-notes from the Page of Nature. 

With numerous Illustrations. Fcap. 8vo. 5s'. 

MacmillarCs Magazine. 

Published Monthly, price One Shilling. Volumes I. — XVII. arc 
now ready, 7s. Qd. each. 



24 MACMILLAN AND CO.'S 

McCosh. — Works by James McCosh, LL.D. Professor of 
Logic and Metaphysics, Queen's College, Belfast, &c. 

The Method of the Divine Government, Physical and 
Moral 

Ninth Edition. 8vo. 10*. 6d. 

The Supernatural in Relation to the Natural. 

Crown 8vo. 7*. 6d. 

The Intuitions of the Mind. 

A New Edition. 8vo. 10s. 6d. 

An Examination of Mr. J. S. MilVs Philosophy. 

Being a Defence of Fundamental Truth. Crown 8vo. 7s. 6d. 

Mansfield.— Works by C. B. Mansfield, M.A. 
Paraguay, Brazil, and the Plate. 

With a Map, and numerous Woodcuts. With a Sketch of his 
Life, by the Rev. Charles Kingsley. Crown 8vo. 12s. 6d. 

A Theory of Salts. 

A Treatise on the Constitution of Bipolar (two membered) 
Chemical Compounds. Crown 8vo. cloth. 14s. 

Marriner. — Sermons preached at Lyme Regis. 
By E. T. Marriner, Curate. Fcap. 8vo. 4s. 6d. 

Marshall. — A Table of Irregular Greek Verbs. 
8vo. Is. 

Martin. — The Statesman's Year Book for 1868. By 
Frederick Martin. (Fifth Annual Publication.) 

A Statistical, Mercantile, and Historical Account of the 
Civilized World for the Year 1868. Forming a Manual for 
Politicians and Merchants. Crown 8vo. 10s. 6c?. 

Masson. — Works by David Masson, M.A. Professor of 
Rhetoric and English Literature in the University of 
Edinburgh. J 

Essays, Biographical and Critical. 

Chiefly on the English Poets. 8vo. 12s. 6d. 






LIST OF PUBLICATIONS, 25 

Masson. — British Novelists and their Styles. 

Being a Critical Sketch of he History of British Prose Fiction. 
Crown 8vo. 7s. 6d. 

Life of John Milton. 

Narrated in connexion with the Political, Ecclesiastical, and 
Literary History of his Time. Vol. I. with Portraits. 8vo. 18s. 

Recent British Philosophy. 

A Review, with Criticisms, including some Comments on Mr. 
Mill's Answer to Sir William Hamilton. New and Cheaper 
Edition. Crown 8yo. 6*. 

Maudsley. — The Physiology and PatJwlogy of the Mind. 

By Henry Maudsley, M.D. New and Revised Edition. 
8vo. 16s. 

Maurice. — Works by the Rev. Frederick Denison 
Maurice, M.A. Professor of Moral Philosophy in the 
University of Cambridge. 

The Claims of the Bible and of Science. 

A Correspondence on some questions respecting the Pentateuch. 
Crown 8vo. is. 6d. 

Dialogues on Family Worship. 

Crown 8vo. 6s. 

The Patriarchs and Lawgivers of tlie Old Testament. 

Third and Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo. 5s. 

This volume contains Discourses on the Pentateuch, Joshua, 

Judges, and the beginning of the First Book of Samuel. 

The Prophets and Kings of the Old Testament 

Second Edition. Crown 8vo. 10s. 6d. 

This volume contains Discourses ou Samuel I. and II. ; Kings I. 
and II. ; Amos, Joel, Hosea, Isaiah, Micah, Nahum, Habakkuk, 
Jeremiah, and Ezekiel. 

The Gospel of the Kingdom of Heaven. 

A Series of Lectures on the Gospel of St. Luke. Crown 8vo. 9s. 

The Gospel of St. John. 

A Series of Discourses. Third and Cheaper Edition. Crown 
8vo. 68. 

The Epistles of St. John. 

A Series of Lectures on Christian Ethics. Second and Cheaper 
Edition. Crown 8vo. 6s. 



26 MACMILLAN AND CO.'S 

Maurice. — The Commandments considered as Instruments of 
National Reformation. 

Crown 8vo. As. Qd. 

Expository Sermons on the Prayer-took. The Prayer- 
hook considered especially in reference to the Romish 
System. 

Second Edition. Fcap. 8vo. 5s. 6d. 

Lectures on the Apocalypse, 

Or Book of the Revelation of St. John the Divine. Crown 8vo. 
10s. 6d. 

What is Revelation? 

A Series of Sermons on the Epiphany ; to which are added 
Letters to a Theological Student on the Bampton Lectures of 
Mr. M ansel. Crown 8vo. 10s. Qd. 

Sequel to the Inquiry, " What is Revelation ? " 

Letters in Reply to Mr. Manse? s Examination of " Strictures on 
the Bampton Lectures. " Crown 8vo. 6s. 

Lectures on Ecclesiastical History. 

8vo. 10s. 6d. 

Theological Essays. 

Second Edition. Crown 8vo. 105. 6d. 

The Doctrine of Sacrifice deduced from the ScripUires. 

Crown 8vo. 7s. 6d. 

The Religions of the World, 

And their Relations to Christianity. Fourth Edition. Fcap. 
8vo. 5«. 

On the Lord's Prayer. 

Fourth Edition. Fcap. 8vo. 2s. 6d. 

On the Sabbath Day; 

The Character of the Warrior ; and on the Interpretation «f 
History. Fcap. 8vo. 2s. 6d. 

Learning and Working. 

Six Lectures on the Foundation of Colleges for Working Men. 
Crown 8vo. 5s. 

The Ground and Object of Hope for Mankind. 

Four Sermons preached before the University of Cambrid^. 
Crown 8vo. 35. 6d. 

Law's Remarks on the Fable of the Bees. 

With an Introduction by F. D. Maurice, M.A. Fcap 8yo. 
4s. 6d. 



LIST OF PUBLICATIONS. 27 

Mayok. — A First Greek Reader. 

Edited after Karl Halm, with Corrections and Additions. By 
John E. B. Mayor, M.A. Fcap. 8vo. 6s. 

Autobiography of Matthew Robinson. 

By John E. B. Mayor, M.A. Fcap. 8vo. 5s. 6d. 

Merivale. — Sallust for Schools. 

By C. Merivale, B.D. Second Edition. Fcap. 8vo. 45. 6d. 

* # * The Jugurtha and the Catalinamay be had separately, price 
2s. 6d. each. 

Keats 9 Hyperion rendered into Latin Verse. 

By C. Merivale, B.D. Second Edition. Extra fcap. 8vo. 
3s. 6d. 

Moor Cottage. 

A Tale of Home Life. By the Author of "Little Estella." 
Crown 8vo. 6s. 

Moorhouse. — Works by James Moorhouse, M.A. 

Some Modern Difficulties respecting the Facts of Nature 
and Revelation. 

Fcap. 8vo. 2s. 6d. 

The Hulsean Lectures for 1865. 

Crown 8vo. 5s. 

Morgan. — A Collection of Mathematical Problems and 
Examples. 

By H. A. Morgan, M.A. Crown 8vo. 6s. 6d. 

Morley, John. — Edmund Burke — a Historical Study. 

Crown 8vo. 7s. 6d. 

Morse. — Working for God, 

And other Practical Sermons. By Francis Morse, M.A. 
Second Edition. Fcap. 8vo. 5s. 

Mullinger. — Cambridge Characteristics in the Seventeenth 

Century. 

By J. B. Mullinger, B.A. Crown 8vo. 4s. 6d. 

Myers. — St. Paul. 

A Poem. By F. "W*. H. Myers. Second Edition. Extra fcap. 
8vo. 2s. 6d. 

Nettleship. — Essays on Robert Browning's Poetry. 

By John T. Nettleship. Extra fcap. 8vo. 6s. 6d. 

New Landlord, The. 

Translated from the Hungarian of Maurice Jokai by A. J. 
Patterson. Two Vols, crown 8vo. 21*. 



28 MACMILLAN AND CO.'S 

Noel. — Behind the Veil, 

And other Poems. By the Hon. Roden Noel. Fcap. 8vo. U. 
Northern Circuit. 

Brief Notes of Travel in Sweden, Finland, and Russia. With a 
Frontispiece. Crown 8vo. 5*. 

Norton. — The Lady of La Oaraye. 

By the Hon. Mrs. Norton. "With Vignette and Frontispiece. 
Sixth Edition. Fcap. 8vo. is. 6d. 

O'Brien. — Works by James Thomas O'Brien, D.D. BisJwp 

of Ossory. 

An Attempt to Explain and Establish the Doctriru 
of Justification by Faith only. 

Third Edition. 8vo. 12*. 

Charge delivered at the Visitation in 1863. 

Second Edition. 8vo. 2s. 

Oliphant. — Agnes Hopetouris Schools and Holidays. 

By Mrs. Oliphant, Royal 16mo. gilt leaves. Zs. 6d. 

Oliver. — Lessons in Elementary Botany. 

With nearly 200 Illustrations. By Daniel Oliver, F.RS. 
F.L.S. 18mo. is. %d. 

Oppen. — French Reader, 

For the Use of Colleges and Schools, By Edward A. Oppek. 
Fcap. 8vo. 4s. 6d. 

Orwell. — The Bislwp's Walk and the Bishop's Times. 

Poems on the Days of Archbishop Leighton and the Scottish 
Covenant. By Orwell. Fcap. 8vo. 5s. 

Our Year. 

A Child's Book, in Prose and Verse. By the Author of " John 
Halifax, Gentleman." Illustrated by Clarence Dobell. Roval 
16mo. 3s. 6d. 

Palgrave. — History of Normandy and of England. 

By Sir Francis Palgrave. Completing the History to the 
Death of William Rufus. Vols. I. to IV. 8vo. each 21s. 

Palgrave. — A Narrative of a Tear's Journey through 
Central and Eastern Arabia, 1862-3. 

By William Gifford Palgrave (late of the Eighth Regiment 
Bombay N.I.) Fourth and Cheaper Edition. With Map, Plans, 
and Portrait of Author, engraved on Steel by Jeens. Crown 
8vo. 7s. 6d. 






LIST OF PUBLICATIONS. 29 

Palgrave. — Works by Francis Turner Palgrave, M.A. 
late Fellow of Exeter College, Oxford. 

Essays on Art 

Mulready— Dyce — Holman Hunt— Herbert — Poetry, Prose, and 
Sensationalism in Art — Sculpture in England — The Albert Cross, 
&c. Extra fcap. 8vo. 65. 

Sonnets and Songs. 

By William Shakespeare. Gem Edition. With Vignette 
Title by Jeens. 35. 6d. 

Original Hymns. 

Second Edition, enlarged. 18mo. Is. 6d. 

Palmer. — The Booh of Praise : 

From the Best English Hymn Writers. Selected and arranged 
by Sir Roundkll Palmisr. With Vignette by Woolner. 
18mo. 4s. 6d. Large Type Edition, demy 8vo. 10*. 6d. ; 
morocco, 21s. 

A Hymnal. 

Chiefly from the Book of Praise. In various sizes. 
A. — In Royal 32mo. cloth limp. 6d. 
B. — Small 18mo. larger type, cloth limp. Is. 
C. — Same Edition, fine paper, cloth. Is. 6d. 

An Edition with Music, Selected, Harmonized, and Composed by 
John Hullah. Square 18mo. 35. 6d. 

Parkinson. Wvrks by S. Parkinson, B.D. 
A Treatise on Elementary Mechanics. 

For the Use of the Junior Classes at the University and the 
Higher Classes in Schools. With a Collection of Examples. 
Third Edition, revised. Crown 8vo. 9s. 6d. 

A Treatise on Optics. 

Second Edition, levised. Crown 8vo. 10s. 6d. 

Patmore. — Works by Coventry Patmore. 
The Angel in tlve House. 

Book I. The Betrothal.— Book II. The Espousals. —Book III. 
Faithful for Ever. With Tamerton Church Tower. Two Vols, 
fcap. 8vo. 12s. 

* # * A New and Cheap Edition, in One Vol. 18mo. beautifully 
printed on toned paper, price 2s. 6d. 

The Victories of Love. 

Fcap. 8vo. As. 6d. 

Phear. — Elementary Hydrostatics. 

By J. B. Phear, M.A. Third Edition. Crown 8vo. 5s. Od. 



30 MACMILLAN AND CO.'S 

Phillimore. — Private Law among the Romans. 

From the Pandects. By John George Phlllimorb, Q.C. 
8vo. I65. 

Philology. 

The Journal of Sacred and Classical Philology. Four Vols. 8vo. 
12^. 6d. each. 

The Journal of Philology. New Series. Edited by W. G. Clark, 
M.A. John E. B. Mayor, M.A. and W. Aldis Wkight, M.A 
No. I. 8vo. 4s. 6d. (Half-yearly.) 

Plato. — The Republic of Plato. 

Translated into English, with Notes. By Two Fellows of Trinity 
College, Cambridge (J. LI. Davies, M.A. and D. J. Vaughan, 
M.A.). With Vignette Portraits of Plato and Socrates engraved 
by Jeens from an Antique Gem. (Golden Treasury Series.) New 
Edition, 18mo. 45. 6d. 

Platonic Dialogues, The, 

For English Readers. By the late W. Whewell, D.D. F.R.S. 
Master of Trinity College, Cambridge. VoL I. Second Edition, 
containing The Socratic Dialogues, fcap. 8vo. 7s. 6d. ; VoL 1L 
containing The Anti-Sophist Dialogues, 6s. 6d. ; Vol. III. con- 
taining The Republic, 7s. 6d. 

Plea for a New English Version of the Scriptures. 

By a Licentiate of the Church of Scotland. 8vo. 6*. 

Potter. — A Voice from the Church in Australia : 

Sermons preached in Melbourne. By the Rev. Robert Potter, 
M.A. Extra fcap. 8vo. 4s. 6d. 

Practitioner (Th-e), a Monthly Journal of Therapeutics. 

Edited by Francis E. Anstie, M.D. and Henry Lawson, 
M.D. 8vo. Price Is. 6d. [No. I. in July. 

* 

Pratt. — Treatise on Attractions, La Place's Functions, 
and the Figure of the Earth. 

By J. H. Pratt, M. A. Third Edition. Crown 8vo. 65. 6d. 

Prescott. — The Threefold Cord. 

Sermons preached before the University of Cambridge bv 
J. E. Prescott, B.D. Fcap. 8vo. 3s. 6d. 

Procter. — Works by Francis Procter, M.A. 

A History of the Book of Common Prayer • 

With a Rationale of its Offices. Seventh Edition, revised and en- 
larged. Crown 8vo. 10s. 6d. 

An Elementally History of the Book of Common 
Prayer. Second Edition. 

18mo. 2.9. 6d. 



LIST OF PUBLICATIONS. 31 

Psalms of David chronologically arranged. 

An Amended Version, with Historical Introductions and Expla- 
natory Notes. By Four Friends. Crown 8vo. 10s. 6d. 

Puckle. — An Elementary Treatise on Conic Sections and 
Algebraic Geometry, with numerous Examples aud 
Sintsfor their Solution, 

Especially designed foi the Use of Beginners. By G. Hale 
Puckle, M.A. Head Master of Windermere College. Third 
Edition, enlarged. Crown 8vo. 7s. 6d. 

Pullen. — The Psalter and Canticles, Pointed for Chanting, 

"With Marks of Expression, and a List of Appropriate Chants. 
By the Rev. Henry Pullen, M.A. 8vo. 5s. 

Ealegh, Sir Walter. — Life. 

By E. Edwards. [In the Press. 

Ramsay. — The Catechiser's Manual; 

Or, the Church Catechism Illustrated and Explained, for the 
Use of Clergymen, Schoolmasters, and Teachers. By Arthur 
Ramsay, M.A. Second Edition. 18mo. Is. 6d. 

Eawlinson. — Elementary Statics. 

By G. Rawlinson, M.A. Edited by Edward Sturges, M.A. 
Crown 8vo. 4s. 6d. 

Rays of Sunlight for Dark Days. 

A Book of Selections for the Suffering. "With a Preface by C. 
J. Vaughan, D.D. 18mo. New Edition. Zs. 6d. Morocco, 
old style, 7*. 6d. 

Reform. — Essays on Reform. 

By the Hon. G. C. Brodrick, R. H. Hutton, Lord Houghton, 
A. V. Dicey, Leslie Stephen, J. B. Kinnear, B. Cracroft, 
C. H. Pearson, Gold win Smith, James Bryce, A. L. Rutson, 
and Sir Geo. Young. 8vo. 10s. 6d. 

Questions for a Reformed Parliament. 

By F. H. Hill, Godfrey Lushington, Meredith Townsend, 
W. L. Newman, C. S. Parker, J. B. Kinnear, G. Hoopeu, 
F. Harrison, Rev. J. E. T. Rogers, J. M. Ludlow, and Lloyd 
Jones. 8vo. 10s. 6d. 

Eeynolds. — A System of Medicine. Vol. I. 

Edited by J. Russell Reynolds, M.D. F.R.C.P. London. 
Part I. General Diseases, or Affections of the Whole 
System. § I. — Those determined by agents operating from 
without, such as the exanthemata, malarial diseases, and their 
allies. §11. — Those determined by conditions existing within 
the body, such as Gout, Rheumatism, Rickets, &c. Part II. 
Local Diseases, or Affections of particular Systems. § I. — 
Diseases of the Skin. 8vo. 25s. 



32 MACMILLAtf AND CO.'S 

Reynolds. — A System of Medicine. Vol. II. 

Part II. § I. — Diseases of the Nervous System. A. General 
Nervous Diseases. B. Partial Diseases of the Nervous System. 
1. Diseases of the Head. 2. Diseases of the Spinal Column. 
3. Diseases of the Nerves. § II. — Diseases of the Digestive 
System. A. Diseases of the Stomach. 8vo. 25s. 

Reynolds. — Notes of the Christian Life. 

A Selection of Sermons by Henry Robert .Reynolds, B.A. 
President of Cheshunt College, and Fellow of University College, 
London. Crown 8vo. 7*. 6d. 

Reynolds. — Modern Methods of Elementary Geometry. 

By E. M. Reynolds, M.A. Mathematical Master in Clifton 
College. Crown 8vo. 3*. 6d. 

Roberts. — Discussions on the Gospels. 

By the Rev. Alexander Roberts, D.D. Second Edition, 
revised and enlarged. 8vo. 165. 

Robertson. — Pastoral Counsels. 

By the late John Robertson, D.D. of Glasgow Cathedral. 
New Edition. With Biographical Sketch by the Author of 
' ' Recreations of a Country Parson. " Extra Fcap. 8 vo. 6*. 

Robinson Crabb. — Life and Reminiscences. [in the Press. 
Roby.— A Latin Grammar for the Higher Classes in 
Grammar Schools, based on the "Elementary Latin 
Grammar? 

By H. J. Roby, M.A. [In the Press. 

Roby. — Story of a Household, and other Poems. 

By Mary K. Roby. Fcap. 8vo. 5s. 
Romanis. — Sermons preached at St. Marys, Reading. 

By William Romanis, M.A. First Scries. Fcap. 8vo. 6s. 

Also, Second Series. 6s. 

Roscoe. — Lessons in Elementary Chemistry, Inorganic and 
Organic. 

By H. E. 'Roscoe, F.R.S. Eighth Thousand, 18mo. 4s. 6d. 

Rossetti. — Works by Christina Rossetti. 
Goblin Market, and other Poems. 

With Two Designs by D. G. Rossetti. Second Edition. Fcap. 
8vo. 5s. 

The Princes Progress, and other Poems. 

With Two Designs by D. G. Rossetti. Fcap. 8vo. 6s, 

Rossetti. — Works by William Michael Rossetti. 
Dante's Comedy, The Hell. 

Translated into Literal Blank Verse. Fcap. 8vo. 5s, 

Fine Art, chiefly Contemporary. 

Crown 8vo. 10s. 6c?. 



LIST OF PUBLICATIONS. 33 

Kouth. — Treatise on Dynamics of Rigid Bodies. 

With Numerous Examples. By E. J. Routh, M.A. Crown 8\o. 
lQs.Gd. 

IIowsell. — Works by T. J. Eowsell, M.A. 

The English Universities and the English Poor. 

Sermons preached before the University of Cambridge. Fcap. 
8vo. 2«. 

Man's Labour and God's Harvest. 

Sermons preached before the University of Cambridge in Lent. 
1861. Fcap. 8vo. 3s. 

Ruffini. — Vincenzo ; or, Sunken Rocks. 

By John Ruffini. Three Vols, crown 8vo. 31s. 6d. 

Ruth and her Friends. 

A Story for Girls. "With a Frontispiece. Fourth Edition. 
Royal 16mo. 3s. 6d. 

Scott. — Discourses. 

By A. J. Scott, M.A. late Professor of Logic in Owens Colleg*, 
Manchester. Crown 8vo. 7s. 6d. 

Scouring of the White Horse. 

Or, the Long Vacation Ramble of a London Clerk. By the 
Author of "Tom Brown's School Days." Illustrated by Doyle. 
Eighth Thousand. Imp. 16mo. 8s. 6d. 

Seaton. — A Hand-Book of Vaccination. 

By Edward C. Seaton, M.D. Medical Inspector to the Privy 
Council. Extra fcap. 8vo. 8s. 6d. 

Selkirk — Guide to the Cricket Ground. 

By G. H. Selkirk. With Woodcuts. Extra Fcap. 8vo. 3s. 6d 

Selwyn. — Tlie Work of Christ in the World. 

By G. A. Selwyn, D.D. Bishop of Lichfield. Third Edition. 
Crown 8vo. 2s. 

Shakespeare. — The Works of William Shakespeare. Cam- 
bridge Edition. 

Edited by Wm. George Clark, M.A. and W. Aldis Win cut, 
M.A. Nine Vols. 8 vo. cloth. 41. 14s. 6d. 

Shakespeare's Tempest. 

With Glossarial and Explanatory Notes. By the Rev. J. M. 
Jepiison. 18mo. Is. 6d. 

Shairp. — Kilmahoe, and other Poems. 

By J. Campbell Shairp. Fcap. 8vo. 5s. 

Shirley. — Elijah; Four University Sermons. 

I. Samaria. II. Carmel. III. Kishon. IV. Horeb. By W.W 
Shirley, D.D. Fcap. 8vo. 2s. 6d. 





#• 



34 MACMILLAN AND CO.'S 

Simpson. — An Epitome of the History of the CJiristian 

Church. 

By William Simpson, M.A. Fourth Edition. Fcap. 8vo. 8*. 6d. 

Smith.— Works by Alexander Smith. 
A Life Drama, and other Poems. 

Fcap. 8vo. 2s. 6d. 

City Poems. 

Fcap. 8vo. 5s. 

Edwin of Deira. 

Second Edition. Fcap. 8vo. 55. 

Smith. — Works by Goldwin Smith. 

A Letter to a Whig Member of the Southern Inde- 
pendence Association. 

Extra fcap. 8vo. 2*. 

Three English Statesmen ; Pym, Cro?nv:ett, and Pitt. 

A Course of Lectures on the Political History of England. 
Extra fcap. 8vo. New and Cheaper Edition. 5s. 

tf mith. — Works by Barnard Smith, M. A. Rector of Glaston, 

Rutland, &c. 

Arithmetic and Algebra. 

Tenth Edition. Crown 8vo. 10s. fie?. 

Arithmetic for the Use of Schools. 

Ninth Edition. Crown 8vo. 4s. 6d. 

A Key to the Arithmetic for Schools. 

Fifth Edition. Crown 8vo. 8s. 6d. 

Exercises in Arithmetic. 

With Answers. Cr. 8vo. limp cloth, 2s. 6d. Or sold separated 
as follows : — Part 1. Is. Part II. Is. Answers, 6d. 

School Class Book of Arithmetic. 

18mo. 3s. Or sold separately, Parts I. and II. iorf each 
Part III. Is. 

Keys to School Class Book of Arithmetic. 

Complete in One Volume, 18mo. 6s. 6d. ; or Parts I. II. and III. 
2s. 6d. each. 

Shilling Book of Arithmetic for National and Elemen- 
tary Schools. 

!8mo. cloth. Or separately, Part I. 2d. ; II. Zd. ; m. 7d. 






LIST OF PUBLICATIONS. 35 

Smith (BarnardY — Answers to th& Shilling Book of 
Arithmetic. 

18mo. Qd. 

Key to the Shilling Book of Arithmetic. 

18mo. 4s. 6d. 

Examination Papers in Arithmetic. 

In Four Parts. 18mo. Is. 6d. With Answers, la. 9d. 

Key to Examination Papers in Arithmetic. 

18mo. 4s. 6d. 

Smith. — Hymns of Christ and the Christian Life. 

By the Rev. Walter C. Smith, M.A. Fcap. 8vo. 6s. 
Smith. — Obstacles to Missionary Success among the Heathen. 

The Maitland Prize Essay for 1867. By W. S. Smith, M.A. 
Fellow of Trinity College, Cambridge. Crown 8vo. 3s. Qd. 

Smith. — A Treatise on Elementary Statics. 

By J. H. Smith, M.A. Gonville and Caius College, Cambridge. 
Royal 8vo. 5s. 6c?. 

Snowball. — The Elements of Plane and Spherical Trigo- 
nometry. 

By J. C. Snowball, M.A. Tenth Edition. Crown 8vo. 7s. 6d. 

Social Duties considered with Reference to the Organization 
of Effort in Works of Benevolence and Public Utility. 

By a Man of Business. Fcap. 8vo. 4s. 6d. 

Spencer. — Elements of Qualitative Chemical Analysis. 

By W. H. Spencer, B.A. 4to. 10s. 6d. 

Spring Songs. 

By a West Highlander. With a Vignette Illustration by 
Gourlay Steele. Fcap. 8vo. Is. 6d. 

Stephen. — General View of the Criminal Law of England. 

By J. Fitz-James Stephen. 8vo. 18s. 

Stratford de Bedcliffe. — Shadwvs of the Past, in Verse. 

By Viscount Stratford de Redcliffe. Crown 8vo. 10s. 6d. 

Strickland. — On Cottage Construction and Design. 

By C. W. Strickland. With Specifications and Plans. Svo. 
7s. 6d. 

Sunday Library for Household Reading. Illustrated. 

Monthly Parts, 1*. ; Quarterly Vols. 4s. Gilt edges, 4s. 6d. 
Vol. I. — The Pupils of St. John the Divine, by the Author of 

"The Heir of Redclyffe." 
Vol. II.— The Hermits, by Professor Kinosley. 
Vol. III.— Seekers after God, by the Rer. F. W. Farrar. 

2 



3<3 MACMILLAN AND CO.'S 

Swatnson. — Works by C. A. Swainson, D.D. 
A Handbook to Butler's Analogy. 

Crown 8vo. Is. 6d. 

The Creeds of the Church in their Relatixms to Holy 
Scripture and the Conscience of tJte Christian. 

8vo. cloth. 9s. 

The Authority of the New Testament, 

And other Lectures, delivered before the University of Cam- 
bridge. 8vo. cloth. 12s. 

Tacitus. — The History of Tacitus translated into English, 

By A. J. Church, M.A. and W. J. Bkodribb, M.A. With a 
Map and Notes. 8vo. 10s. 6d. 

The Agricola and Germany. 

By the same Translators. With Map and Notes. Fcap. 8va 
2s. 6d. 

Tait and Steele. — A Treatise on Dynamics. 

With numerous Examples. By P. G. Tait and W. J. Steele. 
Second Edition. Crown 8vo. 10s. 6d. 

Taylor. — Words and Places ; 

Or, Etymological Illustrations of History, Ethnology, and 
Geography. By the Rev. Isaac Taylor. Second Edition. 
Crown 8vo. 12s. Qd. 

The Restoration of Belief. 

New and Revised Edition. By Isaac Taylor, Esq. Crowe 
8vo. 8s. 6d. 

Taylor (C). — Geometrical Conies. 

By C. Taylor, B.A. Crown 8vo. 7s. 6rf. 
Tkbay. — Elementary Mensuration fo?* Schools, 

With numerous Examples. By Septimus Tebay, B. A. H«ii 
Master of Queen Elizabeth's Grammar School, Rivimrt"i» 
Extra fcap. 8vo. 3s. 6d. 

TtiMPLE. — Sermons preached in the Chapel of Rufjlnj Sch«' 1 

By F. Temple, D.D. Head Master. New and Cheaper Edlll<>. 
Crown 8vo. 7s. 6d. 

Thorpe. — Diplomatarium A nglicum JEvi Saxonici. 

A Collection of English Charters, from the Keign of Kin. 
JSthelherht of Kent, a. p. DC.V. to that of William the Con 
queror. With a Translation of the Anglo-Saxon. By Bfn 
jam in Thokpe, Member of the Royal Academy of Sciem^ 
Munich. 8vo. cloth. 21s. 



LIST OF PUBLICATIONS. 37 

Thring. — Works by Edward Thring, M.A. Head Master of 

Uppingham. 

A Construing Book. 

Fcap. 8vo. 2s. 6d. 

A Latin Gradual. 

A First Latin Construing Book for Beginners. 18mo. 2s. Qd. 

The Elements of Grammar taught in English. 

Fourth Edition. 1 8mo. 2s. 

• The Child? s Grammar. 

A New Edition. 18mo. 1*. 

Sermons delivered at Uppingham School. 

Crown 8vo. 5s. 

School Songs: 

With the Music arranged for Four Voices. Edited by the Roy. 
Edward Thring, M.A. and H. Riccius. Small folio. 7s. 6d. 

Education and School. 

Second Edition. Crown 8vo. 6s, 

A Manual of Mood Constructions. 

Extra fcap. 8vo. Is. 6d. 

Thrupp. — Works by the Rev. J. F. Thrupp. 

The Song of Songs. 

A New Translation, with a Commentary and an Introduction. 
Crown 8vo. 7s. 6d. 

Introduction to the Study and Use of the Psalms: 

Two Vols. 8vo. 21s. 

Psalms and Hymns for Public Worship. 

Selected and Edited by the Rev. J. F. Thrupp, M.A. 18mo. 
2s. Common paper, Is. 4d. 

The Burden of Human Sin as borne by Christ. 

Three Sermons preached before the University of Cambridge in 
Lent, 1865, Crown 8vo. 3s. 6d. 

Thucydides. — The Sicilian Expedition : 

Being Books VI. and VII. of Thucydides, with Notes. By the 
Rev. Percival Frost, M.A. Fcap. 8yo. 5s. 



38 MACMILLAN AND CO.'S 

Tocqueville. — Memoir, Letters, and Remains of Alexis de 
Tocqueville. 

Translated from the French by the Translator of " Napoleon's 
Correspondence with King Joseph." With numerous Additions. 
Two Vols. Crown 8vo. 21*. 

Todd. — The Books of the Vaudois. 

The Waldensian Manuscripts preserved in the Library of Trinity 
College, Dublin, with an Appendix by James Henthorn Todd, 
D.D. Crown 8 vo. cloth. 6*. 

Todhunter. — Works by Isaac Todhunter, M.A. F.RS. 
Euclid for Colleges and Schools. 

New Edition, 18mo. 3*. 6d. 

Algebra for Beginners. 

With numerous Examples. New Edition. 18mo. 2*. 6d. 

Key to Algebra for Beginners. 

Crown 8vo. 6*. 6d. 

Mechanics for Beginners. 

With numerous Examples. 18mo. 4*. 6d. 

Trigonometry for Beginners. 

With numerous Examples. 18 mo. 2s. 6d. 

A Treatise on the Differential Calculus. 

With numerous Examples. Fourth Edition. Crown 8vo. 10s. 6d. 

A Treatise on the Integral Calculus. 

With numerous Examples. Third Edition. Crown 8vo. 10*. Qd. 

A Treatise on Analytical Statics. 

Third Edition. Crown 8vo. 10*. 6d. 

A Treatise on Conic Sections. 

Fourth Edition. Crown 8vo. 7*. 6d. 

Algebra for the Use of Colleges and Schools. 

Fourth Edition. Crown 8vo. 7*. 6d. 

Plane Trigonometry for Colleges and Schools. 

Third Edition. Crown 8vo. 5s. 

A Treatise on Spherical Trigonometry for the Use of 
Colleges and Schools. 

Second Edition. Crown 8vo. 4*. 6d. 



LIST OF PUBLICATIONS. *9 

Todhunter (Isaac). — Critical History of the Progress of 
the Calculus of Variations during the Nineteenth 
Century. 

8vo. 125. 

Examples of Analytical Geometry of Three Dimensions. 

Second Edition. Crown 8vo. 4*. 

A Treatise on the Theory of Equations. 

Second Edition. Crown 8vo. 7s. Qd. 

Mathematical Theory of Probability. 

8vo. 18s. 

Tom Brown's School Days. 

By an Old Boy. Fcap. 8vo. 5s. 
Golden Treasury Edition, 4s. 6d. 
People's Edition, 2s. 

Torn Brown at Oxford. 

By the Author of " Tom Brown's School Days." New Edition. 
Crown 8vo. 6s. 

Tracts for Priests and People. (By various Writers.) 

The First Series, Crown 8vo. 8s. 
The Second Series, Crown 8vo. 8s. 

The whole Series of Fifteen Tracts may be had separately, price 
One Shilling each. 

Trench. — Works by R Chenevix Trench, D.D. Archbishop 

of Dublin. 

Notes on the Parables of Our Lord. 

Tenth Edition. 8vo. 12s. 

Notes on the Miracles of Our Lord, 

Eighth Edition. 8vo. 12s. 

Synonyms of the New Testament. 

New Edition. One Vol. 8vo. cloth. 10s. 6d. 

On the Study of Words. 

Twelfth Edition. Fcap. 8vo. 4s. 

English Past and Present. 

Sixth Edition. Fcap. 8vo. 4s. 6d. 

Proverbs and their Lessons. 

Fifth Edition. Fcap. 8vo. 3s. 

Select Glossary of English Woi % ds used formerly in 
Senses different from tlie 'present. 

Third Edition. Fcap. 8vo. 4s. 



40 MACMILLAN AND CO.'S 

Trench (R. Chenevix) — On some Deficiencies in our English 

Dictionaries. 

Second Edition. 8vo. 3s. 

Sermons preached in Westminster Abbey. 

Second Edition. 8vo. 10s. 6d. 

Tlie Fitness of Holy Scripture few Unfolding the 
Spiritual Life of Man : 

Christ the Desire of all Nations ; or, the Unconscious Prophecies 
of Heathendom. Hulsean Lectures. Fcap. 8vo. Fourth Edition. 
5s. 

On the Authorized Version of the Kew Testament. 

Second Edition. 8vo. 7s. 

Justin Martyr, and other Poems. 

Fifth Edition. Fcap. 8vo. 6s. 

Oustavus Adolphus. — Social Aspects of the Tliirty 
Years' War. 

Fcap. 8vo. 2s\ 6d. 

Poems. 

Collected and arranged anew. Fcap. 8vo. 7*. 6d. 

Poems from Eastern sources, Genoveva, and other Poems. 

Second Edition. Fcap. 8vo. 5s. Qd. 

Elegiac Poems. 

Third Edition. Fcap. 8vo. 2s. 6d. 

Calderoris Life's a Dream : 

The Great Theatre of the World. With an Essay on his Life ami 
Genius. Fcap. 8vo. 4s. 6d. 

Remains of the late Mrs. Richard Trench. 

Being Selections from her Journals, Letters, and other Papers. 
New ami Cheaper Issue. With Portrait. 8vo. 6s. 

Commentary on the Epistles to the Seven & hur cites in 
Asia. 

Third Edition^ revised. 8vo. 8s. 6d. 

Sacred Latin Poetry. 

Chiefly Lyrical. Selected and arranged for Use. Second Edition. 
Corrected and Improved. Fcap. 8vo. Is. 

Studies in tlie Gospels. 

Second Edition. 8vo. 10s. 6d. 



\ 



LIST OF PUBLICATIONS. 41 

Tkench (R Chenevix). — Shipwrecks of Faith : 

Three Sermons preached before the University of Cambridge in 
May, 1867. Fcap. 8vo. 2s. 6d. 

A Household Book of Unglish Poetry. 

Selected and Arranged with Notes. By the Archbishop ok 
Dublin. Extra fcap. 8vo. 5s. 6d. 

Trench (Eev. Francis). — Brief Notes on the Greek of 
the New Testament {for English Readers). 

Crown 8vo. cloth. 6s. 

Trevelyan. Works by G. O. Trevelyan, M.P. 
The Competition Wallah. 

New Edition. Crown 8vo. 6s. 

Cawnpore, 

Illustrated with Plan. Second Edition. Crown 8vo. 6s. 

Tudor. — The Decalogue viewed as the Christian's Law. 

With Special Reference to the Questions and Wants of the Times. 
By the Rev. Rich. Tudor, B.A. Crown 8vo. 10s. 6d. 

Tullocii. — The Christ of the Gospels and the Christ of 

Modern Criticism. 

Lectures on M. Renan's "Vie de Jesus." By John Tulloch, 
D.D. Principal of the College of St. Mary, in the University of 
St. Andrew. Extra fcap. 8vo. As. 6d. 

Turner. — Sonnets. 

By the Rev. Charles Tennyson Turner. Dedicated to his 
Brother, the Poet Laureate. Fcap. 8vo. is. 6d. 

Small Tableaux. 

By the Rev. C. Turner. Fcap. 8vo. 4s. 6d. 

Tyrwhitt. — The Schooling of Life. 

By R. St. John Tyrwhitt, M.A. Vicar of St. Mary Magdalen, 
Oxford. Fcap. 8vo. 3s. 6d. 

Vacation Tourists ; 

And Notes of Travel in 1861. Edited by F. Galton, F.R.S. 
With Ten Maps illustrating the Routes. 8vo. 14s. 

Vacation Tourists; 

And Notes of Travel in 1862 and 1863. Edited by Francis 
Galton, F.R.S. 8vo. 16s. 

Vaughan. — Works by Charles J. Vaughan, D.D. Vicar 

of Doncaster. 

Notes for Lectures on Confirmation. 

With suitable Prayers. Sixth Edition. Fcap. 8vo. Is. 6d. 



42 MACMILLAN AND CO.'S 

Vaughan (Chables J.). — Lectures on the Epistle to the 
PhUippians. 

Second Edition. Crown 8vo. Is. 6d . 

Lectures on the Revelation of St. John. 

Second Edition. Two Vols, crown 8vo. 15*. 

Epiphany, Lent, and Easter. 

A Selection of Expository Sermons. Third Edition. Crown 
8vo. 10*. 6d. 

The Book and the Life, 

And other Sermons, preached before the University of Cam- 
bridge. New Edition. Fcap. 8vo. 4*. 6d. 

Memorials of Harrow Sundays. 

A Selection of Sermons preached in Harrow School Chapel. 
With a View of the Chapel. Fourth Edition. Crown 8vo. 
10*. 6d. 

St. Paul's Epistle to the Romans. 

The Greek Text with English Notes. Crown 8vo. 5*. New 
Edition in the Press. 

Twelve Discourses on Subjects connected with the Liturgy 
and Worship of the Church of England. 

Fcap. 8vo. 6*. 

Lessons of Life and Godliness. 

A Selection of Sermons preached in the Parish Chnrch of Don- 
caster. Third Edition. Fcap. 8vo. 4s. 6d. 

Words from the Gospels. 

A Second Selection of Sermons preached in the Parish Church of 
Doncaster. Second Edition. Fcap. 8vo. 4*. 6d. 

The Epistles of St. Paul. 

For English Readers. Part I. containing the First Epistle to 
the Thessalonians. Second Edition. 8vo. 1*. Qd. Each Epistle 
will be published separately. 

The Church of the First Days. 

Series I. The Church of Jerusalem. Second Edition. 

,, II. The Church of the Gentiles. Second Edition. 

„ III. The Church of the World. Second Edition. 
Fcap. 8vo. cloth. 4*. 6d. each. 

Life's Work and God's Discipline. 

Three Sermons. Fcap. 8vo. cloth. 2*. 6d. 

The Wholesome Words of Jesus Christ. 

Four Sermons preached before the University of Cambridge in 
November, 1866. Fcap. 8vo. cloth. 3*. Qd. New Edition in 
the Press. 



LIST OF PUBLICATIONS. 43 

Vaughan. — Works by David J. Vaughan, M.A. Vicar of 

St. Martin's, Leicester. 

Sermons preached in St. John's Church, Leicester, 

During the Years 1855 and 1856. Crown 8vo. 5s. Qd. 

Sermons on the Resurrection. 

With a Preface. Fcap. 8vo. 8*. 

Three Sermons on the Atonement 

Is. 6d. 

Semnons on Sacrifice and Propitiation. 
2s. 6d. 

Christian Evidences and the Bible. 

New Edition. Revised and enlarged. Fcap. 8vo. cloth. 5s. 6d. 

Vaughan. — Memoir of Robert A. Vaughan, 

Author of "Hours with the Mystics." By Robert Vaughan, 
D.D. Second Edition. Revised and enlarged. Extra fcap. 
8vo. 5*. 

Venn. — The Logic of Chance. 

An Essay on the Foundations and Province of the Theory of Pro- 
bability, with special reference to its application to Moral and 
Social Science, fey the Rev. J. Venn, M.A. Fcap. 8vo. 7*. 6d. 

Village Sermons. 

By a Northamptonshire Rector. With a Preface on the 
Inspiration of Holy Scripture. Crown 8vo. 6s. 

Vittoria Colonna. — Life and Poems. 

By Mrs. Henry Roscoe. Crown 8vo. 9s. 
Volunteer's Scrap Book. 

By the Author of "The Cambridge Scrap Book." Crown 4to. 
7s. 6d. 

Wagner. — Memoir of the Rev. George Wagner, 

late of St. Stephen's, Brighton. By J. N. Simpkinson, M. A. 
Third and Cheaper Edition. 5*. 

Warren. — An Essay on Greek Federal Coinage. 

By the Hon. J. Leicester Warren, M.A. 8vo. 2s. 6d. 

Webster. — Works by Augusta Webster. 
Dramatic Studies. 

Extra fcap. 8vo. 5s. 



44 MACMILLAN AND CO.'S 

Webster (Augusta). — A Woman Sold, 

And other Poems. Crown 8vo. 7*. Qd. 

Prometheus Bound, of JSschylus, 

Literally Translated into English Verse. Extra fcap. 8 vo. 3s. Qd. 

Medea of Euripides, 

Literally Translated into English Verse. Extra fcap. 8vo. 8*. Qd. 

Westcott. — Works by Brooke Foss Westcott. B.D. 

A General Survey of the History of the Canon of the 
New Testament during the First Four Centuries. 

Second Edition, revised. Crown 8vo. 10s. Qd. 

Characteristics of the Gospel Miracles. 

Sermons preached before the University of Cambridge. With 
Notes. Crown 8vo. 4s. Qd. 

Introduction to the Study of the Four Gospels. 

Third Edition. Crown 8vo. 10s. 6d. 

The Gospel of the Resurrection. 

Thoughts on its Relation to Reason and History. New Edition. 
Fcap. 8vo. 4s. 6d. 

Tlie Bible in the Church. 

A Popular Account of the Collection and Reception of the Holy 
Scriptures in the Christian Churches. Second Edition. 18mo. 
4s. Qd. 

Westminster Plays. 

Lusus Alteri "Westmonasterienses, Sive Prologi et Epilogi ad 
Fabulas in S*i Petri Collegio : actas qui Exstabant collecti ct 
justa quoad licuit annorum serie ordinati, quibus accedit Decla- 
mationum quae vocantur et Epigrammatnm Delectus, Curan- 
tibus J. Mure, A.M., H. Bull, A.M., C. B. Scott, B.D. 
8vo. 12s. Qd. 

Idem. —Pars Secunda, 1820—1865. Quibus accedit Epigram- 
matum Delectus. 8vo. 12s. Qd. 

Wilson. — Works by George Wilson, M.D. 

Counsels of an Invalid. 

Letters on Religious Subjects: With Vignette Portrait. Fcap. 
8vo. 4s. Qd. 

Religio Chemici. 

With a Vignette beautifully engraved after a Design by Sir 
Noel Paton. Crown 8vo. " 8s. Qd. 

Wilson (George). — The Five Gateways of Knoivledge. 

New Edition. Fcap. 8vo. 2s. Qd. Or in Paper Covers, Is. 

The Progress of the Telegraph. 

Fcap. 8vo. Is. 



LIST OF PUBLICATIONS. 45 

Wilson. — An English, Hebrew, and Chaldee Lexicon and 

Concordance. 

By William Wilson, D.D. Canon of Winchester. Second 
Edition. 4to. 25s. 

Wilson. — Memoir of Geoiye Wilson, M.D. F.RS.E. 

Regius Professor of Technology in the University of Edinburgh. 
By his Sister. New Edition. Crown 8vo. 6*. 

Wilson. — Works by Daniel Wilson, L.L.D. 
Prehistoric Annals of Scotland. 

New Edition. With numerous Illustrations. Two Vols, demy 
8vo. 36s. 

Prehistoric Man. 

New Edition. Revised and partly re- writ ten, with numerous 
Illustrations. One Vol. 8vo. 21$. 

Wilson. — A Treatise on Dynamics. 

By W. P. Wilson, M.A. 8vo. 9s. (id. 

Wilson. -^Elementary Geometry. 

Part I. — Angles, Triangles, Parallels, and Equivalent Figures, 
with the application to Problems. By J. M. Wilson, M.A. 
Fellow of St. John's College, Cambridge, and Mathematical 
Master at Rugby. Extra fcap. 8vo. 2s. 6d. 

Win SLOW. — Force and Nature. Attraction and Repulsion. 

The Radical Principles of Energy graphically discussed in their 
Relations to Physical and Morphological Development. By C. 
F. Winslow, M.D. 8vo. [In the press. 

Wollaston. — Lyra Devonicnsis. 

By T. V. Wollaston, M.A. Fcap. 8vo. 3s. 6d. 

Wolstenholme. — A Book of Mathematical Problems. 

Crown 8vo. 8s. 6d. 

Woodford. — Cliristian Sanctity. 

By James Russell Woodford, M.A. Fcap. 8vo. cloth. 3s. 

Woodward. — Works by tlie Rev. Henry Woodward, edited 
by his Son, Thomas Woodward, M.A. Dean of Dovm. 

Essays, Thoughts and Reflections, and Letters. 

Fifth Edition. Crown 8vo. 10s. 6d. 

The Shunammite. 

Second Edition. Crown 8vo. 10s. 6d. 

Sermons. 

Fifth Edition. Crown 8vo. 10s. 6d. 
WOOLLEY. — Lectures delivered in Australia. 

By the late John* Woolley, D.C.L. Crown 8vo. 8s. flrf. 



46 MACMILLAN AND CO.'S 

Woolner. — My Beautiful Lady. 

By Thomas Woolner. With a Vignette by Arthur Hughes. 
Third Edition, Fcap. 8vo. 5*. 

Words from the Poets. 

Selected by the Editor of " Rays of Sunlight. " With a Vignette 
and Frontispiece. 18mo. Extra cloth gilt. 2s. 6d. Cheaper 
Edition, lSmo. limp. Is. 

Worship {The) of God and Fellowship among Men. 

Sermons on Public Worship. By Professor Maurice, and 
Others. Fcap. 8vo. 3*. 6d. 

Worsley. — Christian Drift of Cambridge Work. 

Eight Lectures. By T. Worsley, D.D. Master of Downing 
College, Cambridge. Crown 8vo. cloth. 6s. 

Wright. — Works by J. Wright, M.A. 
Hellenica; 

Or, a History of Greece in Greek, as related by Diodorus 
and Thucydides, being a First Greek Reading Book, with 
Explanatory Notes Critical and Historical. Second Edition, 
with a Vocabulary. 12mo. 3s. 6d. 

The Seven Kings of Rome. 

An Easy Narrative, abridged from the First Book of Livy by the 
omission of difficult passages, being a First Latin Reading Book, 
with Grammatical Notes. Fcap. 8vo. 3s. 

A Vocabulary and Exercises on the " Seven Kings of 
Rome! 9 

Fcap. 8vo. 2s. 6d. 

*»* The Vocabulary and Exercises may also be had bound up 

with " The Seven Kings of Rome." Price 5s. 



A Help to Latin Grammar; 

Or, the Form and Use of Words in Latin, with Progressive 
Exercises. Crown 8vo. 4s. 6d. 

David, King of Israel. 

Readings for the Young. With Six Illustrations. Royal 16mo. 
cloth, gilt. 3s. Gd. 

Youmans. — Modern Culture, 

Its Time Aims and Requirements. A Series of Addresses and 
Arguments on the Claims of Scientific Education. Edited by 
Edward L. Youmans, M.D. Crown 8vo. 8s. 6<L 






LIST OF PUBLICATIONS. 47 



SKorks bg % ^«^or of 
"THE HE1E OF KEDCLYFFE." 

The Prince and the Page. A Book for the Young. 18mo. 3*. 6d. 

A Book of Q olden Deeds. 18mo. 4*. 6d. Cheap Edition, Is. 

History of Christian Names. Two. Vols. Crown 8vo. 11. Is. 

The Heir of Redely ffe. Fifteenth Edition. Crown 8vo. 6*. 

Dynevor Terrace. Third Edition. Crown 8vo. 6a. 

The Daisy Chain. Tenth Edition. Crown 8vo. 6*. 

The Trial : More Links of the Daisy Chain. Third Edition. Crown 

8vo. 6*. 

Heartsease. Ninth Edition. Crown 8vo. 6«. 

Hopes and Fears. Third Edition. Crown 8vo. 6*. 

The Young Stepmother. Second Edition. Crown 8vo. 6s. 

The Lances of Lynwood. 18mo. cloth. 3s. 6d. 

The Little Duke. New Edition. 18mo. cloth. 3«. 6d. 

Clever Woman of the Family. Crown. 8vo. 6*. 

Danvers Papers ; an Invention. Crown 8vo. 4*. 6d. 

Dove in the Eagle's Nest. Two Vols. Crown 8vo. 12s. 

Cameos from English History. From Rollo to Edward II. Extra 

fcap. 8vo. 5«. 

Book of Worthies. [In the Press. 



ELEMENTARY SCHOOL CLASS BOOKS. 

The Volumes of this Series of Elementary School Class Books are handsomely printed 
in a form that, it is hoped, will assist the yountj Stitdent as much as clearness of typr 
and distinctness of arrangement can effect. They are published at a moderate price, to 
insure an extensive sale in the Schools of the United Kingdom and the Colonies. 

Euclid for Colleges and Schools. 

By I. Todhcntkr, M.A. F.R.S. 18mo. 3* 6d. 

Algebra for Beginners. 

By I.Todhunter, M.A. F.R.S. 18ino. 2#. 6d 

Key to Algebra for Beginners. 

Crown 8vo. 6*. 6d. 

The School Class Book of Arithmetic. 

By Barnard Smith, M.A. Parts I. and It. 18mo. limp cloth, price lOd. 
each. Part III. la. ; or Three Parts in one Volume, price 3*. 
KEY TO CLASS BOOK OF ARITHMETIC. 
Complete, 18mo. cloth, price 6s. fid. Or separately, Parts I. II. & III. 2s. 6d. each. 

Mythology for Latin Versification. 

A Brief Sketch of the Fables of the Ancients, prepared to be rendered into 
Latin Verse for Schools. By F, Hodqron B.D. New Edition. Revised by 
F. C. Hodgson, M.A. Fellow of King's College, Cambridge. ISmo. 3*. 

A Latin Gradual for Beginners. 

A First Latin Construing Book. By Edward Thrino, M.A. 18mo. 2s. <W. 

Shakespeare's Tempest. 

The Text taken from "The Cambridge Shakespeare." With Glossarial and 
Explanatory Notes. By the Rev. J. M. Jephson. 18mo. cloth, limp. Is. 6d. 

Lessons in Elementary Botany. 

The Part on Systematic Botany based upon Material left in Manuscript by the 
late Professor Henslow. With neaily Two Hundred Illustrations. Bv 
Daniel Oliver, F.R.S F.L.8. 18mo. cloth. 4*. (W. 

Lessons in Elementary Physiology. 

With numerous Illustrations. By T. H. Huxley, F.R.S. Professor of 
Natural History in the Government School of Mines. 18mo. 4*. 6d. 

Popular Astronomy. 

A Series of Lectures delivered at Ipswich. By George Biddell Aiby. 
Astronomer Royal. 18mo. cloth. As. 6d. 

Lessoyis in Elementary Chemistry. 

By Henry Kosooe, F.R.S. Professor of Chemistry in Owens College, Man 
eliester. With numerous Illustrations. 18nio, cloth. 4*. 6d. 

An Elementary History of the Book of Common Prayer. 

By Francis Procter, M.A. 18mo. 2*. i>d. 

Algebraical Exercises. 

Progressively arranged by Rev. C. A Jones, M.A and C. H. Cheynk, M.A. 
Mathematical Masters in Westminster School. ISmo. cloth. 2s. 6d. 

The Bible in the Church. 

A Popular Account of the Collection and Reception of the Holy Scripture 
in the Christian Churches. By Brooke Foss Westcott, B.D. ISmo. 4*. fti 

The Bible Word Book. 

A Glossary of Old English Bible Words. By J. Eastwood, M.A. and W 
Aldis Wright, M.A. 18mo. bs. Gd. 

MACMILLAN AND CO. LONDON. 



