About This File

This file is part of a corpus compiled by Caitlin Matheis (University of Nebraska-Lincoln) for a 2021 computational text analysis project for the One More Voice recovery project (onemorevoice.org). This corpus encompasses a wide range of plain text (TXT) files containing nineteenth- and early twentieth-century literary works centered on Africa by several dozen different British and African writers. Questions about the corpus and project can be directed to Caitlin Matheis (cmatheis2@huskers.unl.edu), the creator of the corpus, and Adrian S. Wisnicki (awisnicki@unl.edu), lead developer for One More Voice.

File Source: Internet Archive, http://archive.org/details/briefaccountofbu00blee

--------------------------------------
A

BRIEF ACCOUNT 

OF

BUSHMAN FOLK-LORE 

AND OTHER TEXTS. 


Quid mundus sine calamo!

BY

W. H. I. BLEEK, Ph.D., 

CURATOR OF THE GREY LIBRARY, FOREIGN MEMBER OF THE R. BAVARIAN ACADEMY OF SCIIiNCES, &c. 

Second Report concerning Bushman Researches, presented to both House of the Parliament of the 
Cape of Good Hope, by command of His Excellency the Governor.


CAPE TOWN: 

J.C. JUNTA.


LONDON:

TRÜBNER & CO., 
57 & 59, LUDGATE HILL.


LEIPSIC : 

F. A. BROCKHAUS. 



1875. 



CAPE TOWN: 
SAUL SOLOMON AND CO., PRINTERS, 

49 & 50, ST. GEORGE'S-STREET. 



CONTENTS. 



Letter respecting the importance of a speedy collection oj Soutli Ajrican Native 

Folk-lore 1 

General Report ..• 5 

Short account oj^ the Bushman Literature collected ... ... ... ... ... 6 

A. Mythology, Fables, Legends, and Poetiy, §§ 1 — 62 6 

L The Mantis, §§1 — 14... 

n. Sun and Moon, §§ 15 — 21 
m. Stars, §§ 22—26 
IV. Animal Fables, §§ 27— .35b 

V. Legends, §§36—41 ... 
VL Poetry, §§42—62 

B. History (Natural and Personal), §§ 63—125 16 

Vn. Animals and their Habits, — Adventm-es with them, and 

Hunting, §§ 63—86 16 

Vni. Personal History, §§ 87—96 17 

LX. Customs and Superstitions, §§97 — •112a ... ... ... ... 17 

X. Genealogies, Words, and Sentences, §§ 113 — 125 ... ... 19 

Acknowledgments ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ••¦ ••• 20 



NOTF. 

To prevent the difficulty which rcadei's may feel iu undcrsfauding the use, in pages 5 to 21, of what 
appears to be the Italic a, g, and f among the Roman letters, it may be explained that it arises from the 
peculiar cast of this fount of type. It was imported from Berlin, a few years ago, for the jnivposc of 
printing for a Missionary Society, parts of The Bible in the Xama-Hottentot language, and these three 
letters seem, strangely enough, to have been cast only in this shape. The printers have no other type 
available for the present, or any other, work which requires the signs of the "clicks" to appear; and 
they could not substitute the Roman a, g, and f from any of their other founts, as the letters of tliese 
caunot stand with the type cast m Berlin. 



CAPE OP GOOD HOPE. 



Second Report concerning Bushman Reseaeches, 
by W, H. I. Bleek, Ph.D., Curator of the Grey 
Library, Foreign Member of the Royal Bava- 
rian Academy of Sciences, &c. 



1875. 



Mowbray, February, 1875. 
The Hon. Ch. Beownlee, Esq., 

Secretary for Native Affairs. 
SiE, — I have the honour to lay before you for ihe information of His Excellency 
the Governor and the Colonial Legislature a report concerning the progress of the 
Bushman Researches since 1873. With it is a short outline of the Bushman literature 
as yet collected, which will give some idea of its nature. Its richness has been a sur- 
prise even to me, although I have held the belief for many years that e?ery nation, 
even the lowest, possesses an original literature, which is handed down from generation 
to generation. i 

Fortunate as we may consider ourselves in having been so situated as to be able to 
collect even thus much of the world of mind of a dying-out, and in many ways an ex- 
ceptionally primitive nation, the thought cannot but strike us that there are also several 
Other aboriginal nations in South Africa, which although probably not doomed to such 
quick extinction as the Bushmen, yet cannot under the now fa?t-increasing sway of 
civilization, stimulated by our mineral wealth, but lose rapidly much of that originality 
in their life and ideas, which is of such great scientific importance. And is it to be 
assumed that nations such as the Kafirs and their kindred races (Betshuana, Damara, 
&c.), and even the Hottentots, who all generally-speaking so far exceed the Bushmen 
in civilization, In political organization, and in forensic oratory, should possess a 
traditionary literature so Inferior in value to that of the Bushmen, as not to be worthy 
the trouble of being taken down and preserved ? Kay, though very difl^erenf perhaps in 
character, it is clear from what has been already collected, that the folk-lore of all these 
nations is of great scientific importance, — of first-rate Importance for a correct knowledge 
of the native languarjes, and indispensable, if a true record is to remain of the original 
working-s of the native mind, and of the ideas inherited from their ancestors, as well as 
of the spiritual state in which they were before the advent of Christian missionaries. 
That to ignore this pre-Christian world of ideas would be an act oi injustice to these 
Missionaries, is the emphatic opinion of their true irieud. Sir George Grey, who in the 
preface to his collection of Poetry of the New Zealanders {Ku vga Moteatea, &c,, > ew , 
Zealand, 1853, p. VI), says: — " Hitherto, with the exception of a few Instances, such ' 
as in the case of Greece and Rome, the works of whose principal Paijan writers are ( 
still extant, nothing has been done in any country which Christian teachers have con- ! 
verted to show the full extent of the work which they acconijilished. It is true that 
imperishable traces of what they taught and established are always left behind them ; 
but It is rarely that anything remains to shew what they overthrew, and what conse- 
quently were the real nature and greatness of the dangers and difSculties against which 
they were forced to contend. It may be said that whilst one part of the work they ac- 
complish! d still remains visible, the greatest and most difficult part is now lost to our 
knowledge niul view. Hence men are too apt to undei value their labours, and losin"- 
sight of A\hat the world was without Christianity, altogether to misconceive the advan- 
tages that Christianity has secured to the human race. It is to be feared that there 
are too many who think that the world without Christianity was very much like what 
the world is with It. 

[G. 54—75] B 



" It therefore appeared desirable that in New Zealand a monument should be raised 
to shew in some measure what that country was before its natives were converted to 
the Christian fnith, and no more fitting means of accomplishing such an object ap- 
peared attainable than that of lettins: the people themselves testify of their former 
Btate, by collecting their traditional poetry and their heathen prayers and incantations, 
composed and sung for centuries before the light of Christianity had broken upon their 
country. It was also clear that to those persons who study the history of the human 
race as developed in the history, customs, and languages of different nations, such a 
work would posses? a high degree of interest, and it seemed probable that there would 
be many persons who would study with pleasure the poetry of a savage race, whose 
songs and chaunts, whilst they contain so much that is wild and terrible, yet at the 
eame time present many passages of the most singularly original poetic beauty." 

To these words of so earnest a scholar (whose collections of New Zealand Native 
Literature as contained in the Library presented by him to this Colony fill many 
thousands of pages, and form, perhaps, one of ihe most important portions of his gift) 
I will add none of mine. But if we look around us in .South Africa to see what has thus 
been done to preserve the original mental products of its highly interesting indigenous 
races, how little do we find accomplished ! It is only in Natal that a really large col- 
lection of native folk-lore has been made by the Eev. Dr. H. Callaway, now Bishop of 
St. John's. Among our Frontier Kafirs a few legends were collected by two natives, 
both since deceased, namely, Wm. Kekale Kaye (whose manuscripts form part of Sir 
George Grey's gift), and the Eev. Tiyo Soga; but of the collections of the latter very 
little has been saved, — several pieces having apparently been mislaid or made away with 
at the time ol his premature death. Of the rich treasures of Setshuana Iblk-lore we 
obtain eotne glimpses in Casalis (" Etudes," &c.), but very little in this language has aa 
yet been accurately taken down frcm the lips of the natives. And although the col- 
lections of native literature in Hottentot and I'amara (Otyiherero), made by the Revs. 
Messrs. J. G. Kronlein and J. Eath, are very valuable, yet they comprise only a 
very small portion cf wlat could be given in these languages. 

You knew, Sir, that in none of these other languages are there now such pre- 
limirary difficulties to be encountered as we have had to overcome in Bushman, all of 
them having been studied and written down by missionaries for years past. As there 
are thus Europeans to te met with ( Missionaries or their children), and even Natives, who 
understand and are alle to write fluently in these native languages (Kafir, betshuana, 
Ctjihereio, <ir,d Namaqua Hottentot), — we can be sure that with some encouragement 
many persims might be induced to devote some time and strength to the collection of 
the lolk-lore of the nations among whom they are respectively living, itera kaumatua 
iterahma, "frem this old man, from that old woman" (beginning of motto to Sir G. 
Grey's I'octry of the New Zealanders). But this must be undertaken at once, or it 
•will be too late, if we want to retain pictures of the native mind in its national 
originality. Even now it is maintained by some observers that, as regards our 
Frontier Kafirs, it is already too late ; but I believe that yeu, bir, will agree with me 
in thinking that it is still possible to gather some portions of their old traditionary lore, 
although much of it may already have sunk into oblivion. The case is similar with the 
Betshuana and Hottentots (Namaqua and Koranna) on the borders of oiur Colony. 

^A e may, indeed, congratulate ourselves that we are still in the pjsition by prompt 
and energetic measures to preserve, not merely a few " sticks and stones, skulls aud 
bones," as relics o( the Aboriginal races of this country, but also something ot that 
which is most characteristic of their humanity, and, theretbre, most valuable, — their 
mind, their thoughts, and their ideas. 

A\ hat w ould not the coming generations oi Colonists give, if they could have op- 
portunities s-uch as ours for [enetraiing into the minds of the original inhabitants of 
this ccuntry ! To understand this in some degree, one need only observe with what 
care the inhabitants of those countries in which the Aboriginal populatiou has quite 
disappeared, collect every scrap of information possible regarding them. Yet, wherever, 
as in Tatmania, this has not been done at the proper time, how very scanty, unreliable, 
and unsatisfactory is all that, with the utmost effort, can be brought together I 

Ihere is, perhaps, no other country ^\hich like this Colony, with its three native 
races (Kafirs and their kindred, — Hottentots, — and i5u8hmen),8till contains at the present 
day such divergent, and at the same time, such primitive types of Aboriginal nations, 
languages, and loin.s ol mind. On this account it is, scientifically speaking, ol exceed- 
ing importance 7iot to allow the mental lite of the Aborigines in its uninfluenced 
primitiveness to become quite effaced, without making au efiott to preserve an image of 
it, fixed in the truest manner in their own words. By making such an eflort it is clear 
that we erect an enduring monument of the early mental aud intellectual cond.tiun of 
our ccuntry, a monument worthy both of an enlightened Government and of a most 



prosperous period in our colonial history. Nor will this claim any large outlay. A 
sum not exceeding a one-thousandth part of the annual revenue of this Colony, set aside 
for this purpose would, no doubt, go a good way towards the expenses of collecting, 
translating, and publishing a fair portion of the national traditional literature of our 
Aborigines. 

May I hope that the Government and Parliament, of which you are a member, 
will find it practicable to do now for the cause of science that which cannot be done 
later. Of the practical good and importance of such a work in gaining an increased 
general knowledge of the thoughts and ideas of the Natives, you, Sir, are the best 
judge. 

Leaving, therefore, this matter hopefully in your hands, 

I have the honour to be. 
Sir, 
Your humble obedient servant, 

W. H. I. BLEEK, Ph.D. 



DR. BLEEK'S 

SECOND REPORT CONCERNING BUSHMAN RESEARCHES, WITH A SHORT 
ACCOUNT OF THE BUSHSIAN NATIVE LITERATURE COLLECTED. 

18 7 5. 



In my last Report concerning the Busliman Researches, published in 1873, I men- 
tioned that, unless the inquiries made by me regarding the whereabouts of the ¦waves of 
the two Bushmen then with me proved successful, I feared that ere long the men would 
leave me. The younger (lalkinita) had been with me since the 29th of August, 1870, 
and the elder (llkdbbo) since the 16th of February, 1871. In fact, it was only by the 
promise of a greatly longed-for reward that I could induce llkdbbo (whose services as an 
excellent narrator were most valuable) to make up his mind to remaia on with lajkunta 
through the winter. On the 15th of October, 1873, both llkdbbo and lajkunta were, 
according to promise, sent to Victoria West, to fiad from thence their way back to their 
belongings. We have since heard of their safe arrival, through the kindness of Messrs. P. 
Watermeyer, C St. L. Devenish, and the Civil Commissioner of Victoria West. Since then 
we have been informed that both the Bushmen have foimd their wives, and that the elder 
one, llkdbbo, will return to us, leaving his stiU older wife Ikwabba-an behind him with then' 
son, on account of her age rendering the journey too difficult for her. We regret this, as 
we had hoped that she would have given us a great deal of the information known only 
by the elder people, and especially by the old women. 

Shortly after the departure of these two Bushmen I was fortunate enough to be able 
to get tkddii to stay with me. He came on the 1st of November, 1873, and was, before 
Christmas, joined by his comrade Dialkwain. As both of these Bushmen came from the 
Katkop Mountains, north of Calvinia (about 200 miles to the west of the homes of om- 
former Bushmen, which were in or near the Strontbergen, lat. 30° S., long. 22° E.), — 
their dialect varies slightly, and their native ti-aditions form an independent testimony to \ 
the substantial identity of the mythological stories, handed do-wTi to the present generation \ 

by their ancestors. Dialkimin, especially, proved to be a good narrator, whilst ^kdml 

(whose father was a Koranna chief, and his mother a Bushman woman) understood and ^ ^ . j v/ / Am 
spoke both Koranna-Hottentot and Bushman equally well, and knew traditions belonging ,.' -^^ ' r HMi 

to each of these nations. By his knowledge of both these languages he enabled us to J 

arrive at some not unimportant facts, which throw some light upon their mutual relations ; 
but this is too involved and difficult a subject to appear even now near to a satisfactory 
solution. These two Bushmen could not be persuaded to remain with me longer than to 
the 18th of March, 1874; and their anxiety to rejoin their families was proved by their 
reaching Calvinia (270 moles distant) on the 30th of the same month ; — of which Dr. H. 
Meyer kindly wrote me word. They retm-ned to me, however, on the 13th of June, 1874, 
with Ikweiten ta liken (wife of i^kdsiii, and sister to Dialkivdin), and her two youngest boys, 
aged respectively six and two years. These were joined on the 25th October by her two 
elder sons, who had been until then left at Wellington. The maintenance of so large a 
family entailed a much increased expenditure, which was, however, unavoidable for the 
purjjose of retaining for a time ikweiten ta liken, who would not stay without her whole 
family. Her infonnation, as that of the fii-st Bushmanwoman accessible to us, was, of 
course, very desirable, jkioeiten ta liken, with her husband and childi'en, remained with 
me imtil the 13th of January,°1875, when they all returned to Bushmanland, lea^iug her 
brother Dialkwain, who has promised to stay here some time longer, and whom we hope 
soon to see joined by llkdbbo. 

The amount of Native Bushman Literature collected, has increased since our last 
Report fi-om more than 4,000 to about 6,600 half-pages or columns (in seventy-seven 
volumes quarto);* of which more than one-third has been ^v^itten down by myself. A 
large portion of these Bushmen texts has been translated with the aid of the narrators. 

* As the printing of this Report (hamled in to the Government in February last) has, through press of 
business, been delayed to the present month (May), we are able to state that the total amount of Bushman 
N'alive Literature collected is now about 7,200 half-pages, in eighty-four volumes. 

[G. 54— '75.] 



From almost the whole of my o^vn translated texts, the words have already been entered 
into a Bushman-English Dictionary, which now contains more than 11,000 entries, and 
Ji'om which, as well as from my older Dictionary, an Index or English-Bushman Dictionary 
(comprising aheady about ten thousand entiies) has been compiled. 

One oj the stories, that of the Mantis turning himself into a hartebeest (vide below 
§ 13), has been prepared for publication (as a fu-st small text-book of the Bushman 
language), to be accompanied by a translation and vocabulary. But the want of the 
necessary type, and of means to procure it, has hitherto prevented the printing of any texts 
in Busliman. 

A most curious featui'e in Bushman folk-lore is formed by the speeches of various 
animals, recited in modes of pronouncing Bushman, said to be peculiar to the animals in 
whose mouths they are placed. It is a remarkable attempt to imitate the shape or position 
of the mouth of the kind of animal to be represented. Among the Bushman sounds which 
are hereby affected, and often entirely commuted, are principally the chcks. These are 
either converted into other consonants, as into labials (in the language of the Tortoise), or 
into palatals and compound dentals and sibilants (as in the language of the Ichneumon), 
or into chcks otherwise unheard in Busliman (as far as our present experience goes), — as 
in the language of the Jackal, who is introduced as making use of a strange labial click, 
which bears to the ordinary labial click 0, a relation in sound similar to that which the 
palatal chck + bears to the cerebral thck \. Again, the Moon — and it seems also the 
Hare and the Anteater, — substitute a most unpronounceable click in place of all others, 
excepting the lip cUck. (B XV. 1468 rev., L U. — 37. 3356 and 3357.) Another animal, 
the Blue Crane, differs in its speech from the ordinary Bushman, mainly by the insertion 
of a tt at the end of the first syllable of almost every word. 

It need not be said that, if it be by no means easy to write Bushman itself, the 
difficulty of taking down these animal speeches is by far greater, and before any attempt 
could be made to translate tliem into English or Dutch, they had first to be rendered into 
ordinary* Buslmian by om' informants. The presence of these abnormal clicks in the 
different kinds of speech, points to the possibility, nay, even to the probabihty, of the 
former presence of many more chcks in the Bushman language than the five which are 
now to be found there. 

Although I am fully conscious tliat, in our collections, we have, as yet, been able to 
gather only a small portion of the great store of Bushman b'aditionary lore, and although, 
])erhaps, even the greater portion of then- mythological notions may still be unknown to us, 
— what has aheady been collected, may yet not um-easonably be supposed to give us a 
fair idea of tlie general character of Bushman mythology. And mainly on this account, 
I shall here, in my analysis of our collections, endeavour to give a short outhue of the 
principal mjiJis which we have met with among the Bushmen. 

A. Mtthologt, Fables, Legends, and Poetry. 

I. The Mantis. 

The most prominent of the mythological figures is that of the Mantis, around which 
a gi-eat circle of mytlis has been fonned. Besides his own proper name (Ikaggcn) he 
possesses several others, and so also does his wife, whose most usual name is, however, 

Ihunntujattjattun (Ihunn means the " Dasse," Hyrax ). Their adojited daughter, 

the Porcupine (whose real father is a monster named llkhivui-hemm, the All-devourer, with 
whom she doi'es not hve for fear of being herself eaten), is married to /kwi'nnma/ia, and 
has by him a son, the Ichneumon, who plays an important part in Bushman mythology, 
particularly in ad^^sing and assisting his grandfather, the Mantis, and in chiding him for 
his misdeeds. The same mythological figure, Ikaggcn, is also the most prominent one in 
the mythology of the Bushmen of the Drakensbergen, as related to !Mr. J. il. Or{)en. 
(L'ai)e Mo7ithly Magudne, Jidy, 1874, pp. 1 — 13.) 

1. In the arrangement of the myths regarding the Mantis, it has appeared to me most 
convenient to place fii-st that one in which the Mantis takes away a shoe belonging to his 
son-in-law Ikwammana, and converts it into an eland, of which he makes a pet, placing it 
among the reeds, and going thither fi'om time to time to feed it with honey. The Ichneumon 
is then sent out to discover why the Mantis brings no honey home, but as the Mantis puts 
him into a bag while he calls the eland from the reeds, the Ichneumon is at first unsuc- 
cessful ; later, by the ad\-ice of his father, Ikuammana, he cuts a peep-hole in the sack. 
ikivdmmaha, on being told about the eland, shoots it, after they have enticed it with honey 
to come out of the reeds. The Mantis, going again, misses his pet, and weeps bitterly. 
Following its spoor, he sees blood, and later finds some Mierkats or Suricats (Suricata 
Zenick, or Rhyzaena suricata), together with another person, who is cutting it up. One 



of the Suricats throws the Mantis violently down upon the horns oj^ the dead eland. He, 
therefore (by piercing the gall of another eland), creates a darkness, into which he springs 
away ; and returning home in pain, lies down, while the sun is stiU high. The Suricats 
cut the eland's flesh into slices, hanging it upon a tree to day, and upon the same tree they 
hung their weapons and their skin clothing. In the night, while they were sleeping, this 
tree, laden with their possessions, rose up and passed through the air, descending where 
the Mantis lay. The Mantis and Ichneumon (upon awaking) took possession of their 
enemies' things. One of the Suricats (with only his girdle left, which he made into a tail) 
returned home to be stared at and questioned by his wife. 

We have two versions of the above myth, one given by oiir old Bushman lllcahho, 
who must in future be understood to be the narrator of all texts for which no other 
authority is given. (L II.— 4. 489—493, 504—513, 515—519, still untranslated.*) 
Another version, in the Katkop dialect, was handed down to Dialhmin by his mother. 
(L v.— 1. 3608—3683, all translated, and pp. 3608 and 3609 entered into the dictionary.) 
To this myth belongs also the account of the reasons for the colours of the gemsbok, 
hartebeest, eland, quagga, and springbok, given in the Katkop dialect by Dialhvdin. 
(L v.— 3. 4071—4074, translated.) 

2. The Ichneumon's speech, when the Mantis had deprived the Suricats of their 
possessions, is in the curious language in which the Ichneumon is supposed to speak, and 
in which all the clicks are converted into sounds like te, Uy, ty, dy, etc., and other modifi- 
cations also take place. It is, probably, as yet unfinished. (B XXIV. 2251 — 2255, 
with translations into proper Bushman and into English, entered.) 

3. The origin of the Moon is an episode in the story of the Mantis and his pet eland. 
When the Suricats, who were present at the cutting up of the eland, ill-treated the Mantis, 
he found upon a bush another eland's gall-bladder, and this (as mentioned above) he pierced 
and broke, thereby creating a darkness into which he sprang ; but, being inconvenienced by 
it, he took off one of his shoes and threw it into the sky, with the order that it should 
become the moon. Thus the moon is red, because the shoe of the Mantis was covered 
with the red dust of Bushmanland, and cold, because it is only leather. We have two 
versions of this myth, a shorter one (L 11. — 24. 482 — 486, untranslated), and a longer one, in 
which a good deal of conversation is introduced (B 11. 379 — 390, 421 — 428, 111.429 — 433, 
all ti-anslated and entered), of which the final speech of the Mantis, as treating of the 
reasons for the changes of the moon, is ref en-ed to the latter heading (§ 1 6). 

4. Among the fights which the ilantis has with different personages and animals, 
one of the most interesting to the Bushman mind, is that with a being whose eyes are in 
his feet, instead of in his head, which is smooth. Its usual name is jgoejkweitentu, — 
but it has others, one of which seems to be identical with the Bushman name for the 
Ignis fatuus. This personage, in the first instance, gives the Mantis a severe beating, 
but the latter, obtaining advice from his grandson, the Ichneumon, with regard to tiie 
proper method of attacking this foe, is ultimately victorious. Of this myth we have 
tliree versions; a short one (L 11.-9. 935—966, ti-anslated), a long one (B U. 391—420, 
m. 461—500, XI. 1027—1119, XH. 1121—1170, XIX. 1805—1871, XX. 1872—1964, 
XXI. 1965—2058, XXII. 2059— 2152,— translated and entered as far as p. 1152, and 
again pp. 1805—1816, 1872—1910, 2060—2152, also translated and entered), and a 
third, in the Katkop dialect, from Dialkwdin, related to him by his mother, i^kdimne-aii, 
which is a continuation of his version of the myth of the Mantis and his pet eland. 
(L v.— 1. 3683—3700, V.— 2. 3793—3861, ti-anslated.) 

5. Another myth, running out of one of the versions of the myth of the Eland, is tlie 
account of a \'isit which Ikwammana and the Ichneumon pay to the lion's house, and on 
which the Mantis accompanies them, but behaves, of com-se, in a mode appropriate to his 
mythological character, — whereby he incm-s the wi-ath of the mother-houess, and has to 
take flight. On his return home, he alarms his wife and adopted daughter by false reports 
of the death of his two companions, who, however, soon appear upon the scene, alive and 
hearty, laden -with presents of quagga's flesh. (L II. — 4. 519 — 529, 11. — 5. 530 — 546, 
of which pp. 519 and 520, 530 — 535 are ti-anslated.) 

6. Then foUows a description of an attack which the Mantis makes upon a Cat, 
which was quietly going along, singing a certain song about the Lynx, who had said that 
the Cat could not run as well as she did. (§ 42.) As the Cat manages to render it impos- 
sible for the Mantis to harm her, he has again to consult his grandson, the Ichneumon, 
in order to gain the ^-ictory. (L 11. — 5. 547 — 565.) A second version of the same 
story is a direct continuation of one version of jgoe-jkweiientu. (L II. — 9. 966 — 978, 
translated.) 

7. The first version of the preceding myth is followed by a story describing how the 




fV^t*>t**W - 



4a 



M 



¦r'y^J'-^^ 



' This means that no written translation has as yet been made with the help of the narrator. The sense of the 
narrative is, however, sufficiently clear. 



Mantis is tiicked by the Great Tortoise. (L 11.-5. 565—624, 8. 811—882, o/ which 
only pp. 811 — 869 are translated.) This is followed by a discourse upon the degrees oj 
understanding possessed by various animals. (L 11. — 8. 882 — 892.) The story o| the 
Great Water Tortoise, who deceived men belonging to the early race o| Bushmen by feigning 
illness (told by Ikweifen ta liken), appears to be a variation of the above-mentioned myth. 
(LVI.— 2. 4055—4063.) 

8. Most of the above-mentioned follies and ill-deeds of the Mantis are animadverted 
upon in a long rebuke, addressed to him by his grandson the Ichneumon. (L 11. — 9. 
976 — 996, translated.) The Iclmeumon then proceeds to comment upon some other doings 
of the Mantis, who — wanting to roast a little "Loffelhimd" (Proteles) — is himself roasted 
by its incensed mother ; and, escaping, dips his singed wings into the water, and comes 
forth a renovated Mantis. (L 11.-9. 997—1002, 10. 1003—1051, translated.) 

9. The account of the ilantis when he takes away the eggs of a certain fabulous bird, 
named jkdkenlkdka Idui, is very curious. This bu'd has the power of making one of its 
eggs (and also the brush-spoon with which the egg is eaten) adhere, in the most comical 
manner, to the mouth of the Mantis, as well as the whole load of eggs to his back, 
whence they cannot be removed untd all the eggs are humbly carried liack by the robber 
to the magic bird's nest. Of this story we have two versions, — a shorter one (L 11. — 6. 
G77— 715, 7. 716—737, of which only pp. 716—737 are translated), the end of which 
(where the Mantis brings home real ostrich eggs) is prolonged into an account of "Ostriches 
and Bushmen," — and a longer one, which llkdbho had from his mother, Ikim-ah ; and 
wiiieh includes another discourse from the Ichneumon. (L II. — 22. 1965 — 2042, 23. 
oo43_2134, 24. 2135—2212, translated as far as p. 2052, and again pp. 2135—2142.) 

10. The visit of the Mantis to the houses of the Ticks, — who, excepting one boy, 
have hidden themselves away in the fleeces of their sheep, — evd thoughts of the Mantis 
with regard to this boy, who is left in charge of the pots of food which are upon the fire, 
— retuj-u of the Ticks, — their attack upon the Mantis, — -his flight home, — his revenge 
upon the Ticks for their inhospitality and ill-treatment of him,— the consequent destitution 
of the Ticks, which is lamented by the relatives of the Mantis, — -the monster llkhwdi-hemm 
is now, by the wish of the ilantis, unwillingly summoned by his daughter, the Porcupine, 
to swallow for them a portion of the Ticks' flock of sheep, — his feai-ful appearance and 
unlimited voracity, — he swallows the ^Mantis, and the brave Ikwdmmana as well, — ;^ery 
trial of the young sons of the Mantis and Ikwdmmana by the Porcupine, — the monster 
llkhwai-hemm slain, — re-appearance of all the animals and things which had just 
been swallowed by him, — removal of the survivors fi-om the place where he lay dead. 
(L 11.-32. 2916—2965, 33. 2966—3057^, 34. 3058—3149^, translated.) 

11. The monster llkhwui-hemrns speech to the ^Mantis and the reply of the latter are 
given separately. (B XXIII. 2161—2210, 2234—2247, translated and entered.) 

12. The pet springbok of the Mantis carried off by an Elephant, while the Mantis 
is in a hole, digging out sweet food for it,— the Elephant substitutes her own calf, — the 
inarticulate reply of the latter to the questions of the Mantis leads to the discovery of the 
deception, — the Jilantis kills the calf and follows the spoor of its mother. He recognizes 
his pet, who is immediately swallowed by the mother Elephant, — dialogue, — entry of the 

S Mantis into the body of the elephant, notwithstanding the attacks of lier companions, — 

k . death of the elephant, — rescue of the young springbok, — ti-iumphant departure of the 

t**^^ &.?.?»A* Iilautis with his pet, tlu-ough the midst of the angry and threatening elephants. — This 

t myth is in the Katkop dialect, and was told to Dialkwdin by his mother ^kdmme-an. It 

4vjW* is pardy ¦svTitten down by L. (B XXV. 2416—2424, 2429—2431, 2433 and 2434, 

f^ I JIJI* XXVI. 2435 — ^2473, aU translated and entered.) Fragments of this myth were also 

^Vyv^T ^ dictated in two portions by Ikweiten ta liken. (L VI.— 1. 3883—3894, translated.) 

13. To frighten some chikben, the Mantis assumes the appearance of a dead horte- 
beest, which is found, and cut up by the children, — they attempt to cany it home in 

CUr**"'*^ pieces, — the parts move, — the head speaks, — the different members are dropped by the 

-^ alarmed children, and fonn again into a whole; — the Mantis, who has now resumed his 

^cM^'-'' ^^^^^ shape, chases the chUcbeu, — their escape. (B XXIV. 2281 — 2332, translated and 

entered.) 

[13a. An account of the magic protection afforded by the Mantis to the Hartebeest 
and to the Eland (that to the latter being chiefly described here), dictated, in the Katkop 
dialect, by DwMvTOW. (L V. — 6. 4411 — 4434, pardy translated.) The same informant 
mentions some remarkable superstitions concerning the Hartebeest, whose head is said to 
resemble that of the I^Iantis ; and also a cui'iaus charm made from the foot of the Harte- 
beest, and used by Bushmen women for their children as a protection against the Mantis. 
(L v.— 6. 4414 rev.— 4418 rev.)] 

14. The originality of all the preceding mj-ths, and the impossibility of their owing 
their origin to anything that the Bushmen may have heard fi-om Dutch neighbours, will 



9 



be clear jrom the outlines of the stories given above. At the same time, the mythological 
character given to the Mantis in them, renders it natural that those among the Dutch 
who may have had any oj these stories related to them by Bushmen understanding 
Dutch (or may have listened to them iu Bushman, — for, there have been and stiU are 
some fanners' children who can speak Bushman), should have translated the name of the 
Mantis (ikaggm) with that of the " Devil." The above ti-anslation may also have tended 
to inti-oduce some traits of the Christian idea of the Devil into the conception of Ikdggen 
among those Bushmen who have intercourse with the Dutch. This renders it uncertain 
whether the idea, expressed by llkdbho, that the Mantis misleads Bushmen by putting evil 
and mischievous thoughts into their minds (really into the sides of their throats, where, 
according to Buslmian notions, the thinking powers of man are to be found), may not be 
of modem and foreign origin. (L 11. — 4. 500 — 503.) Vide Cape Monthly Magazine for 
Jidy 1874, p. 11. 

II. Sun and Moon. 

Although the Mantis is apparently the most prominent figure in Bushman mythology, 
and, at all events, the subject of the greatest number of myths, — yet it does not seem that 
he is the object of any worship, or that prayers are addressed to him. The heavenly 
bodies — Sun, Moon, and Stars — ore, however, prayed to (vide §§ 58 — 60 and 104), and 
thus the Bushmen are clearly to be included among the nations who have attained to 
sidereal worship. 

15. The Sun, o man from whose armpit brightness proceeded, lived formerly on 
earth ; but only gave light for a space around his house. Some children belonging to the 
First Bushmen (who preceded the Flat Bushmen in their country) were therefore sent to 
throw up the sleeping Sim into the sky ; since then, he shines all over the earth. — We 
have two complete versions of this myth, — a short one (L 11. — 4. 487 and 488, 488a — k, 
494 — 499, of which only pp. 487 and 488 are translated), and a longer one (L II. — 35. 
3150 — 3159, 3165 — 3236 rev.). Besides these, we have the beginning of a version in 
the dialect of Stuurman's Fontein, in the Kan-eebergen (B XXIV. 2262 and 2263, not 
translated); and a fragment in the same dialect (L 11. — 35. 3164, translated). Regard- 
ing a similar myth met with among some of the Austrahan Aborigines, vide Cape 
Monthly Magazine, February 1874, pp. 98—102. 

16. Whilst in the preceding myths of the Mantis, the Moon, according to its origin, is 
only a piece of leather (a shoe of the Mantis), — in Bushman astrological mythology the 
Moon is looked upon as a man who incurs the wrath of the Sun, and is consequently 
pierced by the knife (i.e. raj's) of the latter. This process is repeated until almost the 
whole of the Moon is cut away, and only one little piece left ; which the Moon piteously 
implores the Sun to spare for his (the Moon's) children. (As mentioned above, the Aloon is 
in Bushman mythology a male being.) From this Uttle piece, the Moon gradually grows 
again imtil it becomes a full moon, when the Sun's stabbing and cutting processes re- 
commence. — This explanation of the Moon's changes is given in four versions ; the longest 
of which (although as yet unfinished) is in a speech made by the Mantis, when he had 
created the Moon. (B lU. 434—437, 432a— 437a, 438—460, 501—514, IV. 515—526, 
528—584, V. 585—590, XVI. 1497—1590, XVH. 1591—1683, XVEI. 1698—1711, 
1725 — 1758 ; ti'anslated and entered as foi- as 1516.) The second version, written by L, 
is shorter (B I. 215b — 215e, and re-written .on 215bb — 215ff, translated), — and so also 
is the third (L 11.— 1. 285—287, 2. 292, 4. 478—481, of which pp. 285—287 and 292 
are translated). A fourth version mainly gives a description of the changes of the Moon, 
as observed, and shortly to be observed, at the time of naixation, with an explanation of 
then- causes. (L 11. — 6. 654 — 663, of which only p. 654 is translated.) 

17. The Hottentot mji;h of the Origin of Death is also found in Bushman ; but the 
Bushman form of it first related to us is very different fi-om the Hottentot, be it more or 
less original. We have two versions of it. In tlie first, the Moon strives the young Hare 
(whose mother is lying dead) with his fist upon its mouth, and teUs it to cry loudly ; for 
its mother vdll not return as he (the Moon) does, but is quite dead. (L H. — 6. 664 — 670.) 
This version is followed by an explanation that the Jloon has the power of talking, 
because he belongs to the Mantis, all of whose things talk. (L H. — 6. 670 — 677.) In 
the second version (given by la-jkunta, and apparently unfinished) the Moon appears, at 
one time, to tell the little Hare that his mother will come to hfe again, and that, therefore, 
he need not cry ; but the little Hare does not believe, and continues to ciy, saying that 
the Moon is deceiving him. The Moon upon this becomes angry, and threatens to 
beat his mouth. Towards the end of the story, there is some Moon and Hare lan- 
guage, with its peculiar click ; and also some remarks upon the mode of pronouncing it. 
(B XV. 1403—1482, of which pp. 1403—1458 are translated and entered.) 

[G. 54—75.] , D 



ij^—tf 






10 

18. The veritable Hottentot myth oj the " Origin of Death " is told in the Katkop 
dialect by tkdsin, whose father was a Hottentot ; and, although the narrator says that he 
heard the story from his mother )'wd ^ko, a Bushwoman, its Hottentot origin can hardly 
be doubted. Here, the Moon sends the Hare to men with the message of the renewal of 
life ; but it reverses it into a message of death. The angered Moon then heats a stone, 
and burns the Hare's mouth, causing the harelip. — tkmin told this stoi-y three times ; — 
once in a very short version (B XXV. 2361—2364, translated and entered), secondly, in 
a Uttle longer one (L IV.— 4. 3886—3889, ti-anslated), and thirdly, in a still more 
extended one (L IV.— 4. 3890— 3i)00, ti-anslated). 

19. Another different formation of this myth (twice told in the Katkop dialect) 
introduces the Moon's mother, who, according to the first version (begun by #/,asi«, but 
mainly related by Dia/kwdin), died in consequence of tlie wrong message dehvered to men 
by the Hare ; whereupon the angered Moon split the Hare's mouth with a stick. 
(L I\*. — 4. 3882 — 3885, translated.) According to the other version (entirely related by 
Diajkivuin, who had it fi'om his mother ^kdmme-au), the Hare announces to the Moon the 
death of the Moon's mother, thereby causing his wTath, etc. (L TV. — 4. 3886 — 3889, 
translated.) 

20. The Moon becomes angry if people laugh at it, and goes into the sky (i.e. becomes 
eclipsed). When its anger has cooled, and its heart is "comfortable " again, it comes out. 
(L n.— 35. 3154 rev. — 3156 rev., translated.) — A Bushman child warned by its father 
not to look at the Moon as it rises behind the Mountain, for fear of arousing its anger, 
and causing it to liecome obscured. (L H. — 35. 3157 rev., translated.) Added to this 
oi'e the words of derision sometimes addressed, by Bushman children, to the Moon as it 
rises, making it angry. (L H. — 35. 3158 rev., translated.) 

21. A description of an Eclipse of the Sun, as a natural phenomenon, with hardly 
any mythological explanation. (B XXUI. 2211 — 2233, b-anslated and entered.) 

HI. Stars. 

22. Various statements are given with regard to the nature and movements of the 
celestial bodies. The first of these treats of the Mrion and Stars, enduig with the 
"Bushman-rice" Star Canopus (B I. 291 — 294, tran.slated and entered) ; the second 
treats of Sun, Moon, and Stars (B II. 377 — 379, b-anslated and entered) ; and the third, 
of the same (L II. — 1. 214 and 215, translated). 

The names of a number of Stars have been ascertained with the kind help of Mi'. 
Maclear. Besides a separate alphabetical index to the Stars, the names of some are given 
in a supplementary list (B XXV. 2345 — 2347 and 2354, translated and entered); whilst 
another hst in the Katkop dialect has not yet been identified on the map of the sky 
(L rV. — 4. 3882 and 3901 — 3907, translated). Some stars possess several Bushman 
names, for instance Canopus, which has at least five (L U. — 37. 3348). Among the 
stars which have been identified, the meaning of the names of those which follow, is 
quite clear : 

Star-digging-stick' s-stone or the Digging- 
stick's stone of Canopus . . . = Achernar ; 
Male Lions . . . . . . = Pointers to the Southern Cross ; 

Lionesses . . . = Alplia, Beta, and Gamma Crucis ; 

Male Hartebeest . . . . . = Aldcboran ; 

Female Hartebeest . . . . = Alpha Orion ; 

!Male Eland . . . . . . = Procyon ; 

Eland's Wives . . . . . = Castor and Pollux ; 

Steinbok . . . . . . = Magellan's Clouds ; 

Male Tortoises (hung upon a stick) . = Orion's Sword ; 

Three Female Tortoises (hung upon a stick) = Orion's Belt; etc., etc. 

23. A gu'l of the ancient race (preceding the Bushmen) wished for a little light, so 
that the people might see to return home by night. She, therefore, threw wood-ashes into 
the sky, which became the I*Iilky Way. — This mj-th, which Ilk Mo heard from his mother 
jkwT-a'n (L IL— 28. 2505—2516, of which pp. 2505—2509 are translated), is followed 
by an account of the same girl, who, being vexed with her mother for giving her too little 
of a certain red edible root, tlu'ew up portions of it into the sky, where they became stars. 
(L U.— 28. 2516—2520.) 

24. A girl, when men should not have been looked upon by her for fear of harm to 
them, saw some people eating together at a rock-rabbit's house of branches. In conse- 
quence of this, they and the house, fixed by her looks, became stars in the sky, and are 



11 

now to be seen there as the Corona Australis. — This myth -was told to llJcabhos mother by 
her own mother i=gn. (L 11. — 37. 3333 — 3343, translated and entered.) 

25. The Stars are divided into night stars and dawn stars. The latter are the 
subjects of some very |ine and complicated mythological conceptions, of which we e\ident]y 
possess, as yet, only fragments. — The "Dawn's-Heart" (the star Jupiter) has a daughter, 
who is identified with some neighbouring star preceding Jupiter (at the time when we 
asked, it was Regulus or Alpha Leonis). Her name is the "Dawn's-Heart-child," and her 
relation to her father is somewhat mysterious. He calls her "my heart," he swallows her, 
then walks alone as the only Dawn's-Heart Star, and, when she is grown up, he spits her 
out again. She then herself becomes another (female) Dawn's-Heart, and spits out 
another Dawn's-Heart-chUd, which follows the male and female Dawn's-Heart The 
mother of the latter, the first-mentioned Dawn's-Heart's wife, was the Lynx, who was then ' '/; 

a beautiful woman, with a younger sister who earned her digging-stick after her. The .«, >( 

DttAvn's-Heart hid his child under the leaves of an edible root (/kuusi), where he thought -"^ 
that his wife would come and find it. Other animals and bu'ds aiTived first, and each 
proposed herself to the Dawn's-Heart-child as its mother; but they were mocked at by the 
child, until at last it recognized its o\vn mother. Among the insulted animals were the 
Jackal and the Hyena, who, to revenge themselves, bewitched the mother (Lynx) with 
some poisoned "Bushman rice" (so-called "ants' eggs"), by which means she was trans- 
formed into a lioness. In the dark, the Hyena tried to take her (the Lynx's) place in the 
hut, on the return of the Dawn's-Heart ; but the imposture was made known to him by 
his sister-Ln-law. The Dawn's-Heart tried to stab the Hyena with his assegai, but missed 
her. She fled, putting her foot into the fii'e, and burning it severely. The bewitched 
wife was enticed out of the reeds by her younger sister, and then caught by her brothers, 
who pulled off the Hon skin, so that she became a fair woman again. But, in consequence 
of having been bewitched by "Bushman rice," she could no longer eat that, and was 
changed into a lynx, who ate meat. — This myth, which contains many minor, and some 
beautiful incidents, is partly given in the foiin of a narrative, and partly in discoui-ses 
addressed by the Dawn's-Heart to his daughter, as well as in speeches made by the Hyena 
and her parents, after her flight home. — Besides a short statement of the nature of the 
Davm's-Heart, and of his child (L H. — 2. 292 and 293, of which p. 293 is translated), 
we have two long pieces. The first of these begins with a short nan-ative of only eleven 
columns, and then gives a very long discourse fi-om the Dawn's-Heart to his daughter, which 
treats not only of then- own history and that of the lynx-mother, but also of tlie Sun, 
Moon, and Stars, and of the habits of different animals. More than one hundred 
columns (1548 — 1652) of his discourse treat only of lions and Bushmen, and it runs at 
last into a description of the doings of the iackals, which, however, has been brought under 
a separate heading, § 31. (L XL— 15. 1432—1499, 16. 1500—1553, 17. 15.54—1622, 
18. 1623—1691, 19. 1692—1710, all ti-anslated, and pp. 1500—1553 entered.) 

In the second piece, a longer naiTtttive (of about 72 columns) is followed by very long 
conversations between the fugitive hyena with the burnt foot, and her mother and father, 
in which the mother hyena gives good advice respecting suitable marriages ; and in 
which other things of interest to hyenas are discussed. This is, as yet, unfinished. 
(B V. 645—676, VI. 680—749, YH. 751—822, VIH. 823—894, LX. 895—920, 
931 — 964, X. 965 — 997, translated and entered as far as p. 965.) 

An episode in the myth of the Da^vn's-Heal¦t, called "The Black Crow calling the 
Jackal' (when she had been mocked by the Dawn's-Heart-child), is given separately, in a 
yet imfinished piece, in which the Jackal talks with its peculiar cHck. (B IX. 921 — 930, 
of which pp. 921^926 are ti-anslated and entei-ed.) 

A small, but interesting piece, including the address of the younger sister to the 
^-ife of the Dawn's-Heart, when she had been transformed into a lioness, was given by 
la IkuAia, who had heard it from a sister. (L I. — 2. 160, translated.) 

26. The (two) Lions, which was the name given to us (by oux first informants) , V 

for the Pointers to the Southern Cross, were ffjcnier^Ljuen, and at the same time lions. ' 

(L n. — 1. 277 and 278 ti-anslated.) One of them became a star, because a girl looked 
at him (vide § 38) ; and the other lion also became a star. They now stand silent, not 
far fi-om the lionesses, who sit silent. (L H.- 1. 237—240.) .A shorter notice (B L 303, 
translated and entered) refers also to tliis conception ; but there is e\ddently much more 
mythological fiction connected with these hons than we know ; and it is probably on this 
account that the meaning of what we have ah-eady noted down is not yet clear to us. — 
The names of the two lioris are fgu and /hdue ta ^hou. There ai'e fom* bu'ds mentioned 
in connection with them, — the /(/I and his wife the /A/, the /kao and his wife the /k'o (or 
" Blue Crane"). The two husbands are killed and roasted by the hons, — the /gi by /gu, 
and the /kao by the other Hon. The Ikl saw what the lions did, and when offered some 
of her husband's flesh, refused it ; but the Blue Crane accepted some of the flesh of the 



'^fy 



12 

Ikao. Both birds then went to fetch water. The Blue Crane, who had left her child (the 
little jkao) behind her, retui-ned home from the water, and was eaten by the lions ; whilst 
the licl., who had taken her child (the Httle Igi) with her, did not come back, and went 
away to the house of the Crow, which was on the branch of a thom-b-ee, and to this she 
was pulled up by a thong made of gemsbok skin. The Crow then made a fire, and heated 
stones. The lion jgu, pursuing the //c?, arrived under the thorn-tree, and begged to be 
pulled up. By direction of the Crow, the ikl threw down a rope made of mouse's entrails, 
which, of com'se, broke, precipitating the lion into tlie fire, where he was roasted to death. 
The birds then departed fi-om the thorn-tree ; and the other Uon (jhdue ta i^huu), attracted 
by the smell of roasted flesh, anived, and cut off a piece fi'om his companion s thigh. 
Thereupon the Hon /gu (who apparently suddenly came to life again) jumped up, and 
asked Jfor a piece of his own flesh, which they both devoured together. They then 
hunted for food, but in vain. They perceived, at last^ a male tortoise, and, notwith- 
standing its advice, as well as the request of his companion to be allowed to share this 
repast with him, the greedy /gu swallowed the tortoise dovra whole. In pimishment of 
this, whenever the Uon approached game or water, the tortoise told it to nm away, or dry 
up ; and when they came into the neighbourhood of human beings, the tortoise immediately 
(called out to them to throw fire at the Hon. Thus tlie two lions, while hunting together, 
could get nothing. They finally came to the house of an old woman who was lame, and 
lived with a little hare. These also managed to out^^•it the lions ; and, at last, /gu died 
of starvation. After his death, tlie other lion soon obtained food. 

Besides a short account of the first portion of this remarkable myth (L H. — 1. 
:,'78 — 284), we have one connected account of it (L 11. — "2. 305 — 323, of wluch pp. 
305 — 318 are translated). We have also a separate account of the latter part of this, 
embracing the tortoise, the little hare, and the old woman, in the Katkop dialect (by 
Didlkwdiii, who had it from his mother tkamnie-ah), written by L (B XXVI. 2487 — 2529, 
XXVn. 2530 — 2535, translated). It ends with the mother's ad\'ice to Dia/ku)ain, as a 
moral to the fable (B XXVII. 2535 — 2539, translated). Another version of the latter 
part, dictated by lajkunta, but not yet finished (B XIV. 13(j2 — 1392, translated and 
entered as far as p. 1370), contains a long speech made by the tortoise, with its jieculior 
|)ronunciation, in wliich the cUcks are converted into strongly explosive labials. — A story 
which seems to be a variation of a portion of the above myth, gives the account of a man 
who, wishing to escape fi-om a lion, cut off his sore leg, and ran successfully away upon 
the sound one. It was told by jkweiten ta liken. (L VI. — 1. 3959 — 3969, translated.) 

rV. Animal Fables. 

27. Not only in the astrological mythology, but also in the world of Bushman Fable, 
the lion natm-ally occupies a prominent position. One fine fable relates how the hyena 
revenged itself upon the lion, who had grudged it food, by inN-iting him to its own house, 
and then, while feeding him -with soup, inverting the heated pot upon his head, and beat- 
ing him to death underneath it. — Of this fable we have two versions, — the second 
being probably the better of the two (L U.— 2. 361—368) ; wliilst the earher (L 11.— 1. 
257, 256 rev. — 260 rev.) closes with the usual refrain respecting suitable marriages in 
animal life. 

28. The fable of the lion who exchanged his chest (breast) with the field-mouse 
(which lajkuiita had from his mother Ttoaken-ah) is as yet unfinished. (B XIX. 
1778 — 1789, ti-anslated and entered as far as p. 1787.) 

[28a The Lion jealous of the voice of the Ostrich. — In the Katkop dialect, by 
Dialkudin, who heard it from his paternal grandfather. (L V. — 5. 4320— 4344|.)] 

29. A fable, somewhat similar to the Hottentot one of the Uon and the jackal who 
went to shoot elands (" Reynard the Fox in South Afi-ica," p. 3, etc.), was told in the 
Katkop dialect, by i^kdsih (L IV. — 1. 3486 — 3515, translated); fi-om whose dictation 
another beginning of the some fable has also been \vritten down (L IV. — 1. 3485, trans- 
lated). A slightly different version, likewise given by ^kdsin, has only been hurriedly 
taken do^vu in Engh.>h. (L IV.— 1. 3484 rev.— 3492 rev.) 

30. An account of the doings of a family of lions (apparently a continuation of one 
of the Ichneumon's speeches, in the myth of the Mantis, § 8) gives a good deal of conver- 
sation of such a description as might naturally be ascribed by Bushmen to lions. 
(Ln.— 10. 1051—1099, 11. 1100— 1170, translated.) 

31. " The Jackal and the Hyena" (in which piece there ore interminable speeches 
by the jackal) contains many allusions to other fables, and really forms part of the lengthy 
discourse of the Dawn's-Heai-t, § 25. (L H.— 19. 1710—1759, 20. 1760—1855, 
21. 1856—1948, translated.) 



13 

[31a. The "Jackal's Tower" (still visible as a "spitzkop" on tlie otter side of tlie 
Zak River) gives rise to a " Jackal and Hyena " fable, told to Dialkivdin by his mother 
*kdnmie-an. (L V.— 4. 4231—42521, 5. 4253—4265, translated.)] 

32. A fable, in the Katkop dialect (told to ^kasiii by his mother )'wa i'kd), relates 
liow the Ichneumon came to some niierkats, or smicats (here called ^'u/vyj), who were 
cutting up an eland which one of them had shot, and how he disputed the prey with them, 
but unsuccessfully. — This is evidently a fable belonging to the series of myths of the 
IMantis. (L IV.— 2. 3520—3533, ti-anslated.) 

[32a. The vicious Water-tortoise and the charitable Katel (Mellivora), a fable related 
to Dialkwdin, by his mother. (L V. — 5. 4265 — 4291, partly translated.)] 

33. The Anteater inquires from a flock of springbolc ewes, one after another, whether 
her child is a female. Each mother answers that hers is a male, until, at last, a foolish 
spiingbok confesses that her child is a daughter. The anteater offers to hold the child, 
so that the springbok should eat some of the anteater's food. The latter then springs into 
a hole with the kid, ond tells the mother, who is crying for her child, to go. The male 
springbok scolds his wife for having lost their chOd. The anteater then lays down the 
law with regard to the proper food for different animals, and that their marriages should 
be suitable. They aU listen to the anteater, and also to the lynx, who repeats to them the 
anteater's words. In the discourse there is imbedded a fable about the kiorhaan, relating 
how its head was bm-nt in the fii'e ; but this requii'es further explanation. (L II. — 3. 
406 — 416.) — On account of her husband's anger, the springbok mother sends the lynx to 
recover her child for her. The lynx sHps into the anteater's hole imderneath the young 
springbok, and, pushing her out, runs off with her. The anteater, trying to follow, is 
caught in the bowstring of the Ijmx, as in a sling. Disengaging herself, she again pro- 
ceeds to dehver to the lynx her important messages concerning the nature and habits of 
the different animals. 

The above is a condensed account of our longest version of this fable, ¦which has 
almost a right to be called a myth. (L 11. — 3. 383 — 475.) The place for the anteater's 
laws, which in this version is twofold, seems to be properly at the end. 

In another version the daughta- of the springbok, here named Ikhauko^ is stolen away 
by the lynx, who marries her. The anteater, who is told of this by the partridge, follows 
them underneath the ground ; whereupon the lynx unlooses his bowstring and tlirows it 
down. The anteater's head is caught in it, and faUing down, she is ordered by the lynx 
to become altogether an anteater, and to hve in a hole. After this, the lynx takes back 
the young springbok to her mother, and becomes himself (by the order of the anteater) a 
lynx who eats springbok, and marries a lynx. — This account is again followed by the 
anteater's laws concerning the habits of various animals, such as the jackal, the " loffel- 
himd" (Proteles)^ etc., who were, once upon a time, men. (L 11. — 2. 323 — 356.) 

We have also a separate version of these laws or sayings of the anteater and lynx. 
(LL— 2. 138—150.) 

A more concise version of the fable of the anteater, springbok, lynx, and partridge, 
in the Katkop dialect, was given by /kweiten ta liken. (L VI. — 1. 3916 — 3929, 
translated.) 

In the anteater's laws it is to be remarked, that, in the directions given about mar- 
riage, some animals marry wives, others husbands. Therefore, it seems probable that 
some animals are commonly thought of as mascuhne, and others as feminine. This 
strengthens the presumption that Bushman originally belonged to the languages in which 
a grammatical gender of nouns existed, f I "/(/<' my remarks in the article " On Resem- 
blances in Bushman and AustraHan Mythology," in the Cape MontJily Magazine for 
February 1874, pp. 98—102.) 

[33a. The Anteater, and its handsome musical pet, the Lynx. — Related to 
Dialkivdin by his paternal grandmother Tticobboken jkauken. (L V. — 6. 4345 — 4377, 
translated.)] 

34. A male ostrich is killed and carried home by a Bushman. One of its little 
feathers, stained with blood, is lifted up by a gentle whirlwind, and falls into the water ; 
where it gradually becomes an ostrich. It leaves the water as a young ostrich, grows up, 
and returns to its wives as their re^aved husband. As such, he guards the nest against 
the attacks of the jackals and hyenas, who are thereby driven to seek for the nest of a 
she-ostrich who will not be fierce, and who runs away. — This is followed by a very lengthy 
and still unfinished dialogue between the hyena and the jackal in their fhght, etc. (B XU. 
1171—1213, Xin. 1214—1306, XIV. 1307—1336, translated and entered, and the 
words on the first twelve pages parsed on 15 pages folio.) 

This idea of the revival of a dead male ostrich, in and through one of its Httle 
feathers, is a,lso mentioned in other places, and is compared to the coming to Hfe of the 

[G. 54— '7-3.] B 



14 

Moon ; whilst, with the exception of the Moon and the Male Ostiich, all other things 
mortal are said to die outright, and not to come to life again. 

35. The quagga, who fed her hungry child with a piece of her own liver, and whose 
death was caused by her husband, the jackal, who put poisoned pieces of sharp bone into 
her bed, because his relations said that he had married "meat." Her death was avenged 
by her owti family. — In the Katkop dialect, by /kweiten ta liken. (L VI. — 1. 3898 — 3915, 
translated.) 

35a. We have only the beginning of a fable, in which a Blue Crane and some 
Bushman gii-ls play ports, and in which the Blue Crane talks Bushman in the manner said 
to be pecuhar to him, i.e., by the addition of a ft to the end of the first syllable of almost 
every word. (B XXIY. 2266—2271, translated as far as p. 2270.) 

[35b. Tlie Knorhaan (Brandkop) who married his sister. — Told to Dialkwain by 
his mother. (L V. — 5. 4292 — 4320, tronslated to p. 4298.) Apparently a version of 
the fable imbedded in the Anteater's Laws (§ 33).] 



Y. Legends. 

36. One of the ancient people preceding the Bushmen brought home a hon's cub, 
telling his wife that it was a dog which his younger brother had given liim, and that it 
was the whel]) of a dog which killed gemsbok. She, however, knew that it was the son 
of a lioness, whose voice was kno^^•n to her of old, and who was now heard roaring for 
her lost cub. The man called it by the name of jkuiise Ikhici Iku. Although, in hunting 
gemsbok, the man was weU-fiightened by his pretended dog, and had even to get his wife 
to throw fire at it on his return home, he stiU maintained to her that it was a dog. The 
wife prudently sent their little son with his father, when he went out early the next 
morning to hunt. After this, they went hunting gemsbok many times, the boy in fear 
and trembling, and his father in continual danger ; — until one day the boy saw his father 
killed by jkuis.se Ikhiri ikil, who had now grown into a large young lion. He liimself, 
after having seen the lion cany off his father s body, and lay it under a thom-tree, wnth 
that of a gemsbok which it had also killed, makes his escape home. Upon her son's 
report of the death of her husband, and his warning to herself that the lion will soon be 
upon them, the ^\idow goes away with her children to the house of her husband s father. 
On the following morning, the boy goes with his uncles to see what has been done to the 
deserted homestead. They sleep that night on a mountain above the old home, and the 
next morning, not seeing any hons, they visit the hut, the sticks of which are a good deal 
disturbed. They discover the spoor of seven hons (viz., Ibjijse Iklmi iku, his parents, his 
two brothers, and two sisters). After a -visit to the scene of the calamity, they stealthily 
retrace their steps home, and remove to a different place. 

This legend is told with great epic breadtli, in a very -s-ivid manner, giving an 
excellent picture of Bushman life ; and it is seasoned with many dialogues, in which the 
wfe is a particulaily characteristic speaker. (L U. — 26. 2320 — 2412, 27. 2413 — 2504, 
29. 2597—2687, "30. 2688—2779, 31. 2780— 2873^, of which pp. 2320—2343, 
2597—2614, 2688—2873^ are translated.) 

36a. An eai-lier race of people, who preceded the Bushmen in their country, is 
frequently mentioned by them in ttieir legends. There is one in which a cunning woman 
of this race, who lived alone in a house underground, deceived and robbed Ikwammaiia. 
This was told in the Katkop dialect by jkweiten ia liken. (L VI.— 2. 4034—4053, 
translated.) — Another legend relates how a man of this early race was killed and eaten 
by a lion ; and it is used to point out the folly of ventmnng to fall asleep when out alone 
in the field. Told also by Ikiceiten ta liken. (L VI.— 2.^^4004— 4025, translated.) 

[37. The young man of the ancient race, who was carried off by a Lion, when 
asleep in the field. — A very affecting legend, in the Katkop dialect, related to Diajkwdin 
by his mother ^kdmnif-an. (L V. — 7. 4457 — 4525, translated.)] 

37a. The Hottentot legend of a Bushman woman who transformed herself into a lion, 
as told by Sir J. Alexander, was translated, through the medium of the Dutch, by lalkiiAia. 
(B I. 161 — 167, translated and entered.) — We have also a second version of this trans- 
lation. (L L— 1. 114— 118, translated.) 

38. By a glance from the eye of a maiden (probably at a time when she would 
be usually kept in sti'ict retirement) men became ;^ed in whatever position they then 
occupied, with whatever they were holding in their hands, etc., and became changed 
into trees which talked. (L H. — 2. 295 — 305, translated.) 

39. An account, apparently a legend, called in my first report " Stones which kiU 



15 

the thrower," given by lalkunta in very early days (L I. — 2. 125 and 126), wants revision 
and fui'ther explanation to render it intelligible. 

40. Bushman women send out crows to ascertain what has become o| their husbands, 
who have not retm-ned |rom hunting ; they hang |at round the necks of the crows as Jood 
Jor then- journey. Hence the crows have white patches on neck or breast, — This tragic 
legend (the husbands having been kUled) is in the Katkop dialect, told by Dialkwdin, as 
he heard it jrom his mother =/^kdmine-an, and is written down, by L. (B XXVT. 2473 — 2486, 
translated.) — A cm-ious version of this story, in the same dialect, given in three separate 
portions by /kweiten ta liken (L VI. — 2. 3975 — 3996, translated), shows that it ought 
rather to be put among the Jables. 

[40a. The Owl and the Black Crow foretell the approach of the Lion. — By 
Dialkwdin. (L V. — 9. 4689 — 4706|, 4696 rev., and 4697 rev., vnth note respecting 
sorcerers who assume the shape of bnds or jackals, on p. 4701 rev.)] 

41. A note has been made, from llkdbbds infonnation, of a story not yet written down 
in Bushman, telling how the Kain can-ied off a girl belonging to the First Bushmen (or 
the ancient people li\'ing before the Bushmen), who afterwards became a frog, her kaross 
beiug changed into a springbok, etc. Her people were also transformed. (L H. — 37. 
3335 rev. and 3336 rev.) — Versions of this transformation into frogs, ascribed chiefly to 
a new Maiden's acts of disobedience, are given in the Katkop dialect by Ikweiten ta liken 
(L \l.~l. 3930—3958, translated), and by Dialkwain. (B XXVH! 2609—2618, 
continued in L V.— 2. 3864—3881, all U-anslated.) 



VI. Poetry. 

Besides the short verses which we have enumerated below, it is not improbable that 
several of the larger mythological pieces are compositions, and ought perhaps properly to 
have been placed under this head. A further study of Bushman poetry and its pecu- 
liarities, must decide this question. 

42. The Cat's song, before she was attacked by the Mantis, § 6. (L H. — 35. 
3237—32411, ti-anslated.) 

43. The Jackal's song, in the pecuhar Jackal dialect of Bushman, with its extraor- 
dinary click. (B XXm. 2159, translated and entered.) 

44. The song of the Caama Fox. (B XXHI. 2158, translated and entered.) 

45. The Blue Crane's songs. (B XX HI. 2155 — 2157, translated and entered.) 

46. Of the Old Woman's song, when she had eaten the hyena (§ 80), we have two 
versions, — one by lalkuhta (L I. — 2. 158, translated), the other by llkdbbo (B XXTTT 
2160, translated and entered). 

47. The Jackal and the Lion. (B I. 324 and 325, translated and entered.) 

48. The Httle Jackals, by lalkuhta. (L I. — 2. 123, translated.) 

49. Jackal and Hare, by lalkuhia. (L I. — 2. 122, translated.) 

50. The Jackal catches a Hare. (L I. — 2. 122, translated.) 

51. Hare-catching. (L H.— 1. 261—264, ti-anslated.) 

52. The Quagga. (L H. — -9. 932, translated.) 

53. The Gnu or Wildebeest. (L H.- 9. 933 and 934.) 

54. The Hartebeest. (L H.— 9. 932, translated.) 

55. The Gemsbok. (L H.— 9. 930 and 931, ti'anslated.) 

56. The Knorhaan. (L H.— 9. 934 and 935.) 

57. Of what appears to be an Incantation, reciting the names of different animals 
successively, we have several versions, — three by lalkuhta alone. (B I. 249, translated 
and entered; L I. — 2. 119; and L I. — 2. 131 and 132.) One is given by llkdhho 
(L n. — 1. 189 — 195, translated), and two others by some Bushmen at the Breakwater 
(B 1. 197, translated ; and L I. — 2. 127 and 126 rev., translated). 

58. Prayer to the Moon, in two versions. (B I. 294 and 295, translated and 
entered ; L H.— 1. 219—222.) 

59. Prayer to the Sun, in two versions. (B I. 315 and 316, translated and entered • 
LH.- 1. 251.) 

60. Prayer to a Star, probably to Canopus, the "Bushman-rice" Star. (L H. — 1 
216 and 217.) 

61. The " Return Home," original verses by /a/i«2«ta, with explanation hj llkdbbo 
(B L 216 rev. and 217 rev.) 

62. The " Mother's last illness," and another song about being made captive, both 
composed by lalkuhta. (L I. — 1. 95 and 96.) — Another Bushman verse is given by him 
in two versions. (L I. — 2. 120 and 123.) 



16 

B. History (Natural and Peksonal). 
Vil. Animal-') and their JIahits — Adventures with theyn — and Bunting. 

63. The Hyena, in dejending jrom a Lion the game (a gemsbok) wliich she is carry- 
ing home |or her childi-en, bites liis thigh, so that he retires in pain. — By lajliida, jr-om 
the personal experience of his maternal grandfather jkuuii-llgo, who was still hving -when 
his grandson lejt Bushmanland. (B Y. 591 — 645, translated and entered.) 

64. Lions and Girajfes, in two versions. (B I. 320 — 323, translated and entered ; 
L n. — 1. 255 — 257, of which pp. 255 and 257 are translated.) 

C5. The Jackals and the Lion. (B I. 324 and 325, translated and entered.) 

66. The Leopard and the Jackal. (B H. 354, 355, and 353 rev., ti-anslated, and 
pp. 354 and 355 entered.) 

67. How the Jackal feeds her children. (L H.— 9. 927 and 928, tianslated.) 

68. Habits of the Hyena. (L H.— 9. 921—927, 928—930, translated.) 

69. Habits of various Animals. (L U.— 1. 201—213, of which pp. 209—213 ore 
ti'anslated.) 

70. What the so-called "Bushman-rice" (i.e. larvae of the ants) does, when the 
star Altair comes out (L H. — 37. 3344 — 3347, translated and entered.) 

[70a. Habits of the Bot and the Porcupine, etc. — By Diajkwdin, from his parents. 
(L V. — 6. 4378 — 4403, translated.)— Hunting the Porcupine, its habits and faculties, 
by the same. (L V.— 7. 4436—4456, translated.)] 

71. A Lion kills and eats a Bushman. (B I. 286—288, translated and entered.) 

72. A Busliman killed by a Linn ; — a search for the missing man ; — removal of the 
rest to another place, for fear that the Lion should track them to their huts. (L H. — 8. 
892—907, 9. 908—920, of which pp. 908—920 are translated.)— The death of a 
relative of the non-ator from the bites of a Hon, is told in the Katkop dialect by ikiveiten 
ta liken. (L VI.— 2. 4010— 4013, translated.) 

73. The Hottentot story of a Bushman falling upon a Lion, as told by Sir J. 
Alexander, translated, through the mcdiom of the Dutch, by lajkuntu. (B L 158 — 159, 
translated and entered.) — The same story independently told by llkdhho, with a conclusion 
which describes doings at the Bushman's home, after he had reached it in safety, etc. 
(B I. 325—333, H. 334 and 335, translated and entered.) 

74. Ilkabhds adventures with Lions. (L H.- 2. 258—260, translated.) 

[74a. The name of the Lion not to be spoken by children. — Li the Katkop dialect, 
by Dialkwdin, from ^kdmme-an. (L V. — 7. 4526 and 4526^, 8. 4527 — 4562, trans- 
lated.) — Another version of this warning by the same. (L Y. — 8. 4563 — 4573, 
translated.)] 

[74b. A full-grown Bushman, whom the narrator knew, punished by a lion for 
having eaten forbidden portions of the lion's prey, as a child. — Told by Dialkwain. 
(LV.— 8. 4574— 4617i, 9. 4618, with notes upon 4616 rev. and 4617 rev.)]' 

75. How a Lion canied off the narrator's eldest brother, and wounded his father. — 
In the Katkop dialect, by i:kdsih. (L R'.— 1. 3453—3458, translated.) 

75a. A Child who saved its sleeping parents from a Hon, — a story told in the 
Katkop dialect by Ihviifen ta I/ken. (L. YI.— 2. 4004—4009.) 

76. The narrators own hunting adventures. — He kills a hyena and her two young 
ones, and shoots some springbok which had been startled by a Uon. The presence of 
jackals indicates the Uon's whereabouts. In a general hunt, the Hon is killed, but not 
before it has broken the knee-bone of a man, who dies from loss of blood. After his 
buiial, the Bushmen remove to another place, so that the children may not be thinking of 
their father, and wanting to ciy.— Li the Katkop dialect, by ^kdsin. (L TV. — 2. 
3534—3585, translated.) 

77. A Leopard lays Ikdnns head open. — A short notice (B I. 285, translated and 
entered), and a full account (B H. 336 — 348). — N.B. The man recovered, although 
beoaing marks to this day of the severe wounds inflicted by the leopard. His head has 
been photographed at Cape Town by !Mr. Barnard. 

78. A Leopard killed by Mtr/'f-i' and his people. (L H. — 1. 241 and 242, translated.) 

79. The narrator's adventm-e with a Leopard. — In the Katkop dialect, by ^kdsih. 
(L lY.— 1. 3458—3464, translated.) 

80. An Old Woman who was too weak to walk, was left behind by her people, 
when they, to escape starvation, travelled to another part of the country. She was 
aftenvards picked up by a hyena, and carried off to the mountain on its back. But she 
pontiived to kill it, and finding an old pot, she cooked and ate some of its flesh. Frosi 



17 

th-is, she became so strong that slie followed her people, and aiTlved in good condition 
among them, while they were still starving. — This popular story, which might perhaps 
be more properly put among the fables, was related by ki/kunta, as he heard it from 
his mother Ttoaken-aii (L I. — 2. 151 — 158, ti-anslated), and also by llkahho (L 11. — 2. 
369—382). 

81. Of hunting the Hyena, we have three accounts : two of them by llh'ihbo. 
(B I. 316—320, translated and entered; L II.— 1. 252—255, translated.) A thud 
account is in the Katkop dialect, by 4:kasin. (L IV. — 1. 3465 — 3471, translated.) 

82. Hunting the "Loffelhund" (Proteles) and Jackal. (L H.- 1. 217 and 218, 
translated.) 

83. The Flat Bushmen do not eat baboons, but the Berg Bushmen do so. 
(L H.- 7. 798 and 799.) 

84. The story of a Hottentot boy can-ied off by Baboons, as told by Sir J. 
Alexander, translated by lajkuiita. (B I. 171 — 177, ti-anslated and entered.) 

85. Of Osti-iches and Bushmen we -have two accounts, a short one (B I. 295, 
ti-anslated and entered), and a long one wliich is a continuation of the myth (§ 9) of 
Mken Ikaka /did (L H.- 7. 737—797, 800—810, of which pp. 737—770 are tians- 
lated). In the latter account, pp. 780 — 782 b-eat of " Poisoned Aitows." 

86. The Spider. (B I. 210, translated and entered.) 

Vin. Personal History. 

87. llkahho s Dreams of rain and theii- fulfilment. — When the rain has fallen, 
llkabho and his family store up water, and hunt springbok. — Removal to another water- 
pit, more springbok hunting, kilhng young porcupines, and digging out the anteater. 
(L n.— 6. 625—633.) 

88. Ilkdhbo's Capture and Journey to Cape Town are twice described by him. 
One of these accounts (L II. — 1. 266 — 272, translated), the beginning of which is 
also given in another version (B U. 350, translated and entered), can-ies him only 
a part of the way; while the other narrates the whole journey down, as far as the 
Breakwater. (L H.- 1. 242—250, translated.) 

89. Ilkdbbo's journey in the railway train. (B H. 355 — 358, ti-anslated and entered.) 

90. Ilkabhos visit to Dr. P. G. Stewart, to be vaccinated. (L U.— 1. 275—277, 
translated.) 

91. Ilkdbbo asks for thi-ead. (L H.- 12. 1171 and 1172, ti-anslated.) 

92. Ilkdbho's Dream of lions which talked, and also of his wife Ihodbba-an, wlio 
asked him why he had not yet retmned to her. — This is followed by a description 
of his and lalkunta» morning's work. (L H. — 22. 1949 — 1964, translated.) — Another 
story explains how the lions talk as men, by putting their tails into their mouths. The 
sister of the narrator is said to have been thus addi'essed. This is told in the Katkop 
dialect by jkweiten ta liken. (L VI.— 2. 4026—4033, not ti-anslated.) 

93. Ilkdhbo's intended Return home. — He awaits the moon that he may return, and 
hear the Bushman stories. Here he works woman's work, while his comrades at home 
hear histories that travel ; but he does not visit, as they do. The people down here do 
not talk his language ; they \asit their like, and are work-people who keep houses in 
order, and plant food. The Flat Bushmen visit and smoke at each other's houses, and 
listen to histories. On his retm-n to Bushmanland, he intends to put his former house in 
order, and reassemble his chikh-en. He inherited his place, and brought his wife to it. 
(L n.— 32. 2874—2925 rev., ti-anslated.) 

94. The narrator's grandmother restored to life. — Related by lalkunta. (L I. — 2. 
133, translated.) 

95. An attack upon the narrator's master. — By Ijdifafin. (B XVIH. 1685 — 1697.) 

96. How a dog attacked the naxratoT.—By liditatin. (B XVIH. 1712—1724.) 

IX. Customs and Superstitions. 

97. Cutting off the top of the little finger, and piercing eai'S and nose. (L H. — 2. 
357—361.) 

98. Stone-knives : in Enghsh only, after tkdsih. (L TV. — 1. 3481.) 

99. Bushman Presentiments. — They feel in their bodies that certain events are going 
to happen. There is a kind of beating of the flesh, which tells them things. Those 
who are stupid, do not understand these teachings ; they disobey them, and get into 
trouble,^— such as being killed by a Hon, etc. — The beatings teU those who understand 

[G. 54— 75.] F 



18 

tliem, which way they are not to go, and which arrow they had better not use, and also 
woa'u them, when many people are coming to the house on a waggon. They in;form people 
where they can find the person of whom they are in search, i.e., wliich way they must go 
to seek him successfully. (L II. — "JS. "2531 — 2565, translated.) 

[119a. Sfiringbok will lead people to a hon. Their knowledge of distant things gained 
by then- fine scent. — In the Katkop dialect, by Dia/ka-din, fi-om his parents. (L V. — '.I. 
4019— 4651, translated.)] 

[99b. Death of the narrator's fii'st wife, which was foretold by springbok and 
gemsbok. — By Dia/kicdin. (L V. — 9. 4653 — 4688, translated.) This is preceded by a 
note explaining the curious name of the son of a sorceress. (L V. — 9. 4652 and 4651 
rev., ti-anslated.)] 

100. Superstition about Sneezing. (L 11. — 6. 634 — 653, translated.) 

101. The Kain-maker is asked to milk a nice female Rain which is gentle, the rain- 
clouds being her hair. (L 11.— 24. 2213—2226, 25. 2227—2263, teanslated.) 

102. Kain-making : told to llkubbo by a Kain-maker who was his foster-father. 
(L n. — 25. 2264 — 2319^.) — An account of rain-making by means of drugging a water- 
anunal over the land, in illustration of a iiushman painting copied by lIi-. J. M. Oqjen 
(Cape Monthly Ma(ja:ine for July, 1874, fiontispiece), was given, in the Katkop dialect, 
by Dialkivdin, who had it fi'om his mother. (B XXVlI. 2540 — 2608, the two 
first pages only translated.) The beginning of this was repeated by him (L Y. — 3. 
4075 — 4085, translated), and two other accounts of rain-making were also given by him. 
(L v.— 3. 4086—4121, translated.) 

103. How an old woman asked a Chameleon for rain, and knew, from its way of 
looldng, that rain would fall ; as it indeed did that very night. — In the Katkop dialect, 
by thm/i, who heaid it ji-om his mother yicd #/;o. (L TV. — 3. 3701 — 3737, translated.) 
— This is preceded by reasons for not killing the Chameleon, which came out of the sky. 
(L IV.— 3. p. iv., translated.) 

104. Bushman doings.and prayers when Canopus and his grandmother Siiius come 
out. (L 11.-37. 3348—3355, translated and entered.) 

105. The Bushman Doctor or Sorcerer. (L 11. — 1. 273 — 275, translated.) — An 
account of these people was also given in the Katkop dialect by Dialkwdin. (L V. — 3. 
4122 — 4131), from whom we besides have two reports of cures performed upon himself. 
The first of these (L V.— 3. 4132— 4161^, 4. 4162— 4199, translated as far as p. 4183) 
includes a speech made by the sorceress ; the second relates how she cured him when 
injm-ed by a Kafir. (L V.— 4. 4200—4230.) 

[105a. Remarks upon sorcerers, their dress, etc. (in explanation of one of Mr. Stow's 
copies of Bushman paintings), by Diajkivdin. (L V. — 10. 4744 — 4750, translated.)] 

[105b. An old sorceress (a relative who befiiended the narrator's family), her power 
of turning herself into a lioness, her pet springbok, etc. — By Dialkivdin. (L V. — 10. 
4707 — 4743, b-anslated to p. 4717.)] 

106. What a Maiden must eat and avoid. (L 11. — 28. 2520 — 2524.) — How a new 
Maiden is ti-eated, has been told in the Katkop dialect, by jkweiteii ta liken (L VI. — 2. 
3997 — 4003, translated); who also narrates the use made by Bushman Maidens of a kind 
of red stone. (L VI.— 1. 3970—3974, translated.) 

[106a. What Maidens (and young men) must not say or do, to avoid the wrath of 
the Water. — By Dialktrdin. (L V. — 6. 4377 rev.— 4407 rev.)] 

107. S/i6-loii, a Bushman vegetable medicine, used also as a charm. (L II. — 36. 
3242 — 3261, translated, and as far as p. 3260 entered.) — How one man fights \vi\h 
another, having pre\"iously rubbed his own hands with slw-loii ; and how he afterwards 
restores the man with whom he fought, by means of a fi-esh application of sho-lod. 
(L n. — 36. 3262 — 3268, translated.) — The sho-lod in general use is not found upon the 
flats, but in the mountains near the Orange River, and in the mountains and rivers, 
generally speaking, throughout the country. When dug out by the Bushmen, they replant 
a pait of it with a small piece of the root attached ; and take the other roots in an old 
bag, hanging them up to tlry opposite the house, etc. (L U. — 36. 3269 — 3278, translated.) 
— The newly-brought ahu-loii is feared by the women. (L H. — 36. 3279 — 3286, 
translated.) 

108. An ignorant man ha^•ing gone to dig up -shu-lda, is discovered speechless and 
motionless, sitting among serpents, by the hole where he had been digging. By a skilful 
apphcation of iflw-ldli, the snakes are driven away, taking with them the scent wliich had 
injm-ed the man, but leaving the other scent with the plant in the hole. The man is (also 
by sho-lod) restored to .speech and motion. (L. H. — 36. 3287 — 3332, translated.) 

109. Different Bushman Medicines; where found; and their uses. — Only the names 
of these medicines are given in Bushman, and the remarks respecting them in EngHsh, 
after ^Lmn. (L JX. — 1. 3425 — 3440.) — These specimens were foimd in the hut of a 



19 

Busliman sorcerer, and were kindly j^urnished j^or identification by Mr. J. Gibb. — llkahbds 
names jor the same specimens, with his remarks (in English only), are in a separate 
paper o| 7 |oho pages, to which ^kdsin's notes have been also briefly added, in red ink. 

110. Bushman poisons : their names given in Bushman, but the remarks respecting 
them in English only, after ^kosin. (L IV.— 1. 3472—3480.) 

111. The Grillus Capensis, or " Kiitje," roasted and mixed with puff adder poison 
and so-called " boomgift." — In the Katkop dialect, by tkusin. (L IV. — 2. 351(3 — 3519, 
translated.) 

112. Death. — The place to which the Bushmen go after death. — The various ways of 
dying, and of being killed. — A man is accidentally wounded by another, when they were 
both hunting springbok. Dialogue, in which the wounded man begs them to speak gently, 
not angrily, to the one who shot him. Unfortunate shots are believed to be due to such 
causes as the children at home playing on a man's bed, etc., and are ascribed to the 
remissness of the vdves. — The dying man's last speech to his vrife, in which he gives her 
ad\'ice, etc.- — ^The widow's lament, in which she says that she should like to cry herself 
to death ; and does not want to eat food. Her mother-in-law comforts her. — After the 
burial of the deceased, his widow returns home to her father, where her brothers receive 
her very well. She relates her son'ow to her family, and expresses her intention not to 
marry again, for fear of meeting with a husband who had not the good qualities of the 
deceased. A general conversation ensues, ending in an almost interminable description 
of springbok hunting, etc. (L n.—12. 1173— 1243, 13.1244—1314, 14. 1315—1396, 
translated.) — Whilst the above story touchingly Lllusti'ates an old man's conception of a 
woman's faithful natui'e, and her husband's trustfulness and charity, — another tale, related 
in the Katkop dialect by /kweitm ta //ken, shews a woman's idea of a man's stupidity and 
distrust of his wife. A man cut his wife open, because he believed that she had been 
greedy, and then discoveiing, with great distress, that she was with child, ti'ied in vain to 
repau- the harm he had done, by pinning her together with a stick, thinking that she 
would live. (L VI.— 2. 4064—4070, translated.) 

[112a. Some Bushman children advised by their parents to be self-reliant in seeking 
food, in order to prepare themselves for the loss of their natural protectors. — Related by 
Diajkmlin. (L V.— 6. 4404—4411, and 4410 rev.— 4413 rev.)] 

X. Genealogies, Words and Sentences. 

113. A good many genealogical notes and portions of Bushman family history have 
been taken down. (B H. 349, 359 rev., 360—362, 364, 365, 368—373, 376, of which 
pp. 349, 360—362, and 364 are translated and entered ; B XXV. 2352, 2414 and 2416, 
ti-anslated and entered; L LQ.— 1. 476—506; L IV.— 1. 3452 and 3453; L VI.— 1. 
3895 and 3896.) From some of these materials, and from other sources, twelve genealog- 
ical diagrams (in oblong double folio) have been compiled, each gi\Tng all the known 
ancestors of one individual, frequently extending four, and sometimes five generations 
back. A copy of these diagrams has been forwarded to be laid before the Right 
Ilonom-able the Secretary of State for the Colonies, by His Excellency Sir Henry Barkly, 
in illustration of some Bushman photographs. 

114. All the descendants of /kdii//(jd (//kdbbos paternal grandfather) have been 
enumerated, with short personal histories in Engbsh, in a separate genealogical paper of 
32 folio pages, closely vn-itten. An Index to the names contained in this genealogical list 
has been begun, and enumerates about 250 names (on 27 folio pages), although it has as 
yet only gone as for" as p. 10 of the genealogy. — Similar genealogical hsts of the descen- 
dants of /nod /hatn, and also of jkhittu. (the latter by L), have been begun, but do not 
extend beyond a few pages. 

115. List of Bushmen at the Breakwater, their Bushman and Dutch names, by L. 
(2 folio pages.) 

116. Rough draught of map of part of the country inbabited by the Flat Bushmen. 
(Double folio.) 

117. Names of Animals, mainly identified at the Museum (B H. 358 and 359, 
3G6— 368, XXV. 2341—2344, 2349 and 2350, translated and entered; L H.- 2. 
288—291, translated); further, by la/kuMa (L I.— 2. 184—188, translated) ; and lastly 
in the Katkop dialect, by tkusin (B XXV. 2381—2384, or 2424—2428, translated and 
entered ; L IV. — 1. 3448 — 3451, ti-anslated). — In the same dialect are also some names 
of animals, explaioing the Bushman pictures copied by Air. Schunke. (B XXVH 
2619—2621.) 

118. Names of nine birds, with their descriptions written down in English, from 
some bij'ds' eggs, not yet scientifically identified. (L H. — 1. 182 and 183.) 



20 

119. The Busliman names Jor six MotLs, also tlieir scientific names, kindly furnished 
by R. Trimen, Esq. — Notes on their habits and habitat, given in Busliman, have been 
briefly put dovra in English. (3 folio pages.) 

120. Sentences and Words (B 11. 350—353, 3G3, translated and entered; L H.— 1. 
]fjC_201, 250 and 251, translated ; L 11.— 4. 476—478 not ti-anslated, p. 500 trans- 
lated) ; further by lalkfinta (B I. 67 — 157, etc., translated and entered ; L I.- — 1. 1 — 94, 
!)7_114, 118; 2. 120—130, 134—137, all translated, and pp. 1— G entered). 

121. Words and Sentences in a dialect of the Achterveld (jwobably East of Calvinia), 
fi-om Adam Kleinhardt. (B I. 1 — 66, translated, and entered into a separate Engbsh- 
Bushman Vocabulary of 48 folio pages.) 

122. Words in the Katkop dialect, from *hdd>i (B XXV. 2355—2360, translated 
and entered), from Ikwciten ta liken (L VI.— 1. 3882, 3895—3897), and from Dialktvain 
(L v.— 6. 4434 and 443°5, 8. 4615 rev., 9. 4653 rev., etc.). 

123. Words in the dialect of Stuurmansfontcin, in the Kareebergen. (B XX TV. 
2261 ti-anslated; L 11.-35. 3160—3164, translated.) 

124. Words in a Kalihari dialect, from ydirmhu. (B IX. 899 rev. and 900 rev., 
translated and entered.) — The words and sentences in a Kalihari dialect (Inusa), furnished 
by the Revd. J. G. lii'onlein (on 7 octavo pages), are entered into an exhaustive 
Concordance (65 foho pages). 

125. Koranna-Hottentot Words, with their Bushman and English translations, from 
*kdsiii. (B XXV. 2365—2373, 2375—2413, U-anslated and entered; L IV.— 1. 
3482—3484, translated.) 



I must not omit to mention that, at an early period of our Bushman studies, we were 
very materially assisted, in properly distinguishing the clicks and other sounds, by the 
Revd. II. Tindall, Author of a Grammar and Vocabulary of the Namaqua Hottentot 
Language. I have also to acknowledge the kind assistance of the Revd. J. G. Kriinlein, 
translator of the New Testament into Nama Hottentot, and of Dr. Theophilus Hahn. 

The scientific names of some of the stars known to the Bushmen have been kindly 
furnished by ^li'. Maclear, Assistant Astronomer Royal ; and those of a number of 
animals have been supplied by Mr. R. Trimen, F.L.S., Curator of the South African 
Museum. 

A collection of Bushman jioisons and charms, for which we are indebted to Mr. J. 
Gibb, — and one of Bushman implements, given by ik. E. J. Dunn, have been very useful 
in eliciting information bearing upon the habits and superstitions of the Bushmen. 

Bushman drawings and paintings have kindly been copied for me by Mr. Walter R. 
Piers, and by Mr-. C. H. Schunke. The latter, in the first instance, sent me a fine collec- 
tion of copies of pictures scratched on rocks, in the country of my principal Buslmian 
infonnants ; and, latterly, he fonvarded a still more important cullection of copies of 
paintings, discovered above the uaiTow entrance of a fonnerly-inhabited cave, near the 
Kammanassie Waggon-di-ift, and also upon some rocks in Ezeljagdspoort. Among the 
paintings from the latter locality, is one already pom'trayed by Captain (now Sir James) 
Alexander. The subject of it (the watermaidens), was explained in a fine old legend to 
ilr. D. Ballot (who kindly copied it for Jlr. Schunke), by a very old Bushman still sur^-iving 
in those parts. These pictiu-es have all been deposited in the Grey Libraiy, as well as 
those copied by Mr. J. M. Oi-jjen, and chi-omo-lithographed in the Cape Monthly Magazine 
for July, 1874. The latter pictures, kindly presented through the Hon'ble the Secretary 
for Native Affairs, ai-e of especial interest, on account of their mythological bearings. It 
is to be regretted that the rain-stiokes in one of them, were omitted in the chromo-hthograph. 

[The magnificent collection of forty-two Bushman paintings, copied from rocks and 
caves in the districts of Cradock, Albert, Queen's Town, Kaffraria, etc., by ilr. W. G. 
Stow, F.G.S., accompanied by nineteen of his drawings of Bushman pictures chipped into 
rocks in Griqualand West, has been most generously sent by him to us for inspectiop, 
from the Diamond Fields, by the Icind aid of LieuL-Govemor R. Southey, and Governor 
Sir Henry Barkly. They are of the greatest possible interest, and e\ince an infinitely 
liigher taste, and a far greater artistic faculty, than om- Uvehest imagination could have 
anticipated, even after having heai-d several glowing descriptions of them fi-om eye- 
witnesses. Their pubUcation, which we hope and trust will be possible to Mr. Stow ere 
long, cannot but effect a radical change in the ideas generally entertained ^vith regard to 
the Bushmen and their mental condition. An inspection of these pictures, and their 
explanation by Bushmen has only commenced ; but it promises some valuable results, and 
throws light upon many things hitherto unintelligible.] 



21 

I should not have been able to pursue these researches, had it not been for special 
facilities afforded to me in their pursuit by the Colonial Government and its officers, 
especially Governors Sir P. E. Wodehouse and Sii' H. Barkly, the late Lieut.-General 
Hay as Lieut.-Governor, Messrs. R. Southey (as Colonial Secretary, and Lieut.-Gov- 
emor of Griqualand West), Ch. Brownlee (Secretary for Native Affairs), W. T. 
Hawthorne and J. Dallas, the Revd. G. H. R. Fisk, and others. 

To all these gentlemen I offer my sincere thanks for the aid so kindly and willingly 
rendered to me. 

The valuable assistance which I have derived from the collections made for me 
(indicated by the letter L), as well as from the practical knowledge of the language 
acquired by the collector, may in some degree be understood by those who notice how 
great a share of the texts noted in my analysis bear that initial. 

To the Government and Parliament of this Colony my thanks are due for the sub- 
stantial aid afforded me towards defraying the expenses of these researches. 



[G. 54—75.] 



Charlton House, Mowbray, near Cape Town : 

ISth September, 1875, 



Sir, 



I am instructed by the widow of the late Wilhelm Heinrich Immanuel Bleek, Ph. D., 
Curator of the Grey Library at Cape Town, to forward to you, in fulfilment of the Authox'j iultii — 
.. tioH (tuul fr om Kij ow» lijt) v a copy of his lately-published Second Report concerning Bushmau 
Researches, entitled, "A Brief Account of Bushman Folk-lore and other Texts." 

Dr. Bleek had intended to forward, with this Report, an appeal to those interested in such 
researches, requesting them kindly to assist him to obtain the funds required for printing the 
material collected ; having seen but too clearly for some time past, that, in this Colony (where 
such researches are as yet neither fully understood nor appreciated), he could not, under present 
circumstances, hope to obtain any further aid in the Bushman work, than the annual grant (at 
first XI 00, and this year £150) made of late by the Colonial Government towards defraying the 
expenses necessarily connected with it ; — these grants being never quite sufficient to meet the costs 
incuiTed. Dr. Bleek had only waited to make this appeal until his Second Report concerning 
Bushman Researches (ready to be printed in February last) could be forwarded with it to Europe. 
But, from the pressure of ParUamentary work in the Government Printer's hands, the Author's 
copies of his report were only finally ready in August ; — and, before he could proceed further with 
regard to his intended appeal, he was removed from his labours, by an attack of disease of the 
lungs which proved suddenly fatal early in the morning of the 1 7th of August; — how suddenly, 
will be shown by the fact that he was busily working at his Bushman dictionary up to ten o'clock 
on the night previous. 

His design had been to request some, at least, of those gentlemen who had supported his 
petition to Her Majesty the Queen in 1869, as well as some others, to give him their kind help 
by forming themselves into a Committee for the purpose of raising a fund to enable him to 
publish the Bushman materials collected ; — and, being aware that many of these gentlemen (for 
nistance, Professor Max Miiller), to whom it would otherwise have been most natural that he 
should apply, would, by reason of the heavy existing claims upon their time, be unable to under- 
take the practical management of this business for him however personally willing to do so, — he, 
within the last week or two of his life, mentioned his thought of asking Sir John Lubbock kindly 
to undertake in his behalf the organization and management of this matter. Before this, he had 
more than once spoken of asking Mr. A. W. Franks to act for him ; — but I had (perhaps wrongly) 
expressed my fear lest it should prove too heavy an additional burden on one whose time is already 
so greatly occupied. As it is no longer possible to consult the late Author, and as it now falls to 
me, his pupil in these Bushman researches, to make this appeal to the friends of science in his 
stead (enclosing in explanation of my position with regard to the work, a copy of the conclusion 
of the codicil to Dr. Bleek's will, dated 30 June 1871, and written when a season of unusual 
bodily weakness had again warned him that his time might be short), — I shall venture to entreat 
both of these gentlemen (Mr. A, W. Franks and Sir John Lubbock) to render their friendly aid ; 
and, if able to do so, kindly to undertake together the organization and management of this 
business : — the desire of Dr. Bleek having been to obtain from those interested in these Bushman 
researches, who should see themselves in a position to give it, the promise of a yearly subsci'iptioa 






for a term of years (say five), to create the fund necessary to enable him to print the Bushman 
materials collected ; — one of the most urgent preliminary requirements being sufficient means to 
procure from Europe the requisite type for printing any Bushman texts. (Vide " Second Report 
concerning Bushman Researches," page 6, line 7, &c.) 

I beg also to solicit the earnest attention of those whom I have the honor to address, to 
another subject of much anxious thought to Dr. Bleek, viz., the great importance of takit.g steps 
to effect a general collection of the South African Native Folk-lore, while this is still possible. The 
letter to Mr. Brownlee, prefixed to the accompanying Report concerning Bushman Researches, 
as well as the follomng exti-act from an unfinished appeal home (written some months ago, after 
a hard, and for a time, unavailing struggle to obtain aid from the Colonial Goveruuient sufficient 
to defray the increased costs of the Bushman work), will shew how near this object was to Dr. 
Bleek's heart, and of what great importance he considered its attainment to be. 

After stating that, of late, owing to various causes, — mainly to the very much increased cost of 
all necessaries of life at the Cape, and to the accidental necessity of maintaining a whole 
Bushman family, in order that the Bushmen available for these studies might be retained, — the 
costs had so greatly exceeded the amount of the grant, that Dr. Bleek saw himself compelled to 
apply to the Colonial Government for an additional sum of not less than i;200, in order to dis- 
charge the liabilities incurred by him during the latter period in prosecuting these scientific 
researches, the p.-tper iu question proceeded as follows : 

" Dr. Bleek thinks it best also to mention that he was just about to lay before the Govern- 
" ment of this Colony a plan for stimulating the collection of tlie folk-lore of the Natives of this 
" Colony before their recollections have been lost in the great changes which are produced by the 
" diamond and mineral discoveries. But, iu the present circumstances of the Colony he docs nut 
" see any chance of his proposal being accepted by the Colotiial Government. He, therefore, 
" begs to draw also attention to the great desirability of getting similar collections iu th« 
" languages of the Kafirs, Betshuana, Damara and Hottentots, as have been made in Zulu so 
" successfully by the Bishop of Kaffraria. Although the cost of procuring such collections 
" would by no means [be] so great as that of procuring these Bushman collections, compara- 
" tively small prizes being probably sufficient to stimulate Missionaries and others intimate with 
" the respective languages to collect them from the Natives among whom they live ; yet, if 
" every one of the Nations living on the border of this Colony is to be included in this plan, 
" several hundred pounds would be required for this purpose. Dr. Bleek would also be very 
" thankful for any funds entrusted to him for the purpose of distributing as prizes for the most 
" valuable Collections of Folk-lore in the respective Native languages of South Africa with trans- 
" lati<m, and for publishing them. Those who wish to subscribe for the former purpose 
" will please mark their contributions as 

" Bushman Be.searches Fund, 
" and for the other 

" South African FoJJc-lore Fund." 

With reference to thi.^, I beg to add that Mrs Bleek and I will gladly undertake to receive 
and report upon any collections of South African Native Folk-lore sent in. 

Also that the following gentlemen usually re.sident in this Colony have (with the exception 
of Mr. Stone, now absent on leave, of whose willing aid in this matter no reasonable doubt can 
be entertained) been asked to receive and take cliarge of any funds which may be entrusted to us 
for either of the pui-poses for which aid is requested in this letter, viz.. 



The Hon. J. H. de Villiers, Esq., Chief Justice- of tlie Colony of the Cape of Good Hope; 

E. J. Stone, Esq., M.A., F.R.S,, F.R.A S., Fellow of Queen's College. Cambridge, and Her 
Majesty's Astronomer at the Cape ; 

R. Trimen, Esq., F.L.S., F.Z.S., Curator of the South African Museum, Colonial Secretary's 

OflSce, Cape Town ; 
Wilhelm Risler, Esq., Cape Commercial Bank. 

I also hereby request those gentlemen named in the subjoined list, who see themselves able 
to do so, kindly to become members of the Committee for carrying into execution the plans pro- 
posed by Dr. Bleek, or for accomplishing the objects brought forward by him by such mems, as, 
under present circumstances, it may seem to their judgment best to adopt. 

Firstly, the surrivors of those gentlemen who supported Dr., Bleek's petition to Her Majesty the Qneeu 
in 1869, viz.. 

General Sir Edward Sabine, K.C.B., D.C.L. 

Sir George Grey, K.C.B., Late Governor and 
High Commis.sioner Cape of Good Hope 

The Rev. .Joseph .Mullens, D.D., Foreign Secre- 
tary London Missionary Society 

His Excellency the Right Hon. Austin H. Layard, 
D.C.L., 

J. D. Hooker, Esq., M.D., C.B., P.R.S. 

Professor Owen, U.B., F.R.S. 

The Right Rev. Edward Steere, LL.D., author 
of Swahili Grammar, &c. (now Bishop of 
Central Africa) 

The Rev. Edw. B. Underhill, LL.D., Secretary of 
the Baptist Missionary Society 

His Grace the Archbishop of Dublin. 



Professor Max Miiller 

Professor Huxley 

Sir Henry Rawlinson, K.C.B., F.R.S. 

Lord Houghton, F.R.S. 

Sir C. E. Trevelyan, Bart., K.C.B. 

S. Birch, Esq., LL.D., F S.A., Keeper of 
Oriental Antiquities, British JStuseum 

Sir John Lubbock, Bart , M.P., F.R.S. 

The Rev. W. B. Boyce, Secretary of the Wes- 
leyan Missionary Society, and author of 
the first Kaffir Grammar 

A. AV. Franks, Esq., M.A., F.R.S., V.P.S.A., 
Keeper of British Antiquities and Ethno- 
graphy, British Museum 

Geo. Busk, E.sq., F.R.S., Vice-President Ethno- 
logical Society 

The Very Rev. A. P. Stanley, D.D., Dean of 
Westminster 



The Right Hon. the Earl of Kimlierlcy 

Sir H. T. Holland, Bart., Jl.P. 

Professor Rolleston, M.D , F.R.S. 

Professor Monier Williams 

The Rev. A. H. Savce 

Dr. Leonhard Schraitz, LL.D , FR.S.E. 

Herr Felix Liebrecht 

W. R. S. Ralston, Esq. 

The Editor of " Nature " 



The Editor of " The Academy " 

The Rev. R Caldwell, LL.D., author of "A 
Comparative Grammar of the Di-avidian or 
South-Lidian Family of Languages'' 

F. J. Furnivall, Esq 

Hermann AVeber, Esq , M.D. 

Ernst de Bnnsen, Esq. 

The Rev. H. A. Jeffrey's. 



Also in Germany, should they find it possible to give their kind help as a Branch Committee, 



Professor Lepsius 
Professor Virchow 
Professor Haug. 
Professor Benfey 
Professor Albrecht Weber 
Professor Nasse 
Dr. A. Petermann 



Dr. Reinhold Kohler 

Dr. Gustav J'ritsch, Author of "Die Eingebor- 

nen Siid-Afrikas " 
Dr. Emil Cohen 
Herr Theodor Bleek 
Professor Ernst Haeckel. 




v^ ^ Finally, as one unused to formal writing, I request the kindly indulgence of those whom 
present circumstances have led me to address ; and especially the forgiveness of any friends of 
, r "^ Dr. Bleek's, whose names may have been unwittingly omitted from this letter, written in a time of 
"^^ heavy sorrow, anxiety, and responsibility. 

Trusting our appeal to the hearts of those who can appreciate the importance of/the work 
^ done, and designed, 

^ I have the honor to be, 

X Sir, 

T , , your humble obedient servant, 

¦^>s.-« Lucy C. Lloyd. 



APPENDIX TO LETTER. 



^^-^" 



Copy of the conclusion of the codicil to Dr. Bleek's . will, — dated Mowbray near Cape Town 
30 June 187L 

" I trust that my wife's sister Lucy Catherine Lloyd will kindly assist her in the work of 
" publishing my posthumous papers, &c. ; and I hereby gratefully acknowledge the great help 
" she has been to me in my literary labours. But particularly I request her to continue and work 
"well out our joint Bushman studies, in which her quicker ear, and great industry has been of so 
" important service to science. I appeal to all friends of science to assist her in such ways as 
" they can in her work of collecting, working out, and publishing the records of this dying out 
" race, — the accurate knowledge of whose language and ways seems destined to solve some exceed- 
" ingly important ethnological questions. So far to-day ; other alterations may be noticed another 
" day. 



. , I ^ J [Signed] "W. H. L BLEEK '' 

^^^ i^^ f. i^^ li - ^"""^ ^J ^^ •-^--— _ /7 



^.«'i,&5^£s:^"^i€r»araT,ic 



^ t tfu-jiiZ^ 






















T6in,ty^-/ C^k^'^ cJ^i-^^ U^--^ /L^^^ /^'^^ 




V_y .^ /?/ y/ a . ^t^^ee^ 



/ 



7- fa^^KM^ C^. 






^ ^ J/ 

Nj ?^ J^ ^ »i 

Fiually, as one unused to fo 
present circumstances have led me 



Dr. Bleek's, whose names may havi . 

heavy sorrow, anxiety^ and respons // ,/} ^ V J ,¥" — ^/---i-f / ^^^^^^^t-i-i^j^ ^ 

Trusting our appeal to the he. Ai^-^i^ %L^^ ^ ^^ 't^ ^'^^ ^i^^*?-.-^*'^ ^ 

done, and desiffned, ,/ ^ , y V^^j^^t. J2.^ ^ >^ 



Copy of the conclusion of the c C-^x CC^ '^-y^^ t<^^^t'^'^ ^ ^ 
30 June 1871. ^ ^ y ^ ^ 

" I trust that my wife's sister ^2j2 'f^ i^^LS-'-T.js—^ C-'^ (Z^'p'^''i^'t.>^-^^<^^-^^'^^'-'^ 7~^ 
" publishing my posthumous pajiers ^ 

" she has been to me in my literary /— / > 

"well out our joint Bushman studic ^'^ c*. • _/^/f 

" importaut service to science. 1 a ^ y^^^X A'O-^-^ ^^ C^^2-c C;;^'^'^^^ 

" they can in her work of collectiuj ^ . 

a, A.' ^^-^ ^^^--^ 2fe4^ .^4^.^. f^^ ^^^^ 4^- 



J. l^ 
J-' 



/ 



1^ 



-^/l 






r';H'Z^Y^K^ f^ 



^t^ 6^ (^ 




f::^ 




^t^ 




'yC^at-^^^ . '2^Z^O*<y ^'^-r^ 










/ 



A. 






i^Oo^ 







Mr.(;i 




,/ 

,^^^^ 



iJ 



Finally, as one unus« 
esent circumstances have 



Trusting our appeal tc ^ ^ ^ /7 -"^-^^^--t-'*^ ^/ 

, and designed, '/Y}-?i^ 4L^*-J '/t.^ ^(^-^ » '/k-C^,^Ui v4>- 



ne, and designed, '/Y}-?i^ jL^-c-J ^/l^usc iU^ » '^^-C^i^ '\Ay^ ^y^^-Pi-j^^^^^ )/• 

^ ^^^^^^i^5> ^^-^T^^a^ '^L^.^^ ^""'y^ ^-^ 

/ 



i 



Copy of the conclusion <^ -^ - ,,^ 

June 1871. ^*i^ 0'>^^*'~^ -if^^'Ce,'^ /? A-uC^^ ^O^^^^-X-m-^ 



I trust that my wife 
publishing my poslhumoi 
she has been to me in my 
well out our joint Bushmi 
important service to scien 
they can in her work of 



race,— the accurate know -^^C^^C**^-^ U-^/t^^/^ C-^^C^ 4t^ /^^^.^^~C^ 

ingly important ethnologi "^ y 



'^^ ^^-^ ^ ^^ Cc^i^t:^ ^ /^^-/.iV^^^^i:;^^^ 



"jf-*^ . ^^^^ZL^-^.^^*--^ — i^.^ V A^'^^ 'H^i.-riu,^ 



uuz:ji i-^ /^ - ' "/^ /-^-^^.-^-^-.c^ - ^c^-.^ ^/^^^^z 



,C^A_ 



-b^-^v • V 



- ?2^I^ 0ht^^/U/x ^.^<-*tf.,: -5^^^/ /i^-Z^L^^^, ^V^-<^:5^£«^ . 
4 ^lun.^.^U^c^y^Oy.tXU/^^^'^^ ^^ ^M^t^uv , 



1 



-, /^-/W-z^".*^ '-C^^-in:>-e^<h /p-1'uj^^*-'^^^^ 'yz-^^ /^^^^^ 






1^^^^ Oi^^c--YV ^pCc^^^ t^ (^- (/L^.^jiy^ ' -, e<x^2..^^,,f^ 






Finally, as one unused t .__^^i^l^^ -e«_£^ ^ ^ 

present circumstances have lee / // --\ ^y 

Dr. Bleek's, whose names may ^ Cj/^ Ll^^'riLSAy9t''f'hx^ -^-i^^'^^^ A 

heavy sorrow, anxiety, and res; /I /f ¦ / 

Trusting our appeal to thi A ,. _, /j ^ / ^V'/'t/i^ 

done, and designed, ^ ''^^ '/yO-^t^ i C-f-Lyl/^^/ ^^U^^-^-' C^-^-T-^ 

Lopy or the conclusion oi ti - y ^ ^ - I///4 y, ^/ • Z- ~ ~7^ ~T *^r"7 

unel871. ^^^ ^^^ ^ Y '^^^^ ^C^^ l^^^^^^Z^C^C^ 



^h 



30 June 1871. - ' " '^-^^ rf- i -.-^^^^ y^„:^^,_^^^ 

"I trust that my wife's si '^ / if^ P^^^^i/^ ' ^ /^^^y<.L^ " ^^ 

" piibhshmg my posthumous pa '¦^ >^ ( r i^^t-^yi^i..,^ ^ J 

" she has been to me in my liter / ^ /^ / /^ / /¦ 

"well out our joint Bushman sti L^ i2^ '^C^C^r- i -tL^Ot^^^Ct^ iy~^-^/< ^/^ ^ ><^ 

" important service to science. / 

" they can in her work of collcc ^ ^i/^ /^ y/ ^ ' 'P 

"race, — the accurate knowledge -€¦ fifyd C **¦ /y^rzaC^ ' 'fyCC-^ /t--<^ /z-C-t^t^ 

''^ ingly important ethnological qi Cc< -^ ^-'^'^^-^i^^^^^-^^^ 



k 






i-u.e^ 






6/ 



1 



I^-^t-^-* 
















,:>^ ^'^ t-A,JiJ 



Y ,<!fc-3^v' 











Finally, as one unused 
present circumstances have le , 

Dr. Bleek's, whose names mai /j ^- . y /^ 

heavy sorrow, anxiety, and rei ^ yr . 

TrustinE; our appeal to th ^'¦^^^-^ 




Trusting our appeal to th ' '^»^-'^ ^ Y 

-, and designed, Vy'?-?t-i 4 C'r7^ 



done, and designed, vV^T-^t-i 4 C^rl^ /^ / 



^ 



^/ ^ '- /^ 5i ill 



¦^^C- ^^;r:<f- 



^^7^ ^""^^ ^ C^^^t^ 



Copy of the conclusion of ^-^i "^^ ^ \/7T4'^^ 

30 June 1871. i^i^ <?^ K^t^^^ 

" I trust that my wife's ^2je^-> / ^, /2 ' // 

" publishing uiy posthumous . ^^ ^^ f/Z^t^^^^ 

" she has been to me in my lit ^^ i. u /y 

"well out our joint Bushman ^'_^ "^Cjl^r t "d^^^i^?!^^ 

" important service to science. 

" they can in her work of C(j1 

" race, — the accurate knowled ^ 

" ingly important ethnological 2>'^^-^ 




\ 

