About This File

This file is part of a corpus compiled by Caitlin Matheis (University of Nebraska-Lincoln) for a 2021 computational text analysis project for the One More Voice recovery project (onemorevoice.org). This corpus encompasses a wide range of plain text (TXT) files containing nineteenth- and early twentieth-century literary works centered on Africa by several dozen different British and African writers. Questions about the corpus and project can be directed to Caitlin Matheis (cmatheis2@huskers.unl.edu), the creator of the corpus, and Adrian S. Wisnicki (awisnicki@unl.edu), lead developer for One More Voice.

File Source: Internet Archive, http://archive.org/details/BokwalaTheStoryOfACongoVictim

--------------------------------------
BOKWALA 

THE STORY OF A 
CONGO VICTIM


BY 

A CONGO RESIDENT 



WITH A PREFACE BY 

H. GRATTAN GUINNESS, M.D. 



SECOND IMPRESSION 



LONDON 

THE RELIGIOUS TRACT SOCIETY 

4 BOUVERIE ST. & 65 ST. PAUL'S CHURCHYARD, E.C. 

1910 




PREFACE 

HAVING personally visited the Upper 
Congo in the days preceding the estab- 
lishment of the notorious rubber rdgime, and 
being intimately acquainted with the conditions 
of native life which then obtained, I have 
watched with profoundest pity and indignation 
the development of Congo slavery. Old-time 
conditions of savage barbarity were awful, but 
it has been reserved for so-called " Christian 
Civilisation " to introduce the system of atro- 
cious oppression and hopeless despair under 
which, during the last fifteen years, millions 
of helpless natives have perished directly or 
indirectly, for whose protection Great Britain 
and the United States of America have special 
responsibility before God and men. 

It is particularly appropriate that in this 
moment of Congo crisis these pages should 
render articulate the voice of a Congo victim. 
Bokwala tells his own story, thanks to the 
clever and sympathetic interpretation of a 
gifted and experienced resident on the Congo. 

856066 



Preface 

And a touching story it is, told with admirable 
directness and simplicity, truthfulness and 
restraint. 

I heartily commend the book to all who are 
interested in the greatest humanitarian issue 
which has appealed to us during the last thirty 
years, and to those also who as yet know little 
or nothing of the Cong© Iniquity. 

H. GRATTAN GUINNESS, M.D. 
Acting -Directo? 1 of 
The Regions Beyond Missionary Union. 

Harlby House, Bow, London, E. 







Lord, how long shall I cry, and Thou 
¦wilt not hear ! even cry unto Thee out of 
violence, and Thou wilt not save ! 

Why dost Thou shew me iniquity, and 
cause me to behold grievance ? for spoiling 
and violence are "before me : and there are 
that raise up strife and contention. 

Therefore the law is slacked, and judg- 
ment doth never go forth : for the wicked 
doth compass about the righteous, therefore 
wrong judgment proceedeth. 

Thou art of purer eyes than to behold 
evil, and canst not look on iniquity : 
wherefore lookest Thou on them that deal 
treacherously, and holdest Thy tongue when 
the wicked devoureth the man that is more 
righteous than he ? 

HABA.KKUK i. 2, 3, 4, 13. 



FOREWORD 




THIS story of Bokwala, a Congo victim, 
has been written in the belief that it 
will help the friends of the Congo native to 
see something of how Congo affairs appear when 
looked at from the standpoint of those whom 
they most nearly concern in their actual working, 
i.e., the Congo natives themselves. 

Bokwala's story is the truth, and nothing but 
the truth. The whole truth, however, is written 
only in tears and blood wrung from the unfor- 
tunate people who are subjects of such treatment 
as is described in this book. Even if it were 
written with pen and ink, it could not be printed 
or circulated generally. No extreme case has 
been chosen, the story told has none of the very 
worst elements of Congo life in it ; it is the life 
which has been lived by hundreds and thousands 
of Congo natives, and in great measure is being 
lived by them to-day. 

Now in July, 1909, while these words are 
being written, wrongs are taking place ; men and 
women are being imprisoned for shortage in food 

9 









Foreword 

taxes ; messengers of white men are threatening, 
abusing, and striking innocent villagers ; and 
constant demands are being made upon the 
people who find it impossible to supply such 
except at great expense to themselves, which 
they do not hesitate to incur rather than be 
tied up and go to prison. 

Changes there have been in the name and 
personnel of the administration : but no change 
in the system. We who live here and see what 
takes place pray that you at home may stand 
firm and not for one moment think that the 
battle is won. It is not won yet ; and will not 
be until we see the changes actually worked out 
by reformers here on the Congo as surely as you 
see the proposals and promises of them on paper 
in Europe. 

If what is here recorded helps to bring about 
that happy state of things one day sooner than it 
would otherwise come, surely readers and writer 
will unite in praise to Him who alone is able to 

bring it to pass. 

A CONGO RESIDENT. 



10 






CONTENTS 

PREFACE BY DR. H. GRATTAN GUINNESS 
FOREWORD . 

CHAPTER I 
HOW WE ONCE LIVED 



PAGE 

5 



. 15 



My early days-Life at hoine-How we fared-Work and 
play-Our one fear, the cannibals-Iseank6t6's * arn ™8 
—We despise ft— We are captured by cannibals— The 
journey-A horrible meal— The oannibal village reached. 

CHAPTER II 

I AM A CANNIBAL'S SLAVE . 

In the cannibal village-Before the oounoil— Our fate- 
Desire to please my master— How I succeeded— Our 
fears and their justification— A sad company— Siene s 
murder— The boy who lied— The ordeal by poison- 
Village strife— The human peace-offering— The haunting 
dread— Rumours of the white men— A fright— Mak- 
weke's peril— How he escaped— We plan fhght-Tne 
start-The chase— A near thing-The river reached- 
Over, and at home again. 

CHAPTER III 

THE COMING OF BOKAKALA * 

Athome again— I choose a wife— How I went courting- 
And was married-My visits to the white men-They 

11 



26 



46 



Contents 



talk of " one Jesus"— The other white man, Bokakala — 
llv, wants rubber — We are eager to get it — How rubber 
wan collected — The rubber market — " We did not know." 



CHAPTER IV 

THE BEGINNING OP SORROWS . . .55 

The coming of more white men — A change in our treat- 
ment — Things go from bad to worse — I get tired of 
collecting rubber — And stay at home— The white man's 
anger and threats — I go to a palaver — My rubber is 
short — I am whipped — The white man's new plan — 
Forest guards — Their oppression and greed — We report 
them to the white man — Results — But the worst not 
yet. 

CHAPTER V 

OPPRESSION, SHAME, AND TORTURE . . 62 

My new slavery — How our villagers fared at home — The 
white man's meat— How it was got — The white men 
of God and their pity — How the women were enslaved — 
Feeding the idle — Endeavours to evade oppression — 
Results — How would you like our conditions ? — Forest 
work — Its hardships — The day of reckoning — Back to 
the village and home — An ominous silence — A sad 
discovery — Redeeming our wives — An offending villager 
— A poor victim — A ghastly punishment — The woman's 
death — Another village — The monkey hunters — The old 
man who stayed at home — How he was tortured — No 
redress. 



CHAPTER VI 

I0M1 HORRORS OP OUR LOT . . .74 

Our work grows harder — I consult the white man of God 
— A strange contrast — My plea unavailing — My rubber 
short — I am Bent to the prison — The captives — Their 

12 



Contents 

work and their punishments — The sick — The new-born 
babe — The dead and their burial— The suspected — How 
they were tortured — The steamer — The rubber ohief — 
The prison opened — A procession of spectres — The place 
of the dead — For a time peace — Work for the man of 
God — How we fared — My reward — I wish to go home. 



PA.GB 



CHAPTER VII 



BACK TO SLAVERY 



. 88 






My welcome at home — My respite and its end — The 
forest sentry — The little boy— My father's appeal and 
its result — I intervene — The sentry's revenge — A rubber 
slave once more— I appeal to the man of God — Dis- 
appointment — "Nothing but rubber till I diet" — The 
hopeless toil — The coming of the pestilence — The witch- 
doctor's medicine — The desolation — But still the rubber ! 

CHAPTER VIII 

OTHER CHANGES. HOPE DEFERRED 

A change of labour — We become hunters — A new 
demand — And new difficulties — Failure — The sentry's 
demand — The old men's plea— Murder — We tell the men 
of God — And complain to the rubber man — The white 
chief — The things written in a book — And no remedy 
comes — Hunting again — The English visitor — The white 
woman — Results of making complaints — The sentries' 
threats — The one way of escape — " Better to be with 
the hunters than the hunted" — Another sorrow — The 
sleeping-sickness — "Just a little while, and they die" — 
We cry to the white people. 



CHAPTER IX 
THE ELDERS OP EUROPE 



More white men from Europe — Fears and curiosity — 
The white men inquire about us — We tell them of our 

13 

85601 . 



98 



. 112 



Contents 

state — And our oppressors — The knotted strings and 
their story — " These things are bad" — The white man's 
promises — Better times — Soon ended — Rubber again — 
The old toil — The men of the river — The demands on 
the villages — The chiefs in power — Chiefs and the 
sentries — The death wail and the white man — " We 
are very poor." 



PAGE 



CHAPTER X 
THINGS WE WANT TO KNOW 



. 121 



My story is finished — The past and the present — Why 
are these things so ? — The old days — Now we are white 
men's slaves — How long will it last ? — We are dying — 
Our only rest,is death — How long, how long 1 



14 






THE LIBRARY 

THE UNIVERSITY 

OF TEXAS 



BOKWALA 



CHAPTER I 

How We Once Lived 

My early days — Life at home — How we fared — Work 
and play — Our one fear, the cannibals — Iseank6t6's 
warning — We despise it — We are captured by canni- 
bals—The journey — A horrible meal — The cannibal 
village reached. 

I HAVE heard that there are many white 
people in Europe, both men and women, 
who feel compassion for us black men, and who 
would, if they knew more about us, take pity on 
us and save us from our sorrows and trials. So 
I am going to tell the story of my life, that they 
may know and help us. 

Long, long ago I was born in the village of 
Ekaka, and having lived so long I have seen 
many things, and who is better able to tell them 
than I ? We have great controversy with the 

15 




Bokwala 

white people about our ages: they say I am 
about thirty years old, but of course I know 
better; and I say that I am about three 
thousand years old— which shows that white 
men do not know everything. 

My name is Bokwala, a slave. I do not 
know why my father and mother named me so ; 
for I was a freeborn child. But afterwards I 
became a slave in truth, as I shall tell you, so 
then it suited me well. 

We lived all together very happily in my 
father's compound. He was the chief of Ekaka, 
and had great authority ; he had but to give an 
order, and at once the people would hurry to 
execute it. His own name was Mboyo, but he 
was always called Isek'okwala, after me, and in 
the same way my mother was called Yek'okwala. 
It is one of our customs to call the parents 
" father" or " mother " of Bokwala, or whatever 
the name of the child may be. 

My mother was my father's favourite wife, 
but, being a chief, he had several others, and 
necessarily our compound was a large one. 

In the centre of one side of a large open space 
was the chiefs own house, and next to it the 
open house for talking palavers, feasting, &c. 
Then there were the houses of the women, one 

16 



How We Once Lived 

for each wife, where she lived with her own 
children, and other houses for slaves. As we 
boys grew older we built houses for ourselves in 
our father's compound, and in time it grew to be 
almost like a small village. 

Those were good days, as far as we ourselves 
were concerned. We were free to do as we 
liked ; if we quarrelled, we fought it out, and 
the strongest won ; if we wanted meat or fish, 
we went to hunt in the forest, or to fish on the 
river, and soon had a plentiful supply ; and in 
our gardens there was always as much vegetable 
food as we needed. 

Sometimes the women had quarrels amongst 
themselves, and then we had no peace for a time. 
They talked and talked, and scolded each other 
from morning till night, and almost from night 
till morning, and there was no sleep for any of 
us. Not even my father could put an end to 
these rows : for the time being the women were 
masters of the situation and of him. You see, 
the women provide us men with food, and if 
they are angry with a man they starve him, 
therefore what can he do ? He justs waits, and 
by and by their anger is finished, and a time of 
peace ensues, and possibly a feast. 

I will tell you how we passed our days in the 

b 17 



Bokwala 

time of my childhood. Every one rose with the 
sun, for our people do not think it good to sleep 
late, and it did not take long to eat our morning 
meal of manioca, and anything which had been 
kept over from the night before. 

Then we began to scatter, some of the women 
to the large manioca gardens at some distance in 
the forest, and others to fish in the river. 
Sometimes they went fishing for a day only, at 
other times for as long as a month. The length 
of time and the kind of fishing depends on the 
season, whether the water is high or low, and 
what sort of fish are plentiful. Some of the 
men and boys would go out to hunt with their 
nets and spears, others would be busy making 
nets, canoes, paddles, and cooking utensils, or 
doing smithy work, making spears, knives, or 
ornaments for the women. The chief and elders 
of the village would gather in the large shed and 
talk palavers, hear and tell news, smoke and 
chat all day long. 

We children would fish, go for picnics in the 
near forest, bathe in the river, play games, 

L quarrel and fight and make it up again, and 
return to our play until we felt hungry, when 
we made our way homewards to seek our 
mothers. 
¦ 






How We Once Lived 

Towards evening, when the sun was slipping 
down, the men would come in from the hunt, 
and the women from the gardens, from wood- 
cutting in the forest, and water- drawing at the 
springs, and then the cooking would begin. All 
round us were women chatting, and little girls 
running errands and helping them in various ways. 

Some of the women would be making toko 
(native bread) from the steeped manioca they 
had just brought from the river, and they were 
busy with pestle and mortar, pots and calabashes. 
Others were making banganju, a kind of pottage 
made of manioca leaves, palm nuts, and red 
peppers, and yet others preparing bosaka, or 
palm-oil chop. 

The animals killed in the hunt were first 
taken to my father to be divided by him, 
and soon the portions were given round to 
the women to be cooked, while we youngsters 
sat about waiting, talked and feasted on the 
appetising smells emitted from the various 
boiling pots. 

My mother sat and talked with my father ; 
she did no cooking, as she was the favourite 
wife, and the others cooked for her. In the 
fruit season we might add our quota to the 
feast in the form of rubber and other fruits, or 

19 



Bokwala 




even caterpillars or palmerworms, and these 
were greatly enjoyed by all. 

When the food was ready the women brought 
it in hand-baskets to my father, who first helped 
himself to his share, and passed some to any 
visitors who might be with him, then he gave 
the rest to his wives, and each in turn divided 
it amongst her own children. The slaves were 
treated much the same as children when food 
was served out, they received their share. 

We had no plates or spoons then, as some 
of our people who work for the white men now 
have, leaves served for plates, and twisted into 
a scoop did equally well for spoons. The chief 
possessed his own carved ivory spoon, worked 
from a solid elephant's tusk, but that was taboo 
for any but himself. Nowadays we may not 
work ivory for ourselves, we have to take it 
to the white men. 

As soon as we had all finished eating, and 
drinking spring water, some of us carefully 
gathered up all the leaves which we had used, 
and the peelings and cuttings of the food, and 
threw them away in the forest, lest some evil- 
disposed person should get hold of them and 
by means of them bewitch us. We are all 
very much afraid of witchcraft, unless we our- 

20 



How We Once Lived 

selves practise it ; then, of course, it is for others 
to fear us. 

The meal finished and cleared away, and the 
leavings tied up to the roof to be served again 
to-morrow morning, we all gathered round the 
fires and the old men told stories of their 
prowess in hunting or in war, or retold to us 
young ones some of the legends and fables of 
our ancestors of long ago. Sometimes, on rare 
occasions, my father would sing to us the legend 
of Lianza, the ancient warrior and hero of our 
race. This story takes a long time to tell, and 
at frequent intervals the whole company would 
join in singing the choruses, with clapping of 
hands and great excitement. 

This lasted far into the night. And some- 
times when the moon shone brightly we 
would sing and dance and play games, which 
we enjoyed greatly at the time, although they 
were not good games, and we generally had 
to suffer for them afterwards. On the fol- 
lowing morning many of us were sick, our 
heads ached, and we were fit for nothing. 

We do not play these games so much now 
as we used to. 

There was just one thing we were always 
afraid of in those days, and that was an attack 

21 






Bokwala 

from our enemies who lived on the other side 
of the river. They were very bad people, so 
wicked that they even eat men whom they 
have killed in battle, or slaves whom they 
have taken prisoners or bought for the pur- 
pose. They were at that time much stronger 
than we were, and when they attacked us we 
always got the worst of it. So we dreaded them 
very much, more even than the wild animals of 
the forest. 

On a certain evening we were sitting talking 
after having finished our evening meal, and we 
began to make plans for a fishing expedition 
to the marsh near the river, and finally decided 
to start on the next day. 

We slept that night at home, and were awake 
betimes in the morning ready for an early start. 

There was a very old man in our village 
named Iseankdtd, or the Father of Discernment. 
He had been a strong man and possessed great 
fame ; but that was in the past, and now we did 
not pay much heed to his sayings. He called us 
together as soon as we were awake, and told us 
of a very vivid dream he had had during the 

night. 

It was this. We went to fish just as we had 
planned, but while we were there the cannibals 

22 



r 



How We Once Lived 

came, attacked and overpowered us, and we 
were all either killed or taken prisoners. He 
besought us to lay aside our plans and stay at 
home that day, as he was certain that the dream 
was a warning to be disregarded at our peril. 

We were self-willed, however, and would not 
listen to advice, but rather ridiculed the warn- 
ings of old Iseank<5t(5. 

"It is only a dream," we said ; " who cares 
for dreams ? " and snatching a few mouthfuls of 
food we set off merrily, making fun of the old 
man as we went. What fools we were ! And 
how we blamed ourselves and each other after- 
wards ! 

Down the hill we went towards the river, 
singing, shouting, and skipping along, heedless 
of the danger into which we were running. 
Having reached the bottom of the hill, we made 
our way along the forest path which skirts the 
river bank, and ere long came to the place we 
had decided on visiting. 

Very soon we scattered and commenced work, 
and were just rejoicing to find that the fish were 
plentiful and we were likely to have a good lot 
to take home with us at night, when we were 
suddenly startled by a rustling in the bush close 
to us. 

23 



j 



Bokwala 

He Core we had time to realise what had hap- 
pened, we were surrounded by numbers of fierce 
cannibal warriors who had been in hiding, wait- 
ing for a chance to pounce upon some defenceless 
party of a weaker tribe. 

We tried to fight them, but being almost 
without arms, we had no chance against these 
men who had come prepared for battle, and we 
were completely at their mercy. One or two 
slaves who went with us were killed, but the 
women and we boys and girls were tied together 
with strong creepers and taken prisoners. 

Our captors gathered up the corpses of the 
men they had killed, and compelled some of our 
number to carry them, and then we were ordered 
to march off with them. We kept a sharp look 
out for any opportunity to escape, but this was 
impossible as we were too well watched. We 
were taken across the river and away into the 
forest, in the depth of which we encamped just 
l)i lore the sun went down. 

During all that night we lay awake, weeping 
lor our homes and friends, and more for our- 
selves, watching our enemies prepare fires, cut 
Up the corpses of our friends, cook, and after- 
wards cat them ; for to those people we are but 
n/ydma (meat) j and all the time we feared even 

24 



¦ 



How We Once Lived 

to speak, lest we also should be deemed fit 
morsels for their evening meal. 

Early the next morning we were on the road 
again, and at last towards evening we arrived at 
Bosomo, the village of our captors, footsore and 
weary, and faint for want of food. 

Everything was strange to us. We could not 
even understand the language which we heard 
spoken, but we could guess that inquiries were 
being made as to the success of the expedition, 
and that we were being examined and scrutinised 
from head to foot as to our usefulness either as 
servants or as food. 

Some manioca was given to us by the women, 
and we were put all together in a large open 
shed, while some warriors acted as sentries lest 
we should escape. But there was no danger of 
that just then, we were far too tired, and in 
spite of our misery were soon fast asleep. 



25 



A, 



/ 



CHAPTER II 

I am a Cannibal's Slave 

In the cannibal village — Before the council — Our fate — 
Desire to please my master — How I succeeded — Our 
fears and their justification — A sad company — Siene's 
murder — The boy who lied — The ordeal by poison 
— Village strife — The human peace-offering — The 
haunting dread — Rumours of the white men — A 
fright — Makweke's peril — How he escaped — We plan 
flight — The start — The chase — A near thing — The 
river reached — Over, and at home again. 

WHEN we awoke it was to find the sun 
already shining, for after the fight and 
long walk, in addition to the much talking of 
the night before, our new masters were as weary 
as ourselves. 

It was not long, however, before the whole 
village was astir and the morning meal eaten. 
We were glad to eat the manioca which had 
been given us the previous night, because now 
that we had rested we felt the pangs of hunger. 

26 






¦ 



I am a Cannibal's Slave 

Needless to say, we watched the people furtively 
to see what they did and what kind of mood 
they were in. 

We were surprised and amused to see that 
they washed their hands and faces in the dew 
which was on the plantain leaves, whilst they 
were also very particular about their teeth. 
We, of course, clean our teeth; but if one 
rubs his body occasionally with oil and camwood 
powder surely he has no need of water! It 
only spoils the effect. 

When they had finished their ablutions and 
taken their food the chief and elders of the 
town gathered together in council, and after a 
little while we were brought before them. 
There was much talk, which I could not under- 
stand, but as it was evident that they were 
deciding our fate we stood there in fear and 
trembling, not knowing but what some of us 
might be chosen to furnish another feast for 
them. Finally it was decided that we should 
be kept in slavery, and we were divided up 
between the different elders of the town, the 
chief keeping me and three others as his share 
of the spoil. And so my name, Bokwala (slave), 
became true of me and I entered on my life as 
a slave to the cannibals. 

27 



l 



' 



Bokwala 

I felt so strange amongst all these people 
whose language I could not understand, and 
yet I found that I was expected to enter on 
my duties at once. Although I had great anger 
in my heart towards my captors, yet in one way 
I desired to please them, because by so doing I 
hoped to make sure of a better time for myself 
than I should have otherwise. So I set myself 
to find out what was meant even when I could 
not understand their words. 

When the sun began to slip down a little I 
noticed that the women commenced to get their 
fires ready for cooking the evening meal. The 
wife of my master pointed to me and then to 
her fire, and was evidently making some request 
of him which concerned me. He assented and 
turning to me said, " Dua na epundu" 

I knew he was giving me an order, and 
immediately rose to obey; but what did he 
want ? I went into the house and looked round 
and soon spied an axe. Of course, the woman 
wanted firewood, and in order to get that one 
needed an axe. So probably " Dua na epundu " 
meant "Bring the axe." I picked it up and 
(•juried it to my master, who was apparently 
pleased, for he patted me on the head and said, 
" Mwana mbai, mwana mbai " (" My child "). 

28 



I am a Cannibal's Slave 

Then, pointing with his lips to the forest, he 
said, "Ke a kne desa " (" Go and cut firewood"). 

I had expected that order, so was ready to set 
off at once, repeating over and over the few 
words I had learned, in turn with my own 
language, so that I should not forget them : — 

" Dua na epundu, yela liswa ; " " dua na 
epundu, yela liswa," I said over and over again, 
until I felt sure of the words. Then, while I 
was cutting the wood, " Ke a lene desa, Nco yo 
tena nkui ; " " Ke a lene desa, Nco yo tena 
nkui ; " and before long I found that I had 
enough wood to fill my basket, so I set off for 
the village, and was again rewarded by a pat on 
the head and the words, " Mwana mbai, mwana 
mbai ! " 

While I was in the forest cutting wood the 
hunters had come back and brought some 
animals with them, so I found every one busy 
preparing meat for cooking. I, with the other 
children, sat down and watched, when suddenly 
one of the women turned to me and said, " Dua 
na mune." 

I sprang up and rushed into the house, but 
what 1 had been sent for I could not think. I 
sat on the ground and wondered, and again 
I sent my eyes round the little hut. Ah ! that 

29 



Bokwala 

is it I oil, of course. They have plenty of meat, 
and are going to make palm-oil chop. I seized 
the ealahash of oil from under the bed, and ran 
with it to the woman who had sent me, and was 
received with a chorus of " Bia / bia ! " (" Just 
so"), and for the third time received the old 
chief's pat on the head, and heard the words, 
" Mwana mbai!" 

I began to feel a little less strange, and to 
listen for other words, for I had already found 
that the way to please these people was to be 
bright and do my best. I found that they 
called nydma (meat), tito ; bauta (oil), mune ; 
ngoya (mother), ngwao, and fafa (father), sango, 
and I was just trying to learn these words well 
so as to remember them afterwards, when the 
chief called to me, " Bokwala 1 " 

" ErrCdne " (" I am here "), said I, in my own 
language, for I knew not how else to answer. 

" JDua na yeka dia" said he, beckoning me to 
their group, who were gathered round to take 
their evening meal, which was just being served 
I drew near, and received my share of food, and 
so I learnt some more words, which meant, 
" Come and eat food." 

I began to think that my master did not seem 
a bad sort of man after all, and that perhaps I 

30 



• 



I am a Cannibal's Slave 

might get used to my life there; but then 1 
could not help remembering the fight, and that 
only two nights before these people had been 
feasting off my people, and would do so again 
when they had an opportunity, and I went to 
sleep that night with my mind made up that if 
ever I could see the least chance to do so, I 
would escape, even if it had to be alone. 

Many days and nights passed in this way, we 
slaves having to do all kinds of work and being 
sent on errands continually, sometimes even 
being told to mind the little children when the 
mothers went to their gardens. Of course, we 
looked upon all this as oppression, and felt great 
shame, for we boys frequently had to do 
women's work, and what can be more degrading 
than that ? And I could never forget that I 
was the son of a chief ! 

As we learnt more of their language, and 
began to understand what was said in our 
presence, we found that there was plenty of 
reason for fear as to our future, even though we 
had been kept alive for the present. 

When our people were spoken of it was as 
tito (meat), and fighting expeditions were looked 
upon as hunts. It was quite usual to ratify agree- 
ments between chiefs by the killing of a slave 

31 



Bokwala 

and feast ing on the body, and this was even done 
sometimes when a chief wanted to pay special 
honour to a visitor. And when we heard these 
tilings being discussed and plans being laid for 
them, we trembled with fear, and wondered how 
long we should be all there together. 

We had not much time to ourselves, for we 
were kept continually busy, and we dared not 
talk together very much, because some of the 
natives of the village could understand our 
words, but now and again, out in the forest or at 
night, we were able to tell each other how we 
were getting on, and to condole with one 
another over our misfortunes. 

Now my master discovered that I was good 
at climbing and at catching bats, so when the 
bat season came on he often sent me into the 
forest to search for some. One day I went out 
on such a quest and did not return until even- 
ing. I took the bats 1 had caught to the chief, 
and afterwards went off to the shed where my 
companions were sitting. 

They all seemed very quiet, and scarcely 
gave me a welcome, and this was unusual, 
especially when I brought meat in from the 
forest. I threw myself down amongst them, and 
looking round the group I missed Siene, a little 

32 



I am a Cannibal's Slave 

girl slave with whom I was on very good 
terms. 

" Where is Siene ? " I asked of the others. 

"O Bokwala," answered one, "do not ask, 
we do not want to tell you." 

" But I want to know. Is she ill ? Or has 
she escaped ? " I inquired, thinking the latter 
hardly possible for a girl alone. 

" Bokwala," said one, beckoning me to follow 
him, " come." 

I followed him to an open space at the end of 
one of the huts, and pointing to the ground, 
he said to me, " Look there ; that is all that is 
left of Siene." 

I looked and started back. Could it be? 
Yes, it was only too true— that dark stain on 
the ground was blood. And little by little I 
heard the whole terrible story. The chief had 
visitors, and he determined on a feast in their 
honour, and as a dainty morsel was indispensable, 
he decided to kill and serve up the body of 
my little girl friend. It was on that very spot 
where we stood that the deed had been com- 
mitted. And that dark stain was all that was 
left of my friend 1 

That night I was drunk with anger, and so 
were the other boys. There was no one but us 
c 33 



L 



Bokwala 

boys and girls to weep for Siene, but we wept 
until we wept ourselves to sleep for sorrow; 
sorrow not only for her, but for ourselves as 
well; for we knew not how soon we might be 
treated in the same way. 

Time passed on, and we grew more and more 
accustomed to our surroundings, and as we boys 
proved useful to our masters, we had a certain 
amount of liberty, and went to fish and hunt 
frequently, but always for the benefit of our 
respective masters — nothing we caught was 
reckoned as our own property. 

And we were not always in favour. If any- 
thing was lost or stolen, we were accused of the 
deed ; if we failed to obey or understand, we 
were beaten or punished in some other way; 
and if one of us was found to have lied, we had 
to pay the price, which was sometimes a heavy 

one. 

One boy who told his master a lie was 
found out, and the master with one slash of his 
knife cut the boy's ear off, cooked it over the 
fire, and compelled the slave to eat it. That 
was a bad master, they were not all like that. 

One way of punishing us was by rubbing red 
peppers into our eyes, and another by cutting 
little slits in the skin over our shoulders and 

34 



I am a Cannibal's Slave 

backs where we could not reach, and rubbing 
pepper into the sores thus made. They hoped 
by this means not only to punish us, but to 
harden us, and make of us brave men who would 
not flinch at pain. 

In the case of accusations of stealing, the most 
popular way of settling the affair was by the 
poison ordeal. That was a very frequent occur- 
rence in those days, and still is in parts where 
the white men do not visit often. It was like 
this. All the people gathered together, and the 
chief, witch-doctor, and headmen seated them- 
selves to hear the trial. The persons concerned 
gave their evidence, and the accused was allowed 
to make his defence ; but if he were a slave, of 
what use was it ? Then the evidence would be 
summed up, and the decision given that the 
poison ordeal be administered. 

The bark was brought and scraped, then 
mixed with water, and the draught given to the 
prisoner. We always took it willingly, for we 
all believed that it revealed the truth, and there- 
fore were obliged to stand or fall by it. After it 
was drunk in the presence of the people, all 
waited eagerly for the result. If the prisoner 
vomited, and was none the worse of course he 
had been falsely accused ; if, on the other hand, 

35 



' 



Bokwala 

he fell and died, there was proof positive of his 
guilt. What could any one want more decisive 
than that ? 

Occasionally there were rights between 
different villages near to us, as well as the 
warlike expeditions to other tribes. When 
two villages had been fighting for a long time, 
and neither could win or was willing to give in, 
it was generally settled by a peace-offering. At 
such a time we slaves went in fear of our lives, 
for it was almost certain that a slave would be 
hanged as a peace-offering, and possibly his 
corpse would be eaten afterwards. 

With all these fears surrounding us, and 
never feeling sure of our lives for a single day — 
no matter how kind some of the people might 
be to us — you will not be surprised to hear that 
whenever we got together and could talk a little 
our conversation always turned to the subject 
of our escape from slavery. But so far as we 
could see there was no possibility of getting 
away. 

About this time we began to hear rumours of 
some strange people who had paid a visit to a 
village not far from my father's place, Ekaka. 
They were said to be white — men like us but 
with white skins — and they came in a canoe 

36 



I am a Cannibal's Slave 

which went of itself, having no paddlers, but 
emitting smoke from the roof. 

At first we laughed and thought it was just a 
yarn, simply a made-up story ; but the rumours 
became frequent, and we heard that some of the 
people had actually bought some land and 
settled down on it. We could not understand 
about them, so we concluded that they must be 
the children of Lianza, the great warrior hero of 
our race, who went down river ages ago and 
never returned. But these things did not 
trouble me, for what chance had I ever to get 
back to my father's place, or see these people ? 

One day we had a great fright. A neigh- 
bouring chief came with his slaves and children 
and the elders of his village to visit my master. 
There was the usual salutation and a little 
gossip, and then he began to tell his business. 
He had been settling an affair between himself 
and another chief, and it fell to his share to 
provide the feast of ratification, and naturally 
he wished to do it well. 

Now he had no suitable slave to kill for the 
occasion, which was unfortunate, so he had 
come to his friend to see if he could help him 
out of this serious difficulty by selling him a 
slave. 

37 



Bokwala 

" No," said my master, " I cannot help you ; 
I have no one to sell." 

Then there was much talking and pleading. 
" You have so many slaves in your village, do 
let us have one, even if only a little one." 

But for some time he held out, and refused to 
sell, and we who were listening began to hope 
that we were safe for this time at any rate, until 
at last we heard the words, "Well, take my 
wife's boy : he is small and not of much use to 
me. Take Makweke." 

Makweke was a little lad whom the chief 
had given to his wife to look after her two baby 
girls, of whom they were both very fond. The 
woman liked Makweke and was kind to him, 
and not having a boy of her own she treated 
him better than most of the slaves. So when 
she heard her husband's words she whispered to 
the boy to run and hide, and told him of a safe 
hiding-place. 

Away he went into the bush, and we sat 
down and waited. 

Soon the chief called, " Makweke, dua 
pelepele " (" Come quickly "), but receiving 
no answer he called again. 

Then his wife answered, "Makweke is not 
here ; he was, but has gone." 

38 



! 



k 



I am a Cannibal's Slave 

« Call him," said the chief ; " I want him here." 
The woman answered, " I cannot call him ; if 
you want him you must search for him your- 
self." 

So, receiving the chiefs permission, the people 
rushed out and searched for Makweke in the 
houses and all over the village, then in the 
gardens at the back, but they found no trace of 
him. Into the forest they went and hunted in 
every direction, beating the bushes with sticks, 
and peering up into the big trees, trying to 
discover his hiding-place ; but it was all in vain. 
The search failed, and they returned to their 
own village in great anger at being thwarted 
in their plans. 

But I must tell you of Makweke. He ran 
off to a little distance, climbed a tree, and let 
himself down into the hollow trunk — the hiding- 
place of which he had been told. There he was 
safe, but he could hear the noise and shoutings 
of the people who were searching for him getting 
nearer and nearer, until at last they reached his 
tree, halted, beat the bushes under it and the 
lower branches with their sticks, and then — 
what relief! — passed on. 

He told us afterwards that he was so scared 
he hardly dared breathe, and although he knew 

.. 39 



Bokwala 

they could not see him, he trembled with fear 
us long as they were near. 

I iflte at night, after the visitors had left, his 
mistress took some food out to him, and told 
him to remain there until the morning, when 
probably her husband's anger would be finished. 
Then he might come back to the village. He 
did so, and the affair passed without further 
trouble. 

All this decided us that we would not remain 
in such a place of danger a day longer than 
we could help. I was older now, and had 
grown big and strong, and once across the river 
I knew that a warm welcome would be accorded 
to me and any who went with me. Our only 
fear was of recapture before we could reach the 
river, but we all felt it was worth risking, so 
from that time we began in dead earnest to look 
out for an opportunity of running away. 

Not so very long after the chief and some 
of his people went to pay a visit and remained 
over night. All was quiet in the village, and no 
one troubled about us boys, so in the dense 
darkness of a moonless night we gathered 
together. 

Nastily we made our plans, picked up the 
little food we had saved from our evening meal, 

40 






I am a Cannibal's Slave 

grasped our hunting spears and knives, and 
slipped away into the bush at the back of the 
village. We went very stealthily — nya-nya, 
like a leopard when he is stalking his prey- 
scared at every sound, starting at the snapping 
of a twig, the call of a night-bird or the 
whistle of an insect. 

On and on we pressed, not daring to speak to 
each other, lest we might betray our where- 
abouts to some unfriendly native, or one who 
was friendly to our masters, scarcely able to see 
the path, for the moon had not yet risen, 
scratching ourselves as we passed thorny bushes, 
treading on sticks and roots of trees projecting 
from the ground— and still on— what mattered 
wounds or weariness if at last we reached the 
river and liberty? 

We made good progress during the first few 
hours, and were not much afraid of pursuit, 
as our flight would not be discovered until 
morning; but by and by some of our party 
(which consisted of a man and his wife with 
a little child as well as three of us boys) began 
to get weary, and it was necessary that we 
should get away from the main road, lest we 
should be overtaken. So we turned off into a 
side road, and at a little distance from it we 

41 



Bokwala 

lou i id a large fallen tree which made a good 
hiding-place. There we lay down and slept for 
sonic time, one of us taking turns at watching 
and listening. 

I Q the morning we were startled by hearing 
voices not far off, and as we listened we re- 
cognised them as belonging to natives of the 
village we had left. Yes, they had awakened to 
find us gone ; and now a search party was out 
scouring the forest in every direction for signs of 
us. We dared not move nor speak, and how 
anxious we were that the child should not cry ! 
Nearer and nearer came the voices till they 
sounded almost close at hand, and then they 
receded gradually, and at last died away in the 
distance. We were nearly caught, but not 
quite ! 

After waiting for some time, we went out to 
look round, and on the main road we traced the 
footprints of our pursuers distinctly ; they had 
passed our footpath by, and so we escaped recap- 
ture. From now onwards we had to keep to 
bypaths, sometimes cutting our way through 
dense forest, spending our nights under fallen 
trees or on the ground, hungry and weary ; but 
in spite of all our difficulties we reached the 
river bank at last. 

42 



• ) 



I am a Cannibal's Slave 

We were still far from home, but once on the 
other bank we would at least be safe from pur- 
suit. Our people have a proverb, " Nta fendaha 
ntandu la mposa e'ola " — that is, " You cannot 
cross the river by means of a thirst for home." 
This is certainly a true saying, so we had to 
seek for a canoe to take us over. One of our 
party set out along the bank to see if there were 
any moored there, as people often go out fishing 
and leave their canoes with no one to look after 
them. This was our hope, and it was fulfilled. 

Not far away was found a canoe with paddles 
in it, and no sign of the owners. We deter- 
mined to watch it until sundown, and then, if 
no one appeared, to take it and set out. For 
the remainder of that day we rested, and sought 
for some food to stay our hunger. How we 
rejoiced to find some edible caterpillars, which 
were delicious, and made us feel stronger for our 
night's work 1 Just as the darkness was coming 
on, when you cannot tell one man from another, 
we crept along the bank, stepped into the canoe, 
grasped the paddles, and silently pushed off into 
the stream. 

We boys were delighted to be on the river 
again, and we did paddle ! But had any people 
been about we might have lost everything even 

43 






Bokwala 

I lien, for the woman who came with us had been 
horn on that side of the river, and had never 
been on the water in her life. She sat down in 
the bottom, clasping her child, and trembling 
with fear. Every time the canoe gave a lurch 
she would utter a little half-suppressed scream, 
and say, " Na gwa I Na kwe bona ? " (" I am 
dying. What shall I do?"). We could not 
help laughing at her, but it did no good, she was 
really very much afraid. We got safely over, 
tied the canoe to the bank, and left it for the 
owners to find as best they might, and plunged 
once more into the forest. 

Now that we were on the safe side of the 
river we did not need to be so careful about 
keeping away from the roads ; we only hid if we 
heard voices, not knowing to whom they might 
belong. Two more nights were passed in the 
thick forest, and two more days we spent walk- 
ing on, just managing to keep alive by eating 
fruit, roots, caterpillars, or anything we could 
find that was edible. When we were nearing 
home we again heard voices not far off. 

We listened. Yes, I recognised them. They 
were people from my father's village. Accosting 
them, we made inquiries about our friends, and 
were glad to find that all was well 

44 






I am a Cannibal's Slave 

On we pressed with renewed energy, and 
towards evening we arrived in the village, worn 
out with anxiety, exhausted from want of food, 
and ready to drop with weariness ; but how glad 
we were to be there ! 

And what a welcome we all had ! My father 
and mother received us with great rejoicing — 
our fellow travellers for my sake — and what a 
feast was made in our honour ! After the feast 
I told my story, and many were the questions 
asked and the comments made as the villagers 
listened. 

Thus we arrived back at home, and thus we 
were welcomed, and on the next day a great 
dance was held in our honour. And for our- 
selves, what shall I say? We — we were ready 
to die of happiness 1 And yet the day was 
coming when we would wish that we had stayed 
where we were, even as slaves of the cannibals. 



45 




i 



CHAPTER III 

The Coming of Bokakala 

At home again— I choose a wife— How I went courting— 
And was married— My visits to the white men — 
They talk of "one Jesus"— The other white man, 
Bokakala — He wants rubber — We are eager to get 
it— How rubber was collected— The rubber market 
— " We did not know" 

AFTER I got back home, it was some little 
time before we all settled down again to 
the old ways. As I said, there was much re- 
joicing, accompanied by feasting and dancing, 
and then when that was over, I had to visit 
many friends, while others came to visit me. 

We all enjoyed the feasting and soon got 
strong and well again, some of us quite stout ; 
but it was not long before we got tired of 
answering so many inquiries, and listening to 
so many comments; so off we went into the 
lores t to cut bamboos and reeds for thatching, 

46 



The Coming of Bokakala 

and trees for building, and set to work to 
build new houses for ourselves. It was soon 
settled that the family who had come with us 
from the cannibal country should remain in our 
village, so the husband started building a house 
for them not far from ours. 

As time went on I began to think it would 
be a good thing to get married, and as my father 
was quite ready to find the riches I should need 
to pass over to the father of my chosen wife, I 
did not lose any time in making known my 
wishes to her. 

Her name was Bamatafe, and she was con- 
sidered very beautiful. Her skin was of a light 
brown colour, and decorated all over in various 
patterns of cicatrised cuttings, and when well 
rubbed with palm oil and camwood powder 
would shine in the sun. She was usually 
dressed in a wild-cat skin and fresh plantain 
leaves frayed out at the edges and suspended 
from a string of blue beads round the waist. 
Her hair was dressed in our most beautiful style 
— called besingya — that is, all the hair is divided 
into very small portions, each of which is rolled 
in oil sprinkled plentifully with red camwood 
powder and another kind of sweet-smelling 
powder made from nuts. Her eyes were black, 

47 



Bokwala 

mi <l her teeth were chiseled to very sharp 
points. 

Such was the girl I loved ; and now that 
yon know what she looked like, can you wonder 
that I wanted her? 

But of course I had to find out if she were 
willing to come to me, so I determined to pay 
a few visits to her home. 

On the first occasion I simply passed by and 
looked at her as she was sitting in her father's 
house ; but I went again, and, drawing near, I 
said to her, " Bamatafe, o Veko?" (salutation, 
" Are you there? ") to which she answered, "I am 
there ; Are you there? " and I said " O ! " (" Yes.") 

I felt very encouraged after that interview, 
and the next time stayed and talked with her 
for a while ; then when a few days had passed 
I carried her a fine fat hen for a present. When 
she accepted that I knew it was all right for me, 
she was agreeable. 

I immediately went and told my father about 
it, and he arranged with hers about the amount 
of riches which was to be paid as pledge money 
on the occasion of our marriage. A spear was 
passed over as earnest of the other things to 
come, and that evening I brought home my wife. 

Her beauty was greatly admired, and ac- 

48 



The Coming of Bokakala 

cording to our custom I had to make a lot of 
presents to the people who admired her so 
much. Every one of the young men thought 
me very fortunate in securing such a beautiful 
wife. And I soon found that she was clever 
also, for she could cook well; and at once she 
set about planting a big garden, which showed 
that she was industrious. 

We settled down to village life then — 
building houses, making canoes and other 
things, getting our knives, spears, and ornaments 
made by the village blacksmith, hunting, 
fishing, palaver talking, paying and receiving 
visits, having a good time generally, and feeling 
so glad to be really free — free from bondage 
and servitude. 

I often paid visits to the white men of whom 
we had heard so many rumours on the other 
side of the river, and became quite friendly 
with them. I could not quite understand them: 
their words were good certainly, but they said 
they had come to our land simply to tell us 
those words, and not to get anything from us. 

Naturally that seemed strange to me — our 

people always want to get and not to give — 

" but then," thought I, " there is no accounting 

for people who are such freaks as to have 

D 49 



Bokwala 

white skins ; perhaps it is their way ; and if so, 
what more ? " They were always talking about 
one Jesus, who was very good and kind and 
loved us, and who they say died and rose again 
and is now alive. That was too much 1 Who 
ever saw a person rise from death, and if He 
were alive and really cared for us, why did He 
himself not come and see us ? So we said, 
" When we see Him, we will believe." Of 
course, it is only nsao (legend or fable). 

We went to see them, and took them an 
egg or a chicken, or perhaps a little manioca 
now and then, and listened to their words and 
heard them sing, and we always came away 
thinking what wonderful people they were, and 
how much wisdom they had. 

And then there came to our district another 
white man, and he built a house not far from 
the compound of these white men of God, 
and settled down there. At first we thought 
that he and the other white men were brothers: 
all had white faces and straight hair like 
monkeys ; they seemed friendly and helped each 
other, and we never saw them fight or quarrel 
as we so often do. But after a while we saw 
that there was a difference, for the new white 
man called a palaver, and our chiefs gathered 

50 



The Coming of Bokakala 

together from all the villages around the 
district, and, of course, many of us young 
men went with them to hear what it was all 
about. 

It was this : the new white man — we called 
him Bokakala — had come to live with us 
because he had heard that in our forest grew 
the rubber vine in abundance, and he wanted 
rubber — plenty of it. Not only so, but would 
pay for it — brass rods, beads, salt ! Now would 
the chiefs get it for him? Would they be 
willing to send their young men into the 
forest to collect the rubber sap ? And would 
the young men go ? 

Oh, how we laughed! How we danced! 
Who ever heard of placing any value on the 
rubber plant except for the fruit to eat ? Fancy 
getting salt — white man's salt— just for bringing 
rubber! Of course we would go and get it. 
Could we not start at once ? 

Then Bokakala got out some baskets to give 
us to put the rubber in, and there was such a 
scramble for those baskets — we almost fought 
as to who should get the first chance of 
possessing a rubber basket. 

The white man seemed pleased, and gave 
presents to the chiefs; and we were pleased, 

51 




Bokwala 

anxious to get off at once, at the first possible 
minute, to search for rubber, to obtain for our- 
selves some of that wonderful salt from Europe. 
We had already tasted it, and once tasted, 
there is nothing else that will satisfy the desire 
for it. 

Away into the forest we went — not far, for 
there was plenty of rubber in those days — and 
were soon busy making incisions in the vines 
and catching the drops of sap as they fell 
in little pots or calabashes ready to bring 
it home with us in the evening. There was 
great rivalry amongst us as to who could get 
the largest quantity. Then when we thought 
we had sufficient we returned to our homes with 
it and sought for the plant with which it must 
be mixed in order for it to coagulate. This 
grows in great quantities near many of our 
villages, and we call it bekaaku. Having 
mixed the two saps they formed a substance 
solid enough to make into balls about the size 
of a rubber fruit. These, packed into the 
baskets which the white man had given us, 
were ready for carrying to him. 

When we took our well-filled baskets and 
presented them at his house Bokakala was 
much pleased, and we wondered that any man 

52 



The Coming of Bokakala 

should be so easily satisfied, for we could not 
understand of what use the rubber could be to 
him. However, he gave us salt and beads, and 
if we gained by his foolishness, why should we 
object ? 

We continued to take him rubber, and in 
course of time a special day was set apart (the 
fifth day of the white man's week) on which 
rubber was to be brought regularly, and that 
day soon came to be called by us mbile e'otofe 
(rubber day), and is so called to the present 
time. 

Week after week the rubber market was held, 
and Bokakala was good to us — he gave us salt, 
cloth, and beads in exchange for what we 
brought; he talked and chatted with us, 
settled our palavers for us, taught us many 
things, and even named some of our children 
after himself and gave them presents. 

In those days we had no palaver with Boka- 
kala ; it was after he left us that trouble began. 
Many times since we have regretted that we 
welcomed Bokakala as we did because of what 
happened afterwards, but at the beginning he 
treated us well, and we did not know what 
would follow. Perhaps he did not know either, 
but it seems to us that we made our great 

53 



L 



Bokwala 

mistake in accepting his first offers. We were 
tempted and fell into a trap ; but we say to 
ourselves over and over again when we think 
and speak of those times, " It was all right 
at first, but we did not know." 



CHAPTER IV 

The Beginning of Sorrows 

The coming of more white men — A change in our treat- 
ment — Things go from bad to worse — I get tired of 
collecting rubber — And stay at home — The white 
man's anger and threats — I go to a palaver — My 
rubber is short — I am whipped — The white man's 
new plan — Forest guards — Their oppression and 
greed — We report them to the white man — Results 
— But the worst not yet. 



54 



WHEN Bokakala had been with us some 
time, other white men came to our 
country, and they also wanted rubber. "Why 
do they want so much rubber ? " we asked ; for 
we could not see why they should be continually 
wanting the same thing. That is not our way ; 
we feel a thirst for a thing for a time, but in 
a little while it is finished, and we want some- 
thing else. Later on Bokakala left us to go 
to his own land to seek for strength in his 

55 



L 



Bokwala 

body, and he left us another white man, whom 
we called "Leopard"; but they were all known 
afterwards as Bokakala's white men. 

When the day of rubber came round week 
after week, we took in to the white man our 
little baskets of rubber balls, and received in 
exchange salt or beads; or if, as sometimes 
happened, he had none of these articles left, 
he would give us a book to keep, and pay 
us in kind when his boxes arrived. So far we 
had not had any trouble between us and the 
white man; he and we were satisfied with the 
barter we carried on. 

But changes came — another white man came 
to help Leopard in his work, and he was different 
from other white men, he was not good, so we 
gave him a bad name which meant "Pillage" 
or "Brigandage," though I do not suppose he 
ever knew what it meant. 

Naturally a change took place in the way 
we were treated, and gradually things got 
worse and worse. 

Now it is well known that no man goes on 
for ever at one thing without getting tired, and 
wanting a rest. And when I had been going 
to and fro to the forest getting rubber for a 
long time, I began to wish to sit down in 

56 



The Beginning of Sorrows 

town for a little while, especially as by this 
time Bamatafe had given birth to a little son, 
of whom I was very proud, as he was our 
firstborn. 

So one week I stayed at home when the 
young men went to the forest, and when the 
day of rubber fell I had no rubber, and did not 
go to the white man's place. 

As usual, our names were called out of a 
book, and when mine was reached some one 
answered, " He has not come." Then the white 
man was angry, and said that if Bokwala did 
not come to the next market he would have a 
big palaver. My friends came home and told 
me his words, and the next time I went with 
them and was told that I must never miss 
coming— the rubber must be brought in regu- 
larly without fail, or there would be " chicotte," 
or perhaps even prison for those who missed 
coming. 

After that I went regularly for a long time, 
but on one occasion there was a great palaver 
to be talked in our village, and it was necessary 
for me to be present at it. At this time we had 
to collect a certain weight of rubber and present 
it at the white man's place every fifteenth day. 
It took almost all our time to go to and from 

57 



Bokwala 

the forest and collect the rubber, for it was 
becoming very scarce. 

So when the day came for carrying my basket 
to the white man I had not the prescribed 
quantity. I knew that when my turn came 
to have my rubber weighed the white man 
would be angry and scold me, but said I, " Lo- 
tango nta wationtu " (" Reproach does not kill 
a man "), and I did not expect anything worse. 

But the order was given, " Etama" ("Lie 
down "). 

I could scarcely believe my ears — I, the son 
of a chief, to be whipped publicly 1 

It was true. I was placed face down on 
the ground, my cloth turned back, and the 
twisted hippo hide whip was brought out by 
one of the servants of the white man. 

Down it came on me, lash after lash, cutting 
clean into the flesh at every stroke, and causing 
the blood to flow ! 

I do not know how many strokes were given 
me then ; how could I count ? The pain was 
bad enough, but the shame was worse. Then 
I was sent off, the blood drops on the sand 
showing the path I followed, without payment 
for the rubber I had brought, and with the order 
to bring a double quantity next time. 

58 



< 



The Beginning of Sorrows 

For my own sake I tried to do so. I bought 
some from a man in the village who had 
managed to amass a reserve stock, but I had 
to pay a ruinous price for it. I soaked some 
in water to make it heavier, and next time I 
was allowed to leave without any punishment. 
One day the white man told us of a new 
arrangement he was making for us rubber 
workers. A number of men were to be set 
apart as sentries, we called them, but the white 
man called them guards of the forest. They 
were to be taken from amongst our own people, 
and armed with guns, and they would ac- 
company us on our journeys to and from the 
forest and protect us, and they would also 
escort us to the white man's place when the 
day arrived for taking in the collected rubber. 
This sounded well, and as the rubber grew more 
and more scarce, and we had to go further into 
the forest to secure it, surely, we thought, a gun 
would be a protection, and keep our enemies 
from interfering with us. 

Alas! once more were our hopes dashed to 
the ground. These men, who were supposed 
to be our protectors, became in time our worst 
oppressors. Instead of going with us into the 
forest, they at once appropriated the best houses 

59 



Bokwala 

in the villages for themselves, or if these were 
not good enough for them, they caused new 
ones to be erected at our expense. After hurry- 
ing us off to the forest alone and unprotected 
at the earliest possible moment, they established 
themselves in the village, and lived in such a 
style as to far outshine any of our chiefs — in 
fact, taking a delight in insulting and depre- 
ciating them and relegating to themselves every 
vestige of authority which had formerly been 
vested in the chiefs of our own people. 

As soon as ever we young men had gone, 
they behaved as though everything in the 
village belonged to them; the few goats we 
had, our fowls, dogs, food, all our goods and 
possessions— nothing was safe from their greed, 
and it was not long before even our wives were 
not safe if left at home alone. 

Things had been gradually getting worse for 
a long time, and now that the sentries were 
placed over us were so much worse than ever 
before that we began to give up hope. 

We reported their doings to the white man 
many times, but we soon found that he and 
they were as one man, and that if we told we 
almost invariably lost the palaver before the 
white man, and then the sentries found means 

60 



The Beginning of Sorrows 

of their own to punish us for having spoken 
against them. 

We frequently visited the other white men 
when we had the time to spare — I mean those 
who taught about God — and told them our 
grievances. 

They listened and wrote the things we told 
them in a book, and tried very hard to get 
things put right for us ; but with a bad white 
man in charge of worse black men who were 
all armed with guns and given free scope in 
the villages, it was little they could do. 

On several occasions they did win cases for 
us, and we always knew that things would be 
worse if they were not in our midst to see 
and hear what was done, and to take our part 
against our oppressors. 

" Times were bad ! " do you say ? You are 
sorry for us ? 

Yes, white men of Europe, they were bad, 
even then ; but I have not reached the worst 
part of my story. Then, if you do indeed feel 
pity, your hearts will weep for us, and you 
will be filled with grief and with anger. 



61 



CHAPTER V 

Oppression, Shame, and Torture 

My new slavery— How our villagers fared at home— The 
white man's meat— How it was got— The white men 
of God and their pity — How the women were en- 
slaved—Feeding the idle— Endeavours to evade 
oppression— Results— How would you like our con- 
ditions ?— Forest work— Its hardships— The day of 
reckoning— Back to the village and home— An 
ominous silence— A sad discovery— Redeeming our 
wives— An offending villager— A poor victim— A 
ghastly punishment— The woman's death— Another 
village— The monkey-hunters— The old man who 
stayed at home— How he was tortured— No redress. 

I THINK you white people who hear my story 
A will see that by this time rny name Bokwala 
(slave) was being verified for the second time; 
for though the slavery to the black man was bad 
and caused me much shame, that which we had 
to undergo now was, in some ways, worse ; and, 
though most of the very worst things were done 

62 



Oppression, Shame, and Torture 

by the sentries, the white man agreed to 
them. 

At least, we thought he did, as he scarcely 
ever lost a palaver for them. This kind of treat- 
ment, constant rubber collecting, no rest, and 
sometimes no pay — what can it be called but 
another kind of slavery? 

I want to tell you some of the things which 
happened during this time of oppression. It is 
not only we men who go into the forest who 
suffer ; but also those who are left at home in 
the villages, our old fathers and mothers, our 
wives and little children. 

The white man wanted fresh meat for his 
table, so he ordered the old men in the villages 
to hunt antelopes in the forest for him, and 
bring them in alive. The hunting was easy, 
but not so the catching of animals alive. 
That meant great care in dealing with such 
animals as were inside our enclosures of nets, 
so as not to allow their escape while endea- 
vouring not to kill them. 

Then other kinds, the water antelopes espe- 
cially, are dangerous, and cannot be caught alive 
without the captor receiving wounds from their 
sharp teeth. When once caught, their legs were 
broken in order to prevent their escape on the 

63 



Bokwala 

.journey to the white man's compound, and thus 
our fathers supplied the white man's table with 
fresh meat. 

Some of the villages had to supply one, two, 
or even four animals weekly, and one white man 
would not take them with broken legs because 
he wanted to keep them alive on his own 
place. 

I have been told also that some of the white 
men of God and their wives remonstrated with 
the carriers of these broken-legged animals who 
happened to pass their houses, with regard to 
the cruelty of breaking the legs. They say they 
feel pity for the antelopes ! Of course, the men 
laughed at that, because who pities animals ? 
They are not men, or we should pity them. 
White men are strange kind of people I 

Again, when the white man's compound grew 
large and he had many people working for him, 
he needed food with which to provide for their 
needs. Not only his actual servants but their 
wives and families, and sometimes others went 
and sat down, as we say, on the white man's 
place, for there they had an easy time. 

In order to supply all that was needed the 
women in the villages had to work very large 
gardens, much larger than would otherwise 

64 



Oppression, Shame, and Torture 

have been necessary; then dig the roots of the 
manioca ; peel and steep it in the river for four 
or five days ; carry it back again to their homes 
in heavily laden baskets up steep hillsides ; 
pound, mould into long strips, wrap in leaves, 
bind with creeper-string, and finally boil the 
toko or kwanga, our native bread. All this 
meant much work for our women ; firewood 
must be cut and carried from the forest, special 
leaves sought and gathered, and creeper cut for 
string ; and every week the food must be taken 
to the white man's place punctually. 

And for a large bundle of ten pieces one brass 
rod (5 centimes) is paid to the women ! 

What seems hardest of all is that much of the 
food goes to supply families in which are plenty 
of strong women, who are perfectly well able to 
cook for themselves and their husbands. 

These women live a life of idleness, and very 
often of vice, on the land of the white man, and 
frequently treat the village women with disdain 
and shower contumely upon them. If, as some- 
times happens, high words ensue, the village 
women have no chance whatever, for the others 
can say a word to their husbands or paramours, 
who are armed with guns, and it is an easy thing 
for them to avenge such quarrels on their next 

e 65 



I 



Bokwala 

visit to the village of which the women happen 
to be natives. 

There are generally a few villages in close 
proximity to the white man's place the natives 
of which are set apart to supply paddlers, 
carriers, dried fish for employees* rations, manioca 
bread, &c, and who are not reckoned amongst 
the rubber workers. We used to envy the 
inhabitants of these places, and some of our 
people tried to leave their own homes and 
go to reside where the people seemed to us 
to be better off than we were. 

But this was not allowed by the white man ; 
if found out, the offence was punished severely 
either with the whip or prison, so we gave it up. 
And even in these favoured villages they had 
their trials ; fowls and eggs were required as 
well as other little things, and they had to be 
supplied somehow, and it was often anyhow. 

As long as the supplies came to hand regu- 
larly, and no complaints were made by the 
villagers against the sentries who were sent out 
to collect the food or call the people, all went 
well. But it could not possibly be peaceful for 
long, because our people were treated in ways 
that no one, not even an animal, would put up 
with quietly. And although I know you white 

66 



Oppression, Shame, and Torture 

people do not like to hear of bad doings, I must 
tell you of some now, or you cannot understand 
how we feel about this rubber and other work 
which we are compelled to do by strangers of 
whom we know nothing, and to whom we think 
we owe nothing. 

Think how you would feel, if you had been 
out in the forest for eleven or twelve days and 
nights, perhaps in the wet season, when the 
wind blows so that you cannot climb the trees 
for fear of either the tree or yourself being 
blown down; and the rain pours in torrents and 
quickly soaks through the leaf thatch of your 
temporary hut (just a roof supported on four 
sticks) and puts out your fire, so that all night 
long you sit and shiver; you cannot sleep for 
the mosquitoes ; and, strong man as you are, 
you weep, because the day which is past has 
passed in vain, you have no rubber! 

Then, if a fine morning follows, and you 
manage to make a fire, (with tinder and flint,) 
eat a little food you have kept over, and start 
off again in feverish haste to find a vine before 
some one else gets it. You find one, make 
several incisions, place your calabash under the 
dripping sap, and your hopes begin to rise. 
Towards evening it rains again, and again you 

67 




Bokwala 

can scarcely sleep for the cold; you have nothing 
to cover yourself with, and the only source of 
warmth is a few smouldering embers in the 
centre of the hut. 

In the middle of the night you have a feel- 
ing that something is near, something moving 
stealthily in the darkness, and you see two 
glaring eyes gazing at you — a leopard or civit 
cat is prowling round your shelter. You throw 
a burning firebrand at it, and with a growl it 
dashes off into the bush. 

In the morning you tie another knot in your 
string, by which you count the days, and say, 
"If only I can get a lot to-day! The time 
grows short, I shall soon go home." 

Day after day passes in this way, and at last 
the rubber is ready, or even if it is not, the 
day has dawned ; you must start for the white 
man's place — and home is on the way! 

One or two nights are passed on the road, and 
you draw near to the village. 

" What a welcome I shall have 1 Bamatafe 
with the baby, Isekokwala, my father, now an 
old man, and my mother, and a feast of good 
things as I always find." 

As we get near the village, I begin to sing and 
feel happy, and tell the other men what a good 

68 



Oppression, Shame, and Torture 

wife I have, and what a feast she will have ready 
for me ! 

But how quiet it all is — and yes, surely I hear 
a wail ! What can it be ? 

I rush on ahead, and hear the following 
story. 

In the morning some sentries arrived to bring 
the rubber men to the white man's place. We 
had not come in from the forest, so they took our 
wives, quite a number of them — Bamatafe 
amongst them with her baby at her breast — away 
to the white man's prison, or hostage house as he 
calls it, and my relatives are crying over it ! 

I was mad with rage, but it was too late to do 
anything that night. 

In the morning we took our rubber in to the 
white man, who received it, refused to pay any- 
thing for it, but allowed it to pass for the redemp- 
tion of our wives / Of course, we did not say 
anything ; we were only too glad to get them 
free at any price ; for what could we do without 
them? 

You, white men in Europe, who say you feel 
pity for us, how would you feel if such a thing 
happened to you and your wife and little child ? 
We were treated like that not once, but many 
times. 

69 



' 



Bokwala 

In a village not far from my father's the men 
were all away on one occasion trying to procure 
what was required of them as their weekly tax. 
When the day for bringing it in fell due, they 
did not arrive in good time, and as usual sentries 
were sent out to inquire into it. 

Finding no men in town, and most of the 
women having fled into the bush in fear at the 
approach of the sentries, they seized the wife of 
one of the absent men. She had recently become 
a mother ; perhaps she was not strong enough tp, 
run away with her companions. Anyway she 
was arrested with her babe at her breast, and 
taken off to the white man's place, where it was 
decided to give the village a lesson that they 
would not soon forget. 

In the presence of the white man the poor 
thing was stretched on the ground, and the awful 
hippo-hide whip was brought into requisition. 
The man who started the whipping became tired, 
and passed the whip over to another to continue 
it, until at last, when the woman was more dead 
than alive, and in a condition which cannot be 
described to you, the white man gave the order 
to cease, and she was — set free, did you say ? — 
No, sent into the prison house ! 

An hour or two later her husband arrived and 

70 



Oppression, Shame, and Torture 

was told that if he wanted to redeem his wife he 
must bring the white man twenty fowls. He 
succeeded in collecting sixteen, which were 
refused, then he made up the number, and so 
redeemed his wife and babe. This redemption 
must have cost him a great deal of money, and 
he was a poor man. 

Three days after her return to her home the 
wife died. 

It seems strange, but the child lived, and is) 
alive to-day, a puny, ill-nourished child, as you 
may imagine. 

O white women, can you listen to such things 
unmoved ? Think, then, how much worse it 
must be to see them, and live in the midst of 
them, knowing that the same thing might 
happen to you any day ? 

In a village situated at some distance from 
the white man's compound the sentries had 
established themselves in their usual style of 
living, in the best houses the village could boast 
of, and began to supply themselves lavishly 
from the gardens and poultry-houses of the 
villagers. They ordered the old men who were 
past rubber collecting out into the bush to hunt 
monkeys for them to feast upon. 

Day after day the old men went, and brought 

71 



Bokwala 

back the animals required, but one morning 
there was a heavy fall of rain. 

One old man refused to go out in the wet, he 
said that he could not stand the cold, and so 
remained in his house. His failure to go to the 
hunt was discovered by the sentries, and he was 
arrested by two of them, stripped, and held 
down on the ground in the open street of the 
village. 

Then they— but I must not tell you what 
they did, white people do not talk of such 
things. 

After that one of the sentries held the left 
arm of the old man out straight on the ground, 
while another, with his walking-staff (a square 
sawn stick), beat him on the wrist until at last 
his hand fell off. His sister came to his 
assistance, and he went away with her to his 
hut to suffer agonies of pain for months. 

A long time after the white man of God and 
his wife were visiting a neighbouring village, 
teaching the people, and this old man found 
courage to go and tell them his story, and show 
them his arm. Then the wound was green, the 
bones protruding, and he was in a hopeless 
condition. 

But the strange thing was that the arm 

72 



* . 



Oppression, Shame, and Torture 

appeared to have been cut a little below the 
elbow. The explanation was that the ends of 
the bones had become sharp, and were con- 
stantly scratching other parts of his body, so he 
had cut them off from time to time with his own 
knife. He, with the white man of God, went a 
long journey to the white man in charge of the 
rubber work, and showed him the wound. 

But nothing was done, as all his people were 
too much afraid to bear witness to the deeds of 
the sentries. If they had done so they might 
have been treated in the same way, or even 
worse. For there was nothing, not even murder, 
that the sentries were afraid to do, and nothing 
too cruel for them to think of and put in 
practice. 

I think I have told you enough to make you 
see that we rubber men were not the only ones 
who suffered from the presence of the white 
men; and now I must tell you more of my own 
story. 



73 



CHAPTER VI 

Some Horrors of Our Lot 

Our work grows harder— I consult the white man of God 
— A strange contrast — My plea unavailing — My 
rubber short— I am sent to the prison — The captives 
—Their work and their punishments— The sick — 
The new-born babe — The dead and their burial — The 
suspected— How they were tortured— The steamer— 
The rubber chief — The prison opened — A procession 
of spectres— The place of the dead— For a time peace 
— Work for the man of God — How we fared— My 
reward — I wish to go home. 

I" AM afraid that you white people will get tired 
-*¦ of listening to a constant repetition of the 
same story, but that is just what my life and the 
lives of my people have consisted of ever since 
the coming of Bokakala— rubber, chicotte, 
prison, rubber, prison, chicotte ; and again 
rubber, nothing but rubber. We see no chance 
of anything else until we die. 

74 






¦ 



Some Horrors of Our Lot 

If you are tired of hearing about it, what do 
you think we must be of living in it ? 

The rubber vines were getting worked out in 
our part of the forest, and almost every time we 
had to go further to get any, but at last we 
found a way of getting it quicker. It was this : 
when we found a good vine, instead of making 
incisions and waiting for the sap to drip from 
them, we cut the vine down, dividing it into short 
lengths. These we placed endways in a pot, 
and left them to drain off all the sap into the 
pot. In this way we got quite a lot of rubber 
from the one vine, and we rejoiced accordingly. 
For a time this way of working rubber helped 
us over some of our difficulties ; it gave us a 
sufficient quantity in a short time, and so we 
were saved from the anger of the white man. 
But it was not long before we began to find 
a dearth of vines ; for those we had cut were 
useless for future working, and therefore we had 
to take longer journeys into the forest than ever 
before. 

If we went too far in any direction it brought 
us in contact with the natives of other villages 
who were also seeking for rubber, and regarded 
us as poaching on their preserves. True, there 
was some rubber on the other side of the river, 

75 



i 



, 



Bokwala 

but there we dared not go, because of the age- 
long feud between the natives of that part and 
ourselves — we feared that if we went we should 
never return. 

After much consideration, I thought there 
was just one chance of getting free ; so I went 
to see the white man of God, taking him a 
present which I hoped would show him that I 
really meant what I said, and asked him to take 
me on to work for him. 

He received the fowl I gave him, but not as 
a gift ; he would insist on paying for it its full 
value, and giving me a few spoonfuls of salt 
over. (Truly the ways of white men are un- 
accountable 1 Some compel one to supply 
against one's will what they want, and pay 
nothing or next to nothing for it; and then 
others refuse to take a thing as a gift, but insist 
on paying for it I Of course, we like the latter 
way, but should not think of doing so ourselves.) 

Then he explained to me that it was impossible ; 
he could not engage any man who held a "book" 
for rubber, and as T did hold one and my name 
was on the rubber workers' list, it was out of the 
question. I pleaded with him, Bamatafe pleaded 
for me. We returned again on the following 
day to try once more, but it was in vain. I 

76 






Some Horrors of Our Lot 

had to go back to my rubber work in the 
forest. 

Soon after this a day came when my rubber 
was short weight. I had failed to find a good 
vine, and though I soaked the rubber in water 
to make it heavier, the white man noticed and 
refused to pass it. As a result, I did not return 
home that night, but spent it and several more 
in the white man's prison. 

I had heard much about this place from 
Bamatafe and others, who had frequently been 
in it, and so was not so surprised as I otherwise 
might have been. Prison to us who are used to 
an outdoor life in the forest has always a horrible 
aspect ; but such a prison as that was is beyond 
description. And yet I must tell you something 
about it. 

The building itself was a long, narrow hut with 
thatched roof, bamboo walls, and mud floor. 
That was all ; and it was crowded promiscuously 
with men and women of all ages and conditions. 
These were fastened together with cords or 
chains round the neck, in groups of about ten 
with a fathom of chain or cord between each. 

There were old men and women with grey 
hair and shrivelled skins, looking more like 
moving skeletons than living people, with 

77 



Bokwala 



scarcely enough cloth or leaves for decent 
covering, Strong, capable women were there 
who should have been working happily at home 
for their husbands ; women with babies only a 
few days' or weeks' old at their breasts ; women 
in delicate health ; young girls ; the wives of 
husbands who had somehow failed to satisfy the 
demands made upon them ; and young lads who 
had tried to shirk paddling the heavily laden 
rubber boats — all these were there, crowded 
together in that one shed without privacy or 
sanitary arrangement of any kind from sundown 
to sunrise, and some of them for weeks together. 

The smell was horrible, the hunger and thirst 
intense, and the publicity in some ways worst of 
all. I myself was not hungry that first night, 
and Bamatafe came to and fro with food for me 
on the following days ; but much of it I never 
ate. Some of my fellow-prisoners were so 
ravenously hungry, that it was impossible to 
save any scraps, even if I had wanted to. Many 
of them, coming from a distance, had no friends 
to supply their needs. 

Early in the morning we were turned out in 
charge of sentries to clean the paths of the 
compound, carry water, work on houses, cut 
up and pack rubber, and carry the filled baskets 

78 



Some Horrors of Our Lot 

from the store to the river ready for transport 
by canoe or boat to the place of the great 
rubber chief down river. If the work done 
failed to satisfy the sentry, or he had any old 
scores to pay off to a prisoner who was in his 
power, the chicotte or the butt-end of the gun 
was always at hand, and proved an easy means 
of chastisement for either man or woman, the 
latter frequently incurring it for nothing worse 
than a desire for chastity. 

Then at sundown we were marched back to 
the prison house for another night of horrors. 
It was often impossible to sleep. 

On one night in particular we were kept 
awake hour after hour by the groaning of some 
of the sick ones, and then towards morning, 
after a little sleep, we were aroused again by the 
puny wail of a new-born babe. Was it any 
wonder that its first cries were weak, and that 
the little life so recently given seemed on the 
point of ebbing away? In the morning the 
sentries agreed that the mother was not fit for 
work, and reported to the white man accord- 
ingly; but three days afterwards the mother 
was out at work in the hot sun with her baby 
at her back. 

Many prisoners died at the time of which I 

79 



Bokwala 

speak — two, three, five, sometimes ten in a day 
— there was so much hunger and thirst and sick- 
ness. When one died, they tied a string round 
his foot, and dragged him a little way into the 
bush, dug a shallow hole, and covered him with 
earth. There were so many that the place 
became a great mound, and the burials were 
so carelessly done that one could often see a 
foot, hand, or even head left exposed ; and the 
stench became so bad that people were unable 
to pass by the road which was near the " grave." 

And yet, bad as all this was, something 
happened there which made me glad that I 
was an ordinary prisoner, and not (what I had 
thought impossible) something worse. Four 
big, strong young men were suspected of 
having stolen some rubber from the white 
man's store. It may have been a true 
accusation ; that I do not know — no one 
knows. 

The white man was furious, and said that 
he would make an example of them, which he 
proceeded to do. Four tall poles were pro- 
cured and planted in the ground at the back 
of his own house, and the four men were 
brought. 

Their heads and beards were shaven, they 

80 



Some Horrors of Our Lot 

were stripped of their loin cloths, and tied to 
these poles, not only by the lower parts of their 
bodies, but by their heads, so that they could 
not move at all. 

This happened in the morning. 

The sun climbed up, and stood overhead — 
they were still there. 

The sun slipped down, down, down — they 
were still there. 

No food or water had they tasted all day, so 
they were parched with thirst. They pled for 
water, none was given ; for a covering for their 
shame, no notice was taken; and at last, in 
sheer despair, they entreated that they might 
be shot — they would rather, far rather, die 
than endure the shame of remaining any longer 
in a public place in such a condition. 

At night they were released from their agony, 
only to be sent to prison, and finally exiled up 
river. The charge was never proved against 
them. But the white man of God heard 
about the affair, and talked the palaver with 
the rubber chief, and eventually they were 
released and came back to their own villages. 

One day we heard a steamer whistle ; it was 
coming to our landing-place. u Oh, joy I per- 
haps the white man will let us go," we thought, 

f 81 



Bokwala 

He often did send prisoners off to their homes 
when a steamer whistled, which seemed strange 
to us in those days, but it mattered not to us 
why he did it, if only we might get free. 

To our disappointment he did not do so on 
this occasion, and we soon heard that the big 
chief of rubber had come. We wondered what 
he would do to us, if things might be worse, 
although we did not see how that could be. 

Afterwards we found that the white men of 
God had been writing many letters to him 
about us and the way in which we were 
treated, and he had come to see for himself. 
He did so, with the result that he opened the 
doors of the prison house, and told us to walk 
out. He commenced to count us, but gave it 
up: we were so many. He told us we were 
free, and could go to our homes. We could 
scarcely believe it, it seemed to be too good 
to be true; but we immediately set off with 
hearts full of joy. 

You may think what a merry procession we 
must have been, perhaps even that we were 
singing and dancing with delight, because we 
were free 1 Not so ; we must have looked more 
like a procession of spectres. Some, too weak 
to walk, were carried on the backs of others not 

82 



Some Horrors of Our Lot 

much stronger than themselves ; women weak 
and ill, some soon to become mothers, and 
others with young babes looking as sickly as 
themselves ; men and women both so famished 
with hunger that they had tied strips of plantain 
fibre tightly round their stomachs to try and 
stay the craving for food ! 

How eagerly we drank the water and 
devoured the little food that was given to us 
by friendly people as we passed, and how the 
old men and women called out blessings on the 
head of the chief of rubber and the white man of 
God who had interceded for us I We noticed 
that as we passed through their compound the 
white men and women of God were actually 
crying with tears for our sorrows, and yet how 
glad they were to see us free ! 

Yes, we were free, but many who lived at 
a distance and were old or sick never reached 
their homes again. One died at the place of the 
white man of God, two or three in villages a 
little further on, and many who entered the 
forest were never heard of again ; they prob- 
ably died of hunger, and their bodies must 
have been devoured by wild animals. 

I was one of the last to leave the prison, 
and as I did so the great chief was making 

83 



Bokwala 



Some Horrors of Our Lot 



inquiries about the prison grave of which he 
had heard. He said to me, "Will you show 
me the place?" 

I answered, " Oh, yes, white man, it is not 
far. Just over in the bush yonder ; but if you 
come, bring a cloth to hold your nose ; for you 
will not reach the place without it." 

He said, "Is it as bad as that ? Then I think 
I will not go." And he did not. 

The end of it was that the bad white man who 
had been so cruel to us was sent away to Europe, 
and a new one came to us who was much kinder 
in his treatment of us, and for a time we had 
peace. 

Then came my opportunity ; for while there 
were not so many palavers going on, there was 
freer intercourse between the rubber white men 
and the white men of God, and so it became 
possible for the latter to take a few of us rubber 
men to work for them. 

As I had begged so long for that very chance 
I was one of the first chosen ; and how can I 
describe the joy with which I said farewell to 
rubber work, and went with my wife and 
child to reside near the compound of my 
new master. 

Everything was so different; it was like 

84 



having a rest, although, of course, I do not 
mean that we did not have any work. We 
had plenty, and it had to be well done ; but 
there were regular times, and home and food 
and a welcome from the wife in the evening 
when one returned from work tired, instead of 
cold, wet, hunger, and fear in the forest. I 
thought I had indeed reached a good place, 
and should never want to leave it, so I set to 
work with a will. 

By and by I was taught to use the saw, 
and became one of the staff of pit sawyers 
who were cutting up wood for house building. 
We worked from sunrise to sunset, with two 
hours off for rest mid-day ; but sometimes we 
did piece-work, and then our hours were shorter. 
We received a monthly wage, and a weekly 
allowance for rations ; and as our wives kept 
their own gardens, and sometimes went fishing, 
we were well supplied with food and soon got 
strong and well. 

Each morning before we commenced work 
there was a service in the chapel which we all 
had to attend, and later on there was school 
for the boys and domestic servants of the white 
people and for our children and any who liked 
to attend from the villages. Some evenings 

85 






J 



Bokwala 

there were preaching services or classes for in- 
quirers, and occasionally the white man showed 
us pictures with a lamp. 

The pictures appeared on a large cloth which 
was hung from above, and we liked seeing 
them very much. But we were also somewhat 
afraid of them, especially when we saw some 
of our own people who were dead — we thought 
it must be their spirits! And when we went 
round to the other side to see their backs, 
behold, they had none, but only another front, 
so we thought there must be something strange 
about them ; for we have never seen people with 
two fronts and no backs ! 

Every first day of the week we did no work, 
but went with our wives and other people to 
hear the teaching. Before this time I knew 
but very little of it : I knew that it was about 
one Jesus, but who or what He was, or why 
they talked so much about Him I could not 
understand. Now I began to learn that He 
was the Son of God, and came to earth for us. 
I heard about His birth, life and death, and 
how He died for us — instead of us— just as 
the peace-offering is killed in our country to 
save the whole village. We kill a slave; but 
God sent His Son, and Jesus came willingly 

86 












Some Horrors of Our Lot 

and gave His life for us. Truly, He must have 
loved us! 

After a time I joined the inquirers' class, for 
I wanted to learn more about Him, and to 
belong to His company. 

The time passed very quickly, it seemed but 
a little until my book, which was for twelve 
moons, was finished. I received my payment 
—brass rods, cloth, salt, &c— and felt quite a 
rich man. Never had I possessed so much 
before; and I wanted to go to Ekaka and 
show off my riches. When my master asked 
what I purposed doing I said that I was tired 
and would like to go home for a while to rest. 

I went, and soon after that my master went 
to Europe for his rest also. 



87 



/ 



CHAPTER VII 

Back to Slavery 

My welcome at home — My respite and its end — The 
forest sentry— The little boy— My father's appeal 
and its result — I intervene — The sentry's revenge — 
A rubber slave once more— I appeal to the man of 
God— Disappointment— "Nothing but rubber till I 
die ! "—The hopeless toil— The coming of the pesti- 
lence—The witch-doctor's medicine— The desolation 
— But still the rubber! 

T WAS well received by my people at Ekaka, 
-¦- and my father, now an old man, was proud 
to see me return with my riches. 

I also had a good welcome from the family of 
Bamatafe, for had I not brought brass rods, salt, 
knives, a blanket, and other things for which 
they craved ? When a man is paid off at the 
end of a year's work he always gets plenty of 
visitors, and is much praised by all his towns- 

88 



Back to Slavery 

people as long as his riches last. After that 
they seem to lose interest in him, and do not 
care for him any longer. 

But at first, as I said, I had a good time. My 
father was immensely pleased with a present of 
a red blanket ; the father of Bamatafe received a 
knife and some brass rods, which my father had 
smelted for him into anklets ; the salt was used 
for feasts and presents, and it was but a few 
days before we found that we had nothing left 
of all my wages I 

Now, thought I, I would rest. A little fish- 
ing, a little hunting, a good deal of lying down 
in the big palaver house, and very much talking 
and telling of news — in fact, a good time gener- 
ally — and then one day came the end of it. 

On that day, I cannot forget it, a big bully 
of a sentry, armed with a gun and chicotte, came 
into Ekaka to see about sending the rubber men 
off to the bush. As he passed my father's place 
he began to grumble to the old man about many 
things— he did not provide a sufficient number 
of rubber workers ; he did not give enough 
honour to the sentries placed in his village; 
one of the rubber men had died, fallen from 
the vine he was cutting high up in the top of a 
tree, and been picked up dead, and my father 

89 



\ 



Bokwala 

had not brought any one forward to take his 
place on the white man's list. 

This sentry proceeded to seize a little boy of 
about twelve years of age, a nephew of the 
deceased man, and ordered him to get rubber. 
My father ventured to plead for him, repre- 
senting that he was too young, and not strong 
enough for the work. 

He was answered by curses, insults were 
heaped upon him, then the bully took his own 
knife from him and actually cut off his long 
beard, of which he and all his family were so 
proud ; and finally he struck the old man on the 
chest with the butt-end of his gun, felling him 
to the ground. 

I had kept quietly in the hut, but this was too 
much. I sprang up and rushed to my father's 
aid, and that was my undoing. The sentry took 
his revenge for my interference by informing the 
white man that I was sitting down at home 
doing nothing, and ought I not to be sent out 
to work rubber ? 

The white man called me, and gave me a 
book for rubber. In vain I told him that I was 
only resting in town for a little while, and 
intended to return to my work for the white 
men of God ; my name was put on the list, and 

90 






Back to Slavery 

once more I was obliged to seek for rubber. 
The conditions were much the same as before, 
but we were obliged to go further away than 
ever to find the rubber vines, as they were 
getting so scarce. 

After some months of this work, which we all 
hate, I heard the news that my white man had 
returned to our country. 

" Now," thought I, " all will be well. I will 
go and plead with him, and beg him to redeem 
me from this slavery, and then I will work for 
him again." 

So when I took my next lot of rubber in 
to the white man, after receiving my three 
spoonfuls of salt in return for my basket of 
rubber balls, I went on to see the other white 
men. 

It was true, the white man for whom I had 
worked had arrived while we were in the forest, 
and was just settled down to work again. 
When he and his wife saw me they gave me a 
hearty welcome, evidently thinking that I, like 
so many others, had just called to welcome them 
back to our land. He knew nothing of what 
had taken place in his absence. 

I told him all my story, everything that had 
happened to me and mine while he was in 

91 



L 






Bokwala 

Europe; and asked him, now that he had 
returned, to redeem me from my slavery, 
and let me come back and work for him 
again. 

But new white men had come and new rules 
had been made since his departure from our 
land, and again it was not permissible for a man 
holding a rubber book to take service with any 
one. All my hopes were dashed to the ground ; 
but still I pleaded with him with all the fluency 
of which I was capable — he had done it before, 
and if then, why not now ? We can understand 
white men making rules for black, but how can 
they interfere with each other ? I thought that, 
if I only kept at it long enough, I should 
surely win. 

But at last I was convinced of the truth of 
the statement, and I wept. Yes, strong man as 
I was, I wept ; for anger and sorrow were in my 
heart, and 1 turned to the white man as I stood 
there on the grass outside his house. 

" White man," said I, " if this is true, there is 
no hope for me. It will be nothing but rubber 
until I die, and rubber is death. Dig a grave 
here, and bury me now ! I may as well be 
buried in my grave as go on working rubber." 
And I meant it. 

92 



Back to Slavery 

But back to rubber I had to go, with no 
hope of ever doing anything else ; back into a 
slavery which would last until death, and from 
which there is no escape. For if you run away 
from one district, you only reach another, and 
another white man as eager for rubber as the 
one you left. Then he will make you work 
for him, if he does nothing worse ; he may send 
you back, and then — chicotte, prison, and more 
rubber ! 

So I and my people went on day after day, 
and month after month, with little pay (what 
we did receive was only a mockery of the word), 
no comfort, no home life, constant anxiety as 
to our wives and daughters in the villages, and 
nothing to look forward to for our sons but that 
they must follow in our steps, and of necessity 
become rubber workers as soon as, or even 
before, they were old enough to have sufficient 
strength for the work. 

White men, do you wonder that the words, 
" JSotofe bo le iwa " (" Rubber is death ") passed 
into a proverb amongst us, and that we hated 
the very name of rubber with a deadly hatred ? 
The only ones who were kind to us in those 
days were the white men of God. They visited 
our villages frequently to teach us and our 

93 






Bokwala 

families, and sometimes on their journeys they 
would meet with us in the forest, and stop for 
awhile to talk to us. 

" Come," they said ; " listen to the words of 
God, the news of salvation." 

We came, and they told us the same story of 
Jesus and salvation from sin ; it is a good story, 
and we liked to hear it. But we would say, 
" White man, you bring us news of salvation 
from sin ; when will you bring us news of salva- 
tion from rubber ? If you brought that, then 
we should have time to listen to and think 
about your other news." 

Then came a time of awful pestilence, so 
terrible that we do not understand or even 
mention it, lest we ourselves be smitten like 
others. When we speak of it we call it the 
" sickness from above " or the " sickness of 
heaven " ; but the white men, who are not 
afraid to mention it, call it smallpox. 

It raged in all our villages, and spread from 
hut to hut like a fire. We took our sick ones 
into the forest, and a few people who had 
recovered from the disease many years before 
went to look after them. Crowds of people 
died, and though some recovered, they were 
very weak and ill after it. 

94 



Back to Slavery 

The white men of God put some medicine 
into the arms of many of our people. It was 
cut in with a needle, but we did not understand 
it, and most of us refused to have it done, as we 
thought it would hurt. But we noticed that 
many of those who did take the medicine did 
not get the sickness, or at least only slightly. 

In the midst of it all one of our own witch- 
doctors arose and announced that a cure had 
been revealed to him, and as he himself was 
immune from the disease, he would come and 
put his medicine on all who were prepared to 
pay his fee. He made an itineration through 
all the villages with much singing, dancing, and 
shaking of rattles, and in each village he took 
up a stand to administer his medicine to all who 
would pay. 

The sick people were brought out of the bush, 
the suspected cases from the huts, and the strong 
ones in the villages came also, and all were 
anointed with the medicine on payment of a 
brass rod. Such crowds there were ; very few 
refused, I think only the children of God, and 
they did it in spite of much opposition. Their 
relatives tried to persuade them to take it, but 
when the witch-doctor heard of and asked the 
reason of their refusal, and was told that it was 

95 






Bokwala 

because they were children of God, he said, 
"Leave them alone; if that is the palaver, it is 
of no use to persuade them ; they will never 
give in." 

But, strange to say, the sickness was worse than 
ever after this episode, until the people got tired 
of trying to isolate the cases and just left them 
in the villages. Crowds of people still died at 
this time, and many of the corpses were left 
unburied, until at last we began to think that 
we should all be finished off by the sickness, 
which lasted many moons, perhaps sixteen or 
eighteen. 

When at last the sickness did cease, the 
villages were half empty, whole families had 
been swept away, and the few who were left 
were so weak that most of the work in the 
villages had to be left undone. Then many 
more died of the hunger and after-effects, 
because they were unable to work to get food, 
and had no friends left to help them. 

But one thing had to go on without cessation 
all the time, and that was rubber collecting. It 
must have varied in quantity, but the supply 
was never allowed to stop during all that 

dreadful time. 
When our wives and children or mothers and 

96 



Back to Slavery 

fathers were sick and we knew not what the end 
of the sickness would be, we still had to leave 
them with others, or even alone, and go into 
the forest on another errand—that of rubber 
collecting ! Many a relative died in those days 
without our ever knowing of their illness ; but 
we were rubber men. Were we not also slaves, 
having no choice but to go, even though the 
rubber sap seemed to us sometimes like drops 
of our blood ? 



g 



97 



CHAPTER VIII 

Other Changes. Hope Deferred 

\. change of labour— "We become hunters — A new 
demand — And new difficulties — Failure — The 
sentry's demand— The old men's plea— Murder— 
We tell the men of God— And complain to the rubber 
man — The white chief— The things written in a 
book — And no remedy comes— Hunting again— 
The English visitor — The white woman — Results of 
making complaints— The sentries' threats— The one 
way of escape—" Better to be with the hunters than 
the hunted "—Another sorrow— The sleeping-sick- 
ness—" Just a little while, and they die "—We cry 
to the white people. 

AS I was telling you before, many of our 
people died of the "sickness from above," 
including a number of the young men who 
worked rubber. Of necessity the supply of 
rubber became very small when there were so 
few to collect it in the forest. 

98 



Other Changes. Hope Deferred 

After the sickness was finished, and the white 
men found that it was really true that so many 
of our people were dead, and that others were 
still sick and unfit for work, they called us 
young men of Ekaka together and told us some 
very good news. It was this. That they had 
decided that we should make no more rubber, 
but be freed entirely from that work on con- 
dition that we men would hunt antelopes for 
the white man's table, and bring smoked meat 
for his workmen's rations, and that our women 
would supply toko (manioca cooked ready for 
eating) at stated intervals. 

We agreed with much joy, and all the way 
home that day we were singing and shouting, 
so as to let every one know of our good fortune. 
We went also to tell the white men of God our 
news ; they were glad to hear about it, and gave 
us much good advice as to keeping up a regular 
supply of food, and not bringing palavers upon 
ourselves by failing to do our part. We heartily 
assented to all they said, for we were ready to 
do anything if only we might be freed from 
rubber work. 

The hunting was started at once, and we kept 
up the supply of one or two antelopes weekly, 
and smoked rations for a long time ; but by and 

99 



h 



Bokwala 

by a new white man came to us from up-country 
and he made new rules for us. 

An order was given that we must procure four 
living antelopes every week, and in order to do 
this all of us who were strong enough to hunt 
had to be in the forest almost all the time, just 
sending in the antelopes as we caught them. 

It was not so bad in dry weather — then we 
were used to go on long hunts in the old days of 
freedom — but now it was all the year round, 
wet season as well as dry, night and day ; for 
antelopes began to get scarce as the rubber had 
done, and we had to penetrate a long way into 
the forest in order to get them. We found to 
our cost that hunting was not play under such 
circumstances ; but even so, it was better than 
rubber, and we tried to fulfil the white man's 
requirements. 

But one day — the day for taking an antelope 
to the white man— we failed to procure one 
in time for the usual morning visit, when we 
were in the habit of sending it in. 

I suppose the white man became impatient 
and dispatched a sentry — a native of our 
country who was known to us all as a fool — 
armed with a gun and cartridges, to inquire why 
the animal had not been sent in. 

100 









Other Changes. Hope Deferred 

When this sentry, Kebocu, arrived in our 
village, he found it almost deserted. Only one 
or two old men and a few women were there ; 
but, my father not being present, his friend, 
Bomoya, went out to meet the white man's 
messenger and inquire what he wanted. 
Bomoya was closely followed by Isekasofa, 
another old friend and associate of my father's. 
They exchanged greetings with Kebocu and 
asked his business. 

" Where is the antelope for the white man's 
soup ? " he asked. 

They explained that we had failed to catch 
any on the day previous, and that they were 
expecting our arrival at any time, and then the 
animal would be dispatched immediately. 

His answer was to raise and load his gun, an 
action not understood by the old men, who 
simply stood still waiting. Calling to a woman 
who was crossing the road to get out of the 
way, he fired. The shot passed through 
Bomoya's thigh, disabling him ; but old Isekasofa, 
stooping down to hide behind his friend, received 
the bullet in his breast, and dropped dead on 
the spot. 

Just as the deed was done, we all rushed into 
the village with our antelopes, proving the truth 

101 



Bokwala 

of what the old men had said. We heard all 
about the shooting from the woman who had 
seen it all, and whose husband was a workman 
of the white men of God. Kebocu himself ran 
away when he saw us all come into the village. 

Basofa, the son of Isekasofa, and another man 
picked up the corpse, put it on a bier of forest 
poles, and set off with many others of us to tell 
our sorrowful story to the white man of God. 

We arrived first at the school-house where 
Mama, the white woman, was teaching the 
children ; when she saw us and our burden she 
was much grieved, for Isekasofa was a friend of 
the white people and had visited them only a 
few days previously. We went on to the 
dwelling-house, and told our story to the two 
white men of God, who sympathised with us in 
our sorrow, and wrote a letter to the white man 
of rubber about the outrage. 

We went on to the rubber compound, and 
waited there a long time, because the white man 
had gone to the river. He kept us so long 
waiting to show him the corpse of Isekasofa (he 
knew why we were there, for messengers had 
been sent to tell him) that, sitting there in the 
heat of the midday sun, we became very angry, 
and some of our people even set out to attack 

102 



Other Changes. Hope Deferred 

the village of which Kebocu, the sentry, was a 
native. 

At last the white man came and listened to 
our story, but he seemed so strange that we 
thought — of course we did not know — that he 
had been drinking the strong palm-wine of 
Europe which makes people dizzy in their heads. 
Once a white man gave some to one of our 
people, and he was quite foolish after it. 

We were persuaded not to attack Kebocu's 
village, as the white man would see that he was 
punished; and we went back to our own place to 
weep for and bury our dead, and attend to the 
wounded man. 

It was but a few days after this episode that a 
great chief called a judge came from down- 
country to make inquiries about our part, and 
hear palavers. 

This was the first time a white man had 
come on such an errand, and numbers of our 
people gathered at the house of the white 
man of God and told our troubles to the 
chief. He listened and questioned us, and 
made inquiries of other people who had seen 
the things we brought forward, and another 
white man wrote many, many words in a 
book. That book, they said, would go down- 

103 




Bokwala 

country to another great chief, and then every- 
thing would be settled satisfactorily. 

As Kebocu had not been punished or even 
arrested for causing the death of Isekasofa, 
that affair was also talked about, and Bomoya 
was carried in from his home that the white 
man might see for himself the truth of our 
statements. His wound was in a terrible 
condition, and was turning green inside. All 
this was also written in the book. 

The book was sent down-country ; the 
white men both went their way; and we 
never heard any more. Kebocu was never 
punished, but lived in his own village a free 
man. Bomoya recovered, because the white 
men of God made medicine for his wounds, 
but he was always lame. 

It made us very angry when, some time 
after his partial recovery, he was imprisoned 
for some weeks — because he was found in his 
village, and not out in the forest hunting ante- 
lopes for the white man's soup ! Just as if a 
lame man would be of any use in a hunt with 
nets and spears! 

We continued our hunting week after week, 
not only to supply the white man's table, 
but also to provide rations (either of meat 

104 



Other Changes. Hope Deferred 

or fish) for his sentries and workmen, and our 
women had to provide manioca for the same 
reason. 

It meant much work for us all ; not only 
work, but constant exposure to the cold and 
damp of the forest. It was worse in the wet 
season, when many of our people contracted a 
sickness of the chest which is most painful 
and often ends in death. In fact, the pro- 
viding of food was getting to be almost as 
great a tax upon us as the rubber had been. 
And we thought, "If the rubber work never 
ends, the food work will not; they will never 
give up calling for food ! " 

We had no comfort at home, for we were 
rarely there. We had nothing to look forward 
to in the future but work — either rubber or 
food — so we gave up hoping; our hearts were 
broken ; we were as people half dead ! 

Two or three times white people came again 
to ask about our affairs. One was a very tall 
Englishman with a wonderful dog such as we 
had never seen before. He was very kind to us, 
made many inquiries about our treatment, and 
gave us presents before he left. We asked him 
to come back to us again, but he never did. We 
were told that he was talking about our troubles 

105 




Bokwala 

and writing them in a book in England, but that 
is all we know about him. 

Another who came was a white woman. She 
stayed for a little while at the rubber place, and 
used to ask us many questions and talked much 
to us and to the white men. But we could 
never really understand about her; why should 
a woman come to see about palavers— how could 
she settle them ? She soon went away, and we 
did not think any more about her. 

Others came at intervals— great chiefs from 
down-river, I suppose they were— to some of 
whom we told our grievances; but we soon 
found that the rubber white men did not like 
us to do so, and sometimes we were punished 
or even imprisoned after the departure of the 
white men to whom we had made reports. So 
you will not be surprised when I tell you that 
we got to hide our troubles, and did not tell 
even when an opportunity presented itself. 

Many times we have been asked by other 
white men of God who have come on visits, 
"Why do you not tell these bad doings of 
which we hear? Why do you not report to 
the white chiefs?" It was like this: we were 
afraid to tell— afraid of the consequences to 
ourselves afterwards; we had been threatened 

106 









Other Changes. Hope Deferred 

with such dreadful things by the sentries if we 
dared to speak of their doings. 

I do not wonder that they did not want their 
doings talked about, for I have not told you one- 
tenth of the bad things they did, and the worst 
of the things cannot be even mentioned. And 
then, so many promises which had been made 
to us by white men had been broken, of what 
use was it to get more promises from them? 
They would only be broken like the rest, we 
thought, and so we gave up, and when the white 
men tried to find out things we even ran away 
and hid, rather than tell them, and so bring 
greater trouble on ourselves and our families. 

There was just one way out of our slavery, 
and some of our young men availed themselves 
of it. It was to become a sentiy oneself. Only 
a few had the opportunity, and those who took 
it soon became as bad as the other sentries with 
whom they came in contact. They found 
that the only way to please the white man was 
to get plenty of rubber ; and in order to do that 
they were obliged to use the same means as the 
others and become cruel oppressors of their own 
people. 

When they were remonstrated with they 
would say, " It is better to be with the hunters 

107 



i 



Bokwala 

than with the hunted. We have the chance to 
join the hunters : what more ? " I never had 
the chance myself; perhaps if I had I might 
have done the same; for if you compare our lives 
with the lives of the sentries, I do not think 
that even a white man can wonder that some 
of us chose the easy way. 

There is one thing of which I have not yet 
told you ; we think it is one of the worst of all 
our trials. We scarcely know about the begin- 
ning of it, but it seems to have been soon after 
the end of the « sickness of heaven " that this 
other sickness began to come amongst us. We 
call it " vkangi ea U6 " (« sickness of sleep "), and 
many refer to it as "this desolation," « losib 
lone" 

Both names describe it. When a person has 
the disease, he gradually gets more and more 
languid until at last he sleeps all the time, and 
the disease destroys him. We have no hope for 
the future on account of this disease, as well 
as our other troubles ; no one ever recovers, but 
generally the whole family take it, and die one 
after the other, until whole villages are almost 
wiped out. 

At first only a few people had it ; and though 

108 



Other Changes. Hope Deferred 

we did not understand it, we thought that, like 
other sicknesses, it would be cured. But in 
a very few years it has spread from house to 
house and village to village, away into the back 
towns and far up-river ; it seems as if it had 
no ending ! 

Numbers of people who are weak and sickly 
contract it, and many more who are exposed to 
all weathers rubber seeking, hunting, or fishing, 
and who come back home with some simple 
malady, get the sleep sickness as well, and then 
— just a little while— and they die ! 

Some of the largest and best populated 
villages are now reduced to a few huts, the 
majority of which are inhabited by sick folk. 
Men and women of all ages and little children 
all alike take the disease, and all alike die. 

In the old days, if a person died in one hut, 
a child was born in another to take his place and 
name; but now— every day the death wail is 
heard, every day funerals are taking place—but 
it is a rare event for a child to be born. You 
see just one baby here, and another there, and 
that is all ! And therefore we have come to 
say, "We shall all be finished soon, all get the 
disease, none recover. If we are to have it, we 
shall have it : what more ? * 

109 



Bokwala 



Perhaps you think we should take medicine 
for this sickness, but we can find none of any 
use. The white men of God have tried many 
kinds of medicine : medicine to drink, and also 
the kind which they put into one's arm with 
a needle ; but these only did good for a little 
while, and then the sickness was as bad as ever. 
Our own people have tried their own medicines, 
our witch-doctors also have tried to cure it by 
means of their fetishes ; but all alike are useless. 
We often ask the white men if their doctors 
have found the medicine; but we always get 
the same answer, " No, not yet." We wonder 
that the white men with all their wisdom have 
not found it : if they have not, who can ? 

The white men of God are continually teach- 
ing us that in view of all this sickness, now is 
the time for us to settle the palaver between 
us and God by believing in His Son Jesus, so 
as to be ready if death comes to us. And then 
our witch-doctors step in and say, « Is not this 
closing of the eyes in prayer, which these white 
men have taught our people, the cause of the 
sickness of sleep ? " 

What can we do? We go and hear the 
teaching, and it is good : we agree to it. Then 
we hear what the witch-doctors say, and for 

110 



Other Changes. Hope Deferred 

a while we absent ourselves. And all the time 
the sickness goes on and increases. O white 
people, will you not pray to your God for the 
medicine? will you not try and send it to us 
soon, that this desolation may be ended, and 
some of us be saved alive ? 



Ill 



CHAPTER IX 

The Elders of Europe 

More white men from Europe — Fears and curiosity — The 
white men inquire about us — We tell them of our 
state — And our oppressors — The knotted strings and 
their story — "These things are bad" — The white 
men's promises — Better times — Soon ended — Rubber 
again — The old toil — The men of the river — The 
demands on the villages — The chiefs in power — 
Chiefs and the sentries — The death wail and the 
white man — "We are very poor." 

ONE Saturday evening a big steamer came 
to the white man's beach, and soon after 
the news spread throughout our villages that a 
lot of white men from Europe — old men with 
grey hair — had come to see and judge of our 
condition for themselves, and to listen to what 
we had to tell them. 

Some of us were afraid to go near them ; we 
had not had a good experience of white men in 
the past, and we kept away. But others were 

112 



The Elders of Europe 

curious to see the elders of Europe, and so they 
went to take a look at them from a distance, and 
then came back and reported to us who stayed 
at home. There were, said they, three strange 
white men, said to be settlers of palavers, two 
of whom were in truth old, grey-headed men ; 
one other was a medicine-man. These were 
accompanied by the great rubber chief, as well 
as the white men who worked the steamer. 
They had also heard that we were all invited to 
go to the steamer on the next day and state our 
grievances. 

Then while we were still talking about it, 
the white men of God sent to advise us not to 
hide anything, but to come and tell these white 
men all the palavers we could remember, giving 
names, and bringing eye-witnesses whenever we 
could. They also said that these white men had 
promised that we should be protected, and that 
no harm should come to us as the result of our 
making our grievances known. 

This reassured us, and we thought that as 
these white men were not boys but old and 
white-haired, they were worthy of respect, and 
their word should be true. Therefore we 
gathered together, we and our chiefs, and we 
told them many, many things — things which 

H 118 



Bokwala 

grieved and surprised and made them very 
angry. 

We told them how we had to make rubber 
when the vines were practically finished in our 
district ; how we had to get animals all the year 
round and in all weathers, and fish, no matter 
what the state of the river might be ; how our 
wives could scarcely prepare manioca for our 
own families because of the constant demands 
of the white men and his sentries. Then, gain- 
ing courage, we went on to tell of the treatment 
which we received from the sentries in our 
villages, of their cruelties and oppression, their 
murders and thefts, their wicked treatment of 
our wives and daughters, and many other abuses 
which I cannot tell you of. 

Many chiefs came from far distant villages 
and districts, bringing with them long knotted 
strings or bundles of twigs, each knot or twig 
representing a person killed or a woman stolen. 

Everything we told was written down, and 
the white men of God told many things, and 
these also were written down. This went on 
for two or three days, until at last the old white 
chief said, "Have you anything more to 
tell?" 

"Oh, yes," we said, "many things, white 

114 



. 



I 



The Elders of Europe 

man; we can go on like this for three more 
days, if you want to hear all." 

Said he, " We have heard sufficient ; we know 
that these things are bad, why should we hear 
more ? " 

We were given twenty brass rods each, and 
told that no one would molest us, and that soon 
these bad things would be ended, as the palaver 
would be settled in Europe. 

So we went home, and waited. We did not 
expect much, for we had been told the same 
thing before, and we had given up hoping long 
ago. 

But after long time of waiting changes did 
come once more. Bokakala's white men of 
rubber did not come to us any more, but Bula 
Matadi (the State) himself came and said that 
now he would send his own white men to us, 
and that they were good; and there would be 
no more bad doings in our villages ; as they 
would recall all the sentries and not send any 
more out to live with us, and oppress and ill- 
treat us and our families. 

And Bula Matadi really came, and since then 
we have had better times than before. Having 
no sentries in our villages, but only our own 
headmen, makes it much better for us, and far 

115 



Bokwala 

safer for our wives and families who are left at 
home when we are away in the forest. 

For a little while there was no rubber work ; 
we cut posts and bamboos for building, and fire- 
wood for steamers, and there was always the 
food tax which pressed hard on men and women 
alike. It always has been a heavy task to supply 
that, and is still — just as much food is needed, 
and we are so few, so very few to keep up the 
quantity. 

However, we congratulated ourselves on not 
having rubber to work, when lo I Bula Matadi 
himself suddenly ordered us to begin working 
rubber again 1 

It seems that there is no way of pleasing a 
white man except by providing him with rubber. 
I do not mean the white men of God — they are 
different. But the others, whether they belong 
to Bokakala or Bula Matadi, whether they live 
up-country or down, or away on the big river, 
they are all alike in feeling a hunger for 
rubber. 

So now we are away in the forest for two 
months, and in our homes for one. The two 
months are spent in collecting rubber, and 
making it into long strips to take to the 
white man. Each man has to make six 

116 



The Elders of Europe 

strips for each month, and take them to the 
white man once in three months — eighteen 
strips at a time. Then we get a piece of 
cloth or a shirt or a plate as payment if the 
rubber is good and the quantity sufficient; if 
it is not, then we get very little or no payment, 
and if the shortage is of frequent occurrence, 
it may be prison. 

We are better off in having a longer time 
for getting the rubber; but we have long 
distances to go in order to reach any vines, 
and then we have to cut them down and 
sometimes dig up the roots in order to get 
sufficient of the sap. 

And we have more comfort, because, going 
for a longer time, we make better shelters, and 
take our hunting-nets and spears with us, and 
so succeed in getting some fresh animal food. 
If several of us are in the same part of the 
forest, it is easy to set up our nets round a 
herd of wild pigs or some antelopes. Some 
go in and beat the bush, others wait outside 
the nets with poised spears, and it is not long 
before we have some animal for our evening 
meal. 

The people who live on the river bank, and 
have to be always providing wood for passing 

117 




Bokwala 

steamers, or fish and manioca for rations for 
Bula Matadi's soldiers and workmen, and fresh 
meat for his own table, are really worse off in 
some ways than we who are now on rubber 
work, because they must take their portion 
every seven or fifteen days, and if they fail to 
do so they are imprisoned. 

Then demands are made of some villages to 
supply fowls and eggs at odd times .and in 
varying quantities. We wonder sometimes 
what the white men do with so many eggs; 
they seem to be always wanting them. One 
of our people who has frequently to supply 
eggs says that he thinks the white men must 
be under the impression that we black men 
lay eggs the same as fowls do, for they are 
always calling for them, whether or not the 
fowls are laying! 

Now that there are no sentries in our 
villages the chiefs of the people are expected 
by the white men to exercise more authority. 
But during the years of the sentries' rule the 
chiefs were divested of every bit of authority, 
and systematically degraded in the sight of 
their people. So bad did it become that a 
chief spent a great part of his time in the 
chain, or in the bush hiding from the sentries. 

118 



The Elders of Europe 

Naturally the children and young people lost 
their respect for the chiefs, and many an old 
man whose word a few years ago was law has 
found, to his shame and chagrin, that he is 
considered as of no importance and his word 
as valueless. 

Sometimes the old men get into trouble for 
things that are not really their fault. 

For instance, a little while ago some one died 
in a village near the white man's compound, and, 
as usual, the people commenced wailing. From 
evening until far into the night the death wail 
rang out, and the sound disturbed the white 
man's rest. On the next day the chief was 
arrested and put in prison for not having stopped 
the noises — and he remained there for three days 
and nights. He is absolutely dispossessed of his 
power, no one thinks of obeying him; and yet he 
is punished for the inevitable outcome of the 
rule of the sentries in our villages. 

It was much easier to kill the authority of the 
chiefs than it is to give it back to them. Of 
course, there is one great chief, who wears a 
medal, and is in constant intercourse with the 
white men of Bula Matadi. He has plenty of 
authority — we think too much — and he uses it 
largely in getting a great crowd of wives and 

119 




Bokwala 

making it difficult for the young men to get 
any. Being rich, he can pay enormous prices 
for women, and demand the same. That is one 
of our grievances at the present time. 

It is our custom to pay for our wives to 
their fathers and guardians, and the present high 
prices and scarcity of brass rods are making it 
almost impossible for a young man to get a 
wife, and this leads to other bad palavers. 

We are very poor — poorer than ever, because 
the prices of food and other things are higher 
than before, and yet those who provide the food 
tax do not receive any more for what they 
supply. Nowadays our women have no heavy 
brass anklets, gaiters, or neck ornaments; we are 
often glad to sell the knives, which were our 
pride in the old days, for rods with which to 
settle our palavers. 

So, although we are better off in some ways 
since the changes came, we still have our troubles. 
We are but few and weak, and those who are 
stronger than we still oppress and tread us down. 
We are still slaves, and even if our slavery is a 
little less hard than of old, it is still slavery and 
still irksome to us and our children. 



120 



> 



CHAPTER X 

Things We Want to Know 

My story is finished — The past and the present — Why are 
these things so ? — The old days — Now we are white 
men's slaves — How long will it last ? — We are 
dying — Our only rest is death — How long, how 
long ? 

WHITE men of Europe, my story is 
finished. I have told you about the 
past, and the two kinds of slavery in which we 
have been bound ; I have told you about the 
present, our constant work, the difficulty in 
which our chiefs find themselves placed, our 
inability to marry because of our poverty, our 
sickness, the desolation which broods over our 
villages, the lack of children to take the places 
of those who die. I think I have told you 
sufficient to show you that we are in need of 
pity and help. 

121 



i 



I 



Bokwala 

I want to ask you, white people of Europe, 
two questions. The first is, " Why are these 
things so ? " 

Long ago, our fathers tell us and some of us 
can remember, there were no white people in 
our land ; we lived alone and happily in our own 
way. True, there were feuds and fights, 
quarrels and bloodshed, and a kind of slavery, 
but the country was ours, the forest was ours in 
which to hunt, the river was ours in which to 
fish, the fruits of the forest and the produce 
of our gardens were ours to appease our hunger. 
We did not know anything about white men, 
nor did we wish to. 

And then — suddenly they came in their 
steamers and settled amongst us. And gradually 
we learnt that these white men, who came to us 
uninvited, are our masters — we, our families, 
our forests, the produce of our gardens, the 
spoil of our hunting and fishing — all belong to 
them. And we cannot understand why it 
should be so. 

Once more, we have to work for the white 
man all the time. Now, when the work is 
lighter than ever, we are in the forest two out of 
every three months. We must get a certain 
quantity of rubber, or there is prison for us, and, 

122 



: 



- 






Things We Want to Know 

when we come out of prison, more rubber must 
be made in place of what was short before we 
can make a start on the next three-monthly 
portion. 

Those of us who are taking food are out on 
the river fishing from the first to the fifth 
working day, and we take in the food on the 
sixth. If we hunt, we must be continually 
going to the forest, which is not any better. 
The food-tax men are worse off than the rubber 
men at present. For all this constant work we 
receive very little pay, and, if we complain, we 
are told that all this work is "wuta" ("tax"). We 
knew about " wuta " long ago before the white 
men came, but our " wuta " was to pass over 
a part of what we had in consideration of some 
benefit received, or the use of some implement, 
or in order to be freed from some obligation, but 
we never understood it to mean all that we had 
or anything which would take all our time. 
Now, everything else has to be let go in order to 
get " wuta " for Bula Matadi, and I would ask 
you white men, Why is it so ? 

I have only one more question to ask you. 
It is this, For how long will it last ? 

We were young men when it commenced, 
now we are middle-aged, and we seem no nearer 

128 




! 



Bokwala 



Things We Want to Know 



to the end of it than we were at first. Still 
there is the demand for rubber, rubber, 
rubber 1 

Many of our people have died from exposure 
to cold and heat, or from lack of comfort ; many 
others from accidents, such as falling from the 
rubber vines, and many more from the pesti- 
lences of which I have told you. 

White men, I tell you the truth : we are 
dying, soon our villages will be put out as a fire 
that is quenched. 

And still we are working, still we are slaves to 
the white men. 

And we have nothing to look forward to, as 
far as we can see, except constant work — and 
death. We have heard that when a man 
reaches what the white men call forty years 
of age his tax palaver is finished; but that 
time must be in very old age, for no one ever 
seems to become old enough to leave off work. 
No, the only rest we can look forward to is 
death ! 

The white men of God are still with us, and 
they still tell us the news of salvation from sin. 
That is good news. 

But again I say that what we want to hear is 
the news of salvation from rubber. How long 

124 



before we shall hear that news ? How long a 
time must pass before this " wuta " business is 
finished ? How long shall we wait before we 
get a little rest — apart from death? 



The End. 






UNWIN BBOXHEB0, EOEBMB, IHB OBBSHAM FBESB, WOKINO AND IiONDON. 






JAMES CHALMERS 
His Autobiography and Letters. 

By the late RICHARD LOVETT, M.A., 
Author of "James Gilmour of Mongolia." etc. 

Seventh Impression. With 2 Maps and 8 Portrait Illustrations, 
511 pages. Large crown 8vo, cloth gilt, 3s. 6d. In padded 
paste grain, round corners, gilt edges, 6s. 6d. net. 

"Altogether no brighter or more skilful narrative of missionary life 
— from the subjective as well as from the objective point of view — has 
ever been published than this." — The Spectator. 

" It is the best missionary biography that has appeared during the 
last twenty years. It is a book that will live and take rank as a mission- 
ary classic. It is full of thrills, tremulous with pathos, glowing in its 
passion, and sublime in its tragic ending. A book to be read and 
re-read when the enthusiasm of humanity wanes, and we are tempted 
to let fireside heroics take the place of action." — The Daily News. 

GRIFFITH JOHN 

The Story of Fifty Years in China. 

By R. WARDLAW THOMPSON, D.D. 
(Foreign Secretary of the London Missionary Society). 

Fifth Impression. With Two Maps and Sixteen other full-page Illus- 
trations. Demy 8vo, cloth gilt, 568 pages, 3s. 6d. 

"No one can read this story without being inwardly refreshed. 
The mere adventure side of it is stirring to a degree. It reveals a 
Pauline daring and endurance." — Christian World. 

"The story of Dr. John's life is a very fascinating one, and it is told 
by Dr. Wardlaw Thompson with much literary skill, and excellent 
taste and judgment." — The Westminster Gazette. 

W. HOE-MAN BENTLEY 
The Life and Labours of a Congro Pioneer. 

By his Widow, H. M. BENTLEY. 

With a Photogravure Portrait, Map, and 19 other Illustrations, 
466 pages, demy 8vo, cloth gilt, 6s. net (by post, 6s. 5d.). 

"This highly interesting memoir forms a worthy tribute to the 
honourable life and devoted labours of a notable pioneer of Christianity 
in Darkest Africa, who gave twenty-seven years to missionary work 
upon the Congo. . . . The book forms an admirably interesting life- 
story of successful mission work." — The Standard. 

" Important in itself as the record of a notable, heroic and con- 
secrated life, important also in the influence which it is sure to have 
on scores of young men and women in our Churches."— The Baptist 
Times. 



London : THE RELIGIOUS TRACT SOCIETY. 






BISHOP HANNINGTON 

And the Story of the Uganda Mission. 

Prepared by W. GRINTON BERRY, M.A. 

With Map, Portrait, 3 Coloured and 4 other Illustrations, crown 8vo, 
cloth gilt, Coloured Medallion on Cover, Is. 6d. 

The personality of Hannington was full of colour and vigour, and 
the story of his work, particularly of his adventures in East Africa, 
ending with his martyrdom on the shores of the Victoria Nyanaa, is 
cne of the most fascinating in missionary annals. Hannington was 
himself a picturesque writer, with a noteworthy gift of producing 
dashing and humorous descriptive sketches, and quite a third of the 
present volume consists of Hannington's own narratives. This volume 
will serve to sustain and deepen the perennial interest in Uganda, 
where the Gospel has won some of its most glorious triumphs. 

ALFRED SAKER 
The Pioneer of the Gameroons. 

By his Daughter, E. M. SAKER. 

With Map, 3 Coloured and other Illustrations, Coloured Medallion 
on Cover, crown 8vo, cloth gilt, Is. 6d. 

The Cameroons are a little known land, but they have been the 
scene of some of the most interesting work done by British mission- 
aries on the West Coast of Africa. The land, like Sierra Leone, long 
justified the title of " The white man's grave." The people were 
savages, amongst whom it was not easy to work. The language was 
new, and Alfred Saker gave his life to this field. The story of his 
adventures and encouragements is singularly interesting. 

A DOCTOR AND HIS DOG IN UGANDA 

From tetters and Journals of A. R. Cook, M.D. 

Medical Missionary of the Church Missionary Society. 
Edited by Mrs. H. B. COOK. 
With a Preface by Eugene Stock. Second Impression. With Photo- 
graph, Map of Uganda, and 12 other Illustrations, crown 8vo. 
cloth gilt. 2s. 

" With sincere pleasure I commend this little book. A great deal 
has been published from time to time on Uganda and the Uganda 
Mission, but this is the first book recounting the experiences of a 
Medical Missionary. To one who remembers the past history it is 
wonderful to read a book like the present." — Eugene Stock. 

"This little book will be of interest to people other than those 
actively engaged in mission work, for the social and economic con- 
ditions of the country are by no means lost sight of." — Manchester 
Courier. 

" We know of no other book which gives so vivid and realistic a 
picture of the daily life of the missionaries of Uganda." — Record. 

Lokdoh: THE RELIGIOUS TRACT SOCIETY. 




( 



