About This File

This file is part of a corpus compiled by Caitlin Matheis (University of Nebraska-Lincoln) for a 2021 computational text analysis project for the One More Voice recovery project (onemorevoice.org). This corpus encompasses a wide range of plain text (TXT) files containing nineteenth- and early twentieth-century literary works centered on Africa by several dozen different British and African writers. Questions about the corpus and project can be directed to Caitlin Matheis (cmatheis2@huskers.unl.edu), the creator of the corpus, and Adrian S. Wisnicki (awisnicki@unl.edu), lead developer for One More Voice.

File Source: Internet Archive, https://archive.org/details/lakeregionsofcen11860burt/page/n11/mode/2up

--------------------------------------


THE 

LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA 



A PICTURE OF EXPLORATION 


BY

RICHARD F. BURTON 

Capt. H. M. I. Army : Fellow and Gold Medallist of the Royal Geographical Society 



"Some to discover islands far away " — Shakspere 



IN TWO VOLUMES 

VOL. I. 



LONDON 

LONGMAN, GREEN, LONGMAN, AND ROBERTS 
1860 



The right of translation is reserved 



D7~ 

36/ 

-89?- 

v. / 



TO 

MY SISTER, 

MARIA STISTED, 

THESE PAGES ARE AFFECTIONATELY INSCRIBED 



PREFACE. 



I had intended this record of personal adventure to 
appear immediately after my return to Europe, in May 
1859. The impaired health, the depression of spirits, 
and worse still the annoyance of official correspond- 
ence, which to me have been the sole results of African 
Exploration, may be admitted as valid reasons for the 
delay. 

In April, 1860, the Royal Geographical Society of 
Great Britain honoured me by publishing a detailed paper, 
forming the XXIXth Volume of their Journal, from 
which the topographical descriptions contained in the 
following pages have, with their kind permission, been 
extracted. I have now attempted to combine with 
geography and ethnology, a narrative of occurrences 
and an exposition of the more popular and picturesque 
points of view which the subject offers. 

When I communicated to my friends the publishers 
certain intentions of writing an exclusively 4 'light work," 
they protested against the project, stating that the 
public appetite required the addition of stronger meat. 
In compliance, therefore, with their suggestion, I have 
drawn two portraits of the same object, and mingled 
the gay with the graver details of travel, so as to 
produce an antipathetic cento. 



Vlll 



PREFACE. 



Modern " hinters to travellers " direct the explorer 
and the missionary to eschew theory and opinion. We 
are told somewhat peremptorily that it is our duty to 
gather actualities not inferences — to see and not to think, 
in fact, to confine ourselves to transmitting the rough 
material collected by us, that it may be worked into 
shape by the professionally learned at home. But why 
may not the observer be allowed a voice concerning his 
own observations, if at least his mind be sane and his 
stock of collateral knowledge be respectable ? 

I have not attempted to avoid intruding matters of a 
private and personal nature upon the reader ; it would 
have been impossible to avoid egotism in a purely egotis- 
tical narrative. The official matter, however, has been 
banished into Appendix II. In publishing it, my desire 
is to avoid the possibility of a charge being concealed 
in the pigeon-holes of the India House, to be produced, 
according to custom, with all the effect of a surprise 
whenever its presence is convenient. I know the con- 
ditions of appealing from those in office to a higher tri- 
bunal — the Public. I well know them and 1 accept 
them. Avant tout, gentilhomme ! 

I have spoken out my feelings concerning Captain 
Speke, my companion in the Expedition which forms 
the subject of these pages. The history of our com- 
panionship is simply this : — As he had suffered with 
me in purse and person at Berberah, in 1855, I 
thought it but just to offer him the opportunity of re- 
newing an attempt to penetrate into Africa. I had no 
other reasons. I could not expect much from his assist- 
ance ; he was not a linguist — French and Arabic 
being equally unknown to him — nor a man of science, 



PREFACE. 



ix 



nor an accurate astronomical observer. The Court of 
Directors officially refused him leave of absence ; I ob- 
tained it for him by an application to the local authori- 
ties at Bombay. During the exploration he acted in a 
subordinate capacity ; and as may be imagined amongst 
a party of Arabs, Baloch, and Africans, whose languages 
he ignored, he was unfit for any other but a subordinate 
capacity. Can I then feel otherwise than indignant, 
when I find that, after preceding me from Aden to 
England, with the spontaneous offer, on his part, of not 
appearing before the Society that originated the Expe- 
dition until my return, he had lost no time in taking 
measures to secure for himself the right of working the 
field which I had opened, and that from that day he has 
placed himself en evidence as the primum mobile of an 
Expedition, in which he signed himself " surveyor," — 
cujus pars minima fuit? 

With deference to the reader's judgment, I venture 
to express a hope that whatever of unrefinement ap- 
pears in these pages, may be charged to the subject. 
It has been my duty to draw a Dutch picture, a cabaret- 
piece which could not be stripped of its ordonnance, its 
boors, its pipes, and its pots. I have shirked nothing 
of the unpleasant task,— of recording processes and not 
only results ; I have entered into the recital of the mala- 
dies, the weary squabbles, and the vast variety of 
petty troubles, without which the coup cVceil of African 
adventure would be more like a Greek Saint in effigy- 
all lights and no shade — than the chapter of accidents 
which it now is. 

The map and the lists of stations, dates, &c., have 
been drawn upon the plan adopted by Mr. Francis 



PEEFACE. 



Galton, F.R.G.S. The outline of Africa, the work of Mr. 
Weller, F.R.G.S., contains the latest and the best infor- 
mation concerning the half- explored interior of the 
Continent. The route-map has been borrowed by 
permission from the laborious and conscientious com- 
pilation of Mr. Findlay, F.R.G.S., accompanying the 
paper forwarded by me to the Royal Geographical 
Society. The latter gentleman has also kindly supplied 
a profile of the country traversed, showing the Eastern 
limits of the Great Depression, and the "elevated-trough 
formation" of Central Africa. 

In conclusion, I would solicit forbearance in all that 
concerns certain errors of omission and commission 
scattered through these pages. The migratory instinct 
is now hurrying me towards the New World : I have, 
therefore, been obliged to content myself with a single 
revise. 



10th April, 
E.LU.S. Clab, 14 St. James's Square. 



FIRST REGION. 



xi 



DATES OF JOURNEYING. 



1856 


September 


Left England. 




2nd December 


Sailed from Bombay. 




19th December 


Arrived at Zanzibar Island. 


1857 


6th January 


Left Zanzibar the first time. 




14th June 


Left Zanzibar the second time. 




27th June 


Set out from Kaole on the coast. 




7th November 


Arrived at Unyanyembe of Unyamwezi. 


1858 


14th February 


Keacbed Ujiji on the Tanganyika Lake. 




26th April 


Arrived at Uvira on the North of the Tanyanyika Lake. 




26th May 


Left Ujiji. 




19th June 


Returned to Unyanyembe. 




26th September 


Left Unyanyembe. 


1859 


3rd February 


Reached Konduchi on the coast. 




4th March 


Landed at Zanzibar Island. 




4th May 


Left Aden. 




20th May 


Landed at Southampton. 



LIST STASIMETRIC AND HYPSOMETRIC. 

NAMES OF KHAMBI OE STAGES MADE BY THE EAST AFRICAN EXPEDITION, AND 
HEIGHTS OF THE SEVERAL CRUCIAL STATIONS. 



FIRST REGION. 





From Kaole on the Coast to Zungomero, chief 






DISTRICT OF K'HUTU. 








H. M. 


1 




1 30 


2 




1 30 


3 




0 30 


4 




3 20 


5 




6 0 


6 




3 30 


7 


Tumba Ihere to Muhonyera ....... 


4 40 


8 


Muhonyera to Sagesera ...... 


2 45 


9 




7 0 


10 




2 30 


11 




3 0 


12 




3 0 


13 




7 0 


14 




6 0 


15 




6 40 


16 




2 0 


17 




7 0 


©17 




67 55 



Kaole, Latitude, South, 6° 25' Longitude, East, 38° 51'. 

Zungomero, „ 7° 27' „ 37° 22'. 
Altitude of Zungomero, 330 feet above sea level. Average altitude of First Region, 
by B. P. Therm., 230 feet. 



xii 



SECOND AND THIRD REGIONS. 
SECOND REGION. 



1 

2 
3 
4 
5 
G 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 



From Zungomero, over the Mountains of Usagara, 
to Ugogi. 



Zungomero to Mzizi Mdogo (in Usagara) 
Mzizi Mdogo to Chya K'henge 
Chya K'henge to Rufuta River 
Rufuta River (up the Goma Pass) to Mfu 
Mfu'uni to " Overshot Nullah " 
" Overshot Nullah" to Zonhwe 
Zonhwe to Muhama . 
Muhama to Makata . 
Makata to Myombo River . 
Myombo River to Mbumi . 
Mbumi to Kadetamare 
Kadetamare to Muinyi 
Muinyi to Nidabi 
Nidabi to Rumuma . 
Rumuma to Marenga Mk'hali 
Marenga Mk'hali to O in Jungle 
Jungle to Inenge 

Inenge to first gradient of Rubeho Pass 
First gradient to second gradient ditto 
Second gradient to summit of Rubeho 
Summit to © one quarter of the way down the 
From 0 on slope to © below half-way 
From © below half-way to Ugogi at the base 



terslope 



©23 + 27 (carried forward) = 33 0's 



103 25 
Carried forward, 67 55 



Total hours from the coast to Ugogi . 171 20 



Rubeho Pass, (about) Latitude, South, 6° 38' Longitude, East, 36° 19' 
Ugogi, „ 6° 40' „ 36° 6' 

Altitude of Rubeho summit, 5700. Altitude ofcUgogi at Western Counterslope, by 
B. P. Therm. 2770. 



THIRD REGION. 





01 








•\ 


are 
k'h 






A 




7 


d 

SP. 


8 
9 




10 


P 


11 




12 




113 



From Ugogi, through Marenga Mr'haij, Ugogo, 
and Mgunda Mk'hali, to Tura of Unyamwezi. 



Ugogi to © in Jungle . 

Jungle to Marenga Mk'hali (second of that name) 
Marenga Mk'hali to © in Jungle 
© in Jungle to © in Jungle .... 
© in Jungle to Ziwa or tank (on frontier of Ugogo) 
Ziwa to Kifukuru ...... 

Kifukuru to O in Jungle 

© in Jungle to Kanyenye .... 
Kanyenye to Kanyenye of Magomba 
Kanyenye of Magomba to © in Jungle . 

© in Jungle to K hok'ho 

K'hok'ho to Mdaburu 

Mdaburu to © in Jungle of Mgunda Mk'hali . 



THIRD AND FOURTH REGIONS. 



xm 



THIRD REGION — (continued.) 



Mganda 
Mk'hali. 


"14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 


Mgunda Mk'hali to Mabunguru 

Mabunguru to Jiwe la Mkoa ...... 

Jiwe la Mkoa to Kirurumo 

Kirurumo to Jiweni of Uyanzi ..... 

Jiweni to Mgongo Thembo 

Mgongo Thembo to © Tura Nullah .... 
© Tura Nullab to Tura in Unyamwezi .... 


6 0 

7 0 

3 10 

4 30 
2 20 
7 0 

5 30 


© 


20 4 


33 (carried forward) = 53. 

Carried forward . 


93 40 
171 20 






Total hours from the coast to Tura . 


265 0 


Eastern limit of Tura, Latitude, South, 5° 27' Longitude, East, 34°. 
Altitude, by Bath. Thermometer, 4125 feet. 



FOURTH REGION. 



Through Unyamwezi, Ugara, Uwende, and 
Uvinza, to Ford of Malagarazi River. 



1 

2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 
26 
27 
28 
29 
30 
31 
32 
f33 
|34 
¦{ 35 
36 
37 



Eastern limit of Tura to Western Tura 
W estern Tura to Kwale Nullah 
Kwale Nullah to Eastern Rubuga . 
Eastern Rubuga to Western Rubuga 
Western Rubuga to Ukona 
Ukona to Kigwa .... 
Kigwa to Hanga village . 
Hanga to Kazeh (Arab ©) 
Kazeh to Zimbili Hill 
Zimbili to Yombo .... 
Yombo to Pano (cleaving in Jungle) 
Pano to Eastern Mfuto . 
Eastern Mfuto to Western Mfuto . 
Western Mfuto to Eastern Wilyankuru . 
Eastern Wilyankuru to Central Wilyankuru 
Central Wilyankuru to Western Wilyankuru 
Western Wilyankuru to Masenge 
Masenge to Eastern Kirira 
Eastern Kirira to Western Kirira . 
Western Kirira to Eastern Msene . 
Eastern Msene to Western Msene (Arab ©) 
Western Msene to Mbhali 
Mbhali to Sengati ..... 
Sengati to Sorora or Solola 
Sorora to Ukungwe ..... 
Ukungwe to Panda ..... 
Panda to Kajjanjeri ..... 
Kajjanjeri to Eastern Usagozi . 
Eastern Usagozi to Western Usagozi 
Western Usagozi to Masenga of Wagara 
Masenga to Mukozimo of Wawende . 
Mukozimo to Uganza of Wanyamwezi . 
Uganza to Usenye of Wavinza 

Usenye to Rukunda 

Rukunda to Wanyika .... 
Wanyika to Unyanguruwwe . 
Unyanguruwwe to Ugaga on the Malagarazi River 



0 37 + 53 (carried over) = 90 



Carried forward 



Total hours from coast to Malagarazi River 



H. M. 

1 30 

6 30 
5 45 

2 40 
2 15 

5 5 

6 30 
5 0 
1 40 



0 
0 
40 
0 
30 
50 
0 
80 
0 
0 
0 
0 

so 

0 
45 
15 
50 
1 30 
3 45 



in 



no 30 

265 0 



375 30 



Kazeh 



Latitude, South, 5° 



Longitude, East, 33° 3'. 
Malagarazi Ferry. „ 5° V. „ 31° 13'. 

Altitude of Kazeh, by Bath Therm. 3490 feet. 
,, Usenye 3190 ,, 



FIFTH REGION. 



FIFTH REGION. 




From the Malagarazi Ferry to Ukaranga on the 
Tanganyika Lake. 




1 

2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 


Ugaga on left to Mpete on right hand 

Mpete to Kinawani ... 


H. M. 

0 25 
5 20 
5 25 

1 40 

5 15 
4 20 

3 30 

4 40 
7 35 

6 35 


© 10 


r 90 (carried forward) = 100 

Carried forward . 


44 45 
375 30 




Total hours from the coast to the Tanganyika Lake . 


420 25 


Ukaranga, Latitude, South, 4° 58'. Longitude, East, 30° 3' 30". 
Altitude by Bath Therm. 1850. 



The distance from Kaoleto Ujiji is of 540 rectilinear geographical miles : or in statute 
miles, allowing one for windings of the road, thus : 

From Kaole to Kazeh, statute miles .... 520 
From Kazeh to Ujiji „ .... 276 

796 

Add one fifth for detour— 159 miles . 159 

Total of statute miles .... 955 
Assuming the absolute time of travelling to be 420 hours, this will give a marching 
rate of 2 27 miles per hour. 



THE 



CONTENTS 

OF 

FIRST VOLUME. 



Page 

CHAPTER I. 

We quit Zanzibar Island in Dignified Style .... 1 

CHAP. II. 

Zanzibar and the Mrima explained ...... 28 

CHAP. III. 

Transit of the Valley of the Kingani and the Mgeta Rivers . 41 

CHAP. IV. 

On the Geography and Ethnology of the First Region . .100 

CHAP. V. 

Halt at Zungomero, and Formation of the Caravan . . . 127 

CHAP. VI. 

We cross the East African Ghauts 158 

VOL. I. a 



xvl CONTENTS. 

Page 

CHAP. VII. 

The Geography and Ethnology of the Second Region . . 225 

CHAP. VIII. 

We succeed in traversing Ugogo . . . . . .241 

CHAP. IX. 

The Geography and Ethnography of Ugogc — the Third Region 294 

CHAP. X. 

We enter Unyamwezi, the Far-famed Land of the Moon . .313 



CHAP. XI. 

We conclude the Transit of Unyamwezi 



375 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS 

IN 

THE FIEST VOLUME. 



CHROMOXYLOGrKAPHS. 



The Ivory Porter Frontispiece. 

Zanzibar Town from the Sea . . ... to face page 1 

A Town on the Mrima „ 28 

Explorers in East Africa „ 127 

The East African Ghauts „ 158 

View in Unyamwezi „ 313 

WOODCUTS. 

The Wazaramo Tribe 41 

Party of Wah'hutu Women 100 

Sycomore Tree in the Dhun Ugogi . . . . . . .158 

Maji ya W'heta, or the Jetting Fountain in K'hutu .... 225 

Ugogo 241 

Usagara Mountains, seen from Ugogo ....... 294 

Ladies' Smoking Party . * 313 

African House Building . . . . . . . , .375 



THE 

LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



CHAPTER I. 

WE QUIT ZANZIBAR ISLAND IN DIGNIFIED STYLE. 

At noon, on the 16 th of June, 1857, the corvette Artemise, 
after the usual expenditure of gunpowder w^hich must in 
Eastern lands announce every momentous event, from 
the birth of a prince to the departure of a bishop, slowly 
gliding out of Zanzibar harbour, afforded us a farewell 
glance at the whitewashed mosques and houses of the 
Arabs, the cadjan-huts, the cocoa-grown coasts, and the 
ruddy hills striped with long lines of clove. Onwards 
she stole before a freshening breeze, the balmy breath of 
the Indian Ocean, under a sun that poured a flood of 
sparkling light over the azure depths and the bright 
green shallows around, between the "elfin isles" of Kum- 
beni, with its tall trees, and Chumbi, tufted with dense 
thickets, till the white sandstrip mingled with the blue 
ocean, the gleaming line of dwarf red cliff and scaur 
dropped into the w r ater's edge, the land faded from eme- 
rald to brown, and from brown to hazy purple, the tufts 
of the trees seemed first to stand out of, then to sw r im 
upon, the wave, and as evening, the serenest of tropical 
VOL. i. B 



2 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



evenings, closed in over sky, earth, and sea, a cloud-like 
ridge, dimly discernible from our quarter, was all that 
remained of Zanzibar. 

I will not here stay the course of my narrative to 
inform the reader that Zanzibar is not, as the Cyclo- 
paedias declare, " an island of Africa, governed by a 
king who is subject to the Portuguese ; " that it is not, 
as the Indian post-offices appear to believe, a part of 
the Persian Gulf ; nor, as homekeeping folk, whose no- 
tions of African geography are somewhat dim and ill- 
defined, have mentally determined, a rock in the Eed 
Sea, nor a dependency of the Niger, nor even an off- 
shoot of the Cape of Storms. 

The Artemise is a kind of " Jackass-frigate," an 18- 
gun corvette, teak-built in Bombay, with a goodly 
breadth of beam, a slow sailer, but a sure. In the days 
of our deceased ally, Sayyid Said, the misnamed " Imaum 
of Muscat," she had so frequently been placed by his 
Highness at the disposal of his old friend Lieut.-Colonel 
Hamerton, that she had acquired the sobriquet of " the 
Balyuz or Consul's yacht." On this occasion she had 
been fitted up for a cruise to the mainland ; her yards, 
usually struck, had been swayed up and thrown across ; 
her top spars had been transferred from the hold to their 
proper place ; her ropes and rigging, generally hang- 
ing in tatters about her sticks, had been carefully over- 
hauled ; her old sails had been bent, and her usual 
crew, a few slaves that held their own with difficulty 
against a legion of rats and an army of cockroaches, frad 
been increased to its full complement of twenty men. 
His Highness the Sayyid Majid, who after the demise of 
his father had assumed the title of " Sultan of Zanzibar 
and the Sawahil," came on board accompanied by his 
four brothers, of whom two — Sayyids Jamshid and Ham- 

DSI 



ADIEU TO ZANZIBAR. 



8 



dan — died of small-pox before our return, and one — 
Say} 7 id Barghash — has lately become a state prisoner at 
Bombay, to bid what proved a last adieu to his father's 
friend. At the same time His Highness honoured me, 
through his secretary, Ahmed bin Nuuman, more gene- 
rally known as Wajhayn, or " Two-faces," with three 
letters of introduction, to Musa Mzuri, the Indian doyen 
of the merchants settled at Unyamwezi, to the Arabs 
there resident, and to all his subjects who were travel- 
ling into the interior. 

The Artemise conveyed the personnel and the mate- 
riel of the East African Expedition, namely, the two 
European members — my companion and myself — -two 
Portuguese, or rather half-caste Goanese " boys,' 7 two 
Negro gun-carriers, the Seedy Mubarak Mombai (Bom- 
bay), and Muinyi Mabruki, his "brother," and finally, eight 
so-called "Baloch" mercenaries, a guard appointed by 
the Sultan to accompany me. Lieut. -Colonel Hamerton, 
at that time Her Majesty's consul and Hon. East India 
Company's agent at Zanzibar, though almost lethargic 
from the effects of protracted illness — he lived only in 
the evening — had deemed it his duty to land us upon 
the coast, and to superintend our departure from the 
dangerous seaboard. He was attended by Mr. Erost, the 
apothecary attached to the consulate, whose treatment 
for a fatal liver-complaint appeared to consist of minute 
closes of morphia and a liberal diet of sugar. 

By Lieut.-Colonel Hamerton's advice, I ventured 
to modify the scheme of the East African Expedition, as 
originally proposed by the Expeditionary Committee of 
the Royal Geographical Society of London. In 1855, 
M. Erhardt, an energetic member of the hapless "Mora- 
bas Mission," had on his return to London offered to 
explore a vast mass of water, about the size of the Cas- 

B 2 



4 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



pian, which, from the information of divers " natives," 
he had deposited in slug or leech shape in the heart of 
Intertropical Africa, thus prolonging the old " Maravi," or 
"Moravim Lake" of Portuguese travellers and school 
atlases, to the north of the equator, and thus bringing 
a second deluge upon sundry provinces and kingdoms 
thoroughly well known for the last half century. He 
had proposed to land, with an outfit of 300 dollars*, 
at Kilwa, one of the southern ports of the Zanzibar 
mainland, to hire a score of Wasawahili porters, to 
march with a caravan upon the nearest point of his 
own water, and to launch an adventurous canoe upon 
a lake which, according to his map, could not be tra- 
versed under twenty-five days. Messrs. Erhardt and 
Krapf, of the " Mombas Mission," spent, it is true, a 
few hours at Kilwa, where they were civilly entreated by 
the governor and the citizens ; but they egregiously de- 
ceived themselves and others, when they concluded that 
they could make that place their ingress-point. Lieut. 
Christopher, I.N., who visited the East African coast in 
1843, wisely advised explorers to avoid the neighbour- 

* The sum was wholly inadequate. M. Erhardt has, I have been told, ex- 
pended as much on a week's march from Pangani Town to Fu'ga. The small- 
est of Wasawahili pedlars would hardly deem an outfit of 300 dollars sufficient. 
M. Erhardt was, even according to his own reduced ideas of distance, to march 
with twenty followers 400 miles, and to explore a lake 300 miles in breadth 
and of unknown length. In 1802, when cloth and beads were twice their 
present value in Africa, the black Pombeiros sent by M. Da Costa, super- 
intendent of the " Cassangi Factory," carried with them for the necessary 
expenses and presents, goods to the value of nearly 500Z. M. Erhardt's 
estimate was highly injurious to future travellers: either he knew the truth, 
and he should have named at once a reasonable estimate, or he was ignorant 
of the subject, and he should have avoided it. The consequence of his proposal 
was simply this: — With 5000Z. instead of 1000Z., the limited sum of the 
Government grant, the East African Expedition could have explored the 
whole central area ; nothing but the want of supplies caused their return at 
the time when, after surmounting sickness, hardship, and want of discipline 
amongst the party, they were ready to push to the extreme end. 



PRELIMINARIES. 



5 



hood of Kilwa. Wisely, I repeat : the burghers of that 
proud old settlement had, only a year before my arrival, 
murdered, by means of the Wangindo savages, an Arab 
merchant who ventured to lay open the interior. 

At the same time I had laid before the Council of the 
Koyal Geographical Society my desire to form an expe- 
dition primarily for the purpose of ascertaining the limits 
of the " Sea of Ujiji, or Unyamwezi Lake," and second- 
arily, to determine the exportable produce of the in- 
terior, and the ethnography of its tribes. I have quoted 
exactly the words of the application. In these days every 
explorer of Central Africa is supposed to have set out 
in quest of the coy sources of the White Nile, and 
when he returns without them, his exploration, whatever 
may have been its value, is determined to be a failure. 
The Council honoured my plans with their approval. At 
their solicitation, the Foreign Office granted the sum 
of 1000£. for the outlay of the exploration, and the de- 
funct Court of Directors of the late East India Companjf, 
who could not be persuaded to contribute towards the 
expenses, generously allowed me two years' leave of 
absence from regimental duty, for the purpose of com- 
manding the Expedition. I also received instructions 
to report myself to his Excellency the Lord Elphin- 
stone, then Governor of Bombay, and to Lieut.-Colonel 
Hamerton, from whose influence and long experience 
much was expected. 

When the starting-point came to be debated, the 
Consul strongly objected to an Expedition into the in- 
terior via Kilwa, on account of the opposition to be 
expected at a port so distant from the seat of govern- 
ment, where the people, half-caste Arabs and Wasa- 
wahili ? who are under only a nominal control, still re- 
tained a strong predilection for protection, and a violent 

B 3 



6 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



hostility to strangers. These reasons led him to pro- 
pose my landing upon the coast opposite Zanzibar, and 
to my thence marching with a strong escort, despatched 
by the Arab prince, through the maritime tribes, whose 
cruel murder of M. Maizan, the first European known 
to have penetrated beyond the sea -board, was yet fresh 
in the memories of men. This notion was accepted the 
more readily, as during my short preliminary sojourn 
at Zanzibar, I had satisfactorily ascertained from Arab 
travellers that the Maravi or Kilwa Lake is distinct from 
the " Sea of Ujiji that the former is of comparatively 
diminutive dimensions ; that there is no caravan route 
between the two ; and therefore that, by exploring the 
smaller, I should lose the chance of discovering the 
larger water. Moreover, the general feeling of the 
Zanzibarites — of the Christian merchants, whom I had 
offended by collecting statistics about copal-digging, ivory, 
and sesamum — of the Bhattias or Hindus of Cutch, who 
systematically abuse the protection of the British flag to 
support the interest of the slave trade — of the Arabs, 
who remembered nothing but political intrigue in the ex- 
plorations of the " Mombas Mission," and the lamentable 
result of Dr. Krapf's political intrigues — and of the 
Africans generally, who are disposed to see in every 
innovation some new form of evil — had been conveyed 
to my ears explicitly enough to warrant my apprehen- 
sions for the success of the Expedition, had I insisted 
upon carrying out the project proposed by M. Erhardt. 

I must here explain, that before my departure from 
England, the Church Missionary Society had supplied 
me, after a personal interview in Salisbury Square, with 
a letter to their employe, M. Rebmann, the last remnant 
of that establishment at Mombasah, which had, it is 
said, expended about 12,000/. with the minimest of re- 



THE "MOMBAS MISSION.' 1 



7 



suits. The missionaries had commenced operations with 
vigour, and to the work of conversion they had added 
certain discoveries in the unknown lands of the interior, 
which attracted the attention of European geographers. 
Unhappily Dr. Krapf, the principal, happened to commit 
himself by the following assertion : — " The Imaum of 
Muskat has not an inch of ground on the coast between 
the Island of Wassin and the Pangani River ; this tract, 
in fact, belonging to King Kmeri of Usumbara, down 
from 4° 30' to 5° 30' S. The tract, which is very low, 
is inhabited by the Wasegua tribes, and is the chief 
slave-market for supplying Zanzibar." 

This " information," put forth in the Journal of the 
Eoyal Geographical Society (vol. i. p. 203), was copied 
into the Proceedings (vol. xxiii. p. 106), with the re- 
mark, that the territory alluded to was a u supposed 
possession" of the Imaum. Orientals are thin-skinned 
upon questions of land ; the assertion was directly 
opposed to fact, and the jealousy of the rival represen- 
tatives at Zanzibar each on his own side, exaggerated 
its tendency. Lieut. -Colonel Hamerton, who felt his 
influence sapped by this error on the part of his pro- 
tege, had reported the facts to his government. Dr. 
Krapf had quitted the scene of his labours and dis- 
coveries, but his Highness the Sultan and the sadat, 
or court, retained a lively remembrance of the regret- 
able incident. Before the arrival of the Expedition, 
" Muhiyy-el-Din," the Shafei Kazi of the island, had 
called upon Lieut.- Colonel Hamerton, probably by direc- 
tion of his superiors, and had received an answer, 
fortified by an oath, that the Expedition was wholly 
independent of " Dutchmen," as the missionaries were 
called by the Zanzibarites. I was compelled, somewhat 
unwillingly, to dispense with urging M. Rebmann's 

B 4 



8 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



presence. By acting in any other way I should have 
lost the assistance of the consul, and the Arabs, with a 
ready display of zeal, would have secured for me an in- 
evitable failure. 

At six p.m. on Wednesday, the 17th of June, 1857, 
the Artemise cast anchor off Wale Point, a long, low 
bush-grown sandspit, about eighty-four miles distant 
from the little town of Bagamoyo. Oar sailing-master, 
Mohammed bin Khamis, anchored in deep water, throw- 
ing out double the length of chain required. For this 
prudence, however, there was some reason. The road- 
steads are open ; the muddy bottom shelves gradually, 
almost imperceptibly ; the tides retire ten or eleven feet, 
and a strong gale, accompanied by the dangerous raz 
de maree, or rollers from seaward, especially at the 
seasons of the syzygies, with such a shore to leeward, is 
justly dreaded by the crews of square-rigged vessels. 

There is a something peculiarly interesting in the first 
aspect of the " Mrima," the hill-land, as this portion of 
the African coast is called by the islanders of Zanzibar. 
On one side lies the Indian Ocean, illimitable towards 
the east, dimpled with its " anerithmon gelasma," and 
broken westward by a thin line of foam, creaming upon 
the whitest and finest of sand, the detritus of coralline 
and madrepore. It dents the coast deeply, forming 
bays, bayous, lagoons, and backwaters, where, after 
breaking their force upon bars and black ledges of sand 
and rock, upon diabolitos, or sun-stained masses of a 
coarse conglomerate, and upon strong weirs planted 
in crescent shape, the waters lie at rest in the arms 
of the land like sheets of oil. The points and islets 
formed by these sea- streams are almost flush with the 
briny surface, yet they are overgrown with a profuse ve- 
getation, the result of tropical suns and copious showers, 



THE MK1MA. 



9 



which supply the want of rich soil. The banks of the 
backwaters are lined with forests of white and red man- 
grove. When the tide is out, the cone-shaped root- 
work supporting each tree rises naked from the deep 
sea-ooze ; parasitical oysters cluster over the trunks at 
water-level, and between the adults rise slender young 
shoots, tipped with bunches of brilliant green. The 
pure white sand is bound together by a kind of con- 
volvulus, whose large fleshy leaves and lilac-coloured 
flowers creep along the loose soil. Where raised higher 
above the ocean level, the coast is a wall of verdure. 
Plots of bald old trees, bent by the regular breezes, 
betray the positions of settlements which, generally 
sheltered from sight, besprinkle the coast in a long 
straggling line, like the suburbs of a populous city. Of 
these, thirteen were counted in a space of three miles. 
The monotony of green that clothes the soil is relieved 
in places by dwarf earth-cliffs and scaurs of rufous hue — 
East Africa is mostly a red land — and behind the fore- 
ground of littoral or alluvial plain, at a distance varying 
from three to five miles, rises a blue line of higher level, 
conspicuous even from Zanzibar Island, the sandy raised 
beach now the frontier of the wild men. To this sketch 
add its accompaniment ; by day, the plashing of the wave, 
and the scream of the gull, with the perpetual hum 
and buzz of insect life ; and, after sunset, the deep, dead 
silence of a tropical night, broken only by the roar of 
the old bull- crocodile at his resting-time, the qua-qua 
of the night-heron, and the shouts and shots of the 
watchmen, who know from the grunts of the hippopo- 
tamus, struggling up the bank, that he is quitting his 
watery home to pay a visit to their fields. 

We were delayed ten days off Wale Point by various 
preliminaries to departure. Said bin Salim, a half- 



10 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



caste Arab of Zanzibar, who, sorely against his will, was 
ordered by the prince to act as Ras Kafilah, or caravan- 
guide, had, after ceaseless and fruitless prayers for delay, 
preceded us about a fortnight, for the purpose of collect- 
ing porters. The timid little man, whose nerves were 
shaken to weeping-point by the terrors of the way, and 
by the fancy that, thus cooperating with the exploration, 
he was incurring the hatred of his fellows, had " taken 
the shilling," in the shape of 500 dollars, advanced 
from public funds by the consul, with a promise of an 
ample reward in hard coin, and a gold watch, "si se 
bene gesserit:" at the same time Lieut.-Colonel Hamer- 
ton had warned me against trusting to a half-caste. 
Accompanied by a Cutch Banyan of the Bhattia caste, 
by name Ramji — of whom more anon — he had crossed 
over, on the 1st of June, to the main-land, and had hired 
a gang of porters, who, however, hearing that their 
employer was a Muzungu, a " white man," at once 
dispersed, forgetting to return their hire. About one 
hundred and seventy men were required ; only thirty- 
six were procurable. The large amount of carriage was 
necessitated by the bulky and ponderous nature of 
African s'pecie, cotton cloth, brass-wire, and beads, of 
which a total of seventy loads was expended in one 
year and nine months. Moreover, under the impression 
that " vert and venison " abounded in the interior, I 
had provided ammunition for two years, — ten thousand 
copper-caps of sizes, forty boxes, each restricted, for 
convenience of porterage, to forty pounds, and contain- 
ing ball, grape, and shot, six fire-proof magazines, and 
two small barrels of fine powder, weighing in total fifty 
pounds, together with four ten-pound kegs of a coarser 
kind for the escort, — in all, two hundred rounds for 
each individual of the party. This supply was deemed 



LADIIA DAMHA. 



11 



necessary on account of the immense loss to which am- 
munition is subjected by theft and weather in these lands. 

On the second day after anchoring off Wale Point, a 
native boat brought on board the Artemise Ladha Damha, 
the collector of customs at Zanzibar, who, in compli- 
ment to Lieut.-Colonel Hamerton, of old his friend and 
patron, had torn himself from his beloved occupations 
to push the departure of the Expedition. Ladha, hear- 
ing that the Arab merchants had hastened to secure 
their gangs before corrupted by the more liberal offers 
of the " white men," — " Pagazi," or porters, being at 
that time scarce, because the caravans from the interior 
had not yet reached the coast, — proposed to send forward 
the thirty-six fellows hired by Said bin Salim, with orders 
to await the arrival of their employer at Zungomero, in 
the land of K'hutu, a point situated beyond the plun- 
dering maritime tribes. These men carried goods to the 
value of 654 dollars German crowns (each 4 s. 2d.), and 
they received for hire 124 dollars ; rations, that is 
to say, 1*50 lbs. of grain per diem, not included : they 
preferred to travel with the escort of two slave-mus- 
keteers rather than to incur the fancied danger of accom- 
panying a " Muzungu," though followed by a well-armed 
party. For the personal baggage and the outfit neces- 
sary for crossing the maritime region, which reached by 
waste the figure of 295 dollars, asses were proposed by 
Ladha Damha: Zanzibar and the mainland harbours were 
ransacked, and in a short time thirty animals, good, bad, 
and indifferent, were fitted for the roads with large can- 
vas bags and vile Arab packsaddles, composed of damaged 
gunny-bags stuffed with straw. It was necessary to 
leave behind, till a full gang of porters could be engaged, 
the greater part of the ammunition, the iron boat which 
had proved so useful on the coasting voyage to Mom- 



12 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



basah, and the reserve supply of cloth, wire, and beads, 
valued at 359 dollars. The Hindus promised faithfully 
to forward these articles, and received 1 50 dollars for the 
hire of twenty-two men, who were to start in ten days. 
Nearly eleven months, however, elapsed before they ap- 
peared ; caravan after caravan came up from the coast, yet 
the apathetic Bhattias pretended want of porters as the 
cause of their delay. Evidently my preparations were 
hurriedly made ; strong reasons, however, urged me on, 
— delay, even for a few days, might have been fatal. 

During the brief detention off Wale Point, the lati- 
tudes and longitudes of the estuary of the Kingani, 
the main artery of these regions, and of the little 
settlements Bagamoyo and Kaole,— strongly against the 
advice of Lieut-Colonel Hamerton, who declared that 
by such proceedings the Expedition was going to the 
bad, — were laid down by my companion: a novice 
lunarian, he was assisted by Mohammed bin Khamis, who 
had read his " Norie" in England. Various visits to the 
hippopotamus haunts produced little beyond the dam- 
aging of the corvette's gig, which, suddenly uplifted from 
the water upon the points of two tusks, showed two cor- 
responding holes in her bottom. Nor did I neglect to 
land as often as possible at Kaole, the point of departure 
upon the mainland, for the purpose of making sketches 
with the pen and pencil, of urging on preparations, and 
of gathering those items of " bazar-gup," i. e., tittle- 
tattle, that represents the labours of the " fourth 
estate " in Eastern lands. 

The little settlement of " Kaole " — an abbreviation of 
Kaole Urembo, meaning literally, in the ancient dialect 
of the coast, "to show beauty " — is the normal village- 
port in these regions, which, from Mombasah south- 
wards to Kilwa, still ignore a town of masonry. You 



SETTLEMENTS ON THE MRIMA. 



13 



land, when the tide is out, upon half a mile of muddy- 
sand, and if a " swell," you are carried by four men 
upon the Kitanda — cot or cartel — which is slung 
along the side of your craft. Arrived at the strip of 
dry ground that marks the limit of the tide, you are let 
down, and amidst the shouts of the men, the shrieks of the 
women, and the naive remarks of the juvenile popula- 
tion, you ascend by a narrow footpath, worn through 
the thick jungle and through the millet-fields which 
press upon the tattered palisade, a dwarf steep bank, on 
wdiose summit the settlement lies. Inside the fence are 
a dozen pent-roofed houses, claret-chests of wattle and 
dab, divided into three or more compartments by dwarf 
party- walls of the same material: each messuage is jea- 
lously separated from its neighbour by large enclosed 
" compounds " or court-yards appropriated to the wo- 
men and children. The largest timber is that of 
the mangrove ; the flying thatch -roof, so raised that, 
though windows are unknown > the interior enjoys 
tolerable ventilation, is of jauli, or rude cocoa-plaits, 
and under the long and projecting eaves, which rest 
upon strong perpendiculars, are broad earth-benches, 
divided by the entrance, and garnished with mats : 
these form the shops and sitting-rooms of the settle- 
ment. Some houses have a partial second story, like 
a ship's bunk, a planking supported by rafters, and 
used as a store-closet or a dormitory. Around the 
larger habitations cluster masses of hovels, and the 
characteristic African haycock-huts. With closed doors 
in still weather, these dens are unendurable to a 
European ; the people, however, fearing thieves and 
wild beasts, never fail to barricade themselves within 
at night. The only attempt at masonry in the settle- 
ment is the " Gurayza," or fort, a square of lime and 



14 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



coralline, with store-rooms for the Banyan's goods below, 

and provided with a crenelle d terrace for watchmen. 
In the "garrison-towns" the soldiers and their 

families form the principal part of the population. 

These men, who call themselves Baloch, are, with few 
exceptions, originally from Mekran, and from the 
lowlands about Guadel. Many of them have been born 
and bred in Arabia. In former days their fathers 
migrated from their starving homes to Maskat, in the 
Arab dows which visited their ports, to buy horses, and 
to collect little cargoes of wheat and salt. In Arabia 
they were fakirs, sailors, porters, and day-labourers, 
barbers, date-gleaners, asinegos, beggars, and thieves. 
Sultan Bin Hamid, the father of the late Sayyid Said, 
first conceived the bright idea of putting matchlocks 
into their hands, and of dubbing them Askar, or soldiers, 
as a slight upon his less docile compatriots. The son 
of Sultan followed his sire's plan, and succeeded in di- 
viding and ruling by means of the antipathy prevailing 
between the more disciplinable mercenary and the 
unruly Arab subject. The Baloch are, however, rather 
hated than feared. They hang, say the Semites, their 
benefits behind their backs, whilst they wear their griev- 
ances in full view, woman-like, upon their breasts. Loud 
in debate, and turbulent in demeanour, they are called 
by the Arabs a " light folk," and are compared to birds 
fluttering and chirruping round a snake. Abject slaves 
to the Great Gaster, they collect in swarms round a 
slaughtered goat, and they will feast their eyes for 
hours on the sight of a rice-bag. When in cantonment 
on the island or the coast, they receive as pay from 2*50 
to 5 dollars per mensem ; when in the field or on out- 
post duty, a a batta" of 10 dollars; — a sensible system, 
which never allows them to become, like the Indian 



GARRISON-TOWNS. 



15 



Sepoy, independent. They are not averse to active 
service, as, when so employed, they have full permission 
to " pill and polk" In camp they are commanded by a 
jemadar, who, assisted by a " moollah," — some wretch 
who has retained, as sole traces of his better days, a 
smattering of reading, writing, and arithmetic, — robs 
them and his government with the recklessness of im- 
punity. Thus the jemadar, or C. 0., who also dispenses 
promotion, is a man having authority. Similarly our 
colonels in India, by superior position and allowances, 
commanded the respect of their men before centralisa- 
tion, falling upon the land like a pestilence, systematically 
monopolised all power, and then rained blame upon those 
who had lost it. These Baloch are a tame copy of the 
Turkish Bashi Buzuk, or " mad-cap," far inferior as des- 
peradoes to the Kurd and Arnaut. They live the 
life of the Anglo-Indian soldier of the past generation, 
drinking beer when they can " come by it," smoking, 
chatting, and arguing ; the younger wrestle, shoot, and 
exchange kit; and the silly babbling patriarchs, with 
white beards and venerable brows, tell wondrous tales 
of scenes long gone by, and describe to unbelieving ears 
the ice and snow, the luscious fruits and the sweet waters 
of the mountains and valleys of far Balochistan. 

The other items of t he population are the "Wamrima* — 

* It must bo borne in mind, that, in the Kisawahili and its cognates, 
the vowel u prefixed to a root, which, however, is never used without some 
prefix, denotes, through a primary idea of causality, a country or region, as 
Uzaramo, the region of Zaramo. Many names, however, exceptionally omit 
this letter, as the Mrima, K'hutu, Fuga, and Karagwah. The liquid m, or, 
before a vowel and an aspirated h, mu, to prevent hiatus, being probably a 
synaeresis of Mtu, a man, denotes the individual, as Mzaramo, a man or 
woman of Zaramo. When prefixed to the names of trees, as has been in- 
stanced, it is evidently an abbreviation of Mti, a tree. The plural form of 
m and mu is Wa, a contraction of Watu, men, people; it is used to signify the 
population, as Wamrima, the "coast-clans," Wazaramo, the people or tribe of 



16 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



Western Negroids of a mixed Arab and African descent, 
who fringe the shore in a thin line. These " coast- clans " 
support themselves in idleness and comparative luxury, 
by amicably plundering the down-caravans, and by large 
plantations of cereals and vegetables, with which they, 
or rather their slaves, supply the island of Zanzibar, 
and even the shores of Arabia. The Warn rim a are an 
ill-conditioned race ; they spend life in eating, drinking, 
and smoking, drinking and dancing, visits, intrigue, and 
low debauchery. They might grow cotton and coffee, 
and dig copal to almost any extent ; but whilst a pound 
of grain remains in bin, no man will handle a hoe. 
The feminine part of the community is greatly superior 
in number to the masculine, and this leads to the usual 
result : on a " Siku ku " or fete-day, the ladies of the 
village, with yellow pigment over their faces and their 
woolly heads, perform in their cups impromptu-dances 
upon the open, enter a stranger's house as if it were their 
own, and call for something to drink, as if they had been 
educated at Cremorne, or the Rue Cadet. The Wamrima 
are ruled by Diwans, or headmen, locally called " Chom- 
wi;" these officials are subject to Zanzibar, and their 
numbers are everywhere in inverse ratio to the import- 
ance of the places. The Chomwi enjoys the privileges of 
" dash," fines and extortions ; he has also certain marks 
of distinction. For instance, he is authorised to wear 
turbands and the wooden pattens called by the Arabs 

Zaramo, and WasawaMli (with a long accent upon the penultimate, con- 
sonant with the spirit of the African language, and contrary to that of the 
Arabic), the population of the Sawahil. Finally, the syllable hi — prefixed 
to the theoretical root — denotes anything appertaining to a country, as the 
terminating ish in the word English. It especially refers in popular usage 
to language, as Kizaramo, the language of Zaramo; Kisawahili, the language 
of the Sawahil, originally called Ki-ngozi, from the district of Ngozi, on the 
Ozi River. It has been deemed advisable to retain these terse and concise dis- 
tinctions, which, if abandoned, would necessitate a weary redundance of words. 



THE CHOMWI OE HEADMAN. 



17 



" kabkab ; " he ma}' also sit upon cots, chairs, and the 
mkeka, a fine dyed mat ; whereas a commoner venturing 
upon such display would infallibly be mulcted in goats 
or cattle. At the Ngoma Ku or great dance, which 
celebrates every event in this land of revelry, only the 
Chomwi may perform the morris with drawn sword 
before the admiring multitude. A subject detected in 
intrigue with the wife of a headman must, under penalty 
of being sold, pay five slaves ; the fine is reduced to one 
head in the case of a plebeian. With this amount of dignity 
the Diwan naturally expects to live, and to support his 
family with the fat of the land, and without sweat of 
brow. When times are hard, he organises a kidnapping 
expedition against a weaker neighbour, and fills his 
purse by selling the proceeds. But his income is derived 
chiefly from the down-caravans bringing ivory and 
slaves from Unyamwezi and the far interior. Though 
rigidly forbidden by the Prince of Zanzibar to force 
caravans to his particular port, he sends large armed 
parties of his kinsmen and friends, his clients and serfs, 
as far as 150 and 200 miles inland, where they act less 
like touters than highwaymen. By every petty art of 
mercantile diplomacy, — now by force, then by fraud, 
by promises, or by bribes of cloth and sweetmeats, — 
they induce the caravan to enter the village, when the 
work of plunder begins. Out of each Frasilah (thirty- 
five lbs. avoirdupois) of ivory, from eight to fourteen 
dollars are claimed as duties to the Government of 
Zanzibar ; the headmen, then, demand six dollars as 
their fee, under various technical names, plus one dollar 
for " ugali " or porridge — the " manche," — and one 
dollar for the use of water — the " pour boire." The 
owner of the tusk is then handed over to the tender 
mercies of the Banyan, from whom the Diwan has 
vol. i. c 



IS 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



received a bribe, called his " rice " ; and the crafty 
Hindu buys for eighteen to twenty dollars an article 
worth, at Zanzibar, fifty. If the barbarian be so un- 
wise as to prefer cash, being intellectually unfit to 
discriminate between a cent and a dollar, he loses even 
more than if he had taken in barter the coarse and 
trashy articles provided for him by the trade. An adept 
at distinguishing good from bad cloth and a cunning 
connoisseur in beads of sorts, he has yet no choice : if 
he reject what is worthless, he must return home with 
his ivory and without an investment. Such is an out- 
line of the present system. It is nowhere the same in 
its details ; but everywhere the principle is one — the 
loss is to the barbarian, and the profits are to the coast- 
clans, the Wamrima and their headmen. Hence the 
dislike to strangers and the infinite division into little 
settlements, where people might be expected to prefer 
the comfort and safety of large communities. The 10th 
article of the commercial treaty, concluded on the 31st 
May, 1839, between Her Majesty's Government and 
His Highness Sayyid Said of Muscat and Zanzibar, 
secured to the possessors of the Mrima a monopoly in 
the articles of ivory and gum-copal on that part of the 
east coast of Africa from the port of Tangata (Mtan- 
gata), situated in about 5^° S. lat. to the port of Quiloa 
(Kilwa) lying in about 7° S. of the equator. It is not 
improbable that the jealousy of European nations, each 
fearing the ambitious designs of its neighbour, brought 
about this invidious prohibitionist measure. 

Besides the Baloch and the Wamrima, the settlements 
usually contain a few of the " Washenzi" or barbarians 
from the interior, who visit them to act as day-labourers, 
and who sometimes, by evincing a little disrespect for 
the difference between the " mine " and the "thine," leave 



DIFFICULTIES. 



19 



their heads to decorate tall poles at the entrance. The 
Wazaramo tribe send, when there is no blood-feud, num- 
bers to Kaole, where they are known by their peculiar 
headdress, a single or a double line of pips or dilberries 
of ochre and grease surrounding the head. They regard 
the stranger with a wild and childish stare, and when- 
ever I landed, they slunk away from me, for reasons 
which will appear in the course of this narrative. The 
list of floating population concludes with a few Banj^ans, 
— there are about fifty in Kaole and its vicinity — a 
race national as the English, who clo their best to im- 
port into Eastern Africa the cows and curries, the 
customs and the costumes, of Western India. 

The first visit to Kaole opened up a vista of unex- 
pected difficulties. My escort had been allowed to leave 
the Artemise, and their comrades in arms had talked 
them half-crazy with fear. Zahri, a Baloch, who had 
visited Unyamwezi, declared that nothing less than 100 
guards, 150 guns, and several cannon could enable them 
to fight a way through the perils of the interior. Tulsi, 
the Banyan, warned them that for three days they must 
pass amongst savages, who sit on trees and discharge 
poisoned arrows into the air with such dexterity that 
they never fail to fall upon the travellers' pate; he 
strongly advised them therefore, under pain of death, to 
avoid trees — no easy matter in a land all forest. Then 
the principal Chomwi assured them that the chiefs of the 
Wazaramo tribe had sent six several letters to the offi- 
cials of the coast forbidding the white man to enter their 
country. Laclha Damha also obscurely hinted that the 
Wazaramo might make caches of their provisions in the 
jungle, and that the human stomach cannot march without 
feeding. Divers clangers of the way were incidentally 
thrown in : 1 learned for the first time that the Kargadan 

c 2 



20 



THE LAKE EEGIONS OF CENTRAL AFEICA. 



or rhinoceros kills 200 men, that armies of elephants 
attack camps by night, and that the craven hyaena does 
more damage than the Bengal tiger. In vain I objected 
that guns with men behind them are better than cannon 
backed by curs, that mortals can die but once, that the 
Wazaramo are unable to write, that rations might be 
carried where not purchaseable, and that powder and 
ball have been known to conquer rhinoceroses, elephants, 
and hyaenas. A major force was against me. 

Presently the cause of intimidation crept into sight. 
The Jemadar and the eight Baloch detached by His High- 
ness the Sayyid Majid of Zanzibar could not march 
without a reinforcement of four others, afterwards 
increased by a fifth in the person of an "Ustad," a tailor- 
boy. The garrison of Kaole having no employment, was 
ready, with the prospect of the almighty dollar, to march 
anywhere on this side of Jehannum. The perils of the 
path rendered it absolutely necessary that we should 
be escorted by a temporary guard of thirty- four men 
and their Jemadar Yaruk : and they did not propose 
to do the good deed gratis. Kamji, the Banyan clerk 
of the customs at Zanzibar, had a number of slaves 
whom he called his "sons;" they were "eating off 
their heads" in idleness at Zanzibar. He favoured me 
by letting out ten of these youths at the rate of thirty 
dollars ahead for a period of six months : for the same 
sum every man might have been purchased in the 
market. When asses were proposed ass-men were ne- 
cessary ; in the shortest space of time five were procured, 
and their pay for the whole journey was fixed at thirty 
dollars, about twice the sale-value of the article. I 
cannot plead guilty to not having understood the man- 
oeuvre, — a commercial speculation on the part of the 
rascal Kamji. Yet at times, — need I say it? — it is 



MS. LOST. 



21 



good to appear a dupe. It is wise, when your enemies 
determine you to be that manner of sable or ermine 
contrivance into which ladies insert their fair hands, to 
favour the hypothesis. I engaged the men, I paid the 
men, and mentally I chronicled a vow that Kamji should 
in the long run change places with me. 

Presently Mr. Frost with brow severe and official 
manner, informed me that the state of Lieut. -Colonel 
Hamerton's health forbade a longer stay near the coast. 
To this there was no reply : I contented myself with 
remarking once more' that morphia appeared a curious 
cure for a confirmed liver complaint, and I made pre- 
parations for landing at once. Mr. Frost replied that 
the doses of morphia were very "little ones/' — an excuse 
which, according to Capt. Marryat, has been urged under 
somewhat dissimilar circumstances by the frail ancilla. 
I confided to Mr. Frost's care two MSS. addressed 
through the Foreign Office, one to Mr. John Blackwood, 
the other to Dr. Norton Shaw, of the Royal Geographi- 
cal Society. As the former arrived in safety, whilst the 
latter,— a detailed report concerning the commerce and 
capabilities of Zanzibar,- — was lost, I cannot help suspect- 
ing that it came somehow to an untimely end. Lieu- 
tenant-Colonel Hamerton had repeatedly warned me 
that by making inquiries into the details of profit I was 
exciting the jealousy of the natives and the foreigners 
of Zanzibar. According to him the mercantile commu- 
nity was adopting the plan which had secured the foul 
murder of M. Maizan : the Christians had time and op- 
portunity to alarm the Banyans, and the latter were 
able to work upon the Wasawahili population. These 
short-sighted men dreaded that from throwing open the 
country, competition might result : Oriental-like, think- 
ing only of the moment, of themselves, they could not 

c 3 



21 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



perceive that the development of resources would benefit 
all concerned in their exploitation. There were, how- 
ever, honourable exceptions, amongst whom I am bound 
to mention M. Berard, agent to Mess. Kabaud, freres, 
of Marseilles, who by direction of his employers offered 
me every manner of assistance : and the late M. Sam. 
Masury, a Salem merchant, to whose gratuitous kind- 
ness I was indebted for several necessaries when se- 
parated from civilisation by one half of Africa. They 
contrasted sharply with the rest of the community: 
in the case of a certain young gentleman, Lieut. - 
Colonel Hamerton was, — he informed me, — compelled 
to threaten a personal chastisement, unless he ceased to 
fill native ears with his malignant suspicions. 

The weary labour of verifying accounts and of writing 
receipts duly concluded, I took a melancholy leave 
of my warm-hearted friend Lieut. -Colonel Hamerton, 
upon whose form and features death was written in 
legible characters. He gave me his last advice, to march 
straight ahead despising " walnut and velvet-slipper 
men," who afford opinions, and conciliating the Arabs 
as much as possible. Then he spoke of himself : he 
looked forward to death with a feeling of delight, the 
result of his religious convictions ; he expressed a hope 
that if I remained at Kaole, he might be buried at sea; 
and he declared himself, in spite of my entreaties, de- 
termined to remain near the coast until he heard of our 
safe transit through the lands of the dreaded Wazaramo. 
This courage was indeed sublime ! Such examples are 
not often met with amongst men ! 

After this affecting farewell, I took leave of the Ar- 
temise and landed definitively at Kaole. The Baloch 
driving the asses were sent off to the first station on 
the road westwards, headed by my companion, on the 



OEIENTAL "SHAME." 



same evening, lest a longer sojourn in the lands of semi- 
civilisation should thoroughly demoralise them. The 
Wanyamwezi porters, whose open faces and laughing 
countenances strongly prepossessed me in their favour, 
had already passed beyond their centre of attraction, 
the coast. I spent that evening with Ladha Damha, in- 
side the gloomy Gurayza. He lectured me for the last 
time upon my development of what the French carto- 
mantiste calls "la bosse de la temerite." Might not the 
Sahib be a great Sahib in his own land — Cutch or Gu- 
zerat? Are there not other great Sahibs there, A — 
Sahib and B — Sahib, for instance, who only kill pigs 
and ignore the debtor and creditor side of an account in 
Guzeratee? 

I must mention that, on the morning of the same 
day, I was present at a conversation held by the Ladha, 
the respectable collector of the customs, with the worthy 
Eamji, his clerk. I had insisted upon their inserting 
in the estimate of necessaries the sum required to pur- 
chase a boat upon the " Sea of Ujiji." 

" Will he ever reach it?" asked the respectable Ladha, 
conveying his question through the medium of Cutchee, 
a dialect of which, with the inconsequence of a Hindu, 
he assumed me to be profoundly ignorant. 

" Of course not," replied the worthy Ramji ; " what 
is he that he should pass through Ugogi?" (a province 
about half way.) 

At the moment I respected their " sharrn," or shame, 
a leading organ in the oriental brain, which apparently 
has dwindled to inconsequential dimensions amongst 
the nations of the West. But when Ladha was alone, I 
took the opportunity to inform him that I still intended 
to cross Ugogo, and to explore the " Sea of Ujiji." I 
ended by showing him that I was not unacquainted with 

c 4 



24 



THE LAKE EE G IONS OF CENTRAL AFEICA. 



Cutchee, and even able to distinguish between the debits 
and the credits of his voluminous sheets. 

During the conversation, the loud wail of death rang 
wildly through the grave- like stillness of night. " 0 
son, hope of my life ! 0 brother, dearest of brothers ! 

0 husband! 0 husband!" these were the cries which 
reached our ears. We ran to the door of the Gurayza. 
The only son of the venerable Diwan Ukwere, who had 
been ascending the Kingani river on a mercantile expe- 
dition, with five slaves, had' been upset by a vengeful 
hippopotamus, and, with two of his attendants, had lost 
his life. 

" Insaf Karo ! be honest!" said the Banyan, with 
whom I had had many discussions as to whether it be 
lawful or unlawful to shoot the hippopotamus, " and own 
that this is the first calamity which you have brought 
upon the country by your presence." 

I could only reply with the common-places of pole- 
mics. Why should Ladha, who by purchasing their 
spoils encouraged the destruction of herds of elephants, 
object to the death of a " creek-bull" ? and why should 
the man who would not kill the u creek-bull " be ready 
to ruin a brother-man for making a better bargain 
about its tusks? Ladha received these futile objections 
contemptuously, as you would, right reverend father, 
were I to suggest that you, primate and spiritual peer, 
are not exactly following in the footsteps of certain 
paupers whom you fondly deem to have been your pro- 
totypes, — your exemplars. 

When Ladha left, my spirits went with him. In 
the solitude and the silence of the dark Gurayza, I 
felt myself the plaything of misfortune. At Cairo 

1 had received from the East India House an order 
to return to London, to appear as a witness on a 



MELANCHOLY REFLECTIONS. 



25 



trial by court-martial then pending. The missive 
was, as usual, so ineptly worded, that I did not think 
proper to throw overboard the Royal Geographical So- 
ciety — to whom my services had been made over — by 
obeying it : at the same time I well knew what the con- 
sequences would be. Before leaving Egypt, an interview 
with the Count d'Escayrac de Lauture, had afforded me 
an opportunity of inspecting an expedition thoroughly 
well organised by His Highness Said Pacha, of military 
predilections, and the contrast between an Egyptian and 
an English exploration impressed me unpleasantly. 
Arrived at Aden, I had enlisted the services of an old 
and valued friend, Dr. Steinhaeuser, civil surgeon at that 
station : a sound scholar, a good naturalist, a skilful 
practitioner, endowed, moreover, with even more ines- 
timable personal qualities, his presence would have 
been valuable in a land of sickness, skirmishes, and 
sporting adventures, where the people are ever impressed 
with the name of " medicine-man," and in a virgin field 
promising subjects of scientific interest. Yet though re- 
commended for the work by his Excellency the Governor 
of Bombay, Dr. Steinhaeuser had been incapacitated by 
sickness from accompanying me: I had thus with me a 
companion and not a friend, with whom I was " strangers 
yet." The Persian war had prevented the fitting-out of 
a surveying vessel, ordered by the Court of Directors 
to act as a base of operations upon the African coast; no 
disposable officer of the Indian navy was to be found at 
the Presidency; and though I heard in Leadenhall Street 
of an " Observatory Sergeant" competent to conduct the 
necessary astronomical and meteorological observations, 
in the desert halls of the great Bungalow at Colaba 
only a few lank Hindus met my sight. Nor was this 
all. His Highness the late Sayyid Said, that estimable 



26 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA,, 

ally of the English nation, had for many years repeat- 
edly made the most public-spirited offers to his friend 
Lieut.-Colonel Hamerton. He was more than once 
upon the point of applying for officers selected to map 
the caravan routes of Eastern Africa, and he professed 
himself willing to assist them with men, money, and the 
weight of his widely extended influence. This excellent 
prince had died forty days before the Expedition arrived 
at Zanzibar. Lieut.-Colonel Hamerton, also, whose ex- 
traordinary personal qualities enabled him to perform 
anything but impossibilities amongst the Arabs, was 
compelled by rapidly failing health, during my stay at 
Zanzibar, to lead a recluse life, which favoured the plans 
of my opponents. Finally, as Indian experience taught 
me, I was entering the unknown land at the fatal season, 
when the shrinking of the waters after the wet mon- 
soon would render it a hotbed of malaria. 

The hurry of departure, also, had caused a necessary 
neglect of certain small precautions, which, taken in 
time, save much after trouble. I should have shunned 
to have laid down limits of space and time for the Ex- 
pedition, whereas my friend and adviser had specified 
the " Sea of Ujiji." I intended to have drawn out 
every agreement in an official form, registered at the 
Consulate, and specifying all particulars concerning ra- 
tions and presents for the escort, their ammunition, and 
their right of sporting — that is to say, of scaring the 
game before it could be shot — their reward for services, 
and their punishments for ill conduct. Lieut.-Colonel 
Hamerton's state of health, however, rendered him to- 
tally unfit for the excitement of business ; and, without 
his assistance, a good result was not to be expected from 
measures so unfamiliar, and therefore so unpalatable, to 
the people whom they most concerned. 



APOLOGIES. 



27 



Excuse, amiable reader, this lengthy and egotistical 
preface to a volume of adventure. Do not think that 
I would invert the moral of the Frog-fable, by showing 
that what is death to you, may become fun to me. As we 
are to be companions — not to say friends — -for an hour 
or two, I must put you in possession of certain facts, 
trivial in themselves, and all unworthy of record, yet 
so far valuable, that they may enable us to understand 
each other. Au reste, to quote the ballad so much ad- 
mired by the Authoress of " Our Village " : — 

" The Pindar of Wakefield is my style, 
And what I list I write ; 
Whilom a clerk of Oxenford, 
But now — a banished wight." 



28 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



CHAP. II. 

ZANZIBAR AND THE MRIMA EXPLAINED. 

The history of the word Zanzibar is curious. Its 
Persian origin proves that the Iranians were in early 
days a more maritime people than Vincent and other 
writers imagine. Zanzibar, signifying Nigritia, or 
Blackland, is clearly derived from the " Zang," in Arabic 
Zanj, a negro, and "bar," a region. This Zangbar was 
changed by the Arabs, who ignore in writing the hard 
</, into Zanjibar; they still, however, pronounce 
Zangbar, and consider it synonymous with another 
popular expression, " Mulk el Zunuj," or " the Land of 
the Blacks." Thus the poet sings,— 

tl And it hath been called Land of the Blacks, all of it." 

Traces of the word may be found in the earliest 
geographers. Ptolemy records a Zingis or Zingisa, 
which, however, with his customary incorrectness, he 
places north of the equator. According to Cosmas 
Indicopleustes, the Indian Ocean beyond Barbaria is 
called Zingium. " Sinus Barbaricus" seems to have 
been amongst the Komans the name of the belt of 
low land afterwards known as " Zanzibar," and it was 
inhabited by a race of Anthropophagi, possibly the 
fathers of the present " Wadoe" tribe. In more modern 
times the land of the Zunuj has been mentioned by a 
host of authors, El Novayri and others. 

The limits of Zanzibar, — a word indiscriminately 



" ZANZIBAR " EXPLAINED. 



29 



applied in former times to the coast, the island, and 
even to the principal town, — are variously laid down 
by geographers. Usually it is made to extend from 
Cape Delgado, in S. lat. 10° 41' to the equator, or 
more strictly to S. lat. 0° 15', at the mouth of the 
Vumbo, or the Webbe Ganana, which appears in our maps 
under the deceptive corruptions " Juba" and u Govind," 
from the Somali " Gob," a junction, and " Gob-wen," a 
large junction. Mr. Cooley (Inner Africa Laid Open, 
p. Ill) corrects the great error of the Portuguese 
historian, de Barros, who has made the embouchure 
of the Obi — in Somali Webbe, meaning any river, — the 
demarcation line between "Ajan"on the north, and 
" Zanguebar" in the south, and has placed the mouth 
of that stream in 9° N. lat., which would extend Zan- 
zibar almost to Cape Guardafui. Asiatic authors, 
according to M. Guillain, (Documents sur l'Histoire, 
&c. de l'Afrique Orientale. Premiere partie, p. 213) 
vary in opinion concerning the extent of the " land 
of the Zunuj " and its limits ; some, as El Masudi, make 
it contain the whole country, including Sofala, be- 
tween the embouchure of the Juba River (S. lat. 
0° 15') and Cape Corrientes (S. lat. 23° 48') : others, 
like El Idrisi and Ibn Said, separate from it Sofala. 
In local and modern usage the word Zanjibar is generally 
confined to the chief town upon the island, the latter 
being called by Arabs, as well as by the Negroids, 
Kisiwa, " insula," in opposition to the Barr el Moli, a 
barbarised Semitic term for the continent. 

As usual throughout these lands, where compre- 
hensive geographical names are no longer required, 
there is no modern general word for East Africa 
south of the equator. The term " Sawahil," or " the 
shores," in present parlance is confined to the strip of 



30 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



coast beyond the half-Somali country, called from its vari- 
ous ports, — Lamu, Brava, and Patta, — Barr el Banadir, 
or Harbour-land. The " Sawahil " extend southwards to 
Mombasah, below which the coast suddenly falling flat, 
is known as Mrima or the Hill, and its people as 
Wamrima, the "hill-men." It is limited on the south 
by the delta of the Rufiji River, whose races are 
termed Watu wa Rufiji, Rufiji clans, or more shortly, 
Warufiji. 

The country properly called the Mrima has no history 
beyond its name, whilst the towns immediately to the 
north and south of it, — Mombasah and Kilwa, — have 
filled many a long and stirring page. The Arab 
geographers preceding the Portuguese conquest mention 
only five settlements on the coast between Makdishu 
(Magadoxo) and Kilwa, namely, Lamu, Brava, Marka, 
Malindi (Melincla), and Mombasah. In Captain Owen's 
charts, between Pangani and the parallel of Mafiyah 
(Monfia Island) not a name appears. 

The fringe of Moslem Negroids inhabiting this part 
of the East African coast is called by the Arabs Ahl 
Maraim, and by themselves Wamrima, in opposition to 
the heathen of the interior. These are designated in 
mass the Washenzi— conquered or servile — properly 
the name of a Helot race in the hills of Usumbara, but 
extended by strangers to all the inner races. The 
Wasawahili, or people of the Sawahil, Mulattos originally 
African, but semiticised, like the Moplahs of Malabar, 
by Arab blood, are in these days confined to the lands 
lying northwards of Mombasah, to the island of Zan- 
zibar, and to the regions about Kilwa. 

The Mrima is peopled by two distantly connected 
families, the half-caste Arabs and the Coast-Clans. The 
former are generally of Bayazi or Khariji persuasion ; 



THE HALF-CASTE ARABS. 



31 



the latter follow the school of el Shafei ; both, though 
the most imperfect of Moslems, are fanatical enough to 
be dangerous. They own a nominal allegiance to the 
suzerain of Zanzibar, yet they are autonomous and 
free-spoken as Bedouins, when removed a few miles 
from the coast, and they have a rooted aversion to the 
officials of the local government, whom they consider 
their personal enemies. Between them and the pure 
Arabs of Oman, who often traverse, but who now never 
settle upon the Mrima, there is a repugnance increased 
by commercial jealousy ; they resent the presence of these 
strangers as an intrusion, and they lose no opportunity 
of thwarting and discouraging them from travelling into 
the interior. Like their ancestors, they dislike Euro- 
peans personally, and especially fear the Beni Nar, or 
Sons of Fire, — the English — u hot as the Ingrez," is in 
these lands a proverb. In their many Riwayat, Hadisi, 
and Ngoma — tales, traditions, and songs — they predict 
the eventual conquest of the country that has once felt 
the white man's foot. 

The half-caste Arab is degenerate in body and mind ; 
the third generation becomes as truly negroid as the 
inner heathen. Even Creoles of pure blood, born upon 
the island and the coast of Zanzibar, lose the high ner- 
vous temperament that characterises their ancestors, and 
become, like Banyans, pulpy and lymphatic. These 
mest icos, appearing in the land of their grand si res, have 
incurred the risk of being sold as slaves. The peculiarity 
of their physiognomy is the fine Semitic development 
of the upper face, including the nose and nostrils, whilst 
the jaw is prognathous, the lips are tumid and everted, 
and the chin is weak and retreating. The cranium is 
somewhat rounded, and it wants the length of the Ne- 
groid's skull. Idle and dissolute, though intelligent 



32 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 

and cunning, the coast- Arab has little education. He 
is sent at the age of seven to school, where in two or 
three years he accomplishes the Khitmah, or perfection 
of the Koran, and he learns to write a note in an anti- 
quated character, somewhat more imperfect than the 
Cufic. This he applies to the Kisawahili, and as nothing 
can be less fitted for the Semitic tongues than the Arabic 
syllabarium, so admirably adapted to its proper sphere, 
his compositions require the deciphering of an expert. 
A few prayers and hymns conclude the list of his ac- 
quirements. His mother-tongue knows no books except 
short treatises on Bao, or geomancy, and specimens of 
African proverbial wisdom. He then begins life by 
aiding his father in the shop or plantation, and by giving 
himself up to intoxication and intrigue. After suffering 
severely from his excesses — in this climate no constitu- 
tion can bear up against over-indulgence long continued 
— at the age of seventeen or eighteen, he takes unto 
himself a wife. Estranged from the land of his fore- 
fathers, he rarely visits Zanzibar, where the restraints 
of semi-civilisation, the decencies of oriental society, and 
the low estimation in which the black skin is held, weary 
and irritate him. His point of honour seems to con- 
sist chiefly in wearing publicly, in token of his Arab 
descent, a turban and a long yellow shirt, called El 
Dishdasheh. 

The Wamrima, or coast-clans, resemble even more 
than the half-caste Arabs their congeners the Washenzi. 
The pure Omani will not acknowledge them as kinsmen, 
declaring the breed to be Aajam, or gentiles. They are 
less educated than the higher race, and they are more 
debauched, apathetic, dilatory, and inert ; their favourite 
life is one of sensual indolence. Like the Somal, they 
appear to be unfitted by nature for intellectual labour; 



THE WAMKIMA OE COAST CLANS. 



S3 



of the former people there is but one learned man, the 
Shaykh Jami of Harar, and the Kazi Muhiyy-el-Din 
of Zanzibar is the only literato amongst the Wasa- 
wahili. Study, or indeed any tension of the mind, seems 
to make these weak-brained races semi-idiotic. They 
cannot answer Yes or No to the simplest question. If, 
for example, a man be asked the place of his tribe, he 
will point to a distance, though actually living amongst 
them ; or if questioned concerning some particular of 
an event, he will detail everything but what is wanted. 
In the earlier days of exploration, I have repeatedly 
collected the diwans, and, after a careful investigation 
and comparison of statements, have registered the names 
and distances of the stages ahead. These men, though 
dwelling upon the threshold of the regions which they de- 
scribed, and being in the habit of traversing them every 
year, yet could hardly state a single fact correctly; 
sometimes they doubled, at other times they halved, 
the distance; they seldom gave the same names, and they 
almost always made a hysteron-proteron of the stations. 
The reader may gather from this sample some idea of 
the difficulties besetting those who would collect infor- 
mation concerning Africa from the Africans. It would 
not have happened had an Arab been consulted. I soon 
resolved to doubt for the future all Wasawahili, Wam- 
rima, Washenzi, and slaves, and I found no reason for 
regretting the resolution. 

The Wamrima are of darker complexion, and are 
more African in appearance, than the coast Arabs. The 
popular colour is a dull yellowish bronze. The dress is 
a fez, or a Surat-cap ; a loin-cloth, which among the 
wealthy is generally an Arab check or an Indian print, with 
a similar sheet thrown over the shoulders. Men seldom 
appear in public without a spear, a sword, or a staff ; 

VOL. I. D 



34 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



and priding themselves upon the possession of umbrellas, 
they may be seen rolling barrels, or otherwise working 
upon the sands, under the luxurious shade. The women 
wear a tobe, or long cloth, wrapped tightly round the body, 
and extending from beneath the arms to the ankles; 
it is a garb ungraceful as was the European " sacque " 
of bygone days. It spoils the figure by depressing 
instead of supporting the bosom, and it conceals none of 
its deficiencies, especially the narrowness of the hips. 
The Murungwana, or free- woman, is distinguished from 
the slave-girl, when outside the house, by a cloth thrown 
over the head. Like the women of the Bedouins and of 
the Persian Iliyat, even the matrons of the Mrima go 
abroad unmasked. Their favourite necklace is a string 
of shark's teeth. They distend the lobes of the ears to 
a prodigious size, and decorate them with a rolled-up 
strip of variously-dyed cocoa-leaf, a disk of wood, a plate 
of chakazi or raw gum-copal, or, those failing, with a betel- 
nut or with a few straws. The left wing of the nose is 
also pierced to admit a pin of silver, brass, lead, or even 
a bit of manioc-root. The hair, like the body, is copiously 
anointed with cocoa-nut or sesamum oil. Some shave 
the head wholly or partially across the brow and behind 
the ears ; others grow their locks to half or full-length, 
which rarely exceeds a few inches. It is elaborately 
dressed, either in double-rolls rising like bear's ears on 
both sides of the head, or divided into a number of 
frizzly curls which expose lines of scalp, and give to the 
head the appearance of a melon. They have also a pro- 
pensity for savage " accroche-coeurs," which stand out 
from the cheek bones, stiffly twisted like young por- 
kers' tails. In early youth, when the short, soft, and 
crisp hair resembles Astrachan wool, when the muscles 
of the face are smoothly rounded, and when the skin has 



WOMEN OF THE COAST CLANS. 



35 



that life and texture, and the countenance has that 
vivacity and amiability which belong only to the young, 
many of the girls have a pretty piquancy, a little minois 
chiffonne, a coquettishness, a natural grace, and a caress- 
ing look, which might become by habit exceedingly pre- 
possessing. In later life, their charms assume that 
peculiar solidity which is said to characterise the beau- 
ties of Mullingar, and as a rule they are shockingly 
ugly. The Castilian proverb says that the English 
woman should be seen at the window, the French woman 
on the promenade, and the Spanish woman everywhere ; 
— the African woman should be seen nowhere, or in the 
dark. The children mostly appear in the graceful cos- 
tume of the Belvidere Apollo ; not a few of them have, 
to the European eye, that amusing prettiness which we 
admire in pug-pups. 

The mode of life in the Mrima is simple. Men rise 
early and repair to either the shop, the boat, or the 
plantation, — more commonly they waste the morning 
in passing from house to house "ku ainkia," — to salute 
neighbours. They ignore "manners": they enter 
abruptly with or without the warning cry of "Hodi! 
Hocli!" place their spears in the corner, and without in- 
vitation squat and extend themselves upon the floor till 
wearied with conversation they take 6i French leave." 
Life, to the European so real and earnest, is with 
them a continued scene of drumming, dancing, and 
drinking, of gossip, squabble, and intrigue. The fa- 
vourite inebrients are tembu or cocoa toddy, and mvinyo, 
its distillation, pombe or millet-beer, opium, Bhang, and 
sometimes foreign stimulants purchased at Zanzibar. 
Their food is mostly ugali, the thick porridge of boiled 
millet or maize flour, which represents the " staff of life" 
in East Africa : they usually feed twice a day, in the 

D 2 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



morning and at night-fall. They employ the cocoa-nut 
extensively : like the Arabs of Zanzibar, they boil their 
rice in the thick juice of the rasped albumen kneaded 
with water, and they make cakes of the pulp mixed 
with the flour of various grains. This immoderate use 
of the fruit which, according to the people, is highly re- 
frigerant, causes, it is said, rheumatic and other diseases. 
A respectable man seen eating a bit of raw or undressed 
cocoa-nut would be derided by his fellows. They chew 
tobacco with lime, like the Arabs, who, under the influence 
of Wahhabi tenets, look upon the pipe as impure, and 
they rarely smoke it like the Washenzi. 

The Wamrima as well as the Wasawahili are distin- 
guished by two national peculiarities of character. 
The first is a cautiousness bordering upon cowardice, 
derived from their wild African blood ; the second 
is an unusual development of cunning and deceit- 
fulness, which partially results from the grafting of 
the semi-civilised Semite upon the Hamite. The 
Arabs, who are fond of fanciful etymology, facetiously 
derive the race-name " Msawahili " from " Sawwd 
hilah,"* he played a trick, and the people boast of it, 

* Dr. Krapf, in the Preface to his " Outlines of the Kisuaheli Language," 
deduces the national name from Siwa 'a hilah, which would mean exactly 
the reverse of astute -^" without guile." He has made other curious lin- 
guistic errors: he translates, for instance, the " Quilimancy " River — the 
ancient name for the Ozi or Dana — "water from the mountain," after a 
Germanic or Indo-European fashion, whereas, in the Zangian languages, the 
compound word would, if admissible, signify " a mountain of water." It is 
curious that the learned and accurate Mr. Cooley, who has charged Dr. 
Krapf with " puerile etymologies," should have fallen into precisely the 
same error. In the "Geography of N'yassi," p. 19, "Mazingia" is ren- 
dered the " road or land along the water," but Maji Njia, if the elision of 
the possessive affix ya be allowed in prose as in poetry — Maji Njfa for 
Maji ya Njia — would mean only the "water of the road." As a specimen 
of Dr. Krapf 's discoveries in philology the following may suffice. In his 



THE COAST CLANS. 



:37 



saying, " are we not Wasawahili ? " that is " artful 
dodgers." Supersubtle and systematic liars, they de- 
ceive when duller men would tell the truth, the lie 
direct is no insult, and the offensive word " muongo ! " 
(liar) enters largely into every dialogue. They lie like 
Africans, objectlessly, needlessly, when sure of speedy 
detection, when fact would be more profitable than false- 
hood ; they have not discovered with the civilised knave, 
that u honesty is the best policy they lie till their fic- 
tion becomes subjectively fact. With them the lie is 
no mental exertion, no exercise of ingenuity, no con- 
cealment, nor mere perversion of the truth : it is appa- 
rently a local instinctive peculiarity in the complicated 
madness of poor human nature. The most solemn and 
religious oaths are with them empty words ; they breathe 
an atmosphere of falsehood, manoeuvre, and contrivance, 
wasting about the mere nothings of life — upon a pound 
of grain or a yard of cloth — ingenuity of iniquity enough 
to win and keep a crown. And they are treacherous as 
false ; with them the salt has no signification, and gra- 
titude is unknown even by name. 

Though partially Arabised, the Wamrima, as well as 
the Wasawahili, retain many habits and customs de- 
rived from the most degraded of the Washenzi savagery. 
Like the Wazegura heathen of Eastern Africa, and the 
Bangala of the Kasanji (Cassange ) Valley, in the West, 
the uncle sells his nephews and nieces by an indefeasible 
vested right, with which even the parents cannot inter- 
fere. The voice of society even justifies this abomination. 
" What!" exclaim the people, " is a man to want when 

vocabulary of the Engutuk Eloikob or Kikuafi. dialect, he derives 
Olbitir, a pig, from the Arabic El Batrah, a young ass, or from El Basir, a 
sharp-seeing dog ! 

d 3 



38 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTEAL AFEICA. 

his brothers and sisters have children ?" He is thus en- 
couraged in doing, on the slightest pretext, that of which 
the heathen rarely approve, except to save themselves 
from starvation. At the same time the Wamrima, hold- 
ing the unchastity of woman as a tenet of belief, con- 
sider the sister's son — the "surer side" — the heir, in 
preference to the son. They have many superstitions, 
and before all undertakings they consult a pagan Mganga 
or medicine- man. If the K'hunguru or crow caws from 
the house-top, a guest is coming ; if a certain black bird 
cries " chee ! chee ! " in front of a caravan, the porters 
will turn back, saying that there is blood on the road, 
and they will remain four or five days till the " chika ! 
chika ! " of the partridge beats the " General." An even 
number of wayfarers met in early morning is a good 
omen, but an odd number, or the bark of the Mbweha — 
the fox — before the march, portends misfortune. Strong 
minds of course take advantage of these and a thousand 
other follies of belief, and when there is not, as in civi- 
lised countries, a counteracting influence of scepticism, 
the mental organisation of the people becomes a mass of 
superstitious absurdities. 

The chief industry of the Mrima, namely the plun- 
dering of caravans, has already been alluded to ; it will 
here be described with somewhat more of detail. The 
industrious and commercial nations near Kilwa and the 
southern regions delay but a few days on the coast ; the 
Wanyamwezi, on the line now to be described, will linger 
there from three to six months, enjoying the dear de- 
lights of comparative civilisation. Many old campaign- 
ers have so far overcome their barbarous horror of water 
travelling, which has been increased by tales of shipwreck 
and drowning, as to take boat and carry their ivory to 



COMMERCE OF THE MRIMA. 



39 



the more profitable market in this land of Zanzibar, 
where the Wanyamwezi occupy their own quarter. 
Arrived within two marches of the coast- town, the head 
of the caravan calls a halt till the presents promised by 
an escort of touters have arrived and have been approved 
of. He then delays as long as possible, to live gratis upon 
those with whom he proposes to deal. After a time, the 
caravan enters in stately procession, a preliminary to the 
usual routine of commercial operations. Having settled 
the exorbitant claims of the village headmen and the 
charges of the Zanzibar Government, which are usually 
levied in duplicate by the local authorities, the barbarian 
has recourse to the Indian Banyan. Bargains are usu- 
ally concluded at night : to a civilised man the work 
would be an impossible trial of patience. A lot of two 
hundred tusks is rarely sold under four months. Each 
article is laid upon the ground, and the purchaser begins 
by placing handsome cloths, technically called " pil- 
lows," under the point and bamboo of the tusk, and by 
covering its whole length with a third ; these form the 
first perquisites of the seller. After a few days, during 
which rice and ghee, sugar and sweetmeats, must be 
freely supplied, commences the chaffering for the price. 
The Banyan becomes excited at the ridiculous demand 
of his client, screams like a woman, pushes him out of 
doors, and receives a return of similar treatment with 
interest. He takes advantage of his knowledge that the 
African in making a bargain is never satisfied with the 
first offer, however liberal ; he begins with a quarter of 
the worth, then he raises it to one-half, and when the 
barbarian still hesitates he throws in some flashy article 
which turns the scale. Any attempt at a tariff would be 
contemptuously rejected by both parties. The African 

i> 4 



40 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 

delights in bargaining, and the Indian having brighter 
wits relies upon them for a profit, which the establish- 
ment of fair prices would curtail. It were in vain to 
attempt any alteration in this style of doing " business ; " 
however despicable it may appear in the London market, 
it is a time-honoured institution in East Africa. 




The Wazaramo Tribe. 



CHAP. III. 

TRANSIT OF THE VALLEY OF THE KINGANI AND THE MGETA 

RIVERS. 

It was a gallant sight to see the Baloch, as with trailed 
matchlocks, and in bravery of shield, sword, and dagger, 
they hurried in Indian file out of the Kaole canton- 
ments, following their blood-red flag and their high- 
featured, snowy-bearded chief, the " Shaib Mohammed," 
— old Mohammed. The band, " like worms," as they 



42 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 

expressed its numbers, which amounted to nearly a 
hundred, about one-third of the venerable Jemadar's 
command, was marching forth to bid us farewell, in 
token of respect, at Mgude or Kuingani, " the cocoa- 
plantation near the sea." It is a little settlement, dis- 
tant an hour and a half's walk from Kaole : hither my 
companion had preceded me, and hence we were to 
make our second departure. Accompanied by Said bin 
Salim, Valentine my Goanese servant, three Baloch, 
and two slaves, I followed in the wake of the main 
body, bringing up the rear of the baggage on three 
Unyamwezi asses bought that morning at the custom- 
house. The animals had been laden with difficulty: 
their kicking and plunging, rearing and pawing, had 
prevented the nice adjustment of their packs, and the 
wretched pads, which want of time had compelled me 
to take, instead of panels or pack-saddles, loosely girthed 
with rotten coir rope, could not support a heap of 
luggage weighing at least 200 lbs. per load. On the road 
they rushed against one another; they bolted, they 
shied, and they threw their impediments with such 
persistence, that my servant could not help exclaiming, 
" Unka nam gadha" — " Their name is jackass." At last, 
as the sun neared the salt sea, one of these half-wild 
brutes suddenly sank, girth-deep, in a patch of boggy 
mire, and the three Baloch, my companions, at once 
ran away, leaving us to extricate it as best we could. 
This little event had a peculiar significancy to one 
about to command a party composed principally of 
asses and Baloch. 

The excitement of finding myself on new ground, 
and the peculiarities of the scenery, somewhat diverted 
melancholy forebodings. Issuing from the little palisade 
of Kaole, the path winds in a south-westerly direction 



THE FIRST DEPARTURE. 



43 



over a sandy soil, thick with thorns and bush, which in 
places project across the way. Thence ascending a 
wave of ground where cocoas and the wild arrow-root 
flourish, it looks clown upon park land like that de- 
scribed by travellers in Kaffraria, a fair expanse of 
sand veiled with humus, here and there growing rice, 
with mangoes and other tall trees, regularly disposed 
as if by the hand of man. Finally, after crossing a 
muddy grass-grown swamp, and a sandy bottom full 
of water when rain has been heavy, the path, passing 
through luxuriant cultivation, enters Kuingani. Such 
is the " nakl," or preparatory- stage of Arab travellers, 
an invariable first departure, where porters who find 
their load too heavy, or travellers who suspect that 
they are too light, can return to Kaole and re-form. 

The little settlement of Kuingani is composed of a 
few bee-hive huts, and a Bandani or wall-less thatched 
roof — the village palaver-house — clustering orderless 
round a cleared central space. Outside, cocoas, old and 
dwarfed, mangoes almost wild, the papaw, the cotton 
shrub, the perfumed Rayhan or Basil, and a sage-like 
herb, the sugarcane, and the Hibiscus called by the 
Goanese " Rosel," vary the fields of rice, holcus, and 
" Turiyan," or the Cajanus Indicus. The vegetation is, 
in fact, that of the Malabar coast ; the habitations are 
peculiarly African. 

The 28th of June was a halt at Kuingani, where I was 
visited by Ramji and two brother Bhattias, Govindji 
and Kesulji. The former was equipped, as least be- 
comes the Banyan man, with sword, dudgeon, and 
assegai. But Ramji was a heaven-made soldier; he 
had taken an active part in the military operations 
directed by His Highness the late Sayyid Said against 
the people of the mainland, and about thirteen years 



44 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



ago he defended Kaole against a host of Wazaramo, 
numbering, it is said, 3,000 men, when, lacking balls, 
he had loaded his honeycombed cannon and his rusty- 
matchlocks with pointed sticks. The Europeans of 
Zanzibar called him "Rush," — the murderer. His 
fellow-countrymen declared him to be a " sharp prac- 
tiser," who had made a reputation by spending other 
people's money, and I personally had proofs which did 
not allow me to doubt his " savoir faire." 

The nights at Kuingani were not pleasant. The air 
was stifling, the mosquitoes buzzed without intermis- 
sion, and I had neglected to lay in " essence of penny- 
royal" against certain other plagues. On the second 
evening, seeing by the hang-clog look of my Jemadar 
that he was travailing in mind, I sent for a Mganga 
or medicine-man, and having previously promised him 
a Surat skull-cap for a good haul of prophecy, I collected 
the Baloch to listen. The Mganga, a dark old man, of 
superior rank, as the cloth round his head and his many 
bead necklaces showed, presently reappeared with a 
mat-bag containing the implements of his craft. After 
taking his seat opposite to me he demanded his fee — 
here, as elsewhere, to use the words with which Kleon 
excited the bile of Tiresias, 

" To fiavriKov ydp itav <pi\dpyvpov yevog ; " 

—without which prediction would have been impos- 
sible. When gratified he produced a little gourd 
snuff-box and indulged himself with a solemn and 
dignified pinch. He then drew forth a larger gourd 
which contained the great medicine, upon which no 
eye profane might gaze : the vessel, repeatedly shaken, 
gave out a vulgar sound as if filled with pebbles and bits 
of metal. Presently, placing the implement upon the 



RUSH RAMJI'S ADVICE. 



45 



ground, Thaumaturges extracted from the mat-bag two 
thick goat's horns connected by a snake-skin, which 
was decorated with bunches of curiously-shaped iron 
bells; he held one in the left hand, and with the right 
he caused the point of the other to perform sundry 
gyrations, now directing it towards me, then towards 
himself, then at the awe-struck bystanders, waving his 
head, muttering, whispering, swaying his body to and 
fro, and at times violently rattling the bells. When fully 
primed with the spirit of prophecy, and connected by 
ekstasis with the ghosts of the dead, he spake out pretty 
much in the style of his brotherhood all the world 
over. The journey was to be prosperous. There would 
be much talking, but little killing. — Said bin Salim, in 
chuckling state, confessed that he had heard the same 
from a Mganga consulted at Zanzibar.— Before navi- 
gating the sea of Ujiji a sheep or a parti-coloured hen 
should be killed and thrown into the lake. — Successful 
voyage. — Plenty of ivory and slaves. — Happy return 
to wife and family. 

This good example of giving valuable advice was 
not lost upon Mr. Rush Ramji. He insisted upon the 
necessary precautions of making a strong kraal and of 
posting sentinels every night; of wearing a kerchief 
round the head after dark, and of avoiding the danger- 
ous air of dawn ; of not eating strange food, and of 
digging fresh wells, as the Wazaramo bewitch water for 
travellers ; of tethering the asses, of mending their ropes, 
and of giving them three lbs. of grain per diem. Like 
the medical directions given to the French troops pro- 
ceeding to China, the counsel was excellent, but im- 
practicable. 

The evening concluded with a nautch. Yusuf, a 
Baloch, produced a saringi — the Asiatic viol — and 



46 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



collected all the scamps of the camp with a loud scraping. 
Hulluk, the buffoon, acted dancing-girl to perfection. 
After the normal pantomime, somewhat broadly ex- 
pressed, he did a little work in his own character ; 
standing on his head with a peculiar tremulousness 
from the hips upwards, dislocating his person in a sit- 
ting position, imitating the cry of a dog, cat, ape, 
camel, and slave-girl, and finally reproducing me 
with peculiar impudence before my face. I gave him 
a dollar, when, true to his strain, he at once begged 
another. 

All accounts and receipts being finally duly settled 
with the Hindus, the last batch of three donkeys having 
arrived, and the baggage having been laden with great 
difficulty, I shook hands with old Mohammed and the 
other dignitaries, and mounting my ass, gave orders for 
immediate departure from Kuingani. This was not 
effected without difficulty : every one and everything, 
guide and escort, asses and slaves, seemed to join in rais- 
ing up fresh obstacles. Four p.m. sped before we turned 
out of the little settlement. Among other unpleasant 
occurrences, Rahmat, a Baloch knave, who had formed 
one of my escort to Fuga, levelled his long barrel, with 
loud "Mimi na piga" (I am shooting him), when his 
company was objected to. His Jemadar, Yaruk, seized 
the old shooting-iron, which was probably unloaded, 
and Rahmat, with sotto-voce snarls and growls, slunk 
back to his kennel. A turbaned Negroid, who ap- 
peared on the path, was asked to point out the way, 
and, on his refusal, my bull-headed slave Mabruki 
struck him on the face, when, to the consternation 
of all parties, he declared himself a Diwan. The blow, 
according to the Jemadar, would infallibly lead to 
bloodshed. 



TREE-STUDIES. 



47 



After a second short march of one hour and a half, 
we pitched tents and obtained lodgings in Bomani, 
" the Stockade," a frontier village, but within the juris- 
diction of Bagamoyo. On this road, which ascended the 
old sea-beach, patches of open forest and of high rank 
grass divided cultivated clearings, where huts and 
hamlets appeared, and where modest young maidens 
beckoned us as we passed. The vegetation is here 
partly African, partly Indian. The Mbuyu, — the baobab, 
Adansonia digitata, monkey-bread, or calabash, the Mo- 
wana of the southern and the Kuka of the northern 
regions, — is of more markedly bulbous form than on the 
coast, where the trunk is columnar ; its heavy extre- 
mities, depressed by the wind, give it the shape of a 
lumpy umbrella shading the other wild growths. There 
appear to be two varieties of this tree, similar in bole 
but differing in foliage and in general appearance. The 
normal Mbuyu has a long leaf, and the drooping outline 
of the mass is convex ; the rarer, observed only upon the 
Usagara Mountains, has a small leaf, in colour like the 
wild indigo, and the arms striking upwards assume the 
appearance of a bowl. The lower bottoms, where the soil 
is rich, grow the Mgude, also called Mparamusi (Taxus 
elongatus, the Geel hout or Yellow- wood of the Cape?) a 
perfect specimen of arboreal beauty. Atall tapering shaft, 
without knot or break, straight and clean as a main-mast 
forty or forty-five feet in height, and painted with a 
tender greenish-yellow, is crowned with parachute-shaped 
masses of vivid emerald foliage, whilst sometimes two and 
even three pillars spring from the same root. TheMvumo, 
— a distorted toddy tree, orHyphsena allied to theDaum 
palm of Egypt and Arabia, — has a trunk rough with 
the drooping remnants of withered fronds, above which 
it divides itself into branches resembling a system of Y's. 



48 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 

Its oval fruit is of a yellowish red, and when full-sized it 
is as large as a child's head ; it is eaten even unripe by 
the people, and is said to be the favourite food of the 
elephant. Pulpless, hard, and stringy, it has, when 
thoroughly mature, a slight taste of gingerbread, hence 
it is also called the Gingerbread-tree. The Ukhindu or 
brab, of whose fronds mats and the grass kilts worn by 
many of the tribes are made, flourishes throughout the 
country, proving that the date-tree might be naturalised. 
The Nyara or ChamaBrops humilis, the dwarf fan- 
palm or palmetto of Southern Europe, abounds in this 
maritime region. The other growths are the Mtogwe 
and the Mbungo-bungo, varieties of the Nux vomica; 
the finest are those growing in the vicinity of water. 
The fruit contains within its hard rind, which, when 
ripe, is orange-coloured, large pips, covered with a 
yellow pulp of a grateful agro-dolce flavour, with a 
suspicion of the mango. The people eat them with 
impunity ; the nuts, which contain the poisonous prin- 
ciple, being too hard to be digested. The Mtunguja 
(the Punneeria coagulans of Dr. Stocks), a solanaceous 
plant called by the Indians Jangli bengan, or the wild 
egg-plant, by the South Africans Toluane, and by the 
Baloch Panir, or cheese, from the effect of the juice 
in curdling milk, is here, as in Somaliland, a spon- 
taneous growth throughout the country. The same 
may be said of the castor plant, which, in these regions, 
is of two kinds. The Mbono ( Jatropha curcas ?) is the 
Gumpal of Western India, a coarse variety, with a 
large seed ; its fetid oil, when burnt, fouls the lamp ; 
yet, in Africa, it is used by all classes as an unguent. 
The Mbarika, or Pal ma Christi, the Irindi of India, is 
employed in medicine. The natives extract the oil by 
toasting and pounding the bean, adding a little hot 



DELAY THE SECOND. 



water and skimming off what appears upon the sur- 
face. The Arabs, more sensibly, prefer it " cold- 
drawn." These plants, allowed to grow unpruned, 
often attain the height of eighteen to twenty feet. 

The 30th June was another forced halt, when I tasted 
all the bitterness that can fall to the lot of those who 
explore regions unvisited by their own colour. The 
air of Bomani is stagnant, the sun fiery, and clouds of 
mosquitoes make the nights miserable. Despite these 
disadvantages, it is a favourite halting-place for up- 
caravans, who defer to the last the evil days of long 
travel and short rations. Though impressed with the 
belief, that the true principle of exploration in these 
lands is to push on as rapidly and to return as leisurely 
as possible, I could not persuade the Baloch to move. 
In Asia, two departures usually suffice ; in Africa there 
must be three, — the little start, the great start, and the 
start xolt s£op£7jy. Some clamoured for tobacco — I gave 
up my cavendish ; others for guitar-strings — they were 
silenced with beads ; and all, born donkey-drivers, 
complained loudly of the hardship and the indignity of 
having to load and lead an ass. The guide, an influential 
Mzaramo, promised by the Banyans Ladha and Ramji, 
declined, after receiving twenty dollars, to accompany the 
Expedition, and from his conduct the Baloch drew the 
worst of presages. Much ill-will was shown by them 
towards the European members of the Expedition. 
" Kafir end, inara bandira na khenen" (they are infidels 
and must not carry our flag) — it was inscribed with the 
usual Moslem formula — was spoken audibly enough in 
their debased Mekrani to reach my ears : a faithful 
promise to make a target of the first man who might 
care to repeat the words, stopped that manner of 
nuisance. Again the most childish reports flew about 

VOL. I. E 



50 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



the camp, making these jet-bearded and fierce-eyed hen- 
hearts faint with fears. Boxes had been prepared by 
the barbarians for myself, and gates had been built 
across the paths to arrest my party. P'hazi Mazungera, 
M. Maizan's murderer, had collected a host that num- 
bered thousands, and the Wazaramo were preparing a 
levee en masse. To no purpose I quoted the Arab's pro- 
verb— " the son of fifty dieth not at thirty" ; all would 
be heroic victims marching to gory graves. Such reports 
did real damage : the principal danger was the tremulous 
alacrity with which the escort prepared upon each tri- 
vial occasion for battle and murder, and sudden death. 
At one place a squabble amongst the villagers kept the 
Baloch squatting on their hams with lighted matches 
from dusk till dawn. At another, a stray Fisi or Cyn- 
hyasna entering the camp by night, caused a confusion 
which only the deadliest onslaught could have justified. 
A slave hired on the road, hearing these horrors, fled in 
dismay; this, the first of desertions, was by no means 
the last. The reader may realise the prevalence and 
the extent of this African traveller's bane by the fact 
that during my journey to Ujiji there was not a soul in 
the caravan, from Said bin Salim the Arab, to the veriest 
pauper, that did not desert or attempt to desert. 

Here, at the first mention of slaves, I must explain to 
the reader why we were accompanied by them, and 
how the guide and escort contrived to purchase them. 
All the serving-men in Zanzibar Island and on the coast 
of E. Africa are serviles ; the Kisawahili does not contain 
even a word to express a hired domestic. For the evil 
of slave-service there was no remedy : I therefore paid 
them their wages and treated them as if they were free- 
men. I had no power to prevent Said bin Salim, the 
Baloch escort, and the " sons of Ramji," purchasing 



THE SECOND DEPARTURE. 



51 



whomever they pleased ; all objections on my part were 
overruled by, " we are allowed by our law to do so," 
and by declaring that they had the permission of the 
consul. I was fain to content myself with seeing that 
their slaves were well fed and not injured, and indeed I 
had little trouble in so doing, as no man was foolish 
enough to spoil his own property. I never neglected 
to inform the wild people that Englishmen were pledged 
to the suppression of slavery, and I invariably refused 
all slaves offered as return presents. 

The departure from Bomani was effected on the 1st 
of July with some trouble ; it was like driving a herd of 
wild cattle. At length, by ejecting skulkers from their 
huts, by dint of promises and threats, of gentleness and 
violence, of soft words and hard words, occasionally 
backed by a smart application of the "Bakur " — -the local 
" cat " — by sitting in the sun, in fact by incessant worry 
and fidget from 6 A. m. to 3 p. m., the sluggish and un- 
wieldy body acquired some momentum. I had issued 
a few marching orders for the better protection of the 
baggage : two Baloch were told off for each donkey, one to 
lead, the other to drive ; in case of attack, those near the 
head of the file, hearing the signal, three shots, were to 
leave their animals and to hurry to the front, where my 
companion marched, whilst the remainder rallied round 
my flag in the rear: thus there would have been an 
attacking party and a reserve, between which the asses 
would have been safe. The only result of these fine 
manoeuvres was, that after a two-mile tramp through an 
umbrageous forest in which caravans often lose the way, 
and then down an easy descent across fertile fields, into 
a broken valley, whose further side was thick with lux- 
uriant grass, tall shrubs, and majestic trees, a confused 
straggling line, — a mere mob of soldiers, slaves, and 

E 2 



52 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



asses, — arrived at the little village of Mkwaju la 
Mvuani, — the " Tamarind in the rains." 

The settlement is composed as usual of a few hovels 
and a palaver-house, with a fine lime-tree, the place of 
lounging and gossip, grain-husking, and mat-weaving, in 
the open centre. Provisions and rough muddy water 
being here plentiful, travellers often make a final halt 
to polish their weapons, and to prepare their minds for 
the Wazaramo. It is the last station under the juris- 
diction of Bagamoyo ; from Changahera, the crafty old 
Diwan, I obtained the services of his nephew Muinyi 
Wazira, who received seventeen dollars as an inducement 
to travel in the interior, and was at once constituted lin- 
guist and general assistant to Said bin Salim. The day 
passed as usual, a snake was killed, and a gun-shot heard 
in the distance supplied conversation for some hours. 
The " sons of Ramji" carefully lost half a dozen of 
the axes, bill-hooks, and dibbles, with which they had 
been supplied, fearing lest they might be called upon to 
build the Siwa or Boma, the loose thorn-fence with which 
the halting-place ought to be surrounded before the 
night, and 7 p. m. had passed before I could persuade the 
Baloch to catch, tether, and count the asses. One of 
the escort, Ismail, was attacked with dysentery and 
required to be mounted, although we were obliged by 
the want of carriage to wend our way on foot. During 
the last night, Said bin Salim had taken charge of three 
Wanguru porters, who, freshly trapped by Said el Haz- 
rami, had been chained pro tempore to prevent desertion. 
The Arab boasted that he was a bad sleeper, but bad 
sleepers are worse watchers, because when they do sleep 
they sleep in earnest. The men were placed for the 
night in Said's tent, surrounded by his five slaves, yet they 
stole his gun, and carrying off an axe and sundry bill- 
hooks, disappeared in the jungle. The watchful Said, after 



THE THIRD DEPARTURE. 



53 



receiving many congratulations on his good fortune — 
fugitive slaves sometimes draw their knives across the 
master's throat or insert the points into his eyes — sent 
off his own attendants to recover the fugitives. In the 
jungle, however, search was of scant avail: the Wanguru 
feared that if caught by the Baloch, they would lose their 
ears ; three days would enable them to reach their own 
country ; and their only risk was that if trapped by the 
Washenzi before their irons — a valuable capture to the 
captors— could be removed, they might again be sold to 
some travelling trader. As the day wore on, Said's face 
assumed a deplorable expression : his slaves had not ap- 
peared, and though several of them were muwallid or 
born in his father's house, and one was after a fashion 
his brother-in-law, he sorely dreaded that they also had 
deserted. He was proportionally delighted when in the 
dead of the night, entering Mkwaju la Mvuani, they 
reported ill-success ; and though I could little afford the 
loss, I was glad to get rid of this chained and surly gang. 

On the next day Ave began loading for the third and 
final departure, before dawn, and at 7.30 a. m. were 
on the dew-dripping way. Beyond the settlement a 
patch of jungle led to cultivated grounds belonging 
to the villagers, whose scattered and unfenced abodes 
were partially concealed by dense clumps of trees. 
The road then sweeping parallel with the river plain, 
which runs from N.Y\ r . to S.E., crossed several swamps, 
black muddy bottoms covered with tall thick rushes 
and pea-green paddy, and the heavily laden asses sunk 
knee-deep into the soft soil. Red copalliferous sand 
clothed the higher levels. On the wayside appeared 
for the first time the Khambi or substantial kraals, 
which evidence unsafe travelling and the unwillingness 
of caravans to bivouac in the villages. In this region 

E 3 



.54 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



they assumed the form of round huts and long sheds or 
boothies of straw or grass supported by a framework 
of rough sticks firmly planted in the ground and lashed 
together with bark-strips. The whole was surrounded 
with a deep circle of thorns which — the entrance or 
entrances being carefully closed at nightfall, not to re- 
open until dawn — formed a complete defence against 
bare feet and naked legs. About half-way a junction 
of the Mbuamaji road was reached, and the path became 
somewhat broader and less rough. Passing on the 
right a hilly district, called Dunda or " the Hill," the 
road fell from the ancient sea-beach into the alluvial 
valley of the Kingani River ; presently rising again, it 
entered the settlement of Nzasa, a name interpreted 
" level ground." 

Nzasa is the first district of independent Uzararno. 
My men proceeded to occupy the Bandani, in the centre 
of the hamlet, when Said bin Salim, discovering with the 
sharp eye of fear a large drum, planted in readiness for 
the war-signal or the dance-signal, hurried about till 
he had turned all hands out of the village into a 
clump of trees hard by, a propitious place for surprise 
and ambuscade. Here I was visited by three P'hazi or 
headmen, Kizaya, Tumba Ihere or the " poison gourd," 
and Kombe la Simba or the " lion's hide." They came 
to ascertain whether I was bound on peaceful errand or 
— as the number of our guns suggested — I was march- 
ing to revenge the murder of my " brother " Muzungu. 
Assured of our unwarlike intentions, they told me that 
I must halt on the morrow and send forward a message 
to the next chief. As this plan invariably loses three 
days, — the first being a dies non, the second being ex- 
pended in dispensing exoteric information to all the 
lieges squatting in solemn conclave, whilst on the third 



THE WOMEN'S DANCES. 



55 



the real message is privily whispered into the chieftain's 
ear, — I replied through Said that I could not be bound 
by their rules, but was ready to pay for their infraction. 
During the debate upon this fascinating proposal for 
breaking the law, Yusuf, one of the most turbulent 
of the Baloch, drew his sword upon an old woman 
because she refused to give up a basket of grain. She 
rushed, with the face of a black Medusa, into the 
assembly, and provoked not very peaceable remarks 
concerning the peaceful nature of our intentions. When 
the excitement was allayed, the principal P'hazi began to 
ask what had brought the white man into their country, 
and in a breath to predict the loss of their gains and 
commerce, their land and liberty. "I am old," patheti- 
cally quoth the P'hazi, " and my beard is grey, yet I 
have never beheld such a calamity as this ! " " These 
men," replied Said, " neither buy nor sell ; they do not 
inquire into price, nor do they covet profit. More- 
over," he pursued, " what have ye to lose ? The 
Arabs take your best, the Wasawahili your second best, 
and your trifling tribute is reduced to a yoke of 
bullocks, a few clothes, or half a dozen hoes." An 
extravagant present— -at that time ignorance of the 
country compelled me to intrust such matters to the 
honesty of Said bin Salim — opened the headmen's 
hearts : they privily termed me Murungwana Sana, a 
real free- man, the African equivalent for the English 
" gentleman," and they detached Kizaya to accompany 
me as far as the western half of the Kingani Valley. 
At 4 p. M. a loud drumming collected the women, 
who began to perform a dance of ceremony with 
peculiar vigour. A line of small, plump, chestnut- 
coloured beings, with wild beady eyes, and a thatch of 
clay-plastered hair, dressed in their loin-cloths, with a 

E 4 



5G 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



profusion of white disks, bead necklaces, a little square 
bib of beads called a t'hando, partially concealing the 
upper bosom, with short coils of thick brass wire wound 
so tightly round the wrists, the arms above the elbows, 
and the fat ankles, that they seemed to have grown into 
the flesh, and, — hideous perversion of taste ! — with 
ample bosoms tightly corded down, advanced and retired 
in a convulsion of wriggle and contortion, whose fit 
expression was a long discordant howl, which seemed to 

" Embowel with outrageous noise the air." 

I threw them a few strings of green beads, which for 
a moment interrupted the dance. One of these falling 
to the ground, I was stooping to pick it up when Said 
whispered hurriedly in my ear, " Bend not ; they will 
say ' he will not bend even to take up beads ! ' " 

In the evening I walked down to the bed of the 
Kingani river, which bisects a plain all green with 
cultivation, — rice and holcus, sweet potato and tobacco, 
— and pleasantly studded with huts and hamlets. The 
width of the stream, which here runs over a broad 
bed of sand, is about fifty yards ; it is nowhere ford- 
able, as the ferry-boat belonging to each village proves, 
and thus far it is navigable, though rendered dangerous 
by the crocodiles and the hippopotami that house in 
its waters. The colour is tawny verging upon red, 
and the taste is soft and sweet, as if fed by rain. The 
Kingani, like all streams in this part of the continent, 
is full of fish, especially a dark-green and scaleless 
variety (a Silurus ?) called Kambari, and other local 
names. This great " miller's thumb " has fleshy cirri, 
appears to be omnivorous, and tastes like animal mud. 
The night was rendered uncomfortable to the Baloch 
by the sound of distant drums, which suggested fighting 



AFRICAN GEAVES. 



57 



as well as feasting, and by the uproar of the wild men, 
who, when reconnoitred by the scouts, were found to 
be shouting away the hippopotami. 

In the hurry and the confusion of loading on the 
next morning one ass was left behind, and the packs 
were so badly placed that the fatigue of marching was 
almost doubled by their repeated falls. Whilst descend- 
ing the well-wooded river terrace, my portion of the 
escort descried an imaginary white flag crossing the 
grassy valley below. This is the sign of a Diwan's expe- 
dition or commando: it is unwisely allowed by the 
Arabs, whose proper colours are a plain blood -red. 
After marching a few miles over undulating ground, 
open and parklike, and crossing rough and miry beds, 
the path disclosed a view verging upon the pretty. By 
the wayside was planted the peculiarly African Mzimu 
or Fetiss hut, a penthouse about a foot high, containing, 
as votive offerings, ears of holcus or pombe-beer in a 
broken gourd. There, too, the graves of the heathen 
met the eye. In all other parts of East Africa a moul- 
dering skull, a scattered skeleton, or a few calcined bones, 
the remains of wizards and witches dragged to the 
stake, are the only visible signs of man's mortality. The 
Wazaramo tombs, especially in the cases of chiefs, imi-. 
tate those of the Wamrima. They are parallelograms, 
seven feet by four, formed by a regular dwarf paling 
that encloses a space cleared of grass, and planted with 
two uprights to denote the position of head and feet. In 
one of the long walls there is an apology for a door. 
The corpse of the heathen is not made to front any 
especial direction ; moreover the centre of the oblong 
has the hideous addition of a log carved by the unartistic 
African into a face and a bust singularly resembling 
those of a legless baboon, whilst a white rag tied 



58 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



turbanwise round the head serves for the inscription 
" this is a man." The Baloch took notice of such idola- 
trous tendency by spitting and by pronouncing certain 
national anathemas, which literally translated might 
sound unpleasant in Europeans 5 ears. The abomination 
of iconism is avoided in the graves of Moslem travellers : 
they are usually cleared ovals, with outlines of rough 
stone and a strew of smooth pebbles, according to the 
custom of the Wasawahili. Several stumps of wood 
planted in the earth show that the corpse faces Mecca, 
and, as amongst the Jinga of Western Africa, the frag- 
ments of a china bowl or cup lying upon the ground 
are sacred to the memory of the departed. In Zanzibar 
Island, also, saucers, plates, and similar articles are mor- 
tared into the tombstones. 

The number of these graves made the blackness of my 
companions pale. They were hurrying forward with 
sundry " la haul !" and with boding shakes of the head, 
when suddenly an uproar in the van made them all 
prepare for action. They did it characteristically by 
beginning with begging for ranjak — priming powder. 
Said bin Salim, much excited, sent forward his mess- 
mate Muinyi Wazira to ascertain the cause of the 
excitement. One Mviraru, the petty lord of a neigh- 
bouring village, had barred the road with about a dozen 
men, demanding " dash," and insisting that Kizaya had 
no right to lead on the party without halting to give 
him the news. My companion, who was attended only 
by " Bombay," his gun-carrier, and a few Baloch, re- 
marked to the interferers that he had been franked 
through the country by paying at Nzasa. To this they 
obstinately objected. The Baloch began to light their 
matches and to use hard words. A fight appeared 
imminent. Presently, however, when the Wazaramo 



FIKST DANGEROUS STATION. 



59 



saw piy flag rounding the hill-shoulder with a fresh 
party, whose numbers were exaggerated by distance, 
they gave way ; and finally when Muinyi Wazira opened 
upon them the invincible artillery of his tongue, they 
fell back and stood off the road to gaze. The linguist 
returned to the rear in great glee, blowing his finger 
tips, as if they had been attached to a matchlock, and 
otherwise deriding the overboiling valour of the Beloch, 
who, not suspecting his purport, indulged in the wildest 
outbreak of boasting, offering at once to take the whole 
country and to convert me into its sultan. Towards 
the end of the march we crossed a shallow, salt, bitter 
rivulet, flowing cold and clear towards the Kingani 
River. On the grassy plain below noble game — zebra 
and koodoo — began to appear; whilst guinea-fowl and 
partridge, quail, green-pigeon, and the cuculine bird, 
called in India the Malabar-pheasant, became numerous. 
A track of rich red copalliferous soil, wholly without 
stone, and supporting black mould, miry during the 
rains, and caked and cracked by the potent suns of 
the hot season, led us to Kiranga-Ranga, the first dan- 
gerous station in Uzaramo. It is the name of a hilly 
district, with many little villages embosomed in trees, 
overlooking the low cultivated bottoms where caravans, 
encamp in the vicinity of the wells. 

Before establishing themselves in the kraal at Kiranga- 
Ranga, the two rival parties of Baloch, — the Prince's 
permanent escort and the temporary guard sent by Ladha 
Damha from Kaole — being in a chronic state of irri- 
tability, naturally quarrelled. With the noise of choughs 
gathering to roost they vented their bile, till thirteen men 
belonging to a certain Jemadar Mohammed suddenly 
started up, and without a word of explanation set out on 
their way home. According to Said bin Salim, the tern- 



60 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



porary guard had determined not to proceed beyond 
Kiranga-Ranga, and this desertion was intended as a 
preliminary to others by which the party would have lost 
two-thirds of its strength. I at once summoned the 
Jemadars, and wrote in their presence a letter reporting 
the conduct of their men to the dreaded Balyuz, the 
consul, who was supposed to be still anchored off Kaole. 
Seeing the bastinado in prospect, the Jemadar Yaruk 
shouldered his sabre, slung his shield over his arm, set 
out in pursuit of the fugitives, and soon succeeded in 
bringing them back. He was a good specimen of the true 
Baloch mountaineer — a tall, gaunt, and large-boned 
figure, with dark complexion deeply pitted by small-pox, 
hard, high, and sun-burnt features of exceeding harsh- 
ness; an armoury in epitome was stuck in his belt, and 
his hand seemed never to rest but upon a weapon. 

The 4th of July was a halt at Kiranga-Ranga. Two 
asses had been lost, the back-sinews of a third had been 
strained, and all the others had been so wearied by their 
inordinate burdens, to which on the last march the meat 
of a koodoo, equal in weight to a young bullock, had 
been superadded, that a rest was deemed indispensable. 
I took the opportunity of wandering over and of pro- 
specting the country. The scene was one of admirable 
fertility; rice, maize, and manioc grew in the rankest 
and richest crops, and the uncultivated lands bore the 
Corindah bush (Carissa Carandas), the salsaparilla vine, 
the small whitish-green mulberry (the Morus alba of 
India), and the crimson flowers of the Rosel. In the 
lower levels near the river rose the giants of the forest. 
The Mparamusi shot up its tall head, whose bunchy 
tresses rustled in the breeze when all below was still. The 
stately Msufi, a Bombax or silk- cotton tree, showed as 
many as four or five trunks, each two to three feet in 



JEALOUSY OF THE WAZARAMO. 



61 



diameter, rising from the same roots ; the long tapering 
branches stood out stiffly at right angles from the bole ; 
and the leaves, instead of forming masses of foliage, were 
sparsely scattered in small dense growth. The Msukulio, 
unknown to the people of Zanzibar, was a pile of dark ver- 
dure, which dwarfed the finest oaks and elms of an Eng- 
lish park. No traces of game appeared in the likeliest 
of places ; perhaps it preferred lurking in the tall gross 
grass, which was not yet in a fit state to burn. 

At Kiranga-Ranga the weather began to be unpropi- 
tious. The Mcho'o, the heavy showers which fall be- 
tween the Masika or vernal, and the Vuli or autumnal 
rains, set in with regularity, and accompanied us during 
the transit of the maritime plain. I therefore refused to 
halt more than one day, although the P'hazi or chiefs of 
the Wazaramo showed, by sending presents of goats and 
grain, great civility — a civility purchased, however, 
by Said bin Salim at the price of giving to each 
man whatever he demanded ; even women were never 
allowed to leave the camp unpropitiated. I was not 
permitted in this part to enter the villages, although the 
Wazaramo do not usually exclude strangers who ven- 
ture upon their dangerous hospitality. Girls are ap- 
pointed to attend upon them, and in case of sickness or 
accident happening to any one in the settlement, they 
are severely interrogated concerning the morality of the 
guest, and an unfavourable account of it leads to ex- 
tortion and violence. The Wazaramo, like the Wagogo, 
and unlike the other East African tribes, are jealous of 
their women ; still " damages " will act, as they have 
acted in other lands, as salve to wounded honour and 
broken heart. 

On the 5th of July we set out betimes, and traversing 
the fields around Kiranga-Ranga, struck through a 



62 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



dense jungle, here rising above, there bending into the 
river valley, to some stagnant pools which supply the 
district with water. The station, reached in 3 hrs 30', 
was called Tumba Ihere, after the headman, who 
accompanied us. Here we saw cocos emerging from a 
fetid vegetation, and for the last time the Mwembe or 
mango, a richly foliaged but stunted tree which never 
attains the magnificent dimensions observed at Zanzibar. 
Several down-caravans . were halted at Tumba Ihere; 
the slaves brought from the interior were tied together 
by their necks, and one obstinate deserter was so lashed 
to a forked pole with the bifurcation under his chin, 
that when once on the ground he could not rise without 
assistance. These wretches scarcely appeared to like 
the treatment ; they were not, however, in bad condition. 
The Wanyamwezi porters bathed in the pools and looked 
at us without fear or shame. Our daily squabble did 
not fail to occur. Riza, a Baloch, drew his dagger on one 
of Said bin Salim's " children," and the child pointed his 
Tower-musket at the Baloch ; a furious hubbub arose ; 
the master, with his face livid and drawn like a cholera 
patient's, screamed shrilly as a woman, and the weapons 
returned to their proper places bloodless as those 
wielded by Bardolph, Nym, and ancient Pistol. My 
companion began to suffer from the damp heat and the 
reeking miasma ; he felt that a fever was corning 
on, and the fatigue of marching under these circum- 
stances prevented our mustering the party. The con- 
sequence was, that an ass laden with rice disappeared, — 
it had probably been led out of the road and unburdened 
by the Baloch ; — whilst axes, cords, and tethers could 
nowhere be found when wanted. 

On the next morning we left Tumba Ihere, and 
tramped over a red land through alternate strips of rich 



SECOND DANGEROUS STATION. 



63 



cultivation and tangled jungle, which presently opened 
out into a forest where the light-barked Msandarusi, or 
copal-tree, attains its fullest dimensions. This is one 
of the richest " diggins," and the roadsides are every- 
where pitted with pockets two or three feet deep by one 
in diameter. Rain fell in huge drops, and the heaviness of 
the ground caused frequent accidents to the asses' loads. 
About noon we entered the fine grain-fields that gird 
the settlements of Muhogwe, one of the most dreaded 
in dreaded Uzaramo. In our case, however, the only 
peril was the levee en masse of the fair sex in the villages, 
to stare, laugh, and wonder at the white men. " What 
should you think of these whites as husbands ? " asked 
Muinyi Wazira of the crowd. " With such things on 
their legs ? — Sivyo ! — not by any means ! " — was the 
unanimous reply, accompanied with peals of merriment. 

Beyond Muhogwe all was jungle and forest, tall trees 
rising from red copalliferous sand, and shading bright 
flowers, and blossoming shrubs. After crossing a low 
mud overgrown with rush and tiger-grass, and a 
watercourse dotted with black stagnant pools, we as- 
cended rising well-forested ground, and lastly debouched 
upon the kraals of Muhonyera. 

The district of Muhonyera occupies the edge of the 
plateau forming the southern terrace of the Kingani 
River; and the elevated sea-beach is marked out by 
lines of quartsoze pebbles running along the northern 
slope of the hill upon which we encamped. Water is 
found in seven or eight reedy holes in the valley below ; 
it acquires from decomposed vegetation an unnaturally 
sweet and slimy taste. This part of the country, being 
little inhabited by reason of its malarious climate, abounds 
in wild animals. The guides speak of lions, and the cry 
of the Fisi or Cynhysena was frequently heard at night, 



04 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



threatening destruction to the asses. The Fisi, the 
Wuraba of the Somal, and the Wilde Honde of the 
Cape, is the wolf of Africa, common throughout the 
country, where it acts as scavenger. Though a large 
and powerful variety, it seldom assaults man, except 
when sleeping, and then it snatches a mouthful from 
the face, causing a ghastlier disfigurement even than 
the scalping of the bear. Three asses belonging to the 
Expedition were destroyed by this beast ; in all cases 
they were attacked by night with a loud wrangling 
shriek, and the piece of flesh was raggedly torn from 
the hind quarter; after affording a live rump-steak, 
they could not be driven like Bruce's far-famed bullock. 
These, however, were the animals brought from Zanzi- 
bar; that of Unyamwezi, if not tied up, defends it- 
self successfully against its cowardly assailant with 
teeth and heels, even as the zebra, worthy of Homeric 
simile, has, it is said, kept the lion at bay. The woods 
about Muhonyera contain large and small grey monkeys 
with black faces ; clinging to the trees they gaze for a 
time at the passing caravan imperturbably, till curiosity 
being satisfied, they slip down and bound away with 
long plunging leaps, like a greyhound at play. The 
view from the hill-side was suggestive. The dark green 
plain of sombre monotony, with its overhanging strata 
of mist-bank and dew-cloud, appeared in all the worst 
colours of the Oude Tirhai and the Guzerat jungles. 
At that season, when the moisture of the rainy monsoon 
was like poison distilled by the frequent bursts of fiery 
sunshine, it was a valley of death for unacclimatised 
travellers. Far to the west, however, rose Kidunda, 
" the hillock," a dwarf cone breaking the blurred blue 
line of jungle, and somewhat northward of it towered 
a cloud-capped azure wall, the mountain-crags of 



BALOCH KXAVERY. 



65 



Duthumi, upon which the eye, long weary of low levels, 
rested with a sensation of satisfaction. 

It was found necessary to halt a day at Muhony era : 
according to some authorities no provisions were procu- 
rable for a week ; others declared that there were villages 
on the road, but were uncertain whether rations could 
be purchased. Said bin Salim sent Ambari, a favourite 
slave, back to buy grain at Muhogwe, whence he had hur- 
ried us on in fear of the Wazaramo ; and the youth, after 
wasting a day, returned on the evening of the 2nd July 
with about sixty lbs., — a poor supply for eighty-eight 
hungry bodies. This proceeding naturally affronted the 
Baloch, who desired for themselves the perquisites pro- 
ceeding from the purchases. Two of their number, 
Yusuf and Salih Mohammed, came to swear officially 
on the part of their men that there was not an ounce of 
grain in camp. Appearing credulous, I paid them a 
visit about half an hour afterwards ; all their shuffling 
and sitting upon the bags could not conceal a store of 
about 100 lbs. of fine white rice, whose quality, — the 
Baloch had been rationed at liaole with an inferior kind, 
¦ — showed whence it came. 

After repairing the " boma," or fenced kraal, — it had 
been burnt down, as often happens, by the last caravan of 
Wanyamwezi, — I left my companion, who was prostrate 
with fever, and went out, gun in hand, to inspect the 
country, and to procure meat, that necessary having 
fallen short. The good P'hazi, Tumba Ihere, accom- 
panied me, and after return he received an ample 
present for his services, and departed. The Baloch em- 
ployed themselves in cleaning their rusty matchlock- 
barrels with a bit of kopra, — dried cocoa-nut meat, — in 
weaving for themselves sandals, like the spar telle of the 

VOL. I. F 



66 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



Pyrenees, with green palmetto-leaves; in preparing 
calabash fibre for fatilah or gun-matches, and in twisting 
cords for the asses. The best material is supplied by an 
aloetic plant, the Hig or Haskul of Somaliland, here 
called by the Arabs Bag, and by the natives Mukonge. 
The Mananazi, or pine-apple, grows wild as far as three 
marches from the coast, but its fibrous qualities are 
unknown to the people. Ismail, the invalid Baloch, was 
the worse for remedies ; and two other men gave signs 
of breaking down. 

During the first week, creeping along at a slug's 
pace, we heard the booming of the Artemise's evening 
gun, an assurance that refuge was at hand. Presently 
these reports ceased. Lieut. -Colonel Hamerton, seized 
with mortal sickness, had left Kaole suddenly, and he 
died on board the Artemise on the 5th July, shortly 
after his return to Zanzibar. The first letters announ- 
cing the sad event were lost : with characteristic African 
futility the porter despatched with the parcel from the 
island, finding that the Expedition had passed on to the 
mountains of Usagara, left his charge with a village 
headman, and returned to whence he came. Easterns 
still hold that 

" Though it be honest, it is never good, 
To bring bad news." 

The report, spread by a travelling trader, was discussed 
throughout the camp, but I was kept in ignorance of it 
till Khudabakhsh, a Baloch, who had probably been 
deputed by his brethren to ascertain what effect the 
decease of the consul would have upon me, " hardened 
his heart," and took upon himself the task of communi- 
cating the evil intelligence. I was uncertain what to 
believe. Said bin Salim declared, when consulted, that 



LIEUT. -COL. HAMERTON'S DEATH. 



67 



he fully trusted in the truth of the report, but his 
reasons were somewhat too Arabo-African to convince 
me. He had found three pieces of scarlet broadcloth 
damaged by rats, — an omen of death ; and the colour 
pointed out the nationality of the departed. 

The consul's death might have proved fatal to the 
Expedition, had its departure been delayed for a week. 
The court of Zanzibar had required the stimulus of a 
strong official letter from Lieut. -Colonel Hamerton, be- 
I fore it would consent, as requested by the Foreign 
Office, " to procure a favourable reception on the coast, 
and to ensure the protection of the chiefs of the coun- 
try" for the travellers. The Hindus, headed by Ladha 
Damha, showed from first to last extreme unwillingness 
to open up the rich regions of copal and ivory to 
European eyes : they had been deceived by my silence 
during the rainy season at Zanzibar into a belief that the 
coast-fever had cooled my ardour for further adventure ; 
and their surprise at finding the contrary to be the 
case was not of a pleasant nature. The home-sick 
Baloch would have given their ears to return, they 
would have turned back even when arrived within a 
few marches from the Lake. Said bin Salim took the 
first opportunity of suggesting the advisability of his 
returning to Zanzibar for the purpose of completing 
carriage. I positively refused him leave ; it was a mere 
pretext to ascertain whether His Highness the Sayyid 
Majid had or had not, in consequence of our changed 
position, altered his views. 

Lieut.-Colonel Hamerton's death, however, was 
mourned for other than merely selfish considerations. 
His hospitality and kindness had indeed formed a well- 
omened contrast with my un auspicious reception at 

F 2 



68 



THE LAKE EEGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



Aden in 1855, before my departure to explore the 
Eastern Horn of Africa, when the coldness of some, and 
the active jealousy of other political authorities, thwarted 
all my projects, and led to the tragic disaster at Ber- 
berah.* Lieut. -Colonel Hamerton had received two 
strangers like sons, rather than like passing visitors. 
During the intervals between the painful attacks of a 
deadly disease, he had exerted himself to the utmost in 
forwarding my views ; in fact, he made my cause his 
own. Though aware of his danger, he had refused to 

* Capt. R. L. Playfair, Madras Artillery and First Assistant Pol. 
Resident, Aden, in a selection from the records of the Bombay Government, 
(No. 49, new series, Bombay, printed for Government, at the Education 
Society Press, Byculla, 1859,) curiously misnamed "A History of Arabia 
Felix or Yemen," transports himself, in a "supplementary chapter," to 
East Africa, and thus records his impressions of what happened in the 
" Somali Country : " — 

1855. — " During the afternoon of the same day (the 18th of April), three 
men visited the camp, palpably as spies, and as such, the officers of the 
Expedition were warned against them by their native attendants. Heedless of 
this warning, they retired to rest at night in the fullest confidence of 
security, and without having taken any extra, or even ordinary means, to 
guard against surprise." 

The italics are my own : they designate mistatements unpardonable in an 
individual whose official position enabled him to ascertain and to record the 
truth. The three men were represented to me as spies, who came to ascertain 
whether I was preparing to take the country for the Chief Shermarkay, 
then hostile to their tribe, not as spies to spy out the weakness of my party. 
I received no warning of personal danger. The " ordinary measures," that 
is to say, the posting of two sentinels in front and rear of the camp during 
the night were taken, and I cannot blame myself because they ran away. 

I will not stop to inquire what must be the value of Capt. Play fair s 193 
pages touching the history of Yemen, when in five lines there are three 
distinct and wilful deviations from fact. 

I am well aware that after my departure from Aden, in 1855, an inquiry 
was instituted during my absence, and without my knowledge, into the facts 
of the disaster which occurred at Berberah. The "privileged communica- 
tion " was, I believe, in due course, privily forwarded to the Bombay Govern- 
ment, and the only rebuke which this shuffling proceeding received was from 
a gentleman holding a high and honourable position, who could not reconcile 
himself to seeing a man's character stabbed in the back. 



THE VALLEY OF DEATH. 



G9 



quit, until compelled by approaching dissolution, the 
post which he considered his duty to hold. He was a 
loss to his country, an excellent linguist, a ripe oriental 
scholar, and a valuable public servant of the old 
Anglo-Indian school ; he was a man whose influence 
over Easterns, based upon their respect for his honour 
and honesty, his gallantry and determination, knew no 
bounds; and at heart a " sad good Christian," — the 
Heavens be his bed ! 

On the 8th of July we fell into what our Arab 
called Wady el Maut and Dar el Jua — the Valley 
of Death and the Home of Hunger — the malarious 
river-plain of the Kingani River. My companion was 
compelled by sickness to ride, and thus the asses, now 
back-sore and weak with fatigue, suffered an addition of 
weight, and a " son of Ramji" who was upon the point 
of deserting openly required to be brought back at the 
muzzle of the barrel. The path descending into a dense 
thicket of spear grass, bush, and thorny trees based on 
sand, with a few open and scattered plantations of holcus, 
presently passed on the left Dunda Nguru, or " Seer-fish- 
hill," so called because a man laden with such provision 
had there been murdered by the Wazaramo. After 
2 hrs . 45' a ragged camping-kraal was found on the 
tree-lined bank of a half-dry Fiumara, a tributary of 
the neighbouring Kingani : the water was bad, and a 
mortal smell of decay was emitted by the dark dank 
ground. It was a wild day. From the black brumal 
clouds driven before furious blasts pattered rain-drops 
like musket-bullets, splashing the already saturated 
ground. The tall stiff trees groaned and bent before 
the gusts; the birds screamed as they were driven from 
their perching places ; the asses stood with heads de- 
pressed, ears hung down, and shrinking tails turned 

F 3 



70 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



towards the weather, and even the beasts of the wild 
seemed to have taken refuge in their dens. Provisions 
being unprocurable at " Sagesera," the party did what 
men on such occasions usually do — they ate double 
quantities. I had ordered a fair distribution of the 
rice that remained, consequently they cooked all day. 
Yusuf, a Jemadar of inferior rank, whose friends cha- 
racterised him as " sweet of tongue but bitter at heart," 
vainly came to beg, on plea of hunger, dismissal for 
himself and his party ; and another Baloch, Wali, re- 
ported as uselessly that a sore foot would prevent him 
advancing. 

Despite our increasing weakness, we marched seven 
hours on the 9th of July, over a plain wild but pro- 
digiously fertile, and varied by patches of field, jungle 
and swamp, along the right bank of the Kingani river, 
to another ragged old kraal, situated near a bend in 
the bed. This day showed the ghost of an adventure. 
At the " Makutaniro," or junction of the Mbuamaji 
trunk-road with the other lines branching from various 
minor sea-ports, my companion, who was leisurely pro- 
ceeding with the advance guard, found his passage 
barred by about fifty Wazaramo standing across the 
path in a single line that extended to the travelled 
right, whilst a reserve party squatted on the left 
of the road. Their chief stepping to the front and 
quietly removing the load from the foremost porter's 
head, signalled the strangers to halt. Prodigious ex- 
citement of the Baloch, whose loud " Hai, hui ! " and 
nervous anxiety contrasted badly with the perfect sang 
froid of the barbarians. Presently, Muinyi Wazira 
coming up, addressed to the headman a few words, 
promising cloth and beads, when this African modifica- 
tion of the " pike " was opened, and the guard moved 



GHOST OF AN ADVENTURE. 



71 



forward as before. As I passed, the Wazaramo stood 
under a tree to gaze. I could not but admire the 
athletic and statuesque figures of the young warriors 
and their martial attitude, grasping in one hand their 
full-sized bows, and in the other sheaths of grinded 
arrows, whose black barbs and necks showed a fresh 
layer of poison. 

At Tun da, " the fruit," so called from its principal 
want, after a night passed amidst the rank vegetation, 
and Avithin the malarious influence of the river, I arose 
weak and depressed, with aching head, burning eyes, 
and throbbing extremities. The new life, the alterna- 
tions of damp heat and wet cold, the useless fatigue of 
walking, the sorry labour of waiting and re-loading the 
asses, the exposure to sun and dew, and last, but not least, 
of morbific influences, the wear and tear of mind at the 
prospect of imminent failure, all were beginning to tell 
heavily upon me. My companion had shaken off his 
preliminary symptoms, but Said bin Salim, attacked 
during the rainy gusty night by a severe Mkunguru or 
seasoning-fever, begged hard for a halt at Tunda — 
only for a day- — only for half a day — only for an 
hour. Even this was refused. I feared that Tunda 
might prove fatal to us. Said bin Salim was mounted 
upon an ass, which compelled us to a weary trudge of 
two hours. The animals were laden with difficulty ; 
they had begun to show a predilection for lying down. 
The footpath, crossing a deep nullah, spanned a pesti- 
lential expanse of spear-grass, and a cane, called from 
its appearance Gugu-mbua, or the wild sugar plant, 
with huge calabashes and natural clearings in the 
jungle, where large game appeared. After a short march 
I saw the red flag of the vanguard stationary, and 
turning a sharp corner found the caravan halted in 



72 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



a little village, called from its headman Bana Dirunga. 
This was premature. I had ordered Muinyi Wazira 
to advance on that morning to Dege la Mhora, the " large 
jungle-bird," the hamlet where M. Maizan's blood was 
shed. Said and Wazira had proposed that we should 
pass it ere the dawn of the next day broke ; the advice 
was rejected, it was too dangerous a place to show fear. 
The two diplomatists then bethought themselves of 
another manoeuvre, and led me to Bana Dirungd, call- 
ing it Dege la Mhora. 

We halted for a day at the little hamlet, embosomed 
in dense grass and thicket. On our appearance the 
villagers fled into the bush, their country's strength ; 
but before nightfall they took heart of grace and 
returned. The headman appeared to regard us with 
fear, he could not comprehend why we carried so much 
powder and ball. When reassured he offered to pre- 
cede us, and to inform the chief of the "large jungle- 
bird" that our intentions had been misrepresented, — a 
proposal which seemed to do much moral good to Said, 
the Jemadar, and Wazira. 

On the eleventh day after leaving Kaole I was obliged 
to mount by a weakness which scarcely allowed me 
to stand. After about half an hour, through a com- 
paratively open country, we passed on the left a well- 
palisaded village, belonging formerly to P'hazi Ma- 
zungera, and now occupied by his son Hembe, or the 
" wild buffalo's horn." Reports of our warlike intentions 
had caused Hembe to " clear decks for action ; " the 
women had been sent from the village, and some score 
of tall youths, archers and spearmen, admirably ap- 
pointed, lined the hedges, prepared, at the levelling of 
the first matchlock, to let loose a flight of poisoned 
arrows, which would certainly have dispersed the whole 



THIRD DANGEROUS STATION. 



73 



party. A halt was called by the trembling Said, who 
at such conjunctures would cling like a woman to my 
companion or to me. During the few minutes' delay the 
" sons of Kamji," who were as pale as blacks could be, 
allowed their asses to bump off half a dozen loads. Pre- 
sently Hembe, accompanied by a small guard, came for- 
ward, and after a few words with Wazira and Said, the 
donkey from which I had not dismounted was hurried 
forward by the Baloch. Hembe followed us with a 
stronger escort to Madege Madogo, the next station. 
Illness served me as an excuse for not receiving him: 
he obtained, however, from Said a letter to the headmen 
of the coast, bespeaking their good offices for certain of 
his slaves sent down to buy gunpowder. 

An account of the melancholy event which cut short 
at Dege la Mhora the career of the first European that 
ever penetrated beyond this portion of the coast may 
here be inserted. 

M. Maizan, an enseigne de vaisseau, and a pupil of 
the Polytechnic School, after a cruise in the seas off 
Eastern Africa, conceived, about the end of 1843, the 
project of exploring the lakes of the interior, and in 
1844 his plans were approved of by his government. 
Arrived at Bourbon, he was provided with a passage to. 
Zanzibar, in company with M. Broquant, the Consul de 
France, newly appointed after the French Commercial 
Treaty of the 21st Nov. 1844, on board the corvette Le 
Berceau, Capitaine, afterwards Vice- Admiral, Roniain 
Desfosses, commanding. At the age of twenty-six M. 
Maizan had amply qualified himself by study for travel, 
and he was well provided with outfit and instruments. 
His " kit," however, was of a nature calculated to excite 
savage cupidity, as was proved by the fact that his 
murderer converted the gilt knob of a tent-pole into a 



74 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



neck ornament, and tearing out the works of a gold 
chronometer, made of it a tobacco-pouch. He has been 
charged with imprudence in carrying too much luggage 
— a batterie de dejeuner, a batterie de diner, and similar 
superfluities. But he had acted rightly, when bound 
upon a journey through countries where outfit cannot 
be renewed, in providing himself with all the materials 
for comfort. On such explorations a veteran traveller 
would always attempt to carry with him as much, not 
as little as possible, — of course prepared to abandon all 
things, and to reduce himself, whenever the necessity 
might occur, to the " simple besace du pelerine It is 
easy to throw away a superfluity, and the best prepara- 
tion for severe " roughing it," is to enjoy ease and 
comfort whilst attainable. 

But M. Maizan fell upon evil times at Zanzibar. Dark 
innuendos concerning French ambition — that nation 
being even suspected of a desire to establish itself in 
force at Lamu, Pangani, and other places on the coast 
of East Africa — filled Hindu and Hindi with fear for 
their profits. These men influenced the inhabitants of 
the island and the sea-coast, who probably procured the 
co-operation of their wild brethren in the interior. 
For the purpose of learning the Kisawahili, M. Maizan 
delayed nearly eight months at Zanzibar, and, seeing a 
French vessel entering the harbour, he left the place 
precipitately, fearing a recall. Vainly also M. Bro- 
quant had warned him against his principal confidant, 
a noted swindler, and Lieut. -Colonel Hamerton had 
cautioned him to no purpose that his glittering instru- 
ments and his numerous boxes, all of which would be 
supposed to contain dollars, were dangerous. He 
visited the coast thrice before finally landing, thus 
giving the Wasawahili time and opportunity to mature 



M. MAIZAN. 



75 



their plans. He lowered himself in the eyes of the 
Arabs by " making brotherhood " with a native of Uny- 
amwezi. Finally, fearing Arab apathy and dilatoriness, 
he hastened into the country without waiting for the 
strong armed escort promised to him by His Highness 
the late Say y id Said. 

These were grave errors; but they were nothing in com- 
parison with that of trusting himself unarmed, after the 
fatal habit of Europeans, and without followers, into the 
hands of an African chief. How often has British India 
had to deplore deaths " that would have dimmed a vic- 
tory," caused by recklessness of danger or by the false 
shame which prevents men in high position from wear- 
ing weapons where they may be at any moment 
required, lest the safe mediocrities around them should 
deride such excess of cautiousness ! 

After the rains of 1845 M. Maizan landed at Baga- 
moyo, a little settlement opposite the island of Zanzibar. 
There leaving the forty musketeers, his private guard, 
he pressed on, contrary to the advice of his Mnyamwezi 
brother, escorted only by Frederique, a Madagascar or 
Comoro man, and by a few followers, to visit P'hazi Ma- 
zungera, the chief of the Wakamba, a subtribe of the 
Wazaramo, at his village of Dege la Mhora. He was. 
received with a treacherous cordiality, of which he ap- 
pears to have been completely the dupe. After some 
days of the most friendly intercourse, during which the 
villain's plans were being matured, Mazungera, sud- 
denly sending for his guest, reproached him as he en- 
tered the hut with giving away goods to other chiefs. 
Presently working himself into a rage, the African ex- 
claimed, " Thou shalt die at this moment!" At the 
signal a crowd of savages rushed in, bearing two long 
poles. Frederique was saved by the P'hazi's wife : he 



7G 



THE LAKE EEGIONS OP CENTEAL AFEICA. 



cried to his master to run and touch her, in which case 
he would have been under her protection ; but the 
traveller had probably lost presence of mind, and the 
woman was removed. The unfortunate man's arms 
were then tightly bound to a pole lashed crosswise upon 
another, to which his legs and head were secured by a 
rope tied across the brow. In this state he was carried 
out of the village to a calabash-tree, pointed out to me, 
about fifty yards on the opposite side of the road. The 
inhuman Mazungera first severed all his articulations, 
whilst the war-song and the drum sounded notes of 
triumph. Finding the sime, or double-edged knife, 
somewhat blunt, he stopped, when in the act of cutting 
his victim's throat, to whet the edge, and, having finished 
the bloody deed, he concluded with wrenching the head 
from the body. 

Thus perished an amiable, talented, and highly edu- 
cated man, whose only fault was rashness — too often the 
word for enterprise when Fortune withholds her smile. 
The savage Mazungera was disappointed in his guest's 
death. The object of the torture was to discover, as the 
Mganga had advised, the place of his treasures, whereas 
the wretched man only groaned and implored forgive- 
ness of his sins, and called upon the names of those 
friends whose advice he had neglected. The P'hazi then 
attempted to decoy from Bagamoyo the forty musketeers 
left with the outfit, but in this he failed. He then pro- 
ceeded to make capital of his foul deed. When Snay bin 
Amir, a Ma skat merchant, — of whom I shall have much 
to say, — appeared with a large caravan at Dege la Mhora, 
Mazungera demanded a new tribute for free passage ; 
and, as a threat, he displayed the knife with which he 
had committed the murder. But Snay proved himself 
a man not to be trifled with. 



MURDER OF M. MAIZAX. 



77 



Frederique returned to Zanzibar shortly after the 
murder, and was examined by M. Broquant. An in- 
famous plot would probably have come to light had he 
not fled from the fort where he was confined. Frederique 
disappeared mysteriously. He is said now to be living 
at Marungu, on the Tanganyika Lake, under the Moslem 
name of Muhammadf. His flight served for a pretext 
to mischievous men that the prince was implicated in 
the murder : they also spread a notoriously false report 
that Mazungera, an independent chief, was a vassal of 
the suzerain of Zanzibar. 

In 1846 the brig-of-war Le Ducoiiedic, of the 
naval division of Bourbon, M. Guillain, Capital ne de 
Vaisseau, commanding, was charged, amongst other com- 
mercial and political interests, with insisting upon severe 
measures to punish the murderers. In vain His Highness 
Sayyid Said protested that Mazungera was beyond his 
reach ; the fact of the robber-chief having been seen at 
Mbuamaji on the coast after the murder was deemed con- 
clusive evidence to the contrary. At length the Sayyid 
despatched up-country three or four hundred musketeers, 
mercenaries, and slaves, under command of Juma Mfum- 
bi, the late, and Bori, the present, Diwan of Saadani. 
The little troop marched some distance into the country, 
when they were suddenly confronted by the Wazaramo, 
commanded by Hembe, the son of Mazungera, who, 
after skirmishing for a couple of days, fled wounded by 
a matchlock-ball. The chief result of the expedition 
was the capture of a luckless clansman who had beaten 
the war-drum during the murder. He was at once 
transferred to Zanzibar, and passed off* by these trans- 
parent African diplomatists as P'hazi Mazungera. For 
nearly two years he was chained in front of the French 
Consulate; after that time he was placed in the fort 



78 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



heavily ironed to a gun under a cadjan shed, where he 
could hardly stand or lie down. The unhappy wretch 
died about a year ago, and Zanzibar lost one of its lions. 

After the slaughter of M. Maizan the direct route 
through Dege la Mhora was long closed, it is said, and 
is still believed, by a " ghul," a dragon or huge serpent, 
who, of course, was supposed to be the demon-ghost of 
the murdered man. The reader will rejoice to hear that 
the miscreant Mazungera, who has evaded human, has 
not escaped divine punishment. The miserable old man 
is haunted by the P'hepo or spirit of the guest so foully 
slain : the torments which he has brought upon himself 
have driven him into a kind of exile; and his tribe, as 
has been mentioned, has steadily declined from its former 
position with even a greater decline in prospect. The 
jealous national honour displayed by the French Go- 
vernment on the occasion of M. Maizan's murder has 
begun to bear fruit. 

Its sensitiveness contrasts well with our proceedings 
on similar occasions. Rahmat, the murderer of Captain 
Milne, still wanders free over the hills in sight of Aden. 
By punishing the treacherous slaughter of a servant of 
Government, the price of provisions at the coal-hole of 
the East would have been raised. Au Ali, the mur- 
derer of Lieut. Stroyan, is still at large in the neigh- 
bourhood of Berberah, when a few dollars would have 
brought in his bead. The burlesque of a blockade, — 
Capt. Playfair, in a work previously characterised, has 
officially mistermed it, to the astonishment of Aden, " a 
rigid blockade," a " severe punishment," and so forth, — 
was considered sufficient to chastise theSomal of Berberah 
for their cowardly onslaught on strangers and guests ; 
and though the people offered an equivalent for the 
public and private property destroyed by them, the spirit 



NIGHT OF ALAEMS. 



79 



of Centralisation, by an exercise of its peculiar attri- 
butes, omniscience and omnipresence, decided that the 
indemnity, which in such cases is customary throughout 
the East, must not be accepted, because — forsooth ! — it 
was not deserved by the officers. This is a new plan, a 
system lately adopted by the nation once called " la plus 
orgueilleuse et la plus perilleuse " — to win and preserve 
respect in lands where prestige is its principal power. 
The Arabs of Yemen have already learned from it to 
characterise their invaders as Sahib Hilah, — a tricky, 
peddling manner of folk. They — wiser men than 
we — will not take upon themselves the pains and 
penalties of subject-hood, without its sole counter- 
weight, the protection of their rulers, in cases where 
protection is required. 

At Madege Madogo, the "little birds," so called in 
contradistinction to its western and neighbouring; 
district, Madege Makuba, the " great birds," we 
pitched tent under a large sycamore ; and the Baloch 
passed a night of alarms, fancying in every sound the 
approach of a leopard, a hippopotamus, or a crocodile. 
On the 13th July, we set out after dawn, and traversing 
forest, jungle, and bush, chequered with mud and 
morass, hard by the bending and densely-wooded line of 
the Kmgaiii River, reached in three hours' march an un- 
wholesome camping-ground, called from a conspicuous 
landmark Kiclunda, the " little hill." Here the scenery 
is effective. The swift, yellow stream, about fifty yards 
broad, sweeps under tall, stiff earth-works, ever green 
with tangled vegetation and noble trees. The conical 
huts of the cultivators are disposed in scattered patches 
to guard their luxuriant crops, whilst on the northern 
bank the woody hillock, and on the southern rising 
ground, apparently the ancient river-terrace, affect the. 



80 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 

sight agreeably after the evergreen monotony of the 
river- plain. A petty chief, Mvirama, accompanied by 
a small party of armed men, posted himself near the 
cantonment, demanding rice, which was refused with 
asperity. At this frontier station the Wazaramo, mixed 
up with the tribes of Udoe, K'hutu, and Usagara, are no 
longer dreaded. 

From Kidunda, the route led over sandy ground, 
with lines and scatters of water- worn pebbles, de- 
scended the precipitous inclines of sandstone, broken 
into steps of slabs and flags, and crossed the Manyora, 
a rough and rocky Fiumara, abounding in blocks of 
snowy quartz, grey and pink syenites, erratic boulders 
of the hornblende used as whetstones, and strata of a 
rude sandstone conglomerate. Thence it spanned grass, 
bush, and forest, close to the Kingani, and finally 
leaving the stream on the right hand, it traversed 
sandy soil, and, ascending a wave of ground, abutted 
upon the Mgeta or rivulet, a large perennial influent, 
which, rising in the mountains of Duthumi, drains the 
head of the River- valley. 

This lower portion of the Mgeta's bed was unford- 
able after the heavy rains: other caravans, however, 
had made a rude bridge of trees, felled on each side, 
lashed with creepers, and jammed together by the force 
of the current. The men perched upon the trunks and 
boughs, tossed or handed to one another the loads and 
packages, whilst the asses, pushed by force of arm down 
the banks, were driven with sticks and stones across the 
stream. Suddenly a louder cry than usual arose from 
the mob ; my double-barrelled elephant-gun found a 
grave below the cold and swirling waters. The Goanese 
Gaetano had the courage to plunge in ; the depth was 
about twelve feet ; the sole was of roots and loose sand, 



WE ARRIVE AT A PLACE OF SAFETY. 



81 



and the stream ran with considerable force. I bade fare- 
well to that gun ; — by the bye it was the second accident 
of the kind that had occurred to it ; — the country people 
cannot dive, and no one ventures to affront the genius 
loci, the mamba or crocodile. I found consolation in 
the thought that the Expedition had passed without 
accident through the most dangerous part of the 
journey. In 18 days, from the 27th of June, to the 
14th of July, I had accomplished, despite sickness 
and all manner of difficulties, a march of 118 indirect 
statute miles, and had entered K'hutu, the safe ren- 
dezvous of foreign merchants. 

Eesuming our march on the 15th July, we entered 
the " Doab," * on the western bank of the Mgeta, 
where a thick and tangled jungle, with luxuriant and 
putrescent vegetation, is backed by low, grassy grounds, 
frequently inundated. Presently, however, the dense 
thicket opened out into a fine park country, peculiarly 
rich in game, where the calabash and the giant trees of 
the seaboard gave way to mimosas, gums, and stunted 
thorns. Large gnus, whom the porters regard with a 
wholesome awe, declaring that they are capable of 
charging a caravan, pranced about, pawing the 
ground, and shaking their formidable manes ; harte- 
beest and other antelopes clustered together on the 
plain, or travelled in herds to slake their thirst at the 
river. The homely cry of the partridge resounded from 
the brake, and the guinea-fowls looked like large blue- 
bells upon the trees. Small land-crabs took refuge in 
the pits and holes, which made the path a cause of 

* This useful word, which means the land embraced by the bifurcation of 
two streams, has no English equivalent. "Doab," "Dhun" (Dhoon), 
" Nullah," and " Ghaut," might be naturalised with advantage in our mother 
tongue. 

VOL. I. Q 



82 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



frequent accidents ; whilst ants of various kinds, 
crossing the road in close columns, attacked man and 
beast ferociously, causing the caravan to break into a 
halting, trotting hobble, ludicrous to behold. Whilst 
crossing a sandy Fiumara, Abdullah, a Baloch, lodged 
by accident four ounces of lead, the contents of my 
second elephant-gun, in the head of an ass. After a 
march of six hours we entered Kiruru, a small, ragged, 
and muddy village of Wak'hutu, deep in a plantation of 
holcus, whose tall, stiff canes nearly swept me from the 
saddle. The weather was a succession of raw mist, 
rain in torrents, and fiery sunbursts ; the land appeared 
rotten, and the jungle smelt of death. At Kiruru I 
found a cottage, and enjoyed for the first time an at- 
mosphere of sweet warm smoke. My companion 
remained in the reeking, miry tent, where he partially 
laid the foundation of the fever which threatened his 
life in the mountains of Usagara. 

Despite the danger of hyaenas, leopards, and crocodiles 
to an ass-caravan, we were delayed by the torrents of 
rain and the depth of the mud for two days at Kiruru. 
According to the people, the district derives its name 
" palm leaves," from a thirsty traveller, who, not 
knowing that water was near, chewed the leaves of the 
hyphaena-palm till he died. One of the Baloch pro- 
posed a " Hammam," — a primitive form of the "lamp- 
bath," practised in most parts of Central Asia, — as a 
cure for fever: he placed me upon one of the dwarf 
stools used by the people, and under the many abas or 
hair-cloaks with which I was invested he introduced a 
bit of pottery containing live coal and a little frankin- 
cense. At Kiruru I engaged six porters to assist our 
jaded animals as far as the next station. The headman 
was civil, but the people sold their grain with difficulty. 



THE YEGEA MUD. 



83 



On the 18th July we resumed our march over a tract 
which caused sinking of the heart in men who expected 
a long journey under similar circumstances. Near 
Kiruru the thick grass and the humid vegetation, drip- 
ping till midday with dew, rendered the black earth 
greasy and slippery. The road became worse as we 
advanced over deep thick mire interlaced with tree-roots 
through a dense jungle and forest, chiefly of the distorted 
hyphasna-palm, in places varied by the Mparamusi and 
the gigantic Msukulio, over barrens of low mimosa, and 
dreary savannahs cut by steep nullahs. In three places 
we crossed bogs from 100 yards to a mile in length, and 
admitting a man up to the knee ; the porters plunged 
through them like laden animals, and I was obliged to 
be held upon the ass. This " Yegea Mud," caused by 
want of water-shed after rain, is sometimes neck-deep ; it 
never dries except when the moisture has been evapor- 
ated by sun and wind during the middle of the Kaskazi 
or N. E. monsoon. The only redeeming feature in the 
view was a foreground of lovely hill, the highlands of 
Dut'humi, plum-coloured in the distance and at times 
gilt by a sudden outburst of sunshine. Towards the 
end of the march, I forged ahead of the caravan, and 
passing through numerous villages, surrounded by 
holcus-fields, arrived at a settlement tenanted by Sayf 
bin Salim, an Arab merchant, who afterwards proved to 
be a notorious "mauvais sujet." A Harisifrom Birkah 
in Oman, he was a tall thin-featured venerable-looking 
man, whose old age had been hurried on by his constancy 
to pombe-beer. A long residence in Unyarmvezi had 
enabled him to incur the hostility of his fellow-merchants, 
especially one Salim bin Said el Sawwafi, who, with 
other Arabs, persuaded Mpagamo, an African chief, to 
seize upon Sayf, and after tying him up in full view of 

G 2 



84 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 

the plundering and burning of his store-house, to drive 
him out of the country. Eetreating to Dut'humi, he 
had again collected a small stock in trade, especially of 
slaves, whom he chained and treated so severely that all 
men predicted for him an evil end. " Msopora," as he 
was waggishly nicknamed by the Wanyamwezi, instantly 
began to backbite Said bin Salim, whom he pronounced 
utterly unfit to manage our affairs ; I silenced him by 
falling asleep upon a cartel placed under the cool eaves 
of a hut. Presently staggered in my companion almost 
too ill to speak ; over-fatigue had prostrated his strength. 
By slow degrees, and hardly able to walk, appeared the 
Arab, the Baloch, the slaves and the asses, each and 
every having been bogged in turn. On this occasion 
Wazira had acted guide, and used to " bog-trotting," 
he had preferred the short cut to the cleaner road that 
rounds the swamps. 

At Dut'humi we were detained nearly a week ; the 
malaria had brought on attacks of marsh fever, which 
in my case lasted about 20 days ; the paroxysms were 
mild compared with the Indian or the Sindhian type, 
yet, favoured by the atonic state of the constitution, they 
thoroughly prostrated me. I had during the fever-fit, 
and often for hours afterwards, a queer conviction of 
divided identity, never ceasing to be two persons that 
generally thwarted and opposed each other ; the sleepless 
nights brought with them horrid visions, animals of 
grisliest form, hag-like women and men with heads pro- 
truding from their breasts. My companion suffered 
even more severely, he had a fainting-fit which strongly 
resembled a sun-stroke, and which seemed permanently 
to affect his brain. Said bin Salim was the con- 
valescent of the party ; the two Goanese yielded them- 
selves wholly to maladies, brought on mainly by hard 



THE AFKICAN ASS. 



85 



eating, and had they not been forced to rise, they would 
probably never have risen again. Our sufferings were 
increased by other causes than climate. The riding 
asses having been given up for loads, we were compelled, 
when premonitory symptoms suggested rest, to walk, 
sometimes for many miles in a single heat, through sun 
and rain, through mud and miasmatic putridities. 
Even ass-riding caused over-fatigue. It by no means 
deserves in these lands the reputation of an anile exer- 
cise, as it does in Europe. Maitre Aliboron in Africa 
is stubborn, vicious and guilty of the four mortal sins 
of the equine race, he shies and stumbles, he rears and 
runs away : my companion has been thrown as often 
as twice in two hours. The animals are addicted to 
fidgetting, plunging and pirouetting when mounted, 
they hog and buck till they burst their frail girths, they 
seem to prefer holes and hollows, they rush about pig-like 
when high winds blow, and they bolt under tree-shade 
when the sun shines hot. They must be led, or, ever 
preferring the worst ground, they disdain to follow the 
path, and when difficulties arise the slave will surely drop 
the halter, and get out of harm's way. If a pace exceed- 
ing two miles an hour be required, a second man must 
follow and flog each of these perfect slugs during the 
whole march. The roundness of their flanks, the short- 
ness of their backs, and their want of shoulder, combine 
to make the meagre Arab packsaddle unsafe for any- 
thing but a baboon or a boy, whilst the straightness and 
the rigidity of their goat-like pasterns render the pace a 
wearisome, tripping hobble. We had, it is true, Zanzibari 
riding-asses, but the delicate animals soon chafed and 
presently died ; we were then reduced to the Koroma or 
half-reclaimed beast of Wanyamwezi. The laden asses 
gave us even more trouble. The slaves would not attend 

G 3 



86 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 

to the girthing and the balancing of parcels — the great 
secret of donkey-loading — consequently the burdens 
were thrown at every mud or broken ground : the 
unwilling Baloch only grumbled, sat down and stared, 
leaving their Jemadars with Said bin Salim and our- 
selves to reload. My companion and I brought up the 
rear by alternate days, and sometimes we did not arrive 
before the afternoon at the camping ground. The ropes 
and cords intended to secure the herd were regularly 
stolen, that I might be forced to buy others : the animals 
were never pounded for the night, and during our illness 
none of the party took the trouble to number them. 
Thus several beasts were lost, and the grounding of the 
Expedition appeared imminent and permanent. The 
result was a sensation of wretchedness, hard to describe ; 
every morning dawned upon me with a fresh load of 
cares and troubles, and every evening reminded me as 
it closed in, that another and a miserable morrow was to 
dawn. But " in despair," as the Arabs say, " are many 
hopes;" though sorrow endured for the night — and 
many were " white" with anxiety — we never relinquished 
the determination to risk everything, ourselves included, 
rather than to return unsuccessful. 

Dut'humi, one of the most fertile districts in K'hutu, 
is a plain of black earth and sand, choked with vegeta- 
tion where not corrected by the axe. It is watered by 
the perennial stream of the same name, which, rising 
in the islands, adds its quotum to the waters of the 
Mgazi, and eventually to the Mgeta and the Kingani 
Rivers. In such places artificial irrigation is common, 
the element being distributed over the fields by hollow 
ridges. The mountains of Dut'humi form the northern 
boundary of the plain. They appear to rise abruptly, 
but they throw off southerly lower eminences, which 



THE MOUNTAINS OP DUT'HUMI. 



87 



diminish in elevation till confounded with the almost 
horizontal surface of the champaign ; the jagged broken 
crests and peaks argue a primitive formation. Their 
lay is to the N.KT.W. ; after four days' journey, accord- 
ing to the guides, they inosculate with the main chain 
of the Usagara Mountains, and they are probably the 
southern buttress of Ngu, or Nguru, the hill region 
westward of Saadani. This chain is said to send forth 
the Kingani River, which, gushing from a cave or fissure 
in the eastern, is swollen to a large perennial stream by 
feeders from the southern slopes, whilst the Mgeta flows 
from the western face of the water-parting, and circles the 
southern base. The cold temperature of these cloud- 
capped. and rainy crags, which never expose their out- 
lines except in the clearest weather, affects the plains ; 
by day bleak north-east and north-west gusts pour down 
upon the sun -parched Dut'humi, and at night the ther- 
mometer will sink to 70°, and even to 65° F. Water is 
supposed to freeze upon the highlands, yet they are not 
unhealthy; sheep, goats, and poultry abound ; betel- 
pepper grows there, according to the Arabs, and, as in 
the lowlands, holcus and sesamum, manioc and sweet- 
potatoes (Convolvulus batata), cucumbers, the turai 
(Luffa acutangula), and beans, plantains, and sugar- 
cane, are plentiful. The thick jungle at the base of the 
hills shelters the elephant, the rhinoceros in considerable 
numbers, the gnu, and the koodoo, which, however, can 
rarely be found when the grass is high ; a variety of the 
ngole — a small Dendraspis — haunts the patriarchs of 
the forest, and the chirrup of the mongoose, which the 
people enjoy, as Europeans do the monotonous note of 
the cricket, is heard in the brakes at eventide. This 
part of the country, about six hours' march northward 
from Dut'humi, is called the Inland Magogoni ; and it 

G 4 



88 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



is traversed by the " Mdimu " nullah, which falls into 
the Mgeta River. The fertile valleys in the lower and 
southern folds are inhabited by the W&kumb&ku (?),* 
and by the Wdsuop'hanga tribes ; the higher elevations, 
which apparently range from 3000 to 4000 feet, by the 
Waruguru. They are compelled to fortify themselves 
against the cold and the villanous races around them. 
The plague of the land is now one Kisabengo, a Mzegura 
of low origin, who, after conquering Ukami, a district 
extending from the eastern flank of the Dut'humi hills 
seawards, from its Moslem diwan, Ngozi, alias Kingaru, 
has raised himself to the rank of a Shene Khambi, or 
principal headman. Aided by the kidnapping Moslem 
coast clans of Whinde, a small coast town opposite the 
island of Zanzibar, and his fellow tribemen of Uzegura, 
he has transferred by his frequent commandos almost 
all the people of Ukami, chiefly Wasuop'hanga and 
Waruguru, to the slave-market of Zanzibar, and, thus 
compelled to push his depredations further west, he has 
laid waste the lands even beyond the Mukondokwa river- 
valley. The hill tribes, however, still receive strangers 
hospitably into their villages. They have a place visited 
even by distant Wazaramo pilgrims. It is described 
as a cave where a P'hepo or the disembodied spirit of a 
man, in fact a ghost, produces a terrible subterraneous 
sound, called by the people Kurero or Bokero ; it arises 
probably from the flow of water underground. In a 
pool in the cave women bathe for the blessing of issue, 
and men sacrifice sheep and goats to obtain fruitful 
seasons and success in war. These hill-races speak 

* This unsatisfactory figure of print will often occur in these pages. 
Ignorance, error, and causeless falsehood, together with the grossest exag- 
geration, deter the traveller from committing himself to any assertion which 
he has not proved to his own satisfaction. 



KIDNAPPING AT DUT'HUMI. 



89 



peculiar dialects, which, according to the guides, are 
closely connected with Kik'hutu. 

Despite the bad name of Dut'humi as regards climate, 
Arabs sometimes reside there for some months for the 
purpose of purchasing slaves cheaply and to repair their 
broken fortunes for a fresh trip to the interior. This 
keeps up a perpetual feud amongst the chiefs of the 
country, and scarcely a month passes without fields 
being laid waste, villages burnt down, and the un- 
happy cultivators being carried off to be sold. 

At Dut'humi a little expedition was sent against 
Manda, a petty chief, who, despite the presence of the 
Sayyid's troops, had plundered a village and had kid- 
napped five of the subjects of Mgota, his weaker neigh- 
bour. I had the satisfaction of restoring the stolen 
wretches to their hearths and homes, and two decrepid 
old women that had been rescued from slavery thanked 
me with tears of joy. 

This easy good deed done, I was able, though with 
swimming head and trembling hands, to prepare accounts 
and a brief report of proceedings for the Royal Geogra- 
phical Society. These, together with other papers, 
especially an urgent request for medical comforts and 
drugs, especially quinine and narcotics, addressed to 
Lieut. -Colonel Hamerton, or, in case of accidents, to 
M. Gochet, Consul de France, were entrusted to Jemadar 
Yaruk, whom, moreover, I took the liberty of recom- 
mending to the prince for the then vacant command 
of the Bagamoyo garrison. The escort from Kaole, 
reduced in number by three desertions, was dismissed. 
All the volunteers had been clamouring to return, and 
I could no longer afibrd to keep them. Besides the 
two supplies of cloth, wire, and beads, which preceded, 
and which were left to follow us, I had been provided 



90 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



by Ladha Damha with a stock of white and blue cottons, 
some handsome articles of dress, 20,000 strings of white 
and black, pink, blue, and green, red and brown porce- 
lain-beads, needles, and other articles of hardware, to 
defray transit-charges through Uzarama. This pro- 
vision, valued at 295 dollars, should have carried us to 
the end of the third month ; it lasted about three weeks. 
Said bin Salim, to whom it had been entrusted, had been 
generous, through fear, to every half-naked barbarian 
that chose to stretch forth the hand of beggary ; more- 
over, whilst too ill to superintend disbursements, he had 
allowed his " children," aided by the Baloch and the 
" sons of Ramji," to " loot " whatever they could seize 
and secrete. Ladha Damha, unable to complete our 
carriage, had hit upon the notable device of converting 
eighteen pieces of American domestics into saddle-cloths 
for the asses : the stuff was used at halts as bedding by 
the Baloch and others; and, — a proof that much had 
fallen into wrong hands, — the thirteen men composing 
our permanent guard, increased the number of their 
laden asses from two to five ; moreover, for many weeks 
afterwards, the " sons of Ramji" could afford to expend 
four to five cloths upon a goat. On the 21st July the 
escort from Kaole departed with a general discharge of 
matchlocks. Their disappearance was hailed as a bless- 
ing ; they had pestered me for rations, and had begged 
for asses till midnight. They were the refuse of their 
service ; they thought of, they dreamed of, nothing but 
food ; they would do no work ; they were continually 
attempting violence upon the timid Wak'hutu, and they 
seemed resolved to make the name of Baloch equally 
hateful and contemptible, 

I had been careful to bring from Zanzibar four ham- 
mocks, which, slung to poles, formed the conveyance, 



IIIDEOUSNESS OF K'lIUTU. 



91 



called by the Indians " manchil ; " by the Portuguese 
"manchila;" and in West Africa " tipoia." Sayf bin 
Salim agreed for the sum of ten dollars to hire his slaves 
as porters for ourselves and our outfit. On the 24th 
July, feeling strong enough to advance, we passed out of 
the cultivation of Dut'humi. Crossing a steep and muddy 
bed, knee-deep even in the dry season, we entered fields 
under the outlying hillocks of the highlands. These low 
cones, like similar formations in India, are not inhabited ; 
they are even more malarious than the plains, the sur- 
face is rocky, and the woodage, not ceasing as in higher 
elevations, extends from base to summit. Beyond the 
cultivation the route plunges into a jungle, where the 
European traveller realises every preconceived idea of 
Africa's aspect, at once hideous and grotesque. The 
general appearance is a mingling of bush and forest, 
which, contracting the horizon to a few yards, is equally 
monotonous to the eye and palling to the imagination. 
The black greasy ground, veiled with thick shrubbery, 
supports in the more open spaces screens of tiger and 
spear-grass, twelve and thirteen feet high, with every 
blade a finger's breadth ; and the towering trees are 
often clothed from root to twig with huge epiphytes, 
forming heavy columns of densest verdure, and clustering 
upon the tops in the semblance of enormous bird's nests. 
The foot-paths, in places " dead,"— as the natives say, — 
with encroaching bush, are crossed by llianas, creepers 
and climbers, thick as coir-cables, some connecting the 
trees in a curved line, others stretched straight down the 
trunks, others winding in all directions around their 
supports, frequently crossing one another like network 
and stunting the growth of even the vivacious calabash, 
by coils like rope tightly encircling its neck. The earth, 
ever rain-drenched, emits the odour of sulphuretted hy- 



92 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



drogen, and in some parts the traveller might fancy a 
corpse to be hidden behind every bush. To this sad 
picture of miasma the firmament is a fitting frame : a 
wild sky, whose heavy purple nimbi, chased by raffales 
and chilling gusts, dissolve in large-dropped showers ; or 
a dull, dark grey expanse, which lies like a pall over the 
world. In the finer weather the atmosphere is pale and 
sickly ; its mists and vapours seem to concentrate the 
rays of the oppressive " rain-sun. " The sensation 
experienced at once explains the apathy and indolence, 
the physical debility, and the mental prostration, that 
are the gifts of climates which moist heat and damp cold 
render equally unsalubrious and uncomfortable. That 
no feature of miasma might be wanting to complete the 
picture, filthy heaps of the rudest hovels, built in holes 
in the jungle, sheltered their few miserable inhabitants, 
whose frames are lean with constant intoxication, and 
whose limbs, distorted by ulcerous sores, attest the 
hostility of Nature to mankind. Such a revolting scene 
is East Africa from central K'hutu to the base of the 
Usagara Mountains. 

Running through this fetid flat the path passed on the 
left sundry shallow salt-pits which, according to the 
Arabs, are wet during the dry and dry during the wet 
season. Presently after breaking through another fence 
of holcus, whose cane was stifFer than the rattans of an 
Indian jungle, we entered, and found lodgings in Ba- 
kera, a pretty little hamlet ringed with papaws and 
plantains, upon which the doves disported themselves. 
Here, on our return in 1859, a thick growth of grass 
waved over the ground-marks of hearth and roof-tree. 
The African has a superstitious horror of stone walls ; he 
is still a semi-nomade, from the effects of the Wander- 
trieb, or man's vagabond instinct, uncurbed by the 



DISTRICT OF ZUNGOMERO. 



93 



habits of civilisation. Though vestiges of large and 
stable habitations have been discovered in the barbarous 
Eastern Horn, in these days, between the parallels of 
Harar and the ruined Portuguese towns near the Zambezi 
Kivers, inner Africa ignores a town of masonry. In 
our theoretical maps, the circlets used by cartographers 
to denote cities serve only to mislead; their names 
prove them to be Saltanats — lordships, districts or 
provinces. 

Resuming our course on the next dav through 
hollows and rice-swamps, where almost every ass fell or 
cast its load, we came after a long tramp to the nearest 
outposts of the Zungomero district ; here were several 
caravans with pitched tents, piles of ivory and crowds 
of porters. The gang of thirty-six Wanyamwezi, who 
had preceded us, having located themselves at a distant 
hamlet, we resumed our march, and presently were met 
by a number of our men headed by their guard, the 
two " sons of Ramji." Ensued a general sword and 
spear play, each man with howls and cheers brandished 
his blade or vibrated his missile, rushing about in all 
directions, and dealing death amongst ideal foes with 
such action as may often be observed in poultry-yards 
when the hens indulge in a little merry pugnacity. 
The march had occupied us four weeks, about double the 
usual time, and the porters had naturally began to sus- 
pect accidents from the Wazaramo. 

Zungomero, the head of the great river-valley, is a 
plain of black earth and sand, prodigiously fertile. It 
is enclosed on all sides except the eastern, or the line of 
drainage; northwards rise the peaks of Dut'humi; west- 
wards lie the little Wigo hills and the other spurs of Usa- 
gara, uncultivated and uninhabited, though the country 
is populous up to their feet ; and southwards are detached 



94 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



cones of similar formation, steep, rocky, and densely 
wooded. The sea-breeze is here strong, but beyond its 
influence the atmosphere is sultry and oppressive ; 
owing to maritime influences the kosi, or south-west 
wind, sometimes continues till the end of July. The 
normal day, which varies little throughout the year, 
begins with the light milky mist which forms the cloud- 
ring ; by degrees nimbi and cumuli come up from the 
east, investing the heights of Dut'humi, and, when 
showers are imminent, a heavy line of stratus bisects 
the highlands and overlies the surface of the plain. 
At the epochs of the lunar change rain falls once or 
twice during the day and night, and, when the clouds 
burst, a fiery sun sucks up poison from the earth's 
putridity. The early nights are oppressive, and towards 
the dawn condensation causes a copious deposit of heavy 
dew, which even the people of the country dread. A 
prolonged halt causes general sickness amongst the 
porters and slaves of a caravan. The humidity of the 
atmosphere corrodes everything with which it comes in 
contact ; the springs of powder-flasks exposed to the 
damp snap like toasted quills ; clothes feel limp and 
damp ; paper, becoming soft and soppy by the loss of 
glazing, acts as a blotter; boots, books, and botanical 
collections are blackened; metals are ever rusty; the 
best percussion caps, though labelled waterproof, will 
not detonate unless carefully stowed away in waxed 
cloth and tin boxes ; gunpowder, if not kept from 
the air, refuses to ignite ; and wood becomes covered 
with mildew. We had an abundance of common 
German phosphor-matches, and the best English wax 
lucifers ; both, however, became equally unserviceable, 
the heads shrank and sprang off at the least touch, 
and the boxes frequently became a mere mass of paste. 



ATTRACTIONS OF ZUNGOMERO. 



95 



To future travellers I should recommend the "good 
old plan ; " a bit of phosphorus in a little phial half full 
of olive oil, which serves for light as well as ignition. 
When accompanied by matchlock-men, however, there 
is no difficulty about fire ; their pouches always contain 
a steel and flint, and a store of cotton, or of the wild 
Bombex, dipped in saltpetre or gunpowder solution. 

Yet Zungomero is the great Bandari or centre of 
traffic in the eastern, as are Unyanyembe and Ujiji in 
the middle and the western regions. Lying upon the 
main trunk-road, it must be traversed by the up and 
down-caravans, and, during the travelling season, be- 
tween June and April, large bodies of some thousand 
men pass through it every week. Kilwa formerly 
sent caravans to it, and the Wanyamwezi porters have 
frequently made that port by the " Mwera road." The 
Arab merchants usually pitch tents, preferring them 
to the leaky native huts, full of hens and pigeons, rats 
and mice, snakes and lizards, crickets and cockroaches, 
gnats and flies, and spiders of hideous appearance, where 
the inmates are often routed by swarms of bees, and 
are ever in imminent danger of fires. The armed slaves 
accompanying the caravan seize the best huts, which 
they either monopolise or share with the hapless in- 
mates, and the porters stow themselves away under 
the projecting eaves of the habitations. The main 
attraction of the place is the plenty of provisions. 
Grain is so abundant that the inhabitants exist almost 
entirely upon the intoxicating pombe, or holcus-beer, — 
a practice readily imitated by their visitors. Bhang 
and the datura plant, growing wild, add to the attrac- 
tions of the spot. The Bhang is a fine large species of 
the Cannabis Indica, the bang of Persia, the bhang of 
India, and the benj of Arabia, the fasukh of northern, 



96 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



and the dakha of southern Africa. In the low lands of 
East Africa it grows before every cottage door. As in 
hot climates generally, the fibre degenerates, and the 
plant is only valued for its narcotic properties. The 
Arabs smoke the sun-dried leaf with, and the Africans 
without tobacco, in huge waterpipes, whose bowls con- 
tain a quarter of a pound. Both ignore the more 
luxurious preparations, momiya and hashish, ganja 
and sebzi, charas and maajun. Like the " jangli" or 
jungle (wild)-bhang of Sindh, affected by kalandars, 
fakirs, and other holy beggars, this variety, contracting 
the muscle of the throafc, produces a violent whooping- 
cough, ending in a kind of scream, after a few long 
puffs, when the smoke is inhaled ; and if one man sets 
the example the others are sure to follow. These gro- 
tesque sounds are probably not wholly natural ; even 
the boys may be heard practising them ; they appear to 
be a fashion of " renowning it " ; in fact, an announce- 
ment to the public that the fast youths are smoking 
bhang. The Datura stramonium, called by the Arabs 
and by the Wasawahili " muranha," grows in the well- 
watered plains ; it bears a large whitish flower and a 
thorn-apple, like that of India. The heathen, as well 
as their visitors, dry the leaves, the flowers, and the 
rind of the rootlet, which is considered the strongest 
preparation, and smoke them in a common bowl or in a 
water-pipe. This is held to be a sovereign remedy 
against zik el nafas (asthma) and influenza; it di- 
minishes the cough by loosening the phlegm. The 
Washenzi never make that horrible use of the plant 
known to the Indian dhaturiya, or datura-poisoners: 
many accidents, however, occur from ignorance of its 
violent narcotism. Meat is scarce : the only cattle are 
those driven down by the Wanyamwezi to the coast ; 



PRICES AT ZUNGOMERO. 



97 



milk, butter, and ghee are consequently unprocurable. A 
sheep or a goat will not cost less than a shukkah, or four 
cubits of domestics, here worth twenty-five cents. The 
same will purchase only two fowls ; and eggs and fruit 
— chiefly papaws and plantains, cocos and limes — are at 
fancy prices. For the shukkah eight rations of un- 
husked holcus, four measures of rice — which must here 
be laid in by those travelling up-country — and five cakes 
of tobacco, equal to about three pounds, are generally pro- 
curable. Thus the daily expenditure of a large caravan 
ranges from one dollar to one dollar fifty cents' worth 
of cloth in the Zanzibar market* The value, however, 
fluctuates greatly, and the people will shirk selling even 
at any price. 

The same attractions which draw caravans to Zun- 
gomero render it the great rendezvous of an army of 
touters, who, whilst watching for the arrival of the 
ivory traders, amuse themselves with plundering the 
country. The plague has now spread like a flight of 
locusts over the land. The Wak'hutu, a timid race, who, 
unlike the Wazaramo, have no sultan to gather round, 
are being gradually ousted from their ancient seats. In 
a large village there will seldom be more than three or 
four families, who occupy the most miserable hovels, all 
the best having been seized by the touters or pulled 
down for firewood. These men — slaves, escaped 
criminals, and freemen of broken fortunes, flying from 
misery, punishment, or death on the coast — are armed 
with muskets and sabres, bows and spears, daggers and 
knobsticks. They carry ammunition, and thus are too 
strong for the country people. When rough language 
and threats fail, the levelled barrel at once establishes 
the right to a man's house and property, to his wife and 
children. If money runs short, a village is fired by 

vol. i. h 



OS 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



night, and the people are sold off to the first caravan. 
In some parts the pattering of musketry is incessant, as 
it ever was in the turbulent states of Independent India. 
It is rarely necessary to have recourse to violence, the 
Wak'hutu, believing their tyrants to be emissaries, as 
they represent themselves, from His Highness the 
Sultan, and the chief nobles of. Zanzibar, offer none 
but the most passive resistance, hiding their families 
and herds in the bush. Thus it happens that towards 
the end of the year nothing but a little grain can be 
purchased in a land of marvellous fertility. 

As has been mentioned, these malpractices are severely 
reprobated by His Highness the Sultan, and when the 
evil passes a certain point remedial measures are taken. 
A Banyan, for instance, is sent to the coast with warn- 
ings to the Diwans concerned. But what care they for 
his empty words, when they know that he has probably 
equipped a similar party of black buccaneers himself ? 
and what hope can there be of reform when there is not 
an honest man in the country to carry it out ? Thus 
the Government of Zanzibar is rendered powerless ; — im- 
provement can be expected only from the hand of Time. 
The Wak'hutu, indeed, often threaten a deputation to 
entreat the Arab Sultan for protection in the shape of a 
garrison of Baloch. This measure has been retarded 
for sound reasons : no man dares to leave his house for 
fear of finding it a ruin on his return ; moreover, he 
would certainly be shot if the touters guessed his in- 
tention, and, even if he escaped this danger, he would 
probably be sold, on the way to the coast, by his trucu- 
lent neighbours the Wazaramo. Finally, if they suc- 
ceeded in their wishes, would not a Baloch garrison act 
the part of the man who, in the fable, was called in to 
assist the horse against the stag? The Arabs, who know 



THE SLAVE-PATH. 



99 



the temper of these mercenaries, are too wise ever to 
sanction such a " dragonnade." 

The reader will readily perceive that he is upon the 
slave-path, so different from travel amongst the free and 
independent tribes of Southern Africa. The traffic prac- 
tically annihilates every better feeling of human nature. 
Yet, though the state of the Wak'hutu appears pitiable, 
the traveller cannot practise pity : he is ever in the 
dilemma of maltreating or being maltreated. Were 
he to deal civilly and liberally with this people he would 
starve : it is vain to offer a price for even the necessaries 
of life ; it would certainly be refused because more is 
wanted, and so on beyond the bounds of possibility. 
Thus, if the touter did not seize a house, he would never 
be allowed to take shelter in it from the storm ; if he 
did not enforce a " corvee," he must labour beyond his 
strength with his own hands ; and if he did not fire a 
village and sell the villagers, he might die of hunger in 
the midst of plenty. Such in this province are the 
action and reaction of the evil. 



Party of Wak'hutu Women. 



CHAP. IV. 

ON THE GEOGRAPHY AND ETHNOLOGY OF THE FIRST REGION. 

Before bidding adieu to the Maritime Region, it will 
be expedient to enter into a few details concerning its 
geography and ethnology.* 

The first or maritime region extends from the shores 
of the Indian Ocean in e. long. 39° to the mountain- 
chain forming the land of Usagara in e. long. 37° 28' ; its 

* Those who consider the subject worthy of further consideration are 
referred, for an ampler account of it, to the Journal of the R. Geographical 
Society, vol. xxix. of 1860. 



GEOGRAPHY OF THE MARITIME REGION. 101 

breadth is therefore 92 geographical miles, measured in 
rectilinear distance, and its mean length, bounded by the 
waters of the Kingani and the Rufiji rivers, may be as- 
sumed at 110. The average rise is under 4 feet per 
mile. It is divided into two basins ; that of the Kingani 
easterly, and westward that of the Mgeta stream with 
its many tributaries ; the former, which is the principal, 
is called the land of Uzaramo ; the latter, which is of the 
second order, contains the provinces of K'hutu, by the 
Arabs pronounced Kutu, and Uziraha, a minor district. 
The natives of the country divide it into the three low- 
lands of Tunda, Dut'humi, and Zungomero. 

The present road runs with few and unimportant de- 
viations along the whole length of the fluviatile valleys 
of the Kingani and the Mgeta. Native caravans if 
lightly laden generally accomplish the march in a fort- 
night, one halt included. On both sides of this line, 
whose greatest height above the sea-level was found by 
B. P. therm, to be 830 feet, rises the rolling ground, which 
is the general character of the country. Its undula- 
tions present no eminences worthy of notice ; near the 
sea they are short and steep, further inland they roll in 
bnger waves, and everywhere they are covered with 
abundant and luxuriant vegetation, the result of decom- 
position upon the richest soih In parts there is an 
appearance of park land ; bushless and scattered forests, 
with grass rising almost to the lower branches of the 
smaller thorns ; here and there clumps and patches of im- 
passable shrubbery cluster round knots and knolls of 
majestic and thickly foliaged trees. The narrow foot- 
paths connecting the villages often plunge into dark 
and dense tunnels formed by overarching branch and 
bough, which delay the file of laden porters ; the mud 
lingering long after a fall of rain in these low 

H 3 



102 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 

grounds fills them with a chilly clammy atmosphere. 
Merchants traverse such spots with trembling : in these, 
the proper places for ambuscade, a few determined men 
easily plunder a caravan by opposing it in front or by 
an attack in rear. The ways are often intersected 
by deep nullahs and water-courses, dry during the hot 
season, but unfordable when rain falls. In the many 
clearings, tobacco, maize, holcus, sesamum, and ground- 
nuts, manioc, beans, pulse, and sweet potatoes flourish ; 
the pine-apple is a weed, and a few cocos and mangoes, 
papaws, jack-fruit, plantains, and limes are scattered 
over the districts near the sea. Kice grows abundantly 
in the lower levels. The villages are hidden deep in the 
bush or grass : the crowing of the cocks heard all along 
the road, except in the greater stretches of wilderness, 
proves them to be numerous ; they are, however 
small and thinly populated. The versant, as usual in 
maritime E. Africa, trends towards the Indian Ocean. 
Water abounds even at a distance from the rivers ; it 
springs from the soil in diminutive runnels and lies in 
" shimo " or pits, varying from surface -depth to 10 feet. 
The monsoon -rains, which are heavy, commence in 
March, about a month earlier than in Zanzibar, and the 
duration is similar. The climate of the higher lands is 
somewhat superior to that of the valley, but it is still 
hot and oppressive. The formation, after passing from 
the corallines, the limestones, the calcareous tuffs, and 
the rude gravelly conglomerates of the coast, is purely 
primitive and sandstone : erratic blocks of fine black 
hornblende and hornblendic rock, used by the people as 
whetstones and grinding-slabs, abound in the river-beds, 
which also supply the clay used for pottery. The sub- 
soil is near the sea a stiff blue loam, in the interior a 
ruddy quartzose gravel ; the soil is a rich brown or black 



GEOGRAPHY OF THE MARITIME REGION. 



103 



humus, here and there coated with, or varied by, clean 
white sand, and in some parts are seams of reddish loam. 
Fresh -water shells are scattered over the surface, and 
land-crabs burrow in the looser earths where stone 
seldom appears. Black cattle are unknown in the mari- 
time region, but poultry, sheep, and goats are plentiful : 
near the jungle they are protected from the leopards or 
ounces by large wooden huts, like cages, raised on piles 
for cleanliness. 

As a rule, the fluviatile valleys resemble in most 
points the physical features of the coast and island of 
Zanzibar : the general aspect of the country, however — . 
the expression of its climate — undergoes some modifi- 
cations. Near the sea, the basin is a broad winding 
line, traversed by the serpentine river, whose bed is 
now too deep for change. About the middle ex- 
panse stony ridges and rocky hills crop out from the 
rolling ground, and the head of the valley is a Ioav con- 
tinuous plain. In many places, especially near the 
estuary, river-terraces, like road embankments, here con- 
verging, there diverging, indicate by lines and strews of 
water-worn pebbles and sea-shells the secular uprise of 
the country and the declension of the stream to its present 
level. These raised seabeaches at a distance appear 
crowned with dwarf rounded cones which, overgrown - 
with lofty trees, are favourite sites for settlements. In 
the lower lands the jungle and the cultivation are of the 
rankest and most gigantic description, the effect of a 
damp, hot region, where atmospheric pressure is exces- 
sive. The grass, especially that produced by the black 
soils in the swamps and marshes, rises to the height of 
12 — 13 feet, and serves to conceal runaway slaves and 
malefactors : the stalks vary in thickness from a goose- 
quill to a man's finger. The larger growths, which are 

H 4 



104 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 

so closely planted that they conceal the soil, cannot be 
traversed without paths, and even where these exist the 
traveller must fight his way through a dense screen, re- 
ceiving from time to time a severe blow when the reeds 
recoil, or a painful thrust from some broken and inclined 
stump. Even the horny sole of the sandal-less African 
cannot tread these places without being cut or staked, 
and everywhere a ride through these grass-avenues whilst 
still dripping with the cold exhalations of night, with the 
sun beating fiercely upon the upper part of the body, is 
a severe infliction to any man not in perfect health. The 
beds of streams and nullahs are sometimes veiled by the 
growth of the banks. These crops spring up with the 
rains, and are burned down by hunters, or more fre- 
quently by accident, after about a month of dry weather ; 
in the interim fires are dangerous : the custom is to beat 
down the blaze with leafy boughs. Such is the variety 
of species that in some parts of the river- valleys each day 
introduces the traveller to a grass before unseen. Where 
the inundations lie long, the trees are rare, and those 
that exist are slightly raised by mounds above the ground 
to escape the destructive effects of protracted submer- 
gence : in these places the decomposed vegetation ex- 
hales a fetid odour. Where the waters soon subside 
there are clumps of tall shrubbery and seams of forest 
rising on extensive meadows of grassy land, which give 
it the semblance of a suite of natural parks or pleasure- 
grounds, and the effect is not diminished by the frequent 
herds of gnu and antelope prancing and pacing over their 
pastures. 

The climate is hot and oppressive, and the daily sea- 
breeze, which extends to the head of the Mgeta valley, 
is lost in the lower levels. About Zungomero rain is 
constant, except for a single fortnight in the month of 



GEOGRAPHY OF THE MARITIME REGION". 



105 



January ; it seems to the stranger as if the crops must 
infallibly decay, but they do not. At most times the 
sun, even at its greatest northern declination, shines 
through a veil of mist with a sickly blaze and a blister- 
ing heat, and the overcharge of electricity is evidenced 
by frequent and violent thunder-storms. In the western 
parts cold and cutting breezes descend from the rugged 
crags of Dut'humi. 

The principal diseases of the valley are severe ulcer* 
ations and fevers, generally of a tertian type. The 
" Mkunguru " begins with coldness in the toes and 
finger-tips ; a frigid shiver seems to creep up the legs, 
followed by pains in the shoulders, severe frontal head- 
ache, hot eyes, and a prostration and irritability of mind 
and body. This preliminary lasts for one to three 
hours, when nausea ushers in the hot stage : the head 
burns, the action of the heart becomes violent, thirst 
rages, and a painful weight presses upon the eyeballs: 
it is often accompanied by a violent cough and irrita- 
tion. Strange visions, as in delirium, appear to the 
patient, and the excitement of the brain is proved by 
unusual loquacity. When the fit passes off with copious 
perspiration the head is often affected, the ears buzz, and 
the limbs are weak. If the patient attempts to rise 
suddenly, he feels a dizziness, produced apparently by a 
gush of bile along the liver duct : want of appetite, 
sleeplessness and despondency, and a low fever, evidenced 
by hot pulses, throbbing temples, and feet painfully 
swollen, with eruptions of various kinds, and ulcerated 
mouth, usher in the cure. This fever yields easily to 
mild remedies, but it is capable of lasting three weeks. 

A multitude of roads, whose point of departure is 
the coast, form a triangle and converge at the " Maku- 
taniro," or junction-place, in Central Uzaramo. The 



106 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



route whose several stations have been described is 
one of the main lines running from Kaole and Baga- 
moyo, in a general southwest direction, till it falls into 
the great trunk road which leads directly west from 
Mbuamaji. It is divided into thirteen caravan stages, 
but a well-girt walker will accomplish the distance in 
a week. 

No apology is offered for the lengthiness of the eth- 
nographical descriptions contained in the following pages. 
The ethnology of Africa is indeed its most interesting, 
if not its only interesting feature. Everything con- 
nected with the habits and customs, the moral and reli- 
gious, the social and commercial state of these new races, 
is worthy of diligent observation, careful description, and 
minute illustration. There is indeed little in the physical 
features of this portion of the great peninsula to excite 
the attention of the reader beyond the satisfaction that 
ever accompanies the victory of truth over fable, and a 
certain importance which in these " travelling times," — 
when man appears rapidly rising to the rank of a migra- 
tory animal, — must attach to discovery. The subject, in- 
deed, mostly banishes ornament. Lying under the same 
parallels with a climate whose thermical variations know 
no extremes, the succession of alluvial valley, ghaut, 
table-land, and shelving plain is necessarily monotonous, 
the soil is the same, the productions are similar, and the 
rocks and trees resemble one another. Eastern and 
central inter-tropical Africa also lacks antiquarian and 
historic interest, it has few traditions, no annals, and no 
ruins, the hoary remnants of past splendour so dear to 
the traveller and to the reader of travels. It contains not 
a single useful or ornamental work, a canal or a dam is, 
and has ever been, beyond the narrow bounds of its 
civilisation. It wants even the scenes of barbaric pomp 



THE WAZARAMO. 



107 



and savage grandeur with which the student of occidental 
Africa is familiar. But its ethnography has novelties : 
it exposes strange manners and customs, its Fetichism is 
in itself a wonder, its commerce deserves attention, and 
its social state is full of mournful interest. The fas- 
tidiousness of the age, however, forbidding ampler de- 
tails, even under the veil of the " learned languages," 
cripples the physiologist, and robs the subject of its 
principal peculiarities. I have often regretted that if 
Greek and clog-Latin be no longer a sufficient disguise 
for the facts of natural history, human and bestial, the 
learned have not favoured us with a system of symbols 
which might do away with the grossness of words. 

The present tenants of the First Region are the 
Wazaramo, the Wak'hutu, and their great sub-tribe, the 
Waziraha; these form the staple of population, — the 
Wadoe and the Wazegura being minor and immigrant 
tribes. 

The Wazaramo are no exception to the rule of barba- 
rian maritime races : they have, like the Somal, the 
Gallas, the Wangindo, the Wamakua, and the Cape Kafirs, 
come into contact with a civilisation sufficiently powerful 
to corrupt without subjugating them ; and though culti- 
vators of the ground, they are more dreaded by caravans 
than any tribe from the coast to the Lake Region. They 
are bounded eastward by the thin line of Moslems in the 
maritime regions, westward by the Wak'hutu, northward 
by the Kingani River, and on the south by the tribes of 
the Rufiji. The Wazaramo, or, as they often pronounce 
their own name, Wazalamo, claim connection with the 
semi-nomacle Wakamba, who have, within the last few 
years, migrated to the north-west of Mombasah. Their 
dialect, however, proves them to be congeners of 
the Wak'hutu, and distinct from the Wakamba. As in 



108 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



East Africa generally, it is impossible to form the re- 
motest idea of the number of families, or of the total of 
population. The Wazaramo number many sub-tribes, 
the principal of which are the Wakamba and the Wa- 
p'hangara. 

These negroids are able-bodied men, tall and straight, 
compared with the Coast-clans, but they are inferior in 
development to most of the inner tribes. The com- 
plexion, as usual, varies greatly. The chiefs are often 
coal-black, and but few are of light colour. This arises 
from the country being a slave-importer rather than 
exporter ; and here, as among the Arabs, black skins 
are greatly preferred. The Mzaramo never circumcises, 
except when becoming a " Mhaji," or Moslem convert ; 
nor does this tribe generally tattoo, though some adorn 
the face with three long cicatrized cuts, like the Mashali 
of Mecca, extending down each cheek from the ear-lobes 
to the corners of the mouth. Their distinctive mark is 
the peculiarity of dressing their hair. The thick wool 
is plastered over with a cap -like coating of ochreish and 
micaceous clay, brought from the hills, and mixed to 
the consistency of honey with the oil of the sesamum 
or the castor-bean. The pomatum, before drying, is 
pulled out with the fingers to the ends of many little 
twists, which circle the head horizontally, and the mass is 
separated into a single or a double line of knobs, the 
upper being above, and the lower below, the ears, both look 
stiff and matted, as if affected with a bad plica polonica. 
The contrast bet ween these garlands of small red dilberries 
and the glossy black skin is, however, effective. The 
clay, when dry, is washed out with great trouble by 
means of warm water — soap has yet to be invented — and 
by persevering combing with the fingers. Women wear 
the hair-thatch like men ; there are, however, several 



THE WAZAEAMO. 



109 



styles. It is usually parted in the centre, from the 
crinal front-line to the nape of the neck, and allowed to 
grow in a single or double dense thatch, ridging the 
head breadthwise from ear to ear : this is coloured or 
not coloured, according to the wearer's taste. Some of 
the Wazaramo, again, train lumps of their wool to rise 
above the region of cautiousness, and very exactly 
simulate bears' ears. The face is usually lozenge-shaped ; 
the eyes are somewhat oblique, the nose is flat and patu- 
lated, the lips tumid and everted, the jaw prognathous, 
and the beard, except in a few individuals, is scanty. 
The sebaceous odour of the skin amongst all these races 
is overpowering : emitted with the greatest effect during 
and after excitement either of mind or body, it connects 
the negroid with the negro and separates him from the 
Somal, the Galla, and the Malagash. The expression of 
countenance is wild and staring, the features are coarse 
and harsh, the gait is loose and lounging ; the Arab strut 
and the Indian swagger are unknown in East Africa. The 
Wazaramo tribe is rich in albinos ; three were seen by the 
Expedition in the course of a single day. They much 
resemble Europeans of the leucous complexion ; the 
face is quite bald ; the skin is rough, and easily wrinkles 
in long lines, marked by a deeper pink ; the hair is 
short, sharp-curling, and coloured like a silk-worm's 
cocoon, and the lips are red. The eyes have grey 
pupils and rosy " whites :" they appear very sensitive 
to light, and are puckered up so as to distort the coun- 
tenance. The features are unusually plain, and the stature 
appears to range below the average. The people who 
have no prejudice against them, call these leucoethiops 
Wazungu, " white men." 

The Wazaramo tribe is wealthy enough to dress well : 
almost every man can afford a shukkah or loin-cloth of 



110 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFKICA. 



unbleached cotton, which he stains a dirty yellow, like the 
Indian gerua, with a clay dug in the subsoil. Their 
ornaments are extensive girdles and bead necklaces of 
various colours, white disks, made from the base of a 
sea-shell, and worn single on the forehead or in pairs at 
the neck. A massy ring of brass or zinc encircles the 
wrist. The decoration peculiar to the tribe, and com- 
mon to both sexes, is the mgoweko, a tight collar or 
cravat, 1 to 1*50 inches broad, of red and yellow, white 
and black beads, with cross- bars of different colours at 
short intervals. Men never appear in public without 
an ostentatious display of arms. The usual weapons, 
when they cannot procure muskets, are spears, bows, 
and arrows, the latter poisoned, and sime, or long knives 
like the Somali daggers, made by themselves with im- 
ported iron. The chiefs are generally seen in handsome 
attire ; embroidered Surat caps bound with a tight 
snowy turban of a true African shape, which contrasts 
well with black skins and the short double-peaked beards 
below. The body-garment is a loin-cloth of showy In- 
dian cotton or Arab check ; some prefer the long shirt 
and the kizbao or waistcoat affected by the slaves at 
Zanzibar. The women are well dressed as the men — 
a circumstance rare in East Africa, Many of them 
have the tibia bowed in front by bearing heavy water- 
pots at too early an age ; when not burdened they have 
a curious mincing gate, they never veil their faces, and 
they show no shame in the presence of strangers. The 
child is carried in a cloth at the back. 

The habitations of the Wazaramo are far superior in 
shape and size to those of K'hutu, and, indeed, to any 
on this side of Unyamwezi. Their buildings generally 
resemble the humbler sort of English cow-house, or an 
Anglo-Indian bungalow. In poorer houses the outer 



THE WAZARAMO. 



Ill 



walls are of holcus canes, rudely puddled ; the- better 
description are built of long and broad sheets of Myora- 
bo and Mkora bark, propped against strong uprights 
inside, and bound horizontally by split bamboos tied out- 
side with fibrous cord. The heavy pent-shaped roof 
often provided with a double thatch of grass and reeds, 
projects eaves, which are high enough to admit a man 
without stooping ; these are supported by a long cross 
bar resting on perpendiculars, tree-trunks, barked and 
smoothed, forked above, and firmly planted in the 
ground. Along the outer marginal length of this 
verandah lies a border of large logs polished by long 
sittings. The interior is dark and windowless, and 
party- walls of stiff grass- cane divide it into several com- 
partments. The list of furniture comprises a dwarf 
cartel about 4 feet long by 16 inches broad, upon which 
even the married couple manages to make itself com- 
fortable ; a stool cut out of a single block, a huge wooden 
mortar, mtungi or black earthen pots, gourds, ladles of 
cocoa-nut, cast- off clothes, whetstones, weapons, nets, and 
in some places creels for fishing. Grain is ground upon 
an inclined slab of fine-grained granite or syenite, some- 
times loose, at other times fixed in the ground with a 
mud plaster ; the classical Eastern handmill is unknown 
in this part of Africa. The inner roof and its rafters, 
shining with a greasy soot, in wet weather admit drench- 
ing lines of leakage, and the only artifice applied to the 
flooring is the tread of the proprietors. The door is a 
close hurdle of parallel holcus- straw bound to five or 
six cross-bars with strips of bark. In a village there 
will be from four to twelve " bungalows the rest are 
the normal haycock and beehive hut of Africa. Where 
enemies are numerous the settlements are palisaded ; 
each has, moreover, but a single entrance^ which is ap- 



112 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



proached by a narrow alley of strong stockade, and is 
guarded by a thick planking that fits into a doorway 
large enough to admit cattle. 

The Wazaramo are an ill-conditioned, noisy, boisterous 
violent, and impracticable race. A few years ago they 
were the principal obstacle to Arab and other travellers 
entering into East Africa. But the seizure of Kaole and 
other settlements by the late Sayyid of Zanzibar has 
now given strangers a footing in the land. After tasting 
the sweets of gain, they have somewhat relented ; but 
quarrels between them and the caravans are still fre- 
quent. The P'hazi, or chief of the district, demands a 
certain amount of cloth for free passage from all mer- 
chants on their way to the interior ; from those return- 
ing he takes cattle, jembe, or iron hoes, shokah or 
hatchets, in fact, whatever he can obtain. If not con- 
tented, his clansmen lie in ambush and discharge a few 
poisoned arrows at the trespassers : they never have 
attempted, like the Wagogo, to annihilate a caravan ; in 
fact, the loss of one of their number causes a general 
panic. They have hitherto successfully resisted the little 
armies of touters that have almost desolated K'hutu, and 
they are frequently in hostilities with the coast settle- 
ments. The young men sometimes set out on secret 
plundering expeditions to Bagamoyo and Mbuamaji, and 
enter the houses at night by mining under the walls. 
The burghers attempt to defeat them by burying stones 
and large logs as a foundation, but in vain: their 
superior dexterity has originated a superstitious notion 
that they possess a peculiar " medicine," a magic spell 
called " Ugumba," which throws the household into a 
deep trance. When a thief is caught in flagrante delicto, 
his head soon adorns a tall pole at the entrance of the 
settlement : it is not uncommon to see half a dozen 



THE WAZARAMO. 



113 



bloody or bleached fragments of humanity collected in a 
single spot. When disposed to be friendly the Waza- 
ramo will act as porters to Arabs, but if a man die his 
load is at once confiscated by his relatives, who, how- 
ever, insist upon receiving his blood-money, as if he had 
been slain in battle. Their behaviour to caravans in 
their own country depends upon the strangers' strength ; 
many trading bodies therefore unite into one before 
beginning the transit, and even then they are never 
without fear. 

The Wazaramo chiefs are powerful only when their 
wealth or personal qualities win the respect of their 
unruly republican subjects. There are no less than five 
orders in this hereditary master-class. The P'hazi is the 
headman of the village, and the Mwene Goha is his prin- 
cipal councillor ; under these are three ranks of elders, 
the Kinyongoni, the Chiima, and the Kawambwa, The 
headman, unless exceptionally influential, must divide 
amongst his " ministry" the blackmail extorted from tra- 
vellers. The P'hazi usually fills a small village with 
his wives and families ; he has also large estates, and he 
personally superintends the labour of his slave-gangs. 
He cannot sell his subjects except for two offences — 
Ugoni or adultery, and Uchawe or black magic. The 
latter crime is usually punished by the stake ; in some 
parts of the country the roadside shows at every few 
miles a heap or two of ashes with a few calcined and 
blackened human bones mixed with bits of half-consumed 
charcoal, telling the tragedy that has been enacted 
there. The prospect cannot be contemplated without 
horror ; here and there, close to the larger circles where 
the father and mother have been burnt, a smaller heap 
shows that some wretched child has shared their terrible 
fate, lest growing up he should follow in his parents' path. 

VOL. I. I 



114 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



The power of conviction is wholly in the hands of the 
Mganga or medicine-man, who administers an ordeal 
called Baga or Kyapo by boiling water. If the hand 
after being dipped show any sign of lesion, the offence 
is proven, and the sentence is instantly carried into exe- 
cution. 

Instinctively conscious of their moral wants, the 
Washenzi throughout this portion of East Africa have 
organised certain customs w r hich have grown to laws. 
The first is the Sare or brother oath. Like the 
" manred " of Scotland, the " munh bola bhai " of India, 
and similar fraternal institutions amongst most of the an- 
cient tribes of barbarians in whom sociability is a passion, 
it tends to reconcile separate interests between man and 
man, to modify the feuds and discords of savage society, 
and, principally, to strengthen those that need an alliance. 
In fact, it is a contrivance for choosing relations instead of 
allowing Nature to force them upon man, and the flimsi- 
ness of the tie between brothers born in polygamy has 
doubtless tended to perpetuate it. The ceremony, which 
is confined to adults of the male sex, is differently per- 
formed in the different tribes. Amongst the Wazaramo, 
the Wazegura, and the Wasagara, the two " brothers " 
sit on a hide face to face, with legs outstretched to the 
front and overlapping one another ; their bows and 
arrows are placed across their thighs, whilst a third per- 
son, waving a sword over their heads, vociferates curses 
against any one that may " break the brotherhood." A 
sheep is then slaughtered, and its flesh, or more often its 
heart, is brought roasted to the pair, who, having made 
with a dagger incisions in each other's breasts close to 
the pit of the stomach, eat a piece of meat smeared with 
the blood. Among the Wanyamwezi and theWajiji the 
cut is made below the left ribs or above the knee ; each 



THE WAZAKAMO. 



115 



man receives in a leaf his brother's blood, which, mixed 
with oil or butter, he rubs into his own wound. An 
exchange of small presents generally concludes the rite. 
It is a strong tie, as all men believe that death or 
slavery would follow its infraction. The Arabs, to whom 
the tasting of blood is unlawful, usually perform it by 
proxy. The slave " Fundi," or fattori, of the caravans 
become brothers, even with the Washenzi, whenever 
they expect an opportunity of utilising the relationship. 

The second custom is more peculiar. The East Afri- 
can dares not appropriate an article found upon the road, 
especially if he suspect that it belongs to a fellow tribe- 
man. He believes that a " Kigambo," an unexpected 
calamity, slavery or death, would follow the breach of 
this custom. At Zungomero a watch, belonging to the 
Expedition, was picked up by the country people in the 
jungle, and was punctually returned, well wrapped round 
with grass and leaves. But subsequent experience makes 
the traveller regret that the superstition is not of a 
somewhat more catholic and comprehensive character. 

The religion of the East African will be treated of in 
a future page. The Wazaramo, like their congeners, 
are as little troubled with ceremony as with belief. In 
things spiritual as in things temporal they listen to but 
one voice, that of " Ada," or custom. The most offen- 
sive scoffer or sceptic in Europe is not regarded with 
more abomination than the man who in these lands would 
attempt to touch a jot or tittle of Ada. 

There are no ceremonies on birth-occasions and no 
purification of women amongst these people. In the 
case of abortion or of a still-born child they say, " he 
hath returned," that is to say, to home in earth. When 
the mother perishes in childbirth, the parents claim a 

i 2 



116 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



certain sum from " the man that killed their daughter." 
Neither on the continent nor at Zanzibar do they bind with 
cloth the head of the new-born babe. Twins, here called 
Wapachd, and by the Arabs of Zanzibar, Shukiil (Jj£^) 
are usually sold or exposed in the jungle as amongst the 
Ibos of West Africa. If the child die, an animal is 
killed for a general feast, and in some tribes the mother 
does a kind of penance. Seated outside the village, she 
is smeared with fat and flour, and exposed to the deri- 
sion of people who surround her, hooting and mocking 
with offensive jests and gestures. To guard against this 
calamity, the Wazaramo and other tribes are in the habit 
of vowing that the babe shall not be shaved till manhood, 
and the mother wears a number of talismans, bits of 
wood tied with a thong of snake's skin, round her neck, 
and beads of different shapes round her head. When 
carrying her offspring, which she rarely leaves alone, 
she bears in her hand what is technically called a kiran- 
gozi, a " guide 99 or " guardian," in the form of two sticks 
a few inches in length, bound with bands of particoloured 
beads. This article, made up by the Mganga or medi- 
cine-man, is placed at night under the child's head, and 
is carried about till it has passed the first stage of life. 
The kirangozi is intended to guard the treasure against 
the malevolent spirits of the dead ; that almost universal 
superstition, the Evil Eye, though an article of faith 
amongst the Arabs, the WasawahiH, and the Wamrima, 
is unknown to the inner heathen. 

A name is given to the child without other celebration 
than a debauch with pombe : this will sometimes occur 
at the birth of a male, when he is wanted. The East 
Africans, having few national prejudices, are fond of 
calling their children after Arabs and other strangers : 
they will even pay a sheep for the loan of a merchant's 



THE WAZARAM0. 



117 



name. There must be many hundred Sayyid Saids and 
Sayyid Majids now in the country ; and as during the 
eighteen months' peregrination of the East African Expe- 
dition every child born on and near the great trunk-line 
was called Muzungu — the "white" — the Englishman 
has also left his mark in the land. The period of ablacta- 
tion, as in South Africa, is prolonged to the second or third 
year : may this account, in part, for the healthiness of the 
young and the almost total absence of debility and de- 
formity ? Indeed, the nearest approach to the latter is 
the unsightly protrusion of the umbilical region, some- 
times to the extent of several inches, owing to ignorance 
of proper treatment ; but, though conspicuous in child- 
hood, it disappears after puberty. Women retain the 
power of suckling their children to a late age, even when 
they appear withered grandames. Until the child can 
walk without danger, it is carried by the mother, not 
on the hip, as in Asia, but on the bare back for warmth, 
a sheet or skin being passed over it and fastened at 
the parent's breast. Even in infancy it clings like a 
young simiad, and the peculiar formation of the African 
race renders the position easier by providing a kind of seat 
upon which it subsides ; the only part of the body exposed 
to view is the little coco-nut head, with the small, round, 
beady black eyes in a state of everlasting stare. Finally, 
the " kigogo," or child who cuts the two upper incisors 
before the lower, is either put to death, or is given away 
or sold to the slave-merchant, under the impression that 
it will bring disease, calamity, and death into the house- 
hold. The Wasawahili and the Zanzibar Arabs have 
the same impressions : the former kill the child; the lat- 
ter, after a Khitmah or perlection of the Koran, make 
it swear, by nodding its head if unable to articulate, 

l 3 



118 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



that it will not injure those about it. Even in 
Europe, it may be remembered, the old prejudiee against 
children born with teeth is not wholly forgotten. 

Amongst the Wazaramo there is no limitation to the 
number of wives, except the expense of wedding and the 
difficulty of supporting a large establishment. Divorce is 
signified by presenting to the wife a piece of holcus-cane : 
if a sensible woman she at once leaves the house, and, if 
not, she is forced to leave. There is no more romance 
in the affair even before marriage than in buying a goat. 
The marriageable youth sends a friend to propose to the 
father : if the latter consents, his first step is, not to 
consult his daughter — such a proceeding would be 
deemed the act of a madman — but to secure for him- 
self as many cloths as possible, from six to twelve, or. 
even more, besides a preliminary present which goes by 
the name of kiremba (kilemba), his "turban." This, 
however, is a kind of settlement which is demanded 
back if the wife die without issue ; but if she bear chil- 
dren, it is preserved for them by their grand-parents. 
After the father the mother puts in her claim in behalf 
of the daughter ; she requires a kondavi, or broad parti- 
coloured band of beads worn round the waist and next 
the skin ; her mukajya or loin-cloth, and her wereko, or 
sheet in which the child is borne upon the back. In the 
interior the settlement is made in live-stock, varying from 
a few goats to a dozen cows. This weighty point duly 
determined, the husband leads his wife to his own home, 
an event celebrated by drumming, dancing, and exten- 
sive drunkenness. The children born in wedlock belong 
to the father. 

When a man or a woman is at the point of death, the 
friends assemble, and the softer sex sometimes sings, 



THE WAK'IIUTU. 



.119 



howls, and weeps : the departing is allowed to depart life 
upon the kitanda, or cartel. There is, however, little de- 
monstrative sorrow amongst these people, and, having the 
utmost dread of disembodied spirits, all are anxious to 
get rid of the corpse and its appertainings. The YVaza- 
ramo, more civilised than their neighbours, bury their 
dead stretched out and in the dress worn during life: 
their graves have already been described. 

The " industry " of Usaramo will occupy but few sen- 
tences. Before the great rains of the year set in the 
land must be weeded, and scratches must be made with 
a hoe for the reception of seed. The wet season ushers 
in the period for copal digging : the proceeds are either 
sold to travelling traders, or are carried down to the 
coast in makanda — mat-sacks — of light weight, and 
are sold to the Banyans. Bargaining and huckstering, 
cheapening and chaffering, are ever the African's highest 
intellectual enjoyments, and he does not fail to stretch 
them to their utmost limits. After the autumnal rains 
during the Azyab, or the north-east monsoon, the grass 
is fired, when the men seizing their bows, arrows, and 
spears, indiscriminately slaughter beast and bird — an 
operation which, yearly repeated, accounts in part for the 
scarcity of animal life so remarkable in this animal's 
paradise. When all trades fail, the Mzaramo repairs to 
the coast, where, despite his bad name, he usually finds 
employment as a labourer. 

Next in order to the maritime Wazaramo are the 
Wak'hutu, to whom many of the observations upon the 
subject of their more powerful neighbours equally apply, 
Their territory extends from the Mgeta Kiver to the 
mountains of Usagara, and in breadth from the Du- 
t'humi Highlands to the Rufiji Kiver. 

i 4 



120 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



The Wak'hutu are physically and, apparently, men- 
tally a race inferior to the Wazaramo ; they are very 
dark, and bear other marks of a degradation effected 
by pernicious climatory conditions. They have no 
peculiar tattoo, although individuals raise complicated 
patterns in small cicatrices upon their breasts. The popu- 
lar head-dress is the clay-coating of the Wazaramo, of 
somewhat modified dimensions ; and some of them, 
who are possibly derived from the Wahiao and other 
southern clans, have a practice — exceptional in these 
latitudes — of chipping their incisors to sharp points, 
which imitate well enough the armature of the reptilia. 
Their eyes are bleared and red with perpetual intoxi- 
cation, and they seem to have no amusements but 
dancing and singing through half the night. None 
but the wealthier can afford to wear cloth ; the substi- 
tute is a kilt of the calabash fibre, attached by a cord 
of the same material to the waist. In women it often 
narrows to a span, and would be inadequate to the 
purposes of decency were it not assisted by an under- 
clothing of softened goatskin ; this and a square of 
leather upon the bosom, which, however, is often 
omitted, compose the dress of the multitude. The orna- 
ments are like those of the Wazaramo, but by no means 
so numerous. The Wak'hutu live poorly, and, having 
no ghee, are contented with the oil of the sesamum and 
the castor-bean with their holcus porridge. The rivers 
supply them with the usual mud-fish ; at times they 
kill game. Their sheep, goats, and poultry they reserve 
for barter on the coast; and, though bees swarm through- 
out the land, and even enter the villages, they will not 
take the trouble to make hives. 

As on the Mrima, the proportion of chiefs to subjects 



THE WAK'HUTU. 



121 



seems to increase in the inverse ratio of what is required. 
Every district in K'hutu has its P'hazi or headman, with 
his minister the Mwene Goha, and inferior chiefs, the 
Chanduine, the Muwinge, and the Mbara. These men live 
chiefly upon the produce of their fields, which they sell to 
caravans ; they are too abject and timid to insist upon 
the blackmail which has caused so many skirmishes in 
Uzaramo ; and the only use that they make of their 
power is to tyrannise over their villages, and occasionally 
to organise a little kidnapping. With the aid of slavery 
and black magic they render their subjects' lives as pre- 
carious as they well can : no one, especially in old age, 
is safe from being burnt at a day's notice. They are 
civil to strangers, but wholly unable to mediate between 
them and the tribe. The Wak'hutu have been used as 
porters ; but they have proved so treacherous, and so 
determined to desert, that no man will trust them in a 
land where prepayment is the first condition of an 
agreement. Property amongst them is insecure : a man 
has always a vested right in his sister's children ; and 
when he dies his brothers and relations carefully plunder 
his widow and orphans. 

The dirty, slovenly villages of the Wak'hutu are an 
index of the character of the people. Unlike the com- 
fortable cottages of the coast, and the roomy abodes of 
the Wazaramo, the settlements of the Wak'hutu are com- 
posed of a few straggling hovels of the humblest de- 
scription — with doors little higher than an English 
pigsty, and eaves so low that a man cannot enter them 
except on all fours. In shape they differ, some being 
simple cones, others like European haystacks, and others 
like our old straw beehives. The common hut is a circle 
from 12 to 25 feet in diameter; those belonging to the 
chiefs are sometimes of considerable size, and the first 



122 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



part of the erection is a cylindrical framework composed 
of tall stakes, or the rough trunks of young trees, inter- 
woven with parallel and concentric rings of flexible twigs 
and withies, which are coated inside and outside with 
puddle of red or grey clay. In some a second circle of wall 
is built round the inner 'cylinder, thus forming one house 
within the other. The roof, subsequently added, is of 
sticks and wattles, and the weight rests chiefly upon a 
central tree. It has eaves-like projections, forming a 
narrow verandah, edged with horizontal bars which 
rest upon forked uprights. Over the sticks interwoven 
with the frame, thick grass or palm-fronds are thrown, 
and the whole is covered with a coat of thatch tied on 
with strips of tree bark. During the first few minutes 
of heavy rain, this roofing, shrunk by the parching suns, 
admits water enough to patch the interior with mud. 
The furniture of the cottages is like that of the Waza- 
ramo ; and the few square feet which compose the area 
are divided by screens of wattle into dark pigeon-holes, 
used as stores, kitchen, and sleeping-rooms. A thick 
field of high grass is allowed to grow in the neighbour- 
hood of each village, to baffle pursuers in case of need ; 
and some cottages are provided with double doorways 
for easier flight. In the middle of the settlement there is 
usually a tall tree, under which the men lounge upon 
cots scarcely large enough for an English child ; and 
where the slaves, wrangling and laughing, husk their 
holcus in huge wooden mortars. These villages can 
scarcely be called permanent : even the death of a chief 
causes them to be abandoned, and in a few months 
long grass waves over the circlets of charred stakes and 
straw. 

The only sub-tribe of the Wak'hutu which deserves 
notice is the Waziraha, who inhabit the low grounds 



THE WADOE. 



123 



below the Mabruki Pass, in the first parallel of the Usa- 
gara Mountains. They are remarkable only for having 
beards somewhat better developed than in the other 
Eastern races : in sickly appearance they resemble their 
congeners. 

Remain for consideration the Wadoe and the Waze- 
gura. The proper habitat of the Wadoe is between the 
Watondwe or the tribes of Saadani, on the littoral, and 
the Wak'hwere, near K'hutu, on the west ; their northern 
frontier is the land of the Wazegura, and their southern 
the Gama and the Kingani Rivers. Their country, irri- 
gated by the waters of the Gama, is plentiful in grain, 
though wanting in cattle ; they export to Zanzibar sor- 
ghum and maize, with a little of the chakazi or unripe 
copal. 

The Wadoe once formed a powerful tribe, and were 
the terror of their neighbours. Their force was first 
broken by the Wakamba, who, however, so weakened 
themselves, that they were compelled to emigrate in 
mass from the country, and have now fixed themselves 
in a region about 14 marches to the north-west of Mom- 
basah, which appears to have been anciently called that 
of the Meremongao. During this struggle the Wadoe 
either began or, what is more likely, renewed a practice 
which has made their name terrible even in African ears. 
Fearing defeat from the Wakamba, they proceeded, in 
presence of the foe, to roast and devour slices from the 
bodies of the fallen. The manoeuvre was successful ; the 
Wakamba could dare to die, but they could not face the 
idea of becoming food. Presently, when the Wazegura 
had armed themselves with muskets, and the people of 
Whinde had organised their large plundering excursions, 
the Wadoe lost all power. About ten years ago Juma 
Mfumbi, the late Diwan of Saadani, exacted tribute 



124 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



from them, and after his death his sons succeeded to it. 
In 1857, broken by a famine of long continuance, many 
Wadoe fled to the south of the Kingani Kiver, and ob- 
tained from the Wazaramo lands near Sagesera and 
I)ege la Mhora. 

The Wadoe differ greatly in colour and in form. 
Some are tall, well-made, and light-complexioned Ne- 
groids, others are almost black. Their distinctive mark — 
in women as well as men — is a pair of long cuts down 
both cheeks, from the temple to the jaw ; they also fre- 
quently chip away the two inner sides of the upper 
central incisors, leaving a small chevron-shaped hole. 
This however is practised almost throughout the country. 
They are wild in appearance, and dress in softened skins, 
stained yellow with the bark and flowers (?) of the mi- 
mosa. Their arms are a large hide-shield, spears, bows, 
and arrows, shokah or the little battle-axe, the sime- 
knife, and the rungu or knobstick. They are said still 
to drink out of human skulls, which are not polished or 
prepared in any way for the purpose. The principal 
chief is termed Mweme : his privy councillors are called 
Makunga (?), and the elders M'ana Mirao (?). The 
great headmen are buried almost naked, but retaining 
their bead- ornaments, sitting in a shallow pit, so that 
the forefinger can project above the ground. With each 
man are interred alive a male and a female slave, the 
former holding a mundu or billhook wherewith to cut 
fuel for his lord in the cold death- world, and the latter, 
who is seated upon a little stool, supports his head in 
her lap. This custom has been abolished by some of 
the tribes : according to the Arabs, a dog is now buried 
in lieu of the slaves. The subdivisions of the Wadoe 
are numerous and unimportant. 

The Wazegura, who do not inhabit this line of road, 



THE WAZEGURA. 



125 



require some allusion, in consequence of the con- 
spicuous part which they have played in the evil 
drama of African life. They occupy the lands south 
of the Pangani River to the Cape of Utondwe, and 
they extend westward as far as the hills of Nguru. 
Originally a peaceful tribe, they have been rendered 
terrible by the possession of fire-arms ; and their chiefs 
have now collected large stores of gunpowder, used only 
to kidnap and capture the weaker wretches within their 
reach. They thus supply the market of Zanzibar with 
slaves, and this practice is not of yesterday. About 
twenty years ago the Wazegura serfs upon the island, 
who had been cheaply bought during a famine for a few 
measures of grain, rose against their Arab masters, re- 
tired into the jungle, and, reinforced by malefactors and 
malcontents, began a servile war, which raged with the 
greatest fury for six months, when the governor, Ahmed 
bin Sayf, maternal uncle to His Highness the late Sayyid 
Said, brought in a body of mercenaries from Hazra- 
maut, and broke the force of this Jacquerie by setting a 
price upon their heads, and by giving the captives as 
prizes to the captors. The exploits of Kisabengo, the 
Mzegura, have already been alluded to. The Arab mer- 
chants of Unyanyembe declare that the road will never 
be safe until that person's head adorns a pole : they 
speak with bitterness of heart, for he exacts an un- 
conscionable " blackmail." 

The Wazegura are in point of polity an exception to 
the rule of East Africa : instead of owning hereditary 
sultans, they obey the loudest tongue, the most open 
hand, and the sharpest spear. This tends practically to 
cause a perpetual blood-feud, and to raise up a number 
of petty chiefs, who, aspiring to higher positions, must 
distinguish themselves by bloodshed, and must ac- 



126 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



quire wealth in weapons, especially fire-arms, the great 
title to superiority, by slave-dealing. The only occasion 
when they combine is an opportunity of successful at- 
tack upon some unguarded neighbour. Briefly, the 
Wazegura have become an irreclaimable race, and such 
they will remain until compelled to make a livelihood 
by honest industry. 



127 



CHAP. V. 

HALT AT ZUNGOMERO, AND FORMATION OF THE CAEAVAN. 

I halted to collect carriage and to await the arrival 
of the twenty- two promised porters for about a fortnight 
at that hot-bed of pestilence, Zungomero, where we nearly 
found " wet graves." Our only lodging was under the 
closed eaves of a hut built African-fashion, one abode 
within the other. The roof was a sieve, the walls were 
systems of chinks, and the floor was a sheet of mud. 
Outside the rain poured pertinaciously, as if K'hutu had 
been situated in the " black north" of Hibernia ; the 
periodical S. and S.W. winds were raw and chilling, the 
gigantic vegetation was sopped to decay, and the tangled 
bank of the Mgeta River, lying within pistol-shot of 
our hovels, added its quotum of miasma. The hard- 
ships of a march in inclement weather had taken effect 
upon the Baloch guard : expecting everything to be 
done for them they endured seven days of wet and 
wind before they could find energy to build a shed, and 
they became almost mutinous because left to make 
shelter for themselves. They stole the poultry of the 
villagers like gipsies, they quarrelled violently with the 
slaves, they foully abused their temporal superior, Said 
bin Salim, and three of the thirteen were accused of 
grossly insulting the women of the Wak'hutu. The 
latter charge, after due investigation, was " not proven :" 
we had resolved, in case of its being brought home, 
severely to flog the culprits or to turn them out of 
camp. 



128 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



On the 27th July, Sayf bin Salim returned to Du- 
t'humi with his gang of thirty slaves, who also had dis- 
tinguished themselves by laying violent hands on sheep, 
goats, and hens. Their patroon had offered to carry 
our baggage half-way over the mountains to Ugogo, for 
a sum of sixty dollars ; thinking his conditions ex- 
orbitant, I stipulated for conveyance the whole way. 
He refused, declaring that he was about to organise 
another journey up-country. I doubted his assertion, 
as he was known to have audaciously defrauded Musa 
Mzuri, an Indian merchant, who had entrusted him 
with a large venture of ivory at Kazeh : yet he spoke 
truth; nearly a year afterwards we met him on his 
march to the " Sea of Ujiji." During his visit he had 
begged for drugs, tea, coffee, sugar, spices, everything, 
but the stores were already far wasted by the improvi- 
dence of the Goanese, who seemed to think that they 
were living in the vicinity of a bazar. To punish me 
for not engaging his gang, he caused the desertion of 
nine porters hired at Dut'humi, by declaring that I was 
bearing them into slavery. As they carried off, in 
addition to half their pay, sundry sundries and Muinyi 
Wazira's sword, I sent three slave-musketeers to recover 
the stolen goods per force if necessary. With respect 
to the cloth, Sayf bin Salim wrote back to say that as I 
could well afford the loss of a few " domestics," he 
would not compel the fugitives to restore it: at the 
same time that he did himself the honour to return the 
sword, which I might want. This man proved him- 
self the sole " base exception " to the hospitality and the 
courteousness of the Omani Arabs. I forwarded an 
official complaint to H. M. the Sayyid Majid, but the 
arm of Zanzibar has not yet reached K'hutu. 

At Zungomero five fresh porters were engaged, 



THE MUSTER. 



129 



making up the whole party to a total of 132 souls. They 
were drafted into the men of Muinyi Wazira, whose open 
indulgence in stingo had made his society at meals dis- 
tasteful to Moslem sticklers for propriety. He was an 
able interpreter, speaking five African dialects, which is 
not, however, in these lands a remarkable feat, and 
when sober, he did at first the work of three men. But 
linguists are a dangerous race, as the annals of old India 
prove : — I doubt a bilingual Eastern man, and if he 
can speak three languages I do not doubt him at all. 
Moreover, true to his semi-servile breed — his dam 
was a Mzaramo slave, and his sire a half-caste Wawa- 
hili — he began well and he finished badly. His deep un- 
dying fondness for pombe or holcus beer, kept him in 
alternate states of maudlin apathy or of violent pug- 
nacity. He had incurred heavy debts upon the coast. 
After his arrival at Unyamwezi, letters were sent urging 
upon the Arabs his instant arrest, but fortunately for 
him the bailiff and the jailor are not, as the venerable 
saying declares the schoolmaster to be, abroad. Muinyi 
"Wazira, however, did not sight the Sea of Ujiji in my 
service, and his five messmates, who each received 15 
dollars' worth of cloth for the journey thither and 
back, were not more fortunate. 

Before marching from Zungomero into the mountains 
I will order, for the reader's inspection, a muster of the 
party, and enlist his sympathies in behalf of the un- 
happy being who had to lead it. 

Said bin Salim may pass on : he has been described 
in Blackwood (February, 1858) and he scarcely deserves 
a second notice. He is followed by his four slaves, in- 
cluding the boy Faraj, who will presently desert, and 
without including his acting wife, the lady Halimah. That 
young person's pug-dog countenance and bulky charms 

VOL. I. K 



130 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



seem to engross every thought not appropriated to 
himself. One day, however, my ears detect the loud 
voice of wail proceeding from the lady Halimah, ac- 
companying methinks the vigorous performance of a 
stick ; the peccadillo was — but I eschew scandal and re- 
quest the lady to advance. 

My companion's gun carrier, Seedy Mubarak Bombay, 
a negro from Uhiao, has twice been sketched in Black- 
wood (March, 1858 and September, 1859), he also 
requires no further celebrity. My henchman, Muinyi 
Mabruki, had been selected by his fellow-tribeman 
Bombay at Zanzibar ; he was the slave of an Arab 
Shaykh, who willingly let him for the sum of 5 dollars per 
mensem. Mabruki is the type of the bull headed negro, 
low-browed, pig- eyed, pug-nosed, and provided by nature 
with that breadth and power, that massiveness and mus- 
cularity of jaw, which characterise the most voracious 
carnivors. He is at once the ugliest and the vainest 
of the party : his attention to his toilette knows no limit. 
His temper is execrable, ever in extremes, now wild 
with spirits, then dogged, depressed, and surly, then 
fierce and violent. He is the most unhandy of men, 
he spoils everything entrusted to him, and pre- 
sently he will be forbidden to engage in any pursuit 
beyond ass-leading and tent-pitching. These worthies 
commenced well. They excited our admiration by 
braving noon-day suns, and by snoring heavily 
through the rawest night with nothing to warm them 
but a few smouldering embers. In an evil hour com- 
passion-touched, I threw over their shoulders a pair 
of English blankets, which in the shortest time com- 
pletely demoralised them. They learned to lie a-bed o' 
mornings, and when called up their shrugged shoul- 
ders and shrinking forms were wrapped tightly round, 



MY SERVANTS. 



131 



lest the breath of dawn should visit them too roughly. 
Idleness marked them for her own: messmates and sworn 
brothers ; they made at the halt huts out of hail, lest 
they should be called to do work. As a rule, however, 
Englishmen have the art of spoiling Eastern servants : 
we begin with the utmost stretch of exertion, and we 
expect this high pressure system to last. Of course the 
men's energies are soon exhausted, their indolence and 
apathy contrast with their former activity ; we conceive 
dislikes to them, and we end by dismissing them. This, 
however, was not the case with Bombay and Mabruki. 
They returned with us to Zanzibar, and we parted a 
Vaimable, especially with the former, who, after a some- 
what protracted fit of the " blue devils," became once 
more, what he before had been, a rara avis in the lands, 
an active servant and an honest man. 

Regard for the Indian perusers of these pages, who 
know by experience how " banal " a character is the half- 
caste oriental Portuguese, prevents my offering any- 
thing but a sketch of Valentine A. and Gaetano B. 
I had hired them at Bombay for Co.'s rs. 20 per 
mensem, besides board and lodging. Scions of that 
half Pariah race which yearly issues from Goa, Da- 
man and Diu to gather rupees as u cook boys," dry- 
nurses, and " buttrels," in wealthy British India, the 
hybrids had their faults: a pride of caste, and a con- 
tempt for Turks and heathen, heretics and infidels, 
which often brought them to grief ; a fondness for acting 
triton amongst the minnows ; a certain disregard for the 
seventh commandment, in the matter of cloth and 
clothes, medicines and provisions ; a constitutional re- 
pugnance to " Signior Sooth ;" a wastefulness of other 
men's goods, and a peculiar tenacity of their own ; a de- 
ficiency of bodily strength and constitutional vigour ; a 

K 2 



132 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFEICA. 

voracity which induced indigestion once a day; and, 
finally, a habit of frequent phlebotomy which, deferred, 
made them sick. They had also their merits. Valen- 
tine was a good specimen of the neat-handed and 
ready-witted Indian : in the shortest time he learned to 
talk Kisawahili sufficiently for his own purposes, and 
to read a chronometer and thermometer sufficiently for 
ours: he had, however, one blemish, an addiction to 
" fudging," which rendered the severest overseeing 
necessary. A "Davy do a' things," he was as clever at 
sewing a coat as at cooking a curry. Gaetano had a 
curious kind of tenderness when acting nurse, and, 
wonderful to relate, an utter disregard for danger : he 
would return alone through a night-march of jungle to 
fetch his forgotten keys, and would throw himself into 
an excited mob of natives with a fearlessness which, 
contrasted with his weakly body, never failed to turn 
their wrath into merriment. He suffered severely from 
the secondaries of fever, which, in his case, as in his 
master's, assumed a cerebral form. At Msene he was 
seized with fits resembling epilepsy; and as he seemed 
every month to become more addle-headed and scatter- 
brained, more dirty and untidy, more wasteful and 
forgetful, more loath to work without compulsion, and 
more prone to start and feed the fire with ghee when 
it was the scarcest of luxuries, I could not but attri- 
bute many of his delinquencies to disease. 

The Baloch are now to appear. My little party were 
servants of His Highness the Sayyid Majid of Zanzi- 
bar, who had detached them as an escort upon the usual 
" deputation -allowance " of ten dollars per mensem. 
They had received the command of their master to 
accompany me wherever I might please to march, and 



THE BALOCH. 



133 



they had been rendered responsible to him for the 
safety of my person and property. As has been men- 
tioned, Lieut. -Col. Hamerton had advanced to them before 
departure a small sum for outfit, and had promised 
them, on condition of good conduct, an ample reward 
on the part of H. M.'s Government after return to 
Zanzibar. These men were armed with the usual match- 
lock, the Cutch sabre, — one or two had Damascus 
blades, — the Indian hide-targe, decorated with its usual 
tinsel, the long khanjar or dagger, extra matches, flints 
and steels, and toshdan, or ammunition pouches, sen- 
sibly distributed about their persons. 

The Jemadar Mallok led from Zanzibar seven war- 
riors of fame, yclept severally, Mohammed, Shahdad, 
Ismail, Belok, Abdullah, Darwaysh, and the Seedy Jelai ; 
at Kaole he persuaded to follow his fortunes, Khuda- 
bakhsh, Musa, Gul Mohammed, Riza, and Hudul a 
tailor boy. 

The Jemadar Mallok is a monocular, and the Sanscrit 
proverb declares : 

" Rare a Kana (one-eyed man) is a good man and sound, 
Rare a ladye gay will be faithful found." 

Mallok is no exception to this rule of the " Kana." He 
is a man with fine Italian features, somewhat disfigured 
by the small-pox: but his one eye never looks you 
" in the face," and there is an expression about the 
mouth which forbids implicit trust in his honesty. He 
proclaims himself to be somewhat fonder of fighting 
than of feeding, yet suspicious circumstances led me to 
believe that he was one of those whom the Arabs de- 
scribe as " first at the banquet and last at the brawl." 
He began with a display of zeal and activity which 
died young; he lapsed, through grumbling and discon- 

K 3 



134 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



tent, into open insubordination as we progressed west- 
ward, or from home ; he became submissive and somewhat 
servile as we returned to the coast, and when he took 
leave of me he shed a flood of crocodile's tears. 

Mohammed is the Rish Safid, or greybeard of the 
caravan, and without a greybeard no eastern caravan 
considers itself en regie. Of these indispensable vete- 
rans I had two specimens ; but of what use they were, 
except to teach hot youth the cold caution of eld, I 
never could divine, — vieux soldat, vielle bete. In the civi- 
lised regiment age is not venerable in the private, as every 
grey hair is a proof that he has not merited or has for- 
feited promotion ; so in the East, where there is a paucity 
of competitors in the race of fortune, the Rish Safid 
of humble fortune may be safely set down as a fool or a 
foolish knave, and though his escort is sought, he gene- 
rally proves himself to be no better than he should have 
been. 

Mohammed's body is apparently hard as a rock, his 
mind is soft as putty, and his comrades, disappointed in 
their hopes of finding brains behind those wrinkles, 
derisively compare him to a rotten walnut, and say 
before his face, " What ! grey hairs and no wits ?" He 
has invested the fifteen dollars advanced to him as outfit 
by Lieut.-Col. Hamerton, in a slave-boy, whom pre- 
sently he will exchange for a slave-girl, despite all the 
inuendoes of his friends. He was at first a manner of 
peace-maker, but soon my refusal to enlist and pay 
his slave as a hired porter acted like Ithuriel's spear. 
This veteran of fractious temper and miserly habits 
ended, in a question of stinted rations, by drawing his 
sabre upon and cutting at his Jemadar; an offence 
which I was compelled to visit with a bastinado, inflicted 
out of the sight of man by the hand of Khudabakhsh. 



THE B A LOCH. 



135 



Shahdad is the Chelebi of the party, the fast young 
man. He is decidedly not handsome. A figure short 
and trapu, a retrussed nose, small pigs' eyes, a beard 
like a blackberry bush, and a crop of hair which, pro- 
jecting its wiry waves in a deep long curtain from be- 
neath a diminutive scarlet fez, makes his head appear 
top-heavy. Yet he does sad havoc amongst female 
hearts by means of his zeze or guitar, half a gourd with 
an arm to which is attached a single string, and by his 
lively accompaniment is a squeaking falsetto, which is 
here as fascinating and emollient to the sex as ever 
was the organ of Rubini in Europe. During a lengthened 
sojourn at Bombay he has enlarged his mind by the 
acquisition of the Hindostani tongue and of Indian 
trickery. He is almost the only Eastern whom I re- 
member that abused the poor letter H like a thorough- 
bred Londoner. His familiarity with Anglo-Europeans, 
and his experience touching the facilit} 7 of gulling them, 
has induced in him a certain proclivity for peculation, 
grumbling, and mutiny. His brother — or rather cousin, 
for in these lands all fellow-tribesmen are brethren — 
" Ismail " is a confirmed invalid, a man with a " broken 
mouth," deeply sunken cheeks, and emaciated frame, 
who, though earnestly solicited to return eastwards, 
will persist in accompanying the party till he falls a 
victim to a chronic malady in Unyamwezi, 

Belok is our snob ; a youth of servile origin, with 
coarse features, wide mouth, everted lips, and a pert, or 
rather an impudent expression of countenance, which, 
acting as index to his troublesome character, at once 
prejudices the physiognomist against him. Belok's 
comrades have reason to quote the Arab saw, " Defend 
me from the beggar become wealthy, and from the slave 
become a freeman ! " He has invested his advance of 

K 4 



136 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 

salary in a youth ; and the latter serves and works for 
the rest of the mess, who must patiently and passively 
endure the insolence of the master for fear of losing the 
offices of the man. After the fashion of a certain sort 
of fools, he applies the whole of his modicum of wit to 
mischief-making, and he succeeds admirably where 
better men, whose thoughts attempt a wider range, 
would fail. By his exertions the Baloch became, in 
point of social intercourse, not unlike the passengers of 
a ship bound on a long voyage : after the first month 
the society divides itself into two separate and adverse 
cliques ; after the second it breaks up into little knots ; 
and after the third it is a chequer- work of pairs and 
solitaires. Arrived at the " Pond of Ugogo," I was 
compelled to address an official letter to Zanzibar, re- 
questing the recal of Belok and his coadjutor in mischief, 
Khudabakhsh. 

Abdullah is the type of the respectable, in fact, of 
the good young man. It is really pathetic to hear him 
recount, with accents broken by emotion, the u tale full 
of waters of the eye," — the parting of an only son, who 
was led away to an African grave, from the aged widow 
his mamma ; to listen to her excellent advice, and to his 
no less excellent resolves. He is capable of calling his 
bride elect, were such article a subject ever to be men- 
tioned amongst Moslems, " his choicest blessing." With 
an edifying mingling of piety and discipline, he never 
neglects the opportunity of standing in prayer behind 
the Jemadar Mallok, whose elevation to a superior 
grade — lionneur oblige ! — has compelled him to rub up 
a superficial acquaintance with the forms of devotion. 
Virtue in the abstract I revere ; in the concrete I some- 
times suspect. The good young man soon justified this 
suspicion by repeatedly applying to Said bin Salim for 



THE BALOCH. 



137 



beads, in my name, which he converted to his own 
purposes. 

Of Darwaysh little need be said. He is a youth 
about twenty-two years old, vvith a bulging brow, a 
pair of ferret-eyes, a " peaky " nose, a thin chin ; in 
fact, with a face the quintessence of curiosity. He 
is the " brother " — that is to say, the spy — of the 
Jemadar, and his principal peculiarity is a repug- 
nance to obeying an order because it is an order. With 
this individual I had at first many a passage of words. 
Presently prostrated in body and mind by severe dis- 
ease, he obtained relief from European drugs ; and from 
that time until the end of the journey, he conducted 
himself with a certain stiffness and decorum which con- 
trasted pleasantly enough with the exceeding "bounce" 
of his earlier career. 

The Seedy Jelai calls himself a Baloch, though pal- 
pably the veriest descendant of Ham. He resents with 
asperity the name of "Nigger," or "Nig" — Jupiter 
Tonans has heard of the offensive dissyllable, which was 
a household word before the days of the Indian mutiny, 
but has he heard of the more offensive monosyllable 
which was forced upon the abbreviating Anglo-Saxon 
by the fatal necessity of requiring to repeat the word 
so frequently ? Jelai clothes his long lank legs — 
cucumber- shinned and bony-kneed — in calico tights, 
which display the full deformity of those members; and 
taking a pride in the length of his mustachios, which 
distinguishes him from his African-born brethren, he 
twists them en croc like a hidalgo in the days of Gil 
Bias. The Seedy, judging from analogy, ought to be 
brave, but he is not. On the occasion of alarm in the 
mountains of Usagara, he privily proposed to his com- 
rades to "bolt'' and leave us. Moreover, on the "Sea 



138 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



of Ujiji," where he was chosen as an escort, he ignobly 
deserted me. 

Khudabakhsh was formed by nature to be the best 
man of the party ; he has transformed himself into the 
worst. A man of broad and stalwart frame, with stern 
countenance, and a quietness of demeanour which 
usually argues sang-froid and persistency, his presence 
is in all points soldier-like and prepossessing. But his 
temper is unmanageable : he enters into a quarrel when 
certain of discomfiture ; he is utterly reckless, — on one 
occasion he amused himself by blowing a charge of 
gunpowder into the calves of African warriors who 
were dancing in front of him ; — and lastly, his innate 
propensity for backbiting, intrigue, and opposition to 
all authority, render him a dangerous member of the 
Expedition. He herds with Belok, whose tastes lie in 
the same line : he is the head and front of all mischief, 
and presently his presence will become insupportable. 

Musa, a tall, gaunt, and dark-brown old man, is the 
assistant Rish Safid, or greybeard ; in fact, the com- 
plement of " Greybeard Mohammed." After a residence 
of twenty years at Mombasah, he has clean forgotten 
Persian; he speaks only a debased Mekrani dialect, and 
the Kisawahili, which, as usual with his tribe, he prefers. 
An old soldier, he compensates for want of youth and 
vigour by artfulness ; an old traveller — nothing better 
distinguishes in these lands the veteran of the road 
from the griffin or greenhorn, than the careful and 
systematic consideration of his comforts — he carries 
the lightest matchlock, he starts in the cool of the 
morning, he presses forward to secure the best quarters, 
and throughout he thinks only of himself. His cha- 
racter has a want of wrath, which, despite his white 
hairs, causes him to be little regarded. Greybeard 



THE BALOCH. 



139 



Mohammed is considered a fool ; Greybeard Musa, an 
old woman. Yet he troubles himself little about the 
opinions of his fellows, he looks well after his morning 
and evening meals, his ghee, his pipe, and his sleeping 
mat; and knowing that he will last out all the novices, 
with enviable philosophy he casts ambition to the 
winds. 

Gul Mohammed is the most civilised man of the 
party. He has straight and handsome features, of the 
old Grecian type, a reddish-brown skin — the skin by 
excellence — and a Central- Asian beard of largest dimen- 
sions. His mind is as civilised as his body ; he is an 
adept after the fashion of his tribe, in divinity espe- 
cially, in medicine and natural history; and when land- 
ing at Marka, he actually took the trouble to visit, for 
curiosity, the Juba River. Unfortunately, " Gul Mo- 
hammed" is a mixture of Baloch mountaineer-blood with 
the Sindhian of the plain, and the cross is, throughout 
the East, renowned for representing the worst points of 
both progenitors. Gul Mohammed is brave and treache- 
rous, fair-spoken and detractive, honourable and dis- 
honest, good-tempered and bad-hearted. 

Of the Baloch remain Riza, and Hudul, the tailor- 
boy : the former is a kind of Darwaysh, utterly insigni- 
ficant, but by no means so disagreeable as his fellows : 
the only marking corporeal peculiarity of the latter is 
a deficiency of skin ; his mouth appears ever open, and 
his teeth resemble those of an old rabbit. His mental 
organisation has its petite pointe, its little twist ; he is 
under the constant delusion that those who speak in 
unknown tongues are employed specially in abusing 
him. His first complaint was against the Goanese : as 
he could not understand a word of their language, it 
was dismissed with some derision ; he then charged me 



140 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



to his comrades with his normal grievance, and in due 
time he felt aggrieved by my companion. 

A proper regard to precedence induces me now to 
marshal the " sons of Ramji," who acted as interpreters, 
guides, and war-men. They were armed with the old 
" Tower-musket," which, loaded with nearly an ounce 
of powder, they never allowed to quit the hand ; and 
with those antiquated German- cavalry sabres which 
find their way over all the East : their accoutrements 
were small leathern boxes, strapped to the waist, 
and huge cow-horns, for ammunition. The most part 
called themselves Muinyi (master), the title of an African 
freeman, because they had been received in pawn by the 
Banyan Ramji from their parents or uncles, who had 
forgotten to redeem the pledge, and they still claimed the 
honour of noble birth. Of these there were eight men 
under their Mtu Mku, or chief man, Kidogo — Anglice, 
Mr. Little. Kidogo had preceded the Expedition, es- 
corting the detachment of thirty-six Wanyamwezi 
porters to Zungomero, and he possessed great influence 
over his brother slaves, who all seemed to admire and 
to be proud of him. He w r as by no means a common 
man. " Natione magis quam ratione barbarus;" he had 
a fixed and obstinate determination : amongst these 
puerile, futile African souls he w r as exceptional as " a 
sage Sciote or a green horse." His point of honour 
consisted in the resolve that his words should be held 
as Median laws, and he had, as the Africans say, a 
" large head," namely, abundant self-esteem, that 
blessed quality which makes man independent of his 
fellows. Muinyi Kidogo is a short, thin, coal-black 
person, with a something arguing gentle blood in his 
tribe, the Wadoe Cannibals ; he has a peaked beard, a 
bulging brow, close thin lips, a peculiar wall-eyed 



THE " SONS OF EAMJI." 



141 



roll of glance, and a look fixed, when unobserved, 
with a manner of fascination which men felt. His 
attitude is always humble and deprecatory, he drops 
his chin upon the collar of reflection, he rarely speaks, 
save in dulcet tones, low, plaintive, and modulated ; yet 
agreeing in every conceivable particular, he never fails 
to introduce a most pertinacious " but," which brings 
him back precisely to his own starting-point. The 
vehemence of his manner, and the violence of his 
temper, win for him the fears of the porters ; having 
a wife and children in Unvamwezi, he knows well the 
languages, the manners, and the customs of the peojDle ; 
he never hesitates, when necessary, to enforce his mild 
commands by a merciless application of the staff, or to 
air his blade and to fly at the recusant like a wild cat. 
In such moods, he is always seized by his friends, and 
led forcibly away, as if dangerous. To insure some 
regularity on the road, I ordered him to meet Said bin 
Salim and Muinyi Wazira every evening at my tent, 
for a " Mashauri," or palaver, about the next day's march 
and halt. The measure was rendered futile by Kidogo, 
who soon contrived so to browbeat the others, that 
they would not venture an opinion in his presence. As 
a chief, he would have been in the right position ; as a 
slave, he was falsely placed, because determined not to 
obey. He lost no time in demanding that he and his 
brethren should be considered Askari, soldiers, whose sole 
duty it was to carry a gun ; and he took the first oppor- 
tunity of declaring that his men should not be under the 
direction of the Jemadar. Having received for answer 
that we- could not all be Sultans, he retired with a 
"Ngema " — a " very well," accompanied by a glance that 
boded little good. From that hour the "sons of Rarnji" 
went wrong. Before, servilely civil, they waxed in- 



142 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 

solent ; they learned their power — without them I must 
have returned to the coast — and they presumed upon it. 
They assumed the " swashing and martial outside" of 
valiant men: they disdained to be " mechanical;" they 
swore not to carry burdens ; they objected to loading 
and leading the asses ; they would not bring up articles 
left behind in the camp or on the road ; they claimed the 
sole right of buying provisions ; they arrogated to them- 
selves supreme command over the porters ; and they 
pilfered from the loads whenever they wanted the 
luxuries of meat and beer; they drank deep; and on 
more than one occasion they endangered the caravan 
by their cavalier proceedings with the fair sex. It was 
"water-painting" to complain; they had one short 
reply to all objections, namely, the threat of desertion. 
Preferring anything to risking the success of the Ex- 
pedition, I was reduced to the bitter alternative of long- 
suffering, but it was with the hope of a revanche at 
some future time. The suffering was perhaps not 
wholly patient. Orientals advise the traveller "to 
keep his manliness in his pocket for braving it and 
ruffling at home." Such, however, is not exactly the 
principle or the practice of an Englishman, who recog- 
nises a primary duty of commanding respect for him- 
self, for his successors, and for the noble name of his 
nation. On the return of the Expedition, Kidogo 
proved himself a " serviceable villain," but an extor- 
tionate ; anything committed to him was, as the Arabs 
say, in " ape's custody," and the only remedy was to 
remove him from all power over the outfit. 

Under the great Kidogo were the Muinyi Mboni, 
Buyuni, Hayja, and Jako ; these four took precedence 
as being the sons of Diwans, whilst the commonalty was 



THE D0NKEY-DKIVEK3. 



143 



represented by the Muinyi Shehe, Mbaruko, Wulaydi, 
and Khamisi. 

The donkey-men, five in number, had been hired at 
the rate of thirty dollars per head for the whole time of 
exploration. Their names were Musangesi, SaDgora, 
Nasibu, Hasani, and Saramalla. Of their natures little 
need be said, except that they were a trifle less manage- 
able than the "sons of Rarnji:" perfect models of servile 
humanity, obstinate as asses and vicious as mules, 
gluttonous and lazy, noisy and overbearing, insolent 
and quarrelsome as slaves. 

Lowest in rank, and little above the asses even in their 
own estimation, are the thirty-six Wanj'amwezi Pagazi, 
or porters, who formed the transport-corps. Concerning 
these men and their burdens, a few words of explanation 
will be necessary. 

In collecting a caravan the first step is to " make," 
as the people say, a " Khambi," or kraal. The Mtongi, 
or proprietor of the goods, announces, by pitching his 
tent in the open, and by planting his flag, that he is 
ready to travel ; this is done because amongst the 
Wanyamwezi a porter who persuades others to enlist 
does it under pain of prosecution and fine-paying if a 
death or an accident ensue. Petty chiefs, however, 
and their kinsmen will bring with them in hope of pro- 
motion a number of recruits, sometimes all the male 
adults of a village, who then recognise them as head- 
men. The next step is to choose a Kirangozi or guide. 
Guides are not a peculiar class ; any individual of influence 
and local knowledge who has travelled the road before is 
eligible to the post. The Kirangozi must pay his fol- 
lowers to acknowledge his supremacy, and his Mganga 
or medicine-man for providing him with charms and 



144 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



prophylactics. On the march he precedes his porters, 
and any one who breaks this rule is liable to a fine. 
He often undergoes abuse for losing the way, for 
marching too far or not far enough, for not halting at 
the proper place, and for not setting out at the right 
time. In return he enjoys the empty circumstance of 
command, and the solid advantage of better food and a 
present, which, however, is optional, at the end of the 
journey: he carries a lighter load, and his emoluments 
frequently enable him to be attended by a slave. The 
only way of breaking the perverse and headstrong herd 
into a semblance of discipline, is to support the Kiran- 
gozi at all conjunctures, and to make him, if possible, 
dole out the daily rations and portion the occasional 
presents of meat. 

At the preliminary Khambi the Mtongi superintends 
the distribution of each Muzigo or load. The Pagazi 
or porters are mostly lads, lank and light, with the lean 
and clean legs of leopards. Sometimes, however, a 
herculean form is found with the bullet-head, the broad 
bull-like neck, the deep wide chest, and the large strong 
extremities that characterise the Hammal of Stamboul. 
There is usually a sprinkling of greybeards, who might 
be expected, as the proverb is, to be " leaning against 
the wall." Amongst these races, however, the older 
men, who have learned to husband their strength, fare 
better than their juniors, and the Africans, like the 
Arabs, object to a party which does not contain * 
veterans in beard, age, and experience. In portioning 
the loads there is always much trouble : each individual 
has his favourite fancy, and must choose, or, at any 
rate, must consent to his burden. To load porters 
properly is a work of skill. They will accept at the 
hand of a man who knows their nature a weight which, 



THE PAGAZI OR PORTERS. 



145 



if proposed by a stranger, would be rejected with grunts 
of disgust. They hate the inconvenience of boxes, 
unless light enough to be carried at both ends of a 
" Banghi "-pole by one man, or heavy enough to be 
slung between two porters. The burden must never 
be under a fair standard, especially when of that de- 
scription that it decreases by expenditure towards the 
end of the journey; a lightly-laden man not only be- 
comes lazy, he also makes his fellows discontented. The 
nature of the load, however, causes an inequality of 
weight. Cloth is tightly rolled up in the form of a 
huge bolster, five feet long by eighteen to twenty-four 
inches in diameter, protected against wear and weather 
by Makanda or coarse matting of brab-leaf, and corded 
over. This bundle is fastened, for the purpose of pre- 
serving its shape and for convenience of stacking, in a 
cradle of three or more flexible branches, cut from a 
small tree below the place of junction, barked and 
trimmed, laid along the length of the load, and 
confined at the open end by a lashing of fibre-rope. 
Besides his weapons and marching kit, a man will carry 
a pack of two Frasilah or seventy pounds, and this 
perhaps is the maximum. Beads are placed in long, 
narrow bags of domestics, matted, corded, and cradled in 
sticks like cloth ; being a less elastic load, they are more 
difficult to carry, and therefore seldom exceed fifty 
pounds. Brass, and other wires, are carried in daur, 
khata, or circles, lashed to both ends of a pole, which is 
generally the large midrib of a palm-frond, with a fork 
cut in its depth at one extremity to form a base for the 
load when stacked, and provided at the point of junc- 
tion with a Kitambara or pad of grass, rag, or leather. 
Wire is the lightest, as ivory is the heaviest, of loads. 

VOL. I. L 



146 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



The African porter will carry only the smallest burdens 
upon his head, and the custom is mostly confined to 
women and children. The merchants of course carry 
nothing but themselves, except in extreme cases; but 
when the sudden sickness or the evasion of a porter 
endangers the safety of his load, they shoulder it with- 
out hesitation. The chief proprietor usually follows 
his caravan, accompanied by some of his partners and 
armed slaves, to prevent the straggling which may 
lead to heavy loss ; he therefore often endures the 
heat and tedium of the road longer than the rest of his 
party. 

The loads of the Pagazi, it has appeared, are composed 
of beads, cloth, and wire, which in this land of " round 
trade" or barter, supply the wants of a circulating 
medium, and they severally represent copper, silver, 
and gold. For a detailed notice, the reader is referred 
to the appendix ; in this place a few general remarks 
will suffice to set before him the somewhat complicated 
use of the articles. 

Of beads there are about 400 varieties, some of which 
have each three or four different names. The cheapest, 
which form the staple of commerce, are the Hafizi, 
Khanyera or Ushanga Waupe, a round white porcelain, 
the price of which averages at Zanzibar 1 dollar per 
5 or 6 lbs. avoirdupois. The most expensive are the 
Samsam or Samesame, also called Joho (scarlet cloth), 
Kimara-p'hamba (food-finishers), because a man will 
part with his dinner to obtain them, and Kifunjya-mji 
(town-breakers), because the women will ruin themselves 
and their husbands for them : these are the small coral- 
bead, scarlet enamelled upon a white ground, they are of 
fifteen different sizes, and the value at Zanzibar is from 
13 to 16 dollars per 35 lbs. Beads are purchased from 



WIRE, CLOTH, AND BEADS. 



147 



the Banyan monopolisers unstrung, and are afterwards 
mounted by the merchant upon T'hembe, or threads of 
palm-fibre ; much depends for success in sale upon the 
regularity and the attractiveness of the line. The 
principal divisions are the bitil and the khete, which 
may represent the farthing and the penny. The former 
is a single length from the tip of the index to the wrist ; 
the latter, which comprises four of the former, is a 
double length round the thumb to the elbow-bone, or what 
is much the same, twice the circumference of the throat. 
Ten khete compose the fun do or knot, which is used 
in the larger purchases, and of these from two to three 
were daily expended in our small expenses by the 
Goanese servants, whilst the usual compensation for 
rations to an African is a single khete. The utmost 
economy should be exercised in beads : apparently ex- 
haustless a large store goes but a little way, and a man's 
load rarely outlasts a month. It is difficult to divine 
what becomes of these ornaments*: for centuries ton after 
ton has been imported into the country, they are by no 
means perishable substances, and the people carry, like 
the Indians, their wealth upon their persons. Yet not 
a third of the population was observed to wear any con- 
siderable quantity ; possibly the excessive demand in 
the lands outlying direct intercourse with the coast, 
tends to disperse them throughout the vast terra incog- 
nita of the central African basin. 

The African preserves the instincts of infancy in the 
higher races. He astonished the enlightened De Gama 
some centuries ago by rejecting with disdain jewels, gold, 
and silver, whilst he caught greedily at beads and other 
baubles, as a child snatches at a new plaything. To the 
present day he is the same. There is something pain- 

i. 2 



148 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



fully ludicrous in the expression of countenance, the in- 
tense and all-absorbing admiration, and the greedy 
wistfulness with which he contemplates the rubbish. 
Yet he uses it as a toy : after sacrificing perhaps his 
goat or his grain to become the happy possessor of a 
khete, he will hang it round his neck for a few days, 
and then, child-like, weary of the acquisition, he will do 
his best to exchange it for another. In all bargains 
beads must be thrown in, especially where women are 
concerned: their sisters of civilisation would reproach 
themselves with an unconscious lapse into the " nil ad- 
mirari " doctrines so hateful to the muscular system of 
the age, and with a cold indifference to the charms of dia- 
monds and pearls, could they but witness the effect of a 
string of scarlet porcelains upon the high-born dames in 
Central Africa. 

The cloths imported into East Africa are of three 
kinds, Merkani, Kaniki, and " cloths with names." 

" Merkani," in which we detect the African corruption 
of American, is the article "domestics" — unbleached 
shirting and sheeting from the mills near Salem. Kaniki, 
is the common Indian indigo dyed cotton. " Cloths 
with names," as they are called by the Africans, are 
Arab and Indian checks, and coloured goods, of cotton 
or silk mixed with cotton. Of these the most common 
is the Barsati, a dark blue cotton cloth with a broad 
red stripe, which representing the dollar in the interior 
is useful as presents to chiefs. Of double value is the 
Dabwani, made at Maskat, a small blue and white check, 
with a quarter breadth of red stripe, crossed with white 
and yellow : this showy article is invariably demanded 
by the more powerful Sultans for themselves and their 
wives, whilst they divide the Merkani and Kaniki, 



CLOTH. 



149 



which composes their Honga — " blackmail " or dash — 
amongst their followers. 

The people of East Africa, when first visited by the 
Arabs, were satisfied with the coarsest and flimsiest 
Kaniki imported by the Banyans from Cutch. When 
American merchants settled at Zanzibar, Kaniki yielded 
before the advance of " Merkani," which now supplies 
the markets from Abyssinia to the Mozambique. But 
the wild men are fast losing their predilection for a 
stuff which is neither comfortable nor durable, and in 
many regions the tribes satisfied with goat-skins and 
tree barks, prefer to invest their capital in the more at- 
tractive beads and wire. It would evidently be advan- 
tageous if England or her colonies could manufacture 
an article better suited to the wants of the country than 
that now in general use ; but as long as the Indian 
short-stapled cotton must be used, there is little proba- 
bility of her competing with the produce of the New 
World. 

In Eastern Africa cotton cloth is used only for wear. 
The popular article is a piece of varying breadth but 
always of four cubits, or six feet, in length : the braca of 
Portuguese Africa, it is called by the Arabs, shukkah, 
by the Wasawahili, unguo, and in the far interior 
upande or lupande. It is used as a loin-wrapper, and is 
probably the first costume of Eastern Africa and of 
Arabia. The plate borrowed from Montfaucon's edition 
of the " Topographia Christiana," by Dr. Vincent (Part 
I. Appendix to the Periplus) shows the Shukkah, to be 
the general dress of Ethiopians, as it was of the Egypt- 
ians, and the spear their weapon. The use of the Shukkah 
during the Meccan pilgrimage, when the devotees cast 
off such innovations as coats and breeches for the na- 

ii 3 



150 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



tional garb of their ancestors, proves its antiquity 
throughout the regions eastward of the Red Sea. On 
the African coast the Shukkah Merkani is worth about 
0*25 dollars — Is. O^d., in the interior it rises to tRe 
equivalent of a dollar (4s. 2d.) and even higher, The 
Kaniki is but little cheaper than the Merkani, when 
purchased upon the sea-board ; its increase of value in 
the interior, however, is by no means in proportion to 
its prime cost, and by some tribes it is wholly rejected. 
A double length of Shukkah, or twelve feet, the article 
worn by women who can afford it, is called a Doti, and 
corresponds with the Tobe of Abyssinia and of the 
Somali country. The whole piece of Merkani, which 
contains from seven to eleven Doti, is termed a Jurah 
or Gorah. 

After beads and piece-goods, the principal imports into 
Eastern Africa, especially on the northern lines and in 
the western portion of the great central route, are 
Masango or brass wires of large sizes, Nos. 4 and 5. 
They are purchased at Zanzibar, when cheap, at 12, 
and when dear at 16, dollars per Frasilah of 35 lbs. 
When imported up-country the Frasilah is divided 
into three or four large coils, called by the Arabs 
" daur," and by the Africans " khata the object is 
convenience of attachment to the porters' banghy- poles. 
Arrived at Unyanyembe they are converted by artisans 
into , the kitindi, or coil-bracelet, a peculiarly African 
decoration. It is a system of concentric circles extend- 
ing from the wrist to the elbow ; at both extremities it 
is made to bulge out for grace and for allowing the 
joints to play; and the elasticity of the wire keeps it in 
its place. It weighs nearly 3 lbs., yet — "vanity knows 
no sore" — the women of some tribes will wear four of 



OUTFIT. 



151 



these bulky decorations upon their arms and legs. It 
is mostly a feminine ornament. In the Lake Regions, 
however, men assume the full-sized armlet, and in the 
mountains of Usagara their wrists, arms, and ankles 
are often decorated with half and quarter lengths, which 
being without terminal bulges, appear to compress the 
limbs painfully. At Unyanyembe the value of a 
kitindi varies from two to four shukkah ; at Ujiji, 
where the ornament is in demand it rises to four or 
five. 

The remainder of the live stock forming the personnel 
of the caravan is composed of asses. At Zanzibar I 
had bought five riding animals to mount the chiefs of the 
party, including Said bin Salim and the Goanese. The 
price varied from fifteen to forty dollars. Of the twenty- 
nine asses used for carriage, only twenty remained 
when the muster was made at Zungomero, and the rapid 
thinning of their numbers by loss, death and accident 
began to suggest uncomfortable ideas. 

The following " Equipment of the Expedition," sent 
by me to Mr. Francis Gal ton, the South African tra- 
veller, and bearing date, " Camp Zungomero in Khutu, 
Sunday, 2nd August, 1857," is here republished: it 
will assist the reader in picturing to himself the mass 
of material which I am about to drag over the moun- 
tains. 

Provisions, 8fC. — 1 dozen brandy (to be followed by 
4 dozen more) ; 1 box cigars ; 5 boxes tea (each 6 
lbs.); a little coffee; 2 bottles curry stuff, besides 
ginger, rock and common salt, red and black pepper, one 
bottle each, pickles, soap, and spices ; 20 lbs. pressed 
vegetables; 1 bottle vinegar; 2 bottles oil; 20 lbs. 
sugar (honey is procurable in the country). 

L 4 



152 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



Arms and Ammunition, including 2 smooth bores, 3 
rifles, a Colt's carbine, and 3 revolvers, spare fittings, 
&c, and 3 swords. Each gun has its leather bag 
with three compartments, for powder-flask, ball, caps, 
patches, &c. 100 lbs. gunpowder (in 2 safety copper 
magazines and others); 60 lbs. shot; 380 lbs. lead 
bullets, cast of hardened material at the Arsenal, Bom- 
bay, placed in boxes 40 lbs. each for convenience of 
carriage, also to serve as specimen boxes, and screwed 
down to prevent pilfering ; 20,000 copper caps ; wad- 
ding. 

The Baloch are armed with matchlocks, shields, 
swords, daggers and knives. They have for ammuni- 
tion — 40 lbs. gunpowder (4 kegs) ; 1000 lead bullets ; 
1000 flints for slaves' muskets, and are to be followed by 
about an equal quantity of ammunition. 

Camp Furniture. — 1 sepoy's rowtie ; 1 small (gable- 
shaped) tent of two sails joined, to cover and shelter 
property in this land of perpetual rains ; 1 table and 
chair ; 1 tin Crimean canteen, with knives and forks, 
kettle, cooking-pots, &c; bedding, painted tarpaulin cover, 
2 large cotton pillows for stuffing birds, 1 air pillow, 2 
waterproof blankets (most useful), 1 Maltese blanket 
(remarkably good), and 2 other blankets ; 1 cork bed, 
with 2 pillows, 3 blankets, and mosquito net. The 
Goanese have thick cotton padded mattresses, pillows, 
and blankets, and all the servants have some kind of bed- 
ding. 3 solid leather portmanteaus for clothes and 
books; 1 box, like an Indian petarah, for books; 1 
patent leather bag for books, washing materials, diaries, 
drawing-books, &c. ; 1 small couriers' bag, for instru- 
ments, &c. ; 5 canvas bags for kit generally ; 3 mats, 
used as carpets. 



OUTFIT. 



153 



Instruments. — 1 lever watch ; 2 chronometers ; 2 
prismatic compasses, slings, and stands ; 1 ship's azi- 
muth compass ; 2 pocket compasses ; 1 pocket ther- 
mometer ; 1 portable sun-dial ; 1 rain gauge ; 1 eva- 
porating dish ; 2 sextants and boxes, with canvas bags 
to be slung over porters' shoulders ; 2 artificial horizons 
(with a little extra mercury, to be followed by more) ; 
1 pocket lens ; 1 mountain barometer lent by Bombay 
Geographical Society (very delicate) ; 3 thermometers; 
1 measuring tape (100 ft.); .1 sounding lead; 2 boil- 
ing thermometers; 1 box of mathematical instruments; 
1 glass ; 1 telescope ; 2 ft. rule with brass slide ; 1 
pocket pedometer by Dixie ; 1 parallel ruler. 

Stationery. — Foolscap paper ; 1 ream common paper ; 
6 blank books ; 3 Letts' diaries ; 2 dozen pencils ; 6 
pieces caoutchouc ; 6 metallic note books ; 3 memoran- 
dum ditto ; 1 box wafers and sealing wax ; 2 field 
books ; steel pens ; quill ditto ; ink powder which makes 
up well without acid ; 3 bottles ink ; 1 bottle native 
ink; 2 sets meteorological tables, blank; 4 tin cylinders 
for papers (very bad, everything rusts in them) ; 
Nautical Almanacs for 1857 and 1858 ; charts, Mr. 
Cooley's maps ; " Mombas mission map" ; skeleton maps ; 
table of stars ; account book ; portfolio ; wooden and tin 
cylinders for pens, &c. 

Tools. — 1 large turnscrew ; 1 hand saw ; 1 hammer; 
20 lbs. nails; 1 hand vice; 1 hone; 9 hatchets (as a 
rule every porter carries an axe) ; 2 files ; 9 Jembe or 
native hoe ; 9 Mas'ha or native dibbles; 1 cold chisel; 
1 heavy hammer ; 1 pair pincers. To be followed by 
1 bench vice ; 1 hand ditto ; 12 gimlets of sizes ; L 
18-inch stone grinder, with spindle and handle ; 6 split- 
ting axes; 12 augers of sizes; 2 sets centre-bits, with 



154 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



stock ; 12 chisels ; 4 mortise chisels ; 2 sets drills ; 24 
saw files ; 6 files of sorts ; 4 gouges of sizes ; 50 lbs. 
iron nails ; 2 planes, with 2 spare irons ; 3 hand saws ; 
screws. These things were expected to be useful at the 
lakes, where carpenters are in demand. 

Clothing, Bedding, and Shoes. — Shirts, flannel and 
cotton ; turbans and thick felt caps for the head. (N.B. 
not looking forward to so long a journey, we left Zanzibar 
without a new outfit ; consequently we were in tatters 
before the end, and in a climate where flannel fights half 
the battle of life against death, my companion was com- 
pelled to invest himself in overalls of American do- 
mestics, and I was forced to cut up blankets into coats 
and wrappers, The Goanese also had laden themselves 
with rags which would have been refused by a Jew ; 
they required to be re-clothed in Kaniki, or blue 
cotton. African travel is no favourable opportunity for 
wearing out old clothes; the thorny jungles, and the 
practice of packing up clothes wet render a double out- 
fit necessary for long journeys. The second should be 
carried packed up in tin — flannel-shirts, trousers and 
stocks, at least six of each, — not to be opened till re- 
quired. 

The best bedding in this country would be a small 
horsehair mattrass with two blankets, one thick the 
other thin, and mosquito curtains that would pack into 
the pillow. A simple carpet-bag without leathern or 
other adjuncts, should contain thje travelling clothes, 
and all the bedding should roll up into a single bundle, 
covered with a piece of waterproof canvass, and tightly 
bound with stout straps. 

As regards shoes, the best would be ammunition 
boots for walking and jack boots for riding. They 



THE OUTFIT. 



155 



must be of light colour, and at least one size too large 
in England ; they should be carefully protected from 
external air which is ruinous to leather, and they must 
be greased from time to time, — with fat not with oil — 
otherwise they will soon become so hard and dry, that 
it is impossible to draw them on unless treated after the 
Indian plan, viz. dipped in hot water and stretched 
with a stuffing of straw.) 

Books and Drawing Materials. — Norie ; Bowdich; 
Thompson's ' Lunar Tables:' Gordon's ' Time Tables;' 
Galton's 'Art of Travel;' Buist's 4 Manual of Observa- 
tion;' Jackson's ' What to Observe;' Jackson's 4 Mili- 
tary Surveying;' 4 Admiralty Manual;' Cuvier's 'Ani- 
mal Life ;' Prichard's 'History of Man;' Keith's ' Tri- 
gonometry;' Krapf's ' Kisuaheli Grammar;' Krapf's 
'Kinika Testament;' Amharic Grammar (Isenberg's) ; 
Belcher's ' Mast Head Angles;' Cooley's 'Geography of 
N'yassi;' and other miscellaneous works; 1 paint-box 
complete, soft water colours ; 1 small ditto, with Chinese 
ink, sepia and Prussian blue ; 2 drawing books ; 1 large 
drawing book ; 1 camera lucida. 

Portable domestic Medicine Chest. — Vilely made. 
Some medicines for natives in packages. Application 
was made to Zanzibar for more quinine, some morphia, 
Warburg's drops, citric acid, and chiretta root. 

Miscellaneous. — 10 pieces scarlet broad-cloth for pre- 
sents (3 expended) ; 3 knives for servants ; 4 umbrellas; 
1 hank salmon gut ; 1 dozen twisted gut ; 1 lb. bees' 
wax ; courier's box with brass clasps to carry sundries 
on the road; 2 dozen penknives; 2000 fishing hooks; 
42 bundles fishing line ; 2 lanterns (policeman's bull's 
eye and common horn) ; 2 iron ladles for casting lead ; 
1 housewife, with buttons, needles, thread, silk, pins, &c. ; 



156 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



12 needles (sailor's) and palms; 2 pair scissors; 2 razors; 
1 hone ; 2 pipes ; 1 tobacco pouch ; 1 cigar case ; 7 
canisters of snuff ; 1 filter ; 1 pocket filter ; 1 looking- 
glass ; 1 small tin dressing-case, with soap, nail-brush 
and tooth-brush (very useful); brushes and combs; 
1 union jack; arsenical paste for specimens; 10 steels 
and flints. 

Life at Zungomero I have said was the acme of dis- 
comfort. The weather was, as usual at the base of the 
mountains, execrable ; pelting showers descended in a 
succession, interrupted only by an occasional burst of fiery 
sunshine which extracted steam from the thick covert 
of grass, bush, and tree. The party dispersing through- 
out the surrounding villages, in which it was said about 
1000 travellers were delayed by the inundations, drank 
beer, smoked bhang, quarrelled amongst themselves, and 
by their insolence and violence caused continual com- 
plaints on the part of the villagers. Both the Goanese 
being prostrated with mild modifications of " yellow 
jack," I was obliged to admit them into the hut, -which 
was already sufficiently populated with pigeons, rats, and 
flies by day, and with mosquitos, bugs, and fleas, by 
night. At length weary of waiting the arrival of the 
twenty-two promised porters, we prepared, our papers, 
which I committed to the confidential slave of a coast 
Diwan, here dwelling as caravan-touter, for his uncle 
Ukwere of Kaole. His name was somewhat peculiar, 
Chomwi la Mtu Mku Wambele, or the " Headman Great 
Man of Precedence;" — these little Jugurthas have all 
the titles of emperors, with the actual power of country 
squires ; — he never allowed himself to appear in public 
sober, and to judge from the list of stations with which 
he obliged me— of eighteen not one was correct — I hesi- 



THE HEADMAN GREAT MAN OF PRECEDENCE. 157 

tated to entrust his slave with reports and specimens. 
But the Headman Great Man of Precedence did as he 
promised to do, and as his charge arrived safely, I here 
make to him the " amende honorable." 




A village in K'hutu. 



The Silk Cotton Tree. 



Sycomore in the Dhun of Ugogi. 



CHAP. VI. 

WE CROSS THE EAST AFRICAN GHAUTS. 

On the 7th August, 1 857, the Expedition left Zungomero. 
We were martyred by miasma ; my companion and I 
were so feeble, that we could scarcely sit our asses, and 
weakness had almost deprived us of the sense of hear- 
ing. It was a day of severe toil. We loaded with 
difficulty, for the slaves and porters did not assemble 
till past 8 a.m., and instead of applying for their loads 
to Said bin Salim, every man ran off with the lightest 
burden or the easiest ass. 



THE JETTING WATER. 



159 



From Central Zungomero to the nearest ascent of the 
Usagara Mountains is a march of five hours. The route, 
emerging from the cultivated districts, leaves to the 
right the Wigo Hills, so called, probably, from the fish- 
ing weirs in the stagnant waters below, and in. the 
Mgeta River, which flows through the plain. On the 
left, and distant four or five miles, is a straggling line 
of low cones : at the foot of one, somewhat larger than 
its neighbours, rises the thermal spring known to the 
people as the Maji ya W'heta, the Geyser, jetting- water, 
or fontaine qui bouille. Its position is a gentle slope 
between the hill-base and a dwarf Savannah which is 
surrounded by high walls of jungly forest, and the water- 
shed is from south to north. The hot water boils and 
bubbles out of a white sand, here and there stained and 
encrusted with oxide of iron. Upon the surface lie 
caked and scaly sheets of calcareous tufa, expressed by 
the spring, and around it are erratic boulders blackened 
probably by the thermal fumes. The earth is dark, 
sometimes sandy, and sprinkled over with fragments of 
qnartzite and sandstone ; in other places a screen of brab- 
tree backs a bold expanse of ground, treacherous, boggy, 
and unstable as water. The area is about 200 feet in 
diameter, and the centre of ebullition is unapproachable, 
owing to the heat and the instability of the soil. Ac- 
cording to the guides, it is subject to occasional erup- 
tions, when the water bursts out with violence, and 
fragments of lime are flung high in the air. Animals 
are said to refuse it, and tales are told of wild beasts 
having been bogged in the seething mire. 

With the Mgeta thrown on the left hand, we passed 
by a path almost invisible, through dense grass and 
trees, and presently we entered the luxuriant cultiva- 



ICO THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 

tion surrounding the westernmost villages of K'hutu. 
As the land beyond this point, for three long marches, 
lies barren, the slaves and porters had comfortably 
housed themselves. The prospect of another night in 
the plains made me desperate ; I dislodged them, and 
persuaded them to advance once more. The settle- 
ments were of the most miserable description ; many 
were composed of a few sticks lashed together at the top, 
and loosely covered with a few armfuls of holcus-cane. 
Here we sighted the cocoa-tree for the last time. The 
rats were busy in the fields, and the plundered peasants 
were digging them out for food. At almost every 
corner of the deeply-pitted path stood a mtego, or trap 
for small birds, a cage of rush or split bamboo planted 
in the ground near some corn, where a boy lies waiting 
till the prey nibbles at the bait, and then creeping up, bars 
with his hand the little doorway left in one of the sides. 
Beyond the villages the path forded six times the sandy 
bed of the Mgeta, whose steep and slippery banks sup- 
ported dense screens of shrub and grass. Beyond the 
sixth passage, the road falls into the gravelly river- 
shoals, with the stream flowing in the other half of the 
course, under well-wooded masses of primitive hill. 
After again thrice fording the cold „nd muddy water, 
which even in the dry season is here ankle, there foot- 
deep, the road passed some clearings where porcupines 
and the African red squirrel, a sturdy little animal, 
with a long thick fur of dark brown, shot with green 
on the back, and a bright red waistcoat, muzzle, and 
points, were observed. About noon we diverged a few 
yards from the Mgeta, and ascended the incline of the 
first gradient in Usagara, rising about 300 feet from 
the plain below. This, the frontier of the second region, 
or ghauts, and the debris encumbering the lowest 



THE "LITTLE TAMARIND." 



161 



escarpment, is called Mzizi Mdogo, or the " Little Ta- 
marind," to distinguish it from the " Great Tamarind " 
station which lies beyond. There was no vestige of 
building upon the spot — no sight nor sound of man — 
the blood-feud and the infernal slave-trade had made a 
howling desert of the land. We found, however, a 
tattered kraal erected by the last passing caravan, and, 
spent with fatigue, we threw ourselves on the short grass 
to rest. The porters and the asses did not appear till 
the evening, when it became apparent that two of the 
latter had been lost by their drivers, Hayja and Kha- 
misi, sons of Ramji, who preferred sitting in the 
shade, and chatting with passing caravans, to the sore 
task of doing their duty. The animals were recovered 
on the morrow, by sundry parties sent in search. During 
the fordings of the Mgeta, however, they had not been un- 
packed ; our salt and sugar, therefore, had melted away; 
soap, cigars, mustard, and arsenical paste, were in pulp; 
the tea was spoiled, the compressed vegetables presently 
became musty, and the gunpowder in a tire-proof copper 
magazine was caked like stale bread. 

There was a wondrous change of climate at Mzizi 
Mdogo ; strength and health returned as if by magic ; 
even the Goanese siaook off the obstinate bilious remit- 
tents of Zungomero. Truly delicious was the escape 
from the nebulous skies, the fog-driving gusts, the pelt- 
ing rain, the clammy mists veiling a gross growth of 
fetor, the damp raw cold, rising as it were from the 
earth, and the alternations of fiery and oppressive 
heat ; in fact, from the cruel climate of the river- valley, 
to the pure sweet mountain-air, alternately soft and 
balnry, cool and reviving, and to the aspect of clear 
blue skies, which lent their tints to highland ridges 

VOL. I. M 



1G2 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



well wooded with various greens. Dull mangrove, dis- 
mal jungle, and monotonous grass, were supplanted by 
tall solitary trees, amongst which the lofty tamarind 
rose conspicuously graceful, and a card-table-like 
swamp, cut by a network of streams, nullahs, and stag- 
nant pools, gave way to dry healthy slopes, with short 
steep pitches, and gently shelving hills. The beams of 
the large sun of the equator — and nowhere have I seen 
the rulers of night and day so large — danced gaily upon 
blocks and pebbles of red, yellow, and dazzling snowy 
quartz, and the bright sea-breeze waved the summits 
of the trees, from which depended graceful llianas, and 
wood-apples large as melons, whilst creepers, like vine 
tendrils, rising from large bulbs of brown-grey wood, 
clung closely to their stalwart trunks. Monkeys played at 
hide-and-seek, chattering behind the bolls, as the iguana, 
with its painted scale-armour, issued forth to bask upon 
the sunny bank ; white-breasted ravens cawed when dis- 
turbed from their perching- places ; doves cooed on the 
well-clothed boughs, and hawks soared high in the trans- 
parent sky. The field-cricket chirped like the Italian 
cigala in the shady bush, and everywhere, from air, 
from earth, from the hill slopes above, and from the 
marshes below, the hum, the buzz, and the loud con- 
tinuous voice of insect life, through the length of the 
day, spoke out its natural joy. Our gipsy encamp- 
ment lay 

" By shallow rivers, to whose falls 
Melodious birds sing madrigals." 

By night, the soothing murmurs of the stream at the 
hill's base rose mingled with the faint rustling of the 
breeze, which at times broken by the scream of the night- 
heron, the bellow of the bull-frog in his swampy home, the 
cynhy sena's whimper, and the fox's whining bark, sounded 



THE DELECTABLE MOUNTAINS. 



163 



through the silence most musical, most melancholy. In- 
stead of the cold night rain, and the soughing of the blast, 
the view disclosed a peaceful scene, the moonbeams lying 
like sheets of snow upon the ruddy highlands, and the 
stars hanging like lamps of gold from the dome of in- 
finite blue. I never wearied with contemplating the 
scene, for, contrasting with the splendours around me, 
still stretched in sight the Slough of Despond, unhappy 
Zungomero, lead- coloured above, mud-coloured below, 
wind-swept, fog-veiled, and deluged by clouds that 
dared not approach these Delectable Mountains. 

During a day's halt at this sanitarium fresh diversions 
agitated the party. The Baloch, weary of worrying one 
another, began to try their 'prentice hands upon the 
sons of Kamji, and these fortified by the sturdy attitude 
of Muinyi Kidogo, manfully resolved to hold their own. 
The asses fought throughout the livelong night, and, 
contrary to the custom of their genus, strayed from one 
another by day. And as, 

" When sorrows come, they come not single spies, 
But in battalions," 

Said bin Salim, who hated and was hated by the Baloch, 
on account cf their divided interests, began to hate 
and to be hated by the sons of Ramji. His four 
children, the most ignoble of their ignoble race, were 
to him as the apples of his eyes. He had entered 
their names as public porters, yet, with characteristic 
egotism and self-tenderness, he was resolved that they 
should work for none but their master, and that even in 
this their labour should as much as possible fall upon 
the shoulders of others. - His tent was always the first 
pitched and his fire the first built ; his slaves were re- 
warded with such luxuries as ghee, honey, and turmeric, 

M 2 



164 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



when no one in camp, ourselves included, could procure 
them. When all wanted clothes he clad his children 
out of the outfit as if it had been his own, and, till 
strong remonstrances were made, large necklaces of 
beads decked their sooty necks. On the return-march 
he preferred to pay hire for three porters rather than to 
allow the fat lazy knaves to carry a bed or a few gourds. 
They became of course insolent and unmanageable — - 
more than once they gave trouble by pointing their mus- 
kets at the Baloch and the porters, and they would draw 
their knives and stab at a man who refused to give up his 
firewood or his hearth-stones, without incurring a word of 
blame from their master. Encouraged by impunity they 
robbed us impudently ; curry-stuff was soon exhausted, 
the salt-bottles showed great gaps, and cigar-ends were 
occasionally seen upon the road-side. The Goanese ac- 
cused the slaves, and the slaves the Goanese ; probably 
both parties for once spoke the truth. 

Said bin Salim's silly favouritism naturally aroused 
the haughty Kidogo's bile ; the sons of Ramji, con- 
sequently, worked less than before. The two worthies, 
Arab and African, never, however, quarrelled, no harsh 
word passed between them; with smiles upon their faces, 
and a bitter hate at heart, they confined themselves to all 
manner of backbiting and talebearing. Said bin Salim 
sternly declared to me that he would never rest satisfied 
until Kidogo's sword was broken and his back was scari- 
fied at the flagstaff of Zanzibar ; but I guessed that 
this "wrathful mouse and most magnanimous dove" 
would, long before his journey's end, have forgotten all 
his vengeance. Kidogo asserted that the Muarabu or 
Arab was a green-horn, and frequently suggested the 
propriety of " planting " him. At last this continual harp- 
ing upon the same chord became so offensive, that B'ana 



THE TAMARIND TEEE. 



165 



Saidi was forbidden to pronounce the name of Muinyi 
Kidogo, and Muinyi Kidogo was ordered never to utter 
the words B'ana Saidi before the exasperated leader of 
the Expedition, who could not, like these squabblers, com- 
plain, resent, forget and forgive, in the short space of a 
single hour. 

We left Mzizi Mdogo on the 9th August, much 
cheered by the well-omened appearance of a bird with 
red bill, white breast, and long tail-feathers. The path 
ran over a succession of short steep hills with a rufous- 
brown soil, dotted with blocks and stones, thinly veiled 
with grass, and already displaying signs of aridity in 
the growth of aloetic and thorny plants, the Cactus and 
the larger Asclepias, the Euphorbia or Spurge- wort, and 
the stunted Mimosa. The Calabash, however, still rose 
a stately tree, and there was a sprinkling of the fine 
Tamarinds which have lent their name to the dis- 
trict. The Tamarind, called by the Arabs of Zanzibar 
" Subar, " extends from the coast to the Lake Regions : 
with its lofty stem, its feathery leaflets, and its branches 
spreading dark cool shade, it is a beautiful feature in 
African landscape. The acidulated fruit is doubtless a 
palliative and a corrective to bilious affections. The 
people of the country merely peel and press it into bark 
baskets, consequently it soon becomes viscid, and is 
spoiled by mildew; they ignore the art of extracting 
from it an intoxicating liquor. The Arabs, who use 
it extensively in cooking, steam, sun-dry, and knead 
it, with a little salt and oil to prevent the effects of 
damp, into balls : thus prepared and preserved from the 
air, it will keep for years. 

On the way we were saddened by the sight of the 
clean-picked skeletons, and here and there the swollen 
corpses, of porters who had perished in this place of 

M 3 



188 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFEICA. 



starvation. A single large body which had lost fifty of 
its number by small-pox, had passed us but yesterday on 
the road, and the sight of their deceased comrades recall- 
ed to our minds terrible spectacles ; men staggering on 
blinded by disease, and mothers carrying on their backs 
infants as loathsome objects as themselves. The wretches 
would not leave the path, every step in their state of 
failing strength was precious ; he who once fell would 
never rise again ; no village would admit death into its 
precincts, no relation nor friend would return for them, 
and they would lie till their agony was ended by the 
raven and vulture, the Fisi and the fox. Near every 
Khambi or Kraal I remarked detached tents which, 
according to the guides, were set apart for those seized 
with the fell disease. Under these circumstances, as 
might be expected, several of our party caught the in- 
fection ; they lagged behind and probably threw them- 
selves into some jungle, for the path when revisited 
showed no signs of them. 

We spent 4 hrs. 30' in weary marching, occa- 
sionally halting to reload the asses that threw their 
packs. Near the Mgeta River, which was again 
forded six times, the vegetation became tall and thick, 
grasses obstructed the path, and in the dense jungle on 
the banks of the stream, the Cowhage (Dolichos pruriens,) 
and stiff reeds known as the "wild sugar-cane," an- 
noyed the half-naked porters. Thus bounded and ap- 
proached by muddy and slippery, or by steep and stony 
inclines, the stream shrank to a mountain torrent, in 
places hardly fifty feet broad ; the flow was swift, the 
waters were dyed by the soil a ruddy brown, and the 
bed was sandy and sometimes rocky with boulders of 
primitive formation, streaked with lines of snow-white 
quartz. Near the end of the marsh we ascended a short 



THE KRAAL OF THE IGUANA. 



167 



steep staircase of rock and root, with a dwarf precipice 
overhanging the river on the right, which was dangerous 
for the laden beasts as they crawled like beetles up the 
path. At 3 p.m. we arrived at a kraal called Cha 
K'henge — of the iguana, from the number of these ani- 
mals found near the stream. It was a delightful spot, 
equal to Mzizi Mdogo in purity of air, and commanding 
a fair prospect of the now distant Dut'humi Highlands. 

The next day was a forced halt at Cha K'henge. Of 
two asses that had been left behind one was recovered, 
the other was abandoned to its fate. The animals pur- 
chased at Zanzibar were falling off visibly in condition. 
Accustomed to a kind of grass which nowhere grows 
upon these sunburnt hills, they had regular feeds of 
holcus, but that, as Said bin Salim expressed himself, was 
only coffee to them. The Wanyamwezi asses, however, 
managed to pick a sustenance from the rushes and from 
the half-burned stubbles, when fortunate enough to find 
any. Sickness again declared itself. Shahdad the 
Baloch bellowed like a bull with fever pains, Gaetano com- 
plained that he was suffering tortures generally, two of 
the Wanyamwezi were incapacitated by the symptoms 
preliminary to small-pox from carrying their packs, 
and a third was prostrated by ague. We started, how- 
ever, on the next day for a long march which conclude J, 
the passage of the "Tamarind Hills." Crossing a 
country broken by dry nullahs, or rather ditches, we 
traversed a seam of forest with a deep woody ravine on 
the right, and twice unpacked and reloaded the asses, 
who Jay down instead of breasting the difficulties : a 
muddy swamp full of water-courses, and the high earth- 
banks of the Rufuta a Fiumara, here dry during the 
hot season. Thence, winding along a hill-flank, to avoid 
a bend in the bed, the path plunged into the sole of the 

M 4 



168 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



Eufuta. This main-drain of the lower gradients carries 
off, according to the guides, the waters of the high 
ground around it into the Mgeta. The bed, which 
varies from three to sixteen feet in breadth, serpentines 
abruptly through the hills : its surface is either deep 
sand or clay, sopped with water, which near the head 
becomes a thin fillet, ankle-deep, now sweet, then salt: the 
mud is tinged in places with a solution of iron, showing, 
when stagnant, prismatic and iridescent tints. Where 
narrowest, the tall grasses of the banks meet across the 
gut, which, after a few yards of short, sharp winding, 
opens out again. The walls are in some parts earth, in 
others blocks of gray syenite, which here and there en* 
cumber the bed : on the right, near the end of the stage, 
the hills above seem to overhang the Fuimara in almost 
perpendicular masses of sandstone, from whose chinks 
spring the gnarled roots of tall trees corded with creepers, 
overgrown with parasites; and hung with fruits like foot- 
balls, dangling from twines sometimes thirty feet long. 
The lower banks, where not choked with rush, are over- 
grown with the brightest verdure, and with the feathery 
bamboo rising and falling before the wind. The corpses 
of porters were even more numerous than on the yester : 
our Muslems passed them with averted faces and with 
the low u la haul! " of disgust, and a decrepid old 
Mnyamwezi porter gazed at them and wept for himself. 
About 2 p.m., turning abruptly from the bed, we crawled 
up a short stony steep strewed with our asses and their 
loads ; and reaching the summit of a dwarf cone near 
the foot of the "Goma Pass," we found the usual out- 
lying huts for porters dying of small-pox, and an old 
kraal, which we made comfortable for the night. In the 
extensive prospect around, the little beehive villages of 
the Wakaguru and the Wakwivi, sub-tribes of the Wasa- 



BREAKAGE OF INSTRUMENTS. 



169 



gara, peeped from afar out of the forest nooks on the 
distant hill-folds. The people are rich in flocks and 
grain, but a sad experience has taught them to shun 
intercourse with all strangers, Arabs and Wasawahili, 
Wamrima and Wanyamwezi. In happier days the road 
was lined with large villages, of which now not a trace 
remains. 

A Boiling Point Thermometer by Cox, the gift of 
Lieut. -Colonel Hamerton, and left with him by Captain, 
now Admiral Smyth, F. R. G. S., who had used it in mea- 
suring the Andes, had been accidentally broken by my 
companion at Cha K'henge. Arrived at Rufuta, I found 
that a second B. P. by Newman, and a Bath-Thermo- 
meter by the same maker, had been torn so violently 
from their box that even the well-soldered handles were 
wrenched off. But a few days afterwards our third 
B. P. was rendered useless by the carelessness of Gae- 
tano. Thus, of the only three really accurate hypso- 
metrical instruments which we possessed, — the Baro- 
meter had come to grief, and no aneroid had been sent 
from Bombay — not one was spared to reach the Lake. 
We saved, however, two Bath- Thermometers marked 
Newman, and Johnson and Co., Bombay, which did good 
service, and one of which was afterwards corrected by 
being boiled at sea-level. I may here observe that on 
such journeys, where triangulation is impossible, and 
where the delicate aneroid and the Mountain Barometer 
can scarcely be carried without accident,the thermometer 
is at present the traveller's stand-by. It abounds, how- 
ever, in elements of error. The elasticity of the glass, 
especially in a new instrument, causes the mercury to 
subside below the graduated scale. The difference of 
level in a covered " shaving-pot" and in an open pan 
exposed to the wind, will sometimes amount to 1° F. — 



170 



THE LAKE KEGIONS OF CENTRAL AFEICA. 



500 feet : they therefore are in error who declare that 
any vessel suffices for the purpose of boiling. Finally, 
in all but the best instruments the air is not tho- 
roughly expelled from the tube : indeed some writers, 
Dr. Buist, for instance, actually advise the error. 

Another ass was left at Rufuta unable to stand, and 
anxiously eyeing its stomach, whereby the Baloch con- 
jectured that it was dying of a poisonous grass. Having 
to ascend on the 12th August the Goma Pass of the 
Rufuta, or the Eastern Range, I had arranged with 
Kidogo and the Kirangozi, or guide, that the porters 
should proceed with their packs, and after topping the 
hill, should return, for a consideration, to assist the asses. 
None, however, reappearing, when the sun had risen a 
spear's length w r e set out, hugging the hill-flanks, with 
deep ravines yawning on the right. Presently after pass- 
ing through a clear forest of tall scattered trees, between 
whose trunks were visible on both sides in perspective, 
far below, long rolling tracts of well-wooded land broken 
by ravines and cut by water-courses, we arrived at the 
foot of a steep hill. The ascent was a kind of ramp, 
composed of earth-steps, clods bound by strong tena- 
cious roots, and thickly strewn with blocks of schiste, 
micacious grit, and a sandstone showing the presence 
of iron. The summit of this "kloof" was ascertained 
to rise 2,235 feet above sea-level. It led to an easy 
descent along the flank of a hill commanding on the 
left hand, below a precipitous foreground, a fine bird's- 
eye view of scattered cone and wavy ridge rising and 
falling in a long roll, and on a scale decreasing till they 
settled into a line of hazy-blue horizon, which had all 
the effect of a circumambient ocean. We reached 
the remains of a kraal on the summit of a dwarf hill 
called Mfu'uni, from the abundance of the Mfu'u tree, 



THE BULL-HEADED MABEUKI. 



171 



which bears an edible apple externally like the smallest 
" crab," but containing a stone of inordinate pro- 
portions : below the encamping ground the Pagazi found 
a runnel of pure water, which derived its name from 
the station. In former times Mfu'uni was a populous 
settlement ; the kidnapping parties from the coast, and 
especially the filibusters of Whinde, have restored it to 
the fox and the cynhyama, its "old inhabitants." I 
spent a sleepless night in watching each star as it sank 
and set in its turn, piercing with a last twinkle the thin 
silhouette of tall trees that fringed the hilly rim of the 
horizon, and in admiring the hardness of the bull- 
headed Mabruki, as he lay half-roasted by the fire and 
half-frozen by the cold southern gale. 

Eations had been issued at K'hutu to all hands for 
three days, the time in which they expected to make the 
principal provisioning-place, "Muliaraa. " They had 
consumed, as usual, their stores with the utmost possible 
quickness ; it was our fifth day, and Muhama was still 
a long march distant. On the 13th August, therefore, 
in that hot haste which promises cold speed, we loaded 
at dawn, and ascended the last step of the pass by an 
easy path. The summit was thickly wooded; the hills 
were crowned with trees; the ravines were a mass of 
tangled verdure ; and from the Dub ( Cynodoii dactylon, a 
nutritive and favourite food for cattle in India) and other 
grasses arose a sickening odour of decay. A Scotch mist, 
thick and raw, hung over the hill-tops, and about 10 p.m. 
a fiery outburst of sunshine told severely upon hungry 
and fever-stricken men. From the level table-summit of 
the range the route descended rapidly at first, but pre- 
sently stretching out into gentle slopes, totally unlike 
the abrupt eastern or seaward face of the mountains : I 
counted twelve distinct rises and fifteen falls, separated 



172 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



by tree-clad lines of half-dried nullahs, which were 
choked with ill- savoured weeds. We halted every 
quarter of an hour to raise and reload the asses; 
when on the ground, they were invariably abandoned 
by the donkey-men. My companion's bedding was 
found near the path, where it had been left by its 
porter, a slave given at Zungomero to Muinyi Wazira 
by his drunken brother. The fellow had been sworn 
by his mganga, or medicine- man, not to desert, and 
he had respected his oath for the long length of a week, 
A dispute with another man, however, had irritated 
him : he quietly threw his burden, and ran down the 
nearest steep, probably to fall into the hands of the Wak- 
wivi. As the rain-catching peaks were left behind, the 
slopes of dry soil began to show sunburnt herbage and 
tufty grass. Signs of lions appeared numerous, and 
the cactaceous and aloetic plants that live on arid soil 
again met the eye. About noon we forded the little 
Zonhwe River, a stream of sweet water here flowing 
westward, in a bed of mire and grass, under high banks 
bearing a dense bush. Two hours afterwards I sud- 
denly came upon the advance-guard, halted, and the 
asses unloaded, in a dry water-course, called in the map, 
from our misadventure, " Overshot Nullah." A caravan 
of Wanyamwezi had misdirected them, Muinyi Wazira 
had in vain warned them of their error, he was over- 
ruled by Kidogo, and the Baloch had insisted upon 
camping at the first place where they expected to find a 
spring. Like all soft men, they were most impatient of 
thirst, and nothing caused so much grumbling and dis- 
content as the cry of " Maji mb'hali ! " (water is far !) 
That night, therefore, after a long march of fifteen miles, 
they again slept supperless. 

On the 14th of August we loaded early, and through 



THE CRISIS. 



173 



spitting rains from the south-east hills we marched back 
for two hours from the Overshot Nullah to Zonhwe, the 
small and newly-built settlement which we had missed 
on the preceding day. Several of the porters had dis- 
appeared during the night. Men were sent in all direc- 
tions for provisions, which came in, however, slowly and 
scantily ; and the noise made by the slaves — they 
were pulling down Said bin Salim's hut, which had 
accidentally caught fire — frightened away the country- 
people. We were, therefore, detained in this unwhole- 
some spot for two days. 

Zonhwe was the turning-point of the Expedition's 
difficulties. Another ass had died, reducing the number 
to twenty -three, and the Baloch, at first contented with 
two, doubled their requirements, and on the 14th Au- 
gust took a fifth, besides placing all their powder 
upon our hard- worked animals. I therefore proposed to 
the Jemadar that the cloth, the beads, and the other 
similar luggage of his men, should be packed, sealed up, 
and inserted into the porters' loads, of which several had 
shrunk to half- weight. He probably thought the sug- 
gestion a ruse on my part to discover the means by which 
their property had almost trebled its quantity; his men, 
moreover, had become thoroughly weary of a journey 
where provisions were not always obtainable, and they 
had persuaded themselves that Lieut.-Col. Hamerton's 
decease had left me without support from the government 
of Zanzibar. After a priming with opium, the mono- 
cular returned and reported that his men refused to 
open their baggage, declaring their property to be " on 
their own heads." Whilst I was explaining the object 
of the measure, the escort appeared in mass, and, with 
noise sufficient for a general action, ostentatiously 
strewed their old clothes upon the ground, declaring 



174 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



that at Zanzibar they were honourable men, and boast- 
ing that the Baloch were entrusted with lacs of dollars by 
the Sayyid Said. Again I offered reasons, which, as is 
the wont of the world in such cases, served only to make 
them more hopelessly unreasonable. The Jemadar ac- 
cused me of starving the party. I told him not to eat 
abominations, upon which, clapping hand to hilt, he 
theatrically forbade me to repeat the words. Being 
prostrated at the time by fever, I could only show him 
how little dangerous he was by using the same phrase 
half a dozen times. He then turned fiercely upon the 
timid Said bin Salim, and having safely vented the excess 
of his wrath, he departed to hold a colloquy with his men. 

The debate was purposely conducted in so loud a tone 
that every word reached my ears. Khudabakhsh, from 
first to last my evil genius and the mainspring of all 
mischief, threatened to take " that man's life," at the 
risk of chains for the remainder of his days. Another 
opined, that " in all Nazarenes there is no good." All 
complained that they had no u hishmat " (respect !), no 
food, and, above everything, no meat. 

Presently Said bin Salim was deputed by them to 
state that for the future they would require one sheep 
per diem — men who, when at Zanzibar, saw flesh pro- 
bably once a year on the Eed. This being inadmissible, 
they demanded three cloths daily instead of one. I 
would willingly have given them two, as long as provi- 
sions continued scarce and dear, but the shade of con- 
cession made them raise the number to four. They 
declared that in case of refusal they would sleep at the 
village, and on the next day would return to Zanzibar. 
Receiving a contemptuous answer, they marched away in 
a body, noisily declaring that they were going to make 
instant preparation for departure. 



THE CRISIS ENDS. 



175 



Such a proceeding on the part of several of these 
mercenaries was inexcusable. They had been treated 
with kindness, and even indulgence. They had hitherto 
never complained, simply because they had no cause for 
complaint. One man, Ismail, who suffered from dy- 
sentery, had been regularly supplied with food cooked 
by the Goanese ; and even while we dragged along our 
fevered frames on foot, he was allowed to ride an ass. 
Yet the recreant never attempted a word of dissuasion, 
and deserted with the rest- 
After the disappearance of the Baloch, the Sons of 
Eamji were summoned. I had privily ascertained 
from Said bin Salim the opinions of these men concern- 
ing their leader : they said but little evil, complaining 
principally of the Englishman's " heat," and that he was 
not wholly ruled by their rascalities, whereas the Baloch 
in their private confabs never failed to indulge in the 
choicest of Oriental Billingsgate. The slaves, when 
they heard the state of the case, cheerfully promised to 
stand by us, but on the same evening, assembled by 
Kidogo, they agreed to follow the example of the escort 
on the first justifiable occasion. I did not learn this till 
some days afterwards, and even if I had been told it on 
the spot, it would have mattered little. My companion 
and I had made up our minds, in case of the escort and 
the slaves deserting, to bury our baggage, and to trust 
ourselves in the hands of the Wanyamwezi porters. The 
storm, however, — a brutum fulmen — blew over with 
only noise. 

A march was ordered for the next day — the 17th 
August. As the asses were being loaded, appeared the 
one-eyed Jemadar, with Greybeard Musa and Darwaysh, 
. looking more crestfallen and foolish than they had ever 
looked before. They took my hand with a polite 



176 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



violence, begged suppliantly for a paper of dismissal to 
" cover their shame," and declared that, so far from de- 
serting me, I was deserting them. As this required no 
reply, I mounted and rode on. 

The path fell easily westwards down a long grassy 
and jungly incline, cut by several water-courses. About 
noon, I lay down half-fainting in the sandy bed of the 
Muhama Nullah — the " Palmetto," or " Fan-palm and 
retaining Wazira and Mabruki, I urged the caravan 
forwards, that my companion might send me back a 
hammock from the halting-place. Suddenly appeared 
the whole body of deserters shouldering — as porters and 
asses had been taken from them — their luggage, which 
outwardly consisted of cloth, dirty rags, green skins, old 
earthen pots, and greasy gourds and calabashes. They 
led me to a part of the nullah where stagnant water 
was found, and showing abundant penitence,- they ever 
and anon attempted excuses, which were reserved for 
consideration. At 3 p.m., no hammock appearing, I 
remounted, and pursued a path over rolling ground, 
with masses of dwarf-hill flanking a low bottom, which 
renewed the scenery of the " Slough of Despond " — 
Zungomero. Again the land, matted with putrid grass, 
displayed the calabash and the hyphsena, the papaw 
and the palmetto ; the holcus and maize were of luxu- 
riant dimensions, and deep rat-holes, enlarged by the 
boy-hunters, broke the grassy path. I found two little 
villages, inhabitated by Wangindo and Mandandu immi- 
grants from the vicinity of Kilwa. Then appeared on 
a hill-side the Kraal in which the caravan had halted ; 
the party had lost the road, and had been dispersed by a 
swarm of wild bees, an accident even more frequent in 
East Africa than in India. 

Next morning the Baloch were harangued ; they pro- 



THE BALOCH REPENT. 



177 



fessed themselves profoundly penitent, and attributing 
their unsoldier-like conduct to opium, and to the Wiswas, 
the temptations of Sathanas, they promised to reform. 
The promise was kept till we reached Ugogi. They 
were, however, always an encumbrance ; they did no 
good beyond creating an impression, and " making the 
careless ^Ethiopians afraid." I saw them, it is true, in 
their worst colours. They held themselves to be ser- 
vants of their prince, and as no Eastern man can or will 
serve two masters, they forfeited all claim to their 
sole good quality — manageability. As men, they had no 
stamina ; after a few severe marches they murmured that 

" Famine, despair, thirst, cold, and heat, 
Had done their work on them by turns." 

Their constitutions, sapped by long residence at Zanzibar, 
were subject to many ailments, and in sickness they were 
softer than Indian Pariahs. Under the slightest attack 
of fever, they threw themselves moaning upon the ground; 
they were soon deterred by the sun from bringing up 
the rear, and by night they would not keep watch or 
ward even when in actual danger of robbery. Notwith- 
standing their affectation of military carriage their 
bravery was more than problematical ; they were dis- 
ciplined only by their fears. As men at arms, one and 
all deserved to wear the wooden spoon : I saw the whole 
garrison of Kaole firing for an hour, without effect, at a 
shell, stuck on a stick, distant about a dozen paces : 
our party expended thirty pounds of gunpowder without 
bagging a pair of antelope, and it was impossible to 
trust them with ammunition; when unable to sell it, 
they wasted it upon small birds. Ever claiming for 
themselves " hishmat," or respect, they forgot their own 
proverb that " courtesy hath two heads;" they complained 

VOL. I. N 



178 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



that they were not seated half the day in our tents, and 
the being " told to depart," when their terribly long 
visits rendered the measure necessary, was a standing 
grievance. Like the lower races of Orientals, they 
were ever attempting to intrude, to thrust themselves 
forwards, to take an ell when an inch was offered ; they 
considered all but themselves fools, ready to be im- 
posed upon by the flimsiest lie, by the shallowest artifices. 
Gratitude they ignored ; with them a favour granted was 
but an earnest of favours to come, and one refusal obli- 
terated the trace of a hundred largesses. Their objects 
in life seemed to be eating, and buying slaves ; their 
pleasures, drinking and intrigue. Insatiable beggars 
were they ; noisy, boisterous, foul-mouthed knaves, 
swearers " with voices like cannons ; " rude and forward 
in manner, low and abusive in language, so slanderous 
that for want of other subjects they would calumniate 
one another, and requiring a periodical check to their 
presumption. I might have spent the whole of my day 
in superintending the food of these thirteen " great 
eaters and little runners.'' Repeatedly warned, both by 
myself and by my companion, that their insubordination 
would prevent our recommending them for recompense 
at the end of the journey, they could not check repeated 
ebullitions of temper. Before arrival at the coast they 
seemed to have made up their minds that they had not 
fulfilled the conditions of reward. After my departure 
from Zanzibar, however, they persuaded Lieut.-Col. 
Hamerton's successor to report officially to the Govern- 
ment of Bombay " the claims of these men, the hard- 
ships they endured, and the fidelity and perseverance 
they showed ! " 

At Muh am a I halted three days, a delay which gene- 
rally occurred before long desert marches for which 



MALICE OF UP-CARAVA1S T S. 



179 



provisions are required. On the first, Kidogo would bring 
about sixty pounds of grain ; on the second, he would 
disperse his men throughout the villages, and procure the 
300 pounds required for five marches ; and on the third, 
he would cause it to be husked and pounded, so as to be 
ready for the morrow. Three up-caravans, containing a 
total of about 1 50 men, suffering severely from small-pox, 
here passed us. One was commanded by Khalfan bin 
Muallim Salim and his brother Id, coast Arabs, whom 
we afterwards met at two places. He told me seve- 
ral deliberate falsehoods about the twenty-two porters 
that were to follow us, for instance, that he had left 
them, halted by disease, at Kidunda, in the maritime 
region, under the command of one Abdullah bin 
Jumah, and thus he led me to expect them at a time 
when they had not even been engaged. He and his men 
also spread reports in Ugogo and other places where 
the people are peculiarly suspicious concerning the 
magical and malignant powers of the "whites ; " in fact, 
he showed all the bad spirit of his bastard blood . At 
Muhama, the furthest point westward to which the 
vuli or autumnal rains extend, the climate was still 
that of the Rufuta Range, foggy, misty mornings, white 
rags of cloudbank from the table-cloths outspread upon 
the heights, clear days, with hot suns and chilling south 
winds, and raw dewy nights. I again suffered from fever ; 
the attack, after lasting seven clays, disappeared, leaving, 
however, hepatic complications, which having lasted un- 
interruptedly ten months, either wore themselves out, 
or yielded to the action of acids, narcotics, and stimu- 
lants tardily forwarded from Zanzibar. Here also over- 
fatigue, in a fruitless shooting-excursion, combined with 
the mephitic air of stagnant, weedy waters, caused a 
return of my companion's fever. 

N 2 



180 



THE LAKE EEGIONS OF CENTKAL AFKICA. 



Two other Wanyamwezi porters were laid up with 
small-pox. One ass died of fatigue, whilst a second 
torn by a hyaena, and a third too weak to walk, were left, 
together with the animal that had been stung by bees, in 
charge of Mpambe, headman of the Wangindo. Being 
now reduced to the number of nineteen beasts, I sub- 
mitted to Said bin Salim the advisability of leaving 
behind wire and ammunition, either cached in the jun- 
gle, as is the custom of these lands, or entrusted to the 
headman. The Arab approved; Kidogo, however, dis- 
sented. I took the opinion of the latter, he was positive 
that the effects once abandoned would never be recov- 
ered, and that the headman, who appeared a kind of 
cunning idiot, was not to be trusted. Some months 
afterwards I commissioned an Arab merchant, who was 
marching towards the coast,, to recover the asses left in 
the charge of Mpambe ; the latter refused to give them 
up, thus proving the soundness of Kidogo's judgment. 

Having collected with difficulty — the land was sun- 
cracked, and the harvest-store had been concealed by 
the people — some supplies, but scarcely sufficient for 
the long desert tract, we began, on the 21st of August, 
to cross the longitudinal plain that gently shelving west- 
ward separates the Rufuta from the second, or Mu- 
kondokwa Range. The plain was enclosed on all sides 
by low lines of distant hill, and cut by deep nullahs, 
which gave more than the usual amount of trouble. 
The tall Palmyra (Borassus Flabelliformis), whose ma- 
jestic bulging column renders it so difficult to climb, 
was a novel feature in the scenery. This tree, the 
Mvumo of East Africa, and the Deleb-palm of the 
Upper Nile, is scattered through the interior, extending 
to the far south. On this line it is more common in 
Western Unyamwezi, where, and where only, an intoxi- 



WILD CATTLE. 



181 



eating toddy is drawn from the cut frond, than else- 
where. The country abounded in game, but we were 
both too weak to work — my companion, indeed, was com- 
pelled to lag behind — and the Baloch, to whom the guns 
were lent, returned empty-handed. Sign of the Mbogo 
(Bos Caffer) here appeared ; it is general in East Africa, 
especially upon the river plains where water abounds. 
These wild cattle are fine animals, somewhat larger than 
the common-sized English bullock, with uniform dun 
skins, never parti-coloured like the tame herds, and with 
thick black-brown horns, from twelve to thirteen inches 
broad at the base, diverging outwards, and incurved at 
the points, which in large specimens are distant about 
three feet from each other ; they are separated by a 
narrow channel, and this in age becomes a solid mass of 
bone. The Mbogo is as dull of comprehension as it is 
fierce and powerful ; affecting particular spots, it will 
often afford several chances of a successful shot to the 
Fundi — Shikari, or Chasseur — of a caravan : the Africans 
kill it with arrows. The flesh, though considered heat- 
ing and bilious, is eaten, and the hide is preferred for 
thongs and reins to that of the tame animal. 

The approach to the kraal was denoted by a dead 
level of dry, caked, and cracked mud, showing the sub- 
sidence of an extensive inundation. We passed a large 
camping-ground, affected by down-caravans, on the near 
side of the Makata, a long river-like " tank," whose lay 
is E. by N. The oozy banks of this water, which is 
said to flow after rains into the Mukondokwa Eiver, are 
fringed with liliaceous and other large aquatic plants ; 
the water, though dark, is potable. After fording the 
tank, which was then breast-deep, we found on the fur- 
ther side the kraal used by porters of up-caravans, who 
sensibly avoid commencing the day with hard labour, and 

ii 3 



182 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



who fear that a sudden fall of rain might compel them 
to intempestive halts. In such places, throughout the 
country, there are two distinct khambi, one on each 
side of the obstacle, whether this be a river, a pass, or 
a populous clearing ; in the latter case, caravans unload 
at the farther end of the cultivation, prepared to escape 
from a fray into the jungle, without running the gaunt- 
let of the villages. That evening I tried to reduce the 
ever-increasing baggage of the sons of Ramji, who 
added to the heaps piled upon the wretched asses, now 
burdened with rations for several days, their drums and 
sleeping-hides, and their cocks and hens, whilst they left 
the beds and the cooking-utensils of the Goanese upon 
the ground. They informed me that if our animals 
could not carry their property, they could not drive 
our animals. The reply was significant. With some 
exertion of the "rascally virtue" — Prudence — I 
retired. 

The night was disturbed only by mosquitoes. These 
piping pests, however, are less troublesome in this part of 
East Africa than might be expected from the nature and 
the position of the country, and the bite has little venom 
compared with those of the Mozambique, or even of 
Western India. The common culex is a large variety, of 
brownish or dun colour ; its favourite breeding-places 
are the backwaters on the banks of rivers, and the mar- 
gins of muddy pools, and upon the creeks of the maritime 
regions, and the Central Lakes. 

Pursuing our march on the next day, I witnessed a 
curious contrast in this strange African nature, which 
is ever in extremes, and where extremes ever meet, 
where grace and beauty are seldom seen without a sud- 
den change to a hideous grotesqueness. A splendid 
view charmed me in the morning. Above lay a sky of 



LOVELY SCENERY. 



183 



purest azure, flaked with fleecy opal-tinted vapours 
floating high in the empyrean, and catching the first 
roseate smiles of the unrisen sun. Long lines, one 
bluer than the other, broken by castellated crags and 
towers of most picturesque form, girdled the far hori- 
zon ; the nearer heights were of a purplish-brown, and 
snowy mists hung like glaciers about their folds. The 
plain was a park in autumn, burnt tawny by the sun, 
patched with a darker hue where the people were firing 
the grass — a party was at work merrily, as if pre- 
paring for an English harvest-home — to start the ani- 
mals, to promote the growth of a young crop, and, such 
is the popular belief, to attract rain. Calabashes, Palmy- 
ras, Tamarinds, and clumps of evergreen trees were scat- 
tered over the scene, each stretching its lordly arms over 
subject circlets of deep dew-fed verdure. Here the dove 
cooed loudly, and the guinea-fowl rang its wild cry, 
whilst the peewit chattered in the open stubble, and a 
little martin, the prettiest of its kind, contrasted by its 
nimble dartings along the ground with the condor 
wheeling slowly through the upper air. The most 
graceful of animals, the zebra and the antelope, browsed 
in the distance : now they stood to gaze upon the long 
line of porters, then, after leisurely pacing, with retro- 
spective glances, in an opposite direction, they halted 
motionless for a moment, faced about once more to 
satiate curiosity, and lastly, terrified by their own 
fancy, they bounded in ricochets over the plain. 

About noon the fair scene vanished as if by enchant- 
ment. We suddenly turned northwards into a tangled 
mass of tall fetid reeds, rank jungle and forest, with its 
decaying trunks encroaching upon the hole-pierced goat- 
track that zigzaged towards the Myombo Eiver. This 
perennial stream rises, according to the guides, in an 

N 4 



184 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



elevation opposite to the highlands of Dut'humi. It is 
about fifty feet broad at the ford, breast-deep, and the 
swift brown waters swirl under a canopy of the trees 
whose name it bears. The " Myombo " is a fine spe- 
cimen of African timber, apparently unknown to the 
people of Zanzibar, but extending almost from the coast 
to the Lake Regions. The flower is greenish, with the 
overpowering smell of the Indian jasmines; the fruit is 
a large pod, containing ten or twelve long hard acorns, 
of a brown-black colour, set in cups which resemble 
red sealing-wax. The coarse bark is used for building 
huts and kraals, the inner fibre for " bast " and ropes, 
and the wood makes what Easterns call a hot fire, last- 
ing long, and burning well out. After the fiery sun 
and the dry atmosphere of the plains, the sudden effect 
of the dank and clammy chill, the result of exceeding 
evaporation, under the impervious shades that line the 
river banks, was overpowering. In such places one 
feels as if poisoned by miasma ; a shudder runs 
through the frame ; and a cold perspiration, like 
the prelude for a fainting-fit, breaks from the brow. 
Unloading the asses, and fording the stream, we 
ascended the left bank, and occupied a kraal, with 
fires still smoking, on its summit. Though ano- 
ther porter was left behind with small-pox, I had 
little difficulty with the luggage on this march: the 
more I worked the men, the harder they worked. 
Besides, they seldom fell sick on the road, though often 
prostrated when halting, a phenomenon which my com- 
panion explained by their hard eating and little exer- 
cise when stationary, and which Said bin Salim more 
mercifully attributed to the fatigue and exposure of the 
journey taking effect when the excitement had passed 
away. 



THE DESERTED VILLAGE. 



185 



At dawn on the 23rd of August we resumed our 
journey, and in 4 hrs 30' concluded the transit of the 
lateral plain, which separates the Rufuta from the 
Mukondokwa Range. The path wound over a wintry 
land, green with vegetation only in the vicinity 
of water. After struggling through a forest of canes, 
we heard a ngoma, or large drum, which astonished 
us, as we had not expected to find a village. Presently, 
falling into a network of paths, we lost our way. After 
long wandering we came upon a tobacco-field which the 
Baloch and the sons of Ramji had finished stripping, 
and conducted by some Wanyamwezi who had delayed 
returning to guide us, in order to indulge their love for 
drumming and plundering, we arrived at the debris of a 
once flourishing village of Wasagara, called Mbumi from 
its headman. A pitiable scene here presented itself. 
The huts were torn and half-burnt, and the ground was 
strewed with nets and drums, pestles and mortars, cots 
and fragments of rude furniture ; and though no traces 
of blood were observed, it was evident that a Commando 
had lately taken place there. Said bin Salim opined this 
ruin to be the work of Khalfan bin Salim, the youth who 
had preceded us from Muhama ; ever suspicious, he saw 
in it a plan adopted by the coast-Arab in order to raise 
against us the people of the mountains. Kidogo, ob- 
serving that the damage was at least ten days' old, 
more acutely attributed it to the Moslem kidnappers 
of Whinde, who, aided by the terrible Kisabengo, the 
robber-chief of Ukami, near K'hutu, harry the country 
with four or five hundred guns. Two of the wretched 
villagers were seen lurking in the jungle, not daring to 
revisit the wreck of their homes. Here again the Demon 
of Slavery will reign over a solitude of his own creation. 
Can it be that, by some inexplicable law, where Nature 



186 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



has done her best for the happiness of mankind, man, 
doomed to misery, must work out his own unhappiness? 
That night was spent at the deserted village by our men 
in drumming, singing, and gleaning all that Khalfan's 
gang had left ; they were, moreover, kept awake by fear 
lest they might be surprised by the remnants of the 
villagers. 

Late in the morning of the 24th of August, after 
losing another ass, torn by a cynhyama, we followed the 
path that leads from Mbumi along the right bank of the 
Mukondokwa River to its ford. The marescent vegeta- 
tion, and the tall, stiff, and thick-stalked grass, dripped 
with dew, which struck cold as a freezing-mixture. The 
path was slippery with mud, and man and beast were ren- 
dered wild by the cruel stings of a small red ant and a 
huge black pismire. The former cross the road in dense 
masses like the close columns of an army. They are 
large-headed, showing probably that they are the defen- 
ders of the republic, and that they perform the duties 
of soldiers in their excursions. Though they cannot 
spring, they show great quickness in fastening them- 
selves to the foot or ankle as it brushes over them. The 
pismire, known to the people as the " chungu-fundo," or 
" siyafu" from the Arabic " siyaf," is a horse-ant, about 
an inch in length, whose bulldog-like head and powerful 
mandibles enable it to destroy rats and mice, lizards 
and snakes. It loves damp places upon the banks of 
rivers and stagnant waters ; it burrows but never raises 
hills, and it appears scattered for miles over the paths. 
Like the other species, it knows neither fear nor sense of 
fatigue ; it rushes to annihilation without hesitating, 
and it cannot be expelled from a hut except by fire or 
boiling water. Its bite, which is the preamble to its 
meal, burns like a pinch with a red-hot needle ; and when 



THE PLAGUE OF ANTS. 



187 



it sets to work, twisting itself round and a accroupi " in 
its eagerness for food, it may be pulled in two without 
relaxing its hold. The favourite food of this pismire is 
the termite : its mortal enemy is a large ginger-coloured 
ant, called from its painful wound " maji m'oto," or " hot- 
water." In this foul jungle our men also suffered se- 
verely from the tzetze. This fly, the torment of Cape 
travellers, was limited, by Dr. Livingstone, to the regions 
south of the Zambezi river. A specimen, brought home 
by me and submitted to Mr. Adam White, of the British 
Museum, was pronounced by him to be a true Glossina 
morsitans, and Mr. Petherick has fixed its limits about 
eight degrees north of the equator. On the line followed 
by the Expedition, the tzetze was found extending from 
Usagara westward as far as the Central Lakes ; its usual 
habitat is the jungle-strip which encloses each patch 
of cultivated ground, and in the latter it is rarely 
seen. It has more persistency of purpose even than the 
Egyptian fly, and when beaten off it will return half a 
dozen times to the charge ; it cannot be killed except by 
a smart blow, and its long sharp proboscis draws blood 
even through a canvas hammock, It is not feared by 
the naked traveller ; the sting is as painful as that of an 
English horsefly, and leaves a lasting trace, but this hard- 
skinned people expect no evil consequences from it. In 
the vicinity of Kilwa it was heard of under the name of 
" kipanga," the " little sword." It is difficult to conceive 
the purpose for which this plague was placed in a land 
so eminently fitted for breeding cattle and for agricul- 
ture, which without animals cannot be greatly extended, 
except as an exercise for human ingenuity to remove. 
Possibly at some future day, -when the country becomes 
valuable, the tzetze may be exterminated by the in- 
troduction of some insectivorous bird, which will 



188 THE LAKE KEG IONS OF CENTRAL AFEICA. 

be the greatest benefactor that Central Africa ever 
knew. 

After about an hour's march, the narrow tunnel in the 
jungle — it was so close that only one ass could be led 
up and unloaded at a time — debouched upon the Mu- 
kondokwa ford. The view was not unpleasing. The 
swift brown stream was broadened by a branch-islet 
in its upper bed to nearly a hundred yards, and its 
margins were fringed with rushes backed by a 
screen of dense verdure and tall trees which occu- 
pied the narrow space between the water and the 
hills. The descent and the landing-place were 
equally bad. Slipping down the steep miry bank 
the porters sank into the river breast-deep, causing 
not a little damage to their loads : the ford now wetted 
the waist then the knee, and the landing-place was a 
kind of hippopotamus-run of thick slushy mud, floored 
with roots and branches, snags and sawyers, and backed 
by a quagmire rendered passable only by its matwork 
of tough grass-canes laid by their own weight. Having 
crossed over on our men's backs, we ascended a little 
rise and lay down somewhat in the condition of tra- 
velling Manes fresh from the transit of the Styx. I 
ordered back Iudogo with a gang of porters to assist 
Said bin Salim who was bringing up the rear : he pro- 
mised to go but he went the wrong way — forwards. 
Eesuming our march along the river's left or northern 
bank, we wound along the shoulders and the bases of 
hills, sometimes ascending the spurs of stony and jungly 
eminences, where the paths were unusually rough and 
precipitous, at other times descending into the stagnant 
lagoons, the reedy and rushy swamps, and the deep 
bogs which margin the stream. After a total of six 
hours we reached a kraal situated upon the sloping 



INSTRUMENTS. 



189 



ground at the foot of the northern walls which limit 
the grassy ^river basin: through this the Mukondokwa 
flows in a dark turbid stream now narrowed to about 
forty feet. The district of "Kadetamare" was formerly 
a provisioning station where even cattle were purchase- 
able, a rare exception to the rule in the smaller settle- 
ments of Usagara. I at once sent men to collect rations, 
none, however, were procurable : meeting a small party 
that were bringing grain from Rumuma, they learned 
that there was a famine in the land. 

At Kadetamare the only pedometer, a patent watch- 
shaped instrument, broke down, probably from the 
effects of the climate. Whilst carried by my companion 
it gave a steady exaggerative rate, but being set to the 
usual military pace of 30 inches, when transferred to 
the person of "Seedy Bombay" and others, it became 
worse than useless, sometimes showing 25 for 13 miles. 
I would suggest to future explorers in these regions, as 
the best and the most lasting means of measuring 
distances, two of the small wheelbarrow perambulators — 
it is vain to put trust in a single instrument — which can 
each be rolled on by one man. And when these are spoilt 
or stolen, timing with the watch, and a correct estimate 
of the walking rate combined with compass-bearings, the 
mean of the oscillations being taken when on the march, 
would give a "dead-reckoning," which checked by lati- 
tudes, as often as the cloudy skies permit, and by a 
few longitudes at crucial stations, would afford mate- 
rials for a map approximating as nearly to correctness 
as could be desired in a country where a "handful of 
miles" little matters. The other instruments, though 
carefully protected from the air, fared not better than 
the pedometer : with three pocket-chronometers and a 
valuable lever-watch, we were at last reduced to find 



190 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



time by a sixpenny sun-dial. Before the first fortnight 
after our second landing in Africa had elapsed, all these 
instruments, notwithstanding the time t and trouble de- 
voted to them by my companion, at Zanzibar, failed in 
their ratings and became useless for chronometric lon- 
gitudes. Two of them (Ed. Baker, London, No. 863, 
and Barraud, London, No. jfy), stopped without ap- 
parent reason. A third, a first-rate article (Parkinson 
and Frodsham, No. 2955), issued to me from the Royal 
Observatory Greenwich, at the kind suggestion of Capt. 
Belcher, of the Admiralty, had its glass broken and its 
second-hand lost by the blunderer Gaetano : we re- 
medied that evil by counting the ticks without other 
trouble than that caused by the odd number, — 5 to 2 
seconds. This instrument also summarily struck work 
on the 9th November, 1858, the day before we intended 
to have "made a night of it" at Jiwe la Mkoa. This may 
serve as a warning for future travellers to avoid instru- 
ments so delicate that a jolt will disorder them — the 
hair-spring of the lever watch w T as broken by my com- 
panion in jumping out of a canoe — and which no one but 
a professional can attempt to repair. A box chrono- 
meter carried in a "petarah" by a pole swung between 
two men so as to preserve its horizontally, might out- 
last the pocket-instruments, yet we read in Capt. Owens 
celebrated survey of the African coasts, that out of 
nine not one kept rate without fluctuations. The best 
plan would be to purchase half-a-dozen sound second- 
hand watches, carefully inspected and cleaned, and to 
use one at a time; if gold-mounted, they would form 
acceptable presents to the Arabs, and ultimately would 
prove economical by obviating the necessity of parting 
with more valuable articles. 

The break-down of the last chronometer disheartened 



INSTRUMENTS. 



191 



us for a time. Presently when our brains, addled by 
sun and sickness, had recovered tone by a return to the 
Usagara sanitarium, we remembered a rough and ready 
succedaneum for instruments. I need scarcely tell 
the reader that, unhappily for travellers, the only means 
of ascertaining the longitude of a place is by finding 
the difference between the local and Greenwich times, 
and that this difference of time with certain corrections 
is converted into distance of space. We split a 4 oz. 
rifle-ball, inserted into it a string measuring 39 inches 
from the point of suspension to the centre of the 
weight, and fixed it by hammering the halves together. 
The loose end of the cord was attached to a three- 
edged file as a pivot, and this was lashed firmly to 
the branch of a tree sheltered as much as possible 
from the wind. Local time was ascertained with a 
sextant by taking the altitude of a star or a planet ; 
Greenwich time by a distance between the star or 
planet and the moon, and the vibrations of our rude 
pendulum did all that a watch could do, by register- 
ing the seconds that elapsed between the several obser- 
vations. 

I am somewhat presuming upon the subject, but per- 
haps it may here be better to chronicle the accidents 
which happened to the rest of our instruments. We 
had two Schmalcalder's compasses (H. Barron & Co., 
26, Oxenden Street), which, when the paste-board 
faces had been acclimatized and no longer curled up 
against their glasses, did good service : one of them was 
trodden upon by my companion, the other by a sailor 
during a cruise on the lake. We returned with a 
single instrument, the gift of my old friend Lieut.- 
General Monteith ; it had surveyed Persia, and out- 



192 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



lasting two long excursions into Eastern Africa, it still 
outlives and probably will outlive many of the showy 
articles now supplied by the trade. Finally, a ship's 
compass, mounted in gimbals for boat-work and in- 
dented for upon the Engineer's Stores, Bombay, soon 
became lumber, its oscillations were too sluggish to be 
useful. 

We left Kadetamare on the 25th August, to ascend 
the fluviatile valley of the Mukondokwa. According 
to the guides this stream is the upper course of the 
Kingani Kiver, with which it anastomoses in Uzaramo 
(?) It cuts its way through the chain to which it 
gives a name, by a transversal valley perpendicular to 
the lay, and so conveniently disposed that the moun- 
tains seem rather to be made for their drain than the 
drain for its mountains. The fluviatile valley is ap- 
parently girt on all sides by high peaks, with homesteads 
smoking and cattle grazing on all sides. Crippled by 
the night-cold that rose from the river-bed, and then 
wet through with the dew that dripped from the tall 
grass, we traversed, within ear-shot of the frightened 
villagers who hailed one another from the heights, 
some fields of grain and tobacco that had been late- 
ly reaped. After an hour and a-half of marching 
we arrived at the second ford of the Mukondokwa. 
Receiving less drainage than in the lower bed, the 
stream was narrower and only knee-deep ; the landing- 
place of sloppy mud caused, however, many acci- 
dents to the asses, and on inspecting our stores a few 
days afterwards we found them all soft and mil- 
dewed. The reader will wonder that on these occasions 
we did not personally inspect the proceedings of our 
careless followers. The fact is we were physically and 



THE FORAGING PARTY. 



193 



morally incapacitated for any exertion beyond balanc- 
ing ourselves upon the donkeys ; at Kadetamare I had 
laid in another stock of fever, and my companion had not 
recovered from his second severe attack. After fording 
the Mukondokwa we followed the right bank through 
cultivation, grass, and trees, up a gradually broadening 
valley peculiarly rich in field- rats. The path then cross- 
ing sundry swamps and nullahs, hill-spurs and " neat's 
tongues," equally rough thorny and precipitous, pre- 
sently fell into a river-reach where pools of water, 
breast deep, and hedged in by impassable jungle and long 
runs of slushy mire festering in a furious sun, severely 
tried the porters and asses. Thence the road wound 
under the high hills to the South, whose flanks were 
smoking with extensive conflagrations, whilst on the op- 
posite or left bank of the river, the opening valley dis- 
played a forest of palms and tall trees. About 2 p.m. 
I reached the ground, a hutless circle of thorns, 
called by our people Muinyi : the rear-guard, however, 
did not straggle in before 6 p.m., and the exhaustion of 
the asses — seventeen now remained — rendered a day's 
halt necessary. 

During the last two marches the Baloch had been, 
they declared, without grain ; the sons of Ramji and 
the porters, more provident, had reserved a small store, 
moreover they managed to procure a sheep from the next 
station. On the morrow a party, headed by Muinyi 
Wazira, set out to forage among the mountain settle- 
ments, bearing no arms in token of peace. About noon 
they returned, and reported that at the sight of 
strangers the people had taken to flight, after inform- 
ing the party that they were in the habit of putting to 
death all Murungwana or freemen found trespassing off 
the road ; however, that on this occasion the lives of the 

VOL. I. 0 



194 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



strangers should be spared. But Ambari, a slave be- 
longing to Said bin Salim, presently tattled the true tale. 
The gallant foragers had not dared to enter the village ; 
when the war-cry flew from hamlet to hamlet, and all 
the Wasagara, even the women and children, seized their 
spears and stood to arms, they at once threw themselves 
into the jungle and descended the hill with such un- 
seemly haste that most of them bore the wounds of 
thorns and stones. Two of Baloch, Eiza and Belok, 
lit their matches and set out proudly to provide them- 
selves by their prowess ; they were derided by Kidogo : 
" Verily, 0 my brethren ! ye go forth to meet men and 
not women ! " and after a hundred yards' walk they 
took second thoughts and returned. The Mukondokwa 
Mountains, once a garden, have become a field for fray 
and foray ; cruelty and violence have brutalised the 
souls of the inhabitants, and they have learned, as 
several atrocities committed since our passage through 
the country prove, to wreak their vengeance upon all 
weaker than themselves. 

On the 27th August we resumed our way under fresh 
difficulties. The last march had cost us another ass. 
Muhinna, a donkey-driver, complaining of fever, had 
been mounted by Kidogo without my permission, and 
had summarily departed, thus depriving us of the ser- 
vices of a second, whilst all were in a state of weakness 
which compelled them to walk at their slowest pace. On 
the other hand, the men of the caravan, hungry and 
suffering from raw south-east wind and the chilly cold, 
the result not of low temperature but of humidity and 
extensive evaporation, were for pushing forward as fast 
as possible. The path was painful, winding along the 
shoulders of stony and bushy hills, with rough re-entering 
angles, and sometimes dipping down into the valley of 



THE SYCOMOKE. 



195 



the Mukondokwa, which, hard on the right, spread out 
in swamps, nearly two miles broad, temporary where they 
depended upon rain, and permanent where their low 
levels admitted of free infiltration. On the steep eminences 
to the left of the path rose tall and thick the thorny 
aloetic and cactaceous growth of arid Somaliland ; the 
other side was a miniature of the marine lagoons, the 
creeks, and the bayous of green Zanzibar. After three 
hours of hard marching, the labour came to its crisis, 
where the path, breaking off at a right angle from the river, 
wound up an insecure ladder of loose earth and stones, 
which caused several porters and one ass to lose their 
footing, and to roll with their loads through the thorny 
bushes of the steep slope, near the off side, into the bed 
of rushes below. Then leaving the river-valley on the 
right, we fell into a Fiumara of deep loose sand, about a 
hundred yards broad, and occupying the centre of a 
widening table-land. The view now changed, and the 
" wady " afforded pleasant glimpses of scenery. Its 
broad, smooth and glistening bed, dinted by the foot- 
prints of cattle, was bounded by low perpendicular 
banks of stiff red clay, margined by mighty masses of 
brilliant green tamarinds, calabashes, and sycomores, 
which stood sharply out against the yellow stubbles be- 
yond them. The Mkuyu or sycomore in Eastern 
Africa is a magnificent tree ; the bole, composed of 
a pillared mass, averages from eight to ten feet in 
height, and the huge branches, thatched with thick cool 
foliage, extend laterally, overshadowing a circle whose 
perimeter^ when the sun is vertical, sometimes attains 
five hundred feet. The fruit, though eaten by travellers, 
is a poor berry, all rind and seeds, with a slender title 
to the name of fig. There are apparently two varieties 
of this tree, resembling each other in general appearance, 

o 2 



196 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



but differing in details. The Mtamba has a large, heavy, 
and fleshy leaf ; its fruit is not smooth like that of the 
Mkuyu, but knobbed with green excrescences, and the 
bole is loftier than the common sycomore's trunk. The 
roots of the older trees, rising above the earth, draw up 
a quantity of mould which, when the wood is decayed 
or destroyed, forms the dwarf mounds that in many parts 
encumber the surface of the country. Traces of exten- 
sive cultivation — fields of bajri or panicum, the staple 
cereal which here supplants the normal African holcus, 
or Kafir corn, and plantations of luxuriant maize, of 
beans, of the vetch known as the voiandzeia subterranea, 
of tobacco, and other plants — showed that this district is 
beyond the reach of the coast-kidnappers. From the rising 
ground on the left hand we heard the loud tattoo of the 
drum. The Baloch, choosing to be alarmed, fired several 
shots, much to the annoyance of the irascible Kidogo, who 
had laid down as a law that waste of powder in this region 
was more likely to invite than to prevent an attack. As 
we ascended the Fiumara it narrowed rapidly, and its 
head was encumbered with heaps of boulders from which 
sprang a runnel of the sweetest water. The camping- 
ground was upon the left bank of the bed. The guide 
called it Ndabi, probably from a small gnarled tree here 
abundant, bearing a fruit like a pale red currant, which 
tastes like sweetened gum dissolved in dirty water. I 
lost no time in sending for provisions, which were scarce 
and dear. Bombay failed in procuring a sheep, though the 
Baloch, by paying six cloths, were more fortunate. One 
of Kidogo's principles of action, in which he was abetted 
by Said bin Salim, was to prevent our buying provisions, 
however necessary, at high prices, fearing lest the tariff 
thus established might become an " ada," a precedent or 
custom for future travellers, himself and others. We 



THE CAMP AT RUMUMA. 



197 



were, therefore, fain to content ourselves and our ser- 
vants with a little bajri and two eggs. 

After a day's halt at Ndabi we resumed the journey 
on the 29th August. The path crossed a high and 
stony hill-shoulder, where the bleak raw air caused one 
of the porters to lie down torpid like a frozen man. It 
then stretched over gradually rising and falling ground 
to a dense bush of cactacese and milk-bush, aloetic plants 
and thorns, based upon a surface of brickdust-red. Be- 
yond this point lay another plateau of wavy surface, 
producing dwarfed and wind-wrung calabashes, and 
showing grain-fields carefully and laboriously ridged with 
the hoe. Flocks and herds now appeared in all direc- 
tions. The ground was in some places rust-coloured, in 
others dazzlingly white with a detritus of granite ; mica 
glittered like silver-filings in the sun, and a fine silky 
grass waved in the wind, bleached clean of colour by the 
glowing rays. This plateau ended in a descent with 
rapid slopes, over falls and steps of rock and boulder 
into the basin of the Eumuma River. It is a southern 
influent, or a bifurcation of the Mukondokwa, and 
it drains the hills to the south-west of the Rumuma 
district, whereas the main stream, arising in the high- 
lands of the Wahumba or Wamusai, carries off the 
waters of the lands on the w r est. Losing our way, 
we came upon this mountain-torrent, which swirls 
through blocks and boulders under stiff banks of red 
earth densely grown with brush and reeds ; and to 
find the kraal we were obliged to travel up the bed-side, 
through well-hoed fields irrigated by raised water-courses. 
The khambi was badly situated in the dwarf hollow be- 
tween the river and the hills, and having lately been 
tenanted, as the smoking embers showed, it was uncleanly 
in the extreme. It was heart-breaking to see the asses 

o 3 



198 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



that day. I left them to Said bin Salim, who, with 
many others, did not appear till eventide. 

Eumuma is a favourite resting-place with caravans, 
on account of the comparative abundance of its sup- 
plies. I halted here two whole days, to rest and feed 
the starving porters, and to repair the sacks, the pack- 
saddles, and the other appointments of the asses. Here, 
for the first time, the country people descended in 
crowds from the hills, bringing fowls, hauling along 
small but beautifully formed goats, lank sheep, and fine 
bullocks — the latter worth twelve cloths — and carrying 
on their heads basket-platters full of the Voandzeia, 
bajri, beans, and the Arachis Hypogcea. The latter is 
called by the Arabs Sumbul el Sibal, or " Monkey's 
Spikenard on the coast, Njugu ya Nyassa ; in Unyam- 
wezi, Karanga or K'haranga, and further west, Ma- 
yowwa or Mwanza. It is the Bhuiphali, or " earth- 
fruit 7 ' of India, and the Bik'han of Maharatta land, 
where it is used by cheap confectioners in the place of 
almonds, whose taste it simulates. Our older Cape tra- 
vellers term it the pig-nut. The plant extends itself 
along the surface of the ground, and puts forth its fruit 
at intervals below. It is sown before the rains, and 
ripens after six months, — in the interior about June. 
The Arabs fry it with cream that has been slightly 
salted, and employ it in a variety of rich dishes ; it 
affords them also a favourite oil. The Africans use it 
principally on journeys. The price greatly varies ac- 
cording to the abundance of the article ; when moderate, 
about two pounds may be purchased for a " khete " of 
coral beads. 

The Wasagara of Eumuma are short, black, beard- 
less men. They wear their hair combed off the fore- 
head, and twisted into a fringe of little pig-tails, which 
extend to the nape of the neck. Few boast of cloth, 



SULTAN NJASA. 



199 



the general body contenting themselves with a goat- 
skin flap somewhat like a cobbler's apron tied over 
one shoulder, as we sling a game-bag. Their orna- 
ments are zinc and brass earrings in rolls, which 
distend the ear-lobe, bangles, or armlets of similar 
metal, and iron chains with oblong links as anklets. 
Their arms are bows and arrows, assegais with long 
lanceated heads, and bull-hide shields, three feet 
long by one broad, painted black and red in per- 
pendicular stripes. I was visited by their Sultan 
Njasa, a small grizzled old man, with eyes reddened by 
liquor, a wide mouth, a very thin beard, a sooty skin, 
and long straggling hair, " a la malcontent." He was 
attired in an antiquated Barsati, or blue and red In- 
dian cotton, tucked in at the waist, with another 
thrown over his shoulders, and his neck was decked 
with many strings of beads. He insisted upon making 
" sare " or brotherhood with Said bin Salim, who being 
forbidden by his law to taste blood, made the uncon- 
scientious Muinyi Wazira his proxy. The two brothers 
being seated on the ground opposite each other, with 
legs well to the fore, one man held over their heads a 
drawn sword, whilst another addressed to them alter- 
nately a little sermon, denouncing death or slavery as 
the penalty for proving false to the vow. Then each 
brother licked a little of the other's blood, taken with 
the finger from a knife-cut above the heart, or rather 
where the heart is popularly supposed to be. The Sul- 
tan then presented to the Muinyi, in memoriam, a neat 
iron chain-anklet, and the Muinyi presented to the Sultan 
a little of our cloth. 

The climate of Rumuma was new to me, after the in- 
cessant rains of the maritime valley, and the fogs and 
mists of the Rufuta Range. It was, however, in ex- 

o 4 



200 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



tremes. At night the thermometer, under the influence 
of dewy gusts, sank in the tent to 48° F., a killing tem- 
perature in these latitudes to half-naked and houseless 
men. During the day the mercury ranged between 80° 
and 90° F. ; the sun was fiery, whilst a furious south 
wind coursed through skies purer and bluer than I had 
ever seen in Greece or Italy. At times, according to 
the people, the hill-tops are veiled, especially in the 
mornings and evenings, with thick nimbus, vapours, 
and spitting clouds, which sometimes extend to the 
plain, and discharge heavy showers that invariably 
cause sickness. Here my companion once more suffered 
from an attack of " liver," brought on, he supposed, 
from over-devotion to a fat bullock's hump. Two of 
the Wanyainwezi porters were seized with preliminary 
symptoms of small-pox, euphuistically termed by Said 
bin Salim " shurua," or chicken-pox. Several of the 
slaves, including the charming Halimah, were laid up ; 
the worst of all, however, was Valentine, who complained 
of an unceasing racking headache, whilst his puffed 
cheeks and dull-yellow skin gave him the look of one 
newly deceased. At length, divining his complaint, he 
was cupped by a Mnyamwezi porter, and he recovered 
after the operation strength and appetite. 

The 2nd of September saw us en route to Marenga 
Mk'hali, or the " brackish water." Fording the Ru- 
muma above the spot where it receives the thin supplies 
of the Marenga Mk'hali, we marched over stony hills 
and thorny bushes, dotted with calabash and mimosa, 
the castor-shrub and the wild egg-plant, and gradually 
rising, we passed into scattered fields of holcus and 
bajri, pulse and beans. Here, for the first time, bee-hives, 
called by the coast-people Mazinga, or cannons, from 
their shape, hollowed cylindrical logs, closed with grass 



THE BRACKISH WATER. 



201 



and puddle at both ends, and provided with an oval 
opening in the centre, were seen hanging to the branches 
of the foliaged trees. Cucumbers, water-melons, and 
pumpkins grew apparently without cultivation. The 
water-melon, called by the Arabs Johh, and by the 
Wasawahili Tikiti, nourishes throughout the interior, 
where it is a favourite with the people. It is sown be- 
fore the rainy season, gathered after six months, and 
placed to ripen upon the flat roofs of the villages. Like 
the produce of Kafir-land, it is hard, insipid, fleshy, 
and full of seeds, having nothing but the name in coin- 
roon with the delicious fruit of Egypt and Afghanistan. 
The Junsal, or Boga, the pumpkin, is, if possible, worse 
than the water-melon. Its red meat, simply boiled, is 
nauseously sweet ; it is, however, considered wholesome, 
and the people enjoy the seeds toasted, pounded, and 
mixed with the " Mboga," or wild vegetables, with 
which a veritable African can, in these regions, keep 
soul and body together for six months. About 10 a.m., 
I found Khalfan's caravan halted in a large kraal 
amongst the villages, on the eastern hill above the 
" brackish water." They were loading for the march, 
and my men looked wistfully at the comfortable huts ; 
but their halt had been occasioned by small-pox, I there- 
fore hurried forwards across the streamlet to a wind- 
swept summit of an opposite hill. The place was far from 
pleasant, the gusts were furious ; by night the ther- 
mometer showed 54° F., by day there was but scanty 
shelter from the fiery sun, and the " Marenga Mk'hali," 
which afforded the only supplies of water, was at a con- 
siderable distance. Moreover our umbrellas and bed- 
ding suffered severely from a destructive host of white 
ants, that here became troublesome for the first time. 
The " Chunga Mchwa," or termite, abounds throughout 



202 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



the sweet red clay soils, and cool damp places, avoiding 
heat, sand, and stone, and it acts like a clearer and 
scavenger ; without it, indeed, some parts of the country 
would be impassable, and it is endowed with extraor- 
dinary powers of destruction. A hard clay-bench has 
been drilled and pierced like a sieve by these insects in a 
single night, and bundles of reeds placed under bedding, 
have in a few hours been converted into a mass of mud ; 
straps were consumed, cloths and umbrellas were re- 
duced to rags, and the mats used for covering the ser- 
vants' sleeping-gear were, in the shortest possible time, 
so tattered as to be unserviceable. Man revenges him- 
self upon the white ant, and satisfies his craving for 
animal food, which in these regions becomes a principle 
of action, — a passion, — by boiling the largest and fattest 
kind, and eating it as a relish with his insipid ugali, or 
porridge. The termite appears to be a mass of live 
water. Even in the driest places it finds no difficulty 
in making a clay-paste for the mud-galleries, like hol- 
low tree-twigs, with which it disguises its approach to 
its prey. The phenomenon has been explained by the 
conjecture that it combines by vital force the atmo- 
spheric oxj^gen with the hydrogen evolved by its food. 
When arrived at the adult state, the little peoples rise 
ready-winged, like thin curls of pipe-smoke, generally 
about even-tide, from the ground. After a flight of a 
few yards, the fine membranes, which apparently serve 
to disperse the insects into colonies, drop off. In East 
Africa there is also a semi-transparent brown ant, re- 
sembling the termite in form, but differing in habits, 
and even exceeding it in destructiveness. It does not, 
like its congener, run galleries up to the point of attack. 
Each individual works for itself in the open air, tears 
the prey with its strong mandibles, and carries it away 
to its hole. The cellular hills of the termites in this 



THE BEACK1SH WATER. 



203 



country rarely rise to the height of three feet, whereas 
in Somali-land they become dwarf towers, forming a 
conspicuous feature in the view. 

No watch was kept by the Baloch at Marenga Mk'hali, 
though we were then in the vicinity of the bandit Wa- 
humba. On the next day we were harangued by Ki- 
dogo, who proceeded to expound the principles that 
must guide us through the unsafe regions ahead. The 
caravan must no longer straggle on in its usual dis- 
order, the van must stop short when separated from 
the main *body, and the rear must advance at the 
double when summoned by the sound of the Barghumi, 
or the koodoo-horn, which acts as bugle in Eastern 
Africa. I thought, at the time, that Kidogo might 
as well address his admonitions to the wind, and I 
thought rightly. 

The route lay through the lateral plain which sepa- 
rates the Mukondokwa or second, from the Rubeho or 
third parallel range of the Usagara Mountains. At 
Marenga Mk'hali, situated as it is under the lee of the 
two eastern walls, upon which the humid N. E. and 
S.E. trade-winds impinge, the eye no longer falls, as 
before, upon a sheet of monotonous green, and the nose 
is not offended by the death-like exhalations of a pesti- 
lent vegetation. The dew diminishes, the morning- 
cloud is rare upon the hill-top, and the stratus is not 
often seen in the valley; rain, moreover, seldom falls 
heavily, except during its single appointed season. The 
climate is said to be salubrious, and the medium eleva- 
tion of the land, 2500 feet, raises it high above the 
fatal fever-level, without attaining the altitudes where 
dysentery and pleurisy afflict the inhabitants. Eor 
many miles beyond Marenga Mk'hali water is rarely 
found. Caravans, therefore, resort to what is technically 
called a " Tirikeza," or afternoon march. In the Kisawa- 



204 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



hili, or coast-language, "ku Tirikeza," or "Tilikeza," and 
inKinyamwezi, u ku Witekezea," is the infinitive of a neu- 
ter verb signifying " to march after noon-day" ; by the 
Arabs it is corrupted into a substantive. Similarly the 
verb ku honga, to pay "dash", tribute, passage-money, or 
blackmail, becomes in the mouths of the stranger, ku 
honga, or Honga. The tirikeza is one of the severest 
inflictions that African travelling knows. At 11 a.m. 
everything is thrown into confusion, although two or 
three hours must elapse before departure; loads are 
bound up, kitchen-batteries are washed and packed, 
tents are thrown, and stools are carried off by fidgeting 
porters and excited slaves. Having drunk for the last 
time, and filled their gourds for the night, the wayfarers 
set out when the midday ends. The sun is far more 
severely felt after the sudden change from shade, than 
during the morning marches, when its increase of heat is 
slow and gradual. They trudge under the fireball in the 
firmament, over ground seething with glow and reek, 
through an air which seems to parch the eyeballs, and 
they endure this affliction till their shadows lengthen 
out upon the ground. The tirikeza is almost in- 
variably a lengthy stage, as the porters wish to abridge 
the next morning's march, which leads to water. It is 
often bright moonlight before they arrive at the ground, 
with faces torn by the thorns projecting across the 
jungly path, with feet lacerated by stone and stub, 
and occasionally a leg lamed by stumbling into deep 
and narrow holes, the work of field -rats and of various 
insects. 

We left Marengd Mk'hali at 1 p.m., on the 3rd Sep- 
tember, and in order to impressionise a large and well- 
armed band of the country people that had gathered to 
stare at, to criticise, and to deride us, we indulged in 



THE TIRIKEZA. 



205 



a little harmless sword-play, with a vast show of ferocity 
and readiness for fight. The road lay over several rough, 
steep, and bushy ridges, where the wretched asses, 
rushing away to take advantage of a yard of shade, 
caused constant delays. The Wanyamwezi animals 
having a great persistency of character, could scarcely 
be dislodged ; and when they were, they threw their 
loads in pure spite. After topping a little " col " or 
pass, we came in sight of an extensive basin, bounded 
by distant blue hills, to which the porters pointed with 
a certain awe, declaring them to be the haunts of the 
fierce Wahumba. A descent of the western flank led 
us to a space partially cleared by burning, when the cry 
arose that men were lurking about. We then plunged 
into a thick bush of thorny trees, based upon a red 
clayey soil caked into the semblance of a rock. Con- 
trary to expectation, when crossing a deep nullah trend- 
ing northwards, we found a little rusty, ochreish water, 
in one of the cups and holes that dented the sandstone 
of the soles. Thence the path, gradually descending, 
fell into a coarse scrub, varied with small open savan- 
nahs, and broken, like the rest of the road, by deep, 
narrow watercourses, which carry off the waters of the 
southern hills to the northern lowlands. About 6 p.m., 
we came upon a cleared space in a thick thorn-jungle, 
where we established ourselves for the night. The 
near whine of the hyaena, and the alarm of the asses, 
made sleep a difficulty. The impatience and selfish- 
ness of thirst showed strongly in the Baloch. Belok 
had five large gourds full of water, perhaps three gal- 
lons, yet he would not part with a palmful to the sick 
Ismail. That day I was compelled to dismiss my usual 
ass-leader Shahdad. the zeze-player and fracturer of fe- 
male hearts, who preferring the conversation of his 



206 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTBAL AFEICA. 



fellows, dragged the animal through thorns and along- 
side of trees so artistically, that my nether garments 
were soon in strips. I substituted for him Musa the 
Greybeard, who, after a few days, begged, with bitter 
tears, to be excused. It was his habit to hurry on 
towards the kraal and shade, and the slow hobble of the 
ass detained him a whole hour in sore discomfort. The 
task was then committed to the tailor-youth Hudul, who 
lost no time in declaring that I had abused him — that 
he was a'Baloch — that he was not an asinego. Then I 
tried Abdullah, — the good young man. I dismissed him 
because every day brought with it a fresh demand for 
cloth or beads, gourds or sandals, for a " chit - to the 
Balyuz — the Consul, or a general good character as re- 
gards honesty, virtue, and the et ceteras. Finally the ass 
was entrusted to the bull-headed slave Mabruki, who 
thinking of nothing but chat with his " brother," Seedy 
Bombay, and having that curious mania for command 
which seems part of every servile nature, hurried my 
monture so recklessly, that earth -cracks and rat-holes 
caused us twain many a severe fall. My companion 
had entrusted himself to Bombay, who, though he did 
nothing well rarely did anything very badly. 

The 4th September began with an hour's toil through 
the dense bush, to a rapid descent over red soil and 
rocks, which necessitated frequent dismounting, — ¦ no 
pleasant exercise after a sleepless night. Below, lay a 
wide basin of rolling ground, surrounded in front by a 
rim of hills. It was one of the many views which 
" catching the reflex of heaven," and losing by indis- 
tinctness the harshness of defined outline and the de- 
formity of individual feature, assume, viewed from afar, 
a peculiar picturesqueness. Traces of extensive culti- 
vation, flocks and herds, were descried in the lower 



FIEST SIGHT OF THE TEMBE. 



207 



levels, which were a network of sandy nullahs ; and 
upon the rises, the regular and irregular square or 
oblong habitations, called " Tembe," were seen for the first 
time. Early September is, in this region, the depth of 
winter. Under the burning, glaring sun, the grass 
becomes white as the ground ; the fields, stubbles stiff as 
harrows, are stained only by the shadow of passing 
clouds ; the trees, except upon the nullah-banks, are 
gaunt and bare, the animals are walking skeletons, and 
nothing seems to flourish but Hies and white ants, 
caltrops and grapple-plants. After crossing deep water- 
cuts trending N.E. and N.N.E., we descended a sharp 
incline and a rough ladder of boulders, and found a 
dirty and confined kraal, on the side of a rocky khad # or 
ravine, which drains off the surplus moisture of the 
westerly crags and highlands, and which affords sweet 
springs, that cover the soil as far as they extend with a 
nutritious and succulent grass. As this was to be a 
halting-place, a more than usually violent rush was 
made by the Baloch, the sons of Ramp, and the 
porters, to secure the best quarters. The Jemadar 
remaining behind with three of the Wanyamwezi, who 
were unable to walk, did not arrive till after noon, and 
my companion, suffering from a paroxysm of bilious 
fever, came in even later. Valentine was weaker than 
usual, and G acta no groaned more frequently, " ang 
duk'hta " — body pains ! To add other troubles, an ass 
had been lost ? and u Khamsin,"— No. 50 — my riding- 
animal, had by breaking a tooth in fighting incapacitated 
itself for food or drink : its feebleness compelled me 
to transfer the saddle to the last of the Zanzibar riding- 

* The Indian "khad" is the deep rocky drain in hilly countries, thus 
differing from the popular idea of a " ravine," and from the nullah, which is 
a formation in more level lands, 



208 THE LAKE REGION'S OF CENTEAL AFEICA. 



asses, Siringe, — the Quarter-dollar — and Siringe, sadly 
back-sore, cowering in the hams, and slipping from 
under me every few minutes, showed present signs of 
giving in. 

The basin of Inenge lies at the foot of the Rubeho 
or " Windy Pass," the third and westernmost range of 
the Usagara Mountains. The climate, like that of 
Rumuma, is ever in extremes — during the day a furnace, 
and at night a refrigerator — the position is a funnel, 
which alternately collects the fiery sunbeams and the 
chilly winds that pour down from the misty highlands. 
The villagers of the settlements overlooking the ravine, 
flocked down to barter their animals and grain. Here, 
for the first time since our departure from the coast, 
honey, clarified butter, and, greatest boon of all, milk, 
fresh and sour, were procurable. The man who has 
been restricted to a diet so unwholesome as holcus 
and bajri, with an occasional treat of kennel-food, — 
broth and beans, — will understand that the first un- 
expected appearance of milk, butter, and honey formed 
an epoch in our journey. 

The halt was celebrated with abundant drumming and 
droning, which lasted half the night ; it served to cheer the 
spirits of the men, who had talked of nothing the whole 
day but the danger of being attacked by the Wahumba. 
On the next morning arrived a caravan of about 400 
Wanyamwezi porters inarching to the coast, under the 
command of Isa bin Hijji and three other Arab mer- 
chants. An interchange of civilities took place. The 
Arabs lacking cloth could not feed their slaves and 
porters, who deserted daily, imperilling a valuable 
investment in ivory. The Europeans could afford a 
small contribution of three Gorah or pieces of 
domestics: they received a present of fine white 



MEETING OF CARAVANS. 



209 



rice, a few pounds of salt, and a goat, in exchange 
for a little perfumed snuff and assafcetida, which after 
a peculiar infusion is applied to wounds, and which, ad- 
ministered internally, is considered a remedy for many 
complaints. I was allured to buy a few yards of rope, 
indispensable for packing the animals. The number of 
our asses being reduced from thirty to fifteen, and the 
porters from thirty- six to thirty, it was necessary to 
recruit. The Arabs sold two Wanyamwezi animals for 
ten dollars each, payable at Zanzibar. One proved 
valuable as a riding ass, and carried me to the Central 
Lake, and back toUnyanyembe: the other, though capon- 
ized and blind on the off-side, had become by bad treat- 
ment so obstinate and so cleverly vicious, that the Baloch 
called him " Shaytan yek-cham," or the u one-eyed 
fiend : " he carried, besides sundries, four boxes of am- 
munition, weighing together 160 pounds, and even under 
these he danced like a deer. Nothing was against him 
but his character : after a few days he was cast adrift -in 
the wilderness of Mgunda M'khali, because no man 
dared to load and lead him. Knowing that the Arab 
merchants upon this line hold it a point of honour to 
discourage, by refusing a new engagement, the down- 
porters in their proclivity to desert, and believing that 
it was a stranger's duty to be even stricter than they 
are, I gave most stringent orders that any fugitive 
porter detected in my caravan should be sent back a 
prisoner to his employers. But the Coast- Arabs and 
the Wasawahili ignore this commercial chivalry, and 
shamelessly offer a premium to " levanters : " moreover, 
in these lands it is hard to make men understand the 
rapport between sayings and doings. Seven or eight 
fellows, who secretly left the party, were sent back ; 
one, however, was taken on without my knowledge. 
vol. i. p 



210 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 

Said bin Salim persuaded the merchants to lend us the 
services of three Wanyamwezi, who for sums varying from 
eight Shukkah to two cloths, and a coil large enough 
to make three wire bracelets, undertook to carry packs 
as far as Unyanyembe. Our Ras Kafilah had increased 
in Uzaramo his suite by the addition of " Zawada," — 
the " nice gift," a parting present of the headman 
Kizaya. She was a woman about thirty, with a black 
skin shining like a patent-leather boot, a bulging brow, 
little red eyes, a wide mouth which displayed a few long, 
strong, scattered teeth, and a figure considerably too 
bulky for her thin legs, which were unpleasantly straight, 
like ninepins. Her morale was superior to her physique; 
she was a patient and hard-working woman, and respect- 
able in the African acceptation of the term. She was at 
once married off to old Musangesi, one of the donkey- 
men, whose nose and chin made him a caricature of our 
dear old friend Punch. After detecting her in a lengthy 
walk, perhaps not solitary, through the jungle, he was 
palpably guilty of such cruelty that I felt compelled to 
decree a dissolution of the marriage. After passing 
through sundry adventures she returned safely to Zan- 
zibar, where, for aught I know, she may still grace 
the harem of Said bin Salim. At Inenge another female 
slave was added to the troop, in the person of the lady 
Sikujui, " Don't know," a " mulier nigris dignissima 
barris," whose herculean person and virago manner 
raised her value to six cloths and a large coil of brass 
wire. The channel of her upper lip had been pierced to 
admit a disk of bone ; her Arab master had attempted 
to correct the disfigurement by scarification and the use 
of rock-salt, yet the distended muscles insisted upon pro- 
jecting sharply from her countenance, like a duck's bill, 
or the beak of an ornithorhyncus. This truly African 



THE LADY " DON'T KNOW." 



211 



ornamentation would have supplied another instance to 
the ingenious author of " Anthropometamorphosis." * 
u Don't know's " morals were frightful. She was duly 
espoused — as the forlorn hope of making her an " honest 
woman " — to Goha, the sturdiest of the Wak'hutu por- 
ters ; after a week she treated him with a sublime con- 
tempt. She gave him first one, then a dozen rivals ; 
she disordered the caravan by her irregularities ; she 
broke every article entrusted to her charge, as the 
readiest way of lightening her burden, and — " le moindre 
defaut d'une femme galante est de l'etre " — she deserted 
so shamelessly that at last Said bin Salim disposed of 
her, at Unyanyembe, for a few measures of rice, to a 
travelling trader, who came the next morning to com- 
plain of a broken head. 

Isa bin Hijji did us various good services. He and 
his companions kindly waited some days to superintend 
our preparations for crossing the Rubeho Range. They 
supplied useful hints for keeping the caravan together 
at different places infamous for desertion. They gave 
me valuable information about Ugogo and Ujiji, and 
they placed at my disposal their house at Unyanyembe. 
They " wigged " the Kirangozi, or guide, for careless- 
ness in not building a kraal-fence every night, and for 

* Anthropometamorphosis : Man-transformed : or the Artificial Changeling, 
historically presented, In the mad and cruel Gallantry, foolish Bravery, 
Ridiculous Beauty, filthy Finenesse, and loathsome Loveliness of most 
NATIONS, fashioning and attiring their Bodies from the mould intended 
by NATURE ; with figures of these Transfigurations. To which artificial 
and affected Deformations are added, all the Native and National 
Monstrosities that have appeared to disfigure the Humane Fabrick. With 
a VINDICATION of the Regular Beauty and Honesty of NATURE. 
With an Appendix of the Pedigree of the ENGLISH GALLANT. 
Scripsit J. B. Cognomento Chirosophus, M.D "In nova fert animus, 
mutatas dicere formas." London : Printed by William Hunt, Anno. Dom. 
1653. 

r 2 



212 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



not bringing in, as the custom is, wood and water. 
Kidogo was reproved for allowing his men to load our 
asses with their luggage, and the Baloch for their con- 
tinual complaints about food. The latter had long for- 
gotten the promises made at Muhama ; they returned 
at every opportunity to their old tactic, that of obtaining, 
by all manner of pretexts, as much cloth and beads as 
possible, ostensibly for provisions, really for trading and 
buying slaves. At Rumuma they declared that one 
cloth per diem starved them. Said bin Salim sent 
them its value, about fifty pounds of beans, and they 
had abundant rations of beef and mutton, but they 
could not eat beans. At Inenge they wanted flour, and 
as the country people sold only grain, they gave them- 
selves up to despair. I sent for the Jemadar and told 
him, in presence of the merchants, that, as a fitting 
opportunity had presented itself, I was willing to weed 
the party, by giving official dismissal to Khudabakhsh 
and Belok, to the invalid Ismail and his musical 
" brother " Shahdad. All four, when consulted, declared 
that they would die rather than blacken their faces by 
abandoning the " Haji Abdullah ; " that same evening, 
however, as I afterwards learned, they wrote, by means 
of the Arabs, a heartrending complaint to their chief 
Jemadar at Zanzibar, declaring that he had thrown 
them into the fire (of affliction), and that their blood 
was upon his hands. My companion prepared official 
papers and maps for the Secretary of the Royal Geo- 
graphical Society, and I again indented upon the Consul 
and the Collector of Customs for drugs, medical com- 
forts, and an extra supply of cloth and beads, to the 
extent of 400 dollars, for which a cheque upon my 
agents in Bombay was enclosed. The Arabs took leave 
of us on the 2nd September. I charged them repeat- 



THE PASS TERRIBLE. 



213 



edly not to spread reports of our illness, and I saw them 
depart with regret. It had really been a relief to hear 
once more the voice of civility and sympathy. 

The great labour still remained. Trembling with 
ague, with swimming heads, ears deafened by weakness, 
and limbs that would hardly support us, we contem- 
plated with a dogged despair the apparently perpen- 
dicular path that ignored a zigzag, and the ladders of 
root and boulder, hemmed in with tangled vegetation, up 
which we and our starving drooping asses were about to 
toil. On the 10th September we hardened our hearts, and 
began to breast the Pass Terrible. My companion was 
so weak that he required the aid of two or three sup- 
porters; I, much less unnerved, managed with one. After 
rounding in two places wall-like sheets of rock — at their 
bases green grass and fresh water were standing close to 
camp, and yet no one had driven the donkeys to feed — 
and crossing a bushy jungly step, we faced a long steep of 
loose white soil and rolling stones, up which we could see 
the Wanyamwezi porters swarming, more like baboons 
scaling a precipice than human beings, and the asses fall- 
ing after every few yards. As we moved slowly and 
painfully forwards, compelled to lie down by cough, 
thirst, and fatigue, the " sayhah " or war-cry rang loud 
from hill to hill, and Indian files of archers and spear- 
men streamed like lines of black ants in all directions 
down the paths. The predatory Wahumba, awaiting the 
caravan's departure, had seized the opportunity of driving 
the cattle and plundering the villages of Inenge. Two 
passing parties of men, armed to the teeth, gave us this 
information; whereupon the negro "Jelai" proposed, 
fear-maddened — a sauve qui peut — leaving to their fate 
his employers, who, bearing the mark of Abel in this land 
of Cain, were ever held to be the head and front of all 

p 3 



214 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



offence. Khudabakhsh, the brave of braves, being at- 
tacked by a slight fever, lay down, declaring himself 
unable to proceed, moaned like a bereaved mother, and 
cried for drink like a sick girl. The rest of the Baloch, 
headed by the Jemadar, were in the rear; they had 
levelled their matchlocks at one of the armed parties 
as it approached them, and, but for the interference of 
Kidogo, blood would have been shed. 

By resting after every few yards, and by clinging to our 
supporters, we reached, after about six hours, the summit 
of the Pass Terrible, and there we sat down amongst the 
aromatic flowers and bright shrubs — the gift of moun- 
tain dews — to recover strength and breath. My com- 
panion could hardly return an answer ; he had advanced 
mechanically and almost in a state of coma. The view 
from the summit appeared eminently suggestive, per- 
haps unusually so, because disclosing a retrospect of 
severe hardships, now past and gone. Below the fore- 
ground of giant fractures, huge rocks, and detached 
boulders, emerging from a shaggy growth of mountain 
vegetation, with forest glens and hanging woods, black 
with shade gathering in the steeper folds, appeared, 
distant yet near, the tawny basin of Inenge, dotted with 
large square villages, streaked with lines of tender green, 
that denoted the water-courses, mottled by the shadows 
of flying clouds, and patched with black where the grass 
had been freshly fired. A glowing sun gilded the canopy 
of dense smoke which curtained the nearer plain, and 
in the background the hazy atmosphere painted with 
its azure the broken wall of hill which we had traversed 
on the previous day. 

Somewhat revived by the tramontana which rolled 
like an ice-brook down the Pass, we advanced over an 
easy step of rolling ground, decked with cactus and the 



THE WINDY PASS. 



215 



flat-topped mimosa, with green grass and bright shrubs, 
to a small and dirty khambi, in a hollow flanked by 
heights, upon which several settlements appeared. At 
this place, called the " Great Kubeho," in distinction 
from its western neighbour, I was compelled to halt. 
My invalid sub. had been seized with a fever-fit that 
induced a dangerous delirium during two successive 
nights ; he became so violent that it was necessary to 
remove his w r eapons, and, to judge from certain symp- 
toms, the attack had a permanent cerebral effect. Death 
appeared stamped upon his features, yet the Baloch and 
the sons of Pamji clamoured to advance, declaring that 
the cold disagreed with them. 

On the 12th September the invalid, who, restored 
by a cool night, at first proposed to advance, and then 
doubted his ability to do so, was yet hesitating when 
the drum-signal for departure sounded without my 
order. The Wanyamwezi porters instantly set out. I 
sent to recal them, but they replied that it was the 
custom of their race never to return ; a well-sounding 
principle against which they never offended except to 
serve their own ends. At length a hammock was rigged 
up for my companion, and the whole caravan broke 
ground. 

The path ran along the flank of an eminence, and, 
ascending a second step, as steep but shorter than the 
Pass Terrible, placed us at the Little Kubeho, or 
Windy Pass, the summit of the third and westernmost 
range of the Usagara Mountains, raised 5,700 feet above 
the sea-level. It is the main water-parting of this ghaut- 
region. At Inenge the trend is still to the S.E. ; be- 
yond Rubeho the direction is S.W. Eventually, how- 
ever, the drainage of both, slope and counter-slope finds 
its way to the Indian Ocean, the former through the 

p 4 



216 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



Mukondokwa and the Kingani, the latter through the 
Rwaha and the Rufiji Rivers. 

A lively scene awaited my arrival at the " Little 
Rubeho." From a struggling mass of black humanity, 
which I presently determined to be our porters, pro- 
ceeded a furious shouting and yelling. Spears and 
daggers flashed in the sun, and cudgels played with a 
threshing movement which promised many a broken 
head. At the distance of a few yards, with fierce faces and 
in motionless martial attitudes, the right hand upon the 
axe-handle stuck in the waist-belt, and the left grasping 
the bow and two or three polished assegais, stood a 
few strong fellows, the forlorn hope of the fray. In 
the midst of the crowd, like Norman Ramsay's troop 
begirt by French cavalry — to compare small things with 
great — rose and fell the chubby, thickset forms of Muinyi 
Wazira and his four Wak'hutu, who, undaunted by num- 
bers, were dealing death to nose and scalp. Charge ! 
Mavi ya Gnombe ( " Bois de Vache " ) charge ! On ! 
Mashuzi (" Fish Fry-soup") on ! Bite, Kuffan Kwema 
(" To die is good") bite, Smite, Na daka Mali ("I want 
wealth") smite ! At length, when 

" Blood (t'was from the nose) began to flow," 

a little active interference rescued the five " enfans 
perdus." The porters had been fighting upon the 
question whether the men with small-pox should, or 
should not, be admitted into the kraal, and Muinyi 
Wazira and his followers, under the influence of pota- 
tions which prevented their distinguishing friend from 
foe, had proved themselves, somewhat unnecessarily 
heroes. It is usually better to let these quarrels work 
themselves out ; if prematurely cut short, the serpent, 
wrath, is scotched, not slain. A little "punishment" 



REMINISCENCES OF JUSTICE. 



217 



always cools the blood, and secures peace and quiet 
for the future. Moreover, the busy peacemaker here 
often shares the fate of M. Porceaugnac, and earns 
the reward of those who, according to the proverb, 
in quarrels interpose. It is vain to investigate, 
where all is lie, the origin of the squabble. Nothing 
easier, as the Welsh justice was fond of declaring, than 
to pronounce judgment after listening to one side of the 
question ; but an impartial hearing of both would strike 
the inquiring mind with a sense of impotence. Perhaps 
it is not unadvisable to treat the matter after the fashion 
adopted by a " police-officer," a certain captain in the 
X. Y. Z. army, who deemed it his duty to discou- 
rage litigiousness and official complaints amongst the 
quarrelsome Sindhi population of Hyderabad. The 
story is somewhat out of place ; though so being, I will 
here recount it. 

Would enter, for instance, two individuals in an 
oriental costume considerably damaged ; one has a 
cloth carefully tied round his head, the other has arti- 
ficially painted his eye and his ear with a few drops 
of blood from the nose. They express their emotions 
by a loud drumming of the tom-tom accompanying 
the high-sounding Cri de Haro — Faryad ! Faryad ! 
Faryad ! — 

" I'll < Faryad ' yer, ye " 

After these, the usual appellatives with which the 
" native " was in those days, on such occasions received^ 
the plaintiff is thus addressed : — 

" Well, you — fellow ! your complaint, what is it ? " 

" Oh, Sahib ! Oh, cherisher of the poor ! this man who 
is, the same hath broken into my house, and made me 
eat a beating, and called my ma and sister naughty 
names, and hath stolen my brass pot, and — " 



» 



218 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 

" Bas ! bas ! enough ! " cries the beak ; a tie him" — 
the defendant — " up, and give him three dozen with 
thine own hand." 

The wrathful plaintiff, as may be imagined, is 
nothing loath. After being vigorously performed upon 
by the plaintiff aforesaid, the defendant is cast loose, 
and is in turn addressed as follows : — 

" Well, now, you fellow ! what say you? " 

" Oh, my lord and master ! Oh, dispenser of justice ! 
what lies hath not this man told? What abominations 
hath he not devoured ? Behold (pointing to his war- 
paint) the sight ! He hath met me in the street ; he 
hath thrown ine down ; he hath kicked and trampled 
upon me; he hath — " 

" Bas ! enough ! " again cries the beak ; " tie him — 
the plaintiff — up, and see if you can give him a good 
three dozen." 

Again it may be imagined that the three dozen 
are well applied by the revengeful defendant, and that 
neither that plaintiff nor that defendant ever troubled 
that excellent " police-officer " again. 

On Rubeho's summit we found a single village of 
villanous Wasagara ; afterwards " made clean" — as the 
mild Hindu expresses the extermination of his fellow- 
men — by a caravan in revenge for the murder of a porter. 
We were delayed on the hill-top a whole day, despite 
the extreme discomfort of all hands. Water had to be 
fetched from a runnel that issued from a rusty pool 
shaded by tilted-up strata of sandstone, at least a 
mile distant from camp. Rain fell daily, alternating 
with eruptions of sun ; a stream of thick mist rolled 
down the ravines and hollows, and at night the howling 
winds made Rubeho their meeting-place. Yet neither 
would the sons of Ramji carry my companion's ham- 
mock, nor would Said bin Salim allow his children 



" MEN KISS AN ASS FOE AN OBJECT." 



219 



to be so burdened; moreover, whatever measures one 
attempted with the porters, the other did his best to 
thwart. " Men," say the Persians, " kiss an ass for an ob- 
ject." I attempted with Kidogo that sweet speech which, 
according to Orientals, is stronger than chains, and ad- 
ministered " goose's oil " in such quantities that I was 
graciously permitted to make an arrangement for the 
transport of my companion with the Kirangozi. 

On the 14th September, our tempers being sensibly 
cooled by the weather, we left the hill-top and broke 
ground upon the counterslope or landward descent of 
the Usagara Mountains. Following a narrow footpath 
that wound along the hill-flanks, on red earth growing 
thick clumps of cactus and feathery mimosa, after 
forty-five minutes' march we found a kraal in a swampy 
green gap, bisected by a sluggish rivulet that irrigated 
scanty fields of grain, gourds, and water-melons, the 
property of distant villagers. For the first time since 
many days I had strength enough to muster the porters 
and to inspect their loads. The outfit, which was ex- 
pected to last a year, had been half exhausted in three 
months. I summoned Said bin Salim, and passed on to 
him my anxiety. Like a veritable Arab, he declared, 
without the least emotion, that we had enough to reach 
Unyanyembe, where we certainly should be joined by the 
escort of twenty-two porters. " But how do you know 
that ? " I inquired. " Allah is all-knowing," replied 
Said ; " but the caravan will come." Such fatalism is 
infectious. I ceased to think upon the subject. 

On the 15th September, after sending forward the 
luggage, and waiting as agreed upon for the return of 
the porters to carry my companion, I set out about 
noon, through hot sunshine tempered by the cool hill- 
breeze. Emerging from the grassy hollow, the path 
skirted a well-wooded hill and traversed a small savan- 



220 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 

nah, overgrown with stunted straw and hedged in by a 
bushy forest. At this point massive trees, here single, 
there in holts and clumps, foliaged more gloomily than 
churchyard yews, and studded with delicate pink- 
flowers, rose from the tawny sun-burned expanse around, 
and defended from the fiery glare braky rings of eme- 
rald shrubbery, sharply defined as if by the forester's 
hand. The savannah extended to the edge of a step 
which, falling deep and steep, suddenly disclosed to 
view, below and far beyond the shaggy ribs and the dark 
ravines and folds of the foreground, the plateau of 
Ugogo and its Eastern desert. The spectacle was 
truly impressive. The vault above seemed " an ample 
aether," raised by its exceeding transparency higher 
than it is wont to be. Up to the curved rim of the 
western horizon, lay, burnished by the rays of a burn- 
ing sun, plains rippled like a yellow sea by the wavy 
reek of the dancing air, broken towards the north by 
a few detached cones rising island-like from the surface, 
and zebra'd with long black lines, where bush and scrub 
and strip of thorn jungle, supplanted upon the water- 
courses, trending in mazy network southwards to the 
Rwaha River, the scorched grass and withered cane- 
stubbles, which seemed to be the staple growth of the 
land. There was nothing of effeminate or luxuriant 
beauty, nothing of the flush and fulness characterising 
tropical Nature, in this first aspect of Ugogo. It ap- 
peared what it is, stern and wild, — the rough nurse 
of rugged men, — and perhaps the anticipation of dangers 
and difficulties ever present to the minds of those 
preparing to endure the waywardness of its children, 
contributed not a little to the fascination of the scene. 
After lingering for a few minutes upon the crest of the 
step, with feelings which they will understand who 



FIRST ASPECT OF UGOGO. 



221 



* after some pleasant months — oases in the grim deserts 
of Anglo-Indian life — spent among the tree-clad heights, 
the breezy lakes, and the turfy valleys of the Himalayas 
and the Neilgherries, sight from their last vantage- 
ground the jaundiced and fevered plains below, we 
scrambled down an irregular incline of glaring red clay 
and dazzling white chalk, plentifully besprinkled with 
dark-olive silex in its cherty crust. Below the descent 
was a level space upon a long ridge, where some small 
villages of Wasagara had surrounded themselves with 
dwarf fields of holcus, bajri, and maize. A little beyond 
this spot, called the " Third Rubeho," we found a com- 
fortless kraal on uneven ground, a sloping ledge sinking 
towards a deep ravine. 

At the third Rubeho we were delayed for a day — as 
is customary before a "Tirikeza" — by the necessity of 
laying in supplies for a jungle march, and by the 
quarrels of the men. The Baloch were cross as naughty 
children, ever their case when cold and hungry : warm 
and full, they become merry as crickets. The Kiran- 
gozi in hot wrath brought his flag to Said bin 
Salim, and threatened to resign, because he had been 
preceded on the last stage by two of the Baloch : his 
complaints of this highly irregular proceeding were 
with difficulty silenced by force of beads. I remarked, 
however, a few days afterwards, when travelling through 
Ugogo, that the Kirangozi, considering himself in 
danger, applied to me for a vanguard of matchlockmen. 
The sons of Ramji combined with the porters in re- 
fusing to carry my companion, and had Bombay and 
Mabruki not shown good- will, we might have re- 
mained a week in the acme of discomfort. The asses, 
frightened by wild beasts, broke loose at night, and one 
was lost. The atmosphere was ever in excesses of heat 



222 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



and cold : in the morning, a mist so thick that it dis- 
played a fog-rainbow — a segment of an arch, composed 
of faint prismatic tints — rolled like a torrent down the 
ravine in front : the sun, at noon, made us cower 
under the thin canvas, and throughout the twenty-four 
hours a gale like a "vent de bise, " attracted by the 
heat of the western plains, swept the encamping ground. 

Sending forward my invalid companion in his ham- 
mock, I brought up the rear : Said bin Salim, who had 
waxed unusually selfish and surly, furtively left to us 
the task ; he wore only sandals — he could not travel by 
night. Some of the Baloch wept at the necessity of 
carrying their gourds and skins. 

On the 17th September, about 2 p.m., we resumed the 
descent of the rugged mountains. The path wound 
to the N. W. down the stony and bushy crest of a ridge 
with a deep woody gap on the right hand: presently after 
alternations of steep and step, and platforms patched 
with odoriferous plants, it fell into the upper channel 
of the Mandama or the Dungomaro, the " Devil's Glen." 
Dungomaro in Kisawahili is the proper name of an evil 
spirit, not in the European but in the African sense, — 
some unblessed ghost who has made himself unpopular 
to the general ; — perhaps the term was a facetiousness 
on the part of the sons of Ramji. 

It was a " via mala " down this great surface-drain of 
the western slopes, over boulders and water-rolled stones 
reposing upon deep sand, and with branches of thorny 
trees in places canopying the bed. After a march of 
five hours, I found the porters bivouacking upon a 
softer spot, and with difficulty persuaded four of the 
sons of Ramji to return and to assist the weary 
stragglers : horns were sounded, and shots were fired 
to guide the Baloch, who did not, however, arrive be- 
fore 10 P. M. 



THE DEVIL'S GLEN. 



223 



On the 18 th September, a final march of four hours 
placed us in the plains of Ugogo. Leaving the place of 
the last night's bivouac, we pursued the line of the Dun- 
gomaro, occasionally quitting it where boulders ob- 
structed progress, and presently we came to its lower 
bed, where perennial rills, exuding from its earth-walls 
and trickling down its side, veiled the bottom with a green 
and shrubby perfumed vegetation. As the plain was 
neared, the difficulties increased, and the scenery became 
curious. The Dungomaro appeared a large crevasse in 
lofty rocks of pink and gray granite, streaked with 
white quartz, and pudding'd with greenstone and black 
horneblend ; the sole, strewed with a rugged layer of 
blocks, was side-lined with narrow ledges and terraces 
of brown humus, supporting dwarf cactus and stunted 
thorny trees ; whilst high above towered stony wooded 
peaks, closing in the view on all sides. Farther down the 
bed huge boulders, sunburnt, and stained by the courses 
of rain4or rents, rose, perpendicularly as walls, to the 
height of one hundred and one hundred and twenty feet, 
and there the flooring was a sheet or slide of shiny and 
shelving rock, with broad fissures, and steep drops, and 
cups, " potholes," baths, and basins, filed and cut by the 
friction of the gravelly torrents, regularly as if turned 
with the lathe. Where water lay, deep mud and thick 
clumps of grass and reed forced the path to run along 
the ledges at the sides of the base. Gradually, as the 
angle of inclination became more obtuse, the bed 
widened out, the tall stone- walls gave way to low earth- 
banks clad with gum-trees; pits, serving as wells, appeared 
in the deep loose sand, and the Dungomaro, becoming a 
broad, smooth Fiumara, swept away verging southwards 
into the plain. Before noon, 1 sighted from a sharp turn 
in the bed our tent pitched under a huge sycomore, on a 



224 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



level step that bounded the Fiumara to the right. It 
was a pretty spot in a barren scene, grassy, and grown 
with green mimosas, spreading out their feathery heads 
like parachutes, and shedding upon the ground a filmy 
shade that fluttered and flickered in the draughty 
breeze. 

The only losses experienced during the scrambling 
descent, were a gun-case, containing nry companion's 
store of boots, and a chair and table. The latter, being 
indispensable on a journey where calculations, composi- 
tion, and sketching were expected, I sent, during the 
evening halts, a detachment consisting of Muinyi Wazira, 
the Baloch, Greybeard Musa, and a party of slaves, to 
bring up the articles, which had been cache'd on the 
torrent bank. They returned with the horripilatory tale 
of the dangers lately incurred by the Expedition, which 
it appeared from them had been dogged by an army of 
Wasagara, thirsting for blood and furious for booty : — 
under such circumstances, how could they recover the 
chair and table ? Some months afterwards an up-caravan 
commanded by a Msawahili found the articles lying 
where we had left them, and delivered them, for a consi- 
deration, to us at Unyanyembe. The party sent from 
Ugogo doubtless had passed a quiet, pleasant day, dozing 
in the shade at the nearest well. 



Maji ya W'heta, or the Jetting Fountain in K'hutu. 



CHAP. VII. 

THE GEOGRAPHY AND ETHNOLOGY OF THE SECOND REGION. 

The second or mountain region extends from the west- 
ern frontier of K'hutu, at the head of the alluvial valley, 
in E. long. 37° 28', to the province of Ugogi, the eastern 
portion of the flat table-land of Ugogo, in E. long. 36° 
14'. Its diagonal breadth is 85 geographical and recti- 
linear miles; and native caravans, if lightly laden, gener- 
ally traverse it in three weeks, including three or four 
halts. Its length cannot be estimated. According to the 
guides, Usagara is a prolongation of the mountains of 
Nguru, or Ngn, extending southwards, with a gap form- 
ing the fluviatile valley of the Rwaha or Rufiji River, to 
vol. i. Q 



226 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



the line of highlands of which Njesa in Uhiao is sup- 
posed to be the culminating apex : thus the feature would 
correspond with the Eastern Ghauts of the Indian Penin- 
sula. The general law of the range is north and 
south ; in the region now under consideration, the trend 
is from north by west to south by east, forming an angle 
of 10° 12' with the meridian. The Usagara chain is 
of the first order in East Africa ; it is indeed the 
only important elevation in a direct line from the coast 
to western Unyamwezi ; it would hold, however, but 
a low grade in the general system of the earth's moun- 
tains. The highest point above sea-level, observed by B. 
P. Therm., was 5,700 feet ; there are, however, peaks 
which may rise to 6,000 and even to 7,000 feet, thus ri- 
valling the inhabited portion of the Neilgherries. As has 
appeared, the chain, where crossed, was divided into 
three parallel ridges by longitudinal plains. 

Owing to the lowness of the basal regions at the sea- 
ward slope, there is no general prospect of the moun- 
tains from the East, where, after bounding the plains 
of K'hutu on the north, by irregular bulging lines of rol- 
ling hill, the first gradient of insignificant height springs 
suddenly from the plain. Viewed from the west, the 
counterslope appears a long crescent, with the gibbus to 
the front, and the cusps vanishing into distance ; the 
summit is in the centre of the half-moon, whose profile 
is somewhat mural and regular. The flanks are 
rounded lumpy cones, and their shape denotes an igneous 
and primary origin, intersected by plains and basins, the 
fractures of the rocky system. Internally the lay, as 
in granitic formations generally, is irregular; the ridges, 
preserving no general direction, appear to cross one 
another confusedly. The slope and the counterslope 
are not equally inclined. Here, as usual in chains fring- 



GEOGRAPHY OF USAGAEA. 



227 



ing a peninsula, the seaward declivities are the more 
abrupt ; the landward faces are not only more elongated, 
but they are also shortened in proportion as the plateau 
into which they fall is higher than the mountain-plains 
from which they rise. To enter, therefore, is more toil- 
some than to return. 

From the mingling of lively colours, Usagara is de- 
lightful to the eye, after the monotonous tracts of ver- 
dure which pall upon the sight at Zanzibar and in the 
river valleys. The subsoil, displayed in the deeper cuts 
and ravines, is either of granite, greenstone, schiste, or a 
coarse incipient sandstone, brown or green, and outcrop- 
ping from the ground with strata steeply tilted up. In 
the higher elevations, the soil varies in depth from a 
few inches to thirty feet; it is often streaked with long 
layers of pebbles, apparently water -rolled. The colour 
is either an ochreish brick-red, sometimes micaceous, and 
often tinted with oxide of iron ; or it is a dull grey, 
the debris of comminuted felspar, which, like a mixture of 
all the colours, appears dazzlingly white under the sun's 
rays. The plains and depressions are of black earth, 
which after a few showers becomes a grass-grown sheet 
of mire, and in the dry season a deeply-cracked, stubbly 
savannah. Where the elevations are veiled from base 
to summit with a thin forest, the crops of the green- 
stone and sandstone strata appear through a brown coat 
of fertile humus, the decay of vegetable matter. A fos- 
sil Bulimus was found about 3,000 feet above sea-level, 
and large Achatinas, locally called Khowa, are scattered 
over the surface. On the hill-sides, especially in the 
lower slopes, are strewed and scattered erratic blocks and 
boulders, and diminutive pieces of white, dingy-red, rusty- 
pink, and yellow quartz, with large irregularly-shaped 
fragments and small nodules of calcareous kunkur. Where 

q 2 



228 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



water lies deep below the surface, the hills and hill- plains 
are clothed with a thin shrubbery of mimosas and other 
thorny gums. Throughout Eastern Africa these forests 
are the only spots in which travelling is enjoyable : great 
indeed is their contrast with the normal features — bald 
glaring fields, fetid bush and grass, and monotonous 
expanses of dull dead herbage, concealing swamps and 
water-courses, hedged in by vegetation whose only 
varieties are green, greener, and greenest. In these fav- 
oured places the traveller appears surrounded by a thick 
wood which he never reaches, the trees thinning out as 
he advances. On clear and sunny days the scenery is 
strange and imposing. The dark-red earth is pro- 
longed half-way up the tree-trunks by the ascending 
and descending galleries of the termite : contrasting 
with this peculiarly African tint, the foliage, mostly 
confined to the upper branches, is of a tender and 
lively green, whose open fret- work admits from above the 
vivid blue or the golden yellow of an unclouded sky. 
In the basins where water is nearer the surface, and 
upon the banks of water-courses and rivulets, the sweet 
and fertile earth produces a rich vegetation, and a 
gigantic growth of timber, which distinguishes this 
region from others further west. Usagara is peculiarly 
the land of jungle-flowers, and fruits, whose charac- 
teristic is a pleasant acidity, a provision of nature 
in climates where antiseptics and correctives to bile 
are almost necessaries of life. They are abundant, 
but, being uncultivated, the fleshy parts are unde- 
veloped. In the plains, the air, heavy with the deli- 
cious perfume of the jasmine (Jasminum Abyssinicum ?), 
with the strong odour of a kind of sage (Salvia Afri- 
cana, or Abyssinicaf), and with the fragrant exhalations 
of the mimosa-flowers, which hang like golden balls from 



GEOGRAPHY OF USAGARA. 



229 



the green clad boughs, forms a most enjoyable contrast 
to the fetid exhalations of the Great Dismal Swamps 
of the lowlands. The tamarind, everywhere growing 
wild, is a gigantic tree. The Myombo, the Mfu'u, the 
Ndabi, and the Maydged, a spreading tree with a large 
fleshy red flower, and gourds about eighteen inches long 
and hanging by slender cords, are of unusual dimensions; 
the calabash is converted into a hut ; and the sycomore, 
whose favourite habitat is the lower counterslope of Usa- 
gara, is capable of shading a regiment. On the steep 
hill-sides, which here and there display signs of cultivation 
and clearings of green or sunburnt grass, grow para- 
chute-shaped mimosas, with tall and slender trunks, and 
crowned by domes of verdure, rising in tiers one above 
the other, like umbrellas in a crowd. 

The plains, basins, and steps, or facets of table-land 
found at every elevation, are fertilised by a stripe-work 
of streams, runnels, and burns, which anastomosing in 
a single channel, flow oif into the main drain of the 
country. Cultivation is found in patches isolated by 
thick belts of thorny jungle, and the villages are few 
and rarely visited. As usual in hilly countries, they 
are built upon high ridges and the slopes of cones, for 
rapid drainage after rain, a purer air and fewer mosqui- 
toes, and, perhaps, protection from kidnappers. The 
country people bring down their supplies of grain and 
pulse for caravans. There is some delay and difficulty 
on the first day of arrival at a station, and provisions 
for a party exceeding a hundred men are not to be 
depended upon after the third or fourth marketing, 
when the people have exhausted their stores. Fearing 
the thievish disposition of the Wasagara, who will 
attempt even to snatch away a cloth from a sleeping 
man, travellers rarely lodge near the settlements. 

Q 3 



230 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



Kraals of thorn, capacious circles enclosing straw 
boothies, are found at every march, and, when burned 
or destroyed by accident, they are rebuilt before 
the bivouac. The roads, as usual in East Africa, are 
tracks trodden down by caravans and cattle, and the 
water-course is ever the favourite Pass. Many of the 
ascents and descents are so proclivitous that donkeys 
must be relieved of their loads ; and in fording the slug- 
gish streams, where no grass forms a causeway over the 
soft, viscid mire, the animals sink almost to the knees. 
The steepest paths are those in the upper regions ; in the 
lower, though the inclines are often severe, they are 
generally longer, and consequently easier. At the foot 
of each hill there is either a mud or a water-course 
dividing it from its neighbour. These obstacles greatly 
reduce the direct distance of the day's march. 

The mountains are well Supplied with water, which tastes 
sweet after the brackish produce of the maritime valley, 
and good when not rendered soft and slimy by lying 
long on rushy beds. Upon the middle inclines the 
burns and runnels of the upper heights form terraces 
of considerable extent, and of a picturesque aspect. 
The wide and open sole, tilled with the whitest and 
cleanest sand, and retaining pools of fresh clear water, 
or shallow wells, is edged by low steep ledges of 
a dull red clay, lined with glorious patriarchs of the 
forest, and often in the bed is a thickly wooded branch 
or shoal-islet, at whose upper extremity heavy drift- 
wood, arrested by the gnarled mimosa-clumps, and the 
wall of shrubs, attests the violence of the rufous-tinted 
bore of waves with which a few showers till the broadest 
courses. Lower down the channels which convey to 
the plains the surplus drainage of the mountains are 
heaps and sheets of granite, with long reaches of rough 



GEOGRAPHY OF USAGARA. 231 

gravel ; their stony walls, overrun with vegetation, 
tower high on either hand, and the excess of inclination 
produces after heavy rains torrents like avalanches, 
which cut their way deep into the lower plains. During 
the dry season, water is drawn from pits sunk from a 
few inches to 20 feet in the re-entering angles of the 
beds. Fed by the percolations of the soil, they unite 
the purity of springs with the abundance of rain-sup- 
plies, — a comfort fully appreciated by down-caravans 
after the frequent tirikeza, or droughty afternoon- 
marches in the western regions. 

The versant of the mountains varies. In the sea- 
ward and the central sections streams flow eastward, 
and swell the Kingani and other rivers. The southern 
hills discharge their waters south and south-west through 
the Maroro River, and various smaller tributaries, into the 
" Rwaha," which is the proper name for the upper course 
of the Ruhji. In the lateral plains between the ridges, 
and in the hill-girt basins, stagnant pools, which even 
during the Masika, or rainy season, inundate, but will 
not flow, repose upon beds of porous black earth, and 
engendering, by their profuse herbage of reeds and 
rush-like grass, with the luxuriant crops produced by 
artificial irrigation, a malarious atmosphere, cause a 
degradation in the people. 

The climate of Usagara is cold and damp. It has 
two distinct varieties, the upper regions being salu- 
brious, as the lower are unwholesome. In the sub- 
ranges heavy exhalations are emitted by the decayed 
vegetation, the nights are raw, the mornings chilly and 
misty, and the days are bright and hot. In the higher 
levels, near the sources of the Mukondokwa River, the 
climate suggests the idea of the Mahabaleshwar and the 
Neilgherry Hills in Western India. Compared with 

Q 4 



232 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



Uzaramo or Unyamwezi, these mountains are a sanato- 
rium, and should Europeans ever settle in Eastern Africa 
as merchants or missionaries, here they might reside 
until acclimatised for the interior. The east wind, a 
local deflection of the south-east trade, laden with the 
moisture of the Atlantic and the Indian Oceans, and 
collecting the evaporation of the valley, impinges upon 
the seaward slope, where, ascending, and relieved from 
atmospheric pressure, it is condensed by a colder tempera- 
ture ; hence the frequent precipitations of heavy rain, 
and the banks and sheets of morning- cloud which veil 
the tree-clad peaks of the highest gradients. As the 
sun waxes hot, the atmosphere acquires a greater 
capacity for carrying water ; and the results are a milky 
mist in the basins, and in the upper hills a wonderful 
clearness broken only by the thin cirri of the higher 
atmosphere. After sunset, again, the gradual cooling 
of the air causes the deposit of a copious dew, which 
renders the nights peculiarly pleasant to a European. 
The diurnal sea-breeze, felt in the slope, is unknown 
in the counterslope of the mountains, where, indeed, 
the climate is much inferior to that of the central 
and eastern heights. As in the Sawalik Hills, and 
the sub-ranges of the Himalayas, the sun is burning hot 
during the dry season, and in the rains there is either a 
storm of thunder and lightning, wind and rain, or a 
stillness deep and depressing, with occasional gusts whose 
distinct moaning shows the highly electrical state of the 
atmosphere. The Masika, here commencing in early 
January, lasts three months, when the normal easterly 
winds shift to the north and the north-west. The Vuli, 
confined to the eastern slopes, occurs in August, and, as 
on the plains, frequent showers fall between the vernal 
and the autumnal rains. 



GEOGRAPHY OF USAGARA. 



233 



The people of Usagara suffer in the lower regions from 
severe ulcerations, from cutaneous disorders, and from 
other ailments of the plain. Higher up they are healthier, 
though by no means free from pleurisy, pneumonia, and 
dysentery. Fever is common ; it is more acute in the 
range of swamps and decomposed herbage, and is milder 
in the well-ventilated cols and on the hill-sides. The type 
is rather a violent bilious attack, accompanied by remit- 
tent febrile symptoms, than a regular fever. It begins 
with cold and hot fits, followed by a copious perspira- 
tion, and sometimes inducing delirium ; it lasts as a 
quotidian or a tertian from four to seven days ; and 
though the attacks are slight, they are followed by great 
debility, want of appetite, of sleep, and of energy. This 
fever is greatly exacerbated by exposure and fatigue, 
and it seldom fails to leave behind it a legacy of cerebral 
or visceral disease. 

The mountains of Usagara are traversed from east to 
west by two main lines ; the Mukondokwa on the north- 
ern and the Kiringawana on the southern line. The 
former was closed until 1856 by a chronic famine, the 
result of such a neighbourhood as the Wazegura and the 
people of Whinde on the east, the Wahumba and the 
Wamasai northwards, and the Warori on the south-west. 
In 1858 the mountaineers, after murdering by the vilest 
treachery a young Arab trader, Salim bin Nasir, of the 
Bu Saidi, or the royal family of Zanzibar, attempted to 
plunder a large mixed caravan of Wanyamwezi and 
Wasawahili, numbering 700 or 800 guns, commanded 
by a stout fellow, Abdullah bin Nasib, called by the 
Africans "Kisesa," who carried off the cattle, burned the 
villages, and laid waste the whole of the Eubeho or 
western chain. 

The clans now tenanting these East African ghauts are 



234 



THE LAKE KEGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



the Wasagara, — with their chief sub-tribe the Wakwivi, 
— and the Wahehe ; the latter a small body inhabiting 
the south-western corner, and extending into the plains 
below. 

The limits of the Wasagara have already been laid 
down by the names of the plundering tribes that sur- 
round them. These mountaineers, though a noisy and 
riotous race, are not overblessed with courage : they 
will lurk in the jungle with bows and arrows to surprise 
a stray porter ; but they seem ever to be awaiting an 
attack — the best receipt for inviting it. In the higher 
slopes they are fine, tall and sturdy men ; in the low 
lands they appear as degraded as the Wak'hutu. They 
are a more bearded race than any other upon this line 
of East Africa, and, probably from extensive inter- 
course with the Wamrima, most of them understand 
the language of the coast. The women are remarkable 
for a splendid development of limb, whilst the bosom is 
lax and pendent. 

The Wasagara display great varieties of complexion, 
some being almost black, whilst the others are chocolate- 
coloured. This difference cannot be accounted for by the 
mere effects of climate — level and temperature. Some 
shave the head ; others wear the Arab's shushah, a kind of 
skull-cap growth, extending more or less from the poll. 
Amongst them is seen, for the first time on this line, the 
classical coiffure of ancient Egypt. The hair, allowed to 
attain its fullest length, is twisted into a multitude of 
the thinnest ringlets, each composed of two thin lengths 
wound together ; the wiry stiffness of the curls keeps 
them distinct and in position. Behind, a curtain of 
pigtails hangs down to the nape ; in front the hair is 
either combed off the forehead, or it is brought over 
the brow and trimmed short. No head- dress has a 



ETHNOLOGY OF THE WASAGARA. 



235 



wilder nor a more characteristically African appearance 
than this, especially when, smeared with a pomatum of 
micaceous ochre, and decorated with beads, brass balls, 
and similar ornaments, it waves and rattles with every 
motion of the head. Young men and warriors adorn 
their locks with the feathers of vultures, ostriches, and 
a variety of bright-plumed jays, and some tribes twist 
each ringlet with a string of reddish fibre. It is seldom 
combed out, the operation requiring for a head of thick 
hair the hard work of a whole day ; it is not, therefore, 
surprising that the pediculus swarms through the land, 
None but the chiefs wear caps. Both sexes distend the 
ear-lobe ; a hole is bored with a needle or a thorn, it 
is enlarged by inserting bits of cane, wood, or quills, 
increasing the latter to the number of twenty, and it is 
kept open by a disk of brass, ivory, wood, or gum, a 
roll of leaf or a betel-nut ; thus deformed it serves for a 
variety of purposes apparently foreign to the member ; 
it often carries a cane snuff-box, sometimes a goat's- 
horn pierced for a fife, and other small valuables. 
When empty, especially in old age, it depends in a de- 
formed loop to the shoulders. The peculiar mark of 
the tribe is a number of confused little cuts between the 
ears and the eyebrows. Some men, especially in the 
eastern parts of the mountains, chip the teeth to 
points. 

The dress of the Wasagara is a shukkah or loin-cloth, 
6 feet long, passed round the waist in a single fold, — 
otherwise walking would be difficult — drawn tight 
behind, and with the fore extremities gathered up, and 
tucked in over the stomach, where it is sometimes sup- 
ported by a girdle of cord, leather, or brass wire : it is, 
in fact, the Arab's " uzar. " On journeys it is pur- 
posely made short and scanty for convenience of run- 



236 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



ning. The material is sometimes indigo-dyed, at other 
times unbleached cotton, which the Wasagara stain a 
dull yellow. Cloth, however, is the clothing of the 
wealthy. The poor content themselves with the calabash- 
" campestre " or kilt, and with the softened skins of sheep 
and goats. It is curious that in East Africa, where 
these articles have from time immemorial been the 
national dress, and where amongst some tribes hides 
form the house, that the people have neither invented 
nor borrowed the principles of rude tanning, even with 
mimosa-bark, an art so well known to most tribes of 
barbarians. Immediately after flaying, the stretched 
skin is pegged, to prevent shrinking, inside upwards, in 
the sun, and it is not removed till thoroughly cleansed 
and dried. The many little holes in the margin give it 
the semblance of ornamentation, and sometimes the hair 
is scraped off, leaving a fringe two or three inches broad 
around the edge : the legs and tail of the animal are 
favourite appendages with " dressy gentlemen." These 
skins are afterwards softened by trampling, and they 
are vigorously pounded with clubs : after a few days' 
w r ear, dirt and grease have almost done the duty of 
tanning. The garb is tied over either shoulder by a bit 
of cord or simply by knotting the corners ; it therefore 
leaves one side of the body bare, and, being loose and 
ungirt, it is at the mercy of every wind. On journeys 
it is doffed during rain, and placed between the burden 
and the shoulder, so that, arrived at the encamping 
ground, the delicate traveller may have a " dry shirt." 

Women of the wealthier classes wear a tobe, or 
double-length shukkah, tightly drawn under the arms, 
so as to depress whilst it veils the bosom, and tucked in 
at either side. Dark stuffs, indigo-dyed and Arab checks, 
are preferred to plain white for the usual reasons. The 



ETHNOLOGY OF THE WASAGAEA. 



237 



dress of the general is a short but decorous jupe of 
greasy skin, and a similar covering for the bosom, open 
behind, and extending in front from the neck to the 
middle of the body : the child is carried in another 
skin upon the back. The poorest classes of both sexes 
are indifferently attired in the narrow kilt of bark- 
fibre, usually made in the maritime countries from 
the ukhindu or brab tree; in the interior from 
the calabash. The children wear an apron of thin 
twine, like the Nubian thong-garments. Where beads 
abound, the shagele, a small square napkin of these 
ornaments strung upon thread, is fastened round 
the waist by a string or a line of beads. There are 
many fanciful modifications of it : some children wear 
a screen of tin plates, each the size of a man's finger : 
most of the very juniors, however, are simply attired in 
a cord, with or without beads, round the waist. 

The ornaments of the Wasagara are the normal beads 
and wire, and their weight is the test of wealth and re- 
spectability. A fillet of blue and white beads is bound 
round the head, and beads, — more beads, — appear 
upon the neck, the arms, and the ankles. The kitindi, 
or coil of thick brass wire, extends from the elbow to 
the wrist ; others wear little chains or thick bangles of 
copper, brass, or zinc, and those who can afford it twist 
a few circles of brass wire under the knee. The arms of 
the men are bows and arrows, the latter unpoisoned, but 
armed with cruelly-barbed heads, and spines like fish- 
bones, cut out in the long iron shaft which projects 
from the wood. Their spears and assegais are made 
from the old hoes wdiich are brought down by the 
AVanyamwezi caravans; the ferule is thin, and it is 
attached to the shaft by a cylinder of leather from a 
cow's tail, drawn over the iron, and allowed to shrink 



238 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 

at its junction with the wood : some assegais have a 
central swell in the shaft, probably to admit of their 
being used in striking like the rungu or knobstick. Men 
seldom leave the house without a billhook of peculiar 
shape — a narrow sharp blade, ending in a right angle, and 
fixed in a wooden handle, with a projection rising above 
the blade. The shield is rarely found on this line of East 
Africa. In Usagara it is from three to four feet in 
length by one to two feet in breadth, composed of two 
parallel belts of hardened skin. The material is pegged 
out to stretch and dry, carefully cleaned, sometimes 
doubled, sewn together with a thin thong longitudinally, 
and stained black down one side, and red down the 
other. A stout lath is fastened lengthwise as a stiffener 
to the shield, and a central bulge is made in the 
hide, enabling the hand to grasp the wood. The fa- 
vourite materials are the spoils of the elephant, the 
rhinoceros, and the giraffe ; the common shields are of 
bull's-hide, and the hair is generally left upon the out- 
side as an ornament, with attachments of zebra and 
cows' tails. It is a flimsy article, little better than a 
" wisp of fern or a herring-net" against an English 
" clothyard : " it suffices, however, for defence against 
the puny cane-arrows of the African archer. 

As a rule, each of these villages has its headman, who 
owns, however, an imperfect allegiance to the Mutwa or 
district chief, whom the Arabs call " sultan." The Mgosi 
is his wazir, or favourite councillor, and the elders or 
headmen of settlements collectively are Wabaha. Their 
principal distinction is the right to wear a fez, or a 
Surat cap, and the kizbao, a^ sleeveless waistcoat. They 
derive a certain amount of revenue by trafficking in 
slaves : consequently many of the Wasagara find their 
way into the market of Zanzibar. Moreover, the game- 



ETHNOLOGY OF THE WAHEHE. 



239 



laws as regards elephants are here strictly in favour of 
the Sultan. An animal found dead in his district, 
though wounded in another, becomes his property on 
condition of his satisfying his officials with small presents 
of cloth and beads : the flesh is feasted upon by the 
tribe, and the ivory is sold to travelling traders. 

The Wahehe, situated between the Wasagara and 
Wagogo, partake a little of the appearance of both. 
They are a plain race, but stout and well grown. Though 
to appearance hearty and good-humoured, they are de- 
termined pilferers : they have more than once attacked 
caravans, and only the AVarori have prevented them from 
cutting off the road to Ugogo. During the return 
of the Expedition in 1858 they took occasion to 
drive off unseen a flock of goats ; and at night no 
man, unless encamped in a strong kraal, was safe from 
their attempts to snatch his goods. On one occasion, 
being caught in flagrant delict, they were compelled to 
restore their plunder, with an equivalent as an indem- 
nity. They are on bad terms with all their neighbours, 
and they unite under their chief Sultan Bumbumu. 

The Wahehe enlarge their ears like the Wagogo, they 
chip the two upper incisors, and they burn beauty-spots 
in their forearms. Some men extract three or four of 
the lower incisors : whenever an individual without these 
teeth is seen in Ugogo he is at once known as a Mhehe. 
For distinctive mark they make two cicatrised incisions 
on both cheeks from the zygomata to the angles of 
the mouth. They dress like the Wagogo, but they 
have less cloth than skins. The married women usually 
wear a jupe, in shape recalling the old swallow-tailed 
coat of Europe, with kitindi, or coil armlets of brass or 
iron wire on both forearms and above the elbows. Un- 
married girls amongst the Wahehe are known by their 



240 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



peculiar attire, a long strip of cloth, like the Indian 
u languti or T-bandage," but descending to the knees, 
and attached to waistbelts of large white or yellow por- 
celain or blue glass beads. Over this is tied a kilt of 
calabash fibre, a few inches deep. The men wear thick 
girdles of brass wire, neatly wound round a small cord. 
Besides the arms described amongst the Wasagara, the 
Wahehe carry " sime," or double-edged knives, from 
one to two feet long, broadening out from the haft, and 
rounded off to a blunt point at the end. The handle 
is cut into raised rings for security of grip, and, when 
in sheath, half the blade appears outside its rude 
leathern scabbard. The Tembe, or villages of the 
Wahehe, are small, ragged, and low, probably to facili- 
tate escape from attack. They do business in slaves, 
and have large flocks and herds, which are, however, 
often thinned by the Warori, whom the Wahehe dare 
not resist in the field. 




Ugogo. 



CHAP. VIII. 

WE SUCCEED IN TRAVERSING UGOGO. 

Ugogo, the reader may remember, was the ultimate 
period applied to the prospects of the Exploration 
by the worthy Mr. Rush Ramji, in conversation with 
the respectable Ladha Darnha, Collector of Customs, 
Zanzibar. 

I halted three days at Ugogi to recruit the party and 
to lay in rations for four long desert marches. Ap- 
parently there was an abundance of provisions, but the 
people at first declined to part with their grain and cat- 
tle even at exorbitant prices, and the Baloch complained 
of u cleanness of teeth." I was visited by Ngoma Mroma, 

VOL. I. R 



242 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 

alias Sultan Makande, a diwan or headman, from Ugogo, 
here settled as chief, and well known on the eastern sea- 
board : he came to offer his good services. But he talked 
like an idiot , he begged for every article that met his 
eye: and he wished me — palpably for his own benefit — 
to follow the most northerly of the three routes leading 
to Unyamwezi, upon which there were not less than eight 
" sultans " described by Kidogo as being " one hungrier 
than the other." At last, an elephant having been found 
dead within his limits, he disappeared, much to my 
relief, for the purpose of enjoying a gorge of elephant- 
beef. 

Ugogi is the half-way district between the coast and 
Unyanyembe, and it is usually made by up- caravans 
at the end of the second month. The people of this 
" no man's land " are a mongrel race : the Wasagara 
claim the ground, but they have admitted as settlers 
many Wahehe and Wagogo, the latter for the most part 
men who have left their country for their country's good. 
The plains are rich in grain, and the hills in cattle, when 
not harried, as they had been, a little before our arrival, 
by the Warori. The inhabitants sometimes offer for sale 
milk and honey, eggs and ghee, but — only the civilised 
rogue can improve by adulteration — the milk falls like 
water off the finger, the honey is in the red stage of fer- 
mentation, of the eggs there are few without the rude be- 
ginnings of a chicken, and the ghee, from long keeping, 
is sweet above and bitter below. The country still con- 
tains game, kanga, or guinea-fowls, in abundance, the 
ocelot, a hyrax like the coney of the Somali country, 
and the beautiful " silver jackal." The elephant and 
the giraffe are frequently killed on the plains. The giraffe 
is called by the Arabs Jamal el Wahshi, a translation of 
the Kisawahili Ngamia ya Muyt u, " Camel of the Wild," 



PLEASANT UGOGI. 



243 



and throughout the interior Tiga or Twiga. Their sign 
is often seen in the uncultivated parts of the country ; 
but they wander far, and they are rarely found except by 
accident ; the hides are converted into shields and 
saddle-bags, the long tufty tails into "chauri," or fly- 
flappers, and the flesh is a favourite food. At Ugogi, 
however, game has suffered from the frequent haltings 
of caravans, and from the carnivorous propensities of the 
people, who, huntsmen all, leave their prey no chance 
against their nets and arrows, their pitfalls and their 
packs of yelping curs. 

Ugogi stands 2760 feet above sea level, and its climate, 
immediately after the raw cold of Usagara, pleases by its 
elasticity and by its dry healthy warmth. The nights 
are fresh and dewless, and the rays of a tropical sun are 
cooled by the gusts and raffales which, regularly as the 
land and sea-breezes of the coast, sweep down the sinuo- 
sities of Dungomaro. As our u gnawing stomachs" tes- 
tified, the air of Usagara had braced our systems. My 
companion so far recovered health that he was able to bring 
home many a brace of fine partridge, and of the fat guinea- 
fowl that, clustering upon the tall trees, awoke the echoes 
of the rocks as they called for their young. The Baloch, 
the sons of Ramji, and the porters began to throw off the 
effects of the pleurisies and the other complaints, which 
they attributed to hardship and exposure on the mountain- 
tops. The only obstinate invalids were the two Goanese. 
Gaetano had another attack of the Mukunguru, or sea- 
soning fever, which, instead of acclimatising his consti- 
tution, seemed by ever increasing weakness and depres- 
sion, to pave the way for a fresh visitation. Valentine, 
with flowing eyes, pathetically pointed to two indurations 
in his gastric region, and bewailed his hard fate in thus 
being torn from the dearly-loved shades of Panjim 

R 2 



244 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 

and Margao, to fatten the inhospitable soil of Central 
Africa. 

Immediately before departure, when almost in despair 
at the rapid failure of our carriage — the asses were now 
reduced to nine — I fortunately secured, for the sum of 
four cloths per man, the services of fifteen Wanyamwezi 
porters. In all a score, they had left at Ugogi their 
Mtongi, or employer, in consequence of a quarrel con- 
cerning the sex. They dreaded forcible seizure and sale 
if found without protection travelling homewards 
through Ugogo ; and thus they willingly agreed to carry 
our goods as far as their own country, Unyanyembe. 
Truly is travelling like campaigning, — a penny- 
weight of luck is better than a talent of all the 
talents ! And if marriages, as our fathers used to say, 
are made in the heavens, the next-door manufactory 
must be devoted to the fabrication of African explora- 
tions. Notwithstanding, however, the large increase of 
conveyance, every man appeared on the next march 
more heavily laden than before: — they carried grain 
for six days, and water for one night. 

From Ugogi to the Ziwa or Pond, the eastern limits 
of Ugogo, are four marches, which, as they do not sup- 
ply provisions, and as throughout the dry season water is 
found only in one spot, are generally accomplished in 
four days. The lesser desert, between Ugogi and Ugogo, 
is called Marenga M'khali, or the Brackish Water : it 
must not be confounded with the district of Usagara 
bearing the same name. 

We left Ugogi on the 22nd September, at 3 p.m., in- 
stead of at noon. As all the caravan hurried recklessly 
forward, I brought up the rear accompanied by Said bin 
Salim, the Jemadar, and several of the sons of Ramji, 
who insisted upon driving the asses for greater speed at 



A PLEASANT BIVOUAC. 



245 



a long trot, which, after lasting a hundred yards, led to 
an inevitable fall of the load. Before emerging from 
Ugogi, the road wound over a grassy country, thickly 
speckled with calabashes. Square Tembe appeared on 
both sides, and there was no want of flocks and herds. 
As the villages and fields were left behind, the land be- 
came a dense thorny jungle, based upon a sandy red soil. 
The horizon was bounded on both sides by gradually- 
thinning lines of lumpy outlying hill, the spurs of the 
Rubeho Range, that extended, like a scorpion's claws, 
westward ; and the plain, gently falling in the same 
direction, was broken only by a single hill-shoulder 
and by some dwarf descents. As we advanced through 
the shades — a heavy cloud-bank had shut out the 
crescent moon — our difficulties increased ; thorns and 
spiky twigs threatened the eyes ; the rough and rugged 
road led to many a stumble, and the frequent whine of 
the cynhysena made the asses wild with fear. None but 
Bombay came out to meet us ; the porters were overpow- 
ered by their long march under the fiery sun. About 
8 p.m., directed by loud shouts and flaring fires, we 
reached a kraal, a patch of yellow grass, offering clear 
room in the thorny thicket. That night was the perfec- 
tion of a bivouac, cool from the vicinity of the hills, 
genial from their shelter, and sweet as forest-air in 
these regions ever is. 

On the next day we resumed our labour betimes : 
for a dreary and thirsty stage lay before us. Toiling 
through the sunshine of the hot waste I could not but 
remark the strange painting of the land around. At 
a distance the plain was bright-yellow with stubble, 
and brown-black with patches of leafless wintry jungle 
based upon a brick-dust soil. A closer approach dis- 
closed colours more vivid and distinct. Over the 

R 3 



246 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



ruddy plain lay scattered untidy heaps of grey granite 
boulders, surrounded and capped by tufts of bleached 
white grass. The copse showed all manner of strange 
hues, calabashes purpled and burnished by sun and rain, 
thorns of a greenish coppery bronze, dead trees with 
trunks of ghastly white, and gums (the blue-gum tree 
of the Cape ?) of an unnatural sky-blue, the effect of the 
yellow outer pellicle being peeled off by the burning 
rays, whilst almost all were reddened up to a man's 
height, by the double galleries, ascending and descending, 
of the white ants. Here too, I began to appreciate the 
extent of the nuisance, thorns. Some were soft and green, 
others a finger long, fine, straight and woody — they serve 
as needles in many parts of the country — one, a "cork- 
ing pin," bore at its base a filbert-like bulge, another was 
curved like a cock's spur ; the double thorns, placed dos-a- 
dos, described by travellers in Abyssinia and in the Cape 
Karroos, were numerous, the " wait-a-bit," a dwarf 
sharply bent spine with acute point and stout founda- 
tion, and a smaller variety, short and deeply crooked, 
numerous and tenacious as fish-hooks, tore without 
difficulty the strongest clothing, even our woollen 
Arab " Abas," and our bed-covers of painted canvas. 

Travelling through this broom-jungle and crossing 
grassy plains, over paths where the slides of elephants' 
feet upon the last year's muddy clay showed that the 
land was not always dry, we halted after 11 a.m. for about 
an hour at the base of a steep incline, apparently an off- 
set from the now distant Rubeho Range. The porters 
would have nighted at the mouth of a small drain 
which, too steep for ascent, exposed in its rocky bed 
occasional sand-patches and deep pools; Kidogo, however, 
forced them forwards, declaring that if the asses 
drank of this u brackish water," they would sicken and 



THE BRACKISH WATER. 



247 



die. His assertion, suspected of being a " traveller's 
tale," was subsequently confirmed by the Arabs of 
Unyanyembe, who declared that the country people 
never water their flocks and herds below the hill ; there 
may be poisonous vegetation in the few yards between 
the upper and the lower pools, but no one offered any 
explanation of the phenomenon. 

Ascending with difficulty the eastern face of the 
step, which presented two ladders of loose stones and 
fixed boulders of grey syenite, hornblende, and greenstone, 
w T ith coloured quartzes, micacious schistes, and layers of 
talcose slate glittering like mother- o' -pearl upon the 
surface, we found a half-way platform some 150 feet of 
extreme breadth. Upon its sloping and irregular floor, 
black-green pools, sadly offensive to more senses than 
one, spring-fed, and forming the residue of the rain-water 
which fills the torrent, lay in muddy holes broadly fringed 
with silky grass. Travellers drink without fear this 
upper Marenga Mk'hali, which, despite its name, is 
rather soft and slimy, than brackish, and sign of wild- 
beasts — antelope and buffalo, giraffe and rhinoceros — 
appear upon its brink. It sometimes dries up in the 
heart of the hot season, and then deaths from thirst 
occur amongst the porters who, mostly Wanyanwezi, are 
not wont to practise abstinence in this particular. 
" Sucking-places" are unknown to them, water-bearing 
bulbs might here be discovered by the South African 
traveller ; as a rule, however, the East African is so 
plentifully supplied with the necessary that he does not 
care to provide for a dry day by unusual means. As- 
cending another steep incline we encamped upon a small 
step, the half-way gradient of a higher level. 

The 24th Sept. was to be a tirikeza* the Baloch and 

» 4 



248 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 

the sons of Ramji spent the earlier half in blowing 
away gunpowder at antelope, partridge and parrot, 
guinea-fowl and floriken, but not a head of game found 
its way into camp. The men were hot, tired and testy, 
those who had wives beat them, those who had not "let 
off the steam " by quarreling with one another. Said 
bin Salim, sick and surly, had words concerning a water- 
gourd with the brave Khudabakhsh, and the monocular 
Jemadar, who made a point of overloading his porters, 
bitterly complained because they would not serve him. 
At 2 p.m. we climbed up the last ladder of the rough 
and stony incline, which placed us a few hundred feet 
above the eastern half of the Lesser Desert. We took 
a pleasant leave of the last of the rises ; on this line 
of road, between Marenga Mk'hali and Western Unyam- 
wezi, the land, though rolling, has no steep ascents nor 
descents. 

From the summit of the Marenga Mk'hali step we 
travelled till sunset — the orb of day glaring like a fire- 
ball in our faces, — through dense thorny jungle and over 
grassy plains of black, cracked earth, in places covered 
with pebbles and showing extensive traces of shallow in- 
undations during the rains; in the lower lands huge 
blocks of weathered granite stood out abruptly from the 
surface, and on both sides, but higher on the right hand, 
rose blue cones, some single, others in pairs like 
" brothers." The caravan once rested in a thorny cop- 
pice, based upon rich red and yellow clay whence it was 
hurriedly dislodged by a swarm of wild bees. As the sun 
sank below the horizon the porters called a halt on a 
calabash-grown plain, near a block of stony hill veiled 
with cactus and mimosa, below whose northern base ran 
a tree-lined Nullah where, they declared, from the pre- 
sence of antelope and other game, that water might bo 



THE LOSS. 



249 



found by digging. Vainly Kidogo urged them for- 
wards declaring that they would fail to reach the Ziwa 
or Pond in a single march ; they preferred " crowing" and 
scooping up sand till midnight to advancing a few 
miles, and some gourdsfull of dirty liquid rewarded 
their industry. 

On the morning of the 26th of September, I learned 
that we had sustained an apparently irreparable loss. 
When the caravan was dispersed by bees, a porter took 
the opportunity of deserting. This man, who repre- 
sented himself as desirous of rejoining at Unyamyembe, 
his patron Abdullah bin Musa, the son of the well-known 
Indian merchant, had been engaged for four cloths by Said 
bin Salim at Ugogi. The Arab with his usual after- wit 
found out, when the mishap was announced, that he had 
from the first doubted and disliked the man so much 
that he had paid down only half the hire. Yet to the 
new porter had been committed the most valuable of 
our packages, a portmanteau containing the Nautical 
Almanac for 1858, the surveying books, and most of 
our paper, pens and ink. Said bin Salim, however, was 
hardly to be blamed, his continual quarrels with the Ba- 
loch and the sons of Kamji absorbed all his thoughts. 
Although the men were unanimous in declaring that 
the box never could be recovered, I sent back Bombay 
Mabruki and the slave Ambari with particular directions 
to search the place where we had been attacked by bees; 
it was within three miles, but, as the road was deemed 
dangerous, the three worthies preferred passing a few 
quiet hours in some snug neighbouring spot. 

At 1.30 p.m. much saddened by the disaster, we re- 
sumed our road and after stretching over a monotonous 
grassy plain variegated with dry thorny jungle, we 
arrived about sunset at a waterless kraal where we deter- 



250 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



mined to pass the night. Our supplies of liquid ran 
low, the Wanyamwezi porters, who carried our pots and 
gourds, had drained them on the way, and without drink 
an afternoon-march in this droughthy land destroys all 
appetite for supper. Some of the porters presently set 
out to fill their gourds with the waters of the Ziwa, 
thence distant but a few miles; they returned after a four 
hours' absence with supplies which restored comfort and 
good humour to the camp. 

Before settling for the night Kidogo stood up, and to 
loud cries of " Maneno ! maneno ! " — words ! words ! — 
equivalent to our parliamentary hear ! hear ! delivered 
himself of the following speech: — 

" Listen, 0 ye whites ! and ye children of Sayyidi 
Majidi ! and ye sons of Ramji ! hearken to my words, 
0 ye offspring of the night ! The journey entereth 
Ugogo — Ugogo (the orator threw out his arm west- 
ward). Beware, and again beware (he made violent 
gesticulations). You. don't know the Wagogo, they are 

sand— — s! (he stamped.) Speak not to those 

Washenzi pagans ; enter not into their houses (he 
pointed grimly to the ground). Have no dealings with 
them, show no cloth, wire, nor. beads (speaking with in- 
creasing excitement). Eat not with them, drink not 
with them, and make not love to their women (here the 
speech became a scream). Kirangozi of the Wanyam- 
wezi, restrain your sons ! Suffer them not to stray into 
the villages, to buy salt out of camp, to rob provisions, 
to debauch with beer, or to sit by the wells ! " And 
thus, for nearly half an hour, now violently, then com- 
posedly, he poured forth the words of wisdom, till the 
hubbub and chatter of voices which at first had been 
silenced by surprise, brought his eloquence to an end. 

We left the jungle-kraal early on the 26th September, 



THE ZIWA, OE POND. 



251 



and after hurrying through thick bush we debouched 
upon an open stubbly plain, with herds of gracefully 
bounding antelopes and giraffes, who stood for a moment 
with long outstretched necks to gaze, and presently 
broke away at a rapid, striding, camel's -trot, their heads 
shaking as if they would jerk off, their limbs loose, 
and their joints apparently dislocated. About 9 
p.m. we sighted the much-talked of Ziwa. The Arabs, 
fond of " showing a green garden," had described to me 
at Inenge a piece of water fit to float a man-of-war. 
But Kidogo, when consulted, had replied simply with 
the Kisawahili proverb, " Khabari ya mb'hali i.e., 
u news from afar;" — a beau mentir qui vient de loin. I 
was not therefore surprised to find a shallow pool, which 
in India would barely merit the name of tank. 

The Ziwa, which lies 3,100 feet above the sea, oc- 
cupies the lowest western level of Marenga Mk'hali, and 
is the deepest of the many inundated grounds lying to 
its north, north-east, and north-west. The extent 
greatly varies: in September, 1857, it was a slaty sheet 
of water, with granite projections on one side, and about 
300 yards in diameter; the centre only could not be 
forded. The bottom and the banks were of retentive clay : 
a clear ring, whence the waters had subsided, margined 
the pool, and beyond it lay a thick thorny jungle. In 
early December, 1858, nothing remained but a surface 
of dry, crumbling, and deeply-cracked mud, and, ac- 
cording to travellers, it had long, in consequence of the 
scanty rains, been in that state. Caravans always encamp 
at the Ziwa when they find water there. The country 
around is full of large game, especially elephants, giraffes, 
and zebras, who come to drink at night ; a few widgeon 
are seen breasting the little waves; "kata" (sand-grouse), 
of peculiarly large size and dark plumage, flock there with 



252 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 

loud cries; and at eventide the pool is visited by guinea- 
fowl, floriken, curlews, peewits, wild pigeons, doves, and 
hosts of small birds. When the Ziwa is desiccated, travel- 
lers usually encamp in a thick bush, near a scanty clearing, 
about one mile to the north-west, where a few scattered 
villages of Wagogo have found dirty white water, hard and 
bad, in pits varying from twenty to thirty feeth in depth. 
Here, as elsewhere in eastern Africa, the only trough is 
a small ring sunk in the retentive clayey soil, and sur- 
rounded by a little raised dam of mud and loose stones. 
A demand is always made for according permission to 
draw water — a venerable custom, dating from the days 
of Moses. " Ye shall buy meat of them (the Edomites) 
for money, that ye may eat ; and ye shall also buy water 
of them for money, that ye may drink." — Deut. ii. 6. 
Yet as thirsty, like hungry men, are not to be trifled with, 
fatal collisions have resulted from this inhospitable 
practice. Some years ago a large caravan of Wanyam- 
wezi was annihilated in consequence of a quarrel about 
water, and lately several deaths occurred in a caravan 
led by an Arab merchant, Sallum bin Hamid, because 
the wells were visited before the rate of payment was 
settled. In several places we w r ere followed upon the 
march lest a gourd might be furtively filled. To pre- 
vent exhaustion the people throw euphorbia, asclepias, 
and solanaceous plants into the well after a certain hour, 
and when not wanted it is bushed over, to keep off 
animals, and to check evaporation. 

At the Ziwa the regular system of kuhonga, or black- 
mail, so much dreaded by travellers, begins in force. Up 
to this point all the chiefs are contented with little pre- 
sents ; but in Ugogo tribute is taken by force, if neces- 
sary. None can evade payment ; the porters, fearing 
lest the road be cut olF to them in future, would refuse 



THE KUHONGA, OR BLACKMAIL. 



253 



to travel unless each chief is satisfied ; and when a 
quarrel arises they throw down their packs and run 
away. Ugogo, since the closing of the northern line 
through the Wahumba and the Wamasai tribes, and the 
devastation of the southern regions by the Warori, is the 
only open line, and the sultans have presumed upon 
their power of stopping the way. There is no regular 
tariff of taxes : the sum is fixed by the traveller's 
dignity and outfit, which, by means of his slaves, are as 
well known to every sultan as to himself. Properly 
speaking, the exaction should be confined to the up- 
caravans ; from those returning a head or two of cattle, 
a few hoes, or some similar trifle, are considered ample. 
Such, however, was not the experience of the Expedi- 
tion. When first travelling through the country the 
" Wazungu " were sometimes mulcted to the extent of 
fifty cloths by a single chief, and the Arabs congratu- 
lated them upon having escaped so easily. On their down- 
ward march they pleaded against a second demand as 
exorbitant as the first, adducing the custom of caravans, 
who are seldom mulcted in more than two cows or a pair 
of jembe, or iron hoes; the chiefs, however, replied that 
as they never expected to see white faces again, it was 
their painful duty to make the most from them. 

The kuhonga, however, is not unjust. In these regions 
it forms the customs-dues of the government : the sultan 
receives it nominally, but he must distribute the greater 
part amongst his family and councillors, his elders and 
attendants. It takes the place of the fees expected by 
the Balderabba of the Abyssinians, the Mogasa of the 
Gallas, the Abban of the Somal, and the Ghafir and 
Rafik amongst the Bedouin Arabs, which are virtually 
assertions of supremacy upon their own ground. These 
people have not the idea which seems prevalent in the 



254 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 

south, namely, that any man has a right to tread God's 
earth gratis as long as he does not interfere with pro- 
perty. If any hesitation about the kuhonga be made, the 
first question put to the objector will be, u Is this your 
ground or my ground ? " The practice, which is sanc- 
tioned by the customs of civilised nations, is, however, 
vitiated in East Africa by the slave-trade : it becomes 
the means of intrusion and extortion, of insolence and 
violence. The Wagogo are an importing people, and 
they see with envy long strings of what they covet 
passing through their territory from the interior to the 
coast. They are strong enough to plunder any caravan ; 
but violence they know would injure them by cutting 
off communication with the markets for their ivory. 
Thus they have settled into a silent compromise, and their 
nice sense of self-interest prevents any transgression 
beyond the bounds of reason. The sultans receive 
their kuhonga, and the subjects entice away slaves from 
every caravan, but the enormous interest upon capital 
laid oat in the trade still leaves a balance in favour of 
the merchants. The Arabs, however, declaring that 
the evil is on the increase, propose many remedies — such 
as large armed caravans, sent by their government, 
and heavy dues to be exacted from those Wagogo who 
may visit the coast. But they are wise enough to mur- 
mur without taking steps which would inevitably ex- 
acerbate the evil. Should it pass a certain point, a 
new road will be opened, or the old road will be re- 
opened, to restore the balance of interests. 

At the Ziwa we had many troubles. One Marema, 
the sultan of a new settlement situated a few hundred 
yards to the north-west visited us on the day of our 
arrival and reproving us for " sitting in the jungle," 
pointed out the way to his village. On our replying 



SQUABBLES. 



255 



that we were about to traverse Ugogo by another route, 
he demanded his Ada or customs, which being newly- 
imposed were at once refused by Kidogo. The sultan, 
a small man, a " mere thief," — as a poor noble is graphi- 
cally described in these lands, — threatened violence, 
whereupon the asses were brought in from grazing and 
were ostentatiously loaded before his eyes : when he 
changed his tone from threats to beggary. Kidogo 
relenting gave him two cloths with a few strings of 
beads, preferring this slender disbursement to the 
chance of a flight of arrows during the night. His 
good judgment was evidenced by the speedy appearance 
of the country-people, who brought with them bullocks, 
sheep, goats and poultry, water-melons and pumpkins, 
honey, butter-milk, whey and curded-milk, an abundance 
of holcus and calabash-flour. The latter is made from 
the hard dry pulp surrounding the bean-like seed con- 
tained in the ripe gourd : the taste is a not unpleasant 
agro-dolce, and the people declare it to be strengthening 
food, especially for children ; they convert it into por- 
ridge and rude cakes. 

This abundance of provaunt caused a halt of four 
days at the Ziwa, and it was spent in disputes between 
the great Said and the greater Kidogo. The ostensible 
" bone of contention," was cloth advanced by the former 
to the porters — who claimed as their perquisite a bul- 
lock before entering Ugogo — without consulting the 
hard-headed slave, who wounded in his tenderest place 
of pride, had influence enough to halt the caravan. The 
real cause of the dispute was kept from my ears till 
some months afterwards, but secrets in this land are as 
the Arabs say, " Like musk, murder, and Basrah-garlic," 
they must out, and Bombay, who could never help blurt- 
ing forth the tacenda with the dicenda, at last accident- 



25& THE. LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 

ally unveiled the mystery. Said had deferred taking 
overcharge of the outfit from Kidogo till our arrival at 
the Ziwa, and the latter felt aggrieved by the sudden 
yet tardy demand, which deprived him of the dignity 
and the profits of stewardship. Sickness became rife 
in camp, the effect of the cold night-winds and the 
burning suns, and as usual when men are uncomfortable 
violent quarrels ensued. Again the officious Wazira, 
shook the torch of discord by ordering Khamisi, an ex- 
ceedingly drunken and debauched son of Ramji, to 
carry certain bundles which usually graced the shoulders 
of Goha, one of the Wak'hutu porters. When words 
were exhausted Khamisi drew his blade upon Goha and 
was tackled by Wazira, whilst Goha brought the muzzle 
of my elephant-gun to bear upon Khamisi and was in- 
stantly collared by Bombay. Being thus " in chancery " 
both heroes waxed so " exceedingly brave — particular," 
that I was compelled to cool their noble bile with a long 
pole. At length it became necessary to make Kidogo raise 
his veto against the advance of the caravan. He did not 
appear before me till summoned half-a-dozen times : when 
he at last vouchsafed so to do I dragged rather than led him 
to the mat, where sat in surly pride Said bin Salim, with 
the monocular Jemadar, and I ordered the trio to quench 
with the waters of explanation the fire of anger. After an 
apparently satisfactory arrangement Kidogo started up 
and disappeared in the huts of his men ; it presently 
proved that he had so done for the purpose of proposing 
to his party, who were now the sole interpreters, that 
to Said bin Salim, an ignoramus in such matters, should 
be committed the weighty task of settling the amount 
of our blackmail and presents with the greedy chiefs of 
Ugogo. Had the mischievous project been carried into 
execution, we should have been sufferers to some extent : 



THE LOST BOX RECOVERED. 



257 



lack of unanimity however caused the measure to be 
thrown out. A march was fixed for the next day, when 
the bullock, on this occasion the scape-grace, broke its 
tether and plunged into the bush : it was followed by 
the Baloch and the porters, whose puny arrows, when 
they alighted upon the beast's stern, only goaded it for- 
wards, and at least threescore matchlock- balls were dis- 
charged before one bullet found its billet in the fugitive. 
The camp of course then demanded another holiday to 
eat beef. 

The reader must not imagine that I am making a 
" great cry," about a little matter. Four days are not 
easily spent when snowed-up in a country inn, and that 
is a feeble comparison for the halt in East Africa, where 
outfit is leaking away, the valuable travelling-time is 
perhaps drawing to a close, health is palpably failing, 
and nothing but black faces made blacker still by 
ill-humour and loud squabbles, meet the eye and 
ear. Insignificant things they afterwards appear viewed 
through the medium of memory, these petty annoyances 
of travel ; yet at the moment they are severely felt, and 
they must be resented accordingly. The African tra- 
veller's fitness for the task of exploration depends more 
upon his faculty of chafing under delays and kicking 
against the pricks, than upon his power of displaying 
the patience of a Griselda or a Job. 

On the 30th September, the last day of our detention 
at the Jiwa, appeared a large caravan headed by Said 
bin Mohammed of Mbuamaji, with K half an bin Khamis, 
and several other Coast- Arabs. They brought news 
from the sea-board, and, — wondrous good fortune ! — the 
portmanteau containing books which the porter, profiting 
by the confusion caused by the swarm of bees, had de- 
posited in the long grass, at the place where I had 

vol. i. s. 



258 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 

directed the slaves to seek it. Some difficulty was at 
first made about restitution : the Arab law of " lakit," 
or things trove, being variable, complicated, and alto- 
gether opposed to our ideas. However, two cloths were 
given to the man who had charge of it, and the 
Jemadar and Said bin Salim were sent to recover it 
by any or all means. The merchants were not offended. 
They consented to sell for the sum of thirty-five dollars 
a strong and serviceable but an old and obstinate 
African ass, which after carrying my companion for 
many a mile, at last broke its heart when toiling up 
the steeps from whose summit the fair waters of the 
Central Lake were first sighted. Moreover, they proposed 
that for safety and economy the two caravans should 
travel together under a single flag, and thus combine to 
form a total of 190 men. These Coast-Arabs travelled 
in comfort. The brother of Said Mohammed had mar- 
ried the daughter of Fundikira, Sultan of Unyanyembe, 
and thus the family had a double home, on the coast 
and in the interior. . All the chiefs of the caravan car- 
ried with them wives and female slaves, negroid beauties, 
tall, bulky and " plenty of them," attired in tulip-hues, 
cochineal and gamboge, who walked the whole way, and 
who when we passed them displayed an exotic modesty 
by drawing their head- cloths over cheeks which we were 
little ambitious to profane. They had a multitude of 
Fundi, or managing men, and male slaves, who bore their 
personal bag and baggage, scrip and scrippage, drugs 
and comforts, stores and provisions, and who were al- 
ways early at the ground to pitch, to surround with a 
" pai," or dwarf drain, and to bush for privacy, with 
green boughs, their neat and light ridge-tents of Ameri- 
can domestics. Their bedding was as heavy as ours, 
and even their poultry travelled in wicker cages. This 



TABLE LAND OF UGOGO. 



259 



caravan was useful to us in dealing with the Wagogo : 
it always managed, however, to precede us on the march, 
and to monopolise the best kraals. The Baloch and the 
sons of Eamji, when asked on these occasions why 
they did not build a palisade, would reply theatrically, 
"Our hearts are our fortification!" — methought a 
sorry defence. 

By Kidogo's suggestion I had preferred the middle 
line through the hundred miles of dreaded Ugogo : it 
was the beaten path, and infested only by four Sultans, 
namely: 1. Myandozi of Kifukuru. 2. Magomba of 
Kanyenye. 3. Maguru-Mafupi of K'hok'ho ; and 4. Ki- 
buya of Mdaburu. On the 1st October, 1857, we left 
the Ziwa late in the morning, and after passing through 
the savannahs and the brown jungles of the lower levels, 
where giraffe again appeared, the path crested a wave 
of ground and debouched upon the table-land of Ugogo. 
The aspect was peculiar and unprepossessing. Behind still 
towered in sight the Delectable Mountains of Usagara, 
mist-crowned and robed in the lightest azure, with 
streaks of a deep plum-colour, fronting the hot low land 
of Marenga Mk'haii, whose tawny face was wrinkled 
with lines of dark jungle. On the north was a tabular 
range of rough and rugged hill, above which rose 
three distant cones pointed out as the haunts of the 
robber Wahumba : at its base was a deep depression, a 
tract of brown brush patched with yellow grass, in- 
habited only by the elephant, and broken by small out- 
lying hillocks. Southwards scattered eminences of tree- 
crowned rock rose a few yards from the plain which 
extended to the front, a clearing of deep red or white 
soil, decayed vegetation based upon rocky or sandy 
ground, here and there thinly veiled with brown brush 
and golden stubbles : its length, about four miles, was 

s 2 



260 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



studded with square villages, and with the stately but 
grotesque calabash. This giant is to the vegetable what 
the elephant is to the animal world : — the Persians call 
it the " practice-work of nature" — its disproportionate 
conical bole rests upon huge legs exposed to view by 
the washing away of the soil, and displays excrescences 
which in pious India would merit a coat of vermilion. 
From the neck extend gigantic gnarled arms, each one 
a tree, whose thinnest twig is thick as a man's finger, 
and their weight causes them to droop earthwards, giving 
to the outline the shape of a huge dome. In many parts 
the unloveliness of its general appearance is varied by 
the wrinkles and puckerings which, forming by granula- 
tion upon the oblongs where the bark has been removed 
for fibre, give the base the appearance of being cham- 
fered and fluted ; and often a small family of trunks, 
four or five in number, springs from the same 
root. At that season all were leafless ; at other times 
they are densely foliaged, and contrasting with their 
large timber and with their coarse fleshy leaf, they are 
adorned with the delicatest flowers of a pure virgin- 
white, which, opening at early dawn, fade and fall before 
eventide. The babe-tree issues from the ground about 
one foot in diameter : in Ugogo, however, all those ob- 
served were of middle age. The } 7 oung are probably 
grubbed up to prevent their encumbering the ground, 
and when decayed enough to be easily felled, they are 
converted into firewood. By the side of these dry and 
leafless masses of dull dead hue, here and there a mimosa 
or a thorn was beginning to bear the buds of promise 
green as emeralds. The sun burned like the breath of 
a bonfire, a painful glare — the reflection of the terrible 
crystal above, — arose from the hot earth ; warm Siroccos 
raised clouds of dust, and in front the horizon was so 



AFKICAN EECEPTIONS. 



261 



distant, that, as the Arabs expressed themselves, " a man 
might be seen three marches off." 

We were received with the drumming and the ring- 
ing of bells attached to the ivories, with the yells and 
frantic shouts of two caravans halted at Kifukuru : one 
was that of Said Mohammed, who awaited our escort, 
the other a return " Safari," composed of about 1,000 
Wanyamwezi porters, headed by four slaves of Salim bin 
Kashid, an Arab merchant settled at Unyanyembe. The 
country people also flocked to stare at the phenomenon ; 
they showed that excitement which some few years ago 
might have been witnessed in more polished regions 
when a " horrible murder " roused every soul from 
Tweed banks to Land's End ; when, to gratify a morbid 
destructiveness, artists sketched, literati described, tour- 
ists visited, and curio-hunters met to bid for the 
rope and the murderer's whiskers. Yet I judged favour- 
ably of the Wagogo by their curiosity, which stood out in 
strong relief against the apathy and the uncommunica- 
tiveness of the races lately visited. Such inquisitive- 
ness is amongst barbarians generally a proof of improva- 
bility, — of power to progress. One man who had visited 
Zanzibar could actually speak a few words of Hindostani, 
and in Ugogo, and there only, I was questioned by the 
chiefs concerning Uzungu " White-land," the mysterious 
end of the world in which beads are found under ground, 
and where the women weave such cottons. From the 
day of our entering to that of our leaving the country, 
every settlement turned out its swarm of gazers, men 
and women, boys and girls, some of whom would follow 
us for miles with explosions of Hi! — i! — i! screams of 
laughter and cries of excitement, at a long high trot, — 
most ungraceful of motion ! — and with a scantiness of 
toilette which displayed truly unseemly spectacles. The 

s 3 



262 THE LAKE REGION'S OP CENTRAL AFRICA. 



matrons, especially the aged matrons, realised Madame 
Pernelle's description of an unpleasant female — 

u Un peu trop forte en gueule et fort impertinente ; " 

and of their sex the old men were ever the most perti- 
nacious and intrusive, the most surly and quarrelsome. 
Yainly the escort attempted to arrest the course of this 
moving multitude of semi-nude barbarity. I afterwards 
learned that the two half-caste Arabs who had passed 
us at Muhama, Khalfan and Id, the sons of Muallim 
Salim of Zanzibar, had, whilst preceding us, spread 
through Ugogo malevolent reports concerning the Wa- 
zungu. They had one eye each and four arms ; they 
were full of " knowledge," which in these lands means 
magic; they caused rain to fall in advance and left 
droughts in their rear ; they cooked water melons and 
threw away the seeds, thereby generating small-pox ; 
they heated and hardened milk, thus breeding a murrain 
amongst cattle ; and their wire, cloth, and beads caused 
a variety of misfortunes ; they were kings of the sea, and 
therefore white-skinned and straight-haired — a standing 
mystery to these curly-pated people — as are all men 
who live in salt water ; and next year they would return 
and seize the country. Suspicion of our intentions 
touching " territorial aggrandisement " was a fixed idea : 
everywhere the value attached by barbarians to their 
homes is in inverse ratio to the real worth of the article. 
Hence mountaineers are proverbially patriotic. Thus 
the lean Bedouins of Arabia and the lank Somal, though 
they own that they are starving, never sight a stranger 
without suspecting that he is spying out the wealth of 
the land. "What will happen to us?" asked the 
Wagogo ; " we never yet saw this manner of man ! " 
But the tribe cannot now forfeit intercourse with the 
coast : they annoyed us to the utmost, they made the 



THE WAGOGO. 



263 



use of their wells a daily source of trouble, they charged 
us double prices, and when they brought us provisions 
for sale, they insisted upon receiving the price of even 
the rejected articles ; yet they did not proceed to open 
outrage. Our timid Arab, the Baloch, the sons of 
Eamji, and the porters humoured them in every whim. 
Kidogo would not allow observations to be taken with 
a bright sextant in presence of the mobility. He de- 
clined to clear the space before the tent, as the excited 
starers, some of whom had come from considerable dis- 
tances, were apt under disappointment to wax violent ; 
and though he once or twice closed the tent-flaps, 
he would not remove the lines of men, women, and 
children, who stretched themselves for the greater con- 
venience of peeping and peering, lengthways upon the 
ground. Whenever a Mnyamwezi porter interfered, he 
was arrogantly told to begone, and he slunk away, pray- 
ing us to remember that these men are " Wagogo." 
Caravan after caravan had thus taught them to become 
bullies, whereas a little manliness would soon have 
reduced them to their proper level. They are neither 
brave nor well-armed, and their prestige rests solely 
upon their feat in destroying about one generation ago 
a caravan of Wanyamwezi — an event embalmed in a 
hundred songs and traditions. They seemed to take a 
fancy to the Baloch, who received from the fair sex 
many a little souvenir in the shape of a kid or a water- 
melon. Whenever the Goanese Valentine was sent to a 
village he was politely and hospitably welcomed, and 
seated upon a three-legged stool by the headman ; and 
generally the people agreed in finding fault with their 
principal Sultans, declaring that they unwisely made the 
country hateful to " Wakonongo," or travellers. For- 
tunately for the Expedition several scions of the race saw 
the light safely during our transit of Ugogo : had an 

s 4 



264 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



accident occurred to a few babies or calves, our return 
through the country would have been difficult and dan- 
gerous. All received the name of " Muzungu," and 
thus there must now be a small colony of black " white 
men " in this part of the African interior. 

At Kifukuru I was delayed a day whilst settling the • 
blackmail of its Sultan Miyandozi. Said bin Salim, the 
Jemadar, and Kidogo called upon him in the morning and 
were received in the gateway of a neat " Tembe," the 
great man disdaining to appear on so trivial an occasion. 
This Sultan is the least powerful of the four; he is 
plundered by the Warori tribes living to the south-west, 
and by his western neighbour, Magomba ; his subjects 
are poorly clad, and are little ornamented compared with 
those occupying the central regions, where they have the 
power to detain travellers and to charge them exorbi- 
tantly for grain and water. Yet Miyandozi demanded 
four white and six blue shukkahs; besides which I was 
compelled to purchase for him from the sons of Ramji, 
who of course charged treble its value, a " Sohari " or 
handsome silk and cotton loin-cloth. In return he sent — 
it appeared to be in irony — -one kayla, or four small mea- 
sures of grain. The slaves of Salim bin Rashid obliged 
me with a few pounds of rice, for which I gave them a 
return in gunpowder, and they undertook to convey to 
Zanzibar a package of reports, indents, and letters, 
which was punctually delivered. An ugly accident had 
nearly happened that night ; the Wanyamwezi porters 
managed to fire the grass round a calabash tree, against 
which they had stretched their loads, and a powder-maga- 
zine — fortunately fire-proof — was blackened and charred 
by the flames. A traveller cannot be too careful about his 
ammunition in these lands. I have seen a slave smoking 
a water pipe, tied for convenience of carriage to a leaky 
keg of powder ; and another in the caravan of Salim bin 



THE CHIEF MAG OMB A. 



265 



Sayf of Dut'humi, resting the muzzle of his musket 
against a barrel of ammunition, fired it to try its strength, 
and blew himself up with several of his comrades. 

On the 3rd October we quitted Kifukuru in the 
afternoon, and having marched nearly six hours we 
encamped in one of the strips of waterless brown 
jungles which throughout Ugogo divide the cultivated 
districts from one another, and occupy about half the 
superficies of the land. The low grounds, inundated 
during the rains, were deeply cracked, and my weak ass, 
led by the purblind Shahdad, fell with violence upon my 
knee, leaving a mixture of pain and numbness which 
lasted for some months. On the next day we resumed 
our journey betimes through a thick rugged jungle and 
over a rolling grassy plain, which extended to the 
frontier of Kanyenye, where Sultan Magomba rules. 
The 5th October saw us in the centre of Kanyenye, 
a clearing about ten miles in diameter. The surface is 
a red tamped clayey soil, dotted with small villages, huge 
calabashes, and stunted mimosas ; water is found in 
wells or rather pits sunk from ten to twelve feet in the 
lower lands, or in the sandy beds of the several Fiumaras. 
Flocks and herds abound, and the country is as cultivated 
and populous as the saline nitrous earth, and the scarce- 
ness of the potable element, which often tarnishes silver 
like sulphur-fumes, permits. 

At Kanyenye I was delayed four days to settle black- 
mail with Magomba, the most powerful of the Wagogo 
chiefs. He was on this, as on a ubsequent occasion, 
engaged in settling a cause arising from Uchawi or 
Black Magic; yet all agree that in Ugogo, where, to 
quote the " Royal Martyr's " words, 

"Plunder and murder are the kingdom's laws/' 

there is perhaps less of wizardhood and witchcraft, 



266 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



and consequently less of its normal consequences, fiscs 
and massacres, than in any other region between the 
Atlantic and the Indian Ocean. "Arrow-heads" em- 
ployed every art of wild diplomacy to relieve me of as 
much cloth as possible. I received, when encamped at 
the Ziwa, a polite message declaring his desire to see 
white men ; but — " the favour of the winds produces 
dust " — I was obliged to acknowledge the compliment 
with two cottons. On arrival at his head-quarters I was 
waited upon by an oily cabinet of Wazirs and elders, 
who would not depart without their " respects " — four 
cottons. The next demand was made by his favourite 
wife, a peculiarly hideous old princess with more 
wrinkles than hairs, with no hair black and no tooth 
white, and attended by ladies in waiting as unpre- 
possessing as herself: she was not to be dismissed with- 
out a fee of six cottons. At last, accompanied by a mob 
of courtiers, who crowded in like an African House 
of Commons, appeared in person the magnifico. He 
was the only Sultan that ever entered my tent in Ugogo 
— pride and a propensity for strong drink prevented 
other visits. He was much too great a man to call 
upon the Arab merchants, but in our case curiosity 
had mastered state considerations. Magomba was a 
black and wrinkled elder, drivelling and decrepid, with 
a half-bald head from w T hose back and sides depended 
a few straggling corkscrews of iron gray : he wore a 
coat of castor-oil and a " Barsati " loin-cloth, which 
grease and use had changed from blue to black. A few 
bead strings decorated his neck, large flexible anklets 
of brass wire adorned his legs, solid brass rings, single 
and in coils, which had distended his earlobes almost to 
splitting, were tied by a string over his cranium, 
and his horny soles were defended by single-soled 



NUMBERS ARE STRENGTH. 



267 



sandals, old, dirty, and tattered. He chewed his quid 
and he expectorated without mercy ; he asked many a 
silly question, yet he had ever an eye to the main 
chance. He demanded and received five " cloths with 
names," which I was again compelled to purchase at an 
exorbitant price from the Baloch and slaves, one coil of 
brass wire, four blue cottons, and ten " domestics ; " the 
total amounted to fiftv shukkahs, here worth at least 
fifty dollars, and exhausting nearly two-thirds of a 
porters load. His return present was the leanest of 
calves; when it was driven into camp with much parade, 
his son, who had long been looking out for a fit oppor- 
tunity, put in a claim for three cottons. 

Magomba before our departure exacted from Kidogo 
an oath that his Wazungu would not smite the land 
with drought or with fatal disease, declaring that all 
we had was in his hands. He boasted, and with truth, 
of his generosity. It was indeed my firm conviction 
from first to last, that in case of attack or surprise I 
had not a soul except my companion to stand by me : 
all those who accompanied us could, and consequently 
would, have saved their lives ; — we must have perished. 
We should have been as safe with six as with sixty 
guns ; but I would by no means apply to these regions 
Mr. Galton's opinion, " that the last fatal expedition 
of Mungo Park is full of warning to travellers who 
propose exploring with a large body of men." For 
though sixty guns do not suffice to prevent attack in 
Ugogo, 600 stout fellows armed with the " hot-mouthed 
weapon " might march through the length and breadth 
of Central Africa. 

During our four days' detention at Kanyenye, I was 
compelled to waste string after string of beads i n persuad- 
ing the people to water the porters and asses. Yet their 



268 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 

style of proceeding proved that it was greed of gain, 
not scarcity of the element, which was uppermost in 
their minds ; they would agree to supply us with an 
unlimited quantity, and then would suddenly gather 
round the well and push away the Wanyamwezi, bid- 
ding them go and fetch more beads. All the caravan 
took the opportuity of loading itself with salt. Whilst 
the halt lasted, my companion brought in a fine-flavoured 
pallah and other antelopes, with fioriken, guinea-fowl, and 
partridge. Neither he nor I, however, had strength 
enough, nor had we time, to attack the herds of ele- 
phants that roam over the valley whose deep purple 
line separates the table-land of Ugogo from the blue 
hills of the Wahumba to the north. And here, perhaps, 
a few words concerning the prospects of sportsmen 
in this part of Africa, may save future travellers from 
the mistake into which I fell. I expected great things, 
and returned without realising a single hope. This 
portion of the peninsula is a remarkable contrast to 
the line traversed by Dr. Livingstone, where the animals 
standing within bow-shot were so numerous and fear- 
less, that the burden of provisions was often unnecessary. 
In the more populous parts game has melted away 
before the woodman's axe and the hunters' arrows : 
even where large tracks of jungle abound with water 
and forage, the note of a bird rarely strikes the ear, and 
during a long day's march not a single large animal will 
be seen from the beaten track. It is true that in 
some places, there is 

" enough 

Of beastes that be chaseable." 

The park lands of Dut'humi, the jungles and forests 
of Ugogi and Mgunda Mk'hali, the barrens of Usu- 
kuma, and the tangled thickets of Ujiji, are full of noble 



SPORT IN EAST AFEICA. 



269 



game, — lions and leopards, elephants and rhinoceroses, 
wild cattle, giraffes, gnus, zebras, quaggas, and ostriches. 
But these are dangerous regions where the sportsman 
often cannot linger for a day. Setting aside the minor 
considerations of miasma and malaria, — the real or 
fancied perils of the place, and the want of food, or the 
difficulty of procuring water, would infallibly cause the 
porters to desert. Here are no Cape-waggons, at once 
house, store, and transport ; no " Ships of the Desert," 
never known to run away ; in fact there is no vehicle 
but man, and he is so impatient and headstrong, so suspi- 
cious and timorous, that he must be humoured in every 
whim. As sportsmen know, it is difficult to combine sur- 
veying operations and collection of specimens with a pur- 
suit which requires all a man's time ; in these countries, 
moreover, no merely hunting-expedition would pay, 
owing to the extraordinary expense of provisions and 
carriage. Thus Venator will be reduced to use his 
" shooting-iron" on halting days, and at the several 
periods of his journey, and his only consolation will be 
the prospect of wreaking vengeance upon the hippopota- 
mus and the crocodile of the coast, if his return there 
be entered in the book of Time. Finally, East Africa 
wants the vast variety of animals, especially the beauti- 
ful antelopes, which enrich the lists of the Cape Fauna. 
The tale of those observed in short : the horns of the 
oryx were seen, the hartebeest and steinbok, the sal- 
tiana and the pallah, — the latter affording excellent 
venison, — were shot. The country generally produces 
the " Suiya," a little antelope with reddish coat and 
diminutive horns, about the size of an English hare, 
the swangura, or sungula, an animal somewhat larger 
than the saltiana, and of which, according to the peo- 
ple, the hind only has horns ; and at K'hutu my com- 



270 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



panion saw a double-horned antelope which he thought 
resembled the "Chouka-singa," ( Tetraceros Quadricornis) 
of Nepaul. The species of birds, also, are scarcely 
more numerous than the beasts ; the feathered tribe 
is characterised by sombreness of plumage, and their 
song is noisy but not harmonious, unpleasant, perhaps 
because strange, to the European ear. 

On the 8th October appeared at Kanyenye a large down- 
caravan headed by Abdullah bin Nasib, a Msawahili of 
Zanzibar, whose African name is Kisesa. This good 
man began with the usual token of hospitality, the gift 
of a goat, and some measures of the fine Unyanyembe rice, 
of which return-parties carry an ample store : he called 
upon me at once with several companions, — one of them 
surprised me not a little by an English "good morning," 
— and he kindly volunteered to halt a day whilst we wrote 
reports and letters, life-certificates, and duplicate-in- 
dents upon Zanzibar for extra supplies of drugs and 
medical comforts, cloth and beads. The asses were now 
reduced to five, and as Magomba refused to part with 
any of his few animals, at any price, ¦ — on the coast 
I had been assured that asses were as numerous as dogs 
in Ugogo — Abdullah gave me one of his riding-ani- 
mals, and would take nothing for it except a little 
medicine, and a paper acknowledging his civility. 
Several of the slaves and porters had been persuaded 
by the Wagogo to desert, and Abdullah busied 
himself to recover them. One man, who had sud- 
denly deposited his pack upon the path and had dis- 
appeared in the jungle during the noonday halt, was 
pointed out by a woman to Kidogo, and was found 
lurking in a neighbouring village, where the people 
refused to give him up. Abdullah sent for Magomba's 
four chief " ministers," and persuaded them to render 



TPIE HURRIED MAECH. 



271 



active aid : they seized the fellow, took from him his 
wire and his nine cloths, appropriated four, and left 
me five wherewith to engage another porter. The de- 
serter was of course dismissed, but the severity of the 
treatment did not prevent three desertions on the next 
day. 

The 10th October ushered in an ugly march. Emerg- 
ing betimes from the glaring white and red plains of 
Kanyenye, dotted with fields, villages, and calabashes, 
we unloaded in a thin jungle of mimosa and grass- 
bunches, near sundry pools, then almost dried up, but 
still surrounded by a straggling growth of ehamaerops 
and verdurous thorns. The bush gave every opportu- 
nity to the porters, who had dispersed in the halt, to 
desert with impunity. In our hurried morning tramp, 
want of carriage had caused considerable confusion, and 
at 2 p.m., when again the word " load " was given for 
a tirikeza, everything seemed to go wrong. Said bin 
Salim and the Jemadar hurried forwards, leaving me to 
manage the departure with Kidogo, who, whilst my 
companion lay under a calabash almost unable to move, 
substituted for his strong Mnyamwezi ass a wretched 
animal unable to bear the lightest load. The Baloch 
Belok was asked to carry our only gourd full of water; 
he pleaded sickness as an excuse. And, when the rear 
of the caravan was about to march, Kidogo, who alone 
knew the way, hastened on so fast that he left us to 
wander through a labyrinth of elephants' tracks, hedged 
in by thorns and brambly trees, which did considerable 
damage to clothes and cutis. 

Having at length found the way, we advanced over a 
broad, open, and grassy plain, striped with southwards- 
trending sandy water-courses of easy ascent and descent, 
and lined with a green aromatic vegetation, in which the 



272 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 

tall palm suggested a resemblance to the valley-plains of 
the Usagara Mountains. As night fell upon us like a 
pall, we entered the broken red ground that limits the flat 
westwards, and, ascending a dark ridge of broken, stony, 
ground, and a dense thorn-bush, we found ourselves upon 
a higher level. The asses stumbled, the men grumbled, 
and the want of water severely tried the general 
temper. 

From this cold jungle — the thermometer showed a 
minimum of 54° F. — we emerged at dawn on the 
11th October, and after three hours' driving through 
a dense bush of various thorns, with calabashes red- 
dened by the intense heat, and tripping upon the narrow 
broken path that ran over rolling ground, we found the 
porters halted at some pits full of sweet clear water. 
Here the caravan preserved a remarkable dead silence. 
I inquired the cause. The Coast-Arabs who accom- 
panied us were trying an experiment, which, had it 
failed, would have caused trouble, expense, and waste of 
time ; they were attempting to pass without blackmail 
the little clearing of Usek'he, which lay to the south of 
the desert-road, and they knew that its Sultan, Ganza 
Mikono, usually posted a party upon the low masses of 
bristling hill hard by, to prevent caravans evading his 
dues. As no provisions were procurable in the jungle, 
it was judged better to proceed, and the sun was in the 
zenith before we reached the district of K'hok'ho. We 
halted under a spreading tree, near the head-quarter 
village of its villanous Sultan, in an open plain of 
millet and panicum-stubbles. Presently Kidogo, dis- 
liking the appearance of things — the men, rushing with 
yells of excitement from their villages, were forming a 
dense ring around us ; the even more unmanageable old 
women stared like sages femmes, and already a Mnyam- 



DESERTION AGAIN PEOPOSED. 



273 



wezi porter had been beaten at the well — stirred us up 
and led the way to an open jungle about a mile distant. 
There we were safe ; no assailant would place himself 
upon the plain, the Coast-Arabs were close at hand, and 
in the bush we should have been more than a match 
for the Wagogo. 

The Baloch, fatigued by the tedious marches of the 
last two days, had surlily refused their escort to our 
luggage, as well as to ourselves. When the camp was 
pitched, I ordered a goat to be killed ; and, serving out 
rations to the sons of Ramji and the porters, I gave 
them none, a cruel punishment to men whose souls 
centered in their ingesta. The earlier part of the 
evening was spent by them in enumerating their 
grievances — they were careful to speak in four dialects, 
so that all around might understand them, in discuss- 
ing their plans of desertion, and in silencing the contra- 
diction of their commander, the monocular Jemadar, 
who, having forsworn opium, now headed the party in 
opposition to the mutineers. They complained that they 
were faint for want of meat — the fellows were driving a 
bullock and half a dozen goat s, which they had purchased 
with cloth, certainly not their own. I had, they grumbled, 
given them no ghee or honey, consequently they were 
obliged to "eat dry "-—they knew this to be false, as they 
had received both at Kanyenye. We had made them 
march ten " Cos " in our eagerness to obtain milk — -they 
were the first to propose reaching a place where provisions 
were procurable. The unmanageables, Khudabakhsh, 
Shahdad, and Belok, proposed an immediate departure, 
but a small majority carried the day in favour of deser- 
tion next morning. Kidogo and the sons of Eamji 
ridiculed, as was their wont, the silly boasters with, " Of 

VOL. i. T 



274 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



a truth, brethren ! the coast is far off, and ye are hungry 
men ! " On the ensuing day, when a night's reflection 
had cooled down their noble bile, they swallowed their 
words like buttered parsnips. I heard no more of their 
plans, and in their demeanour they became cringing as 
before. 

The transit of the K'hok'ho clearing, which is also 
called the Nyika, or wilderness, is considered the nucleus 
of travellers' troubles in Ugogo. The difficulty is caused 
by its Sultan, M'ana Miaha, popularly known as Maguru 
Mafupi, or Short-shanks. This petty tyrant, the most 
powerful, however, of the Wagogo chiefs, is a tooth- 
ache to strangers, who complain that he cannot even 
plunder a Vaimable. He was described to me as a short 
elderly man, nearly bald, chocolate-coloured, and remark- 
able for the duck-like conformation which gave origin to 
his nickname. His dress was an Arab check round his 
loins, and another thrown over his shoulders. He be- 
comes man, idiot, and beast with clockwork-regularity 
every day ; when not disguised in liquor he is surly 
and unreasonable, and when made merry by his cups he 
refuses to do business. He is in the habit of detaining 
Wanyamwezi caravans to hoe his fields, and he often 
applies them to a corvee of five or six days during the 
spring-time, before he will consent to receive his black- 
mail. 

We were delayed five days at K'hok'ho to lay in pro- 
visions for four marches, and by the usual African pre- 
texts, various and peculiar. On the afternoon of arrival 
it would have been held indecent haste to trouble His 
Highness. On the first morning His Highness's spouse 
was unwell, and during the day he was a sitting upon 
Pombe," in other words, drinking beer. On the second 
he received, somewhat scurvily, a deputation headed by 



THE SCENES OF BLACKMAIL. 



275 



Said bin Salim, the Coast- Arab merchants, and the 
Jemadar. Two Wazagira, or chief-councillors, did the 
palaver, which was conducted, for dignity, outside the 
royal hovel. He declared that the two caravans must com- 
pound separately, and that in my case he would be satisfied 
with nothing under six porters' loads. As about one- 
twelfth of his demand was offered to him, he dismissed 
them with ignominy, affirming that he held me equal to 
the Sayyid of Zanzibar, and accordingly that he should 
demand half the outfit. The third day was spent by the 
Coast- Arabs in haggling with the courtiers before His 
Highness, who maintained a solemn silence, certainly the 
easiest plan ; and the present was paraded, as is custom- 
ary on such occasions, in separate heaps, each intended 
for a particular person, but Her Highness, justly offended 
by the flimsiness of a bit of chintz, seized a huge wooden 
ladle and hooted and hunted the offenders out of doors. 
After high words the Arabs returned, and informed me 
that things were looking desperate. I promised assistance 
in case of violence being offered to them, —a civility which 
they acknowledged by sending a shoulder of beef. The 
fourth day was one of dignified idleness. We received 
a message that the court was again sitting upon 
Pombe, and we too well understood that His Highness, 
with his spouse and cabinet, were drunk as drunk could 
be. On the morning of the fifth day, a similar delaying 
process was attempted ; but as the testy Kidogo, who 
had taken the place of the tame Said, declared that 
the morrow should see us march in the afternoon, the 
present was accepted, and the two or three musket shots 
usual on such occasions sounded the joyful tidings that 
we were at liberty to proceed. The unconscionable ex- 
tortioner had received one coil of brass wire, four 

T 2 



276 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



" cloths with names," eight domestics, eight blue cottons, 
and thirty strings of coral beads. Not contented with 
this, he demanded two Arab checks, and these failing, a 
double quantity of beads, and another domestic. I 
compromised the affair with six feet of crimson broad- 
cloth, an article which I had not produced, as the Coast- 
Arabs, who owned none, declared that such an offering 
would cause difficulties in their case. But as they 
charged me double and treble prices for the expensive 
cloths which the Sultan required, and which, as they * 
had been omitted in our outfit, it was necessary to pur- 
chase from them, I at length thought myself justified in 
economising by the only means in my power. The 
fiery-tempered Coast-Arabs left K'hok'ho with rage in 
their hearts and curses under their tongues. These 
men usually think outside their heads, but they know 
that in Ugogo the merest pretext — the loosing a hot 
word, touching a woman, offending a boy, or taking in 
vain the name of the Sultan — infallibly leads to being 
mulcted in cloth. 

I was delighted to escape from the foul strip of crowded 
jungle in which we had halted. A down-caravan of 
Wanyamwezi had added its quotum of discomfort to 
the place. Throughout the fiery day we were stung by 
the Tzetze, and annoyed by swarms of bees and perti- 
nacious gadflies. On one occasion an army of large 
poisonous siyafu, or black pismire, drove us out of the 
tent by the wounds which it inflicted between the 
fingers and on other tender parts of the body, before a 
kettle of boiling water persuaded them to abandon us. 
These ant-fiends made the thin-skinned asses mad with 
torture. The nights were cold and raw, and when we 
awoke in the morning we found some valuable article 
rendered unserviceable by the termites. K'hok'ho was 



A TRYING MARCH. 



277 



an ill-omened spot. There my ass " Seringe," sole sur- 
voice of the riding animals brought from Zanzibar, 
was so torn by a hyena that I was compelled to leave 
it behind. I was afterwards informed that it had 
soon died of its wounds. The next mishap was the de- 
sertion of the fifteen Wanyamwezi porters who had been 
hired and paid at Ugogi. These men had slept in the 
same kraal with the somnolent sons of Ramji, and 
had stealthily disappeared during the night. As usual, 
though they carried off their own, they had left our loads 
behind, that they might reach their homes with greater 
speed. They would choose a jungle road, to avoid the 
danger of slavery, and living the while upon roots and 
edible grasses, would traverse the desert separating them 
from their country in three or four days. This desertion 
of fifteen men first suggested to me that my weary 
efforts and wearing anxiety about carriage were to a 
certain extent self-inflictions. Expecting to see half the 
outfit left upon the ground, I was surprised by the readi- 
ness with which it disappeared. The men seemed to 
behave best whenever things were palpably at the worst ; 
besides which, as easily as the baggage of 50 porters 
was distributed amongst 100, so easily were the loads 
of 100 men placed upon the shoulders of 50. Indeed, the 
original Wanyamwezi gang, who claimed by right extra 
pay for carrying extra weight, though fiercely opposed to 
lifting up an empty gourd gratis, were ever docile when 
a heavier pack brought with it an increase of cloth and 
beads. 

However, the march on the 17th October had its trifling 
hardships. My companion rode forward on the ass lately 
given to us by Abdullah bin Nasib, whilst I, remaining 
behind and finding that no carriage could be procured for 
two bags of clothes and shoes, placed them upon my animal 

T 3 



278 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



the Mnyamwezi bought at Inenge, inasmuch as it ap- 
peared somewhat stronger than the half-dozen wretched 
brutes that flung themselves upon the ground apparently 
too fagged to move. I had, however, overrated its 
powers : it soon became evident that I must walk, or that 
the valuable cargo must be left behind. Trembling 
with weakness, I set out to traverse the length of the 
Mdaburu Jungle. The memory of that march is not 
pleasant : the burning sun and the fiery reflected heat 
arising from the parched ground — here a rough, thorny, 
and waterless jungle, where the jasmine flowered and the 
frankincense was used for fuel ; there a grassy plain of 
black and sun-cracked earth — compelled me to lie down 
every half-hour. The watergourds were soon drained 
by my attendant Baloch ; and the sons of Ramji, 
who, after reaching the resting-place, had returned with 
ample stores for their comrades, hid their vessels on my 
approach. Sarmalla, a donkey-driver, the model of a 
surly negro, whose crumpled brow, tightened eyes and 
thick lips which shot-out on the least occasion of excite- 
ment, showed what was going on within his head, openly 
refused me the use of his gourd, and — thirst is even 
less to be trifled with than hunger — found ample rea- 
son to repent himself of the proceeding. Near the end 
of the jungle I came upon a party of the Baloch, who, 
having seized upon a porter belonging to a large cara- 
van of Wanyamwezi that had passed us on that march, 
were persuading him, half by promises and half by 
threats, to carry their sleeping mats and their empty 
gourds. The strict and positive orders as regards en- 
ticing away deserters which I had issued at Inenge, were 
looked upon by them, in their all- engrossing egotism, as a 
mere string of empty words. I could do nothing beyond 
threatening to report their conduct to their master, and 



ADIEU TO UGOGO. 



279 



dismissing the man, who obviously stood in fear of death, 
with his tobacco and hoes duly counted back to him. To- 
wards the end of that long march I saw with pleasure the 
kindly face of Seedy Bombay, who was returning to me 
in hot haste, leading an ass, and carrying a few scones 
and hard-boiled eggs. Mounting, I resumed my way, 
and presently arrived at the confines of Mdaburu, 
where, under a huge calabash, stood our tent, amidst a 
kraal of grass boothies, surrounded by a heaped-up ridge 
of thorns. 

Mdaburu is the first important district in the land 
of Uyanzi,which, beginning from Western K'hok'ho, ex- 
tends as far as Tura, the eastern frontier of Unyam- 
wezi-land. It is a fertile depression of brick-red earth, 
bisected by a broad, deep, and sandy Fiumara, which, trend- 
ing southwards, supplies from five pits water in plenty 
even during the driest season. It is belted on all sides 
by a dense jungle, over whose dark brown line appeared 
the summits of low blue cones, and beyond them long 
streaks of azure ridge, beautified by distance into the sem- 
blance of a sea. We were delayed two days at this, the 
fourth and westernmost district of Ugogo. It was ne- 
cessary to lay in a week's provision for the party— ever 
a tedious task in these regions, but more especially in the 
dead of winter —moreover, the Sultan Kibuya expected 
the settlement of his blackmail. From this man we expe- 
rienced less than the usual incivility : by birth a Mkimbu 
foreigner, and fearing at that time wars and rumours 
of wars on the part of his villanous neighbour, Maguru 
Mafupi, he contented himself with a present which may 
be estimated at nineteen cloths, whereas the others had 
murmured at forty and fifty. However, he abated nothing 
of his country's pretentious pride. A black, elderly man, 
dressed in a grimy cloth, without other ornament but 

T 4 



280 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



a broad ivory bracelet covering several inches of his 
right wrist, he at first refused to receive the deputa- 
tion because his "ministers" were absent ; and during the 
discourse about the amount of blackmail, he sat preserv- 
ing an apathetic silence, outside his dirty lodging in the 
huge kraal which forms his capital. The demand con- 
cluded with a fine silk-cotton cloth, on the part of his 
wife; and when " ma femme" appears on such occasions 
in these regions, as in others further west, it is a sure 
sign that the stranger is to be taken in. As usual 
with the East African chiefs, Kibuya was anxious to 
detain me, not only in order that his people might pro- 
fitably dispose of their surplus stores, but also because 
the presence of so many guns would go far to modify 
the plans of his enemies. His attempts at delay, how- 
ever, were skilfully out-manoeuvred by Said bin Salim, 
who broke through all difficulties with the hardihood 
of fear. The little man's vain terrors made him put the 
ragged kraal which surrounded us into a condition of 
defence, and every night he might be seen stalking like 
a troubled spirit amongst the forms of sleeping men. 

At Mdaburu I hired two porters from the caravan 
that accompanied us; and Said bin Salim began somewhat 
tardily to take the usual precautions against desertion. 
He was ordered, before the disappearance of the porters 
that levanted atK'hok'ho, to pack their hire in our loads, 
and every evening to chain up the luggage heaped in 
front of our tent. The accident caused by his neglect 
rendered him now quasi-obedient. Moreover, two or 
three Baloch were told off to precede the line, and as 
many to bring up the rear. The porters, as I have 
said, hold it a point of honour not to steal their packs; 
but if allowed to straggle forwards, or to loiter behind, 
they will readily attempt the recovery of their goods by 



THE FIERY FIELD. 



281 



opening their burdens, which they afterwards abandon 
upon the road. The Coast-Arabs, in return for some 
small shot, which is here highly prized, assisted me by 
carrying some surplus luggage. Amongst other articles, 
two kegs of gunpowder were committed to them : both 
were punctually returned at Unyanyembe, where gun- 
powder sells at two cloths, or half a Frasilah (17*5 lbs.) 
of ivory per lb; but the bungs had been stove in, and a 
quarter of the contents had evaporated. The evening 
of the second day's halt closed on us before the 
rations for the caravan were collected, and seventeen 
shukkah, with about a hundred strings of beads, barely 
produced a sufficiency of grain. 

From the Ked Vale of Mdaburu three main lines tra- 
verse the desert between Ugogo and Unyamwezi. 
The northernmost, called Njia T'humbi, leads in a west- 
north- westerly direction to Usukuma. Upon this track 
are two sultans and several villages. The central " Ka- 
rangasa," or "Mdaburu," is that which will be described 
in the following pages. The southernmost, termed 
Uyanzi, sets out from K'hok'ho, and passes through the 
settlements known by the name of Jiwe la Singa\ It 
is avoided by the porters, dreading to incur the wrath 
of Sultan Kibuya, who would resent their omitting 
to visit his settlement, M'daburu. 

These three routes pass through the heart of the 
great desert and elephant-ground " Mgunda Mk'hali"— 
explained by the Arabs to mean in Kinyamwezi, the Fiery 
" Shamba " or Field. Like Marenga Mk'hali, it is a desert, 
because it contains no running water nor wells, except 
after rain. The name is still infamous, but its ill-fame 
rests rather upon tradition than actuality ; in fact, its 
dimensions are rapidly shrinking before the torch and 
axe. About fifteen years ago it contained twelve long 



282 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



stages, and several tirikeza ; now it is spanned in eight 
marches. The wildest part is the first half from 
Mdahuru to Jiwe la Mkoa, and even here, it is reported, 
villages of Wakimbu are rising rapidly on the north and 
south of the road. The traveller, though invariably 
threatened with drought and the death of cattle, will 
undergo little hardship beyond the fatigue of the first 
three forced marches through the " Fiery Field in fact, 
he will be agreeably surprised by its contrast with the 
desert of Marenga Mk'hali. 

From east to west the diagonal breadth of Mgunda 
Mk'hali is 140 miles. The general aspect is a dull uni- 
form bush, emerald-coloured during the rains, and in the 
heats a network of dry and broom-like twigs. Except 
upon the banks of nullahs — " rivers" that are not rivers 
— the trees, as in Ugogo, wanting nutriment, never afford 
timber, and even the calabash appears stunted. The 
trackless waste of scrub, called the " bush " in Southern 
Africa, is found in places alternating with thin gum- 
forest ; the change may be accounted for by the different 
depths of water below the level of the ground. It is a 
hardy vegetation of mimosas and gums mixed with ever- 
green succulent plants, cactacese, aloes, and euphorbias : 
the grass, sometimes tufty, at other times equally spread, 
is hard and stiff; when green it feeds cattle, and when dry 
it is burned in places by passing caravans to promote the 
growth of another crop. 

The groundwork of Mgunda Mk'hali is a detritus of 
yellowish quartz, in places white with powdered felspar, 
and, where vegetation decays, brown-black with humus. 
Water-worn pebbles are sprinkled over the earth, and 
the vicinity of Fiumaras abounds in a coarse and modern 
sandstone-conglomerate. Upon the rolling surface, and 



THE FIERY FIELD. 



283 



towering high above the tallest trees, are based the 
huge granitic and syenitic outcrops before alluded to. 
The contrast between the masses and the dwarf rises 
which support them at once attracts the eye. Here and 
there the long waves that diversify the land appear in 
the far distance like blue lines bounding the nearer 
superficies of brown or green. Throughout this rolling 
table-land the watershed is to the south. In rare places 
the rains stagnate in shallow pools, which become 
systems of mud-cakes during the drought. At this 
season water is often unprocurable in the Fiumaras, 
causing unaccustomed hardships to caravans, and death 
to those beasts which, like the elephant and the buffalo, 
cannot long exist without drinking. 

On the 20th October we began the transit of the 
" Fiery Field," whose long broad line of brown jungle, 
painted blue by the intervening air, had, since leaving 
K'hok'ho, formed our western horizon. The waste 
here appeared in its most horrid phase. The narrow 
goat-path serpentined in and out of a growth of 
poisonous thorny jungle, with thin, hard grass-straw, 
growing on a glaring white and rolling ground ; the 
view was limited by bush and brake, as in the alluvial 
valleys of the maritime region, and in weary sameness 
the spectacle surpassed everything that we had endured 
in Marenga Mk'hali. We halted through the heat 
of the day at some water-pits in a broken course ; and 
resuming our tedious march early in the afternoon, we 
arrived about sunset at the bed of a shallow nullah, 
where the pure element was found in sand-holes about 
five feet deep. 

On the 2nd day we reached the large Mabunguru 
Fiumara, a deep and tortuous gash of fine yellow quartz- 



284 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



oze sand and sunburnt blocks of syenite : at times it 
must form an impassable torrent, even at this season of 
severe drought it afforded long pools of infiltrated rain- 
water, green with weeds and abounding with shell-fish, 
and with the usual description of Silurus. In the 
earlier morning the path passed through a forest already- 
beautified by the sprouting of tender green leaves and 
by the blooming of flowers, amongst which was a large 
and strongly perfumed species of jasmine, whilst young 
grass sprouted from the fire-blackened remnants of the 
last year's crop. Far upon the southern horizon rose 
distant hills and lines, blue, as if composed of solidified 
air, and mocking us by their mirage-likeness to the 
ocean. Nearer, the ground was diversified by those 
curious evidences of igneous action, which extend west- 
ward through eastern Unyamwezi, and northwards to 
the shores of the Nyanza Lake. These outcrops of 
gray granite and syenite are principally of two 
different shapes, the hog's back and the turret. The 
former usually appears as a low lumpy dome of various 
dimensions ; here a few feet long, there extending a mile 
and a half in diameter : the outer coat scales off under 
the action of the atmosphere, and in places it is worn 
away by a network of paths. The turret is a more 
picturesque and changing feature. Tall rounded 
blocks and conical or cylindrical boulders, here single, 
there in piles or ridges, some straight and stiff as giant 
ninepins, others split as if an alley or a gateway passed 
between them, rise abruptly and perpendicularly almost 
without foundationary elevation, cleaving the mould of 
a dead plain, or — like gypseous formations, in which 
the highest boulders are planted upon the lowest and 
broadest bases — they bristle upon a wave of dwarfish 



THE LOSS OF THE " ONE-EYED FIEND." 285 

rocky hill. One when struck was observed to give 
forth a metallic clink, and not a few, balanced upon 
points, reminded me of the tradition-bearing rocking 
stones. At a distance in the forest, the larger masses 
might be mistaken for Cyclopean walls, towers, steeples, 
minarets, loggans, dwelling houses, and ruined castles. 
They are often overgrown with a soft grass, which 
decaying, forms with the degradation of the granite a 
thin cap of soil ; their summits are crowned with tufty 
cactus, a stomatiferous plant which imbibes nourishment 
from the oxygen of the air; whilst huge creepers, 
imitating trees, project gnarled trunks from the deeper 
crevices in their flanks. Seen through the forest these 
rocks are an effective feature in the landscape, espe- 
cially when the sunbeams fall warm and bright upon 
their rounded summits and their smooth sides, here 
clothed with a mildew-like lichen of the tenderest leek- 
green, there yellowed like Italian marbles by the burning 
rays, and there streaked with a shining black as if 
glazed by the rain, which, collecting in cupfuls upon the 
steps and slopes, at times overflows, coursing in mimic 
cataracts down the heights. 

That march was a severe trial ; we had started at dawn, 
we did not, however, arrive at the Mabunguru Fiumara 
before noon, and our people straggled in about evening- 
tide. All our bullet* moulds, and three boxes of ammu- 
nition, were lost. Said bin Salim, the Jemadar, and 
- three other men had followed in the rear, driving on the 
" One-Eyed Fiend," which, after many a prank, lay down 
upon the ground, and positively declined to move. The 
escort, disliking the sun, abandoned it at once to its fate, 
and want of provisions, and the inordinate length of 
the marches, rendered a halt or a return for the valuable 



286 THE LAKE REGIONS OF OENTEAL AFRICA. 

load — four boxes of ammunition — out of the question. 
An article once abandoned in these deserts is rarely 
if ever recovered ; the caravan-porters will not halt, 
and a small party dares not return to recover it. 

The 22nd October saw us at Jiwe la Mkoa, the half- 
way-house of Mgunda Mk'hali. The track, crossing the 
rough Mabunguru Fiumara, passed over rolling ground 
through a thorny jungle that gradually thinned out into 
a forest ; about 8 a.m. a halt was called at a water in 
the wilderness. My companion being no longer able to 
advance on foot, an ass was unloaded, and its burden 
of ammunition was divided, for facility of porterage, 
amongst the sons of Kamji. After noon we resumed 
our march, and the Kirangozi, derided by the rival 
guide of the Coast- Arabs' caravan, and urged forward 
by Kidogo, who was burning to see his wife and children 
in Unyamwezi, determined to " put himself at the head 
of himself." The jungle seemed interminable. The 
shadows of the hills lengthened out upon the plains, the 
sun sank in the glory of purple, crimson, and gold, and 
the crescent-moon rained a flood of silvery light upon 
the topmost twig- work of the trees ; we passed a dwarf 
clearing, where lodging and perhaps provisions were to 
be obtained, and we sped by water near the road where 
the frogs were chanting their vesper- hymn; still far, — far 
ahead we heard the horns and the faint march-cries of 
the porters. At length, towards the end of the march, 
we wound round a fantastic mass of cactus-clad 
boulders, and crossing a low ridge we found at its base 
a single Tembe or square village of emigrant Wakimbu, 
who refused to admit us. The little basin beyond it 
displayed, by " black jacks " and felled tree-trunks, 
evidences of modern industry, and it extended to the 



THE ROUND ROCK. 



287 



Jiwe or Rock, which gives its name to the clearing. We 
were cheered by the sight of the red fires glaring in the 
Kraal, but my companion's ass, probably frightened by 
some wild beast to us invisible, reared high in the air, 
bucked like a deer, broke his frail Arab girths, and 
threw his invalid rider heavily upon the hard earth. 
Arrived at the Kraal, I found every boothy occupied by 
the porters, who refused shelter until dragged out like 
slaughtered sheep. Said bin Salim's awning was as 
usual snugly pitched; ours still lay on the ground. 
The little Arab's "duty to himself" appeared to attain 
a higher limit every stage; once comfortably housed, he 
never thought of offering cover to another, and his 
children knew him too well even to volunteer such 
a service to any one but himself. On a late occasion, 
when our tent had not appeared, Said bin Salim, to 
whom a message had been sent, refused to lend us one 
half of the awning committed to him, a piece of canvas 
cut out to serve as a tent and lug-sail. Bombay then 
distinguished himself by the memorable words, — " If 
you are not ashamed of your master, be ashamed of his 
servant ! " which had the etfect of bringing the awning 
and of making Said bin Salim testily refuse the half 
returned to him. 

Jiwe la Mkoa, or the Round Rock, is the largest 
of the many hogs'-backs of grey syenite that stud 
this waste. It measures about two miles in ex- 
treme diameter, and the dome rises with a gentle slope 
to the height of 200 or 300 feet above the dead level of 
the plain. Tolerable water is found in pits upon a 
swamp at its southern base, and well covered Mtego or 
elephant traps, deep grave-like excavations, like the 
Indian " Ogi," prove dangerous to travellers ; in one of 



288 



THE LAKE EEGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



these the Jemadar disappeared suddenly, as if by magic. 
The smooth and rounded surface of the rock displays 
deep hoof-shaped holes, which in a Moslem land would 
at once be recognised as the Asr, or the footprints of 
those holy quadrupeds, Duldul or Zu'l Jenah. In places 
the Jiwe, overgrown with scattered tufts of white grass, 
and based upon a dusty surface blackened by torrent 
rains, forcibly suggested to the Baloch the idea of an 
elderly negro's purbald poll. 

We encamped close to the Jiwe, and in so doing we did 
wrong : however pleasant may be the shadow of a tall 
rock in a thirsty land by day, way-wise travellers avoid 
the vicinity of stones which, by diminished radiation, 
retain their heat throughout the night. All caravans 
passing through this clearing clamour to be supplied 
with provisions; our porters, who, having received 
rations for eight days, which they consumed in four, 
were no exceptions to the rule. As the single little 
village of Jiwe la Mkoa could aiFord but one goat- 
skin of grain and a few fowls, the cattle not being for 
sale, and no calves having been born to the herds, the 
porters proposed to send a party with cloth and beads 
to collect provaunt from the neighbouring settlements. 
But the notable Khalfan bin Khamis, the most energetic 
of the Coast- Arabs in whose company we were travel- 
ling, would brook no delay : he had issued as usual 
three days' rations for a long week's march, and thus 
by driving his porters beyond their speed, he practised a 
style of economy usually categorised by us at home as 
" penny- wise and pound-foolish." His marching was 
conducted upon the same principle ; determining to save 
time, he pushed on till his men began to flag, pre- 
sently broke down, and finally deserted. 



" NEAR THE STONES." 



289 



At Jiwe la Mkoa the neck of the desert is broken : 
the western portion of Mgunda Mk'hali has already 
thinned out. On the 23rd October, despite the long 
march of the preceding day, Khalfan proposed a Tiri- 
keza, declaring that the heavy nimbus from the west, 
accompanied by a pleasant cold, portended rain, and 
that this rain, like the " Choti Barsat " of India, an 
nounces the approach of the great Masika, or vernal wet 
season. Yielding to his reasons, we crossed the " Round 
Rock," and passing through an open forest of tall trees, 
with here and there an undulating break, now yellow 
with quartz, then black with humus, we reached, after 
about three hours, another clearing like Jiwe la Mkoa, 
which owes its origin to the requirements of commerce. 
" Kirurumo " boasted of several newly built Tembe 
of Wakimbu, who supplied caravans at an exorbitant 
rate. The blackness of the ground, and the vivid 
green of vegetation, evidenced the proximity of water. 
The potable element was found in pits, sunk in a narrow 
nullah running northwards across the clearing ; it was 
muddy and abundant. On the next day the road led 
through a thin forest of thorns and gums, which, bare 
of bush and underwood, afforded a broad path and 
pleasant, easy travelling. Sign of elephant and rhi- 
noceros, giraffe and antelope, crossed the path, and as 
usual in such places, the asses were tormented by the 
Tzetze. After travelling four hours and thirty minutes, 
we reached a new settlement upon the western frontier 
of Uganzi, called " Jiweni," "near the stones," from 
the heaps of block and boulder scattered round pits of 
good water, sunk about three feet in the ground. The 
Mongo Nullah, a deep surface-drain, bisects this clear- 
ing, which is palpably modern. Many of the trees are 

vol. i. u 



290 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



barked previous to felling, and others have fallen pros- 
trate, apparently from the depredations of the white 
ant. On the 25th, after another desert march of 
2 hrs. 20' through a flat country, where the forest 
was somewhat deformed by bush and brake, which 
in places narrowed the path to a mere goat-track, 
we arrived at the third quarter of Mgunda Mk'hali. 
"Mgongo T'hembo," or the Elephant's Back, derives 
its name from a long narrow ridge of chocolate-coloured 
syenite, outcropping from the low forest lands around 
it ; the crest of the chain is composed of loose rocks 
and large detached boulders. Like the other inhabited 
portions of Mgunda Mk'hali, it is a recent clearing ; 
numerous "black-jacks," felled trees, and pollarded 
stumps still cumber the fields. The ''Elephant's Back" 
is, however, more extensive and better cultivated than 
any of its neighbours, — Mdaburu alone excepted, — 
and water being abundant and near the surface, 
it supports an increasing population of mixed Wa- 
kimbu and Wataturu, who dwell in large substantial 
Tembe, and live by selling their surplus holcus, maize, and 
fowls to travellers. They do not, like the Wakimbu of 
Jiwe la Mkoa, refuse entrance to their villages, but they 
receive the stranger with the usual niggard guest-rites of 
the slave-path, and African-like, they think only of what 
is to be gained by hospitality. Here I halted for a day to 
recruit and to lay in rations. The length of the stages 
had told upon the men ; Bombay had stumped himself, 
several of the sons of Eamji, and two of Said bin 
Salim's children were unable to walk; the asses, throwing 
themselves upon the ground, required to be raised w^ith 
the stick, and all preferred rest even to food. Mboni, 
one of the sons of Eamji, carried off a slave girl from 



THE TUBA NULLAH. 



291 



the camp of the Coast-Arabs ; her proprietor came armed 
to recover her, swords were drawn, a prodigious clash 
and clatter of tongue arose, friends interfered, and 
blades were sheathed. Khalfan bin Khamis, losing all 
patience at this delay, bade us adieu, promising to an- 
nounce our approach at Unyanyembe ; about a week 
afterwards, however, we found him in most melancholy 
plight, halted half-way, because his over- worked porters 
had taken " French leave." 

We resumed our march on the 27th October, and 
after a slow and painful progress for seven hours over 
a rolling country, whose soil was now yellow with argile, 
then white with felspar, then black-brown with humus, 
through thorny bush, and forest here opening out, 
there densely closing in, we arrived at the " Tura Nul- 
lah," the deepest of the many surface drains winding 
tortuously to the S. W. The trees lining the margin 
were of the noblest dimensions ; the tall thick grass that 
hedged them in showed signs of extensive conflagration, 
and water was found in shallow pools and in deep pits 
beneath the banks, on the side to which the stream, 
which must be furious during the rainy season, swings. 
When halted in a clear place in the jungle, we were 
passed by a down caravan of Wanyamwezi ; our porters 
shouted and rushed up to greet their friends, the men 
raised their right hands about a dozen times, and then 
clapped palm to palm, and the women indulged in 
" vigelegele," the African " lulliloo," which rang like 
breech-loaders in our ears. 

On the next clay we set out betimes through the 
forest, which, as usual when nearing populous settle- 
ments, spread out, and which began at this season to 
show a preponderance of green over brown. Presently 

u 2 



292 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



we reached a large expanse of yellow stover where the 
van had halted, in order that the caravan might make 
its first appearance with dignity. Ensued a clearing, 
studded with large stockaded villages, peering over tall 
hedges of dark green milk-bush, fields of maize and millet, 
manioc, gourds, and water-melons, and showing nume- 
rous flocks and herds, clustering around the shallow pits. 
The people swarmed from their abodes, young and old 
hustling one another for a better stare ; the man forsook 
his loom and the girl her hoe, and for the remainder 
of the march we were escorted by a tail of screaming 
boys and shouting adults ; the males almost nude, the 
women, bare to the waist and clothed only knee-deep in 
kilts, accompanied us, puffing pipes the while, with 
wallets of withered or flabby flesh flapping the air, 
striking their hoes with stones, crying " Beads! beads!" 
and ejaculating their wonder in strident explosions of 
"Hi! hi!— Hui! ih!" and "Ha!— a!— a!" It was a 
spectacle to make an anchorite of a man, — it was at 
once ludicrous and disgusting. 

At length the Kirangozi fluttered his red flag in the 
wind, and the drums, horns, and larynxes of his fol- 
lowers began the fearful uproar which introduces a 
caravan to the admiring " natives.' 7 Leading the way, 
our guide, much to my surprise, — I knew not then that 
such was the immemorial custom of Unyamwezi, — 
entered uninvited and sans ceremony the nearest large 
village; the long string of porters flocked in with bag and 
baggage, and we followed their example. The guests 
at once dispersed themselves through the several courts 
and compounds into which the interior hollow was di- 
vided, and lodged themselves with as much regard for 
self and disregard for their grumbling hosts as possible. 



THE HALT IN THE VILLAGE. 293 

We were placed under a wall-less roof, bounded on one 
side by the bars of the village palisade, and the mob of 
starers that relieved one another from morning till night 
made me feel like the denizen of a menagerie. 



u 3 



Usagara Mountains, seen from Ugogo. 



CHAP. IX. 

THE GEOGRAPHY AND ETHNOGRAPHY OF UGOGO, — THE THIRD REGION. 

The third division of the country visited is a flat table- 
land extending from the Ugogi "Dhun," or valley, at the 
western base of the Wasagara Mountains, in E. long. 
36° 14/, to Tura, the eastern district of Unyamwezi, in E. 
long. 33° 57'; occupying a diagonal breadth of 155 geo- 
graphical rectilinear miles. The length from north to 
south is not so easily estimated. The Wahumba and 
the Wataturu in the former, and the Wahehe and 
Warori in the latter direction, are migratory tribes that 
spurn a civilised frontier ; according to the Arabs, how- 
ever, the Wagogo extend three long marches on an 
average to the north and four or five southwards. This, 



GEOGRAPHY OF UGOGO. 



295 



assuming the march at 15 miles, would give a total of 
120. The average of the heights observed is 3,650 feet, 
with a gradual rise westwards to Jiwe la Mkoa, which 
attains an altitude of 4,200 feet (?). 

The third region, situated to leeward of a range 
whose height compels the south-east trades to part with 
their load of vapours, and distant from the succession 
of inland seas, which, stationed near the centre of the 
African continent, act as reservoirs to restore the 
balance of humidity, is an arid, sterile land, a counter- 
part, in many places, of the Kalahari and the Karroo, 
or South African desert-plains. The general aspect is 
a glaring yellow Hat, darkened by long growths of 
acrid, saline, and succulent plants, thorny bush, and 
stunted trees, and the colouring is monotonous in the 
extreme. It is sprinkled with isolated dwarf cones 
bristling with rocks and boulders, from whose interstices 
springs a thin forest of gums, thorns, and mimosas. 
The power of igneous agency is displayed in protruding 
masses of granitic formation, which rise from the dead 
level with little foundationary elevation ; and the masses 
of sandstone, superincumbent upon the primitive base 
in other parts of the country, here disappear. On the 
north rises the long tabular range of the Wahumba 
Hills, separated by a line of lower ground from the pla- 
teau. Southwards, a plain, imperceptibly shelving, trends 
towards the Rwaha River. There are no rivers in Ugogo : 
the periodical rains are carried off by large nullahs, 
whose clay banks are split and cut during the season of 
potent heat into polygonal figures like piles of columnar 
basalt. On the sparkling nitrous salinas and the dull- 
yellow or dun-coloured plains the mirage faintly resem- 
bles the effects of refraction in desert Arabia. The roads 
are mere foot-tracks worn through the fields and bushes. 

u 4 



296 



THE LAKE EEGIONS OF CENTEAL AFEICA. 



The kraals are small dirty circles enclosing a calabash 
or other tree, against which goods are stacked. The 
boothies are made of dried canes and stubble, surrounded 
by a most efficient chevaux de frise of thorn-boughs. 
At the end of the dry season they are burnt down by 
inevitable accident. The want of wood prevents their 
being made solidly, and for the same reason " bois de 
vache " is the usual fuel of the country. 

The formation of the subsoil is mostly sandstone 
bearing a ruddy sand. The surface is in rare places a 
brown vegetable humus, extending but a few inches in 
depth, or more generally a hard yellow-reddish ferru- 
ginous clay covered with quartz nodules of many colours, 
and lumps of carbonate of lime, or white and siliceous 
sand, rather resembling a well-metalled road or an 
"untidy expanse of gravel-walk" than the rich moulds 
which belong to the fertile African belt. In many parts 
are conical anthills of pale red earth ; in others iron- 
stone crops out of the plain ; and everywhere fine and 
coarse grits abound. The land is in parts condemned 
to perpetual drought, and nowhere is water either good 
or plentiful. It is found in the serpentine beds of nul- 
lahs, and after rain in ziwa, vleys, tanks, pools, or ponds, 
filled by a gentle gravitation, and retained by a strong 
clay, in deep pits excavated by the people, or in shallow 
holes "crowed "in the ground. The supplies of this 
necessary divide the country into three great districts. 
On the east is Marenga Mk'hali, a thick bush, where a 
few villages, avoided by travellers, are scattered north 
and south of the road. The heart of the region is 
Ugogo, the most populous and the best cultivated 
country, divided into a number of small and carefully 
cultivated clearings by tracts of dense bush and timber- 
less woods, a wall of verdure during the rains, and in 
the hot season a system of thorns and broom work which 



GEOGKAPHY OF UGOGO. 



297 



serves merely to impede a free circulation of the air. 
These seams of waste land appear strange in a country 
populated of old; the Arabs, however, declare that theland 
is more thinly inhabited than it used to be. Mgunda 
Mk'hali, the western division, is a thin forest and a heap 
of brakey jungle. The few hills are thickly clothed 
with vegetation, probably because they retain more 
moisture than the plains. 

The climate of Ugogo is markedly arid. During the 
transit of the Expedition in September and October, 
the best water-colours faded and hardened in their pans; 
India-rubber, especially the prepared article in squares, 
became viscid, like half-dried birdlime ; " Macintosh " 
was sticking plaister, and the best vulcanized elastic- 
bands tore like brown paper. During almost the whole 
year a violent east- wind sweeps from the mountains. 
There are great changes in the temperature, whilst the 
weather apparently remains the same, and alternate 
currents of hot and cold air were observed. In the long 
summer the climate much resembles that of Sindh ; 
there are the same fiery suns playing upon the naked 
surface with a painful dazzle, cool crisp nights, and 
clouds of dust. The succulent vegetation is shrivelled 
up and carbonised by heat, and the crackling covering 
of clayey earth and thin sand, whose particles are un- 
bound by dew or rain, rises in lofty whirling columns 
like water-spouts when the north wind from the Wa- 
humba Hills meets the gusts of Usagara, which are 
soon heated to a furnace-breath by the glowing surface. 
These " p'hepo" or "devils" scour the plain with the 
rapidity of horsemen, and, charged with coarse grain 
and small pebbles, strike with the violence of heavy 
hail. The siccity and repercussion of heat produce an 
atmosphere of peculiar brilliancy in Ugogo : the milky 
haze of the coast-climate is here unknown. The sowing 



298 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



season, at which time also trees begin to bud and birds 
to breed, is about the period of the sun's greatest 
southern declination, and the diminution of tempera- 
ture displays in these regions the effects of the tepid 
winds and the warm vernal showers of the Euro- 
pean continent. There is no Vuli, and thus the 
climate is unrefreshed by the copious tropical rains. 
About the middle of November the country is visited 
by a few preliminary showers, accompanied by a violent 
tramontana, and the vital principle which appears 
extinct starts once more into sudden and excessive 
activity. Towards the end of December the Masika, or 
rainy season, commences with the wind shifting from 
the east to the north and north-east, blowing steadily 
from the high grounds eastward and westward of the 
Nyanza Lake, which have been saturated by heavy falls 
beginning in September. The "winter" seldom ex- 
ceeds the third month, and the downfall is desultory 
and uncertain, causing frequent droughts and famine. 
For this reason the land is much inferior in fertility to 
the other regions, and the cotton and tobacco, which 
flourish from the coast to the Tanganyika Lake, are 
deficient in Ugogo, whilst rice is supplanted by the 
rugged sorghum and maize. 

Arab and other travellers unaccustomed to the 
country at first suffer from the climate, which must 
not, however, be condemned. They complain of the 
tourbillons, the swarms of flies, and the violent changes 
from burning heat to piercing cold, which is always ex- 
perienced in that region when the thermometer sinks 
below 60° — 55° F. Their thin tents, pitched under a 
ragged calabash, cannot mitigate the ardour of an un- 
clouded sun ; the salt-bitter water, whose nitrous and sa- 
line deposits sometimes tarnish a silver ring like the 
fumes of sulphur, affects their health; whilst the appetite, 



GEOGRAPHY OF UGOGO. 



299 



stimulated by a purer atmosphere and the coolness of the 
night air, is kept within due bounds only by defi- 
ciency in the means of satisfying it. Those who have 
seen Africa further west, are profuse in their praises of 
the climate on their return-march from the interior. 
The mukunguru, or seasoning fever, however, rarely 
fails to attack strangers. It is, like that of the second 
region, a violent bilious attack, whose consequences are 
sleeplessness, debility, and severe headaches : the hot fit 
compared with the algid stage is unusually long and ri- 
gorous. In some districts the parexia is rarely followed 
by the relieving perspiration ; and when natural dia- 
phoresis appears, it by no means denotes the termination 
of the paroxysm. Other diseases are rare, and the terrible 
ulcerations of K'hutu and Eastern Usagara are almost 
unknown in Ugogo. There is little doubt that the land, 
if it afforded good shelter, purified water, and regular 
diet, would be eminently wholesome. 

In the uninviting landscape a tufty, straggling grass, 
like living hay, often raised on little mounds, with bald 
places between, thinly strewed with bits of quartz and 
sandstone, replaces the tall luxuriant herbage of the 
maritime plain, and the arboraceous and frutescent 
produce of the mountains. The dryness of the climate, 
and the poverty of the soil, are displayed in the larger 
vegetation. The only tree of considerable growth is 
the calabash, and it is scattered over the country widely 
apart. A variety of frankincense overspreads the 
ground ; the bark is a deep burnished bronze, whitened 
above with an incrustation, probably nitrous, that re- 
sembles hoar-frost; and the long woody twigs are 
bleached by the falling off of the outer integuments. 
The mukl or bdellium tree rises like a dwarf calabash 
from a low copse. The Arabs declare this produce of 
Ugogo (Balsamodendron Africanum to be of good 



300 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 

quality. Rubbed upon a stone and mixed with water 
it is applied with a pledget of cotton to sluggish and 
purulent sores ; and women use it for fumigation. 
The Africans ignore its qualities, and the Baloch, 
though well acquainted with the bdellium, gugal, or 
guggur, in their own country, did not observe it in 
Ugogo. The succulent plants, cactus, aloe, and 
euphorbia, will not burn ; the air within them expands 
with heat, and the juices gushing out extinguish the 
flame. Amongst various salsolae, or saltworts, the shrub 
called by the Arabs arak, the Capparis Sodata of Sindh 
and Arabia, with its currant-like bunches of fruit, 
is conspicuous for its evergreen verdure ; the ragged 
and stunted mtungulu rains its apples upon the ground ; 
and the mbembu, in places sheltered from the sun, bears 
a kind of medlar which is eagerly sought by the hungry 
traveller. The euphorbias here rise to the height of 
35 or 40 feet, and the hard woody stem throws out a 
mass of naked arms, in the shape of a huge cap, imper- 
vious to the midday sun. 

Wild animals abound through these jungles, and the 
spoor lasts long upon the crisp gravelly soil. In some 
districts they visit by night the raised clay water-troughs 
of the cultivators. The elephant prefers the thick jungle, 
where he can wallow in the pools and feed delicately 
upon succulent roots and fruits, bark, and leaves. The 
rhinoceros loves the dark clumps of trees, which guard 
him from the noonday sun, and whence he can sally out 
all unexpected upon the assailant, The mbogo, or Bos 
Caffer, driven from his favourite spots, low grassy plains 
bordering on streams, wanders, like the giraffe, through 
the thinner forests. As in Unyamwezi, the roar of the 
lion strikes the ear by night, and the cry of the ostrich by 
day. The lion upon this line of Eastern Africa is often 



THE LION. 



301 



heard, but rarely seen ; on only two occasions its foot- 
prints appeared upon the road. The king of beasts, 
according to the Arabs, is of moderate stature : it 
seldom attains its maximum of strength, stature, and 
courage, except in plain countries where game abounds, as 
in the lands north of the Cape, or in hills and mountains, 
where cattle can be lifted at discretion, as in Northern 
Africa. In Unyamwezi its spoils, which are yellow, 
like those of the Arab lion, with a long mane, said to 
hang over the eyes, and with a whitish tinge under the 
jaws, become the property of the Sultan. The animal is 
more common in the high lands of Kara^wah than in the 
low countries ; it has, however, attacked the mbogo, or 
wild bull, and has destroyed cattle within sight of the 
Arabs at Kazeh in Unyanyembe. The lion is rarely a 
man-eater ; this peculiarity, according to some writers, 
being confined to old beasts, whose worn teeth are unfit 
for fight. 

The "polygamous bird" was first observed on the 
Ugogo plateau ; it extends through Unyamwezi and 
Usukuma to Ujiji. The eggs are sold, sometimes fresh, 
but more generally stale. Emptied and dried, they 
form the principal circulating-medium between the 
Arab merchants and the coffee-growing races near the 
Nyanza Lake, who cut them up and grind them into 
ornamental disks and crescents. The young birds are 
caught, but are rarely tamed. In Usukuma the bright 
and glossy feathers of the old male are much esteemed 
for adorning the hair; yet, curious to say, the bird is 
seldom hunted. Moreover, these East Africans have 
never attempted to export the feathers, which, when 
w r hite and uninjured, are sold, even by the Somal, for 8 
dollars per lb. The birds are at once wild and stupid, 
timid and headstrong : their lengthened strides and 



302 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



backward glances announce terror at the sight of man, 
and it is impossible to stalk them in the open grounds, 
which they prefer. The leopard and the cynhyaBna, the 
koodoo and the different species of antelope, are more 
frequently killed in these deserts than in any other part 
of the line. Hog of reddish colour, and hares with 
rufous fur, are sometimes started by caravans. The 
hyrax of the Somali country basks upon the rocks and 
boulders, and the carapace of a small land-turtle, called 
khasa, fastened to a branch, serves as a road- sign. The 
k'hwalu, a small green parrot, with yellow shoulders, 
the upupa or hoopoe, a great variety of fly-catchers, 
larks with jet-black heads and yellow bodies, small 
bustards, hornbills, nightjars, muscicapas, green pigeons, 
sparrow-hawks, and small doves, are seen in every 
jungle. Near the settlements the white-necked raven 
and the common chil of India (Falco cheela), attest the 
presence of man, as the monkey does the proximity of 
water. The nest of the loxia swings to and fro in the 
fierce simoom ; the black Bataleur eagle of Somaliland, a 
splendid bird, towering shily in the air, with his light 
under-plume gleaming like a silver plate, and large vul- 
tures (condors ?) flocking from afar, denote the position 
of a dead or dying animal. 

Until late years the Wagogo, being more numerous 
than they are now, deterred travellers from traversing 
their country : in those early days the road to Unyam- 
wezi, running along the left or northern bank of the 
Rwaha, through the Warori tribe, struck off near 
Usanga and Usenga. It is related, when the first caravan, 
led by Jumah Mfumbi, the late Diwan of Saadani, 
entered Ugogo, that the people, penetrated with admi- 
ration of his corpulence, after many experiments to 
find out whether it was real or not, determined that he 



THE WAGOGO. 



303 



was and must be the Deity. Moreover, after corning to 
this satisfactory conclusion, they resolved that, being 
the Deity, he could improve their country by heavy 
rains; and when he protested against both these reso- 
lutions, they proposed to put him to death. A succession 
of opportune showers, however, released him. By degrees 
the ever-increasing insolence and violence of the Warori 
drove travellers to this northern line, and the Wagogo 
learned to see strangers without displaying this Lybian 
mania for sacrificing them. 

Three main roads, leading from Western Usagara 
westward, cross the Desert of Marenga Mk'hali. The 
most northern is called Ya Nyika — of the wilderness — 
a misnomer, if the assertion of the guides be correct that 
it is well watered, and peopled by the subjects of eight 
sultans. The central line, described in the preceding 
pages, is called, from its middle station, Marenga 
Mk'hali : it is invariably preferred when water is scarce. 
The southern road is termed Nya Ngaha, a continuation 
of the Kiringwana route, previously alluded to : it has 
provisions, but the people cause much trouble. 

The superiority of climate, and probably the absence 
of that luxuriant vegetation which distinguishes the 
eastern region, have proved favourable to the physical 
development of the races living in and about Ugogo. 
The Wagogo, and their northern neighbours the Wa- 
humba, are at once distinguishable from the wretched 
population of the alluvial valleys, and of the mountains 
of Usagara: though living in lower altitudes, they are a 
fairer race — and therefore show better blood — than the 
Wanyamwezi. These two tribes, whose distinctness 
is established by difference of dialect, will be described 
in order. 

The Wagogo extend from the landward base of Usa- 



304 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



gara in direct distance to Mdaburu a five days' march : 
on the north they are bounded by the Wataturu, on the 
south by the Wabena tribes ; the breadth of their coun- 
try is computed at about eight stages. In the north, 
however, they are mingled with the Wahumba, in the 
south-east with the Wahehe, and in the south with the 
Warori. 

The Wagogo display the variety of complexion usually 
seen amongst slave-purchasing races : many of them are 
fair as Abyssinians ; some are black as negroes. In the 
eastern and northern settlements they are a fine, stout, 
and light-complexioned race. Their main peculiarity 
is the smallness of the cranium compared with the 
broad circumference of the face at and below the 
zygomata : seen from behind the appearance is that of a 
small half-bowl fitted upon one of considerably larger 
bias; and this, with the widely-extended ears, gives 
a remarkable expression to the face. Nowhere in 
Eastern Africa is the lobe so distended. Pieces of cane 
an inch or two in length, and nearly double the girth 
of a man's finger, are so disposed that they appear like 
handles to the owner's head. The distinctive mark of 
the tribe is the absence of the two lower incisors ; but 
they are more generally recognised by the unnatural 
enlargement of their ears — in Eastern Africa the "aures 
perforata}" are the signs, not of slavery, but of freedom. 
There is no regular tattoo, though some of the women 
have two parallel lines running from below the bosom 
down the abdomen, and the men often extract only a 
single lower incisor. The hair is sometimes shaved clean, 
at others grown in mop -shape — more generally it is 
dressed in a mass of tresses, as amongst the Egyptians, 
and the skin, as well as the large bunch of corkscrews, 
freely stained with ochre and micaceous earths, drips 



THE WAGOGO. 



305 



with ghee, the pride of rank and beauty. The Wagogo 
are not an uncomely race : some of the younger women 
might even lay claim to prettiness. The upper part of 
the face is often fine, but the lips are ever thick, and 
the mouth coarse ; similarly the body is well formed to 
the haunches, but the lean calf is placed peculiarly 
high up the leg. The expression of the countenance, 
even in the women, is wild and angry ; and the round 
eyes are often reddened and bleared by drink. The 
voice is strong, strident, and commanding. 

Their superiority of clothing gives the Wagogo, when 
compared with the Wasagara or the Wanyamwezi, an 
aspect of civilisation ; a skin garment is here as rare as 
a cotton farther west. Even the children are generally 
clad. The attire of the men is usually some Arab 
check or dyed Indian cotton : many also wear sandals 
of single hide. Married women are clothed in " cloths 
with names," when wealthy, and in domestics when poor. 
The dress of the maidens under puberty is the languti 
of Hindostan, a kind of T-bandage, with the front ends 
depending to the knees ; it is supported by a single or 
double string of the large blue glass-beads called Sun- 
gomaji. A piece of coarse cotton cloth two yards long, 
and a few inches broad, is fastened to the girdle 
behind, and passing under the fork, is drawn tightly 
through the waistbelt in front ; from the zone the lap- 
pet hangs mid-down to the shins, and when the wearer 
is in rapid motion it has a most peculiar appear- 
ance. The ornaments of both sexes are kitindi, and 
bracelets and anklets of thick iron and brass- wires, 
necklaces of brass chains, disks and armlets of fine 
ivory, the principal source of their w T ealth, and bands 
of hide-strip with long hair, bound round the wrists, 
above the elbows, and below the knees : they value 

vol. i. x 



306 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 

only the highest priced beads, coral and pink porce- 
lains. As usual the males appear armed. Some im- 
port from Unyamwezi and the westward regions the 
long double-edged knife called sime, a 61 serviceable 
dudgeon " used in combat or in peaceful avocations, 
like the snick-an-snee of the ancient Dutch. Shields 
are unknown. The bow is long: the handle and* the 
horns are often adorned with plates of tin and zinc, and 
the string is whipped round the extremities for strength. 
The spear resembles that used by the Wanyamwezi in the 
elephant-hunt : it is about four feet long, and the head is 
connected with a stout wooden handle by an iron neck 
measuring half the length of the weapon. t In eastern 
?ITgogo, where the Masai are near, the Wagogo have 
adopted their huge shovel-headed spears and daggers, 
like those of the Somal. It is the fashion for men to 
appear in public with the peculiar bill-hook used in 
Usagara ; and in the fields the women work with the 
large hoe of Unyamwezi. 

The villages of the Wagogo are square Tembe, low 
and mean-looking for want of timber. The outer walls 
are thin poles, planted in the ground and puddled with 
mud. The huts, partitioned off like ships' bunks, are 
exceedingly dirty, being shared by the domestic animals, 
dogs, and goats. They are scantily furnished with a 
small stool, a cot of cow's hide stretched to a small 
framework, a mortar for grain, and sundry gourds 
and bark corn-bins. About sunset all the population 
retires, and the doors are carefully barricaded for fear 
of the plundering Wahumba. At night it is dangerous 
to approach the villages. 

The language of Ugogo is harsher than the dialects 
spoken by their eastern and western neighbours. In the 
eastern parts the people understand the Masai tongue. 



THE WAGOGO. 



307 



Many can converse fluently in the Kisawahili, or coast- 
tongue. The people, however, despise all strangers 
except the Warori and the Wahumba, and distinguish 
the Wanyamwezi by the name of Wakonongo, which 
they also apply to travellers in general. Within the 
memory of man one Kafuke, of Unyamwezi, a great 
merchant, and a Mtongi or caravan leader, when tra- 
versing Ugogo with some thousands of followers, became 
involved in a quarrel about paying for water. After 
fifteen days of skirmishing, the leader was slain and the 
party was dispersed. The effect on both tribes has 
lasted to the present day. After the death of Kafuke 
no rain fell for some years — a phenomenon attributed 
by the Wagogo to his powers of magic ; and the land 
was almost depopulated. The Wanyamwezi, on the 
other hand, have never from that time crossed the 
country without fear and trembling. In the many wars 
between the two tribes the Wagogo have generally 
proved themselves the better men. This superiority 
has induced a brawling and bullying manner. They 
call themselves Wana Wadege, or sons of birds — that 
is to say, semper parati. The Wanyamwezi studiously 
avoid offending them ; and the porters will obey the 
command of a boy rather than risk an encounter. " He 
is a Mgogo," said before the BobadiPs face, makes him 
feel himself forty times a man ; yet he will fly in terror 
before one of the Warori or the Wahumba. 

The strength of the Wagogo lies in their comparative 
numbers. As the people seldom travel to the coast, 
their scattered villages are full of fighting men. More- 
over, Uchawi or black magic here numbers few be- 
lievers, consequently those drones of the social hive, 
the Waganga, or medicine-men, are not numerous. 
The Wagogo seldom sell their children and relations, 

x 2 



308 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 

yet there is no order against the practice. They barter 
for slaves their salt and ivory, the principal produce of 
the country. No caravan ever passes through the 
country without investing capital in the salt-bitter sub- 
stance which is gathered in flakes efflorescing from the 
dried mud upon the surface of the Mbuga, or swampy 
hollows ; the best and the cheapest is found in the 
district of Kanyenye. It is washed to clear it of dirt, 
boiled till it crystallises, spread upon clean and smoothed 
ground, and moulded with the hands into rude cones 
about half a foot in length, which are bought at 
the rate of 7 — 10 for a Shukkah, and are sold at a 
high premium after a few days' march. Ugogo sup- 
plies western Usagara and the eastern regions of Un- 
yamwezi with this article. It is, however, far inferior to 
the produce of the Kusugi pits, in Uvinza, which, on 
account of its " sweetness," finds its way throughout 
the centre of Africa. Elephants are numerous in the 
country : every forest is filled with deep traps, and 
during droughthy seasons many are found dead in the 
jangle. The country is divided into districts ; the 
tusks become the property of the Sultan within whose 
boundaries the animal falls, and the meat is divided 
amongst his subjects. Ivory is given in barter for slaves : 
this practice assures to caravans a hold upon the people, 
who, having an active commerce with the coast, cannot 
afford to be shut out from it. The Wagogo are so greedy 
of serviles that every gang leaves among them some of its 
live stock — the principal want of the listless and indo- 
lent cultivator. The wild captives bought in the interior, 
wayworn and fond of change, are persuaded by a word to 
desert ; they take the first opportunity of slipping away 
from their masters, generally stealing a weapon and a 
little cloth or rations for immediate use. Their new 



THE WAGOGO. 



309 



masters send them off the road lest they should be 
recognised and claimed: after a time a large hoe is 
placed in their hands, and the fools feel, when too late, 
that they have exchanged an easy for a hard life. The 
Wagogo sell their fellow tribe-men only when convicted of 
magic ; though sometimes parents, when in distress, part 
with their children. The same is the case amongst 
their northern neighbours, the Wamasai, the Wahumba, 
and the Wakwafi, who, however, are rarely in the 
market, and who, when there, though remarkable for 
strength and intelligence, are little prized, in conse- 
quence of their obstinate and untameable characters ; 
— many of them would rather die under the stick 
than level themselves with women by using a hoe. 

The Wagogo are celebrated as thieves who will, like 
the Wahehe, rob even during the day. They are im- 
portunate beggars, who specify their long list of wants 
without stint or shame; their principal demand is tobacco, 
which does not grow in the land ; and they resemble the 
Somal, who never sight a stranger without stretching 
out the hand for " Bori." The men are idle and de- 
bauched, spending their days in unbroken crapulence 
and drunkenness, whilst the girls and women hoe the 
fields, and the boys tend the flocks and herds. They 
mix honey with their pombe, or beer, and each man 
provides entertainment for his neighbours in turn. 
After midday it would be difficult throughout the 
country to find a chief without the thick voice, fiery 
eyes, and moidered manners, which prove that he is 
either drinking or drunk. 

The Arabs declaim against the Wagogo as a " curst," 
ill-conditioned and boisterous, a violent and extortionate 
race. They have certainly no idea of manners : they 
flock into a stranger's tent, squat before him, staring 

x 3 



310 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



till their curiosity is satisfied, and unmercifully quizzing 
his peculiarities. Upon the road a mob of both sexes will 
press and follow a caravan for miles. The women, carry- 
ing their babes in leopard-skins bound behind the back, 
and with unveiled bosoms, stand or run, fiercely shouting 
with the excitement of delight, and the girls laugh and 
deride the stranger as impudently as boys would in more 
modest lands. Yet, as has been said, this curiosity argues 
to a certain extent improvability ; the most degraded 
tribes are too apathetic to be roused by strange sights. 
Moreover, the Wagogo are not deficient in rude hos- 
pitality. A stranger is always greeted with the " Yam- 
bo " salutation. He is not driven from their doors, as 
amongst the Wazaramo and Wasagara; and he is readily 
taken into brotherhood. The host places the stool for 
his guests, seating himself on the ground : be prepares 
a meal of milk and porridge, and on parting presents, 
if he can afford it, a goat or a cow. The African 
" Fundi " or "Fattori " of caravans are rarely sober in 
Ugogo. The women are well disposed towards strangers 
of fair complexion, apparently with the permission of 
their husbands. According to the Arabs, the husband 
of the daughter is also de jure the lover of her mother. 

The Sultan amongst the Wagogo is called Mtemi, a 
high title. He exercises great authority, and is held in 
such esteem by his people, that a stranger daring to 
possess the same name would be liable to chastisement. 
The ministers, who are generally brothers or blood- 
relations, are known as Wazagira (in the singular Mza~ 
gira), and the councillors, who are the elders and the 
honourables of the tribe, take the Kinyamwezi title 
" Wanyapara." 

The necessaries of life are dear in Ugogo. The people 
will rarely barter their sheep, goats, and cows for plain 



THE WAG0G0. 



311 



white or blue cottons, and even in exchange for milk 
they demand coral, pink, or blue glass beads. A mo- 
derate sized caravan will expend from six to ten shuk- 
kah per cliem. The Wanyamwezi travelling-parties 
live by their old iron hoes, for which grain is returned 
by the people, who hold the metal in request. 

The Wahumba, by some called Wahumpa, is one of 
the terrible pastoral nations " beyond the rivers of 
^Ethiopia." To judge from their dialect they are, like 
the Wakwafi, a tribe or a subtribe of the great Masai 
race, who speak a language partly South-African and 
partly Semitico- African, like that of the Somal. The 
habitat of the Wahumba extends from the north of 
Usagara to the eastern shores of the Nyanza or Ukerewe 
Lake ; it has been remarked that a branch of the Mu- 
kondokwa River rises in their mountains. The blue 
highlands occupied by this pastoral race, clearly visible, 
on the right hand, to the traveller passing from Ugogo 
westwards, show where the ancient route from Pan^ani- 
town used to fall into the main trunk-road of Unyamwezi. 
Having but little ivory, they are seldom visited by 
travellers: their country, however, was explored some 
years ago by an Arab merchant, Hamid bin Salim, for 
the purpose of buying asses. He set out from Tura, in 
eastern Unyamwezi, and, traversing the country of the 
wild Watatiiru, arrived on the eighth day at the fron- 
tier district Tramba, where there is a river which sepa- 
rates the tribes. He was received with civility ; but 
none have since followed his example. 

The Wahumba are a fair and comely race, with the 
appearance of mountaineers, long-legged, and lightly 
made. They have repeatedly ravaged the lands of 
Usagara and Ugogo : in the latter country, near 
Usek'he, there are several settlements of this people, 

x 4 



312 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



who have exchanged the hide-tent for the hut, and the 
skin for the cotton-cloth. They stain their garments 
with cichreish earth, and their women are distinguished 
by wearing Kitindi of full and half-size above and below 
the elbows. The ear lobes are pierced and distended 
by both sexes, as amongst the Wagogo. In their own 
land they are purely pastoral ; they grow no grain, 
despise vegetable food, and subsist entirely upon meat 
or milk according to the season. Their habitations 
are hemispheres of boughs lashed together and roofed 
with a cow's hide ; it is the primitive dwelling-place, 
and the legs of the occupant protrude beyond the 
shelter. Their arms, which are ever hung up close at 
hand, are broad-headed spears of soft iron, long "Sine," 
or double-edged daggers, with ribbed wooden handles 
fastened to the blade by a strip of cow's tail shrunk on, 
and " Rungu," or wooden knob-kerries, with double 
bulges that weight the weapon as it whirls through the 
air. They ignore and apparently despise the bow and 
arrows, but in battle they carry the Pavoise, or large 
hide-shield, affected by the Kafirs of the Cape. The 
Arabs, when in force, do not fear their attacks. 

The Wahumba, like their congeners the Wakwafi, 
bandage the infant's leg from ankle to knee, and the 
ligature is not removed till the child can stand upright. 
Its object is to prevent the development of the calf, 
which, according to their physiology, diminishes the 
speed and endurance of the runner. The specimens of 
Wahumba seen in different parts of Ugogo showed the 
soleus and gastrocnemeius muscles remarkably shrunken, 
and the projection of the leg rising close below the knee. 



Ladies' Smoking Party. 



CHAP. X. 

WE ENTER UNYAMWEZIj THE FAR-FAMED LAND OF THE MOON. 

The district of Tura, though now held, like Jiwe la 
Mkoa and Mgongo T'hembo, byWakimbu, is considered 
the eastern frontier of Unyamwezi proper, which claims 
superiority over the minor neighbouring tribes. Some, 
however, extend the " land of the moon" eastward as 
far as Jiwe la Mkoa, and the porters when entering the 
u Fiery Field," declare that they are setting foot upon 
their own ground. The word " Tura," pronounced by 



314 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



the Wanyamwezi " Tula' 7 or " Itula," means "put 
down!" (soil, your pack): as the traveller, whether 
from the east or from the west, will inevitably be de- 
layed for some days at this border settlement. Tula is 
situated in S. lat. 5° 2' and E. long. 33° 57', and 
the country rises 4,000 feet above sea level. After the 
gloomy and monotonous brown jungles and thorn 
forests of Mgunda Mk'hali, whose sinuous line of thick 
jungle still girds the northern horizon, the fair cham- 
paign, bounded on either hand by low rolling and 
rounded hills of primary formation, with a succession of 
villages and many a field of holcus and sesamum, maize, 
millet, and other cereals, of manioc and gourds, water 
melons and various pulses, delights the sight, and 
appears to the African traveller a Land of Promise. 

The pertinacious Kidogo pressed me to advance, de- 
claring the Wakimbu of Tura to be a dangerous race : 
they appeared however a timid and ignoble people, 
dripping with castor and sesamum oil, and scantily 
attired in shreds of unclean cotton or greasy goat-skins. 
At Tura the last of the thirty asses bought at 
Zanzibar paid the debt of nature, leaving us, besides 
the one belonging to the Jemadar, but three African 
animals purchased on the road. A few extra por- 
ters were therefore engaged. Our people, after the 
discomforts of the bivouac, found the unsavoury village 
a perfect paradise ; they began somewhat prematurely 
to beg for Bakhshish, and Muinyi Wazira requested 
dismissal on the plea that a slave sent by him on a 
trading-expedition into the interior had, by dying, en- 
dangered the safety of the venture. On the morning of 
the 30th October Kidogo led us over the plain through 
cultivation and villages to another large settlement on 
the western outskirt of the Tura district. As I disap- 
pointed him in his hopes of a Tirikeza, he passed 



THE FLYING- CAE AVAN. 



315 



the night in another Teinbe, which was occupied by the 
caravans of Coast-Arabs and their slave girls, to one of 
whom, said Scan. Mag., he had lost his heart, and he 
punished me by halting through the next day. As we 
neared the end of the journey the sons of Ramji 
became more restive under their light loads ; their dig- 
nity was hurt by shouldering a pack, and day after day, 
till I felt weary of life, they left their burdens upon 
the ground. However, on the 1st November, they so 
far recovered temper that the caravan was able to 
cross the thin jungle, based upon a glaring white soil, 
which divides the Tura from the Rubuga District. 
After a march of 6 hrs. and 30', we halted on the 
banks of the Kwale or "Partridge" Nullah, where, 
though late in the season, we found several long pools 
of water. The porters collected edible bivalves and 
caught a quantity of mud -fish by the "rough and ready" 
African process, a waist-cloth tied to a pair of sticks, 
and used by two men as a drag-net. At Rubuga, 
which we reached in 5 hrs. and 45', marching over 
a, plain of black earth, thinly garnished with grass 
and thorn-trees, and then through clearings overgrown 
with stubble, I was visited by an Arab merchant, 
Abdullah bin Jumah, who, with a flying-caravan, had 
left Konduchi on the coast 2 months and 20 days 
after our departure. According to him his caravan had 
lately marched thirty miles in the twenty-four hours : ¦ 
it was the greatest distance accomplished in these re- 
gions ; but the Arabs are fond of exaggeration the 
party was small and composed of lightly laden men, 
and moreover it required two days' rest after so unusual 
an exertion. This merchant unwittingly explained a 
something which had puzzled me ; whenever an advance 
beyond Unyanyembe had been made the theme of con- 
versation, Said bin Salim's countenance fell, and he 



316 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



dropped dark hints touching patience and the power of 
Allah to make things easy. Abdullah rendered the ex- 
pression intelligible by asking me if I considered the 
caravan strong enough to dare the dangers of the road 
— which he grossly exaggerated — between Unyamwezi- 
Land and Ujiji. I replied that I did, and that even if 
I did not, such bugbears should not cause delay ; Ab- 
dullah smiled, but was too polite to tell me that he did 
not believe me. 

A " doux marcher" of 2 hrs. 40' on the 3rd 
November, led us to the western limit of the Ru- 
buga District. During the usual morning-halt under 
a clump of shady milk-bush, I was addressed by 
Maura or Maula, the Sultan of a large neighbouring 
village of Wanyamwezi : being a civilised man and a 
coast-traveller, he could not allow the caravan of the 
" Wazungu" to pass his quarters without presenting to 
him a bullock, and extracting from him a little cloth. 
Like most chiefs in the " Land of the Moon," he was a 
large-limbed, gaunt, angular, tall old man, with a black 
oily skin, seamed with wrinkles ; and long wiry pigtails 
thickened with grease, melted butter, and castor-oil, de- 
pending from the sides of his purbald head. His dress 
— an old Barsati round the loins, and a grimy Subai 
loosely thrown over the shoulders — was redolent of 
boiled frankincense; his ankles were concealed by a 
foot -depth of brass and copper " Sambo," thin wires 
twisted round a little bundle of elephant's, buffalo's, 
or zebra's hair; and he wore single-soled sandals, 
decorated with four disks of white shell, about the size 
of a crown-piece, bound to the thongs that passed be- 
tween the toes and girt the heel. He recognised the 
Baloch, greeted all kindly, led the way to his village, 
ordered lodgings to be cleared and cleaned, caused the 
cartels or bedsteads, — the first seen by us for many 



THE BEGGING SULTAN. 



317 



months, — to be vacated, and left us to look for a bullock. 
At the village door I had remarked a rude attempt at 
fashioning a block of wood into what was palpably in- 
tended for a form human and feminine ; the Moslems of 
course pronounced it to be an idol, but the people de- 
clared that they paid no respect to it. They said the 
same concerning the crosses and the serpent-like orna- 
ments of white ashes — in this land lime is unknown — 
with which the brown walls of their houses were deco- 
rated. 

We made bonne chere at Rubuga, which is celebrated 
for its milk and meat, ghee and honey. On the way- 
side were numerous hives, the Mazinga or " cannons," 
before described ; here however they were raised out of 
the reach of the ants, white and black, upon a pair of 
short forked supports, instead of being suspended from 
the branches of a tall tree. My companion brought 
from a neighbouring swamp a fine Egyptian, or ruddy 
goose, and a brace of crane-like water-fowl : these the 
Wanyamwezi porters, expecting beef, disdained, because 
rejected by the Baloch, yet at Inenge they had picked 
the carcase of a way-spent ass. Presently we were 
presented by the Sultan with one of the fattest of his 
fine bulls ; it was indeed 

" A grazier's without and a butcher's within ; " 

withal, so violent and unmanageable that no man could 
approach, much less secure it : it rushed about the vil- 
lage like a wild buffalo, scattering the people, who all 
fled except the Sultan, till it was stopped dead in a 
most determined charge, with a couple of rifle-bullets, 
by my companion. In return, Maula received a crimson 
cloth and two domestics, after which he begged for 
everything, including percussion caps, for which he had 
no gun. He appeared most anxious to detain the 



318 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



caravan, and in the evening his carefully concealed 
reasons leaked out — he wanted me to cure his son of 
fever, and to " put the colophon" upon a neighbouring 
hostile chief. At 8 p.m., I was aroused by my gun- 
carrier, Mabruki, who handed to me my Ferrara, and 
by the Baloch Riza, who reported that the palisade 
was surrounded by a host of raging blacks. I went 
out into the village, where the guard was running about 
in a state of excitement which robbed them of their 
wits, and I saw a long dark line of men sitting silently 
and peaceably, though armed for fight, outside the 
strong stockade. Having caused our cloth to be safely 
housed, and given orders to be awakened if work began, 
I returned to the hut, determined to take leave of Sultan 
Maura and his quarrels on the next day. 

The porters were all gorged with beef, and three 
were " stale- drunk" with the consequences of pombe ; 
yet so anxious were they rendered by the gathering 
clouds, and the spitting showers to reach their homes 
before the setting in of the " sowing rains," that my task 
was now rather to restrain than to stimulate their ardour : 
the moon was resplendent, and had I wished it, they 
would have set out at midnight. On the 4th November 
we passed through another jungle-patch, to a village in 
the fertile slopes of Ukona, where the Cannabis and the 
Datura, with its large fetid flowers, disputed the ground 
with brinjalls and castor-plants, holcus and panicum : 
tobacco grew luxuriantly, and cotton-plots, carefully 
hedged round against the cattle, afforded material for 
the loom, which now appeared in every village. 

On the next day, we passed out of the fertile slopes 
of Ukona, and traversed an open wavy country, 
streaked with a thin forest of Mimosa, the Mtogwe or 
wood-apple, and a large quadrangular cactus. Beyond 



THE DANGEROUS FOREST. 



319 



this point, a tract of swampy low level led to the 
third district of Eastern Unyamwezi, called Kigwa, or 
Mkigwa. We found quarters in a Tembe which was 
half-burned and partly pulled down, to be re-erected. 

The 6th November saw us betimes in the ill-omened 
Forest, that divided us from the Unyanyembe district ; 
it is a thin growth of gum-trees, mimosas, and bauhinias, 
with tiers, earth- waves, and long rolling lines of tawny- 
yellow hill — mantled with umbrella-shaped trees, and 
sometimes capped with blocks and boulders — extending 
to a considerable distance on both sides. The Sultan 
of Kigwa, one Manwa, has taken an active part in the 
many robberies and murders which have rendered this 
forest a place of terror, and the Arabs have hitherto 
confined themselves to threats, though a single mer- 
chant complains that his slave-caravans have at differ- 
ent times lost fifty loads of cloth. Manwa is aided 
and counselled by Mansur, a Coast- Arab, who, horse- 
whipped out of the society of his countrymen at Kazeh, 
for drunken and disorderly conduct, has become a 
notorious traitor. Here also Msimbira, a Sultan of 
the W asukuma, or Northern Wanyamwezi, who has an 
old and burning hatred against the Arabs, sends his 
plundering parties. On the 6th November the Baloch 
set out at 1 a.m., we followed at 2.15 a.m. : they had been 
prevented from obtaining beads on false pretences, con- 
sequently they showed temper, and determined to deny 
their escort. Their beards were now in my hand, they could 
neither desert nor refuse to proceed, but they desired 
to do me a harm, and they did it. During the transit 
of the forest, an old porter having imprudently lagged 
behind, was clubbed and cruelly bruised by three black 
Mohawks, who relieved him of his load, a leathern port- 
manteau, containing clothes, umbrellas, books, ink, jour- 



320 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 

nals, and botanical collections. I afterwards heard that 
the highwaymen had divided their spoils in the forest, and 
that separating into two parties, they had taken the route 
homewards. On the way, however, they were seized by 
a plundering expedition sent by Kitambi, the Sultan of 
Uyuwwi, a district half a day's march n.e. from Kazeh. 
The delict was flagrant ; the head of one robber at once 
decorated the main entrance of Kitambi's village, but the 
other two escaped Jeddart-justice with their share of the 
plunder to his mortal enemy Msimbira. A present of a 
scarlet waistcoat and four domestics recovered our clothes 
from Kitambi ; but Msimbira, threatening all the penal- 
ties of sorcery, abused, plundered, and expelled Masud 
ibn Musallam el Wardi, an old Arab merchant, sent to 
him from Unyanyembe for the purpose of recovering 
the books, journals, and collections. The perpetual 
risk of loss discourages the traveller in these lands ; 
he never knows at what moment papers which have 
cost him months of toil may be scattered to the winds. 
As regards collections, future explorers are advised 
to abandon the hope of making them on the march up- 
wards, reserving their labour for the more leisurely 
return. The precautions with which I prefaced our 
down-march may not be useless as suggestions. My 
field and sketch-books were entrusted to an Arab mer- 
chant, who preceded me to Zanzibar ; they ran no 
other danger except from the carelesness of the Consul 
who, unfortunately for me, succeeded Lieut. -Col. 
Hamerton. My companion's maps, papers, and instru- 
ments, were committed to a heavy " petarah," a deal- 
box with pent-lid and hide-bound as a defence against 
rain, to be carried " Mziga-ziga," as the phrase is — sus- 
pended on a pole between the two porters least likely 
to desert. I loaded one of the sons of Kamji with 



ASPECT OF UNYAMWEZI. 



321 



an enamelled leathern bag, converted from a dressing- 
case into a protection for writing and sketching ma- 
terials; and a shooting-bag, hung during the march over 
the shoulders of Nasiri, a Coast- Arab youth engaged as 
ass-leader at Unyanyembe, contained my vocabularies, 
ephemeris, and drawing-books. 

Considering the conduct of the escort, I congratulated 
myself upon having passed through the Kigwa forest 
without other accident. Two or three days after our 
arrival at Kazeh several loads of beads were plundered 
from a caravan belonging to Abdullah bin Salih. 
Shortly afterwards Msimbira sent a large foraging 
party with a view to cutting off the road : they allowed 
themselves to be surprised during sleep by Mpagamo's 
men, who slew twenty-five of their number and dis- 
persed the rest. This accident, however, did not cure 
their propensity for pillage ; on our return-march, when 
halted at a village west of the Kigwa forest, a body of 
slaves passed us in hot haste and sore tribulation : they 
had that day been relieved by bandits of all their packs. 

Passing from the Kigwa forest and entering the rice- 
lands of the Unyanyembe district we found quarters — 
a vile cow-house — - in a large dirty village called Hanga. 
The aspect of the land became prepossessing : the route 
lay along a valley bisected by a little rivulet of sweet 
water, whose course was marked by a vivid leek-green 
line ; the slopes were bright with golden stubble upon a 
surface of well-hoed field, while to the north and south 
ran low and broken cones of granite blocks and slabs, 
here naked, there clothed from base to brow with dwarf 
parasol-shaped trees, and cactaceaa of gigantic size. 

From this foul village I was urged by Kidogo to con- 
clude by a tirikeza the last stage that separated the 
caravan from Kazeh in Unyanyembe, the place which he 

VOL. I. Y 



322 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 

and all around him had apparently fixed as the final 
bourne of the exploration. But the firmament seemed on 
fire, the porters were fagged, and we felt feverish, 
briefly, an afternoon's march was not judged advisable. 
To temper, however, the wind of refusal, I served out 
to each of the sons of Ramji five rounds of powder 
for blowing away on entering the Arab head-quarters. 
All of course had that private store which the Arabs 
call "El Akibah" — the ending; it is generally stolen 
from the master and concealed for emergencies with 
cunning care. They had declared their horns to be 
empty, and said Kidogo, " Every pedlar fires guns here 
— shall a great man creep into his Tembe without a soul 
knowing it ?" 

On the 7th November, 1857,— the 134th day from 
the date of our leaving the coast — after marching at 
least 600 miles, we prepared to enter Kazeh, the principal 
Bandari of Eastern Unyamwezi, and the capital vil- 
lage of the Omani merchants. We left Hanga at dawn. 
The Baloch were clothed in that one fine suit without 
which the Eastern man rarely travels : after a few dis- 
plays the dress will be repacked, and finally disposed of 
in barter for slaves. About 8 a.m., we halted for strag- 
glers at a little village, and when the line of porters be- 
coming compact began to wriggle, snake-like, its long 
length over the plain, with floating flags, booming horns, 
muskets ringing like saluting mortars, and an uproar of 
voice which nearly drowned the other noises, we made 
a truly splendid and majestic first appearance. The 
road was lined with people who attempted to vie with 
us in volume and variety of sound: all had donned 
their best attire, and with such luxury my eyes had 
been long unfamiliar. Advancing I saw several Arabs 
standing by the wayside, they gave the Moslem saluta- 



HOSPITALITY OF THE ARABS. 



323 



tion and courteously accompanied me for some distance. 
Amongst them were the principal merchants, Snay bin 
Amir, Said bin Majid, a young and handsome Omani of 
noble tribe, Muhinna bin Sulayman, who, despite ele- 
phantiasis, marched every year into Central Africa, and 
Said bin Ali el Hinawi, whose short, spare, but well-knit 
frame, pale face, small features, mowy beard, and bald 
head, surmounted by a red fez, made him the type of 
an Arab old man. 

I had directed Said bin Salim to march the caravan 
to the Tembe kindly placed at my disposal by Isa* bin 
Hijji, and the Arabs met at Inenge. The Kirangozi 
and the porters, however, led us on by mistake (?) to the 
house of "Musa Mzuri" — handsome Moses — an Indian 
merchant settled at Unyanyembe for whom I bore an in- 
troductory letter, graciously given by H. H. the Sayyid 
Majid of Zanzibar. As Musa was then absent on a 
trading-journey to Karagwah, his agent, Snay bin Amir, 
a Harisi Arab, came forward to perform the guest-rites, 
and led me to the vacant house of Abayd bin Sulayman 
who had lately returned to Zanzibar. 

After allowing me, as is the custom, a day to rest and 
to dismiss the porters, who at once separated to their 
homes, all the Arab merchants, then about a dozen, 
made the first ceremonious call, and to them was offi- 
cially submitted the circular addressed by the Prince 
of Zanzibar to his subjects resident in the African 
interior. Contrary to the predictions of others, nothing 
could be more encouraging than the reception expe- 
rienced from the Omani Arabs; striking, indeed, was 
the contrast between the open-handed hospitality and 
the hearty good-will of this truly noble race, and the 
niggardness of the savage and selfish African — it was 
heart of flesh after heart of stone. A goat and a load 

Y 2 



324 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 

of the fine white rice grown in the country were the 
normal prelude to a visit and to offers of service which 
proved something more than a mere vox etprceterea nihil. 
Whatever I alluded to, onions, plantains, limes, vege- 
tables, tamarind-cakes, coffee from Karagwah, and 
similar articles, only to be found amongst the Arabs, 
were sent at once, and the very name of payment would 
have been an insult. Snay bin Amir, determining to 
surpass all others in generosity, sent two goats to us 
and two bullocks to the Baloch and the sons of Ramji : 
sixteen years before, he had begun life a confectioner 
at Maskat, and now he had risen to be one of the 
wealthiest ivory and slave-dealers in Eastern Africa. 
As his health forbade him to travel he had become a 
general agent at Kazeh, where he had built a village 
containing his store-houses and his depots of cloth 
and beads, slaves and ivory. I have to acknowledge 
many an obligation to him. Having received a " wa- 
kalat-namah," or " power of attorney " he enlisted 
porters for the caravan to Ujiji. He warehoused my 
goods, he disposed of my extra stores, and, finally, he 
superintended my preparations for the down-march. 
During two long halts at Kazeh he never failed, except 
through sickness, to pass the evening with me, and from 
his instructive and varied conversation was derived not 
a little of the information contained in the following 
pages. He had travelled three times between Unyam- 
wezi and the coast, besides navigating the great Lake 
Tanganyika and visiting the northern kingdoms of Ka- 
ragwah and Uganda. He first entered the country about 
fifteen years ago, when the line of traffic ended at 
Usanga and Usenga, and he was as familiar with the 
languages, the religion, the manners, and the ethnology 
of the African, as with those of his natal Oman. He 



UNYANYEMBE. 



325 



was a middle-aged man with somewhat of the Quixotic 
appearance, high-featured, sharp and sunken-eyed, 
almost beardless, light-coloured, tall, gaunt, and large- 
limbed. He had read much, and, like an oriental, for 
improvement, not only for amusement : he had a won- 
derful memory, fine perceptions and passing power of 
language. Finally, he was the stuiF of which friends 
are made ; brave as all his race, prudent withal, ready 
to perish for the " Pundonor," and, — such is not often 
the case in the East, — he was as honest as he was 
honourable. 

Before proceeding with the thread of my narrative, 
the reader is requested to bear with the following few 
lines upon the subject of Unyanyembe. 

Unyanyembe, the central and principal province of 
Unyamwezi, is, like Zungomero in Khutu, the great 
Bandari or meeting-place of merchants, and the point of 
departure for caravans which thence radiate into the 
interior of Central Intertropical Africa. Here the Arab 
merchant from Zanzibar meets his compatriot returning 
from the Tanganyika Lake and from Uruwwa. North- 
wards well-travelled lines diverge to the Nyanza Lake, 
and the powerful kingdoms of Karagwah, Uganda, and 
Unyoro ; from the south Urori and Ubena, Usanga and 
Usenga, send their ivory and slaves; and from the south- 
west the Eukwa Water, K'hokoro, Ufipa, and Marungu 
must barter their valuables for cottons, wires, and beads. 
The central position and the comparative safety of Un- 
yanyembe have made it the head-quarters of the Omani 
or pure Arabs, who, in many cases, settle here for years, 
remaining in charge of their depots, whilst their factors 
and slaves travel about the country and collect the 
items of traffic. At Unyanyembe the merchants ex- 
pect some delay. The porters, whether hired upon 

Y 3 



326 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 

the coast or at the Tanganyika Lake, here disperse, and 
a fresh gang must be collected — no easy task when the 
sowing season draws nigh. 

Unyanyembe, which rises about 3480 feet above sea- 
level, and lies 356 miles in rectilinear distance from the 
eastern coast of Africa, resembles in its physical features 
the lands about Tura. The plain or basin of Ihara, or 
Kwihara, a word synonymous with the " Bondei " or 
low-land of the coast, is bounded on the north and 
south by low, rolling hills, which converge towards the 
west, where, with the characteristically irregular lay of 
primitive formations, they are "crossed almost at right 
angles by the Mfuto chain. The position has been im- 
prudently chosen by the Arabs ; the land suffers from 
alternate drought and floods, which render the climate 
markedly malarious. The soil is aluminous in the low 
levels — a fertile plain of brown earth, with a subsoil of 
sand and sandstone, from eight to twelve feet below the 
surface ; the water is often impregnated with iron, and 
the higher grounds are uninhabited tracts covered with 
bulky granite-boulders, bushy trees, and thorny shrubs. 

Contrary to what might be expected this " Bandari- 
district" contains villages and hamlets, but nothing that 
can properly be termed a town. The Mtemi or Sultan 
Fundikira, the most powerful of the Wanyamwezi chiefs, 
inhabits a Tembe, or square settlement, called "Ititenya," 
on the western slope of the southern hills. A little 
colony of Arab merchants has four large houses at a 
neighbouring place, " Mawiti." In the centre of the 
plain lies " Kazeh," another scattered collection of six 
large hollow oblongs, with central courts, garden-plots, 
store-rooms, and outhouses for the slaves. Around these 
nuclei cluster native villages — masses of Wanyamwezi 
hovels, which bear the names of their founders. 



UNYANYEMBE. 



327 



This part of Unyanyembe was first colonised about 
1852, when the Arabs who had been settled nearly ten 
years at Kigandu of P'huge, a district of Usukuma, 
one long day's march north of Kazeh, were induced by 
Mpagamo, to aid them against Msimbira, a rival chief, 
who defeated and drove them from their former seats. 
The details of this event were supplied by an actor in 
the scenes ; they well illustrate the futility of the 
people. The Arabs, after five or six days of skirmish- 
ing, were upon the point of carrying the bom a or 
palisade of Msimbira, their enemy, when suddenly at 
night their slaves, tired of eating beef and raw ground- 
nuts, secretly deserted to a man. The masters awaking 
in the morning found themselves alone, and made up 
their minds for annihilation. Fortunately for them, 
the enemy, suspecting an ambuscade, remained behind 
their walls, and allowed the merchants to retire without 
an attempt to cut them off. Their employer, Mpagamo, 
then professed himself unable to defend them ; when, 
deeming themselves insecure, they abandoned his terri- 
tory. Snay bin Amir and Musa Mzuri, the Indian, 
settled at Kazeh, then a desert, built houses, sunk wells, 
and converted it into a populous place. 

It is difficult to average the present number of Arab 
merchants at Unyanyembe who, like the British in 
India, visit but do not colonise ; they rarely, however, 
exceed twenty-five in number ; and during the tra- 
velling season, or when a campaign is necessary, they 
are sometimes reduced to three or four ; they are too 
strong to yield without fighting, and are not strong 
enough to fight with success. Whenever the people 
have mustered courage to try a fall with the strangers, 
they have been encouraged to try again. Hitherto 
the merchants have been on friendly terms with Fun- 

Y 4 



328 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 

dikira, the chief. Their position, however, though 
partly held by force of prestige, is precarious. They 
are all Arabs from Oman, with one solitary excep- 
tion, Musa Mzuri, an Indian Kojah, who is perhaps 
in these days the earliest explorer of Unyamwezi. In 
July, 1858, an Arab merchant, Silim bin Masud, re- 
turning from Kazeh to his home at Msene, with a slave- 
porter carrying a load of cloth, was, though well armed 
and feared as a good shot, attacked at a water in a strip 
of jungle westward of Mfuto, and speared in the back 
by five men, who were afterwards proved to be subjects 
of the Sultan Kasanyare, a Mvinza. The Arabs or- 
ganised a small expedition to revenge the murder, 
marched out with 200 or 300 slave-musketeers, de- 
voured all the grain and poultry in the country, and 
returned to their homes without striking a blow, be- 
cause each merchant-militant wished his fellows to 
guarantee his goods or his life for the usual diyat, or 
blood-money, 800 dollars. This impunity of crime will 
probably lead to other outrages. 

The Arabs live comfortably, and even splendidly, at 
Unyanyembe. The houses, though single-storied, are 
large, substantial, and capable of defence. Their gar- 
dens are extensive and well planted ; they receive regular 
supplies of merchandise, comforts, and luxuries from 
the coast ; they are surrounded by troops of concubines 
and slaves, whom they train to divers crafts and call- 
ings ; rich men have riding-asses from Zanzibar, and 
even the poorest keep flocks and herds. At Unyan- 
yembe, as at Msene, and sometimes at Ujiji, there are 
itinerant fundi, or slave-artisans — blacksmiths, tinkers, 
masons, carpenters, tailors, potters, and rope-makers, — 
who come up from the coast with Arab caravans. 
These men demand exorbitant wages. A broken 



ARAB PANTISOCKACY. 



3*29 



matchlock can be repaired, and even bullets cast; 
good cord is purchaseable ; and for tinning a set of 
seventeen pots and plates five shukkah merkani are 
charged. A pair of Arab stirrups are made up for one 
shukkah besides the material, and chains for animals at 
about double the price. Fetters and padlocks, however, 
are usually imported by caravans. Pack-saddles are 
brought from Zanzibar : in caravans a man may some- 
times be found to make them. There is, moreover, 
generally a pauper Arab who for cloth will make up 
a ridge-tent; and as most civilised Orientals can use 
a needle, professional tailors are little required. Pro- 
visions are cheap and plentiful ; the profits are large ; 
and the Arab, when wealthy, is disposed to be hospitable 
and convivial. Many of the more prosperous merchants 
support their brethren who have been ruined by the 
chances and accidents of trade. When a stranger ap- 
pears amongst them, he receives the " hishmat Til 
gharib," or the guest-welcome, in the shape of a goat 
and a load of white rice ; he is provided with lodgings, 
and is introduced by the host to the rest of the society 
at a general banquet. The Arabs' great deficiency is 
the want of some man to take the lead. About fifteen 
years ago Abdullah bin Salim, a merchant from Zan- 
zibar, with his body of 200 armed slaves, kept the 
whole community in subjection : since his death, in 
1852, the society has suffered from all the effects of dis- 
union where union is most required. The Arab, how- 
ever, is even in Africa a Pantisocrat, and his familiarity 
with the inferior races around him leads to the pro- 
verbial consequences. 

The houses of the Arabs are Moslem modifications 
of the African Tembe, somewhat superior in strength 
and finish. The deep and shady outside-verandah, 



330 THE LAKE EE G IONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 

supported by stout uprights, shelters a broad bench of 
raised earthwork, where men sit to enjoy the morning 
cool and the evening serenity, and where they pray, 
converse, and transact their various avocations. A 
portcullis-like door, composed of two massive planks, 
with chains thick as a ship's cable — a precaution ren- 
dered necessary by the presence of wild slaves — leads 
into the barzah, or vestibule. The only furniture is a 
pair of clay benches extending along the right and left- 
sides, with pillow-shaped terminations of the same 
material ; over these, when visitors are expected, rush 
mats and rugs are spread. From this barzah a passage, 
built at the angle proper to baffle the stranger's curi- 
osity, leads into the interior, a hollow square or oblong, 
with the several rooms opening upon a courtyard, 
which, when not built round, is completely closed by a 
"liwan" — a fence of small tree-trunks or reeds. The 
apartments have neither outward doors nor windows : 
small bull's-eyes admit the air, and act as loop-holes in 
case of need. The principal room on the master's side 
of the house has a bench of clay, and leads into a dark 
closet where stores and merchandise are placed. There 
are separate lodgings for the harem, and the domestic 
slaves live in barracoons or in their own outhouses. 
This form of Tembe is perhaps the dullest habitation 
ever invented by man. The exterior view is carefully 
removed from sight, and the dull, dirty courtyard, often 
swamped during the rains, is ever before the tenant's 
eyes ; the darkness caused by want of windows painfully 
contrasts with the flood of sunshine pouring in through 
the doors, and at night no number of candles will light 
up its gloomy walls of grey or reddish mud. The 
breeze is either excluded by careless frontage, or the 
high and chilling winds pour in like torrents ; the roof 



LIFE AT UNTANYEMBE. 



331 



is never water-tight, and the walls and rafters harbour 
hosts of scorpions and spiders, wasps and cockroaches. 
The Arabs, however, will expend their time and trouble 
in building rather than trust their goods in African 
huts, exposed to thieves and to the frequent fires which 
result from barbarous carelessness : everywhere, when a 
long halt is in prospect, they send their slaves for wood 
to the jungle, and superintend the building of a spacious 
Tembe. They neglect, however, an important precaution^ 
a sleeping-room raised above the mean level of malaria. 

Another drawback to the Arab's happiness is the 
failure of his constitution : a man who escapes illness 
for two successive months boasts of the immunity; and, 
as in Egypt, no one enjoys robust health. The older 
residents have learned to moderate their appetites. 
They eat but twice a-day — after sunrise, and at noon— 
the midday meal concluded, they confine themselves to 
chewing tobacco or the dried coffee of Karagwah. They 
avoid strong meats, especially beef and game, which are 
considered heating and bilious, remaining satisfied with 
light dishes, omelets and pillaus, harisah, firni, and 
curded milk, and the less they eat the more likely they 
are to escape fever. Harisah, in Kisawahili "boko- 
boko," is the roast beef — the plat de resistance — of the 
Eastern and African Arab. It is a kind of pudding 
made with finely shredded meat, boiled with flour of 
wheat, rice, or holcus, to the consistence of a thick 
paste, and eaten with honey or sugar. Firni, an Indian 
word, is synonymous with the muhallibah of Egypt, a 
thin jelly of milk-and-water, honey, rice-flour, and spices, 
which takes the place of our substantial northern rice- 
pudding. The general health has been improved by the 
importation from the coast of wheat, and a fine white 
rice, instead of the red aborigen of the country, of vari- 



332 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



ous fruits, plantains, limes, and papaws; and of vege- 
tables, brinjalls, cucumbers, and tomatos, which relieve 
the indigenous holcus and maize, manioc and sweet- 
potato, millet and phaseoli, sesamum and ground-nuts. 
They declare to having derived great benefit from the 
introduction of onions, — an antifebral, which flourishes 
better in Central than in Maritime Africa. The onion, 
so thriving in South Africa, rapidly degenerates upon 
the island of Zanzibar into a kind of houseleek. In 
Unyamwezi it is of tolerable size and flavour. It enters 
into a variety of dishes, the most nauseous being probably 
the sugared onion-omelet. In consequence of general 
demand, onions are expensive in the interior ; an indigo- 
dyed shukkah will purchase little more than a pound. 
When the bulbs fail, the leaves chopped into thin circles 
and fried in clarified butter with salt, are eaten as 
a relish with meat. They are also inserted into marak 
or soups, to disguise the bitter and rancid taste of 
stale ghee. Onions may be sown at all seasons except 
during the wet monsoon, when they are liable to decay. 
The Washenzi have not yet borrowed this excellent 
and healthy vegetable from the Arabs. Garlic has 
also been tried in Unyanyembe, but with less suc- 
cess ; moreover, it is considered too heating for daily 
use. As might be expected, however, amongst a float- 
ing population with many slaves, foreign fruits and 
vegetables are sometimes allowed to die out. Thus 
some enterprising merchant introduced into Unyan- 
yembe the date and the mkungu, bidam, or almond- 
tree of the coast : the former, watered once every third 
day, promised to bear fruit, when, in the absence of 
the master, the Wanyamwezi cut up the young shoots 
into walking-sticks. Sugar is imported : the water- 
wanting cane will not thrive in arid Unyanyembe, and 



PEICES AT UNYANYEMBE. 



333 



honey must be used as a succedaneum. Black pepper, 
universally considered cooling by Orientals, is much 
eaten with curry- stuffs and other highly-seasoned 
dishes, whereas the excellent chillies and bird-pepper, 
which here grow wild, are shunned for their heating 
properties. Butter and ghee are made by the wealthy ; 
humbler houses buy the article, which is plentiful and 
good, from the Wanyamwezi. Water is the usual 
beverage. Some Arabs drink togwa, a sweet prepara- 
tion of holcus ; and others, debauchees, indulge in the 
sour and intoxicating pombe, or small-beer. 

The market at Unyanyembe varies greatly accord- 
ing to the quantity of the rains. As usual in bar- 
barous societies, a dry season, or a few unexpected 
caravans, will raise the prices, even to trebling ; and 
the difference of value in grain before and after the 
harvest will be double or half of what it is at par. The 
price of provisions in Unyamwezi has increased inordi- 
nately since the Arabs have settled in the land. For- 
merly a slave-boy could be purchased for five fundo, or 
fifty strings of beads: the same article would now fetch 
three hundred. A fundo of cheap white porcelain-beads 
would procure a milch cow ; and a goat, or ten hens its 
equivalent, was to be bought for one khete. In plentiful 
years Unyanyembe is, however, still the cheapest country 
in East Africa, and, as usual in cheap countries, it 
induces the merchant to spend more than in the dearest. 
Paddy of good quality, when not in demand, sells at 
twenty kayla (1201bs.) for one shukkah of American do- 
mestics ; maize, at twenty-five ; and sorghum, here the 
staff of life, when in large stock, at sixty. A fat bullock 
may be bought for four domestics, a cow costs from 
six to twelve, a sheep or a goat from one to two. 
A hen, or its equivalent, four or five eggs, is worth 



334 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 

one khete of coral or pink porcelain beads. One fundo 
of the same will purchase a large bunch of plantains, 
with which mawa or plantain- wine, and siki or vinegar 
are made ; and the Wanyamwezi will supply about a 
pint of milk every morning at the rate of one shukkah 
per mensem. A kind of mud-fish is caught by the 
slaves in the frequent pools which, during the cold 
season, dot the course of the Gombe Nullah, lying three 
miles north of Kazeh ; and return-caravans often bring 
with them stores of the small fry, called Kashwa or 
Daga'a, from the Tanganyika Lake. 

From Unyanyembe twenty marches, which are seldom 
accomplished under twenty-five days, conduct the tra- 
veller to Ujiji, upon the Tanganyika. Of these the 
fifth station is Msene, the great Bandari of Western 
Unyamwezi. It is usually reached in eight days ; and 
the twelfth is the Malagarazi River, the western limit 
of the fourth region. 

The traveller, by means of introductory letters to the 
Doyen of the Arab merchants at Kazeh, can always 
recruit his stock of country currency, — cloth, beads, and 
wire, — his requirements of powder and ball, and his sup- 
ply of spices, comforts, and drugs, without which travel 
in these lands usually ends fatally. He will pay, it is 
true, about five times their market-value at Zanzibar : 
sugar, for instance, sells at its weight in ivory, or nearly 
one-third more than its weight in beads. But though 
the prices are exorbitant they preserve the buyer from 
greater evils, the expense of porterage, the risk of loss, 
and the trouble and annoyance of personally superin- 
tending large stores in a land where " vir " and " fur " 
are synonymous terms. 

And now comfortably housed within a stone- throw of 
my new friend Shaykh Snay bin Amir, I bade adieu for 
a time to the march, the camp, and the bivouac. Perhaps 



THE ROAD IN EASTERN AFRICA. 



335 



the reader may not be unwilling to hear certain details 
concerning the " road and the inn " in Eastern Africa ; 
he is familiar from infancy with the Arab Kafilah and 
its host of litters and camels, horses, mules, and asses, 
but the porter-journeys in Eastern Africa have as yet 
escaped the penman's pen. 

Throughout Eastern Africa made roads, the first test 
of progress in a people, are unknown. The most fre- 
quented routes are foot-tracks like goat- walks, one to 
two spans broad, trodden down during the travelling 
season by man and beast, and during the rains the path 
in African parlance " dies," that is to say, it is over- 
grown with vegetation. In open and desert places four 
or five lines often run parallel for short distances. In 
jungly countries they are mere tunnels in thorns and 
under branchy trees, which fatigue the porter by catch- 
ing his load. Where fields and villages abound they 
are closed with rough hedges, horizontal tree-trunks, and 
even rude stockades, to prevent trespassing and pil- 
ferage. Where the land is open, an allowance of one- 
fifth must be made for winding : in closer countries 
this must be increased to two-fifths or to one-half, and 
the traveller must exercise his judgment in distributing 
the inarches between these two extremes. In Uzaramo 
and K'hutu the tracks run through tali grasses, which 
are laid by their own weight after rains, and are burned 
down during the hot seasons : they often skirt cultivated 
lands, which they are not allowed to enter, miry swamps 
are spanned, rivers breast-deep, with muddy bottoms and 
steep slippery banks, are forded, whilst deep holes, the 
work of rodents and insects, render them perilous to 
ridden cattle. In Usagara the gradients are surmounted 
either by beds of mountain torrents or by breasting 
steep and stony hills, mere ladders of tree-root and 
loose stones: laden animals frequently cannot ascend 



336 THE LAKE REGION'S OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 

or descend them. The worst paths in this region are 
those which run along the banks of the many streams 
and rivulets, and which traverse the broken and thorny 
ground at the base of the hills. The former are 
"thieves' roads," choked with long succulent grass 
springing from slushy mud ; the latter are continued 
rises and falls, with a small but ragged and awkward 
watercourse at every bottom. From Usagara to Western 
Unyamwezi the roads lead through thick thorn -jungle, 
and thin forests of trees blazed or barked along the 
track, without hill, but interrupted during the rains by 
swamps and bogs. They are studded with sign-posts, 
broken pots and gourds, horns and skulls of game and 
cattle, imitations of bows and arrows pointing towards 
water, and heads of hole us. Sometimes a young tree 
is bent across the path and provided with a cross-bar ; 
here is a rush gateway like the yoke of the ancients, or 
a platform of sleepers supported by upright trunks ; there 
a small tree felled and replanted, is tipped with a crescent 
of grass twisted round with bark, and capped with huge 
snail shells, and whatever barbarous imagination may 
suggest. Where many roads meet, those to be avoided 
are barred with a twig or crossed by a line drawn with 
the foot. In Western Uvinza and near Ujiji, the paths 
are truly vile, combining all the disadvantages of bog 
and swamp, river and rivulet, thorn-bush and jungle, 
towering grasses, steep inclines, riddled surface, and 
broken ground. The fords on the whole line are tempo- 
rary as to season, but permanent in place : they are rarely 
more than breast-deep ; and they average in dry weather 
a cubit and a half, the fordable medium. There are 
but two streams, the Mgeta and the Ruguvu, which are 
bridged over by trees ; both could be forded higher up 
the bed ; and on the whole route there is but one river, 



THE EAST AFRICAN CARAVAN. 



337 



the Malagarazi, which requires a ferry during the dry- 
season. Cross roads abound in the populous regions. 
Where they exist not, the jungle is often impassable? 
except to the elephant and the rhinoceros : a company 
of pioneers would in some places require a week to cut 
their way for a single march through the network 
of thorns and the stockade of rough tree-trunks. The 
directions issued to travellers about drawing off their 
parties for safety at night to rising grounds, will not 
apply to Eastern Africa ; it would be far easier to dig 
for themselves abodes under the surface. 

It is commonly asserted in the island of Zanzibar 
that there are no caravans in these regions. The dic- 
tum is true if the term be limited to the hosts of 
camels and mules that traverse the deserts and the 
mountains of Arabia and Persia. It is erroneous if 
applied to a body of men travelling for commercial 
purposes. From time immemorial the Wanyamwezi 
have visited the road to the coast, and though wars and 
blood-feuds may have temporarily closed one line, 
another necessarily opened itself. Amongst a race so 
dependent for comfort and pleasure upon trade, com- 
merce, like steam, cannot be compressed beyond a cer- 
tain point. Until a few years ago, when the extension 
of traffic induced the country people to enlist as porters, 
all merchants traversed these regions with servile gangs 
hired on the coast or island of Zanzibar, a custom still 
prevailing on the northern and southern routes from 
the sea-board to the lakes of Nyanza and Nyassa. Por- 
terage, on the long and toilsome journey, is now con- 
sidered by the Wanyamwezi a test of manliness, as the 
Englishman deems a pursuit or a profession necessary 
to clear him from the charge of effeminacy. The 
children imbibe the desire with their milk, and at six 

vol. i. z 



338 THE LAKE EEGIOXS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 

or seven years old they carry a little tusk on their 
shoulders — instinctive porters, as pointer-pups are 
hereditary pointers. By premature toil their shin- 
bones are sometimes bowed to the front like those of 
animals too early ridden. " He sits in hut egg-hatch- 
ing," is their proverbial phrase to express one more 
elegant — 

" Home-keeping youth have ever homely wits." 

And they are ever quoting the adage that men who 
travel not are void of understanding — the African 
equivalent of what was said by the European sage: 
" The world is a great book, of which those who never 
leave home read but a page." Against this traditional 
tendency reasons of mere hire and rations, though ap- 
parently weighty, are found wanting. The porter will 
bargain over his engagement to the utmost bead, saying 
that all men are bound to make the best conditions for 
themselves : yet, after two or three months of hard 
labour, if he chance upon a caravan returning to his 
home, a word from a friend, acting upon his innate de- 
bility of purpose, will prevail upon him to sacrifice by 
desertion all the fruits of his toil. On these occasions 
the porters are carefully watched ; open desertion would, 
it is true, be condemned by the general voice, yet no 
merchant can so win the affections of his men that some 
will not at times disappear. Until the gangs have left 
their homes far behind, their presence seems to hang by 
a thread ; at the least pretext they pack up their goods 
and vanish in a mass. When approaching their settle- 
ments — at the frontier districts of Tura and Mfuto, for 
instance — their cloth and hire are taken from them, 
packed in the employer's bales, and guarded by armed 
slaves, especially at night, and on the line of march. 
Yet these precautions frequently fail, and, once beyond 
the camp limits, it is vain to seek the fugitive. In the 



THE EAST AFRICAN CARAVAN. 



339 



act of desertion they show intelligence : they seldom 
run away when caravans first meet, lest their employer 
should halt and recover them by main force, and, ex- 
cept where thieves and wild beasts are unknown, they 
will not fly by night. The porter, however, has one 
point of honour ; he leaves his pack behind him. The 
slave, on the other hand, certainly robs his employer 
when he runs away, and this, together with his unwill- 
ingness to work and the trouble and annoyance which 
he causes to his owner, counterbalances his superior 
dexterity and intelligence. 

Caravans, called in Kisawahili safari (from the Arab 
safar, a journey) and by the African rugendo orlugendo, 
"a going," are rarely wanting on the main trunk-lines. 
The favourite seasons for the upward-bound are the 
months in which the greater and the lesser Masika or 
tropical rains conclude— in June and September, for 
instance, on the coast — when water and provisions are 
plentiful. Those who delay till the dry weather has 
set in must expect hardships on the march ; the ex- 
pense of rations will be doubled and trebled, and the 
porters will frequently desert. The down-caravans set 
out in all seasons except the rainy ; it is difficult to 
persuade the people of Unyanyembe to leave their fields 
between the months of October and May. They will 
abandon cultivation to the women and children, and 
merrily take the footpath way if laden with their own 
ivory, but from the merchant they will demand exorbi- 
tant wages, and even then they will hesitate to en- 
gage themselves. 

Porterage varies with every year and in every cara- 
van. It knows but two limits: the interest of the 
employer to disburse as little as possible by taking 
every advantage of the necessities of his employe, and 

z 2 



340 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



the desire of the employe to extract as much as he 
can by presuming upon the wants of his employer. 
In some years there is a glut of porters on the coast ; 
when they are rare quarrels take place between the 
several settlements, each attempting a monopoly of 
enlistment to the detriment of its neighbours, and a 
little blood is sometimes let. When the Wanyamwezi 
began to carry, they demanded for a journey from 
the coast to their own country six to nine dollars' 
worth of domestics, coloured cloths, brass-wires, and 
the pigeon's-egg bead called sungomaji. The rate of 
porterage then declined ; the increase of traffic, how- 
ever, has of late years greatly increased it. In 1857 it 
was 10 dollars, and it afterwards rose to 12 dollars per 
porter. In this sum rations are not included; the 
value of these — which by ancient custom are fixed at 1 
kubabah (about 1*5 lbs.) of grain per diem, or, that 
failing, of manioc, sweet potatoes, and similar articles, 
with the present of a bullock at the frontier — is subject 
to greater variations, and is even less reducible to an 
average than the porter's pay. It is needless to say 
that the down-journey is less expensive than the up- 
march, as the carriers rely upon a fresh engagement on 
the coast. The usual hire from Unyanyembe would be 
nine cloths, payable on arrival at the sea-port, where 
each is worth 25 cents, or about 1 shilling. The Arabs 
roughly calculate — the errors balancing one another — 
that, rations included, the hire of a porter from the 
coast to the Tanganyika Lake and back amounts to a 
total of 20 dollars — 41. 3s. From the coast, Wan- 
yamwezi porters will not engage themselves for a 
journey westward of their own country ; at Unyan- 
yembe they break up, and a fresh gang must be enlisted 
for a march to the Tanganyika or to the Nyanza Lake. 



THE EAST AFEICAN CAEAVAK 



341 



It is impossible to average the numbers of an East 
African caravan, which varies from half a dozen to 200 
porters, under a single Mundewa or merchant. In 
dangerous places travellers halt till they form an 
imposing force; 500 is a frequent figure, and even 
bodies of 1000 men are not rare. The only limit to 
the gathering is the incapability of the country to fill 
more than a certain number of mouths. The larger 
caravans, however, are slow and cumbrous, and in places 
they exhaust the provision of water. 

Caravans in East Africa are of three kinds. The 
most novel and characteristic are those composed only 
of Wanyamwezi; secondly, are the caravans directed 
and escorted by Wasawahili freemen or fundi (slave 
fattori), commissioned by their patrons ; and, lastly, 
those commanded by Arabs. 

The porter, called pagazi or fagazi — the former is 
the African, the latter the ridiculous Arabised form of 
the word — corresponds with the carregador of West 
Africa. The Wanyamwezi make up large parties of 
men, some carrying their own goods, others hired by 
petty proprietors, who for union and strength elect a 
head Mtongi, Ras Kafilah, or leader. The average 
number of these parties that annually visit the coast is 
far greater than those commanded by stranger-mer- 
chants. In the Unyamwezi caravan there is no deser- 
tion, no discontent, and, except in certain spots, little 
delay. The porters trudge from sunrise to 10 or 1 1 a.m., 
and sometimes, though rarely, they will travel twice a 
day, resting only during the hours of heat. They work 
with a will, carrying uncomplainingly huge tusks, some 
so heavy that they must be lashed to a pole between 
two men — a contrivance technically called mziga-ziga. 
Their shoulders are often raw with the weight, their 



342 



THE LAKE REGIONS OP CENTRAL AFRICA. 



feet are sore, and they walk half or wholly naked to 
save their cloth for displays at home. They ignore 
tent or covering, and sleep on the ground ; their only 
supplies are their country's produce, a few worn-down 
hoes, intended at times to purchase a little grain or to 
be given as blackmail for sultans, and small herds of 
bullocks and heifers that serve for similar purposes if 
not lost, with characteristic African futility, upon the 
road. Those who most consult comfort carry, besides 
their loads and arms, a hide for bedding, an earthen 
cooking pot, a stool, a kilindo or bark-box containing 
cloth and beads, and perhaps a small gourd full of ghee. 
They sometimes suffer severely from exposure to a 
climate which forbids long and hard work upon short 
and hard fare. Malignant epidemics, especially small- 
pox, often attack caravans as they approach the coast ; 
generally, however, though somewhat lean and haggard, 
the porters appear in better condition than might be 
expected. The European traveller will repent accom- 
panying these caravans : as was said of a similar race, 
the Indians of Guiana, " they will not deviate three 
steps from the regular path." 

Porters engaged by Arab Mtajiri or Mundewa — the 
former is the Kisawahili, the latter is the Inner African 
term for a merchant or travelling trader — are known by 
their superior condition; they eat much more, work much 
less, and give far greater trouble to their commanders. 
They expend part of the cloth and beads which they 
have received as hire to procure for themselves occa- 
sional comforts ; and on the down-journey they take with 
them a few worn-down hoes to retain the power of 
desertion without starving. The self-willed wretches 
demean themselves with the coolest impudence ; reply im- 
periously, lord it over their leaders, regulate the marches 



THE EAST AFRICAN CARAVAN. 343 

and the halts, and though they work they never work 
without loud complaints and open discontent. Rations 
are a perpetual source of heart-burning: stinted at 
home to a daily mess of grain-porridge, the porters on 
the' line of march devote, in places where they can pre- 
sume, all their ingenuity to extort as much food as 
possible from their employers. At times they are 
seized with a furore for meat. When a bullock is 
slaughtered, the Kirangozi or guide claims the head, 
leaving the breast and loin to the Mtongi or principal 
proprietor, and the remainder is equally portioned 
amongst the khambi or messes into which the gang 
divides itself. As has been remarked, the Arab mer- 
chant, next to the Persian, is the most luxurious 
traveller in the East ; a veteran of the way, he well 
knows the effects of protracted hardship and scarcity 
upon a wayfarer's health. The European traveller, 
however, will not enjoy the companionship of the Arab 
caravan, which marches by instinct rather than by 
reason. It begins by dawdling over the preliminaries; 
it then pushes hurriedly onwards till arrested by epi- 
demic or desertion ; and finally it lingers over the end 
of the journey, thus loosing time twice. This style of 
progress is fatal to observation ; moreover, none but a 
special caravan, consisting of slaves hired for the pur- 
pose in the island of Zanzibar or on the coast, and 
accompanied by their own Ahbab or patron — without 
whom they will obey no employer, however generous 
or energetic — will enable the explorer to strike into an 
unbeaten path, or to progress a few miles beyond the 
terminus of a main trunk-road. The most enterprising 
of porters will desert, leaving the caravan-leader like 
a water-logged ship. 

z 4 



344 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



Between these two extremes are the trading parties 
directed by the Wasawahili, the Wamrima, and the slave 
Fundi — the Pombeiros of West Africa — kindred souls 
with the Pagazi, understanding their languages and 
familiar with their habits, manners, and customs. 
These " Safari" are neither starved like those composed 
of Wanyamwezi, nor pampered like those headed by 
the Arabs. There is less fatigue during the march, 
and more comfort at the halting-place, consequently 
there are fewer cases of disease and death. These semi- 
African Mtongi, hating and jealousing Arabs and all 
strangers, throw every obstacle in their way, spread 
reports concerning their magical and malevolent powers 
which are dangerous amongst the more superstitious 
barbarians, they offer a premium for desertion, and in 
fine, they labour hard though fruitlessly, to retain their 
ancient monopoly of the profits derived from the interior. 

I will now describe the day's march and the halt of 
the East African caravan. 

At 3 a.m., all is silent as the tomb, even the Mnyam- 
wezi watchman nods over his fire. About an hour 
later the red-faced apoplectic chanticleer — there are 
sometimes half-a-dozen of them — the alarum of the 
caravan, and a prime favourite with the slaves and 
porter, who carry him on their banghy-poles by turns, 
and who drench him with water when his beak opens 
under the sun, — flaps his wings and crows a loud 
salutation to the dawn: he is answered by every cock and 
cockerel within ear-shot. I have been lying awake . for 
some time, longing for the light, and when in health, 
for an early breakfast. At the first paling of the East, 
the torpid Goanese are called up to build a fire, they 
tremble with the cold — thermometrically averaging 



THE CARAVAN'S MARCH. 



345 



60° F. — and they hurry to bring food. Appetite some- 
what difficult at this hour, demands a frequent change 
of diet, we drink tea or coffee when procurable, or we eat 
rice-milk and cakes raised with whey, or a porridge not 
unlike water-gruel. Whilst we are so engaged, the 
Baloch chanting the spiritual songs which follow 
prayers, squat round a cauldron placed upon a roaring 
fire, and fortify the inner man with boiled meat and 
grain, with toasted pulse and tobacco. 

About such time, 5 a.m., the camp is fairly roused, 
and a little low chatting becomes audible. This is a 
critical moment. The porters have promised overnight, 
to start early, and to make a long wholesome march. 
But, " uncertain, coy, and hard to please," they change 
their minds like the fair sex, the cold morning makes 
them unlike the men of the warm evening, and perhaps 
one of them has fever. Moreover, in every caravan 
there is some lazy, loud-lunged, contradictory and un- 
manageable fellow, whose sole delight is to give trouble. 
If no march be in prospect, they sit obstinately before 
the fire warming their hands and feet, inhaling the 
smoke with everted heads, and casting quizzical looks 
at their fuming and fidgety employer. If all be una- 
nimous, it is vain to attempt them, even soft sawder is 
but "throwing comfits to cows." We return to our 
tent. If, however, there be a division, a little active 
stimulating will cause a march. Then a louder con- 
versation leads to cries of Kwecha ! Kwecha ! Pakia ! 
Pakia! Hopa ! Hopa! Collect! pack! set out! Safari! 
Safari leo ! a journey, a journey to-day ! and some 
peculiarly African boasts, P'hunda ! Ngami ! I am an 
ass ! a camel ! accompanied by a roar of bawling voices, 
drumming, whistling, piping, and the braying of Bar- 



346 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFEICA. 



ghumi, or horns. The sons of Ramji come in a body 
to throw our tents, and to receive small burdens, which, 
if possible, they shirk ; sometimes Kidogo does me the 
honour to inquire the programme of the day. The 
porters, however, hug the fire till driven from it, when 
they unstack the loads piled before our tents and pour 
out of the camp or village. My companion and I, 
when well enough to ride, mount our asses, led by the 
gunbearers, who carry all necessaries for offence and de- 
fence; when unfit for exercise, we are borne in hammocks, 
slung to long poles, and carried by two men at a time. 
The Baloch tending their slaves hasten off in a strag- 
gling body, thinking only of escaping an hour's sun. 
The Jemadar, however, is ordered to bring up the rear 
with Said bin Salim, who is cold and surly, abusive 
and ready with his rattan. Four or five packs have 
been left upon the ground by deserters, or shirkers, who 
have started empty-handed, consequently our Arab 
either double-loads more willing men, or persuades the 
sons of Ramji to carry a small parcel each, or that 
failing, he hires from some near village a few porters 
by the day. This, however, is not easy, the beads have 
been carried off, and the most tempting promises with- 
out pre-payment, have no effect upon the African mind. 

When all is ready, the Kirangozi or Mnyamwezi 
guide rises and shoulders his load, which is ever one of 
the lightest. He deliberately raises his furled flag, a 
plain blood-red, the sign of a caravan from Zanzibar, 
much tattered by the thorns, and he is followed by a 
privileged Pagazi, tom-toming upon a kettle-drum 
much resembling a European hour-glass. The digni- 
tary is robed in the splendour of scarlet broadcloth, a 
narrow piece about six feet long, with a central aperture 
for the neck, and with streamers dangling before and 



THE KIRANGOZI, OR CARAVAN GUIDE. 



347 



behind ; he also wears some wonderful head-dress, the 
spoils of a white and black " tippet-monkey," or the 
barred skin of a wild cat, crowning the head, bound 
round the throat, hanging over the shoulders, and 
capped with a tall cup-shaped bunch of owl's feathers, 
or thegorgeous plumes of the crested crane. His insignia 
of office are the kipungo or fly-flapper, the tail of some 
beast which he affixes to his person as if it were a 
natural growth, the kome, or hooked iron spit, decor- 
ated with a central sausage of parti-coloured beads, and 
a variety of oily little gourds containing snuff, simples, 
and " medicine," for the road, strapped round his waist. 
He leads the caravan, and the better to secure the obe- 
dience of his followers he has paid them in a sheep or a 
goat, the value of which he will recover by fees and su- 
periority of rations — the head of every animal slaughtered 
in camp and the presents at the end of the journey are 
exclusively his. A man guilty of preceding the Kiran- 
gozi is liable to fine, and an arrow is extracted from his 
quiver to substantiate his identity at the end of the 
march. Pouring out of the kraal in a disorderly mob, 
the porters stack their goods at some tree distant but a 
few hundred yards, and allow the late, the lazy, and the 
invalids to join the main body. Generally at this con- 
juncture the huts are fired by neglect or mischievousness. 
The khambi, especially in winter, burns like tinder, and 
the next caravan will find a heap of hot ashes and a 
few charred sticks still standing. Yet by way of con- 
trast the Pagazi will often take the trouble to denote 
by the usual signposts to those following them that 
water is at hand. Here and there a little facetiousness 
appears in these erections, a mouth is cut in the tree- 
trunk to admit a bit of wood, simulating a pipe, with 
other representations still more waggish. 



348 



THE LAKE KEGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



After the preliminary halt, the caravan, forming into 
the order of march, winds, like a monstrous land-serpent, 
over hill, dale, and plain. The Kirangozi is followed 
by an Indian file, those nearest to him, the grandees 
of the gang, are heavily laden with ivories : when the 
weight of the tusk is inordinate, it is tied to a pole and 
is carried palanquin-fashion by two men. A large cow- 
bell, whose music rarely ceases on the march, is attached 
to the point which is to the fore ; to the bamboo behind 
is lashed the porter's private baggage, — his earthen 
cooking-pot, his water-gourd, his sleeping-mat, and his 
other necessaries. The ivory-carriers are succeeded by 
the bearers of cloth and beads, each man, poising upon 
either shoulder, and sometimes raising upon the head 
for rest, packs that resemble huge bolsters, six feet long 
by two in diameter, cradled in sticks, which gener- 
ally have a forked projection for facility of stacking and 
reshouldering the load. The sturdiest fellows are 
usually the lightest loaded : in Eastern Africa, as else- 
where, the weakest go to the wall. The maximum of 
burden may be two farasilah, or seventy pounds, avoir- 
dupois. Behind the cloth bearers straggles a long line 
of porters and slaves, laden with the lighter stuff, 
rhinoceros-teeth, hides, salt-cones, tobacco, brass wire, 
iron hoes, boxes and bags, beds and tents, pots and 
water-gourds, mats and private stores. With the Pa- 
gazi, but in separate parties, march the armed slaves, 
who are never seen to quit their muskets, the women, 
and the little toddling children, who rarely fail to carry 
something, be it only of a pound weight, and the asses 
neatly laden with saddle-bags of giraffe or buffalo-hide. 
A " Mganga " almost universally accompanies the cara- 
van, not disdaining to act as a common porter. The 
" parson " not only claims, in virtue of his sacred calling, 



ARMS AND ORNAMENTS OF THE CARAVAN. 



349 



the lightest load ; he is also a stout, smooth, and sleek- 
headed man, because, as usual with his class, he eats much 
and he works little. The rear is brought up by the 
master or the masters of the caravan, who often re- 
mains far behind for the convenience of walking and to 
prevent desertion. 

All the caravan is habited in its worst attire, the 
East African derides those who wear upon a journey 
the cloth which should be reserved for display at 
home. If rain fall they will doff the single goat- 
skin hung round their sooty limbs, and, folding it up, 
place it between the shoulder and the load. When 
grain is served out for some days' march, each porter 
bears his posho or rations fastened like a large " bus- 
sel" to the small of his back. Upon this again, he 
sometimes binds, with its legs projecting outwards, 
the three-legged stool, which he deems necessar} r to 
preserve him from the danger of sitting upon the 
danip ground. As may be imagined, the barbarians 
have more ornament than dress. Some wear the 
ngala, a strip of zebra's mane bound round the head 
with the bristly parti-coloured hair standing out like a 
saint's u gloria :" others prefer a long bit of stiffened 
ox-tail, rising like a unicorn's horn, at least a foot 
above the forehead. Other ornaments are the skins of 
monkeys and ocelots, rouleaus and fillets of white, blue, 
or scarlet cloth, and huge bunches of ostrich, crane, 
and jay's feathers, crowning the head like the tufts of 
certain fowls. Their arms are decorated with massive 
ivory bracelets, heavy bangles of brass or copper, and 
thin circlets of the same metal, beads in strings and 
bands, adorn their necks, and small iron bells, a 
" knobby " decoration, whose incessant tinkling harmo- 
nises, in African ears, with the regular chime-like " Ti« 



350 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



ti ! Ti-ti ! tang ! " of the tusk-bells, and the loud broken 
44 Wa-ta-ta ! " of the horns, are strapped below the knee 
or round the ankle by the more aristocratic. All carry 
some weapon; the heaviest armed have a bow and a 
bark-quiver full of arrows, two or three long spears 
and assegais, a little battle-axe borne on the shoulder, 
and the sime or dudgeon. 

The normal recreations of a march are, whistling, 
singing, shouting, hooting, horning, drumming, imitat- 
ing the cries of birds and beasts, repeating words which 
are never used except on journeys — a " chough's lan- 
guage, gabble enough and good enough" — and abun- 
dant squabbling ; in fact perpetual noise which the ear 
however, soon learns to distinguish for the hubbub of a 
halt. The uproar redoubles near a village, where the 
flag is unfurled and where the line lags to display 
itself. All give vent to loud shouts, "Hopa! hopa! — go 
on ! go on ! Mgogolo ! — a stoppage ! Food ! food ! 
Don't be tired! The kraal is here — home is near! 
Hasten, kirangozi — Oh ! We see our mothers! We go 
to eat ! " On the road it is considered prudent as well as 
pleasurable to be as loud as possible, in order to impress 
upon plunderers an exaggerated idea of the caravan's 
strength ; for equally good reasons silence is recom- 
mended in the kraal. When threatened with attack 
and no ready escape suggests itself, the porters ground 
their loads and prepare for action. It is only self-in- 
terest that makes them brave ; I have seen a small cow, 
trotting up with tail erect, break a line of 150 men 
carrying goods not their own. If a hapless hare or 
antelope cross the path, every man casts his pack, 
brandishes his spear, and starts in pursuit ; the animal 
never running straight is soon killed, and torn limb 
from limb, each negroid helluo devouring his morsel 



THE MARCH OF THE CARAVAN. 



351 



raw. Sometimes a sturdy fellow " renowns it " by 
carrying his huge burden round and round, like a horse 
being ringed, and starts off at full speed. When two bodies 
meet, that commanded by an Arab claims the road. If 
both are Wanyamwezi, violent quarrels ensue, but fatal 
weapons, which are too ready at hand, are turned to 
more harmless purposes, the bow and spear being used 
as whip and cudgel. These affrays are not rancorous 
till blood is shed. Few tribesmen are less friendly for so 
trifling an affair as a broken head ; even a slight cut or 
a shallow stab is little thought of ; but, if returned with 
interest, great loss of life may arise from the slenderest 
cause. When friendly caravans meet, the two Kiran- 
gozis sidle up with a stage pace, a stride, and a stand, 
and with sidelong looks prance till arrived within dis- 
tance ; then suddenly and simultaneously " ducking,'' 
like boys " giving a back," they come to logger-heads 
and exchange a butt violently as fighting rams. Their 
example is followed by all with a rush and a crush, 
which might be mistaken for the beginning of a faction, 
but it ends, if there be no bad blood, in shouts of 
laughter. The weaker body, however, must yield pre- 
cedence and offer a small present as blackmail. 

About 8 a.m., when the fiery sun has topped the trees 
and a pool of water, or a shady place appears, the 
planting of the red flag, the braying of a Barghumi, or 
koodoo's horn, which, heard at a distance in the deep 
forests, has something of the charm which endears the 
" Cor de Chasse " to every woodman's ear, and some- 
times a musket -shot or two, announces a short halt. The 
porters stack their loads, and lie or loiter about for a 
few minutes, chatting, drinking, and smoking tobacco 
and bhang, with the usual whooping, screaming cough, 
and disputing eagerly about the resting-place for the 



352 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 

clay. On long marches we then take the opportunity 
of stopping to discuss the contents of two baskets which 
are carried by a slave under the eye of the Goanese. 

If the stage be prolonged towards noon, the caravan 
lags, straggles, and suffers sorely. The heat of the 
ground, against which the horniest sole never becomes 
proof, tries the feet like polished-leather boots on 
a quarter-deck in the dog-days near the Line, and 
some tribulation is caused by the cry M'iba hapa ! — 
thorns here ! The Arabs and the Baloch must often halt 
to rest. The slaves ensconce themselves in snug places; 
the porters, propping their burdens against trees, curl 
up, dog-like, under the shade ; some malinger ; and this, 
the opportunity preferred for desertion, is an anxious 
hour to the proprietor ; who, if he would do his work 
" deeclily," must be the last in the kraal. Still the men 
rarely break down. As in Indian marching, the African 
caravan prefers to end the day, rather than to begin it, 
with a difficulty — the ascent of a hill, or the fording of 
a stream. They prefer the strip of jungle at the further 
end of a district or a plantation, for safety as well as 
for the comfort of shade. They avoid the vicinity of 
rocks; and on desert plains they occupy some slightly 
rising ground, where the night-cold is less severe than 
in the lower levels. 

At length an increased hubbub of voices, blended 
with bells, drums, fifes, and horns, and sometimes a few 
musket-shots, announce that the van is lodged, and the 
hubbub of the halt confirms the pleasing intelligence 
that the journey is shortened by a stage. Each selfish 
body then hurries forward to secure the best boothy 
in the kraal, or the most comfortable hut in the 
village, and quarrels seem serious. Again, however, 
the knife returns home guiltless of gore, and the 
spear is used only as an instrument for sound bela- 



THE HALT OF THE CARAVAN. 



353 



bouring. The more energetic at once apply themselves 
to " making all snug " for the long hot afternoon and the 
nipping night; some hew down young trees, others 
collect heaps of leafy boughs ; one acts architect, and 
many bring in huge loads of firewood. The East African 
is so much accustomed to house-life, that the bivouac in 
the open appears to him a hardship ; he prefers even 
to cut out the interior of a bush and to squat in it, the 
portrait of a comfortable cynocephalus. We usually 
spread our donkey-saddles and carpets in some shade, 
awaiting the arrival of our tents, and its erection by the 
grumbling sons of Ramji ; if we want a hut, we draw 
out the man in possession like a badger, — he will never 
have the decency to offer it. As a rule, the villagers are 
more willing to receive the upward-bound caravans, than 
those who, returning, carry wealth out of instead of into 
the country. Merchants, on account of their valuable 
outfits, affect, except in the safest localities, the khambi 
rather than the village ; the latter, however, is not only 
healthier, despite its uncleanliness in miasmatic lands, 
but is also more comfortable, plenty and variety of pro- 
visions being more readily procured inside than outside. 
The Arab's khaymah is a thin pole or ridge-tent of 
flimsy domestics, admitting sun and rain, and, like an 
Irish cabin, permitting at night the occupant to tell 
time by the stars ; yet he prefers it, probably for 
dignity, to the boothy which, in this land of verdure 
and cool winds, is a far more comfortable lodging. 

The Wamrima willingly admit strangers into their 
villages; the Wazaramo would do the same, but they 
are constantly at feud with the Wanyamwezi, who 
therefore care not to avail themselves of the dangerous 
hospitality. In K'hutu caravans seize by force the best 
lodgings. Throughout Eastern Usagara travellers pitch 

VOL. I. A A 



354 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



tents in the clear central spaces, surrounded by the round 
huts of the peasantry, under whose low and drooping 
eaves the pagazi find shelter. In the western regions, 
where the Tembe or square village prevails, kraals form 
the nighting-place. In Ugogo strangers rarely enter the 
hamlets, the hovels being foul, and the people dangerous. 
Throughout Eastern and Central Unyamwezi caravans 
defile into the villages without hesitation. Some parties 
take possession of the Iwanza or public-house ; others 
build for themselves tabernacles of leafy boughs, which 
they are expected to clear away before departure, and 
the headman provides lodgings for the Mtongi. In 
Western Unyamwezi the doors are often closed against 
strangers, and in Eastern Uvinza the people will admit 
travellers to bivouac, but they will not vacate their 
huts. In Western Uvinza, a desert like Marenga and 
Mgunda Mk'hali, substantial khambi occur at short 
intervals. At Ujiji, the Sultan, after offering the pre- 
liminary magubiko or presents, provides his guests with 
lodgings, which, after a time sufficient for enabling 
them to build huts, they must vacate in favour of 
new comers. In the other Lake Regions the reception 
depends mainly upon the number of muskets in a 
caravan, and the character of the headman and his 
people. 

The khambi or kraal everywhere varies in shape and 
material. In the eastern regions, where trees are scarce, 
wattle frames of rough sticks, compacted with bark- 
fibre, are disposed in a circle ; the forked uprights, made 
higher behind and lower in front, to form a sloping 
roof, support horizontal or cross poles, which are over- 
laid with a rough thatch of grass or grain-cane. The 
central space upon which the boothies open is occupied 
by one or more huts for the chiefs of the party ; and 



THE CARAVAN-KRAAL. 



355 



the outer circle is a loose fence of thorn branches, flimsy, 
yet impassable to breech-less legs, unshod feet, and 
thin loose body-garments. When a kraal must be built, 
rations are not served out till enclosures made round 
the camp secure the cattle ; if the leader be dilatory, or 
unwilling to take strong measures, he may be a serious 
loser. The stationary kraals become offensive, if not 
burnt down after a few months. The Masika-kraal, as 
it is called, is that occupied only during the rainy 
monsoon, when water is everywhere found. The vi- 
cinity and the abundance of that necessary are the main 
considerations in selecting the situation of encamp- 
ments. The bark-kraals commence in Uvinza, where 
trees abound, and extend to the Tanganyika Lake ; some 
are substantial, as the temporary villages, and may be 
a quarter of a mile in circumference. The Lakist 
population carry with them, when travelling, Karagwah 
or stiff mats of reed and rush ; these they spread over 
and fasten to a firmly-planted framework of flexible 
boughs, not unlike a bird's nest inverted, or they 
build a cone of strong canes, in the shape of piled 
muskets, with the ends lashed together. It is curious 
to see the small compass in which the native African 
traveller can contract himself: two, and even three, will 
dispose their heads and part of their bodies — leaving 
their lower limbs to the mercy of the elements — under 
a matting little more than a yard square. 

When lodgings in the kraal have been distributed, 
and the animals have been off-packed, and water has 
been brought from the pit or stream, all apply them- 
selves to the pleasant toil of refection. Merrily then 
sounds the breathless chant of the woman pounding or 
rubbing down grain, the song of the cook, and the tinkle- 
tinkle of the slave's pestle, as he bends over the iron 

A A 2 



356 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 

mortar from which he stealthily abstracts the coffee. 
The fireplaces are three stones or clods, placed trivet- 
wise upon the ground, so that a draught may feed the 
flame, they are far superior to the holes and trenches 
of our camps and pic-nics. The tripod supports a small 
black earthen pot, round which the khambi or little 
knot of messmates perseveringly squat despite the 
stinging sun. At home where they eat their own pro- 
visions they content themselves with a slender meal of 
flour and water once a day. But like Spaniards, Arabs, 
and all abstemious races, they must " make up for lost 
time." When provisions are supplied to them, they 
are cooking and consuming as long as the material 
remains ; the pot is in perpetual requisition, now filled 
to be emptied, then refilled to be re-emptied. They will 
devour in three days the rations provided for eight, 
and then complain loudly that they are starved. To 
leave a favourable impression upon their brains, I had a 
measure nearly double that generally used, yet the per- 
verse wretches pleading hunger, though they looked 
like aldermen by the side of the lean bony anatomies 
whom they met on the road, would desert whenever 
met by a caravan. After a time there will, doubtless, 
be a re-action ; when their beards whiten they will 
indulge in the garrulity of age ; they will recount to 
wondering youth the prodigality of the Muzungu, in 
filling them with grain, even during the longest marches, 
and they will compare his loads of cloth and beads with 
the half dozen " shaggy " cows and the worn-out hoes, 
the sole outfit for presents and provisions carried by 
caravans of " Young Africa." If there be any delay in 
serving out provisions, loud cries of Posho ! p'hamba ! 
— rations ! food ! — resound through the camp ; yet 
when fatigued, the porters will waste hours in apathetic 



THE CARAVAN'S GREEDINESS. 357 

idleness rather than walk a few hundred yards to buy 
grain. Between their dozen meals they puff clouds of 
pungent tobacco, cough and scream over their jungle- 
bhang, and chew ashes, quids, and pinches of red earth, 
probably the graves of white ants. If meat be served 
out to them, it is eaten as a relish ; it never, however, 
interferes with the consumption of porridge. A sudden 
glut of food appears to have the effect of intoxicating 
them. The Arabs, however, avoiding steady rations, 
alternately gorge and starve their porters, knowing by 
experience that such extremes are ever most grateful to 
the barbarian stomach. The day must be spent in very 
idleness ; a man will complain bitterly if told to bring 
up his pack for opening ; and general discontent, with 
hints concerning desertion, will arise from the mortifica- 
tion of a muster. On such occasions he and his fellows 
will raise their voices, — when not half- choked by food — 
and declare that they will not be called about like ser- 
vants, and crouch obstinately round the smoky fire, the 
pictures of unutterable disgust ; and presently enjoy 
the sweet savour of stick-jaw dough and pearl-holcus 
like small shot, rat stews, and boiled weeds, which they 
devour till their " bulge " appears like the crop of a 
stuffed turkey. Sometimes when their improvidence 
has threatened them with a Banyan-day, they sit in a 
melancholy plight, spitefully smoking and wickedly eye- 
ing our cooking-pots ; on these occasions they have 
generally a goat or a bullock in store, and, if not, they 
finesse to obtain one of ours. I always avoid issuing 
an order to them direct, having been warned by experi- 
ence that Kidogo or the Kirangozi is the proper channel ; 
which sorely vexes Valentine and Seedy Bombay, whose 
sole enjoyment in life is command. I observed that 
when wanted for extra-work, to remove thorns or 

A A 3 



358 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



to dig for water, that the false alarm of Posho ! (ra- 
tions !) summons them with a wonderful alacrity. 
Moreover, I remarked that when approaching their coun- 
try and leaving ours — the coast— they became almost 
unmanageable and vice versa as conditions changed. 

My companion and 1 pass our day as we best can, 
sometimes in a bower of leafy branches, often under 
a spreading tree, rarely in the flimsy tent. The usual 
occupations are the diary and the sketchbook, added to 
a little business. The cloth must be doled out, and the 
porters must be persuaded, when rested, to search the 
country for rations, otherwise — the morrow will be a 
blank. When a bullock is killed one of us must be present. 
The porters receive about a quarter of the meat, over 
which they sit wrangling and screaming like hyamas, 
till a fair division according to messes is arrived at. 
Then, unless watched, some strong and daring hand will 
suddenly break through the ring, snatch up half a dozen 
portions and disappear at a speed defying pursuit ; 
others will follow his example, with the clatter and 
gesture of a troop of baboons, and the remainder will 
retire as might be expected, grumbling and discon- 
tented. Dinner at 4 p.m. breaks the neck of the day. 
Provisions of some kind are mostly procurable, our diet, 
however, varies from such common doings as the hard 
holcus-scone, the tasteless bean-broth and the leathery 
goat-steak, to fixings of delicate venison, fatted capon, 
and young guinea-fowl or partridge, with " bread 
sauce/' composed of bruised rice and milk. At first 
the Goanese declined to cook " pretty food/' as pasties 
and rissoles, on the plea that such things were impos- 
sible upon the march ; they changed their minds when 
warned that persistence in such theory might lead to a 
ceremonious fustigation. Moreover, they used to serve 



THE TIRIKEZA. 



359 



us after their fashion, with a kind of " portion " on 
plates ; the best part, of course, remained in the pots 
and digesters ; these, therefore, were ordered to do duty 
as dishes. When tea or coffee is required in a drinkable 
state, we must superintend the process of preparing it, 
the notions of the Goanese upon such subjects being 
abominable to the civilised palate. When we have 
eaten our servants take their turn ; they squat opposite 
each other over a private " cooking-pot " to which they 
have paid unremitting attention ; they stretch forth their 
talons and eat till weary, not satiated, pecking, nodding, 
and cramming like two lank black pigeons. Being 
" Christians," that is to say, Roman Catholics, they 
will not feed with the heathenry, moreover a sort of 
semi-European dignity forbids. Consequently Bombay 
messes with his "brother" Mabruki, and the other 
slaves eat by themselves. 

When the wells ahead are dry the porters will scarcely 
march in the morning ; their nervous impatience of thirst 
is such that they would exhaust all their gourds, if they 
expected a scarcity in front, and then they would suffer 
severely through the long hot day. They persist, more- 
over, upon eating before the march, under the false 
impression that it gives them strength and bottom. In 
fact, whenever difficulties as regards grain or drink 
suggest themselves, the African requires the direction 
of some head-piece made of better stuff than his own. 
The hardships of the tirikeza have already been de- 
scribed : they must be endured to be realised. 

Night is ushered in by penning and pounding the 
cows, and by tethering the asses — these "careless 
^Ethiopians" lose them every second day, — and by col- 
lecting and numbering the loads, a task of difficulty 

A. As. 4 



360 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



where every man shirks the least trouble. When there 
has been no tirikeza, when provisions have been 
plentiful, and when there is a bright moonshine, which 
seems to enliven these people like jackals, a furious 
drumming, a loud clapping of hands, and a general 
droning song, summon the lads and the lasses of the 
neighbouring villages to come out and dance and " make 
love." The performance is laborious, but these Africans, 
like most men of little game, soon become too tired to work, 
but not too tired to play and amuse themselves. Their 
style of salutation is remarkable only for the excessive 
gravity which it induces; at no other time does the 
East African look so serious, so full of earnest purpose. 
Sometimes a single dancer, the village buffoon, foots 
a pas seal, featly, with head, arms, and legs, bearing 
strips of hair-garnished cow-skin, which are waved, 
jerked, and contorted, as if dislocation had occurred to 
his members. At other times, a line or a circle of boys 
and men is formed near the fire, and one standing in 
the centre, intones the song solo, the rest humming a 
chorus in an undertone. The dancers plumbing and 
tramping to the measure with alternate feet, simul- 
taneously perform a treadmill exercise with a heavier 
stamp at the end of every period : they are such timists, 
that a hundred pair of heels sound like one. At first 
the bodies are slowly swayed from side to side, presently 
as excitement increases, the exercise waxes severe : 
they " cower down and lay out their buttocks," to use 
pedantic Ascham's words, " as though they would shoot 
at crows ;" they bend and recover themselves, and they 
stoop and rise to the redoubled sound of the song and 
the heel-music, till the assembly, with arms waving 
like windmills, assumes the frantic semblance of a 
ring of Egyptian Darwayshes. The performance often 



THE CARAVAN SOXG. 



3G1 



closes with a grand promenade ; all the dancers being 
jammed in a rushing mass, a galop i?ifernale, with the 
features of satyrs, and gestures resembling aught but 
the human. When the fun threatens to become too 
fast and furious, the song dies, and the performers, with 
loud shouts of laughter, throw themselves on the 
ground, to recover strength and breath. The grey- 
beards look on with admiration and sentiment, remem- 
bering the days when they were capable of similar feats. 
Instead of " bravo," they ejaculate " Nice ! nice ! very 
nice ! " and they wonder what makes the white men 
laugh. The ladies prefer to perform by themselves, 
and perhaps in the East, ours would do the same, if a 
literal translation of the remarks to which a ball always 
gives rise amongst Orientals, happened by misfortune to 
reach their refined ears. 

When there is no dancing, and the porters can no 
longer eat, drink, and smoke, they sit by their fires, 
chatting, squabbling, talking and singing some such 
" pure nectar " as the following. The song was com- 
posed, I believe, in honour of me, and I frequently heard 
it when the singers knew that it was understood. The 
Cosmopolitan reader will not be startled by the epithet 
" Mbaya," or wicked, therein applied to the Muzungu. 
A " good white man," would indeed, in these lands, have 
been held an easy-going soul, a natural, an innocent, 
like the " buona famiglia," of the Italian cook, who ever 
holds the highest quality of human nature to be a 
certain facility for being u plucked without 'plain- 
ing," and being " flayed without flinching." Moreover, 
despite my " wickedness," they used invariably to come 
to me for justice and redress, especially when proximity 
to the coast encouraged the guide and guards to " bully" 
them. 



362 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



" Muzungu mbaya" (the wicked white man) goes from the shore, 
{Chorus) Puti ! Puti ! (I can only translate it by "grub ! grub ! ") 
We will follow " Muzungu mbaya." 

Puti! Puti! 
As long as he gives us good food ! 

Puti! Puti! 
We will traverse the hill and the stream, 
Puti! Puti! 

With the caravan of this great mundewa (merchant). 
Puti ! Puti ! &c, &c. 

The Baloch and the sons of Ramji quarrel, yell, 
roar, and talk of eating — the popular subject of con- 
verse in these lands, as is beer in England, politics in 
France, law in Normandy, " pasta" at Naples, and to 
say no more, money everywhere — till a late hour. 
About 8 p.m., the small hours of the country, sounds 
the cry lala ! lala ! — sleep ! It is willingly obeyed by 
all except the women, who must sometimes awake to 
confabulate even at midnight. One by one the caravan 
sinks into torpid slumber. At this time, especially 
when in the jungle-bivouac, the scene often becomes 
truly impressive. The dull red fires flickering and 
forming a circle of ruddy light in the depths of the 
black forest, flaming against the tall trunks and defining 
the foliage of the nearer trees, illuminate lurid groups 
of savage men, in every variety of shape and posture. 
Above, the dark purple sky, studded with golden points, 
domes the earth with bounds narrowed by the gloom 
of night. And, behold ! in the western horizon, a re- 
splendent crescent, with a dim, ash -coloured globe in 
its arms, and crowned by Hesperus, sparkling like 
a diamond, sinks through the vast of space, in all the 
glory and gorgeousness of Eternal Nature's sublimest 
works. From such a night, methinks, the Byzantine 
man took his device, the Crescent and the Star. 



RATE OF CARAVAN MARCHING. 



363 



The rate of caravan-marching in East Africa greatly 
varies. In cool moonlit mornings, over an open path, the 
Pagazi will measure perhaps four miles an hour. This 
speed is reduced by a quarter after a short " spurt," and 
under normal, perhaps favourable, circumstances, three 
statute miles will be the highest average. Through- 
out the journey it is safe to reckon for an Indian file 
of moderate length— say 150 men — 2*25 English miles, 
or what is much the same, 1*75 geographical miles per 
hour, measured by compass from point to point. In a 
clear country an allowance of 20 per cent, must be 
made for winding : in closer regions 40 — 50 per cent., 
and the traveller must exercise his judgment in distri- 
buting his various courses between these extremes. Mr. 
Cooley (Inner Africa Laid Open, p. 6) a " resolute," and 
I may add a most successful " reducer of itinerary dis- 
tances," estimates that the ordinary clay's journey of the 
Portuguese missionaries in West Africa never exceeded 
six geographical miles projected in a straight line, and 
that on rare occasions, and with effort only, it may 
have extended to 10 miles. Dr. Lacerda's porters in 
East Africa were terrified at the thought of marching 
ordinarily 2*50 Portuguese leagues, or about 9 '33 statute 
miles per day. Dr. Livingstone gives the exceedingly 
high maximum of 2 '50 to 3 miles an hour in a straight 
line, but his porters were lightly laden, and the 
Makololo are apparently a far " gamer" race, more 
sober and industrious, than the East Africans. Mr. 
Petherick, H. M.'s Consul at Khartum, estimates his 
gangs to have marched 3*50 miles per hour, and 
the ordinary day's march at 8 hours. It is un- 
doubted that the negro races north of the equator far 
surpass in pedestrian powers their southern brethren ; 



364 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



moreover the porters in question were marching only 
for a single day ; but as no instruments were used, the 
average may fairly be suspected of exaggeration. Finally 
Mr. Galton's observation concerning Cape travelling 
applies equally well to this part of Africa, namely, that 
10 statute or 6 rectilinear geographical miles per diem 
is a fair average of progress, and that he does well who 
conducts the same caravan 1,000 geographical miles 
across a wild country in six months. 

I will conclude this chapter with a succinct account 
of the inn, that is to say the village in East Africa. 

The habitations of races form a curious study and no 
valueless guide to the nature of the climate and the 
physical conditions to which men are subject. 

Upon the East African coast the villages, as has been 
mentioned, are composed of large tenements, oblongs or 
squares of wattle and dab, with eaves projecting to form 
a deep verandah and a thatched pent-roof, approaching 
in magnitude that of Madagascar. 

Beyond the line of maritime land the " Nyumba" or 
dwelling-house assumes the normal African form, the 
circular hut described by every traveller in the interior: 
Dr. Livingstone appears to judge rightly that its cir- 
cularity is the result of a barbarous deficiency in in- 
ventiveness. It has, however, several varieties. The 
simplest is a loose thatch thrown upon a cone of sticks 
based upon the ground, and lashed together at the 
apex : it ignores windows, and the door is a low hole 
in the side. A superior kind is made after the manner 
of our ancient bee-hives; it is cup-shaped with bulging 
sides, and covered with neat thatch, cut in circles 
which overlap one another tile-fashion: at a distance 
it resembles an inverted bird's nest. The common 
shape is a cylindrical framework of tall staves, or the 



THE EAST AFRICAN VILLAGE. 



365 



rough trunks of young trees planted in the earth, 
neatly interwoven with parallel and concentric rings 
of flexible twigs and withies : this is plastered inside 
and outside with a hard coat of red or grey mud ; 
in the poorer tenements the surface is rough and 
chinked, in the better order it is carefully smoothed 
and sometimes adorned with rude imitations of life. 
The diameter averages from 20 to 25, and the height 
from 7 to 15 feet in the centre, which is supported 
by a strong roof-tree, to which all the stacked rafters 
and poles converge. The roof is subsequently added, 
it is a structure similar to the walls, interwoven 
with sticks, upon which thick grass or palm-fronds are 
thrown, and the whole is covered with thatch tied on 
by strips of tree-bark. It has eaves which projecting from 
two to six feet — under them the inhabitants love to sit 
or sun shade themselves — rest upon horizontal bars, which 
are here and there supported by forked uprights, trees 
rudely barked. Near the coast the eaves are broad and 
high : in the interior they are purposely made so low 
that a man must creep in on all fours. The door- way 
resembles the entrance to an English pig-sty, it serves, 
however, to keep out heat in the hot season, and to 
keep in smoke and warmth during the rains and the 
cold weather : the threshold is garnished with a hori- 
zontal log or board that defends the interior from inun- 
dation. The door is a square of reeds fastened together 
by bark or cord, and planted upright at night between 
the wall and two dwarf posts at each side of the en- 
trance : there is generally a smaller and a secret door 
opposite that in use, and jealously closed up except 
when flight is necessary. In the colder and damper 
regions there is a second wall and roof outside the first, 
forming in fact one house within the other. 



366 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



About Central Usagara the normal African haystack- 
hut makes place for the " Tembe " which extends west- 
ward, a little beyond Unyanyembe. The Tembe, though 
of Hamitic origin, resembles the Utum of the ancients, 
and the Hishan of the modern Hejaz, those hollow 
squares of building which have extended through Spain 
to France and even to Ireland : it was, probably, sug- 
gested to Africa and to Arabia by the necessity of 
defence to, as well as lodging for, man and beast. It is 
to a certain extent, a proof of civilisation in Eastern 
Africa : the wildest tribes have not progressed beyond 
the mushroom or circular hut, a style of architecture 
which seems borrowed from the indigenous mimosa tree. 

Westward of Unyamwezi in Uvinza and about the 
Tanganyika Lake the round hovel again finds favour 
with the people ; but even there the Arabs prefer to 
build for themselves the more solid and comfortable 
Tembe. 

The haystack-hut has been described by a multitude 
of travellers: the "Tembe," or hollow village, yet 
awaits that honour. 

The " Tembe " wants but the addition of white-wash 
to make it an effective feature in African scenery : as it 
is, it appears from afar like a short line of raised earth. 
Provided with a block-house at each angle to sweep 
dead ground where fire, the only mode of attack prac- 
tised in these regions, can be applied, it would become a 
fort impregnable to the Eastern African. The form is 
a hollow square or oblong, generally irregular, with 
curves, projections, and semicircles ; in the East 
African Ghauts, the shape is sometimes round or oval 
to suit the exigencies of the hill-sides and the dwarf 
cones upon which it is built. On the mountains and in 
Ugogo, where timber is scarce, the houses form the 



THE TEMBE. 



367 



continued frontage of the building, which, composed of 
mimosa-trunks, stout stakes, and wattle and dab, rarely 
exceeds seven feet in height. In the southern regions 
of Usagara where the Tembe is poorest, the walls are of 
clods loosely put together and roofed over with a little 
straw. About Msene where fine trees abound, the Tembe 
is surrounded by a separate boma or palisade of young 
unbarked trunks, short or tall, and capped here and 
there with cattle-skulls, blocks of wood, grass-wisps, 
and similar talismans ; this stockade, in damper places, 
is hedged with a high thick fence, sometimes doubled 
and trebled, of peagreen milk-bush, which looks pretty 
and refreshing, and is ditched outside with a deep 
trench serving as a drain. The cleared space in front 
of the main passage through the hedges is often decor- 
ated with a dozen poles, placed in a wide semicircle to 
support human skulls, the mortal remains of ill-con- 
ducted boors. In some villages the principal entrance 
is approached by long, dark and narrow lanes of pali- 
sading. When the settlement is built purely for defence, 
it is called " Kaya," and its headman " Muinyi Kaya," 
the word, however, is sometimes used for " Boma " or 
"Mji," a palisaded village in general. In some parts 
of Unyamwezi there is a Bandani or exterior boothy, 
where the men work at the forge, or sit in the shade, 
and where the women husk, pound, and cook their grain. 

The general roof of the Tembe is composed of mud 
and clay heaped upon grass thickly strewed over a 
framework of rafters supported by the long walls. It 
has, usually, an obtuse slope to the front and another 
to the rear, that rain may not lie ; it is, however, flat 
enough to support the bark-bins of grain, gourds, old 
pots, firewood, water-melons, pumpkins, manioc, mush- 
rooms, and other articles placed there to ripen or dry 



368 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFEICA. 



in the sun. It has no projecting eaves, and it is as- 
cended from the inside by the primitive ladder, the 
inclined trunk of a tree, with steps formed by the 
stumps of lopped boughs, acting rings. The roof, 
during the rains, is a small plot of bright green grass : 
I often regretted not having brought with me a little 
store of mustard and cress. In each external side of 
the square, one or two door- ways are pierced ; they 
are large enough to admit a cow, and though public 
they often pass through private domiciles. They are 
jealously closed at sunset, after which hour not a villa- 
ger dares to stir from his home till morning. The outer 
doors are sometimes solid planks, more often they are 
three or four heavy beams suspended to a cross-bar 
passing through their tops. When the way is to be 
opened they are raised from below and are kept up by 
being planted in a forked tree- trunk inside the palisade : 
they are let clown when the entrance is to be closed, 
and are barred across with strong poles. 

The tenements are divided from one another by party- 
walls of the same material as the exterior. Each 
house has, usually, two rooms, a " but " and a 16 ben," 
which vary in length from 20 to 50 feet, and in depth 
from 12 to 15 : they are partitioned by a screen of corn- 
canes supported by stakes, with a small passage left 
open for light. The "but," used as parlour, kitchen, and 
dormitory, opens upon the common central square ; the 
" ben " receives a glimmer from the doors and chinks, 
which have not yet suggested the idea of windows : it 
serves for a sleeping and a store room ; it is a favourite 
place with hens and pigeons that aspire to be mothers, 
and the lambs and kids in early infancy are allowed to 
pass the night there. The inner walls are smeared with 
mud : lime is not procurable in Eastern Africa, and the 



THE TEMBE. 



369 



people have apparently no predilection for the Indian 
" Gobar the floor is of tamped earth, rough, uneven, 
and unclean. The prism-shaped ceiling is composed of 
rafters and thin poles gently rising from the long-walls 
to the centre, where they are supported by strong hori- 
zontals, which run the whole length of the house, and 
these again rest upon a proportionate number of pillars, 
solid forked uprights, planted in the floor. The ceiling 
is polished to a shiny black with smoke, which winds its 
way slowly through the door — smoke and grease are 
the African's coat and small clothes, they contribute so 
much to his health and comfort that he is by no means 
anxious to get rid of them — and sooty lines depend 
from it like negro- stalactites. 

The common enceinte formed by the houses is often 
divided into various courts, intended for different 
families, by the walls of the tenements, or by stout 
screens, and connected by long wynds and dark alleys 
of palisade-work. The largest and cleanest square 
usually belongs to the headman. In these spaces cattle 
are milked and penned ; the ground is covered with a 
thick coat of the animals' earths, dust in the hot weather 
and deep viscid mud during the rains : the impurity 
must be an efficacious fomite of cutaneous and pectoral 
disease. The villagers are fond of planting in the cen- 
tral courts trees, under whose grateful shade the loom 
is plied, the children play, the men smoke, and the 
women work. Here, also, stands the little Mzimu, or 
Fetiss-hut, to receive the oblations of the pious. Places 
are partitioned off from the public ground, near the 
houses, by horizontal trunks of trees, resting on forks, 
forming pens to keep the calves from the cows at 
night. In some villages huge bolsters of surplus grain, 
neatly packed in bark and corded round, are raised on 

VOL. I. b B 



370 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



tall poles near the interior doors of the tenements. 
Often, too, the insicles of the settlements boast of pigeon- 
houses, which in this country are made to resemble, in 
miniature, those of the people. In Unyamwezi the 
centre is sometimes occupied by the Iwanza, or village 
" public-house," which will be described in a future 
chapter. 

In some regions, as in Ugogo, these lodgings become 
peculiarly offensive if not burnt after the first year. 
The tramping of the owners upon the roof shakes mud 
and soot from the ceiling, and the rains wash down 
masses of earthwork heavy enough to do injury. The 
interior is a menagerie of hens, pigeons, and rats, of 
peculiar impudence. Scorpions and earwigs fall from 
their nests in the warm or shady rafters. The former, 
locally termed " Nge," is a small yellow variety, and 
though it stings spitefully the pain seldom lasts through 
the day ; as many .as three have dropped upon my couch 
in the course of the week. In Ugogo there is a green 
scorpion from four to five inches long, which inflicts a 
torturing wound. According to the Arabs the scorpion 
in Eastern Africa dies after inflicting five consecutive 
stings, and commits suicide if a bit of stick be applied to 
the middle of its back. The earwig is common in all damp 
places, and it haunts the huts on account of the shade. 
The insect apparently casts its coat before the rainy 
season, and the Africans ignore the superstition which 
in most European countries has given origin to its 
trivial name. A small xylophagus with a large black 
head rains a yellow dust like pollen from the riddled 
woodwork ; house-crickets chirp from evening to dawn ; 
cockroaches are plentiful as in an Indian steamer ; and 
a solitary mason -wasp, the " Kumbharni," or "potter's 
wife" of western India — a large hymenopter of several 



HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE. 



37! 



varieties, tender-green, or black and yellow, or dark 
metallic blue — burrows holes in the wall, or raises 
plastered nests, and buzzes about the inmates' ears ; 
lizards, often tailless after the duello, tumble from the 
ceilings ; in the darker corners spiders of frightful 
hideousness weave their solid webs ; and the rest of the 
population is represented by tenacious ticks of many 
kinds, flies of sorts, bugs, fleas, mosquitoes, and small 
ants, which are, perhaps, the worst plagues of all. The 
Ricinias in Eastern Africa are locally called Papazi, 
which probably explains the " Pazi bug," made by Dr. 
Krapf a rival in venom to the Argas Persicus, or fatal 
" bug of Miana." In Eastern Africa these parasites are 
found of many shapes, round and oval, flat and swollen ; 
after suction they vary in size from microscopic di- 
mensions to three-quarters of an inch ; the bite cannot 
poison, but the constant irritation caused by it may 
induce fever and its consequences. A hut infested with 
Papazi must be sprinkled with boiling water, and swept 
clean for many weeks, before they will disappear. In 
the Tembe there is no draught to disturb the smaller 
occupants, consequently they are more numerous than 
in the circular cottage. Moreover, the people, having 
an aversion to sleeping in the open air, thus supply 
their co-inhabitants with nightly rations, which account 
for their fecundity. 

The abodes, as might be expected, are poorly furnished. 
In Unyamwezi, they contain invariably one or more 
"Kitanda." This cartel, or bedstead, is a rude contrivance. 
Two parallel lines of peeled tree-branches, planted at 
wide intervals, support in their forks horizontal poles : 
upon these is spread crosswise a layer of thick sticks, 
which forms the frame. The bedding consists of a 
bull-hide or two, and perhaps a long, coarse, rush-mat. 

B B 2 



372 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



It is impossible for any one but an African to sleep 
upon these Kitanda, on account of their shortness, the 
hardness of the material, and the rapid slope which 
supplies the want of pillows, and serves for another 
purpose which will not be described. When removed, 
a fractured pole will pour forth a small shower of the 
foul cimex : this people of hard skins considers its 
bite an agreeable titillation, and, what may somewhat 
startle a European, esteems its odour a perfume. 
Around the walls depend from pegs neatly-plaited 
slings of fibrous cord, supporting gourds and " vilindo" 
— neat cylinders, like small band-boxes, of tree bark, 
made to contain cloth, butter, grain, or other provisions. 
In the store-room, propped upon stones, and plastered 
over with clay for preservation, are Linclo, huge corn- 
bins of the same material ; grain is ground upon a 
coarse granite slab, raised at an angle of 25°, about 
one foot above the floor, and embedded in a rim of 
hard clay. The hearth is formed of three " Manga," 
or truncated cones of red or grey mud, sometimes two 
feet high, and ten inches in diameter at the base : they 
are disposed triangularly, with the apex to the wall, 
and open to the front when the fire is made. The pot 
rests upon the tripod. The broom, a wisp of grass, a 
bunch of bamboo splints, or a split fibrous root, usually 
sticks in the ceiling; its work is left to the ants. From 
the rafters hang drums and kettle-drums, skins and 
hides in every process, and hooked twigs dangling 
from strings support the bows and arrows, the spears 
and assegais. An arrow is always thrust into the inner 
thatch for good luck : ivory is stored between the 
rafters, hence its dark ruddy colour, which must be 
removed by ablution with warm blood ; and the ceiling 
is a favourite place for small articles that require 



HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE. 



373 



seasoning — bows, quivers, bird-bolts, knob- sticks, walk- 
ing-canes, reed-nozzles for bellows, and mi'iko or ladles, 
two feet long, used to stir porridge. The large and heavy 
water-pots, of black clay, which are filled every morn- 
ing and evening by the women at the well, lie during 
the day empty or half empty about the room. The 
principal article of luxury is the " Kiti," or dwarf 
stool, cut out of a solid block, measuring one foot in 
height by six inches in diameter, with a concave surface 
for convenience of sitting : it has usually three carved 
legs or elbows ; some, however, are provided with a 
fourth, and with a base like the seat, to steady them. 
They are invariably used by the Sultan and the 
Mganga, who disdain to sit upon the ground : and the 
Wamrima ornament them with plates of tin let into the 
upper concaves. The woods generally used for the Kiti, 
are the Mninga and the Mpingu. The former is a tall 
and stately tree, which supplies wood of a dark ma- 
hogany colour, exuding in life a red gum, like dragon's 
blood: the trunk is converted into bowls and platters, 
the boughs into rafters, which are, however, weak 
and subject to the xylophagus, whilst of the heart 
are made spears, which, when old and well-greased, 
resemble teak- wood. The Mpingu is the Sisam of India, 
(Dalbergia Sissoo) here erroneously called by the Arabs 
Abnus — ebony. The tree is found throughout Eastern 
Africa. The wood is of fine quality, and dark at the 
core : the people divide it into male and female ; the 
former is internally a dark brick-dust red, whilst the 
latter verges upon black : they make from it spears 
and axe-handles, which soon, however, when exposed 
to the air, unless regularly greased, become brittle. 
The massive mortar, for husking grain, called by the 
people " Mchi," is shaped exactly like those portrayed 

B B 3 



374 THE LAKE EEGIONS OP CENTRAL AFRICA. 

in the interior-scenes of ancient Egypt : it is hewn out 
of the trunk of the close-grained Mkora tree. The 
huge pestle, like a capstan-bar, is made of the 
Mkorongo, a large tree with a fine-grained wood, which 
is also preferred to others for rafters, as it best resists 
the attacks of insects. 

Such, gentle reader, is the Tembe of Central Africa. 
Concerning village life, I shall have something to say 
in a future page. The scene is more patent to the 
stranger's eye in these lands than in the semi-civilised 
regions of Asia, where men rarely admit him into their 
society. 



African House Euilclmg. 



CHAP. XI. 

WE CONCLUDE THE TRANSIT OF UNYAMWEZI. 

I was detained at Kazeh from the Sth November to 
the 14th December, 1857, and the delay was one long 
trial of patience. 

It is customary for stranger-caravans proceeding to- 
wards Ujiji to remain six weeks or two months at 
Unyanyembe for repose and recovery from the labours 
which they have, or are supposed to have, endured : 
moreover, they are expected to enjoy the pleasures of 
civilised society, and to accept the hospitality offered to 
them by the resident Arabs. In Eastern Africa, I may 

B D 4 



376 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



again suggest, six weeks is as the three days' visit in 
England. 

On the morning after our arrival at Kazeh, the gang 
of Wanyamwezi porters that had accompanied us from 
the coast withdrew their hire from our cloth-bales; 
and not demanding, because they did not expect, 
bakhshish, departed, without a sign of farewell, to 
their homes in Western Unyamwezi. The Kirangozi 
or guide received a small present of domestics : his 
family being at Msene, distant five marches ahead, he 
fixed, after long haggling, the term of fifteen days as 
his leave of absence, after which he promised to join me 
with a fresh gang for the journey to Ujiji. 

The rest of the party apparently considered Un- 
yanyembe, not Ujiji, the end of the exploration ; it proved 
in effect a second point of departure, easier than Kaole 
only because I had now gained some experience. 

Two days after our arrival, the Baloch, headed by 
their Jemadar, appeared in full toilette to demand a 
" Hakk el Salamah, " or reward for safe-conduct. I in- 
formed them that this would be given when they 
had reached the end of the up-march. The pragma- 
tical Darwaysh declared that without bakhshish there 
would be no advance ; he withdrew his words, however, 
when my companion was called in to witness their be- 
ing committed to paper — a proceeding always un- 
palatable to the Oriental. The Baloch then subsided 
into begging for salt and spices, and having received 
more than they had probably ever possessed in their 
lives, they privily complained of my parsimony to Said 
bin Salim. They then sent for tobacco, a goat, gun- 
powder, bullets — all which they obtained. Their 
next manoeuvre was to extract four cloths for tinning 
their single copper pot and for repairing the matchclogs 



TEOUBLES. 



377 



and stocks of two old matchlocks. They then sold a 
keg of gunpowder committed to their charge. They 
had experienced every kindness from Snay bin Amir, 
from Sallum bin Hamid, in fact, from all the Arab mer- 
chants of Eazeh. They lodged comfortably in Musa 
Mzuri's house, and their allowance, one Shukkah of 
domestics per diem, enabled them to buy goats, sheep, 
and fowls — luxuries unknown in their starving huts at 
Zanzibar. Yet they did not fail, with their foul tongues, 
ever ready, as the Persians say, for " spitting at Heaven," 
to charge their kind hosts with the worst crime that 
the Arab knows — niggardness. 

On the 8th November, I had arranged with Kidogo, as 
well as with the Kirangozi, to resume the march at the 
end of a fortnight. Ten days afterwards I again sent 
for him to conclude the plans concerning the journey : 
evidently something lay deep within his breast, but the 
difficulty was to extract it. He began by requiring a 
present for his excellent behaviour — he received, to his 
astonishment, four cloths. He next demanded leave to 
visit his Unyamwezi home for a week, and was unplea- 
santly surprised when it was granted. He then " hit the 
right nail on the head." The sons of Kamji, declaring that 
I had promised them a bullock on arrival at Kazeh, 
had seized, hamstrung, and cut up a fine fat animal sent 
to me by Sallum bin Hamid ; yet Kidogo averred that 
the alleged promise must be fulfilled to them. When I 
refused, he bluntly informed me that I was quite equal 
to the task of collecting porters for myself ; I replied 
that this was his work and not mine. He left the house 
abruptly, swearing that he would not trouble himself 
any longer, and, moreover, for the future that his men 
should not carry the lightest load, nor assist us even in 
threading beads. At last, on the 2 7th November, I sent 



378 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



for Kidogo, and told him that the march was positively 
fixed for the next week. After sitting for a time 
u cupo concentrate" in profound silence, the angry 
slave arose, delivered a volley of rattling words with 
the most theatrical fierceness, and rushed from the room, 
leaving the terrified Said bin Salim gazing upon vacancy 
like an idiot. Accompanied by his followers, who were 
shouting and laughing, he left the house, when — I after- 
wards heard — they drew their sabres, and waving them 
round their heads, they shouted, for the benefit of 
Arabs, " Tume-shinda Wazungu" — "We have con- 
quered the Whites ! " I held a consultation with my 
hosts concerning the advisability of disarming the re- 
creant sons of Ramji. But Sallum bin Hamid, the "papa" 
of the colony, took up the word, and, as usual with such 
deliberative bodies, the council of war advised peace. 
They informed me that in Unyainwezi slaves and mus- 
kets are the stranger's sole protection, and as they were 
unanimous in persuading me to temporise, to " swallow 
anger " till after return, I felt bound, after applying 
for it, to be guided by their advice. At the consulta- 
tion, however, the real object which delayed the sons 
of Ramji at Kazeh oozed out: their patroon, Mr. 
Rush Ramji, had written to them that his and their 
trading outfit was on its way from the coast ; conse- 
quently, they had determined to await, and to make us 
await, its arrival before marching upon Ujiji. 

On the 14th November, the Masika or wet season, 
which had announced its approach by premonitory 
showers and by a final burst of dry heat, set in over 
the Land of the Moon with torrents of rain and " rain- 
stones, " as hail is here called, and with storms of thun- 
der and lightning, which made it more resemble the first 
breaking of an Indian than the desultory fall of a Zan- 



DIFFICULTIES. 



379 



zibar wet-monsoon. I was still under the impression 
that we were encountering the Choti Barsat or Little 
Rains of Bengal and Bombay ; and curious to say, the 
Arabs of Unyanyembe one and all declared, even after the 
wet-monsoon had reached its height, that the Masika 
in Unyamwezi is synchronous with that of the island 
and the coast, namely, in early April. 

The Rains in Eastern Africa are, like the summer in 
England, the only healthy and enjoyable season : the 
contrast between the freshness of the air and the ver- 
dure of the scenery after the heat, dust, and desolation 
that preceded the first showers, was truly luxurious. 
Yet the Masika has many disadvantages for travellers. 
The Wanyamwezi, who were sowing their fields, de- 
clined to act porters, and several Arab merchants, who 
could not afford the expenditure required to hire un- 
willing men, were halted perforce in and near Unyan- 
yembe. The peasants would come in numbers ; offer to 
accompany the caravan ; stand, stare, and laugh their 
vacant laughs; lift and balance their packs; chaffer 
about hire ; promise to return next morning, and de- 
finitively disappear. With the utmost exertion Snay 
bin Amir could collect only ten men, and they were all 
ready to desert. Moreover, the opening of the Masika is 
ever unhealthy ; strangers suffer severely from all sudden 
changes of temperature ; Unyamwezi speedily became 

"As full of agues as the sun in March." 

Another cause of delay became imminent ; my com- 
panion was comparatively strong, but the others were 
prostrated by sickness. Valentine first gave in ; he was 
nearly insensible for three days and nights, the usual 
period of the Mukunguru or " Seasoning " of Unyamwezi 
— a malignant bilious remittent — which left him 



380 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



weaker and thinner than he had ever been before. When 
he recovered, Gaetano fell ill, and was soon in the happy 
state of unconsciousness which distinguished all his 
fevers. The bull-headed slave Mabruki also retired into 
private life, and Bombay was laid up by a shaking ague, 
whilst the Baloch and the sons of Kamji, who had 
led a life so irregular that the Arabs had frequently 
threatened them with punishment, also began to pay the 
penalty of excess. 

Snay bin Amir was our principal doctor. An adept 
in the treatment, called by his countrymen " camel- 
physic," namely, cautery and similar counter-irritants, 
he tried his art upon me when I followed the example 
of the party. At length, when the Hummah, or hot fit, 
refused to yield to its supposed specific, a coating of 
powdered ginger, he insisted upon my seeing a Mganga, 
or witch, celebrated for her cures throughout the coun- 
try-side. She came, a wrinkled old beldame, with a 
greasy skin, black as soot, set off by a mass of tin- 
coloured pigtails : her arms were adorned with copper 
bangles like manacles, and the implement of her craft 
was, as usual, a girdle of small gourds dyed red-black 
with oil and use. 

After demanding and receiving her fee in cloth, she 
proceeded to search my mouth, and to inquire anxiously 
concerning poison. The question showed the preva- 
lence of the practice in the country, and indeed the 
people, to judge from their general use of " Mithri- 
dates," seem ever to expect it. She then drew from 
a gourd a greenish powder, which was apparently bhang, 
and having mixed it with water, she administered it 
like snuff, causing a convulsion of sneezing, which she 
hailed with shouts and various tokens of joy. Presently 
she rubbed my head with powder of another kind, and 



DELAYS. 



381 



promising to return the next day, she left me to rest, 
declaring that sleep would cause a cure. The pre- 
diction, however, was not fulfilled, nor was the pro- 
mise. Having become wealthy, she absconded to in- 
dulge in unlimited pombe for a week. The usual con- 
sequences of this " seasoning," distressing weakness, he- 
patic derangements, burning palms, and tingling soles, 
aching eyes, and alternate thrills of heat and cold, 
lasted, in my case, a whole month. 

Our departure from Kazeh had now been repeatedly 
deferred. The fortnight originally fixed for the halt 
had soon passed in the vain search for porters. Sick- 
ness then delayed the journey till the 1st December, and 
Snay bin Amir still opined that want of carriage would 
detain me till the 19th of that month; he would not 
name the 18th, which was an unlucky day. When they 
recovered from their ailments, the Jemadar and the 
Baloch again began to be troublesome. All declared 
that a whole year, the term for which they had been 
sent by their Prince, had elapsed, and therefore that 
they had now a right to return. The period was wholly 
one of their own, based perhaps upon an answer which 
they had received from Lieut. -Col. Hamerton touching 
the probable duration of the Expedition, " a year or 
so." Even of that time it still wanted five months, 
but nothing from myself or from Said bin Salim could 
convince men who would not be convinced, of that 
simple fact. Ismail, the Baloch, who was dying of dy- 
sentery, reported himself unable to proceed : arrange- 
ments were made to leave him and his " brother " 
Shahdad — the fearful tinkling of whose sleepless guitar 
argued that the sweet youth was in love — under the 
charge of Snay bin Amir, at Kazeh. Greybeard Mo- 
hammed was sulking with his fellows. He sat apart from 



382 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



them ; and complaining that he had not received his por- 
tion of food, came to me for dismissal, which was granted, 
but not accepted. The Jemadar required for himself 
and the escort a porter per man. When this was 
refused, he changed his tactics, and began to lament 
bitterly the unavoidable delay. He annoyed me with 
ceaseless visits, which were spent in harping upon the 
one string, " When do we march ?" At last I forbade 
all allusion to the subject. In wrath he demanded leave, 
declaring that he had not come to settle in Africa, and 
much " excessiveness " to the same effect. He was at 
last brought to his senses by being summarily turned 
out of the house for grossly insulting my companion. 
A reaction then ensued ; the Baloch professed penitence, 
and all declared themselves ready to march or to halt 
as I pleased. Yet, simulating impatience to depart, they 
clung to the pleasures of Kazeh ; they secretly caused 
the desertion of the porters, and they never ceased to 
spread idle reports, vainly hoping that I might be in- 
duced to return to the coast. 

Finally, Said bin Salim fulfilled at Kazeh Lieut.-Col. 
Hamerton's acute prophecy. The Bukini blood of his 
mother — a Malagash slave — got the better of his Omani 
descent. I had long reformed my opinion concerning 
his generosity and kindheartedness, hastily concluded 
during a short cruise along the coast. " Man's heart," 
say the Arabs, " is known only in the fray, and man's 
head is known only on the way." But though high- 
flown sentiment and studied courtesy had disappeared 
with the first days of hardship and fatigue, he preserved 
for a time the semblance of respectability and respect. 
Presently, like the viler orders of Orientals, he pre- 
sumed upon his usefulness, and his ability to forward 
the Expedition ; the farther we progressed from our 



SAID BIN SALIM GOES TO THE BAD. 



383 



" point d'appui" the coast, the more independent be- 
came his manner, — of course it afterwards subsided 
into its former civility, — and an overpowering egotism 
formed the motive of his every action. I had impru- 
dently allowed him to be accompanied by the charming 
Halimah. True to his servile origin, he never seemed 
happy except in servile society, where he was " king of 
his company. " At Kazeh, jealous of my regard for 
Snay bin Amir, and wearied by long evening conversa- 
tions, where a little " ilm " or knowledge in the shape 
of history and divinity used to appear, — his ignorance 
and apathy concerning all things but A. bin B>, and B. 
bin C, who married his son D. to the daughter of E., pre- 
vented his taking part in them, — he became first sulky, 
and then " contrarious." Formerly he was wont, on 
the usual occasions, to address a word of salutation to 
my companion : this ceased, and presently he would pass 
him as if he had been a bale of cloth. He affected in 
society the indecorous posture of a European woman 
stretched upon a sofa, after crouching for months upon 
his shins, — in fact he was, as the phrase is, " trailing 
his jacket" for a quarrel. 

Through timidity he had been profuse in expending 
the goods entrusted to his charge, and he had been re- 
peatedly reproved for serving out, without permission, 
cloth and beads to his children. Yet, before reach- 
Unyanyembe, I never had reason to suspect him of dis- 
honesty or deceit. At Kazeh, however, he was ordered 
to sell a keg of gunpowder, before his slaves could pur- 
loin the whole. He reported that he had passed on 
the commission to Snay bin Amir. I also forbade him 
to issue hire to porters for a return-march from the 
Lake, having been informed that such was the best way 
to secure their desertion ; and the information proved 



384 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 

true enough, as twenty-five disappeared in a single 
night. He repeatedly affirmed that he had engaged 
and paid them for the up-march only. When he stood 
eonvicted of a double falsehood, he had not spoken 
about the gunpowder, and he had issued whole hire to 
several of the porters, I improved the occasion with a 
mild reproach. The little creature became vicious as 
a weasel, screamed like a hyaena, declared himself no 
tallab or " asker," but an official under his govern- 
ment, and poured forth a torrent of justification. I 
cut the same short by leaving the room — a confirmed 
slight in these lands — and left him to rough language 
on the part of Snay bin Amir. Some hours subse- 
quently he recovered his temper, and observed that 
" even husband and wife must occasionally have a gird 
at each other." Not caring, however, for a repetition 
of such puerilities, I changed the tone of kindness in 
which he had invariably been addressed, for one of 
routine command, and this was preserved till the day 
of our final parting on the coast. 

The good Snay bin Amir redoubled his attentions. 
His slaves strung in proper lengths, upon the usual 
palm-fibre, the beads sent up loose from Zanzibar ; and 
he distributed the bales in due proportions for carriage. 
Our lights being almost exhausted, he made for us 
" dips," by ladling over wicks of unravelled " do- 
mestics" the contents of a cauldron filled with equal 
parts of hot wax and tallow. My servant, Valentine, 
who, evincing uncommon aptitude for cooking, had as 
yet acquired only that wretched art of burlesquing 
coarse English dishes which renders the table in Western 
India a standing mortification to man's palate, was 
apprenticed to Mama Khamisi, a buxom housekeeper 
in Snay's establishment. There, in addition to his 



SNAY BIN AMIR'S GOOD OFFICES. 



385 



various Goanese accomplishments — making curds and 
whey, butter, cheese, and ghee; potting fish, pick- 
ling onions and limes, and preparing jams and jelly 
from the pleasant and cooling rosel, — he learned the 
art of yeasting bread with whey or sour bean-flour 
(his leathery scones of coarse meal were an abomination 
to us) ; of straining honey, of preparing the favourite 
u Kawurmeh," jerked or smoked meat chipped up and 
soused in ghee; of making Firni, rice-jelly, and Halwa, 
confectionery, in the shape of " Kazi's luggage," and 
" hand-works : ? ' he was taught to make ink from 
burnt grain ; and last, not least, the trick of boiling 
rice as it should be boiled. We, in turn, taught him 
the various sciences of bird-stuffing, of boiling down 
isinglass and ghee, of doctoring tobacco with plantain, 
heeart, and tea leaves, and of making milk-punch, cigars, 
and guraku for the hookah. Snay bin Amir also sent into 
the country for plantains and tamarinds, then unprocu- 
rable at Kazeh, and he brewed a quantity of beer and 
mawa or plantain-wine. He admonished the Baloch 
and the sons of Eamji to be more careful, as re- 
gards conduct and expenditure. He lent me valuable 
assistance in sketching the outlines of the Kinyamwezi, 
or language of ^Unyamwezi, and by his distances and 
directions we were enabled to lay down the Southern 
limits, and the general shape of the Nyanza or Northern 
Lake, as correctly — and the maps forwarded from Kazeh 
to the Royal Geographical Society will establish this fact 
— as they were subsequently determined, after actual 
exploration, by my companion. He took charge of our 
letters and papers intended for home, and he undertook 
to forward the lagging gang still expected from the 
Coast : as the future will prove, his energy enabled me to 
receive the much wanted reserve in the " nick of time." 
vol. i. c C 



386 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



At length, it became apparent that no other porters 
were procurable at Kazeh, and that the restiff Baloch 
and the sons of Ramji disdaining CaBsar's " ite," required 
his " venite." I therefore resolved to lead them, instead 
of expending time and trouble in driving them, trusting 
that old habit, and that the difficulties attending their 
remaining behind would induce them to follow me. 
After much murmuring, my companion preceded me on 
the 5th December, and " made a Khambi," at Zimbili, 
a lumpy hill, with a north and south lay, and con- 
spicuous as a landmark from the Arab settlements, 
which are separated from it by a march of two hours. 
On the third day I followed him, in truth, more dead 
than alive, — the wing of Azrael seemed waving over my 
head, — even the movement of the Manchila was almost 
unendurable. I found cold and comfortless quarters in a 
large village at the base of Zimbili, no cartel was procu- 
rable, the roof leaked, and every night brought with it 
a furious storm of lightning, wind, and rain. By slow 
degrees, the Baloch began to drop in, a few of the 
sons of Ramji, and the donkey -men followed, half-a- 
dozen additional porters were engaged, and I was 
recovering strength to advance once more, when the 
report that our long-expected caravan was halted at 
Rubuga, in consequence of desertion, rendered a 
further delay necessary. My companion returned to 
Kazeh, to await the arrival of the reserve-supplies, and 
I proceeded onwards to collect a gang for the journey 
westwards. 

At 10 a.m., on the 15th December, I mounted the 
Manchila, carried by six slaves, hired by Snay bin 
Amir, from Khamis bin Salim at the rate of three 
pounds of white beads each, for the journey to Msene. 
After my long imprisonment, I was charmed with the 



THE HALT AT YOMBO. 



387 



prospect, a fine open country, with well-wooded hills 
rolling into blue distance on either hand. A two 
hours' ride placed me at Yombo, a new and picturesque 
village of circular tents, surrounded by plantains and 
wild fruit-trees. The Mkuba bears an edible red plum, 
which, though scanty of flesh, as usual, where man's 
care is wanting, was found by no means unpalatable. 
The Metrongoma produces a chocolate-coloured fruit, 
about the size of a cherry : it is eaten, but it lacks the 
grateful acid of the Mkuba. The gigantic Palmyra or 
Borassus, which failed in the barren platform of Ugogo, 
here re-appears, and hence extends to the Tanganyika 
Lake. 

I halted two days at Yombo : the situation was low 
and unhealthy, and provisions were procurable in 
homoeopathic quantities. My only amusement there 
was to watch the softer part of the population. At 
eventide, when the labours of the day were past and 
done, the villagers came home in a body, laden with 
their implements of cultivation, and singing a kind of 
u dulce domum," in a simple and pleasing recitative. 
The sunset hour, in the " Land of the Moon," is 
replete with enjoyments. The sweet and balmy breeze 
floats in waves, like the draught of a fan ; the sky is 
softly and serenely blue ; the fleecy clouds, stationary in 
the upper firmament, are robed in purple and gold, and 
the beautiful blush, crimsoning the west, is reflected 
by all the features of earth. At this time, all is life. 
The vulture soars with silent flight, high in the blue 
expanse ; the small birds preen themselves for the night, 
and sing their evening hymns ; the antelopes prepare to 
couch in the bush ; the cattle and flocks frisk and 
gamble, whilst driven from their pastures; and the 
people busy themselves with the simple pleasures that 

c c 2 



388 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



end the day. Every evening there is a smoking party, 
which particularly attracts my attention. All the femi- 
nine part of the population, from wrinkled grandmother 
to the maiden scarcely in her teens, assemble together, 
and sitting in a circle upon dwarf stools and logs of 
wood, apply themselves to their long black-bowl'd pipes. 

" Ssepe illse long- cut vel short-cut flare tobacco 
Sunt solita? pipos." 

They smoke with an intense enjoyment, slowly and 
deeply inhaling the glorious weed, and exhaling clouds 
from their nostrils; at times they stop to cool the 
mouth with slices of raw manioc, or cobs of green 
maize roasted in the ashes ; and often some earnest mat- 
ter of local importance causes the pipes to be removed 
for a few minutes, and a clamour of tongues breaks the 
usual silence. The pipe also requires remark : the bowl 
is of imperfect material — the clay being half-baked — 
but the shape is perfect. The African tapering cone is 
far superior to the European bowl : the former gives as 
much smoke as possible whilst the tobacco is fresh and 
untainted, and as little when it becomes hot and un- 
pleasant ; the latter acts on the contrary principle. 
Amongst the fair of Yombo, there were no less than 
three beauties — women who would be deemed beautiful 
in any part of the world. Their faces were purely 
Grecian ; they had laughing eyes, their figures were 
models for an artist, with — 

" Turgide, brune e ritondette mamme," 

like the " bending statue that delights the world " 
cast in bronze. The dress — a short kilt of calabash 
fibre, — rather set off than concealed their charms, and 



SALIM BIN SALIH. 



389 



though destitute of petticoat or crinoline they were 
wholly unconscious of indecorum. It is a question that 
by no means can be positively answered in the affirma- 
tive, that real modesty is less in proportion to the ab- 
sence of toilette. These " beautiful domestic animals " 
graciously smiled when in my best Kinyamwezi I did 
my devoir to the sex; and the present of a little 
tobacco always secured for me a seat in the undress 
circle. 

After hiring twenty porters — five lost no time in 
deserting — and mustering the Baloch, of whom eleven 
now were present, I left Yombo on the 18th December, 
and passing through a thick green jungle, with low, 
wooded, and stony hills rising on the left hand, to about 
4000 feet above sea- level, I entered the little settle- 
ment of Pano. The next day brought us to the 
clearing of Mfuto, a broad, populous, and fertile rolling 
plain, where the stately tamarind flourished to perfec- 
tion. A third short march, through alternate patches 
of thin wood and field, studded with granite blocks, led 
to Irora, a village in Western Mfuto, belonging to Salim 
bin Salih, an Arab from Mbuamaji, and a cousin of 
Said bin Mohammed, my former travelling companion, 
who had remained behind at Kazeh. This individual, 
a fat, pulpy, and dingy- coloured mulatto, appeared 
naked to the waist, and armed with bow and arrows : he 
received me surlily, and when I objected to a wretched 
cow-shed outside his palisade, he suddenly waxed 
furious : he raved like a madman, shook his silly bow, and 
declared that he ignored the name of the Sayyid Majid, 
being himself as good a " Sultan " as any other. He 
became pacified on perceiving that his wrath excited 
nothing but the ridicule of the Baloch, found a better 
lodging, sent a bowl of fresh milk wherein to drown 

c c 3 



390 THE LAKE EEGIONS OF CENTEAL AFEICA. 

differences, and behaved on this and a subsequent occa- 
sion more like an Arab Shaykh, than an African 
headman. 

On the 22nd December my companion rejoined me, 
bringing four loads of cloth, three of beads, and seven 
of brass wire : they formed part of the burden of the 
twenty-two porters who were to join the Expedition ten 
days after its departure from the coast. The Hindus, 
Ladha Damha and Mr. Rush Ramji, after the decease of 
Lieut-Colonel Hamerton, had behaved with culpable 
neglect. The cloth was of the worst and flimsiest de- 
scription ; the beads were the cheap white and the use- 
less black — the latter I was obliged to throw away; and 
as they sent up the supply without other guard than two 
armed slaves, " Mshindo " and " Kirikhota," the conse- 
quence was that the pair had plundered ad libitum. No 
letters had been forwarded, and no attention had been 
paid to my repeated requests for drugs and other stores. 
My companion's new gang, levied at Kazeh, affected the 
greatest impatience. They refused to halt for a day, — 
even Christmas day. They proposed double marches, and 
they resolved to proceed by the straight road to Msene. 
It was deemed best to humour them. They arrived, 
however, at their destination only one day before my 
party, who travelled leisurely, and who followed the 
longer and the more cultivated route. 

We left Irora on the 23rd December, and marched from 
sunrise till noon to the district of Eastern Wilyankuru. 
There we again separated. On the next day I passed 
alone through the settlement called Muinyi Chandi, 
where certain Arabs from Oman had built large Tembe, 
to serve as barracoons and warehouses. This district 
supplies the adjoining countries with turmeric, of which 
very little grows in Unyanyembe. After this march dis- 



THE " LION." 



391 



appeared the last of the six hammals who had been hired 
to carry the hammocks. They were as unmanageable 
as wild asses, ever grumbling and begging for " kito- 
weyo," — " kitchen ;" — constitutionally unfitted to obey 
an order ; disposed, as the noble savage generally is, to be 
insolent ; and, like all porters in this part of the world, 
unable to carry a palanquin. Two men, instead of four, 
insisted upon bearing the hammock ; thus overbur- 
dened and wishing to get over the work, they hurried 
themselves till out of breath. When one was fagged, 
the man that should have relieved him was rarely to be 
found, consequently two or three stiff trudges knocked 
them up and made them desert. Said bin Salim, the 
Jemadar, and the Baloch, doubtlessly impressed with 
the belief that my days were numbered, passed me on 
the last march without a word — the sun was hot, and 
they were hastening to shade — and left me with only 
two men to carry the hammock, in a dangerous strip of 
jungle where, shortly afterwards, Salim *bin Masud, an 
Arab merchant of Msene, was murdered. 

On Christmas day I again mounted ass, and passing 
through the western third of the Wilyankuru district, 
was hospitably received by a wealthy proprietor, Salim 
bin Said, surnamed, probably on account of his stature, 
Simba, or the Lion, who had obtained from the Sultan 
Mrorwa permission to build a large Tembe. The worthy 
and kind-hearted Arab exerted himself strenuously to 
promote the comfort of his guest. He led me to a com- 
fortable lodging, placed a new cartel in the coolest room, 
supplied meat, milk, and honey, and spent the evening 
in conversation with me. He was a large middle-aged 
man, with simple, kindly manners, and an honesty of 
look and words which rendered his presence exceedingly 
prepossessing. 

c c 4 



392 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 

' After a short and eventless march, on the 26th De- 
cember, to Masenge, I reached on the following day the 
little clearing of Kirira. I was unexpectedly welcomed 
by two Arabs, Masud ibn Musallam el Wardi, and Hamid 
bin Ibrahim el Amuri. The former, an old man of the 
Beni Bu Ali clan, and personally familiar with Sir Lionel 
Smith's exploits, led me into the settlement, which was 
heaped round with a tall green growth of milkbush, and 
placed me upon a cartel in the cool and spacious barzah 
or vestibule of the Tembe. From my vantage-ground I 
enjoyed the pleasant prospect of those many little mise- 
ries which Orientals — perhaps not only Orientals — create 
for themselves by " ceremony " and "politeness." Weary 
and fagged by sun and dust, the Baloch were kept stand- 
ing for nearly half an hour before the preliminaries to 
sitting down could be arranged and the party could be 
marshalled in proper order, — the most honourable man 
on the left hand of the host, and the " lower class " off 
the dais or raised step ; — and, when they commenced to 
squat, they reposed upon their shins, and could not re- 
move their arms or accoutrements till especially invited 
to hang them up. Hungry and thirsty, they dared not 
commit the solecism of asking for food or drink ; they 
waited from 9 a.m. till noon, sometimes eyeing the door 
with wistful looks, but generally affecting an extreme 
indifference as to feeding. At length came the meal, a 
mountain of rice, capped with little boulders of mutton. 
It was allowed to cool long before precedence round the 
tray was settled, and ere the grace, " Bismillah," — the 
signal to " set to," — was reverentially asked by Said bin 
Salim. Followed a preparation of curdled milk, for which 
spoons being requisite, a wooden ladle did the necessary. 
There was much bustling and not a little importance about 
Hamid, the younger host, a bilious subject twenty -four or 



HOW TO BOIL RICE. 



393 



twenty -five years old, who for reasons best known to himself 
assumed the style and title of Sarkal, — Government ser- 
vant. The meal concluded with becoming haste, and was 
followed by that agreeable appearance of repletion which 
is so pleasing to the Oriental Amphitryon. The Baloch 
returned to squat upon their shins, and they must have 
suffered agonies till 5 p.m., when the appearance of a 
second and a more ceremonious repast enabled them once 
more to perch upon their heels. It was hard eating 
this time ; the shorwa, or mutton broth, thickened with 
melted butter, attracted admiration ; the guests, however, 
could only hint at its excellences, because in the East 
if you praise a man's meat you intend to slight his so- 
ciety. The plat de resistance was, as usual, the pillaw, 
or, as it is here called, pulao, — not the conventional mess 
of rice and fowl, almonds and raisins, onion-shreds, car- 
domoms, and other abominations, which goes by that 
name amongst Anglo-Indians, but a solid heap of rice, 
boiled after being greased with a handful of ghee — 

(I must here indulge in a little digression. For the past 
century, which concluded with reducing India to the 
rank of a British province, the proud invader has eaten 
her rice after a fashion which has secured for him the con- 
tempt of the East. He deliberately boils it, and after 
drawing off the nutritious starch or gluten called " con- 
jee," which forms the perquisite of his Portuguese or his 
Pariah cook, he is fain to fill himself with that which has 
become little more nutritious than the prodigal's husks. 
Great, indeed, is the invader's ignorance upon that point. 
Peace be to the manes of Lord Macaulay, but listen to and 
wonder at his eloquent words ! — " The Sepoys came to 
Clive, not to complain of their scanty fare, but to propose 
that all the grain should be given to the Europeans, who 
required more nourishment than the natives of Asia. The 



394 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



thin gruel, they said, which was strained away from the 
rice would suffice for themselves. History contains no 
more touching instance of military fidelity, or of the 
influence of a commanding mind." Indians never fail 
to drink the " conjee." The Arab, on the other hand, 
mingles with his rice a sufficiency of ghee to prevent 
the extraction of the a thin gruel," and thus makes the 
grain as palatable and as nutritious as Nature intended 
it to be.) 

— and dotted over with morsels of fowl, so boiled that 
they shredded like yarn under the teeth. This repast 
again concluded with a bowl of sweetened milk, and 
other entremets, for which both hosts amply apolo- 
gised ; the house had lately been burned down, and 
honey had been used instead of sugar. The day con- 
cluded with prayers, with a seance in the verandah 
and with drinking fresh milk out of gourds — a state of 
things which again demanded excuses. A multitude of 
a Washenzi " thronged into the house, especially during 
the afternoon, to gaze at the Muzungu. I was formally 
presented to the Sultan Kafrira, a tall and wrinkled elder, 
celebrated for ready wits and spear. The sons of 
Ramji had often looked in at the door whilst prepara- 
tions for feeding were going on, but they were not asked 
to sit down : the haughty host had provided them with 
a lean goat, in return for which they privily expressed 
an opinion that he was a " dog." Masud, boasting of 
his intimacy with the Sultan Msimbira, whose subjects 
had plundered our portmanteau, offered on return to 
Unyanyembe his personal services in ransoming it. 
I accepted with joy ; but the Shaykh Masud, as after- 
wards proved, nearly " left his skin " in the under- 
taking. 

The climate of Kirira is called by the Arabs a medi- 



MSENE. 



395 



cine. They vaunt its virtues, which become apparent 
after the unhealthy air of Kazeh, and after a delicious 
night spent in the cool barzah, I had no reason to ques- 
tion its reputation. I arose in the morning wonder- 
fully refreshed, and Valentine, who had been prostrated 
with fever throughout the day, became another man. Yet 
the situation was apparently unpropitious ; the Gombe 
Nullah, the main drain of this region, a line of stagnant 
pools, belted with almost impassable vegetation, lies 
hard by, and the background is an expanse of densest 
jungle. 

Three short and eventless marches through thick 
jungle, with scattered clearings, led me, on the 30th 
December, to the district of Msene, where the dense 
wild growth lately traversed suddenly opens out and 
discloses to the west a broad view of admirable fertility. 
Before entering the settlements, the caravan halted, as 
usual, to form up. We then progressed with the usual 
pomp and circumstance ; the noise was terrific, and the 
streets, or rather the spaces between the houses, were 
lined with Negroid spectators. I was led to the Tembe 
of one Saadullah, a low-caste Msawahili, and there 
found my companion looking but poorly. Gaetano, his 
" boy," was so excited by the scene, that he fell down 
in a fit closely resembling epilepsy. 

Msene, the chief Bandari of Western Unyamwezi, may 
be called the capital of the Coast Arabs and the Wasa- 
wahili, who, having a natural antipathy to their brethren 
of Oman, have abandoned to them Unyanyembe and its 
vicinity. Of late years, however, the Omani merchants, 
having been driven from the neighbouring districts by 
sundry murders into Msene, may at times be met there 
to the number of four or five. The inhabitants are 
chiefly Wasumbwa, a subtribe of the Wanyainwezi race. 



396 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



There is, however, besides Arabs and Wasawahili, a 
large floating population of the pastoral clan called 
Watosi, and fugitives from Uhha. In 1858 the chief of 
Msene was the Sultan Masanza. Both he and Funza, his 
brother, were hospitable and friendly to travellers, espe- 
cially to the Arabs, who but a few years ago beat off 
with their armed slaves a large plundering party of the 
ferocious Watuta. This chief has considerable power, and 
the heads of many criminals elevated upon poles in front 
of his several villages show that he rules with a firm 
hand. He is never approached by a subject without 
the clapping of hands and the kneeling which in these 
lands are the honours paid to royalty. He was a large- 
limbed, gaunt, and sinewy old man, dressed in a dirty 
Subai or Arab check, over a coating of rancid butter, with 
a broad brass disk, neatly arabesqued, round his neck, 
with a multitude of little pigtails where his head was 
not bald, and with some thirty sambo or flexible wire 
rings deforming, as if by elephantiasis, his ankles. Like 
the generality of sultans, he despises beads as an article 
of decoration, preferring coils of brass or copper. He 
called several times at the house occupied by the Expe- 
dition, and on more than one occasion brought with him 
a bevy of wives, whose deportment was, I regret to say, 
rather naive than decorous. 

Msene, like Unyanyembe, is not a town, but a mass 
of detached settlements, which are unconscious of a re- 
gular street. To the northwards lie the villages of the 
Sultan — Kwihangd and Yovu. These are surrounded 
with a strong stockade, a deep moat, and a thick milk- 
bush hedge, intended for defence. The interior is oc- 
cupied by thatched circular huts, divided by open 
squarelike spaces, and wynds and alleys are formed by 
milk-bush hedges and palisades. There are distinct 



MSENE. 



397 



places for the several wives, families, and slaves. The 
other settlements — Mbugani("in the wild") and MjiMpia 
(" new town"), the latter being the place affected by the 
Wasawahili — cluster in a circle, separated by short cross- 
roads, which after rain are ankle-deep in mud, from 
Chyambo, the favourite locale of the Coast Arabs. This 
settlement, which contained in 1858 nine large Tembe 
and about 150 huts, boasts of an African attempt at a 
soko or bazar, a clear space between the houses, where, 
in fine weather, bullocks are daily slaughtered for food, 
and where grain, vegetables, and milk are exposed for 
sale. At Msene a fresh outfit of cloth, beads, and wire 
can be procured for a price somewhat higher than at 
Unyanyembe. The merchants have small stores of 
drugs and spices, and sometimes a few comforts, as 
coffee, tea, and sugar. The latter is generally made of 
granulated honey, and therefore called sukari za dsali. 
The climate of Msene is damp, the neighbouring hills 
and the thickly-vegetated country attracting an abun- 
dance of rain. It is exceedingly unhealthy, the result 
doubtless of filth in the villages and stagnant waters 
spread over the land. The Gombe Nullah, which runs 
through the district, about six hours' march from 
the settlements, discharges after rain its superfluous 
contents into the many lakelets, ponds, and swamps of 
the lowlands. Fertilised by a wet monsoon, whose floods 
from the middle of October to May are interrupted only 
by bursts of fervent heat, the fat, black soil manured by 
the decay of centuries, reproduces abundantly anything 
committed to it. Flowers bloom spontaneously over 
the flats, and trees put forth their richest raiment. Rice 
of the red quality — the white is rare and dear — grows 
with a density and a rapidity unknown in Eastern Un- 
yamwezi. Holcus and millet, maize and manioc, are 



398 THE LAKE KEGIONS OF CENTKAL AFEICA. 



plentiful enough to be exported. Magnificent palmyras, 
baubinias and sycomores, plantains, and papaws, and a 
host of wild fruit-trees, especially the tamarind, which 
is extensively used, adorn the land. The other produc- 
tions are onions, sweet potatoes, and egg-plants, which 
are cultivated ; turmeric, brought from the vicinity ; 
tomatos and bird-pepper, which grow wild ; pulse, 
beans, pumpkins, water-melons, excellent mushrooms, 
and edible fungi. Milk, poultry, honey, and tobacco 
are cheap and plentiful. The currency at Msene in 
1858 — the date is specified, as the medium is liable to 
perpetual and sudden change, often causing severe losses 
to merchants, who, after laying in a large outfit of 
certain beads, find them suddenly unfashionable, and 
therefore useless — was the "pipe-stem," white and blue 
porcelain-beads, called sofi in the string, and indivi- 
dually msaro. Of these ten were sufficient to purchase 
a pound of beef. The other beads in demand were the 
sungomaji, or pigeon-egg, the red-coral, the pink-por- 
celain, and the shell-decorations called kiwangwa. The 
cheaper varieties may be exchanged for grain and 
vegetables, but they will not purchase fowls, milk, and 
eggs. At this place only, the palmyra is tapped for 
toddy; in other parts of East Africa the people are un- 
able to climb it. The market at Msene is usually some- 
what cheaper than that of Unyanyembe, but at times 
the prices become very exorbitant. 

The industry of Msene is confined to manufacturing 
a few cotton cloths, coarse mats, clay pipeheads, and 
ironmongery. As might be expected from the consti- 
tution of its society, Msene is a place of gross de* 
bauchery, most grateful to the African mind. All, from 
sultan to slave, are intoxicated whenever the material 
is forthcoming, and the relations between the sexes are 



THE SULTAN MASANZA. 



399 



of the loosest description. The drum is never silent, 
and the dance fills up the spare intervals of carouse, 
till exhausted nature can no more. The consequence 
is, that caravans invariably lose numbers by desertion 
when passing through Msene. Even household slaves, 
born and bred upon the coast, cannot tear themselves 
from its Circean charms. 

There was u cold comfort " at Msene, where I was 
delayed twelve days. The clay roof of the Tembe 
was weed-grown like a deserted grave, and in the foul 
patio or central court-yard only dirty puddles set in 
black mud met the eye. The weather was what only 
they can realise who are familiar with a " Rainy 
Monsoon." The temptations of the town rendered it 
almost impossible to keep a servant or a slave within 
doors; the sons of Ramji vigorously engaged themselves 
in trading, and Muinyi Wazira in a debauch, which 
ended in his dismissal. Gaetano had repeated epileptic 
fits, and Valentine rushed into the room half-crying to 
show a white animalcule — in this country called Funza 
— which had lately issued from his " buff." None of 
the half-caste Arabs, except I'd and Khalfan, sons of 
Muallim Salim, the youths who had spread evil reports 
concerning us in Ugogo and elsewhere, called or showed 
any civility, and the only Arab at that time resident at 
Msene was the old Salim bin Masud. I received seve- 
ral visits from the Sultan Masanza. His first greeting 
was, " White man, what pretty thing hast thou brought 
up from the shore for me ?" He presented a bullock, and 
received in return several cloths and strings of beads, and 
he introduced to us a variety of princesses, who returned 
the salutes of the Baloch and others with a wild effu- 
sion. As Christmas-day had been spent in marching, I 
hailed the opportunity of celebrating the advent of the 



400 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



New Year. Said bin Salim, the Jemadar, and several 
of the guard, were invited to an English dinner on a 
fair sirloin of beef, and a curious succedaneum for a 
plum-pudding, where neither flour nor currants were to 
be found. A characteristic trait manifested itself on 
this occasion. Amongst Arabs r the remnants of a feast 
must always be distributed to the servants and slaves of 
the guests ; — a " brass knocker " would lose a man's 
reputation. Knowing this, I had ordered the Goanese 
to do in Rome as the Romans do ; and being acquainted 
with their peculiarities, I paid them an unexpected visit, 
where they were found so absorbed in the task of hiding, 
under pots and pans, every better morsel from a crowd 
of hungry peerers that the interruption of a stick was 
deemed necessary. 

At length, on the 10th January, 1858, I left Msene 
with considerable difficulty. The Kirangozi, or guide, 
who had promised to accompany me, had sent an incom- 
petent substitute, his brother, a raw young lad, who 
had no power to collect porters. The sons of Ramji 
positively refused to lend their aid in strengthening 
the gang. One of Said bin Salim's children, the boy 
Faraj, had fled to Kazeh. The bull-headed Mabruki 
was brought back from flight only by the persuasion of 
his brother " Bombay, " and even "Bombay," under 
the influence of some negroid Neaera, at the time of de- 
parture hid himself in his hut. All feared the march 
westwards. A long strip of blue hill lying northwards 
ever keeps the traveller in mind of the robber Wa- 
tuta, and in places where the clans are mixed, all are 
equally hostile to strangers. Villages are less frequented 
and more meanly built, and caravans are not admitted 
beyond the faubourgs — the miserable huts outlying the 
fences. The land also is most unhealthy. After the v 



ARRIVAL AT SORORA. 



401 



rain, the rich dark loam becomes, like the black soils of 
Guzerat and the Deccan, a coat of viscid mire. Above is 
a canopy of cumulus and purple nimbus, that discharge 
their loads in copious day-long floods. The vegetation 
is excessive, and where there is no cultivation a dense 
matting of coarse grass, laid by wind and water and de- 
cayed by mud, veils the earth, and from below rises a 
clammy chill, like the thaw-cold of England, the effect of 
extreme humidity. And, finally, the paths are mere 
lines, pitted with deep holes, and worn by cattle 
through the jungle. 

After an hour and thirty minutes' march I entered 
Mb'hali, the normal cultivator's village in Western Un- 
yamwezi; — a heap of dwarf huts like inverted birds' nests 
surrounding a central space, and surrounded by giant 
heaps of euphorbia or milk -bush. Tall grasses were 
growing almost up to the door- ways, and about the set- 
tlement were scattered papaws and plantains ; the 
Mwongo, with its damson-like fruit, the Mtogwe or wood- 
apple tree, and the tall solitary Palmyra, whose high 
columnar stem, with its graceful central swell, was emi- 
nently attractive. We did not delay at Mb'hali, whence 
provisions had been exhausted by the markets of Msene. 
The 11th January led us through a dense jungle upon 
a dead flat, succeeded by rolling ground bordered with 
low hills and covered with alternate bush and cultiva- 
tion, to Sengati, another similar verdure-clad village of 
peasantry, where rice and other supplies were procur- 
able. On the 12th January, after passing over a dead 
flat of fields and of the rankest grass, we entered rolling 
ground in the vicinity of the Gombe Nullah, with scat- 
tered huts upon the rises, and villages built close to the 
dense vegetation bordering upon the stream. Sorora or 
Solola is one of the deadliest spots in Unyamwezi ; we 

VOL. I. D D 



402 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



were delayed there, however, three long days, by the 
necessity of collecting a two months' supply of rice, 
which is rarely to be obtained further west. 

The non-appearance of the sons of Ramji rendered 
it necessary to take a strong step. I could ill afford the 
loss of twelve guns, but Kidogo and his men had be- 
come insufferable : moreover, they had openly boasted 
that they intended to prevent my embarking upon the 
"Sea of Ujiji." Despite therefore the persuasions of 
the Jemadar and Said bin Salim, who looked as if 
they had heard their death-warrants, I summoned the 
slaves, who first condescended to appear on the 13th 
January — three days after my departure, — informed 
them that the six months for which they were en- 
gaged and paid had expired, and that they had better 
return and transact their proprietor's business at Kazeh. 
They changed, it is true, their tone and manner, pathe- 
tically pleaded, as an excuse for their ill conduct, that 
they were slaves, and promised in future to be the most 
obedient of servants. But they had deceived me too 
often, and I feared that, if led forwards, they might 
compromise the success of the exploration. They were 
therefore formally dismissed, with a supply of cloth and 
beads sufficient to reach Kazeh, a letter to their master, 
and another paper to Snay bin Amir, authorising him 
to frank them to their homes. Kidogo departed, de- 
claring that he would carry off perforce, if necessary, 
the four donkey-drivers who had been engaged and 
paid for the journey to the "Sea of Ujiji" and back : 
as two of these men, Nasibu and Hassani, openly threa- 
tened to desert, they were at once put in irons and 
entrusted to the Baloch. They took oaths on the 
Koran, and, by strong swearing, persuaded Said bin 
Salim and their guard to obtain my permission for 



PARALYSIS. 



403 



their release. I gave it unwillingly, and on the next 
march they " levanted," carrying off, as runaway slaves 
are wont to do, a knife, some cloth, and other necessaries 
belonging to Sangora, a brother donkey-driver. S angora 
returning without leave, to recover his goods, was seized, 
tied up, and severely fustigated by the inexorable Ki- 
dogo, for daring to be retained whilst he himself was 
dismissed. 

The Kirangozi and Bombay having rejoined at So- 
rora, the Expedition left it on the 16th January. Tra- 
versing a fetid marsh, the road plunged into a forest, 
and crossed a sharp elbow of the Gombe Nullah, upon 
whose grassy and reedy banks lay a few dilapidated 
"baumrinden" canoes, showing that at times the bed 
becomes unfordable. Having passed that night at 
Ukungwe, and the next at Panda, dirty little villages, 
where the main of the people's diet seemed to be 
mushrooms resembling ours and a large white fungus 
growing over the grassy rises, on the 18th January we 
entered Kajjanjeri. 

Kajjanjeri appeared in the shape of a circle of round 
huts. Its climate is ever the terror of travellers : to 
judge from the mud and vegetation covering the floors, 
the cultivators of the fields around usually retire to 
another place during the rainy season. Here a formi- 
dable obstacle to progress presented itself. I had been 
suffering for some days : the miasmatic air of Sorora 
had sown the seeds of fresh illness. About 3 p.m., I 
was obliged to lay aside the ephemeris by an unusual 
sensation of nervous irritability, which was folio wed by 
a general shudder as in the cold paroxysm of fevers. 
Presently the extremities began to weigh and to burn 
as if exposed to a glowing fire, and a pair of jack-boots, 
the companions of many a day and night, became too 

JL> D 2 



404 



THE LAKE EEGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



tight and heavy to wear. At sunset, the attack had 
reached its height. I saw yawning wide to receive me 

" those dark gates across the wild 
That no man knows." 

The whole body was palsied, powerless, motionless, 
and the limbs appeared to wither and die ; the feet had 
lost all sensation, except a throbbing and tingling, as if 
pricked by a number of needle points ; the arms refused 
to be directed by will, and to the hands the touch of 
cloth and stone was the same. Gradually the attack 
seemed to spread upwards till it compressed the ribs ; 
there, however, it stopped short. 

This, at a distance of two months from medical aid, 
and with the principal labour of the Expedition still in 
prospect ! However, I was easily consoled. Hope, says 
the Arab, is woman, Despair is man. If one of us was 
lost, the other might survive to carry home the results 
of the exploration. I had undertaken the journey in the 
"nothing-like-leather" state of mind, with the resolve 
either to do or die. I had done my best, and now 
nothing appeared to remain for me but to die as well. 

Said bin Salim, when sent for, declared, by a " la 
haul!" the case beyond his skill; it was one of partial 
paralysis brought on by malaria, with which the 
faculty in India are familiar. The Arab consulted 
a Msawahili Fundi, or caravan-guard, who had joined 
us on the road, and this man declared that a similar 
accident had once occurred to himself and his little party 
in consequence of eating poisoned mushrooms. I tried 
the usual remedies without effect, and the duration of 
the attack presently revealed what it was. The con- 
traction of the muscles, which were tightened like liga- 
tures above and below the knees, and those Aura youi/am, 
a pathological symptom which the old Greek loves to 



USAGOZI. 



405 



specify, prevented me from walking to any distance for 
nearly a year ; the numbness of the hands and feet 
disappeared even more slowly. The Fundi, however, 
successfully predicted that I should be able to move in 
ten days — on the tenth I again mounted my ass. 

This unforeseen misfortune detained the caravan 
at Kajjanjeri till porters could be procured for the 
hammock. On the 21st January four men were with 
difficulty persuaded to carry me over the first march to 
Usagozi. This gang was afterwards increased to six 
men, who severally received six cloths for the journey 
to Ujiji ; they all " bolted " eight days after their en- 
gagement, and before completing half the journey. These 
men were sturdier than the former set of llammals, 
but being related to the Sultan of Usagozi, they were 
even more boisterous, troublesome, and insolent. One 
of them narrowly escaped a pistol bullet ; he ceased, 
however, stabbing with his dagger at the slave Mabruki 
before the extreme measure became necessary. 

Usagozi was of old the capital province of Unyamwezi, 
and is still one of its principal and most civilised divi- 
sions. Some authorities make Usagozi the western 
frontier of Unyamwezi, others place the boundary at 
Mukozimo, a few miles to the westward ; it is certain, 
however, that beyond Usagozi the Wanyamwezi are 
but part-proprietors of the soil. The country is laid 
out in alternate seams of grassy plains, dense jungle, 
and fertile field, The soil is a dark vegetable humus, 
which bears luxuriant crops of grain, vegetables, and 
tobacco ; honey -logs hang upon every large tree, cattle 
are sold to travellers, and the people are deterred by the 
aspect of a dozen discoloured skulls capping tall poles, 
planted in a semicircle at the main entrance of each 

D D 3 



406 



THE LAKE EEGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



settlement, from doing violence to caravans. When I 
visited Usagozi it was governed by " Sultan Ryombo," 
an old chief " adorned with much Christian courtesy." 
His subjects are Wakalaganza, the noble tribe of the 
Wanyamwezi, mixed, however with the Watosi, a fine- 
looking race, markedly superior to their neighbours, but 
satisfied with leaky, ragged, and filthy huts, and large 
but unfenced villages. The general dress of the Waka- 
laganza is bark-cloth, stained a dull black. 

We halted three days on the western extremity of 
the Usagozi district, detained by another unpleasant 
phenomenon. My companion, whose blood had been 
impoverished, and whose system had been reduced by 
many fevers, now began to suffer from " an inflamma- 
tion of a low type, affecting the whole of the interior 
tunic of the eyes, particularly the iris, the choroid coat, 
and the retina;" he describes it as "an almost total 
blindness, rendering every object enclouded as by a 
misty veil." The Goanese Valentine became similarly 
afflicted, almost on the same day ; lie complained of a 
" drop serene " in the shape of an inky blot — probably 
some of the black pigment of the iris deposited on the 
front of the lens — which completely excluded the light 
of day; yet the pupils contracted with regularity when 
covered with the hand, and as regularly dilated when it 
was removed. I suffered in a minor degree ; for a few 
days webs of flitting muscae obscured smaller objects and 
rendered distant vision impossible. My companion and 
servant, however, subsequently, at Ujiji, were tormented 
by inflammatory ophthalmia, which I escaped by the free 
use of " camel-medicine." 

Quitting Usagozi on the 26th January, we marched 
through grain fields, thick jungle-strips, and low grassy 
and muddy savannahs to Masenza, a large and comfort- 



ARRIVAL AT WANYIKA. 



407 



able village of stray Wagara or Wagala, an extensive 
tribe, limiting Unyamwezi on the S. and S.E., at the 
distance of about a week's march from the road. On 
the 27th January, after traversing cultivation, thick 
jungles, and low muddy bottoms of tall grass chequered 
with lofty tamarinds, we made the large well-palisadoed 
villages of the Mukozimo district, inhabited by a mix- 
ture of Wanyamwezi, with Wagara from the S.E. and 
Wawende from the S.W. The headman of one of these 
inhospitable " Kaya," or fenced hamlets, would not 
house " men who ride asses." The next station was 
Uganza, a populous settlement of Wawende, who ad- 
mitted us into their faubourg, but refused to supply pro- 
visions. The 29th January saw us at the populous and 
fertile clearing of Usenye, where the mixed races lying 
between the Land of the Moon eastward, and Uvinza 
westward, give way to pure Wavinza, who are con- 
sidered by travellers even more dangerous than their 
neighbours. 

Beyond Usenye we traversed a deep jungle where 
still lingered remains of villages which had been plun- 
dered and burned down by the Wawende and the Wa- 
tuta, whose hills rose clearly defined on the right hand. 
Having passed the night at Rukunda, or Lukunda, on 
the 31st January we sighted the plain "of the Mala- 
garazi River. Northwards of the road ran the stream, 
and the low level of the country adjoining it had con- 
verted the bottoms into permanent beds of soft, deep, 
and slippery mire. The rest of the march was the 
usual country — jungle, fields, and grasses — and after a 
toilsome stretch, we unpacked at the settlement of 
Wanyika. 

At Wanyika we were delayed for a day by the neces- 
sity of settling Euhonga, or blackmail, with the envoys 



408 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 

of Mzogera. This great man, the principal Sultan of 
Uvinza, is also the Lord of the Malagarazi River. As 
he can enforce his claims by forbidding the ferrymen 
to assist strangers, he must be carefully humoured. He 
received about forty cloths, white and blue, six Kitindi 
or coil bracelets, and ten Fundo (or 100 necklaces) of 
coral beads. It is equivalent in these lands to 501. in 
England. When all the items had been duly palavered 
over, we resumed our march on the 2nd February. 
The road, following an incline towards the valley of the 
river, in which bush and field alternated with shallow 
pools, black mud, and putrid grass, led to Unyanguruwwe, 
a miserable settlement, producing, however, millet in 
abundance, sweet potatoes, and the finest manioc. On 
the 3rd February we set out betimes. Spanning cul- 
tivation and undulating grassy ground, and passing over 
hill-opens to avoid the deeper swamps, we debouched 
from a jungle upon the river-plain, with the swift brown 
stream, then about fifty yards broad, swirling through 
the tall wet grasses of its banks on our right hand, hard 
by the road. Upon the off side a herd of elephants, 
forming Indian file, slowly broke through the reed-fence 
in front of them : our purblind eyes mistook them for 
buffaloes. Northwards lay an expanse of card-table 
plain, over which the stream, when in flood, debords to the 
distance of two miles, cutting it with deep creeks and 
inlets. The flat is bounded in the far offing by a sinuous 
line of faint blue hills, the haunts of the Watuta ; whilst, 
westward and southward, rises the wall-shaped ridge, 
stony and wooded, which buttresses the left bank of the 
river for some days' journey down the stream. We 
found lodgings for the night in a little village, called 
from its district Ugaga ; we obtained provisions, and 
we lost no time in opening the question of ferryage. 



THE GREAT CENTRAL DEPRESSION. 



409 



The Sultan Mzogera had sold his permission to cross 
the river. The Mutware, or Mutwale, the Lord of the 
Ferry, now required payment for his canoes. 

Whilst delayed at Ugaga by the scabrous question of 
how much was to be extracted from me, I will enter into 
a few geographical details concerning the Malaga razi 
River. 

The Malagarazi, corrupted by speculative geographers 
to Mdjigidgi, — the uneuphonious terminology of the 
"Mombas Mission Map," —to " Magrassie " and to " Ma- 
gozi," has been wrongly represented to issue from the 
Sea of Ujiji. According to all travellers in these re- 
gions, it arises in the mountains of Urundi, at no great 
distance from the Kitangure, or River of Karagwah ; but 
whilst the latter, springing from the upper counterslope, 
feeds the Nyanza or Northern Lake, the Malaga razi, 
rising in the lower slope of the equatorial range, trends 
to the south-east, till it becomes entangled in the decline 
of the Great Central African Depression — the hydrogra- 
phical basin first indicated in his Address of 1852 by 
Sir Roderick I. Murchison, President of the Royal Geo- 
graphical Society of London.* Thence it sweeps round 

* The following notice concerning a discovery which must ever b3 re- 
membered as a triumph of geological hypothesis, was kindly forwarded to 
me by the discoverer : — 

" My speculations as to the whole African interior being a vast watery 
plateau-land of some elevation above the sea, but subtended on the east and 
west by much higher grounds, were based on the following data : — 

"The discovery in the central portion of the Cape colony, by Mr. Bain, 
of fossil remains in a lacustrine deposit of secondary age, and the well- 
known existence on the coast of loftier mountains known to be of a Palaeozoic 
or primary epoch and circling round the younger deposits, being followed by 
the exploration of the Ngami Lake, justified me in believing that Africa had 
been raised from beneath the ocean at a very early geological period ; and 
that ever since that time the same conditions had prevailed. I thence in- 
ferred that an interior network of lakes and rivers would be found prolonged 
northwards from Lake Ngami, though at that time no map was known to 
me showing the existence of such central reservoirs. Looking to the 



410 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



the southern base of Urundi, and, deflected westwards, it 
disembogues itself into the Tanganyika. Its mouth is 
in the land of Ukaranga, and the long promontory behind 
which it discharges its waters, is distinctly visible from 
Kawele, the head-quarters of caravans in Ujiji. The 
Malagarazi is not navigable ; as in primary and transi- 
tion countries generally, the bed is broken by rapids. 
Beyond the ferry, the slope becomes more pronounced, 
branch and channel-islets of sand and verdure divide the 
stream, and as every village near the banks appears to 
possess one or more canoes, it is probably unfordable. 
The main obstacle to crossing it on foot, over the 
broken and shallower parts near the rock-bars, would 
be the number and the daring of the crocodiles. 

The Lord of the Ferry delayed us at Ugaga by 
removing the canoes till he had extracted fourteen 
cloths and one coil-bracelet, — half his original demand. 
Moreover, for each trip the ferryman received from one 
to five khete of beads, according to the bulk, weight, 
and value of the freight. He was as exorbitant when 
we returned ; then he would not be satisfied with 
less than seven cloths, a large jar of palm oil, and at 
least three hundred khete. On the 4th February we 
crossed to Mpete, the district on the right or off bank of 
the stream. After riding over the river plain, which at 

west as well as to the east, I saw no possibility of explaining how the great 
rivers could escape from the central plateau-lands and enter the ocean 
except through deep lateral gorges, formed at some ancient period of eleva- 
tion, when the lateral chains were subjected to transverse fractures. Know- 
ing that the Niger and the Zaire, or Congo, escaped by such gorges on the 
west, I was confident that the same phenomenon must occur upon the eastern 
coast, when properly examined. This hypothesis, as sketched out in my 
'Presidential Address' of 1852, was afterwards received by Dr. Living- 
stone just as he was exploring the transverse gorges by which the Zambesi 
escapes to the east, and the great traveller has publicly expressed the sur- 
prise he then felt that his discovery should have been thus previously sug- 
gested." 



THE FERRY. 



411 



that time, when the rains had not supersaturated the 
soil, was hard and dry, we came upon the "Ghaut," a 
muddy run or clearing in the thicket of stiff grass which 
crossed the stream. There we found a scene of confusion. 
The Arabs of Kazeh had described the canoes as fine 
barges, capable of accommodating fifty or sixty passen- 
gers. I was not, however, surprised to find wretched 
" baumrinden " — tree-rind — canoes, two strips of " my- 
ombo" bark, from five to seven feet in length, sown 
together like a doubled wedge with fibres of the same 
material. The keel was sharp, the bow and stern were 
elevated, and the craft was prevented from collapsing by 
cross-bars — rough sticks about eighteen inches long, 
jammed ladder- wise between the sides. When high and 
dry upon the bank, they look not unlike castaway shoes of 
an unusual size. We entered " gingerly." The craft is 
crankier than the Turkish caique, and we held on " like 
grim death " to the gunwale with wetted fingers. The 
weight of two men causes these canoes to sink within 
three or four inches of water-level. An extra sheet of 
stiff bark was placed as a seat in the stern ; but the in- 
terior was ankle-deep in water, and baling was necessary 
after each trip. The ferryman, standing amidships or 
in the fore, poled or paddled according to the depth of 
the stream. He managed skilfully enough, and on the 
return-march I had reason to admire the dexterity with 
which he threaded the narrow, grass-grown and wind- 
ing veins of deep water, that ramified from the main 
trunk over the swampy and rushy plains on both sides. 
Our riding asses were thrown into the river, and they 
swam across without accident. Much to my surprise, 
none of the bales were lost or injured. The ferrymen 
showed decision in maintaining, and ingenuity in in- 
creasing, their claims. On the appearance of opposition 



412 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 

they poled off to a distance, and squatted, quietly awaiting 
the effect of their decisive manoeuvre. When the waters 
are out, it is not safe to step from the canoe before 
it arrives at its destination. The boatman will attempt 
to land his passenger upon some dry mound emerging 
from deep water, and will then demand a second fee for 
salvage. 



END OF THE FIRST VOLUME. 



LONDON 

FEINTED BT Sl'OTTISWOODE AND CO. 
.NEW-STREET SQUAKG 



