About This File

This file is part of a corpus compiled by Caitlin Matheis (University of Nebraska-Lincoln) for a 2021 computational text analysis project for the One More Voice recovery project (onemorevoice.org). This corpus encompasses a wide range of plain text (TXT) files containing nineteenth- and early twentieth-century literary works centered on Africa by several dozen different British and African writers. Questions about the corpus and project can be directed to Caitlin Matheis (cmatheis2@huskers.unl.edu), the creator of the corpus, and Adrian S. Wisnicki (awisnicki@unl.edu), lead developer for One More Voice.

File Source: Internet Archive, http://archive.org/details/witandwisdomfro01burtgoog

--------------------------------------

WIT AND WISDOM 



FROM 



WEST AFRICA; 



OR, 



A BOOK OF PROVERBIAL PHILOSOPHY, IDIOMS, 
ENIGMAS, AND LACONISMS. 



COMPILED BY 

RICHARD F. BURTON, 

(Late) H.M/'s Consul for the Bight of Biafra and Fernando Po, 

Author of "A Mission to Dahomey," "A Pilgrimage to 

El Medinah and Meccah," &c. 





LONDON : 

TINSLEY BROTHERS, 18, CATHERINE ST., STRAND. 

1865. 

[The Right of Translation is reserved.] 



LONDON : 
BRADBURY AND EVANS, PRINTERS, WHITEFRIARS.



Digitized by V^OOvJC 



TO 



AN OLD AND VALUED FBIEND, 



ADMIRAL THE HONOURABLE HENRY ANTHONY MURRAY, 



(BACHEI/)R, D 4, ALBAKY,) 



THIS ATTEMPT 



TO MAKE THE WEST AFRICAN DESCBIBE HIMSELF, 



IS AFFECTIONATELY ADDRESSED, 



ONE OF HIS " RECLAIMED." 



Cbese Iaxus 



WEAK -WBITTEV TWO YSABA AGO. 
I LEAVE THEM A SORROWFUL MEMORIAL 
or THE DATS THAT HAVE BEEN. . 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



MOTTOES. 



A proverb Is the horse of conversation : when the conversation flags, a 
proverb revives it ; proverbs and conversation follow each other. — Yoruba 

SAYING. 

5. A wise man will hear, and wiU increase learning ; and a man of under- 
standing shall attain unto wise counsels. 

6. To understand a proverb, and the interpretation ; the words of the wise, 
and their dark sayings. — Proverbs, Chap. i. 

The 1^8 of the lame are not equal : so is a parable in the mouth uf 
fools,— Pro VER 38, Chap, xxvil. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PREFACE. 



As able linguist has remarked, tbat the highest object 
of language-study is to obtain an insight into the cha- 
racters and thought-modes of mankind. This may be 
effected in two ways : firstly, by an accurate acquaintance 
with the verbal forms in which its ideas find utterance ; 
secondly, by the investigation of its literary composi- 
tions.* 

As regards the African tongues, too much labour has 
hitherto been lavished upon the adits and portals which 
lead to the temple of knowledge. Sir William Jones, 
in the last century, made the same complaint touching 
Asiatic dialects. The " true expression of the national 
spirit, containing the secrets of a race's mental organisa- 
tion,'* and "revealing the origin of customs long for- 
gotten," is not to be sought in accidence or in vocabulary. 
And they who maintain, as some have done, that " the 

• The R«v. J. L. Dohne, Missionary to the American Board, C. 
F. M. — **A Zulu-Kafir Dictionary Etymologically Explained, with 
copious illustrations and examples, preceded by an introduction on 
the Zulu-Kafir Language." — Cape Town, 1867. 



Digitized -by VjOOQ IC 



XU PREFACE. 

spirit of a nafcion is exhibited to our minds in the living 
words which have conveyed its ideas for ages, as clearly 
as its physical appearance is presented to our eyes," and 
that ''thus the national language is the only safe 
exponent of the national character," have chosen, it 
appears to me, the more imperfect means of attaining 
the wished-for object.* 

For Africa has an embryo literature, and hardly re- 
quires that one should be begotten by strangers, " for 
the propagation of Christian truth and the extension of 
civilisation." Some peoples, as the wild and pastoral 
tribes of the southern regions, have been said to be 
destitute of traditions. " The savage custom of going 
naked," we are told, " has denuded the mind, and de- 
stroyed all decorum in the language. Poetry there is 
none : the songs are mostly repetitions of a few hyper- 
bolical expressions. There is no metre, no rhyme, nothing 
that interests or soothes the feelings, or arrests the 
passions; no admiration of the heavenly bodies, no 
taste for the beauties of creation. We miss the cul- 
tivated mind which delights in seizing on these objects, 
and embodying them in suitable words." Finally, the 

* Humboldt, Pers. Narr. Chap. IX., remarks, ** There are certain 
points in which idioms the most dissimilar concur one vith another. 
That which is common in the iutellectaal organisation of man is re- 
flected in the general structure of language ; and every idiom, how- 
ever barbarous it may appear, discloses a regulating principle which 
has presided at its formation." 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PBEFACE. X111 

massiveness and bulkiness of the languages, — whicli bear 
the stamp of the people who use them, — " has caused 
weakness in the intellect of the native." 

But surely these opinions regarding the absence of 
oral literature, if the phrase be allowed, amongst the so- 
called Kafir races, are greatly exaggerated, if not wholly 
erroneous. The Eev. Mr. Moffat often refers to the 
fables and apologues of the Bachwanas (Bechuanas). 
"Les Bassoutous " (Basutu), says M. Casalis,"^ alluding 
to their proverbs, " me paraissent avoir ^te particuliere- 
ment heureux dans ce genre de composition. Leur langue, 
par sa precision energique, se prete admirablement au 
style sententieuz, et Tel^ment m^taphorique est entree 
si abondamment dans sa formation qu'ou ne saurait la 
parler sans s'habituer insensiblement k revetir ses pense^ 
de quelque image qui les fixe dans la memoire." As an 
instance of this metaphysical style, we find amongst his 
catalogue of Sisuto proverbs, " La pointe de Taiguille doit 
passer la premiere ; " meaning, " Be discreet in your dis- 
course, avoid disguising the truth by evasive words."t 
This does not confirm Mr. Dohne's views. 

Even if, however, Mr. Dohne's dictum be correct in 
the case of the Kafirs, it is distinctly not so when 

* l^tudes snr la kngne S^cbnana, par Eug. Casalis, Fart III. p. 84. 

t I should rather explain this by our kindred expression, '^ in- 
troduce the sharp edge of the wedge first ;" or, as the West Africans 
say, "Softly ! Softly caught the monkey." 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



XIY PBEFACE. 

applied to other African tribes, even to those of an in- 
ferior organisation, mental and physical. 

Amongst the negroid races of the seaboard and the 
interior, MM. Dard and Koelle* have shown that there 
is a vernacular literature. The latter has transcribed a 
yarietj of '^ tales in the same language, and about the 
same words, in which they have been told over and over 
again, to beguile many an idle hour in a land where 
nature's richest bounties are obtained without almost 
any labour." He soon managed to collect a MS. of 
about 800 pages, which constituted a rich material for 
grammatical investigation, and of which he published a 
limited collection. And he justly remarks, that they 
present the student with the proper means of acquiring a 
correct and thorough acquaintance with the language. 
"Translations of books made by foreigners — ^for in- 
stance, the Bible — cannot fully answer this object ; and 
even to tell a native English phrases for the purpose of 
having them translated into his own tongue, is a mode of 
proceeding not quite safe, inasmuch as it often places him 
in the temptation of adapting his own language to the 
English idiom : the whole peculiar cast and features of a 
language can be thoroughly learned only when we hear 
natives express their thoughts in their own mother- 
tongue." He includes in his work sketches of no little 

* These authors will presently be more distinctly allnded to. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PR£FAC£. XV 

importance, depicting the two most powerful nations of 
Central Africa, the Bornuese and the Fulas, with the 
sensible observation, " that where all is still enveloped in 
80 much darkness, any such sporadic glimpses of light 
become of great value." Of the fables, it can only be 
said that we recognise in them a specimen of that old- 
world literature which immortalised -^sop, and which 
enables the Fanjatantra still to remain the text-book of 
Hindostan. 

M. Koelle proceeds to a deduction, in which he would 
compel all to agree with him, by merely substituting the 
word " Negroid " for " Negro." The Bornuese, like the 
Wolof, are semi- Semites — they have the Koran and the 
Arab alphabet:* we may, therefore, expect to find a 
superiority in their compositions over those of the pure 
African. " It is hoped that the publication of these first 
specimens of {[anuri literature will prove useful in more 
than one way. Independently of the advantage it offers 
for a practical acquaintance with the language, it also 
introduces the reader to some extent into the inward 
world of Negro mind and Negro thoughts ; and this is a 
circumstance of paramount importance, so long as there 

* The Yai Syllabariam which, like the Cherokee alphabet, excited 
a nine-days* wonder in Europe, was the invention of a race cognate 
with the Mandenga, and who probably derived from the Koran the 
idea of writing their mother- tongne. They call the world 'Monya" 
and a wife '^namusi," which sufficiently shows their theology, and 
the sonrce whence they drew the most important of their words. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



XVI PBEFACE. 

are any who either flatly negative the question, or, at 
least, consider it still open, * Whether the Negroes are a 
genuine portion of mankind or not.' It is vain to 
speculate on this question from mere anatomical £sLctB, 
from peculiarities of the hair, or from the colour of the 
skin : if it is mind that distinguishes men from animals, 
the question cannot be decided without consulting the 
languages of the Negroes, for language gives the expres- 
sion and the manifestation of the mind. Now, as the 
grammar proves that Negro languages are capable of 
expressing human thoughts — some of them, through 
their rich formal development, even with astonishing 
precision — so specimens of their * Native Literature' 
show that the Negroes actually have thoughts to express ; 
that they reflect and reason about things just as other 
men. Considered in such a point of view, such speci- 
mens may go a long way towards refuting the old- 
fashioned doctrine of an essential inequality of the 
Negroes with the rest of mankind, which now and then 
shows itself, not only in America, but also in Europe. 
Such views may, perhaps, be excusable in those who 
have never heard black men speak, except in a language 
foreign to them, and which they had to learn from mere 
hearing ; but when I was amongst them in their native 
land, on the soil which the feet of their fathers have trod, 
and heard them deliver in their own native tongue 
stirring extempore speeches, adorned with beautiful 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PBEPACB. XVll 

imagery, and of half-an-hour or an hour's duration ; or 
when I was writing from their dictation, sometimes two 
hours in succession, without having to correct a word or 
alter a construction in twenty or thirty pages ; or, when 
in Sierra Leone, I attended examinations of the sons of 
liberated slaves in AJgebra, Geometry, Latin, Greek, 
Hebrew, etc. — then, I confess, any other idea never 
entered my mind but that I had to do with real men.** 

Proceeding further South, we reach the Gold Coast, 
whose population is purely pagan, and which afforded the 
Ashante, Cormantyn, and " Guinea Niggers," once so 
well-known in Jamaica and in the Southern States of the 
American Union. M. Zimmermann has supplied us 
with specimens of proverbs, of historical composition, of 
the old stories of the Accra people, and of speeches 
delivered by the chiefs during the poll-tax disturbances, 
which occurred in January, 1854. About 3000 armed 
men, " protected " by Great Britain, assembled at night, 
sometimes near, at other times under the guns of our 
forts. The people having formed a large circle, with the 
Caboceers, headmen, captains, and speakers in advance, 
and having saluted one another in due form, chose their 
speakers and witnesses to accompany them to the several 
groups, and delivered orations of a Hibernian and repeal 
tendency, which the Eeverend Eeporter transcribes with 
evident zest. We have also a specimen of a Ga-fable : 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



XVm PBE7ACE. 

" Spider and Spider-son and three Ghosts," — the spider, 
who is supposed to have created the first man, being 
therein brought to shame.* Then follow Lalai, or songs, 
which are, however, mere tautologies. The author re- 
marks, '* Short Ga-Bongs are composed at random during 
plays and processions, dances and labours. They are 
often witty and satirical; but we are still too little 
acquainted with this part of the language to have a sure 
footing as to metre, time, ellipses, and other points. 
Proverbs and fables or tales, which already exist by 
hundreds and even thousands, are also continually pro- 
duced by young and old.f But it is also difGicult, especially 
with the latter, by which many a moonlight night is 
occupied, to get them correctly — ^their style and spirit 
partly expressed by theatrical changes of voice, by songs, 
by imitations of noises and interjections, are, as in the 
case of the speeches, generally lost in writing them down. 
Bespecting the proverbs, it is to be remarked, that 
though they form as it were the expression of the law 
and manners of the country, they appear ofben very 

* Of these Anansesem, or spider-Btories, more in a fatore page. 
Boeman (Description of Gainea, Letter 17) is dtj authority for as- 
serting that the Gold-Coast people believe the first men to have 
been made by the spider. M. Zimmermann speaks of it rather as a 
popular demon than a creator. 

t There are men at Accra, Mr. Addo of the British hotel, for 
instance, who have a ripertoire almost as copions as the Arabian 
Nights, and to which Europeans listen with cnxiosity and wonder, if 
not with admiration. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PREFACE. XIX 

ambiguous, and allow not only a bad, but often also an 
unclean use."* 

Still advancing eastward, we enter the land of Yoruba, 
of which it will be remembered Dahoipe and Benin form 
part.t "It would seem,*' said the good and learned 
Bishop Vidal,J " that there is scarcely an object pre* 
sented to the eye, scarcely an idea excited in the mind, 
but it is accompanied by some sententious aphorism, 
founded on a close observance of men and manners, and, 
in many cases, of a decidedly moral tendency. It is true 

* Perhaps the worst of the whole are the songs, which are mere 
repetitions. The hymns and spiritual pieces, translated by Catechists, 
bear the impress of want of power. The two following were ex- 
temporised by Krobo children after the first fruits of the tribe had 
been baptised, and the second alludes to that event. They are sung, 
we are told, to a very sweet tune. 

1. 

It is God's first bom 

Who died ! oh ! 

This is what grieycs us '* too much i" 

He will come ! oh 1 

Oh yes ! oh yes i my friend ! 

2. 
Pfople come, but people come not yet I oh I 
To-day, when our Father has not yet come ! 
Yea I yea ! yea I my friend ! 

Which is somewhat like the improvisation by Mr. Theodore Hook. 

t A few specimens of Dahomian sayings will be offered to the 
reader. Benin is not behind her sister provinces in tale and tradi- 
tion, but my stay in that city was too short to make coUectiona. 

t Introduction to Mr. Growther's Yoruba Grammar. 

b 2 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



XX PBISFACI. 

that this concise and pointed method of speech is, in a 
degree, common to all nations amongst whom civilisation 
has made but little progress ; for, as has been justly re- 
marked, * proverbial expressions are peculiarly adapted to 
a rude state of society, and more likely to produce effect 
than any other ; for they profess not to dispute but to 
command ; not to persuade, but to compel : they conduct 
men, not by circuitous argument, but immediately to the 
approbation and practice of integrity and virtue.* • In the 
Toruba, however, there is an extraordinary exuberance of 
these sententious sayings, not confined to any particular 
caste, undertaking to be the guide of the rest ; but every- 
where in the mouths of all, imparting a character to 
common conversation, and marking out a people of more 
than ordinary shrewdness, intelligence, and discernment. 
If brevity and elegance be regarded as the two main 
excellences of a proverb, the Yoruban aphorisms may 
claim an equal rank with those of any other nation in 
ancient or modem times ; for besides the condensation of 
the discriminating sentiment into a small compass, — 
which is always observable in them, — there is, for the 
most part, also an almost poetical contrivance or con- 
struction of the parts, which marks a refinement of 
taste greater than we should naturally have expected.** • 
" I believe that the number and the character of these 

* I hardly think that the. Bishop ever could have compared the 
Yoruban with the Arab or Persian proverbs. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PREFACE. XXI 

proverbial sayings will almost bear us out in calling them 
the national poetry of the Yorubas. I am not aware of 
the existence amongst them of any heroic pieces, or war 
and hunting songs, such as those which prevail amongst 
the southern tribes, and of which Casalis has given us 
several remarkable specimens. The poetry of the 
Yorubas, if I may call it such, seems rather to be of 
the didactic kind, probably evincing a diflferent character 
of mind in the people, and which cannot fail, I think, to 
remind us, both in sentiment and style, of some of the 
poetical books of Scripture." 

The Bishop then proceeds to point out a characteristic 
which he believes gives the proverbs of Yoruba their 
peculiar claim to be considered a national didactic poetry. 
It is the same feature which Bishop Lowth considered 
one of the grand characteristics of, and which Bishop 
Jebb proved to be the sole distinctive characteristic of, 
the Hebrew poetry, — the system of parallelism.* After 

* '< Denoting a certain equality or resemblance between the members 
of each period, so that in two lines, or members, of the same period, 
things shall answer to things and words to words, as if fitted to 
each other by a kind of rule or measure." 

With diffidence, due when dififering in opinion with three bishops, I 
venture to remark, that in the Semitic dialects, and in other than 
Aidatie and Indo-European tongues, — as the Persian, — which imitate 
their style, the habit of balancing sentences naturally produces 
this parallelism. And I believe that the Thousand and One 
Nights would supply as many instances as can be found in the Hebrew 
poets. 

In another point I can hardly agree with the learned Mr. Vidal, 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



ZZll PBEFACE. 

adding mstaDces of the gradational, the antithetic, and the 
introverted, he concludes, " Such is the striking feature 
of parallelism which so evidently characterises the Yoruba 
proverbs. It is this which gives them their claim to the 
title of poetry ; for there does not appear to be anything 
which can be strictly called rhythm or metre in any of 
them ; although the feature which I am about to notice 
may be regarded as a slight approximation to it. I mean, 
that there is in the main a conformity of length between 
the lines which are designed to be parallel or antithetic ; 
and that where there is a third line, either preceding or 
following, which stands alone, it is of a different length 
from the others, and, in most cases, considerably longer. 
These stanzas, if we may call them so, of three lines,* 



viz., that the Toruha must he excluded from the extensive alliteral 
family of Unguages, — e.g., Congo, Damara, Sichwana, and Kafir, — 
-which occupies the whole of Africa south of the equator. The dis- 
tinguishing points of the Hamitic tongues are these. 1. The root is 
a consonant, followed by a vowel — monosyllabic, as opposed to the 
biliteral Semitic, — so that vowels do not initiate roots, nor do consonants, 
except liquids and nasals, terminate them. 2. An inordinate reduplica- 
tion and combination to aasiBt the roots, whose simplicity demands some 
such aid. 3. The distinction, not of gender, but of the personal and the 
impersonal, the animate and the inanimate. 4. Negation in the verb 
by a negative voice. 5. The absence of a passive voice. 6. The 
peculiar and artificial system of euphony. 7 and final, The change of 
words at the beginning instead of at the end of tbe vocable; where per- 
formatives or affixes take the place of the Aryan suffixes. Tried by 
these tests, the Toruba clearly belongs to the ti-aus-Sahara family. 

* The characteristic of the indigenous Sindhi poetry is the stanza 
of three lines, the third numbering two or more feet than the first 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PBXFACB. XZUl 

are of very frequent occurrence amongst the Yoruba 
proverbs, and the peculiarity just noticed will, I think, 
be found to prevail almost universally in them." 

I will conclude this portion of the subject with ex- 
tracting two passages from the Introduction above 
quoted. 

" I must not omit to mention, in this brief account of 
the Yoruba proverbs, that there is a degree of moral 
light observable in them which renders them peculiarly 
interesting, and gives them, I may add, a real value in 
connection with the inquiry into the moral government 
of the universe ; inasmuch as it presents us with a lively 
comment on the words of St. Paul concerning the 
Gentiles, * which show the work of the law written in 
tbeir hearts, their conscience also bearing witness, and 
their thoughts the meanwhile accusing or else excusing 
one another.' (Eom. ii. 15.) These proverbs, in many 
instances, display ideas concerning the providence of 
Gt)d, the moral rectitude of actions, or the practice of 
social virtues, which (to say the least) we should hardly 
have expected to find in a people so wholly separated 
from the influences, direct or indirect, of that revelation 
which God was pleased to make of Himself to man.* The 

and seeoDd. I hare quoted many instances of this pecoliarity in 
« A History of Sindh." 

* I believe, on the contrary, that the whole of Tornba shows 
more or less the effects of £1 Islam. With respect to the Kafirs, 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



XXIV PBE7AGS. 

words of Casalis, with reference to the Sisuto proverbs, 
are, in mj opinion, even more applicable to those of the 
Torubas. 'Sous le rapport moral, il est int6ressant 
d'observer les vestiges de cette conscience universelle, a 
laquelle Dieu a confie la direction de toute creature infeelli- 
gente. Nous acqi^erons par la la certitude qu'il n'est pas 
d'homme sur la terre qui ne sache discemer entre ce 
qui est moralement bon et moralement mauvais, et qui par 
consequent en soit susceptible d'encourir la condamna- 
tion attachee a la transgression des lois divines.* 
Amongst his list of Sisuto proverbs, we meet with some 
that express a moral sentiment; as, for example, 'La 
trappe prend le grand oiseau aussi bien que le petit ; * 
* Le sang humain est pesant, il empeche celui qui Ta 
r6pandu de fuir;' ' Le meurtrier dit, Je n'ai tue qu'une 
b^te, mais Tanimal sans poil (rhomme) ne p6rit pas 
sans ^tre veng6;' 'L'homme ^trompeur est une 
aiguille k deux pointes.' But there is something 
more striking in the high standard of morality obser- 
vable in the sayings of the Torubas, displaying as it 
does a conscious recognition of the intrinsic excel- 
lence of those peculiar virtues which we commonly 
regard as being appreciated only in civilised society.* 

it must be noted that they are a mixed race of African, Arab, and 
perhaps Persian blood. 

* The fact is, civilisation takes too much upon herself. There is 
more of equality between the sayage and the civilizee — the difference 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PftlFACK. ZXT 

Were we to measure this people hj the standard of 
their proverbial moralitj, we should come to the 
conclusion that they had attained no inconsiderable 
height in the development of social relations, having 
passed out of that savage barbarism, in which every 
indiyidual lives for himself alone, into a higher state of 
being, in which the mutual dependence of one member 
on another is recognised, giving room for the exercise of 
social virtues as a sort of moral compact for the safeguard 
of society." 

After illustrating his dictum by instances, Mr. Yidal 
draws the following deductions : — 

'' Surely these are indications of no ordinary percep- 
tion of moral truths, and sufficient to warrant the infer- 
ence that in closeness of observation, in depth of thought, 
and in shrewd intelligence, the Yoruban is oh rvxifp avrip 
—no ordinary man. The existence of proverbs such as 
these, amongst a people situated as the Yorubans are, is 
a fact pregnant with many thoughts, on which the theo- 
logian and the moralist may dwell with advantage, and 
may awaken in all an interest in a nation towards whom 
the sympathies of the public have been already directed 
by the exciting events of their recent political history. 



being one of quantity, not of qaality— than the latter will admit. 
For man is everywhere commensurate with man. Hence, whilst the 
average Englishman despises the Tomba, the Yoruba '* reciprocates" 
with hate and fear. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



ZXVl PBETAOE. 

We can now see a little way into the thoughts and 
feelings of that people, which has come prominentlj 
before our notice as the butt of the last efforts of the 
expiring shive trade, and the repeller of those efforts : ? 
we can now dive a little into that sea of mind, to which 
the Dahomian tyrant would fain have cried, * Hitherto 
shalt thou come, and no further ; ' which he would fain 
have bound in the chains of slaverj like the Persian 
monarch of old, but which refused to be fettered, rising 
up wholly like a flood, and forcing his proud army to flee 
before it. Surely great interest must attach to an insight 
into the mind of such a people, now for the first time 
furnished to the civilised world in the work before us, by 
one of the most intelligent amongst them, t whose long 
acquaintance with foreign civilisation renders him capable 
of appreciating the importance of the work which he has 
undertaken, and of estimating the difficulty which attends 
upon the task of rendering intelligible in a new language, 
the ideas of another, wholly diverse and alien." 
* • • • * 

The idea of the present compilation was suggested to 
me by an old and favourite work—the delight, indeed, of 
all Anglo-Eastern students — " Eoebuck*s Oriental Fro- 

* To which ve may now add, ''and sinoe its re-establishment, 
itself the most ardent of enslavers." Within the last four years it has 
sold off some 20,000 — Ijaye people, its allies. 

t Then the Eev. Mr., now the Right. Bev. Bishop Crowther. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PREFACE. IXVll 

Terbs," whose breadth of plan has rendered it a kind of 
manual of Asiatic thought.* Without attaching high 
importance to aphorisms and apophthegms as the " con- 
centrated expression of profound sagacity " — indeed, the 
saws and adages of most languages generally run in 
pairs, the one contradicting the other f — ^we may not the 
less regard them as " often the characteristic representa- 
tion of modes of thought peculiar to the people amongst 
whom they are current, and therefore valuable accessories 
to the delineation of national manners and opinions." 
It seemed to me that the readiest, indeed the only, way 
of understanding the negro is to let him speak of himself 

* "The nations of the East have always delighted in the significant 
brevity of aphoristic eloquence, and the Proverbs of Solomon are a 
satififiictory testimony of the antiquity and extent of their employ- 
ment amongst the Jews. The Arabs were not less addicted to this 
phraseology than the Hebrews, and the vast collection of Maidain 
forms, perhaps, but a limited repository of Arabic proverbs. Many 
of them have, of course, passed into the languages of Persia and 
India, but there is no want of such idioms in those dialects of a 
purely indigenous origin : the latter is especially rich in this respect, 
and the student of Hindustani, or Hindi, can scarcely open a book 
in which he is not hampered by the recurrence in almost every page 
of idiomatic phrases of local application, unfamiliar allusions, and 
proverbial sententiousness." — Introduction to Capt. Thomas Roebuck's 
Collection of Proverbs and Proverbial Phrases in the Persian and 
Hindoostani Languages. Calcutta, 1824. 

t So the poet says : — 

''AH things are double, one against another." 

And to quote one proverb against another, there is our English 
dictum : — '^Wise men make proverbs, and fools use them.'* 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



ZXYIU PBE7A0E. 

in his own words, and that if ever a book aspires to the 
title of ' L* African peint par lui-meme,' it must be one 
that contains a most compendious collection of purely 
Hamitic proverbs and idioms. Already the Englishman 
begins to own that he cannot dive into the abysses of the 
Chinese and Japanese character : the Eussians and the 
Anglo-Americans declare — and perhaps all nations, pure 
and mixed, might do the same — that they cannot be un- 
derstood by foreigners. The African has long been con- 
fessedly a puzzle. That the Japhite — we will retain these 
useful but conventional and provisional terms — cannot 
enter into the mysteries of Hamitic organisation, is easily 
proved by the vast scale of different gradations ranging 
between the two extremes, which make the negro in 
European opinion either an angel of light or a goblin 
damned. Those who have observed him the longest, 
indeed, seem to have elicited only a series of contradic- 
tions ; witness the Author of " Eighteen Tears on the 
Gold Coast." " Joy and sorrow," we are told, "reckless 
gaiety and gloomy despondency, exaggerated hopes and 
distracting fears, unbridled passions and humble meek- 
ness, ardent love and cool indifference, furious hate and 
cordial friendship, prodigal profusion and griping avarice, 
atheistical unconcern and bigoted superstition, sway by 
turns their versatile minds, and with a rapidity of change 
which startles and confounds us." What can be made 
of such a definition or a description as this P 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PREFACE. 



XXIX 



The matter was ready to my hand, as soon as the 
thought of a collection suggested itself. I had but to 
borrow, under due acknowledgement, from the manj 
proverb-lists of linguist authors, who have translated 
them from various African tongues, with a view to illus- 
trate the grammar rather than the logic of the negro. 
The books from which I have copied are so scattered, as 
will appear in the following pages, that the general reader 
never has an opportunity of perusing them : and this 
wiU^ it is trusted, justify me in publishing such a com- 
pilation. 

This Handbook contains a total of 2268 proverbs, 
idioms, enigmas, laconisms, and words conveying know- 
ledge concerning the people's habits and superstitions. 
Of these, 226 are in the Wolof Tongue, 83 in the Kanuri, 
or Bornuese. I have appended but few explanations to 
them, principally because their manifestly Semitic modes 
of thought render them sufficiently intelligible to the 
European mind. On the other hand, the contrary has 
been judged necessary with the purely Hamitic, whose 
richness of metaphor and whose peculiar method of 
envisaging moral and physical phenomena, to say nothing 
of an ellipsis often forced and sometimes obscure, renders 
them like a Sankrit or a Prakrit, as compared with an 
Arabic or a Persian book, unfamiliar to us, and beyond or 
beside, as it were, our views. Of these there are 265 in 
the Oji, or Ashante, language ; 221 in the Qa, or Accra, 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



XXX PREFACE. 

tongue : the latter are less diffusely illustrated, because 
explained by the former. Ensue 608 in the idiom of 
Yoruba, most of them necessitating a somewhat lengthy 
explanation. A few are borrowed from the Efun, or 
Dahome, one of the many dialects of Yoruba : there is a 
small collection from the Isubu and Dualla of the Bight 
of Biafra : the miscellaneous collection containing a total 
of 87; the Efik dialect of the Old Calabar Eiver, in the 
Bight of Biafra, has supplied 814 ; and, lastly, there are 
14 specimens &om the Mpangwes (Fans) of the Upper 
Gaboon Eiver. 

The orthography of the original collectors has been, 
by the advice of my learned friend, Mr. William Stirling, 
M.P., of Keir, retained. 

I relieve the reader from further preface, hoping that 
he will find as much pleasure and profit in perusing, as 
the compiler has had in collecting, during the dreary 
solitude of a rainy season in the Tropics, the '^ Hand- 
book of West African Proverbial Philosophy." 

FSBKAHBO Po, 

JvXy 20, 1863. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



CONTENTS. 



I. — PROVERBS IN THE WOLOF TONGUE .... 3 

II. — PROVERBS IN THE KANURl TONGUE . . 41 

III. — PROVERBS IN THE OJI TONGUE 63 

IV. — PROVERBS IN THE GA OR ACCRA LANGUAGE . . . 133 

V. — ^PROA'ERBS IN THE YORUBA LANGUAGE . .179 

VI.— PROVERBS IN THE EFIK, OR OLD CALABAR, LANGUAGE 323 

VARIA VARIORUM 413 

VII. — PROVERBIAL SAYINGS AND IDIOMS IN THE MPANGWE 

(fan) TONGUE 439 

MISCELLANEOUS PHRASES AND EXPRESSIONS . . 445 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



^ 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PKOVEKBS 



nr 



THE WOLOF TONGUE. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



WIT AND WISDOM 

FROM 

WEST AFKICA. 



PEOVERBS m THE WOLOP TONGUE. 

?— - 

The subjoined collection of Proverbs is eitracted from 
that excellent work, M. Dard's Grammar.* 

The "Wolofs, formerly called JolofFsjf are mentioned 
by many travellers. As early as a.d. 1446 they were 
known to the Portuguese; and in the reign of King 

* Grammaire Wolofe, on M^thode pour 6tndier la langue des noiis 
qui habitent Lea Boyaomes de Bourba-Tolof, de Walo, de Darnel, de 
Bour-sine, de Saloiune, de Baole, en S4n6gambie. Suivi d'un ap- 
pendice oH sont ^tablis les particularitds lea plus essentielles des prln- 
cipales langnes de L'Afriqne Septentrionale. Far J. Dard, Institntenr 
de r^cole Wolofe-Fran^ise dn Senegal, Autenr des dicticHiiiaires Wolof 
et Bambara. ImprimI par autorisation da Boi & rimprimerie royale, 
1826. 

It is popularly said in Senegal that no one will ever speak Wolof like 
M. Dard. The reason is, that, under the new regime of compulsory 
French instruction, the vernacular language languishes, — loses all its 
raciness. 

f According to the Folyglotta Afrieana '^Jolof '* is merely a 
"Wolof" district. 

B 2 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



4 WIT AND WISDOM FROM WEST APBIOA.. 

John, one " Bemoir," of princely house, visited Lisbon 
in state, was baptised, and did homage to the European 
king. Their habitat is " Senegambia," the country be- 
tween the rivers Qambia and the Senegal, the latter 
separating them from the Assanhaji, who are held to be 
the Sanhagii of Leo Africanus. They are " black, but 
comely," with long-oval faces, finely- formed features, 
straight noses, and jetty glossy skins : in character they 
are brave and dignified, and they are distinctly not 
negroes, but negroids. 

Their language difiers from those around them, and is 
remarkable for copiousness and picturesqueness. It is 
widely extended, because Senegambia has long been — 
like the North African coast — the importation-place of 
European goods intended for Central Africa, for Tim- 
buktu, Hausa, Bomu, and the upper Nigerian basin. 
Besides the natives of the maritime countries, the people 
of Bundu, Kayaga (Galam), Kaarta, Kasson, Fuladu, and 
Bambara, all afiect it. As M. Dard remarks, Mungo Park 
has often used, in his " African Travels," expressions 
which he deems Mandenga, but which may be Wolof. For 
instance, in the story of " poor Nealee," " Kang-tegi ! " — 
" cut her throat ;" would be, in "Wolof, " Kung akateke !" 
— " let her head be cut off ! " and " Nealee affeeleeata," 
is equally corrupted by the author or printer from Nealee 
afeyleata, which signifies moreover not " Nealee is lost," 
but simply " Nealee breathes no more." 

In "Wolof the Proverbs are numerous and expressive : 
the people are exceedingly fond of them, and a Euro- 
pean with any knowledge of these wise sayings, can 
travel amongst them not only in safety, but with all 
respect. I would request the reader to compare these 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PE0YEBB8 IN THE WOLOF TONGUE. 5 

and the Kanuri proverbs, which are both Moslem, with 
those of the Kafirs or Infidels in the Oji, the Ga, and the 
Yoruba languages. M. Dard's orthography is preserved 
throughout. 



1. 

Ba nga sainata rone, rone a la diaka saina. 

When thou seest the palm-tree, the palm-tree has 

seen thee. 

2. 

Jalele sainou ane na sainon gnissetil dara, tey mague 
dieki thy soufe gnissa yope. 

The child looks everywhere and often sees nought; 
but the old man, sitting on the ground, sees everything. 

3. 
Htiole don napa thy tate on morome am omeley. 
The diver-bird cannot catch fish behind his companion. 
K.B.— Omel^ is " to catch an abundance of fish." 

4. 

Ion jalele vaja thia saine keorre la ko degney. 
• What the child says, he has heard it at borne, 

N.B, —Distinctly referring to the " enfant terrible" class. 

5. 

Lon gony ry ry, gnife a di ndeey am. 

The great calabash- tree has had a seed for its mother. 

6. 
Son baton on nda diakono thia nsakje dieetlL 
If only the small measure goes to the shop, the millet 
will last long. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



^ 



6 WIT AND WISDOM TBOM WEST ATSICA. 

7. 

Jadhie sou sassonl, don baw. 

If the dog is not at home, he barks not. 

8. 

Pondhie on naigne de na jaija ah taw, tey sailo 
yagonL 

The house-roo^ fights with the rain, but he who is 
sheltered ignores it. 

9. 
Jama sa bope mo gnenne kon la ko waja. 

Know thyself better than he does who speaks of thee. 

10. 

Tabaje son diamante mbande todhiele (de nga ko 
todhia). 

If you practise your *prentice-hand upon a large jar, 
you will break it. 

11. 
Jamoul aya na, tey ladhieteoul a ko raw. 
Not to know is bad, not to wish to know is worse. 

12. 
Tape don dieala yape. 
Meat eats not meat. 
N.6. — Meaning, beggars do not devour one another. 

13. 

Son doul kone toubeye diouly aya. 
But for the wide trowsers, prayer would be a scandal. 
N.B. — Because prostration would be indecent. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PROTEBBS IN THE WOLOr TONGUE. 7 

14. 

Kon amonl ndeey nampa xname am. 

He who has no mother sucks his grandmother. 

16. 
Kon ley jamone ndialbene, mondhie di noflaye. 
If you know the beginning well, the end will not 
trouble you. 

16. 
Sopa bour ayonl, wandey bonr bou la sopa a ko guenne. 

• To love the king is not bad, but a king who loves you 
is better. 

17. 

Kou tey jamone kon nga bokala bakane, mon di sa 
ande thy adouna. 

Whoso knows one who will die with him, he . {the 
known) wiD be his friend in this world. 

18. 

Vitte de na anda ak morome am, tey dou masse am. 

« 

* Man should take as companion one older than himself. 

19. 
Bafete dhiko mo guenne dhiko dhiou bone. 
A good action is better than a bad action. 

20. 

Nitte gou Ion nga dinthia mou de& thia lojo am 
doyoul deukala. 

A man who touches what you have shut up, should not 
dwell with you. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



8 WIT AlTD WISDOM PBOM WEST AEBICA. 

21. 

La diarake ama di yonja sou ko niw amone diala. 
What the convalescent refuses, would give pleasure to 
the dead. 

22. 
Guema na dee, ndigui y£ge. 
I believe the death, because of the bones. 



Diaeekat ou yaje. demmetil dianew. 

The bom-merchant goes not to the other world. 

24. 

Bala nga toufou, fetal y beutte. 

Before curing ophthalmia, the ejes must be seen. 

25. 
.Sou bounte ou naigue amone y gobar kaine dou 
guenna. 

If the door had daggers, no one would leave the room. 

26. 
Bula nga onyou naika fa. 
Before one replies, one must be present. 

27. 
Sou doul kone barame lojo di koudou. 
Without fingers the hand would be a spoon. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PEOVEBBS IN THE WOLOF TONGUE. 9 
28. 

Saw don maee y taliba. 
Sunniiig about gives no scholars. 
N.B.-^Our " Rolling stone gathers no moss." 

29. 

Sou ma jatMo sonfe, dorey fa ma naika. 

If I wanted to collect sand, I should begin where I am. 

30. 
Lou diarake bone bone, mana waka niw. 
He who is scarcely convalescent, can stifle a dead man. 

81. 
Teuradi agonl dianew. 

He who always turns when sleeping, does it no more 
in the other world. 

32. 
Lou bouki oma oma, mana bare ak bay. 
Though the wolf be lean, he can contend with a goat. 

33. 
Mbajaney dou faikey dee ou borome am. 

The cup finds not out its master's death. 
N.B.— Because it passes into other hands. 

34. 

Sou nitte diaJey dangogne am di simey thierey, 

bou ko niana nieje. 

If a man makes soup of his tears, do not ask him for 
broth. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



10 WIT AND WISDOM TBOH WEST AFEICA. 

35. 

Jaidhie on nthiokaire ak sene am kon thia fatte 
gnessi oma. 

She whom the partridge loves, as she whom he hates, 
would starve if they forgot to scratch the ground (for 
food), 

86. 
tfbote a guenne beugna ndoje, wandey xnon tangne 
bokon thia. 

The frog enjoys itself in water, but not in hot water. 

87. 
Oane yon barey bougalonl xnbame sent 
Many guests matter little to the ass of the inn. 

88. 
lo mana xnana bire on nitte difa na thia lon nga 
yagouL 

Thou knowest not what man's stomach can contain. 

89. 

Kon gniro kone xnaee la, difa thia ndabe la ngaine 
boka. 

He who takes thy part at the dish to give it to thee, 
had better allow thee to take it. 

40. 
Eon lajonl laika laja til diaee. 
He who makes not soup for himself, will not make 
honUlie for sale. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PaOVEEBS IS THE WOLOE TONCHTB. 11 

41. 

Beugneti ma laje, bel sama bope defa bosse. 
1 want no boiled meat if my head must be the trivet 
(which supports the pot). 

42. 
Eon jaiba laje on ndeki defon gnon ko thy nope am. 
When you give a man boiled meat for breakfast, jou 
do not pour it into his ears. 

43. 

Kon tenba ak y sabare danon ak y ngnote, son nga 
laine laikonl, kone itte gnon dhiegna la laine. 

He who jumps upon the corn-bundles falls with the 
ears, and if thou dost not eat them thou wilt be the less 
charged with eating them. 

44. 
Dhignene dhion ondhie am dee, dara bongalou ko thia. 
A woman who has lost her rival has no sorrow. 

45. 
Bonr bon amonl y nitte don done bonr. 
A subjectless king is no king. 

46. 

Eon di bengna rindi bope am, son gnon ko beugney 
nndi varronl yonja. 

He who wishes to blow out his brains, need not fear 
their being blown out by others. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



12 , WIT Al^D WISDOM TEOM WEST ArBICA.. 

47. 

Barey nieje, barey thierey ko guenna. 
Much soup is better than much broth. 

48. 
ITa gore ayebir, tey bou mon aye lamigne. 
Let man be bad if (only) his tongue be good. 

49. 
Boigne de na ree, wandey derette anga thia souf am. 
The teeth may laugh, but the blood is above them. 

50. 
Wathial jale yon» nejeley maguati ko. 
Prevent him not who walks in the fire, for it would be 
a great compliment. 

51. 
Lou berafe feta feta dala thia ande am. 
Toasted seeds jump, but they always fall towards their 
companions. 

52. 
T gore yope ametil diabar, y dhigaene yope ametil 
diakar. 

All men have not wives, and all women are not married. 

53. 
Daw raw thy ngore la boka. 
He who runs away and escapes, is clever. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PBOTEBBS IN THE WOLOE TONOUB. 13 

64. 

Daw dhitou don xnaee kailifiet. 

To run the best, does not give the highest rank. 

66. 
Bala gna fadhiana diaka verle. 
Before healing others, heal thyself. 

56. 
Tonne amonl nkerre. 

A road has no shadow. 

57, 
ITdegam barame on deye mo aye^gnennetey nthiastane. 
If the big finger be greedy, the heel is more so. 

58. 
New na mo guenne dara. 
• A little is better than nothing. 

69. 
Faka na la, mo gnenne jamon ma la. 
" I have forgotten thy name," is better than " I know 
thee not." 

60. 
Son enre nawey, mbote don fannde. 
If the fly flies, the frog goes not supperless to bed. 

61. 
Fassale son ittey togna. 

He who separates men that are fighting, should not 
strike them. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



14 WIT ABD WISDOM FROM W£8T APRIOA.. 

62. 

Diama sakete don ndana. 

The hunter who pierces the tree, has not shot well. 

63. 
BedMne don dhiaka saja hope. 
Horns grow not before the head. 

64. 
Oadhia ndoje, sa deiume a thia maitL 
To cleave water hurts the stomach. 

65. 
Mpetaje on rabe la. 
The pigeon of the animal is there. 

N.B. — A Senegambian phrase, uaed to stop a conversation con- 
cerning one absent, when suddenly there appears somebody who is 
lilcely to let him know what was said. M. Dard considers this 
proverb a proof that negroes formerly used carrier pigeons. It may, 
however, allude to the mythical pigeon that whispered in the 
Prophet's ear. 

66. 

Yaidil, so guissey guemal. 
Deny, but what thou seest believe ! 

67. 
Mpithie son bagney daije, souje la niala. 
If the bird drinks not at the stream, it knows its own 
watering place. 

68. 
Lou mpithie nana nana, nanetil nane on gneye. 
The bird can drink much, but the elephant drinks 
more. 



Digitized by VjOQQIC 



FBOTEBBS IN THE WOLOF T0NGT7B. 15 

69. 

Mpetaje mon naika thy talle, niro oul sabine ak 
ma thia kaw garap. 

The voice of the pigeon on the spit is not like the 
Toice of the pigeon on the tree. 

70. 
Lou narre barey barey sou dengue dickey dicta ko. 
Lies, however numerous, will be caught bj truth when 
it rises up. 

71. 
Hthiokaire beugua na seube, wandey dcu dhiou 
mcu andala thy nthine. 

The partridge loves peas, but not those which go into 
the pot with it. 

72. 
Oarap gou nga rcmba mcu sanni la y mbourcti sou 
thia euluek so, nga romba fa. 

If the tree under which you pass throw bread to you, 
you will pass it again to-morrow. 

73. 
Nejala kou la fassale, nejala kou la dana a ko 
guenne. 

To flatter one who separates us is good, but it is 
better to flatter one who strikes us. 

74. 

Ama na kou la ni ma yenna la, toy sa ndabe la 
beugua saita. 

There are people who place a basket on jour head to 
see what you carry. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



16 WIT UfD WISDOM F£OM WEST AFRICA. 

75. 

Boigne a di sakete on gnemigne. 
Teeth serve as a fence to the mouth. 

76. 
Jadhie bon gnenna amoul boroxne. 
The dog that has left the house has no master. 

77. 
Maitite on jole sou naikone thy tanke gnou soja ko. 
If the stomach-ache were in the foot, one would go 
lame. 

78. 
Lu nga niaka niaka njel, jama ni diabar on baye 
ndeey la. 

Though thou hast no mother- wit, thou knowest that 
the father's wife is mother. 

79. 
Sou bidow done mbourou, barey kou fanana bity. 
If the stars were loaves, many people would sleep out. 

80. 

Assamana modi bonr y mbare. 

The sky is the king of sheds. 

81. 
Ooudi modi hour ou nkerre. 
Night is the queen of shades. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



FR0T£BB8 IS THE WOLOP TONGTTE. 17 

82. 

Sonfe modi bonr y lal. 
Earth is the queen of beds. 



Diante modi boor y niton. 
The sun is the king of torches. 

84. 

Mpethie on sagor Ion nga fhia gawanton kone 
yobool gonbe. 

If jou go to the sparrows' ball, take ears of com for 
them. 

85. 
Bala nga dhiton diote. 
Before preceding, one must reach. 

86. 

Kon di dioee kon ko wata defa, amonl kon ko bota. 
He who cries to have himself dragged, has no one to 
carry him. 

87. 
irtortor on garap gope don defa dome. 
All the flowers of a tree do not produce fruit. 

88. 

Kon mana faiya don jaron thy ndoje. 

He who knows swimming, dies not in the water. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



18 WIT Airo WISDOM TEOM WEST ATBIOA. 

89. 

Son sipon n^abo gaennetey pate. 
If he who buys milk is proud, he who sells it should be 
prouder. 

90. 
Haiije lamigEe thy ndiaee, demma fon sorey a ko 
gaenna. 

To vaunt one's goods is good^ but it is better to go 
where thej are bought. 

91. 
Bate on dengne yomba na jama. 
The voice of truth is easily known. 

92. 

Samme bagna na naqa barame. 
A shepherd strikes not his sheep. 

93. 

Gneye von doja ndiolore mo loii ndine am sakon. 

If the elephant were to walk about at mid-day, every- 
body would call him. 

94. 

Jaije diama ane na enlenk, tey niaka-sontonra taje 
ko di teye. 

He will fight to-morrow ; but if there is a dispute, it is 
to-day. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PBOYEBBS IN THE WOLOF TONGUE. 19 

95. 

Tebou thia nangon fhia, kon la ihia yoni nga gaw 
thia demma. 

We go quickly where we are sent, when we take in- 
terest in the joumej. 

96. 

Sajadiy laikadi, veradi, tole bon mon ama dongoup 
don thia ama. 

Not to bud, not to eat, not to be cured, give no grain 
in one's field. 

97. 
Ke dialou yonja, jama na Ion jaiwe. 
He who weeps from the morning, knows what makes 
him weep. 

98. 

Bala nga rera dioka. 

Before losing the road, one must rise up. 

99. 
Demmal mo gaenne do demma. 
" Go ! " is better than " Don't go ! " 

100. 

Kon la ni maeel sa alale, sa ngnarame la bengna. 
• He who tells you to giye away your property, deserves 
your thanks. 

101. 
Voe on bire diafe na degua. 
The song of the stomach is hard to hear. 

2 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



20 WIT Ain) WISDOM TBOM W£ST AFBIOA. 

102. 

Satou kon ko logua yabi damme. 

If 70U fill your mouth with a razor, 70U will spit blood. 

108. 
Baton don wata bope am. 
A razor cannot shave itself. 

104. 
Talla dekala yomba na ko. 
To resuscitate, is easy to Allah. 

105. 
Tag^e bai onl dara. 

e destroys all things. 

106. 

Mongne a guenne. 
Patience is good. 

107. 
Jama a guenne. 
Knowledge is good. 

.\ 

108. 

Fora nenba don jelo diebaley. 

One returns not what one hides after finding it. 

109. 
Mana a gnenne. 
Power is good. 




Digitized by VjOOQIC 




PB0TSBB8 IK THB WOLOl* TONOUB. 21 

110. 

Waje 7 mague doyonl vaidi. 

Thou shalt not contradict an elder's words. 

111. 
Bi bire ama Ion nga laika baje na thia. 
To have plenty to eat, is good for the big belly. 

112. 
Jalele bagna na lo mon tamma. 
The child hates him who gives it all it wants. 

113. 

Son gnon la ittey thy berab, bainaine yone do fa 
demma. 

If they smite thee in a place, thou wilt go there no 
more. 

114. 
Xoampa diapa na nitte thy diombasse on kanl ^ 
Curiosity often leads men into bitterness. 

115. 
Son mbajaney done nana yore, kaine don ko soUa. 
If the hat drank the brain, nobody would wear it. 

116. 
Oarap lo thia gadhia mon s^jatL 

The split tree still grows. 

117. 
Senpadiallegne don dindi jonjane. 
To make a summersault, will not remove a rupture. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



22 WIT AND WISDOM FBOM WEST APBICA. 

118. 

Talla son done defa sago bagney, defa sago sopey. 

If Allah gives reason to hate, he also gives reason to 
love. 

119. 
Ion saja y donngne naw gnenaon bandiolL 
Everything that has feathers flies, except the ostrich. 

120. 
Son dhionkana yomba na danela. 
"What lowers itself, is ready to fall. 

121. 
Eewale gna thia gnethie, dana manon ko diama. 
The hind in the sea fears not the hunter. 

122. 
Bon noppe done rathia laje, gnon woa mbame. 
If ears could stir boiled meat, one would call the pig. 1 

123. 
Eon amonl y noppe don degna. 
He who has no ears, hears not. 

124. 
Lanthie tati la, nga mbare dengna. 
If you have nothing to eat, you will not seek lodgings. 

125. 
Eon sango denrre na vaton diegui safara 
He who covers himself with cotton, should not approach 
the fire. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



V 



/ 



PBOYEBBS IN THE WOLOP TOKGUE. 23 

126. 

Dome Ion xnou fietika thy vene on ndeey am la 
nampa. 

The infant sucks only what it finds in its mother's 
breasts. 

127. 
Kon amonl mbonbe sa bire MgnsL, 
He who has no shirt, shows his stomach. 

128. 
Kou ama dhionr diaee laine. 
He who has goods can sell them. 

129. 
Bala nga togua ama rande. 
Before cooking, one must have provisions. 

130. 
Boreey lenfe a la reelo. 
One laughs not without cause. 

181. 
Bala nga sanni dira. 
Before shooting, one must aim. 

132. 
Sou nga aibaey fasse varra ko. 
If you have a horse, mount it. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



24 WIT AVD WISDOM FBOH WEST A7RI0A. 

1S8. 

Lon gname barey barey, mondhie dieja. 

Although 70a have many provisions, you will see the 
end of them. 

184. 

Kou la diaka dMoudoii eupe la 7 sagar. 
He who is born the first, has the most of ragged 
clothes. 

N.B. — ^Because the younger children—in Africa— get the best 

185. 

Kou diakey vajetane don ko mondhie. 

He who begins a conversation, sees not tbe end. 

186. 
Onou ma done waja baye, dhionroa ma laine. 
I have not begotten all that call me sire. 

137. 
Kon soUa yerey yon diafe, legny anga solla sagar. 
He who wears too fine clothes, shall go about in rags. 

188. 
Kon vorra kon la donl vorra, Talla vorra la. 
He who betrays one that betrays him not, Allah shall 
betray him. 

139. 
Navete bo dika di taw y jale bon ko gnome. 
If live coals fell in the bad weather, no one would go 
out. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PBOTEBBS IN THE WOLO! TONOUB. 26 
140. 

Kon nga ni vaukal ma, don la vaukal fou la na^a. 
He who says '' Scratch me ! " shaU not be scratched 
where he wishes. 

141. 

Lon dogua danou gaenaou jale. 

All that one cuts falls to the ground, except the melon. 

142. 
Manon gnon ama dara tey sonou gnou thia. 
No good without truth. 
N.B. — Nul bien sana peine. . 

143. 

Ella w%ja bou ntoute, tey deguelou bou barey. 
One must talk little, and listen much. 
N.R — Talk is silver, silence is gold. 

144. 

Lou dougua thy benne noppe gnenna thia baley. 
"What goes in at one ear goes out by the other. 

145. 
T waje you baje, dou mae lou gno laika. 
The best words give no food. 
N.B. — Fine words butter no parsnips. 

146. 

Kou naike ndaje bope am, tey TaUa ndaje gnop. 
Each for himself, and Allah for all. 

147. 
Hiare y beutte de nagnou gnenna gnissa asse benne 
Two eyes see better than one. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



26 WIT AND WISDOM 7B01C WEST A7BI0A. 

148. 

Ama na y beutte you guenna ry asse guemigne am. 
His eyes are larger than his mouth. 
N.B. — A popular proverb in Asia as well aa in Africa. 

U9. 

Zou naike sopa na niro am. 
Everybody likes those like him. 

150. 
Ouenne galle dou yeba morome am. 
One boat does not load another. 

151. 
Dou gnou tekjale niare y nague you mbakante. 
One cannot part two fighting bulls. 

152. 
Dou gnou laikelo nitte sou sourey. 
One should not press a full man to eat. 

158. 
Eaine dou waja lou mou jamoul. 
1^0 one should say that which he knows not. 

154. 
Sou beugua jalisse ligueya. 
He who loves money must labour. 

156. 
Eoudi di binda nopalikou. 
He who writes, rests himself. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PBOTXRBB IS THE WOLOF TONGUE. 27 
156. 

Lekatte sou done nitte kou ihia de£o, gname mou 
yonja. 

If the plate were a man, the soup put into it would 
make him weep. 

157. 
OuetMe kou ko jouasa toya. 
He who crosses the sea, is wet. 

158. 

Hiare gnou gouda sikime, dou gnou fonante. 
Those that have long chins cannot kiss one another. 

169. 
Demma fo yonne amoul monguenne dieki lojo nene. 
To go where there is no road, is better than to remain 
without doing anything. 

160. 
Sou la la nague day dakja nga teuda. 
If the bull would throw thee, lie down. 

161. 
Faleou ma nthine lou bajoul. • 

I listen not to the caldron which boils not. 

162. 
Faleou ma barame bou amoul ve. 
I listen not to the finger that has no nail. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



28 WIT AKD WISDOM FBOM WEST ATBIOA. 

163. 

Lenfe Ion la Talla tegaa kaine manou ko dindi. 

The thing which Allah has placed, cannot be displaced 
by any one. 

164. 
Kou manonl dara, dou defa dara. 
He who can do nothing, does nothing. 

165. 

Eon gnenne di hour thy adouna, mo gnenne di 
diame thia lajira. 

The more powerful one is in this world, the more 
servile one will be in the next. 

168. 
Diaka lae dou taje nga aiya. 
The first who speaks of lawsuit is not always right. 

167. 
Eon sa bagne dee do ko dioee. 
He who loses his enemy, weeps not for him. 

168. 

Lou nga sopa sopa dome ou diambour, sa dome 
guenn^la la ko. 

If you love the children of others, you will love your 
own even better. 

169. 

Ope dhiou maiti dou taja dee. 

A severe malady does not always kill. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PBOTSBBS IN THE WOLOF TONGUE. 29 

170. 
Sou nga dialon lai lala la. 
If you pise too early, the dew will wet you. 

171. 
Kaine dou dogua la ou dMane. 
No one cuts the serpent's net. 

172. 
Eou dagua dhiane, dou la ni wathia ko. 
If you trample on the serpent, no one will say to you, 
'* Don't!" 

173. 
Sa rama, di sathia sou maguey diala guette. 
If the child robs when he begins to walk, he will plun-« 
der a sheepfold when he grows older. 

174. 
Sarra diante dou ko taire finka. 
To place oneself before the sun, does not prevent its 
continuing its path. 

175. 
Soula nkerre dou ko taire tora. 
To coyer the shade of sand, does not prevent its flying. 

176. 
Dara dou doe nitte, jana lou mou amouL 
Nothing can suffice a man except that which he has not. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



30 WIT UnS WISDOM TBOM WIST AJFBIGA. 

177. 
Eou di jassaba yonne amonl serre. 
He wlio amuseB lumself in ell-ing the road, has no stuff 
to measure. 

178. 

Daigue dou bour, wandey kou ko bengua joussa sonini 
sa 7 dalle. 

The rivulet is not a king, yet he who would cross it 
removes his shoes. 

179. 
Venne fepe on dongoup don diara salon. 

A grain of millet is not worth a calf. 

180. 
• Eon Talla maee mon ama. 
He to whom Allah gives, has. 

181. 
Lou mpithie naw, naw dala thi sonfe. 
The bird flies, but always returns to earth. 

182. 
Eon dajka jadhie bel tMa saine kenrre nga bai ko. 

He who hunts a dog home, then leaves it. 

183. 

Oneye manonl thy dalgar dara, jana gassam-gassama 
bai. 

An elephant can do nothing to a tamarind-tree, except 
it be to shake it. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



FROTXSBS IN THE WOLOF T05QTJE. 31 

184. 

irthine don ama kavare ndigoi sa&ra. 
The caldron has no hair by reason of the fire. 

185. 
• Ecu Talla sanni faite do ko mana fakou. 

He at whom Allah has discharged a shaft, cannot 
ayoid it. 

186. 

Pon dhianaje yabey wonndoo, nkane a fa diagney. 
When the mouse laughs at the cat, there is a hole. 

187. 

Sou gna douguey thy naigue yoiy'a, guenna youja 
do jama niata laa a thia naika. 

If you weep on entering a house, and also on leaving it, 
you wiU never know how many beams it has. 

/ 188. 

NL Kedo yope dou gnou hour. 
/ All soldiers are not kings. 

189. 

Guene on golqe gouda na, wandey lou nga thia lala 
borome yegua. 

The monkey's tail is long, and yet if you touch it, its 
owner feels (the Unuih). 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



I 

V 



WIT AND TaSDOM FROM WEST APBIOA. 
190. 

Samme sagna na maee mew, wandey sapioiil maee 
salon. 

The shepherd can give sweet milk, but he cannot give 
a calf. 

191. 

Sagore bengna na dougoup, wandey don baya. 

The sparrow loves millet, but he labours not. 

192. 
Barey dongoup faikey dewanne a ko guenna. 
Much millet is good, but it is better to find next year. 

193. 
Vata a gnenne vaifa. 

Shaving is better than plucking the hair. 



\194. 
Ghiisia de na taja jama. 
Seeing excites to knowing. 

195. 
Done gueramonl Itaine gaw dee a ko maee. 

The heir thanks nobody but the sudden death. 

196. 

Dhiguene doyonl volon, ndigni Ion mon la waja, 
waja ko la morome. 

Trust not a woman: she will tell thee what she has 
just told her companion. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PEOTEfiBS IK THB WOLOF TOKeVS. 



83 



197. 



Eon bens^ laime, gnomel yambe. 

If jou like honey, fear not the bees. 



198. 



Bala nga laika onbil sa gnemigne. 
Before eating, open thy mouth. 

199. 
Fon nagne naika bonki dee fk. 
Where are the cattle, there the wolf shall die. 

200. 
Tendal doyonl digala niw. 
You do not tell a corpse to go to bed. 

201. 

Kon yakey lojo bai koudon don ko niarel a. 

He who puts aside his spoon to draw from the pot with 
his hand, does not do so twice. 

202. 
Onon yamoul y lorre, don gnon ma^'ando sonngonfe. 
Those whose saliva is not equal, should not chew flour 
(puin 9) together. 

203. 
Daigne on pote y jame am don ko nana. 

They who know the unwholesome well^ drink not from 
its water. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



34 WIT ASl> WISDOM FBOM WEST AFRICA. 

204. 

Ama sauo de na apela barey, wandey don apela weje. 
One may haye much milk, but it is never too white. 

205. 

Mbtganey mo natta thy sa bope they diekon thia 
bon ko natta thy sa bope on naweley. 

If the hat which you try on fits not your head, do not 
make your neighbour try it. 

206. 

Mere mandingne, doja bon gaw a ko gnenne. 

It is better to walk than to grow angry with the road. 

207. 

Fatfatlon don fEuuale mbame senf ak y nope am. 
Shaking the head separates not the ears from the ass. 

208. 
Senpadiallegna don la fassale ak y teigne. 
A summersault does not separate the head from the 
lice. 

209. 
Lakaye on Yalla, jalanjon don ko dindi. 

Boiling in the sand will not loosen the knot which 
Allah has tied. 

210. 
Fon sikime diama saino ko fa yobon. 

Where the chin goes, the eyes carry it. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



FBOTEBBS IK THB WOLOF TONOUB. 35 

211. 

Eon dengaa watite ou dhiane borome anga fa 
faikonL 

One walks on the serpent's tracks when it is no longer 
there. 

212. 

Lou nga telle telle dioka, yonne dhitou la. 
He who rises early finds the way short. 

213. 

Zon di nana ngneloo son diothey thy sano diala; 
He who lives upon air has no milk. 

214. 
Hthiokaire lo naw di gassa sou daley doupi dhiandhie. 
If the partridge that scratches when flying should alight 
at the grange, it will throw the grain about on all sides. 

215. 

Son nga &ikey gnou di joulo, sou nga thia farey, 
wajetey dengue gua. 

If you meet with those who quarrel, you may take one 
side, but at least speak the truth. 

216. 
Oarap gou la souttonl dou la maee nkerre. 
The tree which is not taller than thou art, cannot shade 



D 2 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



36 WIT AND WISDOM FBOli WEST A7BICA. 

217. 

Beutte dou yenooi w^mdey lou bope atana jama na 
ko. 

The eye is not loaded, but it knows all that the head 
carries. 

218. 

So nionl tota, niou la bow, niti le dhiangne do ama 
ligueye. 

If you remain not at home, if you enter not, if you 
appear not, you will find no work. 

219. 

Sissey die rafete on ndongue a ko guenne. 
It is better to carry to market good merchandise than 
to be stingy of it. 

220. 
Boka ndeey don taja mane. 

The children of the same mother do not always agree. 

221. 

Talla don rayala nitte y bagne am. 

Allah does not destroy the men whom one hates. 

222. 
SLou la sontta nga ni ko ndiole mi 
To him who is larger than thou art, say "I am a 
dwarf." 

N.B. — Meaning, caU great, only him who is more powerful than 
thyself. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PBOYBBBS IN TBB WOLOP TONGTTB. 37 



Lamba dadioul dara mo gnenna noe dioiL 
To catch and hold nothing, is more tender than butter. 
N.B. — ThiB imitatiw our saying about "many a slip/' &o. 

224. 

So dey diemma ngnampata dialame mbole nga 
amonL 

He who tries to bite the iron, is without corn-ears to 

eat. 

N.R — ^Dialame is a little iron cylinder serving to separate the 
from the cotton. 



225. 

Xou la ni, nga ni ko, joulo ylaw gaw. 
If jou speak to him who speaks to you, a dispute will 
soon start up. 



Kon beta bouki jadhie baw la. 

He who swaddles the wolf, will be barked at by the 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



11. 



PEOVERBS 



THE KANURI TONGUE. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PROVERBS IN THE KANURI TONGUE. 



Thb following Proverbs and Sayings, Laconisms and 
Figuratdve Expressions, are taken from the Bev. M. 
Koelle's work.* The reader will bear in mind that the 

* African Natiye Literature, or ProyerU, Tales, Fables, and His- 
torical Fragments in the Eannri or Boma Langaage ; to which are 
added, a Translation of the ahore and a Kanori-English Tocabnlaiy. 
By the Sot. S. W. Eoelle, Church Missionary. London, Church Mis- 
sionaiy Honse, Salisbory Square, 1854. I hare retained the rererend 
gentleman's orthography, necessarily omitting, however, signs and 
accents. 

Bomu (Boraon, Bemn) Proper, according to Dr. Barth (yoL ii. p. 
201) is the nudeos of the Great Central African (and now quasi- 
Moslem) Empire in its second stage, after Kanem bad been given np. 
It is boonded on the north by the Tibbn, south by Mandara, to the 
east by the Chad Lake, and to the west by a small body of water, 
popularly known as the Teou. The limits usually assigned are 200 
miles along the western shore of the larger lake, and about the 
same distance inland. The people, who call themselyes Kanuri or 
Kanowry, are known by twenty cuts on each side of the face, one 
on the centre of the forehead, six on each arm, six on each leg or 
thigh, four on each breast, and nine on each side, a total of ninety-one 
ents. The country is an extensive plain, once very populous ; in the 
chief market, '* Angomu," the crowd has been estimated at 80,000 to 
100,000 souls. Taking the word Bomu in its widest sense, the popu- 
lation has been r^sed to five millions. The old capital, Bimi, is said to 
have covered from five to six square miles, and to have contained 200, 000 
souls. Early in the present century, however, it was overrun with 
dreadful devastation by its western neighbours, the Fellatahs. The 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



42 WIT AI7D WIBBOM FROM WEST AFBICA. 

Bornuese, though described by some travellers as '' com- 
plete negroes both in form and feature," are, like the 
Mandengas and Wolofs, a Moslem race, with a consider- 
able amount of Semitic innervation, and their proverbs 
will contrast strongly with those current amongst the 
Pagans of the Gold Coasts and Yoniba. 



1. 
Vontsenin kampnnye lanentsia, ate gerganemmL 
If one who knows thee not, or a blind man scolds thee, 
do not become angry. 

2. 
Ago komande ntsinite, dnnon manem, pandem bago. 
If thou seekest to obtain by force what the Lord has 
» not given thee, thou wilt not obtain it 

8. 

Eabn datsia, kargon bago. 

The days being finished, there is no medicine. 

N.B. — Meaning^ if one's time to lire is completed, no medicine 
can ward off death. 

country recoyered under the Shaykh who waa yiaited by Major I>enham 
in 1823 ; this man, a native of Eanem, of humble birth but great 
energy, rallied round him a band of spearmen, had a Tiaion of the 
Prophet, hoisted the green flag, and, after a ten months* campaign, 
liberated his country, and replaced the rightful sultan on the throne. 
The picture of this worthy, ''squatting on a sort of cane-basket, 
covered with silk," must be fresh in the recollection of every reader of 
African travels. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



/ 



PROVEEB8 IF THB KAITUBI TONGUB. 43 

4. 

Ago flignbe nunin, ngafobe nun bago. 
Thou seest what is before, not what is behind thee. 
N.B. — Meaning, thou knowest the past, but not the future. 

5. 

Angalte silman gani karga, kalalan karga. 
'Wisdom is not in the eye, but in the head. 

Kampuro ago yiminya, ka miukontsibetiiro gansr 
gem, dngo siro ye ; wageya niro '' ago sinuni " tsenia, 
ka muskontsibetiye sedaro naptsin. 

K thou girest anything to a blind man, lay it first upon 
the staff in his hand ere thou givest it to him ; in the 
next world, when he shall say, 'Hhou bast not given me 
anything ! " the staff in his hand will bear witness. 

7. 
Oedi kanadiben tsannawa. 
At the bottom of patience there is heaven. 

8. 
Earn bnrgo souartia derege ademmaro kotsi. 
Being prepared before-hand is better than after- 
thought. 

9. 
Kam neontse bagote si manantse bago dabu kam 
meoguben. 

He that has no house, has no word in society. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



44 WIT ijrB WISDOM TBOM WEST APBIGA. 

10. 

Mana kamnye ndi nemetsia, tilo gonem, tilo kolone. 

If a woman speaks two words, take one and leave the 
other. 

11. 
Bnrgontse bnrgo kenyeribe gadi. 
He is as cunning as a weazel. 

12. 

Eamte ago ngala kammo tsedia, nemgalate pattsegin 
bago. 

If a man confers a benefit upon another, that benefit 
is not lost (to himself). 

18. 
Kannu kam tsebui. 
Fire devours a man. 
N.K— Meamng, << He is in great affliction." 



14. 

Earn dantse keli kwoya, sima na kannubero ger- 
tegin. 

He draws near the fire when meat is raw. 

N.B. — He who desires an object, is glad to adopt the requisite 
measures. The Persian proverb is, " For an object, men kiss the 
donkey's tail." 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PBOTEBBS IN THE KAKrBI T0K6UB. 45 
15. 

Earn kam tserageni dago ago nantsen taimageni. 
V. One does not love another, if one does not accept any- 
thing from him. 

N.B. — ^Amongst all Africans, MoslemB as well as Pagans, friend- 
ship seems to consist simply of giving and taking presents. 

16. 

Tama sngo diniabe. 

Hope is the pillar of the world. 

17. 
Leman sngo diniabe. 

Biches are the pillar of the world. 

18. 
Leman sngo robe. 

Property is the prop of life. 

19. 
Soba tsirebe mnsko ndin tei 
Hold a true friend with both thy hands. 



Kai^enem kamnro yimia, niga ntsetso. 

If thou givest thy heart to a woman, she will kill thee. 

N.B. — This and the sneer against the veracity of the sex in 
No. 10 are truly Semitic 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



46 WIT AND WISDOM PEOM WEST APBICA. 

21. 

Kngui timi litsia, wa niga beantseskin. 
I will pay thee when fowls cut their teeth. 
N.B. — Like the Latin *' Ad Grsecas kalendas." 



Kargete, sima kam kaniiTiro tsatin, sima kam tsan- 
aaro tsatin. 

It is the heart that carries one to hell or to heaven. 

23. 
Earn kargen kam tseteite sima kerdigo. 
He is a heathen who holds another in his heart. 
N.B. — ^Meaning, who bears malice. 

24, 

Kam neme am wnrabe tsatseranite neme kitabube 
tsetseraniy kam neme kitabnbe tsatseranite, neme 
komandebe tsetserani. 

He who does not believe what the elders say, will not be- 
lieve the sayings of the Book (the Bible) ; and he who 
does not believe the savings of the Book, will not believe 
what the Lord says. 

N.B.-^TliiB was apparently dictated to M. Koelle by some 
Christian convert. He informs us, that Pato Hamaba> i. e., Heaven, 
was the original Kanuri name for Qod, now generally superseded by 
the Arabic *« Allah." 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PB0VBEB8 IN THE KA.NUEI TONGUE. 47 

I 

26. 

M nemketsindo, wote kargenemga kamnro yimmi. 
Whatever be thy intimacy, never give thy heart to a 
woman. 

26. 

Kaliae afi nemgalantse yaye tatanem dibigo tseteni. 

Whatever be the goodness of a slave, he does not come, 
up to a bad son. 

27. 

Ealia ago kaBxnersibe gani: kaliaro mersanemia, 
sima niga ntsetso. 

A slave is not a thing to be trusted : if thou trustest a 
slave he will slay thee. 

28. 
Earn yantse ganawate asimtse tsakkata. 
One who has a younger brother, his secrets are covered. 
N.B. — Meaning, he has a confidential friend — in Africa. 

29. 

Kamte ago ngala dimia, Allaye ngalan niro pats- 
artsin. 
If one does good, Allah will interpret it to him for 

good. 

80. 

Eomande kammo leman tsi yaye, tata bago kwoya, 
lemante manantse bago. 

If our Lord gives riches to a man, and there are no 
children, the riches have no word. 

K.B. — ^Meaning, they have no object, no value. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



48 WIT AND WISDOK FUOM WEST ATBICA. 

31. 

Earn komande tata tsinnama, asimtse Allaye tsakto- 
eaamage. 

The maa to whom the Lord gives children, his secrets 
Allah covers. 

32. 
Ago fagiibete» komande genya, ngndo dabu knru- 
guamai tsnroi bago. 
^ As to what is future, even a bird with a long neck can- 
not see it, but the Lord only. 

83. 
Sinia yermanem bagoro, yermanemma ngalgo. 
>( Since thou hast no benefactor in this world, the having 
one in the next will be all the more pleasant. 
N.B. — ^A consolation to the poor. 

84. 

Earn yantse tsambnna bagoya, siga wadadai tsatin. 

He whose mother is no more, him distress carries off. 

N.B. — Amongst all the Moslem negroes, the mother is ever the 
best friend. So Mungo Park's Mandenga said, ** Strike me, but do 
not abuse my mother 1 " 

85. 

Earn asirntse kamnro gnltsegia, kamnte siga tsaba 
setanbero tseako. 

If a man tells his secrets to his wife, she will bring him 
into the way of Satan. 

N.B. — Rather a contrast to the English proverb, '* He who would 
thrive must ask his wife i** 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



FBOTBRBS IN THB KA.NUBI TOITGUE. 49 

36. 

Kamnye tsaba ngalaro kamga tsaldn bago. 
A woman never brings a man into the right waj^ 

37. 
Earn kana kugnibe ntsetsoma bago, sai Alia 

"No one can kill the appetite of fowls save Allah. 
N.B. — ^Meaning, *' Man cannot satisfy them." 

38. 

Ago dinianyin koron kimyinno tata tseragenago 
bago. 

Nothing in the world loves its young more than a she- 
slave and an ass. 

39. 
Vi talaga kwoya> ate galifd sobanemmL 
If thou art poor, do not make a rich man thy friend. 

40. 
VuBotoro lenemia, ati pato galifiiben tsamnemmi 
J£ thou goest to a foreign land, do not alight at a rich 
man's house. 

41. 

Bultnro dinia watsi tsabalan. 

It became day whilst the hysna was on its way. 

K«R — Meaning, "The man's strength was broken before he 
attained his object" 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



50 WIT JiSD WISDOM FBOM WE&T AFRICA.. 

42. 

Wuma mei ** taiga kamagimbe/^ 

I am '' King Elepbant-bag." 

N.B. — Meaning, '^ I am so Btrong that I can cany an elephant 
in a bag,** or *' I am ao powerful a» to think nothing too difficult for 
me.*' 

48. 

Wit tawangi dngo tsabalan wnro dinia wasegi. 

I arose early, but the dawning day overtook me on tbe 
way. 

N.B. — Meaning, "I married a wife in early youth, but had no 
children by her." 

44. 

KanxLwari nonemmi kwoya, kanuwate nonemibat 
If thou dost not know hate, dost thou know indiffer- 
ence? 

N.B. — Meaning, " How is it thou didst not perceive that I love 
thee not, even though thou didst not discover that I hate thee ? '*' 

45. 

WxL gesga gana nuke, kolonge; kura gongimbal 

If I see a small tree, shall I leave it and take a large 

one? 

N.B. — Meaning, " If I have a chance of marrying a young man 
whom I can easily manage, shall I pass him by and marry one who is 
too strong for me f " 

40. 

A certain man took a long journey, on which he passed 
a rich man who had many children, all of them girls ; he 
saluted him, saying, " Aha talaga umse*^ — poor man, how 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PBOTIBBB USr THX KASVUL TONGUB. 51 

art thou ? This man was yezed to hear himself called 
poor. He next passed a poor man who had many little 
children^ all of whom were boys, and him he saluted, 
saying, " Aha galifu «ww" — ^rich man ! how art thou ? 
This man was vexed on account of being called rich. He 
next met a man who had neither wife nor children, and 
who, at night, slept in a pitch-dark house without lamp ; 
him he saluted, saying, " Aba kampu umse'* — blind man ! 
bow art thou? This man was vexed at being called 
blind. At last |^e met a man lying under a hangar^ a 
tree with very long and sharp thorns ; him he saluted, 
saying, ^ Aha koa ngwrdegi wuse*^ — lame man ! how art 
thou P This man was vexed, to hear himself called lame. 
When the traveller returned, afber a long time, he visited 
these men again, and saluted each by the directly opposite 
title ; but then they were again vexed, since, during his 
absCfhce, the prophecy contained in his former addresses 
had been realised. 

47. 
A certain man had a most beautiful daughter who was 
beset by many suitors. But as soon as they were told 
that the sole condition on which they could obtain her 
was to bale out a brook with a ground nut shell (what is 
about half the size of a walnut shell), they always walked 
away in disappointment. However, at last one took 
heart of grace, and began the task. He obtained the 
beauty; for the father said, " ham ago Uuru haditaia Uido** 
— be who undertakes what he says, will do it. 

N.B. — Tbe Hindoos have a eomewhat similar fabliau coDcerning 
a sand-piper, who, in revenge for the loss of his young, began to 

E 2 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



52 WIT AKB WISDOM FBOM WEST ATHICA. 

drj up Samudra Devta, or the ocean. Both teach men not to 
admit the word " impossible " into their Tocabulftriee, and to consider 
nothing too high for human will to attain. So it is popularly said 
amongst ourselves that, if a man really determined to win it, he 
might wear the crown of England. 

48. 
Once in a famine a woman asked her husband to look 
after the pot au feu while she was going to fetch water. 
On her returning unobserved by him, she found that 
when skimming off the foam or scum he filled a calitbash 
with it, and hid it somewhere, supposing it to be the best 
part of the food. The woman did not let him know that 
she had seen him play this trick. But at dinner, when 
the husband, trusting in what he had hid, said to her, 
''give me only a little, and let our children haTej>lenty," 
she said to him, "ahantsa ate hilguro higela gullemmi^* 
— father ! do not call scum, harvest ! He did not under- 
stand what this meant till he went to eat what he had 
put aside for himself, and, as might be expected, found 
the calabash empty. 

49. 
The question was once asked — " Kamunyin hoangamfin 
nduntsa ngvhugo ?** i.e.. Who are more in number, the 
women or the men ? One answered, '^ Ebangama ganago^ 
hamtma ngvhugo ; ago Jcamuga nguburo tsedenate^ koan» 
ga mana kamube pantnnte siga kamuro tamissagei, atemr 
arokamutenguhuy^ i,e,, Men are the minority, women are 
the majority ; the reason why there are more women is 
this, that men who listen to what women say, are 
counted as women. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PBOYEBBS IK THX EANUSI TOKGhUB. 53 

50. 

The Fula once sent the following message to the go- 
vernor of a town — "iba belama Tsarami Daduimate 
tegera Ueba dugo andi Hro heam yate dinye yeyogo ! " — 
literally. May Sarah's son, the governor of Dadui, make 
dumplings, till we come and bring him milk, and mash 
them, that we may drink together ! This message refers 
to the Fula practice of mashing dumplings in milk and 
then drinking it : the meaning is, " Prepare thyself for 
war, and get dinner ready for us : we are about to attack 
and to defeat thee.** 

51. 
On the other hand, the Burmese governor returned 
the following message to the Fula — ^^ Sandi koanya 
kwoya, isa, ngo heri denesyana, Jealu tsayute, wua sandyua 
huiye!** — literally, If they are men, let them come; 
behold, I have cooked meat, let them bring the sauce, 
that I and they may eat it. The meaning of this is, " I 
am prepared for war and battle : we will fight as soon 
as you come." 

52. 

Sintse tilo dinian, tilo lairan. 

He has one foot in this world and one in the next. 

KB. — Meaning, ha ia in imminent danger : as we say, " He haa 
one foot in the graye.* 

53. 

Andi ngafo lukranben bonye. 
We shall sleep behind the Koran. 
N.B.— Meaning, '* We shall feel more secure after an oath." 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



54 WIT AISTD WISDOM FBOM WEST AFBICJl. 

54. 

Kalantselan dangL 

I stand on his bead (i.e., surpass him). 

N.E — Eala, the head, is much used in phrasefl, e. g., I see my 
head, i.e,, I think or deliberate ; I lift up my head, i.e., I am highly 
pleased ; I take out a person's head, i.e., I can deliver him ; I hold 
a person's head, ue., I help or protect him. No. (9. 

65. 

Wnte dabnndon wu bago. 
As for me, I shall not be in your midst. 
N.B.— Meaning, " I will have nothing to do with you." 

56. 

Kargeni na tilon naptsenL 

Mj heart did not sit down in one place (i.e., I toas 
uneasy ^ disquieted), 

57. 

Tigini amtsi. 

Mj skin is cold (i.e., lam sad, grieved), 

58. 
Tsi manaro or Lebalaro yakeskin. 
I put mj mouth into the matter or dispute (i.e., I 
meddle with it), 

59. 
AUa kamuro kalantse tsin. 
Allah gives a woman her head. 

N.K — Meaning, God gives a safe delivery: so they say a 
woman has obtained her head, i.e., has been safely confined. Also, 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



\ 



PEOTE&BS IS THE Ki.KUEI TONGUE. 65 



*' KcUani pandeiki " means, I have received my head, i,e., I have 
escaped safely, I baye been delivered. This expression is used 
especially in regard to the delivery of a woman in childbed, but also 
in regard to any other deliverance. Similarly, '' Allah gives a persoE 
his head," i.e., saves, rescues hitn : used by man referring to re- 
covery from illness, return from battle, &c. (See No. 54. 



60, 

Pesga gereskiiL 

I tie a face (i.e., pull a long face^ look displeased). 

61. 

Manande ngalema toaba tilon tsnlngeni. 

Our word never left one and the same road. 

N.B. — ^Meaning^ " We never fell out or disputed with one 
another." 

62. 

Sandi manantsa na tiloro tsasake. 
Thej put their words in one and the same place. 
N.R —Moaning, '' they are all of one mind." 

63. 

Myaye Allayo agomesagenate sitema ruiyen. 
What Allah has decreed for us, that we shall see (i.e., 
experience), 

64. 
Allah artseki beiantso ! 

Allah give thee good luck. 

N.B.— So also they say Allah bless thee— keep thee— grant thee 
longlifei 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



56 WIT AND WI8P0M nOM WEST AFBIOA. 

66. 

Alia barganem or Alia bargando (gotse). 
May Allah take his blessing from you. 
N.K — ^A g;reat oune. 

Bennade. 

A bug : the Bomuese, like the pagans of TJnyamwezi, 
consider the smell aromatic, and they suppose the aroma 
of Paradise and that of bugs to be of the same nature. 

67. 
Kam kalantsen nigawa besgero letsin bago. 
One who has been three years married does not go to 
the Besge, or dancing place of young people. 

68. 

Vgadza. 

A loup«garou, one who can transform himself into a 
hjSBna, as in Abyssinia. According to M. Koelle's infor- 
mant, there is a town in Gazir called Kabutiloa, in which 
eyery person possesses the gift of lycanthropy. 

69. 

Na dabn kambo. 

One's natire place (literally, where one's " dabu " or 
umbilical string was buried after birth). 

70. 
Binia fatsar kamtsi. 
The dawn has cut through — ue,, day dawns. They 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PBOT£BBS Ur THB KAISUBI TONGUE. 57 

distinguish between guhogum hurgobe, the first cock- 
crowing, between two and three in the morning, and 
gubogum dcregebe, the second cock-crowing near dawn. 

71. 
Dinia kan dabntsi 

The sun is in the centre of the world (i.e., It U noon). 

72. 
Ago gedintse bagote nemero, si aram. 

It is forbidden to tell anything that has no foundation. 

73. 
Karge gereskin or Earge taskin. 
I tie my heart, or I hold my heart (i.e«, lam composed^ 
comforted), 

N.B. — Kargtf or heart, occurs in many curious phrases^ e.g., 
the heart is cut, i.e., courage is gone ; the heart is sweet, i.e., one is 
glad. A " black heart " is a bad heart. 

74. 

Heiram kirga koitsin bago. 

A princess never makes a slave her friend. 

75. 
Kungana pingin. 

To divine by cowrie shells, which are thrown on the 
ground, and which show futurity by the manner in which 
they fall. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



58 WIT AKB WISDOM FROH WEST AFRICA. 

76. 

Lukran biukin. 

I eat the Lukran (i.e., Koran), 

N.B. — ^The Boniuese swear by placing the hand first upon the 
Koran and then upon forehead and breast. 

77. 
Kg^ndi pingin. 

I take out poverty (i.e., the guinea-worm). 

N.B. — The guinea-worm is called '' poverty/' because the disease 
always reappears at the beginning of the rains, thus preventing the 
sufferers from attending to their farms, and reducing them to desti- 
tution. 

78. 

Vgnrtu kamawnnga da tsogo tilon kotsena, kamawun 
gnrtoga sila tsogo tilon kotsena. 

A hippopotamus exceeds an elephant by one basket of 
flesh, and an elephant exceeds a hippopotamus bj one 
basket of bones. 

79. 
Allabe rambnskin. 
I pay what I owe to Allah. 
N.B. — I pay the debt of nature — die. 



80. 

Serifo. 

An albino, much feared for supernatural powers in 
Borneo. These men can have meat roasted on their naked 
arms, or plunge them into boiling water without injury. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



FBOTEBBS IN THE KANUBI TONGUE. 59 
81. 

Nyanmyam. 

A caanibal : this is a general and not a proper name, 
and the NyamnjamB have a king. 

82. 

Eoliram or Knriram. 

A wood-demon or ghost, supposed to be of gigantic 
stature, wifch long flowing hair and pale skin like the 
Pulas. He lives in large hollow trees, irom which he 
issues after sunset, at midnight, and before sunrise. If 
anj one comes in his way, he salutes him with a fearful 
slap in the face — sometimes kills him. He often halloas 
as if to call people, but he never carries them away as the 
water-demon does. The Kuriram remarkably resembles 
the Eakshasa of the Hindoos. 

83. 
Hgamarain. 

A water-demon, living in wells, cisterns, pools, rivers, 
and lakes, and in shape resembling a white man. These 
beings often catch people who fetch water after night has 
set in. If a male demon seizes a man, he slays him at 
once ; if a woman, he keeps her for a month or a year, 
and then dismisses her. V.v, — a she-fiend kills) the 
women and keeps the men alive. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized 



by Google 



III. 



PROVERBS 



THE OJI TONGUE. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized 



by Google 



PROVERBS IN THE OJI TONGUE. 



The Oji, Ochi, or Otji language is spoken through- 
out the empire of Ashante, which Englishmen know as 
Ashantee. To the south of Ashante again, and extend- 
ing along the sea-coast, are their congeners, the Fante 
(Eantee), who use the same tongue, but with certain 
dialectic diiSerences, rendering it less pure and agree- 
able to the ear than that of the inlanders. Besides these 
two large divisions, there are three small and non- 
maritime countries, eastward of Ashante, namely, 
Akim, Akwapim, and Akwamu, generally known as Ak- 
wambu, who are also Oji-speakers. They have, at times, 
been subdued by the overwhelming power of Ashante ; 
but they are at present independent, and gOTemed by 
their own chiefs and caboceers, under the protection of 
the English, who succeeded the Danes in that part of 
the coast. The idiom of Akim resembles that of its 
neighbour Ashante. Akwapim* lies to the east of 
Akim, and Akwamu to the north-east of Akwapim, 
bordering on the river Volta. 

* This provinoe is in about the meridian of Greenwich, and S"" N. lat. 
It is separated from the sea by Ga or Accra-land. The country is well 
wooded and mountainous, containing seventeen villages, each with its 
own chief, who owes a loose allegiance to the headman of Akropong. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



64 WIT AyV WISDOM FROM WEST AFRICA. 

All these are gold-producing lands, and when the pre- 
sent inexplicable state of apathy and degradation shall 
have passed away, they and their language will become 
of importance. The Oji is spoken by probably two mil- 
lions of souls. The proverbs quoted below are borrowed 
from the work of the Eev. N, Eiis.* 

The two preceding collections are made from negroid 
races, and bear unmistakeable signs of Allah and the 
Koran. We now come to the purely Hamitic and 
Negro literature, in which ^occasionally a Moslem or a 
Christian sentiment can be seen dimly reflected. As 
the reader has been warned in the preface, a greater 
amount of illustration now becomes necessary. 

* Grammatical Outiine of the Oji Longnige^ with especial Reference to 
the Akwapim Dialect ; together with a OoUeetion of ProTerbe of the 
Natives, bj Rey. H. N. Riis. Basel, Bahnmaier*s Bachhaudling (C. 
Detloff), 1854. 

The collection of Mmebnsem, or proverbs, is assisted bj explanatory 
notes, which are inserted with a little pruning — generally a necessary 
operation in Teutonic " works" — and the orthography of the reverend 
author has been preserved. His Qrammar is by no means so transcen- 
dental as that of the Eev. M. Zimmerman, and the Vocabulary is both 
useful and simple. It is hard to understand, however, why the reverend 
gentleman retains the obsolete letter ; and why in the order of letters 
T should be promoted to precedence over E. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PBOYEBBS IK THE OJI TONaUS. 



1. 

Abe baakon na sei ensa. 

One palm tree spoils the palm wine. 

K.B. — Among the Oji the trees are felled -^generally speaking, 
a number at a time— and a hole being cut in each, the juice distils 
into pots or bottles placed to receive it. The produce is removed 
twice a day, when the contents of the pots are all poured into a 
single large vessel If one tree, therefore, has given bad wine, the 
whole will be spoiled. Thus we say, " A little leaven leaveaeth the 
whole lump." 

2, 

Wo to adiuva ebi ka w'ano. 
^ If you lay poison (i. e., attempt to ptnnn otheri)^ some 
will touch your mouth. 

3. 

Abo&a bo envaw, na ommo akekire. 
A child may crush a snail, but it will not crush a 
tortoise. 

N.B. — Means, do not attempt what is beyond your strength : 
httle strength may effect objects within its sphere, but will prove 
vain beyond it. 

4. 

Abofira nte n'enna ni n'agya asem-a, odi adnan-a en- 
kyinne nim. 

If a child does not hear his mother's and his father's 
word, he {shall) eat food (which) salt is not in. 

w 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



66 WIT AKD WISDOM TBOM WEST ATSIOA. 

5. 

Tekrema na kan onipa, na tekrema na gyai nipa. 
The tongue kills man and the tongue saves man. 

N.B.— So the Hindi proverb : The tongue may mount an ele- 
phant, or put the head in peril The necessity of bitting and bridMng 
the tongue is a favourite theme with the semi-civilised. CL Tb» 
Proverbs of Scripture, chaps, vi., xii., xt., xviii., and James ill 5. 



6. 

Woye abofra ensirow akotia. 

If you are a child do not deride a short man. 

N3. — ^Because you do not know whether you may not, when 
grown up, be in the same predicament. Said of what the Greeks 
call Epichserekaki aS' opposed to the Epichseragathi. 



7. 

Onipa mfon kwa; okom enni no-a na, odi ekaw. 

A man does not fast without a cause \ if he does not 
suffer hunger, he is in debt. 

8. 
Asem monne fata hienni. 
Hard words are fit for the poor. 

9. 
Sika ben wo-a, ehoa. 
When gold comes near to you, it glistens. 

N.Bc-Means that an alluring object placed before the eyes 
stimulates desire. So we say " opportunity makes the thief." 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PBOYEBBS IN THE OJI TONGUE. 67 
10. 

Onipa wonno no nna *niara. 

You do not always love (the same) man. 

N.B. — Literally, ** A man you do not love him all days ; " 
meaning Uiat friendship and love are things that sometimes change. 

11. 

Vode kokroko na di emmim-a, anka sinno beba fie. 
If by bodily strength violence were committed, an 
elephant would come into the town. 

N.B. — Meaning that if might, not law, prevail, the elephant, 
which is the strongest of beasts, would be master. 



12. 

Wonko bi aftim da, wose: mi enkn ni knafo. 
If you never went into another man's plantation, you 
would say, " I am the only planter.** 

K.B. — ^Meaning, that the home-dweller has homely wits, and that 
men are prone to judge of all things from what happens under their 
own eyes. 

13. 

Didime na yi bronni nansin adi 

A feast uncovers a European's wooden leg. 

N.B. — Didime is a feast of course followed by a " big drink," 
which — ^'•in vino Veritas "—makes people forget self-respect, and 
exposes defects which are usually concealed. Bronni or Bro (in the 
Ga language Blofo) something or somebody European, is probably 
derived from Abro, Maize or Indian corn, for a reason to be 
quoted, in the Ga proverbs. Abrokirri, "Europe," is, however, 
explained by Mr. Riis as, perhaps, a corruption of ** Portugal." 

F 2 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



68 WIT AND WISDOM FEOM WEST A.FBICA. 

Tapo ni abanm. 

There is not a halfpenny in his palace. 

N.B.— The *' Tapo" is twenty cowries, or two farthings. « Aban" 
is a house built of stone, a castle or palace opposed to ^ dan/' the 
negro square or oblong hut of clay-plastered sticks roofed with grass or 
palm leaves. The proverb alludes to pride and poverty, and also 
answers to our " great cry and little wool" The Hindis say, there 
is not a thread in the house, and the blockhead wants a turban. 

15. 

Dabi otenten benya, akotia xmya. 

{This time the short one has got it^ hv£) another time 
the long one will get it, and the short one will not get it 
(i. e., the object of their common pursuit), 

N.B. — Meaning, that fortune is fickle ; celeres quatit alas. 

16. 

Wonyi m'aye-a, ensei me din. 
If you do not praise me, do not spoil my name (or 
cJu^racter), 

17. 

Akekire so, ansa ko na ensa ba. 

The tortoise says, The hand goes and the hand comes. 

N.B. — Leas literally ** if you draw back your hand (L a, givt me 
no presents), I draw back mine." It means, as you behave to me so 
shall I behave to you. Mr. Riis remarks, " it is a peculiar feature of 
the Oji proverbs that they are often referred to animals." Ci 27, 
83, 89, 90, 118, 120, 188, Ac. The « peculiarity " may, I believe, be 
extended to the proverbs of all semi-civilised peoples. 

18. 

Ohi enni ni yonku. 

A poor man has no friend. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PBOYEBBS IS THE OJI TOVaiTE. 69 

19. 

Obi nnoa aduan, enko ta enkwanta, enfyufye menni. 

Nobody cooks food and places it in tbe road to seek a \ 

^est. 

N.B. — Meaning, do not invert the order of things : begin with 
the beginning. 

20. 

Yenim so mogya vo yen anom, na yefl entesn. 

We know there is blood in our mouth, but we throw 

out spittle. 

N.B. — Though it is a fact that our mouth is lined with blood, 
yet we eject saliva only : we do not give away all, we keep the beet 
things for our own use. Charity begins at home. 

21. 

Obi nko tea baliinni vo ne bon ano, na onse nse; wo 
hn bon. 

Nobody assails a Hahinni at the door of his nest, and 

says to him, you stink. 

N.B. — ^The Hahinni is a large black fetid ant. The proverb 
means " every man's house is his casUe," — a truer saying in Africa 
than in England. 

22. 

Biribi ni wo ensem-a, emmua no, na mmofra ntiti eki. 

If there is nothing in your hand do not shut it, and let 

the children pick outside. 

N.B. — The closed hand would denote that it contains a present, 
and thus cause disappointment if found to be empty. The proverb 
means, "Do not tantalise others:" "do not excite hopes or give 
promises which you do not iQtend to fulfil." 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



70 WIT AND WISDOM FROM WEST APBICA. 



Efe, ne enye aniberre. 

It is fine, but excites no desire. 

N.B. — Said of persons and things which, with brilliant qualities, 
unite BO many drawbacks, that they become objects of aversion rather 
than of desire. 

24. 

Wonim ta-a, ta wo dyon. 

If you can pull out, pull out your own grey hairs. 

N.B. — Attend to your own faults before you reprehend others; 
remove the beam from your own eye, before remarking the mote in 
your brother^B. 

25. 

Wanya wohu-a, to wo pon mu da. 

\ If you are rich, always shut your door. 

N.B. — In Ashante, Dahome, and Benin, the reputation of 
wealth must be carefully avoided. 

26. 

Ea akekire enni envaw enku-a, anka otao nto vo wn- 
ram da. 

If there were only snails and tortoises, no gun would 

ever be fired in the jungle. 

N.B. — Because snails and tortoises can be caught without a 
gun : ways and means must be proportioned to the object in view. 

27. 

Odnaoen se, nea 'ko ne yem no, enni nede, na nea 
vo n'afonnom no, enye nedea. 

The monkey says, that which has gone into his belly 

is his ; but what is in his niouth is not his. 

N.B. — Any external possession is uncertain, however well 
secured. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



]PBOySBBS IK THE OJT TOKGUE. 71 

• 26. 

Biribi enkyen ogya koko. 

There is nothing more red {or 90 red as) fire. 



Obi nkyerre bi nse: to enkyienne di. 

A person will not say to another, buy salt (and) eat. . 

N.B. — It 18 folly to command or to exhort another in matters 
which his own neoeaaities will compel him to undertake. 

30. 

Wo ensa dam-a, vonni engyaw. 

If your hand is in (the dish) they eat not, leave not. 

N.B. — Meaning, they eat not so as to leave nothing for you ; you 
are sure of getting your share. West Africans feed with their fingers 
from the common pot or dish around which they are seated. 

81. 

Ohia na ma odeoe ye akoa. • 

Poverty makes a free man become a slave. 

82. 
Asum vo " soa mL'* 

At the watering place they say, " Lift for (i. e. help) 
me!" 

N.B. — ^The " Asum* is a place where water gathers : it here re- 
presents the Asiatic well and the English pump. The women fetch 
the necessary and each assists the other to lift the full pot upon her 
head, such being the usual way of carrying it home. The proverb 
probably means '* In the eveiy day affiurs of life the want of mutual 
assistance is felt." 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



72 TriT AKD WISDOM FBOM WEST AEBICA^ 



Hwansana se: nea 'ka ekirri na, edoso. 

Saith the fly, " What is left behind is a great deal." 

N.B. — This alludes to the fly trimming itself with its hind legs, 
which it continues as long as it considers that something is left to 
be done. The proverb exhorts men not to weaty of any labour, 
until they have carried out their purposes. 



34. 

Akoko di wo yonku aivn-a, pam no ; dabi obedi wode. 
When a fowl eats your neighbour's corn, dnve it away ; 
another time it will eat yours. 

85. 
Wode kokrobeti ko ayi-a, vode totorre bnaw. 

If you go to customs with your thumb {stretched out), 
they will answer you with blows. 

N.B. — "Ayi" is a pubHc festiTal celebrated with processions, 
dancing, drumming, shooting, and drinking, which cause the streets 
to be crowded. " Customs" is the Anglo-African corruption of the 
Portuguese ** Costume," way, habit. To stretch forth the thumb at 
a person is a sign of mockery and contempt. The proverb corre- 
sponds with the French ^ Le moine r^pond conune Tabb^ chante." 



86. 

Ayisa vame ana, ose; woma mi se woma wo ba, 
anka mame. 

The orphan (when asked) whether he had enough, 
said, <^ If you had given to me as you gave to your (own) 
child, I should have had enough.** 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PEOTEBBS IK THE OJI TONGUE. 73 

87. 

Wo yem ye-a, womfa wo yirre nkye. 

If you are good-natured, you will not give away your 

wife. 

K.B.— A good man should be thoroughly attached to his 
family. 

88. 

Abofra eni anso panyin-a, ofre empopa se haha. 

If the child does not honour the aged, it will call a 

palm branch ** haha." 

N.B. — " Haha" is a word of no signification. The proverb means 
that a child so perverse as to withhold respect from his seniors, 
would be capable of any absurdity. 

89. 

Opete, wodi bi bin, na obi nni wode. 

Vulture! thou eatest anybody's egesta, but nobody 

eats thine. 

N.B. — ^This is addressed to sycophants and parasites, who seek 
feasts and presents from others without ever making a return. 

40. 

Eamma hamma kyirre ketebo. 

String {added to) string will bind even a leopard. ^ 

N.B. — Meaning; that united strength and repeated efforts wiH 
effect great things. Gutta cavat lapidem. 

41. 

Obi nto akokonini, na ommon obi aknra. 
One does not buy a cock, and he does not crow in 
one's plantation. 

N.B. — Meaning, nobody buys a cock, and lets him crow in 
another man's field. 



\ 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



74 WIT AKD WISDOM 7B0K WEST AFBICA. 

42. 

Obaifo rekoe ! Obaifo rekoe ! na wonye baifo-a, wontya 

wo eni 

(When the cry u raised) " There goes a witch ! There 

\ goes a witch ! " if you are no witch you will not turn 

round. 

N.B. — " Baifo," from " bayi," Boroery, means wizard or witch : 
the saying correspondB with our insinuation touching the cap fitting. 

48. 

Onipa reba, wonse nse, bera. 
When a man is coining, you will not say " Gome ! " 
N.B. — Am we say, " Don't spur a willing horse.*' 

44. 

Wo se enye-a, nea wota foro eldrri, ara nen. 
Though your teeth are bad, they are just what you lick. 

N.B. — Though your friends and relations, or neighbours and 
fellow-citizens, are disagreeable people, do not drop all interoourse 
with them. 

45. 

Sasa bonsam ko ayi-a, osoe baifo fi. 

When the fiend goes to the Sabbat (or cwtoms)^ he 

lodges with the sorcerer. 

N.B. — " Sasabonsam," earth-devil, from " asase," eartb, and 
^abonsam,*' a fiend,* is a monstrous being, living in the deepest 

* lliBsionaries translate Abonsam, the Devil, ''conceived to be an 
evil spirit living in the upper regions (our popular heaven) and 
reigning in Abonsam Eru (in Accra, Abonsam-dse) over the spirits (or 
rather the shades) of wicked men." It is probably some evil ghost who 
has obtained a general bad name. The Sasa Abonsam corresponds 
after a fiishion with the Erdgeist, the Wald-tenfel and the Eobold of the 
Germans. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



FBOTEBBS DT THE OJI TOKGUE. 75 

I of the foreet, hoetile to man, especially pric«tly man, but 
intimate with wizard and witch. The proverb means ** Birds of 
a feather flock together/* '' Like .for like, and Nan for Nicholas; " or, 
as the Persians say, 

"Like flies with like, 
Pigeon with pigeon, hawk with hawk." 

46. 

Ogya ni atodm nna. 
Fire and gunpowder do not lie together. 
N.B.— So we say of oil and water. 

47. 

Osram emfi da korro, entya manm. 

The moon does not appear on one day, does not pass 

oyer the town. 

N.B. — ^Meaning, when the new moon appears, it does not pass 
over the town the same day, a work is not completed as soon as 
begun. Rome was not built in a day. '* Petit & petit loiseau fait 
son nid." 

48. 

Osn to, na vonyiyi ade vo snm-a, enye von ni bo. 

When rain falls, and they must remove the things in 

the nun, it is not them and {or together with) the stones. 

N.B. — Meaning, that you do not remove the stones with the 
things. The proverb is applied to those who o*erstep the modesty 
of nature, who, in doing a viseful and necessary action, add to it 
what is useless and unnecessary. 

49. 

" Vonta eakinne ! Vontu enkinne ! *' na yereda enta. 

"They shall pull us! they shall pull us!" then we 

shall sleep without fire. 

N.B.— Meaning, when they cry out, " Throw it away ! Throw 
it {the moking piece of wood) away ! " we shall lie freezing. West 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



76 WIT AND WISDOM TBOM WEST A7BICA. 

AfricanB who have scanty clothing sleep by the side of a fire during 
the colder nights of the year. When troubled by the smoke, they 
order a slave, or some one handy, to remove the cause of offence. 
If, however, this be done too often, the fire will disappear, and the 
cold will become more troublesome than the smoke was. The 
proverb warns men to choose the lesser of two 'evik, not to incur 
the risk of a greater, for the purpose of ridding oneself of the 
smaller, trouble. 

60. 

Obi ntya akoko ano, emma akye. 

Any (person) does not get a-head of the cock, does not 

give salutation. 

N.6. — Less literally, " nobody says good morning before the 
cock/' i. e,, no one will go out before cockcrow, and bid his friends 
good morning. Everything must be done in due season. 

51. 

Kwaterrekwa se obema wo entama, tie ne din. 
When a rascal says that he will give you a coat, hear 
(i, e., inquire for) his name. 

N.B. — Meaning, before you trust him, seek information about 
him. And generally, be careful whom you trust, particularly where 
there is just cause of suspicion. 

52. 

Hi-a^ mida-'yanya, minhu nyankupon,* na wo wo- 
butxL ho. 

I who lie on ray back do not see the sky, and you are 
lying on your belly. 

N.6. — Meaning, if one who has the best opportunities of 
effecting an object cannot succeed, they who have fewer advantages 
mvist expect to fail 

* Nyankupon in Akwapim and Onyame in Aahante, and equiva- 
lent to Nyonmo in the Ga or Accra language, signify the Supreme 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PBOTKBB8 IN THE OJI TONaUJS. 77 

53. 

Obi mpra, na obi nsesaw. 

When one sweeps another does not carry away {the 

sweepings). 

N.B. — Literally, " A person does not sweep, and another does not 
take up/' i. e,, the same person must do both. 80 the European pro- 
?erbs, ** Quod quisque introivit, ipsi est ezcedendum : " As you make 
your bed so you must lie. " Comme on fait son lit on se couche." 



Being. The word is nsnally derived from " Yonkn " and " pon,* t. c, 
greatest friend. Sach at least is the composition explained by Mr. J. 
Beecham (Ashantee and the GK>ld Coast, pp. 171 and 172). Of this 
Mr. Riis remarks, '* there can be no doubt, that these derivations 
(alluding also to 'Nyame' being derived from 'ye,' to make, to create) 
are futile, being based on a misapprehension of the proper phonetical 
form of the words : besides the explanations of Nyankupon by 
' greatest friend,' stand in direct opposition with the notions of the 
Supreme Being entertained by the negroes. What may be said with 
some degree of certainty is that Nyankupon is a compound of ' ny- 
anku'and 'pon.' 'Pon' seems, from its occurrence in other words, 
to signify great or high. The derivation of ' nyanku ' is uncertain, 
but very probably 'nyame' and 'nyanku' are from the same root, 
and but two di£ferent forms. Their root is perhaps ' nyan,' to awake, 
supposing the original meanmg of this verb to be to rise, to raise ; so 
that 'nyanku' and 'nyame' in their primary signification would be 
synonymes of ' Sorro,' the high, that which is above. Fon ia 
added for emphasis, so that the meaning of Nyankupon would be the 
very high, the Most High. This hypothesis would easily account for 
the frequent use of both words in the material sense of sky or firma- 
ment, God being identified with the visible expanse of the heavens, 
as in Engliah 'heaven' — so the Chinese use 'Tien' — ^is sometimes 
said instead of God." This derivation wiH appear to many as hard to 
swallow as Mr. Beecham's. 

Mr. Riis (snb voo. Nyankupon) also remarks that this Supreme 
Being is conceived by the negroes of the Oji tribe as a great spirit 
living above, the author of all good, eternal and omnipotent^ to whom 
the creation of the world and the natural phenomena of the atmosphere 
as thunder, lightning, and rain, are ascribed, and by whom the spirits 
of good men deceased are conveyed to live under his dominion in 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



78 WIT ASTB WISDOM EBOM WEST AFBIOA. 

54. 

Akosna mmo miun, na Akua mfa. 

Akosua does not mischief, and Akua does not take (if)* 

N.B. — Less literally, when Akosua does mischief, Akua is not 
punished for it. Meaning, '' No one should suffer for the sinB of 
another.** 

55. 

Okom di wo-a, womfa wo ensa abien nnidL 

Though you are hungry, you do not eat with both 

hands. 

N.B. — Meaning, '' However pressing be the necessity, it must 
be kept within the bounds of propriety." 

56. 

Da se 'nne enti na vaye atvnrow. 

For the sake of a day like to-day they have made the 

nails. 

N.B.— Less literally, ^for a day like the present the nails are 
made." This is a threat of future revenge. Meaning, " I, too, have 



Nyankuponfi or Nyankuponkra. On the other hand, however, he is 
considered too high above earth to care for the affairs of man, thus 
perfectly agreeing with Pliny, Lib. 2, chap. 5 : — *' It is ridiculous to 
suppose that the great head of all things, whatever it be, pays any 
regard to human affairs.** The negro deity even has committed them 
to Bosom (volg. Bossam), imaginary beings worshipped by the negroes 
and called "Fetishes** by Europeans. Mr. Riis concludes with 
saying — ''The idea of him as a supreme spirit is obscure and un- 
certain, and often confounded with the visible heavens or sky, tbe 
upper world (sorro) which lies beyond human reach ; and hence the 
same word is used also for heavens, sky, and even for rain and 
thunder.** 

It is easy to discover the traces of a belief in the Deity, an idea 
doubtless derived by the West African negroes in olden times from 
the Portuguese. I have elsewhere recorded my belief that their con- 
ception of a Qod is physical, not metaphysical. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PBOVBEBS IN THE OJl TONGUE. 79 

the power of iDJuring, and will at some time repay you for my 
present injury." 

57. 

Hal I hai I na 'mma akroma 'nye kese. 
{The cry of) Hai ! Hai ! has not suffered the hawk to 
grow big. 

N.B. — " Hai/' is an interjection used in frightening off hirds of 
prey. The proverb means, if the hawk had been allowed to eat his 
fill of fowl and chicken, he would have become stronger and more 
dangerous: if evil were left unrestrained we should soon be over^ 
powered by it, 

58. 

Nea ogwan do na, ode ne fafa sie. 

A sheep puts his white {wool) on his favourite places. 

N.B. — Literally, " What a sheep loves {there) he puts his white.** 
The sheep is supposed to be spotted, and the white is considered 
prettier than the black. The meaning is, you will bestow your best 
upon those you love. 

59. 

Obi ye ne biribi-a, mnoia onye, na own ben. 
When a person does his something (i. e., hU bunness), \ 
let him do it, for death is coming on. 

N.B. — Meaning, let every one do what he pleases, as life is short, 
it is little matter how he acts, all will be the same a hundred years 
hence ; it is a characteristic negro sentiment, showing their indo- 
lence^ nonchalance, and improvidence. 

60. 

Kahn kontromfi-a, ne yirr *awn, na vasiw atimnn; 
na wo vansan de, wofa hn dent 

I have seen a baboon (cynocephalus), whose wife was 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



80 WIT AND WISDOM EBOM WEST ATBIGA. 

dead, and he wore long hair ; but thou, antelope, what ifl 

that to thee P 

N.B. — The hair is allowed to grow long in sign of mourning, 
and the proverb appears to be directed against improper meddling 
with the affidrs of others. 

• 61. 

Akwanmiuem dew enti na vofl entesn to ensneni-a, 
aka befa ko. 

When in consequence of good news spittle is thrown 
upon the surface of the water, the '^ aka " will snatch it up. 

KB. — ^The "aka** is a river fish : the meaning of the proverb 
is obscure. 

62. 

Wo ura tan wo-a na, ofre wo akoa deoe. 
If jour master hates you, he calls jou a free man. 
N.B. — Addressed to a slave : by the act of hating you, your 
master dedares you to be free, for nobody hates his own property. 

6a 
Hu m' eni so mam enti na atyo abien nam. 
Por the sake of "blow upon my eye for me," two 
antelopes walk. 

N.R— Less literally, * that the one may blow upon the other^s 
eye, two antelopes walk in company." It means, that in case of one 
of them getting dust into his eye, the other will remove it by blowing 
upon it. The general idea conveyed by the proverb is, that asso- 
ciations are formed for the sake of mutual support. 

64. 

Obi nhn bi koaberan, encm nsL 

Kobody jumps (for joy) on seeing a strong slave of 
another. 

N.B. — Meaning, that you do not rejoice at an advantage in 
which you yourself have no share. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PBOTEUBS IK THE OJl TOKOUB« 81 
65. 

Obi* nto nantyn namon. 

Nobody will buy tbe footprints of a bullock. 

N.B. — The footprinte of a bullock here representing anything 
that cannot be turned to use. 

66. 

Vose: manya,— na vonse nse: yanya. 

You say,' " I have,"— not, " We have." 

N.B. — Meanmg, that one man is master of a family, not eeveral 
persons at onee. 

67. 

Obi do w'a na, oserre wo hu ade. 

If any one loves you, he will beg of you. 

N.B. — ^Begging is a sign of love, because, according to West 
African ideas, friendship consists in mutually giving and receiving 
presents. 

68. 

Ihia bata bo, eye tya na. 

A piece of wood lying close to a stone, it is good to 

cut (i.e., it will hear a hhto). 

N.K — Meaning, that it is good enough, or strong enough, to 
bear being cut, to resist a stroke. The idea implied is, '* Even the 
feeble may be rendered powerful by leaning upon those that can 
. support them.** 

69. 

Wagya akoa tya dna, ose; eye merow. 

"When your father's slave is chopping wood, he says it 

is soft. 

N.B. — If he said it is hard, it would sound like a complaint 
offensive t hla master, and likely to produce evil consequences. 

Q 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



82 WIT AKD WISDOM FBOH WEST Al-BICA. 

West AfricaiiB are astute in practising, regardless of truth, the ml* 
laid down in this proyerb, yiz., "Accommodate your tongue to 
time and circumstance." 

70. 

Wosen mi adidi-a^ misen wo nna. 

If you surpass me in eatiog, I surpass you in sleeping. 

N.B. — Meaning, do not think that you alone possess all the 
talents : if you surpass others in one respect^ you are deficient in 
another. 

71. 

Wopata adaban abien oe gyem-a, baakon eew. 

If you put two pieces of iron together in the fire, one 

will be burned. 

N.B. — This is addressed to a blacksnuth : if he puts two pieces 
of iron into the fire at the same time, one will be burned while he 
is engt^ed in hammering the other. The meaning is, in performing 
a work, its different parts must be taken in hand in due order; 
haste, instead of furthering, will defeat its own object. 

72. 

Se nea atoa te na, boba te. 

As the sword is, so is the scabbard. 

N.B. — The idea to be conveyed probably is, that two persons 
associating together may be supposed to be aUke in manners and 
principles. As we say. Tell me what your friends are, and I will tell 
you what you are. — ^ Dis-moi qui tu hantes, je te dirai qui tu es." 

78. 

Ayonkngorr* enti na okoto nnya ti. 

In consequence of friends-playing the crab has no 



N;B. — Friends-playing means feasting, drinking, dancing, 
gambling, and similar entertainments, at one's own expense. The 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PBOYERBS nr THE OJI TONGUE. 88 

crab ifi said to hare no head, because that member does not project 
from the body, and the animal is supposed in the proverb to have 
lost it by " ayonkugorro/' or junketing. A warning is thus en- 
forced against dissipation, by pointing to its evil consequences. 
To comprehend the bearing of such admonition, it must be re- 
membered that West Africans, besides being hard drinkers, are 
desperate gamblers, who will stake not only their property but 
their families and themselves. This probably was of more frequent 
occurrence than at present, during the old slave-trading days of the 
Qold Coast, yet I have heard of it throughoi^t Africa : in Unya 
mwezi, during my visit there, a negro staked his aged mother against 
a cow. 

74. 

Wohn. koto eni-a, wose ; eye dua. 

"Wliea you see the eyes of a crab, you will say they 

are spliuters of wood. 

N.B. — Being placed on pedicles or stalks, they are compared to 
splinters. The proverb corresponds with our "Appearances are 
deoeltfuL" — ^ II ne faut pas juger les gens but la mine." 

75. 

Esonno afon-a, wongwa no berow so. 

Though an elephant be thin, yet you will not carve it 

on a palm-leaf. 

N.B. — The idea to be conveyed is, that the great and noble, 
though in a fallen state, are different from those of mean and servile 
origin, and will not submit to unbecoming treatment. 

76. 

Broferr'a nnya 'mmerre sorro, na nnya nye de. 
A papaw-fruit that has not yet ripened on high (i.e., on 
the tree) is not yet sweet. 

N.B. — Meaning, the good qualities of a person or thing cannot 
appear before going through the usual stages of development, which 
lead gradually to a state of perfection. 

o 2 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



84 WIT AKD WISDOM FROM WEST AFRICA. 

77. 
• Wobo aberriki-a na, wohu ne ura fi kwan. 

If you beat a goat you will find his master's home's 
way (i.e., the way to its master^ s house), 

N.B. — Because, goats when frighteDed try to run home. The 
meaning seems to be, " The farthest way about is often the nearest 
way home ; " or, '' Ingenuity will devise many ways to attain its 



78. 

Wope aka asem akyere Nyankupon-a na, wokakyerre 
emfirama. 

If you want to tell anything to Heaven, tell it to the 
wind. 

N.B. — The meaning of this saying seems to be the same as that 
of 77. 

79. 

Nea womferre no, okoto nea woferre no eki. 

He whom you do not respect, will seat himself behind 
him whom you do respect, 

N.B.— In order to seek his protection when you are about to 
assaU him. The feeble lean for support on the strong. 



80. 

Eniwa fnfa nknm anuma. 

A white eye does not kill a bird. 

N.B.— A white eye means a glance of hatred or ill-will. The 
meaning is, looks may be menacing, but they cannot hurt you. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PBOTEBBB IN THB OJI TONaUE. 85 
81. 

Aboa kokoseki kasa kyerre bonnkyerre fo-a, ote. 

When the animal vulture speaks to the big drum he 

(the latter) hears it. 

N.B.— The ** kokoseki," or "pete," is the turkey-buzzard, one of 
the most useful birds in West Africa, feeding on carrion, and, there- 
fore, most sacred to the Fetish. The "bonukyerre," or ''boma," is a 
long but narrow drum, garnished with the skulls of hostile chiefs, 
and daubed with the blood of human sacrifices : its hollow sounds are 
heard on all state occasions, and, besides being sacred, it is supposed 
to be initiated in the mysteries of Fetishism. Hence the meaning 
seems to be, that members of the secret brotherhoods, of which many 
exist in West Africa, understand one another, and can communicate 
by means unknown to the multitude. 

82. 

Tekrema kro oia tekrena apim-a, eto piti. 

If one toDgue meets a thousand tongues, it faints. 

83. 

Obrofotefo na oma bronni ye aye. 

The European-understander (i. e., he who can speak with 

the Ewropean) may induce him to do good. 

N.R — ^Meaning, may persuade him to give presents, the object 
ever held in view by West Africans in their intercourse with white 
men. The proverb informs us, that to get all possible profit out of a 
person or thing, one must know him or it thoroughly. 

84. 

Eti ntetew-a, wongyai ekyow sea. 

If (j/our) head is not torn to pieces, you do not leave 

off wearing a hat. 

N.B. — As long as you live you follow the fashion. — " Out of the 
fashion, out of the world." 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



\ 



86 WIT AKD WISDOM FROM WEST AFRICA. 

85. 

Ki odidi me ose : ni odidi anadyo, oye baifo. 

He who has done eating will say, " He who eats at 

night is a sorcerer." 

N.B. —Meaning, that a person out of all temptation, iB apt 
to judge harshly the failings of his neighbours. 

• 86. 

Obi mmua n'ano onnifo. 

Nobody shuts (or shall shut) his mouth who is inno- 
cent. 

87. 
Dua baakon gye enframa, ebu. 
One tree receiving (all) the wind, breaks. 

N.B. — If the whole force of the wind shaking the forest were 
directed against one tree, it would overthrow it : collective strength 
will be triumphant in cases where single resistance would be vain. 
So the Esopian &ble of the old man and the bundle of sticks. There 
is no people more keenly alive to the advantages of combination 
than the West African, and it has long served to defend the negro 
against more highly intellectual races. 

88. 

Kontromfi se: oberan i^u ne koko. 

The kontromti says, " A strong man dies only from his 

chest being hurt." 

N.B. — The *' kontromfi," or cynocephalus, is the largest and 
strongest ape found on the Gold Coast ; * in the proverb it repre- 

• M. Riis translates ** kontromfi " by "chimpanzee ;" this, howerer, 
appears erroneous. M. Zimmermann says, '* a large kiud of monkey 
(Hnnds-afie ?)." The latter is more probable, as the dog- faced baboon 
is a iar fiercer and more dangerous animal than the troglodytes, and 
West Africa is full of stories concerning the attacks of these ferocious 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PB0VBBB8 IK THE OJI TONGUE. 87 

sentfl & man "calidua juyent&" — ^in the full enjoyment and con- 
aciousnesB of his strength, who in battle difldains a wound, unleBB his 
breast, supposed to be the seat of life, is dangerously hurt. 

Kontromfl se, me sninan ni m' eni. 

The baboon says, *• My charm is my eye." 

N.B.— West Africans are ever provided with " suman" — ** medi- 
canes for eye," charms or amulets to defend them from sorcerers^ 
enemies, and dangerous ghosts. The proverb remarks that a biava 
man will trust for his security to his own strength and vigilance. 

90. 

Adarre bo bo-a, nankasa na taa. 
When a hook beats a stone, itself (must) suffer. 
N.B. — ComiMure with the fable of the earthen pot and the 
iron pot 

91. 

Hea oko asu na obo ahinna. 

He who fetches water breaks the pot. 

N.B.-^When the water-pot comes to grief, it is more likely to 
be broken by the person who went with it for water, not by one 
who had nothing to do with it at the time. 

92. 

Yoton wo-a, wonto tno. 

If you (jyourself) are sold, you do not buy a gun. 

K.B.— Because one bom a freeman is not sold imless he be 
deeply indebted, and unable either to pay or to prevail upon others 
to pay for him. 

brutes upon women and even villages. As yet, however, we know so 
little oonceraing the anthropoid apes of Africa, that '* kontromfi," like 
the Toruban Nake, may be some new and fierce species resembling the 
gorilla. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



SB WIT Am) WISDOM FBOM WEST A7BICA. 

93. 

Osukwase airama nko di Krobo aivn, na yonk3rirre 
Santeni entoa ekaw. 

When a fowl from Osukwaae eats the com of Krobo, 

they do not seize a man from Ashante and make him 

refund the damage. 

N.B.— literally, ** An Osukwaae bird does not go to eat the 
Krobo com, and they do not catch an Ashante man, pays not the 
debt.'* Osukwase and Krobo are names of towns. Like No. 54, 
this means that no one should suffer for the sins of another. 

94. 

Woko asn amma, vommiia ahinna. 

When you go to {fetch) water and do not return, 

they do not enquire about the pot. 

N.B.— -They ask after you: a trifling loss is not thought of 
when it is accompanied by a heavy calamity. 

Ensu fa Kramo-a, vommisa n'adnrade. 

When water takes a Moslem (i.e., token he is droumed), 
they do not enquire about his dress. 

N.B. — " Kramo " and *' Kramofo " are Oji words for a Moslem. 
The proverb has the same meaning as No. 94. 

96. 

Wo& abarrima kwanm-a, wo sekan yera. 

If you make friends on the road, your knife will be 
lost. 

N.B. — A warning against sudden friendships with stranger8> 
who may prove deceivers and thieves : a neglect of this amongst 
the Asiatics doubtless fostered, if it did not create, the system known 
in England as '* Thuggee." 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



:pboterbs nr the oji tongue. 89 

97. 

Hea n'eni aberre, vommo n'eni su. 

He whose eyes are red, they do not beat upon his eyes. 

N.B. — Red eyes signify rage, and the meaning ib, that to vex 
one ah-eady vexed is " oleum addere camino "—to add fuel to fire. 
The Oji tongue has originally but three words for simple colours : 
"Tuntrum," black; **fufu," white; and "koko," red, ruddy, 
yellowish, or brownish-red. Bru for blue has been borrowed from 
the English. See also No. 208. 

98. 

Hea obun Tabirifo na, ofa n'entokota. 

(The executioner) who kills Tabirifo, gets his shoes. 

N.B. — '* Tabirifo" is the proper name of a man of note in 
Ashante, who was publicly executed. The proverb means, he who 
does the work should receive the reward. 

99. 

Hea OYO aka no, osurro sunson. 

He whom a serpent has bitten dreads a slow-worm. 

N.B. — Sunson is a harmless reptile, believed by West Africans 
to be blind. The meaning of the proverb is substantially the same 
as our saying, " The burnt child dreads the fire ; " or, ** The thief 
doth fear each bush an officer;" but more strongly expressed, 
signifying that a person who has been injured will not only dread 
the identical cause or author of his affliction, but even the mere 
appearance of it. The Hindi proverb is, " He who is bitten by a 
snake will start at the sight of a rope ; also, " The leaf crackled, and 
your slave fled." 

100. 

Hea yahu bi pen^ se voki. 

They who have seen a thing once, say they loathe it. 

N.B. — Meaning, that you may have too much of a good thing 
— **ne quid nimis." 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



90 WIT Aim WISDOM FBOM WEST Af BICA. 

101. 

Asaf eni-sa aknra. 

Troopa select farm-houses (viz.,/or attack), 

N.E — " Akun " is a hamlet in a plantatioii, where the owner 
keeps hia family and his slayes. It is opposed to " km * (oroom) or 
^ man," the town, which is the common centre of a number of planta- 
tion hamlets^ scattered over a lai^e extent of country. The English 
croom used for a Gold Ck>ast village is an ignorant corruption of 
" kru-mu " or " krum/' " in the Tillage." The meaning of the proverb 
is, the point of attack will be where there is the least resistance 
and the most 'Moot" 

102. 

Wo hu edeii-a» wonye ba enn adyuma. 

Though strong you will not do the work of two. 

N.B. — ^Meaning, that the strength of Hercules or Goliah has its 
limits. 

108. 

Akoko eni so brofiia. 

A fowl selects a single grain (viz., from a heap of rub- 
hUh). 

N.R — Meaning, that what is good and profitable must be 
selected from the trash : the smallest thing useful must not be 
despised. 

104. 

Atyo abien bono vil 

Two small antelopes beat a big one. 

N.B^— "Tyo" is a small animal : "vu" or "bobiri" a laiger 
species. The adage means, '* Union is strong^." 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PEOVBBBS nr THE OJI TOITGUB. 91 

105. 

Opanyin due ''monte, monte.** 
A grandee (or elder) practises, " I have not heard ! I 
have not heard ! " 

N.B. — Meaning forbearance. The " empanyin " {plur.) are the 
elders of a town, forming the council of the caboceer or chief, each 
having his particular charge, as the ** safohinne " or military chief, 
the " fotoeanfo ** or treasurer, the ** kyami " or spy and speaker — 
king's mouth " — ^the "bofo/' messenger, and others ; a system much 
resembling that of the village republics in Maharatta-land. The 
meaning of the proverb is, " It does not become the dignified and 
venerable man to notice every light word and deed." 

106. 

Hea vode enkokonte se vobedi semmina, wongye 
n'akingye. 

If the eaters of enkokonte say they eat soap, you do 
not doubt it. 

N.B. — " Enkokonte *' is a food resembling native soap : some- 
timee a man eating it, says waggishly, that he is eating soap. If the 
person addressed took the assertion in good earnest, he would appear 
a fooL Hence the meaning seems to be, "A joke must be under- 
stood as such, not as a serious matter." 
* 

107. 
Wo ni wo agya akoa tya abe-a, ofre wo ave. 
When you cut down a palm-tree with the slave of 
your father, he will call you friend. 

N.B. — If you are intimate with your Inferiors, they will lose 
respect for you. M r. Riis observes that the saying is akin to, though 
not so strongly expressed as, the English proverb, " Tou cannot 
touch pitch without being defiled." It is almost equivalent to our 
saying, " Familiarity breeds contempt." 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



92 WIT AlffD WISDOM FROM WEST AFRICA. 

108. 

Mogya mpa ten tirri mu da. 

Blood is never wanting in the horsefly's head. 

N.B. — Because the horsefly's business is to suck blood. The 
proverb is equivalent to, *' A robber's den will never be found empty 
of stolen goods." 

109. 

Akara te se nantyu-a, aginamo 'akoa nen. 
Though a mouse were (as hig) as a bullock, yet it 
would be the slave of the cat. 

N.B. — A bom slave, however he may rise in the world, will 
ever retain a servile mind. 

110. 

Atodru asa, enye vonni Akowua entoanu 
When the powder is gone, it is not that in Akowua's 
powder-case. 

N.B. — Meaning, " When they say all the powder is consumed, 
they do not include the private store of Akowua," one of the 
Ashante kings : though others may be in want, he is probably 
supplied. — *' Nulla regula sine exceptione.'' 

111. 

Osunson se, obenyin ansa na vafi eni; onyini, na ode 
ne ti peinpem. 

The blind- worm said he would grow before he got his 
eyes ; he is grown, but (jstilT) he wriggles his head about 
(i.e., to find his way). 

N.B. — He is still blind. The meaning is, that youth is the time 
for study, and if this be neglected, old age will rue it. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PB0TBBB8 IK THE OJI TONGUE. 93 



112. 

Ottimfo vro ka-a, ovro fa wo meti. 
When a strong man pushes your ring, he pushes it to 
the shoulder. 

N.B. — ^''Ka" is a fiDger-ring, or, as in this place, a wrist-ring. 
The meaning of the saying is, that a man's character impresses itself 
pon all his actions. 

118. 

Eni baakon enfye kra, enfye asibe. 
One eye does not look (at the same time) on a monkey 
and on a baboon. 

N.B. —The '*krd*' and the ''asibe** are different species of the 
Simiadae. The proverb means, *} Tou cannot do two things at the 
same time." 



114. 

Batafo se, enye n^anO/ enye n*ano, na n'ano ara nan. 

The hog says, "It is not my mouth! it is not my 
mouth ! (that has ruined the plantation) ; " but still it is 
his mouth. 

N.B. — The word of a rascal must not be depended upon ; one 
who will commit a crime will also deny it. 



115. 

Wonim di-a, di bi, na mii 'niara. 

If you eat, eat a portion, but do not eat all. 

N.B. — ^''Sit modus in rebus : * in the application of any power, 
observe moderation. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



94 WIT AlTD WIBDOK TBOM WEST AFBIOA. 

lie. 
Eniwa nnim avirreho. 
The eye knows nothing of grief. 

N.B. — Meaning, it will dose in spite of your sorrow : bodily 
wants must be satisfied, whatever be the matter with the min(h 

117. 

Due onanse adi awu, enteknma entra ase, entonkom. 

The entekuma will not sit down nor sleep under the 
very tree, from eating of which the ananse died. 

N.B. — '* Entekuma" and ** ananse** are two different kinds of 
arachnida : the latter, as amongst the Ga people, is a mythic per- 
sonage, generally called '* Agya Ananse," or Father Spider. Great skill 
and ingenuity are attributed to him, probably from observing the 
wonders of the web ; and the people are rich in* ' anansisem ** or Spider 
stories. The meaning of the proverb is, *' Tou will do well to avoid a 
thing, per89n, or step, which has been fatal to friend or relative." 

118. 

Obnsmaketew se: entein eye na ognin eye. 
The chameleon says, '* Speed is good, and slowness is 
good." 

N.B. — ^Meaning, each is good in its proper time and place. 

119. 

Ohienni nya ade-a, oman bo. 

When a man becomes rich, the town goes to ruin. 

N.B.— The parvenu becomes insolent under prosperity. — 
" Honores mutant mores." — *' Asperius nihil est humili cum surgit 
in altum." The Hindi proverb is, ** When he had filled his belly he 
began to vex the poor.** 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PROVERBS JS THE OJI TOKGTJB. 95 

120. 

Akikire ge: obarrima mferr' agwan. 

The tortoise says, A man must not be ashamed to run 

away (i.e., when flight u necessary), 

JT.B. — So the well-known Hudibrastic lines — 

*' He who fights and runs away. 
Shall live to fight another day." 

In the African proverb the words are attributed to the tortoise — 
the slowest of all animals, and the least likely to profit by flight — 
in order to make them more emphatical. 

121. 

Pani nim pam-a, anka ne to nna tokru. 

If a needle could sew, it would not have a hole on its 

back. 

N.B. — This refers to the censorious, who, if really reformers, 
would begin by ridding themselves of their own defects. 

122. 

Wotya wo tekrema so toto vi-a na, wonnya nam. 

If you cut off from your tongue and roast and eat it, 

you have no meat. 

N.Bw — ^Meaning, you have gained nothing by this proceeding ; 
you have acqtiired nothing that you had not before. This saying is 
pointed at persons who carry on law-suits against members of their 
own family. 

128. 

Wode wo ba to Wnawn-a, own. 

If you call your child " Death," it will die. 

N.B.— -Becaiise, so to call a child would be as it were a challenge 
to Death by marking it as his property. Hence, the proverb means, 
" He who wantonly risks a disaster will be visited with it ere long." 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



96 WIT^Asi WISDOM FBOH WEST AFBICi. 

124, 

Odonko nya ade-a, obodam. 

When the Donko * becomes rich he runs mad. 

N.B. — Similar to Ko. 119, and representing the beggar on 
horseback riding to the devil. 

125. 

Esonno tia aflri so-a, enhwan. 
When an elephant treads upon a spring-trap, it (the 
trap) does not spring up. 

K.B. — ^But it does when a bird treads upon it. The proverb 
means, ^* The same act performed, or word spoken, by different per- 
sons, may produce different effects." 



* Donko is the name given to the countries and tribes north of 
Ashante, about the Upper Yolta — ^the so-called Kong Mountains ^and 
the basin of the Kwara, or Western Niger. Thus it would comprise 
the mostly Moslem people of Hausa and Bomu, the Fulas and 
Mandengas, besides the Kafirs of Akyem, Akwamu, and Ayigbe. The 
land is represented as being well cultivated with wheat and com, and 
abounding in elephants, tortoises, horses, asses, and camels ; more- 
over, the Sahara and the European natives dwelling beyond it are 
known to the people. The Donko slaves are captured by the Ashantes 
and are sold on the coast, where they are held to be an inferior race, 
being mostly caught when adult and unable to learn new tongues 
fluently. They speak, of course, many di£ferent dialects, bo that 
'*Donko '* cannot be used as thename of any particular language. Some 
describe them as mild and industrious. M. Riis limits Odonko to ''a 
negro tribe in the more interior parts of Western Africa, which fur- 
nishes the Oji tribe with most of their slaves ; the word is therefore 
equivalent to servile, with the addition, however, that a Donko is 
considered also as naturally dull and stupid. By a sudden change of 
fortune he would be so puffed up with conceit as to have his head 
turned by the emotion.** 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PSOYEBBS IK THE OJI TOKGVS. 97 
126. 

Okoto ba nvo anuma. 

The crab*8 daughter does not bear a bird. 

N.B.— The oflfspring follows the parent. Cf. Matth. viL 16 — 
18, ** Do men gather grapes of thorns, or figs of thistles ? " The 
Accra proverb says, " The crab does not beget a bird." 

127. 

Obi mfa afetrefetre enko Huam. 

Nobody carries foreskins to Hua. 

N.B. — Hua is a country lying east of the Volta River, and 
called Ayigbe or Aigbe, by the people themselves, who speak the 
Ewe dialect. The Huafo as well as the Andanme and the Enkranfo* 
or Ga tribes, practise keteafo, *^ cutting short," or circumcision, which 
may be derived from the Moslems, to judge from the age of the 
patients. It is performed by persons of a certain class, (not a 
priest) when the boys are twelve or fourteen years of age. The 
act does not seem to bear a religious character. Mr. Zimmerman 
denies the existence of circumcision, utriusqm texus, such as prevails 
throughout Islam — Egypt, for instance. On the other hand, the 
accurate Bosman (" Description of the Coast of Guinea," Letter 18,) 
expressly asserts that ''some girls are here liable as well as the 
boys." The rite is held in great disdain by the Ashante and Oji 
people, who call it Tt/etia, The above saying, " To carry, foreskins to 
Hua^" is equivalent to our " Carrying coals to Newcastle.'* 

128. 

Hea otya wo tyetia, enni wo adyom pa. 

He who circumcises you will not [exactly) make good 

carpenter's work. 

N.B. — Meaning, from skill in one branch of work, you cannot 
infer the same in another. 

* Accra calls itself " Ga," and is known to the Oji people as Bnkran. 
The word also signifies, in Oji, a kind of black ant popularly knovn 
as the *' driver'* : thus it is an error to translate Accra — probably a 
corruption of Enkran — the land of White ants. 

H 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



98 WIT AND WISDOM PEOM WEST AFRICA. 

129. 

Enkyiexme nse nehu nse; miye de. 
The salt will not say of itself, " I have a pleasant 
taste." 

N.B. — Meaning, that self-praise is no reoommendation. 
180. 

Aben enye de-a na; etna nip^ano. 
Though a horn has a bad sound, yet it is applied to a 
man's mouth. 

K.E — Though one of your family be disagreeable, yet do not 
break with him. 

181. 

Magnm na kmn dom. 
Beinforcement beats the foe. 

N.R— " L'union fait la force." 
182. 

Ehwynnne nya na eniwa nya. 

When the nose gets (a ihing)^ the eyes get (it tod). 

N.B. — When one of a family becomes rich, the others hope to 
share in his wealth. 

133. 

Ekwai 'agye wo, womfre no akwaiwa. 

A forest that has sheltered you, you will not call a 
shrubbery. I 

N.B.— You will not detract from the merits of a benefactor. i 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PBOVBRBS IW THE OJI TONGITE. 99 

184. 

Ohienni bu be-a, ence. 

When a poor man makes a proverb it does not spread. 

N.B. — On the Qold Coasts and in pagan Africa generally, 
poverty, aa in England, Jb not a misf ortnne, but a crime. 

135. 

Obi nsoma bi afiri fye, na annma nkasa no. 
When a person is sent to look at a snare, the bird 
does not upbraid him. 

N.B. — ^Because the person does not come of hiB own accord : 
a aJave ia not culpable lor what he does at his master's command. 

isa. 
Aberriki se: nea abogya bum vo no, ebo na adidi vo. 
The goat says, *' Where much blood is, feasting goes 
on." 

N.R — ^A feast is referred to for which eatables are collected : 
these attract to the spot goats^ and the proverb is put into the 
hircine mouth because the animals are ever wandering about the town 
seeking fodder. The proverb corresponds with the Scriptural say- 
ing, " Wheresoever the carcase is, there will the eagles be gathered 
together." — Matth. xziy. 28. 

137. 

Hnipa iniara de anka gwarre-a, von bu ye, cwam; 
na abobo se oko da so, na ne bu bon. 

Everybody who washes himself with lemon juice, be- 
comes sweet-scented : therefore the Ahoho said he would 
go upon (the lemon tree) and live there, but still he 
stinks. 

K.B. — ^These negroes wash themselves from head to foot at least 
once a day, and alter washing rub their bodies with lime-juice to 

H 2 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



100 WIT AITD WISDOM TBOM WEST APBIGA. 

remove the bouquet cTAfrique, The Ahoho is a red ant of pecaUarly 
ill Bavour, generally found in lime and orange trees. The meaning 
IB, ** No remedy will affect innate and inveterate vices." Ct *' Cin 
the Ethiopian change his skin, or the leopard his spots!" — Jer. 
ziii. 28. 

188. 

Voni yanom-a, vomfre yanom. 

If you have no comradeSi you do not call for (tfour) 

comrades. 

N.6. — Referring to enterprises which cannot be carried oat 
save by the combined exertions of a number. Thus the meaning 
would be, ''You must not count upon means that are not at your 
disposal, — cut your coat according to your doth." 

189. 

Aboa no n' anom ye no de-a, onvi ne konmda. 

Though the beast is dainty-mouthed, it does not eat 

its colla>bell. 

N.6. — ^ThiB alludes to dogs : though fond of dainties, they do 
not eat the ornaments fastened round their necks. The meaning 
seems to be, " Even greediness does not rush blindly upon every- 
thing nice and attractive." 

140. 

Obi ntutu anuma, enko kyerre panyin. 

Nobody plucks a bird, which he is going to show to an 

old man (i.e., in order to ask its name). 

K.B. — By plucking it he would defeat his own object, as the 
old man would no longer be able to identify the bird. 

141. 

Opoiiko agyimi-a, nea ote no so, ongyimie. 

Because a horse is a fool, he who rides it is no fool. 

•N.B.— Meaning, that the defects or vices of a dependent are not 
to be attributed to his master. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PB0TEBB8 IS THB OJI T0NGT7B. 101 

142. 

Vonam ba enn stuh afiri-a, vonam ba enn na ko fye. 
If jou lay a snare in company, jou go in company to 
look at it. 

N.B.— 'If any one ahares with you in a work, he should share 
with you in its reward. 

143. 

Biribi nko ka empopa, enye krada. 
If nothing touches the palm-leaves they do not rustle. 
N.B. — There is no smoke without fire. 

144. 

Ski 86 obekon-a, o ni n* akomfodL 

When Eki says he will not fight {he means) himself 

and his party. 

N.B. — Eki is the name of a man, famous prohably as a hardy 
warrior. 

145. 

Ohienni asomen ni batafose. 

The poor man's ivory is a hog's-tooth. 

N.B. —A hog's tooth is as valuable to a poor man as an ele- 
phant's tooth to a rich man. 

146. 

Ahine tew empanyin enim-a, enyera. 
If a string of pearls breaks in the presence of grown- 
up people, nothing is lost. 

N.B. — The string of pearls is worn by a child : nothing is lost, 
because those present will gather up the beads ; but the child, if 
alone, would leave and lose them. The proverb means, '* That if 
prudent people are at hand, they will take means to avert the evil 
consequences of a disaster." 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



102 WIT JlKd wisdom teom wbst ajbioa. 

147. 
Aboa bi do srade-a, osna prako. 

When an animal fattens, it learns from the pig. 

K.E — Meaning, that when one is the author and inventor of an 
art, thoee who practise it do so in imitation of him, not by their own 
inrention. 

148. 

Okwan varre-a, vode von nanna tya, enye abonna. 

When a way is long you shorten it with your feet, not 
with a hatchet. 

N.B. — There is a pun on this proverb; "tya " meaning to cut 
off as well as to paas over or through. The meaning is, " Tour 
means must be suited to your ends." 

149. 

Ano patiruw-a, esen namon. 

When the mouth stumbles it is worse than the foot. 

N.B. — A wrong word — "nescit vox missa reverti" — may be 
more harmful than a blunder in action. 



150. 

Hmofra nko tu-a, yanhn tn ; empanyin enko tu-a, 
Totiatia so. 

When boys were to reap, they did not understand it ; 
when old people were to reap, they trampled about (the 
land). 

N.B. — The proverb is applied to the difficulty of settling a 
quarrel : some want the necessary prudence and experience, whilst 
others, from whom better things might be expected, side with one 
party and increase the evil instead of allaying it. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PBOTZBBS Df THE OJI TOKaUE. 103 



161. 

Vose: ko man ko to,— na vonse nse ; ko man ko sen. 
They say, " Go into a town to settle ; " and they do 
not say, " Go into a town to boast.*' 

N.R — ^This IB addressed to those who leave their native land, 
and settle in another : they ought to join the people with whom 
they live, and not pride themselves upon retaining their own 
manners and customs, or attempt to set up new rules. 



152. 

Wokon enkran na nko-a, wontyorre abe ngum. 

When yon endeavour to drive the " drivers," and they 
will not give way, you do not peel palm-nuts and throw 
among them. 

K.B.— Enkran, the " driver ant," has been alluded to in No. 127. 
It is a small black ant» which marches in line, bites severely, attacks 
houses destroys all the smaller animals, and has, it is said, over- 
powered and killed hunters when, torpid with ^tigue, they have 
&]len asleep in the bush. West Africans oppose their progress by 
fire, and palm-nuts attract them. Hence, the meaning of the pro- 
verb is, " When you are anxious to attain an object, you will not do 
anything that will have the opposite effect : you will not attempt to 
extinguish a flame by pouring oil upon it." 



153. 

Vea okem gye, ni me. 

What hunger desires is repletion. 

N.R — The meaning is, that every want requires its particular 
satisfaction. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



104 WIT AHD WISDOM TBOM WX8T AFBICA. 

164. 

Okwasia na ne g^wan tew empen abien. 
{He is) a fool whose sheep runs away twice. 

N.B. — ^Because he was not warned by one miflhap to secnre Ids 
property. The meaning is^ ** He is a fool indeed who cannot learn 
even from experience.*' 

155. 

Osekanfiia na g^e nehn abofra ensem. 

The blade of a knife resists in the hand of a boj. 

N.B. — It resists or defends itself, %,€,, it will wound him that 
sports with it. The meaning is either " Let the inexperienced keep 
aloof from dangerous things, and not meddle with edged tools,** or 
" Things useful in themselves may prove perilous to those who ignore 
their use." 

156. 

Wotan wo ni-a, woin£Ei no mma dom 
Though you dislike your relation, you will not deliver 
him to the army {of the enemy). 

N.B. — Amongst West Africans the dislike to a relative rarely 
amounts to real hate, prompting hostility and a desire of destruction. 
This, perhaps, is one of the prerogatives of semi-civilised over a more 
highly cultivated society. 

157. 

Dna kontonkye na ma yehu dyomfo. 
A crooked stick makes us know (i.e., hetrayi) the 
carpenter. 

K.B.— It shows him to be a bad craftsman : by the quality of 
the work you judge the skill of the man. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PBOTEBBS IS THE OJI TONGUE. 105 

158. 

Obi se obefro dunsin-a, ma omforro na; oko so enim 
asan aba. 

When a person sajs that he will climb up the tree- 
stump (whose houghs have been cut of), let him climb : he 
will go to-the face (i.e., the top), and return. 

N.B. — Another allasion to the lausez dUer and nonchalance of 
the West African. 

]59. 

Bfea Ota wo ommere-a, wo-a wog^wan wonse; mabre. 
If he who pursues you is not tired, you who are flying 
will not say, " I am tired." 

K.6. — ^Danger will stimulate a man to the utmost exertion. 

160. 

Akokonini se : to tamfo enkn-a, anka mabon anadyo, 
na yakummi. 

The cock says, " Suppose enemies only (i. e., if all were 

my enemies), I should have crowed in the night, and should 

have been killed. 

N.B. — The crowing of a cock in the middle of the night is con* 
fiidered by West Africans a bad omen, and the animal is forthwith 
killed. The meaning is, "A general hostile disposition towards a 
person who has no friends or protectors, will soon find a pretext for 
effecting his ruin." 

161. 

Ese ncia na, vofre no gyaw. 

When the teeth do not meet (i.e., touch), it is called a 

gap- 

N.R — ^"Gyaw" is the gap which many people show between 
the two upper incisors. The meaning of the proverb is obscure. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



106 WIT AlTD WISDOM PBOM WEST AFBICA. 

162. 

Okroboni ba ngwan kokotem kwn. 
The son of a Krobo man does not run through the com 
without cause. 

N.B. — Krobo (Croboe) is a town built at the foot* of a rocky 
mountain, with a steep and difficult ascent : it serves for a fortress 
in time of war, and has preserved the people from a foreign yoke. 
Hence, to see the son of a Krobo man flying through the corn-fields 
in the plain, would be an extraordinary event, announcing some 
great and unexpected distress. 

163. 

Okro Yoharre no afa enn. 
,' A canoe is paddled on both sides. 

N.B. — ^Measures taken to effect a purpose, in order to be effica- 
cious must be complete. 

164. 

Aginamoa wn-a, enknra yem. 
When the cat dies, the mice rejoice. 

N.B. — The subjects rejoice at the tyrant's death ; and, as we 
say, '* When the cat is away, the mice play." 



165. 

Osncefa vommna. 

A half-roof they do not put on (i.e., you do not put a 
half-roof upon a house). 

N.B. — k work must not be left half done. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PBOYEBBS IS THE OJI T0WOT7E. 107 

166. 

Ti kro nko agiima. 

One head does not go to a standiog (i. e., constitute a 

consultation), 

N.B. — "Aginzia" properly means the act of going apart, or, 
more exactly, of standing apart from the general assembly. By im- 
plication, it denotes a committee, a consultation of sereral persons 
f omung a particular party, who have retired from a greater assembly 
to converse apart This would be wholly unnecessary where one 
person only is concerned. So the Italian, ** Tre donne ed mi, oca non 
fanno un mercato." 

167. 

Wo eni nkom-a na, wose : minnya daberre. 

When joa are not sleepy, you saj, " I have no sleeping- 

plaoe." 

N.B.— When you are sleepy, you will be content with any place. 
The meaning is, " Necessity supersedes fastidiousness." 

168. 

Aduan bi-a vonni no, vonnoa. 
Food, which jou will not eat, jou do not boil. 
N.B. — ^Tou will not work without an object. 

169. 

Ohoho nsoa fonnn ti. 

A stranger does not cany the head of a corpse. 
N.B.— The chief place will not be given to a stranger. 

170. 

Omamferenni nnyin kronkron. 
A foreign settler does not grow pure (i.e., never becomes 
a native). 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



108 WIT XWD WISDOM TBOM WKBT AFBICA. 

171. 

Ohia 'ka wo, na woti abete-a, edan fim. 
If, when a£9icted with poverty, you eat Abete, it torus 
to herbs. 

N.B. — * Abete" is a delicate food prepared from the flour of 
Indian com. The meaning is, that poverty embitters every enjoy- 
ment. 

172. 

Obi ngyai esoimo ekidi, enko di aserredna eki. 
Nobodj leaves off pursuing an elephant in order to 
pursue the aserredua (a small bird). 

N.B. — Tou do not relinquish a great object for a trifling one. 

178. 

Wo ti ben wo, na wonya wo twyerre-a, vode bom 
hoara. 

Though, when going to receive your blows (i.e., the 
punishment you have incurred for some offence) ^ your head 
aches, yet they strike you in that very place. 

N.B.— The meaning seems to be, " Justice is executed without 
regard to circumstances." 

174. 

Fa torn! 7a torn! na eye adesoa. 
" Lay on ! lay on ! " makes a load. 
N.B.— The repeated addition of small things wiU make at last a 
heavy load ; many a little makes a mickle. 

175. 

Anini abien enna bon. 

Two males (viz., leasts of prey) do not live in one den. 

N.B. — A house or a family has but one master. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PBOYEBBS Hr THE OJI TONGUS. 109 

176. 

Obi nso dai enko nea vobeknm no. 

Haying dreamed, nobody will go where they will kill 

him. 

N.B. — When a man dreama that he will be killed at a certain 
place, he will not ^o there : warnings must not be despised. 

177. 

Sikaadynma biara nye aniwu. 

Gold work (i.e., tmy warJcfor gold) is no shame. 

K.B.— Bather a shameful saying. 

178. 
Aknntoma knntim n' afe, na onkimtiin empanyin. 
A bully fights with his peers, not with grandees. 

179. 

Anop* anom bon, na asempa na vom. 

In the morning the mouth smells, but there are good 

words in it. 

N.B. — Morning is held the best time for deliberating on matters 
of consequence. 

180. 

Anadyoboa nno aonwa. 

Night venison (i. e., game caught at night) is not fiat. 

N.B. — Because at such time you cannot judge between the good 
and the bad. The proverb means, " Things got at random are rarely 
valuable." It is our buying a pig in a poke. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



110 WIT AND WISDOM FROM WEST AFBICA. 

181. 

Sika ye fe, na opegyafo ye na. 

Gold is pretty, but the heir is rare. 

N.Bb — ^Where there are riches, an heir is often wanting : earthly 
happiness is never so complete but that it has some drawback. 



182. 

Wodi soa ensa, fye wo ensa. 

When you eat a monkey's hand, look at your (ottm) 
hand. 

N.B. — ^When you enjoy yourself at the expense of others, remem- 
ber that you are liable to the same misfortune. 



188. 

Okwasia na ose: vode me yonku na Tonne mi. 

A fool says, " My friend is meant, not I." 

N.B.— Because he refers a warning, meant for himself, to another 
man, and neglects to profit by it. 



184. 

Ohimmone ni bebi, na obofo bonne na vo bebi. 
There is nowhere a wicked prince, but there are wicked 
ambassadors. 

N.B. — When, in a transaction between two princes, anything 
goes wrong, it will be laid to the charge of the ambassadors, however 
much the fault is in the princes themselves. Quidquid delirant reges, 
plectuntur Achivi. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PBOTEBBS IS THE OJI TONGinfi. Ill 

186. 

Vnipa pa bi ko sa, vanhn ano, na gyamakntrokn II 
Brave men who went to the war did not see the end 

(i.e., could not hri/ng it to a successful issue), and a coward P 

( — what can he expected of him ?), 



186. 

Oman tya wo sama, vompopa. 

When the town ornaments your hair, they (your reh' 
fives) will not disorder (or efface) it. 

N.B. — "Ornament'* means, properly, catting out figures on a 
person's head by the hair being remoYed imequaUy. " When the 
town,** &C., i.e., when it is done by a publio decree to confer honour 
on you, your friends will take pride in it. 



187. 

Asom ni enkwanta. 

The ear has not a double way (i. e., two ways). 

N.B. — ^You can hear only one thing at a time. The saying is 
applied when a man is addressed by more than one person at once. 



188. 

Okwadn 8e: wammere na wodidi-a, enye di 
The antelope says, " When you eat without being tired, 
it has no relish.'' 

N.B.— If a meal is to be really enjoyed, it must be preceded by 
exertion and fatigue — cibi condimentum fames est. The words are 
attributed to the antelope, because it is always running about. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



112 WIT AKD WISDOM FBOIC WEST ATBICA. 

189. 

Annma de ako ni aba na nyuime berrebiL 

Bj going and coming, a bird weaves its nest. 

N.R — A great work is not completed at onoe, bat by repeated 
exertion. Borne was not built in a day. 

190. 

Vonnya awnrn-a, vontew no so ham ma. 

As long as you have not got the tortoise, you do not cut 
the string for him. 

N.B. — Do not dispose of a thing till you have it in your power. 

191. 

Woko fa bi atope ko ye adynma, woeoooro so ko to 
no ho. 

When you take another man's hoe to work with, you 

must wash it, and put it back in its place. 

K.B. — ^A thing borrowed must be carefully restored, and in good 
condition. 

192. 

Wokom wodeapa, woto wo yonkude. 

When you destroy yours, you join your friends. 

N.B. — Meaning, probably, that one who has squandered his own 
property, will attach himself to his friends, and subsist on their 
means. 

198. 

Obi nhu tumm, enti em. 

Kobody looks at something black, and steps into It. 

N.B. — "When you see an impending calamity, which you may 
avoid, you will not rush into it. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PEOYSBBS IS THE OJI TONGITB. 113 

194. 

Wo eni rebo-a wonse nse : mild te. 

"When your eye is going to ruin, yon will not say, " I 

liate ophthalmia.*' 

N.R — You will not reprove in another person a defect with 
which you yoursell are strongly affected. Our "fellow-feeling," 
&c. 

195. 

Onya nya nehn-a, onom nyanknensn. 
When a slave becomes a free man, he will drink rain- 
water. 

N.B. — From lazineas; because other water must be fetch 
from a distance. I commend this truly African proverb — showing 
that the emancipado is incapable of moderation in the use of his 
liberty-T-to the consideration of all real philanthropists. It is easy 
to see that if a man will not labour even for his own wants, they do 
him a service who compel him to work. 

196. 

Obi amma m' amo-a, mirema mehn amo. 
When a person neglects to congratulate me, I con- 
gratulate myself. 

K.B. — Trifling neglects of respect must not be taken to heart, 
but passed over in good humour. 

197. 

Otam abirri-a, woncew yi 

Though your coat is dirty, you do not bum it. 

N.R — When a thing has a defect, you will not destroy, but 
mend it. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Ill WIT AND WISDOM FROM WEST AFBIOA. 

198. 

Opitri memenne-a, omemenne ma oura. 

When the Pitri absorbs (the soup), he does it for his 

master. 

N.R — ^The Pitri is a river fish, of which soup is xoade. In ap- 
pearanoe, (he quantity of the soup is reduced by being absorbed in 
the fish ; but in reality it is only a transfer, the part that disappears 
being contained in the soup. The meaning is, '' What you spend in 
improving your property, is not lost, though temporarily your means 
are diminished by it." 

199. 

Ohinne nye de-a, fye nea osafohinne rekyere. 
When the prince does not please (you), see how the 
general appears. 

N.6. — If you cannot agree with one person, go to another. 

200. 

Obi ntn mere ensie siw so. 

Nobodj gathering mushrooms replaces them on the 
ant-hill. 

N.R — Mushrooms most frequently grow on ant-hiBs, the red- 
clay structures of the termites, conical heaps 8 to 12 feet high : there- 
fore the first person coming to the place would approfoiate them, not 
thinking that they belonged to anybody. 

201. 

Obi akoa di Ahimma, voahimma no kwa. 
Thoagh a slave's name be " Flog,'* yet you do not flog 
him without cause. 

N.B. — Meaning, perhaps, that, however vicious a man be, he 
may not be punished except for some special act. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



P&OYEBBB IK THE OJI TOVOTJfi. 115 



202. 

Ankonam di atro/ 

Who travels aloae tells lies. 

N.B. — ^To establiflh the truth of a statement, two witnesses at 
least being required. The Persian proverb is, " Jeh&n dideh bisy^ 
goyad durogh *' (" Whoso seeth the world, telleth many a lie "). So 
our " traveUers' tales." 

208. 

Obi bema wo adnan adi-a na, ode ampesi di wo adanse. 

When anybody prepares food for you, he testifies to 

you by Ampesi (i.e., he pves you some Ampesi to try it 

N.R — By " Aduan'* is meant the common food of the Gold 
Coast) called Fufu. Tarns or plantains are cut to pieces^ and boiled, 
in which prepared state they are termed ** AmpesL" They are then 
pounded in a wooden mortar (vod/ni) till they become a tough, 
doughy mass {fufu). A round lump of this is put into the palm-nut 
soup {enkwan\ popularly called " palm-oil-chop," and eaten with it^ 
The meaning of the proverb is, that one who would benefit you, 
usually gives a foretaste of his kindness ; or, more generally, that 
« coming events cast their shadows before." 



204. 

Mosia kokwaw entem-a, vode wo kon anwam. 
K thou, pebble, hastenest to become smooth, they will 
fight the anwam with thee. 

N.R — ^'^ Anwam" is the name of a large bird that feeds on 
pahn-nuts ; and pebbles serve for buckshot when smooth and round. 
Many men have sufficient strength and talents to be useful, but for 
some defect or vice which prevents them from turning their powers 
to advantage. 

I 2 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



116 WIT AND WISDOM FBOM WEST ATBIOA.. 

205. 

Obea tenten so* abe-a, onwam di. 

When a tall woitaan carries palm-nutSy the birds will 

eat them. 

N.B. — ^It is man's work to cultiyate the fields, woman's to cany 
home the produce, which is balanced upon the head. The proverb 
accounts for why the latter sex is shorter than the former : it is 
necessary for the station and occupation allotted to it. 



206. 

Adesa okoko bin. 

In the evening (even) a red man is black. 

N.R — Ab in Europeans there is a difference between a blonde 
and a brunette, so the West Africans distinguish amongst themselves 
black {tuntum) and red (koko) negroes, the skin of the former being 
of jetty hue, that of the latter a ruddy brown. The meaning of the 
proverb is, that drcumstances level inequalities. 



207. 

Woferre-a, wofon. 

When you pine (under diigrace and canien^i) you fade. 
N.B.— Mental uneaoness will break down a man's strength. 



208. 

Voseoma ba nimadefo, na vonsoma namontenten. 

They send an intelligent man (as messenger) ; they do 
not send a long-step (i.e., one who is able to uxdhfasf). 

N.R— As the West Africans ignore writing, a messenger is 
always the negotiator of the object for which he is sent ; hence, in 
selecting him^ mental qualifications are regarded rather than bodily 
strength. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PBOYEBBB IK THE OJI TOKGITB, 117 



Apopokiki fl ensuase se odenkyem yarre-a, vong^e 
n* akingye. 

If an Apopokiki, irom the bottom of the river, says that 

the crocodile is sick, it will not be doubted. 

N.B. — The Apopokiki is a river fish, whose statement 'will not be 
discredited because he comes from the very place where the crocodile 
lives. The meaning is, that the testimony of an eye-witness will be 
credited. 

210. 

Wonnim asaw-a na, wose: akyinne nye de. 

If you cannot dance, you wUl say, " The drum is not 

agreeable." 

N.B. — ^You pretend to despise what you are not able to enj6y : 
" The grapes are sour." 



211. 

Aferr* enti na odomanin ti bo akyinne hn. 

On account of shame (i. e., hein^ ashamed to flee), the 

war-chief's skull sticks on the drum. 

N.B. — ^The skulls of hostile chiefs and war captains, who are 
takeQ prisoners or are killed in battle^ are fixed in trophies to the 
big drum. The proverb points out the dangers of ambition. 



212. 

Akoa nkyerre nnannua. 

A slave does not show the timber. 

N.B. — The " timber '' here means the forest-trees fit to be used 
as timber. A slave will not point out where they are, because, when 
they are found, he will have the trouble of cutting them down, and 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



118 WIT AND WISDOM TBOM WXBT APBXOA.. 

of carrying them home. The meaning of the proverb is, that a 
person -will not prosecute an imdertaking from which he expects- 
more trouble than profit. 



218. 

Akoa mpaw ura. 

A slave does not choose his master. 



214. 

Obaakon enye barrima. 
A man alone is no hero. 

N.$. — ^One person alone will not effect great things : to accom- 
plish an object, the united efforts of many are required. 



215. 

Abe berre-a, woso fat miso fk 

When the palm-nuts are ripe, you carry half, I carry 
half. 

N.B. — Each of us must take an equal share of the trouble as 
well as the produce. 



216. 

Adi ama ni adi ama na agorro. 
Mutual entertainment is {fair) play. 

N.B. — More literally, " To eat and to give, to eat and to give, 
(m) a play." 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PR0YBBB8 IS THS OJI TOITOITX. 119 

217. 

Onyanflafo na tya akwamio. 

An expert man cuts the roots in the road. 

N.B. — " Akwamio " are the roots of trees ninning across the 
road, and cut away to render it more level. Some superstition 
attaches to this act« which must be performed according to certain 
rites, and by a man acquainted with them, otherwise evil would 
result The meaning of the proverb is, " A business of importance 
must be performed by a man of skill and experience." 



218. 

Eniwn na tan onipa, na aso de entan onipa. 

The eye envies — not the ear. 

N.B. — The eye gives the occasion for envy and hate; even a 
good and affable man is often disliked, his kind words being disre- 
garded, and jealous looks being cast upon his talents or his pos- 



219. 

Tepe-na yebehu enti na yekekyirre boa. 

To find (a thinff) when we want it, we make a parcel. 
N.R— Showing the necessity of order and arrangement. 



220. 

Kontromfi se : vooe m* afonnom-a na, meyi asem pa 
ma ka makyerow. 

The baboon says, ''If jou put something into my 

month (i.e., pve me something to eat), then I will produce 

a good word, and tell you." 

N.B. — Probably meaning that good advice deserves a recom- 
pense ; also, that no man does anything graH$ for his neighbour. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



120 WIT AITD WISDOM TBOM WEST APBICA. 

221. 

Dna bevo wo eni no yobn 80» na yonsen ano. 
When a piece of wood threatens to pierce your eye, 
they will blunt it, and not point it. 

KB. — Tou will endeayour to counteract^ not to incieasoi an 
impending danger. 

222. 

Onantefo na odi ade, eye de. 

What a foot-traveller eats, tastes well. 

N.B. — ^Because he is hungry^ and hunger is the best sauce. 



Ekru ntntn afa enn. 

A wound does not pain at two halves (i. e., on both 
tides of the body), 

N.B. — A calamity is felt only in the quarter visited by it. 



224. 

Wo sika ye wo yaw-a, na wokon-a, wonyi dom. 
If your gold pains you, and you fight (i.e., if in war 
you grudge your gold), you will not conquer the enemy. 

N.R — Gold must be spent in gaining friends and confederates. 
If a great object is to be accomplished, you must put to work all 
your means and energies. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PBOYEBBS IN THE OJI TONeUE. 121 

225. 

Owa adarre nnow fa akon. 

Death's sickle cuts not in one half onlj (hut univer- 
gaily). 

N.R— The " Adarre " ia a kind of bill-hook used by West Africans 
for cutting down the bush. We must Anglicize it by "sickle" or 
"scythe." 

226. 

Etna wo yonkn hn-a, etna dna. 

If another suffers pain, (to you) a piece of wood suffers. 

N.R — Tou are not affected by it : it is as if a piece of wood had 
the pain. This is a characteristic saying, showing the practical selfish* 
ness and feelinglessness of the wild West African, who, when tamed 
by slavery, becomes one of the most tender of men. Dr. Johnson's 
favourite dogma was, '' Everybody is indifferent to another's pains 
and pleasures : " but his practice was diametrically opposed to his 
preaching. 

227. 

Anka berre ko, enye de. 

A lemon that grows in ripening, is not agreeable (i.e., 
does not taste well). 

N.B. — A thing must be mature before all its good qualities 
appear. 



Obi nsen fasu okotokn sen. 
No one excels a wall in bearing bugs. 
N.B. — In coarse work the most stupid may be the best 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



122 WIT AITD WISDOM FBOM WIST AFSIGA. 

229. 

Voknra w* a, wo virr* afi enkekaw. 
When they hold you (i.e., when you are eaughi)^ you 
forget to bite. 

N.B.— At the critical moment the boaater hangs his head. 

230. 

Nea vo dom ensem na oyi ma. 
What is in his hand, the enemy (can) give away. 
N.B. — He cannot diapoBe of what is not in his power. 

281. 

Obi mfa enkodasem ensisi kontromfi. 

Nobody will deceive a baboon by tricks. 

N.B. — ^Becauae the beaat is a master of tricks: you cannot 
defeat a man on his vantage-ground. 



Ese tenten enni ese akotia edidi baakon. 

Long teeth and short teeth eat the same food. 

N.B.— Though there are different states and conditions amongst 
men, their ultimate lot is the same. 

288. 

Aberrewa, w* ano ye den-a, g^e wo ban. 

Old woman! if your mouth is {so) hard (i.e., if your 

tongue is so sharp) ^ make your fence (yourself) » 

N.B.— " Ban " is the fence separating the house-yard from the 
street : it consists of palm-branches, and often requires repair. Old 
women, who cannot do that themselves, have it done by the kind- 
ness of others. The meaning of the proverb is, " Those who claim 
the assistance of others, should at least be civil to them." 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



FBOTIBBB m THB OJI TOSQITB. 128 

2d4. 

Woto pra, wato nam. 

If you have found an armadillo, you have found meat. 

N.B. — ^The meat being in the armadillo : bo, if you sit by a well, 
you will not aearoh for water. 

235. 

Ete Yopirre no mmaakon nimaakon. 

A head they defend it one by one. 

N.& — Or, less literally, "Each man defends his own head:" 
ereiy person must take care of his own concerns. 



286. 

Abofra anhu' gwadi-a na, asia nyera. 
If a boy does not understand bartering, he does not (jat 
least) lose the gold-weights. 

N.B. — When bartering, West Africans use cowries and gold- 
dust, and, for the latter, scales are carried by traders. '' Asia" is 
one of the gold-weights. A boy {or slave) who understands the work 
may be a source of gain to his master, but it may also happen that 
he loses some of the valuables which he carries with him. If he 
cannot be employed in trading, there is no chance of either gain or 
loss. The meaning of the proverb seems to be, that everything 
has its light and its dark side. 

287. 

. Wo na waye akoko den, na dyonso abo nof 

You, what haye you done to the fowl, that it is affected 

with strangury ? " 

N.B. — Mr. Riis remarks, *" The application of this odd proverb 
is difficult to guess." It is doubtless a wise saying, but somewhat 
too dark. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



124 WIT Aim WIBBOIC EBOM WEST AFBIOA. 

288. 

Okekyefo ade enknra na di 
The mice eat the miser's goods. 



Aniima niflrifo vode emposai na yi no. 

A sharp-sighted bird is caught by Emposai. 

N.B. — ^"Emposai" is the withered bark of the plantain-tree, 
which is spread over to hide the snare. The meaning is, ** By strata- 
gem even a cunning man may be caught." 

240. 

Hna abete yodi n* abusuam. 

Huaabete they eat at home. 

N.B. — "Abete" is a delicate food of Indian com: the best is 
made by the people of Hua (No. 127), who keep it for home con- 
sumption. Thus, the saying means, " You keep the choicest things 
for your own use and enjoyment." 

241. 

Adaanfyem enti na Obronni tn ko AbrokirrL 

On account of .food-looking-into (i.e., intrusive eur 

rio8itff)y white men went off to Europe. 

N.B. — The West Africans naturally suppose that man was 
created in their country, and that at first whites and blacks all dwelt 
together. The former, however, were so much molested by the 
negroes, who were ever looking into their food and prying into their 
actions, that they emigrated from Africa to Europe. The proverb 
is a warning against over-curiosity, which may annoy othen beyond 
endurance. Some of the converted negroes thus explain the dififei^ 
enoe of complexion : — Cain was a black man, but when rebuked by 
the Creator for murder, he turned pale with fear : hence the white 
colour. This is indeed " tit for tat.'* 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PBOTEBBB IK THE OJI TOITGUE. 125 

242. 

Obofo mmofira hn nye fe. 

A miscreant's fellows are not pretty. 

N.B. — ^Meaning, that people do not like to look upon them : 
they are unwelcome^ and are dreaded wherever they appear. 



Wokusa ode bebrebe-ai eprim. 
If you roast the yam too much, it will be burnt. 
N.B. — Omne niminm nocet : ne quid nimis. 

244. 

Kokoseki mpe fl aba, anka onsisi snmana so. 

If the vulture 4id not wish to come into the town, he 

would seat himself upon the Sumana-heap. 

N.B. — " Sumana" is the huge heap of sweepings found at the 
end or outskirts of every negro town, and turkey-buzzards often 
perch upon it. The meaning seems to be, " If you constantly ap- 
proach a thing, it is a sign that you have some design upon it." 

245. 

Obi mfa ado koko, ensisi baifo. 
Nobody will deceive a witch by anything red. 
N.B. — Because her craft will prevent her being deceived. 

246. 

Akoa nya nehn-a, ofre nehu Sonneni. 

When a slave is emancipated, he will call himself a 

Sonneni (i.e., a nobleman), 

N.B. — Amongst the numerous families with which the Oji- 
tribe is divided, the Sonna is the highest. When l^e freedman 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



126 WIT i.lfD WISDOM TBOSC WEST A7BI0A. 

calls himaelf Sonneni (Le., vMoffht 5ofina), the meaning is, that he 
is BO much elated by hiB new condition, as to loee all power over 
himaelf, and to claim the most exalted rank. Our " beggar on hone- 
back." 



247. 

Obi deoe ko stun-a na, vofre no afanna. 
When a (Jree) woman takes service, she ia called a 
slaye. 

KB. — ^Meaning .that a person is estimated by what he is, not 
by what he was. 



248. 

Obi tan wo-a na, obo w' aboa. 

When a person hates you, he wHl beat jonr animals. 

N.Bb— Hate extends to the relations and all belonging to the 
person hated. Conversely we say, '' Love me, love my dog." Qui 
m'aime, aime mon ohien. 



249. 

Ohantani na ki nipa. 

A haughty person hates man. 

250. 

Ofiatyafo, ebeka wo enkn. 

Ton, traitor ! will be left to yourself, 

N.B.— Knowing that you cannot be trusted, nobody will have 
anything to do with you. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PBOYEBBS IS THE OJl TONGUE. 127 

251. 

Wo emfefo som asra na wansom bi-a, ete se w* aivurow 
awn. 

When youp comrades take snuff, and you do not, it 

looks as if your naUs were dead (i.e., spoiled), 

N.B. — Meaning, you must follow the fiuihion : by opposing it, 
you excite suspicions injurious to your character. 



252. 

Odokonno bodam-a, onenam senm. 

When the bread runs round, it dances it in the pot. 

N.B. — " Dokonno ** is bread of Indian com, not baked, for that 
is forbidden by Fetish law, but boiled, according to the usage pre- 
valent in Akwapim. The proverb probably means, " In a state of 
excitement the staidest person will behave wildly." 



253. 

Okwankyen mako se : wobebu mi-a, bn, na meyaw mi. 

The roadside pepper-bush (i.e,,pepper-hu9h hy the road- 

tide) says, " If you will break me, break ; but do not 

abuse me." 

N.B. — ^If you are resolved to ruin a man, do it ^t once, without 
tormenting him by reproaches : do not add insult to injury. 



254. 

Atem ba na, abebn ba. 

When the occasion comes, the proverb comes, 

N.B.— Occasion, i.e., the incidents of life which call forth the 
proverb, and to which it refers. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



128 WIT AND WISDOM TSOlf WB8T ATBIOA. 

255. 

Ehia nipa, ma vomfa no nko. 

When a man is in distress, let them take him. 

N.B. — ^The distress referred to is capture by enemies, and the 
proverb means, " The distress of others is no concern of yours; do 
not trouble yourself about it." Truly philosophical ! 

256. 

Vodi wo yonkn hn asem-a, daaki vodi vode bi. 

K sentence is (now) passed on your neighbour, another 

time it will be passed on you. 

N.B. —Do not triumph at the distress of others ; your time may 
also come. 

257. 

Antuna to afirim no,, esonno ne kasa enkn. 
When a bird is in a snare, its cry is peculiar. 

N.B.--A man^s behaviour in distress will be different from what 
it is at other times. " Every season has its reason." 

258. 

Ade-a nye no na voye n' iye. 

You mend (only) a thing that is not good. 
N.R — A thing in good order requires no repair. 

259. 

Wo ba sisi wo kora ba, enye; nanso wo kora ba sisi 
wo ba, enye. 

If your child deceives the child of your sister-wife, it is 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PBOYSBBS IN THE OJI TOlfGUB. 129 

not right ; and also if the child of your sister-wife deceives 
jour child, it is not right. 

N.B. — So the Hindi proverb, " A fellow-wife may be good, but 
her child is had" When a man has several wived, they mutually 
call one another " me kora." The child calls all his father's wives 
(except his own mother) " little mother." * 



260. 

Wodi bi ade-a na, woferre no. 

If 70a get presents from anj one, jou respect him. 

261. 

Abofra be mnsn ankron-a, ofiet ma annm. 

If a boy does nine mischiefs, he shall suffer for it five. 

N.K — And the father of the boy, who should keep his son under 
proper discipline, shall suffer the rest 



262. 

Wotan wo sapo-a, w* anom bon. 
If you hate (i,e., if you shun if, so as not to use it) 
your tooth-brush, your mouth is of ill odour. 

N.B.— "Sapo" is a bunch of plantain-tree fibre, the "lif"of 
Egypt, which West Africans use as sponge and tooth-brush. 

* In West Africa the mother is loved fsur more than the father ; the 
negroes have many proverbs correspoDdiog with the Hindi. "The 
milk of the sixth day is still sensible," and "A mother's love is best 
of all.'' 

K 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



130 WIT Am) WISDOM FEOM WEST AFBICA. 

263. 

Wo si wn-a, wonwn, na oferre-a, wo enso waferre. 

When your relation dies, you do not die ; but if he is 

disgraced, you also are disgraced. 

N.B. — ^Disgrace is worse than death : the latter befalls a single 
person only, whereas the f onner extends to his whole family. 



264. 

T^teasoe vonsoe ho bio. 

On an obsolete resting-place th^ rest no more. 

N.B. — ''Asoe" is a place by the roadside, generally under a 
tree, where porters put down their loads, and rest awhile: ''Tete- 
.asoe ** is one that has been abandoned. The meaning is, " What is 
obsolete you will no longer use, but follow the * mode ' and do as 
others do." 

265. 

Wo tamfo asem ba, wodi ma no; na oda w* ase-a na, 
wongye so. 

When your CTiemy is entangled in a quarrel (literally, 
when your enemy's lawsuit comes), assist him to settle it ; 
but when he thanks you, do not reply. 

N.B.—The meaning is, "Assist your enemy in his trouble, if 
you like, but maintain a proud and cold demeanour." An expres- 
sion of thanks is courteously replied to by '* ya abraw," to equal or 
inferior; *'ya ura," to Europeans; *'ya naado," to a wealthy and 
respected man of his own people; "ya ahinna," to a personage of | 

^jbhe chiefs fomily, and so oo. I 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



IV. 



PROVERBS 



IN 



THE GA OR ACCRA LANGUAgE. 



K 2 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PROVERBS IN THE GA OR ACCRA 
LANGUAGK 



The Ga or Accra Language is confined to the eastern 
portion of the Gold Coast, between the Volta Eiver on 
the east and the Akwapim mountain-mass to the north 
and the north-west. The number of the Ga- speaking 
people might amount to 100,000 ; it is, therefore, one of 
the tongues which will die out with the advance of civili- 
sation. At present it is divided into two dialects, the Ga 
Proper and the Adanme; the former being used by 
40,000 to 50,000, the latter by 50,000 to 60,000 souls. 

Of these two, the latter — ^being the more primitive and 
the less mixed with foreign elements — is held to be the 
mother tongue. The area extends from the vicinity of 
Christiansborg to Ada, or Adda, near the mouth of the 
Volta River, and in the north it is spoken by sundry of 
the towns of the Krobo Highlands. 

The Ga Proper is used by the people of Jamestown 
(British Accra), Dutch Accra, Christiansborg, and sundry 
adjoining villages. On the east it is bounded by the 
Adanme ; on the west by the Oji, Ochi, Otye, or Ashante 
tongue, with which it is intimately connected. 

The language is rich in proverbs and legends : the mis* 
sionaries have taught the people to commit to writing the 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



134 WIT XSJ) WISDOM EBOM WEST ATBICA. 

rude beginnings of annals. The stories are numerous and 
remarkable. There is even a particular name for a class. 
In Ananu, or spider, is the subject of many superstitions, 
injuring children that sleep in the same room with it.* 
It is represented as speaking through the nose, as the local 
demons are said to do ; and its hobbling gait is correctly 
imitated bj the relator with voice and gesture. Finally, it 
plays a principal part in fables, where the actors are mostly 
animals ; and thus these tales are locally known as Anan- 
sesen. Eor a specimen I must refer the reader to the 
work of the Bev. J. Zimmermann, from whose pages 
these proverbs are extracted.t 

• Oq this part of the Gold Coast there is a large species of spider of 
bright yellow and black colours, spinning a silk-eoloared thread, which 
may one day be utilised. Bosman (Letter 17) thus alludes to the 
animal : — '* Going to my chamber at night, in order to go to bed, I 
iband a hideous great spider agamst the walls ; on account of the 
strangeness of the spectacle I called my sub-factor and both my assist- 
ants to see it. We found his body long and his head sharp, broader in 
the fore than hind part, but not round, as most sorts of spiders are. 
His legs were as large as a man*s finger, ten in number, being haiiy, 
and the thickness of a little finger. The negroes call this spider 
Ananse, and belieTC that the first men were made by that creature ; 
and, notwithstanding some of them by oonveraation with the Buropeans 
are better informed, there are yet a great number that remain of that 
opinion, out of which folly they are not to be reasoned. This is the 
greatest piece of ignorance and stupidity that I have observed the 
negroes guilty of." 

The West Africans probably look upon the animal as the ancient 
Egyptians did the scarabnus. 

t A Grammatical Sketch of the Akra, or Gh^ Language, with some 
Specimens of it from the Mouth of the Natives, and a Vocabulary of 
the same, with an Appendix on the Adanme Dialect. By the Ber. J. 
Zimmermann. In two yols. Stuttgart, 1858. Printed for the Basel 
Missionary Society by J. F. Steinkop. 

I have adopted the orthography of the reverend gentleman. Most of 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PBOTEBBS 117 THB AOCBA. TONGUB. 135 



1. 

Alomte efon miau bo. 

The cat does not cease to cry " miau." 

2. 
Ka foo loflo. 

A crab does not beget a bird. 

8. 
Bilafo etsoo filafo gbe. 
A blind man does not show the way to a blind man. 

4. 

Kole nya nson. 

The Kole (Eiver) flows into the sea. 

N.B. — This is quoted as we saj, "Walls (or winds) hare ears/' 
warning people not to speak out their secrets. 

5. 

Nme kome flteo nmei fe. 
One (had) nut spoils all. 

the sayings explain themseWes, or hare been explained by the Oji pro- 
verbs : in some cases a short inteipretation has been added. Nothing 
can be more distracting than the misprints of the work— too much, 
however, should not be expected from the printing-house of M. 
Steinkop, of Stuttgart — and nothing can be more Teutonic than its 
learned and copious disorder. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



136 WIT AND WISDOM PBOM WEST ATEICA. 

6. 

Tsofieitse enua tsofa ehaa helatse. 

A physician does not drink medicine for the sick. 

7. 
Tutsofa ke la yee. 
Gunpowder and fire do not agree. 



Sikpon ko enyee gbonyo. 

No land hates a dead body. 

9. 

Blomo dsee nma ni ayeo. 

Quarrel is not a food which is eaten. 

10. 

Wiemo kpakpa dseo mlifu. 

A good word removes anger. 

K.6. — The natives of the Gold Coast have borrowed nuuiy of 
their sayings and not a few of their ideas from Europeans, with 
whom they have had intercourse for centuries. Compare with 
Proyerbsxv. 1. 

11. 

Ee dse na le, gbomei fe die. 

If it is dark, all men are black. 
N.B. — So the French say, " Tons les chats sont gris** — at night. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PBOYEBBS Ilfr THE AOCBA TONGUE. 137 

12. 

Ke okpongo edsim le, moni ta eno le hu edsimko. 

If the horse is mad, he who sits upon it is not also mad. 

18. 
Nn ni ake-bagbe la le, ataoole kronkron. 
Clear water is not wanted for quenching fire. 



14. 
Ke Okplom ye nil le, Ohwam hn yeo eko. 
If the Okplom eat something the Ohwam also eats 
something. 

N.R — The Okplom and the Ohwam are both animals. The 
meaning of the saying is, ** Suum cuique," " live and let live r'* no 
one should take all to himself. 

16. 

Ake hinmeii enyo kwee to mil. 

Not with both eyes people look into a bottle. 



16. 
Ke lilei kome ke lileii akpe kpe le etoo biti. 
If one tongue meets with a thousand tongues it faints. 



17. 
Ke onaa lo le, oyeo komi. 
If thou find no fish, thou eatest bread. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



138 WIT AKD WISDOM TBOH WEST AIBJOJl. 

18. 

Hnmi egbee fio gbemo. 

A quiet man makes not the noise of an elephant. 

19. 
Dare kome guonii yee kpainkpawo wo. 
One dollar's (worth of) wares does not allow a man to 
eat a fowl worth sixpence. 

N.6. — Cut your coat according to your cloth. 
20. 

Adudon ni kpa gbonyo hewo le, ekele ate. 

A fly which hovers round a dead body will go with it. 

21. 
Kg ni ake-tfia dfeian kolo le, ake tfaa sia no. 

The stick with which people strike a beast in the grass 
(i.e., a least of thefeld), they do not strike a house-thing 
(i.e., domestic animal) with. 

22. 
Nu hie ye fee si ehii mli wo. 

The flEtce of water is beautiful, but it is not good to 
sleep on it. 

23. 
Ke ona le, no obio mliwo. 
If thou get, thou askest to put more to it. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



FBOTEBBS IN THE ACCRA T090UE. 339 

24. 

Ke ofo olilei osa okpe le, onan kolo ko osa okpe. 

If thou cut off thy tongue and roast and gnaw (it), 
thou wilt not get an animal to roast and gnaw. 
N3.-~See Oji Proverbs, No. X22. 

, 25. 

Voni ake-feo Taki, le ano-fee Ba. 
What a Taki is made with, with that they make no Ba. 
NJB. — Taki and Ba are figures on playing cards. 

26. 

Kokonte taoo huln. 
Dried cassava wants sun. 
N.B. — Otherwise it spoils. 

27. 

Akpokplonto taoo ela elee le, no dsi noni esno ekue 
ewoo enono mli le. 

The terrapin wants not to know its blood, wherefore it 
contracts its neck (and) puts (it) into its shell. 

28. 
Moni taoomi nakai le, emi ese eke. 
Whoever wants me as I am, is content. 

29. 

Hei fla yakwoo tso: akpokplonto tekwo le, amane 
eba. 

Everybody goes and climbs a tree : the terrapin went 
and climbed ; trouble has come. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



140 WIT AlTD WI8D0IC TBOM WEST APBICA. 

80. 

Ho enyee mo yaka. 

Nobody hates anybody without cause. 

31. 
Bo le, oke, ona nanyo kpakpa, si olee noni ekeo ye 

086. 

As for thee, thou sayest that thou hast a good friend ; 
but thou knowest not what he saith behind thy back. 



Obomo etaa lo yaka 

A man is not lean without cause. 

83. 

Ke Enadsi nyie le, Ntiblii ye mli 

If the Enadsi wander, the Ntiblii are among them. 

N.B.— The Enadai are yeUow "palm birds," and the Ntiblii are 
their companions, the red orioles. 

34. 

Kedsi tso fatu tei amli le, efo midsra. 

If wood mix with stones, its cutting is difficult. 

85. 
Moko fee Hatso sisi, si Nokotso sisi afeo. 
No one plays under the Hatso, but under the Noko 
people play. 

N.B. — The Hatso, or torch-tree, is full of thorns ; the Noko bears 
jiweet berries. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PBOVERBS IIT THE ACCRA TOKGUE. 141 

86. 

Kedshomo, miye gbo le eke-dse eman. 

If hunger eats a stranger, he brought it from his town. 

37. 
Ohiafo ebun man. 
A poor man does not watch over the town. 

Nudso ekwoo gon. 

The brook does not ascend the mountain. 

S9. 
Obomo tsio koyo. 
A man moves the wind. 

iO. 
Mokome efee man. 
One makes not a people (or town). 

il. 
Ohiafo ble egbee. 
The poor man's pipe does not sound. 

42. 
Adeda knkn eknu see enyo. 
A curtailed bill-hook does not break twice. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



142 WIT MSD WISDOM TROM WEST ATBICA.. 

43. 

To gbonyo see kakla. 

A dead goat does not fear the knife. 

44. 
Bai enyo ehii bn kome mli. 
Two crocodiles do not live in one hole. 

Beni Oda ka akpakai mli, bele Tsnnye mibo " Awo ! *' 

"When the Oda lies in the basket (for carrying men\ 
then the Tsunye (or house-mother) cries *' Awo." 

N.B. — The Oda is a large lizard living on walls; the Tsunye 
(literally, house-mother) is a smaller species inhabiting rooms. None 
but Europeans, mulattos, kings, and nobles are permitted to be car- 
ried in the local hammock, or basket, upon men's beads. Awo ! (i. e,, 
'* exalted ! ") is the cheer used by bystanders to the rider. 

46. 

Ke sasabonsam te ya no le, aye we etoo. 

If the devil conies to customs (the local worship), he 
lodges in the witch's house. 

N.B. — "Sasabonsam" has been explained before. 

47. 

Mantsebii edsoo foi kwee yitso. 

A prince does not run to look at the (cut off) head. 

N.B. — Because every head cut off in execution must be shown 
to the king. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



FB0YEBB8 IN THE AOCBA. TOITOUB. 143 

48. 

Alomte ke "mlikpamo no:'* hewo ni ehee nyon. 
The cat says "staretching (i.e., repose) is sweet," where- 
fore it does not buj a slave. 

K.B. — ^Because slayes make the master's hours bitter. 

49. 

Hoko ke kploto haa klan site. 

No one gives a pig to a hyena to keep. 

60. 
Afi ke: moni gbemi edoomi, ake moni fa mitsere. 
The partridge says, " He who kills me does not grieve 
me, as he who plucks my feathers.'* 

51. 
Hoko ke enadsi enyo snsun fa. 
Nobody measures the river with both his feet. 

52. 
Kedsi sisa mita ode le, onine osno. 

If a ghost shake thy hand, thine arm shrinks. 

53. 

Batafobi bi enye ake : '' Awo, meni yo ohie kpoikpoi 
le 1 " Ekele ake : '' Wo se le ona momo ! " 

The young wild hog asked his mother, " Mamma, what 
are the warts in thy face ? " She replied, " By-and-by thou 
wilt have seen it already." 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



144 WIT AND WISDOM TBOM WEST AFRICA. 

54. 

Ke Didei dse fa mli ni eke ake ; ba he miye le, bele 
ehe miye lelen. 

If the Didei leaves the river and says that the crocodile 
is sick, then it is truly sick. 

N.B. — The Didei is a sweet-water fish. 
65. 

Alaninali fee kpoi amli. 

The Alanmali does not play in rocky places. 

N.B. — ^The Alanmali is a small lobster {praum f) which prefers 
the sea-sand. 

66. 

Ofoi yitson etaa la. 

The horse-fly's head does not lack blood. 

57. 
Eedsi obe floto le, oyaa Wei. 
If thou hast no bag thou does not go to Wei. 
N.B. — Wei is a place where grain is bought. 

58. 

La ye lilei sisi, ni atseo ladso. 
Blood is under the tongue, and people spit saliva (Le. 
not blood). 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



FBOY£BBS IS THB ACOBA. TONGUE. L4t5 

59. 

Koko lee moni fo OkaikoL 

Nobody knows who bare Okaikoi. 

N.R — Okaikoi is the proper name of a person whose parents 
were xmknown. 

60. 

Hoko enoo Sadso emaa abono. 

Nobody takes the Sadso and builds a barn with it. 

N.B. — ^The Sadso is the monkey-bread^ calabash-tree, or Ad ui- 
sonia digitata, whose timber is too soft for building purposes ; m< >. e- 
oTer, in many parts of the Coast there is a superstition thaL n 
attracts lightning. 

61. 

Oda le, ake miuimko ko ye, nohewo le ebn si etc. 
The Oda (lizard) knows that there is a belly-ache, there- 
fore it lies on its belly ({.e., prepares) for it. 

62. 

Ani ke ake ''Tnil " le to egbof 

If people say, " Tui ! " is the sheep dead P 

N.B.— "Tui!" means "flee ! " and is used when driving away 
smaller animals. 

63. 

Bonso da kpetenkple mon; si nsonkotoko gbeole. 
The whale is truly very big, but the sea-porcupiue (the 
sword-JUh ?) kills him. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



146 WIT AND WISDOM FEOM WEST AfEICA. 

64. 

Ee lilei ke, eke ahn le, eke dsen yee he glo. 
If the tongue say it be very very loug, it cannot vie 
with the boa constrictor. 

65. 
Moko enmee tso he, ni eyaye koyo abo. 
Nobody lets go a tree and swings in the air. 

66. 
Anyiee fio se, ni adu tsone. 

Nobody follows an elephant and falls into a trap {which 
Ms cunning would avoid). 

67. 

Eedsi noko bi oden le, kamia ni gbekebii mititi 
onine se. 

If nothing is in the palm of thy hand, close it not lest 
children pinch its back. 

N.B. — Meaning, he ir a rogue -who gives more than he has. " Ein 
flchelm ist, der mehr gibt, alB er hat." See also the Oji Proverbs, 
Ko. 22. 

68. 

Man knkiL ake sa Tsile. 

With a piece of herring they catch the Tsile. 

N.B. — The Tsile is a large fish caught in numbers off the Qold 
Coast during the months of August and September. In the Oji 
dialect the woid is '"Sire,'' which resembles in sound the "Shir" {-fish) 
Kast Afiica. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PEOVEBBS IN THE AOCBl. TONGUE. 147 

69. 

Nine 86 ke koko ten yee he gbo. 

The back of the hand and the palm do not unite. 

70. 
Toil enyo si ennn sadsi enyo. 
Two ears, but they do not hear two stories. 

71. 

Moko etsoo gbeke Nyonmo. 

Nobody shows heaven to a child (because the child itself 
sees it), 

N.B. — Nyonmo is translated by the missionaries " Qod/' whose 
face or outside Heaven is considered to be; hence Nyonmo ke 
Sikpon, Heaven and Earth, are both deities, and personal entities. Sy- 
nonymous with Nyonmo are Nanyonmo, Mawu, and Nyonmo Mawu, 
also Tse or Ata Nyonmo, i.c., Father God, and even Wotse, Our 
Father, and Wofe Wotse, Father of all {Allvater). As with the 
classical Jupiter, atpaospheric phenomena are connected with Ny- 
onmo, thus they say, Nyonmo rains, lightens, drizzles, knocks, i.e., 
thunders. Cf. Oji Proverbs, No. 62. 

72. 

Gbo hinmeii kpleikplei, si enaa man mlinii 

The eyes of a stranger (may he) very large, but he does 
not see the inner things of the town (or nation). 

L 2 



Digiti'zed by VjOOQIC 



IJiS WIT AKD WISDOM TBOM W£ST 1.JBI0A. 

78. 

Tu fee ye Abrotsiri, ni ebamomo ye Ga. 

A gun does not burst in Europe and wound {peaple} 
in G^. 

N.B.-T-AbrotBiri or Ablotairi ib land of white people : Europe^ 
America, and eyen Sierra Leone, — all indifferently called " Oibo '' 
in Toruba. 

74. 

Anmoo knntn kpo. 

A blanket (}iL woollen stuff) is not made into a knot. 

76. 
Afi efee nmotse. 

The partridge is not greater than the planter. 
N.B.— It may also be understood the partridge makes not (or 
iff not) the planter. 

76. 

Yitso taa si, ni nakntso bn faL 

The head does not sit down and the knee put on a hat. 

K.B. — In West Africa people sit upon their knees, not as in 
England. 

77. 

Tonye akweo aheo tobi. 

The mother of the goat is looked at {if) tlie kid is 
bought. 

78. 
Dun foo To. 
The Dun does not beget the Yo. 

N.B. — The Dun ia a dark-grey antelope about the size of a goat; 
the Yo Is smaller and prettier. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PBOVEBBS IK THB A.OORA. TOKaUB. 149 

79. 

Blo momo hi fe bio he. 

An old broom is better than a new one. 

N.B. — Because sharper. We say the contrary— new brooms 
sweep dean. *' Neue Besen kehren gut." And the Hindi proverb, 
" A new servant will catch a deer." 

80. 

Sic yee Tamil 

An elephant does not eat small berries. 
N.K — The Tamil is a sweet berry, not unlike that of ripe coffee. 



81. 

Dsu baa Dsa kome. 

Monday does not come one Monday onlj.* 



82. 
Ghomo taa si ni ano tso aye odase. 
A person does not sit (or exUt) whilst they take a tree 
to witness. 

83. 
Fa tsio fa yi se. 

A river moves a river on. 

* The Ghi week has seyen days, three pairs and one single. Thns, 
Monday (the first day) and Tuesday are Dsa and Dsnfo, Wednesday is 
Sho, Thursday and Friday are So and Soha, Saturday and Sunday are 
Ho and Hogba. Neither can the signification of the words nor can the 
reason of the peculiar arrangement be discoyered. Hogba, or Sunday, 
is kept as a day of rest by many of the heathen, who hold it to be the 
seventh or last of the week— doubtless a neo-Christian idea. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



150 WIT AND WISDOM FROM WEST AFBICA. 

84. 

Ke oke tso wo bn mli ni onaa noni yo mli le, ke 
oke onine wo mli le, ona noni dsi. 

If thou put a stick into a hole and dost not see what is 
in, if thou put thy hand in thou knowest what it is. 

85. 
Ke atere ni onaa le, ke akpo na si le, ona. 

If something is carried on the head and thou seest it 
not, if it be put down thou seest it. 

86. 
Ho lei ano flo bo. 

With the Ho*s long tail the Ho is bound. 

N.B. — The Ho is a very small mookej with large head and long 
tail. 

87. 

Nine lakaa mo. 

The hand does not deceive one. 

88. 

Abni ni he do la le, esaa kpa. 
A hot needle burns the thread. 

89. 

Obomo fon hi fe sia flo. 

A bad person is better than an empty house. 

^.B. — Shows the extraordinary sociability of negroes, who have 
a positive dread of solitude. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PROVJBEBS IN THE ACCEA TONGTTE. 151 

90. 

Woni ke "Eno" le, ayee asiile. 

People eat not without him that saith " it is good." 

N.B. — liiterally, " him who says it ia sweet, people when eating 
do not leave" — meaning, that it would be shameful (according to 
native ideas) if he were not asked to sit down. 

91. 

Xe olee onanyo se le, okaa to ohaale. 
If thou knowest not what is behind thy neighbour's 
back, thou dost not venture (to buy) a sheep for him. 

92. 

Mantsesei dsee lai kakadan ni mei enyo ta no. 

A thorn is not a long piece of wood that two persona 
m&Y sit upon it. 

93. 
Moko hamotsomo dsee mo simo. 
To precede a man is not to leave him. 

94. 

Snie be ni ayeo Lolowa. 

There is no cabbage, therefore (lit, then) people eat 
herbs. 

N.B. — The Lolowa is a herb eaten only when vegetables are 
scarce. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



152 WIT AJSTD WI8D0K PBOM WEST AEBIOii. 

95. 

Ke 08i nine le, eko ya omama mli 

• If thou pound palm nuts, some will stam thy cloth. 

96. 

Tso ni te la mli le, ena nala. 

A stick that goes into fire will begin to burn (lit. its 
end burns), 

97. 

Lo ni no le amane ye he. 

About a sweet fish there is danger. 

98. 

Hoko enoo sigbemobe efee wohe. 

Nobody makes a falling place (i.e., a place tchere people 
fall) his sleeping-place. 

99. 

Nabu lee, ake else mife fei 

The mouth does not know that its master is afraid. 

100. 

Moko ke mnma he taa mama memo ten. 

No man puts (a fiece of) new cloth into an old garment. 

N.B. — 01 Matt ix. 16, " No man putteth a piece of new cloth 
unto an old garment^" &c. From this it is probably borrowed. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PROTEBBB IK THB AOOEA. TOKQUE. 153 

101. 



Awoo ni alaa. 
No sleep, no dream. 



102. 



Soro kwe, sord kwe Me. 

It is one thing to look, it is another to look here. 



103. 

Hine abekn ahiisi ni gbonyo sio mo. 

The left hand remains not {quiet), when a dead body 

strikes at one. 

N.B. — ^When a man dies under suspicion of poison, they cairy 
about his corpse, which strikes at his murderer. 

104. 

Honi homo ye le ni egbo le, abii edeka sL 
Whom hunger ate and he died, people enquire not after 
his box. 

105. 

OdomirifBk ye noko ni eyeo dsikule etsan ka. 
Had Odomirifa aught to eat, he would not dig for 
crabs. 

N.B. — Odomirifa is a proper name. 

106. 

Hoko enaa tso ni eke ehinmeii tsre na. 
Kobodj sees a stick and rubs his eyes at it. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



154 WIT ASD wisdom: from W£ST A.FAIGA.. 

107. 

Ho hie-wiemo ke tsomo le, edsee mo dsemo. 
To warn a man is not to scold him. 

108. 

Be nnn wiemo. 

The back does not bear a word. 

109, 

Ke odsii mantse he le, oke e^o dsno ohe. 

If thou wash a king, thou washest thyself with some (of 
his soap, Sfc). 

110. 

Moko ke Asamannkpa daa tetfa. 

Nobody vies with the Asamanukpa in stone* thro wing. 

N.6.— Asamanukpa means head-gbost, or spectre-elder; it ia 
described as a cbimpan/ee, or a baboon, living on tbe islands of the 
Volta Uiver, where the Sisai, or shades of the departed, have their 
Qbohiadse, Hades, or dead- world. 

111. 

Nye be tsofa. 

Hate has no medicine. 

112. 
Heni gwanten sumoo le, dsei enoo eyen etaa. 
Where the sheep likes, there it places its white (spot). 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PBOTEBBS IN THE AOGBA TONGUE. 155 

113. 

Hoko Baa tamo Opale na. 
Nobody sees as Opale sees. 

114. 

Hienmalo be ni afeo ebii ahe. 

The Hienmalo is absent, so they play with his cubs. 

N.B. — Hienmalo, " forehead-scratcher," and Kotse^ " lord of the 
bush," are epithets of the Olowo, or leopard. 

I 

116. 

Hoko enmoo kpo ni esi egonti. 

No one makes a knot and leaves his thumb (i.e., with- 
out his thumb). 

116. 

If a tamo oblan. 

A wife is like a giant. 

117. 
Moni nmo kpo le, le ele fenemo. 
He who makes a knot, knows to loose it. 



118. 

Soro moko yitson, soro moko yitson. 

Different one man's head, different the others. 

N.B. — Meaning, that everybody has his own head, his pecu- 
liarities. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



156 WIT AND WISDOM 7B0H WX8T AFBIOA. 

119. 

Ga 86 gbe dsi gbe. 

The way after {the people) Oa, that ia the way. 

N.B.— The Bey. Mr. Zimmermann here remarks, that " the Oa 
people consider themselvee a leading people." I should be thankful, 
as an amateur anthropologist, or comparative-anthropologist^ vul- 
garly called ethnologist, to know the name of the race that does not. 

120. 

SQwo tsn mihao, si ote mikpaL 

I thatch for you a house, you hide my strings. 

N.B.— The houses are thatched with grass or palm-leaves, which 
are bound on with strings. 

121. 

Gbeke edfaa akpokplonto, si gbeke le wao dUEL 

A child does not break a land tortoise, but a child knows 
how to break a snail. 

N.B. — The Hindi proverb is, " Boys' play is death to the 
birds.- 

122. 

Beni omia cnanyo ko le onanyo hu mi miao. 
When thou pressest a friend of thine, thy friend also 
presteth thee. 

123. 

Ohwam, kedsi ote ni bai le aba ten le bewo le, 
dscmo; si wose le» ke nme le tsn le, owaye eko. 

Oh warn, if thou go {and see) that the leaves have 
covered the palm-tree, remove them, for by-and-bye, when 
the nuts are ripe, thou will eat some. 

N.B.— The Oh wam is an animal that lives on palm-nuts. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



FBOYEBBS IK THB ACOBA. TONGUB. 157 
124. 

Noni bako da le, eye nso se. 

What has not come before, is behind, the sea. 
N.B. — Meamng, that you can say so, as people have not seen it. 

125. 

Hoko enaa moko oblan, ni ehnra eyi sL 

Nobody sees the giant slave of another and jumps for 

126. 

Kele mil ye nil kale, onnfa ye noko ni eyeo. 
If in length there were aught, the serpent would have 
something to eat. 

N.R— On the contrary, the Somal of East Africa say, " Length 
IB honourable even in wood." 

127. 

Abe mama ni abio yo ti. 

He has no doth and calls for a woman. 

N.R — ^The Mama is the native garment, a square of calico, worn 
as a toga by day and used as a sheet at night. The want of it shows 
extreme poverty. 

128. 

Snilafo fee mln mli. 

A blind man does not play in the dust. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



158 WIT AND WISDOM FBOM WEST AFBICA. 

125. 

Tim tim dsn amada teomo, si ehe saomo mli 70. 

To brag is not to plant bananas : in clearing the ground 
about them, it {the wqtTc) consists. 

130. 

Ahio man ni olieo ben. 

Do people dwell in a town where there is no warm 
{food) f 

131. 

Moko ehoo nii eyamaa nmanTnaiia, ake eotao 
eweknmei abaye. 

Nobody cooks food and puts it on the dust-hill, to seek 
his relatives that they may eat. 

132. 

Ke otso kolo tsokpemo le, ke ewo hn ema ana. 
If thou teach a brute stick-chewing, even if it sleeps, it 
sticks in its mouth. 

N.B. — Tsokpemo, or stick- chewing, alludes to the use of the 
which in these regions answers to our tooth-brush. 

183. 

Kokote wonn ekpa efie si: si masro sika Dsosmf 

The Kokote soup is poured out— should I regard the 

sovereign ? 

N.B. — The Kokote is a sea-fish of delicate flavour, and the Dsosru 
is a measure of gold-dust worth about £1. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PBOTEEBB IN THE ACOBA TOITOTJE. 159 

134. 

Oknkuba ke elei ke le, sone efa. 
(1^0 sooner) the Okukuba said his tail was long, than 
the weasel boasted. 

N.B. — The Okukuba is a small field animal with a long tail. 

135. 

Tso ni aklonto be he le, ekwo dsra. 

A tree which has no fork, its ascent is difficult. 

136. 

Dse ana ni ase wohe. 

It will get dark and a sleeping-place will be found. 

137. 
Babi gboo fa. 

A young crocodile does not die in the river. 

N.B. — The river being its proper place. 

188. 

Ke oka wo nkpla able le, ehie sooo. 

If thou huskest corn with the fowl, it will not esteem 
thee. 

139. 

Atfaa mo te, ni awe sukuknli atso ehie. 

Nobody {intending to) cast a stone at one, takes up a 
clod and shows it to him. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



160 WIT JlSTD -wisdom PBOIC WEST AFBIOA.. 

140. 

Moni eto ke moni himo yeole le: namo aho aha. 
One is full, the other is hungry — to whom do people 
sellP 

141. 

Iffoni tsuo nil hao le, eyaa ke ernusn flo. 
He who works for thee, does not go with an empty 
belly. 

142. 

Blofo-okpo ke : Moni yeo nii ehaao le, le ogbeo la 
ohaa. 

The European pigeon says, ''He who eats and gives 
{food) to thee, for him thou quenchest the fire.'' 

N.E — Blofo, ia the Qa language, meaning anything Europeant 
from the radical ''Bio," com or maize, because, when the first 
strangers came to the coast, the women were grinding, and sud, 
« These men are white as com." 

143. 

Moko enoo adeda etoo lema he. 

No one takes a bill-hook and cuts an axe with it. 

144. 

Wonu no kolo le na, si nine enaa eke-&. 
Soup is sweet to an animal, but the animal has no hand 
to take it up with. 

145. 

Ke dsnlo ke ele dsn eyadsu okplent 
If a thief say he knows how to steal, let him steal a 
cannon. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



FBOYEBBS TN THB AOCBA. TONGUE. 161 

146. 

Moko ke ennmo etoo nyonma he. 
No one puts (down) five for ten. 

147. 

Ke odi adudon se le owuleo ofla mlL 

If thou care (to kill) the %, thou wilt hurt thy boil. 

148. 

Ohi lOy si eye mlebo. 

Thou hatest meat, and — thou eatest liver ! 

149. 
Ke akpokplonto hewo kule atfaa tu. 
If it were for the land-tortoise's sake, no gun would be 



fired. 



160. 

Fieholo ko ehoko ba da. 

A cabbage-dealer has never sold (mere) leaves. 
N.B. — If you believe him. Our *' No one cries bad fish." 

151. 

Kasolo yeo nil kakn mli. 

The potter eats out of a potsherd. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



162 WIT AlTD WISDOM FBOM WEST AEBICA. 

162. 

Ke oye lele mli le, odsieo mli no. 

If tbou art in a yessel thou takest out the water. 

153. 

Oben ni ayaa hewo le oke, nso le nine. 

Thou art not on {if) when people go (upon it), therefore 
thou saidst ** the sea is calm." 

154. 
Ke fio ke: eta lo le, dsee tsokpo kome ne enan. 
If the elephant sa j he is thin, he has not onlj one traj 
full. 

N.B.— But much more. 

155. 

Qibo edsaa konolo. 
A stranger does not divide Ko-meat. 
N.B. — Ko ifl a festive food. 



156. 

Oa weku tamo mampam fo, ke okpa le, bele ohe 
gbla. 

A G-a family is like crocodile's fat, if thou anoint thy- 
self (with it) thy skin cracks. 

N.B. — Warning the world not to meddle with so great a people 
as the Ga. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PROTEBBB IN THE ACCBA. TONGUE. 163 

157. 

Tsebi ke, Dse na: si nyebi ke, Dse nako. 

A father-child says it is night, but a mother-child says 
it is not night. 

N.B. — Tsebi is a half-brother by the same father but another 
mother, often contrasted with Nyebi or Nyemi, a half-brother by the 
same mother, which is held to be a nearer relationship than the former. 
Mr. Zinmiermann believes that the proverb relates to family quarrels 
springing from polygamy. 



168. 

Momosa le Kwaw Mensa; mitao Fete aya, si mibasro 
ni atsnle Qua. 

Kwaw Mensa once wished to go to Fete ; it was different 
when he was sent to Qua. 

N.B. — Kwaw Mensa is the name of a man ; Fete is distant from 
Accra ten miles, Gua^ or Cape Coast Castle, sixty. 



159. 

Ke otao nme le, ya Tutu. 
If thou wish for palm-nuts, go to Tutu. 
N.B. — Tutu is a town in Akwapim, where palms abound. 

160. 

Moko enoo nine abeka etsoo emangbe. 

No one shows the way to his town with the left hand. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



164» WIT AND WISDOM 7BOM WEST AFRICA. 

161. 

Tsina wolo see tsina. 

A cow-herd does not fear a cow. 



162. 

Obe ko gbe edsee. 

A dog does not bite a dog till (blood) comes out. 



163. 

Wo ni edsoo le, akokobesa eke-yaa. 

A fowl that is not good, with spices it goes (i.e., is 
eaten). 

164. 

Obobilo lee kolo helatse hewo ni etfale ta. 

A hunter knows not sick game, therefore he shoots it. 

165. 

Lofio ni edsen tsere le, mra ekaseo flikimo. 

A bird which does not get feathers, quickly it learns to 
fly. 

N.B. — Said of the precocious. 
166. 

Fiofio adndon ye gbe toi. 

Little by little a fly eats a dog's ear. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PttOVEEBS IN THE ACCRA TONGUE. 1(55 

167. 

Ke lo ko ke, ewo fo ahn le, eke kploto yee lie gbo. 

If an animal say it be very fat, it does not rival tbe 

pig- 

168. 

Sid ke nwei yee gbo. 

Earth and heaven do not come together. 

169. 
Oia gbii fa fe to gbii. 

The days of poverty are more than the days of super- 
fluity. 

170. 

Osumo nyontBomei nyonma ke kpawo. 

Thou wilt serve seventeen masters. 
N.B. — Cf. Matt. vL 24 : '* No man can serve two masters," &c. 

171. 

Gbi ni amo kploto le, batafo atso hamo. 
The day when the pig will be caught, the wild boar will 
lead the way. 

172. 

Ke akpokplonto ke ; wa hewo, dsiknle awoo tako ye 
sikpon ne no. 

If the land- tortoise would say (it is), for hardness' sake 
people would take up pads upon this earth. 

N.B.— Meaning, if it depended upon the saying of the land- 
tortoise, that it is too hard, &c., because of its hard shelL 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



166 WIT AND WISDOM FROM WEST A7BIOA. 

173. 

Asantemei wonu no, si no fo mli tso. 
The soup of the Ashante is tasteful, but there is too 
much salt in it. 

N.B. — The people whom we call Ashan'tee, and sometimes 
Ashantee', are known upon the Gold Coast as Ashante, or Ashinte. 
The proverb alludes to their cruelties. The Hindus say, " The rule 
of Harbhdm," a place (Ilahabad) celebrated for in justice. 

174. 

Ehe wa tamo ba. 

He is as hard as a crocodile. 

175. 

Homo yele take klan. 

He is as hungry as a hysena. 

176. 
Moko yee yele na ye bu mlL 

Nobody buys yams in the ground. 

N.B.— Somewhat like No. 179. 

177. 
Obeke ma koi ni onnkpa hio sisi. 
A child builds a second story and an old man dwells 
down-stairs. 

N.B. — Relates to the changes and chances of life. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PBOVEEBB IN THE ACCBA TONGUE. 167 

178. 

Tantra dsimi, dsa no mifo ye. 

I am a Tantra {-fish) : in the market I bear (children), 

N.B. — Fo meana also to beget. So a common wedding saluta- 
tion is, " Okele afo bii nyonma ke enyo 1 ** — Mayst thou beget (or 
bear) twelve children with her (or him). 

179. 

Ahoo alomte ye floto mli, si adsieole taxL 
A cat is not sold in a bag, but openly produced. 

180. 
Aaye Koko enmore dsiknle aaye yekose. 
If people would eat Koko raw, they would eat it so be- 
hind the bush (i.e., in the country, not in the town)* 

N.B. — Eoko is the smaller yam, which ia eaten roasted or 
boiled. In Oji the proverb is, *' Vobedi Koko amonno-a^ anka 
vodi n'af u bo ; " and the meaning is the same. 

181. 

Wa ke, ehewo dsiknle ta egbee ye kon. 

The snail says, for his sake no gun would go into the 
bush. 

182. 

Anann taa si, ni abe gugo akase le. 
A spider does not sit, that people may teach it to speak 
through the nose. 

N.B. —Because it can or is supposed to be able to do that already. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



16S WIT AND WISDOM FBOM W£ST APBICA. 

183. 

Ke niyenii ye sia le, akee ake ayadsu bayele ke-ba 
Bia, 

If food be in the house, people do not say, " Yams shall 
be stolen and brought." 



184. 
Klan kplaa tsina. 
A hyaena does not drive a cow. 

186. 

Ke gbe ke edseke aha le ehoo man he. 

If a wag says it is very long, it does not pass the town 
(i.e., it leads to it). 

186. 

Dede mife kolo si eke Kokon. 
Dede is a fool, but she says it is Kokon. 
N.B. — Dede or Eokon are women's names. 



187. 

Kakraka feo gbele nii si egboo. 

The cockroach seems to die (lit. makes things of death) ^ 
but does not die. 

N.R — The "roach" k very troublesome in the Ch>ld Coast 
houses. Mr. SUmmermann translates Kakraka or EaJdaka " chafer/* 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PBOVEEBS IN THE ACCEA TONGUE. 169 

188. 

Wo nane egbee ebi. 

The foot of a fowl does not kill its chicken. 

189. 

Onokpa boo madsi ano toi. 

An elder hearkens not to the thing (i.e., the gossip) 
of towns. 

. 190. 

Ke okakla foo le, obon oke-woo. 
If thy knife cut thee thou sheathest it. 
N.B. — Meanipg, thou doet not cast it away. 

191. 

Ohenyelo ke : otaoo egbo. 

Thine enemy saitb, " Thou wishest my death." 

192. 
Lebi dan dseo fa mon, si wiemo kpakpa dseon. 

In the morning the mouth hath an evil savour, but a 
good w^ord comes out of it. 

198. 

Niiatse foo dsoi fe, si efoko yafodso da. 

A rich man composes every dance, but he has never 
composed a dance of weeping. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



170 WIT AITD WISDOM FEOM WEST AFRICA. 

194. 

Ke owye yo adfaman le, onaa mlifa. 
If thou many a harlot, thou dost not wax wroth (at 
what may happen). 



195. 

Sane fon ni yo dsen hewo ni ke afo bi ni awieo 
atsoole. 

For the eyil that exists i^ the world it is, that thy child 
when born is instructed. 



196. 
Ke owe mama ni esaao le, ni atseoo oblafo. 

If thou wear a cloth that fits thee not {it happens) that 
thou art called an executioner. 

N.B. — The criminal's clothes being the African Calcraft's per- 
quiaites. 

197. 

Nyomotse naa mlifa. 

A debtor does not get angry. 

198. 
Nyon edsee gbi kome ni efo kpen. 
The moon does not appear one day {only) and cease to 
shine. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



FBOYEBBS IK THB ACCBA TOWGITE. 171 

199. 

Ke ohe waa oke: Tako eMi. 

If thou art weak, thou sayest the pad is not good. 

N.R — Men and women carry load-pads on their heads. The 
proverb is our ** Bad workmen complain of their tools." 

200. 

Dsee noko, u noko dsi no. 

** It is nothing ! " — ^but that is something. 

N.B. — " Dsee noko *' is a general evasive answer to enquiries ; 
the proverb is the reply of the man who will not be put off. In the 
Oji dialect the precisely similar saying is, " Enye biribi, na eye biribi 
aranen. 

201. 

Ke batafo ke: dsee enan ena non. 

If the wild boar say it is not his foot-print, still it is it. 

202. 

Moko efee kolo sii enyo. 
Nobody is twice a fool, 

203. 

Eto tso egbe eno. 

He cut a tree, and fell over it himself. 

N.B. — Cf. Proverbs zxviii. 10: "Whoso causeth the righteous 
to go astray in an evil way, he shall fall himself into his own pit." 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



172 WIT AMD WISDOU TBOM WEST AFRICA. 

204. 

Moko hie gboo sii enyo. 

Nobody is twice ashamed. 



Moni ena da le, eke ehi. 

He who has wine says it is good. 

N.B.— See No. 150. The Hindi proverb ia, " No one calls his 
own butter-milk sour." 

206. 

Hlikpamo dai nil dsikule alomte ye eko. 

If stretching were wealth, the cat would be rich. 

207. 

Titso kome eyaa adsina. 

One head does not go a-counselling. 

208. 

Ohia ni ehia Akaamnnyo hewo ni eke Ayigbenyo nio. 

On account of the poverty that affects the Akwamu- 
mau, he calls himself a man of Ayigbe. 

N.B. — Akwamu is the name of a tribe on the Volta River, about 
fifty miles from its mouth. The Ayigbe is part of the people known 
to us as Krepe, or Eipe people ; they call themselves Ewe and their 
tongue Wegbe. They live on the east and west of the Yolta River, 
and, being near the sea, are wealthier than their inland brethren. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PEOTBEBB IS THE AOOEA TONGUE. 173 

209. 

Ke ofie kolo le ni o haale gbe, etsoono. 

K thou drive a beast and give it no way, it turns upon 
thee. 

210. 

Honi gbekebii fe ye Uotia le, no onnkpai le feo ye 
ma le mli. 

What the children do at the ends (of the toton)^ that the 
elders do in the town. 

211. 

Moko ke sisai gbaa ta. 
Nobody wars with ghosts. 

212. 

Moko den dsee oden. 
Somebody's hand is not thy hand. 

213. 
Soko ni ayee le, ahoo. 
What is not eaten is not cooked. 

214. 

Fio ebe kose dsiknle knle wo kolo wnlu dsile. 

Were no elephant in the jungle, the buffalo would be a 
great animaL 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



174 WIT AKD WISDOM TBOM WEST AFRICA. 

215. 

Opasafo ke : Midasefo ye Akyem. 
Saith the liar, " Mj witness is in Akyem. 
N.B. — Akyem is here used for any far place. 

216. 

Tsu moko nwei ni hwan esisi atfere. 
To send some one up and to draw away the ladder from 
under him. 

217. 

Abolo fio ehii yeli. 

Dry bread is not good eating. 



218. 
Noko eko onufa ! 
Something has bitten the serpent I 



219. 

Adnm ke : Ewt)n dsi ehinmeL 

The Adum {monkey) saith, " My eye be my fetish ** {or 
protecting charm). 

N.B. — Under the word **won " Mr. Zimmennann thus explaiDs 
"African theology." According to the people of Accra, on the 
Gold Coast, Ood {Nyonmo) is the highest being, the only Creator of 
Heaven and Earth. The " fetishes " (wodsi), heaven, earth, sea, 
rivers, trees, and similar objects, are sub-deities, spiritual and per- 
sonal, who direct and govern the world. There are also demons. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



FBOYEBBB IN THE ACOBA TONGUE. 175 

male and female, good and bad, common to all the fetishes, or con- 
fined to a part, to a tribe, a town, a family, or a single person. A 
person may possess a fetish, or demon, or be possessed by one. " Besides 
which, there are innumerable things, consecrated to, belonging to, or 
made effectual by, a fetish— as cords (wonkpai) to be tied about the 
body, or the house ; teeth, chains, rings, &c., worn, and the like, 
which gave rise to the absurd belief, that the African makes every- 
thing, even a bottle or a cork, his god : and hasty travellers and 
other people, not having time to ask and to learn, have sustained 
this saying, whilst a comparison with religious things and super- 
stitions in the very heart of Christendom would have fully explained 
the matter without casting the African together, no more with men, 
but with brutes." 



220. 

Akeo ekome dani akeo enyo. 

People say " one ** before they say " two." 

221. 

Toi ni gbaa nabu na. 

It is the ear that troubles the mouth. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



V. 



PROVERBS 



THE YORUBA LANGUAGE. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PROVERBS IN THE YORUBA LANGUAGE. 



The Toruba, popularly called the " Aku " language, is 
spoken bj at least two millions of souls, inhabiting a 
country whose area is not less than 50,000 square miles. 
This area is bounded on the north by the tribes speaking 
Barba or Borghu, by the Takpas ? (Tappas) of Nufe, and 
by the other races accolent to the Kwara (Quorra) 
River: to the south is the Atlantic washing the Bight 
of Benin; eastward are the various tongues of the 
Niger Proper, especially the Ibo (Eboe); and west- 
ward lies the Gold Coast family of languages. 

The Torubas — ^though, like all other pure Africans, 
they have not attempted literature or science— speak 
a tongue tolerably rich in abstract terms, showing that 
they are not deficient in a certain power of thought. 
It is asserted by missionaries that of late they have 
" begun to feel the aspirations of intellect.'* Having no 
ballads, no songs, and but few popular stories, their 
language abounds in "Owe,** or proverbs, which are at 
once the ethics and the poetics of the people. Many of 

* The Takpa or Nufe people are considered the swiftest of men ; 
henoe the Yorubas say, A'sa ni Takpa eiye, ** The falcon is the Takpa 
of birds.'* 

N 2 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



180 WIT AND WISDOM FEOM WEST AFBIOA. 

¦them are sententious observations on the nature of 
things ; others are designed to inculcate the rela- 
tive duties of men ; and a few are simply riddles, or an 
ingenious play upon words, called Alo.* The following 
124 specimens are extracted from the work of the Bev. 
Mr. Bowenf:-^ 



1. 

£te i mo ete ni iko oran ba ereke. 
Mouth not keeping to mouth, and lip not keeping to 
lip, bring trouble to the jaws. 

N.B. — Talk is ailver, Bilence is gold. 

2. 

Amoran mo owe, i ladza (or ni ilaju) oran. 
A wise man (or coimcillor), who knows proverbs, (soon) 
reconciles diflSculties.. 

* Hence ''Apalo** is a riddle maker or enigmatist : Apalo patita, 
**he who makes a trade of telling riddles,*' reminding us of certain 
civilized diners out, -who keep a '^ riddle book." There is another 
form of language^ called *' Ena," which somewhat corresponds with 
our "costermongers* slang," or "thieves' Latin." It is an " inversion of 
the order of letters, syllables, words, or sentences, nnder which the 
sense is concealed or changed : occasionally employed by those who 
wish to conununicate privately, and to disguise the sense from the by- 
standers ; e. flr., De mi, babba, 'cover me, father,* employed to signify, 
Babba mi de, * My &ther is come. ' " 

+ Ghrammar and Dictionary of the Yoruba Language, by the Rev. 
T. J. Bowen, Missionary of the Southern Baptist Convention. Ac- 
cepted for publication by the Smithsonian Institution, May 1858. 

I have not changed the author s orthography, necessarily omitting 
the diacritical points and tone-marks. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



FBOTEBBS IN THE Y0BT7BA LA^^GUAOE. 181 

3. 

Hikpa ise owo ti waL 

By labour comes wealth. 
N.R — "Labor improbus omnia vincit." 

4. 

Eni aba ko to bi eni ore: eni aba ko se ika, rirun 
ni i run womwom. 

A grass mat does not last like a bulrush mat : a gracus 
mat will not bend ; it breaks to pieces. 

6. 
Abaiyedze ko se ifl idi oran ban. 

It will not do to reveal ooe's secrets to a tattler. 
N.B. — A common sentiment. 

6. 

Aba (abba) ko 86 ikan mo ni li ese, bikose eni ti 
nse bnbnm. 

The stocks are not fastened on the foot of one, except 
of him who does evil. 

N.B. — The African aba (abba), or stocks, called in Zanzibar 
"Mukantala/* are formed by a large iron staple containing the 
ankle, and with ends driven into a heavy log. Mr. Crowther's 
translation is, " The stocks are not pleasant, but they are good fur a 
rogue." 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



182 WIT AND WISDOM 7B0M WEST AFRICA. 

7.. 

Abata takete, bienikpe ko ba odo tan. 

The marsh (or pool) stands aloof, as if it were not 
akin to the stream. 

N.B. — Said of people who are proud and reserved, or who pre- 
tend to be what they are not. 



Bi odzumo mo, olowo gbe owe, iranwn a gbe, keke, 
adzagnn a gbe akpata, iwonso a bere gbe asa, agbe 
a dzi ti on ti amko, omo^)de a dzi ti akpo ti oron. 

When the day dawns the trader betakes himself to his 

trade ; 
The spinner takes her distaff (or spindle), the warrior 

takes his shield ; 
The weaver bends over his Asa, or sley (i.e., stoops to 

his batten) ; 
The farmer awakes, he and his hoe-handle ; 
The hunter awakes with his quiver and bow. 

N.B. — This has been noted by both Messrs. Tidal and Bowen as 
a correct and picturesque description of the daybreak scene in every 
Yoruban town. It also means to inculcate that no one should re- 
main idle. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PBOYEBBS Iir THE Y0BX7BA LAKGUAGE. 183 

9. 

Ebi ko kpa Imale, o li on ki idze aya« 

When the InuJe (Toruhan proselyte to El Islam) is not 
hungry, he says, " I never eat monkey-flesh." 

N.B. — Meaning, that when he is hungry he ib not bo scrupulous 
about a food ceremonially forbidden. 

10. 

A ki ira eran erin li ori ki a ma fi ese tan ire ni 
ile. 

One never carries elephant's flesh on his head that he 
may dig in the ground with his foot for crickets. 

N.B. — Chie who has plenty of elephant's flesh, in Toruba con- 
sidered good food, does not put it on his head and go about searching 
for crickets, poor man's diet, to eat. This proverb is applied to the 
" riekard*' who stoops to mean actions for the sake of saving. 

11. 

Kpikpe ni yi kpe, eke ko mn ara. 

A long time may pass before one is caught in a lie 
(lit., a lie will not §o to oblivion). 
N.B. — But detection comes at last. 

12. 

Amu ni se esin; ate ti imu ni li agogo imo. 

The slanderer brings disgrace on one, like a leprosy 
which attacks one on the point of the nose (where all can 
see it), 

K.B. — Said of one who tells another's faults in public. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



184 WIT AKD WISDOM PBOM WEST AFBIGA. 

X3. 

Abanise mab ba ni se mo. 

He is a Helper that helps no more. 

N.B. — Meaning, that he is a person no longer to be depended 
upon. 

14. 

Aknko gagara ni idadzo fli ni li arin ogandzo. 

A large cock * decides for us in the midst of the night 
(as to the thne of night). 

N.B. — Persons are supposed to be disputing about the time of 
night, when the crowing of the cock shows that it is very late : the 
proverb may be quoted whenever a dilute is suddenly decided by 
unexpected evidence. 

15. 

Akobi ni ti eleran. 

The first-bom is the shepherd's. 

TS^ — When a woman takes a she goat fx a ewe— both of which 
are termed '* Eran " — ^to feed, she claims from the owner the first- 
bom kid or lamb. Curious to say, Mr. Crowther translates this 
'' the first-bom is due to the owner '' {^not to the shepherd who taket care 
of it)> 

* Literally, a cock of largeness^ so ''Ohun didara," a Mang of 
goodness, ie., a good thing ; *Mgi ulanla,*' tree of bigness, i.e., a big 
tree ; and many other instances. The reader may thus judge of the justice 
of Mr. (yooley's remarks — *** Mountain of whiteness* for * white moun« 
tain ' is a piece of affectation, of which we believe the honest AMcan 
incapable.'* ("Inner Africa Laid Open,*' p. 107.) HadMr. Gooley 
learned a litUe more of the Afincans and their languages^ he would have 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PBOYIBBS IS THE T0BX7BA. LAI!raX7AGE. 185 

Ibalnwe gbe ile, se bi aknro. 

Although the bath-poom (or scullery) is in the house, 
it is as wet as a garden bj the water side. 

17. 
Ologbon ogbon 11 a ro idzanu ; okokan li a mo iwa 
enia ; a ba mo iwa enia, a ba bnn o, ko fe ; a don ni 
bi abadzo. 

On various plans (bridle-) bits are made ; one by one 
we learn the characters of men : the character of a man 
being known (to he bad), if it were given thee as a 
present, thou wouldst not desire it ; it is painful to one 
as a calamity. 

18. 

Ti idzo ti ayo ni ise idin, wuye wuye ni ise igongo : 
a ndzo, a nyo : omo banabana nre oko igi. 

With dancing and joy moves the maggot ; wriggling 
about to and fro (with pleasure) moves the worm : they 
dance, they rejoice ; but the child of the Banabana is 
going to the wood farm (or toils on at its wood cutting), 

N.B. — The Banabana is an insect that carries a bit of wood in 
its mouth, and this is an emblem of the poor, who must fetch fuel 
from the farms. The proverb will thus mean, ^ others may amuse 
themselves, but the poor man has no holiday.** 



found that in many of the dialects the almost entire absence of adjec- 
tives necessitates a phraseology so distasteful to him. In the Isuba, 
for instance, the only way to express a rich man is '*motu a bori ** — 
a man of riches ; a good man becomes '* motu a bwam ** — a man of 
goodness ; and so on. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



186 WIT AND WISDOM FEOM WEST APBICA. 

19. 

A ki iwa alaso ala ni iso elekpo. 

We do not look for a man clad in white cloth in the 
quarters of the palm-oil maker. 

N.B. — We should not expect any result from incongruous op 
inadequate means. 



Okete nil odzo gbogbo li o mo; on ko mo odzo 
miraiL 

The rat says he knows eveiy daj ; but he does not 
know another day (so as to lay up something for it). Mr. 
Crowther renders it — " The Okete says, * I understand 
(what you mean by) a specified day, (hut, the ind^nite 
expression) another day I do not understand.' " 
N.B. — Said of the spendthrift and the improvident 



21. 

Odzu kokoro baba okandzna. 

Covetousness is the father of unsatisfied desires. 

22. 

Ologbo babn arokin. 

The ologbo is the father of traditionists. 

N.B. — *' Ologbo " is the titl« of one of the king's privy eoun- 
sellors, who also acts the part of chronicler or narrator of vicient 
traditions. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



FBOTERBS ITT THE TOBFBA. LANGUAGE. 187 

23. 

Alagbara (or agbara) mab mo ero baba ole. 

A strong man who is destitute of forethought is the 
father of laziness. Mr. Crowther translates, " A strong 
man who is a spendthrift (may he called) the father of 
idleness." 

24. 

Eni ti ko gbo ti ega, a li ega nkpatoto enn. 

One who does not understand the yellow palm-bird 
says the yellow palm-bird is noisy (i.e., a mere chatterer: 
hut the hirds are supposed to understand one jinother), 

N.B.— This proverb meaxiB that men are prone to despise what 
they do not understand. 

25. 

Eleda eda li Olomn da ni. 

The Lord of Heaven has created ' us with different 
natures. 

N.B. —We must not expect to find the same qualities in all men. 
26. 

Bi alagbara dze o ni iya, ki ofi erin si i. 

If a great (or powerful) man should wrong you, smile 
upon him. 

^.B. — Because resistance woidd bring upon you a still greater 
misfortune. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



188 WIT AND WISDOH TEOM WB8T AFBICA. 

27. 

Alakpata ko mo irn erao. 

The butcher has no regard for the breed of the beast 
{wJiic% he Mils), 

N.B. — He attends to his own business, and does not meddle 
with matters which do not concern him. 



28. 

Igbo biribiri, oknnkim biribiri ; okunkim ni yi o 
seta igbo. 

The forest is (very) dark, and the night is {very) dark ; 
the darkness of the night will soon conquer {or is deeper 
than) that of the forest. 



29. 

Bi ko 86 obon enia, tani iba dzi 11 ouro ki o mah bo 
odzn re mo sasa. 

Except a sloven, who is wont to rise in the morning 
without washing his face nicely? 



30. 
Emu bale agbede. 

The tongs are at the head of (or governor in) the 
blacksmith's shop. 

N.B.— Because they control the hot iron, which without them 
would be unmanageable. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PfiOYEBBS IK THE YOBUBA LAKGUAGE. ISO 



81. 

Oso onibndze ko kpe isan, oso oninabi ko dzu odun 
loh. 

The osho or tattoo-painting of the Buje- woman lasts not 
nine days ; the tattooing of the Inabi-woman lasts not a 
year. 

N.B. — Osho means the deep black stripes with which profes- 
sional women ornament the arms and faces of maidens. Buje is the 
fruit of a small tree of the same name, and when green it makes a 
pretty stain on the skin. According to Mr. Bowen there is a fable 
of a beautiful jet-black girl who refused in marriage all the great 
men of the country; at last a worthless fellow enticed her into his 
house, and detained her all night. She escaped uninjured, but the 
community thought otherwise, and she fled to the woods, where the 
violence of her grief metamorphosed her into the bush that still 
bears her name — Buje. The Inabi is a plant whose acrid root 
blisters and burns-in a durable dark mark, and therefore rarely used 
in tattooing. The moral of the saying is that no advantage or 
possession is permanent 



. Bi adza ba li, eni lehin, a kpa obo. 

If a dog has a man to back him he will kill a baboon. 

N.B. —Showing the advantage of sustaining and encouraging 
people in their efforts. 

33. 

Adza ti ko li eti ko se idegbe. 

A heedless dog will not do for the chase. 

N.B.— If a person will not take advice, no one will employ or 
trust him. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



190 WIT AND WISDOM 7B0M WEST AFEIOA. 

34. 

Gagalo Bubu, owo te akpako. 

If a man let fall his Gagalo (stilts, made from the 
midrib of the akpako, wine-palm, or S, vintfera) a hand 
will be stretched out to seize them. 

N.B. — That ia, so soon as one man loses office or position 
another is ready to take his place. Mr. Crowther says it is applied 
to any aspirant who monopolises for awhile some desired object* 
which, on his overthrow, falls into the hand of some one else. So 
we say, " Pride yriU have a fall." 

35. 

A ki da owo le ohiin ti a ko le igbe. 
"We should not undertake a thing which we cannot lift 
(i.e., perform). 

36. 

Onile ndze eso gbingbindo ; aledzo ni ki a se on li 
owo kan ewa. 

(Though) the host may be living on wild beans, the 

guest expects a handful of boiled corn. 

N.B.— Mr. Crowther translates "Gbingbindo" by a "tree, 
found near the water, whose fruit is eaten only in time of famine/' 
and says that the proverb applies to those who are unreasonable in 
their demands. ^ 

37. 

Mah gbiyele ogun ; ti owo eni ni ito ni. 

Trust not to an inheritance ; the produce of one's 
hands is sufficient for one (or what one gains hy industry 
is sufficient). 

N.R— Said to those who neglect industry because they expect 
to inherit property. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



BBOYXSBS IS THE T0BT7BA LAKaTTAGE. 191 

38. 

Akoseba, eye ti idze odun. 

He who waits for chance maj'wait a year. 

N.B. —Said to those who are ever looking for " something to 
turn up." 



89. 

Eni ti ran ni ni ise li a ibem; a ki ibem eni ti a 
ran ni si. 

We should fear him who sends us with a message, not 
him to whom we are sent. 

N.B. — Applied to messengers sent from one king or chief to 
another. 



40. 

Ero-kpesekpese ; ko mo bi ara nkan igbin. 

(Tau may say the blow is) very light — ^you do not re- 
flect that it hurts the snail. 

K.B. — Said to those who excuse their maltreatment of others 
on the ground that it is no great matter. ^ 



41. 

Esin ri ogun, dzo ; okeo ri ognin, o yo. 
When the spear sees the battle, it dances ; when the 
lance sees the battle, it joys. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



192 WIT A2<n) WISDOM FBOM WBST APBICA. 

42. 

Ohun ti a fi 680 mu ki badze ; ohun ti a ft agbara 
mu ni ini ni li ara. 

An kSelit which we conduct with gentleness is not 
marred ; an affair which we conduct with violence causes 
us Texation. 

N.B.— Said to irritable and impetuous mexL 



43. 

Bi eya ba di ekim, eran ni ikpa dze. 

When the wild cat becomes a leopard, it will deyour 
large beasts. 

44. 

Af edzn toto ko mo okonrL 
Frowning and fierceness prove not manliness. 
N.B.-Dog8 that bark don't bite. 



45. 

Oko nla se alamgba kpensan ; o ni, behe li eni ti 
dzu ni hlo ise ni 

A large stone (bein^ thrown) crushed a lizard. It said 
— " So he who is stronger than one treats one." 

N.B. — Alluding to the strong oppressing the weak, " C'est le 
pot de terre contre le pot de fer." Mr. Crowther transUtee 
" Alambga/' "the male lizard.** 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PBOTXBBS Iir TUB TOBUBA LANGITAGB. 198 

46. 

Alantaknn bi yi o ba o dza, a ta ka o li ara. 

When the spider would attack thee, it extends its web 
to entangle thee. 

N.B. — Applied to the intrigues of men who endeavour to ruin 
jthers. The spider is not in Toruba, as on the Gold Coast, symbolio 
either of Creation or of the Svil Principle. 

47. 

Alasedzn kpere ni ite. 

A self-willed man soon has disgrace. 

N.B. — Meaning, that pride goes before destruction. ^ Quern 
Deus perdere vult, prius dementat." 

48. 

Esu yi dze, esu ye o mo, esu yi o loh ; nlbo li 
alatamkpoko yi o wo. 

The locust will eat, the locust will drink, the locust will 
go ; — where shall the grasshopper hide ? 
N.B. — Describes the effects of war. 



49. 

Ko si alasara ti ita igboku; gbogbo won ni ita 
oyin. 

No (she) snuff-dealer sells stale snuff ; they all sell the 
best (literally, all of them sell snuff honey,) 

K.B. — So Oti or beer of the best quality is called by the street- 
girls •* honey-beer." 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



194 WIT AKD WISDOM TBOM WEST AFRICA, 

50. 

Alaradze ko mo odxin ; abi isu ita bi igi. 

The buyer does not consider the seasons ; he thinks, 

perhaps, yams grow as big as logs. 

N.B. — But the grower and seller does. Mr. Crowther trans- 
lates the proverb thus, "a buyer knows nothing of the seasons 
of the year, but his yam must always be as large as a billet," be- 
cause his money enables him to purchase the best of everything. 

61. 

A 86 alakpa li oso, ko gbo; a se ohim gbogbo fa 
igi» ye igi. 

If one ornament an old wall, it is not improved ; if he 
do anything for wood {hy painting or carving), it is 
adapted to the wood (i.e., it is advantageous). 

N.B. — Our design is accomplished by making the wood as we 
desire it to be. The proverb insinuates that some persons are not 
to be improved by any means that we can employ. 

62. 

Awigbo ti ifi owo adzae mo omi. 

Disobedience will drink water with his hand tied to his 

neck. 

N.B. — Meaning, that a person who is determined to disobey 
will have his own way in spite of all obstacles. 

68. 

Afomo ko li egbo ; igi gbogbo ni ibatan. 

A parasite has no root ; every tree is its kindred. 

N.B. — A ** chevalier d'industrie" does not care where or on 
whom he lives. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PBOTEBBS MT THB TOBUBA L^QVAQIR, 195 

64. 

Em ko 86 omo igi; em kn, iya ko gbo: omo kn, 
igbe taj em se omo ni ile iya re ri. 

A slaye is not the child of a tree (i.e., a llocJe of wood) : 
if a slave dies, his mother does not hear of it ; if a {free- 
horn) child dies, lamentation is made : {yet) the slave 
(too) was once a child in his mother's house. 

N.B. — Domestic slavery is the rule in Yoruba, and as in other 
counfaies where it prevails, the bondman is kindly treated — becom- 
ing, in fact, one of the family. 

65. 

Ada San igbo, ko ri ere igbo : o ro ona, ko ri ere 
ona; ada da idakuda, ada da idakuda; ada da, o fi 
amn gbadi, o di oko olowo; ada li eka li oron, o 
gbadza girigiri. 

The bill-hook clears the farm, but receives no profit 
from the farm ; the bill-hook clears the road, but receives 
no profit from the road ; the bill-hook is badly broken, 
the bill-hook is badly bent ; the bill-hook breaks, it pays 
five cowries to gird its handle with a ring ; it reaches its 
owner* s farm ; {when) the bill-hook has a {new) ring on 
its neck {or handle), it is girded tightly {for new labouri), 

N.B. — Has reference to the unrequited labour of slaves. 

Ibi ki idzu ibi ; bi a ti bi em li a bi omo. 

One birth does not differ from {another) birth ; as the 
slave was born, so was the free-born child. 

o 2 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



196 WIT AKD WISDOM 1>B0M WIST AVBICA. 

67. 

Biotiwnkio ri,a ki rerin abiron; boya ohnn 
ti 86 e loni a 86 iwo lola. 

One should neyer laugh at a sick person; perhaps 
what afflicts him to-day may afflict thee to-morrow. 

58. 

Iwo ni nse abodnwo liehin baba; todn ile rere. 
Thou art the superintendent in the master's absence ; 
look well to the house I 

59. 

Ni igba ti agbe ba ndi abo oka, ino re a don; nikpa 
abo oka ni yangidi owe iti wah. 

When the farmer is tying up com-sheayes he rejoices ; 
from bundles of corn come bundles of money. 

60. 

Ohnn ti ise ohnn abnkun ki a mab se si omo- 
enikedzi eni 

A contemptuous action should not be done to our 
fellow-man. 

61. 

Abnle ni mn aso ilo to ; eni ti ko ba se tedzn abnle 
yi 86 ara re li ofo aso. 

Patching makes a garment last long ; one who does not 
attend to patching will come to want clothes. 

N.B. — Meaning, that a man who neglects little details of 
business wiU fail Take care of the pence, and the pounds will take 
care of themsdves. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PBOYEBBS IK THB TOBUBA LAKGITAGB. 197 



62. 

Bi a ti ran ni ni ise, li a die; bi iwa ba seni ti i* 
adabowo ara re. 

As one is sent on a message, so he should deliver it ; if 
thou add anything to it, it is on thine own responsibility. 



63. 
Adan dorikodo o nwo ise eiye gbogbo. 

The bat hangs with its head down, watching the actions 
of all birds. 

N.B. — ^This teaches silent observation. 



64. 

dze aiye dzu alaiye loh. 

He enjoys tiie world more than the owner of the world. 
N.B. — Said of the extravagant. 

65. 

Bolumo ekpa 11 oron sese, a dzebi oran wo ti. 

The slander of the ground-nut (a hypogcsa) against the 
white field-pea (a climbing bean) falls upon itself: he who 
is in the wrong must sit qaietly apart. 

N.B. — ^Meaoing that a slanderer may injure himself more than 
he injures the slandered. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



198 WIT AND WISDOM TROM WEST AFRICA. 

Obanidze o ba ara re dze. 

He who injures (or despises) another, injures (or <fo- 
spises) himself.* 

67. 

Abauidze mah ba ni se ifa enia; eni ti o dze didon 
ni idze kikan. 

A guest (literally, one who eats of the same dish) who is 
no advantage to a person is selfish ; he who eats the 
sweet should also eat the sour (or bitter). 

KJB. — Said of persons who live on others, and will not assist in 
the labours of the family. 

68. 

Abati alakpa; a ba a ti, a ba a re. 

It is a shakey wall ; we push against it, and (finding 
that it does not fall) we make friends with it {by sitting 
dowjf^ in its shade). 

N.B. — Said of persons whom we suspected at first, but with 
whom we become friends. 



* It is impossible to determine how many of each sayings baye been 
borrowed from the Moslems, who in the 10th century overran the 
Sudan, and left many descendants. Amongst other traces of their cus- 
toms, we may observe that pieces of stick, called *' kponga," are placed 
. crosswise over the body in the grave to prevent the earth from touching 
it. So also they say, '* Saraha babba ebo ** — alms are the fiither of 
(i. e. , ihe best of) sacrifice. ' * Sara, '* or * < Saraha '' is the Moslem term 
for legal alms, and the Yoruban equivalent is ** oreanu." Mr. Crowther 
erroneously asserts, '*as used by the Mohammedans, these gifts are 
very much akin to actual sacrifice.'* 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PBOTXBBS IN THB TOBTJBA LAJfaUAOE. 199 

69. 

Abebe ni ibe iku, abebe ni ibe oran; bi om ba 
nm, abebe ni ibe e, 

A pleader (or €upplicator to the gods) wards off death, 
a pleader (with the judge) wards off a difficulty (or 
punishment) ; if the heat is seyere, a fan mitigates it. 

N.Bi, — There is a play upon the words '* abftbe," a pleader, 
and " abebe/' a fan of hide generally used by the upper classes. 
The proverb also shows the power of pleading in its sense of 
entreaty. 

70. 

lyan mn, ire 70; iyan ro, ire nt 

When famine is sharp, the cricket is fat ; when famine 
is relieyed, the cricket is poor. 

N.B. — ^The paranomasia— a play upon various sounds difficult 
to pronounce in rapid succession— is somewhat paradoxical; it 
means, that during hunger the cricket is eaten as if it were fat or 
delicious ; but when the dearth is over, the cricket ia rejected aa 
poor, and unfit to eat. 

71. 

Odzo, kpa batta bata, batta bata, li ori akpata, li. 
ode adzalubata; bata li igi, batta li awo. 

The rain beats " shoe-drum, shoe-drum " (i.e., patter, 
patter) on the rock in the yard of the chief drummer > 
the drum is wood, and the shoe is leather. 

KB.— A play upon the word *' akpata," a rock, containing a 
frequent repetition of b and t sounds. Mr. Crowther translates : 
'*The rain on the 'batta* (shoes) goes patter, patter, as on the 
'akpata' {rock)'- in the street of the 'ajalubata' (head drummer), 
the 'bata' (drum) is wood, the * batta' {shoes) are skin." 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



200 WIT ATTD WISDOM 7B0M WIST ATBICA. 



72. 

Xanalrftna ba kanakana dza, kanakana da kanakana, 
— eni! or odi-eni. ' 

A crow fought with a crow, a crow conquered a crow. — 
One (or once) ! 

N.B. — The Torubas amuBe themselves by repeating as many 
times as possible, without taking breath, sentences stich as the fore- 
going, containing a recurrence of similar sounds — a good gymnastic 
for the tongue. At the end of each repetition of the sentence, a 
bystander cries *' one/' ** two " &c.; and be who repeats the sentence 
oftenest without a fault is rictor. So boys with us learn to say 
"Oliver Oglethorpe ogled an owl and an oyster;" "Peter Piper 
picked a peck of pepper/ &e. &c. fta 



78. 

Ote ni isadzn ekim, abamo ni igbchin oraa; gbogbo 
otokulu kpe, nwon ko li ebo abamo se. 

As smacking of the lips (i.e., sorrow) precedes weep* 
ing, so mortification follows a difficulty (or griemm* 
matter) ; the whole population of the town assemble, but 
cannot find a sacrifice against mortification. 

N.B. — ^The Yoruba people are accustomed to smftck their lips 
several times before they begin to weep^ and the noise is called 
"oshe." 



74. 

Ikpa obere li oknn ito. 

The thread follows the needle. 

N.B— Applied to anything which happens as a natural 
quence. Cor " tramps" or Co»nu I 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PB0TEBB8 US THB TOBITBA LAKeUAaB. 201 

75. 

Abose ki ise ise odzo; ise baba ni igba odzo eni. 

A job (done for one's self) is not the day's work (or 

chief business of the slaves) ; the master's work claims 

the chief part of one's time. 

K.B. — Said to slavoB, who mayperfonn little jobs for ihem- 
mlves, but miut not n^leot their magt^r^B busineas. 

76. 

Adaridzini ni isete, edzo. 

He that forgives (the tiggressor) gains the victory in 
(or ends) the dispute. 

N.B. — Inoulcates a forgiving spirit. 

77. 

Bi Olomn ba ka ese si ni 11 crony a gbe. 

If G^od should compute our sins, we should perish.* 

78. 

Fi ohnn we ohnn, fi oran we oran; ft oran dzin, ki 
a yin 0. 

Compare thing with thing, compare matter with 
matter : and then forgive (the matter) that thou mayest 
be praised. 

N.B< — This proverb inoulcatefi the duties of examining the 
facts of a dispute — ** Audi alteram partem " — and of exercising a 
foigiving disposition. 

* Kr. Bowen observes, **1 have heard this remark made by 
heathens in attempting to settle disputes, but am not sore that it is a 
national proyerb." Most probably Nos. 76 and 77 are borrowed from 
Moslems. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



202 WIT AXD WISDOM FROM WEST AYBICA. 

79. 

Abere bo li owo adete, o di ete ; oraa ba ile, o di 
ero. 

If a needle fall from a leper's (mutilated) hand, it 
requires consideration (how to pick it up) ; if a difficult 
matter come upon the country (or before the eouncU)^ it 
requires thought (how to avert it), 

80. 

Adintanmo esuo ti o 11 eknlu 11 o bi lya re. 

It is like the genealogy of the Esuo, who said his grand- 
mother was an Ekulu. 

N.B.— The "Eauo" and the "Ekulu," which Mr. Crowther 
translates " deer** are the different species of antelope. The proyerb 
applies to those who claim descent from great families. 

81. 

Elede kpa afo tan, o nwa enl rere ti yi o fi ara re 
yi A 

The pig, having done wallowing in the mire, is seeking 
some clean person to rub against. 

N.B. — It resembles our fable of the monkey that had lost its 
tail, and is said of disgraced men who would intrude themselveB 
upon society. 

82. 

Onlfora tl itete ise onile kpele. 

A suspicious character (being found in the house) im- 
mediately salutes the owner of the house (before he it 
saluted). 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PBOTSRBS nr THB T0BT7BA I.AN0irAOE. 203 

83. 

Agada ko mo ori alagbede. 

The Agada (short sword) does not know the head of 
the blacksmith {who made it). 

N.B. — ^This and the following are said of the ungratefuL 
84. 

Agbedze gba won la, a ni ki a kpa a ni kpansa. 
The calabash having saved them (in time of famine) ^ 
they said, " Let us cut it for a drinking cup." 

85. 

A ri abanidze agbon isale; bi o kn li ownro, a ya 
li ale. 

We meet with guests who are like the lower jaw ; if one 

die in the morning, it separates (from the upper jaw) in 

the evening. 

N.B. — Alluding to those who forsake their friends in time of 
trouble. 

86. 

Akparo dzare adzanakpa, ki li o, mu aso wah ise li 
oko? A dzare akparo, li oko li a gbe imu aso iloh. 

The partridge argued conceruing the bird-snare of 
cloth, " Whj did the farmer bring cloth to the farm ? " 
He replied to the partridge, " We are accustomed to take 
our over-clothes to the fi^rm."* 

* Mr. Crowther translates it far better. "The partridge says, 
' What business has the farmer to bring his cloth here f ' The £umer 
says, * How could I come to my farm without cloth ? ' " 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



204 WIT AKD WISDOM FBOH WXST A7RICA. 

N.B. — The partridge, seeing a cloth so spread out as to form a 
bird-snare, was suspicious, and said, ** What does he mean by this ?** 
The fanner replied that people always bring their wrappers to the 
farm, laying them on the grass or bush while at work. The pro- 
verb asserts, with Sir Boger de Coverley, that there is much to be 
said on both sides of a question. 

Mn properly means to catch, but has many significations. Hence 
the general use of catch in African-Enghsb, e, g,, *'he catch ten,*' for 
" there were ten," &o. 



87. 

N/ Adze, Saluga, o ft eni iwadzu sile se eni ehin ni 

kpele.* 

Aje (God of Fortune, or rather Money), the elevator, 
he leaves the foremost to deal favourably with the hiud- 
most. 

N.B. — ^Meaning, that the first may sometimes be last, and the 
last first— that the battle and the race are not always to the strong 
and the swift. 

88. 

Adze, omo he— iya mi sore ga, (or mi she wogan,) a 
kpa mah gbagnn. 

The witch, child of envy — my troubles are sore and 
bard — she kills but cannot inherit. 

N.B.— The witch in Yoruba, like the Vampire in Greece, de- 
stroys people when asleep by sucking their blood. So the Jigar> 

• Mr. Crowther adds, "o ri ki oran ki o tan," and translates the 
whole, " Aje often passes by the first caravan, as it comes to market, 
and loads the last with blessings." 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PBOTSBBS IS THB TOBIJBA LANGUAOB. 205 

Ihwar in Persia eats iheir livers. Mr. Crowther declares the owl to 
be the bird into which the witch passes when wishing to work evil : 
it is certainly much feared by the Erumen. 



89. 

Adzekasn ko mo bi iyan ultl 

The man who has bread to eat (literally, one who eats 
the large loaf) doe»^ not appreciate the seyerity of a 
famine. 



90. 

Akeke ti nke igi ko se; gbenagbena mbn etn si 
atarL 

The axe which cuts the tree is not afraid; bat the 
woodman makes a sacrifice to his head.* 

N.B.~Sonie kinds of trees are supposed to be inhabited ^by 
evil spirits like the Hindoo Rakshasa, which might cause the axe to 
cut the woodman, unless the latter offered a sacrifice to his good 
genius, which resides in the head. 



91. 

Abetele ni ifodzu onidadzo; notori abetele ki lie 
ise idadzo odto. 

A bribe blinds the judge, for a bribe cannot giro a true 
judgment (or even speak the truth), 

* Mr. Crowther prefixes Ake kan wo igbo agbo okiki, ''An axe 
enters a forest ; we hear a sound." 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



V 



206 WIT AND WISDOM TBOM WEST AFRICA. 

92. 

Bi kun oni knn ola ki ogbe, ki o kpa agiliti, odzo 
a ro. 

If there remain to-day or to-morrow before the iguana 
will die of thirst, rain will surely fall. 

N.B.— This proverb shows the providence of the Creator over 
his creatures. 

93. 

Fi idza» Ai Olornn dza; fl owe la eran. 

Leave the battle to God, and rest your head (or 
temple) upon your hand {as a spectator), 

N.B. — This favourite proverb of one of the Yoruba chiefe in- 
culcates trust in the protection of the Ahnighty, like many similar 
sayings, as "take no thought for the morrow,'' which are more 
honoured in the breach than in the observance. *' Aide toi, et Dieu 
t' aidera," is the apophthegm of a northern climate. 



94. 

Tinotino tehintehin ni labalaba ifl iyin fa Olonm. 

(By its beauty) the butterfly praises God within and 
without (i.e., in all its parts).* Mr. Crowther adds 
labalaba ku li ilewu, and translates the whole, '' Behind 
and before the butterfly praises God (i.e., it is beautiful 
all over), though {when touched^) it crumbles into dust 
like a cinder." 



* This proverb again shows distinctly the influence of Semitic 
thought. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PBOYEBBS IK THE TOBTJBA LAKGIJA6E. 207 

96. 

SzL agba oti, dzi agba eta ; eni ti a ran wah, ki 
id2i agba. 

Open the cask of rum, open the keg of powder {if 
yowrs) ; he that is senfc with ifc dares not open the cask. 

N.B. — Alludes to the fidelity of the Yoruba carriers, who are 
honest as the Arrieros of Spain and Teneriffe. 



96. 

Ognn ko ro ike, agbede ko ro bata; oko ko soro ro 
agbede ko kpa oko ta. 

Ogun (the god of hlacJcsmiths and soldiers) does not 
work ivory, the blacksmith does not work leather ; if the 
farm were not hard to till, the blacksmith would nofc 
make hoes for sole. 

N.B. — Every man to his trade. " Ne sutor ultra crepidain." 



97. 

He kan wa 11 Oyo ni igba atidzo, ti a nkpe Akidze, 
Oibo kn mbe. 

In old times there was a house in Ojo (JEyeo or Ko- 
timgd) called Silence : an Oibo or white man died there. 

N.B — Historical and other facts are often thus transmitted to 
posterity. Oyo, pronounced Auyau, is the ancient capital of the 
Yoruba Empire, destroyed by the Fulasin 1835« The word Oibo, or 
"Eibo" (Amho in ike Iketu dialect), from £o, to greet, means a 
white man ; hence " Orombo/' an orange — literally. White man's 
fruit. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



208 TTIT AND WISDOM FBOM WEST AFRICA. 

98. 

sure ikn, o bo si ako ida.* 

He fled from the sword, and hid in the scabbard (into 
which the sword will return). 

N.B.— The Bame as our saying, " Out of the frying-pan into the 
fire." 

• 99. 

A ri ti eni mo iwi, i fi akpadi bo ti re mole. 

We see that one knows how to speak (the faults of 
others), although he coTers his own with a potsherd. 

N.B. — " Tu Yoia une paille qui est dans ToeU de ton fr^re, maia 
tu ne Yois pas ce qui est dans ton gqH." 



100. 

A M igba akaka lowo akiti; a ki igba lie baba lowo 
eni. 

We cannot prevent a baboon squatting (because it is 
his nature) ; he cannot take from a man his homestead 
(because it is his natural riffht.)f 

* Mr. Crowther also gives, Mo sa osa iku, mo si bo si akko idas. 

t Mr. Crowther gives, besides this one, another version of the first 
danse : Aki igba Agballe lowo Arabi, i.e., '* No one can sex>arate the 
Agballe from the Arabi " — ^two insects always found together. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PBOYXfiBB IS THB TOBIJBjI. LASTGUAaB. 209 

101. 

Ab6 oran ikoko sebi on li a inbawi» abi ara ifti bi 
eni 86 ohxuL ' 

The perpetrator of a secret crime supposes it is he they 
are talking about (if he sees men in conversation); his 
face being pale as one who has done something wrong. 

N.B. — ''Stultd nudabit animi conscieiitiam." 



102. 

Asorokele bodznwo igbe ; igbe ki iro ; eni ti a ba so 
ni 686 iknkpani 

A whisperer watches the bush (if he hears a noise) ; a 
bush never tells secrets ; he to whom one speaks is the 
traitor. 

N.B.-~If a man wiah his Becrets to be kept^ he ahould not con- 
fide them to others. * 



108. 

Odo ki kon ki o bo edza li odzn« 

The river is never so full as to obscure the sight of the 
fish. 

N.B. — No Bcheme or purpose is too deep to be confided to a 
friend-^Bomewhat contradictory to No. 102. 



ik 
Baba bo baba mole. 

A great afifair covers up (or puts out of sight) a small 
matter. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



210 WIT AJST) -WISDOM TfiOM WEST AFSIOA. 

105. 

Bagadai ! igi dn oloko sa. 

By the staff of Egugun ! the tree fell and startled the 
farmer. 

K.B. — Bagadni is a common oath. Egim or Bgagun — (lit., 
bones) is the Mumbo-Jumbo of Yoruban mythology. The proverb 
suggests ** Porturiunt montes nascetur ridiculus mus." 



106. 

Ebo alakoto. 

'' The sacrifice in the basket " — a euphuism for human 
sacrifice ; probably because, as at Dahome, the victim, 
placed in a kind of basket-work canoe, was precipitated 
from a high platform and beheaded. In Toruba a sacrifice 
is sometimes offered for the whole nation, when the victim 
is either killed or is kept alive in chains to sweep the 
idols' temples. 



107. 
Elekun, or Isokan. 

A weeper, a mourner, and figuratively a daughter, who 
in Asia is caDed the "domestic calamity." So the people 
say " bi isokim, o hi iwale," he begat a mourner and a 
grave-digger (i.e., a son), 

108. 
Elemi. 

One who has breath — ^a servant ; so called, because his 
master's life is iu his hands. 



Digitized^^GodglC 



PR0YBSB8 ENT THE TORITBA LAJfGUAGlB. 211 

109. 

Bi enia eimi ba kn li okere akpa eta re wo ille. 

When a relative dies at a distance, a small fragment 
of his remains is brought home. 

N.B. — Eta ifi a fragment of a corpee (such aa his hair or nails) 
brought home to the family, who perform over it funeral rites. 

110. 

Idi baba akosa. 

The eagle is the father of birds of prey. 

111. 
Odndna, igba nla medzi a de i si. 

Heaven and earth, two large calabashes, shut not to be 
open. 

112. 
Ogo. 

A person sitting daily at another's door, to shame him 
into payment of a debt. 

N.B. — ^Equivalent to the well-known custom, ** dhama bait'hna," 
of the Hindus. 

113. 

Aditi WO ni li ena sun. 

The deaf look surprised on people's mouths (when 
speahing), 

p 2 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



y 



212 WIT AKD WISDOM 7B0H WSBT ATBICA. 

114. 

Aiongon obiri asowo mah do odza. 

A long slender trading woman, who nerer reaches the 
market. 

N.R— A riddle, meaning a canoe, whioh is left at the landing- 
place when the owner goes to the market So in Hindi — ^That 
which follows every one, t.e., a shadow. 

115. 

Ognn knn Osa knn o knn tirin ko kpade. 

There remain the " Ogun " (river), the " Osa" (lake), 
and the slender, which you have not met (i.e., croued,) 

N.6. — Meaning the noee. 



116. 

Agbongbere kpete igara. 

The snatch game (of children) resembles (lit., thinks 
of) robbery. 

N.B. — Agbongbere ia a child's play of snatching yegetables 
from one another. 



117. 

Onibaba ni itodzn orombo, onide ni itodzn awede. 

The owner of copper ornaments looks for (the fruit qf) 
a lemon, the owner of brass looks for " Awede." 

N.B.— Awede is a herb nsed for cleaning brass. The saying 
means, "Each man for himself." 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PB0YEBB8 IK THE TOBUBA LANGUAGE. 213 

118. 

Ena awon. 

Fire of tortoise — i.e., mirage, the flickering appearance 
of the atmosphere in hot dry weather. It is supposed to 
be an underground fire made by the tortoise to kill the 
trees, by burning them at the roots. 

119. 
Bdofofo. 

A liver of foam — i.e., irascibility. Among Africans, 
as Asiatics, the Uver is the seat of the passions and affec- 
tions; hence ''Gbodo" (i.e.^ha edo, to receive liver) means 
to dare, to be courageous. So, in olden England, the 
spleen, and in modem times, the heart, usurp the func- 
tions of the brain. 

120. 

Fnn le fo lomn. 

Freely, of one's own accord (lit., for the earth and for 
Ood). 

121. 
Odzu, re wah ile. 

He came to himself (after heing mad or drunk; lit., 
hii eye came to the grou/nd). 

122. 
Baftn, or Ibafin. 

Eunuchs, of whom there were six in the palace of the ^ 

King of Yoruba : they are also called Iwefa. 



V 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



214 WIT AITD WISDOM FBOM WEST AFRICA. 

123. 

Eon mi si. 

My mouth opens (i.e., my appetite returm — est ouverf). 



124. 

Yo gbon 11 owe mo gbon lesse temi tan. 
M7 hands and feet are shaken (i.e., I am in extreme 
poverty), 

125. 
lyo Oyibo. 

White man*9 salt (i.e., refined sugar,) 



The following prorerbs in the Toruba language are 
from the Tocabulary of the Eev. Samuel (now Bishop) 
Crowther.* That excellent divine has kindly assisted 
me with sundry explanations which do not appear in the 
latest edition of his book. Many of them will strike the 
reader " like the maxims in * Poor Eichard's Almanac,' 
which pass for deep wisdom with tlie vulgar of all 
nations." t Others are neatly expressed and ingenious in 
application. There are many also which even Mr. 
Crowther could not well explain, though on occasions 
they become exceedingly apropos. The people are at 

* A Vocabulary of the Yoraba Language. Compiled by the Rev. 
Samuel Crowther, Natiye Miasionary of the Church Missionary Society. 
Seeleys, Fleet Street, London, 1852. 

f China. Being the Times* Special Correspondent from China. By 
George Wingrove Cooke. G. fioutledge & Co., London, 1868. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PKOTBBBS IS THI TOBIJBA LAirGTJAGB. 215 

once noted for speaking in proverbs and are remarkably 
" touchy "-^" thin skinned ** — sensitive. Such a saying 
as " the monkey's grandmother was a fool ** would raise . 
a storm of wrath if addressed by one Yoruba man to 
another. 



1. 
Abanigbele ma mo ojn enni. 
An inmate which cannot be tamed, i.e,, fire. 

2. 
Ohun abapade ko jo ohun ti ari telle. 
An accident is not like an expected result. 

8. 

Aso fdnfon on abawon ki ire. 

A white cloth and a stain never agree. 

KB. — Said when a drunken man, for instance, is brought, or 
intrudes himself, into the society of the sober. 

4. 

Bi oran ba sn oknnknn abe e wo li abbe. 

If the matter be dark, dive to the bottom, 
N.B. — Equivalent to our " Look before you leap. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



216 WIT AKD WISDOM 7B0H WIST ATRIOA. 

5. 

Ohnn ti ako fe ki enia M omo li ase li abbelle. 
What 18 not wished to be known, ia done in secrecj. 

6. 
Oidi ni imn abe imiL 

Wrapping up a razor preseires its sbarpnesa 
N.B. — Meaning, that a clever man ahould conceal his talenta 

7. 

Bnniti mbe abeiyannn yio ri obon ti nfe g^ba lowo 
olnware. 

He who begs with importunity will get what he wants. 

8. 
Abiamo abehin jija. 

A mother with a kicker (i.e., a gtruggling child) on her 
back. A playful expression used in addressing a woman 
with an infant. 

9. 
Aso abila gbogbo li o li omko. 

Each coloured cloth has its name. 

N.B. — Meaning, that eyerything has its meaning and its use. 
10. 

Enniti ko fe oran enni ni ise abinokuennl. 

He who does not love his neighbour acts maliciously. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PBOYEBBS IK THE T0BT7BA LAKGUAGB. 217 
11. 

Bi aso kpe!li abo a hn. 

If clothes remain long in the bag they rot. 

N.B. — So the Arabs say, " Standing water stinks/' in opposition 
to our " Rolling stone gathers no moss." It is also applied to the 
miaerlj, who waste their wealth by hoarding it. 

12. 

Enniti o ba mo idi oran telle on ni ibn abnja eke. 
He who knows a matter beforehand confounds the liar. 

18. 
Bi aba bn igbe 11 abnka ari eranko ino re pa. 
If a bush is surrounded the animals in it are easily 
killed. 

N.B. — Meaning, that eyerything may be aocompliahed by the 
force of numbers. 

14. 

A ki idpe iaaro fa abuke. 
A hunchback is never asked to stand upright. 
KB. — ^We are not to order impossibilities. 

16. 

Aburo ki ipa egbon ni itin. 

The young cannot teach tradition to the old. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



218 WIT AND WISDOM FBOM WIST ATBIOA. 

16. 

Adaba kekeluke ko si oja ti ko na tan. 
There is no market in which the dove with the promi- 
nent breast has not traded. 

N.B. — ^The cowrie, on account of its cireolation aa currency, ia 
compared with the dove. 

17. 

Ki adaba-susu ki owi fd jediedie, ki eiye ki owi fa 
eiye. 

Let the white pigeon tell the woodpecker, and bird tell 

bird. 

N.B. — It meana, let the matter be apread abroad ; alao that 
frienda must support one another. 

18. 

Bi opo enia ba kuro li egbe ofo adanilaraya ni ifo 
ni jojo. 

Though manj guests are absent, he only who enlivens 
the party is missed. 

N.B. —Said in company. 

19. 
Adanilojn ko so ifi ehin ti. 
He who disappoints another is unworthy to be trusted. 

20. 
Adaniloro fi agbara ko ni. 

He who torments another {only) teaches him to 
strengthen himself. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PBOTXBBB IK THE TOBUBA LAKaUAQB. 219 



21. 

Adape oro Id qe ki amo itnmo omko. 
Contraction of words conceals the sense. 
N.E— Opposed to our " Brevity is the soul of wit." 



22. 

Aji bo wa iba li aba ila li atellewo, awa ko mo 
enni ti o ko o, aji bo wa iba li owo adasan, awa ko 
mo enni ti q je e. 

We wake and find (i.e., we find as soon as we have con- 
sciousness) marks on the palms of our hand ; we do not 
know who made the marks : we wake and find an old debt, 
and we know not who incurred it. 

N.B. — Shows how easily man " runs iuto debt" 



23. 

Obba ko ni fiUa ade li oni. 

The Obba (or Jeing) has no cap, but a crown. 

N.B^~The " Filla " is the '' Eantop " of India, a cap with the 
flaps for the ears. The *'Ade" is a kind of crown studded with beads. 
The proverb means, that a king must not use common things. 



24. 

Adebipani ki iae ore enni 

He who causes one's starvation is not one's friend. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



220 WIT AKB WISDOM FBOK WEST ATSLlCJu 

25. 

Adiredo, ko se ibo IporL 

A waterfowl is not fit to worship the tutelarj god 

Ipori. 

N.R— Ipori (le., Ikpo ori) is the big toe worshipped by the 
Torubas. The saying touches the fitness of things. 

26. 

Adire-iraxma ni isajn okn. 

The fowl is the forerunner of the dead. 

N.R — The Adire-iranna is a fowl beheaded at the death of a 
person, and the blood is sprinkled over the corpse, as its passport to 
the invisible world.' This saying is constantly used at funerals. 

27. 

Enni ti o pa afe-lmojo, ki omu re Oyo, eda li ara 
oko \je. 

Whoever kills an Afe-imojo must bear it to Ojo (the 

capital of Toruba) ; the Eda only is due to the people 

of the province to eat. 

KB. — The Afe-imojo is an animal of the rat kind, whose tail--^ 
royalty— is used by the King of Toruba, in sign of distinction : he 
generally holds it before his mouth when he walks abroad, a 
custom followed by his subjects with meaner articles. The Eda is a 
common rat, which breeds very fast. 

28. 

Afeno ni ti iyangbo. 

Chaff is to be fanned away. 

K.B. — This is a superstitious saying, a curse acting as a charm : 
" As the chaff is blown away, so may your evil intentions against me 
be dispersed." 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PB0T£BB8 IS THE TOBVBA LANGTJAGE. 221 

29. 

Aflnosajere afehin se ikoko. 

The faithless man (receives your words) in a perforated 
vessel, but keeps behind his back the vessel (which would 
retain them\ or turns his back instead of his face. 



SO. 
Ohmi ti afojn fi ojn re ri ki etc fo, an li ori mo, ko 
ton omiran ri mo. 

What the blind saw before he was blind, is the last 
sight he ever shall see. 

N.B. — Thifl would be said, for mstance, of a fallen usorper. 

81. 

Agadagodo ko mo ino ara won. 

One lock does not know the wards of another. 

N.B. — Meazung, he is a reaarved man whoee secretB are not 
known. 



Agbada ya li oron o baje. 

An Agbada torn at the neck is spoiled. 

N.B. — ^The Agbada ijb a kind of loose garment The proverb 
means, that a slip or a blunder ruins action. 



83. 

Igba dodo li agbado igbani 

Indian com is the true support of a people. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



222 WIT AJSm WISDOM fbom wbbt atbica. 

84. 

Agbari ko ni modtmmodnn. 

A mere skull has no brains (mouiure) in it. (This 
would be said of a morose, an unfriendly, or a miserlj 
man.) 

85. 

Agbassa babba okuta. 

A boulder is the father of rocks. 

K.B. — ^Thifl \B the first sample of many aimilsr sayin^i that will 
ooouT. It is said by way of oompliment, praise, or flattery either to, 
or of, a *' superior person." 

86. 

Agbatan li agba oUe. 

You must help an idle man thoroughly {if you help kirn 
at all). 

37. 
Agbe ni qe egbin omi, agbalagba ni ijiya oran. 

As a calabash receives the sediment of water, so an elder 
must exercise forbearance. 



88. 

Bi apon omi bi o dano, bi agbe ko ba fo aton omiran 
pon. 

When one is carrying water and happens to spill it, if 
the calabash be not broken, you can get more. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PSOT£RBS IN THE TOBUBA LAiraTJi.0B. 223 



Agbe ni ida aro, Alnko ni ikosniit Lekeleke li allala 
fonfiiii. 

The Agbe is the dyer in blue (i.e., has hluefeathers) ; 
the Aluko is the painter of red dye (i.e., has red), but the 
Lekeleke is the owner of the white cloth (i.e., U white). 

N.B. — The Agbe and the Aluko are different species of jays ; the 
Lekeleke is the crane, called in India a paddy-bird. 

40. 

Zwo ba ag^bebo adire li oja iwo ntagere si i ira, iba 
se rere olawa re ko je ta a. 

You met a hen in the market, and hastened to purchase 

her ; had she been worth keeping the owner would not 

have sold her. 

N.B. — Often said, and justly said, of those who purchase adult 
alayes. 

41. 

Agbeje ko koro ni ille nla. 

The squash is never bitter in a large family. 

N.B. — Agbeje is an early pumpkin, much eaten before other 
vegetables are in season.* The proverb means, that in an extensive 
household there should be no wastefulness. 



42. 

Agbo mqi ko mo omi akoto kan. 

Two rams cannot drink out of the same calabash. 
N.B — There cannot be two suns in the same sphere. 

* See Mr. Boweu's Collection, No. 83. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



224 WIT AJSTD WISDOM FBOH WEST UBICA. 

43. 

Boro agbo ni imn agbo niyin, olla ti babba ni imu 
ommoiyan. 

A ram's mane gives him a noble appearance; a father's 

honour makes a son proud. 



44. 

Agbon ko se ije flin eiye Id eiye. 
Agbon (the eocoa tree, and its nuf) is not good for a 
bird to eat. 

N.B. — Said of or to on« who nndei takes something bqrond his 
powers. So JSaop's fable of the frog and the bulL 



45. 

Mo mo tan ko je agbon ki o li oro. 

Self-conceit depriyes the wasp of honey. 



46. 

Bi boju bi o bonu isalle agbon li a ipari re si 

When the face is washed, you finish at the chin. 

N.B. — This 18 a proverbial saying when a dispute is ended. '* It 
is all settled, and the child's name is Anthony." 



47. 

Aki ifEt eran ikon gbon eran agbon yin no. 

No one will throw away venison for squirrel's flesh. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PR0TERB8 IK THE TOBUfii. LkVQV±&S. 225 

48. 

Enniti npe* o ko snnkonn, iwo li ogbo agboya. 

He is going on calling you, and you pretend to bo 
deaf. 

X.B.—Meaning that a wilful man will have his way. 

49. 

Agidi ti on ti iyonnn, aknrete ti on ti iya. 

An implacable person is always a source of trouble, a 
pliable person is sure to suffer. 

50.. 
Agiliti abi ara yiyL 

The Agiliti (or iguana) with a rough skin. 
N.B. — Applied to those with cutaneous disorders. 

61. 

Akisa aso li afl isn osnka : Ilia kaa mbe nwon ama 
pe illn na ni iUa alagisa. 

*' Bags make up a pad : " there is a town called '^ Bag- 
Town." 

K.B. — This is one of many explanatory and memorial sayings — 
it simply illustrates the meaning of the words Illu alagisa. 

52. 

Agoro ti gbon sasa ebiti pa a ambotori malsyu. 
The Ago is caught in a trap : how much more the 
Malaju P 

N.fi. — The Ago is a striped rat remarkable for its craft, and care 
of its young. The Malaju is a kind of water rat noted for stupidity. 

Q 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



226 WIT AVD WISDOM TBOM WEST AFRICA. 



53. 

Eiyelle ko li agogo kiki arnpe. 

There is no tallness among pigeons : tbej are all 
dwarfs. 

K.B. — Meaning that where there is no head, all are masters : 
said when there is too much of igaXiU in a society. 



54. 

Aja ti ire re ba danilojn 11 ade si agoro. 
The dog which is known to be yerj swift is set to 
catcb the hare. 

N.B. — This is said of a confident man. 



55. 

Bi ako ba le itete koUe ago li apa na. 

If one is not able at once to build a bouse, a shed is 
firbt erected. 



Ago won de ara ihin. 

An Ago {suffers his dependents to he slothful), till some 
one shall come (who shall awaken them). 

N.6.— The Ago is the opposite of our " martinet." The saying 
means that if one king be over-indulgent to his subjects, his suc- 
cessor will change the aspect of affairs. Our King Log and King 
Stork. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PB0TEBB8 IK THB YOBUBi. LAKaTJAGE. 227 



57. 

Agnala mba osn irin nwon sebi aja re ni iae: 
Aguala ki ise aja osupa. 

Venus (the planet) travels with the moon ; they aup- 
pose it to be her dog : Yenus is not the moon's dog. 

N.R— This is a saying difficult to illustrate. It might ^ye ap- 
plied to two men who travel together iDdependently, whilst one is 
taken to be the servant of the other. Aguala, or the planet Venus, is 
called in Toruba the " moon's dog." The Oji tribes call her Kekye, 
or Eekyepevarre, %.e., Kekye who desires to marry. The negroes say 
it is betrothed to the moon ; the Hindus believe the nymphsea lotus 
to be enamoured of the " lesser light/' and constantly pursuing but 
never able to catch the object of its desire& 



58. 

Abere ni yio kebin oko, atta ni yio kehin ille. 
The farmhouse remains to the last (upon the ground), 
and the ridge of the roof completes the building. 

N.B. — This proverb means that a man will be compelled to 
seek a shelter at last. 

59. 

Abon ni ipinle ennn. 

The tongue is the end of the mouth. 

N.B.— A compliment like No. 35. 



60. 

Aigboran babba afojadi 

Disobedience is the father of insolence. 

Q 2 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



228 WIT AJSD WISDOM FROM WEST AFBIOi.. 



61. 

Bi ako li aiya riAdo rindo, aki \je ayaxL 

If tbe stomach be not strong, do not eat cockroaches. 



Aiye li Okun, enia li Ossa, aki imo cive ki ako aiye ja. 

The world is (or may he compared to) an ocean : man- 
kind is tbe Ossa Lagoon (between Lagos and Badagry) : 
however well a person swims, he cannot cross the world. 

K.R — It ia presumptuoua for a man to attempt all thiogs- — 
Kon omnia posaumuB omnes. 



63. 

Aja egbenm ko gbo omko. 

A dog valued at half-a-crown cannot be taught. 

N.B.— Meaning an old dog; halfa-crown being the price of a 
full-grown animal 



6^. 

Okips aja li afl ibo Ognn. 
An old dog must be sacrificed to Ogim. 
K.B. — Meaning that Ogun duma the best^ 



65. 

Aja ti ko leti ko se idegbe. 

A stupid dog will not do for the chase. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PBOTEBBS nr THE TOBTJBi. LAKeVAeB. 229 

66. 

Ajabo ni ti Iwe, bi Iwe ja abo lowo oloko. 

The Iwe {or little edible frog^ also used in charms and 

philtres) is sure to slip from the farmer's hands. 

* N.B. — A Bupentitioua saying of a good omen. " If I am made 
prisoner in battle (or e, g.j when thieving), I am sure to escape." 

67. 

Ajftdi agbon odi olara. 

A basket witk its bottom burst is useless. 
N.B. — Equivalent to our " ne'er do weel." 

68. 

4jagajigi enniti o mi kokute mi *ra re. 
He who tries to shake the trunk of a tree, onlj shakes 
himself. 

69. 

Pansa ille o li ariwo nine ajaille ba agba li em. 

When a grave is made, there is a great deal of noise 
(from the lahourers who loathe the task) ; and the sight 
of a vault makes old men tremble. 

N.B. — Ajaille is the roof of a grave, or a pit-fiEdl with thorns, to 
trap thieves, like the " Ogi " of India. 

70. 

Ogbogbo awon ni bi Ajako. 

He who kills an Ajako (a dog-like animal) is sure to 
suffer for it. 

N.B. —A popular superstition. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



280 vrr and wisdom vboh wjsbt avbica. 

71. 
Ognn ja agbara otte sono. 
The enemy pulls down the fortifications. 
N.R— V»victifl! 

72. 

Oku ajannaka 11 ayo ogbo si, ta 11 oje yo ojn agada 
si eran, alabo owo. 

It is easy to cut to pieces a dead elephant ; but no one 
dares attack a live one. 

73. 
Kg se eku ko se elye igao. 

The bat • is neither rat nor bird. 
N.B. — Meaning that a person is neither one thing nor the other. 

74. 

Kl Ajinde olla ki oje. 

May a future resurrection answer (my hopes) ! 
N.B.— Evidently borrowed from £1 Islam. 



75. 

Bl Ule ko kan ille kl \jo ajoran. 

Houses not contiguous do not easily catch fire. 

N.B.~Meaning that if we are not over &miliar we nKM] not 
quarrel 

* This appears to be the meaning of '^Ajao." 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PB0YEBB8 IN THE YORUBi. LAKGUAQE. 231 

76. 

Enna 11 akparo ifl ipe ora, ani kiki ora, kikL ora. 

With the mouth the Akparo {partridge) proclaicQS its 
fat, crying ** Nothing but fat {kika ora) \ nothing but 
fat!" 

N.B. — Said of a penon that praises himsell 

77. 

Iwo 11 ojnti bi aka. 
Tou are bashful like the armadillo. 
N.B. — ^A common saying. 

78. 

Si oku ba ku laiye akala amo 11 or an. 
The vulture scents the carcase, however high in the air 
he may be. 

N.a— Said of a " Paul Pry.- 

79. 

Ko gbino era* ko ra ado ommo. 

He is not angry on accouut of slaves, nor peevish on 

account of children. 

N.B.— &dd (and pointedly too) of one who has the patience of 
Job. 

80. 

Bi ba gbo ognn mi, ki idnro din akarakn. 

Whenever he hears of my war, he never waits to make 
provision. 

N^. — ^Said of the malignant, who rejoices at another^s trouble. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



232 WIT AKD WISDOM TROM WEST ATBICA. 

81. 

Akasn bab1>a ekko. 

Akashu is the father of other loares. 

N.B. — '* Akashu " U a large lump of the native bread, called 
Agidi at Sierra Leone, and in Yoruba,' Ekko.* The saying means 
that he laughs at ecars who never felt a wound. 



Akatanpo ko to ija ija, ta li o mn iggi wa iko lojn? 

A cross bow is not enough to go to war with (since 

the introduction of fire-armi) : whom do you dare to face 

with a stick ? 

N.B. — The Akatapo, or Akatanpo, is the cross-bow, probably 
introduced by the early Portuguese, now obsolete in these regions^ 
but still used amongst the Mpangwe or Fans of the Gaboon riyer, 
and other tribes lying to the south of them. The saying is applied 
contemptuously to a weak opponent. 



83. 

Alakatanpo fi oju woke. 

A cross-bowman is obliged to look upwards. 

N.B. — Meaning that to effect certain purposes certain steps 
must be taken. 

84. 

Akede ko jiyan gbigbona. 

The Akede (or public crier) does not eat warm food. 

N.R — He is liable to be called away at any moment from his 
meat. This is said of men of business. 

* Hr. Bowen*8 collection, No. 88. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



FROYEBBS IS THS TOBUBA LAKGUAOE. 233 

85. 

Akeke ojogan fi id ija ara, ille fi ojn di ni, akeke ko 
te idi ni ibo. 

A scorpion stings with his tail ; a domestic is apt to 
be insolent ; one cannot hide a scorpion in the hand. 
K.B. — Said of Blaves who do not fear their master. 

86, 

Akete kekere ko gba enia meji. 

A small bed will not hold two persons. 

87. 

' Aki iti ehin akisalle iwnre. 

One cannot bless the gods without using the word 

" AkishaUe." 

N.B. — Akifihalle is a running plant with a pealike pod. This 
is a peculiar saying. The syllable " sha '* (as in ori-ska) often enters 
into the names of the gods, and thus the meaning would be^ we can 
do nothing without aid. 

88. 

Akisa ba enni rare je. 

!Rags disgrace a handsome person. 

N.B. — " Fine feathers make fine fowls ; " or " Qod makes and 
apparel shapes." 

89. 

Iwo iba ri, iwo ko gboddo wi ; ni ipa akoni. 

You may see but not dare to speak (of the danger) : it 

is that which is the death of the strong man. 

N.B. — Meaning that the strong man often perishes for want of 
warning. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



234 WIT AITD WISDOM FBOH WEST APSICi.. 

90. 

Akonrin ko li elegbe. 

The singer has no one to take part in the chorus with 

him. 

N.B. — Said when there ia but one ** base exception ; " when no 
one aharee your sentiments. 

91. 

Akndin Asapa ko konno ake. 

The heart of the Ashakpa tree fears no axe. 

N.B. — The Ashakpa is a bard-wood tree used for roofs and joists, 
posts and rafters. The wood makes good charcoal, and the leaves 
cure the small-pox. The proverb is applied to a " heart of oak,** — a 
strong and brave man. 

92. 

Aladngbo ki ida olla. 

A near neighbour need not take {aJinaV) leave till to- 
morrow. 

98. 

Alafia babha ore. 

Peace is the father of friendship. 

N.B. — " Alafia" is an Arabic noun and article jJVI : in Yoruba 
it means " peace " or *' health/' and is a common salutation. 

94. 

Alagbe ko ku li Oyo. 

A beggar never dies of want in Ozo {the capital). 

N.B. — (The tame cannot be said of London) — The beggar says the 
above proverbially, wherever he may be, " Some charitable man 
will svirely feed me." 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



FBOTEBBS IK THE YOBJTBA. IiAKCtUAaS. 235 

95. 

Alajapa ko li eraa li aiya. 

A pettj trader has no flesh upon her bosom. 

N.B. — ^Meaning that the Alajapa-woman, who buys at one town 
and aells for some small profit at another, wears herself to a 
skeleton. Thus the proverb somewhat resembles our " Care killed 
a cat." 

96. 

Alakatanpo oja ko le ita eran pa. 

He who has only his eyebrow for a cross-bow can 
never kill an animal. 

97. 

Papa li assa awonso bi alakele. 

A noisy weaver, who imitates his master weaver (i. e., 

the one who cuts offtke lengths of cloth). 

N.B. — "Papa" expresses the sound of the sley. The saying 
is addressed oomplimentarily to a weaver. 

98. 

Alari babba aso. 

Alari is the prince of decorations. 

N.B. — Alari (which also means scarlet) here alludes to a kind of 
red cotton grown in Hauaa. The saying is complimentary, like 
Koe. 85 and 59. 

99. 

Alia fanfun otta Orisa. 

»A white cloth is an object of hatred to the gods. 

N.B.— Because it is worn out in their service. The saying is 
ironical, ** A willing horse is worked to death.'' 



\/ 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



'.o- 



236 WIT AND WISDOM FHOM WEST AFBICA. 

, /v-- 100. 

Egbon iwajn alngbon babba. 
An elder brother is a resemblance to a father. 
N.B. — The ** scorpion" is not known to thia stage of civilisation. 

101. 

Alukembn babba assa. 
The stirrup is the father of the saddle. 
N.B. — Complimentary. 

102. 

Bi ica jo abowo fan alnki. 

When fire burns up the bush, it respects the Aluki 
plant. 

N.B. — The Aluki is a slender prickly plant. 

103. 

Amodim ko riri, je ki amura ki asise. 

The coming year is not out of sight ; let us be up and 

work. 

N.B. — These people have not yet been forbidden to take any 
thought for the morrow. The saying is addressed to the indolent 
and the dilatory. 

104. 

Amokiin ni era on wo, ki ise lori, ni ille 11 o ti wo 
lo. 

A lame man said his load was not upright, and was 

answered, *' Its unevenness began from the ground (i. e., 

Jrom your lame foot). ^^ . , 

N.B. — ^Meaning that bod workmen complain of their tools ; and 
addressed to the sluggard and the spendthrift. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PBOYBBBS IK THB YOBUBA. LAVOTTAGfl. 237 



105. 

Amgbada obbe onse. 

The Amgbadu is the sauce of messengers. 

N.B. — The Amgbadu is the " Crane-crane " of Sierra Leone : 
messengers, who are many in number, are usually entertained with 
a sauce made of this cheap and common vegetable. The saying 
might be used by one about to give a large " dinner-party." 



106. 

Antete o da yanpan yanpan siUe. 
The Antete cricket causes a stir and confusioa. 
N.B. — Said of a backbiter who bites and backs out. 



107. 

Bi ommo da ori kan apa, apa a: bi o si da ori kan 
iroko, iroko ako o 11 onna. 

If a child treats the Apa tree insolently, it wounds his 

head; if he treats the Iroko tree ciyilljyit welcomes him. 

N.B. — The Apa is popularly called African mahogany {Old- 
jUldia Africana) ; it is used for drums, and is believed to become 
luminous at night. The Iroko is a tree used for building, and thus 
becomes an emblem of refuge, whilst the Apa is that of vengeance. 
The proverb contains a play upon words, and means also '* do not 
be insolent." 

108. 

Apadi 11 to iko ina loja. 

Nothing but a potsherd can face fire. 

N.B. — A calabash cannot. The meaning would be^ it is only 
a tough man that can weather this storm. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



238 WIT AJSD WISDOM TBOM WEST AFBICA. 

109, 

Apani ki ^e ki amn ida lo ni ipako on. 
The executioner never lets the sword be passed across 
his own neck. 

110. 
Apari fojudi abbe. 
A bald-headed man does not care for a razor. 

HI. 

Apata ri ikn kehin si, apata ni igba ni li ognn. 

When a shield sees death, it {does not fly from it^ hu€) 
turns its outside (Zi^. haclc) to meet it : a shield is a pro- 
tection in the front of battle. • 

N.B. — Meaning that a shield is useful in war; also as the 
Fenians say, " the left ann is brave/' because raised to defend the 
head from a sabre cut. 

112. 

Apejnre li agbedde ire or Apejnre li oima ise. 
The smith (or artisan) always follows a pattern. 
N.B.— We must learn of others. 

118. 

Ma fi ti re ko mi li oron li oda fa apena on own. 

{The pin says to the cotton) y " Do not hang jour trouble 

on my neck.'' This is always the dispute between the 

cotton and the pin. 

K.B. — Apena is the pin upon which spun cotton is wound for 
sale. The saying would be applied to one who, like the " fox that 
lost his tail/' wants to involve others in his own troubles. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PBOTEBBS IN THE TORUBA. Li.NOirAaE. 239 



114. 

Die die li amo apere. 

By degrees one understands a sign {or pattern), 

N.R— Meaning that in all things study is necessary; there la 
wisdom in roasting eggs. 



115. 

Qige ema ko di ennn apo. 

A rascal never closes the moutb of his bag. 

N.B.^-A spendthrift cannot cease from spending. 



116. 

Ibaje apo ni ibaje apa, bi apa ba ja, apo aballe. 

The injury of a bag is caused by the injury of the 
pack-rope; if the pack-rope breaks, the bag will go 
down. 

N.B. — ^Warning men not to rest on things insecure. There is 
also a play upon the words ** apo " and " apa." 



117. 

Araba nla ommo agbem gbake. 
A large Araba receives {into its substance) the hefl and 
axe together. 

N. 6. — ^The Araba is the bombaz, or ootton-tree ; and the saying 
means that the greater power overwhelms the less, — ^the weakest 
goes to the walL 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



240 WIT AND WISBOM F£03C WXST UFBIOA. 

118. 

bo lowo AgbaUe. o knn ArabL 

When the Agballe is overpowered, there remainfl only 

the power of the Arabi (to be subdued), 

N.B.— The Agballe and the Arabi are two insectB always found 
together. The saying is our Divide et impend 

119. 

Araiye abi oja pete. 

Mankind presents a circumscribed countenance (i. e., 
appearance). 

N.B. — Meaning that the nature of things human is limited. 

• 120. 

Aran ni ipari oso. 

Velvet gives a finish to dress. 

N.B. — Used peculiarly : when a matter is decided, the proverb 
would be quoted comparing the peace-maker to velvet. 

121. 

Enniti o fe arewa o fe iyonnu. 
He who marries a beauty marries trouble. 
N.B. — So the Spaniards say, a handsome wife brings no fortune. 

122. 

Denge tutn lehin ino re gbona bi arifi. 
Though the pap is cold on the back (i. e., mrface)^ yet 
the inside is very hot. 

N.B. — Still waters run deep. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PilOY£UBS IN THE YOHUBi. LANGUAGE. 241 

123. 

Aro ni idena Orisa. 

The Aro (man with mthered limb) is the porter at the 
gate (L e., stationary servant) to the gods. 

N.B. — Mr. Crowther quotes Milton's Sonnet on his blindness : — 
" They also serve who only stand and wait.* 

124. 

Ijo ba bi oran iknnle ba aro. 
The matter is to you what the task of kneeling is to 
one of withered limbs. 

125. 
Aro ki im em ki o ma so. 

The Aro does not always bear its load : it will be put 

down {sooner or later). 

N.B. — " Aro " is a native hearth, three clods or stones support- 
ing the pot over the fire. The saying is consolatory, " Things at 
the worst will surely mend." 

126. 

Asinwin Ika, asiwere Iloka, nwoa dar^'o nv^oa 11 
awon nsore. 

A fool of Ika {town) and an idiot of Iluka {tou>n) meet 
together to make friendship with each other. 

N.B. — So the French proverb, '* Ceux qui se ressemblent s'as- 
semblent" 

127. 

Abo babba ija. 

Wraugling is the father of fighting. 



\/ 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



242 WIT AKD WISDOM FEOli WEST AFRICA. 

128. 

Asa gbe mi li adire ko dnro nitori ti o, mo ohnn ti 

86. 

The hawk having caught my chicken will not stay, 
because it knows it ha^ done {wrong). 

N.B.— So we say, *' Le crime est quelquefois en B(^t^, jamais 
il n est tranquiUe." 

129. 

^ sawi eje ennikan se are. 

Words selected in a dispute (i. e., a one-sided statement 
of the case) always appear right. 

N.B. — Confirmed by the dictum of a certain Welsh magistrate. 



130. 

Asaya ki ^e ki ommo oya ki o gbon. 

{The dog) playing with the young {and inexperienced) 
hedgehog, does not suffer it to be wise (i. e., throtos it off 
its guard). 

K.R — Said when an unwary man ia deceived by rogues. 
181. 

Ojn olojn ko jo ^n enni, aiehindeni ko wopo. 

Another's eye is not {faithful) like one's own : agents 
are not nuuierous. 

N,B. —So paid Mr. El was of servants. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PB0TSBB8 IN THE TOBUBA. LANGUAGE. 243 

132. 

Asisori ko ni ikan bi agba, otosi ko lowo bi oloro. 
A pistol has not a bore like a cannon : a poor man 
has not money (at his command) like the rich. 

N.B. — So we adviae men to cut their coats according to their 
cloth. 

133. 

Enniti o nsape fan asiwere jo on asivere, ok an. 

He who claps his hands for the fool to dance, is no 
better than the fool. 

134. 

Asiwere li o bi iya obbo. 
The monkey's grandmother was a fool. 
N.R — This would be an insufferable insult to a Yoruba man. 



135. 

Asorin babba iggi. 

The Asorin is the father of trees. 

N.B. — ** The Asorin," says Mr. Bowen, ** is a tree to which the 
natives ascribe the properties of the upas. Mr. Crowiher remarks 
that it is " a very Luge tree. There is a superstition that as soon 
as any one begins to cut the Asorin, he is chased by the spirit 
that dwells in it. The woodman accordingly drops i^alm oil on the 
ground, that the spirit may lick it up whilst he makes his escape. 
This tree is worshipped at a distance." The saying above quoted 
is merely superstitious. 

B 2 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



244l WIT AND WISDOM TBOIC WEST AFRICA. 

186. 

ABorin ko da osubil 

Asorin trees never form a grove. 

137. 
« Asorin olodo. 
The Asorin tree commands the brook. 

138. 
Aso lowo ko lekanna, enia ko si ni iballe. 
Cloth has hands (i. e., length, the measure used being 
hands or palms) but no fingers : so a man (has hands) 
but no flowing train {like the cloth). 

N.B. — ThiB is said of one that covets his neighbour's goods. 

139. 

Ko ka iku ataba-snsn ti ije larin asa. 
Fearless of death, the pigeon feeds among the hawks. 
N.B. — Said of a reckless man. 

• 

140. 

Ni ^0 ti ina ba jo ataba-susn ni ilo larin igbe, bi 
ina ba palo, elebn ama ire ebn. 

When the bush is on Are, the pigeon removes fromi 
the grass-field: when the flame is extinguished, every- 
one returns to his home. 

N.B. — Said when, after a quarrel or an alteroationi the contend- 
ing parties part 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PBOYESBS ly THE TOSFBA LAlfTOFAGl. 245 

141. 

Atampako ko se \jiiTe okankan. 

The thumb cannot point straight forwards. 

N.R — This is neat and ezpresdye : it is said when quibbling or 
unfairness is detected. So we say, *' Speak the truth and shame the 
devil" 

142. 

Agbasi mn atan gele. 

Continual sweepings make a high rubbish-heap. 

143. 
Ate peiye mu eiye ku. 
Bird-lime is the death of a bird. 
KB. — Said of those who court danger or destruction. 



144. 

Atellesse ni ije egbin onna. 

The sole of the foot is exposed to all the dirt of the 

road. • 

N.B.— Said of a leader, who is expected to put up with all 
manner of troubles. 



146. 

Atellewo ki itan' ni je. 

The palm of the hand never deceives one. 

N.B. — Our proverb is, "A bird in the hand is worth two in the 
bush.- 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



246 WIT AKB TTESDOM YBOM WEST A7SI0A. 

146. 

Oro atojomojo ko le isini li eti bi oro titton. 

An old story does not open the ear as a new one does. 

N.B. — We alflo have household words touching a twice-told 
tale. 

147. 

Ei Olornn ki o fa ni li atnbotan rere. 
May God give us a happy end ! 
N.B. — This is an expression manifestly borrowed from El 

148. 

Awiye ni Ife ifo gbangba li oro iperait 

(^As) the Ife people (the forefathers of the Yorubas) 

speak without disguise, (so) a poisoned arrow kills an 

animal in the sight of all. 

N3. — Wans a preyaricator to speak the truth. 

149. 

Bi amba mbn Ettn ori ama ra Awo. 

If you abuse the Ettu you make the Awo's head ache. 

N.B. — The Ettu and Awo are varieties of Guinea fowL The 
proverb means, that people feel acutely any reproach cast upon 
their relatives. • 

150. 

Awodi nra ino aladire baje.* 

When the hawk hovers (over the yard), the owner of 

the fowls feels uneasy. 

K.B. — So Horace, " Nam tua res agitur murus quum prozimua 
ardet." 

* '* Awodi" is a hawk, in Yornba : the Somal call an eagle 
"Abodi.»' 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



f BOYERBS IK THE TOBUBi. LAKGUAGE. 247 

161. 

Li ojn awodi ki ako adire re apatta. 
No one would expose fowls on the top of a rock in the 
sight of a hawk. 

K.BL — ^A warning to the imprudent. 
L52. 

Awodi oloju ina. 

The Awodi has eyes that can bear the fire. 



IS3. 

Mo kon i§:ba laJle, mo kon igba li oro, mo kon igba 
H ossan ki mto fi ayindayinda In il 

(Sai/8 the AwohOy or mocking-bird^ I sing 200 songs in 
the morning, 200 at noon, and 200 in the afternoon (a* 
my ordinary tcuk), besides many frolicsome notes {Jbr my 
own amtuement). 

N.B.— This 18 Optical. The mocking bird has been aociued 
of speaking evil of the king. He replies, " I may have done so with- 
out knowing it: did not I sing hundreds of songs/' &c. ? The 
flaying is that of a man who is charged with slandering his neighbour, 
and who cannot deny it. 



154. 

Bi aba gbe aworan, aki isa ima fi, owo re te nkait 
However well an image be made, it must stand upon 
something. 

K. 6b— There must be a reason for everything : there is no smoke 
without fire« 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



248 WIT AND WISDOM FBOM WEST AFBIOA. 

155. 

Eje awon ko kon ni li owo. 

The blood of the land-tortoise {or terrapin) is not a 
handful. 

156. 

nie osono a ya yo ta ni je ya ille awon ki awon. 

One may call at the house of the generous and be 
filled : who will call at the house of a miser and salute 
him ? 

N.B.- Awon means both a land-tortoise and a miser. 



157. 

Ille awon ko gba awon, odedde awon ko gba olojo, 
awon ko ille oyo odde lI ibadi. 

The house of the land-tortoise is not large enough for 
itself; the verandah (i. e., the carapace overlapping the 
tail) will not accommodate a guest. 

N.B. — The tortoise having built its house^ makes the verandah 
behind it. 



158. 

Aya be sille o be si sills. 

When a monkey jumps down from the tree, he jumps 
into the house {of his pursuer). 

N.B. — Meaning, that he is sure to be caught. The proverb is 
applied to those who incur danger wiUiuuc reason. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PBOTEBBS IK THE T0BT7BA LAKGITAOE. 249 

159. 

Ayan ko gba edon. 

The Ajan-tree resists aa axe. 

N.B. — The Ayan is the tree of whose wood is made the club of 
Shango, god of thunder and lightning; and the saying means, " Do . 
not undertake an unnecessary action." 



160. 

Ayo ki ije ki aye e. 

When the Ayo-game is wou, it cannot be disputed. 

N.B. — Ayo is the game called in Sierra Leone " Warry " : it is 
played with counters and a board with cups. The proverb is our 
" Fair play is a jewel.** 

161. 

Ayiin ni mo ri nko ri abo. 

I saw the departure, but not the return. 



162. 
Knn yim kun' wa bi iko era. 

To be busy here and there, like the messenger of the 
ant. 

N.B. — So the Hindus say, " Dhobi ka kutta, na ghar ka, na ghat 
ka" — a washerman's dog, neither in the house nor at the ghaut {where 
linen is wathed). The proverb is applied to a " busy-body." 



Baba bo, baba molle. 

A great matter puts a siiiuller out of sight. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



250 WIT AND WISDOM FROK WEST AFBIGA. 

164. 

Agba ko 81 illu baje, balle ku ille di ahoro. 

When there are no elders, the town is ruined ; when 
the master dies, the house is desolate. 



165. 
Oangan ko ni saworo. 

The Gangan (war drum) is destitute of bells (i. e., omo- 
ments). 

N.B. — Said siieeringly of the indolent, untidy, and badly dressed. 



166. 

Batta li a ifl ise agbnra li arin egnn. 
With shoes one can get on in the midst of thorns. 
N.B. — When confident in yourself you may confront difficulties. 

167. 

Bebbe ki o ri okose, sagbe ki ori awon. 

Beg for help, and you will meet with rebuff: ask for 
alms, and you will meet with misers. 



168. 

Aki ida owo le ohnn ti ako le igbe. 
A thing which cannot be lifted (i. e., accompliAed) 
should never be undertaken. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PBOTEBBS IN THB YOBUBiL LANGTJAaB. 261 

169. 

OndngBdu kan li egbo kanrinkanrin. 
The Gudugudu (a poisonous wild yam) is very acid at 
the root. 

N3. — Said of a difficult matter, a thing best left alone. So 
our common injunction, not to stir it, for fear of graveolent con- 
sequences. 

170. 

Obba ni igba owo bode. 

It is the king who receives cusfcom. 
N.B. — Said to those who meddle with politics. 



171. 

Hohu! Iko ti oku li esin aknii u. 

Eh ! The grass field which grew up last year is burnt 

up. 

N.B. — A play on the words Hohu (expreating turpme) and Iho 
(a grau field burned every year by huntsmen), which Mr. Crowther 
pronounces untranslateable. He thus, however, explained it to me. 
One man says, '^Qive me your reasons for this or that." The 
other answers by the proverb, meaning, " What is the use of your 
exclamation ? If I had a thousand reasons I would not give you one 
— the matter is settled 1 " 

172. 

Ijo kan ojo o bori oda. 

One day's rain makes up for many days' drought. 

KB. — A saying of many applications : in a good sense, of a 
generous man ; or vice versd, of severity after over-lenity ; also incul- 
cating earnestness of action — " Age quod agia." 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



252 WIT AND WISDOU PBOM WEST APBICA. 

173. 

Otta enia ni iba omko re je. 
He is an enemy who slanders one's name. 
N.B. — ** Who steals my purse steals trash/' &c. &c. 

174. 

Ore botiboti ko ye fan agbalagba. 

Much talking is unbecoming in an elder. 

175. 
Bella fun agba : awon ni babba enni. 

Eespect the elders ; they are our fathers. 

N.B. — We may remark, that whereas the Proverbs of Solomon 
dwell earnestly upon the respect and obedience due from children to 
their parents, the Yorubans are more careful to inculcate reverence 
for their elders. This is intimately connected with their system of 
politics. 

176. 

Om mode ki iwo sr.so ni bnjoko agba. 
The younger should not iutrude into the seat of the 
elders. 

177. 
All iran di iran babba wa ko bo iru orisa wonyi ri. 
From one generation of our fathers to another, we 
never worshipped such a god as this. 

N.B. — Said when a strange god is proposed. The Hindu saying 
is, " The Adam of this place is a strange being." 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PttOTERBS IN TUB YOaUBii LANGITAGK. 253 

178. 

Kokoro di labalab%. 
The grub becomes a butterfly. 
N.B.— -Said sneeringly of a parvenu, 

179. 

Egbo k^, ina ke, ohun enia ke. 

The sore is spreading ; tbe Are is glowing ; the throat 

is hoarse. 

N.R — There is here more of sound than sense^ " ke " {to grow 
worse) being repeated in three several significations. 

180. 

daju danU) o ko mo essan. messan. 

(Though) you (seem) very clever, you cannot tell 

9 times 9. 

N.B. — The Torubas, from their practice of counting cowrieB, 
are generally good accountants. 

181. 

Dasa mu abbe ni iyin, enni nla li opon iye. 
{Though) a small covered dish gives tlie stew a neat 
appearance, a bowl answers best for great men. 
N.B.— Because it is larger. 

182. 

Dobballe ki apa igbonwo mo o ni 'hun ti ise fan ni. 

To prostrate oneself and keep the elbows cloae, does 

something for one. 

N.B. — Meaning, ** booing** is sure to benefit a man ; also incul- 
cating modesty, that he that shall humble himself Bhall be exalted. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



254 WIT A.I90 WISDOM FBOM WEST AFRICA. 

183. 

Ha 86 gba dnlumo enni kan. 

Do not receive a slander against any one to accuse 

him falsely. 

N.B. — Meaning, do not slander any one. The saying is popular 
as a moral command. 

184. 

Enniti ase li ore ti ko dupe aba se e ni ibi ko don o. 

He to whom kindness is shown and does not return 
thanks, if evil is done to him he will not feel that either. 
N.B. — ^Meaning, that he is devoid of feeling. 

185. 

Ebi ko je ki apa owo mo, ebi mn ino se papala. 

Hunger does not allow saving of money : hunger makes 

the body lean. 

186. 

Ore Agbe se 11 OSa odi egbe. 

The good which Agbe did in OSa town is wasted. 

N.B. — Agbe was a well-known Yoruban philanthropist : his 
good deeds were wasted, because the Offa people did not appreciate 
them. The proverb is applied to one unappreciated — ^undeveloped 
greatness. 

187. 

Egbon 80 mo ayinrin li ennu ani ki adire ki o wa 
iyan a je, adire mo pe ontikara on oige ayinrin. 

A tick having fastened itself on the mouth of a fox, a 
fowl was desired to remove it; but the fowl well knew 
that she was food for the fox, as well as the tick (was 
food) for her. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PBOY£BBS IK THE YOBTTBA LANGUAGE. 255 

188. 

Elioro ni ti Oloffa li o soro. 

The Ehoro said, " I care for nobody but the archer. " 

N.B. — The Ehoro is ft hare, or rabbit, whose fur is used by the 
Torubas as a charm against fire. This saying is used to defy rivals 
or enemies. 



189. 

Ejo ommo oniwere* bi o ti wu ki ase titi ako le 
iba ejo re, iggi ni gbogbo araiye iyo si L 

However much a snake may try, no one will be friendly 
to that child of writhing (i. e., creeping thing) : on the 
contrary, all mankind will take up sticks to (strike) it. 

N.B. — Said of a person or thing thoroughly " antipatico " to us. 
" I do not like you, Dr. Fell," &c. 



190. 

Eleke li eke iye, ohnn ti aba se ni iye 'ni. 

(As) anythiug which a man is (in the habit of) doing 
is natural to him, (bo) a lie is natural to a liar. 

N.B.— Habit is a second nature. 
191. 

Omko ti aso ommo ni imo ommo li ara. 

The name given to a child becomes natural to it. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



256 WIT AKD WISDOM FROM WEST AFBIOA. 



192. 

Agba metta ki isi ekalu ipe, bi okan pe ekulu, 
ekeji ani eknlu, eketta ani ekuln. 

Three elders cannot all fail to pronounce (the word) 
JEkulu : one may say Eklilu, another Ekulu, but the third 
will say fekulu. 

N.B. — The Ekulu is a epecies of deer, and the proverb means, 
'* In the multitude of counsellors there is wiBdom." 



198. 

Alejo bi okete li a ifl eknro ilo. 
A stranger, like the ground-pig, is entertained with 
palm-nuts. 

N.B. — Palm nuts are but poor fare. 



194. 

Ate ynn ate wa li a ite eknro oju onna. 

To be trodden upon here, to be trodden upon there, 
is the fate of the palm-nut (lying) in the road. 



195. 

fon mi li oron bi Ekum. 

lie chokes me, like Ekuru. 

N.B. —Ekuru, or Kuduru, is a very dry cake, made of the Ere 
or white bean. The above is said of a '' bore.*' 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PR0YEBB8 IN THE TOBUBA LAITOUAGB. 257 

196. 

Erin ntu ekuru, efon ntu ekum, tita eknm ^annakn 
bo ti efon molle. 

The elephant makes a dust, and the buffalo makes a 
dust, bat the dust of the buffalo is lost in that of the 
elephant. 

197. 
Ekute ille ko fi ibi aja ji ban 'ra won. 

The house-rat does not show its companion the hole in 
the ceiling (into which it may fall). 

N.B. — The rat has escaped the danger, and leaves his friend to 
find it out. Ckaewi pow «oi 



198. 

Eknte ille ko ri ennnba ologbo wijo. 
The domestic rat has no voice (i. e., power) to call the 
cat to account. 

199. 

Elnbo 86 ogbodo ri, em se ommo ni ille babba re. 
{As) the Elubo was once a soft unripe yam, (so) the 
slave was once a child in his father's house. 

N.B. — Elubo is prepared yam made into flour. 



200. 

Emirin i\je 'ni ko ti i^ja. 

The (stin^ of the) sand-fly is not so sharp as poverty. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



258 WIT AND WISDOM FBOM WIST A7BICA. 

201. 

Ki emo ki o mo ni Ibese, ki omase de Ijanna. 
Let the wonder stop at Ibese, and not proceed to 
Ijanna. 

N.B. — Ibese and Ijanna, now destroyed, were two frontier 
towns At which travellers entering the Yoruba country sucoessively 
paid tribute. Mr. Crowther explains it by " let the matter proceed 
no further." It somewhat suggests — 

" De par le Roi ! defense h Dieu 
De faire miracle en ce lieu." 

It would also be applied, for instance, by the Abeokutans to the 
English at Lagos, wishing to force new manners and customs upon 
them. 

202. 

Bi iwo ko li owe o li ena, bi iwo ko li ena o li 
ohnn rere li enniL 

If you have no money (to give to one in distress) y you 
may pay frequent visits ; if you cannot yisit, you may 
send good words of the mouth (i. e., kind messages). 



203. 
Eiutere ejitere li oja ifi ikon. 
One here, two there, (so) the market is filled up. 
N.B.— " Many a little makes a muckle.* 



204. 

Initere ejitere opo womu. 

One here, two there, (so gathers) a vast multitude. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PSOYBBBS IS THE TOBTTBA LANQUAGE. 269 

205. 

Bi ino ibi cganakn abi Era. 

If the elephant can be angrj, so can the Era (a small 
black toood ant). 



206. 

Enniti ko le igbe era, H o nknaa si erin, yio te 
ara re. 

He who cannot raise an ant, and jet tries to raise an 
elephant, shall find out his foUj. 

N.B. — Straining at gnats and swallowing camels. 



207. 

Ero ko jewo imota tan, bi o ba bi i, ali o feri die. 

The trader never confesses that he has sold all his 
goods ; but when asked, he will (pnU/) saj, " Trade is a 
Httle better." 

N3. — So Proyerbs xz. 14, '* It is naught, it is naught, saith the 
buyer," &c. 



Enniti o da em li qm ito. 

Ashes flj back in the face of him that throws them. 

N.B. — ^We aay the same of curses. 

s 2 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



260 WIT USTD WI8D0H FROH WEST AFBICA. 



209. 

Owo li owo Ika» opo li opo Enm. 
Order is the order of the Ika, multitude is the multi- 
tude of the Erun. 

N.B. — Ikan is & white ant ; Enm a general term for the ant 
tribe. The saying means^ that the Ika works in ranks, whilst all 
others move in irregular swarms. This is said when disorder appears 
in an army, company, town, &c. 



210. 

lyan ni imn, ni ije eso iggi ki IggL 
Famine compels one to eat the fruit of all kinds of 
trees. 

N.B. — Trinculo says, " Misery acquaints a man with strange 
bedfellows." 



211. 

Esinsin ko mo ikn, jije ni ti re. 

The fly heeds not death : eating is all to him. 



212. 

Esu ko ni iwa ako iUe re si ita. 
As the Eejected one has no (kindliness of) disposition^ 
his house is made for him in the street (by itself), 

N,B.— Esu (lit., njecUd) is generally translated ?' devil," Satan. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PROYEBBS IK THB YOBTTBA IiAKGUAGE. 261 

218. 

Ki 6811 ki yin eiye, esu fo ni ijo kan soso iye re re. 

The white ant may well admire the bird, for after flying 

one day it loses its wings. 

N.B. — The tonnes asBumes its perfect form about the beginning 
of the rains ; after a few hours^ however, it loses its wings, and falls 
an easy prey to man, birds, and reptiles. 

214. 

Ko si oliim ti po to esn^ bi o ba 'o ni ille a ba li 
oko. 

There is nothing so numerous as the locusts: they 

meet you in the town and in the field. 

N.B. — Somewhat like our ''good folks are scarce; " but used in 
a deprecatory sense. 

216. 

Ete li egbon, ero li aburo, ogbon ino li o se eketta. 

Consideration is the first born, calculation the next, 
wisdom the third. 

N.B. — So we say, " Take heed will surely speed." 

216. 

Aimete aimero ni imn enia meffa isingba egbaffa. 
Want of consideration and forethought made six bro- 
thers pawn themselves for six dollars. 

217. 

Etif gbo ekeji ki o to dajo. 

Ear, hear the other (jside of the question) before you 

decide. 

N.B. — The same as our Audi alteram partem. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



262 WIT AND WISDOM FBOM WEST AFBICA. 

218. , 

Ewnre je o re iUe, agntan je ore ille, «je iwa ille 
ba eledde je. 

When the goat has fed, it returns home; when the 
sheep has fed, it returns home ; not returning home after 
feeding ruins (the character of) the pig. 

N.B. — ^Thi8 saying meaoB, that a man should leare the room 
when it is preferred to his company. 

219. 

Ada ebo Am gnnngon, o li on ko m, ada ebo fan 
Akalla o li on ko m, ada ebo fii eiyelle, o gbe ebo 
ombo. 

Sacrifice was prescribed to the turkey-buzzard, but it 
refused to offer it ; sacrifice was prescribed to the Akalla 
Tulture, but it also refused : when sacrifices were pre- 
scribed to the pigeon, it offered them. 

N.B. — This tradition explains to the Yoruba why the two 
former birds remained unclean, whilst the latter is domesticated, 
and used for sacrifice. 

220. 

Iwo ko ri akasn o npata si efo. 
Ton hare not jet obtained the loaf, and you began to 
prepare jour stew. 

221. 

Didon li o don li a nba ore je efo ti ille enni to ni 
ye. 

.Because (friendship) is pleasant, we partake of our 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PBOVEBBB IS THE YOBIIBA LAlTaUAOE. 263 

friend's enterfcainineat ; not because we have not enough 
(to eat) in our own house. 

N.B. — This saying; ib ewer in the moutk of an Asiatic of the 
middle daases. 



222. 

Agbara to efon ma la iwo. 

A man may be as strong as the buffalo, yet he has no 
horns.- 



223. 

Egge ko so oM, enniti o bo si abbe re a pa a kn 
patapata. 

The Egge-trap neTer fails, whatever comes under it is 
struck dead. 

N.B. — Egge is the common African trap made with a bent tree. 



224. 

Enni egun gun ni ise lakalaka to alabbe. 
He who is pierced with thorns must limp off to him 
who has a lancet. 



226. 

Aaare nino egnn ko se lassan^ bi iwo ko le ejo, ejo 
li nle 'o. 

A man does not run among thorns for nothing ; either 
he is chasing a snake or a snake is chasing him. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



264 WIT AKD WISDOM FBOM W£ST Al'RIOii. 



Dagbese dagbese ti ipa apata eiyele. 

lie runs into debt who cuts up a pigeon to sell it in 

parts. 

N.B. — He raiDB himself who buys wholesale at a hi^ price 
what he finds worthless in retaiL 



227. 

Iku c|ja ni imu eja imo illu, eja Ognn iba se de 
Akesaan. 

It wa|) the death of the fish that introduced it into the 

town ; what else would hare brought it from the Ogun 

Biver to tiifr palace ? 

K.B.— Shows the effects of poverty, misfortune, and similar 
** judgments." 

228. 

Obnn gbogbo 11 adiyele. sugbon ko si enniti o mo 
lye ara ejje ara enni ; ejje ko fl oju rere jade. 

Every thing has its price; but who can set a price 
upon blood ? Blood does not willingly leave the body. 

N.B. — As the Asiatic proverb is, ** Musk, kve, and murder will 
out" 

229. 

Bi ekke otosi ko to oke li oro ato 11 alle. 

If the poor man's rafter (i. e., ihe plan proposed hy a 

poor man for lengihening the rafter) does not reach the 

top in the morning, it will reach it in the evening. 

K.R — A poor man is supposed to be looking on at the erection 
of a houscb and recommends splicing two rafters together; his 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PBOYSBBB IN THE TOBUBA LAJiTaUAGB. 265 

advice is at first despised because he is poor, but is eyentually adopted 
on the failure of all other plans. So Ecclesiastes iz. 16/* Wisdom 
is better than strength : neverthelesB the poor man's wisdom is 
despised, and his words are not heard." 



230. 

Akamo ekim o ni iyonnu. 

It is difficult to encoi!Dpa8» a leopard. 



281. 

Imado iba se bi eledde abillqe, era iba jobba enia 
ko kun. 

A wild boar, in place of a pig, would ravage the town ; 

and a slaye, made king, would spare nobody. 

N.B. — Equivalent to our beggar on horseback. So Saadi some- 
where says, ** If a Derwaysh were to head the armies of £1 Islam, 
they would soon reach the ends of the world." 



232. 

Eleri ni iwcgo, eleri ki ise elegbe. 

A witness speaks the truth ; a witness does not take 
(the liar's) part. 

N.B.— Inculcates the virtue of truth in testimony, the people 
being '* awful hars." Cf. Proverbs xiv. 5, *' A faithful witness wiU 
not lie," &C. 

233. 

Ei Olonin ki oAi 'o 11 emmi gignn. 
May the Lord of Heaven give you a long life ! 
N.B. — A popular form of blesaiDg. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



2G6 • WIT AND WISDOM FAOM WEST AFRICA. 
234. 

Emmi abata ni imu odo isan. 

The influence of a fountain makes the brook flow. 

N.B. — Meaning, that by the aid of the g^reat you may effect 
something great 

236. 

Bi aba soid tan erin li a iriil, bi aba 70 tan onm 
*ni ikon *ni. 

When a joke is uttered it creates laughter : when one 

has eaten to the full, he falls a-dozing. 

N.B. — This is somewhat in " low-life," and cuts many ways : it 
would always apply when a man has had a ^* belly-full" of a thing. 

5^36. 

^ki ipe e li em ki ape e li oso. 
What is (really) a load should not be called an orna- 
ment. 

N.B. — Inculcates earnestness — Age quod agis. 

237. 

Ereke ni ille erin. 
The jaw is the house of laughter. 
N.B. — The jaw is here compared with a happy family. 



Mo 80 awo etta mo idi, ki yi ota mi 

I have tied the leopard skin round my waist : you 

cannot sell me. 

N.B.— Meaning, I have the protection of powerful friends : you 
cannot ruin me with law expenses. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PBOTSBBS IK THS TOEUBA. J,LSQVA.QE, 2G7 

239. 

Aflonmo di ette, okere ni idon. 

Familuuitj breeds contempt : distance secures respect. 

240. 
Eya oibo ni Fnlani. • 

The Tula are a tribe from over the sea (or white men). 

N.B. — ^An ethnological adage connecting Fulaa with Europeans. 
241. 

Eyin ni idi aknko. 

The egg becomes a cock. 

242. 

Ako le ifa 'ri lehin olori. 

You cannot shave a roan's head in his absence. 

N.B. — You cannot settle a 'matter unless those concerned in it 
are present. 

248. 

Okete ni ojo gbogbo li on mo, on ko mo ojo miran. 
The Okete says, '' I understand (whtU you mean by) a 
speciGed day, (hut) another day I do not understand." 

K.B. — The Okete is a large rat that eats pahn-nuts, and is 
therefore dedicated to Ifa. The saying applies to an imdecided 
man : it also implies a suspicion, '' You should explain your in- 
tentions." 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



268 WIT AlfD WISDOM FBOM WEST AFBIOA. 

244. 

Arin fa li oju akegan, ayan kasa li oju abu *iii» abn 
'ni ko li okowo ni ille. 

A maa walks at his ease in the presence of his abuser ; 
a maa steps proudly in the presence of his abuser ; (when 
he knows that) the abuser has not twenty cowries in his 
house. 

245. 

Fadaka babba oje, wnra babba ide. 

Silver is the father of lead ; gold is the father of brass. 

N.B. — The alchemists inyert these propositions. The Yoniba 
word for silver is Fadaka, evidently the Arabic fizzeh, which shows 
the metal not to have been indigenous. On the other hand, 
" Wura," gold, is a vernacular word. The saying means, that one 
thing is better than another. 

246. 

Bi nwon ko ba fe o ni iso nwon fati si apakan. 
If ..they do not want you in their company, go aside. 

N.B.— The Yorubas are naturally intrusive, and are not to be 
expelled a room by hints; these truisms of advice are therefore 
necessary for them. 

217. 

Ipon ri ikn o feribo o. 

The spoon seeing death, ventures its head into it (L e., 
is not afraid of scalding water). 

N.B. — Said of a dare-devil,- one who runs his head against a 
wall. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PROVERBS nr THE TOBUBA. LANGUAGE. 2G9 

248. 

Fiyesi ohon ti o use. 

Mind what you are doing. 

K.B. — So we say, "Moyennant ractivit^ on fait beaucoup avec 
peu de peine." 

249. 

Obogbo agba mo beru nyio, ilia mo beru nyin, Oyo 
misi mo beru nyin. 

I present my fear (i. e., my respects) to the elders in 
general ; I present my respects to the whole town ; I pre- 
sent my respects to all the leading elders of Oyo. 

N.B. — ^A complimentaiy saying addressed to the elders of Oyo. 

250. 

Aki igbelle ki ama fohun si 'ra enni. 
We cannot dwell in a house together without speaking 
one to another. 

N.R — Inculcates mutual dependence. 

251. 

Enni ti fonna pa ko le ise nkan. 
He who boasts much can do very little. 
N.B. — " Chien qui aboie ne mord pas." 

252. 

Bi ati rin li ako *nL 

As one is walking, so is he met. 
N.B.— Meaning, that the world takes you at your own valuation. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



270 WIT Al^D WISDOM FROM WEST AFRICA. 

253. 

nfura bi elefo Tette. 

He is as suspicious as the seller of the herb Tette. 

N.B. — The vendor of Tette (a common herb picked up every- 
where) IB a low fellow : if you ask him, " What are you selling ? " 
he at once Buspects sinister intentions. These trade-illustrations are 
common. So the French say, "II ment comme un arracheurde 
dents." 

254. 

Mase gba enniti o yo obbe mu. 

Do not lay hold of a man who has a drawn knife. 

255. 
Ekute ille ni ti enniti o pa on ko don on to ti enniti 
gbe on sanle. 

The house-rat said, "I do not feel so much offended 
with the man who killed me, as with him who dashed me 
on the ground afterwards." 

N.B. — This is our '' Adding insult to injuxy." 

256. 

Ohnn elege ki igbe ibige. 

A delicate thing is not difficult to be injured. 

267. 

Bi ake iggi ni igbo gbohnngbohun agba a. 
When a tree is cut in the forest, the echo repeats the 
sound. 

N.B. — Said of actions done by noteworthy men. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PBOT£BBS IK THE TOBTTBA. LANOTTAaB. 271 

268. 

Enniti o gbon ju *iii lo ni ite *iii ni Ifa. 
{The priest) who is more crafty than another, induces 
him to adopt the worship of Ifa. 



259. 
Oudugndu ko se ibe elubo. 

The Gudugudu (a poisonous mid yam) will not do to be 
made into flour. 

260. 

Ibfge isu ni ibtge obbe : enniti o se ib%je enia, o se 
ib%je enia, o se ibtge ara re. 

The badness of the jam is Qaid to) the badness of the 
knife : (but it is soon found out that the yam is in fault ; so) 
he who injures another injures himself. 



261. 
ni ika nino bi ibaka. 
He is as stubborn as a mule. 



Salala babba ibante. 

The Salala (a superior stuff) is the father (i. e., the lest) 
of aprons. 

N.B.— A complimeni. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



272 WIT AKP WIBDOK FROM WEST ATEICA. 

268. 

Ibere Id \ie Id enni Id o liima. Enni ti ko le ibere 
li npon *ra re li oju. 

Inquiry eayes a man from miatakes. He who makes no 
inqoirj, gets himself into trouble. 

264. 
ha mora bi ibepe. 

He encumbers himself like the papaw {when laden with 
Jruit.) 

265. 
Enia ki ise *ni ni rere ki afi ibi sa n. 

He who has done you a kindness should never be ill- 
used. 

266. 

Ibino ko se nkan fa' ni sum babba iwa. Ibino ni 
iyo offa li apo, ohun rere ni iyo obi li apo. 

Anger does nobody good: patience is the father of 
dispositions. Anger draws arrows from the quiver : good 
words draw Kola nuts (i.e., presents) from the bag. 

N.B.— So the Hindi saying, '' Associate with the good, and eat 
Pan : associate with the bad, and lose your nose and ears." 

267. 

Ibon ko soro ira bi etu, \jo kcui li ara ibon igba 
gbogbo 11 ara eta, etu ko si ibon di opa. 

A gun is not so hard to buy as powder: a gun is 
bought one day (i. e., once for all) — powder must be 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PBOYEBBS 15 THB TOBUBA. LAKQUAGE. 273 

bouglit again and again. Without powder a gun is no- 
thing but a rod. 

N.R — ^When you undertake a matter that will ever want some- 
thing, you must look to your ability to keep up the expense. 

268. 

Ibubu li atn Oknn, ododo 11 atu Ossa, ibi ti a ba 11 
atn Oyan. 

Along shore you must navigate the ocean : down chan- 
nel you must navigate the Ossa : where you please you 
may navigate the Oyan. 

N.B. — The Ossa is the lagoon between Lagos and Badagiy. 
The Oyan is a small stream running into the Ogun or Abeokuta 
riyer. The saying is a kind of lesson in matters maritime. 



269. 

Ibukon ille, ibnkon oja kl o ba o« 
May the increase of the house and the increase of the 
market befall you ! 

N.R — A popular blessing in the mouth of priest and priestess. 

270. 

Idl babba eiye, idl babba akosa. 

The eagle is the prince of fowls : the eagle is the prince 
of birds of prey. 

N.R — A compliment. 

271. 

So Idl re Ain mL 

Tell me the rump of it (i. e., the reason). 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



274 WIT AND WISDOM FROM WBST ATRICA. 

272. 

Ifa nla ni iya oluwa re li apo. 
Inordinate gain makes a hole in the pocket. 
N.B. — ^Haggai i. 6, ** 7e have sown much, and bring in little/' &c. 

273. 

Bi ife fo on 11 amo li akko eiye. 

The Ife is noted by its flight as the bravest of birds. 

N.B. — ^A compliment. The Ife is a small bird with bright 
plume. 

274. 

Apadi ni isaju ifonna. 

The potsherd {on which live coals are carried) goes in 

front of him who has taken the Are &om the hearth 

with it. 

N.B. — The potsherd is an emblem of courage, because it stands 
fire, and the proverb means that a hazardous enterprise requires a 
bold leader. 

276. 

Igba li apa akipa awo. 

A calabash may be cut into halves, but not an earthen 

pot. 

N.B. — Said of a thing which does not commonly occur : this we 
have been accustomed to do, that not. 

276. 

Aka Igba ta o nawo iku. 

He who gathers Igba-fruit spends the money of death 

(i. e., money which he has risked his life fo get), 

N.B.— rThe Igba is a kind of locust-tree (acacia), whose wood is 
very brittle. So the gathering of locust fruit is called iki:gare (iku-je- 
are), " death ia right," or ** may be justified," 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PBOYESBS nr THIS TOBUBA LAKQUAGB. 275 

277. 
Igbako sanno, eleko ko sanno, igbako iba si, awamii 
eleko ko je. 

The spoon is liberal, the pap-seller is not : the spoon 
would have given plenty, the stingy pap-seller would not 
let it. 

N.E — A taunt to the miBerly. 

278. 

Bnia lanan po o jn igbe enni rere won o jn ojn lo. 

Ordinary people are as common as grass, but good 
people are dearer than an eye. 

N.B. — So we say, Qood folka are 8oarce. 

279. 

Igbin ko mo ije ato okowo. 

Had the snail not known where to feed in safety, it 
would never have grown so large as to be worth twenty 
cowries. 

280. 
Bi igbin ba n£Et kawon re ate le e. 

When the snail crawls, its shell accompanies it. 

N.R — Meaning, that if the chief seta out the tail will follow 
him. 

281. 

Bi ati yin awon 11 ayin igbin. 
As the tortoise meets with due regard, so should the 
snail. 

T 2 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



276 WIT AlTD WI8D01C 7B0H WSST AFBIOA. 

282. 

Je igbo, je ito. 

May you eat old age and longevity. 
N.B. — ^Meaning, May you enjoy many days. 

283. 

Igbo wa ille eiyekeiyo tn. 

The Igbo eearches the nests of other birds to plunder 

them, 

N.B. — ^The Igbo is a bird that feeds on the eggs of other birds. 
It is the cuckoo of Toruba sayings. 

284. 

Oran ko ba ojngon o li on ko 11 eran. 

When the skin is not hurt, it says that it has no flesh 

(to protect it), 

N.B. — Meaning, that when circumstances do not call forth a 
man's resources, he is apt to think he has none. 

285. 

Ignn ti ognn mi ko jo ti egirn. 

Piercing (me with a lance) is not like pricking me with 
a thorn. 

286. 

Ignn iyan ko jo ti elubo, mimn ni iyan imn kiku 
li eli^bo iku. 

The pounding of Iyan is not like the pounding of Elubo : 
Iyan becomes more adhesive, Elubo separates into powder. 
N.B. —Iyan is yam-paste, Elubo yam-flour. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PBOTSBBB IN THX TOBUBA LAKGUAGB. 277 

287. 

Emi ko ri aye woUe niton ihagag^. 
I have no room to go into the house, because of the 
crowd. 

288. 

Ihalle ba oso enia je. 

Poverty destroys a man's reputation. 



289. 
Li ennn onihin ni ihin idon. 

News is interesting from the mouth of him who tells 
it first. 

290. 
Ibo odo bo iho ijo enia moUe. 
The noise of the river drowns the noise of the people. 

291. 

Enni ti o nsure kiri ni papa on li o wa nino ewu 
ati ji si iho. 

He who runs about the fields is in danger of falling 
into a pit. 

292. 

Ti ossan ti oru iho imo ko gbe ille li aise, bi o ba 
dake ^je pe o pin. 

Day and night the nostril is always at work : when it 
stops (life) is at an end. 



Digitized by VjOOQ I^C 



278 WIT AlTD WISBOH FBOM WEST AFRICA. 

898. 

]ja ni ije pe iUu npe *o gbogbo won li o ni omka 
Eyery one in the assembly has a name ; but when you 
are summoned " in the name of the assembly " (noi im 
the name of some member of it, you may he sure that) evil 
awaits you. 

294. 
]ja ko bimmo Id o ro. 

Strife never begets a gentle child. 
N.B.~Tristee ut Itb. 

295. 

Awa ko ri ese he, qadan li ansa kiri labbe iggi. 
We had no shea«butter nuts to gather : we were obliged 
to seek about to pick up the remnants eaten by the bats. 

296. 
Bi aba ndiye ni bi ise owe ama ya ni. 
When we compete in working, our hands quicken (i.e., 
toe work faster). 

297. 

]jo ni ti illu, Obba li o li agbo. 

The public assembly belongs to the town: a select 
council belongs to the Obba (kiny). 



Ika ko je se onuno re behe. 

The wicked man would not treat his own child (as he 
treats others). 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PSOYXBBB IK THS TOBUBA. LAJTOUAGE. 279 



299. 

Ikan Dje ille agba nsoro agba na ti ikan ti ikan. 

The white ants are destroying a house: the old man 
( who otoTu it) complains. The old man himself will (toon) 
be the white ants' food. 



800. 

Olori bnbnrn ki ire oko Ikan bi oba re oko ikan Ila 
ni ika wa ille« 

An unlucky man should never go to gather the Ikan : 

he will surely bring home the Ila instead. 

KB. — The Ikan is the brinjall or egg-plant : the Ha ii the 
Okro (oecro) or edible HibiBcus. 

801. 

Ma fi ikaign jaiye, aiye mi ehin li o po jojo. 
Be not in {too g* eat) a hurry to enjoy the world : you 
have life enough before you yet. 



302. 
Enniti aba ni ikara li o li ateteba. 
Whoso owns the inner square, owns the outer. 



303. 

Iwo le ^e obi o ise ikki bi? 

You are always eating Kola-nuts. Are you an Ikki ? 
N.Bb — The Ikki ii a small animal, supposed to live on Kola nuts. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



280 WIT ATST) WISDOM FBOM WEST APBICA. 

304. 

Ojo pa odide alnko nyo, alnko se bi ikko baje ojo 
mu ikko woso. 

{When) the rain beat upon the parrot, the woodpecker 
rejoiced, thinking that his (rivaVti) red tail was spoiled ; 
but the rain onlj increased its beauty. 

306. 
Iko ekum ewo Ife, aja ki igbo ni iboji eknn. 
(As) carrying dust is forbidden in Ife, (so) no dog 
dares to bark near the leopard's lair. 

306. 

Agbara odo ko jo agbara ikoko, bi agbe odo ka ina 
ajo, bi asi gun iyan ni ikoko alu. 

The strength of a wooden mortar is not like the strength 
of an earthen pot. Place a mortar on the fire, and it will 
bum ; pound a yam in a pot, and it will break through 
rthe bottom), 

307. 
Oniko ko sa Inrno.* 

A man \vith a cough cannot conceal himself. 



308. 

Ikoko aiye ya jn ikoko ti onm lo. 

A corner in the world (of sense) is better than a corner 

in the world of spirits. 

N.6. — A sentiment familiar to' the Oriental poets. Carpe 
diem, &c 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



FBOTEBBS IV THE TOBUBA LANGUAGE. 281 



809. 

Ikndn pa esin e 'nyo o mbowa ipa ommo enia. 

When your neighbour's horse falls into a pit, you 
should not rejoice at it, for {your oum) child maj fall into 
it too. 

810. 

Iknn babba orisa. 

The belly is the father of the goda. 

N.B. — So Kabelais of the Great Gaster. In the Persian Al- 
nameh we find, Lti-J ^j\j^ b».Ul " God is a tray of plunder." 



811. 

Eko ila gba ara re lowo obbe Ua ti akokiki ko so, 
gboro ti akokiki ko fa, ommo ife mi ti mo gbekke le 
ko 86 bi mo ti ro. 

The Okro vegetable, which was so celebrated, does not 
bear fruit ; the pumpkin, which was so celebrated, does 
not trail : the beloved child, of whom I expected so much, 
does not answer my hopes. 



812. 
Ilaja ni igba ogbe. 

A peace-maker (often) receives wounds. 
N.B. — For which reason it is presumed he is " blessed." 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



282 WIT AND WISDOM TROlf WKST AFRICA. 

818. 

Iwo m ille ode, Ibara ni ille awodi, ati ipe ille 
aganran? 

Iwo is the abode of the parrot, Ibara is the land of the 

hawk, but where is the territory of the green parrot P 

N.B. — ^Iwo may also mean the flocking together of camivorouB 
birds, which is regarded as an intimation of a recent or an impending 
war in the neighbourhood, and Ibara their migration. So the people 
say, " Awodi loh Ibara" — the hawks are gone to Ibara. The pro- 
verb is applied to a stranger who wishes to pass himself off as a man 
of oonsequenoe. 

814. 

Illeke-opolo ko yin ole li oju. 
Frogs' spawn attracts not the robber's eye. 
N.B. — ^Frogs' spawn is supposed to resemble beads. 

815. 

Hero 11 awo ki ato wolle. 

One must go through the porch before entering the 
square. 

816. 

Bi ankilo fun 'o, fi okilo fun *ra re. 
When you are warned, warn yourself. 

817. 
Akanse 11 offa Imado jagan oro kl ipa aso. 
Arrows for the wild boar must be made to order: a 
common poisoned arrow will not kill that savage (animal) . 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



FBOYSRBS nST THB YOBrSA LATTeUAOE. 288 

318. 

Bi ti wu' ni li ase Imalle enni o fi apa eledde je 
sari. 

Any one maj practise liis Moslem worship as it is most 
conyenient : he may breakfast off a pig's foot. 

819. 

Imolle ko gboddo tan ara woige, imo ennikan ko 
yan. 

Covenant makers should not deceive one another; 
{for) one man's counsel is not sufficient. 

820. 

Aflnjn ni ijiwo, imoran ni ije obi marimaje ni ije 
ahnsa. 

A man of fashion eats the Two, a wise man the Kola 
nut ; a man of vulgar tastes eats the Ahusa. 

N.B. — The Iwo Ib a bitter fruit : the Ahusa is an esculent nut 

321. 

Imimmnna abi idi sembe sembe, imnnmnna ko dana 
ri, ti ina ti ina ni mba ikiri. 

Though the glow-worm never kindles a fire, yet it 
travels with glowing fire at its tail. 

822. 
Ina njo ogiri ko sa ama gba gere gere si omL 

Though the fire is burning, the walls do not shrink 
from it, aud yet the fire is trying to consume the water. 

N.B. — Said of those who aim at the greater, when they cannot 
accomplish the less. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



284 WIT AND WISDOM FBOM WEST AFRICA. 

828. 

Oyibo babba inaja, aje babba teni teni. 
The white man is the father of merchants : (want of) 
money is the father of disgrace. 

324. 
Aki ifi oran ipapa lo eja, aki ifl oran odo ilo afe. 

No one should ask the fish what happens in the plain ; 
nor should the rat be asked what takes place in the water. 
N.B. — Ne Butor ultra crepidam. 

825. 

Ipeta li ose apon. 

The ipeta is the bachelor's soap. 

N.B. — Ipeta is the name of a tree whoae root is used for 
washing and for bleaching cloth. 

326. 

Irawo Ban san san alommo lehin bi osupa. 
Twinkling, twinkling, twinkling stars, like so manj 
chickens behind the moon. 

N.B. — Said of the headman or leader of a host. 

827. 

Ire ki 11 orisa se fan abnke ti obi ommo til o so o 
11 Orisagbemi? 

What good have the gods done to the hunchback, that 

he should name his child Orisagbemi P (i. e., the gocU 

have blessed me,) 

N.B. — Meaning, why should I acknowledge kindness when I 
have only experienced evil ? 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PB0YEBB8 US THB TOBTJBA LANGTTAGB. 285 

828. 

Ireke ni iwa ju esn, adu igg^ Id ise oml si 'ni li 
enniL 

The sugar-cane has a better quality than the bulrush : 
there are not many plants (lit., trees) which con supply 
the mouth with such sap. 



829. 

Oni li egbon oUa, iri wowo ni ise egbon ojo. 

To-day is the elder brother of to-morrow, and a copious 
dew is the elder brother of the rain. 



830. 
Ani ki ige Iro ki oro 'ni o si nfon 'ni li oron. 
The Iro was presented to us as something which might 
readily be swallowed, and, instead of that, it chokes us. 

331. 
Iroju li olinn gbogbo. 

Perseverance is everything. 

N.B. — With us it accomplishes great things — " Labor improbuB 
omnia vincit." 

382. 

Im esin ki ipe idi iru enia, bi esin ku afl im si 
aiye. 

The horse's tail soon becomes the man's tail ; for when 
the horse dies he leaves his tail behind him. 
N.B. — Property often changes hands. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



286 WIT AND WISDOM TBOH WEST AFBICA. 

388. 

Opo Im ko ba obbe je. 

Plenty of Iru does not spoil the stew. 

N.6. — Iru is the seed of the locuat-fniit, used m a seaaoning. 
The proverb means, " Good advice never harms, however much be 
offered/' — somewhat opposed to our ''Too many cooks spoil the 
broth." 

834. 

Isansa ko yan egim, isansa ko ikawo obbe. 

A fugitive never stops to pick the thorns from his foot ; 
the fugitive makes no choice of his sauce. 

335. 

Aki ire ni ison lo ida si ibn. 

No one should draw water from the spring to feed the 

abyss. 

N.B. — No poor man should deprive himself of his Bm*U property 
to make presents to the rich. 



lya ni ti ommori isasnn iya nje didon ommo ige 
ora. 

The pot-lid is always badly off: the pot gets all the 
sweet, the lid nothing but steam. 

N.B. — Said of slaves who work without remuneration. 

837. 

Onise ki ifl ise re sille re ebi. 

Wherever a man goes to dwell, his character goes with 
him. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PBOYEfiBS IN TUB YOBUBA LA^NOTTAeE.- 287 

338. 

Ise ko inn okko laya ki o ma ran omino, asise ki 
ill ara. 

Poverty never visits a husband without visiting his 
children : a poor man has no relatives. 

839. 
Isowo mbe 11 omn nawonawo mbe ni iboji. 
The labourer is always in the sun : the landowner is 
always in the shade. 

N.6. — ^MeanLDg) that one toils whilst the other reapa the fruits 

340. 

Isoran ni ise ajo. 

The evil-doer is ever anxious. 

341. 

Itta metta ko konno ebo. 

The junction of the road does not dread sacrifices. 

N.B. — Sacrifices to avert impending evil are always exposed in 
a place where several ways meet. 

342. 

Itadognn 11 ajo Egba. 

A round of seventeen days is the meeting of the Egbas. 

N.B.-- There are many ** savings' clubs " amongst the Egbas. 
The members meet to deposit their Esu or contributions at certain 
intervals, usually every fifth or market day. Each member in turn 
takes the whole of the sum contributed on a single day, until the 
rotation is completed. Those who come first on the roster secure 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



288 WIT AKD WISDOM FEOM WEST AFHIOA. 

in Una way a larger capital to dispose of than they would otherwise 
have been able to command ; and the members whose turn comes 
late, by contributing to the common stock have saved the sums 
which they would otherwise have expended on trifles. The markets 
occur every fifth day ; from one market day to the fourth succeed* 
iag, the first and last both inclusive, the interval is seventeen 
days: hence the proverb. The day on which the payment is 
made is reckoned a second time as the commencement of a new 
series. Even at S*a Leone, the Egbas keep up this system. 



S43. 

Bi iti ko WO owo ki iba isepe. 

Unless the tree falls, one will never get at the branches. 

N.B. — Meaning, that if you cannot reach the chief you never 
will manage hig men. 



344. 

Bi ba tiju o til fd ra re. 

If you are modest, you are modest to your own advan- 
tage. 

845. 

Iwa ni ijo oniwa loju. 

Every man's character is good in his own eyes. 



346. 

Iwo ologbon ko jo ti asiwere. 

The appearance of the wise differs from that of the fool. 

N.B. — All things are not equal. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PSOYEBBS IS THE YOBUBA LAlTaTTAOE. 289 



847. 

Ise ko don iya ko fohnn kl amo enniti iya ndon 
li ara. 

Galamitj has no voice : suffering cannot speak to tell 
who is reaUj in distress (and who is complaining mthotU 
cause), 

N.B. — It is hard to aay who id the real sufiferer, great calamitj 
being mostly dumb. 



348. 

Awodi lo ire iye nwon 11 eiye si lo. 
The hawks go away for the moulting season, and {the 
ignoranf) suppose that these birds are gone for ever. 

N.B. — Said, for instance^ at the departure of an unpopular 
governor, when people prophesy from their wishes^ yet prove false 
prophets. 



349. 

jebbi oran won. 

He was guilty in the matter and then sat in a corner. 



350. 
Ohnn ti atejumo ki ijona. 

If you attend to what is roasting, it will aot be burnt. 
K.B. — Meaning, do the thing with all thy mi^ht. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



290 WIT ABTD WISDOM FBOM WEST APBIGA. 

851. 

Enyi ni ki ama taffit, Id ni Id afi le Ognn? Eana- 
kasa li ofi le Boko. 

" Tou Bay we should not aboot arrows ; with what, 
then, shall we repel the enemy ?" 

" 'Twas with a Kanakana (a sling) that one of old re- 
pelled the Boko people," replied the other. 

N.B. — A proverbial style of discomfiting an objection. 

852. 

Kanakana eyi ti nre Ibara ni ; eftLfd ta a ni idi pa, 
oni ise kuku ya. 

The crow was going to Ibara ; a breeze sprung up be- 
hind : " That will help* me on famously,** quoth the crow. 

858. 
Enia kan ni iro kangara bo ni li owo. 
One man makes bill-hooks to put into the hands of 
others. 

N.B. — Meaning, that every man has his particular trait. 

854. 

Xanhnnl i ommo Eaussa, asara li ommo Oyibo, gombo 
li ommo Onire. 

Eock-salt is the produce of Haussa ; tobacco is the pro- 
duce of the Oyibo {European) ; the spoon (with which the 
mixtv/re of rock-salt and tobacco is retailed) is the produce 
of the chief of Ire. 

N.B. — ^Means, that everything is in its own place. It is 
amongst the " wise sayings." 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PROTBKBS IN THE TOBtJBA LANGUAGE. 291 

855. 

Eantikanti ko li oran akeregbe li oron. 

The gnats have no quarrel with the calabash. 

N.B. — Meaning, that they swarm about it only for the sweet 
liquor which it contains. It is also said to a bystander who inter- 
feres in a dispute which does not concern him. 



856. 

Ohnn Kegio ko de orun. . 

The voice of the Kegio does not reach the sky. 

N.B. — ^The Kegio is a bird so called from its cry. The saying is 
applied to one whose voice has not much weight. 



857. 

Akuko nla ko je ni kekere ki o ko. 
A large cock does not suffer a small one to crow. 
N.B. — Said when a superior is in ofiice. 

358. 

Ake ommo bi ojiL 

He indulges the child as {jfit were) an eve. 
N.B. — Said of an over-fond parent. 



359. 

Kellekn tan okun je, ki ije behe, oknn re don. 

(The printed pattern of) the calico deceives the country 
cloth (which is usually dyed to conceal flaws or coarse 
texture) ; (the calico) is not in reality what (the country 

V 2 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



292 WIT AI(D 'WISDOM FROM WEST AFRICA. 

cloth) takes it to be ; (Jbr tpJtiUt the fact of its being 

dyed makes it teem coarse) ^ the thread is (found on inves' 

tigation to he) fine. 

N.B.~ Meaning, tbftt further acquaintance often ooirectB first 
impresdonB. 

360. 

Ma 88 ba mi sire ti kere ifl igba okan 11 oron. 

Do not play me the trick by which the fool gets a rope 
round his neck. 

N.B. — ^Do not be treacherouB. 

361. 

Enniti ko ki *ni abo, o pa adano e 'ka ille. 

Whoso does not salute (his friend) on returning from 
a journey, forfeits the salutation (usually offered) to him 
who has remained at home. 

362. 
Ei aga, ki ago, ele ara wa li ako gbo. 

We may talk this and talk that (i. e., vse may express 
different opinionSy hut) it is because we do not understand 
one another. 

N.B. — Said during aiguments. 

868. 

Kiimin di elewon ki erankokif ki oma iao je, kinniu 
ko je eran ikasi. Bi yio ba don ani, bikose erin, bi- 
ko-se enia, bikose ohun dndn, on ko beru ennikan. 

The lion is the pet of the forest : let every beast take 
heed how he feeds, for the lion does not eat stale meat. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PBOTJBBBS IN THE TOBUBA. LANGUAGE. 293 

When he roars, he says, " Except the elephant, except 

man, except the black thing, I fear nobody." 

N.B. — ^The lion, unknown in Southern, is common in Northern 
Toruba. The black thing may be the Naki, which some suppose to 
be the gorilla. Mr. Crowther unsatisfactorily translates it'*uran- 
utan." The proverb is applied to a great man and his rivals. 



864. 

Kokoro jiwo jiwo, kokoro jobi jobi lara Obi li o wa, 
enniti nseni ko gbon 'ni lo. 

(As) the grubs eating the Iwo, and the grubs eating 

the Obi, lodge within the Iwo and the Obi ; so he that 

betrays you is not far from your person. 

N.B. — The Ibo is a tree whose fruit is called the " bitter Kola." 
The Ibi is the esculent Kola. The proverb means, that the enemy 
inside the camp is the most dangerous. 



365. 

Ako rira ko ni nkan odun ka sian sokoto. 
As the envious man has nothing (i. e., is unfit for 
society)^ so grass matting is unfit for trowsers. 



366. 

Enia lassan ko ni kobbi olowo ko ni ilari. 

As no {subject, however) rich, may possess a herald, so 

it is not every man that may possess a palace. 

N.B. — ^The herald is a royal privilege. The word Kobbi here 
translated palace, means properly, the tall gables of the regal roof ; 
hence, by synecdoche, a palace. The proverb alludes to the species 
of divinity popularly supposed (in the East) to hedge in kings. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



294 WIT AKD WISDOM FBOM WEST AEBIOA. 

867. 

Obba kojn bubnm si awon olotte. 
The king regards rebels with an evil eye. 
N.B. — Said to the mutinous and disobedient 



868. 

Kolokolo iba ku adire ko sokun; kolokolo ko gba 
ad ire sin. 

"When the fox dies, the fowls never mourn; for the 
fox never rears a chicken. 



369. 
Eonkosso ko da ku elubo. 

The sieve never sifts flour by itself (without some one 
to hold it). 

N.B. — Means, that first will not act without second causea 



370. 

Mo kugbe 11 ehoro idon 11 oko, mo mu owo ra li 
aparo idon 11 abba baba. 

" I am perishing ! " cries the hare in the field : " I am 
a spendthrift ! " is the cry of the partridge on the barn- 
top. 

N.B. — There is more of sound than sense in this proverb, which 
is, however, applicable to ruined fortunes. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PB0YEBB8 IK THE YOBTJBA LAKGUAGE. 295 

871. 

Kntokutu Id \ji *iii li erin meji, kutukutu ni jjd 
owuro, biri ni ije alle. 

The dawn cometh not twice to wake a man : the dawn 
is the earliest part of the day (i. e., tinie to begin work) ; 
(mth) the evening twilight comes the night. 

N.B. — So OUT saying, Early to bed and early to riBe, &c 
872. 

Lakari babba iwa, bi o ni sum ohun gbogbo li o ni. 

Patience is the best of dispositions : he who possesses 
patience, possesses all things. 

N.B. — Patience and time run through the roughest day. 



873. 

Bi apeja tan, lebbe eja ni iha eji li ennn. 
When a fish is killed, its tail is inserted into its own 
mouth. 

N.B. — Applied to those who reap the fruits of their own 
misdeeds. 

874. 

Bi ina ba jo oko majala afo wa ille. 
When fire burns in the fields, the flakes fly to the 
town. 

N.B. — Nam tua res agitur murus quom proximus ardet^ 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



296 WIT AITD WISDOM FROM WEST AFRICA. 

875. 

Mimn onm ko jo mimn abbe. 

The keen heat of the sun is not like the keenness of a 
razor. 

N.B. — Compares great things with small, inferiors with superiors. 



876. 

Modnmodu babba ejje. 
Marrow is the father of blood. 
N.B. — ^A compliment. 

377. 

Mottimotti ko mo agbe ji, omotti gbagbe ise ijaba. 
The drunkard cannot drink a hole in a calabash, though 
he may drink so as to forget his trouble. 
K.B. — Sneering at those who mix strong liquor. 



878. 

Enniti a mba inaja li awo aki iwo ariwo oja. 

You must attend to your business with the vendor in 
the market, and not to the noise of the market. 
N.B. — ^Be eamesU 

87». 

Viw ajn li ati \jognn ehin li ati ise agba. 
A man may be bom to a heritage, but wisdom cornea 
only with length of days. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PBOTEBBS IN THB TOBUBA LANOUAGE. 207 

880. 

Ommo kL ino bi eranko. 
A child cannot be lost like a beast. 
N.B. — Shows the superiority of man over other animals. 

881. 

Obn ko to iyo. 

Obu {or salt earth) is not to be compared with real salt. 
N.R — Said to a pretender. 



882. 

Bi ako ri adan afl ode sebo. 

If you cannot obtain a large bat for sacrifice, a small 
one will do instead. 

K.B. — One must take the will for the deed. 



383. 

Bi ino ko li odi, odi ani ino. 

If the mind (i. e., a man) is not malicious, some one 
will be malicious against him. 
N.B. — ^AU men must have enemies. 



384. 

Odo gbe ma gbe omko. 

The stream may dry up, but the water-course retains 
its name. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



298 WIT AND WISDOM FBOH WEST AFBIOA. 



885. 

Enniti o wo odo li onno nko aiya ko fo odo. 

He who enters a ruin may fear, but the ruin fears not. 

N.B. — One who attacks another is often timid before the 
attack. 

886. 

lya odo on ommo re ko ni jja, agbe li o dija sille 
firn won : ommo odo ki ina iya re lassan. 

The pestle and the mortar had no quarrel between 
them, it was the farmer that caused the quarrel (5y sup- 
plying the yam for pounding) : the child of the mortar 
(i. e., the pestle) does not beat its mother for nothing. 

N.B. — Said of a person or a thing that causes disputes. 



887. 

Bi iwo okn iwo a la odo ya 'na. 
If you are going to die, need you split up the mortar for 
firewood ? 

N.B. — Better leave it to the survivors. Opposed to the European 
phrase, " Apr^ nous le d^uge." 



Odu ki ise aimo oloko. 

The Odu herb {a vegetable used as cabbage) is not un- 
known to the farmer. 

N.B.— Said of any self-evident thing, a truism, Ac. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PR0yEEB8 IS THE TOETJBA. LANGUAGE. 299 

889. 

Agbede bi ofe, amo ara ire bi odide; adebo fan ofe, 
ofe ko m aganran gbe ebo o mbo, asinwa asinbo ofe 
di ara Oyo aganran di ara oko : nwon se bi ofe ko 
gbon. 

Sacrifice being prescribed to the parrot, be refused to 

offer it, but the green parrot took the sacrifice and offered 

it ; after all, the parrot is a citizen of the capital, and the 

green parrot is an inhabitant of the province : (and yet 

people) thought that the parrot was not wise. 

N.B. — The green parrot is counted a clean bird, and offered in 
sacrifice, while the parrot is unclean, and never molested. The 
saying is one of those sneers at religion, much affected by Africans, 
Hindoos, Chinese, and idolaters generally ; but not by any means 
proving that they are disposed to change. 



890. 

Odadua igba nla meji ade isL 

Heaven and earth are two large calabashes, which, being 
shut, can never be opened. 

N.B. — Odua and Odudua may mean either heaven and earth, or 
the supreme goildess of the world, who came from Ife. The saying 
alludes to the concavity of the sky which seems to touch the earth at 
the horizon. 

891. 

Ase ofofo ko gba egba ni ibi ope li o mo ; ofofo li 
egbon ororo 11 abnro. 

A tale-bearer receives not 2000 cowries (i. e., no pay- 
ment) ; thanks are all his reward. Tale-bearing is the 
elder brother ; bitterness is the younger. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



300 WIT AND WISDOM TBOM WEST AFBICA. 



Ennu oforo ni ipa oforo, oforo bi ommo meji o ko 
won wa eti oima oni, Ommo mi ye korokoro, korokoro, 
korokoro. 

It was the squirrers own mouth that betrayed her; 
for when she had brought forth two young ones, she 
carried them to the roadside, and said, " My children are 
very sound, very sound, very sound ! " 

N.B. — Korokoro ia an onomatoplasua, imitating the Bquirrera 
cry. 

393. 

Ofurufii ko 86 iflehin ti. 

One cannot lean upon emptiness. 

N.B. — One cannot do impossibilities. 



394. 

Ogbo ko 11 ognn. 

There is no medicine against old age. 



895. 

Bi Ogboya ba fi im na ille li erimnetta ni illu, illu 
na atn. 

When the Ogboya strikes its tail thrice on the ground 
in any town, that town will be deserted. 

N.B.— A popular superstition : the Ogboya is an animal about 
the size of a cat. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



FBOTEBBS IN THE TOBTJBA. LA.NaUAaB. 301 

396. 

Ogedemgbe iro ki Ida ni si iyewn gbangba ni Ida 
ni si. 

The headlong fall of a liar is not concealed, but is 
exposed to yievv. 

897. 
Apon di Ogi o saro. 

When a man becomes an old bachelor, he makes his 
own fire-place (i. e., he must cook his own food), 
N.B. — Ogi means an old dog^ or an old bachelor. 



398. 

Ogidigbo pari ilu gbogbo; bi owe bi owe li alu 
Ogidigbo : enniti o ye m ijo o--0bo, iijagbo, gbo^ obba 
gbo, kL ami Id osi gbo. 

The Ogidigbo is the best of all drums ; the Ogidigbo has 

a meaning in its sound : he who understands the sound 

can dance to it — " May you be old, King Ajagbo ! may 

you be old, may the king be old, may I also be old ! *' 

N.B. — This is said of one who can talk eloquently, and quote 
many proverbs. 

399. 

Ileri iUe ko mo m'agun, kufekufe ko mo ^'a: ^*o ti 
ari ogun 11 amo ogo. 

Boasting at home is not valour, parade is not battle : 

when war is seen, the valiant will be known. 

N.B. — So the Arabs say, " Character is shown in travel, bravery 
in the battle." 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



302 WIT AOT) WISDOM FBOM WEST AFBIOA. 

400. 

Ogongo babba eiye. 

The ostrich is the father of birds. 
N.K — A compliment. 

401. 

Ija ni ipa onitiju ognn ni ipa alagbara. 

As a street-quarrel will prove fatal to a bashful man 
(i. e., a man who fears to he thought a coward) , so will war 
kill a man renowned for valour. 

402. 
Gegele 11 o bi gegele koto 11 o bi koto, ojo ro si koto 
gegele nroju. 

Bank rises after bank, and ditch follows ditch : when 
the rain falls into the ditch, the banks are envious. 

K.B. — This is said to those not satisfied with their position in life. 

403. 

Qjowu ko li eran 11 aiya iba jown ko yo. 

A jealous woman has no flesh upon her breast (L e., 
is always thin) ; for, however much she may feed upon 
jealousy, she will never have enough. 

404. 

Qju babba axa : awon bi oju, asoro ida bi agba. 

The eye is the father of the body : as the eye is too 
dear to be purchased, so it is hard to act well an elder's 
part. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PROTBEBS IN THE TOttUBA LANGUAGE. 303 

405. 

Ojngon mu odo fohun. 

The leg (of the wader) makes the brook resound. 

K.B. — Said of one who speaks well, who makes an impression 
upon his hearers. 

406. 

Qjtimo mo o nyo ojo ikn ndi? 

When the day dawns, you rejoice : do you not know 
that the day of death is so much the nearer ? 

407. 

Oju-onm ko hukd illepa ko je ki oku ki o be onna 
wo. 

As the grass cannot grow in the sky, so the dead can- 
not look out of the grave into the road. 

408. 

Okele gbomgbo fe ommo li oju. 
A large morsel chokes a child. 
N.B. — Said of oyergreed and ambition. 



409. 

Okete babba ogun: bi asignn olukuluku ni odi 
okete lowo. 

A store of food is the best equipment for war : when 
war is proclaimed, every man takes up his wallet. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



304 WIT AKD WISDOK 7B0M WEST ATBIOA. 

410. 

Obogbo wa li ajumo fl Okete san ogoffa: nigbatl 
Okete ofl di ogoje, oju gbogbo wa ni yio si se. 

We all agreed to value the Okete-rat at 140 cowries (its 

umal price) : when 20 cowries are to be added, it must 

be by common consent. 

N.6. — See Proverb 242. This sa3dxig means that in matters 
of law, property, &c., what is fixed by common consent cannot be 
changed but by common consent. 

411. 

Okiki Oibo kan ka gbogbo aiye. 

The fame of the white man spreads throughout the 
world. 

412. 

kan okikiri. 

It comes to the knot (i. e., the difficult point). 

418. 
Owo ologiri ehin ti li ogtrn. 

A multitude of warriors behind their leader is like a 
flock of palm-birds. 

N.B.— Said of a man with a long "tail/' or of one very popular. 

414. 

Iwo ko lu omiran li oru o nlu u li oasan ! 

Do you not first strike the giant in the night, before 
you strike him in the day P 

N.B. — Bribe your judge at night, and bully him by day when 
the cause comes on.. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



FBOTEBBS IN THB TOBUBA. LiLVGVAaS. 305 

415. 

Bi abu omi si ori o nwa esse ibo. 

When water is poured upon the head, it will find its 

way down to the feet. 

N.B. — This xneanB that good actions sooner or later will prevaiL 
Thus we say, "A stone up-throwH will surely £alL" It is also 
applied to a fiigitive slave home returning. 

416. 

Jje on ore ni imn ommo ise ise. 

Competition and reward induce a child to work. 

417. 
Oni ami nlo, oUa n 'nlo ki qe ki ajeji Id o gbin 
Ahusa. 

" To-day I am going ! — to-morrow I am going ! " (in- 
tended removal to-day or to-morrow) gives the stranger no 
encouragement to plant the Ahusa (although it bears fruit 
very quickly). 

N.B. — A rolling stone gathers no moss. 

418. 

le isun bi Opera. 

Tou sleep like the Opere (a bird noted for sleepiness}^ 

419. 
Orau na da opin. 
The matter is come to the highest point. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



306 WIT AiTD wisdom: feom: west afbica. 

420. 

Ko mo ore, ko mo ora, ti ignn esin apatta. 

Eegardless of kindness, regardless of the purchaser, 
(the ungrateful man) rides the (lent) horse over the 
rocks. 

421. 

Ei ire ore ki o re sinsin idi re. 

Though the porcupine be weary, the {quills of its) tail 

will not be wearj. 

N.B. — There is a superstition that the porcupine always shakes 
its quills before feeding, in order to divine what success it will meet 
with in its excursions. 

422. 

Osnpa gbe oke o mo Oyo obba ghe ille mo ara oko. 

As the moon remains stationary above, and yet knows 
(i.e., shines over) Oyo, the capital, so the king remains at 
home, and knows (what) his subjects (are doing) in the 
province. 

423. 

Kwon sebi otosi ko gbon bi oloro, nwon ni o gbon 
iba ilowo. 

Men thiuk that the poor is not as wise as the rich ; for 
if he were wise, why is he poor ? 

• 424. 

Owe li esin oro bi oro ba no owe 11 afi iwa a, owe 
on oro ni irin. 

A proverb is the horse of conversation ; when the con- 
versation is lost (i. e.y flags), a proverb revives it : proverbs 
and conversation follow each other. 

N.B, — Pace my lord Chesterfield. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



FEOTERBS IN THE TOEUBA LAKGUAGE. 307 

425. 

Ownsuwnsn mu oju ornn bsge gndeg^de ko je ki 
onm ki o ran. 

The fog spoils the face of the sky : gloominess prevents 
the sun from shining. 

426. 

Ta li oje fl obbe 'yi o no je ten. 
No one confesses that he has eaten yam with a knife 
that is lost. 

N.B. — So in England ; nobody, or the cat, breaks the china. 

427. 

Enia bi obbo li obbo iya li aso. 

The monkey is sure to tear the cloth of any one who is 

like himself. 

N.B. — Said of those who frequent low society ; they will surely 
have their reputations torn, as clothes are torn by a monkey whom 
one stupidly approaches. 

428. 

Ohnn ti wn obon ni ifi owo re ira, ohnn ti o wa 
aflnja ni ifi owo re ise. 

The filthy man lays out his money in whatever pleases 
him ; 80 does the gay man with his money. 

N.B. —No one should meddle with another's rights. 

429. 

Mofere ipa eiye na. Aki ije ofere li obbe. 

" I almost killed the bird ! " (said the sportsman). " No 
one can eat * almost' in a stew" (i. e., "a^o«^*' never 
made a stew — was the reply), 

X 2 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



308 WIT AND WISDOM TBOM WEST AFRICA. 

480. 

iijin ofin ma ta oju ille, opolo ji ofin ma taju ati jade. 
A man fallen into a pit, need not hasten to get home : 
a frog fallen into a hole, need not hurry to get out. 

N.E — ^When a matter is hopeless, let it be. 
431. 

Ase ofon bi alakara. 
He is as persuasive as a seller of cakes. 
N.R— Said of " sweet-mouf." 



482. 

Ogaa imado ko se iko li oju. 

The great wild boar is not easy to encounter. 
N.R — Said to one who undertakes an impossibility. 

433. 

Ogan use nkan die. 

The great one is trying to show off a little. 
N.B.~ Spoken in contempt of a boastful man. 

484. 

Ogbagba woUe o kon ati yo. 

The pin is driyen into the ground ; the question now 
is how to pull it out. 

N.B. — We have got into trouble, how shall we get out of it ? 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



FROYBABS IN THB TOBUBA LANGUAGE. 309 

435. 

Agarawn yi si ogbon ko ku. 

Though an Agarawu (a tribe of the Fopo nation) fall 
into a ditch, yet he will not die. 

436. 

Ogbon-oyibo ti ino okon la wa, aso ki 11 o bori 
Akese. 

Though the white man's gauze came all the way over 

the sea, jet what cloth may be compared to cloth of 

Akese cotton P 

N.B. — ^The Akese ib the red-flowered cotton; others say, the 
sea-island cotton. This saying applies to those superior in action. 

437. 

Ogedde gbe odo so sinsin; eja gbe ino omi dara. 
As the banana by the water-side sends forth moisture, 
BO the fish in the water retains its beauty. 
N.B. — Said when praising another's good looks. 

438. 

Ogegge ko li ewa sa li o fi ara we isn. 

The (poisonous) cassada has no good qualities ; in vain 

does it appear like the yam. 

N.B.— Said of a hypocrite, — ^the daw that wears another's 
feathers. 

439. 

Ise ogero li ole iwa ise ko je mu ise agbaxa. 

A lazy man seeks easy employment: he would never 
choose a laborious one. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



310 TI^IT AND WISDOM TBOM WEST AFBTCA. 

440. 

Agongo-oggo. 

The man with the knotted club. 

N.B. — This alludes to some evil entity which we term " devil : ' 
he is supposed to carry an Oggo, or short knotted club. 



441. 

Bi iwo ko ran 'ni si oja, oja ki iran 'ni si ille. 
If you send no one to the market, the market will send 
no one to you. 

N.B.— Nothing can be done without exertion. 



442. 

Oyibu ta oja ta omko : Egun ta aso ta edidL 
The European trader sells his goods (to ike Egun or 
Popo — the people of Badagry and JDahome) : the Egun 
sells them again with the string round them (i. e.^just as 
he received thern), 

N.6. — This sing-song saying means, that neither of them seeks 
to make gain by petty I'etail. The Popo is a middleman. 



443. 

Ipin ojehiin ki ije ina ki o kn. 

The good genius of every eater (i. e., any man) does not 
permit fire (with which food is cooked) to depart from the 
earth. 

N.B. — Inculcates trust in Providence. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PEOVEBBS IS THE TOBUBA UlNGUAQE. 311 
444. 

Li ojo alaiye ti de aiye ni iwa ti so. 

Erom the time that the owner of the world appeared in 
the world, the world began* 

N.B. — ^The customs {fi*^j) of an empire begin with its esta- 
blishment. 

445. 

Okaqna babba aron. 
Covetousness is the father of disease. 

446. 

Iggi okaig'Tia so esc pipe, kaka ki ama ka 'a, o 70 
ake ti i ike Inlle. 

A tree belonging to an avaricious man, bore abund- 
antly ; but instead of gathering the fruit (little hy little)^ 
he took an axe and cut it down {that he might get all at 
once), 

N.B. — This is an African version of our goose with the golden 
«gg8. 

447. 

Okankan li ase ibi, ikoko li ase imoUe, bi atoju 
imoUe tan, ki atoju ibi pellu, bi aba ku ara enni ni 
iflin *ni. 

A man must openly practise the duties of relationship, 

though he may privately belong to a secret association : 

when he has attended to this, he must attend to that 

also, because when he dies, it is his relations who must 

bury him. 

KB.— Said of the "companies/' ''trades unions/ or private clubs 
of the Yoruba people, the dangerous '^ Akoos" of S'a Leone. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



812 WIT AND WISDOM J&OM WEST ATBICA. 

448. 

Okkin obba eiye, okkin elewa alia. 
The Okkin (crime) is a king of birds, and the owner 
of the beautiful white feathers. 
N.B. — A compliment 

449. 

Oko kikn mo li osi obiri* 

The husband's death is the widow's sorrow. 

450. 
Okim mo onna telle ki oju re ki o to fo. 

The Okun must have known the way before it became 
blind. 

N.B. — ^The Okun is a harmless reptile with many feet {the fniUe- 
pede t), and supposed to be sightless. 

451. 

Enniti ba hu ipa ko hn ipa, enniti iba hu ele ko 
hn ele, Okun ti oni igba owo ti o ni igba esse nhu iwa 
pelle. 

The person who might have used his strength, did not 
use his strength ; the person who might have used force, 
did not use force ; the Okun, which has 200 hands and 
200 feet, acts gently. 

452. 

OUe kon are lowo, iyanju li agba iijo gbogbo ni ife 
ire ni. 

Laziness lends a helping hand to fatigue: one must 
persevere, because fatigue must be felt every day. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PBOYXBBS IN THB TOBUBA. LA.NGUAGB. 313 

453. 

Bi oju ommo ko to oran ato awigbo. 

If a child is not old'enougk to be an eye-witness of 
ancient matters, he must be content with hearsay. 

454. 

Angba ommo adire lowo ikn o li ako je ki on Id o 
re atan lo \je. 

A chicken having been preserved {by heing shut up) 
from death (i. e., the hawk)j complained that it was not 
permitted to feed openly on the dunghill. 

N.B. — A reckless man plunges into peril regardless of warning. 



455. 

Ope li ope ejika ti ko je own ki o bo. 

Thanks are due to the shoulders, which keep the shirt 
from slipping off. 

N.B. — ^Be grateful to the man who prevents you falling. 



456. 

Ore \je ore, ora ^'e ora, aki idnpe motopo. 
A gift is a gift, a sale is a sale, but no one will thank 
you for " I have sold it cheap." 

N.B. — So in African-English the people say, '' Dash he be dash, 
trade he be trade." And the Persian proverb is, " Brotherhood is 
brotherhood, but a kid is always worth half-a-crown." 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



314 WIT AND WISDOM FBOM WEST AFEICA. 

457. 

Osin mo iwe ino mbi eiye oko. 

Because the Osin (water-hird) knows how to swim, the 
other birds are envious. 

N.B. — A man clever in busineas is certainly envied. 

458. 

Ale koko bi osan ogbe jina ohnn ma jina. 
{A cutting word is as) tough as a bowstring : a cutting 
word cannot be healed, though a wound maj. 
K.B. — So the Persians say, 

" There is healing for hurt of the sword and the spear. 
But the wounds of the tongue — they never heaL" 
And the French, *' Un coup de langue est pire qu'un coup de 
lance." 

459. 

Osin ki isin enniL 

Though a man may miss other things, he never misses 

his mouth. 

N.B. — However great a blockhead a man may be, he can always 
do something. 

460. 

PamoUe ko oran afojndi. 
The viper allows no insolence. 
N.B. — The man who can punish enemies will be well treated. 

461. 

Pellepe. 

A wolf (believed to have been once a human heing^ a 
Igcanthrope, a loup-garou). 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PROVERBS IK THE TORUBA LAKGTTAGB. 315 

462. 

Petepete Ijesa o ta si 'ni lara ma won. 
If the mud in the Ijesa country adheres to one, it will 
not (easily) be washed off. 
N.B. — Slander B mud sticks. 

463. 

Eere ojn, oju li afeni suti lehin. 
An eye-servant promises friendship; but he despises 
you behind your back. 

464. 

Olori li ori isan Id isan akan loke ode. 

(The good genitts of the) head prospers the owner of 

the head, and not the crab on the bank of the river, 

N.B. — ^A fortunate " spirit " is supposed to reside in each man*s 
brain : the crab is used to represent one wlio has no connection 
with or claims on, another. The proverb, therefore, signifies that 
each man has an exclusive right to the proceeds of his own fore- 
thought and industry. 

465. 

Ohnn ti aso siwaju li aba, ohim ti asi gbin, li awa; 
nikbati ako so siwaju, ti ako gbin sille ki li aoba. 

A thing thrown forward will surely be overtaken; a 
thing planted in the ground will be there to dig up : but 
if nothing has been thrown forward, what shall be over- 
taken? and if nothing has been planted, what shall be 
dug up ? 

N.B. — Ab you sow so shall you reap : the industrious make 
fortunes, the idle do not. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



316 WIT AITD WISDOM FBOH W£ST AFBIOA. 

466. 

Eleknn sonknn o ba ti re lo arokan iba soknn ko 
dake. 

A weeper {who comes to condole with her frieni) weeps 
and goes her ways ; but one who dwells on painful recol- 
lections, weeps and never ceases. 

N.B. — Shows that there are dififerent depths of feeling. 

467. 

Sakata ni ida won won ni Bese. 

The morass is an obstruction to the people of Bese 
town. 

N.B. — Said of any obstruction. 



468. 

Segge ko mo enni obba, ojo ko mo enni owe. 

As the Segge does not regard the kiDg's messenger, bo 
the rain does not respect great men. 

N.B.— The Segge is the tall " Guinea-grass," bending over the 
road towards the dry season. 



469. 

lile sokoto or Ille koto kiki ekan. 
A confined room, containing nought but pins. 
N.B, — A riddle, meaning the mouth. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PBOYEBBS IK THB TOBUBA. IjMSQVJLQE. 317 

470. 

Orisa ti akeke ti ko gb' ike, orisa ti atete ti ko 
gbite, ojiL popo ni igbe. 

The god that would not be pleased when thej tried to 
please it, the god that would not be propitiated when 
they tried to propitiate it, must take up its abode in the 
highway. 

N.B. — Said of a person whom you try to please and cannot. 



471. 

AM imn ibon tetere. 

A gun is not to be held carelessly. 

N.E — As we say, " Look at your gun, but don't allow your gun 
to look at you." 



472. 

Obogbo won fe oju toto. 

They all distort their faces. 

N.B. — A phrase describing the expression of countenance 
assumed by those who haye a laborious task imposed upon them. 



473. 

le bi ojn eja ti ehin ko le iwe. 
It is hard as the eye of a (smoked) fish, which the teeth 
cannot break. 

N. 6.— Applicable to any difficult matter. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



318 WIT ANI> WISDOM FROM WIST ATBICA. 

474. 

Awin isan ko ri owo win. 

The borrower who does not pay, gets no more money 
lent to him. 

475. 
Wobia*7o tan o pe egbe re wa. 
The glutton having eaten to the full (in the house of a 
friend) f calls his companions also to come (to the game 
house, instead of being satisfied with the hospitality he has 
received), 

N.B.— Said of a greedy and ungrateful guest 

476. 

Owon adire bi iti won kolokolo ni mo fi won o. 

The vengeance which the fowls imprecate on the fox, 
do I imprecate on you ! 

N.B. — ^A curse. ^ 

477. 
Enniti o mo wnra li a ita a fan. 
Gold should be sold to him who knows the value of it. 
X.B.— So the Affghan song says, '^\^ tj • ^. 

478. 

Tamyam se fqja li aili apa. 

The mosquito makes a bold attempt without arms (i. e., 

power) to accomplish it. 

K.R— The buzzing of the mosquito is supposed to resemble the 
word " Gbe," to carry away. Said of one who undertakes a task far 
above ; as a gnat might say, " Take him up ! " — '* Carry him off.'* 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PBOVEKBS IN THB TOEUBA LANGUAGE. 319 

479. 

Adire olommo yoyo. 

A hen that has many chickens (i.e., the milky way). 

N.B.— So the Oji tribes call the Pleiades "Akokotan ni 
n'Emma " (hen and chickens). 

480. 

Aya yo ni ijokan, o ni ki aka on li ehin okankan. 

The monkey having one day eaten to the full, desires 
that his fore teeth may be drawn. 

N.B. — Meaning, improvident persons are ready to sacrifice the 
future to the present. 



481. 

. Aya seju ommo re kiwobo o. 

The monkey winked its eye : the young one thrust its 
finger into it. 

N.B. — Meaning, that however quick the wink of the monkey's 
eye, the motion of the young one's finger is quicker still. This 
saying exhorts us to be expeditious in our actions. 



482. 

Iwo mo igun esin re se sesse. 

You {profess to) know how to ride : how is it that your 
horse's leg is broken ? 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



820 WIT AKD WISDOM TBOM WEST AFBIOA.. 

483. 

Omi li dtmo, akengbe ko fo. 

It is onlj the water that is spilt ; the calabaali is not 
broken. 

N.B.~Meaning, that though &dlure attended the first attempt, 
yet, whilst the means eziet^ another may be made with suocesB. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



VI. 



PROVERBS 



IN THE 



EFIK OR OLD CALABAR LANGUAGE. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PROVERBS IN THE EFIK, OR OLD 
CALABAR LANGUAGK 



The Bfik, or language of Old Calabar, is grouped by 
M. Koelle (Polyglotta Africana) among the unclassified 
languages of Africa. He has, however, viewed the sub- 
ject from a purely etymological staad-point. The dialect 
is spoken by a people who, expelled by intestine strife 
from the Ibibo, or Bgbo Sherry (a large country, stretch- 
ing from the Cross River westward to the I bos of the 
Niger), established themselves on the banks of the Old 
Calabar River. Their principal settlement is Atakpa, or 
Duke Town, about 30-35 miles from the sea, in N. lat. 
4° 57', and E. long. 8° 19', with an estimated population 
of 4000 souls. Okuritunko, or Creek Town, about 6-7 
miles distant, is the second in size, and has contained as 
many as 3000 souls : it is now, however, in decadence. 
The total number of the Efik, or Old Calabar people, is 
laid down at 60,000 ; but no data exist for forming an 
exact computatiou. 

In this, the heart of the Biafran Bight, there is a 
peculiar luxuriance of language, each tribe speaking its 
own. " For example, if we take Creek Town as a centre, 
and describe a circle of a hundred miles radius, we shall 
either include, or trench upon, the tribes of Usahadet 

T 2 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



324 WIT AHD WISDOM FBOM WX8T ATBICA. 

(Bakasey), Efut (Kameroons),* Aqua (Qua), Akajon, 
TJwet, TJmon (Boson), Ekoi and Unene (Ibo). We 
have in this area at least eight different tribes, with as 
many distinct tongues, besides the Efik and its yarious 
dialects.*' 

This and the extracts below given are borrowed from 
the laborious and scholar-like work, *^ A Dictionary of 
the Efik Language, in Two Parts. 1. Efik and English. 
2. English and Efik. By the Bey. Hugh GK>ldie, Mis- 
sionary from the United Presbyterian Church, Scotland, 
to Old Calabar. Glasgow: Printed by Dunn and Wright, 
1862.** I have not altered the reverend gentleman's 
orthography, and beg to return my best thanks for his 
kindness in explaining to me the meanings of the 
sayings. 



Afa edi Adiba. 
You are (strong as) an Adiba. 
N.B. — The latter is a large turtle of proverbial strength. 

2. 

TJbnene anyam uma ke a&ra. 

A poor man makes market with his shoulder (i.e., 
shrubs his shoulders), 

N.B. — " A toom purse maks a blate merchaQt" 



* This unhappy mode of travestylDg the good old Spanish name, 
<<Camarones'' is another sample of what light we derive from Mr. 
Gooley's « Inner Africa laid Open" (I), p. 122. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PBOYEBBS IK THE EFIK LiUrGUAGE. 325 



Akan anwan i-qne. 
" Old woman cannot see." 
N.B. — Meaning, Bmall rain, a " Scotch mist." 



4. 
Onim akn ye idnt (or nfok). 
They keep requital for country {or family). 

N.B.— -Meaning, they remember an injury formerly passed oyer 
in their &your, and so pass over an injury done to them now ; or 
they make return of evil Aku, or Oku, is a debt of retribution, or 
a requital of good or evil 

5. 

Mesin akn ye enye. 

I let pass what I might have made palaver about {that 
he may do so to me in return), 

N.B. — So I lay him under this obligation. 
«. 

Ekpuk etn abiat eknri; akan abiat ama. 

A knot in the tree spoils the axe; famine spoils 
friendship. 

N.B. — Sine Cerere et Baccho friget Venus. 

7. 

Otnk owe nte otuk nkpo ke aqnak. 

He grinds a man as one rubs something on a grater. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



326 WIT A5D WISDOM FROM WK8T A7RICA. 

8. 

Asat ownkha iyak. 

The Asat (JUh) giyes laws to the fishes. 

9. 
Onwon ata ye ekebe. 
You drink flood and ebb (i.e., always), 

10. 

Ata ada mi odnk ekebe ada mi owara. 

The tide carries me in and out. 

N.B. — Mesning, my changing indination leads me to^ and then 
away from, my purpose. 

11. 

Atal Abasi. 

" The principal wife of God," a name sometimes giren 
to the Utere, or vulture, it being the " Bird of Jove " 
in Calabar. In their mythology, Ibasi Ibum, and Inyan 
Ibum (probably personifications of Earth and Ocean) 
were sons of Ibum Eno. 

12. 
Atanynm. 

Literally, " Speak the truth," an Aqua phrase, mean- 
ing a gentleman's dance, connected with au E^bo (mvs- 
tery or assuciatiou) . 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PBOTEfiBS IN THE EMK LAWGUAOE. 827 

18. 

Ofdro ayara. 

He becomes barren. 

N.K — Spoken of one fonnerly respeotable in conduct becoming 
addicted to evil habits. 

14. 

Ison odiok ibikpnt enye oforo ayara. 

The soil is bad for the com, it becomes good for 
nothing. 

N.B. — Said of a place in which a man becomes poor. 



15. 

Obaha mi. 
It escaped me. 

KB.— Spoken^ e.^./ of a thing dropped out of the hand^ or of 
a stone thrown, hitting some one accidentally. 

16. 

Owo emi abanade owe, owo enwen onyim abana 
enye ntre. 

A man who talks of others behind their backs, another 
will talk of him in like manner. 



17. 
lyak ebe inyan. 

The fish has been kept o?er one tide. 
N.B. — A proTerbial phrase for It is spoiled. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



WIT AKD WISDOM FfiOM WEST AFBIOA. 
18. 

Knbiene enye nsia. 

Do not cause his bowels to wither. 

N.B. — Meaning, do not overpower him with dread. So a man 
will wy, ** My bowels fail within me " (from great fright) ; or, " in- 
tense dismay (mbariba) makes my body feeble." 

19. 

Owe cm ebit idu nte ndek mon. 

That man is as frigid in his manner as cold water. 

20. 

Obinmo (or abiat) idemesio. 

She spoils herself. 

N.R — Said of a woman bearing twins, who, in Old Calabar, 
are liable, like the mother, to be destroyed. 

21. 

Hyin ikpobon akam ino Abasi ikpon, kom Abasi 
okupde akfon owe obonde one Enye. 

We should pray to God only, for Gk)d hears the 
prayers which man addresses to him. 

K.B. — This I suspect to be a missionary saying. 

22. 

Imo iianake ikpon, owe midube eke etienede imo, 
ikon odua. 

The yawner says, he does not walk alone ; if there be 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PB0TXBB8 IK THE EEIK LAKGITAGE. 329 

no one to follow him (i.e., catch the infection)^ the leaves 
of the trees will fall. 

N.B. — ^Tliis is a Nke, fable or adage, spoken by one who, know- 
ing that his ^eath is determined on, seeks an opportunity to kill 
some one, so as not to die alone. 



Snye adana nbum. 

He secures the canoe by giving earnest-money. 

N.R — The individual gives two coppers, one for the bow, and 
the other for the stem, as earnest money, so that he claims the 
right of purchasing the boat when it is made. The Okuk is a brass 
or copper rod, the circulating medium of Efik, as far as such exists. 



24. 

Oknk end edi eridana Ukot 

These coppers are the earnest-money of the Ukot {the 
Haphia vinifera^ or bamboo palm), so that I claim to 
buy the Mimbo (or Min Efik, the palm-wine), when it 
is drawn. 

KB. — " Min " is any beyerage but water. Min Makara, "white 
man's beyerage," is rum. I have already noticed the similarity of 
the widely spread word Makara or Mbakara, with the American- 
negro slang " buckra man." 

25. 

Bdet fd ke inna edekhe nte mkpaL 
Tour teeth in your mouth are perfect, firmly com- 
pacted together, like a cluster of palm-oil nuts. 
N.B.— A neat and idiomatic compliment to a lady. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



330 WIT Ain) WISDOM TBOH WEBT ATBIOA. 

26. 

Eset esie ana son nte emi mon edenide. 
His heart lies quiet like limpid water. 

27. 

TJfok etuk edeni. 

The house is rubbed quite clean. 

N.R — ^When smeared with hois de vadie, which lays all the 
duet. This is a custom here as in Hindostan. 

28. 

Adia uku ete esie. 

He reaps the benefit of the respect in which his father 
was held. 

N.B. — Said of a child receiving support from' respect to his 
dead father. 



Ekpri etu adiana akamba ndien okpnn. 

The small tree-climbing plant adheres to the large one, 

and thus grows big. 

N.B. — Meaning, he attaches himself to the fortunes of some great 
man, aud so prospers. So the East Indian saying^ that insects in 
flowers ride on the heads of Bajahs. 

80. 

Idian adiari, isna akabade. 

The cricket cries, the year changes. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PBOVEEBS IN THE EFIK LAyGUAOB. 331 

81. 

Edim edep, idiokke aban; ama ebiere, ndien ada 
aban odiok. 

While the rain fell, he did not place his jar (to catch 
it) ; now that it is oyer, he takes his jar and places it. 
N.B. — Meaning, he has ufter-wit ; he is wise behind-hand. 

32. 

Ibut ama any one adia ye nnen, nnen ama enyene 
esie ada odok okom. 

If the goat has anything, he eats it with the fowl ; if 
the fowl gets his portion, he goes up on the roof of the 
house. 

N.B. — Meaning, I share with you when I have anything; but 
you do not do so with me. 

33. 

Abasi mimana owo, Utere iduaha. 

If the Creator does not like a man, the (sacred) 
Utere-vulture will not descend (i.e., in token of the 
acceptance of his sacrifice when he makes the TTsara feast, 
and throws out flesh to he eaten). 

N.B. — Meaning, if God had not favoured, or been pleased with 
me, I should not have met with this good fortune. 

84. 

Owo odua ke nkat, adaba; owo odua ke inua, 
idahake. 

He who falls by his foot (i.e., slips) shall rise again; 
he wh6 falls by his mouth shall not rise. 

N.B, — Meaning, by imprudent speech he commits himself, gives 
his enemy power over him. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



WIT JLKD WISDOM FEOM WEST AFRICA. 
85. 

Owo om odobi nfok. 

That man makes bis house big. 

K.B. — Meaning, he grows or is wealthy : the highest ambition 
of the '* gentleman " being to build a grand abode. 

36. 

Abak odnn ofiok eynp atat. 

Ho who comes early to climb knows the palm-nut 

which has the fly. 

N.B. — Meaning, he who knows him of old, knows what liberty 
to take with him ; or, having known it himself, he is able to sym- 
pathise with others — Miseris succurrere discit. 

37. 

Odnok ntekhe, enye emen. 

He left an oyerhanging shade, and the other entered it. 

N.B. — Meaning, the one took advantage of the shade, or cover, 
which the bush afforded to follow the other unobserved. 

38. 

Enye odnoklio mi. 

He falls upon me. 

N.B. — Meaning, he fastens a quarrel upon me : not being able to 
meet the great man who has angered him, he causelessly vents bis 
wrath on me. 

39. 

Oduri eka enyin. 
He gives titles to his mother. 
N.B. — Meaning, he calls her by childish names of endearment. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PaOVEBBB IN THE EFIK LANGUAGE. 333 

40. 

Hdnfke ndikok ntnkon ndia esie. 
I am unworthy to grind pepper for his food. 
N.B. — Meaning, his shoe's latchet I am unworthy to loose, 

41. 

Akpa ke ebebat. 

He dies with the {free) man he has killed, in retalia- 
tion for killing a man. 

N.B.--Ebeba is retribution which does not repair the injury 
done, as in exacting a tooth for a tooth, &c. ** Usiene" implies 
restitation. 

42. 
Ebet, or £bed. 

The smallest antelope in Calabar : it is said to indulge 
much in sleep ; hence, a drowsy fellow. 

43. 

Ikon eben idianake eben ke idem; inua owo ifonke 
abanade owo. 

The leaf of the Eben {a hind of plum-tree) is not close 
to the fruit ; the tongue of one man upon another is bad. 

44. 
Afa omoduk ebende nte oyu. 
You turn into a running sore, as a boil does. 
K.B. — Meaning, you become vile. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



834 WIT AND WISDOM FBOM WEST AFRICA. 

45. 

Anam eben-idem. 

He prepares something which may be buried with him 

(or used in his Ikpo). 

N.B. — The Ikpo, or funeral rites, open with a cry called Kku, 
and a ceremoDy named Eyarare Mkpa ; literally, the revealing of 
the death. Until this is done a person, however long dead, is not 
legally so ; but is, in popular phraseology, said to be sick. There 
is a particular word — ^Mbukpuisi— for the unwashed state of women 
at such times. 

46. 

Enye otup ebeta one mi. 
He speaks ironically to me. 

N.B. — Ebeta is an expression of annoyance, made by answering 
in an absurd way, as a man charged with a deed, when he knows the 
accuser to be aware of his innocence, answering, ** Tes, it was I who 
did it!" 

47. 

Ebok imana ebok ofdt idibi. 

One monkey does not like another to get a belly -full. 
N.B. — Meaning, you grudge that I should get any. 

48. 

Moynm ndiknt isn ye edem. 
I wish to see face and back. 
N.B.— To hear both sides of the question. 

49. 

Isn ye edem ebnno eneme. 
Pace and back meet and talk. 
K.B. — Both parties meet and confer. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PBOYJSfiBS IK TOE SFIK LANOUAGB. 335 

50. 

Owo ese edim edem iikpo, Abasi ese idem eset. 
Man looks onlj on the outside of things ; God looks 
into the yery heart. 

51. 

Inyan inyan oflok edem nbnm, kpa ntre ke Abasi 
ofiok ini mkpa. 

It is the sea only which knows the bottom of the ship, 
so God only knows the time of death. 

52. 
Ofop edem Met, ada edem kiet edem ndia. 
He burns one part of the tree, and with the other 
he cooks food. 

58. 

Edem edi use odunde ata Met ye edet 

The tongue is a person of skill, dwelling in the same 

place with the teeth. 

N.B. — Silence is gold; it is good to say nothing that can pro- 
voke or that cannot be proved. 

54. 

Eyen Otnkutute akan eyen eden-akpa. 

The young of the Otukutute (a species of small sJtrimp) 

surpasses the young of the Eden-akpa (a certain large 

rvoer'JlsK), 

N.K — ^Meaning, the chUd of the poor man often outstrips, in 
the race of Fortune, the son of wealth. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



336 WIT ASD WISDOM fBOH WEST AFRICA. 

55. 

Aka.naTn nkpo om nte EderL 

He did that thing as if it were EderL 

N.B. — Meaning, as if he were drunk (i.e., tmp«rfectfy, or inaslo' 
vmlyway), Ederi, or Ereri, are two days in the Calabar week, called 
respectively Aqua and Ekpri (Qreai and Small) EderL When used 
without adjective, Aqua must be understood, and the day ia called 
in the River " Calabar Sunday/' kept with feasting and tippling. 

56. 

Ikpalia ke edet 

It has not lost a tooth. 

N.B. — Meaning, it iu not a whit the worse, or not one of hiB 
things has he lost. 

57. 

Edim idibonke ndi mi. 

The rain shall not beat on my grave. 

N.B. — Meaning, I have a son to build a house oyer mj graTe. 
I am not childless. 

58. 

Unam obaha afia* ababak edinnkha eto. 
The animal escapes the trap, and stands in dread of a 
bent stick. 

N.B.— Our " Burnt bairnB dread the fire.*' 

59. 

Edisam owo inyeneke ibat 
A man sauntering (unsettled) has no business. 
N.B.— He does not attend to his own matters. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PBOTESBS IN THE EFIK LAKOUAOI. 837 

60. 

Hbok, ikot nyin, mbnfii ekubigi edup ke iton union. 

I beseech you, friends, do not behead Edup on account 
of its long necL 

N.B. — ^The Edup is a epecies of brown antelope. The meaning 
is, do not condemn the man merely on account of his bad character. 

61. 

Knda owo isu efe nne 'nan ebigi. 
Don*t take a man before the pala?er-house, and give a 
blind man the beheading of him. 

K.B. — Don*t set me to do a thing of which I know nothing. 



62. 

Eflakha mi. 

'* My finding ! " an explanation when one comes upon 
anything of treasure tro?e, as boys cry " Tibs I ! " 



63. 
Ata ada mi odnk, ekebe ada mi owara. 

The flood takes me in, and the ebb takes me out. 

N.B. — Meaning, that vaiying purpose, or desire, makes me unstable. 

64. 

Ekikere esie etie nte mon ubnm, aka isu aflak edem. 
His opinions are like water in the bottom of a canoe, 
going from side to aide. 

N.R — Meaning, that, unstable as water, he shall not excel. 

z 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



888 WIT AXB WISDOM FBOIC WEST ATBICI^ 

65. 

Ekpa ete, ikaka nma, ikaha ibit Ita, edi ibit ama 
enam imo, imo iwaba inek. 

Says the Epka (a small, haldrheaded looadpecJcer), he 
was going to market ; he was not going to the dram at 
Itu {alias Old JEkrikoky a tribe and district on the east 
hank of the Cross Itiver) ; but the drum was so pleasant, 
that he turned aside and danced.*'* 

N.B. — MeaaiDg^ I did not seek this ; I have been led into it. 

66. 

Abiat ekpe. 

Literally, He spoils Egbo ; ». e^ he, by a certain cere- 
mony, appeals to Egbo, or claims the interference of a 
member of Egbo. 

K.B. — Ekpe is the first and original grade in the Egbo insti- 
tution, a kind of West- African Freemasonry. 

67. 

Ekpeberosnn ete, e3rii nk:po edi ndaha iba, itie-itie 
imo imen ifoa ita; itie-itie ifoa emen imo ota. 

The EkpeberuBun (a kind of scarahaus) says, " Times 
are not always alike ; sometimes he lifts the ball of dung, 
and throws it to the ground ; sometimes it lifts him, and 
throws him to the ground." 

N.B.-~One must meet with adversity as well as prosperity. 



* It is to be observed in the Efik that it uses the third personal 
pronoun, instead of the first; the latter is the picturesque form in 
which the iptisaima verba of the speaker are put in the Scriptores 
and in the languages of Western Asia. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PBOVEBBS IK THE ETIK LATfTOUiLaE. 339 

68. 

Ek-pe-nyen-e-u-knt-e-tib-i-e-nan-i-dLb-i. 
Literallj, '' If he bad a foot, it would come out through 
the belly of a cow." 

KB. — ^The proper name of a coiuitellation. 

69. 

Ekpenyon Ibiirtam. 

The name of a great juju, or fetish in the I bo 
country, at the unexplored place called Odu, or Aro, 
resorted to for ordeal trial, and various abominations, by 
all the coast tribes between the Niger and Old Calabar. 
Thence, it is said, the Calabar people brought their 
Ekpenyon, or most common object of Efik worship^ viz., 
a piece of the Ekdm tree, frequently surmounted by a 
human skull. 

70. 

Ekpo akpa mbnfa itnaha, etua udi; usnn ekpo cynm 
akaa ndi. 

You lament not the dead, but lament the trouble of 
making a grave ; the way of the ghost is longer than tiie 
grave. 

N.6. — Meaning, his case is more to be deplored than yours. Kkpo, 
incorrectly translated Satan^ demon, devil, &c., is a ghost still remain- 
ing on earth — though a ghost-land or Hades {Obio Ekpo), is sometimes 
spoken of — and doing as much injury as possible. Hence the 
biennial ceremony of Ndok. About the month of November they 
set up Nabikim, or scare-crows, of old cloth, &;c., to attract and trap 
the ghosts of those who died since the last purification. A few 
days afterwards they begin, in the evening, a terrible noise, scream- 

z 2 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



340 WIT AKD WISDOM PBOM WEST ATBICA. 

ing, filing, drumming, and battering house doors, which lasts til] 
the morning. The Nabikim are then thrown into the river, and the 
town is considered purified. I have heard of a similar ceremony 
performed upon an efilgy of Judas Iscariot in Catholic lands. Ekpo 
also means a cramp, which is believed to be the effect of " pos- 
session;'* and Mbum 'Ekpo, supernatural being8> or devil-men, is a 
familiar name for whites. 



71. 

Ekpuk eta abiat eknri; akaa abiat ima. 

The tree-kuot spoils the axe ; hanger spoils lore. 



72. 

Eka ete, esin adia ke mflne awak, ke ida iton imo 
ika. 

The rat says, " Put plenty of food in the trap, for he 
takes his neck and goes : he risks his neck." 

N.B.— Meaning, there is a good deal of risk and trouble in tlie 
matter; make the reward liberal 



78. 

Ikot itie ekoka-ekaka, esa onwin idem. 

The forest is full of pit-falls; the Esa crooks itself, 
bends its body in the narrow turnings, in order to 
escape. 

N.B. — ^Meaning, there is plenty of trouble there : a small man 
should walk warily, lest he be involved; or, there is a quarrel 
against me, I cannot go. The Esa is a very small, bay-coloured 
antelope, found in Ibibio, and of which is said ^Esa abon unam" 
— Esa is the king of beasts. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PBOTBBBS IN THE EFIE LANQUA.GB. 341 

74. 

Eknrilni otarade enye ke idem. 

Literally, Ekurikii (risings in skin from cold or fear, 
gooBC'skin, hair on end, horripilation,) rises up abun- 
dantly. 

75. 

Enye oduro ke edem enin. 

He mounts on the back of the elephant* 

N.B. — ^Meaning, he puta himaelf under the protection of a 
great man. The elephant has never been literally ridden in inter- 
tropical Africa. 

76. 

Ama ke enyin. 
He loves to the eye. 
N.B. — Meaning, he makes an outward show o£ friendship. 

77. 

Onim enyin ke nsnn, ete, enye eyedi mkpon. 

He keeps his eye on the door. 

N.B. — ^Meaning, he waits in expectation for one coming to-morrow. 

78. 

Htakha akpan ke usnn inwan ererimbut imana owe 
ndono. 

As an old torn basket on a farm road, so the world 
does not like a sick man. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



342 WIT jLKD WISDOM FBOM WSST AFRICA. 

79. 

Ererimbnt odaha owo akpanika nte mbre. 

The world speaks truth to a man as play. 

N.B.— Meaning, it ia true what I eay; but I do not bring it for- 
ward ae an accuaation. 

80. 

Erise ke Ujl 

Literally, a beholding the face ; hence a finding favour- 
able reception for a proposal or request. 

81. 
Afa emt. 

Tou are uncircumcised : a taunting reproach. " Mbobi,' ' 

or circumcision, is practised, though not as a religious 

rite, by both sexes ; boys are operated upon about eight 

days after birth ; girls on reaching puberty, and whilst 

secluded and fattened for marriage. 



Ebiet etie okokn-okiiku, esa obok idem. 

The ground slopes ; the Esa antelope leans to one side 
in walking. 

N.6. — Meaning, there is danger or quarrel : it is wise in an 
uninfluential man to stand aloof. 

83. 

Ini Esefe ye Akpara. 

The time of Esefe and Akpara. 

N.B.— These proper names are apparently used only in prorerbs. 
The aboTe adage corresponds with our ** time of Adam and Eve." 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PBOTEBBS IK THB E7IK LAKGUAGS. 343 

84. 

Eset mi odnk ye enye. 

Mj life is set upon her. 

N.B. — ** Eset/' the liver, is here, as in Western Asia, generally 
the seat of the affections. In old days we had the spleen, so Dunbar, 
in the ** Merle and Nightingale," sings, — 

" God tede eke love thy neighbour fro the spleea." 

Of late years, the heart is the intellectual viscus. The Efiks speak 
of " a word from the liver" (t.«., sincere opinion), *'a large liver," 
a ^ double liver ' (deceit), and *' no liver " (or no courage), whilst 
in danger a man's ^ liver fails him." 

85. 

TTwem fa etie nte esikon (or, ukut esikon). 
Your life is like a tobacco-pipe (or its shank), 
N.R — Meaning, you are easily destroyed. 

86. 

Kanam nkpo ma Esankomonko ! 

I shall do that thing, by Esankomonko ! 

N.B. —This is an oath by a supernatural being that inhabits the 
bush between Duke Town and its dependency Henshaw Town. 

87. 

Etigi oknp idok onwnm idem; okup ndaeyu akpa 
etak. 

The Etigi or Okro {Ribiseus esculentus) hears the time 

of harvest and bears fruit, reproducing itself; it hears 

the dry season and perishes. 

N.R — ^Meaning, you come near me only when there is anything 
to be had, not when work is in hand. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



844 WIT AVD WIBDOIC VSOtf WS8T ATBICA. 

88. 

Etikit-ekpo otap ama idan. 

Etikit-ekpo (a small bird) shoots awaj, exhausts all 

your arrows, ayoiding them easily from its small size. 

K.B. — Meaning, I oan easily put aside all you do or say against 
me. 

89. 

Etikuo mon. 

Water drawn with the back towards the river or 
spring, and in certain cases used as a charm. 

90. 

Etikuo idim inono ewok. 

A stream coming down won't let you swim up. 

K.^ — You cannot swim against the stream, a proverb common 
to almost all nations. 

91. 

Etiridon oduk owo enyin akabade okpnt. 
If the sap of Etiridon (a certain tree or shrub) go into 
the eye of any one, it becomes a cataract. 
N.E— This is a popular belieL 



Ekpo ete, eke ererimbnt; ererimbnt ete eke 'Ekpo. 

Ekpo says he beloDgs to the world ; the world says he 

belongs to Ekpo. 

K.6. — ^Meaning, he tries to keep in with both parties, like 
.£sop's bat Such men are reproachfully called " Etinkeni Ekpo^* 
and these uncivilised people think it a point of honour, unlike us, to 
take one side and to keep to it. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PBOTBBBS IS THS XriK LANGUAGIB. 845 

93. 

Hwariwa ada etaek-etaek« ete, akpa edi ofn owo. 

Nwariwa (a kind of tree) stands with clustering fruit 
{and) says, *' An orphan is a slave.*' 

N.B. — Meaning, the state of the iatherless is pitiable. 

94. 

Etnn-etnn inyeneke abak ada ; unam mkpa inyeneke 
uton. 

Etun (a small hingfisher) cannot afford an allowance 
for dividing it ; a dead animal has no ears. 
N.B. — Meaning, he is deaf to what I say. 

95. 

Htukon ayat ke usim iton, ererimbnt ama mi ke 
eyen-nsek. 

Pepper bites the throat; the world loved me when I 
was a child. 

N.B.~I was a fayourite in infancy ; but now it is otherwise. 

96. 

Afd 03rTim ndida mi *nam unen eyit fa? 

Do you wish to make me your peace-offering, your 

scape-goat ? 

N.B. — Said to one who, after being reconciled to a friend, shows 
his seal by fastening a quarrel upon some other for touching any- 
thing belonging to his friend. Eyit is a medicine of various ingre- 
dients sprinkled over those who come together after a difficulty : 
the concocter, as he stirs it about, curses himself and others if they 
harbour any malice in their hearts. A more simple symbol of re- 
conciliation is for one party to drink off half a glass of rum, and then 
hand it to the other, who finishes it^ 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



346 WIT AND WISDOM FROM WEST AFRICA. 

97. 

Hon odiokho ke ata mon odiokhode, eyen esere ke 

eyn ete odude. 

Water rests in the place it should rest, finds its level. 

N.B. — Everythmg aocording to its nature ; and the boy ia eaucy 
while hia father lives. 



98. 

Enye afak nsun. 
He redeems the road. 

N.B. — Meaning, he purchases from his fellow-towDflmen who 
have preceded him the right of going to a market 



99. 

Afak idem esie. 

She redeems herself. 

N.B.— Spoken of a female slave who bears a child for her 
master. 

100. 

Afakha mi ke edet 

It sticks in mj teeth. 

N.B. — ^Meaning, the injury or slight comes from a quarter, in 
which I dare not show resentment. 



101. 

Efep isn ke ika ont 

He turns away his face from that word. 

N.B.— This shows dissent or displeasure, and at the same time 
blinking the question. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PBOYEUBS IN TU.£ ZflK LA.N617A.aB. 347 

102. 

Ndaeyu efere owo. 

The dry Beason makes one feel lightsome. 

108. 

Enye ofiara kenyon nte adan. 

He floats on the surface like oil. 

N.B. — He is not in the Becret; he does not penetrate the 
matter. 

104. 

Fium nkoL 

A crocodile with a spine like a catfish. It is said to 
be smaller than the other two species (the long^mouthed 
and the garial or short-mouthed), but more dangerous, 
and to drive the others from any creek which it enters. 
Into this animal, which is probably fabulous, persons 
who haye a charm for the purpose are said to meta- 
morphose themselves for malicious purposes. 

105. 

Enye ofon mi oknt usen. 

He was lucky for me at the opening of the day. 

N.B. — ^Meaning, he was the first person I saw on coming out in 
the morning, and he brought me lucL Also a Hindu superstition. 

106. 

Abon (or, nkpo) cm ifonke aba. 

That chief (or thing) is no longer good for anything. 

N.B. — A phrase, sometimes used covertly to announce the death 
achie . 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



848 WIT XSJ> WIBDOU FBOH WEST AFRICA. 

107. 

Fok IdibL 
Blow youp belly. 
N. B. — A jocular phrase, epoken to one with an empty stomaoh. 

108. 

Htan ndi ofnk (or, otnk) mi. 

The dust of the grave touches me, or causes a fluttering 

sensation in the neck or back of the shoulders, when one 

feels wearied when digging a grave. 

N.B. — Supposed to forewarn a man of his death. This spas- 
modic and fluttering sensation in any part of the body, or knocking 
the foot against anything, is a warning that something is about to 
happen. The first sensation does not always presage evil; some- 
times a fluttering of the vein or skin is deemed a token of good ; 
when the uduri-uden, a part of the leg on which the paddle rests, 
gives the sign, it shows the-paddler that he must go into his canoe. 

109. 

Enye oftiro ekpe. 

He assumes the appearance or practices of a leopard. 

N.B. — Meaning that, by painting his body with stripes he dis- 
guises himself so, and lurks in the bush to attack people or animals 
with sharp-pointed weapons. He is also called Mfliro-ekpe, '* sham- 
leopard." 

110. 

Iban. 

A stake or stakes put up by the Efiat people to mark 
out their fishing-grounds. They are reverenced as objects 
of superstitious rites, or their site is chosen as a spot to 
pay such rites. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PBOTEBB8 IK THE ErrE LANGUAGE. 349 

111. 

Ibe. 

Leanness of body, exhibited by a child when, through 
renewed pregnancy, the mother ia unable to yield it 
proper nourishment. 

N.B. — ^Thifl is contrary to the practice of the people. 

112. 

Ibok. 

An object of worship, protecting from evil. It is in 
the shape of either a dwarf or of a human head, ia 
adored by offerings, and kept inside the house to pre- 
serve it from harm. 

113. 
Ibok-ekon. 

War medicine. It is of two kinds : one, probably an 
intoxicant, inspires courage; another, rubbed on the 
body, gives safety in the fight. 

114. 
Ibuk isinke ofop. 

Even a miser does not refuse his cook part of what he 
roasts. 

N.B. — Meaning, you will surely allow me this. 



115. 

Enye enyene eti ibuut 
He has a good head. 
N.B. — Meaning, he is a man of understanding. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



850 WIT Airi) WISDOM 7B01i W£8T AFRICA^ 

116. 

Owo orn odn ke idak fa. 

He is as familiar with your affairs as if he were a 
member of your family. 

117. 
Own idaha nnennbok kiet isio idan. 
A man does not use one finger to take out an arrow. 
N.B. — ^Meaning, he is but one, he cannot do it. 

118. 

Kude akan idap. 
Do not die I 
N.B. — Spoken iromoally to a Uiy man. 

119. 

Idem omnm enjre. 

The demon possesses him : he is a demoniac. 

N.B. — Such poiscBBion is commonly beUeved in. The Idem is 
an inyidble auperhuman being, inhabiting woods and waters, wor- 
shipped and propitiated by prayer and offering. It is also a repre- 
sentative of Egbo, who runs about the town, Egbo himself appearing 
only on great occasions. The Idem of each class of £gbo has his 
own insignia. Finally, it is a proper name, and spoken as a Nke, or 
fable ; it means that the person to whom it is applied is weak for 
want of food. 

120. 

Ika idibi. 

Literally, matter of belly (Le., a concealed affair). 
The Anglo- African translates this, *' Palaver lib for him 
'tomach." 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PBOYERBS TS THB VEIK LA.K01TA0B. 351 

121. 

Obnp idioiL 

He enquires at Idion, or matters incantations, when 

going through his tricks. 

N.B.<-Idion is witchcraft, wizardy, the spells of the Abia-idion, 
or magician. 

\ 122. 

"^ idomo akan ikpon, ikaoke otu. 
," The attempt exceeds the ability of one, not of a mul- 
/titude. 

N.B.~Meaziing, union is strength. 



128. 

Idnmo enin odnmo ke okonL 
An elephant will reach to the roof of the house. 
N.Bb— Said when the greatness of any one is much talked of. 



124. 

Hka iferi» or nkaiferL 
The naked class. 
N.6. — Meaning, young unmarried girls. 



\ 



125. 

Afu edi ifiok. 

You are wisdom itself. 
N3. — Said in ridicule to a wiseacsre. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



352 WIT Ain) WISDOM pbom west afbica. 

126. 

Etie ikpon iflok owut fi ; etie iba aiii owat ifiok. 

By yourself, wisdom destroys you ; with another, you 

destroy wisdom. 

N.B. — ^A neatly turned adage, meaning that it ia aafe to take 
advice. 

127. 

Ifoa Ekpok. 

The earth of the large lizard Ekpok ; sometimes used 
like album grcBcum, 

128. 
Enye enyene Ifot. 

He is possessed of Ifot. 
N.B. — Ifot is a something existing in the stomachs of male and 
female persons and animals. Those who possess it have magic 
powers over others, and are tried by the ordeal of the £Iki>e8e or 
Esere ** chop-nut>" or '* Calabar poison- bean " {PhytoMigma i 



129. 

ITsio ifot ke min. 

I will take away the Ifot {or fetish) from the drink. 

N.B. — ^A common custom, according to which the man who 
serves the drink or food takes a little himself in presenting it to 
others, and this shows that they are safe. 

180. 

Enye oduri kpupm ke ifUdd. 

He puts all into his lap. 

N.B.— Meaning, he persists in the thing or habit, be it good or 
bad. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



^BOTSBBS IS THB E7IB: LAJTOUiLOE. 353 

131. 

Owo ada nkpo om odnri enye ke ifnkhi. 

Some one takes and puts it in his lap. 

N.B. — Meaning, the person persists in charging him with it, or 
in making it a big matter. 

182. 

Ada ke ifure. 

He obtains it easily (e.g., from a friend, not heing 
under the necessity of working for it). 

188. 
Asana ke ifore. 
He goes after bis pleasure. 
N.B. — ^Meaning, he goes to see a friend, not to "make palaver.** 

184. 

Mbok ofon yak nyin itie itie ke ufok emi ke ifdre. 
I beseeeb tbee let us remain in tbis bouse in quiet- 
ness. 

N.B. — ^A prayer uttered by one entering into a new or strange 
house, as he pours out a little rum or palm wine in libation. 

185. 

Ika okono mfan. 

Tbe deliyerance (or sentence delivered) bangs up the 
pepper. 

N.B. — Meaning, the matter is settled. Mfan is the root of 
" Mbukpa^" which resembles Malaguetta pepper in form and taste, 
and is used as pepper. The small tubes are strung as beads, and 
hung round the neck, as a sign of submission, giving protection in 
war or in palaver. To " eat Mfan" is to be reduced to the greatest 
straits. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



854 WIT AND WISDOM TBOM WEST AFBIOA. 

136. 

'Xa ndaha ika mi, afd obop ke ikon otup odnok; 
ini ama anam, afa etuene ikan asana oynm. 

I gave you advice ; you tied it to some grass and 

tossed it away ; having done so, you lighted a torch and 

went about seeking it. 

N.B. — Meaning, I gave you my advice^ but you rejected it; now 
you find it is of -value to you. 

137. 

Ikon-eset. 

A beat-breast. 

N.B. — Meaning, an office-bearer in each Nka or order, of -which 
there are dow Beven, divided chiefly according to age. Each of them 
takes its turn to watch the town ; and in case of war or public work 
the inhabitants are called out according to their several classes. The 
official announces the resolutions of the Nka in any matter by 
knocking his breast. He also claims as his perquisites the breast of 
any animal killed for a class-feast. 

138. 

Ebok oknp ikon eyen atu ikot, eke ata ikot, enye 
iknpke. 

The monkey hears the cough of the hunter's attendant, 

but does not hear the monkey's own. 

N.B. — Meaning, you make a great ado when any one does so, but 
you do so yourself without scruple. 

189. 

Akaka ikot ikut? 

Did you go to the tortoise bush P (i.e., to wait to catch 
one,) 

N.B. — Said to anyone who keeps others waiting on him. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PBOYEBBS US THE EFIE IiJLlirGU1.0B. 355 

110. 

Oqnahare ikpat ke ebiet oru. 

He wipes his feet at that place. 

N.B. — ^Meaning, he declares he will have nothing more to do 
with it. 

141. 

Owo oru ! Ikpikpu esie ! Inamke ! 

That man ! His is no crime ! He did not do it ! 

N.B. — Exclamations used by bystanders to clear a man when 
unjustly accused. 

142. 

Vdari okpodnm ntek, ika ekpetebe ikpon. 
If the Udari (Jruit) should produce the branches, then 
justice might come forth for the friendless. 



148. 

Iknkpa odaha ete, imo ique afla enyon; ima ikiit, 
imo imakpa. 

Ikukpa (the wild guinea fowl ?) says he sees no snare 

above ; should he see one he should die. 

N.B. — Meaning, it is good to keep out of harm's way, or, as 
others explain it, he is beneath my notice, not worthy of "being 
spoken to. 

144. 

Ikimeta ntan afia idaha owo edere injrnn ikut. 
The Ikunetu {red sandy clay tued for plaster and dab) 
does not take a man, aud the world continues to see him. 
N.B.— Meaning, the grave gives not back the dead. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



356 WIT AND WI8D0BC FBOH WEST AFRICA. 

145. 

Afa emei^iii nbok fti ke etak iknt. 

You put jour hand under the tortoise-shell. 

N.B. — Meaning, you placed yourself in the power of an extor- 
tioner. 

146. 

I 

Iknt ye eqnon, edem nkem. 

The tortoise and the snail, their backs are the same. 

N.B. — Meaning, you need not give yourself airs on account of 
any fancied superiority. Pig-iron versus tenpenny nails. 

147. 

Ikat-enyin eno idike eno : ntie ke ufok mi nyokho 
eno, ndieu eset adat mi. 

A gift given after coming under the eye is no gift : I 

sit in my house and unexpectedly receive a gift, then my 

heart is glad. 

K.B. — A fair specimen of the negro's deep study of '' The Plea- 
sures of ' Dash/ " 

148. 

Ini anameti. 

Time causes remembrance. 

N.B.— Meaning, little valued when possessed, it is regretted 
when gone. 

149. 
Enyin edi ino. 
The eye is a thief. 
K.B. —Meaning, it wanders from one object to another. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PROTER69 IN THE EFIK LANOUAGE. 357 

160. 

Enyene inna enyene ubok ; enyene inuarinaa ifonke. 

If he has hand and mouth too; but to have mouth 

onlj is not good. 

N.B. — Meaning, it is foolifib to boast, unless the boaster can 
make good what he says. 

151. 

Enye enine fl ke inna nte innn. 

He is sweet as salt in jour mouth. 

N.B. — Said ironically of one who is always showing himself 
hostile. 

152. 

Inyan (or mfin) emi esiere nwan ye ebe. 

This water (or this day) is like wife and husband. 

N.B. — ^Meaning, there are contrary currents, or unsettled 
weather. 

158. 

lyak akpa inyan esin ; ibietke ntntn inyan ibnm. 
The sea rejects the dead fish ; it does not seem to have 
been in the ocean. 

N.B. — Meaning, now I am useless, you oast me off. 

154. 

Ekdkere asana isan akau ikpat ; ikpat akpasana 
isan ekikere, okpoknt mi idiok eyen. 

The thought travels quicker than the foot ; if the foot 

should travel at the thought's rate, you would call me a 

bad boj. 

N.B. — Meaning, if action were as ready as thought, we should 
reveal many a now concealed folly. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



358 WIT JLTSD WISDOM FBOM WEST ArBICA. 

155. 

Idaha inuen edi isara. 

The standing of a bird is just his perching. 

N.R — Meaning, I stand as you see ; I have nothing to do in the 
matter. Or^ he stands as you see, with nothing but his cloth around 
him. 

166. 

Isebe ete, inwanake enwan, itokhake ntok, iyekup 
edem ke iko. 

The crab says he does not fight nor quarrel, but he 

will bear his back in the calabash (i.e., he captured). 

N.B. — Meaning, why do you come to make palaver, or assault 
me so ? We have no quarreL 



157. 

Nkpo iseri. 

A thing touched bj another, which the proud man 
(ptvo isert) cannot use till it is wiped. 



158. 
Enyene ison-ika. 

He has but one word. 

N.B.— Said of a true man. 



159. 

Akpatre isimi ikanke mkpa. 

There is no worse curse than to desire a man's death. 
N.B. —We also say, " It is ill waiting for dead men's Bhoes.** 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PBOYEBBB tET THIS EFIK LAKGVAGB. 359 

160. 

Owok nte iteminim. 

He swims like a basket of salt (i.e., he sinks), 

N.B. — Said in ridicule to one who cannot swim. The Item- 
inun is the fillet or cone of Nkanya (palm fronds, of which roof- 
mats are made), in which the people store salt. 

161. 

Ono ituen esok fl. 

He sends his threat to yoa. 

K.B. — A feather of the Ituen (a large black and white fish- 
hawk) and wad of gun are sent from one tribe or town to another 
as a threat or declaration of war, which opens if the articles are 
accepted. So the Ntan-ituen, or hawk's feather, can be worn on the 
head only by one who has killed or captured an enemy in battle. 

162. 

Anwambana inyeneke okudok aran, ete idia iwewe. 

The cat has not a farthing's worth of oil, yet he says 

he will feast on Iwewe. 

N.B. — Meaning, your aim is above your means. The Iwewe is 
a dish of coarsely-mashed yams, not adhesiye like Fuf u. 

163. 

Owe iflokke iwiik nwem esie. 

One knows not the stability of his life (i.e., how long it 
will continue). 

164. 
lyak okpun onyon aka idinu 

The fish when grown big returns to his riyalet. 
N.B. — Meaning, you must not forget your origin. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 




360 WIT Ain) WISDOM VBOM WIBT ATKICA. 

165. 



Owo iyip. 
man of blood, a blood-man, one who has taken the 
Mbiam-ijip (hhod-oaih) and has made brotherhood with 
another bj tasting of hia blood. A common practice 
throughout Pagan Africa. 

166. 
Ofon owo ndikut nknt, nkan mkpa. 
It is good for a man to bear trouble rather than die. 



167. 

Inyene akan enye idem. 

His wealth is superior to him. 

N.B. — Meaning, he is an inaignificant man whose wealth is his. 
only importance. 



168. 

Enye ada owo akana ke ibuut (or akana owo ke 
ibaut ono ewat, or osio isnp). 

He gives up a man as his substitute to be killed, or to 
liquidate his fine. 

N.B.— This "substitution" systeiq, the "Badli" of India and 
Sindh, is exceedingly common in Old Calabar. Another saying is, 
" He (the slave) dies for that for which his master should have died." 



169. 

' Kere odaha, ete, owo ekere nte anamde utom, ke 
ekem ini utmn. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PB0TEB68 IN THE BFIK LAKOUAOE. 861 

THe Kere (a rare small bird whose note is heard in the 
plantations when eharing'time approaches) says, '* Men 
must think of doing work, as the time for work has 
come." 

170. 
Vwem esie (or iton esie or enye okobo fi). 
His life {or injury) lies upon you. 

N.B.— Meaning, it will be your crime if you kUl him by Ifot. 
See No. 128. 

173. 

Enye edi aqua etu emi nkpo okomode keset; enye 
ama odua, kpupru nkpo akpa. 

He is a large tree on which all things hang, or are 
entwined ; if he falls, all perish. 

N.B. — Spoken of a great man. 



172. 

Ho ekpehe enye emana. 

They cut off his birth (i.e., his rising greatness), 

N.B. — Meaning, they destroyed {kpehe) him to prevent him 
becoming too great or wealthy — a fatally common practice in 
Calabar. 

173. 

Kpi nton. 

Nick the bamboo {that runs across the roof), 
N.B. — Meaning^ remember it, treasure it in your memory. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



362 WIT Al^D 1VTSD0M FBOM WEST AFRICA. 

174. 

Abia-ibok okpoha nkpon in, ouo fl ukpdn owo enwen. 
The Abia-ibok (medicine^man) changes your soul (life ?) 
and gives you that of another. 

N.B. — Meaning, you being about to cRe, he gives you the soul 
(life ?) of one who is likely to live long, bestowing yonrs in its place, 
so that you live and he dies. 

175. 

Okpori Tikut eberi ke ebek. 

He wipes his trouble on his cheek. 
N.B. — ^Meaning, he exercises a patient forbearance. 

176. 

£kpe iba, nbum okuba. 

The two-mouthed man ; his canoe will turn bottom up. 
N.B. — Meaning, evil will be&ll him. 

177. 

Oknk enye nkpo. 

He shut her up to fatten (i.e., before marriage). 

178. 
Nte afxL oknkba nkpo. 

Do you seclude yourself (i.e., as a young teaman when 
fattening for marriage) ? 

N.B. — Spoken to a man who sits much in the house. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PBOYERBS IK THE XFIK L1.K0UA6E. 363 

179. 

Eyen okune ofon. 

Litf The boy tries on a wabtcloth (the local toga virilis^ 

meaning^ he attains the age of puberty). 

N.B. — Usara ukuae-ofon is the feast given on that occasion : 
the father fixes the time generally when the son has passed )u8 
fifteenth year. 

180. 

Ota mkpon oynm mba. 

The planter of koko (jOolocaHa esculentd) wishes but 

a seedling. 

N.B. — Meaning, having a nest-egg, or something to begin with, 
he will multiply. 

181. 

Ho eyesnbo mbai mbnfa nte owo osubode mbai abia. 

They will destroy you as men destroy the Mbai (i.e., 

yam-cuts for planting y laying waste the plantation), 

N.B. — Meaning, they will destroy you and your race, root and 
branch. 

182. 

Hda men ison ntnak oko f Idun mbia oson mkpa. 

Where shall I get a spot to plant a fence (i.e., to build 
a house) P The abode of the tale-bearer is worse than 
death. 

183. 
Oduok mo Mbiam. 

He throws them Mbiam. 

N.B. — ^Mbiam is a liquid tasted when swearing, and causing 
dropsy to perjurers. The above means, he throws this liquid about 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



364 WTT AWD WISDOM TBOM WBBT ATBlCJi. 

the place to punish those that have been guilty of a theft, the per- 
petraton of which are unknown. When one would " annuak 
Mbiatn" or release himself from the oath, he must present gifts to, 
and forward prayers through, the keeper of Mbiam. 

184. 

. Itiat ofon nma, edi mbiumo. 

A stone is a good market thing, but it is a burden. 

N.B. — Meaning, the thing is desirable, but it is beyond my 
purse; or the woman is fair, but her expensiveness renders her 
unfit for my wife. 

185. 

Idiok etu nte edlnukha mbokok etc, inenekede, enye 
obuno. 

The bad tree, like the crooked sugar-cane, says he will 
not straighten ; he breaks. 

N.B. — ^Meaning, he is now too old to change his habits. 

186. 

Inyan akamana oflok edem nbnm ; mbubet afa ofia^ 
rade do edi ikpikpa. 

The sea from its birth knew the bottom of the canoe ; 

a piece of drift wood, you float there and are nothing. 

K.B. — Meaning, I was in this matter from the first, and know 
all about it ; and you now come and wish to oust me. 

187. 

Odion mbubiam, mbubiam akabade iseri. 

He bestowed benefits on this lewd man, and the fellow 

turned out haughty. 

N.B. — Meaning, he raised up a wretch, who was of oourse 
ungrateful. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PBOTEBBS IK THE EflK LAlTGtJAGE. 365 

188. 

Amia mi mbnbiam. 

He beats me shamefully (i.e., not being able to cope 
voith him, lam beaten ait his pleasure). 



189. 
HbxLbnm-mbxLbxLm owo inamke nkpo. 
A man always breaking off from hie work never finishes 
anything. 

190. 
Hbnebuep adia nkpo ison. 

The Mbuebuep (or colfs-foot leaf) eats the thing on 
the ground. 

N.B. — Four leaves of thia plant are employed to receiye the 
sacrificial blood when making the Idion " Egbo Chop," or incanta- 
tion. 



191. 

Mbnka ke anam mi 

I have a presentiment of evil. 

N.Bk — ^Mbuka is a yeiy bad omen, as of the warning of the 
owL 

192. 

Obnme mbume okup nsem. 

He who asks questions hears (or learns) the language, 
or gets interpretations. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



366 WIT AND WISDOM EHOM WEST ATBIOA. 

193. 

Mbume ke eyen-owon enyin ekpnni. 
The Mbume {mud-fisK) is a small thing, but it has 
big eyep. 

N.B. — Meaning, you presume much for a young man. ' 

194. 

Hbnp ete, imo idike eyen-owon isna iba. 

Mbup says he will not be a boy for two years* 

N.B. — Mbup is a small yam, partly given to the women who 
weed the plot, partly kept for food. 

195. 

Hbiaekon awak nte mfan ikot 
The people of Mbiaekon are as abuadant as the leaves 
of the forest. 

196. 

O^won min m£Einifa. 

He drinks palm wine like the Mfanifa (as we tay^ like 

a fish), 

N.B. — Mfanifa are the minute flies that flock to anything 
sweet. 

197.; 

Mfanko nkom imana nkom, erikpuk arata imana 
arata. 

One plantain pulled off the bunch does not finish the 

plantain ; biting off a little of the Arata {plantain or koko 

prepared for preservation) does not finish the Arata. 

N.B. — Meaning, a little from your abundance will not min 
you. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PBOTEBBS I!7 THE EFIK Ll.KaUAaE. 367 

198. 

Elm edue mflne, mfine ata eka; midaelie mfine, 
mfine itaha. 

The rat enters the trap, the trap catches it ; if it did 

not go into the trap, the trap would not do so. 

N.B. — Meaning, if I do wrong I shall Buffer for it, but not 
otherwise. 

199. 

Idiok odnk idem, mfon imekheke; mfon mi ekobi ke 
nbet, idiok mi enyam ke uma. 

My badness is more manifest than m v goodness ; you 
lock up my goodness in the room, and you sell my bad- 
ness in the market. 

N.B. — You conceal my virtues and expose my yioes. 

200. 

Mfat akakan. 

The shade circles. 

N.B. — Meaning, the supremacy, or royalty, leaves one family 
and goes to another ; the wheel of Fortune turns round. 

201. 

Eta emi okari nte 'men. 

This tree grows like water (i.e., rapidly as the tide 
JilU up). 

202. 
'Hon emen mi afiak. 
The tide carries me back. 
N.B. — Meaning, my inclination leads me to return. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



368 WIT AND WISDOM TEOlf WEST AFRICA. 

203. 

Ebeisu omono enyin idim. 

The one who passed before you saw the eye of the 

spring. 

N.B. — Meaning, older men know better things than jou. 

204 

Akani mnkanda omum unam, obufa mukanda im- 
mnke. 

The old net catches animals, the new does not. 
N.B. — So we say, An old head is better than a young one. 

205. 

Eya nkpo enyene ndaha mba. 

The wheel of Fortune has two states ; sometimes exalts 

one, sometimes depresses him. 

N.B. — We are told that this saying is not often used ; it 
appears to be a pure translation of a well-known Arabic couplet. 



206. 

Ikot etie ndak-ndak Esa obok idem. 

When noise fills the bush the Esa antelope goes aside. 

N.B. — Meaning, keep out of the quarrel, don't thrust yourflelf 
into it. 

207. 

Abasi anam ndap. 
God creates dreams. 
N.B. — So we say, True dreams come from Jove. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PBOYSBBS nr THE EFIK LANOUAOE. 
208. 

Mokat nde ekpe eyetde nbok. 

I see the trace of the leopard where he has washed his 
hands (i.e., thrown up the sand in rage because he has 
caught nothing). 



209. 

Ami eyen ndem Efik, esien dnupeba. 
A proverbial saying equivalent to " I am a Hebrew of 
the Hebrews." 

N.B. — Ndem-Efik is the tutelary deity of Calabar, and an 
annual victim to it is thrown into the river. The chief priest is 
Abon-Efik. Another proverbial saying is, ''Ndem-Efik white- 
washed you," denoting escape from great peril. 



210. 

Monim ndita *no fl. 

I present you with dainty food. 

N.B. — Said when offering a fat goat to a friend. 



211. 

Ndion ata owo etyene uyai ; okim ata mi etyene su. 

The Ndion (an eruption like pricJcly heat) follows 
beauty (i.e., fixes on a man who has beauty) ; why does 
mine follow me P 

N.B. — Meaning, he is in the habit of going to the houses of the 
great ; why does he come to mine ? 

B B 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



370 WIT AND WISDOM 7B0M WEST AFBICA. 

212. 

Ndisime aka ada ifiok idnn, ndien ifiok ada ndisime 
owara anwa. 

The foot takes the wise man to bis dwelling, and the 

wise man takes the foot to the public street. 

N.B. — Spoken of one who foolishly exposes himself^ who makes 
public all he does or says. 

213. 

Enyene nditik-enyin. 

He has a nom de guerre^ a nickname in a good sense. 

N.B. — All Calabar chiefs have some such name, which can be 
announced on the drum or other instrument 

214. 

Enyene akamba ndon-eset. 

He has great consolation (i.e., he has the power of 
bestowing consolation), 

215. 

Sin ndum ke 'mon nwon, Abasi anyana fi. 

Put chalk in water and drink it : Abasi saves you. 

N.B. — Meaning, let gratitude penetrate your heart: Qod has 
saved you. 

216. 

Euyak 'mon akan ndum. 

" Don't let the gunpowder (malt) get above the {meal) 

chalk." 

N.B. — Ndum and Nkan, chalk and gunpowder, are sometimes 
sent as offers of peace or war to a neighbouring tribe or chief. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PUOTSRBS IN THE EFIE Li^KGlTAGB. 371 

217. 

Af^ edi ibok, edi ndat-ndat ibok. 
If you were medicine you would be very bitter. 
N.B.— Said of a person of waapish temper. 

218. 

Isip eke n% eyup eke ne. 

Tlie kernel and the oil-nut have one mother. 

N.B.— Meaning, I cannot favour one more than another. So we 
say, " What ia sauce for the gooae is sauce for the gander." 

Sl9. 

Onim enim eyen ison. 
* He dives like a tree man. 

N.B. — Spoken in ridicule of one who cannot dive.' So in 
Germany, He talks like a nobleman. 



220. 

Nkarika ikpakke equon isan. 

The one (edible) snail does not demand of the other 
that he walk quick. 

N.B. — Meaning, you need not censure or atlvise me : you are a.s 
bad youself. , 

221. 

Nkem-idem owo ofon ndisana. 

It is good that equals consort together. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



372 WIT A5D WISDOM FROM WEST AFRICA. 

222. 

Amia nkene atana ese. 

He beats the Nkene, and proclaims his exploits. 

N.B. — The Nkene is an iron instrument, which a man may 
carry and beat publicly, for silencing and boasting after he has 
killed a leopard or an enemy. So our saying, ** He blows his own 
trumpet." 

223. 

Owo nkpan utan. 

A good listener (i.e., one fond of overhearing anything 
80 that he may go and tell it). 

224. 
Nkpekpem akan ifat ifiokt 

Nkpekpem (the small hat) surpasses the tortoise in 
knowledge. 

N.6. — Meaning, that man knows something which you do not 
know. 

225. 

Nkpofiok, ekpere edem ibehe isu. 
" If I had known " stands behind ; it does not come 
forward. 

N.B. — Said of those wise behindhand. 



Uka-xunTunke nkuku afa ete, eyen enyene. 

Tou have not caught the locust (or grasshopper) wliich 

you eay belongs to the child. 

N.B. — So our adages : First catch your hare ; Count not your 
chiqkens before they are hatched ; Gut nae fish till ye get them. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



FHOYfiBBS IN THE EEIK LANGUAGE. 373 

227. 

Mbufa edi nkrinbiik owo. 

You are an *^ omnium-gatberum." 

N.B. — A reproach addressed to slaves as collected from aU the 
neighbouring tribes. 

228. 

mnno odnm fi, afa aka amia 'mon. 
The crab bit you, and jrou go and beat tbe water. 
N.B. — Meaning, why do you punish me for what he did 1 

229. 

Edinen usun inyeneke nqnana. 

A straight road has no turnings. 

N.B. — Meaning, he is undeyiatingly good, or uniformly pros- 
perous. 

230. 

Enye anwaaa nsa. 

He gives an emphatic denial (viz,, to charge on solicit 

tation), 

NK — Nsa is a sign of wiping down both arms, and as it were 
throwing off what was on them : or the fingers are placed on the 
breasts, and the arms are thrown out, exclaiming at the same time 
Nsa, nsa, f u 1 *'far from you 1'* (danger or guilt). Sometimes it 
is said when a child sneezes. 

231. 

Onim nsan. 

He plants a man-trap. 

N.B. — The Nsan is a kind of harrow of nails, or hard pegs, set in 
board, or sharp stakes concealed in the ground against treispasders. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



374 WIT AKD WISDOM FBOlf WEST AFRICA. 



Nsasate ete, imo isnk ibon, ke edi akai okpnn. 

Nsasak (a small dull-coloured bird called the Icing of 

birds) sajTB he keeps on speaking, although the forest 

is big. 

N.B.-»Meamiig, I have a standing as well as he, although I da 
not equal him : or, They pay no regard to what I say. 

288. 

Enyene nsen ke idibi eti. 
She has many eggs in her womb. 
N.B. — Said of a woman who has many children. 

234. 

Da nsen nnen se. 

Take an egg and look at it. 

N.B. — Meaning, you are not perfect, like the egg which has 
uneven ends. Said to one boasting of his beauty. 

235. 

XJwem owe ebiet nsen unen, obaha owo odua ke 
ison akpa. 

The life of mau is like the egg of a fowl ; it drops out 
of one*8 hand, and falls to the ground and peiishes. 
Another saying to this effect is, " The life of man is like 
the leaf of the Koko vegetable," i.e., easily destroyed. 

236. 
Epep enye nson-idem. 

Teach him industry (or hardihood, that he may he able 
to work for his livelihood) » 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PBOYESBS IS THE EPIK LAKOUAGE. 875 

237. 

TTkot otoi ntap-ntap oyaha aban. 
The Mimbo (palm-tDtne) tree drops by degrees and 
fills the pot. 

N.B. — Meaning, he or they will silently and gradually worm 
themselves into possession. 



238.. 

^uMd edi ntenebene mo. 
^o\i are their football. 

N.B. — Meaning, you cannot hold your own, all ill-usage and 
imputations are heaped upon you. 



239. 

Ntiene Abiakpo okare esak. 

The train of Abiakpo is no more, and men laugh. 

N.B. — Meaning, his boon companions desert him now he is 
poor. 

240. 

Enye esin fi nton ekpat 

He puts ashes in your bag (i.e., that hy their dropping 
he may trace you, and thus enable him to dog yowr foot- 
steps). 

241. 
Owe oknt eyu anwan nnwon. 
When a man sees sunshine he dries his tobacco. 
N.B. —Meaning, " Make hay while the sun shines." 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



376 WIT AITD WISDOM FBOM WEST AFRICA.. 

242. 

Akam edi Ikiko ikan ata, nwanwa edi su (or nwa- 
diflu) ikpa Atan. 

If the fire consumes the Ikiko (civet ea£)y how much 
more the skin of Atan {the hush cat) ? 

N.Bw — Meaning, if such a one, superior to you, has been taken, 
how much more you? 



243. 

Nyakiin ibanke ekpe ayara itam. 
The Njakun (a mollusc or a medusa) did not buy Egbo, 
yet wears a hat. 

N.B. — ThiB is said of the animal's appearance : only native 
" gentlemen " wear hats, and they must purchase the permission. 



244. 

Nyek-nyek-nrono ama anam TJtai urono inan. 
The small dragon-fly has made the Iguana deaf. 

N.B. — Meaning, I do not wish to hear yon. So they say, " I 
know very well the Utai, or Iguana, is afflicted with deafness/' to 
ridicule an empty threat, or to refuse attention to what is said. 



245. 

Nyun. 

A regeneration; thus, when a woman has a child 
shortly after the death of another, she supposes it to be 
the former one returned. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PBOYXBBS IN THE EFIK LANGUAGE. 377 

246. 

Afa edi Obin-uqua. 

You are an Obin-uqua. 

Said to a man ever singing or crooning. 

N.B. — The Obin-uqua is a large white bird, so called because of 
its song, whose no'te resembles the canoe chant ; the people suppose 
its voice can turn the tide. Like the turtle dove of the East it is 
supposed to chant till it dies, or at least till it falls down exhausted. 

247. 

Obuben uma obun nma ; otu obim ekon. 
The basket-cover at the market breaks the market; 
the shield breaks the battle. 

248. 
Obukpo esie ofon. 

Its vileness is good. 

N.B. — Spoken of a thing useless for its proper purpose, but 
which may be applied to some inferior end. 

249. 

Ata ntnkon akpa uyat, odnn-obio owo akpa mbime. 

The eater of pepper is like to die of pain ; the sojourner 

is like to die of questions. 

N.B. — Meaning, the inquiries made respecting town matters 
pester him, as he has no interest in them. 



250. 

Ofion esin udia. 

The moon refuses food. 

N.B. — Meaning, she does not shine at the time of the evening 
meaL She is also said to '' devour the ground " when she shines 
brightly. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



378 WIT AND WISDOM FBOM WEST AEBICA. 

251. 

Of op fa ! 

Tour roast {or meal) ! 

N.B. — Spoken to a guest when giving him yams to cook as he 
likes best. 

252. 

Okim asaklmam. 

" It pricks, he laughs." 

N.B. — A prickly shrub, bo called because no bad effecta remain 
with one who laughs when extracting its thorns. 



253. 

Idumo enin odumo ke okom, nkom, afa omofiok ete, 
enin ikpunke nte okom. 

The elephant is said in size to reach to the roof ; but 
Tou know it is not so big. 

N.B. — Meaning, you exaggerate, speak hyperbolically. 

254. 

Kuda okonok nno mi. 

Do not bring your bad fortune on me (i.e., hy putting 
your word or hand in any matter of mine), 

255. 
Owara ana mi ke okpo isu. 

lie comes forth and lies at my very face (i.e., thinking 
of him, he immediately appears). 

N.B.— So we say, '* Talk of the devil, and he is sure to appear." 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



FBOTEBBS TN THB EFIB: LAT^GUAOE. 379 

256. 

Etemtem imenke ikut, ekpi okput ekemen. 

He wbo cut the bush down did not take a tortoise; 

will he who lops the branches take one ? 

N.B. —Spoken of an undeserving man, who looks to a reward 
for an action* not acknowledged in a man of merit. 

267. 

Okok inyeneke ifom. 

Coppers (country coin) have no place where thej are 
thrown away. 

N.B. — Meaning, they are always of some value. 

258. 

Omon idiok otibi idet ke edem. 

The Omon baboon is shaggy. 

N.B. — This animal, found in the interior, is said to have a 
large mane of whitish hair, and may be the gorilla, the Inaki of 
Yoruba. 

259. 

Ma-'ima dnp nyn, nkiip Oti! 

^Inninia be silent ; I lie.ir Oci ! 

N.B. — Meaning, you may shut your mouth now that he begins 
to speak. Manima is a small musical instrjiiment much used in 
Ibibia : it is made of metal and beaten with a stick. The Oti la 
also of metal, with a bit of wood inside acting as clapper to the bell. 

260. 

Eaen nte oton. 

lie is straigiit as an Ocon (i.e., erect in carriage), 
N.B. —The Oton is a stick on which fish are skewered. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



380 WIT AJiTD WISDOM FBOM WEST A7BICA. 

261. 

Afa atna nte OwnrL 

You cry like an Owuri (i.e., mtichy continuously), 

N.B. — ^The Owuri la supposed to be a monster lizard that 
makes a long mournful sound at night. The natives believe its 
bite to be fataL 

262. 

Usun eye aquana. * 

The load is fair but crooked. 
N.B. — Meaning she is fair in faoe, but perverse at heart. 



Inyene asakha sn! 
How immense the riches ! 
N.B. — Said to ridicule one parading his wealth. 



264. 

TJrono anam mi ndutnklia, tntu asana mi ayak. 
The sickness afflicts me till it leaves me (i.e., the 
disease runs its course). 



265. 
Enyin mi asat. 
My eyes are dry. 
N.B. —Said when one finds himself unable to sleep. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PBOTEBBS IK THE E7IE LAKGVAGX. 881 

266. 

TJsari asat mi eti (or idiok). 

The Usari bodes me good or evil (i.e., when heard on 
the right or left hand). 

N.B. — The cry of the Usari or great king-fisher bodes good or 
evil, according to the position of the bird with respect to the 
hearer. 

267. 

8ek san sek san oba owq etie. 

Move a little off ! move a little off ! deprives a man of 

his seat. 

N.B. — ^Meaning, by little and litUe a man is wrested from his 
position. 

268. 

Sekhede nam okpim (or ekpri). 
Shift a little, make it large (or small), 

N.B. — Directing a man to move the hand in cutting anything, 
to make the portion cut, large or small. 

269. 

Owo ifiokke me enye idisiereke mkpon. 

A man knows not whether he will see to-morrow. 

270. 

Ino isiolio ukut ke ino esie, owo nsu isioho nkat ke 
HSU efde, mo 'esasana. 

The thief withdraws not his foot, desists not from his 
theft, the liar desists not from his lie ; they go on. 
N B. — So with UB, " the dog returns to his vomit." 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



382 WIT AKD WISDOM FBOM WEST AFRICA.. 

271. 

Vnwon (or esikon) osip idem, isipke luun. 

The tobacco (or pipe) is small, the smoke id not small. 

N.R— Meaning, behold how great a matter a little fire 
kindleth ; or, he is a small man but large of heart. 

272. 

Soap eyen ubuene. 
Lit., " Poor man's soap." 
N.B. — It Ib the produce of a tree, used as a substitute for soap. 

273. 

Ndita iban abon esosobo. 

The daughters of a great man go off quicklj in market, 
and are easily vendible (i.e., are soon married). 

274. 

Abasi, mekpe fl ubok, nam mi nkeme nte nsonode 
nsana; ikpat mi isonke, etie nte eyen nsek emi etende- 
ten. 

O Abasi (Ood), I beseech thee make me strong to 

walk ; my foot is feeble as a young child staggering. 

N.B. — A prayer sometimes made to the Creator in sickness or 
difficulty. 

275. 

EpTULO DWG eke osonode fl, kom osono owo oson 
ifiok. 

Beverence your elder, for the man excelling in age 
excels in wisdom. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PBOTEBBS IK THE £FIK LAKGITAGE. 383 

276. 

lyip esie eyesop fi. 

His blood will lie on you to your hurt (i.e., will be 
avenged quickly), 

N.B. — Spoken to a man who has murdered his friend. 



277. 

Asuan (pr awari) ika.ono mi nte owo asuan ntan. 
He showers his words on me as a man scatters sand. 

N.B. — Said when one is abused so that he cannot get in a 
word. 

278. 

Eyen osudi ete esie ke idiok ido. 

The son disgraces his father by bad conduct. 



279. 

Osudi idem-esie. 

He disgraces himself (i.e., by living below his means 
and rank, by squandering his wealth, or by allowing an 
inferior in wealth to assume a position and authority 
superior to his). 

280. 

Edim esuene mbufo. 

The rain spoils your gentility. 

N.6. — Said to such as carry an umbrella, and are without one 
when overtaken by rain. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



884 WIT AND WISDOM FROM WEST AFBICA. 

281. 

Enye adia osuna. 

He eats and is at ease (i.e., he takes only what hehngs 
to him, or he dees only what is good for him, and therefore 
it is well with him), 

N.B.— Spoken, e,g.y of an old chief, mild in hia rula 

282. 

Idiaha isima ke obio ami, dnam oynm nsnn mkpi^ 
He does not keep himself quiet (or well behaved) in 
the town ; he does that which tends to his own destruc- 
tion. 

N.B.— Said^ e.g., of an habitual thief. 

283. 

Abasi Ota fi nte mfine ota eku. 

God strikes you down as the trap strikes down the rat. 



284. 

Ediwak owo etaba uwem mo ke nsu. 
Many destroy themselves by falsehood. 



285. 

Midionkpo mo eyetak ye mo. 

Their evil deeds will remain with them (i.e., the con- 
seqtiences will remain with themselves ; or they will not be 
able to accomplish their wickedness). 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PR07EBBS TN THE EFIK LAlfGTrA.eS. 885 

286. 

Tara mi idem. 

Inspirit me. 

N.B.— A slang phrase used by topers when asking for a glaas 
of rum. 

287. 

Tatabnnko (or obu) enyene 'mon, afiak asana mben. 

The Tatabunko (a small fish) or the Obu (a shrimp) 

has the whole river to swim in, but it keeps by the side. 

N.B. — Meaning, he who may well do so, does not giye himself 
those airs or assume ao much as you do who are nobody. 

288. 

Ibio 'mon ke aban eten owo. 

A cask half filled with water makes one (i.e., who 
carries it) unsteady in his gait. 

289. 

AQak ibok ke ubok ayat, nditakha ke enyin editie 
didie? Enyin iditibeke fi? 

You roll the medicine in the hand and it pains you ; 

how will it do when dropped into the eye ? wiU not the 

eye fall out ? 

N.B. — Meaning, why do you seek intimacy with one so dis- 
agreeable as an acquaintance? 

290. 

TTtok Abasi etiene idionkpo owo. 
The controversy (or displeasure) of God follows the 
sin of man. 

00 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



386 WIT AKD WISDOM FBOM WEST AFSIOA. 

291. 

Mnma etik ekpe enyin. 

Murua ascribes such names to Ekpe (i.e., as he shakes 

a noisy instrument called Hkput). 

N.B. — Murua is an officer attached to the three highest Egbo 
grades, who mourns and howls at the funeral of any one dying free 
of those grades. Ekpe is explained in No. 66. 

292. 

Enye otot idaha era. 

He assumes office (i.e., hy sending round the usual 

293. 

Odnmo ndituak nkut ki nkpo eke afa edidade luan 
ke idem-fa. 

Tou try to knock your foot against that which will 
wound you. 

K.B.— Meaning, you knock your head against a poet^ you kick 
againBt the pricks. 

294. 

A Ntumo ubok fa. 

a invoke your hand (i.e., I claim your protection). 



295. 

Otamo ete esie. 
He calls upon his father. 
N.B.— This, as in India, is the custom : when anything startles 
a man, he calls his father*s name. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PBOTERBS IN THE EFIC LlKGITAaE. 387 

296. 

Otup ibuut ke edem. 
He throws back his head. 
'N.B. — Thus making a sign that he uDderstanda. 

297. 

TJbio nkpo eno enye. 

They plant " Obeah " for him. 

N.B. — *' Ubio" means any medicine or charm pnt in the ground 
to cause sickness or death. It is manifestly the origin of the West 
Indian '^ Obeah." We shall be less surprised to hear that the 
word has travelled so far, when told by Clarkson, in his " History of 
the Slaye Trade/' that when the traffic was a Intimate branch of 
commerce, as many slaves were annually exported from Bonny and 
the Old Calabar River, as from all the rest of the West African 
coast 

298. 

Adia nkpo ye ikut ofiok ubok nasia iknt 

He who eats with the tortoise knows his right hand. 

N.B. — Meaning, one who has '* eaten a peck of dirt " with a 
man, knows what he does. 

299. 

IJkat ebud edikhi ke ata nte ubok ebud edikbide. 
The hind foot of the goat is planted on the same spot 
on which it planted the fore foot. 

300. 
TTduak nkpo om oynkha mi. 

The purposing of that thing tires me (i.e., he is ever 
talking of doing it, hut never does it). 

c c 2 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



388 WIT AKD WISDOM FBOM WSST AFRICA. 

801. 

TTduoiuhowo. 

A prodigal. Also a name formerly giyen to ship- 
captains who took any kind of slave, sick or well, feeble 
or strong. 

302. 

Kukpa ndibon idem-fa iifen. 

Do not beat yourself (i.e., do not kick ogainH the 
pricks), 

SOS. 

Kukpe ikpe nfik. 

Do not judge tyrannously (i.e., giving the right one ike 
wrong through respect of persons). 

804. 

Ufion inyeneke mbnk nte idna. 

It is not worth talking about a slip of the foot as if it 
were a fall. 

805. 

TTfon. 

A mark of approval or acquittal. " King Calabar " 
marks the arm of the recipient with chalk or with 
" Utu " — " Egbo powder," a yellow wood reduced to dust. 

806. 
Asak nkaha adiaha Okori. 

She laughs sillily, like the eldest daughter of Okori 
(i.e., she laughs hystericallg). 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PROTBRB8 VSf TUE EFIK LANGUAGE. 889 

807. 

Ekpok ikarake nkim odok, ino inyeneke nkpo oyip. 

The lizard cannot clasp round the cotton-tree {Bombax) 
to climb ; the thief has nothing, and steals. 

808. 

Odnn-adian nkim oduokho mbara nkim. 

That which is close to the cotton-tree receives the dew 

from the cotton-tree. 

N.B. — ^Meaning, he is benefited by his conneotion with a great 
man. So we apeak of living with the roaa 

309. 

Afn ke ekeme ye nkpaha-ekpo. 
You are as bad as an Ukpaha-ekpo (i.e., on evil being 
eomtardly besetting one^ like the Hindu Bakshasa) . 

810. 
TTkpek ete. nte imo nte imo, ata idumke usam. 
The TTkpek {a fish with narrow back and body expan^ng 
downwards towards the belly) says, if all were like him 
the smith would not make a fish-spear. 

N.B. —Meaning, if all do as I do, there is no danger. 

811. 

Enye enyene okposon nkpon. 

He has a strong '' soul " (i.e., he bears up well under 

adversity). 

N.B. — The ** Ukpon " is the shadow or umbra of a person or 
thing that moves ; not being stationary aa " Ml ut/' the shadow of 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



390 WIT AKD WISDOM FBOM WEST ATBICA. 

ft tree. MiasionarieB naturally translate it " soul " or ** spirit.'' It is 
supposed to issue from the body and to visit certain places, especially 
in dreams ; an individual may be deprived of it, as the West Indian 
negroes suppose a man's shadow may be caught^ in which case he 
soon dies. Moreover, the " Ukpon '* of a healthy man may be 
transferred into a sick body, the latter recovering to the detriment 
of the former. 



-\ 



312. 

Ukpon anam en]fe urono. 
His shadow makes him sick. 



N.B. — Said when a man is seized with temporary mania, and 
fancies himself his '' Ukpon." In this sense the word, like the Etua 
of the South Sea Islanders, signifies an animal — as a leopard, a fish, 
or a crocodile, witn whose existence the life of the individual is 
bound up. If iiie *' Ukpon" sickens or dies, so does the man 
whose shadow it is, and vice vend. Finally, many people have the 
power of metamorphosing themselves into their *' Ukpon." 



313. 

TTkpri esu eye eti-eti 

His diminutiveness is beautiful (i.e., is no deformity). 



314. 
Ukure ufok edi end. 

This is the finishing of the house (i.e., I shall make it 
no higger). 

815. 

Ukut akabade obop ubok. 

The foot turns and ties the hand (i.e., the inferior ^et^ 
above the superior). 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PBOYEEBB IK THE XFIK LAKGUAOS. 391 
816. 

Matnak eti ukut mfin. 

I knocked my lucky foot to-day (i.e., I came at good 
speed). 

317. 
Ina nma utum fa edi ini efen. 
The completion of your work will be some other time 
(i.e., you neglect the proper opportunity). 

318. 
Enyene ibnut imam. 
He is an incorrigible fool. 

N.B. — **Unam" answers to oiir "beast," more nearly to the 
French '* b6te/' including all land animals excepting birds. So 
Cicero confessed himself to have acted like an " imintim germanam," 
— a geniiine donkey. 

319. 

Ekpo ete, TrnaH)diLro. 

The ghost says, They are of the liying (i.e., he has no 
companionship with them). 

320. 

Adia nkpo ke Tinom. 

He eats more than sufEces him (i.e., he has made away 
with things got in trust). 

321. 

Owo cm enyene nnwa ke iton. 

That man has a bend in his neck. 

N.B. — Meaning, the wrinkling and overlying of the skin cover- 
ing the cerebellum, as seen in persons of full habit 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



392 WIT XKD WISDOM FBOiC WEST AT&IOA. 



Ibnk ye imyim ednk nkpo kiet, ndien edi ibnk ofon 
akan imyiiii« kom ibok obnkhare nkpo ono, unyim 
inono. 

The "Ibuk" (a miser) and the "IJnyim" (a selfish 
niggard^ emphatically a miser) are alike ; but the miser is 
better than the niggard, for the miser brings out a thing 
he may hare put in store and gives, the niggard never 
gives. 

823. 
Makara okpok nfok oyum unyon. 
The white man strips off his house. 

N.B. — Meaning, he remoyes the mat roof made over the deck 
of a ship lying in the river, and is about to take his departui^. 



824. 

Abiabun kpa snk ke otn uquak. 

A needle is as valuable as a heap of iron bars (i.e., he 

is worth many of you), 

N.B. — The Uquak, or iron-bar, was here, as in Bonny and other 
places, the standard of value ; it is now supplanted by the copper. 
of which four makes the old bar. 



325. 

Inua fa ekeme ye uquok. 

Tour mouth is like the Uquok (i.e., you are too saucv), 

N.B. — The Uquok is a tree with a rough leaf, which is rubbed 
as a punishment on the lips of evil speakers. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PBOTXBBS IS THE BFIE JJLSQTJ±&K. 893 



Abasi odoQ owo xiraa; afu ama anyam Tima fd ama» 
afa emen akpan fa onyon. 

Abasi (Ood) sends man to market; when 70a bare 

made your market, you must lift your basket and off. 

N.B. — Meaning, when God's purpose with you is served, you 
must die. In England, all the world's a stage ; in Old Calabar, a 
market. 

327. 

Afa odiok nte omikot. 

You are drunk as a snake (the emblem of all that is 

vile). 

N.B.— They also say, ** He wonld drink the produce of an Ewoi " 
(the largest kind of toddy-palm) ^ and call the drunkard ** Eyen xnin " 
{son ofpcUm-^ne), 

828. 

TTnik awem esie okibe. 

Tbe tbread of bis life breaks (i.e., he diei), 

829. 

TTsan antika: osan akanem, etc. 

The XJsan is a shallow dish, kept on tbe Isu Abasi 
(round altar-like mound in tbe middle of a yard with 
bones, etc., before which prayer is offered to Abasi), or 
on the Isu-Ekpo (the family altar, upon which various 
"medicines" are placed, and where prayer is made to 
the deceased paterfamilias). When worshipping, the 
devotee pours a little water into them. TJsan Abasi 
(also called Eaet — assiettef) was formerly kept by the 
head man in the middle of the town, and if any stranger 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



394 WIT AJSD WISDOII FBOM WEST AFBICA. 

broke it he forthwith belonged to the place. A Iso Abon 
Efik (KiDg of Old Calabar) placed them there after the 
feast-iuauguratioa. 

330. 
TTsan emana. 

Plate of birth (i.e., the spot where every individual is 
in the other world he/ore his birth into this), 

K.B. — A Platonic idea, whose type in El Islam is the Taum el 
Alast, when the to be embodied spirits were created and marshalled. 

381. 

TTsan akana. 

Plate of vow. 

N.B. — Meaning, the spot where an individual in ghost-land 
makes a yow to Abasi, that if permitted to be bom again amongst 
men, he will not live beyond a certain time. Hence of a man 
dying suddenly and causelessly, they say, ** Akpa Akana Abaai/' he 
dies in consequence of his yow to Abasi. And Akana^ a promise or 
TOW, comes to signify fate or destiny. This idea rests upon the 
African idea of death. They own, but generally with unwillingness, 
especially in the case of chiefs, to the Mkpa Abasi, or ** the Death 
of Ood ; " I.e., the death of an old man in the course of nature : our 
** natural death." But Ndaisi (or lyara) Mkpa, the death of youth 
(or manhood), is held sudden and unnatural, requiring to be explained 
by witchcraft) violence, or some such theory as the above. 



332. 

Usara AbasL 

The feast of God (i.e., the yam feast), 

N.B. — Before eating the new yams, which when unripe are 
unwholesome, the head of the house and his family sacrifice and 
feast upon a victim slain in a small enclosure in the yard. Two or 
three weeks after thJB an Idem or Mumbo-Jumbo parades the town, 
and after the Egbo ceremony, all are allowed to enjoy their harvest. 
The first feast is called " Usara usuk-abia." And the yam-harvest 
is called the •* Time of Plenty." 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PBOYEBBS IN THIS EFIK LANGUAGE. 895 

833. 

Vbo akanaiL nkpo om esin nsia omnm fl. 

Tour father did so, and hence ill- fortune befalls you. 

N.B. — ** Uso," ill-luck generally, is here used of evil destiny 
inherited. 



834. 

Oba nsiene mi. 

He takes my return (i.e., for something of his which I 
had lost or injured), 

335. 

Ktantaflon oyaha enyon ; nyu nwan nsua ayat ebe. 
The stars (lit., moon dust) fill the sky ; the voice of a 
woman given to hatred vexes her husband. 



836. 

TTtai ete, Yak ebine imo ke akpa itok; ema ebine 
imo ke akpa itok, ndien emmn imo. 

The Iguana says, Let him be pursued in the first start ; 
if he be pursued in the first start, he will be caught. 
N.B. — Meaning, check the beginning of transgression. 



887. 

TTtebeikpe. 

A sum of money given by the successful party in a 
suit, to entertain "judge and jury." The practice is said 
to be extinct in Old Calabar, but to exist in Ibibio. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



396 WIT XWD WISDOM FEOM WEST AFBICA. 

338. 

TTtimudi. 

Bamming down tbe grave of a great man. A few 
weeks after interment a portion of the soil is takea up 
and supplied hy the earth of ants' nests, which, when 
pounded, becomes exceedingly hard. 

839. 
TTtin ekpok. 

Literally^ Lizard's sun (i.e., early morning^ before there 
is great heat). 

840. 
Uton ekpedi enyin mbobop. 

If the ear were an eye I would close it (i.e., I do not 
wish to hear). 

341. 
TTtn ke mbre edidok, ntie ke itie idem-mi. 
I will remain alone rather than haye a slanderer for 
my companion. 

342. 

Eyen irnen ete, nye idem eka imo akan eba. 

The chicken says, the warmth of his mother's bodj is 

better than milk. 

N.B.— Meaning, the mite of the good man is better than the 
wealth of the wicked. 

343. 

Ikupke uye idem eka. 

It does not feel the warmth of a mother's breast. 
N.B.—Said of a motherless child when it dies. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PBOYEBBS IN THB EFIK LAireUAeB. 897 

844. 

TTye owara enye ke idem ; okntnk owo oru. 

A bad inflaence comes from that man's bodj; jou 
must not touch him. 

N.B. — ^"Uye," properly "Bteam," here meanB the heat or an 
ezhalation communicated from one body to another. 



S45. 

TlyeriBiL 

A small " devil-house" (Nqueme), erected after a man's 
funeral, and containing all his finest articles, mostly 
broken, with a bed, a table, and a quantity of food for 
the use of the dead. The " TJyerisu " is also a table 
whereon articles of domestic use are put, and which is 
placed behind the deceased's house on the fourth day after 
burial. Those who assisted in the ceremony wash their 
faces, whence its name, at the same time praying to the 
ghost not to injure them, as they have '* spread a table 
for him." The same custom is known in Dahome. 



846. 

Nka ke ma, nwap nyo; uyo nsun nrua obaha enem 
mi. 

I went to the market and turned aside to eat Uyo (a 
eake of fruit like mango) ; ITyo of the market took me 
unwittingly with its sweetness. 

N.B. — Meaning, I met by the way something bo pleasant that I 
sat stUl forgetting or not caring to go further, or to cany out my 
purpose. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



898 VriT AVl> WISDOM TBOM west JLFBICA. 

847. 

Ikan ata fl inua afd adia ofop; owo asua fi uj% 
afd aka ama. 

The fire burned your mouth ia eating the thing 
roasted ; a man declares himself your enemy, and you go 
and make friends with him. 



348. 

Owobi ntan ke ebiet om. 

He grasps a handful of sand, and throws it at (or 
towards) a place, thereby renouncing intercourse with it. 

849. 

Wnk ubok *no enye. 

Salute a superior with Ubok (i.e,, humble yourself to 
him). 

N.6. — This is ft humble and rererential salutation, made by 
turning the hands downwards, and touching the earth with the 
finger tips. 

850. 

Ekikere se eset ekerede owut eset 
Thought breaks the heart. 

351. 
Nyaya afa akamade mi isoiL. 

I lay to heart the debt you owe me (i.e., I do not icish 
to trust you any farther). 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PBOYXBBS IN THE EFIK Li^NOUAGB. 399 

852. 

Ekikere ayana mi ke eset. 

My thoughts evade me (i.e., I cannot fix my thoughts 
on anything), 

353. 
Ayayare nko. 

He unmasks the hero (i.e., shows him to be a coward), 

85*4. 
Owo imiim ayarcset mkpa. 

A quiet man gets angry even to death (i.e., when once 
aroused). 

N.B. — So said Mohammed the Apostle : Defend us from the 
wnth of the mild in spirit. 

355. 

Abiya iyehe uyai ke ini atiun. 

Abija does not dress herself in the working time. 

N.B. —Abiya is a bird, the male of which has two long tail 
feathers during the breeding season (the Wkydak finch ; Vidua 
Paradxniaca t) and the proverb is applied to one working in fine 
doihes. 

356. 

Eyere aran ye afo. 

He smears himself with oil along with you. 

N.B. — A brother may ceremoniously dissolve connection with 
another by drawing the fingers dipped in oU down his own and his 
brother's arms. On the other hand, fraternity, as has been seen, can 
be emphatically entered into. These are the rude inventions of an 
exceedingly sociable race. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



400 WIT Aim WISDOM VBOM WEST ATBIGA. 

857. 

Eyet ekpe efep. 

He renounces Egbo (i.e., telli out of the institution), 

358. 
Eyine mi nkpo. 

He upbraids me with the gift which he gave to me. 

N.B.~Sald of an ungenerooB man. 



859. 

Osibe idet ono Efik kpuprn, ete. ima ikpa yak. oyum 
imo. 

He cut his hair and sent it to all Efik (Old Calabar), 
saying, if he died they should inquire concerning him 
(i,e., as to the cause of his death). 

N.B. — A ceremony formerly performed by one who thought he 
was dying by witchcraft 



860. 

Efik ebrutu anam idut; idut anam Efik atuak iton 
(or ata mfan). 

Old Calabar can inflict any injury it pleases on the 
countries around ; should any of these injure Old Calabar, 
it may go break its neck (or eat roots), 

N.B.-— Efik Ebnrutu^or Ebrutu, is the full title of the Efik, or 
Old Calabar countiy, but no one can explain the surname. Some 
conjecture it to have been the name of a man to whom the land in 
former timea belonged. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PBOTJBBBB IK THX EFIK LAITGUAGS. 401 

861. 

Idibi ke idem anam owo. 

It is the stomacb which rules the man. 

N.6.— Meaning, Old Calabar feeds all the neighbouxing tribes, 
and therefore hu the supremacy. 



862. 

Idu nte ntaxL esien. 

Ida (a town in Ibibio) is as the sand in the yard (i,e., 
its men are numerous). 

N.B. — This sentence is expressed by drum-beat when the town 
is summoned to war. 



868. 

Ama enwan nte Kkno. 

He loves fighting as much as Nkuo (a town or district 
towards the Adoni, Andoney, or S. Antonio river, 
between Old Calabar and the Bonny). 



864. 

Odn nana ke Ononkoni 

It is in Ononkoni (i.e.^ it is impostsible to get it). 

N.B. — Ononkoni is the proper name of a place used in proverbs 
as a kind of Ultima Thule. So they say. It is farther distant 
than Ononkoni (».e., a very long way off). 

D D 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



402 WIT AKD WIBBOIC 7B0K WEST ATRICA. 

365. 

Asana onm Itu ye TJqua. 

He has reached Itu and TTqua (i.e., the uttermost 
parts). 

N.fi. — ^The Itu and Uqua people are the farthest interior off- 
¦hootaof Ibibia 

369. 

Bon akam no Abasi. 

Pray to Abasi (God) : lit., shout prayer, much after 
the fashion of the Pharisees. 

N.B. — So, " Bon nye" is to cheer, after Old (Mabar faahion, 
beating the mouth with the hand whilst uttering the sound. 

367. 

Akaran-AbasL 

The razor of Ood (i.e., the swallow). 

368. 

Akpa enyin idap. 

First eye of sleep (i.c^Jirst doze). 

369. 
Knno enye apka mi. 
Do not give him any of my property. 
N.B.—- Thus a father disinherits his son. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PROYEBBS IN TUE EFISI LANGUAGE. 403 

370. 

Akpa ekiko. 

iiV., first cock (i.e.y cock^rowing time, called by the 
Anglo-African " Cokkerapeek "). 

871. 

Akpan idike iba idike ita; ama edi iba kiet otu 
unene. 

The Akpan (first-bom son) is not two or three ; if two, 
one is from Ibo (i,e., a slave). 

372. 

Edueme enye nnuak idion. 

He anoints him (lit., applies medicine by rubbing or 
drawing the finger-points over the place) with TJnuak 
idion {blood, earth, salt, ifc, kneaded together and 
smeared on the bodg at certain JEgbo occasions). 



873. 
Odaoi mkponison. 

He draws down Mkponison (i,e., marks himself by 
drawing lines with the juice of this rush-like plant, which 
stains the skin blackish. 



874. 

Ika orn odndaro nte efe. 

That word is bitter as Efe (the fruit of a shrub), 

N.R — So we say bitter as galL 

o D 2 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



401 WIT AND WISDOM TBOH W£8T AFBICA» 

875. 

Afa adia nkpo nte Ebe. 

You eat like an Ebe (a *gn(h which burrows in the 
yam). 

N.B. — Meaning, you are gluttonous. 
876. 

Enye enyene ekpaha-ika ye ami 

He slanders me (without naming me, so that I cannot 
take it up), 

N.B. — Ekpaha-ika is a word spoken to one, but applied to 
another. 

877. 

Etnbnm. 

Father of canoe: ship captain (applied to white 
traders of importaneey as " Abon ** to native chiefs), 

878. 

Bin iyakita. 

The stick with three fish (t.^., the belt of Orion), 

879. 

Ubiaekon nte mfan ikot. 
Mbiaekon is as the leaves of the trees. 

N.B.— SeeNo. 862. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PBOTEBBS IN THE EFIE LA.KaUAGE. 405 

880. 



Eyen akpara. 

Son of a widow or harlot (i,s.y a bastard). 



881. • 

TInen edi ibet mi 

The flesh of the hen is a thing from which I abetain. 

N.B. — "Ibet" is a vow of abstinence very common amongst 
Africans. 

382. 

Abia-idion ofri iflum. 

The medicine-man blows his " Ifium " (i.e,, the toe of a 



large crab 90 used). 



883. 
Ikon ebok. 



Lit., Monkej-cough (i,e., hooping-cough, which re- 
sembles the scream of a monkey, and is cured by monkey- 
soup). 



384. 
Ikpa Ibibio. 

Ibibio rope (Jhr climbing palm-trees, with two loops or 
stirrups for the feet. It is opposed to Ikpa mbudukom 
or Mbudukom rope, which passes round the body. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



40G WIT AlTD WISDOM TEOM WEST AmiCA. 

885. 

Ikpan-idajL 

A gift to a widow by her next husband, who does not 
go through a regular ceremony. The present offered 
and received signiiies that she becomes his wife. 



386. 

Enye enyene ime; owe an am enye eti nkpo, ododnp, 
isinruke uyn; anam idiok nkpo, ododnp, iaiariike nyu. 

He has great equanimity ; if a man does him good he 
does not express his feelings ; if bad he is still silent. 



887. 

\ Etie imo owe afa oforo. 

Connected with a great man, you will advance. 

888. 

Enye oduk. 

He enters into the state of seclusion named Inam. 

N.B. — At the order of the medicine-man, the invalid called by 
God shuts himself up with a single wife, and uses the same diet as 
a girl being fattened for marriage. When he again appears in public 
there is a feast. 

389. 

Ino ntantaflon. 

A thief star (i.e,, a falling star tohich appears to run 

off like a thief). 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PBOTEEBS IK THB SEIK IiAKGUA.GB. 407 

S90. 

Ebre innen. 

He plays bird. 

N.B. — Said of a certain conjuration, when the medicine-man 
puta something into his mouth and produces the note of a bird. 

891. 

Iqnot okut edim, edim edi. 

The frog calls for rain, rain comes. 

392. 
Isana ete, imo idiaka udia, idia ofdn ke ikot. 

The Isana (a sloth-lihe animal) says he eats no food, 
he eats the wind in the bush. 



893. 
f Owo ison-ika. 

A man true to his word (i,e,y firm in standing ly what 
Tie says), 

894. 

Itie ata kiet anam owo idap. 

A sitting in one place makes a man sleep. 



395. 
Iton obio ke odon mi 

The longing for my native land seizes me {i.e., I am 
homC'Sick). 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



408 WIT AND WISDOM FROM WXST ATBIOA. 

896. 

Afa edi Itri. 

Tou are an Itri {jproper name of inveterate smoker and 
snuffer of the olden time). 

397. 
Itap. 

A charm enabling the possessor to shoot anj one un- 
perceived by those present or the victim. 

898. 
Ifiok ofon akan-inyene. 
Knowledge is better than riches. 



399. 

Owe anam one fl, afa ate, imakan mi; ekpayah fi 
eyak mi, afa akpanam didie akan mi 

Somebody has done it for you, so yon say you beat me ; 
if yon and I had been left to ourselves, how could you 
have beaten me P 



400. 
One ke mfon. 
He gives it of his goodness (i.^., gratuitouslt/). 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PBOTXB6S IN THE EFIK LJLNGUAGE. 409 



401. 

Eebe nkebe. 

Take an enema. 

N.B. — ^A purgative is always so administered to ''wash'um 
belly," as the Anglo- African phrase is. • 



402. 

Eno. 

Meaning " Comej/* the equivalent to cuetom-house 
dues, paid bj ships trading to Old Calabar. 



403. 

Okpu ndikpa mkpa om. 

He fails to die that death (i.e., heing pardoned, or 
hating hU penalty commuted), 

404. 

Koknbara akpa. 

A monstrous snake, stretching across the river and 
disturbing the water. 

405. 

Afa edi manka ekpe. 

You are an alien of this Egbo society. 

N.B. — Mankpa-ekpe is one who, having bought Egbo in another 
town^ is free to walk through a strange place when Ekpe is in it, 
but cannot daim a shar^ of entrance fees. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



410 WIT AKD WISDOM 7B0M WEST A7BICA. 

406. 

Enye anam mi, ete, Mbap ! 

She insults me sajing Mbap ! (or " Mhap aJcaya*^ 
expression of contempt, toith corresponding gesture) , 



407. 
Kpi mboni 
To cup. 

N.B. — The Mboni is a small cup-like calabash : the natives have 
no other way of bleeding. 



408. 

Mo equak Mbuba. 

They knock Mbuba (i.e,, broken pieces of calabash 
beaten together to drive disease from a home, after the 
individual who has died of it has been buried in the hush). 



409. 
Mfut-enyin itakha mfat-enyin ibxm. 
Though he look so fierce, never mind, he can do 
nothing. 

410. 
Mkpiknkik. 

A yellow fish, said to invite the crocodile to swallow it 

as " good medicine,** because it is found sticking in the 

crocodile*!} throat, and killing him with its spines. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PB0YEBB8 IW THE EFIK LAJ^QITAGE. 411 

411. 

Onim idem esie ke mkpnn-iikan. 

He holds himself something superior. 

N.B, — Mkpun-nkan — ''exceeding greatness" — is used in rebuke 
or rl^cule of an inferior who does not respect his superior. 



412. 

Monkn. 
Filth. 

N.B. — Also unwashed clothes, cap, or clout, sent to a medicine- 
man to guide his divination when the person does not go himself. 
It is the practice of our modem mesmerists. 



413. 

Owo ndita. 

One who has a craving for animal food (apparently a 
disease in Equatorial Afri^ja). 

414. 
Kdaokho. 

A medicine charm thrown about the place to prevent 
quarrelling during a wake or a feast. 



415. 
Obiit. 

The after-birth {which is buried beside a palm-tree 
planted at the time, so as to grow with the child). 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



412 WIT JLFD WI8D0K FROM WEST APBICA. 

416. 

Obnma. 

A thunderbolt (a tree gum formed into mas9 hy electric 
action in a split tree is often shown as the *' holt "). 

417. 
Otu. 

A shrub whose leaves serve to poison or stupefy fish. 
N.6. — This unsportsmanlike practice is genera,! in Africa. 



418. 

Adadan owe. 

A man not quite black — reddish. 

N.B.— The three complexions in this part of Africa are yellow, 
red, and black, the latter perhaps being the rarest. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



VARIA VARIORUM. 



Wheit a man is compelled to forsake his country, he 
comforts himself by saying, " It is not only one place, 
that causes man to decay.'* 

To express the very proper sentiment that persons 
should not be reproved or punished in the midst of 
trouble which they have culpably brought upon them- 
selves, but afterwards, they cry, " Take your child out of 
the water before you slap him." 

Speaking of a man of uncompromising courage and 
resolution, they observe "A leopard has one mind." 

From " Cavalla Messenger,*' February, 1864. 



The following African cosmogony is so idiomatically 
told that I cannot resist introducing it, although it may 
appear out of place in a Book of Proverbs. The syncretic 
nature of its system, and the terse account of what 

" Brought death into the world, and all our woes," 
will, I hope, recommend it to the reader. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



414 wit lv(j> wisdom fboh west apbica. 

Nkb. 

how the wobld was peopled, and how the present 
system of things came to exist.* 

Abasi rises up sits there, makes all things alfove, 
Abaeii adaha etie do, anam kpupru nkpo ke enjon, 

makes all thiixgs below, with water, and bush,'^ and 
anam kpupru nkpo ke itsong, ye mong, ye ikot, je 

the rivers and springs and beasts of the bush, he makes 
akpa ye idiin ye' unam ikot, anam 

every kind of thing in the whole world. He makes not 
kpupru oruk nkpo ke ofri ererimbiit. Inamke 

man, men all dwell yonder with Abasi, Even man one 
owo, owo kpupru edufi ko ye Abasi. Baba owo kiet 

lives not here in the world, but beast of the bush and 
idube ken ke ererimbiit, ibahake unam ikdt ye 

fish which live in water and birds which we see 
iyak emi erure ke mon ye inuen emi nyin ikutde 

fUfing above, and many things other, I see not that I shall 
efede ke enyofi ye eriwak nkpo efen. Nque nte ndi- 



• Specimen of the Language, from the Bev. Mr. Goldie*B ''Principles 
of Efik Grammar," Old Calabar, printed at the Mission Preaa, 1357. 
t Forest. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



YABIA YARIOSUM. 415 

count them all just now. But man even one existed not 
batde mo kpupru idahomi. Edi owo ndiimo kiet ikeduhe 

in the world ; all men dwelt yonder with Ahan in town 
ke ererimbiit ; kpupru owo ekodu£ ko ye Abasi ke obio 

his. Then the day that Ahasi sits and eats, they meet 
esie. Ekem usen orii Abasi etie adia, mb ebiino 

there with him and Atai * his for uttering talk. 
do ye enye ye Atai esie ke esio&o neme. 

At length Atai his calls him, he answers, she says to him, 
Ekem Atai esie okiit enye, enye eyere, ete enye, 

"TAe situation suchas thisthey were situated hereisgood vety 
" Itie nte emi mimo etiede mi ofofdn eti 

then earth that existing there thou hast ; heaven as this 
ndlen iso^ odii orude do afii enyene ; enyo& nte emi 

they dwell in here thou hast ; then that thou modest a whole 
Diimd indu^de mi afu enyene ; ndien ke afu ndi nam ofri 

place so to keq>, and if thou placest not man there, 
ebiet ntre 'nim, ndien munimke owo do, 

it is not good; seek a way that thou canst place man there 
ifonke; jiim usun nte onimde owo do 

* Head wife. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



416 WIT AND WIBJDOM FBOM WBST AFRICA. 

on earth that, so that they abide there kindle fire, so that 
ke isou odii, kpafi mo etie do ebara ika^ kpa6 

heaven he warm for cold abounded in heaven^ because fire 
enyoh ofiiip ke tuep ke awak ke enyon, korii ika£ 

exists not on earth" Ahasi is silent for a long time, at 
miduhe ke is&a." Abasi odiip tututatu, 

length calls Atai, she answers, he says to her, " Kind of 
ekem okiit Atai, enye eyere, ete enye, " Oruk 

attempt that trying there passes him, and (if) he will 
idiimo odii odiimodo do akan imo, inyu^ idi- 

take man place there on earth, man abiding there and 
da owo omm do ke ison, owo etie do 

dwelling there will measure himself with him, wiU try to 
odufi do odiimo idem ye imo, odiimo 

speak say, ^ He is as he^ he will try to speak say * He 
ndidaha ete ' Itie nte im5/ odiimo ndidaha ete, 

knows thing past him ; ' it is that you see stops him 
Imbfiok nkpo akan imo ; 'edi odii aiii okutde akpande imd 

to speak say, 'Man may go abide there on earth,* " Wife says, 
ndidaha ete * Owo ekete do ke iaon.*" Ngwan ete, 

" He, man will not try. You having taken man to place 
enye, owo idiimoke. Afu ama ada owo okon'im 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



TARIA VABIOEXTM. 417 

there on earth, she mil watch ; even man one, mil not see 
do ke isofi, imo iyekpeme ; baba owo kiet idiqae 

that he can compare himself toith you, Hamng put man 
nte odiimo idem ye afii. Ama onim owo 

there, give up put in her hand, she mil watch 
do, yak sin ke ubok imo iyekpeme 

man trying to pass you. She surpasses man that. The man 
owo odiimo ndi kan fi. Imo ikan owo orii. Owo 

trying to think in heart, saying, * Se surpasses you,^ she 
odiimo ndikere ke eset, ete, ' Imo ikan fi,* imo 

surpasses man that," Ahasi assents, saying, *^ Se dislikes 
ikan owo orii." Abasi onyime, ete, ** Imo isuaha.'* 
not (the scheme).** 

At length Abasi takes male person one, gives, 
EkeiQ Abaai emen eren owo kiet ono 

saying, " Se shall dioell on earth, Man shall dwell on 
eie, *' Edida£ ke iso^. Erenowo edidu£ ke 

earth, then it shall he it fits time of food, 
W0&, ekem eyedi ekem ini udia, 

and they strike hell of food in heaven, man that must 
emia nkanika udia ke enyofi, erenowo orii 

E E 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



418 WIT ANJD WISDOM FBOM WEST AFUICA. 

ascend go eat thing^ and having eaten done^ descend aud 
odok aka adia nkpo, adia arna, osukhade 

return to earth. It suits time of food of morning he goes 
onjofi ison. Ekom ini udia usenubok enje aka 

on high to eat, that of mid-day he goes thither^ that for 
ke enyofi akadia, eke uwemevu enye aka ko, eke 

evening he goes thither, all food his he eats there^ 
mbubreju enye aka ko; kpupru udia esie enye adia ko." 

Then Abasi speaks to him, man that, sags, he must not wish 
Ndien Abasi odaha enye, erenowo orii, ete, enye okuyiim, 

saying, he may have food below / that if he have food 
ete, inyene udia ke ison ; ke enye inyene udia 

below which he may eat, then he will not care any more for 
ke ison eke adiade, ke enye idikereke aba 

food his, will not wish amy more saying, he will come on high 
udia imo, idiyumke aba ete, idi ke enyon 

to eat thing, and that it will result from that that man 
ididia nkpo, ke eyetii orii owo 

ujill forget him. 
ifre imo. 

Then vnfe addresses him says, '' Se the man abiding 
Ekem nwan odaha enye ete, " Enye erenowo nditie 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



TABIA VARIORUM. 419 

80 alone not having a wife is not good^ for a man it is 
litre ikpon rainy eneke fiwan ifbuke, erenowo 

good to dwell with a wife, for a woman it is good with a 
oion nditie ye nwan, fiwan ofoa ye 

man^ • He, Abasi, assents, saying to Atai his, " It is 
erenowo." Enye, Abasi, onyime, ete Atai esie, " Ekem 

fitting so, but then, if he speak saying, * he gives a wife 
ntre, ndien, imo idaha ete, *ino uwan 

who shall abide there with the man,^ it mil happen thence 
eke etie do ye erenowo/ eyetii do 

they shall be born and multiply and have children male and 
mo ernana ewak enyene ndita iron ye 

children female, so that they become many men, and when 
ndita iban, otii do mo evrara eriwak owo, ndieu 

they grow many men they will forget him,** 
mo ewara eriwak owo eyefre imo." 

Wife says to him, " J^ is fitting so, then they go 
Ngwan ete enye, '*Ekem ntre, ndien mo eka 

go abide there, but will not use in common a mat'' t He 
eketie do, edi idibuanake mbri/' Enye 

* It is hard to say how mach of this is borrowed from Europeans, 
t That is to say, live as man and wife. 

£ £ 2 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



420 WIT Ain> WISBOH FBOM WK8T A.FBICA. 

assents, gives the iffotnan, sending she must abide there toith 
onyimey dno £wan, ete etie do je 

man on the earth. The woman goes sits there with man on 
eren ke isd&. Kgwan aka etie do ye eren ke 

earthj and they dwell there, Abasi speaks to them sags, 
iaon, mo edua do. Abasi odaha mo ete, 

'' They must not have in common a mat?* They assent, 
" Ekubuana mbri." Mo enjieme, 

and keep each other company there ; then at time of food 
ebiiao do ; ekem ini udia 

they go on high proper day the. The wifi goes on high 
mo eka ke enjon edikem usen orii. Ngwan aka ke enyon 

with the husband, they go eat thing done and rise up* 
ye ebe, eka edia £po ema edaha enyon. 

Friend her fomale* takes her and permits to walk so 
Ufan esie anwanadaenye ayak asa&a ntre 

with her and proceeds to the earth. She exclaims calls 
ye enye ediwara ke iaoh. Akpaha okiit 

her *^ friend her fimale.** She answers, she says to 
enye " ufan imo afiwan." Eoye eyere, ete 



* The female friend ib here the tempter. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



VAEIA YABIOKUM. 421 

her^ ^^ The kind of place this you abide in here 
enje, "Oruk ebiet emi mbiifii etiede mi 

seems to her as a very good place, then it happens how 
etie imo nte ata eti ebiet, ndien anam didie 

you are lazy?** Friend her female says to her, 
mbiifii edi ifu?** Ufan esie afiwon ete enye, 

**I£owf'* She says, " Te say that 'you don*t 
"Ke didie?" Enye ete, "Edaha odu 'mbufii mi- 

toish a tpay that ye may provide food of yourselves,* 
jumke usufi nte enamde udia idem-mbiifii.* 

The journey you travel thus so it distresses not 
Isa^ mbiifii esaiade ntein nte ijatke 

youF So you will remain sitting eating even food 
mbiifii? Nte edisuk etietie idia kpa udia 

hand of man has not, which belongs to yourselves, 
ubiik owo inyeneke, eke idem-mbiifii. 

" Bush this * standing here I suppose belongs to Ahasi, 
''Ikot emi adade mi nkom enjene Abasi, 

and I believe Abasi speaks saying, ' Tou must abide here 
ndien nkom Abasi odaha ete, * Mbiifii etie mi 

• Probably the Garden of Eden, derived from old Portoguese. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



422 WIT AND TflSDOM FBOK WEST AFRICA. 

in bush this,* then it happens how you wish not a way for 
ke ikot emi,' ndien anam didie mbiifii mijiiinke U8u£ nte 

making afa/rm here that you may have food of your own?** 
enamde i&wafi mi kpa^ mbiifii enyene udia idemmbiif ii ? '* 

Miend her female says to her^ that it is truth you speak 
Ufan esie anwan ete enye^ke edi akpanika ke afii bdaha 

aty hut Ahasi has spoken sayivg^ " tJiey must not wish 
ndieu Abasi ama odaba ete, " mimo ikujiim 

to have food of themselves here on earth, that he will give 
ndiyene udia idem-mimo ken ke iso^, ke imo eyeno 

them food all time on high, then if they plant farm 
mimo udia kpupru ini ke enyoE, ndien mimo ita in wan 

and have food of themselves, it mil he they will not care 
injene udia idemmo, nkiim mimo idikereke 

avy more to go to food of Ahasi above, and it will come 
aba ndi ka udia Abasi ke enybn, eyetu 

thence they will forget Ahasi how he spake that 
odii mimo ifre Abasi nte enye oc'abade ke 

they will have food of themselves which they will eat alsOy 
mimo idinyene udia idemmiinb eke idiade inyuii, 

then also they care not for food of Ahasi, and 
ndien inyuii ikereke udia Abnt^ti, ndieu 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



VAHIA VARIORUM. 423 

it must he if they do so Abasi will quarrel icith themJ*^ 
nkom mimb inam ntre Abasi eyetkaha ye mimo." 

Friend her female saySy " SLe will not quarrel, he will say 
TJfan esie anwan ete, " Itakhake, enye odiip." 

nothinyJ^ At length at time of food they go above, friend 
Eketn ini udia mo eka ke enybn, ufan 

her female that takes matchet * gives her saying, " Give 
esie afiwan orii emen ofut eno enye ete, "No 

your husband that he may clear a spot in face of yard 
uberi etem ebiet ke isii esien 

your that, and having cleared it done^ you must tell her.^^ 
mbufu odii, ama etem ama, afii odaha imd." 

She assents ; takes the matchet, gives the husband, husband 
Enye ony'ime ; ada ofut, ono ebe, ebe 

cuts down a spot in face of yard their, clears it done. 
etem ebiet ke isii esiea mo, etem ama. 

She tells friend her female, friend her says to her, 
Eaye odaba ufan esie a^wan, ufan esie ete enye, 

" Let it remain there and dry, then she will direct you how 
" Yak etie do asat, ndien imo iteme fi nte 

* A entting instrument. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



424j TflT AND WISDOM TEOM TfEST AFBICA. 

yov iRf/«^ J(7." She assents. At length hush that they 
enamde." Enye onj'ime. Ekem ikot orii 

cut down lay there and dried all, friend her female takes 
eketemde ana do asat kpupru, ufan esie a&wan ada 

fire from heaven^ fetches her and says to her^ " Sndle 
ikafi ke enyo&, osok enye ete enve, " Tuene 

fire thrust in hush that.^* She kindles fire, the husband 
ikafi kin ke ikot orii." Enye etuene ikafi, ebe 

kindles, friend her female that kindles, and they take go 
etuene, ufan esie a^wan orii etuene, mo eda eka 

go thrust into the hush, and the fire consumes all. Then friend 
ekokin ke ikot, ikafi ata kpupru. Ekem ufan 

her female returns saying to her, " Tou having heard hell 
esie ai&wan onyo£ ete enye, ^^ Mbiifii $ma ekiip nkanika 

of food come ! " and she assents. At length they hear hell 
udia edi ! " enye onyime. Ekem mo ekiip nkaoika 

of food, they go go eat thing done, and then they rise up. 
udia, eka ekadia nkpo ema, ekem edaha ke enyon. 

Friend her female takes her and goes to the house, gocM 
TTfan esie a£wan ada enye aka ufok, 

gives her all kinds of food and fruit which they 
bkono enye kpupru oriik udia ye mbu£wiim nkpo emi 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



YABIA VARIORUM. 425 

plant in farm with sugar cane and every kind of thing she 
eiade ke in\¥an, ke mbokok ke kpupru oruk nkpo 

gives her ; she takes returns and keeps. By and hy friend 
000 enje ; enye ada oayon edinim. Ekem ufau 

her female comes and carries in hand a knife and hoe of 
esie anwan edi akama iqua ye udok 

planting and hoe for gathering up earth and comes thence 
uta ye udok unyukha otii edi 

and calls her and the husband, takes them goes to place 
okiit enye ye ebe, ada mo aka ke ebiefc 

that they had put fire. They take* sweep the clearance 
orii ekek'imde ikau. Ekada ekpori otuk 

all and pick up food that they divide and plant there, 
kpupru etan udia orii esiak eta do, 

they plant with fruit that. All return come sit together 
eta ye mbunwum nkpo orii. Kpupru en v 656 edibiino 

in house, then at time of food they go eat thing done and 
ke uf ok, ekem ini udia uio eka edia nkpo eina 

return. At length they delay not, thing every springs, yam 
enyono. £kem idankedan, nkpo kpupru ot'ibe, bia 

shoots forth sprouts, all become large. Friend her female 
ot'ibe emine kpupru ewono ikpo. Ufan esie anwan 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



426 TV IT AND WISDOil FEOM WEST ATEICA. 

comes day another to visit her, and she takes friend her 
edi usen efen ndise enye, enye ada ufan eeie 

to show the farmy friend her assents. She says to her, 
okowud inwan, ufan esie onyime. Ete enye, 

" Tfill your husband to cut yam sticks and thrust in for 
"Diiha uberi ekpi ndiaa atuak ono 

yam which has sprout, to look every thing which has 
bia eke enyenede emine, ese kpupru nkpo eke enyenede 

sprout thrust in sticks give. He assents. At length 
emine atuak ndisa ouo. Enye oayime. Ekem 

husband thrtists in* sticks gives all food that and 
ebe atuak ndisa ono kpupru udia orii ye 

every thing that. Then day that they go on high 
kpupru nkpo orii. Ekem usen orii mo eka kenyon 

go eat food of evening having returned they come to the 
ekadia udia mbubreyu ema enyono edi ke 

hoi^e ; she, the woman spreads mat her and enters, and lies 
ufok ; enye, iivran ebri mbri esie oduk, ana 

doion as she used to lie every day ; the husband lies on 
nte akam anade kpupru usen ; ebe ana ke 

his as he is wont to lie every day. It reached to the 
cdie nte akam anade kpupru usen. Ob'im ke 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



VAEIA TABIOBUM. 427 

middle of night very, the husband rises and follows wife, 
ufot okuneju ibibia, ebe adaba etiene uwan, 

the wife speaks to him says, " Abasi will quarrel with 
nwan odaha enye ete, "Abasi eyetakha ye 

them^B-e says, "fib will not quarrel, then should he quarrel 
mimo.'* Enye ete, " Itakhake, ndien okponyuu otakba 

let him quarrel, hut they have not a way that they shall do 
yak otakba nkoin, mimo inyeneke nte edinamde 

and escape the quarrel of Abasi . It was so Abasi had 
ibahake utok Abasi. . Nkom Abasi oko- 

spoken, saying, they must not unsh say, they vnll have food 
dahii, ete, mimo ikuyiira ite, inyeiie udia 

on earth, then this was so, they planted farm, and 
ke ison, ndien emi nkom, mirr.o imota inwan, ndien 

that they had planted farm it was they spoiled commands 
odii ema ikota iiivvuii ukom, mimo imabiat mbet 

of Abasi, then let them keep on spoil alV* The wife is 
Abasi, ndien yak mimo isiik ibiat kpupru." JN^gwan 

silent for a long time and consents* 
odiip tutututu, onjime. 

* This resembles the Moslem myth, that Adam knew his wife after 
eating of the forbidilcn plant— wheat. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



428 WIT AKD WISDOM TBOM WIST APRICA. 

Bay daums and month passes over vnfe ; mfe conceives 
£ju esiere ofion ebe nwan ; nwan emen idibi 

just very day that they did meet there so as wife and 
kpasuk usen oru md ejebobuno do ntre nte nwan je 

husband. Then day that friend her female comes^ comes 
ebe. Ekem usen orii ufan esie anwan edi, edi- 

speaJcs to her, says, " Come they go to thefarm^ They go 
da'.ia enje, ete, " Di mimo ika inwan '* Mo eka 

farm ; friend her female took stick to dig up, comes says 
inwan \ ufan esie anwan akada ecii idok, edi ete 

to her, "Let them try yet how they can scrape soil^ 
enye, " Yak mimo idiimo kana nte itetde ibon, 

look the thing which they had planted here, it is how 
ise nkpo emi mimo ikotade mi, etie didie 

HOW J* She assents ; they scrape ground «n- 

adan emi.*' Enye ony'ime ; mo iSfet ison ebuk- 

bury the yam and keep it. Friend her female says she 
bade bia • euim. Ufan esie anwan ete enye 

must lift, she lifts and returns to the house, friend her 
emen, enye emen onyon ufok, ufan esie 

shows her how to do it aU. Then she gives her 
eteme enye nte enamde kpupru. Ekem ono enye 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



VABIA YAEIOBUlf. 429 

pepper, gives her salt, gives her every thing of food, 
ntukon, ono enye inun, <5no enye kpupru nkpo udia, 

and pot and sjpoon and calabash and mortar and stone (to 
ye eau ye ikpan ye iko ye urun ye itiat 

grind) pepper; then friend her female goes. They 
ntiikiia; ekem ufan esie auwan oayoa. Mo 

sit together there so till wife boils yam and they eat, 
eyebobiino do ntre tutu nwan eteme bia odii mo edia, 

(she) and husband. Sun declines, they spread mat enter 
ye ebe. Eye okut, ebri mbri eduk 

lie on mat one, (she) and husband, they lie not any more 
ena mbri kiet, ye ebe, mo inana aba 

differently as they used to lie. The wife went no more 
nsio nsio ekam enade. Ngwan ikaha aba 

to food at town of Jhasi. When husband went, Abasi asks 
udiake obio Abasi. Eyedi ebe aka, Abasi obiip 

him saying,* " TFife thy lives where F*^ He says wife his 
enye ete, " Nwan f ii oni mon ? " Enye ete nwan imo 

is sick. He did not tell Abasi saying wife his 

odonono. Enye isianke Abasi ete nwan imo 



* Much like the tale of Adam*i nakedness. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



430 WIT AND WISDOM FBOM WEST AFBICA. 

was pregnant. Se was afraid^ for Ahasi had spoken to 
oyojiimo. Efehe, korii Abasi okodahade 

them sapng, " They must not do thing so^ Then wife his 
nrjo ete, " Ekunam nkpo ntre." Ekeru nwan esie 

counts month the one proper month of birth in which she 
abat iiiioii ada ekekem ofion uman emi enje 

should have child, then she sits down and hears a son, 
edimaude, ekem enye osara aman eren. 

They live together there so; in no long time wife also 
Mo ebiibiino do ntre ; ibigike bigi nwan onyun 

conceives and hears a daughter. They live together sOy 
emen idibi aman anwan. Mo eyebiino ntre, 

and go not any more to food at town of Ahasi. At length 
ikaba aba udia ke obio Abasi. Ekem 

he father of children these, because it was that he had 
enye ete ndita orii, korii edide nte enye ama 

known books, when children his were bom so he takes book 
ofiok nwed, ndita esie emana ntre enye ada nwed orii 

the and teaches the children. Then day that Abasi calls Atai 
ekpep ndita. Ekem usen orii Abasi okiit Atai 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



•VAUIA VABlOaUM. 431 

his, addresses her saying, " Tou see the word this he spoke 
eaie, iidaha enye ete, " Oinokut ika emi imo ikoJaba 

to you, dorCt you see how man has forgotten him here V^ 
fi, uque nte owo efrede imo mi ? *' 

Atai says to him, " Never mind for that, leave the thing 
Atai ete enye, " Dahadii keset, yak uo 

mth her, she will watch,*^ At length Atai his sends death, 
in/6, iyekpeme." Ekem Atai esie odoii mkpa, 

death comes, kills husband of woman the and woman the, 
mkpa edi, owUt ebe nwan orii ye nwan orii, 

they persons both die in day one and leave the children.Then 
mo owo mbiba ekpana usen ik et eduk ndita. Ekein 

the children remain there a long time, at length small thing 
ndita etie do tutututu, ekem ekpri nkpo 

even a little comes not, important thing occurs not, any 
esisit idike di, akpan nkpo idike di, 

thing which they should quarrel about, but they quarrel, 
nkpo eke mo ekpotakbade, mo etakba. 

Atai of Abasi made dispttte this follow them and death and 
Atai Abasi anam utok emi etiene ino ye mkpa ye 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



432 WIT AND WISDOM FBOM WB8T AFBIGJl. 

every evil thing because father their had done evil thing.* 
kpupru idiok nkpo korii ete mo akanamde idiok nkpo. 

It happened day that both eldest son and second daughter 
Ekem uaen orii ye nkpan ye udunwan 

and eldest daughter and second son they quarrel and fight; 
ye adiaha ye uda mo etakba enwana; 

then eldest son and second daughter pick up all thing 
ekem nkpan ye udunwan Stan kpupru nkpo 

of book of father their and all books of father their and 
nwed ete mo ye kpupru nwed ete mo ye 

all things which father their was wont to use after the 
kpupru nkpo eke ete mo akam anam ekade 

custom of the white man.f They pick up all run off and 
ke idti makara. Mo etan kpupru efene 

into the forest a long way and settle in the thick part of 
eduk ikbt tutututu ekatak ke mbaba eaet 

the forest. The eldest daughter and second son pick up 
ikot. Adiaba ye uda etan 

hoe for planting and hoe for hoeing and cutlass and every 
udok uta ye udok unyukba ye ikpanam ye kpupru 

* Like the disputes of Adam's children. 

f The white man being a separate and a snperhuman creation in 
general African opinion, is here a descendant from the black. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



YABIA YASIORUM. 433 

kind of thin^ which pertains to thing of plantation, rim off 
oruk nkpo eke asanade ke nkpo inwan, efeiie 

depart and settle in midst of forest the very also. The 
euyon, ekatak ke ufot ikot ibiba nko. 

eldest daughter settles there with second son, and second 
Adiaha etie do ye uda, uda 

son takes her marries and keeps her as wife his. The 
ada enje oda onim nte nwan esie. 

eldest son yonder in quarter that he ran and went off to 
Akpan ko ke edem odii enye efehede onyon 

also takes second daughter * marries and keeps as wife his. 
onyun ada udunwan bda omm nte nwan esie. 

The first daughter and second son live together there in 
Adiaha ye uda ebiino do ke 

place that they ran went to settle there and have many 
ebiet odii mo efebede eka eiie do enyene eriwak 

children, both children male and children female. The 
ndita ye ndita irenowo ye ndita iban. 

eldest son and second daughter also have in like manner in 
Akpan ye udufiw an enyun enyene ntre ko 



They marry like tbe sons and danghters of Ere. 

F F 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



434 WIT AND WISDOM FBOM WEST AFRICA. 

spot that they ran went to. The eldest daughter and 
ebiet orii nio efenede eka. Adiaha ye 

second son remain so do work of farm and clearing which 
uda etie ntre eaam utUm inwan ye ntem orii 

theg cleared and cutting which they cut and they put fire in 
mo etemede ye okpiit orii mo ekpide, ekimde ikan ke 

farm and clear the place burnt. That makes them black and 
inwan ekporide otuk. OdiL anam mo ebre 



they turn black men. The eldest son and second daughter 
ekabade mbub'it owo. • Akpan ye udunwan 

these are as those who do kind of work that causes them 
oiu edide nte mo enamde oruk utUm otU esin mo 

they dontget black. They stand become white men. Thus we 
ekubre. Mo eda edi mfia owo. Nte emi nyin 

live together here, both black men and makara* are of mother 
ibunode mi, ye mbubi't owo ye makara edi eka 

one and father one, but we black men are people of eldest 
kiet ye ete kiet, edi nyin mbubit owo edi ikot adiaha, 

daughter, white men are peoj>le of eldest son who fUd and 
mfia owo eii ikot akpan emi ekefehede otiyon 

? White men. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



YABIA TABIOBUM. 435 

toent to the Intshy for it is thing of hooh of father their 
ikot, kedi nkpo nwed ete mo 

that eldest son picked up and ran off makes makara know 
orii akpan akatande efehe esin makara ofiok 

booky also it is thing of work of farm of father their that 
nwed, onjufi edi nkpo utiim in wan ete mii orii 

eldest daughter picked up makes us black men understand 
adiaha akatande esin nyin mbubit owo ifiok . 

work of plantation. She, the Atai of Abasi, did not lose 
utiim inwan. Enye, Atai Abasi, iduokke 

head for word as she spoke with husband. That makes man 
ibuiit ke ika nte enje bkodahade ye ebe. Orii esin owo 

bom into the world seek to stand up in greatness of power, 
amana ke ererimbut ojiim ndidaha mkpiiu ubon, 

also he makes bold the eye and cares not even thing one. 
onyun oson eny'in mikerekekere baba nkpo kiet. 

She, Atai, forbears for a time; great man that will not consent 
Enye, Atai, erne tutu ; akan owo orii miny'imeke 

to renounce custom that, she kills. She causes death this 
ndiduok idii orii, enye owiit. Enyeeam mkpa emi 

which all men die here, Aiai speaks saying, **Let 
kpupru owo ekpanade mi. Atai odaha ete, "Yak 

FF 2 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



436 WIT AKD WISDOM FBOM WEST AFBICA. 

man not multiply too much in thenoorld; hemuft not 
owo okuwak akaha ke ererimbut; 

live life ever ever ; that if man live life ever ever in the 
okodu uwem nsi nsi ; ke owo odu uwem nsi nai ke 

world he vnll multiply too much*'* From that she forgets 
ererimbut ejewak akaba. Otii orii imo ifreke 

not word as she had promised given husband her. There- 
, uyu nte imo ikbnwonode ino ebe imo. Korii 

fore it is as Atai has uttered voice given husband^ Baying^ 
edide nte Atai ama oduok uju ono ebe, ete, 

'* She will not that man dwell in the world ever «?cr," she 
" Imo idinyimeke owo odun ke ererimbut nsi nsi,'* enye 

makes man die. Though she gives man he dwells 
esin owo ekpaua. Ekpedi nte enye onode owo edidun 

in the world, she takes us away, for if men knew not how 
ke ererimbut, osio nyin efep, ke owo ikpofibkke nte 

they were situated some men would turn beasts in forest, 
etiede, uduk owo ckpakabade unam ke ikot. 



• This is a purely African idea, partly \vj Icrlying human sacrifice 
and destruction of life by poison ordeal, twin>murder, &c. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



VIL 



PKOVEKBIAL SAYINGS AND IDIOMS 



IN 



THE MPANGWE (FAN) TONGUE. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PROVERBIAL SAYINGS AND IDIOMS IN 
THE MPANGWE (FAN) TONGUE. 



The following Bpecimens are taken from a sketch of 
the Grammar and Vocabulary painfully collected during 
a year's isolated residence at Nenge-Nenge, on the 
Gaboon Eiver, by the Eev. Messrs. Preston and Adams, 
of the American Mission.* My friend Mr. Winwood 
Eeade, author of " Savage Africa," was allowed to make a 
MS. copy, from which I have borrowed. 

The Mpangwe is an interesting race. They were intro- 
duced to Europe by M. Paul du Ghaillu, under the name 
of " Fans," and his account of their terrible cannibalism 
found many questioners. Mr. Eeade and I both subse- 
quently visited the tribe, and found only the average 
traces of anthropophagy. Its habitat is on the upper 
course of the Gaboon Eiver, and it is separated from the 
seaboard by the kindred Mpongwe, called by the French 
" les Gabons." The latter, however, is a race rapidly 
becoming extinct, and the Mpangwe must then tempo- 
rarily take its place. 

* I believe that a sketch of tbe Grammar and Yocabularj of the 
Mpangwe dialect has been printed by the Mission Press, Gaboon 
Ei^er. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



440 "WIT AND WISDOM FBOM WEST APBIGA.. 

To borrow Mr. Preston's remarks, " This language ia 
remarkably minute and flexible. New words appear to 
bave been coined in abundance to name new things, or 
old words have been stretched to meet them. There are 
few words for the feelings — none to express lofty ideas, 
refined sentiments, or even commonplace virtues. It is 
essentially a physical language — a language of the woods 
and fields, the prairies and rivers ; of man's body — his 
sports, his occupations, his necessities. We learn from 
this dull catalogue that the people are close observers of 
Nature, or rather of Nature's clothing. This language, 
terse and rugged as the naked savages by whom it is 
used, is but slightly different from the languages of the 
coast. The soft-spoken Mponge (G-aboon tribe) have it 
softened, lengthened, and disguised ; but the roots are in 
common. This process of changing the language is to be 
observed in Its first stage in the ' Dikele ' (the dialect of 
the Bakalai). Cut most Dikele words in half, and take 
the first half — you have the Mpange." 



Wa ta sne. 

You have become naked (i.e., you have nothing). 

2. 
Kaba a woba abnh. 

The goat feels panting (i.e., is weary), 

N.B. — The more civilized Mpangwe declares that the Bushmen 
cannot eat goats or fowls, which they look upon as fellow-townsmen 
and call the former " brother.'* They rarely, however, refuse to sell 
their "brethren." 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



SAYINGS IN THE MPANQWE TONGUE. 441 

8. 

A ei (ne) nzam nyiil. 

He is not with sweetness of body (i.e., he is unkind). 

4. 
Tnmiki le ki. 

Make it strong with strength (i.e., very strong), 

6. 
A ni annh avol. 

He is with a sharp mouth (i.e., he talks fast), 

6. 
Bikangbi jo. 

Clouds of sun (i.e., tohite clouds), 

7. 
A mana lorn mvon. 

He has sent the curse. 

N.6. — Meanings he has repeated the formula over a boy to 
blast the thief. 

8. 

A yam mala oso, a yem mala onvus. 

He knows the days before and he knows the days 
behind. 

9. 
Jo da ziba. 

The sun grows dark (i.e., sets). 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



442 WIT A.-SD WISDOM FBOM WEST AF&ICA.. 

10. 

Mina moba nyat oyoh. 

Tou sit above a cow (i.e., ride). 



11. 
Kal zano. 

Mj sister. 

N.6. — A male calls her bo, and a female calls her brother 
"Ndomazam" — my brother. But when a male speaks of his brother, 
or a female of her sister, they say " child of my father/' or ** child 
of my mother." 



12. 

Mayah mana masi onyenli. 

This rum has no Onyenh (i.e., is watered). 

N.B. — " Onyenh " is the bitter bark which makes palm wine 
intoxicating. 



18. 

A lorn mokal. 

He sends curses. 

N.B.— Alluding to a form of curse, in which a kind of dance is 
executed. 



14. 

Bapika! 

A word said when a woman wishes her child to c^et up 
on her ba(5k. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



MISCELLANEOUS PHRASES AND 
EXPRESSIONS. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



MISCELLANEOUS PHRASES AND 
EXPRESSIONS. 



I.* 

My musket after use needs oiling. 

N.B. — Recommending the punishment or acquittal of one 
accused. 

2. 

Give a dog a bone, and he will break and eat : so will 
we the town of our enemy. 

3. 

Goat's blood is goat's blood. 

N.B. — Anglic^, in the vulgar, "trumps/ i.e., we knew all that 
before. 



What I speak in the debate, I will enact in the field : 
there is a fish in the river called Pataseh. 

N.B. — This animal has a natural protection, and is able to de- 
fend itself. 

* The following nineteen are borrowed from ^* Dahomey and the 
Dahomans," being the journals of two missions to the King of 
Dahomey, and residence at his capital in the years 1849 and 1850. 
By Frederick E. Forbes, Commander; R.N., F.R.G.S., &c. 2 Tola. 
Loudon: Longmans, 1851. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



44,6 WIT USD WISDOM FBOM W£ST APBIC^ 

5. 

Let a man stuff himself at night, and he is heavj in the 
morning : that man is a fool. 

6. 
If one partly destroys a country, one is not likely to 
return in open day, but will take advantage of the dsuck- 
ness of night. 

N.B. — Alluding to the Dahoman syatem of perpetual surpriees. 

7. 
Where war is, there the drum will be. 

8. 

The readiest way to sell, is to cry your goods through 
the streets. 

9. 

In times of peace the warrior's eye roves in all direc- 
tions : in war, it is fixed upon one point. 

N.B. — Meaning, " Force should be concentrated." 

10. 
We are the king's sandals. 

11. 
Amou entered a room in which lay a corpse : he lifted 
the sheet, and was asked why ? ** Because," he replied, 
"I am anxious to go where that man is gone." Let us 
go there, or conquer the enemy ! 

N.B. — The Dahomans, with other African pagans, believe — not 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



MISGELLAKEOTJS PHBASES A.1SB EXPBESSIONS. 447 

as Commander Forbes supposes, " in a transmigration of souls, and 
that the dead pass into a happier state " — that after death the ghost 
can return at times to earth, and do good or evil to those living. 
Thus the rich take their favourite wives and a few slaves with them, 
some of the wives being often voluntary sacrifices — ^in fact, suicides. 

12. 

Altbougli a snake casts away beads and sheds its skin, 

it cannot change its colour ; nor can I my word. 

N.6. — Dahomans believe that the Popo beads are the produce 
of a snake, whereas other Africans consider them the vertebne of 
reptiles. They are dug up in the interior, where they are worth 
their weight in coral. Imitation has hitherto failed ; and it is still 
disputed whether they came originally across the continent from 
Egypt, or were buried in early times by the Venetians. 

13. 

Beans, though dried in burning fire, can, by introducing 
the finger, be taken out and eaten. 

14. 
Fetish men never initiate the poor. 

15. 

Spitting makes the belly more comfortable, and the 
outstretched hand will be the receiving one. 

16. 
When the wolf goes abroad, the sheep must fly. 

17. 
Let the king grant war speedily ; let not our energies 
be damped. Pire cannot pass through water ! 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



448 WIT AND WISDOM FROM WEST AFRICA. 

18. 
In the days of our ancestors the white trader brought 
good articles. A musket then lasted twentj years ; now, 
three. 

N.B. — Upon which Commander ForVea remarks: ** I doubt 
much if this was not a double eiUmdre ; meaning, that formerly a 
musket would be of little use in Dahomey, but now its use is uni- 
versaL All these sayings, as will be seen, are in abstruse parables/' 

19. 
If the leopard kills her prev, does she not feed her 
young ? If the hind brings forth her young, does she not 
nibble grass for it ? 



Edimo. 

An apparition, or ghost of the dead. 

N.B. — The ideas of the Isubu, or Bimbia people, respecting 
** spirit," spiritual state, and life after death, are, as usual amongst 
Africans, vague in the extreme. They sometimes offer food and 
drink to the Bidimo (plural of Edimo), and by " Bidimo " they mean 
their dead friends and relatives. Sheol or Hades — the Land of the 
Dead — is also elliptically called Bidimo ; the full phrase being 



* The following thirteen are taken from a dictionary of the Isnba 
tongne, printed at Bimbia, by the Baptist Mission, in 1846 — 47. 
The Isalm country, by Enropenns known as Bimbia, lies at the foot 
of the Cainaroons mountains, and along the banks of a river of the 
same nnine. In l>-il, the missionaries established there a village 
called JuLIlee. The language is, for Africa, extensively understood by 
the Ba-kwiri, or Bush races of the mountains, and by the tribes 
extending north-west to the Eumbi B., and eastward to Bavi and Abo. 
It is cognate with the Dnalla of the Camaroons E., and through 
Malimba it meets southwards the languages of the Congo class. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



MISCBLLAKEOUS PHBA.SES AND EXPRESSIONS. 449 

" Ekombo ya Bidimo " (Country of the Dead), opposed to " Ekombo 
ya Bawenya " (Land of the Living). Every person is said to go to 
Bidimo after death ; though the people have no definite ideas re- 
specting future reward and punishment, they look upon it as an un- 
desirable place. In the Dualla, or Camaroons dialect, the word Bidimo 
means apparitions, of which the Rev. Mr. Saker says, " Indistinctly, 
too, we trace Bidimo to the Sehirim of the Hebrews, and the fauns 
and other woodland deities of more modern days over whom Pan 
presided. Whatever may be the knowledge the natives possess of 
their own superstitions, there is no doubt as to the Panic which a 
supposed sight of * Edimo * creates, nor the terror a mere report 
inspires. Sacrifices, too, are made to Edimo, who is supposed, in 
some way or other, to preside over the wilderness and the farm, as 
Njengu presides over the waters." Finding no term for Hell, the 
missionaries Isubuized " Heli." For Heaven, however, there is 
nothing better than ** Loba,** which means " the starry expanse." 



Ilemba. 

P. N. of an evil spirit who, unless prevented bj 
charms, has the power of injuring and killing people. 
Men and women are accused of possessing Ilemba, and 
must prove their innocence by a draught of the poison- 
water called " Kwabe." If this ordeal prove fatal, the 
accused are guiltj ; if it is ejected, it is a sign of inno- 
cence. Almost every mishap, whether it relates to person 
or property, is attributed to the evil influence of Ilemba. 
It is the office of the Dikangga (or Diviner) to detect 
those possessed of this power, and the discovery is made 
by looking into a cup of water. Thousands of people 
from the interior will resort to a well-known diviner ; and 
the evils produced by this system of witchcraft can be 
understood only by referring to the state of Europe before 
the days of Wierus and his followers. One possessed by 
a demon is called " Motu wa Ilemba'* (a man of Ilemba — 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



450 WIT AND WISDOM FBOM WEST ArRIOA. 

a devil-man). The ideas of the Isubus being also misty 
upon the subject of a " devil," the missionaries obliged 
them with " Devili ; " opposed to " Obasi " — in the plural 
Baobasi — (God). 

3. 
Main. 

The breath of the mouth ; opposed to " Wei," that of the 
stomach. " Wei" is that upon which life depends, — the 
breath of life (the Hebrew " Eauh," Arab " Euh ") ; con- 
sequently, Europeans use it as " spirit." When a persoa 
dies, the Isubus say, " Wei i mafatea " (" the life's breath 
is broken loose"). So the Latins say, ^^ Anima est qua 
vivimuSf animtts quo sapimus,'* 



Molenga. 

Heart, — ^the word used by translators for "conscience.** 
Thus, " O sa beni molema o Dibungga : " literally, " Hast 
thou no heart in thy belly ? " i.e,, " Have you no con- 
science ? " 

5. 
Disua. 

A secret compact amongst the Isubus, entered into 

when some murderous or warlike deed is to be performed. 

The parties meet together in the woods, and, clearing 

a spot of weeds, sit down to take counsel. During the 

conference, a large pot is placed upon the fire, and in it a 

stone, which is supposed, superstitiously, to become, by 

cooking, as soil as a plantain. The stone is then cut with 

a knife, and a small piece is swallowed by each person. 

Hence the idioms, " Ife disua " (" to cook disua ") ; and. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



MISCELLANEOUS PHBASES AND EXPRESSIONS. 451 

as Mimbo, or palm-wine, poured upon the ground, some- 
times forms part of the ceremony, ** Soa disua " (*' to pour 
forth disua"). Each person of the council having swal- 
lowed his allowance, binds himself to do or to abet the 
deed proposed. Nothing but death nullifies the covenant ; 
and though years may elapse before the " dreadful thing " 
is effected, all consider themselves bound by an awful 
oath to carry out their design when opportunity offers. 
None but persons of most approved character may take 
part in this council, nor are women and young people 
permitted to be present. 



Dibombe. 

The name of a statute amongst the Isubu and through- 
out the adjacent districts. It originated in a dream. 
One Mofa ma He, a man residing in the Ekimbi district, 
inland and to the north of Bimbia, dreamed, some few 
years ago, that he saw a crowd of people long since dead. 
They warned him of the evil of taking away life unjustly, 
and told him that whenever a man committed murder {in 
another town) he was to be apprehended by the psople of 
his own town, and delivered up to be hanged. On the 
other hand, if he escaped, his innocent relatives and friends 
were not, according to the old custom of the country, to 
be destroyed. Also, if one man wounded another, the 
offender himself, and not his family, was subject to the 
lex talionis. After the vision, Mofa assembled the Bush- 
men from the surrounding district, and related to them 
what he had seen : hence arose the law called " Di- 
bombe," which has had a salutary influence in checking 
manslaughter. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



452 WIT AND WI8BOH FROM WEST AFRICA. 

7. 
Jiengga, or Njengu. 

The name of a deity who is venerated bj the free men 
of Isubu. He is said by the missionaries to have, in 
many respects, the same rank at Isubu that Neptune held 
in Borne. He is a water-god, walking with feet reversed 
from the human position — the toes being behind. Sacri- 
fices are made to him : these and other incantations often 
precede fishiug operations. There is an initiation in his 
name, and the brotherhood meet in neat little huts built 
outside the villages. Women are also eligible, but not 
slaves. Those who are beiug initiated wear about their 
necks and waists the herb Mbouggolu, which is used as 
a tea in bowel complaints : hence, a child born during the 
initiation of its mother, is called '^ Mokutu wa Mboug- 
golu.'* These children are supposed often to die of dropsy ; 
hence that disease is called " Nyambe na Jienggu." 

8. 
Motn a Vggangga. 

A cunning man, i.e., a doctor. Amongst the Isubu, 
as with the Egyptians, those who practise the healing art 
are called after the diseases which form their specialties. 
They think — and with great truth — that one brain is in- 
competent to comprehend the multifarious diseases of the 
human frame. Hence, there are at Isubu " Batu ba bola 
ekoseri," or cough doctors ; " Batu ba bola betanda," or 
worm doctors ; " Batu ba bola dibumbi,'* or dropsy doc- 
tors ; and so forth. The latter disease seems very preva- 
lent. Besides the name above given, it is called, in the 
case of children, " Nyambe ya ewake '* (the baboon's 
disease), on account of the supposed resemblance of the 
sufferer to that hideous animal. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



MISCELLAKEOUS PflBASES AND EXPBEBSIONS. 453 



Moesi. 

Mid-day. The Isubus do not divide the day into hours, 
but into three epochs, called " Idiba," " Moesi," and "Ebia 
moko." The term " Epoke *' (plural " Bepoke ") denotes 
the space of time which one of these three divisions con- 
tains. Thus, the earlier hours of the day — our morning — 
would be called " Epoke ya Idiba bunya " (the morning 
division). From 9 a.m. till 4 p.m. it would be •* Epoke 
ya moesi,'* or simply " Moesi" (light), as this noon divi- 
sion includes the brightest hours of the day. From 4 p.m. 
till night it is called " Epoke ya ebia-moko " (the evening 
division). The missionaries have been compelled to intro- 
duce " Eora" (an hour). 

10. 
Itambo. 

Chewed food generally. The sort is specified by an 

affix, as " Itambo la meke " (chewed plantain). The 

unclean custom of chewing food, and feeding children 

with it, is universally practised at Bimbia. 

11. 
Sombo ya mbori. 

A goat with long hair. Amongst the islanders of 
Bimbia a person that does not possess a goat of this de- 
scription, is not allow^ed to put his harp on his shoulder 
whilst playing it : he must hold it down, or put it on his 
knees, and pay a fine for transgressing the rule. 

12. 
Ba tia Nggondo, or Ba taka Nggondo. 
They beat or shell the Uggondo-seed. 
N.B.— Meaning the Pleiades. " Uggondo" is a BDiall white seed. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



454 WIT AINB WISBOIC FftOM WEST AFRICA. 

like that of the orange, but flatter, the kernel of which has been 
eaten, when the outer shell has been beaten or picked oS. It would 
seem that the Pleiades present, to the minds of the Isubus, the idea 
of the shell of the Uggondo beaten and scattered over the ground. 

13. 

Di bi 'ma itaki 1' akai o ifala iyokise la inona, 
nggeri, i aka ilangga. 

We think that poverty surpasses in desire the torments 
of covetousness bejond computation, 

N.6. — Less literally, " We think poverty infinitely desirable com- 
pared with the torments of covetousness." 



Dibobe. 

Sky, or firmament. The notion prevails that there is a 
something spread on high as a piece of cloth is extended, 
or as a spider stretches its web, and the " Dibobe " covers 
the whole arc of heaven. 

2. 
Ekali. 

The religion or superstition of the country, now applied 

by the missionaries to the faith of the '^ Ejilati a Loba" 

(Book of the Firmament, or Bible), which they regard 

as having taken the place of the natives' " Ekali." 

* The following five are taken from a vocabulary of Dualla language 
for the use of missionaries and others, printed at Camaroons, Western 
Africa, Mission Press, 1862, and attributed to the Rev. Alfred Saker, 
of the Camaroons (Baptist) Mission. The Dualla, or Diwalla, are the 
people of the Camaroons river extending for thirty miles from the sea, 
along the river and into the interior. The people are numerous, they 
trade in palm oil, and are not to be trusted. Their language is one of 
the multifarious South- African dialects around them. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



MISCELLANEOUS PHRASES AND EXPRESSIONS. 455 
3. 

Dla da modi. 

The female (i.e, the left, became the inferior) hand. 

4. 
Ngambi. 

The great idol or god of the country. All the rites 
are addressed to it, but what it may have been originally, 
no one knows. The people, unable to assign to it form 
or place, believe that it resides wherever the Ngambi-mau 
(or Fetisheer) locates it with his spells. Thus, a stick, a 
leaf, or any other thing selected for the occasion, has eyes 
to see, and ears to hear, and can communicate intelligence 
to its priest. Hence the dread, the sacrifices, and the 
offerings of these people. 

5. 
Nyambe. 

A word difficult to explain. It seems to be a name for 
the Deity, different from Ngambi, which is owned to be 
earthly. Nyambe is of heaven— -the great worker in the 
earth amongst men; and to him are attributed all per- 
sonal disasters, family bereavements, and similar mis- 
fortunes. 



THE END. 



BRADBURY AND CVARS, PRINTERS, wniTKFRlARS. 

