About This File

This file is part of a corpus compiled by Caitlin Matheis (University of Nebraska-Lincoln) for a 2021 computational text analysis project for the One More Voice recovery project (onemorevoice.org). This corpus encompasses a wide range of plain text (TXT) files containing nineteenth- and early twentieth-century literary works centered on Africa by several dozen different British and African writers. Questions about the corpus and project can be directed to Caitlin Matheis (cmatheis2@huskers.unl.edu), the creator of the corpus, and Adrian S. Wisnicki (awisnicki@unl.edu), lead developer for One More Voice.

File Source: Internet Archive, http://archive.org/details/dli.granth.70833
--------------------------------------

FIRST FOOTSTEPS 

IN

EAST AFRICA; 


AN EXPLORATION OF HARAR. 


BY 

RICHARD F. BURTON, 

BOMBAY ARMY,

AUTHOR OF "PERSONAL NARRATIVE OF A PILGRIMAGE TO EL-MEDINAH AND MECCAH."


LONDON: 

LONGMAN, BROWN, GREEN, AND LONGMANS 

1856. 




TO 


THE HONORABLE 

JAMES GRANT LUMSDEN, 

MEMBER OF COUNClL| ETC. ETC. BOMBAY. 


I HAVE ventured, my dear Lumsden, to ad¬ 
dress you ih, and inscribe to yoU, these 
pages. Within your hospitable walls my 
project of African travel was matured, in 
the fond hope of submitting, on return, 
to your friendly criticism, the record of 
adventures in which you took so warm an 
interest. Dls aliter visum ! Still 1 would 
prove that my thoughts are with you, and 
til us request you to accept with your wonted 
honhommie this feeble token of a sincere 
good will. 


' A 8 




PREFACE. 


Averse to writing, as well as to reading, diffuse 
-.Projegoraena, the author finds himself compelled 
to relate, at some length, the circumstances which 
led to the subject of these pages. . j ^ 

In May 1849, the late Vice-Admiral Sir Charles 
Malcolm, formerly Superintendent of the Indian 
Navy, in conjunction with Mr. William John 
Hamilton, then President of the Royal Geogra¬ 
phical Society of Great Britain, solicited the per¬ 
mission of the Court of Directors of the Honor¬ 
able East India Company to ascertain the pro- • 
ductive resources of the unknown Somali Country 
in East Africa.* The answer returned, was to the 
following effect: — 

" If a fit and proper person Volunteer to travel 
in the Somali Country, he goes as a private 

* It occupies the whole of the Eastern Horn, extending from 
the north of Bab el Mandeb to several degrees south oi^Cape 

• A 4 



Vlll 


PREFACE. 


traveller, the Government giving no more pro¬ 
tection to him than they would to an individual 
totally unconnected with the service. They will' 
allow the officer who obtains permission. to go, 
during his absence on the expedition to retain 
all the pay and allowances he may be enjoying 
when leave was granted: they will supply him 
with all the instruments required, afford him a 
passage going and returning, and pay the actual, 
expenses of the journey." 

The, project lay dormant until March 1850, 
when Sir Charles Malcolm and Captain Smyth, 
President of the Royal Geographical Society of 
Great Britain, waited upon the chairman of the 
Court of Directors of the Honorable East India 
Company. He informed them that if they would 
draw up a statement of what was required, and 
specify how it could be carried into effect, the 
document ishould be forwarded to the Governor- 
General of India, with a recommendation that, 

Guardafui. In thS former, direction it is bounded by the 
Dankali and the Ittoo Gallas ; in the latter by the Sawahil 'or 
Negrotic regions; the Eed Sea is its eastern limit, and west¬ 
ward it stretches to within a few miles of Harar. 



PKEFACE. 


ix 


should no objection arise, either from expense 
or other causes, a fit person should be permitted 
to explore the Somali Country. 

. Sir Charles Malcolm then offered the charge 
of the expedition to Dr. Carter of Bombay, an 
officer 'favourably known to the Indian world by 
his services on board the "ralinurus" brig whilst 
employed upon the maritime survey of Eastern 
Arabia. Dr. Carter at once acceded to the terms 
proposed by those from whom the projeict ema- 
nated; but his principal object being to compare 
the geology and botany of the Somali Country 
with the results of his Arabian travels, he volun¬ 
teered to traverse only that part of Eastern Africa 
which lies north of a line drawn from Berberah 
to Ras Hafun, — in fact, the maritime mountains 
of the Somal. His health not permitting him 
to be left on shore, he required a cruizer to 
convey him from place to place, and to preserve 
his store of presents and provisions. By this 
means he' hoped to land at the most interesting 
points and to penetrate here and there from 
sixty to eighty miles inland, across the region 
, which he undertook to explore. 



X PREFACE. 

On the 17th of August, 1850, Sir Charles Mal¬ 
colm wrote to Dr. Carter in these terms: — "I 
have communicated with the President of the 
Royal Geographical Society and others : the feel¬ 
ing ' is, that though much valuable information 
could no doubt be gained by skirting the coast 
(as- you propose) both in geology and botany, 
yet that it does not fulfil the primary and 
great object of the London Geographical Societyj 
which was, and still is, to have the interior ex¬ 
plored." The Vice-Admiral, however, proceeded 
to say that, under th^ circumstances of the case, 
Dr. Carter's plans were apprpved of, and asked 
him to confer immediately with Commodore 
Lushington, then Commander in - Chief of the 
Indian Navy. 

In May, 1851, Vice-Admiral Sir Charles Malcolm 
died: geographers and travellers lost in him an 
influential and an energetic friend. During the 
ten years of his superintendence over the Indian 
Navy that service rose, despite the incubus of 
profound peace, to the highest distinction. He 
freely permitted the officers under his command 
to undertake the task- of geographical discovery,^ 

I 



PREFACE. 


xi 


retaining their rank, pay, and batta, whilst the 
actual expenses of their journeys were defrayed 
by contingent bills. All papers and reports sub¬ 
mitted to the local government were favourably 
received, and the successful traveller looked for¬ 
ward to distinction and advancement. 

During the decade which elapsed between 
1828 and 1838, "officers of the Indian Navy 
journeyed, as the phrase is, with their lives in their 
hands, through the wildest districts of the East. 
Of these we name the late Commander S. A. 
Young, Lieutenants Wellsted, Wyburd, Wood, 
and Christopher, retired Commander Orrnsby, 
the present Capt. H. B. Lynch C.B., Commanders 
Felix Jones and W. C. Barker, Lieutenants Crut- 
tenden and Whitelock. Their researches extended 
from the banks of the Bosphorus to the shores 
of India. Of the vast, the immeasurable value 
of such services," to quote the words of the 
Quarterly Review (No. cxxix. Dec. 1839), 
"which able officers thus employed, are in the 
mean time rendering to science, to commerce, 
to their country, and to the whole civilized world, 
we need say nothing; — nothing we could say 
would be too much." 



Xll 


PREFACE. 


" In five years, the admirable maps of that 

coral-bound gulf — the Red Sea — were com- 

* 

plete: the terrors of the navigation had given 
place to the confidence inspired by excellent 
surveys. In 1829 'the Thetis of ten guns, under 
Commander Robert Moresby, convoyed the first coal 
ship up the Red Sea, of the coasts of which 
this skilful and enterprising seaman made a 
cursory survey, from which emanated' the subse¬ 
quent trigonbmetrical operations which form our 
present maps. Two ships were employed, the 
' Benares ' and ' Palinurus,' the former under Com¬ 
mander Elwon, the latter under Commander 
Moresby. It remaiped, however, for the latter 
officer to complete the work. Some idea may 
be formed of the perils these officers and men 
went through, when we state the '-Bfenares' was 
forty-two times aground. 

"Robert Moresby, the genius of the Red Sea, 
conducted also the survey of the Maidive Islands 
and groups known as the Chagos Archipelago. 
He narrowly escaped being a victim to the delete¬ 
rious climate of his station, and only left it when 
no longer capable of working. A host of young 



PREFACE, 


xiii 

and ardent officers, — Christopher, Young, Powell, 
Campbell, Jones, Barker, and others,— ably se¬ 
conded him : death was busy amongst them for 
months and so paralyzed by disease were the living, 
that the anchors could scarcely be raised for a retreat 
t'o the coast of India. Eenovated by a three months' 
stay, occasionally in port, where they were strength¬ 
ened by additional numbers, the undaunted rem¬ 
nants from time to time returned to their task; and 
in 1837, gave to the world a knowledge of those 
singular groups which heretofore — though within 
150 miles of our coasts — had been a mystery 
hidden within the dangers that environed them. 
The beautiful maps of the Red Sea, drafted by 
the late Commodore Carless*,-then a lieutenant, 
wiU ever remain permanent monuments of Indian 

? In A.D. 1838, Lieut. Carless surveyed the seaboard of the 
Somali country, from Eas Hafun to Burnt Island; unfortu¬ 
nately his labours were allowed by Sir Charles Malcolm's suc- 
pessor to lie five j^ears in the obscurity of MS. Meanwhile 
the steam frigate " Mem non," Capt. Powell commanding, was 
lost' at Has Assayr; a Norie's chart, an antiquated document, 
with an error of from fifteen to twenty miles, being the only 
map of reference on board. Thus the Indian Government, 
by the dilatoriness and prejudices of its Superintendent of 
Marine, sustained an unjustifiable loss of at least 50,000/. 



XIV 


PREFACE. 


Naval Science, and the daring of its officers and 
men. Those of the Maidive and Chagos groups, 
executed by Commander then Acting Lieutenant 
Felix Jones, were, we hear, of such a high order, 
that they" were deemed worthy of special inspec¬ 
tion by the Queen." 

"While these enlightening operations were in 
progress, there were others of this profession, no 
less distinguished, employed bn similar discoveries. 
The coast of Mekran westward from Scinde, was 
little known, but it soon found a place in the 
hydrographical offices of India, under Captain, then 
Lieutenant, Stafford Haines, and his staff, who 
were engaged on it. The journey to the Oxus, 
made by Lieut. Waod, Sir. A. Burnes's companion 
in his Lahore and Afghan missions, is a page of 
history which may not be opened to us again in 
our own times; while in Lieut. Carless's drafts 
of the channels of the Indus, we trace those de- 
signs, that the sword of Sir Charles Napier only 
was destined to reveal." 

" The ten years prior to that of 1839 were those 
of fitful reposej such as generally precedes some 
great outbreak. The repose afforded ample leisure 



PREFACE. 


XV 


for research, and the shores of the island of Soco¬ 
tra, with the south coast of Arabia, were carefully 
delineated. Besides the excellent maps of these 
regions, we are indebted to the survey for that 
unique work on Oman, by the late Lieut. Wellsted 
(if this service, and for valuable notices from the 
pen of Lieut. Cruttenden.* 

" Besides the works we have enumerated, there 
were others of the same nature, but on a smaller 
scale, iji operation at the same period around | our 
own coasts. The Gulf of Cambay, and the,dan¬ 
gerous sands known as the Molucca Banks, were 
explored and faithfully mapped by Captain Richard 
Ethersey, assisted by Lieutenant (now Commander) 
Fell. Bombay Harbour was delineated again on a 
grand scale by Capt. R. Cogan, assisted by Lieut. 
Peters, now both dead; and the ink of the Maidive 
charts had scarcely dried, when the labours of 
those employed were demanded of the Indian 
Government by Her Majesty's authorities at Cey¬ 
lon, to undertake trigonometrical surveys of that 

* In A.D. 1836-38, Lieut. Cruttenden published descriptions 
of travel, which will be alluded to in a subsequent part of this 
preface. 



PREFACE. 


^vi 

Island, and the dangerous and shallow gulfs on 
either side of the neck of sand connecting it with 
India.' They were the present Captains F. F. 
Powell, and Richard Ethersey, in the Schooner 
'Royal Tiger' and 'Shannon,' assisted by Lieut, 
(now Commander) Felix Jones, and the late Lieut. 
Wilmot Christopher, who fell in action before 
Mooltan. The first of these officers had charge 
of one of the tenders under Lieut. Powell, and 
the latter another under Lieut. Ethersey. The 
maps of the Pamban Pass and the Straits of Manaar 
¦wei*e by the hand of Lieut. Felix Jones, who was 
the draftsman also on this survey: they speak for 
themselves." * 

In 1838 Sir Charles Malcolm was succeeded 
by Sir Robert Oliver, an " old officer of the old 
school " — a strict disciplinarian, a faithful and 
honest servant of Government, but a violent, 
limited, and pr^yudiced man.. He wanted "sailors," 
individuals conversant with ropes alid rigging, 

* This 'Hiastj sketch of the scientific labours of the Indian 
navy,** is extracted from an able anonymous pamphlet, uh« 
promisingly headed " Grievances and Present Condition of our 
Indian Officers.'* 



PREFACE. 


xvii 


and steeped in knowledge of shot and shakings, he 
loved the " rule of thumb," he hated " literary 
razors," and he viewed science with the profoundest. 
contempt. About twenty surveys were ordered to 
be discontinued as an iriauguratory measure, caus- 
' ing the loss of many thousand pounds, independent 
of such contingencies as the Memnon." * Batta 
was withheld from the few officers who obtained 
leave, and the life of weary labour on board ship 
was systematically made monotonous and jincom- 
fortable; — in local phrase it was described as 
"many stripes and no stars." Few measures 
were omitted to. heighten the shock of contrast. 
No notice was taken of papers forwarded to 
Government, and the man who attempted to dis¬ 
tinguish himself by higher views than quarter-deck 
duties, found himself marked out for the angry 
Commodore's red-hot displeasure. No place was 
allowed for charts and, plans: valuable original 


* In A.D, 1848, the late Mr. Joseph Hume called in the 
House of Commons for a return of all Indian surveys carried 
on during the ten previous years. The result proved that no 
less than a score had been suddenly " broken up," by order of 
Sir Bobert Oliver. 


a 



xvm 


PREFACE. 


surveys, of which no duplicates existed, lay tossed 
amongst the brick and mortar with which the 
Marine Office was being rebuilt. No instruments 
were provided for ships, even a barometer was not 
supplied in one case, although duly indented for 
during five years. Whilst Sir Charles. Malcolm 
ruled the Bombay ' dockyards, the British name 
rose high in the Indian, African, and Arabian seas. 
Each vessel had its presents.— guns, pistols, and 
powder, Abbas, crimson cloth and shawls, watches, 
telescopes, and similar articles — with a suit¬ 
able stock of which every officer visiting the in¬ 
terior on leave was supplied. An order from Sir 
Robert Oliver withdrew presents as well as instru¬ 
ments : with them disappeared the just idea of our 
faith and greatness as a nation entertained by the 
maritime races, who formerly looked forward to 
the arrival of our cruizers. Thus the Indian navy 
was crushed by neglect and routine into a mere 
transport service, remarkable for little beyond 
constant quarrels between sea-lieutenants and 
land-lieutenants, sailor-officers and soldier-officers, 
their " passengers." And thus resulted that dearth 
of enterprise — alluded to ex cathedra by a late 



PREFACE. xix 

President of the Royal Geographical' Society of 
Great Britain — which now' characterises Western 
India erst so celebrated for ardour in adventure.* 

To return to the subject of East African dis- 
coveiy. Commodore Lushington and Dr. Carter 
met in order to concert some measures for forward¬ 
ing the plans of a Somali Expedition. • It was- 
resolved to associate three persons, . Drs. Carter 
and Stocks, and an officer ^oF the Indian navy : a 
vessel was also warned for service on the coast of 
Africa. This took place in the beginning of ilSS l: 
presently Commodore Lushington resigned his 
command,, and the project fell to the ground. 

The author of these pages, after his return ..from 
El Hajaz to Bombay, conceived the idea of reviving 
the Somali Expedition: he proposed to.'start in the 
spring of 1S54, and accompanied by two officers, 
to penetrate via Harar and Gananah . to Zanzibar. 
His plans were favourably received by the Right 
Hon. Lord Elphinstone, the enlightened governor 
of the colony, and by the local authorities, amongst 
whom the name of James Grant Lumsden, then 
Member of Council, will ever suggest the liveliest 
feelings, of gratitude and affection. But if^'lbeing 



XX 


PREFACE. 


judged necessary to refer once more for permission 
to the Court of Directors, an official letter bearing 
date the 28th April 1854 was forwarded from 
Bombay with a warm recommendation. Lieut. 
Herne of the 1st Bombay European Regiment of 
Fusileers, an officer skilful in surveying, photo¬ 
graphy, and mechanics, together with the writer, 
obtained leave, pending the reference, and a free 
passage to Aden in Arabia. On the 23rd August 
a favourable reply was despatched by the Court of 
Directors. 

Meanwhile the most painful of events had mo¬ 
dified the original plan. The third member of the 
Expedition, Assistant Surgeon J. EUerton Stocks, 
whose brilliant attainments as , a botanist, whose 
long and enterprising journeys, and whose emi¬ 
nently practical bent of mind had twice recom¬ 
mended him for the honors and trials of African 
exploration, died suddenly in the prime of life. 
Deeply did his friends lament him for many rea¬ 
sons ; a universal favourite, he left in the social 
circle a void never to be filled up, and they 
mourned the more that Fate had not granted him 
the time, as it had given him the will and the 



PREFACE. 


XXI 


power, to trace a deeper and more enduring mark 
upon the iron tablets of Fame. 

No longer hoping' to carry out his first project, 
the writer determined to make the geography and 
commerce of the Somali country his principal 
^ objects. He therefore applied to the Bombay Go¬ 
vernment for the assistance of Lieut. William Stro- 
yan, T. N., an officer distinguished by his surveys 
on the coast of Western India, in Sindh, and on. 
the Panjab Rivers. It was not without 
that such valuable service's were spared for the 
deadly purpose of penetrating into Eastern Africa. 
All obstacles, however, were removed by their 
ceaseless and energetic efforts, who had fostered the 
author's plans, and early in the autumn of 1854, 
Lieut. Stroyan received leave to join the Expedi¬ 
tion.. At the same time, Lieut. J. H. Speke, of 
the 46th Regiment Bengal N. I., who had spent 
many years collecting the' Fauna of Thibet and 
the Himalayan mountains, volunteered, to share 
the hardships of African exploration. 

In October 1854, the writer and his companions 
received at Aden in Arabia the sanction of the 
Court of Directors. It was his intention' to march 


difficulty 



xxu 


preface* 


in a body, using Berberab as a base of operations, 
westwards to Harar, and thence in a south-easterly 
direction towards Zanzibar. 

But the voice of society at Aden was loud 
against the expedition. The rough manners, the 
fierce looks, and] the insolent threats of the Somal 
¦—the effects of our too peaceful rule —had pre¬ 
possessed the timid colony at the " Eye of Yemen " 
with an idea of extreme danger. The Anglo-Saxon 
spirit suffers, it has been observed, from con¬ 
finement within any but wooden walls, and the 
European degenerates rapidly, as do his bull-dogs, 
his game-cocks, and other pugnacious animals, in 
the hot, enervating, and unhealthy climates of the 
East. The writer and his comrades were repre¬ 
sented to be men deliberately going to their death, 
and the Somal at Aden were not slow in imitating 
the example of their rulers. The savages had 
heard of the costly Shoa Mission, its 300 camels 
and 50- mules, and they longed for another re¬ 
hearsal of the drama: according to them a vast 
. outlay was absolutely necessary, every village 
must be feasted, every chief propitiated with 
magnificent presents, and dollars must be dealt 



PREFACE. XXiii 

Out by handfuls. The Political Resident refused 
to countenance the scheme proposed, and his objec¬ 
tion necessitated a further change Of plans. 

Accordingly, Lieut. Heme was directed to pro¬ 
ceed, after the opening of the annual fair-seaSOny 
,t0 Berberah, where no danger . waS apprehended. 
It was judged that the residence of this officer 
upon the coasf would produce a friendly feeling, 
on the part of the Somal, and, as indeed afterwards 
proved to be the case, would facilitate the writer's 
egress from- Harar, by terrifying the ruler j!or the 
fate of his caravans.* Lieut. Heme, who^on the 
1st of January 1855, was joined by Lieut. Stroyan,. 
redded on the African Coast from Noyember to 
Aprilj he inquired into the commerce, the caravan' 
lines, and the state of the slave trade, visited the 
maritime mountains, sketch# all the places of 
interest,- and made a variety of meteorological 
and other observations as a prelude to extensive 
research. 

Lieut. Speke was directed to land at Buhder 

• This plan was successfully adopted by M^srs* Antoine . 
and Arnauld d'Abbadi^ when travelling in dangerous parts 
of Abyssinia and Ijie adjacent countries. " 

' a 4 



Xxiv PREFACE. 

Guray, a small harbour in the " Arz el Aman," or 
" Land of Safety, " as the windward Somal style 
their country. His aim was to trace the celebrated 
Wady Nogal, noting its watershed and other pecu¬ 
liarities, to purchase horses and camels for the 
future use of the Expedition, and to collect speci¬ 
mens of the reddish earth which, according to the 
older African travellers, denotes the presence of 
gold dust.* Lieut. Speke started on the 23rd 
October 1854, and returned, after about three 
months, to Aden. Hn had failed, through the ra¬ 
pacity and treachery of his guide, to reach the 
Wady Nogal. But he had penetrated beyond the 
maritime chain of hills, and his journal (condensed 
in the Appendix) proves that he had collected 
some novel and important information. 

Meanwhile the author, assuming the disguise of 
an Arab merchant, prepared to visit the forbidden 
city of Harar. He left Aden on the 29th of Oc¬ 
tober 1854, arrived at the capital of the ancient 
Hadiyah Empire on the 3rd January 1855, and on 
the 9th of the ensuing February returned in safety 
to Arabia, with the view of purchasing stores and 

* In A.i>. 1660, Vermuyden found gold at Gambia always 
on naked and barren hills embedded in a reddish earth." 



PREFACE. 


XXV 


provisions for a second and a longer journey.* 
What unforeseen circumstance cut short the career 
of the proposed Expedition, the Postscript of the 
present volume will show. 

The following pages contain the writer's diary, 
^ept during his march to and from Harar. It 
must be borne in mind that the region traversed 
on this occasion was previously known only by the 
vague reports of native travellers. All the Abys¬ 
sinian discoverers had traversed the Dankaji and 
other northern tribes: the land of the Somal was 
still a terra incognita. Harar, moreover, had 
never been visited, and lew are the cities of the 
world which in the present age, when men hurry 
about the earth, have not opened their gates to 


* The writer has not unfrequentlj been blamed hj the 
critics of Indian papers, for venturing into such dangerous 
lands with an outfit nearly 1500/. in value. In the Somali, 
as in other countries of Eastern Africa, travellers must carry 
not only the means of purchasing passage, but also the very 
necessaries of life. Money being unknown, such bulky articles 
as cotton-cloth, tobacco, and beads are necessary to provide 
meat and milk, and he who would eat bread must load his 
camels with grain. The Somal of course exaggerate the cost 
of travelling; every chief, however, may demand a small 
present, and every pauper, as will be seen in the following 
pages, expects to be fed. 



PREFACE. 


xxvi 

European adventure. The ancient metropolis of a 
once mighty race, the only permanent settlement 
in Eastern Africa, the reported seat of Moslem 
learning, a walled city of stone houses, possessing 
its independent chief, its peculiar population, 
its unknown language, and its own Cranage, the 
emporium of the coflPee trade, the head-quarters of 
slavery, the birth-place of the Kat plant*, and 
the great manufactory of cotton-cloths, amply, it 
appeared, deserved the trouble of exploration. 
That the writer was successful in his attempt, the 
following pages will prove. Unfortunately it was 
found impossible to use any instruments except 
a pocket compass, a watch, and a portable ther¬ 
mometer more remarkable for convenience than 
correctness. But the way was thus paved for 
scientific observation: shortly after the author's 
departure from Harar, the Amir or chief wrote 
to the Acting Political Resident at Aden, earnestly 
begging to be supplied with a " Frank physician," 
and offering protection to any European who might 
be persuaded to visit his dominions. 

"'f * It is described at length in Chap. III. 



PREPACK. 


xxvii 

The Appendix contains the following papers con¬ 
nected with the movements of the expedition in 
the winter of 1854. 

1. The diary and observations made by Lieut. 
Speke, when attempting to reach the Wady Nogal. 

( 2. A sketch of the grammar, and a vocabulary 
of the Harari tongue. This dialect is little known 
to European linguists: the only notices of it 
hitherto published are in Salt's Abyssinia, Ap¬ 
pendix I. p. 6—10.; by Balbi Atlas Ethnogr. |Tab. 
xxxix. No.. 297 .; Kielmaier, Ausland, ^840, 
No. 76.; and Dr. Beke (Philological Journal, April 
25. 1845.)- 

3. Meteorological observations in the cold season 
of 1854-55 by Lieuts. Herne, Stroyan, and the 
Author. 

4. A brief description of certain peculiar customs, 
noticed in Nubia, by Brown and Weme under the 
name of fibulation. 

5. The conclusion is a condensed account of an 
attempt to reach Harar from Ankobar.* On the 

• The author hoped to insert Lieut. Herne's journal, kept 
at Berberah, and the difierent places of note in its vicinity; as 
yet, however, the paper has not been received. 



xxviii 


PREFACE. 


14th October 1841, Major Sir William Cornwallis 
Harris (then Captain in the Bombay Engineers), 
Chief of the Mission sent from India to the King 
of Shoa, advised Lieut. W. Barker, I. N., whose 
services were imperatively required by Sir Kobert 
Oliver, to return from Abyssinia via Harar,, " over 
a road hitherto untrodden by Europeans." As 
His Majesty Sahalah Selassie had offered friendly 
letters to the Moslem Amir, Capt. Harris had " no 
doubt of the success of the enterprise." Although 
the adventurous explorer, was. prevented by • the 
idle fears of the Bedouin Somal and the rapacity 
of his guides from visiting the city, his pages, 
as a narrative of travel, will amply reward perusal. 
They have been introduced into this volume 
mainly with the view of putting the reader in 
possession of all that has hitherto been written 
and not published, upon the subject of Harar.* 

* Harar has frequently been described by hearsay; the fol¬ 
lowing are the principal authorities : — 

, Rochet (Second Voyage Dans le Pays des Adels, &c. Paris, 
1846.), page 263. 

Sir. W. Cornwallis Harris (Highlands of Ethiopia, vol. i. 
ch. 43. et passim). 

Cruttenden (Transactions of the Bombay Geojogical Society 
A.D. 1848). 



PKEFACE. 


xxix 


For the same reason the author has not hesitated 
to enrich his pages with observations drawn from 
Lieutenants Cruttenden and Kigby. The former 
printed in the Transactions of the Bombay Geo¬ 
graphical Society two excellent papers: one headed 
a " Report on the Mijjertheyn Tribe of Somallies 
inhabiting the district forming the North East 
Point of Africasecondly, a " Memoir on the West¬ 
ern or Edoor Tribes, inhabiting the Somali coast 
of North East Africa; with the Southern Branches 
of the family of Darood, resident on the banks of 
the Webbe Shebayli, commonly called the River 
Webbe." Lieut. C. P. Rigby, 16th Regiment 
Bombay N.L, published, also in the Transactions 
of the Geographical Society of Bombay, an " Out-, 
line of the Somali Language, with Vocabulary," 
which supplied a great lacuna in the dialects of 
Eastern Africa. 

Barker (Report of the probable Position of Harar. Vol. xii. 
Royal Geographical Society). 

M'Queen (Geographical Memoirs of Abyssinia, prefixed to 
Journals of Rev. Messrs. Isenberg and Krapf). 

Christopher (Journal whilst commanding the H. C.'s brig 
" Tigris," on the East Coast of Africa). 

Of these by far the most correct account is that of Lieut. 
Cruttenden. 



XXX 


PREFACE. 


. A perusal of the following pages will convince 
the reader that the extensive country of the Somal 
is by no means destitute of capabilities. Though 
partially desert, and thinly populated, it possesses 
valuable articles of traf&c, and its harbours export 
the produce of the Gurague, Abyssinian, GaUa, 
and other .inland races. The natives of the 
country are essentially commercial; they have 
lapsed into barbarism by reason of their political 
condition — the rude equality of the Hottentots, —> 
but they appear to contain'material for a moral 
regeneration. As subjects they offer a favourable 
contrast to their kindred, the Arabs of El Yemen, 
a race untameable as the wolf, and which, sub¬ 
jugated in turn by Abyssinian, Persian, Egyptian, 
and Turk, has ever preserved an indomitable 
spirit of freedom,, and eventually succeeded in 
shaking off the yoke of foreign dominion. For 
half a generation we have been masters of Aden, 
filling Southern Arabia with our calicos and 
rupees — what is the present state of affairs there ? 
We are dared by the Bedouin^ to come forth from 
behind our stone walls and fight like men in the 
plain,— British protegis are slaughtered within the 



PREFACE. 


xxxi 


range of our guns,— our allies' villages have been 
burned in sight of Aden, — our deserters are 
welcomed and our fugitive felons protected,—ouv 
supplies are cut off, and the garrison is reduce^ 
to extreme distress, at the .word of a half-naked 
bandit,—the miscreant Bhagi who murdered 
Capt. Mylne in cold blood still ros,ms the hills 
unpunished,— gross , insults are the sole ac¬ 
knowledgments of our peaceful overtures,-—the 
British flag has been fired upon without retjum, 
our cruisers being ordered to act , only on the 
defensive,— and our forbearance to attack is 
universally asserted and believed to arise from 
mere cowardice. Such is, and such will be, the 
character of the Arab! 

The Sublime Porte still preserves her possessions 
in the Tahamah, and the regions conterminous 
to Yemen, by the stringent measures with which 
Mohammed Ali of Egypt opened the robber- 
haunted Suez road. Whenever a Turk or a tra¬ 
veller is murdered, a few squadrons of Irregular 
Cavalry are ordered out; they are not too nice 
upon the subject of retaliation, and rarely refuse 
to burn a village or two, or to lay waste the crops 
near the scene of outrage. 



PREFACE. 


xxxii 

A civilized people, like ourselves, objects to 
such measures for many reasons, of which none 
is more feeble than the fear of perpetuating a 
bipod feud with the Arabs. Our present relations 
with them are a " very pretty quarrel," and more¬ 
over one which time must strengthen, cannot 
efface. By a just, wholesome, and unsparing 
severity we may inspire the Bedouin with fear 
instead of contempt: the veriest visionary would 
deride the attempt to animate him with a higher 
sentiment. ' 

" Peace," observes a modern sage, " is the dream 
of the wise, war is the history of man." To in¬ 
dulge in such dreams is but questionable wisdom. 
It was not a peace-policy " which gave the Por¬ 
tuguese a seaboard extending from Cape Non to 
Macao. By no peace policy the Osmanlis of a 
past age pushed their victorious arms from the 
deserts of Tartary to Aden, to Delhi, to Algiers, 
and to the g^tes of Vienna. It was no peace 
policy which made the Eussians seat themselves 
upon the shores of the Black, the Baltic, and the 
Caspian seas: gaining in the space of 150 years, 
and, despite war, retaining, a territory greater 



PREFACE. 


xxxiii 


than England and France united. No peace 
policy enabled the French to absorb region after 
region in Northern Africa, till the Mediterranean 
appears doomed to sink into a Gallic lake. The 
English of a former generation were celebrated for 
(gaining ground in both hemispheres: their broad 
lands were not won by a peace policy, which, how¬ 
ever, in this our day, has on two distinct- occasions 
well nigh lost for them the " gem of the British 
Empire' —India. The philanthropist and the 
political economist may fondly hope, by dutcry 
against "territorial aggrandizement," by advoca¬ 
ting a compact frontier, by abandoning colonies, 
and by cultivating " equilibriuin," to retain our 
rank amongst the great nations of the world. 
Never! The facts of history prove nothing more 
conclusively than this: a race either progresses 
or retrogrades, either increases or diminishes : the 
children of Time, like their sire, cannot stand still. 

The occupation of the port of Berberah has been 
advised for many reasons. 

In the first place, Berberah is the true key of 
the Red Sea, the centre of East African tratfic, and 
the only safe place for' shipping upon the western 

b 



XXXIV 


PREFACK. 


Erythrcean shore, from Suez to Guardafui. Backed 
by lands capable of cultivation, and by hills 
covered with pine and other valuable trees, en¬ 
joying a comparatively temperate climate, with a 
regular although thin monsoon, this harbour has 
been coveted by many a foreign conqueror. Cir¬ 
cumstances have thrown it as it were into our 
arms, and, if we refuse the chance, another and a 
rival nation will not be so blind. 

Secondly, we are bound to protect the lives of 
British subjects upon this coast. In a.d. 1825 
the crew of the " Mary Ann " brig was treacher¬ 
ously murdered by the Somal. The consequence 
of a summary and exemplary punishment * was 

* In A.D, 1825, the Government of Bombay received intelli¬ 
gence that a brig from the Mauritius had been seized, plundered, 
dnd broken up near Berberah, and that part of her crew bad 
been barbarously murdered by the Somali. The " Elphinstone '' 
sloop of war (Capt. Greer commanding) was sent to blockade 
the coast ; when her guns opened fire, the people fled with their 
wives and children^ and the spot where a horseman was killed 
by a cannon ball is still shown on the plain near the town. 
Through the intervention of El Hajj Sharmarkay, the survivors 
were recovered; the Somal bound themselves to abstain from 
future attacks upon English vessels, and also to refund by 
annual instalments the full amount of plundered property. 
For the purpose of enforcing the latter stipulation it was re- 



PREFACE. 


XXXV 


that in August 1843, when the H. E. I. O.'s war- 
steamer " Memnon " was stranded at Ras Assayr 
near Cape Guardafui, no outrage was attempted 
by the barbarians, upon whose barren shores our 
seamen remained .for months labouring at the 
(Wreck. In a.d. 1855 the Soraal, having forgotten 
the old lesson, renewed their practices of pillaging 
and murdering strangers. It is then evident 
that this people cannot be trusted without su¬ 
pervision, and equally certain that vessels ar^ ever 
liable to be cast ashore in this part of the Red Sea. 
But a year ago the French steam corvette, " Le 
Caiman," was lost within sight of Zayla; the 
Bedouin Somal, principally Eesa, assembled a fana¬ 
tic host, which was, however, dispersed before 
blood had been drawn, by the exertion of the gO' 

solved that a vessel of war should remain upon the coast until 
the whole was liquidated. When attempts at evasion occurred, 
the traffic was stopped'by sending all craft outside the guard- 
ship, and forbidding intercourse with the shore. The " Coote " 
(Capt Pepper commanding), the "Palinurus" and the " Tigris," 
in turn with the "Elphinstone," maintained the blockade 
through the trading seasons till 1833. About 6000Z. were re¬ 
covered, and the people were strongly impressed with the fact 
that we had both the will and the means to keep their plunder¬ 
ing propensities within bounds. 



xxxvi 


PREFACE. 


vernor and his guards. It remains for us, there- 
_ fore, to provide against such contingencies. Were 
one of the Peninsular and Oriental Company's 
vessels cast by any accident upon this inhospit¬ 
able shore, in the present state of affairs the lives 
of the passengers, and the cargo, would be placed 
in imminent peril. 

In advocating the establishment of an armed 
post at Berberah no stress is laid upon the sub¬ 
ject of slavery. To cut off that traffic the pos¬ 
session of the great export harbour is by no means 
necessary. Whenever a British cruizer shall re¬ 
ceive positive and honh fide orders to search native 
craft, and to sell as prizes all that have slaves on 
board, the trade will receive a death-blow. 

Certain measures have been taken during the 
last annual fair to punish the outrage perpetrated 
by the Somal at Berberah in a.d. 1855. The 
writer on his return to Aden proposed tjhat the 
several clans Wplicated in the offence should 
at once be expelled from British dominions. 
This preliminary was carried out by the Acting 
Political Resident at Aden. Moreover, it was 
judged advisable to blockade the Somali coast, 



PREFACE. 


xxxvii 


from Siyaro to Zayla, not concluded, until, in 
the first place, Lieut. Stroyan's murderer, and the 
rutfian who attempted to spear Lieut. Speke in cold 
blood, should be given up *; and secondly, that 
due compensation for all losses should be made 
by the plunderers. The former condition was 
approved by the Right Honorable the Governor- 
General of India, who, however, objected, it is said, 
to the money-demand.f At present the H. E* 
I. C.'s cruizers " Mahi," and " Elphinstone," are 
blockading the harbour of Berberah, the $omal 
have offered 15,000 dollars' indemnity, and they 
pretend, as usual, that the murderer has been 
slain by his tribe. 

To conclude. The writer has had the satisfac- 

* The writer advised that these men should be hung upon 
the spot where the outrage was committed, that the bodies 
should be burned and the ashes cast into the sea, lest hy any 
means the murderers might become martyrs. This precau¬ 
tion should invariably be adopted when Moslems assassinate 
Infidels,. 

f The reason of the objection is not apparent. A savage 
people is imperfectly punished by a few deaths : tlie fine is the 
only true way to produce a lasting impression upon their heads 
and hearts. Moreover, it is the custom of India and the East 
generally, and is in reality the only safeguard of a traveller's 
property. 



xxxviii 


PREFACE. 


tion of receiving from his comrades assurances that 
they are willing to accompany him once more in 
task of African Exploration. The plans of the 
Frank are now publicly known to the Somali. 
Should the loss of life, however valuable, be an 
obstacle to prosecuting them, he must fall in the 
esteem of the races around him. On the contrary, 
should he, after duly chastising the offenders, carry 
out the original plan, he will command the respect 
of the people, and wipe out the memory of a tem¬ 
porary reverse. At no distant period the project 
will, it is hoped, be revived. Nothing is required 
but permission to renew the attempt — an indul¬ 
gence which will not be refused by a Government 
raised by energy, enterprise, and perseverance 
from the ranks of merchant society to national 
wealth and imperial grandeur. 


14. St. James's Square, 
lOtK February, 1856. 



























































lo¥«r« 


eS?585 


Jfi^nitirJ fy' 










CONTENTS. 


Preface • - - 

FAOB 

- V 

CHAPTER L 

Departure from Aden - - 

-1. 

CHAR IL 

Life in Zayla - - - . 

- 26 

CHAR HI. 

Excursions near Zayla - - - 

- 64 

. CHAR IV. 

The Soinal, their Origin and Peculiarities - 

1 

CD 

00 

CHAR V. 

From Zay la to the Hills - - - 

- 127 

CHAR VI. 

From the Zayla Hills to the Marar Prairie s- 

- 183 

• 




xl 


CONTENTS. 


CHAP. VII. 

PAGE 

From the Marar Prairie to Harar - - - 247 

CHAP. VIII. 

Ten Days at Harar • - - « 295 

CHAP. IX. 

A Ride to Berberah - - - - 364 

CHAP. X. 

Berberah and its Environs - - - - 407 

Postscript - - - - - 44L 


Appendices 


- 459 



LIST OF PLATES 


Harar> from the Coffee Stream 
Map of Berberah - - . - 

Route to Harar - - - 

The Hammal - • . - 

Costume of Harar 

H. H* Ahmed Bin Abibakr, Amir of Harar 


Frontispiece* 
to follow Preface* 


>9 » 

to face page 1 
„ 295 

„ 332 









FIRST FOOTSTEPS 

IN 

EAST AFRICA. 


CHAPTER I. 

, . DEPABTUEE FROM ADEN. 

I DOUBT not there are many who ignore the fact 
that in Eastern Africa, scarcely three hundred 
miles distant from Aden, there is a counterpart of 
ill-famed Timbuctoo in the Far West. The more 
adventurous Abyssinian travellers. Salt and Stuart, 
Krapf and Isenberg, Barker and Rochet, — not to 
mention divers Roman Catholic Missioners, — at¬ 
tempted Harar, but attempted it in vain. The 
bigoted ruler and barbarous people threatened death 
to the Infidel who ventured within their walls; some 


B 



2 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

negro Merlin having, it is said, read Decline and' 
Fall in the first footsteps of the Frank.* Of all 
foreigners the English were, of course, the most 
hated and dreaded ; at Harar slavery still holds 
its head-quarters, and the old Dragon Well, knows 
what to expect from the hand of St. George. Thus 
the various travellers who appeared in beaver and 
black Coats became persuaded that the city was 
inaccessible, and Europeans ceased to trouble them¬ 
selves about Harar. 

It is, therefore, a point of honor with me, dear 
L., to utilise my title of Haji by entering the city, 
visiting the ruler, and returning in safety, after 
breaking the guardian spell. 

The most auspicious day in the Moslem year for 
beginning a journey is, doubtless, the 6th of the 
month Safarf, on which, quoth the Prophet, El 
Islam emerged from obscurity. Yet even at Aden 

I 

« A tradition exists!" says Lieut* Cruttenden, amongst the 
people of Harar, that the prosperity of their city depends upon 
the exclusion of all ^travellers not of the Moslem faith, and all 
Christians are specially interdicted." These freaks of interdiction 
are common to African rulers, who on occasions of war, famine 
or pestilence, struck with some superstitious fear, close their 
gates to strangers. 

t The 6th of Safar in 1854 corresponds with our 28th October* 
The Hadis is ^ ^ 

when the 6th of Safar went forth, my faith from the cloud 
came forth." ' 



THE MABINEli's COMPASS 3 

we could not avail ourselves of this lucky time j our 
delays and difficulties were a fit prelude for a jour-* 
ney amongst those "Blameless Ethiopians," with 
whom no less a personage than august Jove can dine 
and depart.* 

On Sunday, the 29th October, 1854, our manifold 
impediments were pronounced complete. Friend 
S. threw the'slipper of blessing at my back, and 
about 4 p.M. embarking from Maala Bunder, we 
shook out our " muslin," and sailed down the fiery 
harbour. Passing the guard-boat, we delivered 
our permit; before venturing into the open sea we 
repeated the Fatihah-prayer in honor of the Shaykh 
Majid, inventor of the mariners' compassf, and 

? The'Abjssinian law of detaining guests,—Pedro Covilhao 
the first Portuguese envoy (a«d,1499) lived and died a pri^ 
soner there,—appears to have been the Christian modification 
of the old Ethiopic rite of sacrificing strangers. 

f It would be wonderful if Orientals* omitted to romance 
about the origin of such an invention as the Dayrah or compass. 
Shaykh Majid is said to have been a Syrian saint, to whom 
Allah gave the power of looking upon earth, as though it were 
a ball in his hand. Most Moslems agree in. assigning this origin 
to the Dayrah, and the Fatihah in honor of the holy man, is 
still repeated by the pious mariner. 

Easterns do not ''box the compass'* after our fashion : with 
them each point has its own name, generally derived from some 
prominent star on the horizon. Of these I subjoin a list as in 
use amongst the Somal, hoping that it may be useful to Oriental 
students. The names in hyphens are those given in a paper on 

• B 2 



4 


FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 


evening saw us dancing on the bright clear tide, 
whose "magic waves," however, murmured after 
another fashion the siren song which charmed the 
senses of the old Arabian voyagers.* 

the nautical instrument of the Arabs by Jas. Prinseps (Journal 
of the As. Soc., December 1836). The learned secretary appears 
not to have heard the legend of Shaykh Majid, for he alludes 
to the ^'Majidi Kitab " or Oriental Ephemeris, without any ex¬ 
planation* 

North • . Jah, East . ^ Matla, . 

N. by E* . * Faijad, E. by S. . Jauza, 

(or E.S.E. . Tir, 

N.N.E. * . Naash, S,E by E* Iklil, 

N.E. by E. . Nakah, S. E. . . Akrab, 

N.E. , . . Ayyuk, S.E. by S. Himarayn, 

N.E. by E.. Waki, S.S.E. • . Suhayl, L):^^ 

E.N.E, . . . Sumak, ci/U--* S. by E. Suntubar, 

E. by N* . . Surayya, 

The south is called' El Kutb and the west El 

Maghib The western points are named like the 

eastern. North-east^ for instance is Ayyuk el Matlai; north¬ 
west, Ayyuk el Maghibi. Finally, the Day rah Jahi is when 
the magnetic needle points due north. The Dayrah Farjadi 
(more common in these regions), is when the bar is fixed under 
Farjad, to allow for variation, which at Berberah is about 
4^^ 50' west. 

* The curious reader will find in the Herodotus of the Arabs, 
El Masudi's ''Meadows of gold and mines of gems," a strange 





OUR CREW. 


5 


Suddenly every trace of civilisation fell from my 
companions as if it had been a garment. At Aden, 
shaven and beturbaned, Arab fashion, now they 
threw off all dress save the loin cloth, and appeared 
in their dark morocco. Mohammed filled his mouth 
witjh a mixture of coarse Surat tobacco and ashes,— 
the latter article intended, like the Anglo-Indian 
soldier's chili in his arrack, to "make it bite." 
Guled uncovered his head, a member which in 
Africa is certainly made to go bare, and buttered 
himself with an unguent redolent of sheep's tail; 
and Ismail, the rais or captain of our " foyst," * the 
Sahalah, applied himself to puffing his nicotiana 
out of a goat's shank-bone. Our crew, consisting 
of seventy-one men and boys, prepared, as evening 
fell, a mess of Jowari grain f and grease, the recipe 
of which I spare you, and it was despatched in a 
style that would have done credit to Kafirs as re¬ 
gards gobbling, bolting, smearing lips, licking 
fingers, and using ankles as napkins. Then with a 
light easterly breeze and the ominous cliffs of 

tale of the blind billows and the singing waves of Berberah 
and Jofuni (Cape Guardafui, the classical Aromata). 

? Foyst and buss," are the names applied by old tra¬ 
vellers to the half-decked vessels of tliese seas. 

. I Holcus Sorghum, the common grain of Africa and Arabia; 
the Somali call it Hirad; the people of Yemen, Taam. 



6 riRSl' FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

Little Aden still in sight, we spread our mats on 
deck and prepared to sleep under the moon.* 

My companions, however, felt, without perhaps 
comprehending, the joviality arising from a return 
to Nature. Every man was forthwith nicknamed, 
and pitiless was the raillery upbn the venerable 
subjects of long and short, fat and thin. One sang 
a war-song, another a love-song, a third some song 
of the sea, whilst the fourth, an Eesa youth, with 
the villanous expression of face common to his 
tribe, gave us a rain measure, such as men chaunt 
during wet weather. All these ¦effusions were 
naive and amusing ; none, however^ could bear 
English translation without an amount of omission 
which would change their nature. Each effort of 
minstrelsy was accompanied by roars of laughter, 
and led to much manual pleasantry. All swore 
that they had never spent, intellectually speaking, 
a more charming soiree, and pitied me for being 
unable to entei^ thoroughly into the spirit of the 
dialogue. Truly it is not only the polished Euro¬ 
pean, as was said of a certain travelling notability, 
that lapses with facility into pristine barbarism. 

I will now introduce you to my companions. 

* The Somal being a people of less nervous terapcrament 
than the Arabs and Indians, do not fear the moonlight. 



MY COMPANIONS. 


7 


The managing man is one Mohammed Mahmud*, 
generally called El Hammal or the porter: he is 
a Havildar or sergeant in the Aden police, and was 
entertained for me by Lieut. Dansey, an officer who 
unfortunately was not " confirmed " in a political 
appointment at Aden. The Hammal is a bull¬ 
necked, round-headed fellow of lymphatic tem¬ 
perament, with a lamp-black skin, regular features, 
and a pulpy figure, — two rarities amongst his 
countrymen, who compare him to a Banyan. An 
orphan in early youth, and becoming, to I use 
his own phrase, sick of milk, he ran away from his 
tribe, the Habr Gerhajis, and engaged himself as a 
coaltrimmer with the slaves on board an Indian war- 
steamer. After rising in rank to the command of 
the crew, he became servant and interpreter to 
travellers, visited distant lands—Egypt and Cal¬ 
cutta—and finally settled as a Feringhee policeman. 
He cannot read or write, but he has all the know¬ 
ledge to be acquired by fifteen or twenty years, 
hard "knocking about:" he can make a long 
speech, and, although he never prays, a longer 


* The first name is that of the individual, as the Christian 
name with us^ the second is that of the father; in the Somali 
country, as in India, they are not connected by the Arab bin " 
~ son of. 


• B 4 



8 


FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 


prayer; he is an excellent mimic, and delights his 
auditors by imitations and descriptions of Indian 
ceremony, Egyptian dancing, Arab vehemence, 
Persian abuse, European vivacity, and Turkish 
insolence. With prodigious inventiveness, and a 
habit of perpetual intriguej acquired in his tra¬ 
vels, he might be called a "knowing" man, but 
for the truly Somali weakness of showing in his 
countenance all that passes through his mind. 
This people can hido nothing: the blank eye, the 
contracting brow, the opening nostril and the 
tremulous lip, betray, despite themselves, their 
innermost thoughts. 

The second servant, whom I bring before you is 
Guled, another policeman at Aden. He is a youth 
of good family, belonging to the Ismail Arrah, the 
royal clan of the great Habr Gerhajis tribe. His 
father was a man of property, and his brethren 
near Berberah, are wealthy Bedouins : yet he ran 
away from his native country when seven or 
eight years old, and became a servant in the house 
of a butter merchant at Mocha. Thence he went 
to Aden, where he began with private service, and 
ended his career in the police. He is one of those 
long, live skeletons, common amongst the Somal; 
his shoulders are parallel Avith his ears, his ribs 



THE "end OE time." 


9 


are straight as a mummy's, his face has not an 
ounce of flesh upon it, and his features suggest the 
idea of some lank bird : we call him Long Guled, 
to which he replies with the Yemen saying 
" Length is Honor, even in Wood." He is brave 
enough, because he rushes into danger without 
reflection; his great defects are weakness of body 
and nervousness of temperament, leading in times 
of peril to the trembling of hands, the dropping of 
caps, and the mismanagement of bullets : besi<^es 
which, he cannot bear hunger, thirst, or cold. | 

The third is one Abdy Abokr, also of the Habr 
Gerhajis, a personage whom, from his smattering of 
learning and his prodigious rascality, we call the 
Mulla " End of Time." * He is a man about forty, 
very old-looking for his age, with small, deep, set 
cunning eyes, placed close together, a hook nose, a 
thin beard, a bulging brow, scattered teeth f, and 
a short scant figure, remarkable only for length of 
back. His gait is stealthy, like a cat's, and he has 
a villanous grin. This worthy never prays, and 

? Abdj is an abbreviation of Abdullah ; Abokr, a corruption 
of Abubekr. The End pf Time alludes to the prophesied 
corruption of the Moslem priesthood in the last epoch of the 
world, 

I This peculiarity is not uncommon amongst the Somal; it is 
considered by them a sign of warm temperament 



10 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

can neither read nor write; but he knows a chapter 
or two of the Koran, recites audibly a long Ratib 
or task, morning and evening *, whence, together 
with his store of hashed Hadis (tradition), he de¬ 
rives the title of Widad or hedge-priest. His 
tongue, primed with the satirical sayings of Abn 
Zayd el Helali, and Humayd ibn Mansur f, is the 
terror of men upon whom repartee imposes. His 
father was a wealthy shipowner in his day; but, 
cursed with Abdy and another son, the old man 
has lost all his property, his children have deserted 
him, and he now depends entirely upon the charity 
of the Zayla chief. The "End of Time" has 
squandered considerable sums in travelling far and 
wide from Harar to Cutch, he has managed every¬ 
where to perpetrate some peculiar villany. He is 
a pleasant companion, and piques himself upon that 
power of quotation ^ which in the East makes a 
polite man. If we be disposed to hurry, he in- 

' / 

• The Moslem should first recite the Ferz prayers, or those 

ordered in the Koran ; secondly, the Sunnat or practice of the 
Prophet; and thirdly the Nafilah or Supererogatory, The Eatib 
or seif-itnposed task is the last of all; our Mulla placed it first, 
because he could chaunt it upon his mule within hearing of 
the people. 

t Two modern poets and wits well known in Xemen. 



THE " GATE UNDER THE PLEIADES." ' 


11 


smuates that "Patience is of Heaven, Haste of 

Hell," When roughly addressed, he remarks,-— 

# 

** There are cures for the hurts of lead and steel, 

But the wounds of the tongue — they never heal! ** 

a grain of rice adhere to our beards, he says, 
smilingly, " the gazelle is in the garden; " to which 
we reply " we will hunt her with the five."* De¬ 
spite these merits, I hesitated to engage him, till 
assured by the governor of Zayla that he was to be 
looked upon as a son, and, moreover, that he woiild 
bear with him one of those state secrets to an in¬ 
fluential chief which in this country are never 
committed to paper. I found him an admirable 
buffoon, skilful in filling pipes and smoking them ; 
au reste, an individual of " many words and little 
work," infinite intrigue, cowardice, cupidity, and 
endowed with a truly evil tongue. 

The morning sun rose hot upon us, showing 
Mayyum and Zubah, the giant staples of the " Gate 
undeT' the Pleiades." f Shortly, afterwards, we 

* That is to say, " we will remove it with the five fingers." 
These are euphuisms to avoid speaking broadly and openly of 
that venerable feature, the beard. 

f Bab el Mandeb is called as above by Humayd from its as¬ 
tronomical position. Jebel Mayyum is in AfricUi Jebel Zubah 



12 


FIBST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 


came in sight of the Barr el Ajam (barbarian land), 
as the Somal call their country*, alow glaring flat 
of yellow sand, desert and heat-reeking,' tefianted 
by the Eesa, and a meet habitat for savages. Such 
to us, at least, appeared the land of Adel, f At 
midday we descried the Eas el Bir, — Headland of 
the Well,_—the promontory which terminates the 
bold Tajurrah range, under which lie the sleeping 
waters of the Maiden's Sea.| During the day we 

or Muayyin, celebrated as the last resting-place of a great 
saint, Shaykh Said) is in Arabia* 

* Ajam properly means all nations not Arab. In Egypt and 
Central Asia it. is now confined to Persians, On the west of 
the Red Sea, it is invariably used to denote the Somali country: 
thence Bruce draws the Greek and Latin name of the coast, 
Azamia, and De Sacy derives the word Ajan," which in our 
maps is applied to the inner regions of the. Eastern Horn, So 
in Africa, El Sham, which properly means Damascus and Syria, 
is applied to El Hejaz. 

f Adel, according to M. Krapf, derived its name from the Ad 
Ali, a tribe of the Afar or Danakil nation, erroneously used by 
Arab synecdoche for the' whole race* Mr. Johnston (Travels 
in Southern Abyssinia, ch, 1.) more correctly derives it from 
Adule, a city which, as proved by Ae monument which bears 
its name, existed in the days of Ptolemy Euergetes (b. c. 247— 
222), had its own dynasty, and boasted of a conqueror who over¬ 
came the Troglodytes, Saba&ans, Homerites, &c., and pushed 
his conquests as far as the frontier of Egypt Mr. Johnston, 
however, incorrectly translates Barr el Ajam " land of fire," and 
seems to confound Avalites and Adulis. 

J Bahr el Banatin, the Bay of Tajurrah. 



TAJURBAH. 


13 


rigged out an awning, and sat in the shade sjnoking 
and chatting merrily, for the weather was not, 
much hotter than on English summer seas. Some 
of the crew tried praying; but prostrations are not 
easily made on board ship, and El Islam, as Umar 
shrewdly suspected, was not made for a seafaring 
race.'. At length the big red sun sank slowly 
behind the curtain of sky-blue rock, ¦ where Hes 
the not yet " coinbusted " village of Tajurrah.^ 
We lay down to rest with the light of day, and 
had the satisfaction of closing our eyes upon a fair 
though captious breeze. • * / 

On the morning of the 31st October, we entered 
the Zayla Creek, which gives so much trouble to 
native craft. We passed, on the right, the low 
island of Masha, belonging to the ^City of the 
Slave Merchant,"Tajurrah, — and on the left, 
two similar patches of seagirt sand, called '-Aybat 
and Saad el Din. These places supply Zayla, in 


* A certain German missionary, well known in tins part of 
the world, exasperated by the seizure of a few dollars and a 
claim to the droit d!aubainei advised the authorities of Aden to 
threaten the " combustion " of Tajurrah. The measure would 
have been equally unjust and unwise. A traveller, even a lay¬ 
man, is bound to put up peaceably with such trifles; and to 
threaten ".combustion" without being prepared to carry out 
the threat is the readiest way to secure contempt. 



14 


FIBST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 


the Kharif or hot season *, with thousands of gulls' 
eggs, — a great luxury. At noon we sighted our 
destination. Zayla is the normal African port, 
— a strip of sulphur-yellow sand, with a deep 
blue dome above, and a foreground of the dark¬ 
est indigo. The buildings, raised by refraction, 
rose high, and apparently from the bosom of the 
deep. After hearing the worst accounts of it,. I 
was pleasantly disappointed by the spectacle of 
white-washed houses and minarets, peering above 
a long low line of brown wall, flanked with round 
towers. 

As we slowly threaded the intricate coral reefs of 
the port, a bark came scudding up to us; it tacked, 
and the crew proceeded to give news in roaring 
tones. Friendship between the Amir of Harar and 
the governor of Zayla had been broken ; the road 
through the Eesa Somal had been closed by the 
murder of Masud', a favourite slave and adopted 
son of Sharmarkay; all strangers had been expelled 
the city for sdtae misconduct by the Harar chief; 
moreover, small-pox was raging there with such 
violence that the Galla peasantry would allow 

? The Kharif in most parts of the Oriental world corre¬ 
sponds with our autumn. In Eastern Africa it invariably signi^ 
fies the hot season preceding the monsoon rains. 



TH® DANGER OR " I WICL." . ' ,15 

neither ingress nor %resis.* I had the pleasure 
6f reflecting for some time^ dear L.,.upon the 
Amount of responsibility incurred by using the 
phrase "I will;" and the only consolation that 
suggested itself was the stale assurance that 

• " Things at the worst most surely mend." 

-No craft larger than a canoe can ride near Zay]a,.» 
4-fter bumping once or twice against the coral 
reefs, it was considered advisable for our good ship, 
the Sahalat, to cast anchor. My companions caused j 
me to dress, put me with my pipe and other neCes-'/ 
saries into a cock-boat, and, wading through the 

* The circumstances t>f Masud's murder were truly; African* 
Tlie sla^e caravans from Abyssinia to Tt^urrah were usually 
escorted by the Ber Guleni, a clan of the great EJesa tribe> and 
they monopolised the profits of the road* Summoned id share • 
tlieir gains with their kinsmen genenilly^ they infused upon 
which the other clans rose about August^ 18d4y and cut off the 
road* A large caravan was travelling down in two bodies, each 
of nearly 300 slaves; the Eesa attacked the first division, 
Carried off the wives and female slaves, whom they sold for ten .. 
dollars a head, and savagely mutilated upwards of 100 wretched 
boys^ This event caused the Tajurrah line to be. permanently 
Closed* The Her Guleni in wrath, at once murdered Masud, a 
peaceful traveller, because Inna Handun, his Abban or pro^' 
tector, was of the party who had attacked their prot^gds; they 
came upon him suddenly as he was purchasing some article, and 
stabbed him in the back, before he could defend himself* 



16 


FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 


water, shoved it to shore..Lastly, at Bab el Sahil, the 
Seaward or Northern Gate, they proceeded to array 
themselves in the bravery of clean Tobes and long 
daggers strapped round the waist; each man also 
slung his targe to his left arm, and in his right 
hand grasped lance and javelin. At the gate we 
were received by a tall black spearman with a " Ho 
there! to the governorand a crowd of idlers 
gathered to inspect the strangers. Marshalled by 
the warder, we traversed the dusty roads — streets 
they could not be called — of the old Arab town, 
ran the gauntlet of a gaping mob, and finally 
entering a mat door, found ourselves in the presence 
of the governor. 

I had met Sharmarkay at Aden, where he re¬ 
ceived from the authorities strong injunctions 
concerning 'my personal safety: the character of 
a Moslem merchant, however, requiring us to 
appear strangers, an introduction by our master 
of ceremonies, the Hammal, followed my entrance. 
Sharmarkay was living W an apartment by no 
means splendid, preferring an Arish or kind of 
cow-house,—as the Anglo-Indian Nabobs do the 
bungalow ' 

" with mat half hung, 

The walls of plaster and the jfloors of , 



EL HAJJ SHARMAEKAY. 


17 


—.to all his substantial double-storied houses. The 
ground was wet and comfortless; a part of the 
reed walls was lined with cots bearing mattresses 
and silk-covered pillows, a cross between a divan 
and a couch: the only ornaments were a few 
•vyeapons, and a necklace of gaudy beads suspended 
near the door. I was placed upon the principal 
seat: on the right were the governor and the Ham— 
mal; whilst the lowest portion of the room was , 
occupied by Mohammed Sharmarkay, the son and 
heir. The rest of the company squatted | upott 
chairs, or rather stools, of peculiar construction. 
Nothing could be duller than this assemhlee: pipes 
and coffee are here unknown; and there is nothing 
in the East to act substitute for them.* 

The governor of Zayla, El Hajj Sharmarkay 
bin Ali Salih, is rather a remarkable man. He is 
sixteenth, according to his own account, in descent 


* In Zayla there is not a single coffee-house. The settled 
Somal care little for the Arab beverage, and the Bedouins' 
Teasons for avoiding it are not bad. " If we drink coffee once," 
say they, we shall want it again, and then where are we to 
get it?" The Abyssinian Christians, probably to distinguish 
themselves from Moslems, object to coffee as well as to to* 
bacco. The Gallas, on the other hand, eat it: the powdered 
bean is mixed with butter, and on forays a lump about the 
size of a billiard-ball is preferred to a substantial meal. 



18 


rmST .FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 


from Ishak el Hazrami*,' the saintly founder of 
the great Gerhajis and Awal tribes. His enemies 
derive him from a less illustrious stock; and the 
fairness of his complexion favours the report that 
his grandfather Salih was an Abyssinian slave. 
Originally the Nacoda or captain of a native craft, 
he has raised himself, chiefly by British influence, 
to the chieftainship of his tribe, f As early as 
May, 1825, he received from Captain Bagnold, 
then our resident at Mocha, a testimonial and a 
reward, for a seyere sword wound in the left arm. 


* The following genealogical table was given to me by 
Mohammed Sharmarkay: — 

1. Ishak (ibn Ahmed ibn Abdillah). 

2. Gerhajis (his eldest son). 

3. Said (the eldest son ; Baud being the second). 

4. Arrah, (also the eldest; Hi, i, e» Ali, being the second). 

5. Musa (the third son : the eldest was Ismail; then, in suc¬ 

cession, Ishak, Misa, Mikahil, Gambab, Dandan, &c.) 

6. Ibrahim. ! 

7. Fikih (i. e. Fakih.) 12. Ali. 

8. Adan (JLe. Adam.) 13. Awaz. 

9. Mohammed. ^ 14* Salih. 

10. Hamid. 15. Ali. 

11. Jibril (j. e. Jibrail). 16. Sharmarkay. 


The last is a peculiarly Somali name, meaning one who sees 
no harm " — Shar-ma-arkay. 

j* Not the hereditary chieftainship of the Habr Gerhajis, 
which belongs to a particular clan. 

( 



El, HAJJ SHARMARKAY... 


19 


received whilst defending the lives of English 
seamen.* He afterwards went to Bombay, where 
he was treated with consideration; and about fifteen 
years ago he succeeded the Sayyid Mohammed el 
Barr as governor of Zayla and its dependencies, 
under the Ottoman Pasha in Western Arabia. 

The Hajj Sharmarkay in his youth was a man of 
valour; he could not read or write; but he carried 
in battle four spears f, and his sword-cut was recog¬ 
nisable. He is now a man about sixty years old, at 
least six feet two inches in stature, large-limbed, and 
raw-boned: his leanness is hidden by long wide i'obes. 
He shaves his head and upper lip Shafei-fashion, 
and his' beard is represented by a ragged tuft of 


* The following is a copy of the document; 

" This Testimonial, 

together with an Honorary Dress, is presented by the British 
Resident at Mocha to Nagoda Shurmakey Ally Sumaulley, in 
token of esteem and regard for his humane and gallant conduct 
at the Port of Burburra, on the coast of Africa, April 10. 1825, 
in saving the lives of Captain William Lingard, chief officer of 
the Brig Mary Anne, when that vessel was attacked and plun¬ 
dered by the natives. The said Nagoda is therefore strongly 
recommended to the notice and good offices of Europeans in 
general, but particularly so to all English gentlemen visiting 
these seas,'' 

j* Two spears being the usual number; the difficulty of three 
or four would mainly consist in their management during 
action. 



20 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN ,EAST AFRICA. 

red-stained hair on each side of his chin. A visit 
to Aden and a doctor cost him one eye, and the 
- other is now white with age. His dress is that 
of an Arab, and he always carries with him a broad- 
bladed, silver-hilted sword. Despite his years, he 
is a strong, active, and energetic man, ever looking 
to the ^^main chance.^' With one foot in the grave, he 
meditates nothing but the conquest of Harar and 
Berberah, which, making him master of the sea^ 
board, would soon extend his power as in days of 
old even to Abyssinia.* To hear his projects, you 
would fancy them the offspring of a brain in the 

* In July, 1855, the Hajj Sharmarkay was deposed by the 
Turkish Pasha of Hodaydah, ostensibly for failing to keep some 
road open, or, according to others, for assisting to plunder a 
caravan belonging to the Dankali tribe. It was reported that 
he had been made a prisoner, and the Political Resident at Aden 
saw the propriety of politely asking the Turkish authorities to 

be easy** upon the old man. In consequence of this repre¬ 
sentation, he was afterwards allowed, on paying a fine of 3000 
dollars, to retire to Aden. 

I deeply regret that the Hajj should hare lost his govern¬ 
ment. He has ever ijlung to the English party, even in sore 
temptation. A few years ago, the late M. Rochet (soi-disant 
d'Hericourt), French agent at Jeddah, paying treble its valuC, 
bought from Mohammed Sharmarkay, in the absence of the 
Hajj, a large stone house, in order to i^ecure a footing at Zayla. 
The old man broke off the bargain on his return, knowing how 
easily an Agency becomes a Fort, and preferring a considerable 
loss to the presence of datjgerous friends. 



ZAYLA. 


21 


prime of yotith: in order to carry them out he 
would even assist in suppressing the profitable 
slave-trade.* 

After half an hour's visit I was led by the Hajj 
through the streets of Zayla f, to one of his sub- 


* During my residence at Zayla few slaves were imported, 
owing to the main road having been closed. In former years 
the market was abundantly stocked ; the numbers annually 
shipped to Mocha, Hodaydah, Jeddah, and B^rberah, varied 
' from 600 to 1000, The Hajj received as duty one gold "Kirsh," 
or about three fourths of a dollar, per head. j 

f Zayla, called Audal or Auzal by the Somal, is a tpwn 
about the size of Suez, built for 3000 or 4000 inhabitants, and 
containing a dozen large whitewashed stone houses, and up¬ 
wards of 200 Arish or thatched huts, each surrounded by a 
fence of wattle and matting. The situation is a low and level 
spit of sand, which high tides make almost an island. There 
is no harbour: a vessel of 260 tons cannot approach within a 
mile of the landing-place; the open roadstead is exposed to the 
terrible north wind, and when gales blow from the west and 
south, it is almost unapproachable. Every ebb leaves a sandy 
flat, extending half a mile seaward from the town ; the reefy 
anchorage is difficult of entrance after sunset, and the coralline 
bottom renders wading painful. 

The shape of this once celebrated town is a tolerably regular 
parallelogram, of which the long sides run from east to west. 
The walls, without guns or embrasures, are built, like the houses, 
of coralline rubble and mud, in places dilapidated. There are 
five gates. The Bab el Sahil and the Bab el Jadd (a new postern) 
open upon the sea from the northern wall. At the Ashurbara, in 
the southern part of the enceinte, the Bedouins encamp, and above 
it the governor holds his Durbar. The Bab Abd el Kadir 

•c 3 



22 


FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 


stantial houses of coralline and mud plastered over 
with glaring whitewash. The ground floor is a kind 

derives its came from a saint buried outside and eastward of 
the cit 7 > and the Bab el Saghir is pierced in the western wall. 

The public edifices are six mosques, including the Jami, or 
cathedral, for Friday prayer; these buildings have queer little 
crenelles on whitewashed walls,"and a kind of elevated summer¬ 
house to represent the minaret. Near one of them are remains 
of a circular Turkish Munar, manifestly of modern construction. 
There is no Mahkamah or Kazi's court: that dignitary transacts 
business at his own house, and the Festival prayers are recited 
near the Saint^s Tomb outside the eastern gate. The north¬ 
east angle of the town is occupied by a large graveyard with 
the usual deleterious consequences. 

The climate d Zayla is cooler than that of Aden, and, the site 
being open all around, it is not so unhealthy. Much spare 
room is enclosed by the town walls : evaporation and Nature's 
scavengers act succedanea for sewerage- 

Zayla commands the adjacent harbour of Tajurrah, and is 
by position the northern port of Aussa (the ancient capital of 
Adel), of Harar, and of southern Abyssinia: the feuds of the 
rulers have, however, transferred the main trade to Berberah. 
It sends caravans northwards to the Dankali, and south-west¬ 
wards, through the Eesa and Gudabirsi tribes as far as Efat 
and Gurague. It is visited by Cahlas from Abyssinia, and the 
different races of Bedouins, extending from the hills to the sea¬ 
board, The exports are valuable — slaves, ivory, hides,'honey, 
antelope horns, clarified butter, and gums t the coast abounds 
in sponge, coral, and small pearls, which Arab divers collect in 
the fair season. In the harbour I found about twenty native 
craft, large and small! of these, ten belonged to the governor. 
They trade with Berberah, Arabia, and Western India, and are 
navigated by Rajput" or Hindu pilots. 



2AYLA. 


23 


of warehouse full of bales and boxes, scales and 
buyers. A flight of steep steps leads into a long 
room with shutters to exclude the light, floored with 
tamped earth, full of " evening flyers" *, and desti- 

Provisions at Zayla are cheap ; a family of six persons live 
well for about 30/. per annum. The general food is mutton : a 
large sheep costs one dollar, a small one half the price; camels' 
meat, beef, and in v?inter kid, abound. Fish is rare, and fowls 
are not commonly eaten. Holcus, when dear, sells at forty 
pounds per dollar, at seventy pounds when cheap. It is usually 
levigated with slab and roller, and made into sour cakes. - 
Some, however, prefer the Arab form ''balilah," boiled and mixed 
with ghee. Wheat and rice are imported: the price varies from 
forty to sixty pounds the Riyal or dollar. Of the foriner grain 
the people make a sweet cake called Sabaya, resembling the 
Fatirah of Egypt: a favourite dish also is '' harisah"—flesh, rice 
flour, and boiled wheat, all finely pounded and mixed together. 
Milk is not procurable during the hot weather; after rain every 
house is full of it; the Bedouins bring it in skins and sell it for 
a nominal sum. 

Besides a large floating population, Zayla contains about 
1500 souls. They are comparatively a fine race of people, and 
suffer from little but fever and an occasional ophthalmia. Their 
greatest hardship is the want of the pure element: the Hissi 
or well, is about four miles distant from the town, and all the 
pits within the walls supply brackish or bitter water, fit only 
for external use. This is probably the reason why vegetables 
are unknown, and why a horse, a mule, or even a dog, is not to 
be found in the place. ' 

* Fid-mer," or the evening flyer, is the Somali name for a 
bat These little animals are not disturbed in houses, because 
they keep off flies and mosquitoes, the plagues of the Somali 
country. Flies abound in the vei*y jungles wherever cows have 

. c 4 



24 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

tute of furniture. Parallel to it are three smaller 
apartments; and above is a terraced roof, where 
they who fear not the dew and the land-breeze 
sleep.* I found a. room duly prepared; the ground 
was spread with mats, and cushions against the 
walls denoted the Divan: for me was placed a Kursi 
or cot, covered with fine Persian rugs and gaudy 
silk and satin pillows. The Hajj installed us with 
ceremony, and insisted, despite my remonstrances, 
upon occupying the floor whilst I sat on the 
raised seat. After ushering in supper, he consi¬ 
derately remarked that travelling is fatiguing, and 
left us to sleep. 

The welhknown sounds of El Islam returned 
from memory. Again the melodious chant of the 


been^ and settle in swarms upon the traveller. Before the 
monsoon their bite is painful, especially that of the small green 
species; and there is a r^d variety called "Diksi as," whose 
venom, according to the people, causes them to vomit. The 
latter abounds in Gulays and the hill ranges of the Berberah 
country : it is innocuou^ during the cold season. The mosquito 
bites bring on, according to the same authority, deadly fevers : 
the superstition probably arises from the fact that mosquitoes 
and fevers become formidable about the same time. 

* Such a building at Zayla would cost at most 500 dollars. 
At Aden, 2000 rupees, or nearly double the sum, would be paid 
for a matted shed, which excludes neither sun, nor wind, nor 
raia. 



ZAYLA BY night- 


25 


Muezzin,—no evening bell can compare "witli it for 
solemnity .and beauty,—and in the neighbouring 
mosque, the loudly intoned Amin and Allaho 
Akbar,—far superior to any organ,—rang in my 
ear. The evening gun of camp was represented 
by the Nakkarah, or. kettle-drum, sounded about 
seven p.m. at the southern gate ; and at ten .a second 
drumming warned the paterfamilias that it was time 
for home, and thieves, and lovers,—that it was the 
hour for bastinado. Nightfall was ushered in by 
the song, the dance, and the marriage festival,— 
here no permission is required for " nativq music 
in the lines,"—and muffled figures flitted myste- 
piously through the dark alleys. • 

* 

After a peep through the open window, I fell 
asleep, feeling once more at home. 



26 


FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 


CHAP. II. 

LIFE IN ZATLA. 

I WILL not weary you, dear L., with descriptions 
of twenty-six quiet, similar, uninteresting days, 
—days of sleep, and pipes, and coffee,— spent 
at Zayla, whilst a route was traced out, guides 
were propitiated, camels were bought, mules sent 
for, and all the wearisome preliminaries of African 
travel were gone through. But a joumee in the 
Somali country may be a novelty to you: its 
events shall be succinctly depicted. ¦ 

With earliest dawn we arise, thankful to escape 
from mosquitoes and close air. We repair to the 
terrace where devotions are supposed to be per¬ 
formed, and busy ourselves in watching our neigh¬ 
bours. Two in particular engage my attention; 
sisters by different mothers. The daughter of an 
Indian woman is a young person of fast pro¬ 
pensities,—her chocolate-coloured skin, long hair, 
and parrot-like profile* are much admiped by the 

? This style of profile —> highly oval, with the chin and brow 
receding — is very conspicuous in Eastern Africa, where the 
face, slightly prognathous, projects below the nose. 



THE COQUETTE. 


27 


elegants of Zayla; and she coquettes by combing, 
dancing, . singing, and slapping the slave-girls, 
whenever an adorer may be looking. We sober- 
minded men, seeing her, quote the well-known 
lines— 

" Without justice a king is a cloud without rain; 

Without goodness a sage is a held without fruit; 
Without manners a youth is a bridleless horse j 
Without lore ah old man is a waterless wady; 

Without modesty Woman is bread without salt.'^ 

The other is a matron of Abyssinian descent, as 
her skin, scarcely darker than a gipsy's, her long 
and bright blue fillet, and her gaudily* fringed 
dress, denote. , She tattoos her face*: a livid line 
extends from her front hair to the tip of her nose; 
between her eyebrows is an ornament resembling 
a Jleur-de-Us, and 'various beauty-spots adorn the 
corners of her mouth and the fiats of her counte¬ 
nance. She passes her day superintending the 
slave-girls, and weaving matsf, the worsted work 

* GalUnuts form the base of the tattooing dye. It is worked 
In with a needle, when it becomes permanent: applied with a 
pen, it requires to be renewed about once a fortnight. 

f Mats are the staple manufacture in Eastern, as in many 
parts of Western, Africa. The material is sometimes Daum or 
other palm; there are, however^ many plants in more common 
use 5 they are made of every variety in shape and colour, and 
are dyed red, black, and yellow,— madder from T^jurrah and 
« alum being the matter principally used. 



28 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN FAST AFRICA. 

of tills part of the world. We soon made ac¬ 
quaintance, as far as an exchange of salams. I re¬ 
gret, however, to say that there was some scandal 
about iny charming neighbour; and that more than 
once she was detected making signals to distant 
persons with her hands.* i 

At 6 A.M. we descend to breakfast, which usually 
consists of sour grain cakes and roast mutton— 
at this hour a fihe trial of health and cleanly 
living. A napkin is passed under my chin, as if 
I were a small child, and a sound scolding is admi¬ 
nistered when appetite appears deficient. Visitors 
are always asked to join us: we squat on the un- 
:carpeted floor, round a circular stool, eat hard, and 
:never stop to drink. The appetite of Africa asto¬ 
nishes us; we dispose of six ounces here for every 
one in Arabia, —probably the efiect of sweet water, 
after the briny produce of the " Eye of Yemen." We 
conclude this early breakfast with coffee ,and pipes, 
and generally return, after it, to the work of sleep. 

Then, provided with some sanctified Arabic book, 
I prepare for the reception of visitors. They come 
in by dozens, —no man having apparently any busi¬ 
ness to occupy him,—doflf their slippers at the door, 

* When woman addresses woman she always uses her 
voice. 



VISITS. 


29 


fenter wrapped up in their Tobes or togas*/ and* 
deposit their spears, point-up wards, in the corner; 
those who have swords—the mark of respectability 
in Eastern Africa—place them at their feet. They 
shake the full hand (I was reproved for offering 
the fingers only); and when politely disposed, the 
inferior wraps his fist in the hem of his garment. 
They have nothing corresponding with the Euro¬ 
pean idea of manners : they degrade all ceremony 


? The Tobe, or Abyssinian Quarry," is the general gar¬ 
ment of Africa from Zayla to Bornou, In the Somali country 
it is a cotton sheet eight cubits long, and two breadths sewn 
together. An article of various uses, like the Highland plaid, 
it is worn in many ways ; sometimes the right arm is bared; in 
cold weather the whole person is muffled up, and in summer it 
is allowed to fall below the waist. Generally it is passed 
behind the back, rests \ipon the left shoulder, is carried for¬ 
ward over the breast, surrounds the body, and ends hanging on 
the left shoulder, where it displays a gaudy silk fringe of red 
and yellow. This is the man's Tobe. The woman's dress is 
of similar material, but differently worn: the edges are knotted 
generally over the right, sometimes over the left shoulder; it is 
girdled round the waist, below which hangs a lappet, which in 
cold weather can be brought like a hood over the head. Though 
highly becoming, and picturesque as the Boman toga, the Somali 
Tobe is by no means the most decorous of dresses: women in 
the towns often prefer the Arab costume,—a short-sleeved robe 
extending to the knee, and a Futah or loin-cloth underneath. 

As regards the word Tobe, it signifies, in Arabic, a garment 
generally: the Somal call it ''Maro," and the half Tobe a 
'' Shukkah." 



30 


FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EASP AFRICA. 


by the epithet Shughl el banat, or " girls' wotk, ' 
and pique themselves upon do-wnrightness of man¬ 
ner, —. a favourite mask, by the by, for savage 
cunning ta assume. But they are equally free 
from affectation, shyness, and vulgarity; and, after 
all, no manners are preferable to bad manners. 

Sometimes we are visited at this hour by 
Mohammed Sharmarkay, eldest son of the _ old 
governor. He is in age about thirty, a fine tall 
figure, slender but well knit, beardless and of light 
complexion, with large eyes, and a length of neck 
which a lady might covet. His only detracting 
feature is a slight projection of the oral region, that 
unmistakable proof of African blood. His move¬ 
ments have the grace of strength and suppleness: 
he is a good jumper, runs well, throws the spear 
admirably, and is a tolerable shot. Having re¬ 
ceived a liberal education at Mocha, he is held a 
learned man by his fellow-countrymen. Like his 
father he despises presents, looking higher; with 
some trouble I pei^uaded him to accept a common 
map of Asia, and a revolver. His chief interest 
was concentrated in books; he borrowed my Abu 
Kasim to copy *, and was nevfer tired of talking 

* Abu Kasim of Gaza, a well known commentator upon Abu 
Shujaa of Isfahan, who wrote a text-book of the Shafei schobL 



MOHAMMED SHABMABKAY. 


31 


about the religious sciences: be bad weakened 
bis eyes by-hard reading, and a couple of blisters 
were sufficient to win bis gratitude. Mobammed 
is now tbe eldest son* ; be appears determined to 
keep up tbe family name, having already married 
ten wives: tbe issue, however, two infant sons. 


were murdered by the Eesa Bedouins. Whenever 
he meets his father in the morning, he kisses his 
hand, and receives a salute upon the forehead. 
He aspires io the government of Zayla, and looks 
forwa^ more reasonably than the Hajj to the| day 
when the possession of Berberah will pour / gold 
into 1 is coffers. He shows none of his father's 
"soft ess:" he advocates the bastinado, and, to 
keep ' lis people at a distance, he has married an 
Arab vife, who allows no adult to enter the doors. 
The ^mal, Spaniard-like, remark, " He is one of 
ourselves, though a little richer;" but when times 
chang'e and luck returns, they are not unlikely to 
find themselves mistaken. 

Amongst other visitors, we have the Amir el 
Bahr, /or Port Captain, and the Nakib el Askar 


* The Hajj had seven sons^ three of whom died in infancy. 
All and ^Mahmud, the latter a fine young man^ fell victims to 
small pok: Mohammed is now the eldest, and the youngest is a 
child called Ahmed, left for education at Mocha. • The Hajj 
has also two daughters, married to Bedouin SomaL 



32 


FIBST rOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 


(^Commandanf de place), Mohammed Uma^eliE^' 

mumi. This is one of those Hazfamaut adv^i 

so common in all the countries bordering 

Arabia: they are the Swiss of the East, apec^'&i 

equally brave and hardy, frugal and faitjiful, 

long as pay is regular. Feared by the soft ilndit^f 

.and Africans for their hardness and deterir^natioUj 

the common proverb concerning them is, " If you 

meet a viper and a Hazrami, spare the vipet." 

Natives of a poor and rugged region, they wander 

far and wide, preferring eveiy country to their, 
* 

own; and it is generally said that the sikn 'rises 
not upon a land that does not contain a from 
Hazramaut** This commander of an akmy of 
forty men f often read out to us from the Sitab el 

* It is related tliat a Hazrami, flying from hiB fetl&vT-coun* 
try men, reached a town upon the conflnes of China* 
about to take refuge ^n a mosque, but entering, he 


He yas 
stuihbl^ 

over the threshold, Amud el l>in"^—'^0 Pill^ oF the 

Faith ! " exclaimed a voice from the darkness, calling 
patron saint of l^azramaut to save a Moslem froi 




upot^thlT" 

"May the Pillar of the Faith break thy head," excl lamed 
unpatriotic traveller, at once rising to resume his vain 
nations. 

'I* Mercenaries from Mocha, Haziamaut, and Bir H 
Aden: they are armed with matchlock, sword, and 
each receives from the governor a monthly stipend 
dollars and a lialf. 








VISITORS. 


S3 


Anwar (the Book of Lights) the tale of Abu Jahl, 
that Judas of El Islam made ridiculous. Some¬ 
times comes the Sayyid Mohammed el Barr, a 
stout personage, formerly governor of Zayla, and 
still highly respected by the people on acount of 
his pure pedigree. With him is the Fakih Adan, 
a savan of ignobld origin.* When they appear 

* The system of caste, which prevails in El Yemen, though 
not in the northern parts of Arabia, is general throughout the 
Somali country. The principal families of outcasts are the 
following. 

The Yebir correspond with the Dushan of Southern Arabia : 
the males are usually jesters to the chiefs, find both sexes take 
certain parts at festivals, marriages, and circumcisions. The 
number is said to be small, amounting to about 100 families in 
the northern Somali country. 

The Tomal or Hand ad, the blacksmiths, originally of Aydur 
race, have become vile by intermarriage with serviles. They 
must now wed maidens of their own class, and live apart from 
the community: their magical practices are feared by the people, 
— the connection of wits and witchcraft is obvious, — and all 
private quarrels are traced to them. It has been observed that 
the blacksmith has ever been looked upon with awe by barba¬ 
rians on the same principle that made Vulcan a deity. In 
Abyssinia all artisans are Budah, sorcerers, especially the 
blacksmith, and^he is a social outcast as among the Somal ; 
even in El Hejaz, a land, unlike Yemen, opposed to distinctions 
amongst Moslems, the Khalawiyah, who work in metal, are con¬ 
sidered vile. Throughout the rest of El Islam the blacksmith 
is respected as treading in the path of David, the lather of the 
craft. 

The word Tomal," opposed to Somal, is indigenous. *^Han- 



34 


riRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 


the conversation becomes intensely intellectual ; 
sometimes we dispute religion, sometimes politics, 
at others history and other humanities. Yet it is 
not easy to talk history with a people who con- 


dad " is palpably a corruption of the Arabic " Haddad," iron¬ 
worker. 

The Midgan, one-hand," corresponds with the Khadim of 
Yemen : he is called Rami or "archer" by the Arabs. There 
are three distinct tribes of this people, who are numerous in tho 
Somali country; the best genealogists cannot trace their origin, 
though some are silly enough to derive them, like the Akhdara, 
from Shimr. All, however, agree in expelling the Midgan 
from the gentle blood of Somali land, and his position has been 
compared to that of Freedman amongst the Romans. These 
people take service under the different chiefs, who sometimes 
entertain great numbers to aid in forays and frays; they do not, 
however, confine themselves to one craft. Many Midgans 
employ themselves in hunting and agriculture. Instead of 
spear and shield, they carry bows and a quiver full of diminutive 
arrows, barbed and poisoned with the Waba,—a.weapon used 
from Faizoghli to the Cape of Good Hope. Like the Veddah 
of Ceylon, the Midgjin is a poor shot, and scarcely strong 
enough to draw his stiff bow. He is accused of maliciousness; 
and the twanging of bis string will put to flight a whole village. 
The poison is greally feared: it causes, say the people, the hair 
and nails to drop off, and kills a man in half aft hour. The only 
treatment known is instant excision of the part; and this is done 
the more frequently, because here, as in other parts of Africa, 
such stigmates are deemed ornamental. 

In appearance the Midgan is dark and somewhat stunted; he 
is known to the people by peculiarities of countenance and 
accent. 



A MOSLEM "MBRCATOE." 


35 


found Miriam and Mary, or politics to those whose 
only idea of a king is a robber on a large scale, or 
religion to men who measure excellence by for¬ 
bidden meats, or geography to those who represent 
the earth in this guise. Yet, though few of our 


The mountain Kaf 



ideas are in common, there are many words; the 
verbosity of these anti-Laconic oriental dialects * 
renders at least half the subject intelligible to 
the most opposite thinkers. When the society is 

? The reason why Europeans fail to explain their thoughts to 
Orientals generally is that they transfer the Laconism of Western 
to Eastern tongues. We for instance say, '^Fetch the book I gave 
you last night." This in Hindostani, to choose a well-known 
tongue, must be smothered with words thus; '' What book 
was by me given to you yesterday by night, that book bringing 
to me, come 1 






36 


FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 


•wholly Soinal, I write Arabic, copy some useful 
book, or extract from it, as Bentley advised, what 
is fit to quote. When Arabs are present, I usually 
read out a tale from " The Thousand and One 
Nights," that wonderful work, so often translated, 
so much turned over, and so little understood at 
home. The most familiar of books in England, 
next to the Bible, it is one of the least known, the 
reason being that about one fifth is utterly unfit 
for translation; and the most sanguine orientalist 
would not dare to render literally more than 
three quarters of the remainder. Consequently, 
the reader loses the contrast, — the very essence of 
the book, — between its brilliancy and dulness, its 
moral putrefaction, and such pearls as 

Cast the seed of good works on the least fit soil. 

Good is never wasted, however it may be laid out,** 

And in a page or two after huch divine sentiment, 
the ladies of Bqgdad sit in the porter's lap, and 
indulge in a facetiousness which would have killed. 
Pietro Aretino before his time. 

Often I am visited by tjie Topchi-Bashi, or 
master of the ordnance, — half a dozen honey¬ 
combed guns,—a wild fellow, Bashi Buzuk in the 
Ilejaz and commandant of artilleiy at Zayla. 



MOSLEM SOCIETY. 


37 


He shaves my head on Fridays, and on other days 
tells me wild stories about his service in the Holy 
Land; how Kurdi Usman slew his son-in-law, Ibn 
Rumi, and how Turkcheh Bilmez would have 
murdered Mohammed Ali in his bed,* Sometimes 
the room is filled with Arabs, Sayyids, merchants, 
and others settled in the place: I saw nothing 
amongst them to justify the oft-quoted saw, "Ko- 
raysh pride and Zayla's boastfulness." More gene¬ 
rally the assembly is one of the Somal, who talk in 
their own tongue, laugh, yell, stretch their legs, and 
lie like cattle upon the floor, smoking the common 
Hukkah, which stands in the centre, industriously 
cleaning their teeth with sticks, and eating snuff like 
Swedes. Meanwhile, I occupy the Kursi or couch, 
sometimes muttering from a book to excite re¬ 
spect, or reading aloud for general information,' 
or telling fortunes by palmistry, or drawing out a 
horoscope. 

It argues "peculiarity," I own, to enjoy such 
a life. In the first place, there is no woman's 
society: El Islam seems purposely to have 
loosened the ties between the sexes in order to 
strengthen the bonds which connect man and 

* I have alluded to these subjects in a previous work upon 
the subject of Meccah and El Medinah. 



38 


FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 


man.* Secondly, your house is by no means your 
castle. You must open your doors to your friend 
at all hours; if when inside it suit him to sing, 
sing he will; and until you learn solitude in a 
crowd, or the art of concentration, you are apt to 
become and irritable. You must abandon 

your prejudices, and for a time cast off all European 
prepossessions in favour of Indian politeness, 
Persian polish, Arab courtesy, or Turkish dignity. 

They are as free as Nature e'er made man; " 

and he who objects to having his head shaved in 
public, to seeing his friends combing their locks in 
his sitting-room, to having his property unceremo¬ 
niously handled, or to being addressed familiarly 
by a perfect stranger, had better avoid Somali¬ 
land. 

You will doubtless, dear L., convict me, by 
my own sentiments, of being an "amateur bar¬ 
barian." You must, however, remember that I 
visited Africa fresh from Aden, with its dull 
routine of meaningless parades and tiresome courts 

* This is one of the stock complaints against the Moslem 
scheme. Yet is it not practically the case with ourselves ? In 
European society, the best are generally those who prefer the 
companionship of their own sex; the '' ladies* man " and the 
woman who avoids women are rarely choice specimens. 



INDIAN LIFE. 


39 


martial, where society is broken by ridiculous 
distinctions of staff-men and regimental-men, 
Madras-men and Bombay-men, "European" officers, 
and "black" officers; where literature is confined 
to acquiring the art of explaining yourself in the 
jargons of half-naked savages; where the business 
of life is comprised in ignoble official squabbles, 
dislikes, disapprobations, and " references to supe¬ 
rior authority; " where social intercourse is crushed 
by " gup," gossip, and the scandal of small colonial 
.. circles; where — pleasant predicament for those 
who really love women's society! — it is scarcely 
possible to address fair dame, preserving at the 
same time her reputation and your own, and if 
seen with her twice, all " camp " will swear it is 
an "affair;" where, briefly, the march of mind is 
at a dead halt, and the march of matter is in 
double quick time to the hospital or sick-quarters. 
Then the fatal struggle for Name, and the painful 
necessity of doing the most with the smallest 
materials for a reputation! In Europe there are a 
thousand grades of celebrity, from statesmanship to 
taxidermy ; all, therefore, co-exist without rivalry. 
Whereas, in these small colonies, there is but one 
fame, and as that leads directly to rupees and 
rank, no man willingly accords it to his neighbour. 


d> 4 



40 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

And, finally, such semi-civilised life abounds in a 
weary ceremoniousness. It is highly improper to 
smoke outside your bungalow. You shall pay your 
visits at 11 A.M., when the glass stands at 120°. 
You shall be generally shunned if you omit your 
waistcoat, no matter what the weather be. And 
if you venture to object to these Median laws, — 
as I am now doing, — you elicit a chorus of dis¬ 
approval, and acquire some evil name. 

About 11 A.M., when the fresh water arrives from 
the Hissi or wells, the Hajj sends us dinner, mutton 
stews, of exceeding greasiness, boiled rice, maize 
cakes, sometimes fish, and generally curds or milk. 
We all sit round a primitive form of the Eound 
Table, and I doubt that King Arthur's knights 
ever proved doughtier trenchermen than do my 
companions. We then rise to pipes and coffee, 
after which, excluding visitors, my attendants 
apply themselves to a siesta, I to my journal and 
studies. \ 

At 2 p.m; there is a loud clamour at the door : 
if it be not opened in time, we are asked if we have 
a Nazarene inside. Enters , a crowd of visitors, 
anxious to pass the afternoon. We proceed with a 
copy of the forenoon tiU the sun declines, when it 
is time to escape the flies, to repair to the terrace 
for fresh air, or to dress for a walk. Generally 



EVENING OCCUPATIONS. 


41 


our direction is through the town eastwards, to a 
plain of dilapidated graves and salt sand, peopled 
only by land-crabs. At the extremity near the sea 
is a little mosque of wattle-work: we sit there 
under the shade, and play a rude form of draughts, 
called Shantarah, or at Shahh, a modification of the 
former.* More often, eschewing these efieminacies, 

* The Shantarah board is thus made> with twenty-five points 
technically called houses.. The players have twelve counters a 



piece, and each places two at a time upon any of the unoccu¬ 
pied angles, till all except the centre are filled up. The player 
who did not begin the game must now move a man; his object 
is to inclose one of his adversary's between two of his own, in 
which case he removes it, and is entitled to continue moving 
till he can no longer take. It is a game of some skill, and per¬ 
petual practice enables the Somal to play it as the Persians do 
backgammon, with great art and little refiection. The game is 
called Kurkabod when, as in our draughts, the piece passing 
over one of the adversary's takes it. 

Shahh is another favourite game. The board is made thus. 



and the pieces as at Shantarah are twelve in number. The 
object is to place three men in line,—as the German Miihle and 




42 


FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 


we shoot at a mark, throw the javelin, leap, or 
engage in some gymnastic exercise. The favourite 
Somali weapons are the spear, dagger, and war- 
club ; the bow and poisoned arrows are peculiar to 
the servile class, who know 

the dreadful art 

To taint with deadly drugs the barbed dart; " 

and the people despise, at the same time that they 
fear firearms, declaring them to be cowardly 
weapons* with which the poltroon can slay the 
bravest. 


the Afghan Kitar/*— when any one of the adversary's pieces 
may be removed. 

Children usually prefer the game called indifferently Togantog 
and Saddikiya. A double line of five or six holes is made in 
the ground, four counters are placed in each, and when in the 
course of play four men meet in the same hole, one of the 
adversary's is removed. It resembles the Bornou game, played 
with beans and holes 4n the sand. Citizens and the more 


civilised are fond of " Bakkis," which, as its name denotes, is a 
corruption of the w^ell-known Indian Pachisi. None but the 
travelled know chess, and the Damal (draughts) and Tavola 
(backgammon) of the Turks. 

* The same objection against ''villanous saltpetre" was 
made by ourselves in times of old: the French knights called 
gunpowder the Grave of Honor. This is natural enough, the 
bravest weapon being generall 3 »^ the shortest—that which places a 
man hand to hand with his opponent. Some of the Kafir tribes 
have discontinued throwing the Assegai, and enter battle 



SOMALI WEAPONS. > 


43 


The Somali spear is a form of the Cape Assegai. 
Along, thin, pliant and knotty shaft of the Dibi, 
Diktab, and Makari trees, is dried, polished, and 
greased with rancid butter: it is generally of a dull 
yellow colour, and sometimes bound, as in Arabia, 
with brass wire for ornament. Care is applied to 
make the rod straight, or the missile flies crooked : 
it is garnished with an iron button at the head, and 
a long thin tapering head of coarse bad iron *, 
made at Berberah and other places by the Tomal. 
The length of the shaft may be four feet [eight 
inches; the blade varies from twenty to twenty- 
six inches, and the whole weapon is about seven 
feet long. Some polish the entire spear-head, others 
only its socket or ferule; commonly, however, it is 
all blackened by heating it to redness, and rubbing 
it with cow's horn. In the towns, one of. these 
weapons is carried; on a journey and in battle two, 
as amongst the Tibboos, —a small javelin for throw¬ 
ing and a large spear reserved for the thrust. Some 
warriors especially amongst the Eesa, prefer a coarse 

wielding it as a pike. Usually, also, the shorter the weapon is, 
the more fatal are the conflicts in which it is employed. The 
old French Briquet," the Afghan Charay," and the Goorka 
'' Kukkri," exemplify this fact in the history of arms; 

* In the latter point it differs from the Assegai, which is 
worked by the Kafirs to the finest temper. * 



44 


FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 


heavy lance, which never leaves the hand. The 
Somali spear is held in various ways: generally the 
thumb and forefinger grasp the third nearest to 
the head, and the shaft resting upon the palm is 
made to quiver. In action, the javelin is rarely 
thrown at a greater distance than six or seven feet, 
and the heavier weapon is used for "jobbing." 
Stripped to his waist, the thrower runs forward 
with all the action of a Kafir, whilst the attacked 
bounds about and crouches to receive it upon the 
round targe, which it cannot pierce. He then re¬ 
turns the compliment,' at the same time endeavour¬ 
ing to break the weapon thrown at him by jumping 
and stamping upon it. The harmless missiles being 
exhausted, both combatants draw their daggers, 
grapple with the left hand, and with the right dig 
hard and swift at each other's necks and shoulders. 
When matters come to this point, the duel is soon 
decided, and the 'fictor, howling his slogan, pushes 
away from his front the dying enemy, and 
rushes oiF to fend another opponent. A puerile 
weapon during the day, when a steady man can 
easily avoid it, the spear is terrible in night attacks 
or in the " bush," whence it' can be hurled unseen. 
For practice, we plant a pair of slippers upright in 
the ground, at the distance of twelve yards, and a 



SOMALI WEAPONS. 


45 


skilful spearman hits the mark once in every 
three throws. 

The Somali dagger is an iron blade about eighteen 
inches long by two in breadth, pointed and sharp 
at both edges. The handle is of buffalo or other 
horn, with a double scoop to fit the grasp ; and at 
the hilt is a conical ornament of zinc. It is worn 
strapped round the waist by a thong sewed to 
the sheath, and long enough to encircle the body 
twice: the point is to the right, and the handle pro¬ 
jects on the left. When in town, the Somal wear 
their daggers under the Tobe : in battle, the strap 
is girt over the cloth to prevent the latter being 
lost. They always stab from above: this is as it 
should be, a thrust with a short weapon " under¬ 
hand^' may be stopped, if the adversary have 
strength enough to hold the stabber's forearm. 
The thrust is parried with the shield, arid a wound 
is rarely mortal except in the back: from the great 
length of the, blade, the least movement of the 
man attacked causes it to fall upon the shoulder- 
blade. 

The "Budd," or Somali club, resembles the Kafir 
" Tonga." It is a knobstick about a cubit long, 
made of some hard wood: the head is rounded 
on the inside, and the outside is cut to an edge. 



46 


I'lUST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 


In quarrels, it is considered a harmless weapon, 
. and is often thrown at the opponent and welided 
viciously enough where the spear point would care¬ 
fully be directed at the buckler. The Gashan or shield 
is a round targe about eighteen inches in diameter; 
some of the Bedouins make it much larger. Ehi- 
noceros' skin being rare, the usual material is 
common bull's hide, or, preferably, that of the 
Oryx, called by the Arabs Waal, and by the Somal, 
Baid. These shields are prettily cut, and are 
always protected when new with a covering of 
canvass. The boss in the centre easily turns a 
spear, and the strongest throw has very little 
effect even upon the thinnest portion. When 
not used, the Gashan is slung upon the left 
forearm: during battle, the handle, which is in the 
middle, is grasped by the left hand, and held out at 
a distance from the body. 

We are sometiiAes joined in our exercises by the 
Arab mercenaries, who are far more skilful than 
the Somal. T^e latter are unacquainted with the 
sword, and cannot defend themselves against it 
with the targe; they know little of dagger practice, 
and were beaten at their own weapon, the javelin, 
by the children of Bir Hamid. Though unable to 
jump for the honour of the turban, I soon ac¬ 
quired the reputation of being the strongest man 



THE. GAME OF BALL. 


47 


in Zayla: this is perhaps the easiest way of 
winning respect from a barbarous people, who 
honour body, and degrade mind to mere cunning. 

When tired of exercise we procged round the 
walls to the Ashurbara or Southern Gate. Here 
boys play at " hockey" with sticks and stones ener¬ 
getically as in England: they are fine manly speci¬ 
mens of the race, but noisy and impudent, like all 
young savages. At two years of age they hold 
out the right hand for sweetmeats, and if refused 
become insolent. The citizens amuse theyuselves 
with the ball*, at which they play roughly as 
Scotch linkers: they are divided into two parties, 
bachelors and married men; accidents often occur, 
and no player wears any but the scantiest clothing, 
otherwise he would retire from the conflict in rags. 
The victors sing and dance about the town for 
hours, brandishing their spears, shouting their 
slogans, boasting.of ideal victories,-—the Abyssinian 
Donfatu, or war-vaunt, —and advancing in death- 
triumph with frantic gestures: a battle won would 
be celebrated with less circumstance in Europe. 
This is the effect of no occupation — the pvimum 

* It is called by the Arabs Kubabah, by the Somal Goasa. 
Johnston (Travels in Southern Abyssinia, chap. 8.) has de¬ 
scribed the game; he errs, however, in supposing it peculiar to 
the Dankali tribes. • 



48 


FIBST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 


mobile of the Indian prince's kite-flying and all the 
puerilities of the pompous East. 

We usually find an encampment of Bedouins 
outside the gate. Their tents are worse than any 
gipsy's, low, smoky, and of the rudest construc¬ 
tion. These people are a spectacle of savageness. 
Their huge heads of shock hair, dyed red and 
dripping with butter, are garnished with a Firin, or 
long three-pronged comb, a stick, which acts as 
scratcher when the owner does not wish to grease 
his fingers, and sometimes with the ominous ostrich 
feather, showing that the wearer has " killed his 
man:" a soiled and ragged cotton cloth covers their 
shoulders, and a similar article is wrapped round 
their loins.* All wear coarse sandals, and ap¬ 
pear in the bravery of targe, spear, and dagger. 
Some of the women would be pretty did they not 
resemble the men in their scowling, Satanic ex¬ 
pression of countenance: they are decidedly en des¬ 
habille, but a black skin always appears a garb.. 
The cantonm^t is surrounded by asses, camels, 
and a troop of naked Flibertigibbets, who dance 
and jump in astonishment whenever they see me: 

* This is in fact the pilgrim dress of El Islam; its wide 
diffusion to the eastward^ as well as west of the Eed Sea, proves 
its antiquity as a popular dress. 



THE BEDOUINS. 


40 


The white man! the white man! " they shriek ; 
" run away, run away, or we shall be eaten! " * 
On one occasion, however, my amour propre 
decidedly flattered by the attentions of a small 
black girl, apparently four or five years old, who 
followed me through the streets ejaculating " Wa 
Wanaksan! " — "0 fine! " The Bedouins, despite 
their fierce scowls, appear good-natured; the women 
flock out of the huts to stare and laugh, the men to 
look and wondel*. I happened once to remark,Lo, 
we come forth to look at them and they look ht us; 
we gaze at their complexion and they gaze at ours! " 
A Bedouin who understood Arabic translated this 
speech to the others, and it excited great merri¬ 
ment. In the mining counties of civilised England, 
where the "genial brickbat " is thrown at the pass¬ 
ing stranger, or in enlightened Scotland, where hair 
a few inches too long or a pair of mustachios justifies 
" mobbing," it would have been impossible for me 
to have mingled as I did with these wild people. 

We must return before sunset, when the gates 
are locked and the keys are carried to the Hajj, a 
vain precaution, when a donkey could clear half a 

* I often regretted having neglected the precaution of a 
bottle of walnut juice, — a white colour is decidedly too con¬ 
spicuous in this part of the East* 



50 


FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 


dozen places in the town wall. The call to evening 
prayer sounds as we enter: none of my companions 
pray*, but all when asked reply in the phrase 
which an Englishman hates, " Inshallah Bukra"— 
" if Allah please, to-morrow! "—and they have the 
decency not to appear in public at the hours of 
devotion. The Somal, like most Africans, are 
of a somewhat irreverent turn of mind.f When 

* The strict rule of the Moslem faith is this: if a man ne¬ 
glect to pray, he is solemnly warned to tepent Should he 
simply refuse,' without, however, disbelieving in prayer, he is to 
be put to death, and receive Moslem burial; in the other con¬ 
tingency, hfe is not bathed, prayed for, or interred in holy 
ground. This severe order, however, lies in general abeyance. 

f " Tuarick grandiloquence," says Richardson (vol. i. p. 207.), 
" savours of blasphemy, e. g, the lands, rocks, and mountains of 
Ghat do not belong to God but to the Azghar."**- Equally irre¬ 
verent are the Kafirs of the Cape. They have proved themselves 
good men in wit as well as war; yet, like the old Greenlanders 
and some of the Burmese tribes, they are apparently unable to 
believe in the existeiyje of the Supreme. A favourite question to 
the missionaries was this, Is your God white or black ? " If 
the European, startled by the question, hesitated for a moment, 
they would leavt him with open signs of disgust at having 
been made the victims of a hoax. 

The assertion generally passes current that the idea of an 
Omnipotent Being is familiar to all people, even the most bar¬ 
barous. My limited experience argues the contrary. Savages 
begin with fetisism and demon-worship, they proceed to phy- 
siolatry (the religion of the Vedas) and Sabaeism; the deity 
is the last and highest pinnacle of the spiritual temple, not 
placed there except by a comparatively civilised race of high 



SOMAL IRREVERENCE. 


51 


reproached with gambling, and asked why they 
persist, iri the forbidden pleasure, they simply 
answer " Because we like." One night, encamped 
amongst the Eesa, I was disturbed by a female 
voice indulging in the loudest lamentations: an 
elderly lady, it appears, was suffering from 
tooth-ache, and the refrain of her groans was, " 0 
Allah, may thy teeth ache like mine! O Allah, 
may thy gums be sore as mine are! " A well- 
known and chafacteristic tale is told of the Gerad 
Hirsi, now chief of the Berteri tribe. Once meet¬ 
ing a party of unarmed pilgrims, he asked them 
why they had left their weapons at home: they re¬ 
plied in the usual phrase, "Nahnu mutawakkilin "— 
" we are trusters (in Allah)." That evening, having 
feasted them hospitably, the chief returned hurriedly 
to the hut, declaring that his soothsayer ordered 
him at once to sacrifice a pilgrim, and begging the 
horror-struck auditors to choose the victim. They 
cast lots and gave over one of their number : the 
Gerad placed him in another hut, dyed his dagger 
with sheep's blood, and returned to say that he 
must have a second life. The unhappy pilgrims 

development, which leads them to study and speculate upon cos- 
mical and psychical themes. This progression is admirably 
wrought out in Professor Max Muller's " Rig Veda Sanhita." 



52 


FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 


rose en massej &ndL fled so wildly that the chief, with 
all the cavalry of the desert, found difficulty in 
recovering them. He dismissed them with liberal 
presents, and not a few jibes about their trustful¬ 
ness. The wilder Bedouins will inquire where 
Allah is to be found : when asked the object of the 
question, they reply,' "If the Eesa could but catch 
him they would spear him upon the spot, — who 
but he lays waste their homes and kills their cattle 
and wives ? " Yet, conjoined to this truly savage 
incapability of conceiving the idea of a Supreme 
Being, they believe in the most ridiculous exaggera¬ 
tions : many will not affront a common pilgrim, for 
fear of being killed by a glance or a word. 

Our supper, also provided by the hospitable Hajj, 
is the counterpart of the midday dinner. After it 
we repair to the .roof, to ei^joy the prospect of the 
far Tajurrah hills and the white moonbeams sleep¬ 
ing upon the nearer sea.^ The evening star hangs 
like a diamond upoh the still horizon ; around the 
moon, a pink zone tif light mist, shading off into 
turquoise blue, and a delicate green like chryso- 
praz, invests the heavens with a peculiar charm. 
The scene is truly suggestive: behind us, purpling 
in the night-air and silveredi by the radiance from 
above, lie the wolds and mountains tenanted by 



ARAB MELANCHOLY. 


53 


the fiercest of savages; their shadowy mysterious 
forms exciting vague alarms in the traveller's 
breast. Sweet as the harp of David, the night- 
breeze and the music of the water come up from 
the sea; but the ripple and the rustling sound al¬ 
ternate with the hyena's laugh; the jackal's cry, and 
the wild dog's lengthened howl. 

Or, the weather becoming cold, we remain below, 
and Mohammed Umar returns to read out more! 
"Book of Lights," or some pathetic ode. I will 
quote in free, translation the following production 
of the celebrated poet Abd el Rahman el Burai, 
as a perfect specimen of melancholy Arab imagery: 

No exile is the banished to the latter end of earth,. 

The exile is the banished to the coffin and the tomb 1 

He hath claims on the dwellers in the places of their birth 

Who wandereth the world, for he lacketh him a home* 

Then, blamer, blame me not, were my heart within thy breast, 

The sigh would take the place of thy laughter and thy scorn. 

Let me weep for the sin that debars my soul of rest, * 

The tear may yet avail,— all in vain I may not mourn! * 


* The Moslem corpse is partly sentient in the tomb, re¬ 
minding the reader of Tennyson: 

I thought the dead had peace, but it is not so; 

To have no peace in the grave, is that not sad ? ** 




54 


FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 


Woe! woe to thee, Flesh! —with a purer spirit now 
The death-day were a hope, and the judgment-hour a joy! 

One morn I woke in pain, with a pallor on my brow, 

As though the dreaded Angel were descending to destroy : 

They brought to me a leech, saying, ' Heal him lest he 4*^! * 
On that day, by Allah,'were his drugs a poor deceit! 

They stripped me and bathed me, and closed the glazing eye. 
And dispersed unto prayers, and to haggle for my sheet. 

The prayers without a bow * they prayed over me that day, 
Brought nigh to me the bier, and disposed me within. 

" Four bare upon their shoulders this tenement of clay, 

Friend and kinsmen in procession bore the dust of friend and 
kin. 

'' They threw upon me mould of the tomb and went their way— 
A guest, 'twould seem, had flitted from the dwellings of the 
tribe! 

My gold and my treasures eac|i a share they bore away. 
Without thanks, without praise, with a jest and with a jibe. 

** My gold and my treasures bach his share they bore away, 

On me they left the weight I — with me they left the sin! 

'' That night within the grave without hoard or child I lay, 

No spouse, no friend were there, no comrade and no kin. 


* The prayers for the dead have no Eukaat or bow as in 
other orisons. ^ 




ABD EL BAUMAN. 


55 


" The wife of my youth, soon another husband found — 

A stranger sat at home on the hearthstone of my sire. 

" My son became a slave, though not purchased nor bound, 

The hireling of a stranger, who begrudged him his hire. 

** Such, alas, is human life! such the horror of his death! 

Man grows like a grass, like a god he sees no end. 

Be wise, then, ere too late, brother! praise with every breath 
The hand that can chastise, the arm that can defend: 

And bless thou the Prophet, the averter of our ills, 

While the lightning flasheth bright o'er^the ocean and the 
hills.'* ... 


At this hour my companions become imagina¬ 
tive and superstitious. One Salimayn, a black 
slave from the Sawahil *, now secretary to the 
Hajj, reads our fortunes in the rosary. The 
" fal " f, as it is called, acts a prominent part in 

* The general Moslem name for the African coast from the 
Somali seaboard southwards to the Mozambique, inhabited by 
negrotic races. 

i f The Moslem rosary consists of ninety-nine beads divided 
into sets of thirty-three each by some peculiar sign, as a bit of red 
coral The consulter, beginning at a chance place, counts up to 
the mark: if the number of beads be odd, he sets 
down a single dot, if even, two. This is done O O 
four times, when a figure is produced as in the O 
margin. Of these there are sixteen, each having O 

its peculiar name and properties. The art is merely O O 

Geomancy in its rudest shape ; a mode of vaticina- 

.E 4 



56 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

Somali life. Some men are celebrated for accuracy 
of prediction; and in times of danger, when the 
human minS is ever open to the "fooleries of 
faith," perpetual reference is made to their art. 
The worldly wise Salimayn, I observed, never sent 
away a questioner with an ill-omened reply, but he 
also regularly insisted upon the efficacy of sacrifice 
and almsgiving, which, as they would, assuredly be 
neglected, aflTorded hkn an excuse in case of acci¬ 
dent. Then we had a recilal of the tales com¬ 
mon to Africa, and perhaps to all the world. 
In modern France,' as in ancient Italy, "versi- 
pelles " become wolves and hide themselves in 
the woods : in Persia they change themselves into 
bears, and in Bornou and Shoa assume the shapes 
of lions, hyenas, and leopards.* The origin of 
this metamorphic superstition is easily traceable, 
like man's fetisism or demonology, to his fears: 
a Bedouin, for instance, becomes dreadful by the 
reputation of sorcery: ^ bears and hyenas are 

tion which, from its wide diffusion, must be of high antiquity. 
The Arabs call it El Kami, a\id ascribe its present form to the 
Imam Jaafar el Sadik; amongst them it is a ponderous study, 
connected as usual with astrology. Napoleon's "Book of Fate** 
is a specimen of the old Eastern superstition presented to 
Europe in a modern and simple form. 1 

* In this country, as in Western and Southern Africa, the 
leopard, not the wolf, is the shepherd's scourge. 

< { 



METAMORPHOSIS. 57 

equally terrible^ and the two objects of horror are 
easily connected. Curious to say, individuals 
having this power were pointed out to me, 
and people pretended to discover it in their 
countenances: at Zayla I was shown a Bedouin, 
by name Farih Badaun, who notably became a 
hyena at times, for the purpose of tasting human 
blood.* About forty years ago, three brothers, 
Kayna, Fardayna, and Sollan,' were killed on 
Gulays near Berberah for the crime of metamor¬ 
phosis. The charge is usually substantiated either 
by the bestial tail remaining appended to a part 
of the human shape which the owner has forgotten 
to rub against the magic tree, or by some peculiar 
wound which the beast received and the man 
retained. Kindred to this superstition is ihe 
belief that many of the Bedouins have learned 
the languages of birds and beasts. Another 
widely diffused fancy is that of the Aksarf, which 
in this pastoral land becomes a kind of wood: 
wonderful tales are told of battered milk-pails 
which, by means of some peg accidentally cut 
in the jungle, have been found full of silver, or 

• Popular superstition in Abyssinia attributes the same 
power to the Felashas or Jews. 

t Our Elixir^ a corruption of the Arabic El Iksir* 



\ 

58 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

have acquired the qualities of cornucopiae. It is 
supposed that a red heifer always breaks her 
fast upon the wonderful plant, consequently 
much time and trouble have been expended by 
the Somal in watching the morning proceed¬ 
ings of red heifers. At other times we hear 
fearful tales of old women who, like the Jigar 
Khwar of Persia, feed upon man's liver: they 
are;, fond • of destroying young children; even 
adults are not ashamed of defending themselves 
with talismans. In this country the crone is 
called Bidaa or Kumayyo, words signifying a 
witch: the worst is she that destroys her own 
progeny. No wq^hd is visible in this vam- 
pyre's victim: generally he names his witch, 
and his friends beat her to death unless she 
heal him: many are thus martyred; and in So¬ 
mali land scant notice is taken of such a pec¬ 
cadillo as murdering an old woman. The sex 
indeed has by no means a good name: here, as 
elsewhere, those who degrade it are the first 
^o abuse it for degradation. At Zayla almost 
all quarrels are connected with women; the old 
bewitch in one way, the young in another, 
and, both are equally maligned. " Wit in a 
woman," exclaims one man, "is a habit of run- 



" -WOMAN." 59 

ing away in a dromedary." "Allah," declares 
another, " made woman of a crooked bone; he 
who would straighten her, breaketh her." Per¬ 
haps, however, by these generalisms of abuse the 
sex gains: they prevent personal and indivi¬ 
dual details; and no society of French gentle¬ 
men''avoids mentioning in public the name of 
a woman more scrupulously than do the miso¬ 
gynist Moslems. 

After a conversazione of two hours my visitors 
depart, and we lose no time—for we must rise 
at cockcrow—in spreading our mats ? roupd 'the j 
common room. You would admire the Soipali 
pillow*, a dwarf pedestal of carved Wood, with a 
curve upon which the greasy poll and its elaborate 
frisure repose. Like the Abyssinian article, it re¬ 
sembles the head-rest of ancient Egypt in all 
points, except that it is not worked with Typhons 
and other horrors to drive away dreadful dreams. 
Sometimes the sound of the kettledrum, the song, 
and the clapping of hands, summon us at a later 
hour than iisual to a dance. The performance ^ 
complicated, and, as usual with the trivialities 
easily learned in early youth, it is uncommonly 

* In the Somali tongue its name is Barki: they make a 
Stool of similar shape, and call it Barjimo* 



60 • FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA, 

difficult to a stranger. Each dance has its own 
song and measure, and, contrary to the custom of 
El Islam, the sexes perform together. They begin 
by clapping the hands and stamping where they 
stand; to this succeed advancingj retiring, wheeling 
about, jumping about, and the other peculiarities of 
the Jim Crow school. The principal measures are 
those of Ugadayn and Batar; these again are 
divided and subdivided;—I fancy that the descrip¬ 
tion of Dileho, Jibwhayn, and Hobala would be 
as' entertaining and instructive to you, dear L., 
as Polka,, Gavotte, and Mazurka would be to a 
Somali. 

On Friday—our Sunday—a drunken crier goes 
about the town, threatening the bastinado to all 
who neglect their five prayers. At half-past 
eleven a kettledrum sounds a summons to the 
Jami or Cathedral. It is an old barn rudely 
plastered with whitewasji; posts or columns of 
artless masonry support ,the low roof, and the 
smallness of the windoysrs, or rather air-holes, ren¬ 
ders its dreary length unpleasantly hot. There is 
no pulpit; the only ornament is a rude repre¬ 
sentation of the Meccan Mosque, najled like a pot¬ 
house print to the wall; and the sole articles of 
furniture are ragged mats and old boxes, con- 



THE MOSQUE. 


61 


taining tattered chapters of the Koran in . greasy 
bindings. I enter with a servant carrying a 
prayer carpet, encounter the stare of 300 pair of 
eyes, belonging to parallel rows of squatters, recite 
the customary two-bow prayer in honor of the 
mosque, placing sword and rosary before me, aiid 
then,'taking up a Koran, read the Cow Chapter (No. 
18.) loud and twangingly. At the Zohr or mid¬ 
day hour, the Muezzin inside the mosque, standing 
before the Khatib or preacher, repeats the call to 
prayer, which the congregation, sitting upon their 
shins and feet, intone after him. This ended, 
all present stand up, and recite every man for him¬ 
self, a two-bow prayer of Sunnat or Example, con¬ 
cluding with the blessing on the Prophet and the 
Salam over each shoulder to all brother Believers. 
The Khatib then ascends his hole in the wall, 
which serves for pulpit, and thence addresses us with 
" The peace be upon you, and the mercy of Allah, 
and his benediction;" to which we respond through 
the Muezzin, " And upon you be peace, and Allah's 
mercy ! " After sundry other religious formulas 
and their replies, concluding with a second call to 
prayer, our preacher rises, and in the voice with 
which Sir Hudibras was wont 

To blaspheme custard through the nose," 



62 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

pfeaches El Waaz*, or the advice-sermon. He 
sits down for a few minutes, and then, rising again, 
recites El Naat, or the Praise of the Prophet and 
his Companions. These are the two heads into 
which the Moslem discourse is divided; unfortu¬ 
nately, however, there is no application. Our 
preacher, who is also Kazi or Judge, makes several 
blunders in his Arabic, and he reads his sermons, 
a thing never done in El Islam, except by the 
modice docti. The discourse over, our clerk, who 
is,' if possible, worse than the curate, repeats the 
form of call termed El Ikamah; then entering the 
Mihrab or niche, he recites the two-bow Friday 
litany, with, and in front of, the congregation. 
I remarked no peculiarity in the style of praying, 
except that all followed the practice of the Shafeis 
in El Yemen, — raising the hands for a moment, 
instead of letting them depend along the thighs, 
between the Eukaat or ^ bow and the Sujdah or 
prostration. This public prayer concluded, many 
people leave the mosq^ue; a few remain for more 
prolonged devotions. 

There is a queer kind of family. likeness be- 

* Specimens of these discourses have been given by Mr. Lane, 
Mod. Egypt, chap. 3. It is useless to offer others, as all bear 
the closest resemblance. 



THE VILLAGE CHURCH. 


tween this scene and that of a village church, Tn 
some quiet nook of rural England. Old Sharmar- 
kay, the squire, attended by his son, takes his place 
close to the pulpit; and although the Honoratiores 
have no padded and cushioned pews, they comport 
themselves very much as if they had. Kecog- 
nitiohs of the most distant description are allowed 
before the service commences: looking around is 
strictly forbidden during prayers; but all do not 
regard the prohibition, especially when a new 
moustache enters. Leaving the church, men 
shake hands, stand for a moment to ej^change 
friendly gossip, or address a few words to the 
preacher, and then walk home to dinner. There 
are many salient points of difference. No bonnets 
appear in public: the squire, after prayers, gives 
-alms to the poor, and departs escorted by two dozen 
matchlock^men, who perseveringly fire their shotted 
guns. 



64 


FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 


CHAP. III. 

EXCURSIONS NEAR ZAYLA. 

We determined on the 9th of November to visit the* 
island of Saad el Din, the larger of the two patches 
of' ground which lie about two miles north of the 
town. Reaching our destination, after an hour's 
lively sail, we passed through a thick belt of 
underwood tenanted by swarms of midges, with 
a damp chill air crying fever, and a fetor of de¬ 
cayed vegetation smelling death. To this suc¬ 
ceeded a barren flat of silt and sand, white with 
salt and ragged with salsolaceous stubble, reeking 
with heat, and covered with old vegetation. Here,' 
says local tradition, was the ancient site of Zayla*, 
built by Arabs from Yemen. The legend runs 

• Bruce describes Zayla as " a small island, on the very coast 
of Adel." To reconcile discrepancy, he adopts the usual clumsy 
expedient of supposing two cities of the same name, one situated 
seven degrees south of the other. Salt corrects the error, but 
does not seem to have heard of old Zayla's insular position. 



OLD ZAYLA. 


65 


that when Saad el Din was besieged and slain by 
David, King of Ethiopia, the wells dried up and 
the island sank. Something doubtless occurred 
which rendered a removal advisable: the sons of 
the Moslem hei*o fled to Ahmed bin El Ashraf, 
Prince of Senaa, offering their allegiance if he 
would build fortiflcations for them and aid them 
against the Christians of Abyssinia. The con¬ 
sequence was d walled circuit upon the present 
site of Zayla: of its old locality almost may be said 
" periSre ruin®." I 

During my stay with Sharinarkay I made many; 
inquiries about historical works, and the Kazi; 
Mohammed Khatib, a Harar man of the Hawiyah 
tribe, was at last persuaded to send his Daftar, or 
office papers, for my inspection. They formed a 
kind of parish register of births, deaths, marriages, 
divorces, and manumissions. From • them it ap¬ 
peared that in A.H. 1081 (a.d. 1670-71) the Sha- 
nabila Sayyids were Kazis of Zayla and retained 
the office for 138 years. It passed two generations 
ago into the hands of Mohammed Musa, a Hawiyah, 
and the present Kazi is his nephew. 

The origin of Zayla, or, as it is locally called, 
Audal," is lost in the fogs of Phoenician fable, 

F 



66 


FIKST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 


The Avalites * of the Periplus and Pliny, it was 
in earliest ages dependent upon the kingdom of 
Axum.f About the seventh century, when the 
Southern Arabs penetrated into the heart of 
Abyssinia J, it became the great factory of the 
eastern coast, and rose to its height of splendour. 
Taki el Din Makrizi § includes under the name of 
Zayla, a territory of forty-three days' march by 
forty, and divides it into seven great provinces, 

I 

f The inhabitants were termed Avalitae, and the Bay Sinus 
Avaliticus.'' Some modern travellers have confounded it with 
Adule or Adulis, the port of Axum, founded by fugitive Egyp¬ 
tian slaves. The latter, however, lies further north: D'Anville 
places it at Arkiko, Salt at Zula (or Azule), near the head of 
Annesley Bay. 

•f The Arabs were probably the earliest colonists of this 
coast. Even the Sawahil people retain a tradition that their 
forefathers originated in the south of Arabia. 

To the presejit day the district of Gozi is peopled by 
Mohammedans called Arablet, whose progenitors," according 
to Harris, '' are said by tradition to have been left there prior 
to the reign of Nagasi, first Kihg of Shoa. Hossain, Wahabit, 
and Abdool Kurreem, generals probably detached from the vic¬ 
torious army of Graan (Mc^hammed Gragne}, are represented 
to have come from Mecca, and to have taken possessiop of the 
country,— the legend assigning to the first of these warriors as 
his capital, the populous village of Medina, which is conspi¬ 
cuous on a cone among the mountains, shortly after entering 
the valley of Robi." 

§ Historia Regum Islamiticorum in Abyssinia, Lugd. 

Bat. 1790. 

i 



IBN BATUTA. 


67 


speaking about fifty languages, and ruled by 
Amirs, subject to the Hati (Hatze) of Abyssinia. 

In the fourteenth century it became celebrated 
by its wars with the kings of Abyssinia : sus¬ 
taining severe defeats the Moslems retired upon 
their harbour, which, after an obstintae de¬ 
fend^, fell into the hands of the Christians; The 
land was laid waste, the mosques were converted 
into churches, and the Abyssinians returned to 
their mountains laden with booty. About a.d. 
1400, Saad el Din, the heroic prince of Zayla, was| 
besieged in his city by the Hatze David thel 
Second : slain by a spear-thrust, he left his people 
powerless in the hands of their enemies, till his sons, 
Sabr el Din, Ali, Mansur, and Jemal el Din retrieved 
the cause of El Islam. 

Ibn Batuta, a voyager of the fourteenth century, 
thus*describes the place: " I then went fron Aden 
by sea, and after four days came to the city of 
Zayla. This is a settlement of the Berbers*, a 
people of Sudan, of the Shafia sect. Their country 

? The affinity between the Semal and the Berbers of Northern 
Africa, and their descent from Canaan, son of Ham, has been 
learnedly advanced and refuted by several Moslem authors. 
The theory appears to have arisen from a mistake; Berberah, ^ 
the great emporium of the Somali country, being confounded 
with the Berbers of Nubia. 



G8 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

is a desert of two months' extent; the first part is 
termed Zayla, the last Makdashu. The greatest 
number of the inhabitants, however, are of the 
Rafizah sect.* Their food is mostly camels' flesh 
and fish.f The stench of the country is extreme, 
as is also its filth, from.the stink of the fish and 
the blood of camels which are slaughtered in its 
streets." 

About A.D. 1500 the Turks conquered Yemen, 
and the lawless Janissaries, " who lived, upon the 
very bowels of commerce " J, drove the peaceable 
Arab merchants to the opposite shore. The trade 
of India, flying from the same enemy, took refuge 
in Adel, amongst its partners.§ The Turks 
of Arabia, though they were blind to the cause, 
were sensible of the great influx of wealth into the 
opposite kingdoms. They took possession, there- 

• 

• Probably Zaidi from Yenjen. At present the people of 
Zayla are all orthodox Sunnites. 

t Fish, as will be seen in these pages, is no longer a favourite 
article of diet. 1 

1 Bruce, book 3. 

§ Hence the origin of the trade between Africa and Cutch, 
which continues uninterrupted to the present time. Adel, 
¦•Arabia, and India, as Bruce remarks, were three partners in one 
trade, who mutually exported their produce to Europe, Asia, 
and Africa, at that .time the whole known world. 


f 



69 


HISTORY OF ZAYLA. 

fore, of Zayla, which they made a den of thieves, 
established there what they called a custom-house *, 
and, by means of that post and galleys cruising in 
the narrow straits of Bab el Mandeb, they laid 
the Indian trade to Adel under heavy contributions 
that might indemnify them for the great desertion 
thfetr violence and injustice had occasioned in 
Arabia. * 

This step threatened the very existence both of 
Adel and- Abyssinia; and considering the vigorous 
government of the one, and the weak politics and 
prejudices of the other, it is more than probable 
that the Turks would have subdued both, had they 
not in India, their chief object, met the Portuguese, 
strongly established. 

Bartema, travelling in a.d. 1503, treats in his 

15th chapter of " Zeila in ^Ethiopia and the great 

• 

* The Turks, under a show of protecting commerce, esta¬ 
blished these posts in their different ports. But they soon made 
it appear that the end proposed was only to ascertain who were 
the subjects from, whom they could levy the most enormous ex¬ 
tortions. Jeddah, Zebid, and Mocha, the places of consequence 
nearest to Abyssinia on the Arabian coast, Suakin, a seaport 
town on the very barriers of Abyssinia, in the immediate way 
of their caravan to Cairo on the African side, were each under 
the command of a Turkish Pasha and garrisoned by Turkish 
troops sent thither from Constantinople by the emperors Selim 
and Sulayman. 


' r 3 



70 


FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 


fruitlessness thereof, and of certain strange beasts 
seen there." 

"In this city is great frequentation of mer¬ 
chandise, as in a most famous mart. . There is 
marvellous abundance of gold and iron, and an 
innumerable number of black slaves sold for small 
prices; these are taken in war by the Mahomedans 
out of Ethiopia, of the kingdom of Presbyter 
Johannes, or Preciosus Johannes, which some also 
call the king of Jacobins or Abyssins, being a 
Christian; arid are carried away from thence into 
Persia, Arabia Felix, Babylonia of Nilus or Alcair, 
and Meccah. In this city justice and good laws are 
observed.*.. It hath an innumerable 

* Bartema's account of its productions is as follows : " The 
soil beareth wheat and hath abundance of flesh and divers other 
commodious things. It hath also oil, not of olives, but of some 
other thing, I know not what. There is also plenty of honey 
and wax ; there are likewise certain sheep having their tails ot 
the weight of sixteen pounds, and exceeding fat; the head and 
neck are black, and all the rest white. There are also sheep 
altogether white, and having tails of a cubit long, and hanging 
down like a great cluster of grapes, and have also great laps of 
skin hanging down from their throats, as have bulls and oxen, 
hanging down almost to the ground. There are also certain 
kind with horns like unto harts' horns; these are wild, and 
when they be taken are given to the Sultan' of that city as a 
kingly present I saw there also certain kind having only one 
horn in the midst of the forehead, as hath the unicorn, and 
about a span of length, but the hprn bendeth backward: they 




HISTORY OF ZAYLA. 


71 


multitude of merchants; the walls are greatly 
decayed, and the haven rude and' despicable. The 
King or Sultan of the city is a Mahomedan, and 
entertaineth in wages a great multitude of footmen 
and horsemen. They are greatly given to war, 
and wear only one loose single vesture; they are 
of dark ash colour, inclining to black." 

In July 1516 Zayla was taken, and the town 
burned by a. Portuguese armament, under Lopez 
Suarez Alberguiera. When the Turks were com¬ 
pelled to retire from Southern Arabia, it becam^ 
subject to the Prince of Senaa, who gave it iii 
perpetuity to the family of a Senaani merchant. 

The kingdom of Yemen falling into decay, 
Zayla passed under the authority of the Sherif of 
Mocha, who, though receiving no part of the revenue, 
had yet the poAver of displacing the Governor. By 
him it was farmed out to the Hajj Sharmarkay, 
Avho paid annually to Sayyid Mohammed el Barr, 
at Mocha, the sum of 750 crowns, and reserved 
all that he could collect above that sum for him¬ 
self. In A.D. 1848 Zayla was taken from the 
family El Barr, and farmed out to Sharmarkay 
by the Turkish Governor of Mocha and Hodaydah. 

are of bright shining red colour. But they that have harts' 
horns are inclining to black colour. Living is there good and 
cheap." 



72 


FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 


The extant remains at Saad el Din are prin-. 
cipally those of water-courses, rude lines of coral¬ 
line, stretching across the plain towards wells, now 
lost*, and diminutive tanks, made apparently to 
collect rain water. One of these latter is a work of 
some art—a long sunken vault, with a pointed 
arch projecting a few feet above the surface of the 
ground; outside it is of rough stone, the interior 
is carefully coated with fine lime, and from the 
roc^f long stalactites depend. Near it is a ceme¬ 
tery : the graves are, for the most part, provided 
with large slabs of close black basalt, planted in 
the ground edgeways, and in the shape of a small 
oblong. The material was most probably brought 
from the mountains near Tajurrah: at another 
part of the island I found it in the shape of a 
gigantic mill-stone, half imbedded in the loose sand. 
Near the cemetery we observed a mound of tough 
stones surrounding an upr||jht pole; this is the 
tomb of Shaykh Saad el Din, formerly the hero, 
now the favourite pa^tron saint of Zayla,— still 
popularly venerated, as was proved by the re- 


* The people have a tradition that a w^ll of sweet water 
exists unseen in some part of the island. When Saad el Din 
was besieged in Zayla by the Hatze David, the host of El Islam 
suffered severely for the want of the fresh element. 



SAAD EL DIN. 


73 


mains of votive banquets, broken bones, dried gar¬ 
bage, and stones blackened by the fire. 

After wandering through the island, which con¬ 
tained not a human being save a party of Soraal 
boatmen, cutting firewood for Aden, and having 
massacred a number of large fishing hawks and 
small sea-birds, to astonish the natives, our com" 
panions, we returned to the landing-place. Here 
an awning had been spread ; the goat destined for 
our dinner—I have long since conquered all 
dislike, dear L., to seeing dinner perambulatingj 
—had been boiled and disposed in hunches upon/ 
small mountains of rice, and jars of sweet water 
stood in the air to cool. After feeding, regardless 
of Quartana and her weird sisterhood, we all lay 
down for siesta in the light sea-breeze. Our 
slumbers were heavy, as the Zayla people say is 
ever the case at Saad el Din, and the sun had 
declined low ere we awoke. The tide was out, 
and we waded a quarter of a mile to the boat, 
amongst giant crabs Avho- showed grisly claws, 
sharp coralline, and sea-weed so thick as to become 
almost a mat. You must believe me when I tell 
you that in the shallower parts the sun was pain¬ 
fully hot, even to my well tried feet. We picked 
up a few specimens of fine sponge, and coral. 



74 


FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 


white and red, which, if collected, might be 
valuable to Zayla, and, our picmic concluded, we 
returned home. 

On the 14th November we left the town to meet 
a caravan of the Danakil*, and to visit the tomb 
of the great saint Abu '^Zarbay. The former ap¬ 
proached in a straggling line of asses, and about 
fifty camels laiden with cows' hides, ivories and 
one Abyssinian slave-girl. The then were wild 
as ourang-outangs, and the women-fit only to flog 
cattle: their animals were small, meagre-looking, 
and loosely made; the asses of the Bedouins, how¬ 
ever, are far superior to those of Zayla, and the 
camels are, comparatively speaking, wellbred.f In a 

^ The singular is Danku^i, the plural Danakil: both words 
are Arabic, the vernacular name being " Afar ** or Afer,'^ the 
Somali Afarnimun," The word is pronounced like the Latin 

Afer,*' an African.* 

t Occasionally, at Zayla-r—where all aniitials are expensive— 
Dankali camels may be bougW: though small, they resist hard¬ 
ship and fatigue better thaO the other kinds. A fair price would 
be about ten dollars. Th|e ipomal divide their animals into two 
kinds, Gel Ad and Ayyun. The former is of white colour, loose 
and weak, but valuable, I was told by Lieut. Speke, in districts 
where little water is found ;the Ayyun is darker and stronger ; 
its price averages about a quarter more than, the Gel Ad. 

To the 'Arabian traveller nothing can be more^ annoying 
than these Somali camels. They must be fed four hours djuring 
the day, otherwise they cannot march. They die from change 

a . ' 



IBKAHIM ABU ZABBAY. 


75 


few minutes the beasts were unloaded, the Gurgis or 
wigwams pitched, and all was prepared for repose. 
A caravan so extensive being an unusual event,— 
small parties carrying only grain come in once or 
twice a week,— the citizens abandoned even their 
favourite game of ball, with an eye to speculation. 
We ^'tood at " Government House," over the Ash- 
urbara Gate, to see the Bedouins, and we quizzed 
(as Town men might denounce a tie or scoff at 
a boot) the huge round shields and the uncouth 
spears of these provincials. Presently they entered 
the streets, where we witnessed their frantic dance j 
in presence of the Hajj and other authorities. This 
is the wild men's way of expressing their satis¬ 
faction that Fate has enabled them to convoy the 
caravan through all the dangers of the desert. 

The Shaykh Ibrahim Abu Zarbay* lies under a 


of food or sudden removal to another country. Their backs 
are ever being galled, and, with all precautions, a month's march 
lays them up for three times that period. They are never used 
for riding, except in cases of sickness or accidents. 

The Somali ass is generally speaking a miserable animal. 
Lieut. Speke, however, reports that on the windward coast it 
is not to be despised. At Harar I found a tolerable breed, 
superior in appearance but inferior in size to the thorough¬ 
bred little animals at Aden. They are never ridden; their prin¬ 
cipal duty is that of carrying water-skins to and from the walls. 

* He is generally called Abu Zerbin, more rarely Abu Zar- 



76 


FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 


¦whitewashed dome close to the Ashurbara Gate of 
Zayla: an inscription cut in wood over the door¬ 
way informs us that the building dates from 
A.H. 1155=ad. 1741-2. It is now dilapidated, 
the lintel is falling in, the walls are decaying, and 
the cupola, which is rudely built, with primitive 
gradients, — each step supported as in Cashmere 
and other parts of India, by wooden beams,— 
threatens the heads of the pious. The building is 
divided into two compartments, forming a Mosque 
and a Mazar or place of pious visitation; in the 
latter are five tombs, the two largest* covered with 
common chintz stuff of glaring colours. Ibrahim 
was one of the forty-four Hazrami saints who 
landed at Berberah, sat in solemn conclave upon 
Auliya Kumbo or Holy Hill, and thence dispersed 
far and wide for the purpose of propagandism. 
He travelled to Harar about a.d. 1430*, converted 
many to El Islam, aifid left there an honored 
memory. His name is immortalised in El Yemen 
by the introduction of El Kat.f 

bayn, and Abu Zarbay. I have preferred the latter orthography 
upon the authority of the Shaykh Jami, most learned of the 
Somal. , 

* In the same year (a. i). 1429-30) the Shaykh el Shazili, 
buried under a dome at Mocha, introduced coffee into Arabia, 
f The following is an extract from the Pharmaceutical 

( 



THE KAT TREE. 


77 


- Tired of the town, I persuaded the Hajj to send 
me with an escort to the Hissi or well. At 

Journal^ voL xii. No. v. Nov. 1, 1852. Notes upon the drugs 
observed at Aden Arabia, by James Vaughan, Esq., M.R.C.S.E., 
Assist Surg., B.A., Civil and Port. Surg., Aden, Arabia. 

" Kat the name of a drug which is brought into Aden 

from 'the interior, and largely used, especially by the Arabs, 
as a pleasurable excitant. It is generally imported in small 
camel-loads, consisting of a number of parcels, each containing 
about forty slender twigs with the leaves attached, and care¬ 
fully wrapped so as to prevent as much as possible exposure to 
the atmosphere. The leaves form the edible part, and these, 
when chewed, are said to produce great hilarity of spirits, and 
an agreeable state of wakefulness. Some estimate may be 
formed of the strong predilection which the Arabs have for this 
drug from the quantity used in Aden alone, which averages 
about 280 camel-loads annually. The market price is one and 
a quarter rupees per parcel, and the exclusive privilege of selling 
it is farmed by the government for 1500 rupees per year. 
Forskal found the plant growing on the mountains of Yemen, 
and has enumerated it as a new genus in the class Pentandria, 
under the name of Catha. He notices two species, and distin¬ 
guishes them as Catha edulis and Catha spinosa. According to 
his account it is cultivated on the same ground as coffee, and is 
planted from cuttings. Besides the effects above stated, the 
Arabs, he tells us, believe the land where it grows' to be secure 
from the inroads of plague; and that a twig of the Kat carried 
in the bosom is a certain safeguard against infection. The 
learned botanist observes, with respect to these supposed 
virtues, * Gustus foliorum tamen virtutem tantam indicare non 
videtur.' Like coffee, Kat, from its acknowledged stimulating 
effects, has been a fertile theme for the exercise of Mahomedan 
casuistry, and names of renown are ranged on both sides of the 



78 


FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 


daybreak I set out with four Arab matchlock-men, 
and taking a direction nearly due west, waded and 

question, whether the use of Kat does or does not contravene 
the injunction of the Koran, Thod shalt not drink wine or any¬ 
thing intoxicating. The succeeding notes, borrowed chiefly 
from De Sacy's researches, may be deemed worthy of insertion 
here. 

" Sheikh Abdool Kader Ansari Jezeri, a learned Mahomedan 
author, in his treatise on the use of coflfee, quotes the following 
from the writings of Fakr ood Deen Mekki: — * It is said that 
the first who introduced coffee was the illustrious saint Aboo 
Abdallah Mahomed Dhabhani ibn Said; but we have learned 
by ^ the testimony of many persons that the use of coffee in 
Yemen, its origin, and first introduction into that country are 
due to the learned Ali Shadeli ibn Omar, one of the disciples of 
the learned doctor INasr ood Been, who is regarded as one of 
the chiefs among the order Shadeli, and whose worth attests 
the high degree of spirituality to which they had attained. 
Previous to that time they made coffee of the vegetable sub¬ 
stance called Cafta, which is the same as the leaf known under 
the name of Kat, and not of Boon (the coffee berry) nor any 
preparation of Boon. The use of this beverage extended in 
course of time as far as Aden, but in the days of Mahomed 
Dhabhani the vegetable substance from which it was prepared 
disappeared from Aden. Then it ^Yas that the Sheik advised 
those who had become his disciples to try the drink made from 
the Boon, which was found io produce the same effect as the 
Kat, inducing sleeplessness, and that it was attended with less 
expense and trouble. The use of coffee has been kept up from 
that time to the present.' 

D'Herbelot states that the beverage called Calmat al Catiat 
or Caftah, was prohibited in Yemen in consequence of its effects 
upon the brain. On the other hand a synod of learned Mussul- 



THE KAT TREE, 


79 


¦walked over an alluvial plain flooded by every high 
tide. On our way we passed lines of donkeys and 


mans is said to have decreed that as beverages of Kat and 
Cafta do not impair the health or impede the observance 
of religious duties, but onl/ increase hilarity and good-humour, 
it was lawful to use them, as also the diunk made from the 
boon Or coffee-berry. I am not aware that Kat is used in 
Aden in any other way than for mastication. From what I 
have heard, however, I believe that a decoction resembling tea 
is made from the leaf by the Arabs in the interior; and one 
who is well acquainted with our familiar bevera*ge assures me 
tliat the effects are not unlike those produced by strong green 
tea, with this advantage in favour of Kat, that the excitement 
is always of a pleasing and agreeable kind.^ 


* ** Mr. Vaughan' has transmitted two specimens called Tubbare Kat and 
Muktaree Kat, from the districts in which they are produced: the latter fetches 
the lower price. Catha edulis Forsh^ Nat. Ord. Celastracese, is figured in Dr. 
Lindley's Vegetable Kingdom, p. 588. (London, 1846). But there is a still 
more complete representation of the plant under the name of Catha Forskalii 
liichardj in a work published under the auspices of the French govern¬ 
ment, entitled, 'Voyage en Abyssinle Execute pendant les annees 1839-43, 
par nne commission scientifique composee de MM. Theophile Lefebvre, 
Lieut, du Vaisseau, A. Petit et Martin-DUlon, docteurs medecins, naturalistes 
du Museum, Vignaud dessinateur.* The botanical portion of this work, by 
!M. Achille Richard, is regarded either as a distinct publication under the 
title of Tentamen Florae Ahyssinicse, or as a part of the Voyage en 
Abyssinie. M. Richard enters into some of the particulars relative to 
the synonyms of the plant, from which it appears that Vahl referred 
Forskal's genus Catha to the linnaean genus Celastrus, changing the name 
of Catha edulis to Celastrus edulis. Hochstdtter applied the name of 
Celastrus edulis to an Abyssinian species (Celastrus obscurus Michard)^ 
which he imagined identical with Forskal's Catha edulis, while of the real 
Catha eduMsForsk, he formed a new genus and species, under the name of 
Trigonotheca serrata Hochs. Nat. Ord. Hippocrateaceae. I quote the following 
references from the Tentamen Flone Ahyssinicse, vol. i. p. 134.: 'Catha 



80 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

camels carrying water-skins from the town; they 
Avere under guard like ourselves, and the sturdy 
dames that drove them indulged in many a loud 
joke at our expense. After walking about four 
miles we arrived at what is called the Takhushshah 
— the sandy bed of a torrent nearly a mile broad*, 
covered with a thin coat of caked mud: in the 
centre is a line of pits from three to four feet deep, 
with turbid water at the bottom. Around them 
Avere several frame-works of four upright sticks 
cotmected by horizontal bars, and on these were 
stretched goats'-skins, forming the cattle-trough of 
the Somali country. About the wells stood troops of 
camels, whose Eesa proprietors scowled fiercely at 
us, and stalked over the plain with their long, heavy 
spears: for protection against these people, the 
citizens have erected a kind of round tower, with a 

* This is probably the " River of Zayla," alluded to by Ibn 
Said and others. Like all similhr features in the low. country, 
it is a mere surface drain. 

- ^ - 

Torskalii Nob, Catha No. 4. Norsk, loc. cit. (Flor. .^gypt. Arab. p. 63.) 
Trigonotheca serrata Hochs^ in pi. Schirap. Abyss, sect, il No. 649. Celastrus 
edulis Vahly Eel 1, 21.' Although in the Flora ^gyptiaco-Arabica of 
Forskal no specific name is applied to the Catha at p.!63., it is enumerated 
as Catha edulis at p. 107. The reference to Celastrus edulis is not con¬ 
tained in the Eclog® American® of Vahl, but in the author's Symbol® 
Botanic® (Hanui®, 1790, fol.) pars i. p. 21. (Daniel Hanbury signed.)" 



GAME. 


81 


ladder for a staircase. Near it are some large 
tamarisks and the wild henna of the Somali 
country, which supplies a sweet-smelling flower, 
but is valueless as a dye. A thick hedge of thorn- 
trees surrounds the only cultivated ground near 
Zayla: as Ibn Said declared in old times, " the 
people have no gardens, and know nothing of 
fruits." The variety and the luxuriance of growth, 
however, prove that industry is the sole desideratum. 
I remarked the castor-plant,—no one knows its 
name or nature*,—the Eayhan or Basil, the Kadi! 
a species of aloe, whose strongly scented flowers 
the Arabs of Yemen are fond of wearing in their 
turbans.f Of vegetables, there were cucumbers, 
egg-plants, and the edible hibiscus; the only 
fruit was a small kind of water-melon. 

After enjoying a walk through the garden and 
a bath at the well, I started, gun in hand, towards 
the jungly plain that stretches towards the sea. 
It abounds in hares, and in a large description of 
spur-fowl J; the beautiful little sand antelope, 

* In the upper country I found a large variety growing wild 
in the Fiumaras. The Bedouins named it Buamado^ but 
ignored its virtues^ 

f This ornament is called Mushgur. 

:j: A large brown bird with black legs, not unlike the do¬ 
mestic fowl. The Arabs call it Dijajat el Barr, (the wild hen) 

01 



82 


FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 


scarcely bigger than an English rabbit*, bounded 
over the bushes, its thin legs being scarcely* 
perceptible during the spring, I was afraid to 
fire with ball, the place being full of Bedouins' 
huts, herds, and dogs, and the vicinity of man 
made the animals too wild for small shot. In 
revenge, I did considerable havoc amongst the 
spur-fowl, who proved equally good for sport and 
the pot, besides knocking over a number of old 
crows, whose gall the Arab soldiers wanted for 
coUyriurn.f Beyond us lay Warabalay or Hyienas' 

the Somal " digarin," a word also applied to the Guinea fowl, 
which it resembles in its short strong flight and habit of run¬ 
ning. Owing to the Bedouin prejudice against eating birds, it 
is found in large coveys all over the country. 

* It has been described by Salt and others. The Somal call 
.it Sagaro, the Arabs Ghezalah: it is found throughout the l&nd 
generally in pairs, and is fond of ravines under the hills, beds of 
torrents, and patches of desert vegetation. It is easily killed by 
a single pellet of shot striking the neck. The Somal catch it 
by a loop of strong twine hungiround a gap in a circuit of 
thorn hedge, or they run it down on foot, an operation requiring 
half a day on account of its fleetness, which enables it to escape 
the jackal and wild dog. Wh^n caught it utters piercing cries. 
Some Bedouins do hot eat the flesh ; generally, however,, it is 
considered a delicacy, and the skulls and bones of these little 
animals lie strewed around the kraals. 

f The Somal hold the destruction of the Tuka " next in 
religious merit to that of the snake. They have a tradition 
that the crow, originally white, became black for his sins. When 
the Prophet and Abubekr were ^oncealed in the cave, the 



HYiENAS' HILL. 


83 


hill*: we did not visit it, as all its tenants had 
'been driven away by the migration- of the 
Nomads. 

Eeturning, we breakfasted in the garden, and 

pigeott hid there from their pursuers: the crow, on the con- 
trary, sat screaming gLar I ghar! " (the cave! the cave!) upon 
which Mohammed ordered him into eternal mourning, and ever 
to repeat the traitorous words. 

There are several species of crows in this part of Africa. 
Besides the large-beaked bird of the Harar Hills, I found the 
common European variety, with, however, the breast feathers | 
w'hite tipped in small semicircles as far as the abdomen. The| 
little king-crow " of India is common : its bright red eye and 
purplish plume render it a conspicuous object as it perches upon 
the tall camel's back or clings to waving plants* 

* The Waraba or Durwa is, according to Mr, Blyth, the dis¬ 
tinguished naturalist, now Curator of the Asiatic Society's 
Museum at Calcutta, the Canis pictus seu venaticus (Lycaon 
pictus or Wilde Honde of the Cape Boers). It seems to be the 
Cbien Saiivage or Cynhyene (Cynhyeena venatica) of the 
French traveller M. Delegorgue, who in his ** Voyage dans 
TAfrique Australe," minutely and diffusely describes it. Mr. 
Gordon Cumming supposes it to form the connecting link 
between the wolf and the hysDna. This animal swarms through-- 
out the Somali country, prowls about the camps all night, dogs 
travellers, and devours every thing he can find, at times pulling 
down children and camels, and when violently pressed by 
hunger, men. The Somal declare the Waraba to be a herma¬ 
phrodite ; so the ancients supposed the hymna to be of both 
sexes; an error arising from the peculiar appearance of an 
orifice situated near two glands which secrete an unctuous 
fiuid. 



84 


FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 


rain coming on, we walked out to enjoy the 
Oriental luxury of a wetting. Ali Iskandar, an 
old Arab mercenary, afforded us infinite amuse¬ 
ment : a little opium made him half crazy, when 
his sarcastic pleasantries never ceased. We then 
brought out the guns, and being joined by the 
other escort, proceeded to a trial of skill. The 
Arabs planl;ed a bone about 200 paces from us, 
—a long distance for a people who seldom fire 
beypnd fifty yards ; — moreover, the wind blew 
the flash strongly in their faces. Some shot two 
or three dozen times wide of the mark and were 
derided accordingly : one man hit the bone ; he at 
once stopped practice, as the wise in such matters 
wiU do, and shook hands with all the party. He 
afterwards showed that his success on this occasion 
had been accidental; but he was a staunch old 
sportsman, remarkable, as the Arab Bedouins gene¬ 
rally are, for his skill and perseverance in stalking. 
Having no rifle, I remained a spectator. My re¬ 
volvers excited abundaSnt attention, though none 
would be persuaded to touch them. The largest, 
which fitted with a stock became an excellent 
carbine, was at once named Abu Sittah (the 
Father of Six) and the Shaytan or Devil: the 
pocket pistol became the Malunah or Accursed, 



THE EESA GIEE^ 


85 


and the distance to which it carried ball made 
every man wonder. The Arabs had antiquated 
matchlocks, mostly worn away to paper thinness 
at the mouth : as usual they fired with the right 
elbow • raised to the level of the ear, and the 
left hand grasping the barrel, where with us 
the ijreech would be. Hassan Turk! had one 
of those fine old Shishkhanah rifles formerly 
made at Damascus and 'Senaa: it carried a 
two-ounce ball with perfect correctness, but was 
so badly mounted in its block-butt, shaped like 
a Dutch cheese, that it always required a rest. 

On our return home we met a party of Eesa 
girls, who derided my colour and doubted the 
fact of my being a Moslem. The Arabs declared 
me to be a Shaykh of Shaykhs, and translated 
to the prettiest of the party an impromptu pro- 
posal_ of marriage. She showed but little coyness, 
and stated her price to be an AuduUi or neck¬ 
lace*, a couple of Tobes,— she asked one too 


* Men wear for ornament round the neck a bright red leather 
thong, upon which are strung in front two square bits of true 
or imitation amber or honey stone: this "Mekkawi," how¬ 
ever, is seldom seen amongst the Bedouins. The Audulli or 
woman's necklace is a more elaborate affair of amber, glass 
beads, generally coloured, and coral: every matron who can 
afford it, possesses at least one of these ornaments. Both sexes 


G 3 



86 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

many — a few handfuls of beads, and a small 
present for her- papa. She promised, naively 
enough, to call next day and inspect the goods; 
the publicity of the town did not deter her, but 
the. shamefacedness of my tAvo companions pre¬ 
vented our meeting again. Arrived at Zayla 
after a sunny walk, the Arab escort loaded their 
guns, formed, a hne for me to pass along, fired 
a salute, and entered to coffee and sweetmeats. 

On the 24th of November I had an opportunity 
of seeing what a timid people are these Somal 
of the towns, Avho, as has been well remarked, 
are, like the settled' Arabs, the worst specimens 
of their race. Three Eesa Bedouins appeared 

before the southern gate, slaughtered,. a cow, 

¦* 

buried its h^ad, and sent for permission to visit 


carry round the necks or hang above the right elbow, a talisman 
against danger and disease, either in a silver box or more gene¬ 
rally sewn up in a small case of^ red morocco. The Bedouins 
are fond of attaching a tooth-stick to the neck thong. 

* Beads are useful in the. Spmali country as presents, and to 
pay for trifling purchases: like tobacco they serve for small 
change. The kind preferred by women and children is the. 
'^binnur,^ large and small white porcelain: the others are the 
red, white, green, and spotted twisted beads, round and oblong. 
Before entering a district the traveller should ascertain what 
may be the especial variety. Some kind are greedily sought 
for in one place, and' in another rejected with disdain. 



THE PRICE PP BLOOPi 87 

one of, their number who had been imprisoned - 
by the Hajj for the murder of his son Masud. 
The place was at once thrown into .confusion, 
the gp.tes. were locked, and the walls manned 
with Arab matchlock men: my three followers 
armed themselves, and^I was summoned to the 
Some declared that the Bedouins, were 
"doing"* the town; others that -they, were the 
van of a giant host coming to ravish, Sack, and 
slay: it.turned out that these Bedouins had pre¬ 
ceded their comrades, who were bringing in, asi 
the price of blood f, an Abyssinian slave, seven/ 

• The Somali word "FSl" properly means "to do;" "to 
bewitch/' is its.secondary sense. 

f The price of blood in the' Somali country is the highest 
sanctioned by El .Islam. It must be remembered that amongst 
the p^an Arabs, the Koraysh diyat," was twenty she^camels. 
Abd el Muttaleb, grandfather of Mohammed, sacrificed 100 
animals to ransom the life of his son, forfeited by a rash vow, 
and f0in that time the greater became the legal number* The 
Somal usually demand 100 she-camels, or 300 sheep and a few 
cows; lierC, as in Arabia, the sum is made- up by all the near 
relations of the slayer; 30 of the animals may be aged, and 30 
under age, but the rest must be sound and good. Many tribes 
takedess,—from strangers 100 sheep, a cow, and a camel;—but 
after tlie equivalent is paid, the murderer or one of his clan, 
contrary to the spirit of El Islam, is generally killed hy the 
kindred or tribe of the slain* When blood is shed in the same 
tribe, the full reparation, if accepted by the relatives> is always 
exacted; this serves the purpose of preventing fratricidal strife, 

Q 4 



88 riBST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 


camels, seven cows, a white mule, and a small 
black mare. The prisoner was visited by . his 
brother, who volunteered to share his confine¬ 
ment, and the meeting was described aa most 
pathetic: partly from mental organisation and 
partly from the peculiarities of society, the 
only real tie acknowledged by these people is 
that which connects male kinsmen. The Hajj, 
after speaking big, had the weakness to let the 
. murderer depart alive: this measure, like peace- 
policy in general, is the best and surest way to 
encourage bloodshed and mutilation. But a few 
months before, an Eesa Bedouin enticed out of the 
gates a boy about fifteen, and slaughtered him for 
the sake of wearing the feather. His relations 
were directed to receive the Diyat or blood fine, 
and the wretch was allowed to depart unhurt — a 
silly clemency! 

• You must not suppose, dear L., that I yielded 
myself willingly to the weary necessity of a 
month at Zayla. But how explain to you the 

for in such a nation of murderers, only the Diyat prevents the 
taking of life. 

Blood money, however, is seldom accepted unless the mur¬ 
dered man has been slain with a lawful weapon. Those who 
kill with the Dankaleh, a poisonous juice rubbed upon meat, are 
always put to death by the members of their own tribe. 

( 



AFRICAN INDOLENCE. 


89 


obstacles thrown in our way by African indo¬ 
lence, petty intrigue, and interminable suspicion ? 
Four months before leaving Aden I had taken 
the precaution of meeting the Hajj, requesting him 
to select for us an Abban *, or protector, and to 


* Tile Abban or protector of the Somali country is the 
Mogasa of the Gallas, the Akh of El Hejaz, the Ghafir of the 
Sinai tic Peninsula, and the Rabia of Eastern Arabia. It must 
be observed, however, that the word denotes the protege as well 
as the protector; in the latter sense it is the polite address to 
a Soinali, as Ya Abbaneh, O Protectress, would be to his wife. 

The Abban acts at once as broker, escort, agent, and inter¬ 
preter, and the institution may be considered the earliest form 
of transit dues. In all sales he receives a certain percentage, 
his food and lodging are provided at the expense of his em¬ 
ployer, and he not unfrequently exacts small presents from 
his kindred. In return he is bound to arrange all diderences, 
and even to fight the battles of his client against his fellow- 
countrymen* Should the Abban be slain, his tribe is bound to 
take up the cause and to make good the losses of their protege. 
El Taabanah, the office, being one of ''name," the eastern 
synonym for our honour, as well as of lucre, causes frequent 
quarrels, which become exceedingly rancorous. 

According to the laws of the country, the Abban is master 
of the life and property of his client. The traveller's success 
will depend mainly upon his selection: if inferior in rank, the 
protector can neither forward nor defend him ; if timid, he will 
impede advance; and if avaricious, he will, by means of his 
relatives, effectually stop the journey by absorbing the means of 
prosecuting it. The best precaution against disappointment 
would be the registering Abbans at Aden; every donkey-boy 
will offer himself as a protector, but only the chiefs of tribes 



so 


riBST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 


provide camels and mules; two months before start¬ 
ing I had advanced to him the money required in 
a country where nothing can be done without a 
Avhole or partial prepayment. The protector was 
to be procured anywhere, the cattle at Tajurrah, 
scarcely a day's sail from Zayla: when I arrived 
nothing was forthcoming. I at once begged the 
governor to exert himself: he politely promised 
to start a messenger that hour, and he delayed 
doin^ so for ten days. An easterly wind set in 
and gave the crew an excuse for Avasting another 
fortnight.* Travellers are an irritable genus: I 
stormed and fretted at the delays to show earn¬ 
estness of purpose. All the effect was a paroxysm 
of talking. The Hajj and his son treated me, like 
a spoilt child, to a double allowance of food and 
milk: they Avarned me that the small-pox was 

Bliould be provided with certificates. During my last visjt to 
Africa, I proposed that English officers visiting the country 
should be provided with servants not protectors, the former, 
however, to be paid like the letter} all the people recognised 
. the propriety of the step. 

In the following pages occur manifold details concerning the 
complicated subject, El Taabanah. 

* Future travellers would do well either to spnd before them 
a trusty servant with orders to buy cattle ; or, what would be 
better, though a little more expensive, to take with them from 
Aden all the animals required. 



KEPOBTED DANGERS. 91 , 

depopulating Harar, that the road swarmed with 
brigands, and that the Amir or prince was certain 
destruction,— I contented myself with determining 
that both were true Oriental hyperbolists, and 
fell into more frequent fits of passion. The 
old man could not comprehend my secret. " If 
the Eii^lish," he privately remarked, " wish to take 
Harar, let them send me 500 soldiers; if not, I can 
give all information concerning it." When con¬ 
vinced of my determination to travel, he applied 
his mind to calculating the benefit which might 
be derived from the event, and, as the following 
pages will show, he* was not without success. 

Towards the end of November, four camels were 
procured, an Abban was engaged, we hired two 
women cooks and a fourth servant; my baggage 
was reformed, the cloth and tobacco being sewn 
up in matting, and made to fit the camels' sides *; 
sandals were cut out for walking, letters were 

* The Somal use as camel saddles the mats which compose 
their huts; these lying loose upon the animaVs back, cause, by 
slipping backwards and forwards, the loss of many a precious 
hour, and in wet weather become half a load. The more civi¬ 
lised make up of canvass or " gunny bags " stuffed with hay and 
provided with cross bars, a rude packsaddle, which is admirably 
calculated to gall the animars back. Future travellers would 
do well to purchase camel-saddles at Aden, where they are 
cheap and well made. 



92 


FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA 


written, messages of dreary length,—too important 
to be set down in black and white,—were solemnly 
entrusted to us, palavers were held, and affairs^ 
began to wear the semblance of departure. The 
Hajj strongly recommended us to one of the prin¬ 
cipal families of the Gudabirsi tribe, who would 
pass us on to their brother-in-law Adan, the Gerad 
or prince of the Girhi; and he, in due time, to his 
kinsman the Amir of Harar. Th^ chain was 
commenced by placing us under the protection of 
one iRaghe, a petty Eesa chief of the Mummasan 
clan. By the good aid of the Hajj and .'our sweet¬ 
meats, he was persuaded, for the moderate con¬ 
sideration of ten Tobes *,* to accompany us to the 
frontier of his clan, distant about fifty miles, to 
introduce us to the Gudabirsi, and to provide us 
with three men as servants, and a suitable escort, 
a score or so, in dangerous places. He began with 

* He received four cloths of CUtch canvass^ ai^six others 
of coarse American sheeting* At Zayla these articles* are double 
the Aden value, which would be about thirteen rupees or twenty- 
six shillings; in the bush th^ price is quadrupled. Before 
leaving us the Abban received at least double the original hire. 
Besides small presents of cloth, dates, tobacco and rice to his 
friends, he had six cubits of Sauda Wilayati or English indigo- 
dyed calico for women^s fillets, and two of SaUda Kashshi, a 
Cutch imitation, a Shukkah or half Tobe for his daughter, and 
a sheep for himself, together with a large bundle of tobacco. 

{ 



THE GREEDY PROTECTOR. 93 

US in an extravagant manner, declaring that 
nothing but " name " induced him to undertake the 
k perilous task ; that he had left his flocks and herds 
at a season of uncommon risk, and that all his 
relations must receive a certain honorarium. But 
having paid at least three pounds for a few days of 
his society, we declined such liberality, and my com¬ 
panions, I believe, declared that it would be " next 
time:"—on all such occasions I make a point of 
leaving the room, since for one thing given at least 
five are promised on oath. Raghe warned us 
seriously to prepare for dangers and disasters, and 
this seemed to be the general opinion of Zayla, 
whose timid citizens determined that we were 
tired of our lives. The cold had driven the 
Nomads from the hills to the warm maritime 
plains*, we should therefore traverse a populous 
region; and, as the End of Time aptly observed, 
" Man eats you up, the Desert does not." More- 
over this year the Ayyal Nuh Ismail, a clan of 
the Habr Awal tribe, is " out," and has been suc¬ 
cessful against the Eesa, who generally are the 
better men. They sweep the country in Kaurn- 

* When the pastures are exhausted and the monsoon sets in, 
the Bedouins return to their cool mountains; like the Iliyat of 
Persia, they have their regular Kishlakh and Yaylakh. 



94 


FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 


or Commandos**, numbering from twenty to two 
hundred troopers, armed with assegai, dagger, 
and shield, and carrying a water skin and dried 
meat for a three days' ride, sufficient to scour 
the length of the low land. The honest fellows 
are not so anxious to plunder as to ennoble them¬ 
selves by taking life : every man hangs to his 
saddle bow an ostrich. feather, — emblem of 
truth, — and the moment his javelin has drawn 
blood, he sticks it into his tufty pole ¦'with as much 
satisfaction as we feel when attaching a medal to 
our shell-jackets. It is by no means necessary 
to slay the foe in fair combat: Spartan-like, 
treachery is preferred to stand-up fighting; and you 
may measure their ideas of honor, by the fact 
that women are murdered in cold-blood, as by the 


* ^*Kaum" is the Arabic, AH'* the Somali, terra for these 
raids. / " 

t Amongst the old Egyptians the ostrich feather was the 
symbol of truth. The Somal call it " Bal," the Arabs ''Rish; '' it 
is universally used here as ^he sign and S 3 rmbol of victory. 
Generally the white feather only is stuck in the hair; the Eesa 
are n<5t particular in using black when they can procure no other. 
All the clans ttear it in the back hair, but each has its own 
rules; some make it a standard decoration, others discard it 
after the first few days. The learned have an aversion to the 
custom, stigmatising it as pagan and idolatrous ; the vulgar look 
upon it as the highest mark of honor. 



MURDERS. 


95 


Amazulus, with the hope that the unborn child 
may prove a male. The hero carries home the 
trophy of his prowess*, and his wife, springing 
from her tent, utters a long shrill scream of joy, 
a preliminary to boasting of her man's valour, and 
bitterly taunting the other possessors of noim 
faineants: the derided ladies abuse their lords with 
peculiar virulence, and the lords fall into paroxysms 
of envy, hatred, and malice. During my short 
stay at Zayla six or seven murders were com¬ 
mitted close to the walls: the Abban brought 
news, a few hours before our departure^ that 
two Eesas had been slaughtered by the Habr 
Awal. The Eesa and Dankali also have a blood 
feud, which causes perpetual loss of life. But a 
short time ago six men of these two tribes were 


? This is an ancient practice in Asia as well as in Africa. The 
Egyptian temples show heaps of trophies placed before the 
raonarchs as eyes or heads were presented in Persia. Thus in 
1 Sam. xviii. 25., David brings the spoils of 200 Philistines, 
and shows them in full tale to the king, that he migiit be the 
* king's son-in-law. Any work upon the subject of Abyssinia 
(Bruce, book 7. chap. 8.), or the late Afghan war, will prove 
that the custom of mutilation, opposed as it is ^oth to Chris¬ 
tianity and El Islam, is still practised in the case of hated 
enemies and infidels; and De Bey remarks of the Cape Kafirs, 
victores csesis excidunt ra ai^ota, quae exsiccuta regi affe- 
runt." 



96 riBST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

travelling together, when suddenly the last but 

one received from the hindermost a deadly spear 

thrust in the back. The wounded man had the 

presence of mind to plunge his dagger in the side 

of the wayfarer who preceded him, thus dying, as 

the people say, in company. One of these events 

throws the country into confusion, for the vendetta 

is rancorous and bloody, as in ancient Germany 

or in modern Corsica. Our Abban enlarged upon 

the unpleasant necessity of travelling all night 

towards the hills, and lying perdu during the 

day. The most dangerous times are dawn and 

evening tide: the troopers spare their horses 
* 

during the heat, and themselves during the dew- 
fall. Whenever, in the desert,— where, says the 
proverb, all men are enemies — you sight a fellow 
creature from afar, you wave the right arm 
violently up and down, shouting "War Joga! 
War Joga!" — stand still! stand stiU! If they 
halt, you send a parliamentary to within speaking 
distance. Should they\advance*, you fire, taking 
especial care not to miss;.when two saddles are 
emptied, the resfr are sure to decamp. 

• When attacking cahle, the plundering' party endeavour 
.with shouts and noise to disperse the herds, whilst the assail¬ 
ants huddle them together, and attempt to face the danger 'in 
parties. ( 



THE MULES ARRIVE. 


97 


I had given the Abban orders to be in 
readiness, — my patience being thoroughly ex¬ 
hausted,— on Sunday, the 26 th of November, 
and determined to walk the whole way, rather 
than waste another day waiting for cattle. As 
the case had become hopeless, a vessel was 
descried standing straight from Tajurrah, and, 
suddenly' as could happen in the Arabian Nights, 
four fine mules, saddled and bridled, Abyssinian 
fashion, appeared at the door.* 


* For the cheapest I paid twenty-three, for the dearest 
twenty-six dollars, besides a Riyal upon each, under the names 
of custom dues and carriage. The Hajj had doubtless exag¬ 
gerated the price, but all were good animals, and the traveller 
has no right to complain, except when he pays dear for a bad 
article. 


H 



98 


FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN BAST AFRICA. 


CHAP. IV. 

THE SOMAL, THEIR ORIGIN AND PECULIARITIES. 

Before leaving Zayla, I must not neglect a short 
description of its inhabitants, and the remarkable 
Som^l races around it. 

Eastern Africa, like Arabia, presents a popula¬ 
tion composed of three markedly distinct races. 

1. The Aborigines or Hamites, such as the 
Negro Sawahili, the Bushmen, Hottentots, and 
other races, having such physiological peculiarities 
as the steatopyge, the tablier, and other develop¬ 
ments described, in 1815, by the great Cuvier. 

2. The almost pure Caucasian of the northern 
regions, ¦west of Egypt: thfcir immigration comes 
within the range of comparatively modern history. 

3. The half-castes in \ Eastern Africa are re¬ 
presented principally by the Abyssinians, Gallas, 
Somals, and Kafirs. The first-named people derive 
their descent from Menelek, son of Solomon by the 
Queen of Sheba: it is evident from their features 

and figures,—too well known to require descrip- 

I 



THE GALLAS. 


99 


tion,—that they are descended from Semitic as 
well as Hamitic progenitors.* About the origin 
of the Gallas there is a diversity of opinion, f 
Some declare them to be Meccan Arabs, who 
settled on the western coast of the Red Sea at a 
remote epoch: according to the Abyssinians, how- 
ever, and there is little to find fault with in their 
theory, the Gallas are descended from a princess 
of their nation, who was given in marriage to a 
slave from the country south of Gurague. She 
bare seven sons, who became mighty robbers and 
founder^ of tribes: their progenitors obtained the 
naipe of Gallas, after the river Gala, in Gurague, 
where they gained a decisive victory our their 
kinsmen the Abyssins.J A variety of ethnologic 

* Eusebius declares that the Abyssinians migrated from Asia 
to Africa whilst the Hebrews were in Egypt (circ. a. m. 2345) ; 
and Syncellus places the event about the age of the Judges. 

¦I* Moslems, ever fond of philological fable, thus derive the word 
Galla. When Ullabu, the chief, was summoned by Mohammed 
to Islaraise, the messenger returned to report that he said wo,'* 
—Kal la pronounced Gal la,— which impious refusal, said the 
Prophet, should from that time become the name of the race. 

J Others have derived them from Metcha, i^araiyo, and 
Tulema, three sons of an Ethiopian Emperor by a female slave. 
They have, according to some travellers, a prophecy that one 
day they will march to the east and north, and conquer the in¬ 
heritance of their Jewish ancestors. Mr. Johnston asserts that 
the word Galla is '' merely another form of Calluy which in the 



100 


riEST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 


and physiological reasons, — into which space and 
subject prevent my entering, — argue the Kafirs of 
the Cape to be a northern people, pushed south¬ 
wards by some, to us, as yet, unknown cause. The 
origin of the Somal is a matter of modem history. 

" Barbarah " (Berberah) *, according to the 
Kamus, is " a well known town in El Maghrib, 
and a race located between El Zanj — Zanzibar 
and the Negrotic coast — and El Habash f: they 
are descended from the Himyar chiefs Sanhdj 
(^l^) and Sumfimah (d^US), and they] arrived 
at the epoch of the conquest of Africa by the 


ancient Persian, Sanscrit, Celtic, and their modern derivative 
languages, under modified, but not changed terms, is expressive 
of blackness." The Gallas, however, are not a black people. 

• The Aden stone has been supposed to name the " Berbers," 
who must have been Gallas from the vicinity of Berberah. A 
certain amount of doubt still hangs on the interpretation: the 
Rev. Mr. Forster and Dr. Bird being the principal contrasts. 


Rev, Mr, Forster, 


Dr, Bird, 


We assailed with cries of 
hatred and rage the Abyssi- 
nians and Berbers. 

''WeTode^forth wrathfully 
against this refuse of man¬ 
kind." 


" He, the Syrian philoso¬ 
pher in Abadan, Bishop of 
^ Cape Aden, who inscribed this 
in the desert, blesses the insti¬ 
tution of the faith." 


f This word is generally translated Abyssinia; oriental geo¬ 
graphers, however, use it in a more extended sense. The Turks 
have h(iy possessions in " Habash,^' in Abyssinia never. 


f 



the somal. 


101 


king Afrikiis (Scipio Africanus ?)." - A few details 
upon the subject of mutilation and exqjsion prove 
these to have been the progenitors of the Somal *, 
who are nothing but a slice of the great Galla 
nation Islamised and Semiticised by repeated 
iramisTations from Arabia. In the Kamus we 
also read that Samal is' the name of the 

father of a tribe, so called because he thrust out 

(J^, samola) his brother's eye.f The Shaykh 
Jami, a celebrated genealogist, informed me that 
in A.H. 666 = A.D. 1266-7, the Sayyid Yusuf el | 
Baghdadi visited the port of Siyaro near Berberah, 
then occupied by an infidel magician, who passed 


* The same words are repeated in the Infak el Maysur fi 
Tarikh bilad el Takrur (Appendix to Denliam and Clapperton's 
Travels, No. xii.), again confounding the Berbers and the 
Somal. Afrikus, according to that author, was a king of Yemen 
who expelled the Berbers from Syria ! 

t The learned Somal invariably spell their national name 
with an initial ISin, and disregard the derivation from Saumal 

(which would allude to the hardihood of the wild 
people. An intelligent modern traveller derives " Somali ^ from 
the Abyssinian Soumahe or heathens, and asserts that it cor¬ 
responds with the Arabic word Kafir or unbeliever, the name 
by which Edrisi, the Arabian geographer, knew and described 
the inhabitants of the Afiah (Afar) coast, to the east of the 
Straits of Bab el Mandeb. Such derivation is, however, unad- 
visable. 

H 3 


38105 



102 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

through mountains by the power of his gramarye : 
the saint Summoned to his aid Mohammed bin 
Tunis el Siddiki, of Bayt el Fakih in Arabia, and 
by their united prayers a hiU closed upon the 
pagan. Deformed by fable, the foundation of the 
tale is fact: the numerous descendants of the holy 
men still pay an annual fine, by way of blood- 
money to the family of the infidel chief. The 
last and most important Arab immigration took 
place about fifteen generations or 450 years 
'ago, when the Sherif Ishak bin Ahmed* left his 
native country Hazramaut, and, with forty-four 
saints, before mentioned, landed on Makhar, — the 
windward coast extending from Karam Harbour 
to Cape Guardafui. At the town of Met, near 
Burnt Island, where his tomb still exists, he 
became the father of all the gentle blood and the 
only certain descent in the Somali country; by 
Magaden, a free woman, he had Gerhajis, Awal,- 
and Arab; and by a slave or slarves, Jailah, 
Sambur, and Rambad. \ Hence the great clans, 
Habr Gerhajis and Awal, who prefer the matro- 

* According to others he was the son of Abdullah. The 
written genealogies of the Somal were, it is said, stolen by the 
Sherifs of Yemen, who feared to leave with the wild people.do- 

cumenlB that prove the nobility of their descent. 

I 



TIIK SOMAL. 


103 


*• hyinic — Habr signifying a mother,— since, accord¬ 
ing to their dictum, no man knows who may be 
his sire.* These increased and multiplied by con¬ 
nection and affiliation to such an extent that about 
300 years ago they drove their progenitors, the 
Galla, from Berberah, and gradually encroached 
upon'them, till they intrenched thenjselves in the 
Highlands of Harar. 

The old and pagan genealogies still known to 
the Somal, are Dirr, Aydur, Darud, and, according 
to some, Hawiyah. Dirr and Aydur, of whom 
nothing is certainly known but the name f, are 
the progenitors of the northern Somal, the Eesa, 
Gudabirsi,Ishak,andBursuktribes. DarudJabartiJ 
bin Ismail bin Akil (or Ukayl) is supposed by his 


* The salient doubt suggested hj this genealogy is the bar¬ 
barous nature of the names* A noble Arab would not call his 
children Gerhajis, Awal, and Rambad* 

f Lieut. Cruttenden applies the term Edoor (Aydur) to the 
descendants of Ishak, the children of Gerhajis, Awal, and 
Jailah. His informants and mine differ, therefore, toto coelo. 
According to some, Dirr was the father of Aydur; others make 
Dirr. (it has been written Tir and Durr) to have been the 
name of the Galla family into which Shaykh Ishak married. 

J Some travellers make Jabarti or Ghiberti to signify " slaves'* 
from the Abyssinian Guebra; others " Strong in the Faith ^ 
(El Islam). Bruce [applies it to the Moslems of Abyssinia: 
it is still used, though rarely, by the Somal, who in these times 
generally designate by it the Sawahili or Negro Moslems. 



104 mST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFEICA. 

descendants to have been a noble Arab from. El. 
Hejaz, who, obliged to flee his country, was 
wrecked ont the north-east coast of Africa, where 
he married a daughter Of the Hawiyah tribe: 
rival races declare him to have been a Galla slave, 
who, stealing the Prophet's slippers*^ was dis¬ 
missed with .the words, Innd-tarac?-nd-hu (verily 
we, have rejected him): hence his name Tarud 
or Darud, the Eejected.f The etymological 
part of the story is, doubtless, fabulous; it ex- 
pressles, however, the popular belief that the 
founder of the eastward or windward tribes, now 
extending over the seaboard from Bunder Jedid to 
Ras Hafun, and southward from the sea to the 
WebbeS |, was a man of ignoble origin. The 
children of Darud are now divided into two great 
bodies: " Harti " is the family name of the 
Dulbahanta, Ogadayn, Warsangali and Mijjarthayn, 
who call themselves sons pf Harti bin Kombo* 
bin Kabl UUah bin Darhd: the other Darud 

* The same scandalous story is told of the venerable patron 
saint of Aden, the Sherif Haydrus. 

f Darud bin Ismail's tomb is near the Yubbay^^Tug in the ^ 
Vindward mountains; an account of it will be found in^ Lieut. 
Speke's diary* 

X The two Hvers Shebayli and Juba. 



THE SOMAL. 


105 


tribes not included under that appellation are the 
Girhi, Berteri, Marayhan, and Bahabr Ali. The 
Hawiyah are doubtless of ancient and pagan 
origin; they call all Somal except themselves 
Hashiyah, and thus claim to be equivalent to the 
rest of the nation. Some attempt, as usual, to 
establish a holy origin, deriving themselves like 
the Shaykhash from the Caliph Abubekr: the 
antiquity, and consequently the Pagan origin of 
the Hawiyah are proved by its present widely 
scattered state; it is a powerful tribe in the 
Mijjafthayn country, and yet is found in the hills 
of Harar. 

The Somal, therefore, by their own traditions, 
as well as their strongly marked physical pecu¬ 
liarities, their customs, and their geographical 
position, may be determined to be a half-caste 
tribe, an offshoot of the great Galla race, approxi¬ 
mated, like the originally Negro-Egyptian, to the 
Caucasian type by a steady influx of pure Asiatic 
blood. 

In personal appearance the race is not unpre¬ 
possessing. The cfinal hair is hard and wiry, 
growing, like that of a half-caste West Indian, in 
stiff ringlets which sprout in tufts from the scalp^ 
* and, attaining a moderate length, which they rarely 



106 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

surpass, hang down. A few elders, savans, and 
the wealthy, who can afford the luxury of a turban, 
shave the head. More generally, each filament is 
duly picked out with the comb or a wooden 
scratcher like a knitting-needle, and the mass 
made to resemble a child's " pudding," an old bob- 
wig, a mop, a counsellor's peruke, or an old- 
fashioned coachman's wig, — there are a hundred 
ways of dressing the head. The Bedouins, true 
specimens of the " greasy African race," wear 
loclis dripping with rancid butter, and accuse their 
citizen brethren of being more like birds than men. 
The colouring matter of the hair, naturally a bluish- 
black, is removed by a mixture of quicklime and 
water, or in the desert by a lessive of ashes *: this 
makes it a dull yellowish-white, which is converted 
into red permanently by henna, temporarily by 
ochreish earth kneaded with water. The ridi¬ 
culous Somali peruke of qrimsoned sheepskin, — 
alniost as barbarous an article as the Welsh,—is 
apparently a foreign indention: I rarely, saw one 
in the low country, although the hill tribes about 

* Curious to say this mixture does not destroy the hair; it 
would soon render a European bald. Some of the Somal have 
applied it to their beards ; the result has been the breaking and 
falling off of the filaments. 


{ 



APPEARANCE OP THE SOMAL. 


107 


Harar sometimes weaP a black or white " scratch- 
wig." The head is rather long than round, and 
generally of the amiable variety, it is gracefully 
put on the shoulders, belongs e'^ually to Africa and 
Arabia, and would be exceedingly weak but for the 
beauty of the brow. As far as the mouth, the face, 
with the exception of high cheek-bones, is good > 
the contour of the forehead ennobles it; the eyes are 
large and well-formed, and the upper features are 
frequently handsome and expressive.. The jaw, 
however, is almost invariably prognathous and 
African; the broad, turned-out'lips betray ap¬ 
proximation to the Negro; and the chin projects to 
the detriment of the facial angle. The beard is 
represented by a few tufts; it is rare to see any¬ 
thing equal to even the Arab development; the 
long and ample eyebrows admired, by the people 
are uncommon, and the mustachios are short and 

thin, often twisted outwards in two dwarf curls. 

« 

The mouth is coarse as well as thick-lipped; the 
teeth rarely project as in the Negro, but they 
are not good; the habit of perpetually chewing 
coarse Surat tobacco stains them*, the gums 

* Few Somal. except the citizens smoke, on account of the 
expense, all, however, use the Takhzinah or quid. 



108 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

become black and mottled, and the use of ashes 
with the quid discolours the lips. The skin, 
amongst the tribes inhabiting the hot regions, is 
smooth, black, and glossy; as the altitude increases 
it becomes lighter, and about Harar it is generally 
of a cafi au lait colour. The Bedouins are fond of 
raising beauty marks in the shape of ghastly 
seams, and the thickness of the epidermis favours 
the size of these stigma tes. The male figure is 
tall and somewhat ungainly. In only one instance 
I observed an approach to the steatopyge, making 
the shape to resemble the letter S; but the 
shoulders are high, the trunk is straight, the thighs 
fall off, the shin bones bow slightly forwards, and 
the feet, like the hands, are coarse, large, and flat. 
Yet with their hair, of a light straw colour, decked 
with the light waving feather, and their coal- 
black complexions set off by that most graceful of 
garments the clean white Tpbe *, the contrasts' are 
decidedly effective. 

In mind the Somal ^re peculiar as in body. 

* The best description of the dress is that of F^nelon r 
^'Leurs habits sent ais4s faire, car en ce doux climat on ne 
porte qu'une piece d'etoffe fine et leg^re, qui n'est point 
taillee, et que chacun met a longs plis autour de son corps pour 
la modestie ; lui donnant la forme qu'il veut." 



SOMALI CHABACTER. 


109 


'They are a people of most susceptible character, and 
withal uncommonly hard to please. They dislike 
the Arabs, fear and abhor the Turks, have a horror 
of Franks, and despise all other Asiatics who with 
them come under the general name of Hindi 
(Indians). The latter are abused on all occasions 
for cowardice, and a want of generosity, which has 
given rise to the following piquant epigram: 

" Ask not from the Hindi thy want: 

Impossible that the Hindi can be generous! 

Had there been one liberal man in El Hind, 

Allah had raised up a prophet in^i Hind! " 

They have all the levity and instability of the 
Negro character; light-minded as the Abyssinians, 
— described by Gobat as constant in nothing but 
inconstancy,—soft, merry, and affectionate souls, 
they pass without any apparent transition into a 
state of fury, when they are capable of terrible 
atrocities. At Aden they appear happier than in 
their native country. There I have often seen a 
man clapping his hands and dancing, childlike, 
alone to relieve the exuberance of his spirits : 
here they become, as the Mongols and other 
pastoral people, a melancholy race, who will sit 
for hours upon a bank gazing at the moon, or 
croning some old ditty under the trees. This 



110 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

State is doubtless increased by the perpetual 
presence of danger and the uncertainty of life,' 
which make them think of other things but 
dancing and singing. Much learning seems to 
make them mad; like the half-crazy Fakihs of the 
Sahara in Northern Africa, the Widad, or priest;, is 
generally unfitted for the affairs of this world, and 
the Hafiz or Koran-reciter, is almost idiotic. As 
regards courage, they are no exception to the 
generality of savage races. They have none of the 
recklessness standing in lieu of creed which charac¬ 
terises the civilised man. In their great battles a 
score is considered a heavy loss; usually they will 
run after the fall of half a dozen : amongst a Kraal 
full of braves who boast a hundred murders, not a 
single maimed or wounded man will be seen, 
whereas in an Arabian camp half the male popula¬ 
tion will bear the marks of lead and steel. The 
bravest will shirk fighting iif he has forgotten his 
_^hield: the sight of a lion arid the sound of a gun 
•elicit screams of terror, ^nd their Kaum or forays 
much ¦ resemble the style of tactics rendered 
obsolete by the Great Turenne, when the tactician's 
chief aim was not to fall in with his enemy. Yet 
they are by no means deficient in the wily valour 
of wild men: two or three will murder a sleeper 



SOMALI MASSACKES. 


Ill 


bravely enough; and when the passions of rival 
tribes, between whom there has been a blood feud 
for ages, are violently excited, they will use with 
asperity the dagger and spear. Their massacres 
are fearful. ' In February, 1847, a small sept, the 
Ayyal , Tunis, being expelled from^ Berberah, 
settled at the roadstead of Bulhar, where a few 
merchants, principally Indian and Arab, joined 
them. The men were in the habit of leaving their 
women and children, sick, and aged, at the en¬ 
campment inland, whilst, descending to the beach, 
they carried on their trade. One day, as they were 
thus employed, unsuspicious of danger, a foraging 
party of about 2500 Eesas attacked the camp: 
men, women, arid children were indiscriminately 
put to the spear, and the plunderers returned to 
their villages in safety, laden with an immense 
amount of booty. At present, a man armed with 
a revolver would be a terror to the country; the 
day, however, will come when the matchlock will 
supersede the assegai, and then the harmless 
spearman in his strong mountains will become, like' 
the Arab, a formidable foe. Travelling among 
the Bedouins, I found themtkind and hospitable. 
A pinch of snuff or a handful of tobacco sufficed 
to win every heart, and a few yards of coarse 



112 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

cotton cloth supplied all our wants. I was petted 
like a child, forced to drink milk and to eat 
mutton; girls were offered to me in marriage; the 
people begged me to settle amongst them, to head 
their predatory expeditions, free them from lions, 
and kill their elephants; and often a man has ex¬ 
claimed in pitying accents, "What hath brought 
thee, delicate as thou art, to sit with us on the 
cowhide in this cold under a tree ? " Of course 
they were beggars, princes and paupers, lairds 
and Joons, being all equally unfortunate; the Arabs 
have namedj the country Bilad Wa Issi, — the 
" Land of Give me Something; "— but their wants 
were easily ' satisfied, and'the open hand always 
made a friend. 

The Somal hold mainly to the Shafei school of 
El Islam: their principal peculiarity is that of 
not reciting prayers over the dead even in the 
towns. The marriage ceremony is simple: the 
price of the bride and thfe feast being duly ar¬ 
ranged, the formula is recited by some priest or 
pilgrim. I have often been requested to officiate 
on these occasions, and the End of Time has done it 
by irreverently reciting the Eatihah over the happy 
pair.* The Somal, as usual amongst the heteroge- 

? Equivalent to reading out the Church Catechism at an 
English wedding. 



SUPERSTITIONS. 


113 


iieous mass amalgamated \)y El Islam, have a 
diversity of superstitions attesting their Pagan 
origin. Such for instance are their oaths by stones, 
their reverence of cairns and holy trees, and their 
ordeals of fire and water, the Bolungo of Western 
Africa. A man accused of murder or theft walks 
down I ^ trench full of live charcoal and about a 
spear's length, or he draws out of the flames a 
smith's anvil heated to redness: some prefer picking 
four or five cowries from a large pot full of boiling 
water. The member used is at once rolled up in 
the. intestines of a sheep and not inspected for a 
whole day. They have traditionary seers called 
Tawuli, like the Greegree-meu of Western Africa, 
who, by inspecting the fat and bones of slaughtered 
cattle, " do medicine," predict rains, battles, and 
diseases of animals. This class is of both sexes: 
they never^pray or bathe, and are therefore con- 
.sidered always impure; thus, being feared, they are 
greatly respected by the vulgar. Their predictions 
are^ delivered in a rude rhyme, often put for im¬ 
portance into the mouth of some deceased Seer. 
During the three months called Eajalo * the 

* Certain months of the lunar year. In 1854, the third 
Rajalo, corresponding with Rabiathe Second, began on the 21st 
of December, 

I 



114 rmST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 


Koran is not read over graves, and no' marriage 
ever takes place. The reason of this peculiarity 
is, stated to be imitation of their ancestor Ishak, 
who happened not to contract a matrimonial al¬ 
liance at such epoch: it .is^ however, a manifest 
remnant of the Pagan's auspicious and inauspicious 
months. Thus they sacrifice she-camels in the 
month Sabuh, and keep holy with feasts and bon¬ 
fires the Dubshid dr New Year's Day.* At certain 
unlucky periods when the moon is in ill-omened 
Asterisms those who die are placed in bundles of 
matting upon a tree, the idea being that if buried 
a loss would result to the tribe.f 

¥ 

Though superstitious, the Somal are not bigoted 

* The word literally means, ''lighting of fire.*^ It corre¬ 
sponds with the Nayruz of Yemen, a palpable derivation, as the 
word itself proves, from the old Guebre conquerors. In Arabia 
New Year's Day is called Ras el Sanah, and is not celebrated by 
any peculiar solemnities. The ancient religion of the Afar coast 
was Sabaeism, probably derived fr<^m the Berbers or shepherds, 
— according to Bruce the first faith of the East, and the only 
religion of Eastern Africa. The Somal still retain a tradition 
that the " Furs," or ancient Gi^ebres, once ruled the land. ^ , 

f Their names also are generally derived from their Pagan 
ancestors : a list of the most common may be interesting to 
ethnologists- Men are called Rirash, Igah, Beuh, Fahi, 
Samattar, Farih, Madar, Raghe, Dubayr, Irik, Diddar, Awalab, 
and Alyan. Women's names are Aybla, Ayyo, Aurala, 
Ambar, Zahabo, Ashkaro, Alka, Asoba, Gelo, Gobe, Mayran 
and Samaweda. 

i 



THE SOMALI TONGUE. 


115 


like the Arabs, with the exception of those who, 
wishing to become learned, visit Yemen or El Hejaz, 
and catch the complaint. Nominal Mohammedans, 
El Islam hangs so lightly upon them, that appa¬ 
rently they care little for making it binding upon 
others. 

The I Somali language is no longer unknown to 
Europe. It is strange that a dialect which has no 
written character should so abound in poetry and 
eloquence. There are thousands of songs, some 
local, others general, upon all conceivable subjects, 
such as camel loading, drawing water, and elephant 
hunting; every man of education knows a variety 
of them. The rhyme is imperfect, being generally 
formed by the syllable "ay" (pronounced as in our 
word " hay "), which gives the verse a monotonous 
regularity ; but, assisted by a tolerably regular alli¬ 
teration and cadence, it can never be mistaken for 
prose, even without the song which invariably ac¬ 
companies it. The country teems with " poets, 
poetasters, poetitos, and poetaccios: " every man has 
his recognised position in literature as accurately 
defined as though he had been reviewed in a century 
of magazines,—^the fine ear of this people * causing 

* It is proved by the facility with which they pick up lan¬ 
guages, Western as well as Eastern, by mere ear and memory. 



116. FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN, EAST AFRICA. 

them to take the greatest pleasure in harmonious 
sounds and poetical expressions, whereas a false 
quantity or a prosaic phrase excite their violent 
indignation. Many of these compositions are so 
idiomatic that Arabs settled for years amongst the 
Somal cannot understand them, though perfectly 
acquainted with the conversational style. Every 
chief in the country must have a panegyric to be 
sung by his clan, and the great patronise light 
literaiure by keeping a poet. The amatory is of 
course the favourite theme: sometimes it appears 
in dialogue, the rudest form, we are told, of the 
Drama. The subjects are frequently pastoral: the 
lover for instance invites his mistress to walk with 
him towards the well in Lahelo, the Arcadia of the 
land; he compares her legs to the tall straight Libi 
tree, and imprecates the direst curses on her head 
if she refuse to drink with him the milk of his 
favourite camel. There are a few celebrated ethical 
compositions, in which th^ father lavishes upon 
his son all the treasures of Somali good advice, 
long as the somniferous' sermons of Mentor to 
the insipid son of Ulysses. Sometimes a black 
Tyrtaeus breaks into a wild lament for the loss of 
warriors or territory; he taunts the clan with 
cowardice, reminds them of their slain kindred, 



SOMALI WOMEN. 


117 


better men than themselves, whose spirits cannot 
rest unavenged in their gory graves, and urges a 
furious onslaught upon the exulting victor. 

'And now, dear L., I will attempt to gratify 
your jijst curiosity concerning the sex in Eastern 
Africa. 

The Somali matron is distinguished—externally 
— from the maiden by a fillet of blue network or 
indigo-dyed cotton, which, covering the head and 
containing the hair, hangs down to the neck. 
Virgins wear their locks long, parted in the 
middle, and plaited in a multitude of hard thin 
pigtails : on certain festivals they twine flowers 
and plaster the head like Kafir women with a red 
ochre ,—the coiffure has the merit of originality. 
With massive rounded features, large flat cra- 
niums, long big eyes, broad brows, heavy chins, 
rich brown complexions, and round faces, they 
greatly resemble the stony beauties of Egypt—the 
models of the land ere Persia, Greece, and Rome 
reformed the profile and bleached the skin. They 
are of the Venus KaUipyga order of beauty: the 
fea'ture is scarcely ever seen amongst young girls, 
but ¦ after the first child it becomes remarkable 
to a stranger. The Arabs have not failed to make 
it a matter of jibe. 



118 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 


" 'Tis a wonderful fact that your hips swell 
Like boiled rice or a skin blown out," 

sings a satirical Yemeni: the Somal retort by com¬ 
paring the lank haunches of their neighbours to 
those of tadpoles or young frogs. One of their 
peculiar charms is a soft, low, an(J plaintive voice, 
derived from their African progenitors. Always 
an excellent thing in woman, here it has an unde- 
finable charm. I have often lain awake for hours 
listening to the conversation of the Bedouin ^irls, 
whose accents sounded in my ears rather like 
music than mere utterance. 

In muscular strength and endurance the women 
of the Somal are far superior to their lords: at 
home they are engaged all day in domestic afiairs, 
and tending the cattle ; on journeys their manifold 
duties are to load and drive' the camels, to look 

, ¦ I 

after the ropes, and, if necessary, to make them; to 
pitch the hut, to bring w,ater and firewood, and 
to cook. Both sexes are equally temperate frofla 
necessity; the mead an|i the millet-beer, so'com¬ 
mon among the Abyssinians and the Danakil, are 
entirely unknown to the Somal of the plains.. As 
regards their morals, I regret to ,say that the 
traveller does not find them in the golden state 
which Teetotal doctrines lead him to expect. After 



IMMOKALlTr. 


119 


much wandering, we are almost tempted to believe 
the bad doctrine that morality is a matter of 
geography; that, nations and races have, like in¬ 
dividuals, a pet vice, and that by restraining one 
you only exasperate another. As a general rule 
Somali women prefer amourettes with strangers, 
follo>ying the well-known Arab proverb, " The new 
comer filleth the eye." In cases of scandal, the 
woman's tribe revenges its honour upon the man. 
Should a wife disappear with a fellow-clansman, 
and her husband accord divorce, no penal measures 
are taken, but she suffers in reputation, and her 
female friends do not spare her. Generally, the 
Somali women are of cold temperament, the re¬ 
sult of artificial as well as natural causes: like 
the Kafirs, they are very prolific, but peculiarly 
bad mothers, neither loved nor respected by their 
children. The fair sex lasts longer in Eastern 
Africa than in India and Arabia: at thirty, how¬ 
ever, charms are on the wane, and when old age 
comes on they are no exceptions to the hideous 
decrepitude of the East. 

The Somal, when they can afford it, marry 
between the ages of fifteen and twenty. Connec¬ 
tions between tribes are common, and entitle the 
stranger to immunity from the blood-feud: men of 



120 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

family refuse, however, to ally themselves with 
the servile castes. Contrary to the Arab custom, 
none of these people will marry cousins; at the same 
time a man will give his daughter to his uncle, 
and take to wife, like the Jews and Gallas, a 
brother's relict. Some clans, the Habr Tunis for 
instance, Refuse maidens of the same or even of 
a consanguineous family. This is probably a po¬ 
litical device to preserve nationality and provide 
against a common enemy. The bride, as usual 
in the East, is rarely consulted, but frequent 
tete d tetes at the well and in the bush when tend¬ 
ing cattle effectually obviate this inconvenience: 
her relatives 'settle the marriage portion, which 
varies from a cloth and a bead necklace to fifty 
sheep or thirty dollars, and dowries are unknown. 
In the towns marriage .ceremonies are celebrated 
with feasting and music. On first entering the 
nuptial hut, the bridegroom draws forth his horse¬ 
whip and inflicts memorable chastisement upon 
the fair person of his bride, with the view of 
taming any lurking propensity to shrewishness.* 
This is carrying out with a will the Arab proverb, 

* So the old Muscovites, we are told, always began married 
life with a sound flogging. 



MARRIAGE. 


* 121 


" The slave girl from her capture, the wife from her wedding." 

During the space of a week the spouse remains 
with his espoused, scarcely ever venturing out of 
the hut; his friends avoid him, and no lesser event 
than a plundering party or dollars to gain, would 
justify any intrusion. If the correctness of the 
wifei be doubted, the husband on the morning 
after marriage digs a hole before his door, and 
veils it with matting, or he rends the skirt of his 
Tobe, or he tears open some new hut-covering : 
this disgraces the woman's family. Polygamy is 
indispensable in a country where children are thj 
principal wealth.* The chiefs, arrived at man¬ 
hood, immediately marry four wives: they divorce 
the old and unfruitful, and, as amongst the Kafirs, 
allow themselves an unlimited number in pecu¬ 
liar cases, especially when many of the sons have 
fallen. Daughters, as usual in Oriental countries, 
do not "count " as part of the family; they are, how¬ 
ever, utilised by the father, who disposes of them to 


* I would not fidvise polygamy amongst highly civilised 
races, where the sexes are nearly equal, and where reproduction 
becomes a minor duty. Monogamy is the growth of civilisa¬ 
tion : a plurality of wives is the natural condition of man in 
thinly populated countries, where he who has the largest 
family is the greatest benefactor of his kind. 



122 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

those who can increase his wealth and importance. 
Divorce is exceedingly common, for the men are 
liable to sudden fits of disgust. . There is little 
ceremony in contracting marriage with any but 
maidens. I have heard a man propose after half 
an hour's acquaintance, and the fair one's reply 
was generally the question direct concerning 
" settlements." Old men frequently marry young 
girls, but then the portion is high and the menage 
a trois common. 

The Somal know none of the exaggerated and 
chivalrous ideas by which passion becomes refined 
affection amongst the Arab Bedouins and the sons 
of civilisation, nor did I ever hear of an African 
abandoning the spear -and the sex to become a 
Darwaysh. Their " Hudhudu," hoAvever, reminds 
the traveller of the Abyssinian "eye-love," the 
Afghan's " Namzad-bazi," and the Semite's "Ishk- 
uzri," which for want of a'|better expression tve 
translate "Platonic love."'*^ This meeting of the 
sexes, however, is allowe(^ in Africa by male re¬ 
latives; in Arabia and Central Asia it provokes 

* The old French term "la petite oie'' explains it better. 
Some trace of the cbstom may be found in the Kafir's Slam- 
buka or Schlabonlca, for a description of which I must refer to 
the traveller Delegorgue. 



SOMALI CUSTOMS. 


123 


their direst indignation. Curious to say, through¬ 
out the Somali country, kissing is entirely un¬ 
known. 

Children are carried on their mothers' backs 
or laid sprawling upon the ground for the first 
two years *; they are circumcised at the age of 
seven or' eight, provided with a small spear, 
and allowed to run about linked till the age of 
puberty. They learn by conversation, not books, 
eat as much as they can beg, borrow and steal, 
and grow up healthy, strong, and well properj 
tioned according to their race. / 

As in El Islam generally, so here, a man 
cannot make a will. The property of the de¬ 
ceased is divided amongst his children, — the 
daughters receiving a small portion, if any of 
it. When a man dies without issue, his goods 
and chattels are seized upon by his nearest male 
relatives; one of them generally marries the Avidow, 
or she is sent back to her family. Relicts, as a 
rule, receive no legacies. 

You will have remarked, dear L., that, the 
people of Zayla are by no. means industrious. 
They depend for support upon the Desert: the 


* The Somal ignore the Kafir custom during lactation. 



124 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

l^edouin becomes the Nazil or guest of the towns¬ 
man, and he is bound to receive a little tobacco, 
a few beads, a bit of coarse cotton cloth, or, on 
great occasions, a penny looking-glass and a 
cheap German razor, in return for his slaves, 
ivories, hides, gums, milk, .and grain. Any vio¬ 
lation of the tie is severely punished by the 
Governor, and it tan be dissolved only by the 
formula of triple divorce: of course the wild men 
are hopelessly cheated *, and their citizen brethren 
live ih plenty and indolence. After the early 
breakfast,, the male portion of the community 
leave their houses on business, that is to say, to 
chat, visit, and jlaner about the streets and 
mosques.f They return to dinner and the siesta, 
after -which they issue forth again, and do riot 
come home till night. Friday is always an idle 


* The citizens have learned the Asiatic, art of bargaining 
under a cloth. Both parties sit opposite each other, holding 
hands : if the little finger for instance be clasped, it means 6, 60, 
or 600 dollars, according to the value of the article for sale; if 
the ring finger, 7, 70, or 700, and so on. 

So, according to M. -Krapf, the Suaheli of Eastern Africa 
wastes his morning hours in running from house^ to house, to 
his friends or superiors, ku amkia (as he calls it), to make his 
morning salutations. A worse than Asiatic idleness is the 
curse of this part of the world. 



GOVERNMENT. 


125 


day, festivals are frequent,'and there is no work 
during weddings and mournings. The women 
begin after dawn to plait mats and superintend 
the slaves, who are sprinkling the house with 
Water, grinding graift for breakfast, cooking, and 
breaking up firewood; to judge, however, from 
the amount of chatting and laughter, there appears 
to be far less work than play. 

In these small places it is easy to observe the 
mechanism of a government which, en grand^ 
becomes that of Delhi, Teheran, and Constanti- 

I 

nople. The Governor farms the place from the' 
Porte: he may do what he pleases as long as he 
pays his rent with punctuality and provides 
presents and douceurs for the Pasha of Mocha. 
He punishes the petty offences of theft, quarrels, 
and arson by fines, the bastinado, the stocks, or 
confinement in an Arish or thatch-hut: the latter 
is a severe penalty, as the prisoner must pro¬ 
vide himself with food. In cases of murder, 
he either refers to Mocha or he carries out the 
Kisas—lex talionis—by delivering the slayer to 
the relatives of the slain. The Kazi has the 
administration of the Shariat or religious law: 
he cannot, however, pronounce sentence without 
the Governor's permission; and generally his 



126 


FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 


powers are confined ' to questions of divorce, 
alimony, manumission, the wound-mulct, and si¬ 
milar cases which come within Koranic jurisdic¬ 
tion, Thus the religious code is ancillary and 
often opposed to "El Jabr,"—"the tyranny,'' — 


the popular designation of what we call Civil 
Law.* Yet is El Jabr, despite its name, generally 
preferred by the worldly wise. The Governor con¬ 
tents himself with a moderate bribe, the Kazi is 


insatiable: the former may possibly allow you 
to escape unplundered, the latter assuredly will 
not. This I believe to be the history of religious 


jurisdiction in most parts of the world. 


* Diwan el Jabr, for instance, is a civil court, opposed to the 
Mahkamah or the Kazi's tribunal. 



127 


CHAP. V. 

rnOM ZATLA TO THE HILLS. 

Two 'routes connect Zayla with Harar; the south¬ 
western or direct line numbers ten long or twenty 
short stages *: the first eight through the Eesa 
country, and the last two among the Hole Callas, 
who own the rule of " Waday," a Malsad or chief | 
of Christian persuasion. The Hajj objected to| 
this way, on account of his recent blood-feud with 
the Ker Guleni. He preferred for me the more 
winding road which passes south, along the coast, 
through the Eesa Bedouins dependent upon Zayla, 
to the nearest hills, and thence strikes south- 

* By "this route the Mukattib or courier travels on foot from 
Zayla to Harar in five days at the most. The Somal reckon 
their journeys by the Gedi or inarch, the Arab " Hamleh," which 
varies from four to five hours. They begin before dawn and 
halt at about 11 a.m., the time of the morning meal. When a 
second march is made they load at 3 p.h. and advance till 
dark ; thus fifteen miles would be the average of fast travelling. 
In places of danger they will cover twenty-six or twenty-seven 
miles of ground without halting to eat or rest: nothing less, 
however, than regard for ''dear life" can engender such 
activity. Generally two or three hours' work per diem is 
considered sufficient; and, where provisions abound, halts are 
long and frequent. 



128 FIUSl FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

westwards among the Gudabirsi and Girhi Somal, 
who extend within sight of Harar. I cannot but 
suspect that in selecting this route the , good Shar- 
markay served another purpose besides' my safety. 
Petty feuds between the chiefs had long " closed 
the path," and perhaps the Somal were not un¬ 
willing that British cloth and tobacco should 
re-open it. 

Early in the morning of the 27th of November, 
1854, the mules and all the paraphernalia of travel 
stood ready at the door. The five camels were 
forced to kneel, growling angrily the while, by 
repeated jerks at the halter: their forelegs were 
duly tied or stood upon till they had shifted 
themselves into a comfortable position, and their 
noses were held down by the bystanders whenever, 
grasshopper-like, they attempted to spring up. 
Whilst spreading the saddle-rnats, our women, to 
charm away remembrance ^of chafed hump and 
bruised sides, sang with vigor the " Song of 
Travel ": ^ 

O caravan-men, we deceive ye not, we have laden the camels ! 

Old women on the journey are kenned by tlieir sleeping! 

(0 camel) can'st sniff the cock-boat and the sea ? 

Allah guard thee from the Mikahil and their J^iidgans! " * 


* The Mikahil is a clan of the Habr Awal tribe living near 
Berberah, and celebrated for their bloodthirsty and .butchering 



CAMEL LOADI^. 


129 


As they arose from squat it was always neces¬ 
sary -to adjust their little mountains of small 
packages by violently "heaving up" one side,— 
' an operation never failing to elicit a vicious grunt, 
a, curve of the neck, and an attempt to bite. One 
camel was especially savage; it is said that on 
his * return to Zayla, he broke a Bedouin girl's 
neck. Another, a diminutive but hardy little brute 
of Dankali breed, conducted himself so uproari¬ 
ously that he at once obtained the name of El 
Harami, or the Ruffian^ 

About 3 P.M., accompanied by the Hajj, hjs 
amiable son Mohammed, and a party of Arab match- 
lockmen, who escorted me as a token of especial 
respect, I issued from the Ashurbara Gate, through 
the usual staring crowds, and took the way of the 
wilderness. After half a mile's march, we ex¬ 
changed aflPectiohate adieus, received much prudent 
advice about keeping watch and ward at night, 
recited the Fatihah with upraised palms, and with 
many promises to write frequently and to meet 
soon,, shook hands and parted. The soldiers gave 
me a last volley, to which I replied with the "Father 
of Six." 

propensities* Many of the Midgan or serviles (a term explained 
in Chap* U*) are domesticated amongst them* 

K 



ISO PIEST SOOTSTEPS in east AFRICA. 

You see, dear L., how travelling maketh man 
hanal. It is the natural consequence of being 
forced to find, in every corner where Fate drops 
you for a month, a " friend of the soul," and 
a " moon-faced beauty." With Orientals gene¬ 
rally, you must be on extreme terms, as in 
Hibernia, either an angel of light or, that failing, 
a goblin damned. In East Africa especially, 
English phlegm, shyness, or pride, will bar every 
heart and raise every hand against you*, whereas 
what IVi. Rochet calls " a certain rondewr of man¬ 
ner " is a specific for winning afiection. You 
should walk up to your man, clasp his fist, pat his 
back, speak some unintelligible words to him, — if, 
as is the plan of prudence, you ignore the language, 
— laugh a loud guffaw, sit by his side, and begin 
pipes and coffee. He then proceeds to utilise you, 
to beg in one country for your interest, and in 
another for your tobacco, l^ou gently but de¬ 
cidedly thrust that subject out of the way, and 
choose what is most interesting to yourself. As 
might be expected, he will at times revert to his 
own concerns; your superior obstinacy will oppose 

* So the Abyssinian chief informed M. Krapf that he loved 
the French, but could not endure us — simply the effect of 
manner, 

I 



MOSLEM MEBCHANTS. 


131 


eflfectual passive resistance to all such eflForts; by 
degrees the episodes diminish in frequency and 
duration j at last they cease altogether. The man 
is now your own. 

•You will bear in mind, if you please, that I 
am a Moslem merchant, a character not to be 
confounded with the notable individuals seen on 
'Change. Mercator in the East is a compound of 
tradesman, divine, and T. G. . Usually of gentle 
birth, he is everywhere welcomed and respected; 
and he bears in his mind and manner that, if Allah! 
please, he may become prime minister a monthl 
after he has sold you a yard of cloth. Commerce 
appears to be an accident, not an essential,. with 
him; yet he is by no means deficient in acumen. 
He is a grave and reverend signior, with rosary 
in hand and Koran on lip, is generally a pilgrim, 
talks at dreary length about Holy Places, writes 
a pretty hand, has read - and can recite much 
poetry, is master of his religion, demeans himself 
with respectability, is perfect in all points of cere¬ 
mony and politeness, and feels equally at home 
whether sultan or slave sit upon his counter. He 
has a wife and children in his own country, where 
he intends to spend the remnant of his days; but 
"the world is uncertain" — "Fate descends, and 



132 


I-IEST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 


man's eye seeth it not " — " the earth is a charnel 
house ": briefly, his many wise old saws give him 
a kind of theoretical consciousness that his bones 
may moulder in other places but his father-land. 

To describe my little caravan. Foremost 
struts Raghe, our Eesa guide; in all the bravery of 
Abbanship. He is bareheaded and clothed in Tobe 
and slippers: a long, heavy, horn-hilted dagger 
is strapped round his waist, outside his dress ; 
in his ^ right hand he grasps a ponderous wire- 
bound spear, which he uses as a staff, and the left 
forearm supports a round targe of battered hide. 
Being a man of education, he bears on one shoulder 
a Musalla or prayer carpet of tanned leather, the 
article used throughout the Somali country ; slung 
over the other is a Wesi or wicker bottle contain¬ 
ing water for religious ablution. He is accom¬ 
panied by some men who carry a little stock of 
town goods and drive a camel colt, which by the 
by they manage to lose before midnight. ' 

My other attendants mu^t now be introduced to 
you, as they are to be for the next two months 
companions of our journey. 

First in the list are the fair Samaweda Yusuf, and 
Aybla Farih *, buxom dames about thirty years old, 

* The first is the name of the individual; the second is that 
of her father. ^ 



SHBHBAZADE AND DEENARZADE. 133 

who presently secured the classical nicknames of 
Shehrazade, and Deenarzade. They look each like 
three average women rolled into one, and empha¬ 
tically belong to that race for which the article of 
feminine attire called, I believe, a "bussle" would be 
quite superfluous. Wonderful, truly, is their en¬ 
durance of fatigue! During the march they carry 
pipe and tobacco, lead and flog the camels, adjust 
the burdens, and will never be induced to ride, in 
sickness or in health. At the halt they unload the 
cattle, dispose the parcels in a semicircle, pitc^i 
over them the Gurgi or mat tent, cook our fooci, 
boil tea and coffee, and make themselves generally 
useful. They bivouack outside our abode, mo¬ 
desty not permitting the sexes to mingle, and in 
the severest cold wear no clothing but a head fillet 
and an old Tobe. They have curious soft voices, 
which contrast agreeably with the harsh organs of 
the males. At first they were ashamed to see me; 
but that feeling soon wore off, and presently they 
enlivened the way with pleasantries far more naive 
than refined. To relieve their greatest fatigue, 
nothing seems necessary but the " Jogsi: " * they 

* This delicate operation is called by the Arabs Daasah 
(whence the Doseh ceremony " at Cairo). It is used over most 
parts of the Eastern world as a remedy for sickness and fatigue. 



134 FIEST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 


lie at full length, prone, stand upon each other's 
backs trampling and kneading with the. toes, and 
rise like giants much refreshed. Always attendant 
upon these dames is Yusuf, a Zayla lad who, being 
one-eyed, was pitilessly named by my companions 
the "Kalendar;" he prays frequently, is strict in 
his morals, and has conceived, like Mrs. Brownrigg, 
so exalted an idea of discipline, that, but for our 
influence, he certainly would have beaten the two 
female 'prentices to death. They hate him there¬ 
fore, and he knows it. 

Immediately behind Raghe and his party walk 
Shehrazade and Deenarzade, the former leading the 
head camel, the latter using my chibouque stick as 
a staff. She has been at Aden, and sorely suspects 
me; her little black eyes never meet mine ; and fre¬ 
quently, with affected confusion, she turns her sable 
cheek the clean contrary way. Strung together by 
their tails, and soundly beaten when dispos^ to 
lag, the five camels pace steadily along under their 
burdens,— bales of Wilayati^ or American sheeting, 
Duwwarah or Cutch canvass, with indigo-dyed stuff 
slung along the animals' sides, and neatly sewn up 

and is generally preferred to Takbis or Dugmo, the common 
style of shampooing, which, say many Easterns, loosens the 
skin. 

I 



MY CARAVAN. 


135 


in a case of matting to keep off dust and rain,— a 
cow^s hide, which serves as a couch, covering the 
whole. They carry a load of " Mushakkar" (bad 
Mocha dates) for the Somal, with a parcel of better 
quality for ourselves, and a half hundredweight 
of coarse Surat tobacco *; besides which we have a 
box of beads, and another of trinkets, mosaic-gold 
earrings, necklaces, watches, and similar nick-nacks. 
Our private provisions are represented by about 
300 lbs. of rice, — here the traveller's staff of life, 
— a large pot fuU of Kawurmeh " f, dates, salt 

* The Somal from habit, enjoy no other variety ; they even 
showed disgust at my Latakia. Tobacco is grown in some 
places by the Gudabirsi and other tribes ; but it is rare and bad. 
Without this article it would be impossible to progress in 
East Africa; every man asks for a handful, and many will not 
return milk for what they expect to receive as a gift. Their 
importunity reminds the traveller of the Galloway beggars some 
generations ago:—" They are for the most part great chewers of 
tobacco, and are so addicted to it, that they will ask for a piece 
thereof from a stranger as he is riding on his way ; and there¬ 
fore let not a traveller want an dunce or two of roll tobacco in 
his pocket, and for an inch or two thereof he need not fear the 
want of a guide by day or night.*' 

f Flesh boiled in large slices, sun-dried, broken to pieces and 
fried in ghee*. 

X The Bahr Assal or Salt Lake, near Tajurrah, annually 
sends into the interior thousands of little matted parcels con¬ 
taining this necessary. Inland, the Bedouins will rub a piece 
upon the tongue before eating, or pass about a lump, as the 

K 4 



136 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 


clarified butter, tea, coflfee, sugar, a box of biscuits 
in case of famine, "Halwd" or Arab sweetmeats 
to be used when driving hard bargains, and a lit¬ 
tle turmeric for seasoning. A simple batterie de 
cuisine^ and sundry skins full of potable water % 
dangle from chance rope-ends; and last, but not 
the least important, is a heavy box f of ammunition 
sufficient for a three months' sporting tour.J In 

^ Dutch did with sugar in the last war; at Harar a donkey-load 
is the price of a s^ve; and the Abyssiniaus say of a millionaire 
he eateth salt." 

* The element found upon the maritime plain is salt or 
brackish. There is nothing concerning which the African tra¬ 
veller should be so particular as water; bitter with nitre, and 
full i)f organic matter, it causes all those dysenteric diseases 
which have made research in this part of the world a Upas 
tree to the discoverer. Pocket filters are invaluable. The 
water of wells should be boiled and passed through charcoal; and 
even then it might be mixed to a good purpose with a few drops 
of proof spirit. The Somal generally carry their store in large 
wickerwork pails. I preferred skins, as more portable and less 
likely to taint the water. f 

f Here, as in Arabia, boxes should be avoided, the Bedouins 
always believe them to contain treasures. Day after day I have 
been obliged to display the contend to crowds of savages, who 
amused themselves by lifting up the case with loud cries of 
*'hoo! hoo!! hoo!!! " (the popular exclamation of astonishment), 
and by speculating upon the probable amount of dollars con¬ 
tained therein. 

t The following list of my expenses may perhaps be useful 
to future travellers. It must be observed that, had the whole 

/ 



EXPENSES. 


137 


the rear of the caravan trudges a Bedouin wotnan 
driving a donkey, — the proper " tail " in these 
regions, where camels start if followed by a horse 
or mule. An ill-fated sheep, a parting present 
from the Hajj, races and frisks about the Cafilah. 
It became so tame that the Somal received an or¬ 
der^'not to "cut" it; one day, however, I found 
myself dining, and that pet lamb was the menu. 

By the side of the camels ride my three at¬ 
tendants, the pink of Somali fashion. Their 
frizzled wigs are radiant with grease ; their Tobes 
are splendidly white, with borders dazzlingly red ; 

outfit been purchased at Aden^ a considerable saving would 


have resulted : — ' 

Cos. As. 

Passage money from Aden to Zayla - -33 

^Presents at Zayla - - . - 100 

Price of four mules with saddles and bridles - 225 
Price of four camels - - - « 88 

Provisions (tobacco, rice, dates, &c*) for three 

months - - - ¦ - - 428 

Price of 150 'tobes - - ^ - 357 

Nine pieces of indigo-dyed cotton - - 16 


Minor expenses (cowhides for camels, mats for 
tents,' presents to Arabs, a box of beads, 
three handsome Abyssinian Tobes bought 
for chiefs) - - - - - 

Expenses at Berberah, and passage back to 

Aden - ^ - 77 

Total Cos. Esi 1490=^:^149 




l3§' FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

¦their oiewshieMs are covered with' canvass cloth ;- 
and their two spearS; poised over the right 
ahoulder, are freshly scraped, oiled, blackened, and 
polished. They have added my spare rifles and' 
guns to the camel-load ; such weapons are well 
-enough at Aden, in Somalhland men would derive 
the outlandish tool ! I told them that in my 
country women use hows and arrows, moreover 
that lancers are generally considered a corps of 
non-combatants *, in vain 1 they adhered as strongly 
—so' mighty a thing is prejudice—to their par¬ 
tiality for hows, arrows, and lances. Their horse¬ 
manship is peouliarj 'they balance themselves Upon 
little Abyssinian saddles, extending the leg and 
raising the heel in the Louis Quinze style of 
equitation, and the stirrup is an iron ring admit¬ 
ting only the big toe. I follow them mounting' a 
fine white mule, which, with its gaudily gal&nne 
Arab pad and wrapper cloth,) has a certain dignity 
of look; a double-barrelled gun lies across my lap:; 
and a rude pair of holsters, the work of Hasan 
Turki, contains my Colt's six-shooters. 

Marching in this order, which was to serve as a 
model, we travelled due south along (the coast, 
over a hard, stoneless, and alluvial plain, here dry, 



THE MAWTIME PLAIN. , I 


•139 


-there muddy (where the tide reaches), across 
boggy creeks, broad 'waterrcourses, amd warty flats 
of black mould, powdered with nitrous salt, and 
bristling with the salsolaceous vegetation familiar 
to the Arab voyager. Such is the general forma¬ 
tion o^j.the plain between the mountains and the 
-sea, whose breadth, in a direct line, may measure 
from forty-five to forty-eight miles. Near the 
first zone of hills, or sub-(jhauts, it produces a 
thicker vegetation ; thorns and acacias of diflerent 
kinds appear in clumps; and ground bro^n with 
ridges and ravines announces the junction. After 
the monsoon this plain is covered with rich grass. 
At other seasons it affords but a scanty supply of 
an " aqueous matter " resembling bilgewater. The 
land belongs to the Mummasan clan of the Eesa: 
how these "Kurrah-jog" or " sun-dwellers," as the 
Bedouins are called by the burgher Somal, can 
exist here in summer, is a mystery. My arms 
were peeled even in the month of December; and 
my companions, panting with the heat, like the 
Atlante^ of Herodotus, poured forth reproaches 
upon the rising sun. The townspeople, when 
forced to hurry across it in the hotter season, 
cover themselves during the day with Tobes 
} *• 



140 


FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 


wetted every half hour in sea water; yet they are 
sometimes killed by the fatal thirst which the 
Simum' engenders. Even the Bedouins are now 
longing for rain; a few weeks' drought destroys 
half their herds. 

Early in the afternoon our Abban and a woman 
halted for a few minutes, performed their ablu¬ 
tions, and prayed with a certain display: satisfied 
apparently, with the result, they never repeated 
the exercise. About sunset we passed, on the 
right, clumps of trees overgrowing a water called 
" Warabod," the Hyena's Well; this is the first 
Marhalah or halting-place usually made by tra¬ 
vellers to the interior. Hence there is a direct path 
leading south-south-west, by six short marches, to 
the hiUs. Our Abban, however, was determined 
that we should not so easily escape his kraal. 
Half an hour afterwards we passed by the second 
station, Hangagarri," a ^ well near the sea: 
frequent lights twinkling through the darkening 
air informed us that we lyere in the midst of the 
Eesa, At 8 p.m. we reached "Gagab," the third 
Marhalah, where the camels, casting themselves 
upon the ground, imperatively demanded a halt. 
Raghe was urgent for an advance, declaring that 
already he could sight the ' watchfires of his Rer 



NIGHT IN THE DESERT. 


141 


or tribe*; but the animals carried the point against 
him. They were presently unloaded and turned 
out to graze, and the lariats of the mules, who are 
addicted to running away, were fastened to stones 
for want of pegs f. Then, lighting a fire, we sat 
down to a homely supper of dates. 

The air was fresh and clear; and the night 
breeze was delicious after the steamy breath of 
day. The weary confinement of walls made the 
splendid expanse a luxury to the sight, whilst the 
tumbling of the surf upon the near shore, and the 
music of the jackal, predisposed to sweet sleep. 
We now felt that at length the die was cast. 
Placing my pistols by my side, with my rifle butt 
for a pillow, and its barrel as a bed-fellow, I sought 
repose with none of that apprehension which 
even the most stout-hearted traveller knows before 
the start. It is the difference between fancy and 
reality, between anxiety and certainty: to men 
gifted with any imaginative powers the anti- 

* I shall frequently use Somali terms, not to display my 
scanty knowledge of the dialect, but because they perchance may 
prove serviceable to my successors. 

f The Somal always " side-line " their horses and mules with 
stout stiff leathern thongs provided with loops and wooden 
buttons; we found them upon the whole safer than lariats or 
tethers. 



142 FIESX FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

cipation must ever be worse than the event. 
Thus it happens, that he who feels a thrill of fear 
before engaging in a peril, exchanges it for a throb 
of exultation when he finds himself hand to hand 
with the danger. 

The " End of Time " volunteered to keep watch 
that night. When the early dawn glimmered he 
aroused us, and blew up the smouldering fire^ 
whilst our women proceeded to load the camels. 
We pursued our way over hard alluvial soil to 
sand, 4nd th'ence passed into a growth of stiff yellow 
grass not unlike a stubble in English September. 
Day broke upon a Somali Arcadia, whose sole 
flaws were salt water and Simum. Whistling 
shepherds* carried in their arms the younglings 
of the herds, or, spear in hand, drove to pasture 
long regular lines of camels, that waved their vul¬ 
ture-like heads, and arched their necks to bite in 

* Arabs hate '' El Sifr " or whistling, which they hold to be 
the chit-chat of the Jinns. Some say that the musician's mouth 
is not to be purified for forty days ; others that Satan, touching a 
man's person, causes him to produce the ofienslve sound. The 
Hejazis objected to Burckhardt ijiat he could not help talking 
to devils, and walking about the room like an unquiet spirit. 
The Somali has no such prejudice. Like the Kafir of the 
Cape, he passes his day whistling to his docks and herds; 
moreover, he makes signals by changing the note, and is skilful 
in imitating the song of birds. • 



THE, SOMALI ARCADIA. 143 

play their neighbours' faces, humps, and hind thighs.^ 
They were led by a patriarch, to whose throat 
hung a Kor or wooden bell, the preventive for 
straggling; and most of them were followed (for 
winter is the breeding season) by colts in every 
stage of infancy.* , Patches of sheep, with snowy 
skins ^and jetty faces,; flocked the yellow plain; and 
herds of goats resembling deer were driven by hide- 
clad children to the bush. Women, in similar 
attire, accompanied them, some chewing the inner 
bark of trees, others spinning yarns *of a white 
creeper called Sagsug for ropes and tent-mats. Thej 
boys carried shepherds' crooks f, and bore their 
watering pails J, foolscap fashion, upon their heads. 
Sometimes they led the ram, around w'hose neck 
a cord of white leather was bound for luck;; at 
other times' they frisked with the dog, an animal 
by no means contemptible in the eyes of the 
Bedouins.§ As they advanced, the graceful little 

, * In this country camels foal either in the Gugi (monsoon), 
or during the cold season immediately^ after the autumnal 
rains. 

f The shepherd*s staff is a straight stick about six feet long, 
with a crook at one end, and at the other a fork to act as 
a rake. 

i Tiiefee utensils yyill be described in a future chapter. 

§ The settled Somal ha:Ve a holy horror of dogs, and, Wah-. 
habi-like, treat man^s faithfill slave most cruelly. The wild 



144- FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 


sand antelope bounded away over the bushes; 
and above them, soaring 'high in the cloudless 
skies, were flights of vultures and huge per- 
cnopters, unerring indicators of man's habitation 
in Somali-land.* 

A net-work of paths showed that we were 
approaching a populous place; and presently men 
swarmed forth from their hive-shaped tents, 
testifying their satisfaction at our arrival, the 
hostile Habr Awal having threatened to "eat them 
up." We rode cautiously, as is customary, 
amongst the yeaning she-camels, who are injured 
by a sudden start, and about 8 a.m. arrived at 
our guide's kraal, the fourth station, called 
" Gudingaras," or the low place where the Garas 
tree grows. The encampment lay south-east (165°) 
of, and about twenty miles from, Zayla. 

Raghe disappeared, and^the Bedouins flocked 
out to gaze upon us as we approached the kraal. 
Meanwhile Shehrazade and Deenarzade fetched tent- 
sticks from the village, disposed our luggage so as 


people are more humane; they pay two ewes for a good colley, 
and demand a two-year-old sheep as diyat " or blood-money 
for the animal, if killed. 

* Vultures and percnopters lie upon the wing waiting for tlie 
garbage of the kraals; consequently they are rare near the cow- 
villages, where animals are not often killed* 

I 



EFFECTS OF GUN. 


145 


to form a wall, rigged out a wigwam, spread our 
beds in the shade, and called aloud for sweet and 
sour milk. I heard frequently muttered by the 
red-headed spearmen, the ominous term " Fa- 
ranj " *; and although there was no danger, it was 
deemed advisable to make an impression without 
delay.' Presently they began to deride our wea¬ 
pons : the Hammal requested them to put up one 
of their shields as a mark; they laughed aloud 
but shirked compliance. At last a large brown, 
bare-necked vulture settled on the* ground at ^ 
twenty paces' distance. The Somal hate the j 
" Gurgur," because he kills the dying and devours' 
the dead on the battle-field : a bullet put through 
the bird's body caused a cry of wonder, and some 
ran after the lead as it span whistling over the 
ridge. Then loading with swan-shot, which these 
Bedouins had never seen, I knocked over a second 
vulture flying. Fresh screams followed the 
Jnarvellous feat; the women exclaimed " Lo! he 
bringeth down the birds from heaven; " and one 
old man, putting his forefinger in his mouth, 

* They apply this term to all but themselves; an Indian 
trader who had travelled to Harar, complained to me that he 
had always been called a Frank by the Bedouins in consequence 
of his wearing Shalwar or drawers. 

L 



146 


FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 


praised Allah and prayed to be defended from such 
a calamity. The effect was such that I determined 
always to carry a barrel loaded with shot as the 
best answer for aU who might object to " Faranj." 

"VVe spent our day in the hut after the normal 
manner, with a crowd of woolly-headed Bedouins . 
squatting perseveringly opposite our quarters, spear 
in hand, with eyes fixed upon every gesture. 
Before noon the door-mat was let down,—a pre¬ 
caution also adopted whenever box or package 
was , opened, — we drank milk and ate rice 
with " a kitchen " of Kawurmah. About mid¬ 
day the crowd retired to sleep; my companions 
followed their example, and I took the opportunity 
of sketching and jotting down notes.* Early in 
the afternoon the Bedouins returned, and resumed 
their mute form of pleading for tobacco': each 
man, as he received a handful, rose slowly from 
his hams and went his way. The senior who 
disliked the gun was importlunate for a charm to 

• Generally it is not dangerous' to write before these Bedouins, 
as they only suspect account-keeping, and none but the edu- 
cated recognise a sketch. The traveller, however, must he on 
his guard; in the remotest villages he will meet Somal who 
have returned to savage life after visiting the Sea-board, Arabia, 
and possjbly India or Egypt. 



KESTOES. 


147 


cure his sick camel: having obtained it, he blessed 
us in a set speech, which lasted at least half an 
hour, and concluded with spitting upon the whole 
party for good luck.* It is always well to encou¬ 
rage these Nestors; they are regarded with the 
greatest reverence by the tribes, who believe 
that 

** old experience dotli attain 
To something like prophetic strain 

and they can either do great good or cause much 
petty annoyance. | 

In the evening I took my gun, and, accompanied 
by the End of Time, went out to search for venison : 
the plain, however, was full of men and cattle, and 
its hidden denizens had migrated. During our 
walk we visited the tomb of an Eesa brave. It 
was about ten feet long, heaped up with granite 
pebbles, bits of black basalt, and stones of cal- 
careous lim e: two upright slabs denoted -the 
position of the head and feet, and upon these hung 
the deceased's milk-pails, much the worse for sun 
and wind. Round the grave was a thin fence of 
thorns: opposite the single narrow entrance, were 

* I have often observed this ceremony performed upon a new 
turban or other article of attire; possibly it may be intended as 
a mark of contempt, assumed to blind the evil eye. 



148 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

three blocks of stone planted in line, and show-* 
ing the number of enemies slain by the braye.* 
Beyond these trophies, a thorn roofing, supported 
by four bare poles, served to shade the relatives, 
when they meet to sit, feast, weep, and pray. 

The Bedouin funerals and tombs are equally 
simple. They have no favourite cemeteries as in 
Sindh and other Moslem and pastoral lands: men 
are buried where they die, and the rarity of the 
graves scattered about the country excited my 
astonishment. The corpse is soon interred. These 
people, like most barbarians, have a horror of 
death and all that reminds them of it: on several 
occasions I have, been begged to throw away a 
hut-stick, that had been used to dig a grave. 
The bier is a rude framework of poles bound with 
ropes of hide. Some tie up the body, and plant 
it in a sitting posture, to save themselves the 
trouble of excavating deep : this perhaps may ac¬ 
count for the circular tombs seen in many parts 
of the country. Usually the corpse is thrust into 
a long hole, covered with wood and matting, and 

* Such is the general form of the Somali grave. Sometimes 
two stumps of wood take the place of the uprigtit stones at 
the head and foot, and around one grave I' counted twenty 
trophies. 



149 


THE MIGRATION. 

heaped ' over with earth and thorns, half-protected 
by -an oval mass of loose stones, and abandoned to 
the jackals and hyenas. 

We halted a day at Gudingaras, wishing to see 
the migration of a tribe. Before dawn, on the 
^30th November, the Somali Stentor proclaimed 
from the ridge-top, "Fetch your camels! — Load 
your goods! — We march!" About 8 a.m. we 
started in the rear. The spectacle was novel 
to me. Some 150 spearmen, assisted by .their 
families, were driving before them divisions which, 
in total, might amount to 200 cows, 7000 cam(^s, 
and 11,000 or 12,000 sheep and goats. Only three 
wore the Bal or feather, which denotes the brave ; 
several, however, had the other decoration — an 
ivory armlet.* Assisted by the boys, whose heads 
were shaved in a cristated fashion truly ridicu¬ 
lous, and large pariah dogs with bushy tails, they 
drove the beasts and carried the coltSj belaboured 
runaway calves, and held up the hind ^legs of 
struggling sheep. The sick, of whom there were 

? Some braves wear above tbe right elbow an ivory armlet 
called Fol or Aj : in the south this denotes the elephant-slayer. 
Other Eesa clans assert their warriorhood by small disks of 
white stone, fashioned like rings, and fitted upon the little finger 
of the left hand. Others bind a bit of red cloth round the 
brow. 



1-50 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

many, — dysentery being at the time prevalent, — 
were carried upon camels with their legs protrud¬ 
ing in front from under the hide-cover. Many of 
the dromedaries showed the Habr Awal brand * i 
laden with hutting materials and domestic furni¬ 
ture, they were led by the maidens; the matrons,, 
followed, bearing their progeny upon their backs, 
bundled in the shoulder-lappets of cloth or hide. 
The smaller girls,' who, in addition to the boys' 
crest,'wore a circlet of curly hair round the head, 
carried the weakling lambs and kids, or aided their 
mammas in transporting the baby. Apparently 
in great fear of the " All " or Commando, the 
Bedouins anxiously inquired if I had my " fire " 
with mef, and begged us to take the post of 
honour — the van. As our little party pricked 
forward, the camels started in alarm, and we were 
surprised to find that this tribe did not know the 
difference between horses and mules. Whenever 
the boys lost time in sport * or quarrel, they were 
threatened by their fathers with the jaws of that 
ogre, the white strangei); and the women ex- 

• It is sufficient for a Bedouin to look at the general ap¬ 
pearance of an animal; he at once recognises the breed. Each 
clan, however, in this part of Eastern Africa ' has its own 
mark. 

t They found no better word than fire " to denote my gun. 



EDENS OF ADEL., 151 

claimed, as they saw us approach, " Here comes 
the old man who knows knowledge! " * 

Having skirted the sea for two hours, I rode' off 
¦with the End of Time to inspect the Dihh Silil f, 
a fiumara .which runs from the western hills 
north-eastwards to the sea. Its course is marked 
by a long line of graceful tamarisks, whose vivid 
green looked doubly bright set off by tawny 
stubble and amethyst-blue sky. These freshets 
are the Edens of Adel. The banks are charm¬ 
ingly wooded with acacias of many varieties, some 
thorned like the fabled Zakkum, others parachu|t;e- 
shaped, and planted in impenetrable thickets: 
huge white creepers, snake-shaped, enclasp giant 
trees, or connect with. their cordage the higher 
boughs, or depend like cables from the lower 
branches to the ground. Luxuriant parasites 
abound: here they form domes of flashing green, 
there they surround with verdure decayed trunks, 
and not unfrequently cluster into sylvan bowers, 
under which — grateful sight! — appears succu¬ 
lent grass. From the thinner thorns the bell- 

* Oddai," an old man, corresponds with the Arab Shaykh 
in etymology. The Somal, however, give the name to men of 
all ages after marriage. 

f The " Dihh ** is the Arab " Wady,"— a fiumara or freshet. 
Webbe" (Obbay, Abbai, &c.) is a large river j ''Durdur,"a 
running stream. 



152 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

shaped nests of the Loxia depend, waving in the 
breeze, and the wood resounds with the cries of 
bright-winged choristers. The torrent-beds are 
of the clearest and finest white sand, glittering 
with gold-coloured mica, and varied with nodules 
of clear and milky quartz, red porphyry, and 
granites of many hues. Sometimes the centre is 
occupied by an islet of torn trees and stones rolled 
in heaps, supporting a clump of thick jujube or 
tall t^cacia, whilst the lower parts of the beds 
are overgrown with long lines of lively green co- 
locynth.* Here are usually the wells, surrounded 
by heaps of thorns, from which the leaves have 
been browsed off, and dwarf sticks that support the 
water-hide. When the flocks and herds are 
absent, troops of gazelles may be seen daintily 
pacing the yielding surface ; snake trails streak the 
sand, and at night the fiercer kind of animals, 
lions, leopards, and elephants, take their turn. 
In Somali-land the well i^ no place of social 
meeting; no man lingers to chat near it, no woman 
visits it, and the traveller\fears to pitch hut where 
torrents descend, and where enemies, human and 
bestial, meet. 

I 

* I saw these Dihhs only in the dry season; at times the 
torrent must be violent, cutting ten or twelve feet deep into the 
plain. 



SENDING TO COYENTEY. 


153 


We sat under a tree watching the tribe defile 
across the water-course: then remounting, after a 
Tide of two miles, we reached a ground called 
Kuranyali*, upon which the wigwams of the 
Nomads were already rising. The parched and 
treeless stubble lies about eight miles from and 
145° S.E. of Gudingaras; both places are sup¬ 
plied by Angagarri, a well near the sea, which is 
so distant that cattle, to return before nightfall, 
must start early in the morning. 

My attendants had pitched the Gurgi or hut: 
the Hammal and Long Guled were, however, 
sulky on account of my absence, and the Kalendar 
appeared disposed to be mutinous. The End of 
Time, who never lost an opportunity to make 
mischief, whispered in my ear, " Despise thy wife, 
thy son, and thy servant, or they despise thee! " 
The old saw was not wanted, however, to procure 
for them a sound scolding. Nothing is worse for 
the Eastern ti'aveller than the habit of " sending 
to Coventry: " — it does away with all manner of 
discipline. 

We halted that day at Kuranyali, preparing 
water and milk for two long marches over the 

* The name is derived from Kuranyo, an ant; it means the 
^'^place of ants,^^ and is so called from the abundance of a tree 
which attracts them. 



154 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

desert to the hills. . Being near the shore, the 
air was cloudy, although men prayed for a shower 
in vain: about midday the pleasant Seabreeze 
fanned our cheeks, and the plain was thronged 
with tall pillars of white sand.* 

The heat forbade egress, amjl our Wigwam was 
crowded with hungry visitors. Eaghe, urged 
thereto by his tribe, became importunate, now for 
tobacco, then for rice, now for dates, then for pro¬ 
visions in general. No wonder that the Prophet 
made his Paradise for the Poor a mere place of 
eating and drinking. The half-famished Bedouins, 
Somal or Arab, think of nothing beyond the 
stomach, — their dreams know no higher vision of 
bliss than mere repletion. A single article of diet, 
milk or flesh, palling upon man's palate, they will 
greedily suck the stones of eaten dates: yet, 
Abyssinian like, they are squeamish and fastidious 
as regards food. They despise the excellent fish 
with which Nature has sO plentifully stocked 
their seas.f " Speak not to me with that mouth 

\ 

* The Arabs call these pillars " Devils," the Somal " Sigo," 

f The Cape Kafirs have the same prejudice against fish, com¬ 
paring its flesh to that of serpents. In some points their 
squeamishness resembles that of the Somal: he, for instance, 
who tastes the Rhinoceros Simus is at once dubbed "Om 
Fogazan " or outcast. 



SOMALI SQUEAMISIINESS. 


155 


which eateth fish! " is a favourite insult amongst 
the Bedouins. If you touch a bird or a fowl of any 
description, you will be despised even by the starv¬ 
ing beggar. You must not eat marrow or the flesh 
about the sheep's thigh-bone, especially when travel¬ 
ling, and the kidneys are called a woman's dish. 
None but the Northern Somal will touch the hares 
which abound in the country, and many refuse the 
sand antelope and other kinds of game, not assert¬ 
ing that the meat is unlawful, but simply alleging 
a disgust. Those who chew cofiee berries are 
careful not to place an even number in th^ir 
mouths, and camel's milk is never heated, for fear 
of bewitching the animal.* The Somali, however, 
differs in one point from his kinsman the Arab: 
the latter prides himself upon his temperance; the 
former, like the North American Indian, measures 
manhood by appetite. ,A "Son of the Somal" 
is taught, as soon as his teeth are cut, to devour 
two pounds of the toughest mutton, and ask for 
more ; if his powers of deglutition fail, he is derided 
as degenerate. 

On the next day (Friday, 1st Dec.) we informed 

* This superstition may have arisen from the peculiarity that 
the camel's milk, however fresh, if placed upon the fire, breaks 
like some cows' milk. 



156 FIKST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFEICA. 

the Abban that we intended starting early in the 
afternoon, and therefore warned him to hold him-: 
self and his escort, together with the water and milk 
necessary for our march, in readiness. He promised 
compliance and disappeared. About 3 p.m. thS. 
Bedouins, armed as usual with spear and shield, 
began to gather round the hut, and-.—nothing in 
this country can be done without that terrible'^*pa¬ 
laver!"—the speechifying presently commenced. 
Baghe, in a lengthy harangue hoped that the tribe 
would lafford us all the necessary supplies and* 
assist |US in the arduous undertaking. His words 
elicited no hear I hear! — there was an evident 
unwillingness on the part of the wild men to let us, 
or rather our cloth and tobacco, depart. One re¬ 
marked, with surly emphasis, that he had " seen no 
good and eaten no Bori * from that caravan, why 
should he aid it ? " When we asked the applaud¬ 
ing hearers what they had done for us, they re¬ 
joined by inquiring whose the land was? Another, 
smitten by the fair Shehrazadd's bulky charms, had 
proposed matrimony, and offered as dowry a milch 
camel: she " temporised," bot daring to return a 
positive refusal, and the suitor betrayed a certain 

* ''Bori" in Southern Arabia popularly means a water-pipe ; 
here it is used for' tobacco. 



SORCERY. 


157 


Hibernian velleite to consider consent an unim¬ 
portant part of the ceremony. The mules had 
been sent to the well, with orders to return before 
lioon: at 4 p. m. they were not visible. I then left 
the hut, and, sitting on a cow's-hide in the sun, 
ordered my men to begin loading, despite the 
remonstrances of the Abban and the interference 
of about fifty Bedouins. As we persisted,, they 
waxed surlier, and declared that all which was ours 
became theirs, to whom the land belonged; we 
-fiid not deny the claim, but simply threatened 
sorcery-death, by wild beasts and foraging partie^, 
to their "camels, children, and women." This 
brought them to their senses, the usual efiect of 
such threats; and presently arose the senior who 
had spat upon us for luck's sake. With his tooth¬ 
less jaws he mumbled a vehement speech, and 
warned the tribe that it was not good to detain such 
strangers: they lent ready ears to the words of 
Nestor, saying, " Let us obey him, he is near his 
end! " The mules arrived, but when I looked for the 
escort, none was forthcoming. At Zayla it was 
agreed that twenty men should protect us across 
the desert, which is the very passage of plunder; 
now, however, five or six paupers offered to ac¬ 
company us for a few miles. We politely declined 



158 FIEST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA, 

1 

troubling them, but insisted upon the attendance 
of our Abban and three of his kindred : as some of 
the Bedouins still opposed us, our aged friend once 
more arose, and by copious abuse finally silenced 
them. We took leave, of him with many thanks 
and handfuls of tobacco, in return for which he 
blessed us with fervour. Then, mounting our 
mules, we set out, followed for at least a mile by a 
long tail of howling boys, who, ignorant of clothing, 
except' a string of white beads round the neck, 
but arfued with dwarf spears, bows, and arrows, 
showed all the impudence of baboons. They 
derided the End of Time's equitation till I feared 
a scene; — sailor-like, he prided himself upon 
graceful horsemanship, and the imps were touching 
his tenderest point. 

Hitherto, for the Abban's convenience, we had 
skirted the sea, far out of the direct road: now we 
were to strike south-westwards into the interior. 
At 6 p. M. we started across a " Goban '' * which 


* " Goban " is the low. maritime' plain lying below the " Bor" 
or Ghauts, %nd opposed to Ogu, the table-land above. " Ban** 
5s an elevated grassy prairie, where few trees grow ; Dir,*' a 
small jungle, called Haija by the Arabs ; and Khain is a forest 
or thick bush. " Bor,** is a mountain, rock, or liill; a stony 
precipice is called "Jar,** and the high clay banks of a ravine 
•^Gebi.'* 



REPTILES. 


159 


eternal summer gilds with a dull ochreish yellow, 
towards a thin blue strip of hill on the far horizon. 
The Somal have no superstitious dread of night and 
its horrors, like Arabs and Abyssinians: our Abban, 
however, showed a wholesome mundane fear of 
plundering parties, scorpions, and snakes.* I had 

/1 

* Snakes are rare in the cities, but abound in the wilds of 
Eastern Africa, and are dangerous to night travellers, though 
seldom seen by day. To kill a serpent is considered by the 
Bedouins almost as meritorious as to slay an Infidel. The 
Somal have many names for the reptile tribe. The Subhanyo, 
a kind of whipsnake, and a large yellow rock snake called G<|t, 
are little feared. The Abesi (in Arabic el Hayyeh,—the Cobra) 
is so venomous that it kills the camel; the Mas or Hanash, and 
a long black snake called Jilbis, are considered equally dan- 
gerous. Serpents are in Somali-land the subject of many super¬ 
stitions. One horn of the Cerastes, for instance, contains a deadly 
poison: the other, pounded and drawn across the eye, makes man 
a seer and reveals to him the treasures of the earth. There is a 
%ing snake which hoards precious stones, and is attended by a 
hundred guards: a Somali horseman once, it is said, carried away 
a jewel; he was pursued by a reptile army, and although he es¬ 
caped to his tribe, the importunity of the former proprietors was 
so great that the plunder was eventually restored to them. Cen¬ 
tipedes are little feared; their venom leads to inconveniences 
more ridiculous than dangerous. Scorpions, especially the large 
yellow variety, are formidable in hot weather: I can speak of the 
sting from experience. The hrst symptom is a sensation of 
nausea, and the pain shoots up after a few minutes to the groin, 
causing a swelling accompanied by burning and throbbing, which 
last about twelve hours. The Somal bandage above the wound 
and wait patiently till the effect subsides. 



160 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

been careful to fasten round my ankles the twists 
of black wool called by the Arabs Zaal* * * § , and 
universally used in Yemen ; a stock of garlic and 
opium, here held to be specifics, fortified the 
courage of the party, whose fears were not wholly 
ideal, for, in the course of the night, Shehrazade 
nearly trod upon a viper. 

At first the plain was a network of holes, the 
habitations of the Jir Ad f, a field rat with ruddy 
back knd white belly, the Mullah or Parson, a 
smooth-skinned lizard, and the Dabagalla, a ground 
squirrel with a brilliant and glossy coat. As it 
became dark arose a, cheerful moon, exciting the 
bowlings of the hyenas, the harkings of their at¬ 
tendant jackals J, and the chattered oaths of the 
Hidinhitu bird.§ Dotted here and there over the 


* These are tightened in case of accident, and act as superior 
ligatures. I should, however, advise every traveller in these 
regions to provide himself with a pneumatic pump, and not to 
place his trust in Zaal, garlic, or opium, 

f The grey rat is called by the Somal Bai'adublay': " in 
Eastern Africa it is a minor plfigue; after India and Arabia, 
where, neglecting to sleep in boots, I have sometimes been 
lamed for a week by their venomous bites. 

In this country the jackal attends not upon the lion, but 
the Waraba. His morning cry is taken as an bmen of good 
or evil according to the note. 

§ Of this bird, a red and long-legged plover, the Somal tell 


/ 



SOMALI WEAKNESS. 


161 


misty landscape, appeared dark clumps of a tree 
called " Kullan," a thorn with ian edible berry not 
unlike the jujube, and banks of silvery mist veiled 
the far horizon from the sight. 

. We marched rapidly and in silence, stopping 

.every quarter of an hour to raise the camels' 
loads as they slipped on one side. I had now 
an opportunity of seeing how feeble a race is the 
Somal. My companions on the line of march won¬ 
dered at my being able to carry a gun; they could 
scarcely support, even whilst riding, the weight) of 
their spears, and preferred sitting upon them' to 
spare their shoulders. At times they were obliged 


the following legend. Originally her diet was meat, and her 
society birds of prey; one night, however, her companions 
having devoured all the provisions whilst she slept, she swore 
never to fly with friends, never to eat flesh, and never to re.st 
during the hours of darkness. When she sees anything in the 
dark she repeat her oaths^nd, according to the Somal, keeps 
careful watch all night. There is a larger variety of this bird, 
which, purblind during daytime, rises from under the traveller's 
feet with loud cries. The Somal have superstitions similar to 
that above noticed about several kinds of birds. When the cry 
of the " Galu(so called from his note Gal! Gal! come in! 
come in!) is heard over a kraal, the people say, "Let us leave 
this place, the Galu hath spoken! ** At night they listen for 
the Fin, also an ilbomened bird: when a man declares " the 
Fin did not sleep last night," it is considered advisable to shift 
ground. 


M 



162 


FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 


to walk because the saddles cut them, then they re¬ 
mounted because their legs were tired; briefly, an 
English boy of fourteen would have shown more 
bottom than the sturdiest. This cannot arise 
from poor diet, for the citizens, who live generously, 
are yet weaker than the Bedouins; it is a pecu¬ 
liarity of race. When fatigued they become reck¬ 
less and impatient of thirst: on this occasion, 
though want of water stared us in the face, one 
skin of the three was allowed to fall upon the 
road and burst, and the second's contents were 
drunk before we halted. 

At 11 P.M., after marching twelve miles in 
direct line, Ave bivouacked upon the plain. The 
night breeze from the hills had set in, and my 
attendants chattered with cold: Long Guled in 
particular became stiff as a mummy. Kaghe 
was clamorous against a fire, which might betray 
our whereabouts in the " Bl5sh Inn." But after 
such a march the pipe Avas a necessity, and the 
point was carried against him. 

After a sound sleep under the moon, we rose at 
5 A.M. and loaded the camels. It was a raw 
morning. A large nimbus rising , from the east 
obscured the sun, the line of blue sea was raised 
like a ridge by refraction, and the hills, towards 



THE girls' water. 


163 


which we were journeying, now showed distinct 
falls and folds. Troops of Dera or gazelles, herd¬ 
ing like goats, stood, stared at us, turned their 
white tails, faced away, broke into a long trot, and 
bounded over the plain as we approached. A few 
ostriches appeared, but they were too shy even 
' for bullet.* At 8 p. m. we crossed one of the nu¬ 
merous drains which intersect this desert — " Biya 
Hablod," or the Oirls' Water, a fiumara running 
from south-west to east and north-east. Although 
dry, it abounded in the Marer, a tree bearing 
yellowish red berries full of viscous juice like? green 
gum, —^.edible but not nice, — and the brighter 
vegetation showed that water was near the surface. 
About two hours afterwards, as the sun Jiecatne 
oppressive, we unloaded in a water-course, called 
by my companions Adad or the Acacia Gum f: 


* Throughout this country ostriches are exceedingly wild: 
the Rev. Mr. Erhardt, of the Mombas Mission, informs me that 
they are equally so farther south. The Somal stalk them 
during the day with camels, and kill them with poisoned arrows. 
It is said that about 3 p. u. the birds leave their feeding places, 
and traverse long distances to roost; the people assert that 
they are blind at night, and rise up under the pursuer's feet. 

¦)• Several Acacias afford gums,. which the Bedouins eat 
greedily to strengthen themselves. The town's people declare 
that the food produces nothing but flatulence. 


M 2 



164 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

the distance was about twenty-five miles, and the 
direction S. W. 225° of Kuranyali. 

We spread our couches of cowhide in the midst 
of a green mass of tamarisk under a tall Kud tree, 
a bright-leaved thorn, with balls of golden gum 
clinging to its boughs, dry berries scattered in its 
shade, and armies of ants marching to and from 
its trunk. All slept upon the soft white sand, 
with arms under their hands, for our spoor across 
the desert was now unmistakeable. At - midday 
rice was boiled for us by the indefatigable women, 
and at 3 p.m. we resumed our march towards the, 
hills, which had exchanged their shadowy blue for 
a coat of pronounced brown. Journeying onwards, 
we reached the Barragid fiumara, and presently 
exchanged the plain for rolling ground covered 
with the remains of an extinct race, and probably 
alluded to by El Makrizi when he records that 
the Moslems of Adel had erected, throughout the 
country, a vast number of mosques and oratories 
for Friday and festival prayers. Places of worship 
appeared in the shape of parallelograms, unhewed 
stones piled upon the ground, with a semicircular 
niche in the direction of Meccahi The tombs, 
different from the heaped form now. in fashion, 
closely resembled the older erections in the island 



AN EXTINCT RACE. 


165 


of Saad El Din, near Zayla — oblong slabs planted 
deep in the soil. We also observed frequent 
hollow rings of rough blocks, circles measuring 
about a cubit in diameter : I had not time to ex¬ 
cavate them, and the End of Time could only in¬ 
form me that they belonged to the " Awwalin," or 
* olden inhabitants. 

At 7 P. M., as evening was closing in, we came 
upon the fresh trail of a large Habr Awal cavalcade. 
The celebrated footprint seen by Robinson Crusoe 
affected him not more powerfully than dijd this 
" daaseh " my companions. The voice of song 
suddenly became mute. The women drove the 
camels hurriedly, and all huddled together, except 
Eaghe, who kept well to the front ready for a run. 
Whistling with anger, I asked my attendants what 
had slain them: the End of Time, in a hollow 
voice, replied, " Verily, 0 pilgrim, whoso seeth the 
track, seeth the foe! " and he quoted in tones of 
terror those dreary lines — 

" Man is but a handful of dust, 

And life is a violent storm." 

We certainly were a small party to contend 
against 200 horsemen,—nine men and two women; 



166 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

moreover all except the Haramal and Long Guled 
would infallibly have fled at the first charge. 

Presently we sighted' the trails of sheep and 
goats, showing the proximity of a village : their 
freshness was ascertained by my companions after 
an eager scrutiny in the moon's bright beams. 
About half an hour afterwards, rough ravines with 
sharp and thorny descents warned us that we had 
exchanged the dangerous plain for a place of safety 
where horsemen rarely venture. Raghe, not ad- 
( miring the "open," hurried us onward, in hope of 
reaching some kraal. At 8 p.m., however, seeing 
the poor women lamed with thorns, and the 
camels casting themselves upon the ground, I re- 
sblved to halt. Despite all objections, we lighted 
a fire, finished our store of bad milk— the water 
had long ago been exhausted —and lay down in the 
cold, clear air, covering ourselves with hides and 
holding our weapons. 

At 6 A.M. we resumed our ride over rough stony 
ground, the thorns tearing our feet and naked 
legs, and the camels slipping over the rounded 
waste of drift pebbles. The Bedouins, with ears 
applied to the earth, listened for a village, but 
heard none. Suddenly we saw two strangers, 
and presently we came upon an Eesa kraal. It 



THE HALT. 


167 


was situated in a deep ravine, called Damal, backed 
by a broad and hollow Fiumara at the foot of the 
hills, running from west to east, and surrounded 
by lofty trees, upon which brown kites, black 
vultures, and percnopters like flakes of snow were 
mewing. We had marched over a winding path 
about eleven miles from, and in a south-west 
direction (206") of, Adad. Painful thoughts sug¬ 
gested themselves: in consequence of wandering 
southwards, only six had been taken oflf thirty 
stages by the labours of seven days. I 

As usual in Eastern Africa, we did npt enter 
the kraal uninvited^ but unloosed and pitched 
the wigwam under a tree outside. Presently the 
elders appeared bringing, with soft speeches, sweet 
Avater, new milk, fat sheep and goats, for Avhich 
they demanded a Tobe of Cutch canvass. We 
passed with them a quiet luxurious day of cofiee 
and pipes, fresh cream and roasted mutton: after 
the plain-heats we enjoyed the cool breeze of the 
hills, the cloudy-sky, and the verdure of the glades, 
made doubly green by comparison with the parched 
stubbles below. 

The Eesa, here mixed with the Gudabirsi, have 
little power: we found them poor and propor¬ 
tionally importunate. The men, wild-lookmg as 


M 4* 



168 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. . 

Open mouths, staring eyes, and tangled hair could 
make them, gazed with extreme eagerness upon 
my scarlet blanket: for very shame they did not 
beg it, but the inviting texture was pulled and 
fingered by the greasy multitude. We closed 
the hut whenever a valuable was produced, but 
eager eyes peeped through every cranny, till the 
End of Time ejaculated " Praised be Allah! and 
¦quoted the Arab saying, " Show not the Somal 
thy door, and if he find it, block it up! " The 
women and children were clad in chocolate-coloured 
hides, fringed at the tops: to gratify them I shot 
a few hawks, and was rewarded with loud ex¬ 
clamations,—" Allah preserve thy hand! "—" May 
thy skill never fail thee before the foe! " A crone 
seeing me smoke, inquired if the fire did not 
burn: I handed my pipe, which nearly choked 
her, and she ran away from a steaming kettle, 
thinking it a weapon. As my companions ob¬ 
served, there was not ja " Miskal of sense in a 
Maund of heads: " yet the people looked upon 
my sun-burnt skin w^th a favour they denied to 
the " lime-white face." 

I was anxious to proceed in the afternoon, but 

* " Subban' Allah! " an exclamation of pettishness or dis¬ 
pleasure. 



DELAYS. 


169 


Eaghe had arrived at the frontier of his tribe: 
he had blood to settle amongst the Gudabirsi, 
and without a protector he could not enter their 
lands. At night we slept aimed on account of 
the lions that infest the hills, and our huts were 
surrounded with a thorn fence — a precaution 
I here first adopted, and never afterwards neglected. 
Early on the morning of the 4th of December 
heavy clouds rolled down from the mountains, 
and a Scotch mist deepened into a shower: our 
new Abban had not arrived, and the hu|;-mats, 
saturated with rain, had become too heaivy for 
the camels to carry. 

In the forenoon the Eesa kraal, loading their 
asses *, set out toAvards the plain. This migra¬ 
tion presented no new features, except that se¬ 
veral sick and decrepid were barbarously left 
behind, for lions and hymnas to devour.f To 
deceive " warhawks " who might be on the look¬ 
out, the migrators set fire to logs of wood and 
masses of sheep's earth, which, even in rain, will 
ffinoke and smoulder for weeks. 


* The hills not abounding in camels, like the maritime regions, 
asses become the principal means of transport. 

f This barbarous practice is generally carried out in cases of 
small-pox where contagion is feared. 



170 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN .EAST AFRICA. 

About midday arrived the two Gudabirsi who 
intended escorting us to the village of our Abbans. 
The elder, Rirash, was a black-skinned, wild-look¬ 
ing fellow, with a shock head of hair and a deep 
scowl which belied his good temper and warm 
heart: the other was a dun-faced youth betrothed 
to Eaghe's daughter. They both belonged to the 
Mahadasan clan, and commenced operations by 
an obstinate attempt to lead us far out of our 
iWay eastwards. The pretext was the defence¬ 
less state of their flocks and herds, the real 
reason an itching for cloth and tobacco. We re¬ 
sisted manfully this time, nerved by the memory 
of wasted days, and, despite their declarations 
of Absi*, we determined upon making westward 
for the hills. 

At 2 P.M. the caravan started along the Fiu- 
mara course in rear of the deserted kraal, and 
after an hour's ascent Rirash informed us that a 
well was near. The Hammal and I, taking two 
water skins, urged our mules over stones and 
thorny ground : presently we arrived at a rocky 
ravine, where, surrounded by brambles, rude walls, 
and tough frame works, lay the wells—three or four 

* Fear—danger 5 it is a word which haunts the traveller in 
Somali-land. 



SULPHUR WELLS. 


171 


holes sunk ten feet deep in the limestone. Whilst 
we bathed in the sulphureous spring, which at once 
discolored my silver ring, Rirash, baling up the 
water in his shield, filled the bags and bound 
them to the saddles. In haste we rejoined the 
caravan, which we found about sunset, halted by 
the vain fears of the guides. The ridge upon 
which they stood was a mass of old mosques 
and groves, showing that in former days a thick 
population tenanted these hills: from the summit 
appeared distant herds of kine and white flocks 
scattered like patches of mountain quartz. ^ Ei(iing 
in advance, we traversed the stony ridge, fell into 
another ravine, and soon saw signs of human life. 
A shepherd descried us from afar and ran away 
reckless of property; causing the End of Time 
to roll his head with dignity, and to ejaculate, 
" Of a truth said the Prophet of Allah, ' fear is 
divided.' " Presently we fell in with a village, 
from which the people rushed out, some ex¬ 
claiming, " Lo ! let us look at the kings! " others, 
" Come, see the white man, he is governor of 
Zayla! " I objected to such dignity, principally 
on account of its price: my companions, however, 
were inexorable ; they would be Salatin—kings— 
and my colour was against claims to low degree. 



172 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

This fairness, and the Arab dress, made me at differ¬ 
ent times the ruler of Aden, the chief of Zayla, the 
Hajj's son, a boy, an old woman, -a man painted 
white, a warrior in silver armour, a merchant, a 
•pilgrim, a hedgepriest, Ahmed the Indian, a Turk, 
an Egyptian, a Frenchman, a Banyan, a sherif,. 
and lastly a Calamity sent down from heaven to 
weary out the lives of the Somal: every kraal 
had some conjecture of its own, and each fresh 
tjieory was received by my companions with roars 
of laughter. 

' As the Gudabirsi pursued us with shouts for 
tobacco and cries of wonder, I dispersed them 
with a gun-shot: the women and children fled 
precipitately from the horrid sound, and the men, 
covering their heads with their shields, threw 
themselves face foremost upon the ground. Pur¬ 
suing the Fiumara course, we passed a number of 
kraals, whose inhabitants were equally vociferous : 
out of one came a Zayla man, who informed us 
that the Gudabirsi Abbans, to whom we bore 
Sharmarkay's letter of\introduction, were encamped 
within three days' march. It was reported, how¬ 
ever, that a quarrel had broken out between them 
and the Gerad Adan, their brother-in-law; no 
pleasant news! — in Africa, under such circum- 



THE EESAS. 


173 


stances, it is customary for friends to detain, and for 
foes to oppose, the traveller. We rode stoutly on, 
till the air darkened and the moon tipped the 
distant hill peaks with a dim mysterious light. 
I then called a halt: we unloaded on the banks, 
of the Darkaynlay fiumara, so called from a tree 
which contains a fiery milk, fenced ourselves in,—r 
taking care to avoid being trampled upon by 
startled camels during our sleep, by securing them 
in a separate but neighbouring inclosure,— spread 
our couches, ate our frugal suppers, and ^ost no 
time in falling asleep. We had travelldd five 
hours that day, but the path was winding, and 
our progress in a straight line was at most eight 
miles. 

And now, dear L., being about to quit the land 
of the Eesa, I will sketch the tribe. 

The Eesa, probably the most powerful branch 
of the Somali nation, extends northwards to the 
Wayma family of the Dankali; southwards to the 
Gudabirsi, and midway between Zayla and Ber- 
berah; eastwards it is bounded by the sea, and 
westwards by the Gallas around Harar. It derives 
itself from Dirr and Aydur, without, however, 
knowing aught beyond the ancestral names, and 
is twitted with paganism by its enemies. This 



174 


FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 


tribe, said to number 100,000 shields, is divided 
into numerous clans *: these again split up into 
minor septsf which plunder, and sometimes murder, 
one another in time of peace. 

A fierce and turbulent race of republicans, the 
Eesa own nominal allegiance to a Ugaz or chief 
residing in the Hadagali hills. He is generally- 
called " Roblay " — Prince Rainy, — the , name 
or rather title being one of good omen, for a 
drought here, like a dinner in Europe, justifies 
jthe change of a dynasty.^ Every kraal has its 

* The Somali ,Tol or Tul corresponds with the Arabic 
Kabilah, a tribe : under it is the Kola or Jilib (Ar. Fakhizah), 
a clan. Gob," is synonymous with the Arabic Kabail, men 
of family," opposed to " Gum," the caste-less. In the follow¬ 
ing pages 1 shall speak of the Somali nation^ the Eesa tribe, the 
Her Musa clan^ and the Rer Galan sefpt^ though by no means 
sure that such verbal gradation is generally recognised. 

f The Eesa, for instance, are divided into— 

_ 

1 . Rer Wardik (the royal clan). 6. Rer Hurroni. 

2 . Rer Abdullah. \ 7. Rer Urwena. 

3. Rer Musa. 8 . Rer Furlabah. 

4. Rer Mummasan. 9. Rer Gada. 

5. Rer Guleni. ^ 10. Rer Ali Addah. 

These are again subdivided: the Rer Musa (numbering half 
the Eesa), split up, for instance, into — 

1 . Rer Galan. 4. Rer Dubbah. 

2. Rer Harlah, 5. Rer Kul. 

3. Rer Gadishah. 6 . Rer Gedi. 



BEDOUIN GOVERNMENT. 


175 - 


Oddai (shaikh or head man,) after whose name 
the settlement, as in Sindh and other - pastoral 
lands, is called. 'He is obeyed only when his orders 
suit the taste of King Demos, is always superior to 
his fellows in wealth of cattle, sometimes in talent 
and eloquence, and in deliberations he is assisted 
( by the Wail or Akill — the Peetzo-council of 
Southern Africa — Elders obeyed on account 
of their age. Despite, however, this apparatus of 
rule, the Bedouins have lost none of the charac¬ 
teristics recorded in the Periplus: they arp still 
" uncivilised and under no restraint." Everjr free¬ 
born man holds himself equal to his ruler, and 
allows no royalties or prerogatives to abridge his 
birthright of liberty.* Yet I have observed, that 
with all their passion for independence, the Somal, 
when subject to strict rule as at Zayla and Harar, 
are both apt to discipline and subservient to com¬ 
mand. ' 

In character, the Eesa are childish and docile, 
cunning, and deficient in judgment, kind and 
fickle, good-humoured and irascible, warm-hearted, 

* Traces of this turbulent equality may be found amongst 
the slavish Kafirs in general meetings of the tribe, on the oc¬ 
casion of harvest home, when the chief who at other times 
destroys hundreds by a gesture, is abused and treated] with 
contempt by the youngest warrior* 



176 


. tIBST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 


and infamous for cruelty and treachery. Ev'en 
the protector will slay his prot4g4, and citizens 
married to Eesa girls send their wives to. buy 
goats and sheep from, but will not trust themselves 
amongst, their connexions. " Traitorous as an 
Eesa," is a proverb at Zayla, where the people tell 
you that these Bedouins with the left hand offer 
a bowl of milk, and stab with the right. " Con¬ 
science," I may observe, does not exist in Eastern 
'Africa, and " Repentance " expresses regret for 
( missed opportunities of mortal crime. Robbery 
constitutes an honorable man: murder—the more 
atrocious, the midnight crime the better — makes 
the hero. Honor consists in taking human life: 
hyaena-like, the Bedouins cannot be trusted where 
blood may be shed: Glory is the having done all 
manner of harm. Yet the Eesa have their good 
points: they are not noted liars, and Avill rarely 
perjure themselves: they look down upon petty 
pilfering without violence, and they are generous 
and hospitable compared with the other Sonial. 
Personally, I had nl> reason to complain of them. 
They were importunate beggars, but a pinch of 
snuff or a handful of tobacco always made us 
friends: they begged me to settle amongst them, 
they offered me sundry wives and, — the Somali 



EESA APPEARANCES. 


177 


Bedouin, unlike the Arab, readily affiliates 
strangers to his tribe,— they declared that after 
a few days' residence, I should become one of 
themselves. , 

in appearance, the Eesa are distinguished from 
other Somal by blackness, ugliness of feature, and 
' premature baldness of the temples ; they also shave, 
or rather scrape off with their daggers, the hair 
high up the nape of the neck. The locks are 
dyed dun, frizzled, and greased; the Widads or 
• learned men remove them, and none but pp,upers 
leave them in their natural state; the mustachios 
are clipped close, the straggling whisker is care¬ 
fully plucked, and the pile—erroneously considered 
impure — is removed either by veUication, or by 
passing the limbs through the fire. The eyes of 
the Bedouins, also, are less prominent thain those 
of the citizens: the brow projects in pent-house 
fashion, and the organ, exposed to bright light, 
and accustomed to gaze at distant objects, acquires 
more- concentration and power. I have seen 
amongst them handsome profiles, and some of the 
girls have fine figures with piquant if not pretty 
features. 

Flocks and herds form the true wealth of the 
Eesa. According to them, sheep and goats are 


N 



178 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

of silver, and the cow of gold: they • compare 
camels to the rock, and believe, like most Moslems, 
the horse to have been created from the wind* 
Their diet depends upon the season. In hot 
weather, when forage and milk dry up, the flocks 
are slaughtered, and supply excellent mutton; 
during the monsoon men become fat, by drinking 
all day long the produce of their cattle. In the 
latter article of diet, the Eesa are delicate and 
¦curious: they prefer cow's milk, then the goat's, 
and lastly the ewe's, which the Arab loves best; 
the first is drunk fresh, and the two latter 
clotted, whilst the camel's is slightly soured. 
The townspeople use camel's milk medicinally ; 
according tP the Bedouins, he who lives on this 
beverage, and eats the meat for forty-four 
consecutive days, acquires the animal's strength.' 
It has perhaps less " body " than any other milk, 
and is deliciously sweet shortly after foaling: 
presently it looses flkvour, and nothing can be 
more nauseous than the produce of an old camel. 
The Somal have aWme for cream—"Lahen"— 
but they make no use of the article, churning it 
with the rest of the milk. They have no buffaloes, 
shudder at the Tartar idea of mate's-milk, like the 



BEDOUIN LIFE. 


179 


Arabs hold the name Labban * a disgrace, and 
make it a point of honor not to draw supplies 
from their cattle during the day. 

The life led by these wild people is necessarily 
monotonous. They rest but little—from 11 p.m. 
till dawn—and never sleep in the bush, for fear 
' of plundering parties. Few begin the day with 
prayer as Moslems should: for the most part 
they apply themselves to counting and milking 
their cattle. The animals, all of which have 
names f, come when called to the pail, and Supply 
the family with a morning meal. Theii the 
warriors, grasping their spears, and sometimes 
the young women armed only with staves, drive 
their herds to pasture: the matrons and children, 
spinning or rope-making, tend the flocks, and the 
kraal is abandoned to the very young, the old, and 
the sick. The herdsmen wander about, watching 
the cattle and tasting nothing but the pure ele¬ 
ment or a pinch of coarse tobacco. Sometimes 
they play at Shahh, Shantarah, and other games, 
of which they are passionately fond: with a board 

• " Milk-seller." 

t For instance, Anfarr, the "Spotted;" Tarren, "Wheat- 
flour ; " &c. &c. 

K 2 



iSO FIKST FOOTStfiPS 13? EAST AFRICA. 

formed of lines traeed iii«the s^nd, and bits of dry 
Tivood or earners eartb acting pieces, they spend 
hour after hour, every looker-on vociferatihg bis 
opinion, and (patching at the men, till apparently 
the two piayei*s are those least interested in the 
game. Or, to drive off sleep, they sit whistling to 
their flocks, or they perform' lipon the Forimo, a 
reed pipe generally made at Harar, which has a 
plaintive sound uncommonly pleasing.*, ^ In the 
' evening, the kraal again resounds with lowing 

i 

and bleating : the camel's milk is all drunk, the 
GoVs and goat's reserved for butter and ghee, 
which the women prepare; the numbers are once 
more counted, and. the animals are carefully 
penned up for the night. This simple life is varied 
by an occasional birth and marriage, dance and 
foray, disease and murder. Their maladies are 
few and simple f; death generally comes ;by the 

* It is used bj tbo northlern people, the AbjssinianSi Gallas, 
Adail» Eesa and.Gudabirsi; the southern Somal ignore Jt« 

f, The most dang^ro|is disease is small-pox^ which history 
traces to !E)astGrn Abyssinia, where it still become^ at times a 
violent epidemic, sweeping off its thousands. The patient, if a 
man of note, is placed upon the sand, ^nd fed. with rice or 
millet bread till he recovers or dies^ The chicken-^ox kills 
many infants; they are treated by bathing in the fresh blood of 
a sheep, covered with the skin, and exposed to the. sun* Smoke 



MACROBIANS. 


18i 

spear, and the Bedouin is. naturally long-lived. * I 
have seen Macrobians hale and strong, preserving 

and glare, dirt and dies, cold winds and naked extremities, 
cause ophthalmia, especially in the hills; this disease rarely 
blinds any save the citizens, and no remedy is known. Dysen¬ 
tery is cured by rice and sour milk, patients also drink clarified 
j cows' butter ; and in bad cases the stomach is cauterized, fire 
and disease, according to the Somal, never coexisting, Hjb- 
morroids, when dry, are reduced by a stick used as a bougie 
and allowed to remain in loco all night. Sometimes the part 
affected is cupped with a horn and knife, or a leech performs 
excision. The diet is camels' or goats' flesh and milk; clarified 
butter and Bussorah dates — rice and mutton are carefully 
avoided. For a certain local disease, they use senna lor co*lo- 
cynth, anoint the body with sulphur boiled in ghee, and expose 
it to the sun, or they leave the patient all night in the dew ; — 
abstinence and perspiration generally effect a cure. For the 
minor form, the afflicted drink the melted fat of a sheep's 
tail. Consumption is a family complaint, and therefore con¬ 
sidered incurable; to use the Somali expression, they address 
the patient with " Allah, have mercy upon thee! " not with 
Allah cure thee! " 

There are leeches who have secret simples for curing wounds. 
Generally the blood is squeezed out, the place is washed with 
water, the lips are sewn up and a dressing of astringent leaves 
is applied. They have splints for fractures, and they can re¬ 
duce dislocations. A medical friend at Aden partially dislo¬ 
cated his knee, which half-a-dozen of the faculty insisted upon 
treating as a sprain. Of all his tortures none was more severe 
than that inflicted by my Somali visitors. They would look at 
him, distinguish the complaint, ask.him how long he had been 
invalided, and hearing the reply—four months—would break 
into exclamations of wonder. '' In our country," they cried, 

N 3 « 



182 


FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 


their powers and faculties in spite of eighty and 
ninety years. 

when a man falls, two pull his body and two his legs, then 
they tie sticks round it, give him plenty of camel's milk, and 
he is well in a month; " a speech which made friend S. 
groan in spirit. 

Firing and clarified butter are the farrier's panaceas. Camels 
are cured by sheep's head broth, asses by chopping one ear, 
mules by cutting off the tail, and horses by ghee or a drench of 
melted fat. 



183 


CHAP. VI. 

FROM THE ZATLA HILLS TO THE MABAR PRAIRIE. 

I HAVE now, dear L., quitted the maritime plain 
or first zone, to enter the Ghauts, that threshold 
of the ALthiopian highlands which, beginning at 
Tajurrnh, sweeps in- semicircle round the |bay of 
Zayla, and falls about Berberah into thd range 
of mountains which fringes the bold Somali 
coast. This chain has been inhabited, within 
History's memory, by three distinct races,—the 
Gallas, the ancient Moslems of Adel, and by the 
modern Somal. As usual, however, in the East, 
it has no general vernacular name. * 

The aspect of these Ghauts is picturesque. The 
primitive base consists of micaceous granite, with 
veins of porphyry and dykes of the purest white 
quartz: above lie strata of sandstone and lime, 
here dun, there yellow, or of a dull grey, often 

* Every hill and peak, ravine and valley, will be known by 
some striking epithet: as Borad, the White Hill; Libahlay, 
the Lions' Mountain ; and so forth. 

V 4 



184 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

curiously contorted and washed clear of vegetable 
soil by the heavy monsoon. On these heights, 
which are mostly conoid with rounded tops, 
joined by ridges and saddlebacks, various kinds of 
Acacia cast a pallid and sickly green, like the olive 
tree upon the hills of Provence. They are barren 
in the cold season, and the Nomads migrate to 
the plains: when the monsoon covers them with 
rich pastures, the people revisit their deserted 
kraals. The Kloofs or ravines are the most re¬ 
markable features of this country: in some places 
the sides rise perpendicularly, like gigantic walls, 
the breadth varying from one hundred yards to 
half a mile; in others cliffs and scaurs, sapped at 
their foundations, encumber the bed, and not un- 
frequently a broad band of white sand stretches 
between two fringes of emerald green, delightful 
to look upon after the bare and ghastly basalt of 
Southern Arabia. The Jujube grows to a height 
already betraying signs of African luxuriance .• 
through its foliage flit birds, gaudy-^coloured as 
kingfishers, of viVid red, yellow, and changing- 
green. I remarked a long-tailed jay called 
Gobiyan or Fat*, russet-hued ringdoves, the 

I 

* The Arabs call it Kaiatua, and consider it a species of 





185 


modest honey-bird, corn quails, canary-coloured 
finches, sparrows gay as those of Surinam, hum- 
ming-birds with a plume of metallic lustre, and 
especially a white-eyed kind of maina, called by 
the Soraal, Shimbir Load or the. cow-bird. The 
Armo-creeper* with large fleshy leaves, pale green, 
red, or crimson, and clusters of bright berries like 
purple grapes, forms a conspicuous ornament in 
the valleys. There is a great variety of the Cactus 
tribe, some growing to the height of thirty and 
thirty-five feet: of these one was particularly 
pointed out to me. The vulgar Somal pall it 
Guraato, the more learned Shajarat el Zakkum: 
it is the mandrake of these regions, and the round 
excrescences upon the summits of its fleshy arms 
are supposed to resemble men's heads and faces. 

On Tuesday the 5th December we, arose at 


parrot. The name Cacatoes, is given by the Cape fioerst ac¬ 
cording to Delegorgue, to the Coliphymus Concolor. The 
Gobiyan resembles in shape and flight our magpie, it has a 
crest and a brown coat with patches of white, and a noisy note 
like a frog. It is very cunning and seldom affords a second 
shot. 

* The berries of the Armo are eaten by children, and its 
leaves, which never dry up, by the people in times of famine; 
they must be boiled or the acrid juice would excoriate the 
mouth. 



186 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN BAST AFRICA. 

6 A.M., after a night so dewy that our clothes 
were drenched, and we began to ascend the Wady 
Darkaynlay, which winds from east to south. After 
an hour's march appeared a small cairn of rough 
stones, called Siyaro, or Mazar*, to which each 
person, in token of honor, added his quotum. 
The Abban opined that Auliya or holy men had 
sat there, but the End of Time more sagaciously 
conjectured that it was the site of some Galla idcd 
or superstitious rite. Presently we came upon 
the hills of the White Antf, a characteristic feature 
in this part of Africa. Here the land has the 
appearance of a Turkish cemetery on a grand scale: 
there it seems like a city in ruins: in some places 
the pillars are truncated into a resemblance to 
bee-hives, in others they cluster together, sug¬ 
gesting the idea of a portico; whilst many of 
them, veiled by trees, and overrun with gay 
creepers, look like the remains of sylvan altars. 
Generally the hills are conical, and vary in height 
from four to twelve feet: they are counted by 
hundreds, and the^ Somal account for the number 

* Siyaro is the Somali corruption of the Arabic Ziyarat, 
which, synonymous with Mazar, means a place of pious visi¬ 
tation. ' 

The Somal call the insect Abor, and its hill Dundumo. 



THE WHITE ANT. 


187 


by declaring that the insects abandon their home 
when dry, and commence building another. The 
older erections are worn away, by wind and rain, 
to a thin tapering spire, and are frequently 
hollowed and arched beneath by rats and ground 
squirrels. The substance, fine yellow mud, glued 
by the secretions of the ant, is hard to break: it 
is pierced, sieve dike, by a network of tiny shafts. 
I saw these hills for the first time in the Wady 
Darkaynlay: in the interior they are larger and 
longer than near the maritime regions. 

We travelled up the Fiumara in a so|itherly 
direction till 8 a.m., when the guides led us away 
from the bed. They anticipated meeting Guda- 
birsis; pallid with fear, they also trembled with 
cold and hunger. Anxious consultations were 
held. One man, Ali — surnamed " Doso," because 
he did nothing but eat, drink, and stand over the 
fire—determined to leave us: as, however, he had 
received a Tobe for pay, we put a veto upon that 
proceeding. After a march of two hours, over 
ground so winding that we had not covered more 
than three miles, our guides halted under a tree, 
near a deserted kraal, at a place called El Armo, 
•the "Armo-creeper water," or more facetiously 
Dabadaldshay; from Damal it bore S. W. 190°. 



188 


FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 


One of oty: Bedouins, mounting a mule^ rode for¬ 
ward to gather intelligence, and bring back a skin 
full of water. I asked the End of Time what 
they expected to hear : he replied with the proverb 
" News liveth 1 " The Somali Bedouins have a 
passion for knowing how the world wags. In 
some of the more desert regions the whole popu¬ 
lation of a village will follow the wanderer. No 
traveller ever passes a kraal without planting 
spear in the ground, and demanding answers to 
a lengthened string of queries; rather than miss 
intelligence he, will inquire of a woman. Thus 
it is that news flies through the country. Among 
the wild Gudabirsi the Russian war was a topic 
of interest, and at Harar 1 heard of a violent 
storm, which had damaged the shipping in Bombay 
Harbour, but a few weeks after the event. 

The Bedouin returned with an empty skin but 
a full budget. I will ofier you, dear L,, a specimen 
of the "palaver"* ^hich is supposed to prove 
the aphorism that all barbarians are orators. 
Demosthenes leisurfely dismounts, advances, stands 
for a moment cross-legged — the favourite posture 

• The corrupted Portuguese word used by African travellers; 
in the Western regions it is called Kelder, and the Arabs term 
it " Kalam." 



THE PALAVER. 


189 


in this region — supporting each hand with a 
spear planted in the ground: thence he slips to 
squat, looks around, ejects saliva, shifts his quid 
to behind his ear, places his weapons Sefore him, 
takes up a bit of stick, and traces lines which he 
carefully smooths away — it being ill-omened to 
tnark the earth. The listeners sit gravely in a 
semicircle upon their heels, with their spears, 
from whose bright heads flashes a ring of troubled 
light, planted upright, and look stedfastly on his 
countenance over the upper edges of their shields 
with eyes apparently planted, like those ot the 
Blemmyes, in their breasts. When the moment for 
delivery is come, the head man inquires, " What 
is the news ?" The informant would commu¬ 
nicate the important fact that he has been to the 
well: he proceeds as follows, noting emphasis by 
raising his voice, at times about six notes, and 
often violently striking at the ground in front. 

" It is good news, if Allah please! " 

" Wa Sidda! "— Even so! respond the listeners, 
intoning or rather groaning the response. 

" I mounted mule this morning: " 

" Even so! " 

" I departed from ye riding." 

" Even so! " 



190 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

There" (with a scream and pointing out the 
, direction with a stick). 

" Even so! " 

" There t. went." 

" Even so! " 

" I threaded the wood." 

" Even so! " 

" I traversed the sands." 

" Even so! " 

^ I feared nothing." 

" Even so! " 

" At last I came upon cattle tracks." 

" Hoo! hoo!! hoo!!! " (an ominous pause 
follows this exclamation of astonishment.) 

" They were fresh." 

" Even so ! " 

^ So were the earths." 

" Even so! " 

" I distinguished the feet of women." 

" Even so ! " I 
" But there were no camels." 

" Even so! " \ 

" At last I saw sticks "— 

" Even so! " 

"Stones"— 

" Even so ! " 



CIRCUMLOCUTION USEFUL. 


191 


" Water " — 

" Even so! " 

"A well!!!" 

Then follows the palaver, wherein, as occasionally 
happens further West, he distinguishes himself who 
can rivet the attention of the audience for at least 
an hour without saying anything in particular. 

_ m 

The advantage of their circumlocution, however, is 
that by considering a subject in every possible light 
and phase as regards its cause and effect, antece¬ 
dents, actualities, and consequences, they ar^ pre¬ 
pared for any emergency which, without the palaver, 
might come upon them unawares. 

Although the thermometer showed summer heat, 
the air was cloudy and raw blasts poured down 
from the mountains. At half past 3 p.m. our 
camels were lazily loaded, and we followed the 
course of the Fiumara, which runs to the W. and 
S. W. After half an hour's progress, we arrived 
at the gully in which are the wells, and the guides 
halted because they descried half-a-dozen youths 
and boys bathing and washing their Tobes. All, 
cattle as well as men, were sadly thirsty: many of 
us had been chewing pebbles during the morning, 
yet, afraid of demands for tobacco, the Bedouins 
would have pursued the march without water had 



192 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

I not forced them to halt. We found three lioles 
in the sand; one was dry, a second foul, an4 the 
third contained a scanty supply of the pure ele¬ 
ment from twenty to twenty-five feet below the 
surface. A youth stood in the water and filled a 
wicker-pail, which he tossed to a companion perched 
against the side half way up: the latter in his turn 
hove it to a third, who catching it at the brink, 
threw the contents, by this time half wasted, into 
the skin cattle trough. We halted about half lin 
hour to refresh man and beast, and then resumed 
our way up the Wady, quitting it where a short cut 
avoids the frequent windings of the becj. This 
operation saved but little time; the ground* was 
stony, the rough ascents fatigued the camels, and 
our legs and feet were lacerated by the spear-like 
thorns. Here, the ground was overgrown with 
aloes *, sometimes six. feet high with pink and 
" pale Pomona green " leaves, bending in the line 
of beauty towards the ground, graceful in form as 
the capitals of Corinthian columns, and crowned 

* Three species of the Dar or Aloe grow everywhere in the 
higher regions of the Som^i country. The first is called Dar 
Main, the inside of its peeled leaf is chewed when water cannot 
be procured. The Dar Murodi or Elephant's aloe is larger and 
useless; the Dar Digwen or Long-eared resembles that of 
Socotra. 



DESERT VEGETATION, 


193 


with gay-coloured bells, but barbarously sup¬ 
plied with woody thorns and strong serrated edges. 
There the Hig, an aloetic plant with a point so hard 
and sharp that horses cannot cross ground where it 
grows, stood in bunches like the largest and stiffest 
of rushes.* Senna sprang spontaneously on the 
banks, and the gigantic Ushr or Asclepias shed its 
bloom upon the stones and pebbles of the bed. My 
attendants occupied themselves with gathering the 
edible pod of an Acacia called Kura f, whilst I 
observed the view. Frequent ant-hills gave an ap¬ 
pearance of habitation to a desert still covered with 
the mosques and tombs of old Adel; and the shape 
of the country had gradually changed, basins ' and 
broad slopes now replacing the thickly crowded 
conoid peaks of the lower regions. 

As the sun sank towards the west. Long Guled 
complained bitterly of the raw breeze from the 
hills. We passed many villages, distinguished by 
the barking of dogs and the bleating of flocks, on 

* The Hig is called " Salab " by the Arabs, who use its long 
tough fibre for ropes. Patches of this plant situated on moist 
ground at the foot of hills, are favourite places with, sand 
antelope, spur-fowl and other game. 

f The Darnel or pod has a sweetish taste, not unlike that of 
a withered pea 5 pounded and mixed with milk or ghee, it is 
relished by the Bedouins when vegetable food is scarce. 


O 



194 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

their way to the field; the unhappy Raghe, 
however, who had now become our protege, would 
neither venture into a settlement, nor bivouac 
amongst the lions. He hurried us forwards till 
we arrived at a hollow called Gud, " the Hole," 
which supplied us with the protection of a deserted 
kraal, where our camels, half-starved and knocked-* 
up by an eight miles' march, were speedily un¬ 
loaded. Whilst pitching the. tent, we were visited 
by some Gudabirsi, who attempted to seize our 
(Abban, alleging that he owed them a cow. We 
replied doughtily, that he was under our sandals j 
as they continued to Speak in a high tone, a pistol 
was discharged over their heads, afteP which they 
cringed like dogs. A blazing fire, a warm supper, 
dry beds, broad jests, and funny stories, soon 
restored the flagging spirits of our party. Towards 
night the moon dispersed the thick mists which, 
gathering into clouds, threatened rain, and the cold 
sensibly diminished: there was little dew, and 
we should have slept comfortably had not our 
hungry mules, hofcbled as they were, bopped 
about the kraal and fought till dawn. 

On the 6 th December, we arose late to avoid 
the cold morning air, and at 7 A.m. set out over 
rough ground, hoping to ascend the Ghauts that 



COWHERDS. 


195 


day. After creeping abont two miles, the camels,, 
unable to proceed, threw themselves upon the 
earth, and we unwillingly called a halt at Jiyaf, 
a basin below the Dobo * fiumara. Here, white 
flocks dotting the hills, and the scavengers of the air 
warned us that we were in the vicinity of villages. 
Our wigwam was soon full of fair-faced Gudabirsi, 
mostly Loajira* or cow-herd hoys, who, ac¬ 
cording to the custom of their class, wore their 
Tobes bound scarf-like round their necks. They 
begged us to visit their village, and offerjid ^ 
heifer for each lion shot on Mount Libahlayt 
unhappily we could not afford time. These youths 
were followed by men and women bringing milk, 
sheep, and goats, for which, grass being rare, they 
asked exorbitant prices, — eighteen cubits of Cutch 
canvass for a lamb, and two of blue cotton for a 
bottle of ghee. Amongst them was the first 
really pretty face seen by me in the Somali 
country. The head was well formed, and grace¬ 
fully placed upon a long thin neck and narrow 
shoulders; the hair, brow, and nose were un¬ 
exceptionable, there was an arch look in the eyes 

* Dobo in the Somali tongue signifies mud or clay, 

f The Loajira (from ''Loh,^ a cow) is a neatherd; the 
'' Geljira is the man who drives camels. 



196 . FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

of jet and pearl, and a suspicion of African protu¬ 
berance about the lips, which gave the countenance 
an exceeding ndivet'e. Her skin was a warm, rich 
nut-brown, an especial charm in these regions, and 
her movements had that grace which suggests 
perfect symmetry of limb. IThe poor girl's 
costume, a coif for the back hair, a cloth im¬ 
perfectly covering the bosom, and a petticoat of 
hides, made no great mystery of forms: equally 
'rude were her ornaments; an armlet and pewter 
earrings, the work of some blacksmith, a necklace 
of white porcelain beads, and sundry talismans in 
cases of tarnished and' blackened leather. As a 
tribute to her prettiness I gave her some cloth, 
tobacco, and a bit of salt, which was rapidly 
becoming valuable: her husband stood by, and, 
although the preference was marked, he displayed 
neither anger nor jealousy. She showed her grati¬ 
tude by bringing us milk, and by assisting us to 
start next morning, in the evening we hired three 
fresh camels* to carry our goods up the ascent, 
and killed some antelopes which, in a stew, were 
not contemptible. The End of Time insisted upon 

I 

* For these we paid twenty-four cubits of canvass^ and two 
of blue cotton ; equivalent to about three shillings* 



THE ZIG-ZAG. 


197 


firing a gun to frighten away the lions, who make 
night hideous with their growls, but never put in 
an appearance. 

The morning cold greatly increased, and we did 
not start till 8 a.m. After half an hour's* march 
up the bed of a# fiumara, leading apparently to a 
^cul de sac of lofty rocks in the hills, we quitted it 
for a rude zig-zag winding along its left side, 
amongst bushes, thorn trees, and huge rocks. 
The walls of the opposite bank were strikingly 
perpendicular; in some places stratified, in pthers 
solid and polished by the course of streaih and 
cascade. The principal material was a granite, so 
coarse, that the composing mica, quartz, and felspar 
separated into detached pieces as large as a man's 
thumb; micaceous grit, which glittered in the 
sunbeams, and various sandstones, abounded. The 
road caused us some trouble; the camels' loads 
were always slipping from their mats; I found it 
necessary to dismount from my mule, and, sitting 
down, we were stung by the large black ants 
which infest these hills.* 

About half way up, we passed two cairns, and 

* The natives call them Jana; they are about three-fourths 
of an inch long, nnd armed with stings that prick like thorns 
and burn violently for a few minutes. 



198 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA, 

added to them our mite like good Somal. After 
two hours of hard work the summit of this 
primitive pass was attained, and sixty minutes 
more saw us on the plateau above the hills, -— the 
second' zone of East Africa. Behind us lay 
the plains, of which we vainly sought a view: 
the broken ground at the foot of the mountains is 
broad, and mists veiled the reeking expanse of the 
low country.* The plateau in front of us was a 
I wide extent of rolling ground, rising slightly 
towards the west; its colour was browm with a 
threadbare coat of verdure, and at the bottom of 
each rugged slope ran a stony water-course 
trending from south-west to north-east. The mass 
of tangled aloes, ragged thorn, and prim-looking 
poison trees f, must dnce have been populous; 

* Near Berberab, where the descents are more rapid, such 
panoramas are common. 

f This is the celebrated ^Waba, which produces the Somali 
Wabayo, ft poison applied to darts and arrows* It is a round 
stiff evergreen, not unlike a bay, seldom taller than twenty feet> 
affecting bill sides and ^rrent banks, growing in clumps that 
look black by the side of the Acacias; thornless, with a laurel- 
coloured leaf, which cattle will not touch, unless forced by 
famine, pretty bunches of pinkish white jflowers, and edible 
berries black and ripening to red. The l)ark is thin, the wood 
yellow, compact, exceedingly tough and hard, the root some¬ 
what like liquorice; the latter is prepared by trituration and other 



THE POISON*TREB. 


199 


tombs and houses of the early Moslems covered 
with ruins the hills and ridges. 


processes, and the produce is a poison in substance and colour 
resembling pitch. 

Travellers have erroneously supposed the arrow poison of 
Eastern Africa to be the sap of a Euphorbiura. The following 
^ observations accompanying a substance procured near Aden, 
and used by the Somalis to poison their arrows/' by F. S. Arnott, 
Esq., M.D., will be read with interest. 

*'ln Felfruary 1853, Dr. Arnott had forwarded to him a watery 
extract prepared from the root of a tree, described as * Wabie/ 
a toxicodendron from the Somuli country on the Habr Gerliajis 
range of the Goolies mountains. The tree grows to th^ heiglit 
of twenty feet. The poison is obtained by boiling the root in 
water, until it attains the consistency of an inspissated juice- 
When cool the barb of the arrow is anointed with the juice, which 
is regarded as a virulent poison, and it renders a wound tainted 
therewith incurable. Dr. Arnott was informed that death 
usually took place within an hour ; that the hairs and nails 
dropped off after death, and it was believed that the application 
of heat assisted its poisonous qualities. He could not, however 
ascertain the quantity made use of by the Somalis, and doubted 
if the point of an arrow would convey a sufficient quantity to 
produce such immediate effects. He had tested its powers in 
some other experiments, besides the ones detailed, and although 
it failed in several instances, yet he was led to the conclusion 
that it was a very powerful narcotic irritant poison. He had 
not, however, observed the local effect said to be produced upon 
the point of insertion." 

The following trials were described : — 

'' 1. A little was inserted into the inside of the ear of a sickly 
sheep, and death occurred in two hours. 

'' 2. A little was inserted into the inside of the ear of a 



200 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 


About noon, we arrived at a -spot called the 
Kafir's Grave. It is a square enceinte of rude 

healthy sheep, and death occurred in two hours, preceded by 
convulsions. 

" 3. Five grains were given to a dog ; vomiting took place 
after an hour, and death in three or four hours. 

4. One grain was swallowed by a fowl, but no effect pro¬ 
duced. 

" 5. Three grains were given to a sheep, but without produc¬ 
ing any effect. 

" 6. A small quantity was inserted into the ear and shoulder 

a dog, but no effect was produced. 

" 7. Upon the same dog two days after, the same quantity was 
^inserted into the thigh; death occurred in less than two 
hours. 

8 . Seven grains were given to a sheep without any effect 
whatever. 

9. To a dog five grains were administered, but it was rejected 
by vomiting ; this was again repeated on the following day, with 
the same result. On the same day four grains were inserted 
into a wound upon the same dog ; it produced violent effects in 
ten, and death in thirty-five, minutes. 

'' 10. To a sheep two grains in solution were given without 
any effect being produced. The post-mortem appearances ob¬ 
served were, absence of all traces of infiammation, collapse of 
the lungs, and distension of the cavities of the heart." 

Further experiments of the Somali arrow poison by R. 
Haines, M. B,, assistant surgeon (from Transactions of the 
Medical arid Physical Society of Bombay. No. 2. new series 
1853-1854. 

" Having while at Ahmednuggur received from the secretary 
a small quantity of Somali arrow poison, alluded to by Mr. 
Vaughan in his notes on articles of the Materia Medica, and 



THE POISON'TBEE. 


201 


stones about one hundred yards each side; and 
legends say that one Misr, a Galla chief, when 


published in the last volume of the Society's Transactions, and 
called ^ Wabie,' the following experiments were made with 
it: — 

** September 17th. 1. A small healthy rabbit was taken, and 
the skin over the hip being divided, a piece of the poisonous 
extract about the size of a corn of wheat was inserted into the 
cellular tissue beneath: thirty minutes afterwards, seems dis¬ 
inclined to move, breathing quicker, passed ? ?: one hour, 
again passed ? ? ? followed by * ? ?; has eaten a 

little: one hour and a half, appears quite to have recovered from 
his uneasiness, and has become as lively as before. (Ij'bis ^ 
rabbit was made use of three days afterwards for the third^ex- 
peri men t.) 

2 . A full-grown rabbit. Some of the poison being dissolved 
in water a portion of the solution corresponding to about fif¬ 
teen grains was injected into an opening in the peritoneum, so 
large a quantity being used, in consequence of the apparent 
absence of effect in the former case: five minutes, he appears 
to be in pain, squeaking occasionally ; slight convulsive retrac.. 
lions of the head and neck begin to take place, passed a small 
quantity of * * : ten minutes, the spasms are becoming more 

frequent,. but are neither violent nor prolonged, respiration 
scarcely perceptible; he now fell on his side : twelve minutes, 
several severe general convulsions came on, and at the end of 
another minute he was quite dead, the pulsation being for the 
last minute quite imperceptible. The chest was instantly 
opened, but there was no movement of the heart whatever. 

September 20th. 3. The rabbit used for the first experiment 
was taken and an attempt was made to inject a little filtered 
solution into the jugular vein, which failed from the large size 
of the nozzle of the syringe ; a good deal of blood was lost. . A 



202 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

dying, ordered the place to be filled seven times 
¦with she-camels destined for his Ahan or funeral 


portion of the solution corresponding to about two grains and a 
half of the poison was then injected into a small opening made 
in the pleura. Nine minutes afterwards: symptoms precisely 
resembling those in number two began to appear. Fourteen 
minutes: convulsions more violent; fell on his side. Sixteen 
minutes^ died. 

4. A portion of the poison, as much as could be applied, 
was smeared over the square iron head of an arrow, and 
allowed to dry. The arrow was then shot into the but¬ 
tock of a goat with sufficient force to carry the head out^of 
sight; twenty minutes afterwards, no effect whatever having 
followed, the arrow was extracted. The poison had become 
softened and was wdped completely off two of the sides, and 
partly off the two other sides. The animal appeared to suffer 
very little pain from the wound; he was kept for a fortnight, 
and then died, but not apparently from any cause connected with 
the wound. In fact he was previously diseased. Unfortunately 
the seat of the wound was not then examined, but a few days 
previously it appeared to have healed of itself. In the rabbit 
of the former experiment, three days after the insettion of the 
poison in the wound, the lat^ter was closed with a dry coagulum 
and presented no marks of indammation around it* 

''5. Two good-sized village dogs being secured, to each after 
several hours^ fasting, were given about five grains enveloped in 
meat. The smaller one chewed it a long time, and frothed 
much at the mouth. He appeared to swallow very little of it, 
but the larger one ate the whole up without difficulty. After 
more than two hours no effect whatever being perceptible in 
either animal, they were shot to get rid of them. These experi¬ 
ments, though not altogether complete, certainly establish the 



THE POISON-TREE. 


203 


feast. This is the fourth stage upon the direct 
road from Zayla to Harar; we had wasted ten 
days, and the want of grass and water made us 
anxious about our animals. The camels could 
scarcely walk, and my mule's spine rose high be¬ 
neath the Arab pad : — such are the effects of 

I 

fact that it is a poison of no very great activity. The quantity 
made use of in the second experiment was too great to allow a 
fair deduction to be made as to its properties. When a fourth 
to a sixth of the quantity was employed in the third experiment 
the same effects followed, but with rather less rapidity; death 
resulting in the one case in ten, in the other in sixteen 
minutes, although the death in the latter case was perhaps 
hastened by the loss of blood. The symptoms more resemble 
those produced by nux vomica than by any other agent. No 
apparent drowsiness, spasms, slight at first, beginning in the 
neck, increasing in intensity, extending over the whole body, and 
finally stopping respiration and with it the action of the heart. 
Experiments first and fourth show that a moderate quantity, 
such as may be introduced on the point of an arrow, produced 
no sensible effect either on a goat or a rabbit, and it could 
scarcely be supposed that it would have more, on a man than on 
the latter animal; and the fifth experiment proves that a full 
dose taken into the stomach produces no result within a reason¬ 
able time. 

" The extract appeared to have been very carelessly prepared. 
It contained much earthy matter, and even small stones, and a 
large proportion of what seemed to be oxidized extractive 
matter also was left undisturbed when it was treated with water: 
probably it was not a good specimen. . It seems, however, to 
keep well, and shows no disposition to become mouldy." 



204 FmST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 


Jilal*, the worst of travelling seasons in Eastern 
Africa. 

At 1 P.M. we unloaded under a sycamore tree, 
called, after a Galla chieftain f, " Halimalah," and 
giving its name to the surrounding valley. This 
ancient of the forest is more than half decayed, 
several huge limbs lie stretched upon the ground, 
Avhence, for reverence, no one removes them: upon 

* The Somal divide their year into four seasons ; — 

1. Gugi (monsoon, from Crug," rain) begins in April, is 
violent for forty-four days and subsides in August. Many roads 
may be traversed at this season, which are death in times of 
drought; the country becomes " Barwdko " (in Arabic Rakha, a 
place of plenty,) forage and water abound, the air is temperate, 
and the light showers enliven the traveller. 

2. Haga is the hot season after the monsoon, and correspond¬ 
ing with our autumn: the country suffers from the Fora, a 
violent dusty Simum, which is allayed by a fall of rain called 
Karan. 

3. Dair, the beginning of the cold season, opens the sea to 
shipping. The rain which then falls is called Dairti or Hais : it 
comes with a west-south-w|est wind from the hills 6f Harar. 

4. Jilal is the dry season from December to April. The 
country then becomes Abar (in Arabic Jahr,) a place of famine: 
the Nomads migrate ti *the low plains, where pasture is pro¬ 
curable. Some reckon as a fifth season Kalil, or the heats 
between Jilal and the monsoon. 

f According to Bruce this tree flourishes everywhere on the 
low hot plains between the Red Sea and the Abyssinian hills. 
The Gallas revere it and plant it over sacerdotal graves. It 
suggests the Fetiss trees of Western Africa, and the Hiero- 
Sykarainon of Egypt. 



HOLY TREE. 


205 


the trunk, or rather trunks, for its bifurcates, are 
marks deeply cut by a former race, and Time has 
hollowed in the larger stem an arbour capable of 
containing half-a-dozen men. This holy tree 
was, according to the Somal, a place of prayer for 
the infidel, and its ancient honors are not departed. 
Here, probably to commemorate the westward 
progress of the tribe, the Gudabirsi TJgaz or chief 
has the white canvass turban bound about his 
brows, and hence rides forth to witness the eques¬ 
trian games in the Harawwah Valley. As evei^one 
who passes by, visits the Halimalah tree, foraging 
parties of the Northern Eesa and the Jibril Abokr 
(a clan of the Habr Awal) frequently meet, and 
the traveller wends his way in fear and trembling. 

The thermometer showed an altitude of 3,350 
feet: under the tree's cool shade, the climate re¬ 
minded me of Southern Italy in winter. I found 
a butter-cup, and heard a wood-pecker* tapping 
on the hollow trunk, a reminiscence of English 
glades. The Abban and his uien urged an ad¬ 
vance in the afternoon. But my health had suf¬ 
fered from the bad water of the coast, and the 


* There are two species of this bird, both called by the 
Somal, " Daudaulay " from their tapping. 



206 


FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 


camels were faint with fatigue: we therefore dis¬ 
missed the hired beasts, carried our property into^ 
a deserted kraal, and, lighting a fire, prepared to 
" make all snug " for the night. The Bedouins, 
chattering with cold, stood closer to th6- com¬ 
fortable blaze than ever did pater familias in Eng¬ 
land : they smoked their faces, toasted their hands, 
broiled their backs with intense enjoyment, and 
waved their legs to and fro through the flame to 
singe away the pile, which at this season grows 
'long. The End of Time, who was surly, compared 
them to demons, and quoted the Arab's saying; — 
" Allah never bless smooth man, or hairy woman ! " 
On the 8th of December, at 8 A. M., we travelled 
slowly up the Halimalah Valley, whose clayey 
surface glistened with mica and quartz pebbles 
from the hills. All the trees are thorny except 
the Sycamore and the Asclepias. The Gub, or 
Jujube, grows luxuriantly in thickets: its dried 
wood is used by women to fumigate their hair * : 
the Kedi, a tree like the porcupine,— all spikes,—• 
supplies the Bedouins with hatchet-handles. I 
was shown the Abol with its edible gum, and a 

' * The limbs are perfumed with the " Hedi/ and ** Karanli,*^ 
products of the Ugadayn or southern country. 



GEAV?:S. 


207 


kind of Acacia, here called Galol. Its bark dyes 
cloth a dull red, and the thorn issues from a bulb 
which, when young and soft, is eaten by the Somal, 
when old it becomes woody, and hard as a nut. 
At 9 A.m. we ^crossed the Lesser Abbaso, a Fiumara 
with high banks of stiff clay and filled with large 
rolled stones: issuing from it, we traversed a 
thorny path over ascending ground between higher 
hills, and covered "with large boulders and step-like 
layers of grit. Here appeared several Gudabirsi 
tombs, heaps of stones or pebbles, surrounded by 
a fence of thorns, or an enceinte of loose blocks; 
in the latter, slabs are used to make such houses 
as children would build in play, to denote the 
number of establishments left by the deceased. 
The new grave is known by the conical milk-pails 
surmounting the stick at the head of the corpse, 
upon the neighbouring tree is thrown the mat 
which bore the dead man to his last home, and 
hard by are the blackened stones upon which his 
funeral feast was cooked. At 11 a.m. we reached 
the Greater Abbaso, a Fiumara about 100 yards 
wide, fringed with lovely verdure and full of the 
antelope called Gumuk: its watershed was, as 
usual in this region, from west and south-west to 



208 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

east and north-east. About noon we halted, 
having travelled eight miles from the Holy Tree. 

At half past three reloading we followed the 
course of the Abbaso Valley, the most beauti¬ 
ful spot we had yet seen. The presence of man¬ 
kind, however, was denoted by the cut branches 
of thorn encumbering the bed: we remarked too, 
the tracks of lions pursued by hunters, and the 
frequent streaks of serpents, sometimes five inches 
in diameter. Towards evening, our party closed 
up in fear, thinking that they saw spears glancing 
through the trees: I treated their alarm lightly, 
but the next day proved that it was not wholly 
imaginary. At sunset we met a shepherd who 
swore upon the stone * to bring us milk in 
exchange for tobacco, and presently, after a five 
miles' march, w^e halted in a deserted kraal on the 
left bank of a Fiumara. Clouds gathered black 

I 

* This great oath suggests the litholatry of the Arabs, de¬ 
rived from the Abyssinian and Galla Sabseans; it is regarded 
by the Eesa and Gudabi)rsi Bedouins as even more binding than 
the popular religious adjurations. When a suspected person 
denies his guilt, the judge places a stone before him, saying 
^'Tabo!" (feel!); the liar will seldom dare to touch it. f Some¬ 
times a Somali will take up a stone and say Dagdha," (it is 
a stone,) he may then generally be believed. 



kola's fort. 


209 


upon the hill tops, and a comfortless blast, 
threatening rain, warned us not to delay pitching 
the Gurgi. A large fire was lighted, and several 
guns were discharged to frighten away the lions 
that infest this place. Twice during the night 
our camels started up and rushed round their 
thorn ring in alarm. 

Late in the morning of Saturday, the 9th De¬ 
cember, I set out, accompanied by Rirash and the 
End of Time, to visit some ruins a little way dis¬ 
tant from the direct road. After an hour's jide 
we turned away from the Abbaso Fiumara and 
entered a basin among the hills distant about six¬ 
teen miles from the Holy Tree. This is the site 
of Darbiyah Kola,— Kola's Fort, —so called from 
its Galla queen. It is said that this city and its 
neighbour Aububah fought like certain cats in 
Kilkenny till both were " eaten up : " the Gudabirsi 
fix the event at the period when their forefathers 
still inhabited Bulhar on the coast, — about 
300 years ago. If the date be correct, the sub¬ 
stantial ruins have fought a stern fight with time. 
Remnants of houses cumber the soil, and the 
carefully built wells are filled with rubbish: 
the palace was pointed out to me with its walls 


p 



210 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

of stone and clay intersected by layers of wood-^ 
work. The mosque is a large roofless building 
containing twelve square pillars of rude masonry, 
and the Mihrab, or prayer niche, is denoted by a 
circular arch of tolerable construction. But 
the voice of the Muezzin is hushed for ever, and 
creepers now twine around the ruined fane. 
The scene was stiU and dreary as the grave; 
for a mile and a half in length all was ruins — 
ruins — ruins. 

Leaving this dead city, we rode towards the 
south-west between two rugged hills of which the 
loftiest summit is called Wanauli. As usual they 
are rich in thorns: the tall " Wadi " affords a gum 
useful to cloth-dyers, and the leaves of the lofty 
Wumba are considered, after the Daum-palm, the 
best material for mats. On the ground appeared 
the blue flowers of the " Man " or " Himbah," a 
shrub resembling a potatoe: it bears a gay yellow 
apple full of brown' seeds which is not eaten by 
the Somal. My companions made me taste some 
of the Karir bei'ries, which in color and flavor 
resemble red currants: the leaves are used as a 
dressing to ulcers. Topping the ridge we stood 
for a few minutes to observe the view before us. 
Beneath our feet lay a long grassy plain — the 



THE journey's END IN VIEW. 


211 


sight must have gladdened the hearts of our starv¬ 
ing mules! — and for the first time in Africa 
horses appeared grazing free amongst the bushes. 
A little further off lay the Aylonda valley studded 
with graves, and dark with verdure. Beyond it 
stretched the Wady Harawwah, a long gloomy 
hollow in the general level. The background 
was a bold sweep of blue hill, the second gradient 
of the Harar line, and on its summit closing the 
western horizon lay a golden streak — the Marar 
Prairie. Already I felt at the end of my journey. 

About noon, reaching a kraal, whence but ^ that 
morning our Gudabirsi Abbans had driven off their 
kine, we sat under a tree and with a pistol reported 
arrival. Presently the elders came out and 
welcomed their old acquaintance the End of Time 
as a distinguished guest. He eagerly inquired 
about the reported quarrel between the Abbans 
and their brother-in-law the Gerad Adan. When 
assured that it was the offspring of Somali im¬ 
agination, he rolled his head, and with dignity re¬ 
marked, "What man shutteth to us, that Allah 
openeth! " We complimented each other gravely 
upon the purity of our intentions, — amongst 
Moslems a condition of success, — and not de¬ 
spising second causes, lost no time in sending a 



212 PIEST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

horseman for the 'Abbans. Presently some war¬ 
riors came out and inquired if we were of 
the Caravan that was travelling last evening up 
a valley with laden camels. On our answering 
in the affirmative, they laughingly declared that 
a commando of twelve horsemen had followed 
us with the intention of a sham-attack. This is 
favourite sport with the Bedouin. When however 
the traveller shows fright, the feint' is apt to turn 
out a fact. On one occasion a party of Arab mer¬ 
chants, not understanding the "fun of the thing," 
shot two Somal: the tribe had the justice to acquit 
the strangers, mulcting them, however, a few yards 
of cloth for the families of the deceased. In reply 
I fired a pistol unexpectedly over the heads of my 
new hosts, and improved the occasion of their 
terror by deprecating any practical facetiousness in 
future. 

We passed the day under a tree; the camels 
escorted by my two attendants, and the women, 
did not arrive till sunset, having occupied about 
eight hours in marching as many miles. Fearing 
lions, we pitched inside the kraal, despite cry¬ 
ing children, scolding wives, cattle rushing about, 
barking dogs, flies and ticks, filth and confine- 



THE KRAAL. 


213 


ment. I will now attempt a description of a village 
in Eastern Africa. 

The Rer or Kraal * is a line of scattered huts 
on plains where thorns are rare, beast of prey 
scarce, and raids not expected. In the hills it is 
surrounded by a strong fence to prevent cattle 
straying: this, where danger induces caution, is 
doubled and trebled. Yet the lion will sometimes 
break through it, and the leopard clears it, prey in 
mouth with a bound. The abattis has usually four 
entrances which are choked up with heaps of bushes 
at night. The interior space is partitioned off liy 
dwarf hedges into rings, which contain and separate 
the different species of cattle. Sometimes there is 
an outer compartment adjoining the exterior fence, 
set apart for the camels; usually they are placed 
in the centre of the kraal. Horses being most 
valuable are side-lined and tethered close to the 
owner's hut, and rude bowers of brush and fire wood 
protect the weaklings of the flocks from the heat 
of the sun and the inclement night breeze. 

At intervals around and inside the outer abattis 
are built the Gurgi or wigwams,— hemispheric huts 
like old bee-hives about five feet high by six in 


* KariyaU is the Arabic word. 


p 3 ' 



214 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 


diameter; they are even smaller in the ¦warm 
regions, but they increase in size as the elevation 
of the country renders climate less genial. The 
material is a framework of " Digo," or sticks bent 
and hardened in the fire: to build the hut, these 
are planted in the ground, tied together with cords, 
and covered with mats of two different kinds: the 
Aus composed of small bundles of grass neatly 
joined, is hard and smooth ; the Kibid has a long 
pile and is used as couch as well as roof. The 
single entrance in front is provided ¦with one of 
these articles which serves as a curtain; hides are 
spread upon the top during the monsoon, and 
little heaps of earth are sometimes raised outside to 
keep out wind and rain. 

The furniture is simple as the building. Three 
stones and a hole form the fireplace, near which 
sleep the children, kids, and lambs: there being no 
chimney, the interior is black with soot. The 
cow-skin couches are suspended during the day, 
like arms and other articles which suffer from rats 
and white ants, by loops of cord to the sides. The 
principal ornaments are basket-work bottles, gaily 
adorned with beads, cowris, and stained leather. 
Pottery being here unknown, the Bedouins twist 
the fibres of a root into various shapes, and make 



DOMESTIC FUENITURE. 


215 


.them water-tight with, the powdered bark of 
another tree.* The Han is a large Wicker-work 
bucket, mounted in a framework of sticks, and 
used to contain water on journeys. The Guraf (a 
word derived from the Arabic " Ghurfah ") is a 
conical-shaped vessel, used to bale out the contents 
of a well. The Del, or milk pail, is shaped like two 
(cones joined at the base by lateral thongs, the 
upper and smaller half acting as cup and cover. 
And finally the Wesi, or water bottle, contains the 
traveller's store for drinking and religious ablution. 

When the kraal is to be removed, the huts and 
furniture are placed upon the camels, and jiho 
hedges and earth are sometimes set on fire, to 
purify the place and deceive enemies. Throughout 
the country black circles of cinders or thorn 
diversify the hill sides, and show an extensive 
population. Travellers always seek deserted 
kraals for security of encampment. As they 
swarm with vermin by night and flies by dayf, 
I frequently made strong objections to these 

* In the northern country the water-proofing matter is, ac¬ 
cording to travellers, the juice of the Quolquol, a species of 
Euphorbium. 

f The flies are always most troublesome where cows have 
been ; kraals of goats and camels are comparatively free from 
the nuisance* 



216 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

favourite localities: the utmost conceded to me 
was a fresh enclosure added by a smaller hedge 
to the outside abattis of the more populous cow- 
kraals. 

On the 10th December we halted: the bad 
water, the noon-day sun of 107°, and the' cold 
mornings— 51° being the average—had seriously 
affected my health. All the population flocked to 
see me, darkening the hut with nodding wigs and 
staring faces; and, — the Gudabirsi are polite 
.knaves,—apologised for the intrusion. Men, women, 
and children appeared in crowds, bringing mUk 
and ghee, meat and water, several of the elders 
remembered having seen me at Berberah *, and the 
blear-eyed maidens, who were in no wise shy, 
insisted upon admiring the white stranger. 

Feeling somewhat restored by repose, I started 
the next day, " with a tail on " to inspect the ruins 
of Aububah. .^fter a roilgh ride over stony ground 
we arrived at a .'grassy hollow, near a line of hills, 

* Some years ago a Frencli lady landed at Berberali: her 
white face, according to the End of Time, made eyery man hate 
his wife and every wife hate herself. I know not who the fair 
dame was : her charms and black silk dress, however, have made 
a.lasting impression upon the Somali heart; from the coast to 
Harar she is still remembered with rapture. 



AUBUBAH. 


217 


and dismounted to visit the Shaykh Aububah's 
remains. He rests under a little conical dome of 
brick, clay and wood, similar in construction to 
that of Zayla ; it is falling to pieces, and the 
adjoining mosque, long roofless, is overgrown with 
trees, that rustle melancholy sounds in the light 
joyous breeze. Creeping in by a dwarf door or 
rather hole, my Gudabirsi guides showed me a 
bright object forming the key of the arch : as it 
shone they suspected silver, and the End of Time 
whispered a sacrilegious plan for purloining jit. 
Inside the vault were three graves apparently 
empty, and upon the dark sunken floor lay several 
rounded stones, resembling cannon balls, and used 
as weights by the more civilised Somal. Thence 
we proceeded to the battle-field, a broad sheet of 
sandstone, apparently dinted by the hoofs of mules 
and horses: on this ground, which, according to 
my guides, was in olden days soft and yielding, 
took place the great action between Aububah and 
Darbiyah Kola. A second mosque was found with 
walls in tolerable repair, but, like the rest of the 
place, roofless. Long Guled ascended the broken 
staircase of a small square minaret, and delivered 
a most ignorant and Bedouin-like Azan or call to 
prayer. Passing by the shells of houses, we 



218 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

concluded our morning's work with a visit to the 
large graveyard. Apparently it did not contain 
the bones of Moslems : long lines of stones pointed 
westward, and one tomb was covered with a 
coating of hard mortar, in whose sculptured edge 
my benighted friends detected magical inscriptions. 
I heard of another city called Ahammed in the 
¦neighbouring hills, but did not visit it. These 
are all remains of Galla settlements, which the 
ignorance and exaggeration of the Somal fill with 
" writings " and splendid edifices. 

Eeturning home we found that our Gudabirsi 
Bedouins had at length obeyed the summons. 
The six sops of a noted chief, Ali Addah or White 
Ali, by three dilferent mothers, Beuh, Igah, Kbayri, 
Nur, Ismail and Tunis, all advanced towards me 
as I dismounted, gave the hand of friendship, and 
welcomed me to their homes. With the exception 
of the first-named, a hard-featured man at least 
forty years old, the brothers were good-looking 
youths, with clear brown skins, regular features, 
and graceful figured They entered the Gurgi 
when invited, but refused to eat, saying, that they 
came for honor not for food. The Hajj Sharmar- 
kay's introductory letter was read aloud to their 
extreme delight, and at their solicitation, I per- 



THE FEAST. 


2 ia 

used it a second and a third time; then having 
dismissed, with sundry small presents, the two 
Ahbans Raghe and Rirash, I wrote a flattering 
account of them to the Hajj, and entrusted it to 
certain citizens who were returning in caravan 
Zayla-wards, after a commercial tour in the interior. 

!^efore they departed, there was a feast after the 
Homeric fashion. A sheep was " cut," dfs- 
embowelled, dismembered, tossed into one of our 
huge caldrons, and devoured within the hour: 
the almost live food * was washed down with huge 
draughts of milk. The feasters resembled Words¬ 
worth's cows, "forty feeding like one:" in the 
left hand they held the meat to their teeth, and 
cut off the slice in possession with long daggers 
perilously close, were their noses longer and their 
mouths less obtrusive. During the dinner I 
escaped from the place of flies, and retired to a 
favourite tree. Here the End of Time, seeing me 
still in pain, insisted upon trying a "Somali 
medicine. He cut two pieces of dry wood, scooped 
a hole in the shorter, and sharpened the longer, 


* The Abyssinian Brin do of omophagean fame is not eaten 
by the Somal, who always boil, broil, or sun-dry their flesh. 
They have, however, no idea of keeping it, whereas the 
more civilised citizens of Harar hang their meat till tender. 



220 PIEST rOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

applied point to socket, "which he sprinkled with a 
little sand, placed his foot upon the " female stick," 
and rubbed the other between his palms till smoke 
and char appeared. He then cauterized my 
stomach vigorously in six different places, 
quoting a tradition, " the End of Physic is Fire." 

On Tuesday the 12 th December, I vainly 
requested the two sons of White Ali, who had 
constituted themselves our guides, to mount their 
horses : they feared to fatigue the valuable animals 
at a season when grass is rare and dry. I was 
disappointed by seeing the boasted "Faras"* of 
the Somal, in the shape of ponies hardly thirteen 
hands high. The head is pretty, the eyes are well 
opened, and the ears are small; the form also is 
good, but the original Arab breed has degenerated 
in the new climate. They are soft, docile, and — 
like all other animals in this part of the world — 
timid; the habit of climbing rocks makes them 
sure-footed, and they show the remains of blood 
when forced to fatigue. The Gudabirsi "will 

* Whilst other animals have indigenous names, the horse 
throughout the Somali country retains the Arab appellation 
'' Faras." This proves that the Somal, like their progenitors 
the Gallas, originally had no cavalry. The Gudabirsi tribe has 
but lately mounted itself by making purchases of the Habr 
Gerhajis and the Habr Awal herds. 



THE HORSE. 


221 


seldom sell these horses, the great safeguard 
against their conterminous tribes, the Eesa and 
Girhi, who are all infantry: a village seldom 
contains more than six or eight, and the lowest 
value would be ten cows or twenty Tobes.* 
Careful of. his beast when at rest, the Somali 
Bedouin in the saddle is rough and cruel: 
whatever beauty the animal may possess in youth, 
completely disappears before the fifth year, and 
few are without spavin, or sprained back-sinews. 
In some parts of the country f, " to ride violently 
to your hut two or three times before finally 
dismounting, is considered a great compliment, 
and the same ceremony is observed on leaving. 
Springing into the saddle (if he has one), with 
the aid of his spear, the Somali cavalier first 
endeavours to infuse a little spirit into his half- 
starved hack, by persuading him to accomplish a 
few plunges and capers: then, his heels raining 
a hurricane of blows against the animal's ribs, and 
occasionally using his spear-point as a spur, away 
he gallops, and after a short circuit, in which he 

* The milch cow is here worth two Tobes, or about six 
shillings. 

f Particularly amongst the windward tribes visited by Lieut. 
Cruttenden, from whom I borrow this description. 



222 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

endeavours to show himself to the best advantage, 
returns to his starting point at full speed, when 
the heavy Arab bit brings up the blown horse 
with a shock that half breaks his jaw and fills his 
mouth with blood. The affection of the true Arab 
for his horse is proverbial: the cruelty of the 
Somal to his, may, I think, be considered equally 
so." The Bedouins practise horse-racing, and 
run for bets, which are contested with ardor: on 
solemn occasions, they have rude equestrian games, 
in which they display themselves and their animals. 
The Gudabirsi, and indeed most of the Somal, sit 
loosely upon their horses. Their saddle is a demi- 
pique, a high-backed wooden* frame, like the 
Egyptian fellah's: two light splinters leave a clear 
space for the spine, and the tree is tightly bound 
with wet thongs : a sheepskin shabracque is loosely 
spread over it, and the dwarf iron stirrup admits 
only the big toe, as tl^ese people fear a stirrup 
which, if the horse fall, would entangle the foot. 
Their bits are cruelly^ severe; a solid iron ring, as 
in the Arab bridle, embracing the lower jaw, takes 
the place of a curb chain. Some of the head-stalls, 
mad^'at Berberah, are prettily made of cut leather 
and bright steel ornaments like diminutive quoits. 



. THE HAEAWWAH VALLEY. 


223 


The whip is a hard hide handle, plated with zinc, 
and armed with a single short broad thong. 

With the two sons of White Ali and the End of 
Time, at 8 a.m., on the 12tb December, I rode 
forward, leaving the jaded camels in charge of 
my companions and the women. We crossed 
the plain in a south-westerly direction, and after 
traversing rolling ground, we came to a ridge, 
which commanded an extensive view. Behind lay 
the Wanauli Hills, already purple in the distance. 
On our left was a mass of cones, each dignified by 
its own name; no one, it is said, can ascend theno/, 
which probably means that it would be a fatiguing 
walk. Here are the visitation-places of three 
celebrated saints, Amud, Sau and Shaykh Shar- 
lagamadi, or the "Hidden from Evil." To the 
north-west I was shown some blue peaks te¬ 
nanted by the Eesa Somal. In front, backed by 
the dark hills of Harar, lay the Harawwah valley. 
The breadth is about fifteen miles: it runs from 
south-west to north-east, between the Highlands of 
the Girhi and the rolling ground of the Gudabirsi 
Somal, as far, it is said, as the Dankali country. 
Of old this luxuriant waste belonged to the former 
tribe; about twelve years ago it was taken from 
them by the Gudabirsi, who carried olF at the 



224 


riKST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AEBICA. 


same time thirty cows, forty camels, and between 
thrpe and four hundred sheep and goats. 

Large herds tended by spearmen and grazing 
about the bush, warned us that we were approach¬ 
ing the kraal in which the sons of White Ali were 
camped; at half-past 10 a. m., after riding eight 
miles,, we reached- the place which occupies the 
lower slope of the Northern Hills that enclose the 
Harawwah valley. We spread our hides under a 
tree, and were soon surrounded by Bedouins, who 

l 

brought milk, sun-dried beef, ghee and honey in 
one of the painted wooden bowls exported from 
Cutch. After breakfast, at which the End of Time 
distinguished himself by dipping his meat into 
honey, we went out gun in hand towards the bush. 
It swarmed with sand-antelope and Gurnuk: the 
ground-squirrels haunted every ant-hill, hoopoos and 
spur-fowls paced among the thickets, in the trees 
we heard the frequent pry of the Gobiyan and the 
bird facetiously termed from its cry " Dobo-dogon- 
guswen," and the bright-coloured hawk, the Abodi 
or Bakiyyah *, lay on wing high in the cloudless 

* This beautiful bird, with a black and crimson plume, and 
wings lined with silver, soars high and seldom^ descends except 
at night: fts shyness prevented my shooting a specimen. The 
Abodi devours small deer and birds: the female lays a single 



SAVAGE COMPLAISANCE. 


225 


air. When tired of killing we returned to our 
cow-hides, and sat in conversation with the 
Bedouins. They boasted of the skill with which 
they used the shield, and seemed not to understand 
the efficiency of a sword-parry: to illustrate * the 
novel idea I gave a stick to the best man, provided 
myself in the same way, and allowed him to cut at 
' me. After repeated failures he received a sounding 
blow upon the least bony portion of his person: 
the crowd laughed long and loud, and the pre¬ 
tending '' knight-at-arms " retired in confusion. 

¦ Darkness fell, but no caravan appeared: it hkd 
been delayed by a runaway mule,— perhaps by 
the desire to restrain my vagrant propensities,—and 
did not arrive till midnight. My hosts cleared a 
tjrurgi for our reception, brought us milk, and ex¬ 
tended their hospitality to the full limits of even 
savage complaisance. 

Expecting to march on the 13th December soon 
after dawn, I summoned Beuh and his brethren to 


egg in a large loose nest on the summit of a tall tree, and she 
abandons her home when the hand of man haa»yiolated it. The 
Somal have many superstitions connected with this hawk ; if it 
touch a child the latter dies, unless protected by the talismanic 
virtues of the Hajar Abodi," a stone found in the bird's body. 
As it frequently swoops upon children carrying meat, the belief 
has doubtlessly frequently fulfilled itself. 

Q 



226 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

the hut, reminding him that the Hajj had promised 
me an escort without delay to the village of the 
Gerad Adan. To' my instances they replied that, 
although they were most anxious to oblige, the 
arrival of Mudeh the eldest son rendered a consult¬ 
ation necessary; and retiring to the woods, sat in 
palaver from 8 A.M. to past noon. At last they 
came to a resolution which could not be shaken. 
They would not trust one of their number in the 
Gerad's country; a horseman, however, should 
carry a letter inviting the Girhi chief to visit his 
brothers-in-law. I was assured that Adan would, 
not drink water before mounting to meet us: but, 
fear is' reciprocal, there was evidently bad blood 
between them, and already a knowledge of Somali 
customs caused me to suspect the result of our 
mission. However, a letter was written reminding 
the Gerad of "the word spoken under the -tree," 
and containing, in cas^ of recusance, a threat 
to cut off the salt well at which his cows are 
periodically driven t^o drink. Then came the 
bargain for safe conduct. After much haggling, 
especially on the part of the handsome Igah, they 
agreed to receive twenty. Tobes, three bundles of 
tobacco, and fourteen cubits of indigo-dyed cotton. 
In addition to this I offered as a bribe one of my 



ELEPHANTS. 


227 


handsome Abyssinian shirts with a fine silk fringe 
made at Aden, to be received by the man Beuh on 
the day of entering the Gerad's village. 

I arose early in the next morning, having been 
promised by the Abbans grand sport in the 
Harawwah Valley. The Somal had already divided 
the elephants' spoils; they were to claim the hero's 
feather, I was to receive two thirds of the ivory — 
nothing remained to be done but the killing. 
After sundry pretences a»id prayers for delay, 

Beuh saddled his hack, the Hammal mounted onfe 

I 

mule, a stout-hearted Bedouin called Fahi took a 
second, and we started to find the herds. The 
End of Time lagged in the rear: the reflection that 
a mule cannot outrun an elephant, made him look 
so ineffably miserable, that I sent him back to the 
kraal. Dost thou believe me to be a coward, 
0 Pilgrim ? " thereupon exclaimed the Mullah, 
waxing bold in the very joy of his heart. " Of a 
truth I do! " was my reply. Nothing abashed, he 
hammered his mule with heel, and departed ejacu¬ 
lating, " What hath man but a single life ? and he 
who throweth it away, what is he but a fool ? " 
Then we advanced with cocked guns, Beuh singing, 
Boanerges-like, the Song of the Elephant. 

In the Somali country, as amongst the Kafirs, 



228 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

after murdering a man or boy, the death of an 
elephant is considered the act of heroism: most 
tribes wear for it the hair-feather and the ivory 
bracelet. Some hunters, like the Bushmen of 
the Cape *, kill the Titan of the forests with 
barbed darts carrying Waba-poison. The general 
way of hunting resembles that of the Abyssinian 
Agageers described by Bruce. One man mounts a 
white pony, and galloping before the elephant, in¬ 
duces him, as he readily does,—firearms being un¬ 
known, — to charge and " chivy." The rider directs 
his course along, and close to, some bush, where 
a comrade is concealed; and the latter, as the 
animal passes at speed, cuts the back sinew of the 
hind leg, where in the human subject the tendon 
Achilles would be, with a sharp, broad and heavy 
knife, f This wound at first occasions little in¬ 
convenience: presently the elephant, fancying, it 

I 

* The Bushman creeps close to the beast and wounds it in the 
leg or stomach with a diminutive dart covered with a couch of 
black poison : if a drop oflblood appear, death results from the 
almost unfelt wound. 

f So the Veddahs of Ceylon are said to have destroyed the 
elephant by shooting a tiny arrow into the sole of the foot. The 
Kafirs attack it in bodies armed with sharp and broad-head 

Omkondo '' or assegais: at last, one finds the opportunity of 
cutting deep into the hind back sinew, and so disables the 
animal.- v. T 



ELEPHANT-HUNTING. 


229 


is supposed, that a thorn has stuck in his foot, 
stamps violently, and rubs the scratch till the 
sinew is fairly divided. The animal, thus disabled, 
is left to perish wretchedly of hunger and thirst: 
the tail, as amongst the Kafirs,, is cut off to serve 
as trophy, and the ivories are removed when 
loosened by decomposition. In this part of Africa 
the elephant is never tamed.* 

For six hours we rode the breadth of the Ha- 
rawwah Valley: it was covered with wild vegetation, 
and surface-drains, that carry off, the surplus | of 
the hills enclosing it. In some places the torrint 
beds had cut twenty feet into the soil. The banks 
were fringed with milk-bush and Asclepias, the 
Armo-creeper, a variety of thorns, and especially the 
yellow-berried Jujube: here numberless birds fol¬ 
lowed bright-winged butterflies, and the "Shaykhs 
of the Blind," as the people call the black fly, set¬ 
tled in swarms upon our hands and faces as we rode 
by. The higher ground was overgrown with a 
kind of cactus, which h^re becomes a tree, forming 

• The traveller Delegorgue asserts that the Boers induce the 
young elephant to accompany them, by rubbing upon its trunk 
the hand wetted with the perspiration of the huntsman's brow, 
and that the calf, deceived by the similarity of smell, believes 
that it is with its dam. The fact is, that the orphan elephant, 
like the bison, follows man because it fears to be left alone. 



230 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

shady avenues. Its quadrangular fleshy branches 
of emerald green, sometimes forty feet high, sup¬ 
port upon their summits large round bunches of 
a bright crimson berry: when the plantation is 
close, domes of extreme beauty appear scattered 
over the surface of the country. This "Hassadin" 
abounds in burning milk, and the Somal look 
downwards when passing under its branches: the 
elephant is said to love it, and in many places the 
trees were torn to pieces by hungry trunks. The 
nearest approaches to game were the last year's 
earths; likely places, however, shady trees and 
green thorns near water, were by no means un¬ 
common. When we reached the valley's south¬ 
ern wall, Beuh informed us that we might ride 
all day, if we pleased, with the same result. At 
Zayla I had been informed that elephants are 
" thick as sand " in Harawwah: even the Gudabirsi, 
when at a distance, declared that they fed there 
like sheep, and, after our failure, swore that they 
killed thirty but last y^ar. ^ The animals were pro¬ 
bably in the high Harirah Valley, and would be 
driven downwards by the cold at a later period; 
some future Gordon Gumming may therefore suc¬ 
ceed where the Hajj Abdullah notably failed. 

On the 15th December I persuaded the valiant 



OLD MAIDS. 


23f 


Beuh, with his two brothers and his bluff cousin 
Fahi, to cross the valley with us. After recover¬ 
ing a mule which had strayed five miles back 
to ,the well, and composing sundry quarrels 
between Shehrazade, whose swains had detained 
her from camel-loading, and the Kalendar whose 
oh^ eye flashed with indignation at her conduct, 
we set out in a southerly direction. An hour's 
march brought us to an open space surrounded 
by thin thorn forest; in the centre is an ancient 
grave, about which are performed the equestrian 
games when the turban of the Ugaz has be^n 
bound under the Holy Tree. Shepherds issued 
from the bush to stare at us as we passed, and 
stretched forth the hand for " Bori: " the maidens 
tripped forwards exclaiming, " Come, girls, let us 
look at this prodigy! " an<L they never withheld 
an answer if civilly addressed. Many of them 
were grown up, and not a few were old maids, 
the result of the tribe's isolation; for here, as 
in Somaliland generally, the union of cousins , is 
abhorred. The ground of the valley is a stiff 
clay, sprinkled with pebbles of primitive forma¬ 
tion : the hills are mere rocks, and the torrent 
'banks with strata of small stones, showed a water¬ 
mark varying from ten to fifteen feet in height: 



232 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 


in these Fiumaras we saw frequent traces of the 
Edler-game, deer and hog. At 1 p.m. our camels 
and mules were watered at wells in a broad wady 
called Jannah-Gaban or the Little Garden; its 
course, I was told, lies northwards through the 
Harawwah Valley to the Odla and Waruf, two 
depressions in the Wayma country near Tajurrah. 
About half an hour afterwards we arrived at a 
deserted sheepfold distant six miles from our last 
station. • After unloading we repaired to a neigh¬ 
bouring well, and .found the water so hard that 
it raised lumps like nettle stings in the bather's 
skin. The only remedy for the evil is an unguent 
of oil or butter, a precaution which should never 
be neglected by the African traveller. At first 
the sensation of grease annoys, after a few days 
it is forgotten, and at last the "pat of butter" 
is expected as pleasantly as the pipe or the cup 
of cofiee. It prevents the skin from chaps and 
sores, obviates the evil effects of heat, cold, and 
wet, and neutralised. the Proteus-like malaria 
poison. The Somal never fail to anoint them¬ 
selves when they can afford ghee, and the Be¬ 
douin is at the summit of his bliss, when sitting 
in the blazing sun, or, — heat acts upon these* 
people as upon serpents, — with his back opposite 



SADDLE-BACK HILL. 


233 


a roaring fire, he is being smeared, rubbed, and 
kneaded by a companion. 

My guides, fearing lions and hyenas, would pass 
the night inside a foul sheepfold; I was not without 
difficulty persuaded to join them. At eight next 
morning we set out through an uninteresting thorn- 
bush towards one of those T^tes or isolated hills 
which form admirable bench-marks in the Somali 
country. "Koralay," a term corresponding with 
our Saddle-back, exactly describes its shape: pom¬ 
mel and crupper, in the shape of two huge granite 
boulders, were all complete, and between ^tbem 
was a depression for a seat. As day advanced 
the temperature changed from 50° to a maximum 
of 121°. After marching about five miles, we 
halted in a broad watercourse called Gallajab, 
the "Plentiful Water": there we bathed, and 
dined on an excellent camel which had broken its 
leg by falling from a bank. 

. Kesuming our march at 5 p.m., we travelled 
over ascending ground which must be most fertile 
after rain: formerly it belonged to the Girhi, and 
the Gudabirsi boasted loudly of their conquest. 
After an hour's march we reached the base of 
Koralay, upon whose lower slopes appeared a pair 



234 FIKST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 


of the antelopes called Alakud *: they are tame, 
easily shot, and eagerly eaten by the Bedouins. 
Another hour of slow travelling brought us to a 
broad Fiumara with high banks of stiff clay thickly 
wooded and showing a water-mark eighteen feet 
above the sand. The guides named these, wells 
Agjogsi, probably a generic term signifying-that 
water is standing close by. Crossing the Fiumara 
we ascended a hill, and found upon the summit 
a, large kraal alive with heads of kine. The in¬ 
habitants flocked out to stare at us and the 
women uttered cries of wonder. I advanced 
towards the prettiest, and fired ray rifle by 
way of salute over her head. The people de¬ 
lighted, exclaimed, Mod! Mod!—"Honor to 
thee! "—and we replied with shouts of Kulliban 
—"May Heaven aid ye! "f At 5 p.m., after five 
miles' march, the camels were unloaded in a de¬ 
serted kraal whose high fence denoted danger 
of wild beasts. The cowherds bade us beware 

\ 

? An antelope, about five hands high with small horns, which 
inhabits the high ranges of the mountains, generally in couples, 
resembles the musk deer, and is by no means shy, seldom, 
flying till close pressed ; when running it hops awkwardly upon 
the toes and never goes far. 

I These are solemn words used in the equestrian games of the 
Somal. 

( 



THE QUASl-CYNOCEPHALI. 


235 


of lions: but a day before a girl had been dragged 
out of her hut, and Moslem burial could be given 
to only one of her legs. A Bedouin named Uddao, 
whom we hired as mule-keeper, was ordered to 
spend the night singing, and, as is customary 
with Somali watchmen, to address and answer 
himself dialogue-wise with a different voice, in 
order to persuade thieves that several men are 
on the alert. He was a spectacle of wildness as 
he sat before the blazing fire,—his joy by day, 
his companion and protector in the shades!, the 
only step made by him in advance of his brethren 
the Cynocephali. 

We were detained four days at Agjogsi by the 
nonappearance of the Gerad Adan: this delay 
gave me an opportunity of ascending to the 
summit of Koralay the Saddleback, which lay 
about a mile north of our encampment. As 
we threaded the rocks and hollows of the side 
we came upon dens strewed with cows' bones, 
and proving by a fresh taint that the tenants 
had lately quitted them. In this country the 
lion is seldom seen unless surprised asleep in 
his lair of thicket: during my journey, although 
at times the roaring was heard all night, I saw 
but one. The people have a superstition that 



-236 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

the king of beasts will not attack a single traveller, 
because such a person, they say, slew the mother 
of all the lions: ^except in darkness or during vio¬ 
lent storms, which excite the fiercer carnivors, he 
is a timid animal, much less feared by the people 
than the angry and ' agile leopard. Unable to 
run with rapidity when pressed by hunger, he 
pursues a party of travellers stealthily as a cat, 
and, arrived within distance, springs, strikes down 
the hindermost, and carries him away to the 
bush. 

From the summit of Koralay, we had a fair 
view of the surrounding country. At least forty 
kraals, many of them deserted, lay within the 
range of sight. On all sides except the north- 
¦west and south-east was a mass of sombre rock 
and granite hill; the course of the valleys between 
the several ranges was denoted by a lively green, 
and the plains scattered in patches over the land¬ 
scape shone with dull yellow, the effect of clay 
and stubble, whilst \ a light mist encased the 
prospect in a circlet of blue and silver. Here 
the End of Time conceived the jocose idea of 
crowning me king of the country. With i loud 
cries of Buh! Buh! Buh! he showered leaves' 
of a gum tree and a little water from a prayer 

I 



I AM CROWNED. 


237 


bottle over my head, and then with all solemnity 
bound on the turban.* It is perhaps fortunate 
that this facetiousness was not witnessed: a crowd 
of Bedouins assembled below the hill, suspecting as 
usual some magical practices, and, had they known 
^the truth, our journey might have ended abruptly. 
Descending, I found porcupines' quills in abund¬ 
ance f, and shot a rock pigeon called Elal-jog — 
the " Dweller at* wells." At the foot a " Baune " 
or Hyrax Abyssinicus, resembling the Coney of 
Palestine J, was observed at its favourite pasti^me of 
sunning itself upon the rocks. 

On the evening of the 20th December the 
mounted messenger returned, after a six hours' 
hard ride, bringing back unopened the letter ad¬ 
dressed by me to the Gerad, and a private message 
from their sister to the sons of White Ali, advising 
them not to advance. Ensued terrible palavers. 

* Sometimes milk is poured over the head, as gold and silver 
in the Nuzzeranah of India. These ceremonies are usually 
performed by low-caste men; the free-born object to act in 
them. 

f The Somal call it Hiddik or Anukub; the quills are used 
as head scratchers, and are exported to Aden for sale. 

I It appears to be the Ashkoko of the Amharas, identified by 
^Bruce with the Saphan of the Hebrews. This coney lives in 
chinks and holes of rocks; it was never seen by me on the 
plains* The Arabs eat it, the Somal generally do not. 



' 238 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

« 

It appeared that the Gerad was upon the point of 
mounting horse, when his subjects swore him to 
remain and settle a dispute with the Amir of 
Harar. Our Abbans, however, withdrew their 
hired camels, positively refuse to accompany us, 
and Beuh privily informed the -End of Time that 
I had acquired through the land the evil reputa¬ 
tion of killing everything, from an elephant to a 
bird in the, air. One of the younger brethren, 
indeed, declared that we were forerunners of good, 
and that if the Gerad harmed a hair of our heads, 
he would slaughter every Girhi under the sun. 
We had, however, learned properly to appreciate 
such vaunts, and the End of Time drily answered 
that their sayings were honey but their doings 
myrrh. Being a low-caste and a shameless tribe, 
they did not reply to our reproaches. At last, a 
manoeuvre was successful: Beuh and his brethren, 
who squatted like sulky children in different 
places, were dismissed with thanks,—we proposed 
placing ourselves under the safeguard of Gerad 
Hirsi, the Berteri chiefl This would have thrown 
the protection-price, originally intended for their 
brother-indaw, into the hands of a rival, and had 
the effect of altering their resolve. Presently we 
were visited by two Widad or hedge-priests, Ao 



THE DIVINES. 


239 • 


Samattar and Ao Nur*, both half-witted fellows, 
but active and kindhearted. The, former wore a 
dirty turban, the latter a Zebid cap, a wicker¬ 
work calotte, composed of the palm leafs mid-rib: 
they carried dressed goatskins, as prayer carpets, 
over their right shoulders dangled huge wooden 
ipk bottles with Lauh or wooden tablets for writ¬ 
ing. talismans f, and from the left hung a greasy 
bag, containing a tattered copy of the Koran and a 
small MS. of prayers. They read tolerably, but 
did not understand Arabic, and I presented them 
with cheap Bombay lithographs of the Holy I^ock« 
The number of these idlers increased as we ap¬ 
proached Harar, the Alma Mater of Somali land : 
—the people seldom listen to their advice, but on 
this occasion Ao Samattar succeeded in per¬ 
suading the valiant Beuh that the danger was 
visionary. Soon afterwards rode up to our kraal 
three cavaliers, who proved to be sons of Adam, 
the future Ugaz of the Gudabirsi tribe: this chief 
had fully recognized the benefits of reopening to 
commerce a highway closed by their petty feuds, 


? The prefix appears to be a kind of title appropriated by 
saints and divines* 

I These charms are washed off and drunk by the people: an 
economical proceeding where paper is scarce. 



240 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

and sent to say that, in consequence of his esteem 
for the Hajj Sharmarkay, if the sons of White Ali 
feared to escort us, he in person would do the 
deed. Thereupon Beuh became a "Gesi" or hero, 
as the End of Time ironically called him: he sent 
back his brethren with their horses and camels, and 
valorously prepared to act as our escort. I 
tauntingly asked him what he now thought of 
the danger. For all reply he repeated the words, 
witlj. whicb the Bedouins — who, like the Arabs, 
have a holy horror of towns — had been dinning 
daily into my ears, " They will spoil that white 
skin of thine at Harar! " 

At 3 P.M., on the 21st Pecember, we started 
in a westerly direction through a gap in the hills, 
and presently turned to the south-west, over 
rapidly rising ground, thickly inhabited, and 
covered with flocks and herds. About 5 p.m.,' 
after marching two miles, we raised our wigwam 
outside a populous kraal, ^ a sheep was provided 
by the hospitality of Ao Samattar, and we sat 
deep into the night enjoying a genial blaze. 

Early tbe next morning \Ve had hoped to 
advance: water, however, was wanting, and a 
small caravan was slowly gathering;—these 
details delayed us till 4 p.m. Our line lay west- 



THE maiden's meal. 


241 


¦ward, o-ver rising ground, towards a conspicuous 
conical hill called Konti. Nothing could be worse 
for camels than the rough ridges at the foot of 
the mountain, full of thickets, cut by deep Fiu- 
maras, and abounding in dangerous watercourses: 
the burdens slipped now backwards then for- 
I ^wards, sometimes the load was almost dragged 
off by thorns, and at last we were obliged to leave 
one animal to follow slowly in the rear. After 
creeping on two miles, we bivouacked in a deserted 
cow-kraal ,—suh dio^ as it was warm under the hills. 
That evening our party was increased by a (jruda- 
birsi maiden in search of a husband: she was 
surlily received by Shehrazade and Deenarzade, 
but we insisted upon her being fed, and super¬ 
intended the operation. Her style of eating was 
peculiar; she licked up the rice from the hollow 
of her hand. Next morning she* was carried away 
in our absence, greatly against her will, by some 
kinsmen who had followed her. 

And now, bidding ai^ieu to the Gudabirsi, I will 
briefly sketch the tribe. 

The Gudabirsi, or Gudabursi, derive themselves 
from Dir and Aydur, thus claiming affinity with 
the Eesa: others declare their tribe to be an off¬ 
shoot from the Bahgoba clan of the Habr Awal, 



242 FIKST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFEICA. 

originally settled near Jebel Almis, and Bulbar, 
on the sea-shore. The Somal unhesitatingly 
stigmatize them as a bastard and ignoble race: 
a noted genealogist once informed me,, that they 
were little better than Midgans or serviles. 
Their ancestors' mother, it is said,, could not name 
the father of her child: some proposed to slay it, 
others advocated its preservation, saying, " Perhaps 
we shall increase by it! " Hence the name of the 
tribe.* 

The Gudabirsi are such inveterate liars that I 
could fix for them no number betAveen 3000 and 
10,000. They own the rough and rolling ground 
diversified with thorny hill and grassy vale, above 
the first or seaward range of mountains; and 
they have extended their lands by conquest towards 
Harar, being now bounded in that direction by 
the Marar Prairie*. As^ usual, they are subdivided 
into a multitude of clans.f 

? " Birsan," in Somali^ nieaning tp increase. 

f The Ayyal Yunis, the principal clan, contains four septs 
viz.: -— 

!• Jibril Yunis. 3. Alt Yunis. 

2. Nur Yunis. 4. Adan Yunis. 

The other chief clans are — 

1* Mikahil Dera* 4. Eer Mohammed Asa* 

2. Rer Ugaz. ^ 5. Musa Fin. 

3. Jibrain. 6. Rer Abokr. 



THE GUDABlRSr. 


243 


In appearance the Oudabirsi are decidedly su¬ 
perior to their limitrophes the Eesa. I have seen 
handsome faces amongst the men as well as the 
women. Some approach closely to the Caucasian 
type: one old man, with olive-coloured skin, bald 
' brow, and white hair curling round his temples, 
and occiput, exactly resembled an Anglo-Indian 
veteran. Generally, however, the prognathous 
mouth betrays an African origin, and chewing 
tobacco mixed with ashes stains the teeth, blackens 

I 

the gums, and mottles the lips. The complexion 
is the Abyssinian cafe au lait, contrasting strongly 
with the sooty skins of the coast; and the hair, 
plentifully anointed with rancid butter, hangs from 
the head in lank corkscrews the colour of a 
Russian pointer's coat. The figure is rather squat, 
but broad and well set. 

The Gudabirsi are as turbulent and unmanage¬ 
able, though not so bloodthirsty, as the Eesa. 
Their late chief, Ugaz Roblay of the Bait Saraattar 
sept, left children who could'not hold their own: 
the turban was at once claimed by a rival branch, 
the Rer Abdillah, and a civil war ensued. The 

7 * Basannah. 10. Hasan Mikahil. 

8. Bahabr Hasan. 11. Eyab Mikahil 

9. Abdillah Mikahil. 12. Hasan Waraba. 



244 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

lovers of legitimacy will rejoice to hear that when 
I left the country, Galla, son of the former Prince 
Rainy, was likely to come to his own again. 

The stranger's life is comparatively safe amongst 
this tribe: as long as he feeds' and fees them, he 
may even walk about unarmed. They are, how¬ 
ever, liars even amongst the Somal, Bobadils 
amongst boasters, inveterate thieves, and impor¬ 
tunate beggars. The smooth-spoken fellows seldom 
betray emotion except when cloth or tobacco is 
concerned ; " dissimulation is as natural to them as 
breathing," and I have called one of their chiefs 
" dog " without exciting his indignation. 

The commerce of these wild regions is at 
present in a depressed state: were the road safe, 
traffic with the coast would be considerable. The 
profit on hides, for instance, at Aden, would be at 
least cent, per cent.: the way, however, is dan¬ 
gerous, and detentioni is frequent, consequently 
the gain will not remunerate for risk and loss of 
time. No operatidn cdn be undertaken in a 
hurry, consequently demand cannot readily be 
supplied. What Laing applies to Western, may 
be repeated of Eastern Africa: " the endeavour to 
accelerate an undertaking is almost certain to 
occasion its failure." Nowhere is patience more 
wanted, in order to perform perfect work. 



WEALTH OF GUDABIUSI. 


245 


The wealth of the Gudabirsi consists principally 
in cattle, peltries, hides, gums, and ghee. The 
asses are dun-coloured, small, and weak; the 
camels large, loose, and lazy; the cows are pretty 
animals, with small humps, long horns, resembling 
the Damara cattle, and in the grazing season with 
plump, well-rounded limbs; there is also a bigger 
breed, not unlike that of Tuscany. The standard 
is the Tobe of coarse canvass; worth about three 
shillings at Aden, here it doubles in valixe. The 
price of a good camel varies from six to eight cloths; 
one Tobe buys a two-year-old heifer, threei, a cow 
between three and fouT years old. A ewe costs half 
a cloth; the goat, although the flesh is according to 
the Somal nutritive, whilst " mutton is disease," is 
a little cheaper than the sheep. Hides and peltries 
are usually collected at and exported from Harar; 
on the coast they are rubbed over with salt, and 
in this state carried to Aden. Cows' skins fetch 
a quarter of a dollar, or about one shilling in cloth, 
and two dollars are the extreme price for the 
Kurjah or score of goats' skins. The people of 
the interior have a rude way of tanning *; they 
macerate the hide, dress, and stain it of a deep 

* The best prayer-skins are made at Ogadayn; there they 
cost about half-a-dollar each. 



246 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

calf-skin colour with the bark of a tree called 
Jirmah, and lastly the leather is softened with the 
hand. The principal gum is the Adad, or Acacia 
Arabica: foreign merchants purchase it for about 
half a dollar per Farasilah of twenty pounds; 
cow's andsheep's butter may fetch a dollar's worth 
of cloth for the measure of thirty-two pounds. 
This great article of commerce is good and pure in 
the country, whereas at Berberah, the Habr Awal 
adulterate it, previous to exportation, with melted 
sheep's tails. 

The principal wants of the country which we 
have traversed are coarse cotton cloth, Surat 
tobacco, beads, and indigo-dyed stuffs for women's 
coifs. The people would also be grateful for any 
improvement in their breed of horses, and when 
at Aden I thought of taking with me some old 
Arab stallions as presents to chiefs. Fortunately 
the pi'oject fell to the iground: a strange horse of 
unusual size or beauty, in these regions, would be 
stolen at the end of ithe first march. 



247 


CHAP. VII. 

FROM THE MABAB FBAIBIE TQ HABAB. 


Early on the 23rd December assembled the Cara¬ 
van, -which -we -were destined to escort across the 
Marar Prairie. Upon this neutral ground the 
Eesa, Berteri, and Habr A-wal meet to rbb and 
plunder unhappy travellers. The Somal shiiddered 
at the sight of a wayfarer, who rushed into our 
encampment in cuerpo, having barely run away 
with his life. Not that our caravan carried much 
to lose,— a few hides and pots of clarified butter, to 
be exchanged for the Holcus grain of the Girhi 
cultivators,—still the smallest contributions are 
thankfully received by these plunderers. Our 
material consisted of four or five half-starved 
camels, about fifty donkeys with ears cropped as a 
m^k, and their eternal accompaniments in Somali 
land, old women. The latter seemed to be selected 
for age, hideousness, and strength: all day they 
bore their babes smothered in hides upon their 
backs, and they carried heavy burdens apparently 

B 4 



248 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

without fatigue. Amongst them was a Bedouin 
widow, known by her "Wer," a strip of the inner 
bark of a tree tied round the greasy fillet.* We 
were accompanied by three Widads, provided with 
all the instruments of their craft, and uncommonly 
tiresome companions. They recited Koran d toiiet 
d travers: at every moment they proposed Fatihahs, 
the name of Allah was perpetually upon their lips, 
and they discussed questions of divinity, like Gil 
Bias and his friends, with a violence bordering 
Upon frenzy. One of them was celebrated for 
his skill in the " Fal," or Omens : he was constantly 
consulted by my companions, and infornaed them 
that we had nought to fear except from wild 
beasts. The prediction was a good hit: I must 
ovm, however, that it was not communicated to me 
before fulfilment. 

At half past six a.m. we began our march over 
rough and rising ground, a network of thorns and 
water-courses, and presently entered a stony gap 
between two ranges ^of hills. On our right was a 

« 

? It is worn for a year, during which modest women will 
not marry. Some tribes confine the symbol to widowhood, 
others extend it to all male relations ; a strip of white cotton, 
or even a white fillet, instead of the usual blue cloth, is used 
by the more civilized. 


/ 



THE MARAB PRAIRIE. 


249 


conical peak, bearing the remains of buildings 
upon its summit. Here, said Abtidon, a wild 
Gudabirsi hired to look after our mules, rests the 
venerable Shaykh Samawai. Of old, a number 
of wells existed in the gaps between the hills : these 
have disappeared with those who drank of them. 

' Presently we entered the Barr or Prairie of 
Marar, .one of the long strips of plain which di¬ 
versify the Somali country. Its breadth, bounded 
on the east by the rolling ground over which we 
had passed, on the west by Gurays, a rarige of 
cones otfshooting from the highlands of Harar, is 
about twenty-seven miles. The general course is 
north and south: in the former direction, it 
belongs to the Eesa: in the latter may be seen 
the peaks of Kadau and Madir, the property of 
the Habr Awal tribes; and along these ranges 
it extends, I was told, towards Ogadayn. The 
surface of the plain is gently rolling ground; the 
black earth, filled with the holes of small beasts, 
would be most productive, and the outer coat 
is an expanse of tall, waving, sunburnt grass, so 
unbroken, that from a distance it resembles the 
nap of yellow velvet. In the frequent Wadys, 
which carry off the surplus rain of the hills, scrub 
and thorn trees grow in dense thickets, and the 



250 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

grass is temptingly green. Yet the lahd lies 
fallow : water and fuel are scarce at a distance from 
the hills, and the wildest Bedouins dare not front 
the danger of foraging parties, the fatal heats of 
day, and the killing colds of night. On the edges 
of the plain, however, are frequent vestiges of de-^ 
sorted kraals. 

About mid-day, we crossed a depression in the 
centre, where Acacias supplied us with gum for 
luncheon, and sheltered flocks of antelope. I 
endeavoured to shoot the white-tailed Sig, and 
the large dun Oryx; but the brouhaha of the 
Caravan prevented execution. Shortly afterwards 
we came upon patches of holcus, which had grown 
wild, from seeds scattered by travellers. This was 
the first sight of grain that gladdened my eyes 
since I left Bombay: the grave of the First Mur¬ 
derer never knew a Triptolemus*, and Zayla is a 
barren flat of sand.| My companions eagerly 
devoured the pith of this African "sweet cane," 
despite its ill reputation for causing fever. I 
followed their example, and found it almost as 
good as bad sugar. The Bedouins loaded their 
spare asses with the bitter gourd, called XJbbah; 

* Cain is said to repose under Jebel Shamsan at Aden^ an 
appropriate sepulchre. 



THE LION. 


251 


externally it resembles the water melon, and 
becomes, when shaped, dried, and'smoked, the 
wickerwork of the Somal, and the pottery of more 
civilized people. 

Towards evening, as the setting sun sank slowly 
behind the distant western hills, the colour of the 
' Prairie changed from glaring yellow to a golden 
hue, mantled with a purple flush inexpressibly 
lovely. The animals of the waste began to appear. 
Shy lynxes * and jackals fattened by many sheep's 
tailsf, warned my companions that fierce ibeasts 
were nigh, ominous anecdotes were whiipered, 
and I was told that a caravan had lately lost 
nine asses by lions. As night came on, the Be¬ 
douin Kafilah, being lightly loaded, preceded us, 
and our tired camels lagged far behind. We were 
riding in rear to prevent straggling, when suddenly 
my mule, the hindermost, pricked his ears uneasily, 


* This beast, called by the Somal Jambel, closely resembles 
the Sindh species. It is generally found in the plains and 
prairies. 

f In the Somali country, as in Kafirland, the Duwao or 
jackal is peculiarly bold and fierce. Disdaining garbage, he 
carries off lambs and kids, and fastens upon a favourite 
friandise, the sheep's tail; the victim runs away in terror, and 
unless the jackal be driven off by dogs, leaves a delicate piece 
of fat behind it. 



252 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

and attempted to turn his head. Looking back¬ 
wards, I distinguished the form of a large animal 
following us with quick and stealthy strides. . My 
companions would not fire, thinking it was a man: 
at last a rifle-ball, pinging through the air—the 
moon was too young for correct shooting — put 
to flight a huge lion. The terror excited by this 
sort of an adventure was comical to look upon : 
the valiant Beuh, who, according to himself, had 
made his preuves in a score of foughten fields, 
threw his arms in the air, wildly shouting Libah ! 
Libah!! — the lion ! the lion!! — and nothing else 
was talked of that evening. 

The ghostly western hills seemed to recede as 
we advanced over the endless rolling plain. 
Presently the ground became broken and stony, 
the mules stumbled in deep holes, and the camels 
could scarcely crawl along. As we advanced our 
Widads, who, poor devils! had been ''roasted" by 
the women all day on account of their poverty, 
began to recite thq Koran with might, in gratitude 
for having escaped many perils. Night deepening, 
our attention was rivetted by a strange spectacle; 
a broad sheet of bright blaze,, reminding me of 
Hanno's fiery river, swept apparently down a hill, 
and, according to my companions, threatened the 



THE' HALT. 


253 


whole prairie. These accidents are common: a 
huntsman burns a tree for honey, or cooks his food 
in the dry grass, the wind rises and the flames 
spread far and wide. On this occasion no accident 
occurred; the hills, howeyer, smoked like a Solfa- 
tara for two days. 

About 9 p .M. we heard voices, and I was told to 
discharge my rifle lest the kraal be closed to us; 
in due time we reached a long, low, dark line of 
sixty or seventy huts, disposed in a circle, so as to 
form a fence, with a few bushes — thorns! being 
heTeabouts rare — in the gaps between the abodes. 
The people, a mixture of Girhi aind Gudabirsi 
Bedouins, swarmed out to gratify their curiosity, 
but we were in no humour for long conversations. 
Our luggage was speedily disposed in a heap near 
the kraal, the mules and camels were tethered for 
the night, then, supperless and shivering with 
cold, we crept under our ihats and fell asleep. 
That day we had ridden nearly fifteen hours; our 
halting place lay about thirty miles from, and 240" 
south-west of, Koralay. 

After another delay, and a second vain message 
to the Gerad Adan, about noon appeared that 
dignitary's sixth wife, sister to the valiant Beuh. 
Her arrival disconcerted my companions, who 



254 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

were too proud to be protected by a woman. 
''Dababo," however, relieved their anxiety by 
informing us that the Gerad had sent his eldest 
son Sherwa, as escort. This princess was a gipsy¬ 
looking dame, coarsely dressed, about thirty years 
old, with a gay leer, a jaunty demeanour, and the 
reputation of being "fast; " she showed little shame¬ 
facedness when I saluted her, and received with 
noisy joy the appropriate present of a new and 
handsome Tohe., About 4 p.m. returned our 
second messenger,, bearing with him a reproving 
message from the Gerad, for not visiting him 
without delay ; in token of sincerity, he forwarded 
his baton, a knobstick about two feet long, painted 
in rings of Gutch colours, red, black, -and yellow 
alternately, and garnished on the summit with a 
ball of similar material. 

At dawn on the 26th December, mounted upon 
a little pony, came Sherwa, heir presumptive to 
the Gerad Adan's knobstick. His father had sent 
him to us three days before, but he feared the 
Gudabirsi as much the Gudabirsi feared him, 
and he probably hung about our camp till certain 
that it was safe to enter. We received him 
politely, and he in acknowledgment positively 
declared that Beuh should not return before 



255 


THE ENB OP time's VALOUR. 

eating honey in his cottage. Our Abban's heroism 
now became infectious. Even the End of Time, 
whose hot valour had long since fallen below zero, 
was inspired by the occasion, and recited, as 
usual with him in places and at times of extreme 

safety, the Arabs' warrior lines— 

? 

I have crossed the steed since my eyes saw light, 

1 have fronted death till he feared my sights 

And the cleaving of helm, and the riving of mail 

Were the dreams of my youth,—are my manhood's delight." 

As we had finished loading, a mule's bridle was 
missed. Sherwa ordered instant restitution tc|l his 
father's stranger, on the ground that all the 
property now belonged to the Gerad; and we, by 
no means idle, fiercely threatened to bewitch the 
kraal. The article was presently found hard by, 
on a hedge. This was the first and last case of 
theft which occurred to us in the Somali country; * 
—I have travelled through most civilised lands, 
and have lost more. 

At 8 A.M. we marched towards the north-west, 
along the southern base of the Gurays hills, and 
soon arrived at the skirt of the prairie, where a 
well-trodden path warned us that we were about 
to quit the desert. After advancing six miles in 
line we turned to the right, and recited a Fatihah 



256 


riBST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFKICA. 


over the heap of rough stones, where, shadowed 
by venerable trees, lie the remains of the great 
Shaykh Abd el Malik. A little beyond this spot, 
rises suddenly from the plain a mass of castellated 
rock, the subject of many a wild superstition. 
Caravans always encamp beneath it, as whoso 
sleeps upon the summit loses his senses to evil 
spirits. At some future day Harar will be de¬ 
stroyed, and " Jannah Siri " will become a 
flourishing town. We ascended it, and found no 
life but hawks, coneys, an owl*, and a graceful 
species of black eagle f; there were many traces 
of buildings, walls,' ruined houses, and wells, 
whilst the sides and summit were tufted with 
venerable sycamores. This act was an im¬ 
prudence ; the Bedouins at once declared that we 
were " prospecting " for a fort, and the evil report 
preceded us to Harar. 

After a mile's march from Jannah Siri, we 

f 

crossed a ridge of rising ground, and suddenly, as 
though by magic, the scene shifted. 

Before us lay a little Alp; the second step of 
the Ethiopian Highland. Around were high and 

* The Somal call the owl " Shimbir libah " — the lion bird. . 

f The plume was dark, chequered with white, but the bird 
was so wild that no specimen could be procured. 



CULTIVATION. 


257 


jagged hills, their sides^ black with the Saj * and 
Somali pinef, and their upper brows veiled with a 
thin growth of cactus. Beneath was a deep 
valley, in the midst of which ran a serpentine of 
shining waters, the gladdest spectacle we had yet 
witnessed: further in frOnt, masses of hill rose 
abruptly from shady valleys, encircled on the far 
horizon by a straight blue line of ground, re¬ 
sembling a distant sea. Behind us glared the 
desert: we had now reached the outskirts of 
civilization, where man, abandoning his flocks and 
herds, settles, cultivates, and attends to the^ con^- 
forts of life. 

The fields are either terraces upon the hill 
slopes or the sides of valleys, divided by flowery 
hedges with lanes between, not unlike those of 
rustic England; and on a nearer approach the 
daisy, the thistle, and the sweet briar pleasantly 
affected my European eyes. The villages are no 
longer moveable: the Kraal and wigwam are 
replaced by the Gambisa or bell-shaped hut of 
Middle Africa J, circular cottages of holcus wattle, 

* .The Arabs apply this term to teak, 

f The Dayyib of the Sotnal, and the Sinaubar of the Arabs; 
its line of growth is hereabouts an altitude of 5000 feet. 

X Travellers in Central Africa describe exactly similar 

? 

S 



258 riEST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFBICA. 

covered with coarse dab and surmounted by a 
stiff, conical, thatch roof, above which appears the 
central supporting post, crowned with a gourd or 
ostrich egg.* Strong abbatis of thorns protects 
these settlements, which stud the hills in all 
directions: near most of them are clumps of tall 
trees, to the southern sides of which are hung, like 
birdcages, long cylinders of matting, the hives of 
these regions. Yellow crops of holcus rewarded the 
peasant's toil: in some places the long stems tied 
in bunches below the ears as piled muskets, stood 
ready for the reaper; in others, the barer ground 
showed that the task was done. The boys sat 
perched upon reed platforms f in the trees, and 
with loud shouts drove away thieving birds, whilst 
their fathers cut the crop with diminutive sickles, 
or thrashed heaps of straw with rude flails J, or 
winnowed grain by tossing it with a flat wooden 


buildings, bell-shaped huts, the materials of which are stakes, 
clay and reed, conical at the top, and looking like well-thatched 
corn-stacks. ^ 

* Amongst the Fellatahs of Western Africa, only the royal 
huts are surmounted by the ostrich's egg. 

f These platforms are found even amongst the races in¬ 
habiting the regions watered by the Niger. 

X Charred sticks about six feet long and curved at the 
handle. 



THE HARVEST HOME. 


259 


shovel against the wind. The women husked the 
pineapple-formed heads in 'mortars composed of a 
hollowed trunk *, smeared the threshing floor with 
cow-dung and water to defend it from insects, 
piled the holcus heads into neat yellow heaps, 
spanned and crossed by streaks of various colours, 
brick-red and brownish-purple f, and stacked the 
Karbi or straw, which was surrounded like the 
grain with thorn, as a defence against the wild 
hog. All seemed to consider it a labour of love: 
the harvest-home song sounded pleasantly tjo our 
ears, and, contrasting with the silent deserl;, the 
hum of man's habitation was a music. 

Descending the steep slope, we reposed, after a 
seven miles' march, on the banks of a bright rivulet, 
which bisects the Kobbo or valley; it runs, ac¬ 
cording to ray guides, from the north towards 
Ogadayn, and the direction is significant,—^ 
about Harar I found neither hill nor stream 
trending from east to west. The people of the 

* Equally simple are the other implements. The plough, 
which in Eastern Africa has passed the limits of Egypt, is still 
the crooked tree of all primitive people, drawn by oxen; and 
the hoe is a wooden blade inserted into a knobbed handle. 

f It is afterwards stored in deep dry holes, which are care¬ 
fully covered to keep out rats and insects; thus the grain is 
preserved undamaged for three or four years* 



260 


FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 


Kutti* flocked out to gaze upon us; they were 
unarmed, and did not, like the Bedouins, receive 
us witli cries of " Bori." During the halt, we 
bathed in the waters, upon whose banks were a 
multitude of huge Mantidae, pink and tender green. 
Returning to the camels, I shot a kind of crow, 
afterwards frequently seen.f It is about three 
times the size of our English bird, of a bluish-black 
with a snow-white poll, and a beak of unnatural 
proportions: the quantity of lead which it carried 
off surprised me. A number of Widads assembled 
to greet us, and some Habr Awal, who were 
returning with a caravan, gave us the salam, and 
called my people cousins. " Verily," remarked 
the Hammal, " amongst friends wm cut one another's 
throats; amongst enemies we become sons of 
uncles! " 

At 3 p.M. we pursued our way over rising ground, 
dotted with granite blocks fantastically piled, and 
everywhere in sigh't of fields and villages and 
flowing water. A furious wind was blowing, and 

i 

* This word is applied to the cultivated districts, the gra¬ 
naries of Somali land. 

¦|- " The huge raven with gibbous or inflated beak and white 
nape," writes Mr. Blytb, " is the corvus crassirostris of Rup- 
pell, and, together with a nearly similar Cape species, is referred 
to the genus Corvultur of Lesson." 



HEAT HURTS, COLD KILLS. 261 

the End of Time quoted the Somali proverb, " heat 
hurts, but cold kills the camels were so fatigued, 
and the air became so raw*, that after an hour 
and a half's march we planted our wigwams near 
a village distant about seven miles from the 
Gurays Hills. Till late at night we were kept 
kwake by the crazy Widads: Ao Samattar had 
proposed the casuistical question, " Is it lawful to 
pray upon a mountain when a plain is at hand ? " 
Some took the pro^ others the conka^ and the 
wordy battle raged with uncommon fury. i | 
On Wednesday nibming at half ^ past seipn we 
started down hill towards " Wilensi," a small table- 
mountain, at the foot of which we expected to find 
the Gerad Adan awaiting us in one of his many 
houses, crossed a fertile valley, and ascended 
another steep slope by a bad and, stony road. 
Passing the home of Sherwa, who vainly oflfered 
hospitality, we toiled onwards, and after a mile 
and a half's march, which occupied at least two 
hours, our wayworn beasts arrived at the Gerad's 
village. On inquiry, it proved that the chief, 
who was engaged in selecting two horses and two 


* In these hills it is said sometimes to freeze; I never saw 



262 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN BAST AFRICA. 

hundred cows, the price of blood claimed by the 
Amir of Harar, for the murder of a citizen, had 
that day removed to Sagharrah, another settle¬ 
ment. 

As we entered the long straggling village of 
Wilensi, our party was divided by the Gerad's two 
wives. The Hammal, the Kalendar, Shehrazade, and 
Deenarzade, remained with Beuh and his sister in 
her Gurgi, whilst Long Guled, the End of Time, 
and I were conducted to the cottage of the Gerad's 
prettiest wife, Sudiyah. She was a tall woman, 
with a light complexion, handsomely dressed in. a 
large Harar Tobe, with silver earrings, and the 
kind of necklace called Jilbah or Kardas.* The 
Geradah (princess) at once ordered our hides to be 
spread in a comfortable part of the hut, and then 
supplied us with food — boiled beef, pumpkin, and 
Jowari cakes. During the short time spent in 
that Gambisa, I had an opportunity, dear L., of 
seeing the manners and customs of the settled 
Somal. ^ 

The interior of the cottage is simple. Entering 
the door, a single plank with pins for hinges fitted 
into sockets above and below the lintel —^ in fact, 

* It is a string of little silver bells and other ornaments 
made by the Arabs at Berberah. 



THE HOME. 


263 


as artless a contrivance as ever seen in Spain or 
Corsica — you find a space, divided by dwarf walls 
of wattle and dab into three compartments, for 
the men, women, and cattle. The horses and 
cows, tethered at night on the left of the door, 
fill the cottage with the wherewithal to pass many 
a nuit blanche: the wives lie on the right, near a 
large fireplace of stones -and raised clay, and the 
males occupy the most comfortable part, opposite 
to and farthest from the entrance. The thatched 
ceiling shines jetty with smoke, which when in¬ 
tolerable is allowed to escape by a diminuti'^e win¬ 
dow : this seldom happens, for smoke, like grease 
and dirt, keeping man warm, is enjoyed by savages. 
Equally simply is the furniture ; the stem of a tree, 
with branches hacked into pegs, supports the 
shields, the assegais are planted against the wall, 
and divers bits of wood-, projecting from the sides 
and the central roof-tree of the cottage, are hung 
with clothes and other articles that attract white 
ants. Gourds smoked inside, and cofiee cups of 
coarse black Harar pottery, with deep wooden 
platters, and prettily carved spoons of the same 
material, compose the household supellex. The 
inmates are the Geradah and her baby, Siddik a 
Galla serf, the slave girls and sundry Somal; thus 



264 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

we hear at all times three languages* spoken 
within the walls. 

_rLong before da^vn the goodwife rises, wakens 

her handmaidens, lights the fire, and prepares for 
the Afur or morning meal. The quern is here un¬ 
known f. A flat, smooth, oval slab, weighing about 
fifteen pounds, and a stone roller six inches in 
diameter, worked with both hands, and the weight 
of the body kneeling ungracefully upon it on " all 
fours," are used to triturate the holcus grain. At 
(times water must be sprinkled over the meal, 
until a finely powdered paste is ready for the oven : 
thus several hours' labour is required to prepare 
a few pounds of bread. About 6 a.m. there 
appears a substantial breakfast of roast beef and 
mutton, with scones of Jowari grain, ,the whole 
drenched in broth. Of the men few perforni any 
ablutions, but all use the tooth stick before sitting 
down to eat. After the meal some squat in the 
sun, others transact business, and drive their cattle 
to the bush till 11 A.M., the dinner hour. There 
> • , 

* Harari, Somali and Galla, besides Arabic, and other more 
civilized dialects. 

t The Negroes of Senegal and the Hottentots use wooden 
mortars. At Natal and amongst the Amazulu Kafirs, the work 
is done with slabs and rollers like those described above. 



BEER. 


265 


is no variety in tlie repasts, wHich are always flesh 
and holcus; these people despise fowls, and con¬ 
sider vegetables food for cattle. During the day 
there is no privacy; men, women, and children 
enter in crowds, and will not be driven away by 
the Geradah, who inquires screamingly if they 
come to stare at a baboon. My kettle especially 
" excites their surprise; some opine that it is an 
ostrich, others, a; serpent: Sudiyah, however, soon 
discovered its use, and begged irresistibly for the 
unique article. Throughout the day her ^lave 
girls are busied in grinding, cooking, and quqi-rel- 
ling with dissonant voices: the men have little 
occupation beyond chewing tobacco, chatting, 
and having their wigs frizzled by a professional 
coifieur. In the evening the horses and cattle 
return home to be milked and stabled: this opera¬ 
tion concluded, all apply themselves to supper with 
a will. They sleep but little, and sit deep into 
the night trimming the fire, and conversing merrily 
over their cups of Farshu or millet beer.* I tried 
. this mixture several times, and found it detestable: 

• In the Eastern World this well-known fermentation is 
generally called "Buzah," whence the old German word "bii- 
sen" and our "booze." The addition of a dose of'garlic converts 
it into an emetic. 



266 riKST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

the taste is sour, and it flies directly to the head, 
in consequence of being mixed with some poisonous 
bark. It is served up in gourd bottles upon a 
basket of holcus heads, and strained through a. 
pledget of cotton, fixed across the narrow mouth, 
into cups of the same primitive material; the 
drinkers sit around their liquor, and their hilarity 
argues its intoxicating properties. In the morn¬ 
ing they arise with headaches and heavy eyes; 

' but these symptoms, which we, an industrious race, 
deprecate, are not disliked by the Somal — they 
promote sleep and give something to occupy the 
vacant mind. I usually slumber through the noise 
except when Ambar, a half-caste Somal, returning 
from a trip to Harar, astounds us with his contes 
hlem, or wild Abtidon howls forth some lay like 
this: — 


I. 

" 'Tis joyesse all in Eesa's home! 

The fatted ox4n bleed, 

And slave girls range the pails of milk, 
And strain the golden mead. 


II. 

" 'Tis joyesse all in Eesa's home! 

This day the Chieftain's pride 
Shall join the song, the dance, the feast, 
And bear away a bride. 



ABTIDON^S SONG. 


267 


ni. 

««He Cometh not! ' the father cried, 
Smiting with spear the wall; 

< And yet he sent the ghostly man, 
Yestre'en before the fall! ' 

IV. 

«< He cometh not! * the mother said, 
A tear stood in her eye; 

* He cometh not, I dread, I dread. 
And yet I know not why.* 


T. 

< He cometh not! * the maiden thought. 
Yet in her glance was light. 

Soft as the flash in summer's eve 
Where sky and earth unite. 


VI. 

'' The virgins, deck'd with tress and flower. 
Danced in the purple shade, 

And not a soul, perchance, but wished 
Herself the chosen maid. 


vn. 

The guests in groups sat gathering 
* Where sunbeams warmed the air. 

Some laughed thp feasters' laugh, and some 
Wore the bent brow of care. 


vin. 

'Tis he!—*tis he! " — all anxious peer^ 
Towards the distant lea; 

A courser feebly nears the throng — 
Ah! 'tis his steed they see. 



268 


FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA, 


IX. 

" The grief cry bursts from every lip, 

Fear sits on every brow, 

There's blood upon the courser's flank! — 
Blood on the saddle bow! 


X, 

" ' 'Tis he ! —His he ! * — all arm and run 
Towards the Marar Plain, 

Where a dark horseman rides the waste 
With dust' cloud for a train. 


XI. 

The horseman reins his foam-fleckt steed, 
Leans on his broken spear. 

Wipes his damp brow, and faint begins 
To tell a tale of fear. 


xn. 

««Where is my son ? ' —' Go seek him there, 
Far on the Marar Plain, 

Where vultures and hygenas hold 
Their orgies o'er the slain. 


xni. 


' We took our arms, we saddled horse, 

^ We rode the Ea^t countrie. 

And drove the flocks, ai^d harried herds 
Betwixt the hills and sea. 


XIV. 

«< We drove the flock across the hill, 
The herd across the wold — 

The poorest spearboy had returned ' 
That day, a man of gold. 



abtidon's song. 


269 


XV, 

«< But AwaVs children manned the vale 
Where sweet the Arman flowers, 

Their archers from each bush and tree 
Rained shafts in venomed showers, 

XVI, 

« <Full fifty warriors bold and true 
Fell as becomes the brave ; 

And whom the arrow spared, the spear 
Reaped for the ravening grave, 

XVIT. 

« < Friend of my youth! shall I remain 
When ye are gone before ? ' 

He drew the wood from out his side, 

And loosed the crimson gore, 

xvin. 

Falling, he raised his broken spear. 

Thrice wav'd it o'er his head. 

Thrice raised the warrior's cry ' revenge! ' — 
His soul was with the dead. 

XIX, 

" Now, pne by one, the wounded braves 
Homeward were seen to wend, 

Each holding on his saddle bow * 

A dead or dying friend. 


XX. 

'' Two galliards bore the Eesa's son. 

The corpse was stark and bare — 

Low moaned the maid, the mother smote 
Her breast in mute despair. 



270 


FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA* 
xxt 

'' The father bent him o'er the dead, 

The wounds were all before; 

Again his brow, in sorrow clad. 

The g^rb of gladness wor^ 


xxn* 

^ Ho! sit ye down, nor mourn for me,* 
Unto the guests he cried j 
' My son a warrior's life hath lived, 

A warrior's death hath died* 


xxiix. 

' His wedding and his funeral feast 
Are one,-so Fate hath said; 

Death bore him from the brides of earth 
The brides of Heaven to wed.' 

XXIV. 

They drew their knives, they sat them down, 
And fed as warriors feed; 

The flesh of sheep and beeves they ate, 

And quaffed the golden mead. 

XXV. 

And Eesa sat between the prayers 
Until the fall if day, 

When rose the guests and grasped their spears. 
And each ijian went his way. 

xXvr. 

*'But in the morn arose the cry, 

For mortal .spirit flown; ^ 

The father'? mighty heart had burst 
With woe he might not own. 



abtidon's song. 


271 


xxvu. 

" On the high crest of yonder hill. 

They buried sire and son, 

Grant, Allah! grant them Paradise — 
Gentles, giy task is done! 


Immediately after our arrival at Wilensi we sent 
Yusuf Dera, the Gerad's second son, to summon 
his father. I had to compose many disputes 
between the Hammal and the End of Time: the' 
latter was swelling with importance; he was now 
accredited ambassador from the Hajj to the Girhi 


chief, consequently he aimed at commanding the 
Caravan. We then made preparations for de¬ 
parture, in case of the Gerad being unable to 
escort us. Shehrazade and Deenarzade, hearing 
that the small-pox raged at Harar, and fearing for 


their charms, begged hard to be left behind: 


the Kalendar was directed, despite his manly ob¬ 
jections, to remain in charge of these dainty dames. 
The valiant Beuh was dressed in the grand Tobe 


promised to him; as no consideration would in¬ 
duce him towards the city, he was dismissed with 


small presents, and an old Girhi Bedouin, generally 
.known as Said Wal, or Mad Said, was chosen as 


our escort. Camels being unable to travel over 
these rough mountain paths, our weary brutes were 



272 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

• 

placed for rest, and pasture under the surveillance 
of Sherwa: and not wishing the trouble and delay 
of hiring asses, the only transport in this country, 
certain moreover that our goods were safer here 
tMn nearer Harar,' we selected the most necessary 
objects, and packed them in a pair of small 
leathern saddlebags which could be carried by a 
single mule. 

AH these dispositions duly made, at 10 a.m. on 
the 29th December we mounted our animalsj and, 
guided by Mad Said, trotted round the northern 
side of the Wilensi table-mountain down a lane 
fenced with fragrant dog roses. Then began the 
descent of a steep rocky hill, the wall of a woody 
chasm, through whose gloomy depths the shrunken' 
stream of a large Fiumara wound like a thread of 
silver. The path would be safe to nought less 
surefooted than a mule: we rode slowly over foil¬ 
ing stones, steps of micaceous grit, and through 
thorny bush for about half an hour. In the plain 
below appeared a village of the Gerad's Midgans, 
who came out to see us pass, and followed the 
strangers to some distance. One happening to 
say, " Of what use is his gun ? — before he could 
fetch fire, -I should put this arrow through him! " 
I discharged a barrel over their' heads, and de- 



AO SAMATTAR. 


273 


rided the convulsions of terror caused by the un¬ 
expected sound. 

Passing onwards we entered a continuation of 
the Wady Harirah. It is a long valley choked 
with dense vegetation, through which meandered a 
line of water brightly gilt by the sun's rays: ray 
Somal remarked that were the elephants now 
infesting it destroyed, rice, the favourite luxury, 
might be grown upon its banks in abundance. 
Our road lay under clumps of shady trees,' over 
rocky watercourses, through avenues, of tall cac¬ 
tus, and down trancMes worn by man eight* apd 
ten feet below stiff banks of rich red clay. Qn 
every side appeared deep clefts, ravines, and earth 
cracks, all, at this season, dry. The unarmed cul¬ 
tivators thronged from the frequent settlements 
to stare, and my Somal, being no longer in their 
own country, laid aside for guns their ridiculous 
spears. On the way passing Ao Samattar's village, 
the worthy fellow made us halt whilst he went to 
fetch a large bowl of sour milk. About noon the 
fresh western breeze obscured the fierce sun with 


clouds, and we watered our mules in a mountain 
stream which crossed our path thrice within as 
many hundred yards. After six miles' ride reach¬ 
ing the valley's head, we began the descent of a 

T 



274 FIEST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

rugged pass by a rough and rocky path. The 
scenery around us was remarkable. The hill sides 
were well wooded, and black with pine: their 
summits were bared of earth by the heavy mon¬ 
soon which spreads the. valleys with rich soil; in 
many places the beds of waterfalls shone like, 
sheets of metal upon the black rock ; villages sur^ 
rounded by fields and fences studded the country,' 
and the distance was a mass of purple peak and 
iblue table in long vanishing succession. Ascend- 
I ing the valley's opposite wall, we found the remains 
of primasval forests,— little glades which had es¬ 
caped the axe, — they resounded with the cries of 
pintados and cynocephali.* Had the yellow crops 
of Holcus been wheat, I might have fancied myself 
once moTe riding in the pleasant neighbourhood of 
Tuscan Sienna. 

At 4'?. M., after accomplishing fifteen miles on 
rough ground, we sighted Sagharrah, a snug high- 
fenced village of eight or nine huts nestling against 
a hill side with trees above, and below a fertile 
grain-valley. Presiently Mad Said pointed out to 
us the Gerad Adan, who, attended by a little party, 
was returning homewards: we fired our guns as a 

* The Somal will not kill these plundering brutes, like the 
Western Africans believing them to be enchanted men. 



THE GERAD ADAN. 


275 


salute, he however Jiurried on to receive us with 
due ceremony in his cottage. Dismounting at the 
door we shook hands with him, were led through 
the idle mob into a smoky closet contrived against 
the inside wall, and were regaled with wheaten 
bread steeped in honey and rancid butter. The 
host left us to eat, and soon afterwards returned: 
— I looked with attention at a man upon whom so 
much then depended. 

Adan bin Kaushan was in appearance a strong 
wiry Bedouin,-^ before obtaining from me a turban 
he wore his bushy hair dyed dun, — about forty- 
five years old, at least six feet high, with decided 
features, a tricky smile, and an uncertain eye. In 
character he proved to be one of those cunning 
idiots so peculiarly difficult to deal with. Am¬ 
bitious and wild with greed of gain, he was withal 
so fickle that his head appeared ever changing its 
contents; he could not sit quiet for half an hour, 
and this physical restlessness was an outward 
sign of the uneasy inner man. Though reputed 
brave, his treachery has won him a permanent ill 
fame. Some years ago he betrothed a daughter to 
the eldest son of Gerad Hirsi of the Berteri tribe, 
and then, contrary to Somali laws of honor, 
married her to Mahommed Waiz of the Jibril 


T 2 



276 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

Abokr. This led to a feud, in which the disap¬ 
pointed suitor was slain. Adan was celebrated for 
polygamy even in Eastern Africa: by means of his 
five sons and dozen daughters, he has succeeded in 
making extensive connexions *, and his sister, the 
Gisti f Fatimah, was married to Abubakr, father 
of the present Amir. Yet the Gerad would walk 
into a crocodile's mouth as willingly as within the 
walls of Harar.. His main reason for receiving us 
I politely was an ephemeral fancy for building a fort, 
to control the country's trade, and rival or overawe 
the city. Still did he not neglect the main chance: 
whatever he saw he asked for; and, after receiv¬ 
ing a sword, a Koran, a turban, an Arab waistcoat 
of gaudy satin, about seventy Tobes, and a similar 
proportion of indigo-dyed stuflF, he privily com¬ 
plained to me that the Hammal had given him 
but twelve cloths. A list of his wants will best 
explain the man. He begged me to bring him 
from Berberah a silVer-hilted sword and some soap, 
1000 dollars, two sets of silver bracelets, twenty 
1 

? Some years ago Adan plundered one of Sharmarkay's cara¬ 
vans ; repenting the action, he offered in marriage a daughter, 
who, however, died before nuptials. ^ 

f Gisti is a,"princess" in Harari, equivalent to the Somali 
Geradah. 



THB GIRHI. 


277 


guns with powder and shot, snuff, a scarlet cloth 
coat embroidered with gold, some poison that 
would not fail, and any other little article of 
luxury which might be supposed to suit him. In 
return he was to present us with horses, mules, 
slaves, ivory, and other valuables : he forgot, how¬ 
ever, to do so before we departed. 

The Gerad Adan was powerful, being the head 
of a tribe of cultivators, not split up, like the 
Bedouins, into independent clans, and he thus 
exercises a direct influence upon the conter¬ 
minous races. * The Girhi or ^ Giraffes " 
inhabiting these hills are, like most of the other 
settled Somal, a derivation from Darud, and 
descended from Kombo.' Despite the unmerciful 
persecutions of the Gallas, they gradually migrated 
Avestwards from Makhar, their original nest, now 
number 5000 shields, possess about 180 villages. 


* They are, however, divided into clans, of which the fol¬ 
lowing are the principal: —- 

1. Bahawiyah, the race which supplies the Gerads. 

2. Abu Tunis (divided into ten septs). 

3. Ker Ibrahim (similarly divided). 

4. Jibril, 8. Rer Auro. 

5. Bakasiyya. 9. Rer Walembo. 

6. Rer Mahmud. 10. Rer Khalid. 

7. Musa Dar. 



278. riKST FOOTSTEPS IN'EAST AFKICA. 

and are accounted the power paramount. Though 
friendly with the Habr Awal, the Girhi seldom 
descend, unless compelled by want of pasture, into 
the plains. 

The other inhabitants of these hills are the 
Gallas and the Somali clans of Berteri, Bursuk, 
Shaykhash, Hawiyah, Usbayhan, Marayhan, and 
Abaskul. 

The Gallas * about Harar are divided into four 
I several clans, separating as usual into a multitude 
of septs. The Alo extend westwards, from the 
city: the Nole inhabit the land to the east and 
north-east, about two days' journey between the 
Eesa Somal, and Harar: on the south, are situated 
the Babuliand the Jarsaat Wilensi, Sagharrah, and 
Kondura,— places described in these pages. 

The Berteri, who occupy the Gurays Range, 
south of, and limitrophe to, the Gallas, and thence 
extend eastward to the Jigjiga hills, are estimated 
at 3000 shields.f Of Darud origin, they own 
allegiance to the Gerad Hirsi, and were, when I 
visited the country, on bad terms with the Girhi. 

* I do not describe these people, the task having already been 
performed by many abler pens than mine. 

I They are divided into the Bah Amtaro (the chiefs family) 
and the Shaykhashed. 



THE GERAD HIBSI. 


279 


The chief's family has, for several generations, 
been connected with the Amirs of Harar, and the 
caravan's route to and from Berberah lying through 
his country, makes him a useful friend and a 
dangerous foe. About the Gerad Hirsi different 
reports were rife: some described him as cruel, 
violent, and avaricious; others spoke of him as a 
godly and a prayerful person: all, however, agreed 
that he had sowed wild oats. In token of re¬ 
pentance, he was fond of feeding Widads, and the 
Shaykh Jami of Harar was a frequent guest at 
his kraal. 

The Bursuk number about 5000 shields, own 
no chief, and in 1854 were at war with the Girhi, 
the Berteri, and especially the Gallas. In this 
country, the feuds differ from those of the plains: 
the hill-men fight for three days, as the End of 
Time phrased it, and make peace for three days. 
The maritime clans are not so abrupt in their 
changes; moreover they claim blood-money, a 
thing here unknown. 

The Shaykhash, or " Reverend " as the term 
means, are the only Somal of the mountains not 
derived from Dir and Darud. Claiming descent 
from the' Caliph Abubakr, they assert that ten 
generations ago, one Ao Khutab bin Fakih Umar 



280 riEST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

crossed over from El Hejaz, and settled in Eastern 
Africa with his six sons, Umar the greater, Umar 
the less, two Abdillahs, Ahmed, and lastly Siddik. 
This priestly tribe is dispersed, like that of Levi, 
amongst its brethren, and has spread from Efat 
to Ogadayn. Its principal sub-families are, Ao 
Umar, the elder, and Bah Dumma, the junior, 
branch. 

The Hawiyah has been noticed in a previous 
chapter. Of the Usbayhan I saw but few indi¬ 
viduals: they informed me that their tribe 
numbered forty villages, and about 1000 shields; 
that they had no chief of their own race, but owned 
the rule of the Girhi and Berteri Gerads. Their 
principal clans are the Her Yusuf, Rer Said, Rer 
Abokr, and Yusuf Liyo. 

In the Eastern Horn of Africa, and at- Ogadayn, 
the Marayhan is a powerful tribe, here it is un- 
consequential, and affiliated to the Girhi. The 
Ahaskul also lies scattered over the Harar hills, 
and owns the Gerad Adan as its chief. This tribe 
numbers fourteen l villages, and between 400 and 
500 shields, and is divided into the Rer Yusuf, the 
Jibrailah, and the Warra Dig: — the latter clan is 
said to be of Galla extraction. | 

On the morning after my arrival at Sagharrah 



ILLNESS. 


281 


I felt too ill to rise, and .was treated with unaffected 
kindness by all the establishment. The Gerad 
sent to Harar for millet beer, Ao Samattar went 
to the gardens in search of Kat, the sons Yusuf 
Dera and a dwarf* insisted upon firing me with 
such ardour, that no refusal could avail: and 
Khayrah the wife, with her daughters, two tall 
dark, smiling, and well-favoured girls of thirteen 
and fifteen, sacrificed a sheep as my Fida, or Expia¬ 
tory offering. Even the Galla Christians, who 
flocked to see the stranger, wept for the evil fate 
which had brought him so far from his fatheriand, 
to die under a tree. Nothing, indeed, would have 
been easier than such operation : all required was 
the turning face to the wall, for four or five days. 
But to expire of an ignoble colic! — the thing 
was not to be thought of, and a firm resolution to 
live on sometimes, me thinks, effects its object. 

On the 1st January, 1855, feeling stronger, I 
clothed myself in my Arab best, and asked a 
palaver with the Gerad. We retired to a safe 
place behind the village, where I re&d with 
pomposity the Hajj Sharmarkay's letter. The 

* The only specimen of stunted humanity seen by me in the 
Somali country. He was about eighteen years old, and looked 
ten. 



282 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN HAST AFRICA. 

chief appeared« much pleased by our. havtng 
preferred his country to that of the Eesa: he at 
once opened the subject* of the^.new fort, and 
informed me that I wasjdie builder,.^as hiS eldest 
daughter had just dreSmed that the stranger 
•would settle in the lapd. Having discussed the 
project to the Gerad's satisfaction, •vve brought out 
the guns and shot a few birds for the benefit of. 
the vulgar. Whilst engaged in this occupation, 
appeared a party of-five strangers, and three mules 
with ornamented Morocco saddles, bridles, bells, 
and brass neck ornaments, after* the fashion of 
Harar. Two of these men, Haji Umar, and Nur 
Ambar, were citizens: the others, Ali Hasan, Hu- 

I ^ 

sayn Aral eh, and Haji Mohammed, were Spmal 
of the JHabr Awal tribe, high in the Amir's 
confidence. They had been sent to settlp with 
Adan the weighty matter of Blood-money. After 
sitting with us almost |half an hour, during which 
they exchanged grave salutations with my attend¬ 
ants, inspected our passes with portentous counte¬ 
nances, and asked me a few questions concerning 
my business in those parts, they wept privily to the 
Gerad, told him that the Arab was not one who 
bought and sold, that he had no design but to spy 
out the wealth of the land, and that the whole 



283 


" PA¥ER ^D'aUDACB." 

pa?ty should be sent? prisoners in their hands to 
Harar. The chief eurtly replie'd^hat we were his 
friends^ and bade them, ."'throw far those words." 
Disappdintedin their designs, they started late in 
the afternoon, driving off* their 200 cows, and 
fajsefy'*promising to present our salams to the 
^mir. 

It became evident that some decided step must 
bo taken. The Gerad confessed fear of his Harari 
kinsman, and owned that he had lost all his 
villages in the immediate neighbourhood ojf the 
city. I asked him point-blank to escort us: he 
as frankly replied that it was impossible. The 
request was lowered,—we begged him to accompany 
us as far as the frontier: he professed, inability 
to do so, but promised to send his eldest son, * 
Sherwa. 

Nothing* then remained, dear L., but payer d'au- 
dace, and, throwing all forethought to the dogs, to 
rely upon what has made many a small man 
great, the good star. I addressed my companions in 
a set speech, advising a mount without delay. They 
suggested a letter to the Amir, requesting per¬ 
mission to enter his city: this device was rejected 
for two reasons. In the first place, had a refusal 
been returned, our journey was cut short, and 



284 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

our labours stultified. Secondly, the End of Time 

* • 

had whispered that my two companions were 
plotting to prevent the letter reaching its desti¬ 
nation. He had charged his own sin upon their 
shoulders: the Hammal and Long Guled were 
incapable of such treachery. But our hedge- 
priest was thoroughly terrified; " a coward body 
after a','' his face brightened when ordered to 
remain with the Gerad at Sagharrah, and though 
openly taunted with poltroonery, he had not the 
decency to object. My companions were then 
informed that hitherto our acts had been those 
of old women, not soldiers, and that something 
savouring of manliness must be done before we 
could return. They saw my determination to 
start alone, if necessary, and to do them justice, 
they at once arose. This was the more courageous 
in them, as alarmists had done their worst: but a 
day before, some travelling Somali had advised 
them, as they valued dear life, not to accompany 
that Turk to Har^r. Once in the saddle, they 
shook off sad thoughts, declaring that if they were 
slain, I should pay their blood-money, and if they 
escaped, that their reward was in my hands. When 
in some danger, the Hammal especially behaved 
with a sturdiness which produced the most bene- 



FATALISM. • .285 

ficial results. Yet they were true Easterns. 
Wearied by delay at Harar, I employed myself 
in meditating flight; they drily declared that 
after-Avit serves no good purpose: whilst I con* 
sidered the possibility of escape, they looked only 
a|t the prospect of being dragged back with 
pinioned arms by the Amir's guard. Such is 
generally the effect of the vulgar Moslems' blind 
fatalism. 

I then wrote an English letter * from the 
Political Agent at Aden to the Amir of ^araif, 
proposing to deliver it in person, and thrOAV off 
my disguise. Two reasons influenced me in 
adopting this " neck or nothing " plan. All the 
races amongst whom my travels lay, hold him. 
nidering who hides his origin in places of danger; 
and secondly, my white face had converted me 
into a Turk, a nation more hated and suspected 
than any Europeans, without our prestige. Before 
leaving Sagharrah, I entrusted to the End of Time 
a few lines addressed to' Lieut. Herne at Ber- 
berah, directing him how to act in case of neces- 

* At first I thought of writing it in Arabic ; but having no 
seal, a sine qua non in an Eastern letter, and reflecting upon 
the consequences of detection or even suspicion, it appeared 
more politic to come boldly forward as a European. 



286 


FIEST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 


sity. Our baggage was again decimated: the greater 
part was left with Adan, and an ass carried only 
what was absolutely necessary,—a change of clothes, 
a book or two, a few biscuits, ammunition, and a 
little tobacco. My Girhi escort consisted of 
Sherwa, the Bedouin Abtidon, and Mad Said 
mounted on the End of Time's mule. 

At 10 A.M. on the 2nd January, all the villagers 
assembled, and recited the Fatihah, consoling us 
with the information that we were dead men. By 
the worst of foot-paths, we ascended the rough 
and stony hill behind Sagharrah, through bush 
and burn and over ridges of rock. At the summit 
was a village, where Sherwa halted, declaring that 
he dared not advance : a swordsman, however, was 
sent on to guard us through the Galla Pass. After 
an hour's ride, we reached the foot'of a tall Table- 
mountain called Kondura, where our road, a goat- 
path rough with rocks or fallen trees, and here 
and there arched over with giant creepers, was 
reduced to a narrbw ledge, with a forest above 
and a forest below. I could not but admire the 
beauty of this Valombrosa, which reminded me 
of scenes whilome enjoyed in fair Touraine. High 
up on our left rose the perpendicular walls of the 
misty hill, fringed with tufted pine, and on the 



KONDUEA. 


287 


m 

right the shrub-clad folds fell into a deep valley. 
The cool wind whistled and sunbeams like golden 
shafts darted through tall shady trees — 

Bearded with moss, and in garments green — 

l^he ground was clothed with dank grass, and 
around the trunks grew thistles, daisies, and blue 
flowers which at a distance might well pass for 
violets. 

Presently we were summarily stopped by half 
a dozen Gallas attending upon one Rabal|, the 
Chief who owns the Pass.* This is the African 
style of toll-taking: the " pike " appears in the 
form of a plump of spearmen, and the gate is a 
pair of lances thrown across the road. Not with¬ 
out trouble, for they feared to depart from the 
mos majorum, we persuaded them that the ass 
carried no merchandise. Then rounding Kondura's 
northern flank, we entered the Amir's territory; 
about thirty miles distant, and separated by a 
series of blue valleys, lay a dark speck upon a 
tawny sheet of stubble — Harar.. 

Having paused for a moment to savour success, 
we began the descent. The ground was a slippery 

* It belongs, I was informed, to two clans of Gallas, who 
year by year In turn monopolise the profits. 



288 


FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 


black soil — mist ever settles upon Kondura — and 
frequent springs oozing from the rock formed beds 
of black mire. A few huge Birbisa trees, the * 
remnant of a forest still thick around the moun¬ 
tain's neck, marked out the road: they were branchy 
from stem to stem, and many had a girth of from 
twenty to twenty-five feet.* 

After an hour's ride amongst thistles, whose 
\flowers of a bright redlike worsted were not less 
than a child's head, we watered our mules at a rill 
below the slope. Then remounting, we urged 
over hill and dale, where Galla peasants were 
threshing and storing their grain with loud songs 
0^^ joy; they were easily distinguished by their 
African features, mere caricatures of the Somal, 
whose type has been Arabi'zed by repeated immi¬ 
grations from Yemen and Hadramaut. ,Late in 
the afternoon, having gained ten miles in a 
straight direction, w? passed through a! hedge of 
plantains, defending the windward side of Gafra, a 
village of Midgan$ who collect the Gerad Adan's 
grain. They shouted delight on recognising 
their old friend. Mad Said, led us to an empty 
Gambisa, swept and cleaned it, lighted a fire, turned 

* Of this tree are made the substantial doors, the basins and 
the porringers of Harar. 



TBEACHERY. 


289 


our mules into a field to graze, and went forth to 
seek food. Their hospitable thoughts, however, 
were marred by the two citizens of Harar, who 
privately threatened them with the Amir's wrath, if 
they dared to feed that Turk. 

,As evening drew on, came a message from our 
enemies, the Habr Awal, who offered, if we would 
wait till sunrise, to enter the city in our train. 
The Gerad Adan had counselled me not to provoke 
these men; so, contrary to the advice of my two 
companions, I returned a polite answer, purpor|ing 
that we would expect them till eight- o'clock the 
next morning. 

At 7 P.M., on the 3rd January, we heard that 
the treacherous Habr Awal had driven away their 
cows shortly after midnight. Seeing their hostile 
intentions, I left my journal, sketches, and other 
books in charge of an old Midgan, with directions 
that they should be forwarded to the Gerad Adan, * 
and determined to carry nothing but our arms 
and a few presents for the Amir. We saddled 
our mules, mounted and rode hurriedly along the 
edge of a picturesque chasm of tender pink granite, 
here and there obscured by luxuriant vegetation. 
In the centre, fringed with bright banks a shallow 
rill, called Doghlah, now brawls in tiny cascades. 


u 



290 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

then whirk through huge boulders towards the 
Erar River, Presently, descending by a ladder 
of rock scarcely safe even for mules, we followed 
the course of the burn, and emerging into the 
valley beneath, we pricked forwards rapidly, for 
day was wearing on, and we did not wish the Habr 
Awal to precede us. 

About noon we crossed the Erar River. The 
bed is about one hundred yards broad, and a thin 
sheet of clear, cool, and sweet water, covered with 
crystal the greater part of the sand. According 
to my guides, its course, like that of the hills, is 
southerly towards the Webbe of Ogadayri * : none, 
however, could satisfy my curiosity concerning the 
course of the only perennial stream which exists 
between Harar and the coast. 

In the lower valley, a mass of waving holcus, 
we met a multitude of Galla peasants coming from 
the city market wRh new potlids and the empty 
gourds which had contained their .butter, ghee, 
and milk: all -v^ondered aloud at the Turk, con¬ 
cerning whom they had heard many horrors. 
As we commenced another ascent appeared a 
Harar Grandee mounted upoh a handsomely ca- 

? The Webbe Shebayli or Haines River. 



THE GRANDEE. 291 

parisoned mule and attended by seven servants 
who carried gourds and skins of grain. He was 
a pale-faced senior with a white beard, dressed 
in a fine Tobe and a snowy turban with scarlet 
edges: he carried no shield, but an Abyssinian 
broadsword was slung over his left shoulder. We 
exchanged courteous salutations, and as I was 
thirsty he ordered a footman to fill a cup with 
water. Half way up the hill appeared the 200 
Girhi cows, but those traitors, the Habr .^wal, 
had, hurried onwards. Upon the summit | was 
pointed out to me the village of Elaoda: in former 
times it was a wealthy place- belonging to the 
Gerad Adan. 

At 2 P.M. we fell into a narrow fenced lane 
and halted for a few minutes near a spreading 
tree, under which sat women selling ghee and 
unspun cotton. About two miles distant on the 
crest of a hill, stood the city,—the end of my 
present travel, — a long sombre line, strikingly 
contrasting with the white-washed towns of the 
East. The spectacle, materially speaking, was a 
(lisappointment: nothing conspicuous appeared 
but two grey minarets of rude shape: many 
would have grudged exposing three lives to win 
so paltry a prize. But of all that have at- 



292 ' FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. . ¦ 

tempted, none ever succeeded in entering that 
pile of stones: the thorough-bred traveller, dear L., 
•will understand my exultation, although my t'wo 
companions exchanged glances of wonder. 

Spurring our mules we advanced at a long trot, 
when Mad Said stopped us. to recite a Fatihah 
in honor of Ao Umar' Siyad and Ao Rahmah, 
two great saints who repose, under a clump of 
trees near the road. The soil on both sides of 
the path is rich and red: masses of plantains, 
limes, and pomegranates denote the gardens, which 
are defended by a bleached cow's skull, stuck 
upon a short stick * and between them are plan¬ 
tations of coffee, bastard saffron, and the graceful 
Kat. About half a mile eastward of the town 
appears a burn called Jalah or the Coffee Water; 
the crowd crossing it did not prevent my com¬ 
panions bathing,. aud|' whilst they donned clean 
Tohes ]1- retired to tl^wayside, and sketched the 

tOWTl.'^ . 

These operations over, we resumed our way up 
a rough trancMe ridged with stone and hedged 
with tall cactus. This ascends to an open plain. 

* This scarecrow is probably a talisman. In the Saharah, 
according to Richardson, the skull of an ass averts the evil eye 
from gardens. 



APPROACHES OE HABA^t. 


• 293 


On tlie right lie the holcus fields, which reach to 
the town wall: the left is a heap of rude cemetery, 
and in front are the dark defences of Harar, with 
groups of citizens loitering about the large gate¬ 
way, and sitting.in chat near the ruined tomb of 
Ao Abdal. We arrived at 3 p.m., after riding 
alj)Out five hours, which were required to ac¬ 
complish twenty miles in a straight direction.* 
Advancing to the gate, Mad Said accosted a 
warder, known by his long wand of office, and sent 
our salams to the Amir, saying that we came from 
Aden, and, requested the honor of audience. 
Whilst he sped upon his errand, we sat at the 


* The following Is a table of our stations, directions, and 


1. From Zayla to Gudingaras * S.E, 165° 

Mile*. 

19 

2. To Euranjali - 

* - 145° 

8 

B.'To Adad ' - 

225° 

25 

4. To Damal - 

205° 

11 

5, To El Armo - 

• - 190° 

11 

6. ToJiyaf - - - 202° 

7. To Halimalah (the Holy Tree 

10 

about half way) 

1 

1 

o 

7 

— 91 mileSk 

8. To Aububah - 

245° 

21 

9. To Koralay - 

165° 

25 

10. To Harar 

260° 

65 

— Ill miles. 


Total statute miles 202 




294 .. FIRST .FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

foot of a round bastion, and were scrutinised,, 
.derided, and catechized by.-the^ curious of J)otlr 
sexes, especially' that conventionally .termed 
the fair. The 4hree Habr Awal presently ap¬ 
proached and scowlingly inquired- why we had 
not apprised them of our intention to. ehter the 
city. It was now "war to the krdfe"-r-we did 
not deign a reply.. 




i 








295 


CHAP. VIII. 

TEN DAYS AT HABAB. 

After WB.iting half an hour at the gate, we were 
told by the returned warder to pass the threshold, 
and remounting guided our mules along the main 
street, a narrow up-hill lane, with rocks cropping 
out from a surface more irregular than a Perote 
pavement. Long Guled had given his animal 
into the hands of our two Bedouins : they did not 
appear till after our audience, when they informed 
us that the people at the entrance had advised 
them to escape with the beasts, an evil fate having 
been prepared for the proprietors. 

Arrived within a hundred yards of the gate of 
holcus-stalks, which opens into the courtyard of 
this African St. James, our guide, a blear-eyed, 
surly-faced, angry-voiced fellow, made signs —¦ 
none of us understanding his Harari — to dis¬ 
mount. We did so. He then began to trot, and 

O 4 



296 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

roared out apparently that we must do the same. 
We looked at one another, the Hammal swore that 
he would perish foully rather than obey, and — 
conceive, dear L., the idea of a petticoated pilgrim 
venerable as to beard and turban breaking into 
a long " double! " — I expressed much the same 
sentiment. Xeading our mules leisurely, in spite 
of the guide's wrath, we entered the gate, strode 
down the yard, and were placed under a tree in its 
left corner, close to a low building of rough stone, 
which the clanking of frequent fetters argued to 
be a state-prison. 

This part of the court was crowded with Gallas, 
some lounging about, others squatting in the shade 
under the palace walls. The chiefs were known by 
their zinc armlets, composed of thin spiral circlets, 
closely joined, and extending in mass from the 
wrist almost to the elbow: all appeared to enjoy 
peculiar privileges,—^they carried their long spears, 
wore their sandals, and walked leisurely about the 
royal precincts. A dela^ of half an hour, during 

* The Asbantees at customs' time run across the royal 
threshold to escape being seized and sacrificed; possibly the 
trace of the pagan rite is still preserved by Moslem Harar, 
%Yhere it is now held a mark of respect and always exacted from 
the citizens* 



THE PALACE COURT. 


297 


which state-affairs were being transacted within, 
gave me time to inspect a place of which so many 
and such different accounts are current. The 
palace itself is, as Clapperton describes the Fellatah 
Sultan's state-hall, a mere shed^ a long, single- 
storied, windowless barn of rough stone and 
reddish clay, with no other insignia but a thin 
coat of whitewash over the door. This is the royal 
and vizierial distinction at Harar, where no lesser 
man may stucco the walls of his house. The 
courtyard was about eighty yards long by thirjy 
in breath, irregularly shaped, and surrounded by 
low buildings: in the centre, opposite the outer 
entrance, was a circle of masonry against which 
were propped divers doors.* 

Presently the blear-eyed guide with the angry 
voice returned from within, released us from the 
importunities of certain forward and inquisitive 
youth, and motioned us to doff our slippers at 
a stone step, or rather line, about twelve feet distant 

• I afterwards learned that when a nian neglects a summons 
his door is removed to the royal court-yard on the first day; 
on the second, it is confiscated. The door is a valuable and 
venerable article in this part of Africa. According to Bruce, 
Ptolemy Euergetes engraved it upon the Axum Obelisk for the 
benefit of his newly conquered .Ethiopian subjects, to whom 
it had been unknown. 



298 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

from the palace-wall. We grumbled that we were 
not entering a mosque, but in vain. Then ensued 
a long dispute, in tongues mutually unintelligible, 
about giving up our weapons: by dint of obstinacy 
we retained our daggers and my revolver. The 
guide raised a door curtain, suggested a bow, and 
I stood in the presence of the dreaded chief. 

The Amir, or, as he styles himself, the Sultan 
Ahmad bin Sultan Abibakr, sat in a dark room 
.with whitewashed walls, to*which hung — signi¬ 
ficant decorations-—rusty matchlocks and polished 
fetters. His appearance was that of a little Indian 
Rajah, an etiolated youth twenty-four or twenty- 
five years old, plain and thin-bearded, with a yellow 
complexion, wrinkled brows and protruding eyes. 
His# dress was a flowing robe of crimson cloth, 
edged with snowy fur, and a narrow white turban 
tightly twisted round a tall conical cap of red 
velvet, like the old Turkish headgear of our 
painters. His throne was a common Indian Kursi, 
or raised cot, about fivp feet long, with back and 
sides supported by a. dwarf railing: being an 
invalid he rested his elbow upon a pillow, under 
which appeared the hilt of a Cutch sabre. Ranged 
in double line, perpendicular to the Amir, stood 



THE AUDIEHCE. 299 

the " court," his cousins and nearest relations, with 
right arms bared after fashion of Abyssinia. 

I entered the room with a loud " Peace be upon 
ye! " to which H, H. replying graciously, and 
extending a hand, bony and yellow as a kite's claw, 
snapped his thumb and middle finger. Two cham* 
berlains stepping forward, held my forearms, and 
assisted me to bend low over the fingers, which 
however I did not kiss, being naturally averse 
to performing that operation upon any but a. 
woman's hand. My two servants then took thrar 
turn; in this case, after the back was saluted, the 
palm was presented for a repetition.* These pre¬ 
liminaries concluded, we were led to and seated 
upon a mat in front of the Amir, who directed to¬ 
wards us. a frowning brow and an inquisitive eye. 

Some inquiries were made about the chief's 
health: he shook his head captiously, and in¬ 
quired our errand. I drew from my pocket my 
own letter: it was carried by a chamberlain, 
with hands veiled in his Tobe, to the Amir, who 
after a brief glance laid it upon the couch, and 
demanded further explanation. I then represented 
in Arabic that we had come from Aden, bearing 

• In Abyssinia, according to the Lord of Geesh, this is a 
mark of royal familiarity and confidence. 



300 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

the compliments of our Daulah or governor, and 
that we had entered Harar to see the light of 
H. H.'s countenance: this information concluded 
with a little speech, describing the changes of. 
Political Agents in Arabia, and alluding to the 
friendship formerly existing between the English 
and the deceased chief Abubakr. 

The Amir smiled graciously. 

This smile I must own, dear L., was a relief. 
.We had been prepared for the worst, and the 
aspect of affairs in fhe palace was by no means re* 
assuring. 

Whispering to his Treasurer, a little ugly man 
with a badly shaven head, coarse features, pug 
nose, angry eyes, and stubby beard, the Amir made 
a sign for us to retire. The baise main was re¬ 
peated, and we backed out of the audience-shed in 
high favour. According to grandiloquent Bruce, 
" the Court of London and that of Abyssinia are, in 
their principles, one: " the loiterers in the Harar 
palace yard, who had before regarded us with cut¬ 
throat looks, now smiled as though they loved us. 
Marshalled by the guard, we issued from the pre¬ 
cincts, and after walking a hundred yards entered 
the Amir's second palace, which we were told to 
consider our home. There we found the Bedouins, 

I 



I VISIT THE VIZIER. 


301 


who, scarcely believing that we had escaped alive, 
grinned in the joy of their hearts, and we were at 
once provided from the chiefs kitchen with a dish 
of Shabta, holcus cakes soaked in sour milk, and 
thickly powdered with red pepper, the salt of this 
inland region. 

When we had eaten, the treasurer reappeared, 
bearing the Amir's command, that we should call 
upon his Wazir, the Gerad Mohammed. Resuming 
our peregrinations, we entered an abode distin¬ 
guished by its external streak of chunam, and jn 
a small room on the ground floor, cleanly white¬ 
washed and adorned, like an old English kitchen, 
with varnished wooden porringers of various sizes, 
we found a venerable old man whose benevolent 
countenance belied the reports current about him 
in Somali-land.* Half rising, although his 

^ About seven years ago the Hajj Sharmarkay of Zayla 
chose os his agent at Harar, one of the Amir's officers, a certain 
Hajj Jamitay. When this man died Sharmarkay demanded an 
account from his sons ; at Berberah they promised to give it, 
but returning to Harar they were persuaded, it is believed, by 
the Gerad Mohammed, to forget their word. Upon this Shar- 
markay's friends and relations, incited by one Husayn, a Somali 
who had lived many years at Harar in the Amir's favour, wrote 
an insulting letter to the Gerad, beginning with, " No peace be 
upon thee, and no blessings of Allah, thou butcher I son of a 
butcher &c. &c»! " and concluding with a threat to pinion him 



302 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

wrinkled brow showed suffering, he seated me by 
his side upon the carpeted 'masonry-bench, where 
lay the implements of his craft, reeds, inkstands 
and whitewashed boards for paper, politely 
welcomed me, and gravely stroking his cotton^ 
coloured beard, desired my object in good Arabic. 

I replied almost in the words used to the Amir; 
adding however some details how in the old day 
one Madar Farih had been charged by the late 
Sultan Abubakr with a present to the governor 
of Aden, and that it was the wish of our people to 
reestablish friendly relations arid commercial 
intercourse with Harar. 

" Kha5'r inshallah !.—it is well if Allah please ! " 
ejaculated the Gerad: I then bent over his hand, 
and took leave. 

in the market-place as a warning to men. Husayn carried 
the letter, which at first excited general terror ; when, however, 
the attack did not take place, the Amir Abubakr imprisoned the 
imprudent Somali till he died. Isharmarkay by way of reprisals 
persuaded Alu, son of Sahlah Salaseh, king of Shoa, to seize 
about three hundred Harari^citizens living in his dominions and 
to keep them two years in durance. 

The Amir Abubakr is said on his deathbed to have warned 
his son against the Gerad. When Ahmad reported his father's 
decease to Zayla, the Hajj Sliarraarkay ordered a grand Maulid 
or Mass in honour of the departed. Since that time, however, 
there has been little intercourse and no cordiality between them. 



BED-TIME, REFLECTIONS. 303 

f 

Returning we inquired anxiously of the 
treasurer about my servants' arms which had not 
been returned, and were assured that they had 
been placed in the safest of store-houses, the palace. 
I then sent a common six-barrelled revolver as a 
present to the Amir, explaining its use to the 
bearer, and we prepared to make ourselves as 
comfortable as possible. The interior of our new 
house was a clean room, with plain walls, and a 
floor of tamped earth; opposite the entrance 
were two broad steps of masonry, raised abojit 
two feet, and a yard above the ground, and cover|bd 
with hard matting. I contrived to make upon the 
higher ledge a bed with the cushions which my 
companions used as shabracques, and, after seeing 
the mules fed and tethered, lay down to rest worn 
out by fatigue and profoundly impressed with the 
poesie of our position. I was under the roof of a 
bigoted prince whose least word was death; 
amongst a people who detest foreigners ; the 
only European that had ever passed over their 
inhospitable threshold, and the fated instrument 
of their future downfall. 

• » • • • * ^ • • 

I now proceed to a description of unknown 
Harar. 



304 


PIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 


The ancient capital of Hadiyah, called by the 
citizens " Harar Gay,"* by the Soinal " Adari,". 
by the Gallas "Adaray" and by the Arabs and our¬ 
selves " Harar," f lies, according to my dead reckon¬ 
ing, 220" S.W. of, and 175 statute miles from, 
Zayla — 257" W. of, and 219 miles distant from, 
Berberah. This would place it in 9" 20' N. lat. 
and 42° 17' E. long. The thermometer showed 
an altitude of about 5,500 feet above the level of 
the sea.J Its site is the slope of an hill which 
falls gently from west to east. On the eastern 
side are cultivated fields; westwards a terraced 
ridge is laid out in orchards; northwards is a de¬ 
tached eminence covered with tombs; and to the 
south, the city declines .into a low valley bisected 
by a mountain burn. This irregular position is 
well sheltered from high winds, especially on the 
northern-side, by the range of which Kondura is 

* Thus M* Isenberg (Preface to -k.mbaric Grammar, p. iv.) 
calls the city Harrar or Ararge. 

f " Harar," is not an uncommop name in this part of Eastern 
Africa: according to some, the city is so called from a kind of 
tree, according to others, from the valley below it. 

f I say about: we were compelled to boil our thermometers 
at Wilehsi, not venturing upon such operation within the 
city. 



CLIMATE OP HAEAR. 


305 


the lofty apex; hence, as the Persian poet sings of 
a heaven-favoured city,— 

Its heat is not hot^ nor its cold, cold." 

During my short residence the air reminded me 
of Tuscany. On the afternoon of the 11th 
Jpuuary there was thunder accompanied by rain : 
frequent showers fell on the 12 th, and the morning 
of the 13th was clear; but, as we crossed the 
mountains, black clouds obscured the heavens. 
The monsoon is heavy during one summer month; 
before it begins the crops are planted, and th^y 
are reaped in December and January. At other 
seasons the air is dry, mild, and equable. 

The province of Hadiyah is mentioned by Ma- 
krizi as one of the seven members of the Zayla 
Empire*, founded by Arab invaders, who in the 
7th century of our sera conquered and colonised 
the low tract between the Eed Sea and the High¬ 
lands. Moslem Harar exercised a pernicious in¬ 
fluence upon the fortunes of Christian Abyssinia, f 

* The other six were Efat, Arabini, Duaro, Sharka, Bali and 
Darah. ' 

f A circumstantial account of the Jihad or Moslem crusades 
is, I am told, given in the Fath el Habashah, unfortunately a 
rare work. The Amir of Harar had but one volume, and the 
other is to be found at Mocha or Hudaydah. 

X 



306 


FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 


The allegiance claimed by the ^Ethiopian Em¬ 
perors from the Adel — the Dankali and ancient 
Somal — was evaded at a remote period, and the 
intractable Moslems were propitiated with rich 
presents, when they thought proper to visit the 
Christian court. The Abyssinians supplied the 
Adel with slaves, the latter returned the value in 
rock-salt, commercial intercourse united their 
interests, and from war resulted injury to both peo¬ 
ple. Nevertheless the fanatic lowlanders, propense 
to pillage and proselytizing, burned the Christian 
churches, massacred the infidels, and tortured the 
priests, until they provoked a blood feud of un¬ 
common asperity. 

In the 14th century (a.d. 1312—1342) Amda 
Sion, Emperor ofvEthiopia, tauhtea by Amano, King 
of Hadiyah, as a monarch fit only to take care of 
women, overran and plunder^ the Lowlands from 
Tegulet to the Red Sea^ The Amharas were com¬ 
manded to spare nothing that drew the breath of 
life : to fulfil a prophecy , which foretold the fall of 
El Islam, they perpetrated every kind of enormity. 

Peace followed the death of Amda Sion. In 
the reign of Zara Yakub* (a.d. 1434—1468), the 

? This prince built '' Debra Berhan," the " Hill of glory," a 
church dedicated to the Virgin Mary at Gondar. 



HISTORY OP HARAR. 


307 


flame of war was again fanned in Hadiyah by a 
Zayla princess who was slighted by the ^Ethiopian 
monarch on account of the length of her fore¬ 
teeth : the hostilities which ensued were not, how¬ 
ever, of an important nature. Boeda Mariam, the 
next occupant of the throne, passed his life in a 
constant struggle for supremacy over the Adel: 
on his death-bed he caused himself to be so placed 
that his face looked towards those lowlands, upon 
whose subjugation the . energies of ten years had 
been vainly expended. 

At the close of the 15 th century, Mahft^, a 
bigoted Moslem, inflicted a deadly blow upon 
Abyssinia. Vowing that he would annually spend 
the forty days of Lent amongst his infidel neigh¬ 
bours, when, weakened by rigorous fasts, they 
were less capable of bearing arms, for thirty suc¬ 
cessive years he burned churches and monasteries, 
slew without mercy every male that fell in his way, 
and driving off the women and children,' he sold 
some to strange slavers, and presented others 
to the Sherifs of Mecca. He bought over Za 
Salasah, commander in chief of the Emperor's 
body guard, and caused the assassination of Alex¬ 
ander (a.d. 1478—1495) at the ancient capital 



308 FIBST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

Tegulet. Naud, the successor, obtained some tran¬ 
sient advantages over the Moslems. During the 
earlier reign of the next emperor, David III. son 
of Naud *, who being but eleven years old when 
called to the throne, was placed under the guar¬ 
dianship of his mother the Iteghe. Helena, new 
combatants and new instruments of warfare ap¬ 
peared on both sides in the field. 

After the conquest of Egypt and Arabia by 
Selim I. (a. D. 1516) f the caravans of Abys¬ 
sinian pilgrims travelling to Jerusalem were at¬ 
tacked, the old Were butchered and the young 
were swept into slavery. Many Arabian mer¬ 
chants fled from Turkish violence and injustice, 
to the opposite coast of Africa, whereupon the 
Ottomans took possession from Aden of Zayla, 
and not only laid the Indian trade under heavy 
contributions by means of th^ir war-galleys, but 
threatened the total destruction of Abyssinia. 
They aided and encouraged Mahfuz to continue 
his depredations, whilst the Sherif of Meccah gave 
him command of Zayla, the key of the upper 

? A prince of many titles: he is generally called Wanag 
Suggud, ''feared amongst the lions," because he spent the latter 
y; 0 ars of his life in the wild* 

I Yemen submitted to Suleyman Pasha in A, d. 1538. 



HISTORY OF HABAR. 


309 


country, and presented him with the green banner 
of a Crusader. 

On the other hand, the great Albuquerque at the 
same time (a.d., 1508—1515) was viceroy of 
India, and to him the Iteghe Helena applied for 
aid. Her ambassador arrived at Goa, " bearing 
a fragment of wood belonging to the true cross 
on which Christ died," which relic had been sent 
as a token of friendship to her brother Emanuel 
by the empress of Jithiopia. The overture was 
followed by the arrival at Masawwah of an | em¬ 
bassy from the king of Portugal. Too prLud, 
however, to await foreign aid, David at the age 
of sixteen took the field in person against the 
Moslems. 

During the battle that ensued, Mahfuz,* the 
Goliath of the Unbelievers, was slain in single 
combat by Gabriel Andreas, a soldier of tried 
valour, who had assumed the monastic life in 
consequence of having lost the tip of his tongue 
for treasonable freedom of speech: the green 
standard was captured, and 12,000 Moslems fell. 
David followed up his success by invading the 
lowlands, and, in defiance, struck his spear through 
the door of the king of Adel. 

Harar was a mere mass of Bedouin villages 



•310 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

during the reign of Mohammed Gragne, the " left- 
handed" Attila of Adel.* Supplied with Arab 
mercenaries from Mocha, and by the Turks of 
Yemen with a body of Janissaries and a train 
of artillery, he burst into Efat and Fatigar. In 
A.D. 1528 he took possession of Shoa, overran 
Amhara, burned tho churches' and carried away 
an immense booty. The next campaign enabled 
him to winter at Begmeder :. in the following year 
he hunted the Emperor David through Tigre to 
the borders of Senaar, gave battle to the Christians 
on the banks of the Nile, and with his own hand 
killed the monk Gabriel, then an old man. Eein- 
forced by Gideon and Judith, king and queen of 
the Samen Jews, and aided by a violent famine 
which prostrated what had escaped the spear, 
he perpetrated every manner of atrocity, captured 
and burned Axum, destroyed the princes of the 
royal blood on the mountain of Amba G^sh41, and 
slew in A.D. 1540, David, third of his name and last 
eihperor of ^Ethiop^a who displayed the magnifi¬ 
cence of " King of Kings." 

• " Gragne," or in the Somali dialect " Guray," means a left- 
handed man ; Father Lobo errs in translating it " the Lame." 

¦f This exploit has been erroneously attributed to Nur, the 
successor of Mohammed. 



HISTORY OP HARAR. 


311 


Claudius, the successor to the tottering throne, 
sent as his ambassador to Europe, one John Ber¬ 
mudez, a Portuguese, who had been detained in 
Abyssinia, and promised, it is said, submission 
to the- Pontiff of Rome, and the cession of the 
third of his dominions in return for reinforce- 
ihents. By order of John III., Don Stephen and 
Don Christopher, sons of Don Vasco de Gama, 
cruised up the Red Sea. with a powerful flotilla, 
and the younger brother, landing at Masawwah 
with 400 musqueteers, slew Nur the governoij and 
sent his head to Gondar, where the Iteghe jSabel 
Wenghel received it as an omen of good fortune. 
Thence the Portuguese general imprudently 
marched in the monsoon season, and was soon 
confronted upon the plain of Ballut by Mo¬ 
hammed Gragne at. the head of 10,000 spear¬ 
men and a host of cavalry. On the other side 
stood a rabble rout of Abyssinians, and a little 
band of 350 Portuguese heroes headed by the 
•most chivalrous soldier of a chivalrous age. 

According to Father Jerome Lobo *, who heard 

* This reverend Jesuit was commissioned in a. d- 1622, by 
the Count de Vidigueira, Viceroy of the Indies, to discover 
where his relative Don Christopher was buried, and to procure 
some of the relics. Assisted by the son in law of the Abys- 



312 J-lEST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

the events from an eye-witness, a conference took 
place between the two captains. Mohammed, en¬ 
camped in a commanding position, sent a message 
to Don Christopher informing him that the trea¬ 
cherous Abyssinians had imposed upon the king 
of Portugal, and that in compassion of his oppo¬ 
nent's youth, he would give him and his men free 
passage and supplies to their own country. The 
Christian presented the Moslem ambassador with a 
rich robe, and returned this gallant answer, that 
" he and his fellow-soldiers were come with an 
intention to drive Mohammed out of these coun¬ 
tries which he had wrongfully usurped; that his 
present design was, instead of returning back 


sinian Emperor, Lobo marched with an army through the 
Gallas, found the martyr's teeth and lower jaw, his arms and a 
picture of the Holy Virgin which he always carried about him. 
The precious remains were forwarded to Goa. 

I love the style of this old father, so unjustly depreciated by 
our writers, and called ignolant peasant and liar by Bruce, be¬ 
cause he claimed for his fellow countrymen the honor of having 
discovered the Coy Fountains, The Nemesis who never sleepy 
punished Bruce by the justest of retributions. His pompous 
and inflated style, his uncommon arrogance, and over-weening 
vanity, his aflfectation of pedantry, his many errors and mis¬ 
representations, aroused against'him a spirit which embittered 
the last years of his life. It is now the fashion to laud Bruce, 
and to pity his misfortunes. I cannot but think that he de¬ 
served them. 



HISTORY OF HARAR. 


313 


the way he came, as Mohammed advised, to open 
himself a passage through the country of his 
enemies; that Mohammed should rather think of 
determining whether he would fight or yield up 
his ill-gotten territories than of prescribing mea¬ 
sures to him; that he put his whole confidence 
ih the omnipotence of God, and the justice of 
his cause; and that to show how full a sense he 
had of Mohammed's kindness, he took the liberty 
of presenting him with a looking-glass and a pair 
of pincers." ^ 

The answer and the present so provoked the Adel 
Monarch that he arose from table to attack 
the little troop of Portuguese, posted upon 
the declivity of a hill near a wood. Above them 
stood the Abyssinians, who resolved to remain 
quiet spectators of the battle, and to declare them¬ 
selves on the side favoured by victory. 

Mohammed began the assault with only ten 
horsemen, against whom an equal number of Por- 
.tuguese were detached: these fired with so much 
exactness that nine of the Moors fell and the 
king was wounded in the leg by Peter de Sa. 
In the meMe which ensued, the Moslems, dismayed 
by their first failure, were soon broken by the Por¬ 
tuguese muskets and artillery. Mohammed pre- 



314 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

. served his life with difficulty, he however rallied 
his men, and entrenched himself at a strong place 
called Membret (Mamrat), intending to winter 
there and await succour. 

. The Portuguese, more desirous of glory than 
wealth, pursued their enemies, hoping to cut them 
entirely off: finding, however, the camp impreg- 
nable, they entrenched themselves on a hill over 
against it. Their little host diminished day by 
day, their friends at Masawwah could not reinforce 
them, they knew not how to procure provisions, 
and could not de'pend upon their Abyssinian allies. 
Yet memorious of their countrymen's great deeds, 
and depending upon divine protection, they made 
no doubt of surmounting all difficulties. 

Mohammed on his part was not idle. He soli¬ 
cited the assistance of the Moslem princes, and 
by inflaming their religious zeal, obtained a rein¬ 
forcement of 2000 musqueteers from the Arabs, 
and a train of artillery from the Turks of Yemen. 
Animated by thes^ succours, he marched out 
of his trenches to enter those of the Portuguese, 
who received him with the utmost bravery, de¬ 
stroyed many of his men, and made frequent 
sallies, not, however, without sustaining consider¬ 
able losses. 



HISTORY OF HARAR. 


315 


Don Christopher had already one arm broken 
and a knee shattered by a musket shot. Valour 
was at length oppressed by superiority of num¬ 
bers : the enemy entered the camp, and put the 
Christians to the spear. The Portuguese general 
escaped the slaughter with ten men, and retreated 
to a wood, where they were discovered by a detach¬ 
ment of the enemy.* Mohammed, oveijoyed to 
see his most formidable enemy in his power, or¬ 
dered Don Christopher to take care of a wounded 
uncle and nephew, telling him that he should 
answer for their lives, and upon their deith, 
taxed him with having hastened it. The Por¬ 
tuguese roundly replied that he was come to de¬ 
stroy Moslems, not to save them. Enraged at 
this language, Mohammed placed a stone upon 
his captive's head, and exposed him to the insults 

* Bruce, followed by most of our modern authors, relates a cir¬ 
cumstantial and romantic story of the betrayal of Don Christo¬ 
pher by his mistress, a Turkish lady of uncommon beauty, who 
had been made prisoner. 

The more truth-like pages of Father Lobo record no such 
silly scandal against the memory of the ** brave and holy 
Portuguese." Those who are well read in the works of the 
earlier eastern travellers will remember their horror of "handling 
heathens after that fashion." And amongst those who fought 
for the faith an affaire de cceur with a pretty pagan was held 
to be a sin as deadly as heresy or magic. 



316 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

of* the soldiery, who inflicted upon him various 
tortures which he bore with the resolution of a 
martyr. At length, when offered a return to India 
as the price of apostacy, the hero's spirit took fire. 
He answered with the highest indignation, that 
nothing could make him forsake his Heavenly 
Master to follow an "imposter," and continued 
in the severest terms to vilify the " false Prophet," 
tin Mahommed struck off his head.* The body 
was divided into quarters and sent to different, 
, placesf, but the Catholics gathered their martyr's 
remains and interred them. Every Moor who 
passed by threw a stone upon the grave, and 
raised in time such a heap that Father Lobo found 
difficulty in removing it to exhume the relics. He 
concludes with a pardonable superstition: " There is 
a tradition in the country, that in the place where 
Don Christopher's head fell, a fountain sprang up 
of wonderful virtue, ,which cured many diseases, 
otherwise past remedy." 

Mohammed Gra^ne improved his victory by 

* Bomantic writers relate that Mohammed decapitated 
the Christian with his left hand. 

f Others assert, in direct contradiction to Father Lobo, that 
the body was sent to different parts of Arabia, and the head to 
Constantinople. 



HISTORY OF HABAR. 


317 


chasing the young Claudius over Abyssinia, where 
nothing opposed the progress of his arms. At last 
the few Portuguese survivors repaired to the 
Christian Emperor, who was persuaded to march 
an army against the King of Adel. Resolved 
to revenge their general, the musqueteers de* 
manded the post opposite Mohammed, and directed 
all their efforts against the part where the Moslem 
Attila stood. His fellow religionists still relate 
that when Gragne fell in action, his wife Talwam* 
bara *, the heroic daughter of Mahfuz, to prevept 
, the destruction and dispersion of the host ! of 
Islam, buried the corpse privately, and caused a 
slave to personate the prince until a retreat to safe 
lands enabled her to discover the stratagem to the 
nobles.f 

Father Lobo tells a different tale. According to 

* Bruce, followed by later authorities, writes this name Del 
Wumbarea. 

f Talwambara, according to the Christians, after her hus¬ 
band s death, and her army's defeat, threw herself into the wilds 
of Atbara, and recovered her son Ali Gerad by releasing 
Prince Menas, the brother of the Abyssinian emperor, who in 
David's reign had been carried prisoner to Adel. 

The historian will admire these two widely different accounts 
of the left-handed hero's death. Upon the whole he will prefer 
the Moslem's tradition from the air of truth pervading it, and 
the various improbabilities which appear in the more detailed 
story of the Christians. 



318 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

him, Peter Leon, a marksman of low stature, but 
passing valiant, who had been servant to Don Chris¬ 
topher, singled the Adel king out of the crowd, 
and shot him in the head as he was encouraging 
his men. Mohammed was followed by his enemy 
till he fell down dead: the Portuguese then alight¬ 
ing from his horse, cut off one of his ears and 
rejoined his fellow-countrymen. The Moslems 
were defeated with great slaughter, and an Abyssi¬ 
nian chief finding Gragne's corpse upon the ground, 
presented the head to the Negush or Emperor, 
claiming the. honor of having slain his coun¬ 
try's deadliest foe. Having witnessed in silence 
this impudence, Peter asked whether the king had 
but one ear, and produced the other from his 
pocket to the confusion of the Abyssinian. 

Thus perished, after fourteen years' uninterrupted 
fighting, the African hero, who dashed to pieces 
the structure of 250p years. Like the " Kardillan " 
of the Holy Land, Mohammed Gragne is still the 
subject of many ^ wild and grisly legend. And to 
the present day the people of Shoa retain an 
inherited dread of the lowland Moslems. 

Mohammed was succeeded on the throne of Adel 
by the Amir Nur, son of Majid, and, according to 
some, brother to the " Left-handed." He proposed 
marriage to Talwambara, who accepted him on 



HISTORY OF HABAB. 319 

condition that' he should lay the head of the 
Emperor ClBiudius at her feet. In A.Di 1559, he 
sent a message of defiance to the. Negush, who, 
having saved Abyssinia almost by a; miracle, was 
/rebuilding on Debra Work, the " Golden Mount," 
a celebrated shrine which had been burned by the 
' iR^oslems. Claudius, despising the eclipses^ evil 
prophecies^ and portents which accompanied his 
enemy's progress,, accepted the challenge. On the 
22nd March 1559, the. armies were upon the'point 
of engaging, when the high priest of Debra j 
Libanoa, hastening into the presence of the Negjish J- 
declared that in a vision, Gabriel had ordered him 
to dissuade the Emperor of JSthiopia from need¬ 
lessly risking life. The superstitious; Aby^iniana 
tied, leaving Claudius supported by handful of 
Portuguese, who were, soon sMn around him, and 
he fell Covered with wounds.. The Amir Nur cut 
off his head, and, laid it at the feet of Talwambara, 
who, in observance of her pledge^ became his wife. 
This Amazon suspended the trophy by its hair to the 
branch »of a tree opposite her abode^ that her eyes 
might be gladdened by the sight: after hanging two 
years, it was purchased, by an Armenian merchant, 
who interred it in the Sepulchre of St. Claudius at 
Antioch. The name of the Christian hero who won 
every action save that in which he pex'ished, has been 



320 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

enrolled in the voluminous catalogue of Abyssinian 
saints, where it occupies a conspicuous place 
as the destroyer of Mohammed the Left-handed. 

The Amir Nur has also been canonized by his 
countrymen, who have buried their favourite 
" Wali " under a little dome near the Jami Mosque 
at Harar. Shortly after his decisive victory over 
the Christians, he surrounded the city with its 
present wall, — a circumstance now invested 
with the garb of Moslem fable. The warrior used 
to hold frequent conversations with El Khizr: on 
one occasion, when sitting upon a rock, still called 
Gay Humburti — Harar's Navel — he begged that 
some Sherif might be brought from Meccah, to aid 
him in building a permanent city. By the use of 
the " Great Name " the vagrant prophet instantly 
summoned from Arabia the Sherif Tunis, his son 
Fakr el Din, and a descendant from the Ansar or 
Auxiliaries of the Prophet: they settled at Harar, 
which throve by the blessing of their presence. 
From this tradition we may gather that the city 
was restored, as it was first founded and colonized, 
by hungry Arabs. 

The Sherifs continued to rule with some inter¬ 
ruptions until but a few generations ago, when the 
present family rose to power. According to Bruce, 



ORIGIN OF AMIRS. 


321 


they are Jabartis, whOj having intermarried \Yith 
Sayyid women, claim a noble origin. They derive 
themselves from the Caliph Abubakr, or from 
Akil, son of Abu Talib, and brother of Ali. The 
Ulema, although lacking boldness to make the 
assertion, evidently believe them to be of Galla or 
^agan extraction. 

The present city of Harar is about one mile long 
by half that breadth. An irregular wall, lately re¬ 
paired *, but ignorant of cannon, is pierced with 

five large gates f, and supported by oval towei*s of 

I j 

* Formerly the Waraba, creeping through the holes in the 
wall, rendered the streets dangerous at night. They are now- 
destroyed by opening the gates in the evening, enticing in 
the animals by slaughtering cattle, and closing the doors upon 
them, when they are safely speared. 

I The following are the names of the gates in Harari and 
Somali. 

Eastward, Argob Bari (Bar in Amharic is a gate, e,g. 
Ankobar, the gate of Anko, a Galla Queen, and Argob is 
the name of,a Galla clan living in this quarter), by the 
Somal called Erar. 

North, Asum Bari (the gate of Axum), in Somali, Faldano or 
the Zayla entrance. 

West Asmadim Bari or Hamaraisa. 

South, Badro Bari or Bab Bida. 

South East Sukutal Bari or Bisidimo. 

At all times these gates are carefully guarded; in the even¬ 
ing the keys are taken to the Amir, after which no one can 
leave the city till dawn. 

Y 



322 


FIBST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 


artless construction. ' The- material of the houses 
and defences are rough stones, the granites and 
sandstones of the hUls, cemented, like the ancient 
Galla cities, with clay. The only large building is 
the Jami or Cathedral, a long barn of poverty- 
stricken appearance, with broken-down gates, and 
two white-washed minarets of truncated conoid 
shape. They were built by Turkish architects 
from Mocha and Hodaydah: one of them lately 
fell, and has been replaced by an inferior effort of 
Harari art. There are a few trees in the city, but 
it contains none of those gardens which give to 
Eastern settlements that pleasant view of town 
and country combined. The streets are narrow 
lanes, up hill and down dale, strewed with gigantic 
rubbish-heaps, upon which repose packs of mangy 
or one-eyed dogs, and even the best are encum¬ 
bered with rocks and stones. The habitations are 
mostly long, flat-roofed sheds, double storied, with 
doors composed of a single plank, and holes for 
windows pierced high above the ground, and deco¬ 
rated with miserable wood-work: the principal 
houses have separate apartments for the women, 
and stand at the bottom of large court-yards 
closed by gates of Holcus stalks. The poorest 
classes .inhabit "Gambisa," the thatched cottages 



HARAB AN ALMA MATER. 


323 


of the hill-cultivators. The city abounds in 
mosques, plain buildings without minarets, and in 
¦graveyards stuffed with tombs,— oblong troughs 
formed by long slabs planted edgeways in the 
ground. T need scarcely say that Harar is proud 
of her learning, sanctity, and holy dead. The 
principal saint buried in the city is Shaykh Umar 
Abadir El Bakri, originally from Jeddah, and now 
the patron of Harar: he lies under a little dome 
in the southern quarter of the city, near the 
Bisidimo Gate. 

The ancient capital of Hadiyah shares < with 
Zebid in Yemen, the reputation of being an Alma 
Mater, and inundates the surrounding districts 
with poor scholars and crazy " Widads." Where 
knowledge leads to nothing, says philosophic 
Volney, nothing is done to acquire ¦ it, and. the 
mind remains in a state of barbarism. There 
are no establishments for learning, no endowments, 
as generally in the East, and apparently no en¬ 
couragement to students: books also are rare and 
costly. None but the religious sciences are culti¬ 
vated. The chief Ulema are the Kabir * Khalil, 

^ Kabir in Arabic means great, and is usually applied to tbe 
Almighty; here it is a title given to the principal professors 
of religious science. 



324 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

i 

the Kabir Tunis, and the Shaykh Jami: the two 
former scarcely ever, quit their houses, devoting 
all their time to study and tuition: the latter 
is a Somali who takes an active part in politics. 

These professors teach Moslem literature through 
the medium of Harari, a peculiar dialect confined 
within the walls. Like the Somali and other 
tongues in this part of Eastern Africa, it appears 
to be partly Arabic in etymology and grammar: 
the Semitic scion being grafted upon an indigenous 
root; the frequent recurrence of the guttural kh 
renders it harsh and unpleasant, and it contains no 
literature except songs and tales, which are written 
in the modern Naskhi character. I would willingly 
have studied it deeply, but circumstances pre¬ 
vented : —the explorer too frequently must rest sa¬ 
tisfied with descrying from his Pisgah the Promised 
Land of Knowledge, which another more fortunate 
is destined to conquer. At Zayla, the Hajj sent to 
me an Abyssinian slave who was cunning in lan¬ 
guages: but he, tol use the popular phrase, "showed 
his right ear with his left hand." Inside Harar, 
we were so closely watched that it was found 
impossible to put pen to paper.' Escaped, however, 
to Wilensi, 1 hastily collected the grammatical 
forms and a vocabulary, which will correct the 



CITIZENS OP HARAR. 


325 


popular assertion that " the language is Arabic: 
it has an affinity with the Amharic." * 

Harar has not only its own tongue, unintelligible 
to any save the citizens; even its little population 
of about 8000 souls is a distinct race. The Somal 
pay of the city that it is a Paradise inhabited by 
asses: certainly the exterior of the people is highly 
unprepossessing. Amongst the men, I did not 
see a handsome face: their features are coarse and 
debauched; many of them squint, others have lost 
an eye by small-pox, and they are disfigur 
Scrofula and other diseases: the bad express 
their countenances justifies the proverb, " Hard 
as the heart of Harar." Generally the complexion 
is a yellowish brown, the beard short, stubby and 
untractable as the hair, and the hands and wrists, 
feet and ancles, are large and ill-made. The sta¬ 
ture is moderate-sized, some of the elders show 
the " pudding sides " and the pulpy stomac^ of 
Banyans, whilst others are lank and bony as Arabs 
or Jews. Their voices are loud and rude. The 
dress is a mixture of Arab and Abyssinian. They 
shave the head, and clip the mustachios and 
imperial close, like the Shafei of Yemen. Many 

* This is equivalent, to sajing that the language of the 
Basque provinces is French with an affinity to English. 


fd by 
ion of 



326 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

are bareheaded, some wear a cap, generally the 
embroidered Indian work, or the common cotton 
Takiyah of Egypt: a few affect white turbans of 
the fine Harar work, loosely twisted over the ears. 
The body-garment is- the Tobe, worn flowing as 
in the Somali country or girt with the dagger- 
strap round the waist: the richer classes bind under 
it a Futah or loin-cloth, and the dignitaries have' 
wide Arab drawers of white calico. Coarse 
leathern sandals, a rosary and a tooth-stick ren-^ 
dered perpetually necessary by the habit of chew¬ 
ing tobacco, complete the costume : and arms being 
forbidden in the streets, the citizens cariy wands 
five or six feet long. 

The women, who, owing probably to the number 
of female slaves, are much the more numerous, 
appear beautiful by contrast with their lords. They 
have small heads, regular profiles, straight noses, 
large eyes, mouths approaching the Caucasian type, 
and light yellow complexions. Dress, however, here 
is a disguise to chdrms. A long, wide, cotton shirt, 
with short arms as in the Arab's Aba, indigo-dyed or 
chocolate-coloured, and ornamented with a triangle 
of scarlet before and behind-i—the base on the 
shoulder and the apex at the waist — is girt round 
the middle with a sash of white cotton crimson-edged. 
Women of the upper class, when leaving the house, 



327 


women's dress. 

throw a blue sheet over the head, which, however, 
is rarely veiled. The front and back hair parted in 
the centre is gathered into two large bunches below, 
the ears, and covered with dark blue muslin or 
network, whose ends meet under the chin. • This 
coiffure is bound round the head at the junction 
of scalp and skin by a black satin ribbon which 
varies in breadth according to the wearer's means: 
some adorn the gear with large gilt pins, others 
twine in. it a Taj or thin wreath of sweet-smelling 
creeper. The,virgins collect their locks, T^hich 
are generally wavy not wiry, and grow long as 
well as thick, into a knot tied a la Diane behind 
the head; a curtain of short close plaits escaping 
from the bunch, falls upon the shoulders, not 
ungracefully. Silver ornaments are worn only by 
persons of rank. The ear is decorated with Somali 
rings or red coral beads, the neck with necklaces 
of the same material, and the fore-arms with six 
or seven of the broad circles of buffalo and other 
dark horns prepared in Western India. Finally, 
stars are tattooed upon the bosom, the eyebrows are 
lengthened with dyes, the eyes fringed with Kohl, 
and the hands and feet stained with henna. 

The female voice is harsh and screaming, es¬ 
pecially when heard after the delicate organs of 



328 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

the Somal. The fair sex is occupied at home 
spinning cotton thread for weaving Tobes, sashes, 
and turbans ; carrying their progeny perched upon 
their backs, they bring water from the wells in 
large gourds borne on the head; work in the gar¬ 
dens, and — the men considering, like the Abys- 
sinians, such work a disgrace—sit and sell in the 
long street which here represents the Eastern bazar. 
Chewing tobacco enables them to pass much of 
their time, and the rich diligently anoint them¬ 
selves with ghee, whilst the poorer classes use 
remnants of fat from the lamps. Their freedom 
of manners renders a public flogging occasionally 
indispensable. Before the operation begins, a few 
gourds full of cold water are poured over their 
heads and shoulders, after which a single-thonged 
whip is applied with vigour.* 

Both sexes are celebrated for laxity of morals. 
High and low indulge freely in intoxicating drinks, 
beer, and mead. Thb Amir has established strict 
patrols, who unmercifully bastinado those caught 
in the streets after a certain hour. They are 
extremely bigoted, especially against Christians, 
the effect of their Abyssinian wars, and are fond 

? When ladies are bastinadoed in more modest Persia, their 
hands are passed through a hole in a tent wall, and fastened 
for the infliction to a Falakah or pole outside. 



THE CITIZENS.' 


329 


of " Jihading " with the Gallas, over whom they 
boast many a victory. I have seen a letter ad¬ 
dressed by the late Amir to the Hajj Sharmarkay, 
in which he boasts of having slain a thousand 
infidels, and, by way of bathos, begs for a few 
pounds of English gunpowder. The Harari hold 
foreigners in especial hate and 'contempt, and 
divide them into two orders, Arabs and Somal.* 
The latter, though nearly one third of the popula¬ 
tion, or 2500 souls, are, to use their own phrase, 

? 

* The hate dates from old times. Abd el Karim, uncle to 
the late Amir Abubakr, sent for sixty or seventy Arab merce¬ 
naries under Haydar Assal the Auliki, to save him against the 
Gallas. T^jB matchlockmen failing in ammunition, lost twenty 
of their number in battle and retired to the town, where the 
Gallas, after capturing Abd el Karim, and his brother Abd el 
Rahman, seized the throne, and^ aided by the citizen^ attempted 
to massacre the strangers. These, however, defended them¬ 
selves gallantly, and would have crowned the son of Abd el 
Rahman, had he not in fear declined the dignity; they then 
drew their pay, and marched with all the honors of war tu 
Zayla. 

Shortly before our arrival, the dozen of petty Arab pedlars 
at Harar, treacherous intriguers, like all their dangerous race, 
had been plotting against the Amir. One mprning when they 
least expected it, their chief was thrown into a prison which 
proved his grave, and the rest were informed that any stranger 
found in the city should lose his head. After wandering some 
months among the neighbouring villages, they were allowed to 
return and live under surveillance. No one at Harar dared to 
speak of this event, and we were cautioned not to indulge our 
curiosity 



330 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 


cheap as dust: their natural timidity is increased 
by the show of pomp and power, whilst the word 
" prison " gives them the horrors. 

The other inhabitants are about 3000 Bedouins, 
who " come and go." Up to the city gates the 
country is peopled by the Gallas. This unruly 
race requires lo be propitiated by presents of 
cloth; as many as 600 Tobes are. annually dis¬ 
tributed amongst them by the Amir. Lately, 
when the smallpox, spreading from the city, de¬ 
stroyed many of their number, the relations of the 
deceased demanded and received, blood-money: 
they might easily capture the place, but they^ 
preserve it for their own convenience? These 
Gallas are tolerably brave, avoid matchlock balls by 
throwing themselves upon the ground when they 
see the flash, ride well, use the spear skilfully, and 
although of a proverbially bad breed, are favour¬ 
ably spoken of by the citizens. The Somal find 
no difficulty in travelling amongst them. I re¬ 
peatedly heard at Zayla and at Harar that traders 
had visited the Ifar "West, traversing for seven 
months a country of pagans wearing golden 
bracelets*, till they reached the Salt Sea, upon 

• This agrees with the Hon. E. Gurzon's belief in Central 
African " diggings." The traveller once eaw an individual de¬ 
scending the Nile with a store of nuggets, bracelets, and gold 



' THE GOVERNMENT. 


331 


which Franks sail in ships.* At Wilensi, one 
Mohammed, a Shaykhash, gave me his itinerary of 
fifteen stages to the sources of the Abbay or Blue 
Nile:' he confirmed the vulgar Somali report that 
the Ha wash and the Webbe Shebayliboth take rise* 
in the same range of well wooded mountains 
which gives birth to the river of Egypt. 

The government of Harar is the Amir. These 
petty princes have a habit of killing and im¬ 
prisoning all those who are suspected of aspiring 
to the throne.f Ahmed's greatgrandfather died 
in'jail, and his father narrowly escaped the s^me 
fate. When the present Amir ascended the throne 
he was ordered, it is said, by the Makad or chief of 
the Nole Gallas, to release his prisoners, or to 

rings similar to those used as money by the ancient Egyp¬ 
tians. 

? M. Krapf relates a tale current in Abyssinia; namely, that 
there is a remnant of the slave trade between Guineh (the 
Guinea coast) and Shoa. Connexion between the east and 
west formerly existed: in the time of John the Second, the 
Portuguese on the river Zaire in Congo learned the existence 
of the Abyssinian church. Travellers in Western Africa assert 
that Fakihs or priests, when performing the pilgrimage pass 
from the Fellatah country through Abyssinia to the coast of 
the Red Sea. And it has lately been proved that a caravan 
line is open from the Zanzibar coast to Benguela. 

f All male collaterals of the royal family," however, are not 
imprisoned by law, as was formerly the case at Shoa. 



332 ¦FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

mount his horse and leave the city. Three of his 
cousins, however, were, when I visited Harar, in 
confinement: one of them since that time died, 
and has been buried in his fetters. The Somal 
"declare that the state-dungeon of Harar is beneath 
the palace, and that he who once enters it, lives 
with unkempt beard and untrimmed nails until the 
day when death sets him free. 

The Amir Ahmed's health is infirm. Some 
attribute his weakness to a fall from a horse, 
others declare him to have been poisoned by one 
of his wives.* I judged him consumptive. 
Shortly after my departure he was upon the point 
of death, and he afterwards sent for a physician 
to Aden. He has four wives. No. 1. is the 
daughter of the Gerad Hirsi; No. 2. a Sayyid 
woman of Harar; No. 3. an emancipated slave 
girl; and No. 4. a daughter of Gerad Abd el Majid, 
one of bis nobles. ^ He has two sons, who will 
probably never ascend the throne; one is an infant, 
the other is a bo]^ now about five years old. 

The Amir Ahmed succeeded his father about 
three years ago. His rule is severe if not just, and 
it has all the prestige of secresy. As the Amharas 

* This is a mere superstition ; none but the most credulous 
can believe that a man ever lives after an Eastern dose. 





-a.H AHMEi: sg ABTBii.Ka,AMia qf siapah 






THE AMIU'S RULE. 


333 


say> JtKe " belly of the Master is not known: " even 
the Gerad Mohammed, though summoned to council 
at all times, in sickness as in health, dares not 
offer uncalled-for advice, and the queen dowager, 
the Gisti Fatimah, was threatened w-ith fetters if 
she persisted in interference. Ahmed's principal 
occupations are spying his many stalwart cousins, 
indulging in vain fears of the English, the Turks, 
and the Hajj Sharmarkay, and amassing treasure 
by commerce and escheats. He judges civil and 
religious causes in person, but he allows them with 
little interference to be settled by the Kazi, Al^d 
el Rahman .bin Umar el Harari: the latter, though 
a highly respectable person, is seldom troubled; 
rapid decision being the general predilection. The 
punishments, when money forms no part of them, 
are mostly according to Koranic code. The mur¬ 
derer is placed in the market street, blindfolded, 
and bound hand and foot; the nearest of kin to the 
deceased then strikes his neck with a sharp and 
heavy butcher's knife, and the corpse is given over 
to the relations for Moslem burial. If the blow 
prove ineffectual a pardon is generally granted. 
When a citizen draws dagger upon another or 
commits any petty offence, he is bastinadoed in a 
peculiar manner; two men ply their horsewhips 



334 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 


upon his back and breast, and the prince, in whose 
presence the punishment is carried out, gives the 
order to stop. Theft is visited with amputation of 
the hand. The prison is the award of state 
offenders: it is terrible, because the captive is 
heavily ironed, lies in a filthy dungeon, and re¬ 
ceives no food but what he can obtain from his 
own family, — seldom liberal under such circum¬ 
stances, — buy or beg from his guards. Fines and 
confiscations, as usual in the East, are favourite 
punishments with the ruler. I. met at Wilensi an 
old Harari, whose gardens and property had all 
been escheated, because his son fled from justice, 
after slaying a man. The Amir is said to have 
large hoards' of silver, coffee, and ivory: my at¬ 
tendant the Hammal was once admitted into the 
inner palace, where he saw huge boxes of ancient 
fashion supposed to contain dollars. The only 
specie current in Harar is a diminutive brass piece 
called Mahallak'^ — hand-worked and almost as 

• The name and cdin are Abyssinian. According to Bruce, 

20 Mahallaks are worth - - 1 Grush. 

12 Grush „ „ - - 1 MiskaL 

4 Miskal „ „ . - - 1 Wakiyah (ounce). 

At Harar twenty-two plantains (the only small change) = 
one Mahallak, twenty-two Mahallaks = one Ashrafi (now a 
nominal coin,) and three Ashrafi = one dollar. 



COINAGE. 


33.5 


^rtless a medium, as a modern Italian coin. It 
bears on one side the words: 

(Zaribat el Harar, the coinage of Harar.) 

t>n tie reverse is the date, a h, 1248, The Amir 
pitilessly punishes all those who pass in the city 
any other coin. 

The Amir Ahmed is alive to the fact that some 
state should hedge in a prince. Neither weapons 
nor rosaries are allowed in his presence; a cham¬ 
berlain's robe acts as spittoon; whenever anything 
is given to or taken from him his hand must ie 
kissed; even on horseback two attendants fan him 
with the hems of their garments. Except when 
engaged on the Haronic visits which* he, like his 
father*, pays to the streets and byways at night, 

Lieut. Cruttenden remarks, " The Ashrafi stamped at the 
Harar mint is a coin peculiar to the place. It is of silver and 
the twenty-second part of a dollar. The only specimen 
have been able to procure bore the date of 910 of the Hagira, 
with the name of the Amir on one side, and, on its reverse, 
' La Ilaha ill'Allah.'" This traveller adds in a note, " the 
value of the Ashrafi changes with each successive ruler. In 
the reign of Emir Abd el Shukoor, some 200 years ago, it was 
of gold." At present the Ashrafi, as 1 have said above, is a 
fictitious medium used in accounts. 

* An old story is told of the Amir Abubakr, that during one 
of his nocturnal excursions, he heard three of his subjects talk* 



336 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 


he is always surrounded by a strong body guard. 
He rides to mosque escorted by a dozen horsemen, 
and a score of footmen with guns and whips precede 
him; by his side walks an officer shading him 
with a huge and heavily fringed red satin umbrella, 
— from India -to Abyssinia the sign of princely 
dignity. Even at his prayers two or three chosen 
inatchlockmen stand over him with lighted fusees. 
When he rides forth in public, he is escorted by a 
party of fifty men : the running footmen crack their 
whips and shout " Let! Let! " (Go ! Go ! ) and the 
citizens avoid stripes by retreating into the nearest 
house, or running into another street. 

The army of Harar is not imposing. There are 
between forty and fifty matchlockmen of Arab 
origin, long settled in the place, and commanded 
by a veteran Maghrebi. They receive for pay one 
dollar's worth of holcus per annum, a quantity 
sufficient to afford^ five or six loaves a day: the 
luxuries of life must be provided by the exercise 
of some peaceful^craft. Including slaves, the total 

ing treason, and coveting his food, his wife, and his throne. 
He sent for them next morning, filled the first with good things, 
and bastinadoed him for not eating more, flogged the second se¬ 
verely for being unable to describe the difference between his 
own wife and the princess, and put the third to death.. 



THE ABMY. 


337 


of armed men may be two hundred: of these one 

carries a Somali or Galla spear, another a dagger, 

# 

and a third a sword, which is generally the old 
German cavalry blade. Cannon of small calibre 
is supposed to be concealed in the palace, but none 
probably knows their use. The city may contain 
thirty horses, of which a dozen are royal property : 
they are miserable ponies, but well trained to the 
rocks and hills. The Galla Bedouins would oppose 
an invader with a strong force of spearmen, the 
approaches to the city are difficult and dangerpus, 
but it is commanded from the north and west,! and 
the walls would crumble at the touch of a six- 
pounder. Three hundred Arabs and two gallopper 
guns would take Harar in an hour. 

Harar is essentially a commercial town: its 
citizens live, like those of Zayla, by systematically 
defrauding the Galla Bedouins, and the Amir has 
made it a penal offence to buy by Aveight and scale- 
He receives, as octroi, from eight to fifteen cubits 
of Cutch canvass for every donkey-load passing 
the gates, consequently the beast is so burdened 
that it must be supported by the drivers. Culti¬ 
vators are t^^xed ten per cent., the general and 
easy rate of this part of Africa, but they pay in 
kind, whi(5h considerably increases the Government 

z 



338 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

share. The greatest merchant may bring to Harar 
hOl. worth of goods, and he who has 20Z. of capital 
is considered a wealthy man. The citizens seeni 
to have a more than Asiatic apathy, even in pursuit 
of gain. When we entered, a caravan was to set 
out for Zayla on the morrow; after ten days, hardly 
one half of its numbeij had mustered. The four 
marches from the tity eastward are rarely made, 
under a, fortnight, and the average rate of their 
Kafilahs is not so high even as that of the Somal. 

The principal exports from Harar are slaves, 
ivory, coffee, tobacco. Wars (safflower or bastard, 
saffron), Tobes and woven, cottons, mules, holcus, 
wheat, "Karanji," ,a kind of bread used by tra¬ 
vellers, ghee, honey, gums ( principally mastic and 
myrrh), and finally sheep's fat and tallows of all 
sorts. The imports are American sheeting, and 
other cottons, white and dyed, muslins, red shawls, 
silks, brass, sheet copper, cutlery (generally the 
cheap German), Birmingham trinkets, beads and 
coral, dates, rice, ai^d loaf sugar^ gunpowder, paper, 
and the various other wants of a city in the wild. 

Harar is still, as of old*, the great "half way 

• El Makrizi informs us that in his day Hadiyah supplied 
the East with black Eunuchs, although the infamous trade was 
expressly forbidden by the Emperor of Abyssinia. 



SLAVKS. 


339 


house " for slaves from Zatigaro, Gurague, and the 
Galla tribes, Alo and others*: Abyssinians and 
Amharas, the most valued f, have become rare 
since the King of Shoa prohibited the exportation, 
.Women vary in value from 100 to 400 Ashrafis, 
boys from 9 to 150 : the worst are kept for domestic 
purposes, the best are driven and exported by the 
Western Arabs J or by the subjects of H. H. the 

* The Arusi Gallas are generallj driven direct from 
Ugadayn to Berber&h. * 

f ''If you want a brother (in arms)," says the Eastern 
proverb, " buy a Nubian, if you would be rich, an Abyssinian, 
and if you require an ass, a Sawahili (negro)." Formerly a 
small load of salt bought a boy in Southern Abyssinia, many of 
them, however, died on their way to the coast. 

J The Firman lately issued by the Sultan and forwarded to 
the Pasha of Jeddah for the Kaimakan and the Kazi of Mecca, 
has lately caused a kind of revolution in Western Arabia. The 
Ulema and the inhabitants denounced the rescript as opposed 
to the Koran, and forced the magistrate to take sanctuary. The 
Kaimakan came to his assistance with Turkish troops, the 
latter, however, were soon pressed back into their fort. At 
this time, the Sherif Abd el Muttalib arrived at Meccah, from 
Taif, and almost simultaneously Reshid Pasha came from 
Constantinople with orders to seize him, send him to the 
capital, and appoint the Sherif Nazir to act until the no¬ 
mination of a successor, the state prisoner Mohammed bin 
Aun. 

The tumult redoubled. The people attributing the rescript 
to the English and French Consuls of Jeddah, insisted upon 
pulling down their flags. The Pasha topk them under his pro- 



340 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

Imam of Muscat, in exchange for rice and dates. 
I need scarely say that commerce would thrive on 
the decline of slavery: whilst the Felateas or man- 
razzias are allowed to continue, it is vain to expect 
industry in the land. 

Ivory at Harar amongst the Kafirs is a royal 
monopoly, and the Amir carries on the one-sided 
system of trade, common to African monarchs. 
Elephants abound in Jaijar, the Erar forest, and 
in the Harirah and other valleys, where they 
resort during the hot season, in cold descending 
to the lower regions. , The GaUas hunt the animals 
and receive for the spoil a little cloth: the Amir 
sends his ivory to Berberah, and sells it by means 
of a Wakil or agent. The smallest kind is called 
" Ruba Aj ''(Quarter Ivory), the better description 
" Nuss Aj "l(Half Ivory), whilst "Aj," the best kind, 
fetches from thirty-two to forty dollars per Earasilah 
of 27 Arab pounds.* ^ 

The cofibe of Harar is too well known in the 
markets of Europe ^o require description : it grows 

tection, and on the 14th January, 1856, the ''Queen" steamer 
was despatched from Bombay, with orders to assist the govern¬ 
ment and to suppress the contest. 

* This weight, as usual in the East,' vaides at every port. 
At Aden the Earasilah is 27 lbs., at Zayla 20 lbs., and at Ber¬ 
berah 35 lbs. 



EXPORTS. 


341 


in the gardens about the town, in greater quan¬ 
tities amongst the Western Gallas, and in perfec¬ 
tion at Jarjar, a district of about seven days' 
journey from Harar on the Efat road. It is said 
. that the Amir withholds this valuable article, fearing 
to glut the Berberah market: he has also forbidden 
tke Harash, or coffee cultivators, to travel lest the 
art of tending the tree be lost. When I visited 
Harar, the price per parcel of twenty-seven pounds 
was a quarter of a dollar, and the hire of a camel 
carrying twelve parcels to Berberah was five [dol¬ 
lars : the profit did not repay labour and risk, t 

The tobacco of Harar is of a light yellow color, 
with good flavour, and might be advantageously 
mixed with Syrian and other growths. The Alo, 
or Western Gallas, the principal cultivators, plant 
it with the holcus, and reap it about five months 
afterwards. It is cocked for a fortnight, th^ woody 
part is removed, and the leaf is packed in sacks 
for transportation to Berberah. At Harar, men 
prefer it for chewing as well as smoking: women 
generally use Suraj tobacco. It is bought, like 
all similar articles, by the eye, and about seventy 
pounds are to be had for a dollar. 

The Wars or Safflower is cultivated in considerable 
quantities around the city: an abundance is grown 



342 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

in the lands of the Gallas. It is sown when the 
heavy rains have ceased, and is gathered about two 
months afterwards. This article, together with 
slaves, forms the staple commerce between Ber- 
berah and Muscat. In Arabia, men dye with it 
their cotton shirts, women and children use it to 
stain the skin a bright yellow; besides the purpose 

of a cosmetic, it also serves as a preservative 

* 

against cold. When Wars is cheap at Harar, a 
pound may be bought for a quarter of a dollar. 

The Tobes and sashes of Harar are considered 
equal to the celebrated cloths of Shoa: hand-woven, 
they as far surpass, in beauty and durability, the 
vapid produce of European manufactories, as the 
perfect hand of man excels the finest machinery. 
On the windward coast, one of these garments is 
considered a handsome present for a chief. The 
Harari ^obe consists of a double length of eleven 
cubits by two in brea,dth, with a border of bright 
scarlet, and the average value of a good article, 
even in the city, iq eight dollars. They are 'made 
of the fine long-stapled cotton, which grows plen- 
' tifully upon these hills, and are soft as silk, whilst 
their warmth admirably adapts them for winter wear. 
The thread is spun by women with two wooden 
pins; the loom is worked by both sexes. 



HARAR CARAVANS. 


343 


Three Caravans leave Harar every year for the 
Berberah market. The first starts early in January, 
laden with coffee, Tobes, Wars, ghee, gums, and 
other articles to be bartered for cottons, silks, 
< shawls, and Surat tobacco. The second sets out in 
February. The principal caravan, conveying slaves, 
mules, and other valuable articles, enters Berberah 
a few days before the close of the season: it num¬ 
bers about 3000 souls, and is commanded by one 
of the Ajnir's principal officers, who enjoys the title 
of Ebi or leader. Any or all of these kafifahs 
might be stopped by spending four or five hun<ired 
dollars amongst the Jibril Abokr tribe, or even 
by a sloop of war at the emporium. " He who 
commands at Berberah, holds the beard of Harar 
in his hand," is a saying which I heard even within 
the city walls. 

The furniture of a house at Harar is simple,— 
a few skins, and in rare cases a Persian rug, stools, 
coarse mats, and Somali pillows, wooden spoons, and 
porringers shaped with a hatchet, finished with a 
knife, stained red, and brightly polished. The 
gourd is a conspicuous article; smoked inside and 
fitted with a crfver of the same material, it serves 
as cup, bottle, pipe, and water-skin : a coarse and 



344 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

heavy kind of pottery, of black or brown clay, is'used 
by some of the citizens. 

The inhabitants of Harar live well. The best 
meat, as in Abyssinia, is beef; it rather resembled, 
however, in the dry season when I ate it, the lean 
and stringy sirloins of Old England in Hogarth's 
days. A hundred and twenty chickens, or sixty- 
six full-grown fowls, may be purchased for a dollar, 
and the citizens do not, like the Somal, consider 
them carrion. Goat's flesh is good, and the black¬ 
faced Berberah sheep, after the rains, is, here as 
elsewhere, delicious. The staff of life is holcus. 
Fruit grows almost wild, but it is not prized as an 
article of food; the plantains are coarse and bad, 
grapes seldom come to maturity; although the 
brab flourishes in every ravine, and the palm 
becomes a lofty tree, it has not been taught to 
fructify, arid the citizens do not know how to 
dress, preserve, or pickle their limes and citrons. 
No vegetables but gourds are known. From the 
cane, which thrive^ upon these hills, a little sugar 
is made: the honey, of which, as the Abyssinians 
say, " the land stinks," is the general sweetener. 
The condiment of East Africa, is, red pepper. 



VISITORS. 


345 


To resume, dear L., the thread of our adventures 
at Harar. 

Immediately after arrival, we were called upon 
by the Arabs, a strange mixture. One, the Haji 
Mukhtar, was a Maghrebi from Fez: an expatria¬ 
tion of forty years had changed his hissing Arabic 
as little as his " rocky face." This worthy had a 
coflfee-garden assigned to him, as commander of 
the Amir's body-guard: he introduced himself to 
us, however, as a merchant, which led us to look 
upon him as a spy. Another, Haji Hasan, wa^ a 
thorough-bred Persian: he seemed to know eve^- 
body, and was on terms of bosom friendship with 
half the world from Cairo to Calcutta, Moslemj 
Christian and Pagan. Amongst the rest was a 
boy from Meccah, a Muscat man, a native of Suez, 
and a citizen of Damascus: the others were Arabs 
from Yemen. All were most civil to us at first; 
but, afterwards, when our interviews with the 
Amir ceased, they took alarm, and. prudently cut 
us. 

The Arabs were succeeded by the Somal, amongst 
whom the Hammal and Long Guled found relatives, 
friends, and acquaintances, who readily recognised 
them as government servants at Aden. These 
visitors at first came in fear and trembling With 



346 PIKST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

visions of the Harar jail: they desired my men to 
return the visit by night, and made frequent ex¬ 
cuses for apparent want of hospitality. Their 
apprehensions, however, soon vanished: presently 
they began to prepare entertainments, and, as we 
were without money, they willingly supplied us 
with certain comforts of life. Our three Habr 
Awal enemies, seeing the tide of fortune settling in 
our favour, changed their tactics: they threw the 
past upon their two Harari companions, and pro¬ 
posed themselves as Abbans on our return to Ber- 
berah. This otfer was politely staved off; in the 
first place we were already provided with protec¬ 
tors, and secondly these men belonged to the Ayyal 
Shirdon, a clan most hostile to the Habr Gerhajis. 
They did not fail to do us all the harm in their 
power, but again my good star triumphed. 

After a day's repose, we were summoned by the 
Treasurer, early in the forenoon, to wait upon the 
Gerad Mohammed. Sword in hand, and followed 
by the Hammal and Long Guled, I walked to the 
" palace," and entering a little ground-floor-room 
on the right of and close to the audience-hall, found 
the minister sitting upon a large dais covered with 
Persian carpets. He was surrounded by six of 
his brother Gerads or councillors, two of them in 



THE SECOND AUDIENCE. 


347 


turbans, the rest with bare and shaven heads: 
their Tobes, as is customary on such occasions of 
ceremony, were allowed to fall beneath the waist. 
The lower part of the hovel was covered with 
dependents, amongst whom my Somal took their 
seats: it seemed to be customs' time, for names 

I 

were being registered, and money changed hands. 
The Grandees were eating Kat, or as it is here 
called " Jdt." * One of the party prepared for the 
Prime Minister the tenderest twigs of the tree, 
plucking off the points of even the softest leavds. 
Another pounded the plant with a little water In 
a wooden mortarof this paste, called " El Mad- 
kuk," a bit was handed to each person, who, 
rolling it into a ball, dropped it into his mouth. 
All at times, as is the custom, drank cold water 
from a smoked gourd, and seemed to dwell upon 
the sweet and pleasant draught. I could not but 
remark the fine flavour of the plant after the 
coarser (juality grown in Yemen. Europeans 
perceive but little effect from it — friend S. and I 
once tried in vain a strong infusion — the Arabs, 

• See Chap. iii. El Makrizi, describing the kingdom of Zayla, 
uses the Harari not the Arabic term ; he remarks that it is 
unknown to Egypt and Syria, and compares its leaf to that of 
the orange. 



348 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

however, unaccustomed to stimulants and narcotics, 
declare that, like opium eaters, they cannot live 
without the excitement. It seems to produce in 
them a. manner of dreamy enjoyment, which, 
exaggerated by time and distance, may have given 
rise to that splendid myth the Lotos, and the 
Lotophagi. It is held by the Ulema here as in 
Arabia, " Akl el Salikin," or the Food of the Pious, 
and literati remark that it has the singular pro¬ 
perties of enlivening the imagination, clearing the 
ideas, cheering the heart, diminishing sleep, and 
taking the place of food. The people of Harar eat 
it every day from 9 a.m. till near noon, when they 
dine and afterwards indulge in something stronger, 
— millet-beer and mead. 

The Gerad, after polite inquiries, seated me by 
his right hand upon the Dais, where I ate Kat and 
fingered my rosary, whilst he transacted the 
business of the day. Tjien one of the elders took 
from a little recess in the wall a large book, and un¬ 
covering it, began to Recite a long Dua or Blessing 
upon the Prophet: at the end of each period all 
present intoned the response, " Allah bless our Lord 
Mohammed with his Progeny and his Companions, 
one and all!This exercise lasting half an hour 
afforded me the opportunity, — much desired, — 

I 



MAKING AN IMPRESSION. 349 

of mailing an impression. The reader, misled by 
a marginal reference,- happened to say, " angels,. 
Men, and Genii: " the Gerad took the book and 
found written, "Men, Angels, and Genii." Opinions 
were divided as to the order of beings, when I » 
explained that human nature, which amongst 
Mostems is not a little lower than the angelic, 
ranked highest, because of it were created prophets, 
apostles, ^nd saints, whereas the other is but a 
" Wasitah" or connection between the Creator and 
his creatures. My theology won general approba-' 
tion and a few kinder glances from the elders. I 
Prayer concluded, a chamberlain whispered the 
Gerad, who arose, deposited his black coral rosary, 
took up an inkstand, donned a white " Badan " or 
sleeveless Arab cloak over his cotton shirt, shuffled 
off the Dais into his slippers, and disappeared.' 
Presently we were summoned to an interview with 
the Amir: this time I was allowed to approach 
the outer door with covered feet. Entering 
ceremoniously as before, I was motioned by the 
Prince to sit near the Gerad, who occupied a 
Persian rug on the ground to the right of the 
throne: rny two attendants squatted upon the 
humbler mats in front and at a greater distance. 
After sundry inquiries about the changes that had 



350 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

taken place at Aden, the letter was suddenly pro¬ 
duced by the Amir, who looked upon it suspiciously 
and bade me explain its contents. I was then 
asked by the Gerad whether it was my intention 
to buy and sell at Harar: the reply was, "We are 
no buyers nor sellers *; we have become your 
guests to pay our respects to the Amir — whom 
may Allah preserve! — and that the friendship' 
between the two powers may endure.*" This 
appearing satisfactory, I added, in lively remem- 

I 

brance of the proverbial delays of Africa, where 
two or three months may elapse before a letter is 
answered or a verbal message delivered, that 
perhaps the Prince would be pleased to dismiss us 
soon, as the air of Harar was too dry for me,, and 
my attendants were in danger of the small-pox, 
then raging in the town. The Amir, who was 
chary of words, bent towards the Gerad, who 
briefly ejaculated, " Thef reply will be vouchsafed : " 
with this unsatisfactory answer the interview ended. 

Shortly after arrival, I sent my Salam to one of 
the Ulema, Shaykh Jami of the Berteri Somal: he 
accepted the excuse of ill health, and at once came 
to see me. This personage appeared in the form 

* In conversational Arabic '' we " is used without affectation 
for 


i 



THE SHAYICH JAMI. 


351 


of a little black man aged about forty, deeply 
pitted by small-pox, with a protruding brow, a 
tufty beard and rather delicate features : his hands 
and feet were remarkably small. Married to a 
descendant of the Sherif Yuiiis, he had acquired 
great reputation as an Alim -or Savan, a peace- 
policy-man, and an ardent Moslem. Though an 
imperfect Arabic scholar, he proved remarkably 
well read in the religious sciences, and even the 
Meccans had, it was said, paid him the respect of 
kissing hia hand during his pilgrimage. In hisj 
second character, his success was not remarkable,! 
the principal results being a spear-thrust in the 
head, and being generally told to read his books 
and leave men alone. Yet he is always doing good 
" lillah," that is to say, gratis and for Allah's sake: 
his pugnacity and bluntness the prerogatives of 
the " peaceful "— gave him some authority over 
the Amir, and he has often been employed on 
political missions amongst the different chiefs. 
Nor has his ardour for propagandism been 
thoroughly gratified. He commenced his travels 
with an intention of winning the crown of glory 
without delay, by murdering the British Resident 
at Aden *: struck, however, with the order and 

• The Shaykh himsefi gave me this information. As a rule 
it is most imprudent for Europeans liolding high official 



352 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

justice of our rule, lie changed his intentions and 
offered El Islam to the officer, who received it so 
urbanely, that the simple Eastern repenting having 
intended to cut the Kafir's throat, began to pray 
fervently for his conversion. Since that time he 
has made it a point of duty to attempt every 
infidel: I never heard, however, that he succeeded 
with a soul. 

The Shaykh's first visit did not end well. He 
informed me that the old TJsmanlis conquered 
Stamboul in the days of Umar. I imprudently 
objected to the date, and he revenged himself for 
the injury done to his fame by the favourite eccle¬ 
siastical process of privily damning me for a* 
heretic, and a worse than heathen. Moreover he 
had sent me a kind of ritua,! which I had perused 
in an hour and returned to him: this prepossessed 
the Shaykh strongly against me, lightly " skim¬ 
ming " books being a fopm of idleness as yet un¬ 
known to the ponderous East. 

positions in these barbarous regions, to live as they do, un¬ 
armed and unattended. The appearance of utter security may 
impose, where strong motives for assassination are wanting. 
At the same time the practice has occasioned many losses 
which singly, to use an Indian statesman's phrase, would have 
" dimmed a victory." 



LIFE AT HARAR. 


353 


Our days at Harar were monotonous enough. 
In the morning we looked to the mules, drove out 
the cats — as great a nuisance here as at Aden — 
and ate for breakfast lumps of boiled beef with 
peppered holcus-scones. We were kindly looked 
upon by one Sultan, a sick and decrepid Eunuch, 
wiio having served five Amirs, was allowed to 
remain in the palace. To appearance he was mad: 
he wore upon his poll a motley scratch wig, half 
white and half black, like Day and Night in masque¬ 
rades. But his conduct was sane. At dawn he 
sent us bad plantains, wheaten crusts, and cupte of 
unpalatable cofiee-tea*, and, assisted by a crone more 
decrepid than himself, prepared for me his water- 
pipe, a gourd fitted with two reeds and a tile of 
baked clay by way of bowl: now he "knagged" at 
the slave girls, who were slow to work, then burst 


• In the best coffee countries, Harar and Yemen, the berry 
is reserved for exportation. The Southern Arabs use for 
economy and health — the bean being considered heating—the 
Kishr or follicle. This in Harar is a woman's drink. The men 
considering the berry too dry and heating for their arid atmo¬ 
sphere, toast the leaf on a girdle, pound it and prepare an in¬ 
fusion which they declare to be most wholesome, but which 
certainly suggests weak senna. The boiled coffee-leaf has 
been tried and approved of in England ; we omit, however, to 
toast it. 


A A 



354 


FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA* 


into a fury because some visitor ate Kat without 
offering it to him, or crossed the royal threshold in 
sandal or slipper. The other inmates of the house 
¦were Galla slave-girls, a great nuisance, especially 
one Berille, an unlovely maid, whose shrill voice 
and shameless manners were a sad scandal to 
pilgrims and pious Moslems. 

About 8 A.M. the Somal sent us gifts of citrons; 
plantains, sugar-cane, limes, wheaten bread, and 
stewed fowls. At the same time the house became 
full of visitors, Harari and others, most of them 
pretexting inquiries after old Sultan's health. 
Noon was generally followed by a little solitude, 
the people retiring to dinner and siesta: we were 
then again provided with bread and beef from the 
Amir's kitchen. In the afternoon the house again 
filled, and the visitors dispersed only for supper. 
Before sunset we were careful to visit the mules 
tethered in the court-yard ; being half starved they 
often attempted to desert.* 

It was harvest hoiAe at Harar, a circumstance 
which worked us much annoy. In the mornings 
the Amir, attended by forty or fifty guards, rode 
to a hill north of the city, where he inspected his 

* Id Harar a horse or a mule is never lost, whereas an ass 
straying from home is rarely seen again. 



STUOSG DKINKS. 


355 


Galla reapers and threshers, and these men were 
feasted every evening at our quarters with flesh, 
beer, and mead.* The strong drinks caused many 
a wordy war, and we made a point of exhorting' 
'the pagans, with poor success I own, to purer 
l^es. 

We spent our soiree alternately bepreaching the 
Gallas, "chaffing" Mad Said, who, despite his 
seventy years, was a hale old Bedouin, with a salt 
and sullen repartee, and quarrelling with the slave- 
girls. Berille the loud-lunged, or Aminah | the 
pert, would insist upon extinguishing the fai-fed 
lamp long ere bed-time, or would enter the room 
singing, laughing, dancing, and clapping a measure 
with their palms, when, stoutly aided by old Sultan, 

who shrieked like a hyaena on these occasions, we 

/' 

* This is the Abjssiniau " Tej," a word so strange to Euro¬ 
pean organs, that some authors write it " Zatsh." At Harar it 
is made of honey dissolved in about fifteen parts of hot water, 
strained and fermented for seven days with the bark of a tree 
called Kudidah ; when the operation is to be hurried, the vessel 
is placed near the fire. Ignorant Africa can ferment, not distil, 
yet it must be owned she is skilful in her rude art. Every 
traveller has praised the honey-wine of the Highlands, and 
some have not scrupled to prefer it to champagne. It 
hilarates, excites and acts as an aphrodisiac; the consequence 
is, that at Harar all men, pagans and sages, priests and rulers, 
drink it. 


A A 2 



356 


FIKST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFKICA. 


ejected her in extreme indignation. All then was 
silence without; not so — alas! — within. Mad 
¦Said snored fearfully, and Abtidon chatted half 
the night with some Bedouin friend, who had 
dropped in to supper. On our hard couches we 
did not enjoy either the noctes or the coence 
deorum. 

The even tenor of such days was varied by a 
perpetual reference to the rosary, consulting sooth¬ 
sayers, and listening to reports and rumours 
brought to us by thp Somal in such profusion that 
we all sighed for a discontinuance. The Gerad 
Mohammed, excited by the Habr Awal, was 
curious in his inquiries concerning me: the astute 
Senior had heard of our leaving the End of Time 
with the Gerad Adan, and his mind fell into the 
fancy that we were transacting some business for 
the Hajj Sharmarkay, the popular bugbear of Harar. 
Our fate was probably defcided by the arrival of a 
youth of the Ayyal Gedid clan, who reported that 
three brothers had landed in the Somali country, 
that two of them were anxiously awaiting at 
Berberah the return of the third from Harar, and 
that, though dressed like Moslems, they were really 
Englishmen in government employ. Visions of 
cutting otF caravans began to assume a hard and 



THE FINAI, AUDIENCE. 


357 


palpable form: the Habr Awal ceased intriguing, 
and the Gerad Mohammed resolved to adopt the 
suaviter in modo whilst dealing with his dangerous 


guest. 

Some days after his first visit, the Shaykh Jami, 
pending for the Hammal, informed him of an in¬ 
tended trip from Harar; my follower suggested 
that we might well escort him. The good Shaykh 
at once ofiered to apply for leave from the Gerad 
Mohammed ; not, however, finding the minister at 
home, he asked us to meet him at the palacjie on 
the morrow, about the time of Eat-eating. 

We had so often been disappointed in our hopes 
of a final " lay-public," that on this occasion much 
was not expected. However, about 6 a.m., we 
were all summoned, and entering the Gerad's levee- 
room were, as usual, courteously received. I had 
distinguished his complaint,—chronic bronchitis,— 
and resolving to make a final impression, related 
to him all its symptoms, and promised, on reaching 
Aden, to send the difierent remedies employed by 
ourselves. He clung to the hope of escaping his 
sufferings, whilst the attendant courtiers looked 
on approvingly, and begged me to lose no time. 
Presently the Gerad was sent for by the Amir, and 
after a few minutes I followed him, on this oc- 


A A 3 



358 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

casion, alone. ' Ensued a long conversation about 
the state of Aden, of Zayla, of Berberah, and of 
Stamboul. The chief put a variety of questions 
about Arabia, and every object there; the answer 
was that the necessity of commerce confined us to 
the gloomy rock. He used some obliging expres* 
sions about desiring our friendship, and having 
considerable respect for a people who built, he 
understood, large ships.- I took the opportunity 
of praising Harar in cautious phrase, and especially 
of regretting that its coffee was not better known 
amongst the Franks. The small wizen-faced man 
smiled, as Moslems say, the smile of Umar*: seeing 
his brow relax for the first time, I told him that, 
being now restored to health, we requested his 
commands for Aden. He signified consent with 
a nod, and the Gerad, with many compliments, 
gave me a letter addressed to the Political Resident, 
and requested me to tal^e charge of a mule as a 
present. I then arose, recited a short prayer, the 

? The Caliph Umar is said to have smiled once and wept 
once. The smile was caused by the recollection of his having 
eaten his paste-gods in the days of ignorance. The tear was 
shed in remembrance of having buried alive^ as was customary 
amongst the Pagan Arabs, his infant daughter, who, whilst he 
placed her in the grave, with her little hands beat the dust off 
his beard and garment. . 



WE TAKE LEAVE. 


359 


gist of which was that the Amir's days and reign 
might be long in the land, and that the faces of his 
foes .might be blackened here and hereafter, bent 
over his hand and retired. Returning to the 
' Gerad's levee-hut,, I saw by the countenances of 
ipy two attendants that they were not a little 
anxious about the interview, and comforted them 
with the whispered word " Achha " — " all right! " 
Presently appeared the Gerad, accompanied by 
two men, who brought my servants' arms, and the 
revolver which I had sent to the prince. This 
was a contretemps. It was clearly impossible to 
take back the present, besides which, I suspected 
some finesse to discover my feelings towards him: 
the other course would ensure delay. I told the 
Gerad that the weapon was intended especially to 
preserve the Amir's life, and for further effect, 
snapped caps in rapid succession to the infinite 
terror of the august company. The minister re¬ 
turned tg his master, and soon brought back the 
information that after a day or two another mule 
should be given to me. With suitable acknow¬ 
ledgments we arose, blessed the Gerad, bade adieu 
to the assembly, and departed joyful, the Hammal 
in his glee speaking broken English, even in the 
Amir's courtyard. 


A A 4 



360 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

Returning home, we found the good Shaykh 
Jami, to whom we communicated the news with 
many thanks for his friendly aid. I did my best 
to smooth his temper about Turkish history, and 
succeeded. Becoming communicative, he informed 
me that the original object of his visit was the 
offer of good offices, he having been informed that, 
in the town was a man who brought down the 
birds from heaven, and the citizens having been 
thrown into great excitement by the probable 
intentions of such, a personage. Whilst he sat 
with us, Kabir Khalil, one of the principal Ulema, 
and one Haji Abdullah, a Shaykh of distinguished 
fame who had been dreaming dreams in our 
favour, sent their salams. This is one of the 
many occasions in which, during a long residence 
in the East, I have^ had reason to be grateful to 
the learned, whose influence over the people when 
unbiassed by bigotry is decidedly for good. That 
evening there was great joy amongst the Somal, 
who had been alarmed for the safety of my com¬ 
panions: they brought them presents of Harari 
Tobes, and a feast of fowls, limes, and wheaten 
bread for the stranger. 

On the 11th of January I was sent for by the 
Gcrad and received the second mule. At noon wc 



WE DINE WITH THE SHAYKH JAMI. 361 

were visited by the Shaykh Janii, who, after a long 
discourse upon the subject of Sufiism *, invited me 
to inspect his books. When midday prayer was 
concluded we walked to his house, which occupies 
the very centre of the city: in its courtyard is 
"i Gay Humburti," the historic rock upon which 
Saint Nur held converse with the Prophet Khizr. 
The Shaykh, after seating us in a room about ten 
feet square, and lined with scholars and dusty 
tomes, began reading out a treatise upon the gene¬ 
alogies of the Grand Masters, and showed m^ in 
half a dozen tracts the tenets of the different 
schools. The only valuable MS. in the place was 
a fine old copy of the Koran; the Kamus and the 
Sihah were there f, but by no means remarkable 
for beauty or correctness. Books at Harar are 
mostly antiques, copyists being exceedingly rare, 
and the square massive character is more like 
Cufic with diacritical points, than the graceful 
modern Naskhi. I could not, however, but admire 
the bindings: no Eastern country save Persia 
surpasses them in strength and appearance. After 
some desultory conversation the Shaykh ushered 
-US into an inner room, or rather a dark closet 

? The Eastern parent of Free-Masonry. 

f Two celebrated Arabic dictionaries^ 



362 tlRST FOOTSTEPS INJBAST AFRICA. 

partitioned off fron the study, and ranged us 
around the usual dish of boiled beef, holcus breadj 
and red pepper. After returning to the study we 
sat for a few minutes, —Easterns rarely remain 
long after dinner, — and took leave, saying that 
we must call upon the Gerad Mohammed. 

Nothing worthy of mention occurred during our 
final visit to the minister. He begged me not to 
forget his remedies when we reached Aden i I 
told him that without further loss of time we 
would start on the morrow, Friday, after prayers, 
and he simply ejaculated, "It is well, if Allah 
please!" Scarcely had we returned home, wh 
the clouds, which had been gathering since noun, 
began to discharge heavy showers, and a few loud 
thunder-claps to reverberate amongst the hills. 
We passed that evening surrounded by the Somal, 
who charged us with letters and many messages to 
Berberah. Our intention was to mount early on 
Friday morning. When we awoke, h^ever, a 
mule had strayed and was not brought back for 
some hours. Before noon Sbaykh Jami called 
upon us, informed us that he would travel on the 
most auspicious day—Monday—and exhorted us 
to patience, deprecating departure upon Friday, 
the Sabbath. Then he arose to take leave, blessed 

I 



THE DELAY. 


S63 


us at some length, prayed that we might be home 
upon the wings of safety, again advised Monday, 
and promised at all events to meet us at Wilensi. 

I fear that th8 Shaykh's counsel was on this 
occasion likely to be disregarded. We had been 
absent from our goods a^d chattels a whole fort¬ 
night : the people of Harar are famously fickle; 
we knew not what the morrow might bring forth 
from the Amir's mind — in fact, all Ahese African 
cities are prisons on a large scale, into which you 
enter by your own will, and, as the signifi<|;ant 
proverb says, you leave by another's. However, 
when the mosque prayers ended, a heavy shower 
and the stormy aspect of the sky preached patience 
more effectually than did the divine: we carefully 
tethered our mules, and unwillingly deferred our 
departure till next morning. 



364 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IDT EAST AFRICA. 


CHAP. IX. 

A BIDE T<5 BEBBEBAH. 

Long before dawn on Saturday, the 13th January, 
the mules were saddled, bridled, and charged with 
our scanty luggage. After a hasty breakfast wo 
shook hands with old Sultan the Eunuch, mounted 
and pricked through the desert streets. Suddenly 
my weakness and sickness left nae—so potent a 
drug is joy! —and, as we passed the gates loudly 
salaming to the warders, who were crouching over 
the fire inside, a weight of care and anxiety fell 
from me like a cloak of lead. 

Yet, dear L., I had tiiyie, on the top of my mule 
for musing upon how melancholy a thing is suct 
cess. Whilst failure ^inspirits a man, attainment 
reads the sad prosy lesson that all pur glories 

" Are shadow;^ not substantial things." 

Truly said the sayer, "disappointment is the salt 
of life"—a salutary bitter which strengthens the 

I 



THE STAET. 365 

mind for fresh exertion, and gives a double value 
to the prize. 

This shade of melancholy soon passed away. 
The morning was beautiful. A cloudless sky, 
'then untarnished by sun, tinged with reflected 
b^ue the mist-crowns of the distant peaks and the 
smoke wreaths hanging round the sleeping villages, 
and the air was a cordial after the rank atmosphere 
of the town. The dew hung in large diamonds 
from the coflfee trees, the spur-fowl crew blithely in 
the bushes by the 'way-side: —briefly, never jdid 
the face of Nature appear to jne so truly lovely* 

We hurried forwards, unwilling to lose time 
and fearing the sun of the Erar valley. With 
arms cocked, a precaution against the possibility 
of Galla spears in ambuscade, we crossed the river, 
entered the yawning chasm and ascended the steep 
path. My companions were in the highest spirits, 
nothing interfered with the general joy, but the 
villain Abtidon, who loudly boasted in a road 
crowded with market people, that the mule which 
he was riding had been given to us by the Amir 
as a Jizyah or tribute. The Hammal, direfully 
wrath, threatened to shoot him upon the spot, and it 
was not without difficulty that I calmed the storm. 

Passing Gafra we ascertained from the Midgans 



36^ FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

that the Gerad Adan had sent for my books and 
stored them in his own cottage. We made in a direct 
line for Kondura. At one p.m. we safely threaded 
the Galla's pass, and about an hour afterwards we 
exclaimed " Alhamdulillah" at the sight of Saghar~ 
rah and the distant Marar Prairie. Entering the 
village we discharged our fire-arms: the women 
received ns with the Masharrad or joy-cry, and as 
I passed the enclosure the Geradah Khayrah per¬ 
formed the " Eola " by throwing over me some 
handfuls of toasted grain.* The men gave cordial 
poignies de mains, some danced with joy to see uS 
return alive; they had heard of our being im¬ 
prisoned, bastinadoed, slaughtered; they swore 
that the Gerad was raising an army to rescue or 
revenge us — in fact, had we been their kinsmen 
more excitement could not have been displayed. 
Lastly, in true humility, crept forward the End of 
Time, who, as he kissed my hand, was upon the 
point of tears: he had been half-starved, despite 
his dignity as Sharhiarkay's Mercury, and had 
spent his weary nights and . days reciting the 
chapter Y.S. and* fumbling the rosary for omens. 
The Gerad, he declared, would have given him a 

* It is an Arab as well as a Somali ceremony to throw a 
little Kaliyah or Salnl (toasted(grain) over the honored tra¬ 
veler when he enters hut or tent. 



WE BECOVEB OUR PROPERTr. 


367 


sheep and one of his daughters to wife, temporarily, 
but Sherwa had interfered, he had hindered the 
course of his sire's generosity: " Cursed be he," 
exclaimed the End of Time, " who with dirty feet 
defiles the pure water of the -stream ! " , 

(We entered the smoky cottage. The Gerad and 
his sons were at Wilensi settling'the weighty matter 
of a caravan which had been plundered by the Us- 
bayhan tribe—in their absence the good Khayrah 
and her daughters did the duties of hospitality by 
cooking rice and a couple of fowls. A pleasjant 
evening was spent in recounting our perils as 
travellers will do, and complimenting one another 
upon the power of our star. 

At eight the next morning we rode to Wilensi. 
As we approached it all the wayfarers and villagers 
inquired Hibernically if we were the party that 
had been put to death by the Amir of Harar. 
Loud congratulations and shouts of joy awaited 
our arrival. The Kalendar was in a paroxysm of 
delight: both Shehrazade and Deenarzade were, 
aflfected with giggling and what might be blushing. 
We reviewed our property and found that the One- 
eyed had been a faithful steward, so faithful indeed, 
that he had well nigh starved the two women. 
Presently appeared the Gerad and his sons bring¬ 
ing with them my books ; the former was at once 



368 i'IRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFEICA. 

invested witli a gaudy Abyssinian Tobe of many 
colours, in which he sallied forth from the cottage 
the admired of all admirers. The pretty wife 
Sudiyah and the good Khayrah were made happy 
by sundry gifts of huge Birmingham ear-rings, 
brooches and bracelets, scissors, needles, and thread. 
The evening as usual ended in a feast. 

We halted a week at Wilensi to feed, — in- truth 
my companions had been faring lentenly at Harar, 
— and to lay in stock and strength for the long 
desert march before us. A Somali was despatched 
to the city under orders to load an ass with onions, 
tobacco, spices, wooden platters, and Karanji*, 
which our penniless condition had prevented our 
purchasing. I spent the time collecting a vocabu¬ 
lary of the Harari tongue under the auspices of Mad 
Said and Ali the poet, a Somali educated at the 
Alma Mater. He was a small black man, long¬ 
headed and long-backed, With remarkably prominent 
eyes, a bulging brow, nose pertly turned up, and lean 
jaws almost unconscious of beard. He knew the 
Arabic, Somali, Galla, and Harari languages, and 
his acuteness was such, that I found no difficulty 

* Bread made of holcus grain dried and broken into bits ; it 
is thrown into broth or hot water, and thus readily supplies the • 

veller with a wholesome panade. 



ALI THE POET. 


369 


in what usually proves the hardest task,—ex¬ 
tracting the grammatical forms. " A poet, the son 
of a Poet," to use his own phrase, he evinced a 
Horatian respect for the beverage which bards 
love, and his discourse, whenever it strayed from 
tljip line of grammar, savoured of over reverence 
for the- goddess whom Pagans associated with 
Bacchus and Ceres. He was also a patriot and 
a Tyrtaeus, No clan ever attacked his Girhis 
without smarting under terrible sarcasms, and his 
sneers at the young warriors for want of ardojir 
in resisting Gudabirsi encroachments, were quoted 
as models of the " withering." Stimulated by the 
present of a Tobe, he composed a song in honor 
of the pilgrim: I will offer a literal translation of 
the exordium, though sentient of the fact that 
modesty shrinks from such quotations. 

" Formerly, my sire and self held ourselves songsters; 

Only to day, however, I really begin to sing* 

At the order of Abdullah, Allah sent, my tongue is loosed, 
The son of the Kuraysh by a thousand generations, 

He hath visited Audal, and Sahil and Adari *; 

A hundred of his ships float on the sea; 

His intellect," &c. &c. 


? The Somal invariably call Berberah the Sahil," (meaning 
in Arabic the sea-shore,) as Zayla with them is Audal," and 
Harar Adari." 


B B 




370 


FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA, 


When not engaged with Ali the Poet I amused 
myself by consoling Mad Said, who was deeply 
aflSicted, his son having received an ugly stab iii 
the shoulder. Thinking, perhaps, that the Senior 
anticipated some evil results frotn the wound, I 
attempted to remove the impression. "Alas, 0 
Hajj! " groaned the old man, "it is not that! — 
how can the boy be my boy, I who have ever given 
instead of receiving stabs ? " nor would he be com¬ 
forted, on account of the youth's progeniture. At 
other times we summoned the heads of the clans 
and proceeded to write down their genealogies. 
This always led to a scene beginning with piano, 
but rapidly rising to the strepitoso. Each tribe 
and clan wished to rank first, none would be even 
second,—what was to be done? When excite¬ 
ment was at its height, the paper and pencil ivere 
tom out of my hand, stubby beards were pitUessly 
puUed, and daggers hal|^ started from their sheaths. 
These quarrels were, 'however, easily composed, 
and always passed ol^ in storms of abuse, laughter, 
and derisioR. 

With the end of the week's repose came Shaykh 
Jami, the Berteri, equipped as a traveller with 
sword, praying-skin, and water-bottle. This bust¬ 
ling little divine, whose hobby it was to make 



371 


"fire but not shame." 

uvery man's business his own, was accompanied by 
his brother, in nowise so prayerful a person, and 
by four burly, black-looking* Widads, of whose 
birth, learning,'piety, and virtues he spoke in terms 
eloquent. I gave them'a supper of rice, ghee, and 
dates in my hut, and with much difficulty excused 
ih^self on plea of ill health from a Samrah or night's 
entertainment — the chaunting some serious book 
from evening even to the small hours. The Shaykh 
informed me that his peaceful errand on that occa¬ 
sion was to determine a claim of blood-monpy 
amongst the neighbouring Bedouins. The case wfas 
rich in Somali manners. One man gave medicine 
to another who happened to die about a month 
afterwards: the father of the deceased at once 
charged the mediciner with poisoning, and de¬ 
manded the customary fine. Mad Said grumbled 
certain disrespectful expressions about, the pro¬ 
priety of divines confining themselves to prayers 
and the Koran, whilst the Gerad Adan, after 
listening to the Shaykh's violent denunciation, of 
the Somali doctrine, " Fire, but not shame ! " * con¬ 
ducted his head-scratcher, and with sly sarcasm de¬ 
clared that he had been Islamized afresh that day* 

? '' A1 Nar wa la al Ar," an Arabic maxim, somewhat more 
forcible than our death rather than dishonor," 



872 ' FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA 

On Sunday, the 21st of January, our messenger 
returned from Harar, bringing with him supplies 
for the road; my vocabulary was finished, and as 
nothing delayed us at Wilensi, I determined to set 
out the next day. When the rumour went abroad 
every inhabitant of the village flocked to our hut, 
with the view of seeing what he could beg or 
borrow: we were soon obliged to close it, with 
peremptory orders that none be admitted but the 
Shaykh Jami. The divine appeared in the after¬ 
noon accompanied by all the incurables of the 
country side: after hearing the tale of the blood- 
money, I determined that tahsmans were the best 
and safest of medicines in those mountains. The 
Shaykh at first doubted their efficacy. But when 
my diploma as a master Sufi was exhibited, a new 
light broke upon him and his attendant Widads. 
"Verily he hath declared himself this day!" 
whispered each to his neighbour, still sorely mysti¬ 
fied. Shaykh Jami carefully inspected the docu¬ 
ment, raised it reverently to his forehead, and 
muttered some prayers: he then in humble phrase 
begged a copy, and j'equired from me " Ijazah " or 
permission to act as master. The former request 
was granted without hesitation, about the latter I 
preferred to temporize: he then owned himself my 



AFRICAN DELAYS. 373 

pupil, and received, as a well-merited acknowledg¬ 
ment of his services, a pencil and a silk turban. 

The morning fixed for our departure came; no 
one, however, seemed ready to move. The Ham- 
mal, who but the night before had been full of 
ardour and activity, now hung back; we had no 
c'otfee, no water-bags, and Deenarzade had gone to 
buy gourds in some distant village. This was 
truly African : twenty-six days had not sufficed to 
do the work of a single watch! No servants had 
been procured for us by the Gerad, although jhe 
had promised a hundred whenever required. Long 
Guled had imprudently lent his dagger to the 
smooth-tongued Yusuf Dera, who hearing of the 
departure, naturally absconded. And, at the last 
moment, one Abdy Aman, who had engaged him¬ 
self at Harar as guide to Berberah for the sum of 
ten dollars, asked a score. 

A display of energy was clearly necessary. I 
sent the Gerad with directions to bring the camels 
at once, and ordered the Hammal to pull down the 
huts. Abdy Aman was told to go to Harar — 
or the other place — Long Guled was promised 
another dagger at Berberah; a message was left 
directing Deenarzade to follow, and the word was 
given to load. 


B B 3 



374 FIRST footsteps in east AFRICA. ' 

By dint of shouting and rough language, the 
caravan was ready at 9 a.m. The Gerad Adan 
and his ragged tail leading, we skirted the eastern 
side of Wilensi, and our heavily laden camels de¬ 
scended with pain the rough and stony slope of the 
wide Kloof dividing it from the Marar Prairie. 
At 1 P.M. the chief summoned us to halt: we 
pushed on, however, without.'regarding him. Pre¬ 
sently, Long Guled and the End of Time were 
missing; 'contrary to express orders they had 
returned to seek the dagger. To ensure discipline, 
on this occasion. I must have blown out the long 
youth's brains, which -were, he declared, addled by 
the loss of his weapon: the remedy appeared worse 
than the disease. 

Attended only by the Hammal, I entered with 
pleasure the Marar Prairie. In vain the Gerad en¬ 
treated us not to venture upon a place swarming 
with lions; vainly he promised to kill sheep and 
oxen for a feast; — we took abrupt leave of him, 
and drove away the 0 |amels. 

Journeying slowly over the skirt of the plain, 
when rejoined by the truants, we met a party of 
travellers, who, as usual, stopped to inquire the 
news.* Their chief, mounted upon an old mule, 
proved to be Madar Farih, a Somali well known at 



MADAB FARIH. 


375 


Aden. He consented to accompany us as far as 
the halting place, expressed astonishment at our 
escaping Harar, and gave us intelligence which my 
companions judged grave. The Gerad Hirsi" of 
^he Berteri, amongst whom Madar had been living, 
was incensed with us for leaving the direct road. 
Export informed him, moreover, that we had 
given 600 dollars and various valuables to the 
Gerad Adan, — Why then had he been neglected ? 
Madar sensibly advised us to push forward that 
night, and to 'ware .the bush, whence Midgaps 
might use their poisoned arrows. j 

We alighted at the village formerly beneath 
Gurays, now shifted to a short distance from those 
hills. Presently appeared Deenarzade, hung round 
with gourds and swelling with hurt feelings: she 
was accompanied by Dahabo, sister of the valiant 
Beuh, who, having for ever parted from her grace¬ 
less husband, the Gerad, was returning under our 
escort to the Gurgi of her family. Then came 
Yusuf Dera with a smiling countenance and 
smooth manners, bringing the stolen dagger and 
many excuses for the mistake; he was accompanied 
. by a knot of kinsmen deputed by the Gerad as 
•usual for no good purpose. That worthy had 
been informed that his Berteri rival offered a 


B B 4* 



376 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

hundred cows for our persons, dead or alive: he 
pathetically asked my attendants "Do you love 
your pilgrim ? '' and suggested that if they did so, 
they might as well send him a little more cloth, 
upon the receipt of which he would escort us with 
fifty horsemen. 

My Somal lent a willing ear to a. speech which 
smelt of falsehood a mile off: they sat down to 
debate; the subject was important, and for three 
mortal hours did that palaver endure. I proposed 
proceeding at once. They declared that the 
camels could not walk, and that the cold of the 
prairie was death to man. Pointing to a caravan 
of grain-carriers' that awaited our escort, I then 
spoke of starting next morning. Still they hesi¬ 
tated. At length darkness came on, and knowing 
it to be a mere waste of time to debate over night 
about dangers to be faced next day, I ate my dates 
and drank my milk, and lay down to enjoy tran¬ 
quil sleep in the deep silence of the desert. 

The morning of tljie 23rd of January found my 
companions as usual in a state of faint-heartedness. 
The Hammal was deputed to obtain permission for 
fetching the Geiad and aU the Gerad's men. 
This was positively refused, I could not, how¬ 
ever, object to sending sundry Tobes to the 
cunning idiot, in order to back up a verbal request 



ANOTHER FORCED HALT. 


377 


for the escort. Thereupon Yusuf Dera, Madar 
Farih, and the other worthies took leave, promising 
to despatch the troop before noon: I saw them 
depart with pleasure, feeling that we had bade 
adieu to the Girhis. The. greatest danger we.had 
run was from the Gerad Adan, a fact of which I 
was not' aware till some time after my return to 
Berberah: he had always been plotting an avanie 
which, if attempted, would have cost him dear, 
but at the same time would certainly have proved 
fatal to us. I - 

Noon arrived, but no cavalry. My companioias 
had promised that if disappointed they would start 
before nightfall and march till morning. But 
when the camels were sent for, one, as usual if 
delay was judged advisable, had strayed; they 
went in search of him, so as to give time for 
preparation to the caravan. I then had a sharp 
explanation with my men, and told them in con¬ 
clusion that it was my determination to cross the 
Prairie alone, if necessary, on the morrow. 

That night heavy clouds rolled down from the 
Gurays Hills, and veiled the sky with a deeper 
gloom. Presently came a thin streak of blue 
lightning and a roar of thunder, which dispersed 
like flies the mob of gazers from around my Gurgi; 
then rain streamed through our hut as though we 



378 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

had been dwelling under a system of cullenders. 
Deenarzade declared herself too ill' to move; 
Shehrazade swore that she would not work; briefly, 
that night was by no means pleasantly spent. 

At dawn, on the 24th, we started across the 
Marar Prairie with a caravan of about twenty men 
and thirty women, driving camels, carrying grain, 
asses, and a few sheep. The long straggling line 
gave a " wide berth " to the doughty Hirsi and 
his Berteris, whose camp-fires were clearly visible 
in the morning grey. The air was raw; piles of 
purple cloud settled upon the hills, whence cold 
and damp gusts swept the plain; sometimes we 
had a shower, at others a Scotch mist, which did 
not fail to penetrate our thin raiment. My 
people trembled, and their teeth chattered as 
though they were walking upon ice. In our slow 
course we passed herds of quagga and gazelles, 
but the animals were;wild, and both men and 
mules were unequal to the task of stalking them. 
About midday we cl 9 sed up, for our path wound 
through the valley wooded with Acacia, — fittest 
place for an ambuscade of archers. We dined in 
the saddle on huge lumps of sun-dried beef, and 
bits of gum gathered from the trees. 

Having at length crossed the prairie without 



WE CROSS THE PRAIRIE. 


' 379 


accident, the caravan people shook our hands, 
congratulated onC another, and declared that they 
owed their lives to us. About an hour after 
sunset we arrived at Abtidon's home, a large 
kraal at the foot of the Konfi cone: fear of lions 
drove my people into the enclosure, where we 
passed a night of scratching. I was now haunted 
by the dread of a certain complaint for which 
sulphur is said to be a specific. This is the pest 
of the inner parts of Somali-land; the people 
declare it to arise from flies and fleas: the Eur^ 
pean would derive it from the deficiency, or rather 
the impossibility, of ablutions. 

" Allah help the Goer, but the Return is Roll¬ 
ing : this adage was ever upon the End of Time's 
tongue, yet my fate was apparently an exception 
to the general rule. On the 25th January, we 
were delayed by the weakness of ^e camels, which 
had been half starved in the Girhi mountains. 
And as we were about to enter the lands of the 
Habr Awal *, then at blood feud with my men, all 

* This is the second great division of the Somal people, the 
father of the tnbe being Awal> the cadet of Ishak el HazramL 

The Habr Awal occupy the coast from Zayla and Slyaro ta 
the lands bordering upon the Berteri tribe. They own the 
rule of a Gerad, who exercises merely a nominal authority. 



380 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 


Habr Gerhajis, probably a week would elapse 
before we could provide ourselves with a fit and 
proper protector. Already I had been delayed ten 
days after the appointed* time, my comrades at 
Berberah would be apprehensive, of accidents, and 
although starting from Wilensi we had resolved 
to reach the coast within the fortnight, a month's 
march was in clear prospect. 

Whilst thus chewing the cud of bitter thought 
where thought was of scant avail, suddenly ap¬ 
peared the valiant Beuh, sent to visit us by Dahabo 
his gay sister. He informed us that a guide was 
in the neighbourhood, and the news gave me an 
idea^ I proposed that he should escort the women, 
camels, and baggage under command of the Ka- 

The late chief's name was " Bon," he died about four years ago, 
but his children have not yet received the turban. The royal 
race is the Ayyal AbdiUah, a powerful clan extending from the 
Dabasanis Hills to nd&r Jigjiga^ skirting the Marar Prairie* 

The Habr Awal are divi4ed into a multitude of clans: of 
these I shall specify only the principal, the subject of the mari- 
time Somal being already familiar to our countrymen. The 
Esa Musa inhabit part 6f the mountains south of Berberah. 
The Mikahil tenant the lowlands on the coast from Berberah to 
Siyaro, Two large clans, the Ayyal Tunis and the Ayyal 
Ahmed, have established themselves in Berberah and at Bulbar. 
Besides these are the Ayyal Abdillah Saad, the Ayyal Geraato, 
who live amongst the Ayyal Tunis, — the Bahgobo and the 
. Ayyal Hamed. 



THE FORCED MARCH. 


381 


lendar to Zayla, whilst we, mounting our mules 
and carrying only our arms and provisions for four 
days, might push through the lands of the Habr 
Awal. After some demur all consented. 

It was not without apprehension that I pocketed 
all my remaining provisions, five biscuits, a-^ew 
liijr^es, and sundry lumps of sugar. Any delay or 
accident to our mules would starve us; in the first 
place, we were about to traverse a desert, and 
secondly where Habr Awal were, they would not 
sell meat or milk to Habr Gerhajis. My attendants 
provided themselves with a small provision of su|i- 
dried beef, grain, and sweetmeats: only one water- 
bottle, however, was found amongst the whole 
party. We arose at dawn after a wet night 
on the 26th January, but we did not start till 
7 A. M., the reason being that all the party, the 
Kalendar, Shehrazade and Deenarzade, claimed and 
Would have his' and her several and distinct 
palaver. 

Having taken leave of our friends and property*, 

? My property arrived safe at Aden after about two months. 
The mule left under the Kalendar's charge never appeared^ and 
the camels are, 1 believe, still grazing among the Eesa. The 
fair Shehrazade, having amassed a little fortune, lost no time in 
changing her condition, an example followed in due time by 
Deenarzade. And the Kalendar, after a visit to Aden, returned 



382 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

we spurred our mules, and guided by Beuh, rode 
through cloud and mist towards Koralay the 
Saddle-back hill. After an hour's trot over rugged 
ground falling into the Harawwah valley, we came 
to a Gudabirsi village, where, my companions 
halted to inquire the news, also to distend their 
stomachs with milk. Thence we advanced slowly, 
as the broken path required, through thickets of 
wild henna to the kraal occupied by Beuh's family. 
At a distance we were descried by an old acquaint- 
/ ance, Fahi, who straightways began to dance like a 
little Polyphemus, his shock-wig waving in the air; 
plentiful potations* of milk again delayed my 
companions, who were now laying in a four days' 
stock. 

Remounting, we resumed our journey over a 
mass of rock and thicket, watered our mules at 
holes in a Fiumara, and made our way to a village 
belonging to the Ugaz or chief of the Gudabirsi 
tribe. He was a middle-aged man of ordinary 
presence, and he did not neglect to hold out his 
hand for a gift wh\ch we could not but refuse. 
Halting for about an hour, we persuaded a guide, 
by the offer of five dollars and a pair of cloths, to 

to electrify liis Zayla friends with long and terrible tales of 
travel. ' . 



THE DONKEY. 


383 


accompany us. " Dubayr "— the Donkey.— who 
belonged to the Bahgobo clan of the Habr Awal, 
was a "long Lankin," unable,like all these Bedouins, 
to endure fatigue. He could not ride, the saddle 
cut him, and he found his mule restive; lately 
married, he was incapacitated for walking, and he 
spiPfered sadly from thirst. The Donkey little knew, 
when he promised to show Berberah on the third 
day, what he had bound himself to perform; after 
the second march he was induced, only by the 
promise of a large present, and one continual talk 
of food, to proceed, and often he threw his lengtl^y 
form upon the ground, groaning that his supreme 
hour was at hand. In the land which we were to 
traverse every man's spear would be against us. 
By way of precaution, we-ordered our protector 
to choose desert roads and carefully to avoid aU 
kraals. At first, not understanding our reasons, 
and ever hankering after milk, he could not pass a 
thorn fence without eyeing it wistfully. On 
the next day, however, he became more tract¬ 
able, and before reaching Berberah he showed 
himself, in consequence of some old blood feud, 
more anxious even than ourselves to avqid 
villages. 

Remountingj under the guidance of the Donkey, 



384 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

•we resumed our eastward course. He was com¬ 
municative even for a Somali, and began by point¬ 
ing out, on the right of the road, the ruins of a 
stone-building, called, as customary in these coun¬ 
tries, a fort. Beyond it we came to a kraal, 
whence all the inhabitants issued with shouts and 
cries for tobacco. Three o'clock p, m. brought us 
to a broad Fiumara choked with the thickest and 
most tangled vegetation: we were shown some 
curious old Galla wells, deep holes about twenty 
feet in diameter, excavated in the rock; some were 
dry, others overgrown with huge creepers, and one 
only supplied us with tolerable water. The Gu- 
dabirsi tribe received them from the Girhi in 
lieu of blood-money; beyond this watercourse, the 
ground belongs to the Rer Tunis Jibril, a powerful 
clan of the Habr Awal, and the hills are thickly 
studded with thorn-fence and kraal. 

Without returning the salutations of the Be¬ 
douins, who loudly summoned us to stop and give 
them the news, we trotted forwards in search of a 
deserted sheep-fold. 'At sunset we passed, upon an 
eminence on our .left, the ruins of an ancient 
settlement, called after its patron Saint, Ao Barhe 
and both sides of the mountain road were flanked 
by tracts of prairie-land, beautifully purpling in 



moga's eye-tooth. 385 

% 

the evening air. After a ride of thirty-five miles; 

t 

we arrived at a large fold, where, by removing the' 
inner "thorn-fences, we found fresh grass for our 
starving beasts. The night was raw and windy, 
and thick mists deepened into a drizzle, which did 
not quench our thirst, but easily drenched the 
saddle cloths, our only bedding. In one sense, 
however, the foul weather was propitious to us. 
Our track might easily have been followed by some 
enterprising son of Tunis Jibril; these tracts of 
thorny bush are favourite places for cattle lifting ; 
moreover the fire was kept blazing all night, yet 
our mules were not stolen. 

We shook off our slumbers before dawn on the 
27th. I remarked near our resting-place, one of 
those detached heaps of rock, common enough in 
the Somali country; at one extremity a huge 
block projects \ipwards, and suggests the idea 
of a gigantic canine tooth. The Donkey declared 
that the summit still bears traces of building, and 
related the legend connected with Moga Medir. * 
There, in times of old, dwelt a Galla maiden whose 
eye could distinguish a plundering party at the 
distance of five days' march. The enemies of her 


* " Moga's eye-tooth/' 
C C 



FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA.' ' 

tribe, after sustaining heavy losses, hit upon me, 
expedient of an attack, not 4n che.tmse, but with, 
tlieir heads muffled in bundles gf hay. •When 
Moga, the maiden, informed her sire and clan that a 
prairie was on its way towards the hill, they deemeJ* 
her mad; the manceuvre succeeded, and the un* 
happy seer lost her life. The legend interested 
me by its wide diffusion. The history of Zarka, 
the blue-eyed witch of the Jadis tribe, who seized 
Yemamah by her gramarye, and our Scotch tale 
Of Birnam wood's march, are Asiatic and European 
facsimiles of African " Moga's Tooth." 

At 7 A. M. we started through the mist, and 
trotted eastwards in search of a well. The guide 
had deceived us ; the day before he had promised 
water at every half mile; he afterwards owned 
with groans that we should not drink before night¬ 
fall. These people seem to lie involuntarily: the 
habit of untruth with them becomes a second 
nature. They deceive without object for deceit, 
and the only way of obtaining from them correct 
information is to inquire, receive the answer, and 
determine it to be diametrically opposed to fact. 

I will not trouble you, dear L., with descriptions 
of t.he uniform and uninteresting scenery through 
which we rode, — horrid hills upon which withered 



-V^ATEE WANTEB. 


"8§? 

eI^s i)fandished *heir spears, plains apparently 
¦rained upon 'by a shower of stones, and rolling 
ground abounding'only with thorns like the " wait^ 
a-bits '* of Kafir land, created to tear man's skin or 
clothes, Our toil was rendered doubly toilson^e 
by the Eastern travellers' dread — the demon of 
Hhirst rode like Care behind us. For twenty-four 
hours we did not taste water, the sun parched our 
brains, the mirage mocked us at every turn, and 
the efiect was a species of monomania. As I jogged 
along with eyes closed against the fiery air, po 
image unconnected with the want suggested itse4f. 
Water ever lay before me — water lying deep in 
the shady well — water in streams bubbling icy 
from the rock — water in pellucid lakes inviting 
me to plunge and revel in their treasures. Now 
an Indian cloud was showering upon me fluid more 
precious than molten pearl, then an invisible hand 
offered a bowl for which the mortal part would 
gladly have bartered years of life. Then — drear 
contrast! — I opened my eyes to a heat-reeking 
plain, and a sky of that eternal metallic blue so 
lovely to painter and poet, so blank and death¬ 
like to us, whose xaXoj/ was tempest, rain-storm,^ 
and the huge purple nimbus. I tried to talk 


c c 2 



388 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 


— it was in vain, to sing in vain, vainly to think; 
every idea was bound up in one subject, water.* 

As the sun sank into the East we descended the 
wide Gogaysa valley. With unspeakable delight 
we saw in the distance a patch of lively green: 
our animals scented the blessing from afar, they 
raised their drooping ears, and started with us 
at a canter, till, turning a corner, we suddenly 
sighted sundry little wells. To spring from tho 
saddle, to race with our mules, who now feared 
not the crumbling sides of tbe pits, to throw our- 
selyes into the muddy pools, to drink a long slow 
draught, and to dash the, water over our burning 
faces, took less time to do than to recount. A 
calmer inspection showed a necessity for caution; 

— the surface was alive with tadpoles and in¬ 
sects : prudence, however, had little power at that 
time, we drank, and drank, and then drank 
again. As our mules had fallen with avidity upon 
the grass, I proposed to pass a few hours near the 


well. My companions, however, pleading the old 
fear of lions, led the way to a deserted kraal upon 


* As a rule, twelve hours without water in the desert during 
hot weather, kill a man. I never suffered severely from thirst 
but on this occasion; probably it was in consequence of being 
at the time but in weak health. 



THE SOUR VALLEY. 


389 


a neighbouring hill. We had marched about thirty 
miles eastward, and had entered a safe country 
belonging to the Bahgoba, our guide's clan. 

At sunrise on the 28th of January, the Donkey, 
whose limbs refused to work, was lifted into, the 
saddle, declaring that the white man must have 
bfeto sent from heaven, as a special curse upon the 
children of Ishak. We started, after filling the 
water-bottle, down the Gogaysa valley. Our 
mules were becoming foot-sore, and the saddles 
had already galled their backs; we were therefore 
compelled to the additional mortification of trave¬ 
ling at snail's pace over the dreary hills, and 
through the uninteresting bush. 

About noon we entered Wady Danan, or " The 
Sour," a deep chasm in the rocks; the centre is a 
winding sandy watercourse, here and there grassy 
with tall rushes, and aflTording at every half mile 
a plentiful supply of sweet water. The walls of 
the ravine are steep and rugged, and the thorny 
jungle clustering at the sides gives a wild ap¬ 
pearance to the scene. Traces of animals, quagga 
and gazelle, every wITere abounded: not being 
however, in " Dianic humour," and unwilling to 
apprise Bedouins of our vicinity, I did not fire a shot. 
As Ave advanced large trees freshly barked and more 


c c 3 



390 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA, 

tender plants torn up by the roots, showed the late 
passage, of a herd of elephants: my mule, though 
the bravest of our beasts, was in a state of terroi* 
all the way. The little grey honey-bird'*' tempted 
us to wander with all his art: now he sat upon the 
nearest tree chirping his invitation to a feast, then 

* I have never shot this feathered friend of man, althoagh 
frequent opportunities presented themselves* He appears to be 
the Cuculus Indicator (le Concou Indicateur) and the Om* 
Shlanvo of the Kafirs ; the Somal call him Maris. Described 

I 

b^ Father Lobo and Bruce, he is treated as a myth by 
Vaillant; M. Wiedmah makes him cry " Sliirt! Shirt! Shirt!" 
Dr. Sparrman " Tcherr! Tcberr I " Mr. Delegorgue " Chir I 
Chir! Chir! " His note suggested to me the shrill chirrup of 
a sparrow, and his appearance that of a greenfinch. 

Buffon has repeated what a traveller had related, namely, 
that the honey-bird is a little traitor who conducts men into 
ambuscades prepared by wild beasts. The Lion-Slayer in S. 
Africa asserts it to be the belief of Hottentots and the interior 
tribes, that the bird often lures the unwary pursuer to danger, 
sometimes guiding him to the midday retreat of a grizzly lion, 
or bringing him suddenly upon the den of the crouching pan¬ 
ther. M. Delegorgue observes that the feeble bird probably 
seeks aid in removing carrion for the purpose of picking up flies 
and worms; he acquits hi^ of malice prepense, believing that 
where the prey is, there carnivorous beasts may be met. 

The Somal, however, carry tlieir superstition still farther. 
The honey-bird is never trusted by them ; he leads, they say, 
either to the lions' den or the snakes* hiding-place, and often 
guides his victim inta the jaws of the Kaum or plundering 
party. 



THE HONEY-BtED. 


391 


he preceded us with short jerking flights to point 
out the path. My people, however, despite the 
fondness for honey inherent in the Somali palate *, 
would not follow him, deciding that on this occa¬ 
sion his motives for inviting us were not of the 
purest. 

' 'Emerging from the valley, we urged on our 
animals over comparatively level ground, in 
the fallacious hope of seeing the sea that night. 
The trees became rarer as we advanced and the 
surface metallic. In spots the path led over iro|n- 
stone that resembled slag. In other places the atdl 
was ochi'e-coloured f ; the cattle lick it, probably on 
account of the aluminous matter with which it is 
mixed. Everywhere the surface was burnt up by 
the sun, and withered from want of rain. Towards 
evening we entered a broad slope called by the 
Somal Dihh Murodi, or Murodilay, the Elephants' 
Valley. Crossing its breadth from west to east, 
we traversed two Fiumaras, the nearer " Hamar," 
the further " Las Dorhhay," or the Tamarisk water- 

? The Somal have several kinds of honey. The Donyale or 
wasp*honey, is scanty and bad; it is found in trees and obtained 
by smoking and cutting the branch. The Malab Shinni or 
bee-honey, is either white, red or brown; the first is consi¬ 
dered the most delicate in fiavour. 

f The Somal call it Arrah As. 

c c 4 



S92 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA, 

holes, They were similar in appearance, the usual 
Wady about 100 yards wide, pearly sand lined 
with borders of leek green, pitted with dry wells 
around which lay heaps of withered thorns and 
a herd of gazelles tripping gracefully over the 
quartz carpet. 

After spanning the valley we began to ascend 
the lower slopes of a high range, whose folds 
formed like a curtain the bold background of the 
view. This is the landward face of the Ghauts, 
over which we were to pass before sighting the sea. 
Masses of cold grey cloud rolled from the table- 
formed summit,, we were presently shrouded in 
mist, and as we advanced, rain began to fall. The 
light of day vanishing, we again descended into a 
Fiumara with a tortuous and rocky bed, the main 
drain of the landward mountain side. My com¬ 
panions, now half-starved,—they had lived through 
three days on a handful of dates and sweetmeats,— 
devoured with avidity the wild Jujube berries that 
strewed the stones. The guide had preceded us: 
when we came up with him, he was found seated 
upon a grassy bank on the edge of the* rugged 
torrent bed. We sprang in pleased astonishment 
from the saddle, dire had been the anticipations 
that our mules, — one of them already required 



THE fairies' well. 


393 


driving with the spear, —would, after another 
night of starvation, leave us to carry their loads 
upon our own backs. The cause of the phenomenon 
soon revealed itself. In the rock was a hole about 
two feet wide, whence a crystal sheet welled over 
the Fiumara bank, forming a paradise for frog and 
tadpole. This " Ga'angal " is considered by the 
Somal a " fairies' well: " all, however, that, the 
Donkey could inform me was, that when the No¬ 
mads settle in the valley, the water sinks deep 
below the earth — a knot which methinks might bd 
Unravelled without the interposition of a god. The 
same authority declared it to be the work of the 
" old ancient " Arabs. 

The mules fell hungrily upon the succulent 
grass, and we, with the most frugal of suppers, 
prepared to pass the rainy night. Presently, how¬ 
ever, the doves and Katas*, the only birds here 
requiring water, approached in flights, and fearing 
to drink, fluttered around us with shrill cries. 
They suggested to my companions the possibility 
of being visited in sleep by more formidable beasts, 
and even man: after a short halt, an advance was 
proposed; and this was an offer which, on principle, 

* The sand-grouse of Egypt and Arabia, the rock-pigeon of 
Sindh and the surrounding countries* 



394 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

I never refused. We remounted our mules, now 
refreshed and in good spirits, and began to ascend 
the stony face of the Eastern hill through a thick 
mist, deepening the darkness. As we reached the 
bleak summit, a heavy shower gave my companions 
a pretext to stop: they readily found a deserted 
thorn fence, in which we passed a wet night. That 
day. we had travelled at least thirty-five miles 
without seeing the face of man: the country was 
parched to a cinder for want of water, and all the 
Nomads had migrated to the plains. 

The morning of the 29th January was unusually 
fine: the last night's rain hung in masses of mist 
about the hill-sides, and the rapid evaporation 
clothed the clear background with deep blue. 
We began the day by ascending a steep goat-track; 
it led to a sandy Fiumara, overgrown with Jujubes 
and other thorns, abounding in water, and showing 
in the rocky sides, caverns fit for a race of Troglo¬ 
dytes. Pursuing the path over a stony valley 
lying between parallel ranges of hill, we halted at 
about 10 A.M. in a Wge patch of grass-land, the 
produce of the rain, which for some days past had 
been fertilising the hill-tops. Whilst our beasts 
grazed greedily, we sat under a bush, and saw 
far beneath iis the low country which separates 



THE SOMALI SPLUGEN. 


395 


the Ghauts from the sea. Through an avenue in 
the rolling nimbus, we could trace the long courses 
of Fiumaras, and below, where mist did not obstruct 
the sight, the tawny plains, cut with water- 
coprses glistening white, shone in their eternal 
summer. 

Shortly after 10 A.M., we resumed our march, 
and began the descent of the Ghauts by a ravine to 
which the guide gave the name of ' Kadar.' No 
sandy watercourse, the 'Pass' of this barbarous 
land, here facilitates the travellers' advance: th^ 
rapid slope of the hill presents a succession 0 )f 
blocks and boulders piled one upon the other in 
rugged steps, apparently impossible to a laden 
camel. This ravine, the Splugen of Somaliland, 
led us, after an hour's ride, to the Wady Duntu, 
a gigantic mountain-cleft formed by the violent 
action of torrents. The chasm winds abruptly 
between lofty walls of syenite and pink granite, 
glittering with flaky mica, and streaked with 
dykes and veins of snowy quartz: the strata of 
the sandstones that here and there projected into 
the bed were wonderfully twisted around a central 
nucleus, as green boughs might be bent about a 
tree. Above, the hill-tops towered in the air, here 
denuded of vegetable soil by the heavy monsoon, 
there clothed from base to brow with gum trees, 



396 FIUST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

whose verdure was delicious to behold. The chan¬ 
nel was now sandy, then flagged with limestone in 
slippery sheets, or horrid with rough boulders; 
at times the path was clear and easy; at others, 
a prebipice of twenty or thirty feet, which must be 
a little cataract after rain, forced us to fight our 
way through the obstinate thorns that defended 
some spur of ragged hill. As the noontide heat, 
concentrated in this funnel, began to affect man and 
beast, we found a granite block, under whose shady 
Throw clear water, oozing from the sand, formed a 
natural bath, and sat there for a while to enjoy the 
spectacle and the atmosphere, perfumed, as in part 
of Persia and Northern Arabia, by the aromatic 
shrubs of the desert. 

After a short half-hour, we remounted and pur¬ 
sued our way down the Duntu chasm. As we 
advanced, the hills shrank in size, the bed became 
more level, and the ^walls of rock, gradually 
widening out, sank into the plain. Brisk and 
elastic above, the air^ here soft, damp, and tepid, 
and the sun burning with a more malignant heat, 
convinced us that we stood once more below the 
Ghauts. For two hours Ave urged our mules in a 
south-east direction down the broad .and winding 
Fiumara, taking care to inspect every well, but 



THE MARITIME PLAIN. 


397 


finding them all full of dry sand. Then turning 
eastwards, we crossed a plain called by the Donkey 
" Battaladayti Taranay " —the Flats of Taranay — 
an exact representation of the maritime re^ons 
about Zayla. Herds of camels and flocks of milky 
sheep browsing amongst thorny Acacia and the 
tufted Kulan, suggested pleasing visions to starving 
travellers, and for the first time after three days 
of hard riding, we saw the face of man. The 
shepherds, Mikahil of the Habr Awal, tribe, all 
fled as we approached: at last one was bold enough! 
to stand and deliver the news*. My companionar 
were refreshed by good reports: there had been 
few murders, and the sea-board was tolerably clear 
of our doughty enemies, the Ayyal Ahmed. We 
pricked over the undulating growth of parched 
grass, shaping our course for Jebel Almis, to sailors 
the chief landmark of this coast, and for a certain 
thin blue stripe on the far horizon, upon which we 
gazed with gladdened eyes. 

Our road lay between low brown hills of lime 
and sandstone, the Sub-Ghauts forming a scattered 
line between the maritime mountains and the sea. 
Presently the path was choked by dense scrub of 
the Arman Acacia; its yellow blossoms scented the 
air, but hardly made amends for the injuries oT 



398 FIBST 'FOOTSTEPS IN' EAST AFRICA. 

a thorn nearly two inches long, and tipped with 
a wooden, point sharp as a needle. Emerging, 
towards evening, from this bush, we saw large 
herds of camels, and called, their guardians to 
come and meet us. For all reply they ran like 
ostriches to the neares't rocks, uttering the ciy of 
alarm, and when we drew near each man implored 
us to' harry his neighbour's cattle. Throughout 
our wanderings in Somaliland this had never oc¬ 
curred: it impressed me strongly with the dis¬ 
turbed state of the regions inhabited by the Habr 
Awal. After some time we persuaded a Bedouin 
who, with frantic gestures, was screaming and 
flogging his camels, to listen: reassured by our 
oaths, he declared himself to be a Bahgoba, and 
promised to show us a village of the Ayyal Gedid. 
The Hammal, who had married a daughter of this 
clan, and had constituted his father-in-law my 
protector at Berberah, made sure of a hospitable 
reception: " To-night we shall sleep under cover 
and drink milk," quoth one hungry man to an¬ 
other, who straightways rejoined, " And we shall 
eat mutton! " 

After dark we arrived at a kraal, we unsaddled 
our mules and sat down near it, indulging in 
Epicurean anticipations. Opposite us, by the door 



DISAPPOINTMENT. 


399 


of a hut, was a group of men who observed our 
arrival, but did not advance or salute, us. Im-* 
patient, I fired a pistol, when a gruff voice asked 
why we disturbed the camels that were being 
mUked. "We have fallen upon the Ayyal Shir- 
don"— our bitterest enemies—whispered the 
End Time. The same voice then demanded in 
angrier accents, " Of what tribe be ye ? " We 
boldly answered, " Of the Habr Gerhajis." There¬ 
upon ensued a war of words. The Ayyal Shirdon 
inquired what we wanted, where we had been, and 
how we dared, seeing that peace had not been 
concluded between the tribes, to enter their lands. 
We replied civilly as our disappointment would 
permit, but apparently gained little by soft words. 
The inhospitable Bedouins declared our arrival to 
be in the seventeenth house of Geomancy — an ad¬ 
vent probable jis the Greek Kalends — and rudely 
insisted upon knowing what had taken us to Harar. 
At last, a warrior, armed with two spears, came to 
meet us, and bending down recognized tile End of 
Timej after a few short sentences he tui:ned on his 
heel and retired. I then directed Long Guled to 
approach the group, and say that a traveller was 
at their doors ready and willing to give tobacco 
in exchange for a . draught of milk. They refused 



400 . 


FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 


point-blank, and spoke of fighting: we at once 
made ready with our weapons, and showing the 
plain, bade then come on and receive a " belly full." 
During the lull which followed this obliging pro¬ 
posal we saddled our mules and jode oflP, in the 
grimmest of humours, loudly cursing the craven 
churls who knew not the value of a guest. 

We visited successively three villages of the 
Ayyal Gedid: the Hammal failed to obtain even 
a drop of water from his connexions, and was 
taunted accordingly. He explained their inhos¬ 
pitality by the fact that all the warriors being at 
Berberah, the villages contained nothing but 
women, children, servants, and flocks. The 
Donkey when strictly questioned declared that no 
well nearer than Bulhar was to be found: as men 
and mules were faint with thirst, I determined to 
push forward to water that night. Many times the 
animals were stopped, a mu|te hint that they could 
go no further: I spurred onwards, and the rest, as 
on such o^asions they h^d now learned to do, fol¬ 
lowed without a word. Our path lay across a 
plain called Banka Hadla, intersected in many 
places by deep watercourses, and thinly strewed 
with Kulan clumps. The moon arose, but cast a 
cloud-veiled and uncertain light: our path, more- 



BULHAR. 401 

.over, was not clear, as the guide, worn out by 
fatigue, tottered on far in the rear. 

About midnight we heard — delightful sound ! 
— the murmur of the distant sea. Eevived by the 
music, we pushed on more cheerily. At last the 
Donkey preceded us, and about 3 a.m. we found, 
in a Fiumara, some holes which supplied us with 
bitter water, truly delicious after fifteen hours of 
thirst. Repeated draughts of the element, which 
the late rains had rendered potable, relieved our 
pain, and hard by we found a place where coarse 
stubbly grass saved our mules from starvation! 
Then rain Coming on, we coiled ourselves under 
the saddle cloths, and, reckless alike of Ayyal 
Ahmed and Ayyal Shirdon, slept like the dead. 

At dawn on the ,30th January, I arose and 
inspected the site of Bulhar; It was then de¬ 
serted, a huge heap of bleached bones being the 
only object suggestive of a settlement. This, at 
different times, has been a thriving place, owing 
to its roadstead, and the feuds of Berberah: it 
was generally a village of Gurgis, with some stone- 
houses built by Arabs. The coast, however, is open 
and havenless, and the Shimal wind, feared even 
at the Great Port, here rages with resistless 
violence. Yet the place revives when plundering 


D D 



402 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

» 

parties render the plain unsafe: the timid mer¬ 
chants here embark their goods and persons, whilst 
their camels are marched round the bay. 

Mounting at 6 A.M. we started slowly along the 
sea coast, and frequently halted on the bushy 
Fiumara-cut plain. About noon we bathed in the 
sea, and sat on the sands for a while, my people 
prajdng for permission to pass the kraals of their 
enemies, the Ayyal Ahmed, by night. This, 
their last request, was graciously granted: to say 
sooth, rapid travelling was now impossible; the 
spear failed to urge on one mul^, and the Hammal 
was obliged to flog before him another wretched 
animal. We then traversed an alluvial plain, 
lately flooded, where slippery mud doubled the 
fatigue of our cattle; and, at 3 p.m., again halted 
on a patch of grass below the rocky spur of 
Dabasenis, a hill half way between Bulhar and 
Berberah. On the summit. I was shown an object 
that makes travellers shudder, a thofn-tree,. under 
which the Habr Gerh|qis*, and their friends of 

¦ * The Habr Gerhajis, or eldest branch of the sons of Ishak 
("generally including the children of " Arab"), inhabit the 
Ghauts behind Berberah, whence they extend for several days' 
march towards Ogadayn, the southern region. This tribe is 
divided into a multitude of clans. The Ismail Arrah supply the 



TBE saints' mount. 


403 


the Eesa Musa sit, vulture-like, on the look-out 
for plunder and murder. Advancing another 
mile, we came to some wells, where we were 
obliged to rest our animals. Having there finished 
our last mouthful of food, we remounted, and 
following the plain eastward, prepared for a long 
ni^ht-march. 

As the light of day waned we passed on the 
right hand a table-formed hill, apparently a de¬ 
tached fragment of the sub-Ghauts or coast range. 
This spot is celebrated in local legends as " Auliy^ 
Kumbo," the Mount of Saints, where the fortj^- 

Sultan, a nominal chief like the Eesa IJgaz; they extend from 
Makhar to the south of Gulays, number about 15,000 shields 
and are subdivided into three septs. The Musa Arrah hold the 
land between Gulays and the seats of the Mijjarthayn and 
Warsangeli tribes on the windward coast. The Ishak Arrah 
count 5000 or 6000 shields, and inhabit the Gulays Range. 
The other sons of Arrah (the fourth in descent from Ishak), 
namely, Mikahil, Gam bah, Daudan, and others, also became 
founders of small clans. The Ayyal Baud, facetiously called 
Idagallah " or earth-burrowers, and sprung from the second 
son of Gerhiyis, claim the country south of the Hubr Awal, 
reckon about 4000 shields, and are divided into 11 or 12 
septs. 

As has been noticed, the Habr Gerhajis have a perpetual 
blood feud with the Habr Awal, and, even at Aden, they have 
fought out their quarrels with clubs and stones. Yet as cousins 
they willingly unite against a common enemy, the Eesa for in¬ 
stance, aiid become the best of friend^ 


n n 2 



404 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

four Arab Santons sat in solemn conclave before 
dispersing over the Somali country to preach El 
Islam. It lies about six hours of hard walking 
from Berberah. 

At midnight we skirted Bulho Faranji, the 
Franks' Watering-place*, a strip of ground thickly 
covered with trees. Abounding in grass and 
water, it has been the site of a village: when we 
passed it, however, all was desert. By the moon's 
light we descried, as, we silently skirted the sea, 
the kraals and folds of our foe the Ayyal Ahmed, 
and at times we could distinguish the lowing of 
their cattle: my companions chuckled hugely at 
the success of their manoeuvre, and perhaps not 
without reason. At Berberah we were afterwards 
informed that a shepherd in the bush had witnessed 
and reported our having passed, when the Ayyal 
Ahmed cursed the star that had enabled us to slip 
unhurt through their hands. 

Our mules could scarely walk: after every 
bow-shot they rolled t\pon the ground and were 
raised only by the whip. A last halt was called 
when arrived within four miles of Berberah: the 
End of Time and Long Guled, completely worn 

• So called from the Mary Anne brig, here plundered in 1825. 

. I 



THE HAMMAL'S pluck. 


405 


out, fell fast asleep upon the stones. Of all the 
party the Hammal alone retained strength and 
spirits: the sturdy fellow talked, sang, and shouted, 
and, whilst the others could scarely sit their mules, 
he danced his war-^dance and brandished his spear. 
I Y|as delighted with his " pluck." 

Now a long dark line appears upon the 
sandy horizon — it grows more distinct in the 
shades of night — the silhouettes of shipping 
appear against sea and sky. A cry of joy bursts 
from every mouth: cheer, boys, cheer, our toilk 
here touch their end! 1 

The End of Time first listened to the small still 
voice of Caution. He whispered anxiously to 
make no noise lest enemies might arise, that mj'^ 
other attendants had protectors at Berberah, but 
that he, the hated and feared, as the locum tenens 
of Sharmarkay,— the great bete noire, — depended 
wholly upon my defence. The Donkey led us 
slowly and cautiously round the southern quarter 
of the sleeping town, through bone heaps and 
jackals tearing their unsavoury prey : at last he 
marched straight into the quarter appropriated to 
the Ayyal Gedid our, protectors. Anxiously I 
inquired if my comrades had left Berberah, and 
heard with delight that they awaited me there. 



406 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

It was then 2 a.m. and we had marched at least 
forty miles. The Somal, when in fear of forays, 
drive laden camels over this distance in about ten 
hours. 

I dismounted at- the huts where my comrades 
were living. A glad welcome, a dish of rice, and 
a glass of strong waters — pardon dear L., these 
details — made amends for past privations and 
fatigue. The servants and the wretched mules 
were duly provided for, and I fell asleep, conscious 
of ha\dng performed a feat which, like a certain 
ride to York, will live in local annals for many 
and many a year. 



407 


CHAP. X. 

BEBBERAH AND ITS ENVIRONS. 

It is interesting to compare the earliest with the 
latest account of the great emporium of Eastern 
Africa. 

Bartema, writing in the sixteenth century " |f 
Barbara and the Island of Ethiope," offers the 
following brief description: —"After that the tem¬ 
pests were appeased, we gave wind to our sails, 
and in short time arrived at an island named 
Barbara, the prince whereof is a Mahometan.* 
The island is not great but fruitful and well 
peopled: it hath abundance of flesh. The in¬ 
habitants are of colour inclining to black. All 
their riches is in herds of cattle." 

Lieut. Cruttenden of the I.N., writing in 1848, 
thus describes the place: —" The annual fair is 

* I cannot guess why Bartema decided Barbara " to be an 
island, except that he used ** insula " in the sense of penin¬ 
sula" The town is at very high tides flooded round, but the 
old traveller manifestly speaks of the country. 


n B 4 



408 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

one of the most interesting sights on the coast, 
if only from the fact of many different and dis¬ 
tant tribes being drawn together for a short time, 
to be again scattered in all directions. Before 
the towers of Berbera were built% the place from 
April to the early part of October was utterly 
deserted, not even a fisherman being found there; 
but no sooner did the season change, than the 
inland tribes commenced moving down towards 
the coast, and preparing their huts for their ex¬ 
pected visitors. Small craft from the ports of 
Yemen, anxious to have an opportunity of pur¬ 
chasing before vessels from the gulf could arrive, 
hastened across, followed about a fortnight to 
three weeks later by their larger brethren from 
Muscat, Soor, and Ras el Khyma, and the valu¬ 
ably freighted Bagalas f from Bahrein, Bussorah, 
and Graen. Lastly, the fat and wealthy Banian 
.traders from Porebunder,( Mandavie, and Bom¬ 
bay, rolled across in their clumsy Kotiasf, and 

• These are the four martello towers erected, upon the'spot 
where the town of huts generally stands, by the Hajj Sharmar- 
kay, who garrisoned them with thirty Arab and Negro match- 
lockmen. They are now In ruins, having been dismantled by 
orders from Aden. 

t The former is an Arab craft, the latter belongs to the 
Northern Coasts of Western India. 



BERBEEAH. 


409 


with a formidable row of empty ghee jars slung 
over the quarters of their vessels, elbowed them¬ 
selves into a permanent position in the front tier 
of craft in the harbour, and by their superior 
capital, cunning, and influence soon distanced all 
conHipetitors." 

" During the height of the fair, Berbera is a 
perfect Babel, in confusion as in languages: no 
chief is acknowledged, Rnd the customs of by¬ 
gone days are the laws of the place. Disputes 
between the inland tribes daily arise, and are| 
settled by the spear and dagger, the combatants 
retiring to the beach at a short distance from 
the town, in order that they may not disturb 
the . trade. Long strings of camels are arriving 
and departing day and night, escorted generally 
by women alone, until at a distance from the 
town; and an occasional group of dusky and 
travel-worn children marks the arrival of the slave 
Cafila from Hurrur and Efat." 

"At Berbera, the Gurague and Hurrur slave mer¬ 
chant meets his correspondent from Bussorah, Bag¬ 
dad, or Bunder Abbas; and the savage Gidrbeersi 
(Gudabirsi), with his head tastefully ornamented 
with a scarlet sheepskin in lieu of a wig, is seen 
peacefully bartering his Qslrich feathers and gums 



-410 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

¦with the smooth-spoken Banian from Porebunder, 
who prudently living on board his ark, and locking 
up his. puggree*, which would infallibly be knocked 
- off the instant he was seen wearing it, exhibits 
but a small portion of his wares at a time, under a 
miserable mat spread on the beach." 

"By the end of March the fair is nearly at a 
close, and craft of all kinds, deeply laden, and 
sailing generally in parties of three and four, 
commence their homeward journey. The Soori 
'boats are generally the last to leave, and by the 
first week in April, Berbera is again deserted, 
nothing being left to mark the site of a town 
lately containing 20,000 inhabitants, beyond bones 
of slaughtered camels and sheep, and the frame¬ 
work of a few huts, which is carefully piled on the 
beach in readiness for the ensuing year. Beasts 
of prey now take the opportunity to approach 
the sea: lions are commonly seen at the town 
well during the hot weather; and in April last 
year, but a week after \the fair had ended, I ob¬ 
served three ostriches quietly Walking on the 
beach." f 
* A turban. 

f The wild animals have now almost entirely disappeared. 
As will afterwards be shown^ the fair since 1848 has diminished 
to one third its former dimensions. ^ 



ORIGIN OP BERBERAH. 


411 


' Of the origin of Borberah little is known. El 
Firuzabadi derives it, with great probability, from 
two Hirayar chiefs of Southern Arabia.* About 
A.D. 522 the troops of Anushirwan expelled the 
Abyssinians from Yemen, and re-established there 
a Himyari prince under vassalage of the Persian 
Monarch. Tradition asserts the port to have 
been occupied in turns by the Fursf, the Arabs, 
the Turks, the Gallas, and the Somal. And its 
future fortunes are likely to be as varied as the 
past. 

The present decadence of Berberah is caused 
by petty internal feuds. Gerhajis the eldest son 
of Ishak el Hazrami, seized the mountain ranges 
of Gulays and Wagar lying about forty miles 
behind the coast, whilst Awal, the cadet, established 
himself and his descendants upon the lowlands from 
Berberah to Zayla. Both these powerful tribes 
assert a claim to the customs and profits of the 
port on the grounds that they jointly conquered 
it from the Gallas. f The Habr Awal, however, 

* This subject has been fully discussed in Chap. IV. 

f The old Persians. 

J Especially the sea-board Habr Gerhajis clans, — the Musa 
Arrah, the Ali Said, and the Saad Tunis—are interested in as* 
serting their claims. 



412 


FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 


being in possession, would monopolize the right: a 
blood feud rages, and the commerce of the place 
suffers from the dissensions of the owners. 

Moreover the Habr Awal tribe is not without 
internal feuds. Two kindred septs, the Ayyal 
Tunis Nuh and the Ayyal Ahmed Nuh*, esta¬ 
blished themselves originally at Berberah. The 
former, though the more numerous, admitted the 
latter for some years to a participation of profits, 
but when Aden, occupied by the British, rendered 
the trade valuable, they drove out the weaker sept, 
and declared themselves sole "Abbans" to 
strangers during the fair. A war ensued. The 
sons of Tunis obtained aid of the Mijjarthayn 
tribe. The sons of Ahmed called in the Habr 
Gerhajis, especially the Musa Arrah clan, to which 
the Hajj Sharmarkay belongs, and, with his 
assistance, defeated and drove out the Ayyal Tunis. 

f 

* Yunis and Ahmed were brothers, children of Nuh, the 
ninth in descent from Ishak el^Hazrami. The former had four 
sons, Hosh Tunis,; Gedid Yums, Mahmud .Tunis, and Shirdon 
Yunis; their descendants are all known as the Ayyal or pro¬ 
geny of Tunis, The Ayyal Ahmed Nuh hold the land im¬ 
mediately behind the town, and towards the Ghauts, blend with 
the Eesa Musa. The Mikahil claim the Eastern country from 
Siyaro to Illanti, a wooded valley affording good water and 
bad anchorage to wind-bound vessels. 

( 



BECEPTION AT BERBEBAH, 


413 


These, flying from Berberah, settled at the haven of 
Bulhar, and by their old connection with the 
Indian and other foreign traders, succeeded in 
drawing oflF a considerable amount of traffic. But 
the. roadstead was insecure: many vessels were 
lost, and in 1847 the Eesa Somal slaughtered the 
women and children of the new-comers, compelling 
them to sue the Ayyal Ahmed for peace. Though 
the feud thus ended, the fact of its having 
had existence ensures bad blood: amongst 
these savages treaties are of no avail, and the 
slightest provocation on either side becomes a 
signal for renewed hostilities. 

• •*••••» 

After this dry disquisition we will return, dear 
L., to my doings at Berberah. 

Great fatigue is seldom followed by long sleep. 
Soon after sunrise I awoke, hearing loud voices 
proceeding from a mass of black face and tawny 
wig, that blocked up the doorway, pressing 
forward to see their new stranger. The Berberah 
people had been informed by the Donkey of our 
having ridden from the Girhi hills in five days : 
they swore that not only the thing was impossible, 
but moreover that we had never sighted Harar. 
Having undergone the usual catechising with 



414 FIBST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFBICA. 

credit, I left the thatched hut in which my com¬ 
rades were living, and proceeded to inspect my 
attendants and cattle. The former smiled blandly : 
they had acquitted themselves of their trust, they 
had outwitted the Ayyal Ahmed, who would be 
furious thereat, they had filled themselves with 
dates, rice, and sugared tea — another potent 
element of moral satisfaction — and they trusted 
that a few days would show them their wives and 
families. The End of Time's brow, however, 
betrayed an arriere * pensee; once more his 
cowardice crept forth, and he anxiously whispered 
that his existence depended upon my protection. 
The poor mules were by no means so easily restored. 
Their backs, cut to the bone by the saddles, stood 
up like those of angry cats, their heads drooped 
sadly, and their hams showed red marks of the 
spear-point. Directing them to be washed in the 
sea, dressed with cold-water bandages, and 
copiously fed, I proceeded to inspect the Berberah 
Plain. ^ 

The " Mother of the Poor," as the Arabs call 
the place, in position resembles Zayla. The town, 
— if such name can be given to what is now a 
wretched clump of dirty mat-huts,— is situated on 
the northern edge of alluvial ground, sloping 



SITUATION OF BEBBERAH. 415 

? 

almost imperceptibly from the base of the Southern 
hills. The rapacity of these short-sighted savages 
has contracted its dimensions to about one sixth 
of its former extent: for nearly a mile around, the 
no ^7 desert land is strewed with bits of glass and 
broken pottery. Their ignorance has chosen the 
wori^t' position : Mos Majorum is the Somali code, 
where father built there son builds, and there 
shall grandson build. To the S. and E. lies a 
saline sand-flat, partially overflowed by high tides : 
here are the wells of bitter water, and the filth and 
garbage make the spot truly, offensive. North- 
' wards the sea-strand has become a huge cemetery, 
crowded with graves whose dimensions explain the 
Somali legend that once tfiere were giants in the 
land ; tradition assigns to it the name of Bunder 
Abbas. Westward, close up to the town, runs the 
creek which forma the wealth of Berberah. A long 
strip of sand and limestone — the general for¬ 
mation of the coast — defends its length from the 
northern gales, the breadth is about three quarters 
of a mile, and the depth varies from six to fifteen 
fathoms near the Ras or Spit at which ships anchor 
before putting out to sea. 

Behind the town, and distant about seven miles, 
lie the Sub-Ghauts, a bold background of lime and 



416 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

sandstone. Through a broad gap called Duss 
Malablay * appear in fine .weather the granite walls 
of Wagar and Gulays, whose altitude by aneroid 
was found to be 5700 feet above the level of the 
sea.f On the eastward the Berberah plain is 
bounded by the hills of Siyaro, and westwards the 
heights of Dabasenis limit the prospect.J 

* In the centre of the gap is a detached rock called Daga 
Malablay. 

f It was measured by Lt. Herne, who remarks of this range 
that " cold in winter, as the presence of the pine-tree proves, and 
cooled in summer by the Monsoon, abounding in game from a 
spur fowl to an elephant; this hill would make an admirable 
Sanitarium," Unfortunately Gulays is tenanted by the Habr 
Gerhajis, and Wagar by the Eesa Musa, treacherous races. 

This part of Somali lan3 is a sandy plain, thinly covered 
with thorns and bounded by two ranges, the Ghauts and Sub- 
Ghauts. The latter or maritime mountains begin at Tajurrah, 
and extend to Karam (long. 46° E.), where they break into 
detached groups; the distance from the coast varies from 6 to 
15 miles, the height from 2000 to 3000 feet, and the surface is 
barren, the rock being denuded bf soil by rain. The Ghauts 
lie from 8 to 40 miles from the sea, they average from 4000 to 
6000 feet, are thickly cove^jed with gum-arabic and frank¬ 
incense trees, the wild fig and the Somali pine, and form the 
seaward wall of the great table-land of the interior. The 
Northern or maritime face is precipitous, the summit is tabular 
and slopes gently southwards. The general direction is E. by 
N. and W, by S., there are, however, some spurs at the three 
hills termed Ourat," which project towards the north. Each 
portion of the plain between these ranges has some local name, 

( 



BBRBERAH VERSUS ADEN. 


417 


It was with astonishment that I reflected upon 
the impolicy of having preferred Aden to this 
place. 

The Emporium of Eastern Africa has a salubri¬ 
ous climate*, abundance of sweet water—a luxury 
to be " fully appreciated only after a residence at 
Aden " f — a mild monsoon, a fine open country. 


sucli as the ** Shimberali Valley ** extending westwards from the 
detached hill Dimoli, to Geuli, Dinanjir and Gularkar. Inter¬ 
sected with Fiumaras which roll torrents during the monsoon^ 
they are covered with a scrub of thorns, wild fig, aloe, and dif-j 
ferent kinds of Cactus. 

* The climate of Berberah is cool during the winter, and 
though the sun is at all times burning, the atmosphere, as in 
Somali land generally, is liealthy. In the dry season the plain 
is subject to great heats, but lying open to the north, the sea- 
breeze is strong and regular. In the monsoon the air is 
cloudy, light showers frequently fall, and occasionally heavy 
storms come up from the southern hills. 

¦(' I quote Lieut. Cruttenden. The Berberah water has ac¬ 
quired a bad name because the people confine themselves to 
fiiggmg holes three or four feet deep in the sand, about half- 
a-mile from high-water mark. They are reconciled to it 
by its beneficial effects, especially after and before a journey. 
Good water, however, can be procured in any of the Fiu- 
maras intersecting the plain; when the Hajj Sharmarkay's 
towers commanded the town wells, the people sank pits in low 
ground a few hundred yards distant, and procured a purer 
beverage. The Banyans, who are particular about their 
potations, drink the sweet produce of Siyaro, a roadstead about 
nineteen miles eastward of Berberah. ' 



418 FIBST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

an excellent -harbour, and a soil highly productive. 
It is the meeting-place of commerce, has few rivals, 
and with half the sums lavished in Arabia upon 
engineer follies of stone and lime, the environs 
might at this time have been covered with houses, 
gardens, and trees. 

The Eye of Yemen, to quote ^Carlyle, is a "moun¬ 
tain of misery towering sheer up like a bleak 
Pisgah, with outlooks only into desolation, sand, 
salt water, and despair." The camp is in a " Devil's 
Punchbowl," stiflingly hot during nine months of 
the year, and subject to alternations of sandstorm 
and Simum, "without either seed, water, or trees," 
as Ibn Batutah described it 500 years ago, un¬ 
productive for want of rain, — not a sparrow 
can exist there, nor will a crow thrive,*—and-, 
essentially unhealthy, f Our loss in operatives is 


* The experiment was tried by an officer who brought from 
Bombay a batch of sparrows and crows. The former died^ 
scorbutic I presume ; the latter lingered through an unhappy 
life, and to judge from the absence'of young, refused to entail 
their miseries upon posterity, 

f The climate of Aden, it may be observed, has a reputation 
for salubrity which it does not deserve. The returns of deaths 
prove it to be healthy for the European soldier as London, and 
there are many who have built their belief upon the sandy soil 
of statistics. But it is the practice of every sensible medical 
man to hurry his patients put of Aden*; they die elsewhere,—^ 



TOE ABBAN AT BERBERAH. 


419 


only equalled by our waste of rupees ,; and the 
general wish of Western India is, that the ex¬ 
tinct sea of fire would, Vesuvius-like, once more 
convert this dismal cape into a living crater. 

After a day's rest — physical not spiritual, for 
the Somal were as usual disputing violently about 
the Abbanship* — I went with my comrades to 

some I believe recover, — and thus the deaths caused by the 
crater are attributed statistically to Bombay or the Red Sea, 

Aden is for Asiatics a hot-bed of scurvy and ulcer. Of the 
former disease my own corps, 1 am informed, had in hospital 
at one time 200 cases above the usual amount of sickness; thlsj 
arises from the brackish water, the want of vegetables, an4 
lastly the cachexy induced by an utter absence of change, di¬ 
version, and excitement. The ulcer is a disease endemic in 
Southern Arabia; it is frequently fatal, especially to the poorer 
classes of operatives, when worn out by privation, hardship, and 
/atigue. 

* The Abban is now the pest of Berberah. Before vessels 
have cast anchor, or indeed have rounded the Spit, a crowd of 
Somal, eager as hotel-touters, may be seen running along the 
strand. They swim off, and the first who arrives on board 
inquires the name of the Abban; if there be none he touches 
the captain or one of the crew and constitutes himself protector. 
For merchandise sent forward, the man who conveys it becomes 
answerable. . 

The system of dues has become complicated. Formerly, the 
standard of value at Berberah was two cubits of the blue 
cotton-stuff called Sauda; this is now converted into four 
pice of specie. Dollars form the principal currency; rupees are 
taken at a discount. Traders pay according to degree, the 
lowest being one per cent., taken from Muscat and Suri mer* 

B E 2 



420 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 


visit an interesting ruin near the town. Qn the 
way we were shown pits of coarse sulphur and 
alum mixed with sand; in the low lands senna 
and colocynth were growing wild. After walking 
a mile south-south-east, from present Berberah to 
a rise in the plain, we found the remains of a 
small building about eight yards square divided 
into two compartments. It is apparently a Mosque: 

chants. The shopkeeper provides food for his Abban, and 
presents him at the close of the season with a Tobe, a pair of 
sandals, and half-a-dozen dollars. Wealthy Banyans and 
Mehmans give food and raiment, and before departure from 50 
to 200 dollars. This class, however, derives large profits; they 
will lend a few dollars to the Bedouin at the end of the Fair, 
on condition of receiving cent, per cent., at the opening of the 
next season. Travellers not transacting business must feed 
the protector, but cannot properly be forced to pay hiip. Of 
course the Somal take every advantage of Europeans. Mr. 
Angelo, a merchant from Zanzibar, resided two months at 
Bulbar; his broker of the Ayyal Gedid tribe, and an Arab who 
accompanied him, extracted, it is said, 3000 dollars. As a rule 
the Abban claims one per cent, oil sales and purchases, and two 
dollars per head of slaves. For each bale of cloth, half-a-dollar 
in coin is taken ; on gums and^cofiee the duty is one pound in 
twenty-seven. Cowhides pay half-a-dollar each, sheep and 
goat's skins four pice, and ghee about one per cent 

Lieut. Herne calculates that the total money dues during the 
Fair-season amount to 2000 dollars, and that, in the present 
reduced state of Berberah, not more than 10,000/. worth of 
merchandize is sold. This estimate the natives of the place 
declare to be considerably under the mark. 



EUINS NEAR BERBERAH. 


421 


one portion, the sole of which is raised, shows traces 
of the prayer niche; the other might have con¬ 
tained the tomb of some saint now obsolete, or might 
have been a fort to protect a neighbouring tank. 
The walls are of rubble masonry and mud, re¬ 
vetted with a coating of cement hard as stone, and 
mixed with small round pebbles.* Near it is a" 
shallow reservoir of stone and lime, about five 
yards by ten, proved by the aqueduct, part of 
which still remains, to be a tank of supply. Re¬ 
moving the upper slabs, we found the interior | 
lined with a deposit of sulphate of lime and choked 
with fine drift sand; the breadth is about fifteen 
inches and the depth nine. After following it 
fifty yards toward the hills, we lost the trace; the 
loose stones had probably been removed for 
graves, and the soil may have buried the firmer 
portion. 

Mounting our mules we then rode in a south- 
south-east direction towards the Dubar Hills. 
The surface of the ground, apparently level, rises 
about 100 feet per mile. In most parts a soft 
sand overlying hard loam, like work m pise, lime- 

* The similarity between the Persian "Gach" and this 
cement, which is found in many ruins about Berberah, has been 
remarked by other travellers. * 

JE £ S 



422 - riKST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

stone and corallitie; it shows evidences of inunda¬ 
tion : water-worn stones. of a lime almost as com¬ 
pact as marble, pieces of quartz, selenite, basalt, 
granite, and syenite in nodules are everywhere 
sprinkled over the surface.* Here and there 
. torrents from the hills had cut channels five or six 


• The following note by Dri Carter of Bombay will be in¬ 
teresting to Indian geologists. 

Of the collection of geological specimens and fossils from 
Berberah above mentioned, Lieut. Burton states that the latter 
are found on the plain of Berberah, and the former in the fol¬ 
lowing order between the sea and the summits of mountains 
(600 feet high), above it — that is, the ridge immediate behind 
Berberah. 

1. Country along the coast consists of a coralline limestone, 
(tertiary formation,) with drifts of sand, &c. 2. Sub-Ghauts 

and lower ranges (say 2000 feet high), of sandstone capped with 
limestone, the former preponderating. 3. Above the Ghauts 
a plateau of primitive rocks mixed with sandstone, granite, 
syenite, mica schiste, quartz rock, niicaceous grit, &c. 

The fawn-coloured fossils from his coralline limestone are 
evidently the same as those of the tertiary formation along the 
south-east coast of Arabia, and Werefore the same as those of 
Cutch ; and it is exceedingly interesting to find that among the 
blue-coloured fossils which are accompanied by specimens of 
the blue shale, composing the beds from which they have been 
weathered out, are species of Terebratula Belemnites, identical 
with those figured in Grant's Geology of Cutch ; thus enabling 
us to extend those beds of the Jurassic formation which 
exist in Cutch, and along the south-(eastern coast of Arabia, 
across to Africa^ 



THE TWO DUBAKS. 


423 


feet below the level, and a thicker vegetation 
denoted the lines of bed. The growth of wild' 
plants, scanty near the coast, became more luxu¬ 
riant as we approached the hills; the Arman Aca¬ 
cia flourished, the Kulan tree grew in clumps, and 
the Tamarisk formed here and there a dense 
thicket. Except a few shy antelope *, we saw no 
game. 

A ride of seven or eight miles led us to the dry 
bed of a watercourse overgrown with bright green 
rushes, and known to the people as Dubar Wena, 
or Great Dubar. This strip of ground, about half 
a mile long, collects the drainage of the hills above 
it: numerous Las or Pits, in the centre of the bed, 
four or five feet deep, abundantly supply the flocks 
and herds. Although the surface of the ground, 
Avhere dry, was white with impure nitre, the water 
tasted tolerably sweet. Advancing half a mile over 
the southern shoulder of a coarse and shelly mass of 
limestone, we found the other rushy swamp, called 
Dubar Yirr or Little Dubar. A spring of warm 
and bitter water flowed from the hill over the 
sui'face to a distance of 400 or 500 yards, Avhere it 

* These animals are tolerably tame in the morning, as day 
advances their apprehension of man increases. 

£ £ 4 



424 FIRSt FOOtefEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

was absorbed' by th4 soil. The temperature of the 
sources immediately under the hill was 106° Fahr., 
the thermometer standing at 80f. in the air, and 
the aneroid gave an altitude of J728 feet above the 
sea. 

The rocks behind these springs were covered 
Vvith ruins of mosques and houses. We visited a 
little tower commanding the source; it was built 
in steps, the hill being cut away to form the two 
dower rooms, and the second story showed three 
compartments. The material was rubble and the 
form resembled Galla buildings; we found, however, 
fine mortar mixed with coarse gravel, bits of glass 
bottles and blue glazed pottery, articles now un¬ 
known to this part of Africa. On the summit of 
the highest peak our guides pointed out remains of 
another fort similar to the old Turkish watch- 
towers at Aden. 

About three quarters of al mile from the Little 
Dubar, we found the head of the Berberah Aque¬ 
duct. Thrown across a Watercourse apparently 
of low level, it is here more substantially built 
than near the beach, and probably served as a 
force pipe until the water found a fall. We traced 
the line to a distance of ten yards, where it dis¬ 
appeared beneath the soil, and saw nothing re- 



THE KICafT-KUNNlHG-WATER, 425 

sembling a supply -tank except ail irregularly shaped 
natural pool.* 

A few days afterwards, accompanied by Lieut. 
Heme, I rode out to inspect the Biyu Gora or 
Night-running Water. After advancing about ten. 
miles in a south-east direction from Berberuh, we 
entered rough and broken ground,' and suddenly 
came upon a Fiumara about 250 yards broad. 

* Lieut. Cruttenden in considering what nation could have 
constructed, and at what period the commerce of BerberaU'*^ 
warranted, so costlj an undertaking, is disposed to attribute dt 
to the^ Persian conquerors of Aden in the days of Anushirwan. 
He remarks that the trade carried on in the Red Sea was then 
great, the ancient emporia of Hisn Ghorab and Aden prosperous 
and wealthy, and Berberah doubtless exported, as it does now, 
ivory, gums, and ostrich feathers. But though all the maritime 
Somali country abounds in traditions of the Furs or ancient 
Persians, none of the buildings near Berberah justify our as¬ 
signing to them, in a country of monsoon rain and high winds, 
an antiquity of 1300 years. 

The Somal assert that ten generations ago their ancestors 
drove out the Galias from Berberah, and attribute these works 
to the ancient Pagans. That nation of savages, however, was 
never capable of constructing a scientific aqueduct. I there¬ 
fore prefer attributing these remains at Berberah to the 
Ottomans, who, after the conquest of Aden by Sulayman Pacha 
in A. D. 1538, held Yemen for about 100 years, and as auxili¬ 
aries of the King of Adel, penetrated as ^ far as Abyssinia. 
Traces of their architecture are found at Zayla and Harar, and 
according to tradition, they possessed at Berberah a settlement 
called, after its founder, Bunder Abbas. 



426 first'FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

The-banks were fringed with Brab and Tama¬ 
risk, the Daum palm and green rushes: a clear 
sparkling and shallow stream bisected the sandy 
bed, and smaller branches wandered over the 
surface. This river, the main drain of the Ghauts 
and Sub-Ghauts, derives its name form the increased 
volume of the waters during night; evaporation by 
day causes the absorption of about a hundred yards. 
We found its temperature 73° Fahr. (in the air 78°), 
and our people dug holes in the sand instead of 
drinking from, the stream, a proof that they feared 
leeches.* The taste of the water was bitter and 
nauseous, f 

Following the course of the Biyu Gora thrcfugh 
two low parallel ranges of conglomerate, we entered 
a narrow gorge, in which lime and sandstone 
abound. The dip of the strata is about 45° west, 
the strike north and south. Water springs from 


( 

* Here, m elsewhere in Somali land, the leech is of the 
horse •variety. It might be worth while to attempt breeding a 
more useful species after the iaanner recommended by Capt. 
R. Johnston, the Sub-Assistant Commissary General in Sindh 
(10th April, 1845). In these streams leeches must always be 
suspected; inadvertently swallowed, they fix upon the inner 
coat of the stomach, and in Northern Africa have caused, it is 
said, some deaths among the French sefidiers. 
f Yet we observed frogs and a small species of fish. 



THE CHASM. 


427 


under every stone, drops copiously from the 
shelves of rock, oozes out of the sand, and bubbles 
up from the mould. The temperature is exceed¬ 
ingly variable: in some places the water is icy 
cold, in others, the thermometer shows 68° Fahr., 
in others, 101°—the maximum,, when we visited 
it, being 126°. The colours are fequally diverse. 
Here, the polished surface of the sandstone is 
covered with a hoar of salt and nitre.* There, 
where the stream does not flow, are pools dyed 
greenish-black or rust-red by iron sediment. The 
gorge's sides are a vivid red *. a peculiar cree|[)er 
hangs from the rocks, and water trickles down its 
metallic leaves. The upper cliffs are crowned with 
tufts of the dragon's-blood tree. 

Leaving our mules with an attendant, we began 
to climb the rough and rocky gorge which, as the 
breadth diminishes, becomes exceedingly pictur¬ 
esque. In one part, the side of a limeStbne hill 
hundreds of feet in height, has slipped into the 
chasm, half filling it with gigantic boulders; 
through these the noisy stream whirls, now falling 
in small cascades, then gliding over slabs of sheet 

? Either this or the sulphate of magnesia, formed by the de¬ 
composition of limestone, may account for the bitterness of the 
water# 



42$ FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

rock: here it cuts grooved channels and deep 
basins clean and sharp as artificial baths in the 
sandstone, there it flows quietly down a bed of 
pure sparkling sand. The high hills above are of 
a tawny yellow: the huge boulders, grisly white, 
bear upon their summits the drift wood of the last 
year's inundation. During the monsoon, when a 
furious torrent sweeps down from the "Wagar Hills, 
this chasm must afford a curiously wild spectacle. 

Returning from a toilsome climb, we found 
some of the Ayyal Ahmed building near the spot 
where Biyu Gora is absorbed, the usual small 
stone tower. The fact had excited attention at 
Berberah ; the erection was intended to store 
grain, but the suspicious savages, the Eesa Musa, 
and Mikahil, who hold the land, saw in it an 
attempt to threaten their liberties. On our way 
home we passed through some extensive ceme¬ 
teries ; the tombs were in good preservation; there 
was nothing peculiar in their construction, yet the 
Somal w'ere positive tha^t they belonged to a race 
preceding their own. Near them were some ruins 
of kilns, comparatively modern, for bits of char¬ 
coal were mixed with broken pieces of pottery, — 
and the oblong tracery ofia dwelling-house divided 



THE ABBAN AGAIN! 


429 


into several compartments: its material was the- 
sun-dried brick of Central Asia, here a rarity. 

After visiting these ruins there was little to 
detain me at Berberah. The town had become 
intolerable, the heat under a mat hut was extreme, 
the wind and dust were almost as bad as Aden, 
and the dirt perhaps even worse. As usual we 
had not a moment's privacy, Arabs as well as the 
Somal assuming the right of walking in, sitting 
down, looking hard, chatting with one another, 
and departing. Before the voyage, ho^yever, I 
was called upon to compose a difficulty upon ^he 
subject of Abbanship. The Hammal had naturally 
constituted his father-in-law, one Burhale Nuh, of 
the Ayyal Gedid, protector to Lieut. Herne and 
myself. Burhale had proved himself a rascal; he 
had been insolent as well as dishonest, and had 
thrown frequent obstacles in his employer's way; 
yet custom does not permit the Abban to be put 
away like a wife, and the Hammal's services en¬ 
titled him to the fullest consideration. On the 
other hand Jami Hasan, a chief and a doughty 
man of the Ayyal Ahmed, had met me at Aden 
early in 1854, and had received from me a ring in 
token of Abbanship. During my absence at 
Harar, he had taken charge of Lieut. Stroyan. 



430 


FIEST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 


On the very morning of my arrival he came to the 
hut, sat down spear in hand, produced the ring 
and claimed my promise. In vain I objected that 
the token had been given when a previous trip 
was intended, arid that the- Hammal must not be 
disappointed: Jami replied that once an Abban 
always an Abban, that he hated the Hammal and 
all his tribe, and that he would enter into nO 
partnership with Burhale Nuh: — to complicate 
matters, Lieut. Stroyan spoke highly of his courage 
and conduct. Presently he insisted rudely upon 
removing his froteg'e to another part of the town: 
this passed the limits of our patience, and decided 
the case against him. 

For some days discord raged between the rivals. 
At last it was settled that I should choose my own 
Abban in presence of a general council of the 
. Elders. The chiefs took their places upon the shore, 
each with his folloAvers fornjing a distinct semicircle, 
and all squatting with shield and spear planted 
upright in the ground. ^ When sent for, I entered 
the circle sword in hand, and sat down awaiting 
their pleasure. After much murmuring had sub¬ 
sided, Jami asked in a loud voice, "Who is thy 
protector?" The reply was, "Burhale Nuh!'' 
Knowing, however, how little laconism is prized 



"peace conferences." 431 

by an East-African audience, I did not fail to 
follow up this answer with an Arabic speech of the 
dimensions of an average sermon, and then 
shouldering my blade left the circle abruptly. 
The effect was success. Our wild' friends sat 
from afternoon till sunset: as we finished supper 
one of them came in with the glad tidings of a 
" peace conference." Jami had asked Burhale to 
swear that he intended no personal offence in 
taking away a proteg^ pledged to himself; Burhale 
had sworn, and once more the olive waved over 
the braves of Berberah. f 

On the 5th February 1855, taking leave of my 
comrades, I went on board El Kasab or the Reed 
— such was the ill-omened name of our cranky 
craft — to the undisguised satisfaction- of the 
Hammal, Long Guled, and the End of Time, who 
could scarcely believe -in their departure from . 
Berberah with sound skins.* Coasting with a 
light breeze, early after noon on the next day we 

* They had been" in some danger: a treacherous murder 
perpeti'ated a few days before our arrival had caused all the 
Habr Gerh^jis to fly from the town and assemble 5000 men at 
Bulbar for battle and murder. This proceeding irritated the 
Habr Awal, and certainly, but for our presence, the strangers 
would have been scurvily treated by their ''cousins*" 



432 FIRST FODTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

arrived at Siyaro, a noted watering-place for ship¬ 
ping, about nineteen miles east of the-emporium. 
The roadstead is open.to the north, but a bluff 
buttress of limestone rock defends it froni the 
north-east gales. Upon a barren strip of sand 
lies the material of the town ; two houses of stone 
and mud, one yet unfinished, the other completed 
about thirty years ago by Farih Binni, a Mikahil 
chief. 

Some dozen Bedouin spearmen, Mikahil of a 
neighbouring kraal, squatted like a line of crows 
upon the shore to receive us as we waded from the 
vessel. They demanded money in too authori¬ 
tative a tone before allowing us to visit the wells, 
which form their principal wealth. Kesolved not 
to risk a quarrel so near Berberah, I was returning 
to moralise upon the fate of Burckhardt — after 
a successful pilgrimage refused admittance to 
Aaron's tomb at Sinai—/when a Bedouin ran to 
tell us that we might v/ander where we pleased. 
He excused himself apd his companions by plead¬ 
ing necessity, and his leanness lent conviction to 
the plea. 

The larger well lies close to the eastern wall of 
the dwelling-house: it is about eighteen feet deep, 
one third sunk through ground, the other two 

I 



THE CUSTOM-HOUSE. 


433 


thirds through limestone, and at the bottom is a 
small supply of sweet clear, water. Near it I 

m 

observed some ruined tanks, built with fine mortar 
like that of the Berberah ruins. The other well 
lies about half a mile to the westward of the 
former: it is also dug in the limestone rock. A 
few^ yards to the north-east of the building is the 
-Furzeh or custom-house, whose pristine simplicity 
tempts me to describe it: — a. square of ground 
surrounded by a dwarf rubble enclosure, and pro¬ 
vided with a proportional mosque, a tabular block of 
coralline niched in the direction of Meccah. (!)n a 
little eminence of rock to the westward, rise 
ruined walls, said by my companions to have been 
built by a Frank, who bought land from the 
Mikahil and settled on this dismal strand. 

Taking leave of the Bedouins, whose hearts were 
gladdened by a few small presents, we resumed 
our voyage eastwards along the coast. Next 
morning, we passed two broken pyramids of dark 

^ 'V ^ 

rock called Dubada Gumbar Madu — the Two 
Black Hills. After a tedious day's sail, twenty 
miles in twenty-four hours, the Captain of El 
Kasab landed us ih a creek west of Aynterad. A 
few sheep-boats lay at anchor in this " back-bay," 
as usual when the sea is heavy at the roadstead, 


E F 



434 


FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 


and the crews informed us that a body of Bedouins 
was marching to attack the village. Abdy Mo¬ 
hammed Diban, proprietor of the Aynterad Fort, 
having constituted me his protector, and remained 
at Berberah, I armed ray men, and ordering the 
Captain of the " Reed " to bring his vessel round at 
early dawn, walked hurriedly over the three miles 
that separated us' from the place. Arrived at the 
fort, we found that Abdy's slaves knew nothing of 
the reported attack. They received me, however, 
hospitably, and brought a supper of their only 
provision, vile dates and dried meat. Unwilling 
to diminish the scanty store, the Hammal and I 
but dipped our hands in the dish ; Long Guled 
and the End of Time, however, soon cleared the 
platters, while abusing roundly the unpalatable food. 
After supper, a dispute arose between the Hammal 
and one of the Habr Tul Jailah, the tribe to whom 
the land belongs. The feedouin, not liking my 
looks, proposed to put his spear into me. The 
Hammal objected that iV the measure were carried 
out, he would return the compliment in kind. 
Ensued a long dispute, and the listeners laughed 
heartily at the utter indifferetice with which I 
gave ear. When it concluded, amicably as may be 
expected, the slaves spread ^a carpet upon a coarse 



AYNTERAD. 


435 


Berberah couch, and having again vented their 
hilarity in a roar of laughter, left me to sleep. 

We had eaten at least one sheep per diem, and 
mutton baked in the ship's oven is delicious to the 
Somali mouth. Remained on board another dinner, 
a circum^ance which possibly influenced the weak 
mind of the Captain of the " Reed." Awaking at 
dawn, I went out, expecting to find the vessel 
within stone's throw: it was nowhere visible. 
About 8 A.M., it appeared in sight, a mere speck 
upon the sea-horizon, and whilst it approachec^, I 
inspected the settlement. 

Aynterad, an inconsiderable place lying east- 
north-east of, and about forty miles from, Berberah, 
is a favourite roadstead principally on account 
of its water, which rivals that of Siyaro. The 
anchorage is bad: the Shimal or north wind 
sweeps long lines of heavy wave into the open bay, 
and the bottom is a mass of rock and sand-reef. 
The fifty sunburnt and windsoiled huts which 
compose the settlement, are built upon a bank of 
sand overlying the normal limestone: at the time 
when I visited it, the male population had emi¬ 
grated en masse to Berberah. It is principally 
supported by the slave trade, the Arabs preferring 
to ship their purchases at some distance from the 


V t 2 



436 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

chief emporium.* Lieut. Herne, when he visited 
jt, found a considerable amount of " black bullion " 
in the market. 

The fort of Aynterad, erected thirty years ago 
by Mohammed Diban, is a stone and mud house 
square and flat-roofed, with high windows, an at¬ 
tempt at crenelles, and, for some reason intelligible 
only to its own Vitruvius, but a single bastion at 
the northern angle. There is no well, and the 
mass of huts cluster close to the walls. The five 
guns here deposited by Sharmarkay when expelled 
from Berberah, stand on the ground outside the 
fort, which is scarcely calculated to bear heavy 
carronades; they are unprovided with balls, but 
that is a trifle where pebbles abound. Moreover, 
Abdy's slaves are well armed with matchlock and 


• Of all the slave*dealers on this coast, the Arabs are the 
roost unscrupulous. In 1855, on^e Mohammed of Muscat, a ship¬ 
owner, who, moreover, constantly visits Aden, bought with¬ 
in sight of our flag a free-born Arab girl of the Yafai tribe, 
from the Akarib of Bir Haibid, and sold her at Berberah to a 
compatriot. Such a crime merits severe punishment; even 
the Abjssinians visit with hanging the Christian convicted 
¦of selling a fellow religionist. The Arab slaver generally 
marries his property as a ruse, and arrived at Muscat or Bu- 
shire, divorces and sells them. Free Somali women have not 
vinfrequently met with this fate. 



THE MACHIAVELLIAN CAPTAIN* 


487 


pistol, and the Bedouin Tul Jailah * find the spear 
ineffectual against stone walls* Tlie garrison has 
frequently been blockaded by its troublesome 
neighbours, whose prowess, however, never exteniied 
beyond preliminaries. 

To allay my impatience, that morning I was in* 
vited into several huts for the purpose of drinking 
sour milk, A malicious joy filled my soul, as 
about noon, the Machiavellian Captain of the "Reed^* 

* The Habr Tul Jailah (mother of the tribe of Jailah) de¬ 
scendants of Ishak el Ha^rami by a slave girl, inhabit the land 
eastward of Berberah, Their principal settlements after Ayn- 
terad are the three small ports of Karam, Unkor, and Hays. 
The former, according to Lieut. Cruttenden, is the most im¬ 
portant from its possessing a tolerable harbour, and from its 
being the nearest point from Aden, the course to which place 
is N, N. W., — consequently the wind is fair, and the boats 
laden with sheep for the Aden market pass but one night at 
sea, whilst those from Berberah are generally three. What 
greatly enhances the value of Kurrum (Karam), however, is its 
proximity to the country of the Dulbahanteh, who approach 
within four days of Kurrum, and who therefore naturally have 
their chief trade through that port. The Ahl Yusuf, a branch of 
the Habertel Jahleh, at present hold possession of Kurrum, and 
between them and the tribes to windward there exists a most 
bitter and irreconcileable feud, the consequence of sundry 
murders perpetrated about five year^ since at Kurrum, and 
which hitherto have not been avenged. The small ports of 
Enterad, Unkor, Heis, and Rukudah are not worthy of mention,^ 
with the exception of the first-named place, which has a trade 
with Aden in sheep." 


r F 3 



'438 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

managed to cast anchor, after driving his crazy 
craft through a sea which the violent Shimal was 
flinging in hollow curves foam-fringed upon the 
strand. I stood on the shore making signs for 
a canoe. My desires were disregarded, as long 
as decency admitted. At last, about 1 p.m., I 
found myself upon the quarter-deck. 

" Dawwir el farman," —^ shift the yard! — I 
shouted with a voice of thunder. 

The answer was a general hubbub. " He surely 
wiU not sail in a sea like this?" asked the trem¬ 
bling Captain of my companions. 

"He will I " sententiously quoth the Hammal,with 
a Burleigh nod. 

" It blows wind —" remonstrated the Rais. 

"And if it blew fire? " asked the Hammal with the 
air goguenard, meaning that from the calamity of 
Frankish obstinacy there was no refuge. 

A kind of death-wail arpse, during which, to hide 
untimely laughter, I retreated to a large drawer, 
in the stern of the vqssel, called a cabin. There 
my ears could distinguish the loiid entreaties of 
the crew vainly urging my attendants to propose 
a 'day's delay. Then one of the garrison, accom¬ 
panied by the Captain who shook as with fever, 
rpsolved to act forlorn hope, and bring afeud'enfer 

I 



RETURN TO ADEN. 


439 


of phrases to bear upon the Frank's hard brain. 
Scarcely, howe^'er, had the head of the sentence 
been delivered, before he was playfully upraised by 
his bushy hair and a handle somewhat more sub¬ 
stantial, carried out of the cabin, and thrown, like a 
bag of biscuit, on the deck. 

The case was hopeless. All strangers plunged 
into the sea,— the popular way of landing in East 
Africa,— the anchor was weighed, the ton of sail 
shaken out, and the " Reed " began to dip and rise 
in the yeasty sea laboriously as an alderman 
dancing a polka. 

For the first time in my life I had the satisfaction 
of seeing the Somal unable to eat — unable to eat 
mutton. In sea-sickness and needless terror, the 
captain, crew, and passengers abandoned to us all 
the baked sheep, which we three, not being believers 
in the Evil Eye, ate from head to trotters with 
especial pleasure. That night the waves broke 
over us. The -End of Time occupied himself in 
roaring certain orisons, which are reputed to calm 
stormy seas: he desisted only when Long Guled 
pointed out that a wilder gust seemed to follow 
as in derision each more emphatic period. -The 
Captain, a noted reprobate, renowned on shore for 
his knowledge of erotic verse and admiration of 


r r 4 



440 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

the fair sex, prayed with fervour: he was joined 
by several of the crew, who apparently found the 
charm of novelty in the edifying exercise. About 
midnight a Sultan el Bahr or Sea-king — a species 
of whale — appeared close to our counter; and as 
these animals are infamous for upsetting vessels in 
waggishness, the sight elicited a yell of terror and 
a chorus of religious exclamations. 

On the morning of Friday, the 9th February 
1855, we hove in sight of Jebel Shamsan, the 
loftiest peak of the Aden Crater. And ere even¬ 
ing fell, I had the pleasure of seeing the faces of 
friends and comrades once more. 



441 


POSTSCRIPT. 

On Saturday, the 7th April 1855, the H. E. I. 
Company's Schooner " Mahi," Lieut. King, I. N., 
commanding, entered the harbour of Berberah, 
where her guns roared forth a parting salute to 
the " Somali Expedition." 

The Emporium of East Africa was at the 
time of my landing, in a state of confusion. But 
a day before, the great Harar caravan, numbering 
3000 souls, and as many cattle, had entered for 
the purpose of laying in the usual eight months' 
supplies, 4nd pur-chase, barter, and exchange were 
transacted in most hurried and unbusiness-like 
manner. All day, and during the greater part of 
night, the town rang with the voices of buyer and 
seller: to specify no other articles of traffic, 500 
slaves of both sexes were in the market. * ¦ Long 

* The Fair-season of 1854-55 began on the 15th November, 
and may be said to have broken up on the 15th April. 

The principal caravans which visit Berberah are from Harar 
the Western, and Ogadayn, the Southern region ; they collect 



442 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

lines of laden and unladen camels were to be seen 
pacing the glaring yellow shore; rumours of 
plundering parties at times brought swarms of 
spear^men, bounding and yelling like wild , beasts, 
from the town j already small parties of travellers 


the produce of the numerous intermediate tribes of the Somal. 
The former has been described in the preceding pages. The 
following remarks upon the subject of the Ogadayn caravan are 
the result of Lieuts. Stroyan and Herne's observations at Ber- 
berah. 

" Large caravans from Ogadayn descend to the coast at the 
beginning and the end of the Fair-season. They bring slayes 
from the Arusa country, cattle in great quantities, gums of 
sorts, clarifed butter, ivory, ostrich feathers, and rhinoceros 
horns to be made into handles for weapons. These are bar¬ 
tered for coarse cotton cloth of three kinds, for English and 
American sheeting in pieces of seventy-five, sixty-six, sixty-two, 
and forty-eight yards, black and indigo-dyed calicos in lengths 
of sixteen yards, nets or fillets worn*by the married women, 
iron and steel in small bars, lead and zinc, beads of various kinds, 
especially white porcelain and speckled glass, dates and rice." 

The Ayyal Ahmed and Ayyal Tunis classes of the Habr 
Awal Somal have constituted themselves Abbans or brokers to 


the Ogadayn Caravans, and the rapacity of the patron has pro¬ 
duced a due development of^ roguery in the client. The prin¬ 
cipal trader of this coast is the Banyan from Aden and Cutch, 
facetiously termed by the Somal their '' Milch-cows." The 
African cheats by mismeasuring the bad cotton cloth, and the 
Indian by falsely weighing the cofiee, ivory, ostrich feathers and 
other valuable articles which he receives in return. Dollars and 


even rupees are now preferred to the double breadth of eight 
cubits which constitutes the well known " Tobe." 


i 



0 


POSTSCEIPT. 


443 


had broken ground for their return journey ; and 
the foul heap of mat hovels, to which this celebrated 
mart had been reduced, was steadily shrinking in 
dimensions. 

Our little party'consisted of forty-two souls. At 
Aden I had applied' officially for some Well-trained 
Somali policemen, but as an increase of that 
establishment had been urged upon tlie home 
authorities, my request was refused. We were fain 
to content ourselves with a dozen recruits of various 
races, Egyptian, Nubian, Arab and Negro, whom 
we armed with sabres and flint muskets. The 
other members of the expedition were our private 
servants, and about a score of Somal under our 
rival protectors Jami Hasan and Burhale Nuh. 
The Ras or Captain of the Kafilah was one 
Mahmud of the Mijjarthajm, better known at Aden 
as El Balyuz or the Envoy: he had the reputation 
of being a shrewd manager, thoroughly acquainted 
with the habits and customs, as well as the geo¬ 
graphy, of Somaliland. 

Our camp was pitched near the site of the pro¬ 
posed Agency, upon a rocky ridge within musket- 
shot of the southern extremity of the creek, and 
about three quarters of a mile distant from the 
town. This position had been selected for the 



444 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

benefit of the " Mahi's " guns. Political exigencies' 
required the " Mahi " to relieve the " Elphinstone," 
then blockading the seaboard of our old Arab foe, 
the Fazli chief; she was unable to remain upon the 
coast, and superintend our departure, a measure 
which I had strongly urged. Our tents were 
pitched in one line: Lieut. Stroyan's was on the 
extreme right, about a dozen paces distant was the 
" Rowtie " * occupied by Lieut. Herne and myself, 
and at a similar distance on the left of the camp 
was that in which Lieut. Speke slept. The 
baggage was placed between the two latter, the 
camels were tethered in front upon a sandy bed 
beneath the ridge our camping-ground, and in rear 
stood the horses and mules. During day-time all 
were on the alert: at night two sentries were 
posted, regularly relieved, and visited at times by 
the Ras and ourselves. 

I had little reason to C(^mplain of my reception 
at Berberah. The chiefs appeared dissatisfied with 
the confinement of one Ijdohammed Sajnmattar, the 
Abban who accompanied Lieut. Speke to the 
Eastern country: they listened, however, with 

* A Sepoy's tent, pent-house shaped, supported by a single 
transverse and two upright poles* and open at one of the long 
ends. 



POSTSCRIPT. 


445 


respectful attention to a letter in which the 
Political Resident at Aden enjoined them to treat 
us with consideration and hospitality. 

There had been petty disputes with Burhale 
Nuh, and the elders of the Eesa Musa tribe, touch¬ 
ing the hire of horse-keepers and camel-drivers; 
such events, however, are not worthy to excite 
attention in Africa. My friend at Harar, the 
Shaykh Jami, had repeatedly called upon us, ate 
bread and salt, recommended us to his fellow 
countrymen, and used my intervention in per¬ 
suading avaricious ship-owners to transport, gratis, 
pauper pilgrims to Arabia. The people, after 
seeing the deaths of a few elephants, gradually 
lowered their loud boasts and brawling claims: 
they assisted us in digging a well, offered their 
services as guides and camel-drivers, and in some 
cases insisted upon encamping near us for pro¬ 
tection., Briefly, we saw no grounds of appre¬ 
hension. During thirty years, not an Englishman 
of the many that had visited it had been molested 
at Berberah, and apparently there was as little to 
fear in it as within the fortifications of Aden.* 

* Since returning I have been informed, however, by the 
celebrated Abyssinian traveller M. Antoine d'Abbadie, that in no 
part of the wild countries which he visited was his life so much 
perilled as at Berberah. 



446 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 


Under these favourable circumstances we might 
have set out at once towards the interior. Our 
camels, fifty-six in number, had been purchased*, 
and the Ogadayn Caravan was desirous of our 
escort. But we wished to witness the close of the 
Berberah fair, and Ave expected instruments and 
other necessaries by the mid-April mail from 
Europe.f 

* Lieut Speke had landed at Karam harbour on the 24th of 
March, in company with the Eas, in order to purchase camels. 
For the Ayyun or best description he paid seven dollars and a 
half; the Gel Ad (white camels) cost on an average four. In 
five days he had collected twenty-six, the number required, and 
he then marched overland from Karam to Berberah. 

I had taken the precaution of detaching Lieut. Speke to 
Karam in lively remembrance of my detention for want of car¬ 
riage at Zayla, and in consequence of a report raised by the 
Somal of Aden that a sufiicient number of camels was not pro¬ 
curable at Berberah, This proved false. Lieuts, Stroyan and 
Herne found no diflSculty whatever in purchasing animals at 
the moderate price of five dollars and three quarters a head: 
for the same sum they coulA have bought any reasonable 
number. Future travellers, however, would do well not tg 
rely solely upon Berberal^ for a supply of this necessary, 
especially at seasons when the place is not crowded with 
caravans. 

* f The Elders of the Habr Awal, I have since been in¬ 
formed, falsely asserted that they repeatedly urged us, with 
warnings of danger, to leave Berberah at the end of the fair, 
but that we positively refused compliance, for'other reasons. 
The facts of the case are those stated in the text, 

( 



POSTSCRIFT. 


447 


About 3 p. M., on the 9th April, a shower, 
accompanied by thunder and lightning, came 
up from the southern hills, where rain had been 
falling for some days, and gave notice that the 
Gugi or Somali monsoon had begun. This was 
the signal for the' Bedouins to migrate to the 
Plateau above the hills.* Throughout the town 
the mats were stripped from their frameworks 
of stick and pole f, the camels were laden, and . 
* thousands of travellers lined the roads. The next 
day Berberah was almost deserted except by tjie 
pilgrims who intended to take ship, and by mer¬ 
chants, who, fearful of plundering parties, awaited 
the first favourable hour for setting sail. Our 
protectors, Jami and Burhale, receiving permission 
to accompany their families and flocks, left us in 
charge of their sons and relations. On the 15th 
April the last vessel sailed out of the creek, and 
our little party remained in undisputed possession 
of the place. 

Three days afterwards, about noon, an Aynterad 
craft en route from Aden entered the solitary' 

* They prefer travelling during the monsoon, on account of 
the abundance of water. 

f The framework is allowed to remain for use next Fair- 
season. 



448 


FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 


harbour freighted with about a dozen Somal 
desirous of accompanying us towards Ogadayn, 
the southern region. She would have sailed that 
evening; fortunately, however, I had ordered our ^ 
people to feast her commander and crew. with 
rice and the irresistible dates. 

At sunset on the same day we were startled by a 
discharge of musketry behind the tents: the cause 
proved to be three horsemen, over whose heads our 
guard had fired in case they might be a foraging 
party. I reprimanded our people sharply for this 
act of folly, ordering them in future to reserve their 
fire, and when necessary to shoot into, not above, 
a crowd. After this we proceeded to catechise 
the strangers, suspecting them to be scouts, the 
usual forerunners of a Somali raid: the. reply 
was so plausible that even the Balyuz, with all 
his acuteness, was deceived. The Bedouins had 
forged a report tha^ their ancient enemy the 
Hajj Sharmarkay was awaiting with four ships 
at the neighbouring port, Siyaro, the opportunity 
of seizing Berberah whilst deserted, and of rc- 
erecting his forts there for the third time. Our 
visitors swore by the divorce-oath,—the most 
solemn which the religious knaw, — that a vessel 
entering the creek at such unusual season, they 



POSTSCRin. 


449 


had' been sent to ascertain whether it had been 
freighted with materials for building, and con¬ 
cluded by laughingly asking if we feared danger 
from the tribe of our own protectors. Believing 
them, we posted as usual two sentries for the 
night, and retired to rest in our wonted security. 

Between 2 and 3 a.m. of the 19th April I was 
suddenly aroused by the Balyuz, who cried aloud 
that the, enemy was upon us.* Hearing a rush of 
men like a stormy wind, 1 sprang up, called for my 
sabre, and sent Lieut. Herne to ascertain the force 
of the foray. Armed with a " Colt," he went to 
the rear and left of the camp, the direction of 
danger, collected .some of the guard, — others 
having already disappeared,—-and fired two shots 
into the assailants. Then finding himself alone, 
he turned hastily towards the tent; in so doing 
he was tripped up by the ropes, and as he arose, a 
Somali appeared in the act of striking at him with . 
a club. Lieut. Herne fired, floored the man, and 
rejoining me, declared that the enemy was in great 
force and the guard nowhere. Meanwhile, I had 
aroused Lieuts. Stroyan and Speke, who were 

? The attacking party, it appears, was 350 strong ; 12 of the 
Mikahil, 15 of the Habr Gerhajis, and the rest Eesa Musa. 
One Ao Ali wore, it is said, the ostrich feather for the murder 
of Lieut. Stroyan. 


G G 



450 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

sleeping in the extrenoie right and left tents. 
The former, it is presumed, arose to defend himself, 
but, as the sequel shows, we never saw him alive.* 
Lieut. Speke, awakened by the report of fire¬ 
arms, but supposing it the normal false alarm, — a 
warning to plunderers, — he remained where he 
was: presently hearing clubs rattling upon his tent, 
and feet shuffling around, he ran to my Rowtie, 
which we prepared to defend as long as possible. 

The enemy swarmed like hornets with shouts 
and screams intending to terrify, and proving 
that overwhelming odds were against us: it was 
by no means easy to avoid in the shades of ^pight 
the jobbing of javelins, and the long heavy daggers 
thrown at our legs from under and through the 
opening of the tent. We three remained together: 
Lieut. Heme knelt by my right, on my left was 
Lieut. Speke guarding the entrance, I stood in the 
centre, having nothing but a sabre. The revolvers 
were used by my companions with deadly effect: 
unfortunately there\ was but one pair. When the 
fire was exhausted, Lieut. Herne went to search for 

a "» 

* Mohammed, his Indian servant, stated that rising at my 
summons he had rushed to his tent, armed himself with a 
revolver, and fired six times upon his assassins. Unhappily, 
however, Mohammed did not see his master fall, and as he was 
foremost amongst the fugitives, scant importance attaches to 
his evidence. 



POStSCEIPT. 451 

his powder-horn, and that failing, to find some 
spears usually tied to the tent-pole. Whilst thus 
engaged, he saw a man breaking into the rear of 
our Rowtie, and came back to inform me of the 
circumstance. 

At this time, about five minutes after the be¬ 
ginning of the affray, the tent had been almost 
beaten down, an Arab custom with which we were 
all femiliar, and had we been entangled in its 
folds, we should have been speared with unpleasant 
facility. I gave the word for escape, and sallied 
out, closely followed by Lieut. Herne, with Lieut. 
Speke in the rear. The prospect was not agree¬ 
able. About twenty men were kneeling and 
crouching at the tent entrance, whilst many 
dusk figures stood further off, or ran about shout¬ 
ing the war-cry, or with shouts and blows drove 
away our camels. Among the enemy were many 
of our friends and attendants: the coast being open 
to them, they naturally ran away, firing a few use¬ 
less shots and receiving a modicum of flesh wounds. 

After breaking through the mob at the tent 
entrance, imagining that I saw the form of Lieut. 
Stroyan lying upon the sand, I cut my way to¬ 
wards it amongst a dozen Somal, whose war-clubs 
worked without mercy, whilst the Balyuz, who 

«G 2 



452 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

was violently pushing me out of the fray, rendered 
the strokes of my sabre uncertain. This indivi¬ 
dual was cool and collected: though incapacitated 
by a sore right-thumb from using the spear, he 
did not shun danger, and passed unhurt through 
the midst of the enemy: his efforts, however, 
only illustrated the venerable adage, "defend me 
from my friends." I turned to cut him down: 
he cried out in alarin; the well-known voice 
caused an instant's hesitation: at that moment a 
spearman stepped forward, left his. javelin in my 
mouth, and retired before he could be punished. 
Escaping as by a miracle, I sought some support; 
many of our Soraal and servants lurking in the 
darkness offered to advance, but " tailed off" to a 
man as we approached the foe. Presently the 
Balyuz reappeared, and led me towards the place 
where he believed ray three comrades had taken 
refuge. I followed him, sending the only man 
that showed presence of mind, one Golab of the 
Yusuf tribe, to bring back the Aynterad craft 
from the Spit into the centre of the harbour.* 

* At this season native craft quitting Berberah make for 
the Spit late in the •evening, cast anchor there, and set sail 
with the land breeze before dawn. Our lives hung upon 
thread. Had the vessel departed, as she intended, the night 
before the attack, nothing could havej saved us from destruction. 



posTSCRiFr. 453- 

• 

Again losing the Balyuz in the darkness, 1 spent 
the interval before dawn wandering in search of 
my comrades, and lying down when overpowered 
with faintness and pain: as the day broke, with 
my remaining strength I reached the head of the 
creek, was carried into the vessel, and persuaded 
the crew to arm themselve's and visit the scene of 
our disasters. 

Meanwhile, Lieut. Herne, who had closely followed 
me, fell back, using the butt-end of his discharged 
sixshooter upon the hard heads around him: in so 
doing he came upon a dozen men, who though 
they loudly vociferated, " Kill the Franks who are 
killing the Somal! " allowed him to pass uninjured. 

He then sought his comrades in the empty huts 
of the town, and at early dawn was joined by the 
Balyuz, who was similarly employed. When day 
broke he sent a Negro to stop the native craft, 
which was apparently sailing out of the harbour, 
and in due time came on board. With the ex¬ 
ception of sundry stift' blows with the war-club^ 
Ideut. Herne had the fortune to escape unhurt. 

On the other hand, Lieut. Speke's escape was in 
every way wonderful. Sallying from the tent he 
levelled his " Dean and Adams " close to an as¬ 
sailant's breast. The pistol refused to revolve. A 

G'Q 3 



454 FIKST FOOTSTEPS IS EAST AFRICA.^ 

sharp blow of a war-club upon the chest fell4d our ¦ 
comrade, who was in the rear and unseen. When 
he fell, two or three men sprang upon him, pinioned 
his hands behind, felt him for concealed weapons, 
— an operation to which he submitted in some 
alarm,— and led him towards the rear, as he sup¬ 
posed to be slaughtered. There, Lieut. Speke, who 
could scarcely breathe from the pain of the blow, 
asked a captor to tie his hands before, instead of 
behind, and begged a drop of water to relieve his 
excruciating thirst. The savage defended him 
against a number of the Somal who came up 
threatening and brandishing their spears, he 
brought a cloth for the wounded man to lie upon, 
and lost no time in procuring a draught of water, 
Lieut. Speke remained upon the ground till 
dawn. During the interval he witnessed the 
war-dance of the savages — a scene striking in 
the extreme. The tallest and largest warriors 
marched in a ring round the tents and booty, 
singing, with the deepei^t and most solemn tones, 
the song of thanksgiving. At a little distance the 
grey uncertain light disclosed four or five men, 
lying desperately hurt, whilst their kinsmen 
kneaded their limbs, poured water upon their 
wounds, and placed lumps of dates in their stiffen- 



rosTscRiPT. 455 

ing tiands.'* As day broke, the division of plunder 
caused angry passions to rise. The dead and 
dying were abandoned. One party made a rush 
upon the cattle, and with shouts and yells drove 
them off towards the wild, some loaded themselves 
with goods, others fought over pieces of cloth, 
which they tore with hand and dagger, whilst the 
disappointed, vociferating with rage, struck at one 
'another and brandished their spears. More than 
once during these scenes, a panic seized them; they 
moved off in a body to some distance; and th^re 
is little doubt that had our guard struck one blow, ^ 
we might still have won the day. 

Lieut. Speke's captor went to seek his own por¬ 
tion of the spoil, when a Somal came up and asked 
in Hindostani, what business the Frank had in 
their country, and added that he would kill him if 
a Christian, but spare the life of a brother Moslem. 
The wounded man replied that he was going to 
Zanzibar, that he was still a Nazarene, and there, 
fore that the work had better be done at once; — 
the savage laughed and passed on. He was sue- 

? The Somal place dates in the hands of the fallen to ascer-, 
tain the extent of injury: he who cannot eat that delicacy is 
justly decided to he in arficulo. 

G G 4 ' 



456 FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 

ceeded by a second, who, equally compassionate, 
whirled a sword round his head, twice pretended 
to strike, but returned to the plunder without 
doing damage. Presently came another manner of 
assailant. Lieut. Speke, who had extricated his 
hands, caught the spear levelled at his breast, but 
received at the same moment a blow from a club 
which, paralyzing his arm, caused him to lose his 
hold. In defending his heart from a succession of 
thrusts, he received severe wounds on the back of 
his hand, • his right shoulder, and his left thigh. 
Pausing a little, the wretch crossed to the other 
side, and suddenly passed his spear clean through 
the right leg of the wounded man: the latter 
" smelling death," then leapt up, and taking ad¬ 
vantage of his assailant's terror, rushed headlong 
towards the sea. Looking behind, he avoided 
the javelin hurled at his back, and had the 
good fortune to run, without further accident, the 
gauntlet of a score of missiles. When pursuit was 
discontinued, he sat do^vn faint from loss of blood 
upon a sandhill. Recovering strength by a few 
minutes' rest, he staggered on to the town, where 
some old women directed him to us. Then, pur¬ 
suing his way, he fell in with the party sent to 
seek him, and by their aid reached the craft, having 



POSTSCRIPT. 


457 


Avalked and run at least three miles, after receiving 
eleven wounds, two of which had pierced his thighs. 
A touching lesson how difficult it is to kill a man 
'in sound health ! * 

When the three survivors had reached the craft, 
Yusuf, the captain, armed his men with muskets 
and spears, landed them near the camp, and as¬ 
certained that the enemy, expecting a fresh attack, 
had fled, carrying away our cloth, tobacco, swords, 
and other weapons.* The corpse of Lieut. Stroyan 
was then brought on board. Our lamented coipa- 
rade was already stark and cold. A spear had 
traversed his heart, another had pierced his abdo¬ 
men, and a frightful gash, apparently of a sword, 
had opened the upper part of his forehead: the 

* la less than a month after receiving such injuries^ Lieut. 
Speke was on his way to England: he has never felt the least 
inconvenience from the wounds, which closed up like puts in 
Indian-rubber. 

f They had despised the heavy sacks of grain, the books, 
broken boxes, injured instruments, and a variety of articles 
which they did not understand. We spent that day at Ber-^ 
berah, bringing off our property, and firing guns to recall six 
servants who were missing. They did not appear, having 
lost no time in starting for Karam and Aynterad, whence they 
made their way in safety to Aden. On the evening of the 
19th of April, unable to remove the heavier effects, and 
anxious to return with the least possible delay, I ordered them 
to be set on fire. ^ / 



458 


FIRST FOOTSTEPS IN EAST AFRICA. 


body had been bruised with war-clubs, and the 
thighs showed marks of violence after death. This 
was the severest affliction that befell us. We had 
lived together like brothers: Lieut. Stroyan was a 
universal favourite, and his sterling qualities of 
manly courage, physical endurance, and steady 
perseverance had augured for him a bright career, 
thus prematurely cut off. Truly melancholy to us 
was the contrast between the evening when he sat 
with us full of life and spirits, and the morning 
when we saw amongst us a livid corpse. 

We had hoped to preserve the remains of our 
friend for^ interment at Aden. But so rapid were 
the effects of exposure, that we were compelled. 
most reluctantly, on the morning of the 20th April, 
to commit them to the deep, Lieut. Herne reading 
the funeral service. 

m 

Then with heavy hearts we set sail for the near 
Arabian shore, and, after i a tedious two days, car¬ 
ried to our friends the news of unexpected disaster. 



APPENDIX I. 

DIARY AND OBSERVATIONS 

MADE BY LIEUTENANT SPEKE, WHEN ATTEMPTING TO 
REACH THE WADY NOGAL. 




DIARY, 


On the 28th October, 1854, Lieutenant Speke arrived at 
Kurayat, a small village near Las Kuray (Goree Bunder), 
in the country called by the Somal Makhar," or the eastern 
maritime region. During the period of three months and a 
half he was enabled to make a short es^cursion above the 
coast-mountains, visiting the Warsingali, the Dulbahanta, 
and the Habr Gerhajis tribes, and penetrating into a region 
unknown to Europeans. The bad conduct of his Abban, 
and the warlike state of the country, prevented his reaching 
the Wady Nogal," which, under more favourable circum¬ 
stances and with more ample leisure than our plans allowed 
him, he conceives to be a work of little difficulty and no 
danger. He has brought back with him ample notices of 
the region visited, and has been enabled to make a valuable 
collection of the Fauna, which have been forwarded to the 
Curator of the Royal As. Society's Museum, Calcutta. On 
the 15th Februaiy, 1855, Lieutenant Speke revisited Ku¬ 
rayat, and there embarked for Aden. 

Before proceeding to Lieutenant Speke's Journal, it 



462 


APPENDIX I. 


may be useful to give a brief and general account of the 
region explored. 

The portion of the Somali country visited by Lieutenant 
Speke may be divided into a Maritime Plain, a Range of 
Mountains, and an elevated Plateau. 

The Maritime Plain, at the points visited by Lieutenant 
Speke, is a sandy tract overlying limestone, level to the 
foot of the hills, and varying from half a mile to two miles 
in breadth. Water is not everywhere procurable. At the 
village of Los Kuray, there is an old and well built well, 
about twelve feet deep, producing an abundant and excellent 
supply. It appears that the people have no implements, and 
are too barbarous to be capable of so simple an engineering 
operation as digging. The vegetation presents the usual 
appearance of salsolaceous plants thinly scattered over the 
surface, with here and there a stunted growth of Arman or 
Acacia. The watershed is of course from south to north, 
and the rain from the hills is carried off by a number of 
'Fiumaras or freshets, with broad shallow beds, denoting 
that much of the monsoon rain falling in the mountains is 
there absorbed, and that little finds its way to the sea. 
At this season (the dry weather) the plain is thinly inha¬ 
bited ; there are no villages except on the sea-shore, and 
even these were found by the traveller almost entirely de¬ 
serted, mostly women occupying the houses, whilst the men 
were absent, trading and tending cattle in the hills. The 
harbours are, generally speaking, open and shallow road¬ 
steads, where ships find no protection; there is, however. 



LIEUTENANT SPEKE^S DIARY. 


463 


one place (Las Galwayta), where, it is said, deep water 
extends to the shore. 

Meteorological observations show a moderate tempera¬ 
ture, clear air, and a regular north-easterly wind. It is 
probable that, unlike the Berberah Plain, the monsoon rain 
here falls in considerable quantities. This land belongs in 
part to the Warsingali. Westwards of Las Galwayta, 
which is the frontier, the Habr Gerhajis lay claim to the 
coast. The two tribes, as usual in that unhappy land, 
are on terms of *^Dam" or blood-feud; yet they inter¬ 
marry. 

The animals observed were, the Waraba, a dark-coloured 
cynhyena, with a tail partly white, a grey jackal, and thr^e 
different kinds of antelopes. Besides gulls, butcher birds, 
and a description of sparrow, no birds were found on the 
Maritime Plain. 

The Range of Mountains is that long line which fringes 
the Somali coast from Tajurrah to Ras Jerd Hafun (Cape 
Guardafui). In the portion visited by Lieutenant Speke 
' it is composed principally of limestones, some whitei others 
\ brownish, and full of fossil shells. The seaward face is a 
gradual slope, yet as usual more abrupt than the landward 
side, especially in the upper regions. Steep irregular ra¬ 
vines divide the several masses of hill. The range was 
thinly covered with Acacia scrub in the lower folds. The 
upper portion was thickly clad with acacia and other thorns, 
and upon the summit,* the Somali pine tree, observed by 
me near Harar, and by Lieutenant Herne at Gulays, first 
appeared. Rain had freshly fallen. 



464 


4rPENDIX I. 


. The animal creation wae represented by the leopard, hyena, 
rhinoceros, Waraba, fonr kinds of antelopes, hares and rats, 
tailless and long^tsuled^ It is poor in sea bitd^^ ^specimens 
of those collected have 'jjeen forwarded to the As. Society's 
Museum), hnd but one description of snake was observed/ 
"Tfhese hills belong partly to tlie Warsingali, and partly to 
the Habr Gerhajis. The frontier is in some places denoted 
by piles of rough stones. As usual, violations of territorial 
right form the rule, not the exception, and trespass is sure 
to be followed by a war.'^ The meteorology of these 
hills is peculiar. The temperature appears to be but little 
lower than the plain: the wind was north-easterly; and 
both monsoons bring heavy rains. 

At Yafir, on ifhe summit of the hill, Lieutenant Speke's 
thermometer showed an altitude of about 7500 feet. The 
people of the country do not know what ice means. Water 
is very scarce in these hills, except during the monsoon: it 
is found in springs which are far apart; and in the lower 
slopes collected rain water is the sole resource. This scar¬ 
city renders the habits of the people peculiarly filthy. 

After descending about 2000 feet from the crest of the 
mountains to the southern fall, Lieutenant Speke entered 
upon the platform which fo^ms the country of the Eastern 
Somal. He is persuaded that the watershed of this exten¬ 
sive tract is from N.W. to S.E., contrary to the opinion of 
Lieutenant Cruttenden, who, from information derived from 
the Somal, determined the slope to be due south. ^^Nogal" 
appears, according to Lieutenant Speke, to be the name of 



.LIEUTENANT SPEKI^'S DIARY. 465 

ft tract of land occupied by the Warsingali, the Mijjar- 
thayn^ and the northern clan of the Dulbahahtas^ as Bohod- 
lay in Ha&d is inhabited by the southern. Nogal is a sterile 
table-land, here and there thinly grown with thorns, per-^ 
fectly useless for agriculture, and, unless it pdssess some 
mineral wealth, valueless. I'he soil is white and stony, 
whereas Hand or Ogadayn is a deep red, and is described 
as having some extensive jungles. Between the two lies 
a large watercourse, called Tuk Der," or the Long 
River. It is dry during the cold season, but during the 
rains forms a flood, tending towards the Eastern Ocean. 
This probably is the line vrhich in our maps is put down 
as Wady Nogal, a very fertile and beautiful valley.'' j 
The surface of the plateau is about 4100 feet above the 
level of the sea: it is a space of rolling ground, stony and 
white with broken limestone. Water is found in pools, 
and in widely scattered springs; it is very scarce, and in a 
district near and south of the hills Lieutenant Speke was 
stopped by want of this necessary. The climate appeared 
to our traveller delightful. In some places the glass fell 
at 6 A.M. to 25°, yet at noon on the same day the mer¬ 
cury rose to 76°. The wind was always N.E., sometimes 
gentle, and occasionally blowing strongly but without dust. 
The rainy monsoon must break here with violence, and the 
heat be fearful in the hot season. The principal vegetation 
of this plateau was Acacia, scarce and stunted; in some 
places under the hills and in the watercourses these trees are 
numerous and well grown. On the other hand, extensive 



465 


APPENDIX I, 


tracts towards the south are almost barren. The natives 
speak of Malmal (myrrh) and the Luban (incense) trees. 
The wild animals are principally antelopes; there are 
also ostriches, onagers, Waraba, lions (reported to exist), 
jackals, and vermin. .The bustard and florikan appear 
here. The Nomads possess large flocks of sheep, the 
Camels, cows, and goats being chiefly found at this 
feeason on the seaward side of the hills, where forage is 
procurable. The horses were stunted tattoos, tolerably well- 
bred, but soft for want of proper food. It is said that the 
country abounds in horses, but Lieutenant Speke ** doubts 
the fact.'^ The eastern portion of the plateau visited by 
our traveller belongs to the Warsingali, the western to 
the Dulbahantas; the former tribe extends to the S.E., 
whilst the latter possess the lands lying about the Tuk Der, 
the Nogal, and Hand. These two tribes ai'e at present on 
bad terms, owing to a murder which led to a battle: the 
quarrel has been allowed to rest till lately, when it was 
revived at a fitting opportunity. But there is no hostility 
between the Southern Dulbahantas and the Warsingali, on 
the old principle that an enemy's «nemy is a friend." 

On the 21st October, 1854, Lieutenant Speke, from the 
efiects of a stiff easterly wind and a heavy sea, made by 
mistake the harbour of pakudah. This place has been 
occupied by the Her Dud, descendants of Sambur, son of 
Ishak. It is said to consist of an small fort, and two or 
three huts of matting, lately re-erected. About two years 
ago the settlement was laid waste by the rightful owners 



LIEUTENANT SPEKE^S DIARY. 46 ? 

of the soil, the Musa Abokr, a sub-family of the Habr Tal 
Jailah. 

October *—Without landing, Lieutenant Speke 
coasted along* to Bunder Hals, where he went on shore. 
Hais IS a harbour belonging to the Musa Abokr. It con¬ 
tains a fort,'' a single-storied, flat-roofed, stone and mud 
house, about 20 feet square, one of those artless constructions 
to which only Somal could attach importance. There 
are neither muskets nor cannon among the braves of Hais. 
The town" consists of half a dozen mud huts, mostly 
skeletons. The* anchoring ground is shallow, but partly 
protected by a spur of hill, and the sea abounds in fish. 
Four Buggaloes (native craft) were anchored here, wait+ 
ing for a cargo of Dumbah sheep and clarified butter)!, 
the staple produce of the place. Hais exports to Aden, 
Mocha, and other parts of Arabia; it also manufactures 
mats, with the leaves of the Daum palm and other trees. 
Lieutenant Speke was well received by one Ali, the Agll, or 
petty chief of the place: he presented two sheep to the 
traveller. On the way from Bunder Jedid to Las Kuray, * 
Lieutenant Speke remarks that Las Galwayta would be a 
favourable site for a Somali settlement. The w^ater is deep 
even close to the shore, and there is an easy ascent from it 
to the summit of the mountains. The consequence is that 
it is coveted by the Warsingali, who are opposed by the 
•present proprietors, the Habr Gerhajis. The Sultan of 
the former family resists any settlement for fear of dividing 
and weakening their force; it is too far from their pastures, 
and they have not men enough for both purposes. 


H H 2 



468 


APPENDIX I. 


28^^ -^Lieutenant Speke landed at Kurayat, near 

Las Kuray, and sent a messenger to summon the chief, 
Mohammed AH, Gerad or Prince of the Warsingali tribe. 

During a halt of twenty-one days, the traveller had ah 
opportunity of being initiated into the mysteries of Somali 
medicine and money hiding. The people have but two 
cures for disease, one the actual cautery, the other a pur¬ 
gative, by means of melted sheep's-tail, followed by such a 
draught of camel's milk that the stomach, having escaped 
the danger of bursting, is suddenly and completely relieved. 
It is here the custom of the wealthy to bury their hoards, 
and to reveal the secret only when at the point of death. 
Lieutenant Speke went to a place where it is said a rich* 
man had deposited a considerable sum, and described his 
** cache" as being '^on a path in a direct line between two 
trees as far as the arms can reach with a stick." The 
hoarder died between forty and fifty years ago, and his 
children have been prevented by the rocky nature of 
the ground, and their forgetting t<K ask which was the 
* right side of the tree, from succeeding in anything beyond 
turning up the stones. 

Las Kuray is an open roadstead for native craft. The 
town is considered one of the principal strongholds of the 
coast. There are three large and six small forts," 
similar in construction to those of Haisj all are occupied 
by merchants, and are said to belong to the Sultan. The 
mass of huts may be between twenty and thirty in number. 
They are matted buildings, long and flat-roofed; half a 
dozen families inhabit the same house, which is portioned 



LIEUTENANT STEKE'S DIAKY. 469 

off for such accommodation. Public buildings there are 
nonCj and no wall protects the place. ' It is in the territory 
of the Warsingali, and owns the rule of the Gerad or 
Prince, who sometimes lives here, and at other times in*»- 
habits the Jungle. Las Kuray exports gums, Dumbah 
sheep, and guano, the latter considered valuable, and sent 
to Makalla ia Arabia, to manure the date plantations. 

Four miles westward of Las Kuray is Kuray at, also 
called Little Kuray. It resembles the other settlement, 
- and is not worth description. Lieutenant Speke here 
occupied a fort or stone house belong to his Abban; finding 
the people very suspicious, he did not enter Las Kuray for 
prudential motives. There the Sultan has no habitation ( 
when he visited the place he lodged in the house of k 
Nacoda or ship-captain. 

Lieutenant Speke was delayed at Kuray at by the pre¬ 
text of want of cattle; in reality to be plundered. The 
Sultan, who inhabits the Jungle, did not make his appear¬ 
ance till repeatedly summoned. About the tenth day the 
old man arrived on foot, attended by a dozen followers; he 
was carefully placed in the centre of a double line bristling 
with spears, and marched past to his own fort. Lieutenant 
Speke posted his servants with orders to fire a salute of 
small firearms. The consequence was that the evening 
was spent in prayers. 

During Lieutenant Speke's first visit to the Sultan, who 
received him squatting on the ground outside the house in 
which he lodged, with his guards about him, the dignitary 
showed great trepidation, but returned salams with polite- 

H H 3 



470 


Appendix !• 


Bess. He is described as a fine-looking man, between 
forty-eight and fifty years of age; he was dressed in aii old 
and dirty Tobe, had no turban, and appeared unarmed.. 
He had consulted the claims of ** dignity" by keeping the 
traveller waiting ten days whilst he journeyed twenty 
miles. Before showing himself he had privily -held m 
Durbar at Las Kuray; it was attended by. the Agils of 
the tribe, by Mohammed Samatti^r (Lieutenant Speke's 
Abban), and the people generally. Here the question 
was debated whether the traveller was to be permitted to. 
see the country. The voice of the multitude was as usual 
contra, fearing to admit a wolf into the fold. It was 
silenced however by the Sultan, who thought fit to favour 
the English, and by the Abban, who settled the question, 
saying that he, as the Sultan's subject, was answerable fot 
all that might happen, and that the chief might believe 
him or not;—how could such Jungle-folk know any-s* 
thing?" 

On the morning of the 8th November the Sultan re-^ 
turned Lieutenant Speke's visit. The traveller took the 
occasion of opening his desire to visit the Warsingali 
country and the lands on the road to Berberah, keeping 
inland about 200 miles, more or less according to circum¬ 
stances, and passing through the Dulbahantas." To this 
the Sultan replied, that ^^as far as his dominions extended 
the traveller was perfectly at liberty to go where he liked ; 
but,as for visiting the Dulbahantas, he could not hear qf 
or countenance it." Mahmud AH, Gerad or Prince of the 
southern Dulbahantas, was too far away for communica-^ 



LIEUTENANT SPEKE'S LIAEY. 


471 


tion, and Mohammed Ali Gerad, the nearest chief, had 
only ruled seven or eight years; his power therefore was 
not great. Moreover, these two were at war; the former 
having captured, it is* said, 2000 horses, 400 camels, and 
a great number of goats and sheep, besides wounding 
a man. During the visit, which lasted from 8 a,m. to 
2 P.M., the Sultan refused nothing but permission to 
cross the frontier, fearing,' he said, lest an accident should 
embroil him with our Government. Lieutenant Speke 
gave them to understand that he visited their country, 
not as a servant of the Company, but merely as a traveller 
wishing to see sport. This of course, raised a laugh ; it 
was completely beyond their comprehension. They assure^ 
him, however, that he had nothing to apprehend in the 
Warsingali countiy, where the Sultan's order was like 
that of the English. The Abban then dismissed the 
Sultan to Las Kuray, fearing the appetites of his followers; 
and the guard, on departure, demanded a cloth each by way 
of honorarium. This was duly refused, and they departed 
in discontent. The people frequently alluded to two grand 
grievances.- In the first place they complained of an inter** 
ference on the part of our Government, in consequence of 
a quarrel which took place seven years ago at Aden, be¬ 
tween them and the Habr Tal Jailah tribe of Karara. 
The Political Resident, it is said, seized three vessels be-r 
longing to the Warsingali, who had captured one of the 
ships belonging to their enemies; the former had command 
of the sea, but since that event they have been reduced to a 
secondary rank. This grievance appears to be based on 

H II 4 



472 


APPENDIX I. 


•eolid grounds. Secondly, they complained of the corrup¬ 
tion of their brethren by intercourse with a civilised 
people, especially by visiting Aden: the remedy for this 
evil lies in their own hands, but desire of gain would doubt¬ 
less defeat any moral sanitary measure which their Elders 
could devise. They instanced the state of depravity into 
which the Somal about Berberah had fallen, and prided 
themselves highly upon their respect for the rights of 
meum and tuum^ so completely disregarded by the Western 
States. But this virtue may arise from the severity of 
their chastisements; mutilation of the hand being the usual 
award to theft. Moreover Lieutenant Speke's Journal 
does not impress the reader highly with their honesty. 
And lastly, I have found the Habr Awal at Berberah, on 
the whole, a more respectable ratfe than the WarsingalL 

Lieutenant Speke's delay at Kurayat was caused by 
want of carriage. He justly remarks that every one in 
this country appeals to precedent"; the traveller, there¬ 
fore, should carefully ascertmn the price of everything, and 
adhere to it, as those who follow him twenty years 
afterwards will be charged the same. One of the principal 
obstacles to Lieutenant Speke's progress was the large 
sum given to the natives by an officer who visited this coast 
some years ago, Future travellers should send before 
them a trusty Warsingali to the Sultan, with a letter 
specifying the necessary arrangements, a measure which 
would save trouble and annoyance to both parties. 

On the 10th of November the Sultan came early to 
Lieutenant Speke's house. He received a present of cloth 



LIEUTENANT SPEKe'S DIABY. 


473 


worth about forty rupees. After comparing his forearm 
with every other man's and ascertaining the inean^ he 
measured and re-measured each piece, an operation which 
lasted several hours. A flint gun was presented to him, 
evidently the first he had ever handled; he could scarcely 
bring it up to his shoulder, and persisted in shutting the 
wrong eye. Then he began as usual to beg for more 
cloth, powder, and lead. By his assistance Lieutenant 
Speke bought eight camels, inferior animals, at rather a 
high price, from 10 to 16J cloths (equivalent to dollars) 
per head. It is the custom for the Sultan, or in his 
absence, for an Agil to receive a tithe of the price; and it 
is his part to see that the traveller is not overcharged. 
appears to have discharged his duty very ineflSciently, 
dollar a day being charged for the hire of a single donkey. 
Lieutenant Speke regrets that he did not bring dollars or 
rupees, cloth on the coast being now at a discount. 

After the usual troubles and vexations of a first move 
in Africa, on the 16th of November, 1854, Lieutenant 
Speke marched about three miles along the coast, and 
pitched at a well close to Las Kuray. He was obliged to 
leave about a quarter of his baggage behind, finding it 
impossible with his means to hire donkeys, the best con¬ 
veyance across the mountains, where camels must be very 
lightly laden. The Sultan could not change, he said, the 
route settled by a former Sahib. He appears, though 
famed for honesty and justice, to have taken a partial view 
of Lieutenant Speke's property. When the traveller com¬ 
plained of his Abban, the reply was, This is the custom 



474 


APPENDIX I. 


of the country, I can see no fault; all you bring is the 
Abban's, and he can do what he likes with it." 

The next day was passed unpleasantly enough in tha 
open air, to force a march, and the Sultan and his party 
stuck to the date-bag, demanding to be fed as servants till 
rations were served out to them. 

\Sth November *—About 2 A. H. the camels (eleven in 
number) were lightly loaded, portions of the luggage being 
sent back to Kurayat till more carriage could be procured. 
The caravan crossed the plain southwards, and after about 
two miles' march entered a deep stony watercourse winding 
through the barren hills. After five miles' progress over 
rough ground, Lieutenant Speke unloaded under a tree early 
in the afternoon near some pools of sweet rain water col¬ 
lected in natural basins of limestone dotting the watercourse. 
The place is called Iskodubuk; the name of the . water¬ 
course is Duktura. The Sultan and the Abban were both 
left behind to escort the baggage from Las Kuray to 
Kurayat. They promised to rejoin Lieutenant Speke before 
nightfall; the former appeared after five, the latter after 
ten, days. The Sultan sent his son Abdallah, a youth of 
about fifteen years old, who' proved so troublesome that 
Lieutenant Speke was forced repeatedly to dismiss him: 
still the lad would not leaye the caravan till it reached the 
Dulbahanta frontier. And the Abban delayed a Negro 
servant. Lieutenant Speke's gun-bearer, trying by many 
offers and promises to seduce him from service. 

November *—At dawn the camels were brought in; 
they had been feeding at large all night, which proves the 



LIEUTENANT SPEKE'S DIART. 


475 


safety of the country. After three hours* work at loadings 
tlie caravan started up the watercourse. The road was 
rugged; at ^ times the watercourse was blocked up with 
boulders, which compelled the travellers temporarily to 
leave it. With a little cutting away of projecting^rocks; 
which are of soft stone, the road might be made tolerably 
easy. Scattered and stunted Acacias, fringed with fresh 
green foliage, relieved the eye; all else was barren rock. 
After marching about two miles the traveller was obliged 
to halt by the Sultan ; a messenger arrived with the order. 
The halting-place is called Damalay. It is in the bed of 
the watercourse, stagnating rain, foul-looking but sweet, 
lying close by. As in all other parts of this Fiumara, thej 
bed was dotted with a bright green tree, sometimes fouil 
feet high, resembling a willow. Lieutenant Speke spread 
his mat in the shade, and spent the rest of the day at lus 
diary and in conversation with the natives. 

The next day was also spent at Damalay, The inter¬ 
preter, Mohammed Ahmed, a Somali of the Warsingali 
tribe, and dll the people, refused positively to advance. 
Lieutenant Speke started on foot to Las Kuray in search 
of the Abban: he was followed at some distance by the 
Somal, and the whole party returned on hearing a report 
that the chief and the Abban were on the way. The 
traveller seems on this occasion to have formed a very low 
estimate of the people. He stopped their food until they 
promised to start the next day. 

215^ November .—The caravan marched at gun-fire, and, 
after a mile, left the watercourse, and ascended by a rough 



476 


APPENDIX I. 


camel-path a buttress of hill leading to the ridge of the 
mountains. The ascent was not steep, but the camels 
were so bad that they could scarcely be induced to advance. 
The country was of a more pleasant aspect, a shower of 
rain having lately fallen. At this height the trees grow 
thicker and finer, the stones are hidden by grass and 
heather, and the air becomes somewhat cooler. After a 
six miles' march Lieutenant Speke encamped at a place 
called Adhai. Sweet water was found within a mile's 
walk;—the first spring from which our traveller drank. 
Here he pitched a tent 

At Adhai Lieutenant Speke was detained nine days by 
the non-appearance of his Protector" and the refusal of 
his followers to march without him. The camels were 
sent back with the greatest difficulty to fetch the portion 
of the baggage left behind. On the 24th Lieutenant Speke 
sent^is Hindostani servant to Las Kuray, with orders to 
bring up the baggage. started alone and on 

foot, not being permitted to ride a pony hired. by the 
traveller: he reported that there is a much better road for 
laden camels from the coast to the crest of the hills. 
Though unprotected, he met with no difficulty, and re¬ 
turned two days afterwards, having seen the baggage en 
route. During Lieutenant Speke's detention, the Somal 
battened on hia provisions, seeing that his two servants 
were absent, and that no one guarded the bags. Half the 
rice had been changed at Las Kuray for an inferior de*^ 
scription. The camel drivers refused their rations because 
all their friends (thirty in number) were not fed. The 



LIEUTENANT SPEKE'S MART. 477 

Sultanas son taught them to win the day by emptying 
and hiding the water-skins, by threatening to kill the 
servants if they fetched water, and by refusing ta do work* 
During the discussion, which appears to have been lively, 
the eldest of the Sultan's four sons, Mohammed Aul, 
appeared from Las Kuray. He seems to have taken a 
friendly part, stopped the discussion, and sent away the 
young prince as a nuisance. Unfortunately, however, the 
latter reappeared immediately that the date bags were 
opened, and Mohammed Aul stayed only two days in Lieu¬ 
tenant Speke's neighbourhood. On the 28th November the 
Abban appeared. ^ The Sultan then forced upon Lieutenant 
Speke his brother Hasan as a second Abban, although thiaj 
proceeding is contrary to the custom of the country. Th^ 
new burden, however, after vain attempts at extortion, 
soon disappeared, carrying away with him a gun. 

For tanning water-skins the Somal here always use, 
when they can procure it, a rugged bark with a smooth 
epidermis of a reddish tinge, a pleasant aromatic odour, 
and a strong astringent flavour. They call it Mohur: 
powdered and sprinkled dry on a wound, it acts as a 
styptic. Here was observed an aloe-formed plant, with 
a strong and woody thorn on the top. It is called 
Haskul or Hig; the fibres are beaten out with sticks 
or stones, rotted in water, and then made into cord. In 
other parts the young bark oT the acacia is used; it is 
first charred on one side, then reduced to fibre by masti¬ 
cation, and lastly twisted into the semblance of a rope. 

From a little manuscript belonging to the Abban, 



478 


APPENDIX I. 


Lieutenant Speke learned that about 440 years ago 
(a,d, 1413), one Darud bin Ismail, unable to live with 
his elder brother at Mecca, fled with a few followers to 
these shores. In those day^ the land was ruled, they 
say, by a Christian chief called Kin, whose Wazlr^ 
Wharrah, was the terror of all men. Darud collected 
around him, probably by proselytising, a strong party: 
he gradually increased his power, and ended by expelling 
the owners of the country, who fled to the N.W. as far 
as Abyssinia. Darud, by an Asyri damsel, bad a son 
called Kabl Ullah, whose son Harti had, as progeny, 
Warsingali, Dulbahanta, and Mijjarthayn. These three 
divided the country into as many portions, which, though 
great territorial changes have taken place, to this day bear 
their respective owners* names. 

Of this I have to observe, thAt universal tradition re¬ 
presents the Somal to be a people of half-caste origin, 
African and Arabian; moreover, that they expelled the 
Callas from the coast, until the latter took refuge in the 
hills of Harar. The Gallas are a people partly Moslem, 
partly Christian, and partly Pagan; this may account for 
the tradition above recorded.' Most Somal, however, 
declare Darud" to be a man of ignoble, origin, and do 
not derive him from the Bfoly City. Some declare he 
was driven from Arabia for theft. Of course each tribe 
exaggerates its own nobility with as reckless a defiance of 
truth as their neighbours depreciate it. But I have made 
a rule always to doubt what semi-barbarians write. 
Writing - Is the great source of historical confusion, 



LIEUTENANT SPEKE^S DIARY. 479 

because falsehoods accumulate in books, persons are con- 
foundedj and fictions assume, as in the mythologlc genealo¬ 
gies of India, Persia, Greece, and Rome, a regular and 
systematic form. On the ^ther hand, oral tradition is 
more trustworthy; witness the annals and genealogies 
preserved in verse by the Bhats of Cutch, the Arab 
Nassab, and the Bards of Belochistan. 

ZOth November .—The Sultan took leave of Lieutenant 

I 

Speke, and the latter prepared to march in company with 
the Abban, the interpreter, the Sultan's two sons, and a 
large party. By throwing the tent down and sitting in 
the sun he managed to effect a move. In the evening 
the camels started from Adhai up a gradual ascent along 
a strong path. ^The way was covered with bush, jungle, 
and trees. The frankincense, it is said, abounded; gum 
trees of various kinds t?ere found; and the traveller 
remarked a single stunted sycamore growing out of a 
rock. I found the tree in all the upper regions of the 
Somali country, and abundant In the Harar Hills. After 
two miles' march the caravan halted at Habdl Ishawalay, 
on the northern side of the mountains, within three miles 
of the crest. The halting-ground was tolerably level, and 
not distant from the waters of Adhai, the only spring in 
the vicinity. The travellers slept in a deserted Kraal, 
surrounded by a stout fence of Acacia thorns heaped up 
to keep out the leopards and hyenas. During the heat 
Lieutenant Speke sat under a tree. Here he remained 
three days;. the first in order to bring up part of his bag¬ 
gage which had been left behind ; the second to send on a 



480 


APPENDIX I. 


portion to the next halting-place; and the third in con¬ 
sequence of the Abban's resolution to procure Ghee or 
clarified butter. The Sultan could not resist the oppor¬ 
tunity of extorting something by a final visit—for a goat> 
killed and eaten by the camel-drivers contrary to Lieute¬ 
nant Speke's orders, a dollar was demanded. 

Ath Decembery 1854,—About dawn the caravan was 
loaded, and then proceeded along a tolerably level path¬ 
way through a thick growth of thorn trees towards a 
bluflf hill. The steep was reached about 9 A.M., and 
the camels toiled up the ascent by a stony way, 
dropping their loads for want of ropes, and stumbling 
on their road. The summit, about 500 yards distant, 
was reached in an hour. At Yafir, on the crest of the 
mountains, the caravan halted two hours for refreshment* 
Lieutenant Speke describes th^ spot in the enthusiastic 
language of all travellers who have visited the Seaward 
Kange of the Somali Hills. It appears, however, that it 
is destitute of water. About noon the camels were again 
loaded, and the caravan proceeded across the mountains 
by a winding road over level ground for four miles. This 
point commanded an extensive vieiV of the Southern 
Plateau. In that direction the mountains drop in steps 
or terraces, and are aln^ost bare; as in other parts rough 
and flat topped piles of .stones, reminding the traveller of 
the Tartar Cairns, were observed. I remarked the same 
in the Northern Somali country; and in both places the 
people gave a similar account of them, namely, that they 



481 


LIEUTENANT SPEKE'S DIART. 

are the work of an earlier race, probably 4he Gallas. 
Some of them are certainly tpmbsj for human bones aire 
turned up; in others empty chambers are discovered ;• and 
in a few are 'found earthern and large copper pots. 
Lieutenant Speke on one occasion saw an excavated 
mound propped up inside by pieces of timber, and ap¬ 
parently built without inlet. It was opened about six 
years ago by a Warsingali, in order to bury his wife, 
when a bar of metal (afterwards proved by an Arab to be 
gold) and a gold ring, similar to what is worn by women 
in the nose, were discovered. In other places the natives 
find, it is said, women's bracelets, beadsj and similar 
articles still used by the Gallas. 

' After nightfall the caravan arrived at Mukur, ^ 
halting^place in the southern declivity of the hills. Here 
Lieutenant Speke remarked that the large watercourse 
in which he halted becomes a torrent during the rains, 
carrying off the drainage towards the eastern coast.. He 
had*marched that day seventeen miles, when the party 
made a Kraal with a few bushes. Water was found 
within a mile in a rocky basin; it was fetid and full of 
aniraalculae. Here appeared an old woman driving sheep 
and goats into Las Kuray, a circumstance which shows 
that the country is by no means dangerous. 

After one day's halt at Mukur to refresh the Camels, 
on the 6th December Lieutenant Speke started at about 
10 A. M. across the last spur of the hills, and presently 
entered a depression dividing the hills from the Plateau. 
Here the country was stony and white-coloured, with 



482 


APPENDIX I, 


watercourses full of rounded stones* The J ujube an<| 
Acacias were here observed to be on a large scale, espe-- 
cially in the lowest ground. After five miles the traveller 
halted at a shallow watercourse, and' at about half a mile 
distant found sweet but dirty water in a deep hole, in the 
rock. The name of this station was Karrah* * 

8 th Decemher .—Early in the morning the caravan 
moved on to Rhati a distance of eight miles: it arrived at 
about noon. The road lay through the depression at the 
foot of the hills. In the patches of heather Florikan 
was found. The Jujube-tree was very large. In the 
rains this country is a grassy belt, running from west to 
east, along a deep and narrow watercourse, called Rhat 
Tug, or the Fiumara of Rhat, which flows eastward to¬ 
wards the ocean. At this season, having been eaten up,'^ 
the. land was almost entirely deserted; the Kraals lay 
desolate, the herdsmen had driven off their cows to the 
hills, and the horses had been sent towards the Mijjarthayn 
country. A few camels and donkeys were seen : consider¬ 
ing that their breeding is left to chance, the blood is not 
contemptible. The sheep and goats are small, and their 
coats, as usual in these' hot countries, remain short. 
Lieutenant 'Speke was informed that, owing to want of 
rain, and it being th^ breeding season, the inland and 
Nomad Warsingali live entirely on flesh, one meal serving 
for three days. This was a sad change of affairs from 
what took place six weeks before the traveller's arrival, 
when there bad been a fall of rain, arid the people spent 
their time revelHng on milk, and sleeping all day under 



LIEUTENANT SPEKE's UIAEY. 483 

the shade of the trees —the ^Somali idea of perfect 
happiness* 

'On the 9th December Lieutenant Speke, halting at 
Hbat, visited one of "Kin's" cities, now ruined by time, 
and changed by the Somal having converted it into a 
cemetery* The remains were of stone and mud, as usual 
,in this part of the world* The houses are built in an 
economical manner; one straight wall, nearly 30 feet 
long, runs down the Centre, and is supported by a number 
of lateral chambers facing opposite ways, e. g. 


L._ 

__ ^ 



L_^ 

— ^ 

C ._ 

inn 

¦ ,_ 



This appears to compose the village, -and suggests a 



I I 2 









484 


APPENDIX I. 


convent or a monastery? • To the west, and about fifty 
yards distant, are ruins of stone and good white mortar, 
probably procured by burning the limestone rock.' The 
annexed ground plan will give an idea of these in¬ 
teresting remains, which are* said to be those of a Christian 
house of worship. In some parts the walls are still 10 
feet high, and they show an extent of civilisation now 
completely beyond the Warsingali. It may be remarked^ 
of them that the direction of the niche, as well as the dis¬ 
position of the building, would denote a Moslem mosque. 
At the same time it must be remembered that the churches 
of the Eastern Christians are almost always made to front 
Jerusalem, and the Gallas being a Moslem and Christian 
race, the sects would borrow their architecture from each 
Other. The people assert these ruins to be those of 
Nazarenes. Yet in the Jid All valley of the Dulbahantas 
Lieutenant Speke found similar remains, which the natives 
declared to be one of their forefathers' mosques; the plan 
and the direction were the same as tliose now described. 
Nothing, however, is easier than to convert St. Sophia 
into the Aya Sufiyyah mosque. Moreover, at Jid Ali, 
the traveller found it still the custom of the people to * 
erect a Mala, or cross of stone or wood covered with 
plaster, at the head an^ foot of every tomb. 


485 


LIEUTENANT SPEKE'S DIARY, 

The Dulbahantas, when asked about these crosses, said 
it was their custom, derived from sire and grandsire. This 
again would argue that a Christian people once inhabited 
these now benighted lands. ^ 

North of. the building now described is a cemetery, 
in which the Somal still bury their dead. JEIere Lieutenant. 
Speke also observed crosses, but he^was prevented by the 
superstition of the people from examining them. 

On an eminence S. W. of, and about seventy .yards from 
the main building, are the. isolated remains of another 
erection, said by the people to be a fort* * The foundation ' 
is level with the ground, and shows two compartments 
opening into each other. 

-T- . 

_ _ 

Ehat was the .most southerly point reached by 
Lieutenant Speke. He places it about thirty miles dis¬ 
tant from the coast, and at the entrance of the Great 
•Plateau. Here he was obliged to turn westward, because* 
at that season of the year the country to the southward is 
desolate for want of rain — a warning to future visitors. 
During the monsoon this part of the land is preferred by 
the people: grass grows, and there would be no obstacle 
to travellers. 

Before quitting Ehat, the AEban and the interpreter 
went to the length lof ordering Lieutenant Speke not to 
fire a gun. This detained him a whole day. 

I I 3 



486 


APPENDIX I. 


ll^A Decemberin. the morning, Lieutenant 
Speke started in a westerly direction, still within sight of 
the mountjiins, where not obstructed by the inequalities 
of the ground. The line taken was over an elevated 
flat, in places covered witk the roots of parched up grass; 
here it was barren, and there appeared a few Acactas. 
The view to the south was shortened by rolling ground: 
hollow basins, sometimes fifteen miles broad, succeed each 
other; each sends forth from its centre a watercourse 
to drain off the water eastward. The face of the country, 
however, is very irregular, and consequently description is 
I imperfect. This day ostriches and antelopes were ob¬ 
served in' considerable numbers. After marching ten 
miles the caravan halted at Barham, where they found 
a spring of clear and brackish water from tlie lime¬ 
stone rock, and flowing about 600 yards down a deep 
rocky channel, in parts lined with fine Acacias. A Kraal 
was found here, and the traveller passed a comfortable 
night. 

V2th December,Pihont 9 A, M. the caravan started, 
and threaded a valley, \yhich, if blessed with a fair supply 
of water, .would be very fertile. Whilst everything else 
is burned up by the sun on the high ground, a nutritious 
weed, called* Buskallaly, fattens the sheep and goats. 
Wherever, therefore, a spring is found, men flock to the 
place and fence themselves in a Kraal. About half-way- 
- the travellers reached Darud bin Ismaj^l's tomb,* a parallelo¬ 
gram of loose stones about one foot high, of a battered and 



487 


LIEUTENANT SPEKE'S DIARY. 

ignoble appearance; at one extremity stood a large slop¬ 
ing stone, with a little mortar still clinging to it. No, 
outer fence surrounded the tomb, which might easily be 
passed- by unnoticed: no honors were paid to the 
memory of the first founder of the tribe, and the Soinal 
did not even recite a Fatihah over his dust. After march¬ 
ing about twelve miles, the caravan encamped at Labbah- 
dilayj in the bed of a little watercourse which runs into 
the Yubbay Tug.. Here they found 'a small pool of bad 
rain water* They made a rude fence to keep out the wild 
beasts, and in it passed the night. 

13^A December4 — The Somal showed superior activity 
in marching three successive days ; the reasoif appears to 
be that the Abban was progressing towards his home. At 
sunrise the camels were loaded, and at 8 a. m. the caravan 
started up a valley along the left bank of a _ watercourse 
called the Yubbay Tug. This was out of the line, but the 
depth of the perpendicular sides prevented any attempt at 
crossing it The people of the country have made a 
peculiar use of this feature of ground. During the last 
war, ten or eleven years ago, between the Warsingali and 
the Dulbahantas, the latter sent a large foraging party 
over the frontier. The Warsingali stationed a strong 
force at the head of the watercourse to prevent its being 
turned, and exposed their flocks and herds on the eastern 
bank to tantalise the hungry enemy. The Dulbahantas, 
unable to* cross the chasm,- and unwilling, like all Somali 
heroes'even in their wrath, to come to blows with the foe. 


I I 4 



488 APPENDIX I. 

retired in huge disgust. After inarching five miles, the 
caravaa halted,- the Abban declaring that he and the 
Sultan's younger son must go forward to feel the^way ; in 
other words, to visit his home. ' His pretext was a good 
one. * In countries where postal arrangements do Dot 
exist, intelligence flies quicker than on the wings of paper. 
Many evil rumours had preceded Lieutenant Speke, and 
the inland tribe professed, it was reported, to despise a 
people who can onjy' threaten the coast. The D.ulbahantas 
had been quarrelling amongst themselves for the last 
thirteen years, and were now determined to settle the 
dispute by a battle. Formerly they were all under 
one head ; but one Ali Harram, an Akil or minor chief, 
determined to make his son, Mohammed Ali, Gerad or 
Prince of the clans inhabiting the northern provinces. 
After five years' intrigue the son was proclaimed, and 
carried on the wars caused by his father, declaring an inten¬ 
tion to fight to the last. "He has, however, been success^ 
fully opposed by Mahmud Ali, the rightful chief of tlie 
Dulbahanta family, the southern clans of Haud and be¬ 
yond the Nogal being more nuraei'ous and more power¬ 
ful than the northern divisions. No merchant, Arab or 
other, thinks of penetrating into this country, principally - 
on account of the expense. Lieutenant Speke is of 
opinion that his cloth and rice would easily have stopped 
the war for a time: the Dulbahantas threatened and 
blustered, but. allowed themselves easily to be pacified.. 

It is illustrative of the customs of this people that, wheu'^ 
the Dulbahantas had their hands engaged, and left their 



489 


LIEUTENANT SPEKE'S LIART. 

rear unprotected^ under the impression that no enemies 
were behind, the Warsingali instantly remembered that 
one of their number had been murjJered by the other race, 
many years ago. The blood-money had been paid, and 
peace had been concluded, but the opportunity was too 
tempting to bo resisted. 

The Yubbay Tug watercourse begins abruptly, being as 
broad arid deep at the head as it is in the trunk. . When 
Lieutenant Speke visited it, it was dry; there was but a 
thin growth of trees in it, showing that water does not. 
long remain there. I rained lately north of it lies a woody 
belt, running up to the foot of the mountains, and there 
bifurcating along the base. Southwards, the Yiibbay is 
said to extend to a considerable distance, but Somali ideas 
of distance are peculiar, and absorption is a powerful agent 
in these latitudes. 

Till the 21st December Lieutenant Speke was delayed 
at the Yubbay Tug. His ropes l^ad been stolen by dis¬ 
charged camel-men, and he was unable to replacd them. 

• On the 15th December one of the Midgari or Servlles 
was tried for stealing venison from one of his fellows* 
The Sultan, before his departure, had commissioned three 
of Lieutenant Speke's attendants*to act as judges in case 
of such emergency: on this occasion the interpreter wad 
on the Woolsack, and he sensibly lined the criminal two 
sheep to be eaten on the road. From inquiries, I have no 
doubt that these Midgan are actually reduced by famine 
at times fo live on a food which human nature abhors. In 
the northern part of the Somali country I never heard of 



490 


APPENDIX I. 


cannibalism, altbougli the Servile tribes will eat birds and 
other .articles of food disdained by Sornal of gentle blood. 
Lieutenant Speke compjains of the scarcity and the quality 
of the water, ** which resembles the mixture commonly 
known as black draught."* Yet it appears not to injure 
health; and the only disease found endemic is an ophthal¬ 
mia, said to return periodically every three years. The 
animals have learned to use sparingly what elsewhere is a 
daily necessary ; camels are watered twice a month, sheep 
thrice, and horses every two or three* days. No wild 
beasts or birds, except the rock' pigeon and duck, ever 
drink except when rain falls. 

The pickaxe and spade belonging to the traveller were 
greatly desired; in one place water was found, but more 
¦generally the people preferred digging for honey in the 
rocks. Gf the inhabitants we find it recorded that, like 
all Nomads, they are idle to the last degree, contenting 
themselves with tanned skins for dress and miserable huts 
for lodging. Changing ground for the flocks and herds is 
a work of little trouble; one camel and a donkey carry all; 
the goods and chattels, including water, wife, and baby. 
Milk in all stages (but never polluted* by fire), wild honey, 
and flesh, are their only diet; some old men' have, never 
tasted grain. Armed iJ^ith spear , and shield, they are in 
perpetual dread of an attack. . It is not strange that 
under such circumskinces the population should be thin 
and. scattered; they talk of thousands going to war, but 
the ^yary traveller suspects gross exaggeration. They 



LIEUTENANT SPEKE's DIAEY. 


491 


preserve the abominable Galla practice of murdering preg¬ 
nant women in hopes of mutilating a male foetus. 

On tlie 20th December Lieutenant Speke was informed 
by the Sultan's son that the Dulbahantas would not per¬ 
mit him to enter their country. As a favour^ however, 

j 

they would allow him to pass towards the home of the 
Abban, .who, having married a^ Dulbahanta .girl was 
naturalised amongst them. 

21^^ December. — Early- in the morning Lieutenant 
Speke, accompanied by the interpreter, the Sultan's son, 
one servant, and two or three men to lead a pair of camels, 
started eastward. The rest of the animals (nine in number) 
were left behind in charge of Imam, a Kindestani boy, ai^d 
six or seven men under him. The reason fw: this step 
was that Husayn Haji, an Agil of the Dulbahantas and a 
connection of the Abban; demanded, as sole condition for 
permitting Lieutenant Speke to visit Jid Ali," that the 
traveller should give up all liis property. Before leaving, 
the valley, he observed a hillock glistening white: it 
appears from its salt, bitter taste, to have been some kind 
of nitrate efflorescing from the ground. The caravan 
marched about a mile across the deep valley of Yubbay 
Tug, and ascended its. right side by a beaten track: they 
then emerged from a thin jungle in. the lower gi'ounds to 
the ston^ hills which compose the country. Here the line 
pursued was apparently parallel to the mountains bordering 
upon the sea: between the two ridges was a.depression, in 
. which lay a small watercourse. The road ran along bleak 
undulating ground, with belts of Acacia in the hollows: 



. 492 


APPENDIX I. 


here and there appeared a sycamore tree. On the road 
twoi springs were observed, both of bitter water, one deep 
below the surface, the other close to the ground; patches 
of green grass grew around them. Having entered the 
Dulbahanta frontier, the caravan unloaded in the even* 
ing, after a march of thirteen miles, at a depression called 
Ali. No water was found there. 

22nd December ,—Early in the morning the traveller 
started westward, from Ali, wishing that night to make 
Jid Ali, about eighteen .miles distant. After marching 
thirteen miles over the same monotonous country as before. 
Lieutenant Speke was stopped by Husayn Haji, the Agil, 
who declared that Guled Ali, another Agil, was opposed' 
to his progress. After a long conversation. Lieutenant 
Speke reasoned him into compliance ; but-that night they 
were obliged to halt at Birhamir, within five miles of Jid 
Ali. The traveller was offered as many horses as he 
wanted, and a free passage to Berberah, if he would take 
part in the battle preparing between the twp rival clans 
of Dulbahantas: he refused, on plea of having other en¬ 
gagements. But whenever the question of penetrating 
the country was started, there came the same dry answer: 
""No beggar had even attempted to visit them—what, then, 
did the Englishman w'ant ?'* The Abban's mother came 
out from her hut, which was by the wayside, and with 
many terrors endeavoured to stop the traveller.' . 

2Zrd December ,—Next moniing the Abban appeared, 
and, by his sorrowful surprise at seeing Lieutenant Speke 
across the frontier, showed that he only had made the 



LIEUTENANT, SPBKE!s DIARY* . 493 

difficulty* The camvan stalled wearfy, and, travelling five 
miles .over stony ground, reached tlie Jid All valley* 
This; IS, a long belt .of fertile soil, running perpendicular tp 
the seaward r!ange.;;it begins opposite Bunder Jedid, at a 
gap in the mountains tbrough which the sea is/they say, 
visible* In breadth, at the part first yisit^ by Lieutenant ' 
Speke, it is about two miles: it runs southward, and 
during rain probably extends to about twenty miles inland; 
^ear the head of the valley is a spring-iof . bitter -water, 
ab^rbed by the soil after a quarter of a mile's course: in 
the monsoon, howevefc, a considerable tprrpnt: must flow 
down this depression* , Ducks and snipe, are found here* 
The valley; shows, even at this .season,, extensive patches of. * 
grass, large acacia trees, bushes, and many .different kin^s 
of thorns: it is the most wooded lowland seen by Lieu¬ 
tenant .Speke* * Already the Nomads, Lare. here changing 
their babitsj two,small enclosures have been cultivated by 
an pld Dulbahanta, who had studied agriculture, during a 
pi^rimage to Ideccah* The Jowari grows luxuriantly, 
.with .ptalks ,8 and 9 feet high, and this first, effort bad 
well rewarded the enterpriser. Lieutenant Speke lent 
the slave Parhan, to show the art of digging; for,this, he 
received the^present of a goat. . I may here remark ithat 
everywhere in.the Somali country the people are prepared 
to cultivate grain, and only want some one to take the ' 
initiative* As yet they have nothing but their hands to * 
dig with* A few scattered huts were observed near Jid 
Alb ;the grass not being yet. .sufficiently abundant'to sup¬ 
port collected ber^* 



494 


APPENDIX I. 


Lieutenant Speke was delayed nineteen days at Jid AU 
by various pretexts.- The roads were reported closed.' 
The cloth and provisions were exhausted. Five horses 
must be bought from the Abban for thirty dollars a head 
(they were worth one fourth that sum), as presents. The 
first European that visited the Western Country had 
stopped rain for six months, and the Somal feared for tho 
next monsoon. All the people would flock in, demanding 
at least what the Warsingali had received; otherwise they 
threatened the traveller's life. On the 26th of December 
Lieutenant Speke moved thi'ee miles up the valley to 
some distance from water, the crowd being troublesome, 
and preventing his servants eating- On the 31st of De* 
cember all the baggage was brought up from near Abi: 
one of the camels, being upon the point of death, was 
killed and devoured. It was impossible to keep the 
Abban from his home, which was distant about four 
miles: numerous messages were , sent, in vain, but 
Lieutenant Speke drew him from his hut by sitting in 
Dhuma," or dunning him into compliance. At last arose 
a violent altercation. All the Warsingali and Dulbahanta 
servants were taken away, water watf stopped, the cattle 
were cast looser and the traveller was told to arm and 
defend himself and his t\\\o men:—they would all be slain 
that night and the Abban w'ould abandon them to the con¬ 
sequences of their obstinacy. They were not killed, how¬ 
ever, and about an hour afterwards the Somal reappeared, 
declaring that they had no intention of' deserting. 

ll/A January^ 1855. — About 10 A.M. the caravan 



LIEUTENANT SPEKE's DIARY. 495 

started without the Abban across the head of the.Jid Ali 
valley. The land was flat, abounding in Acacia, and 
showing signs of sun parched grass cropped close by the 
cattle. After a five miles' march the travellers came 
to a place called Biyu Hablay; they unloaded. under a 
tree and made a Kraal. Water was distant. Around 
were some courses, ending abruptly in the soft absorbing 
ground/ flere the traveller was met by two Dulbahantas, 
who demanded his right, to enter their lands, and in¬ 
sinuated that a force was gathering to oppose him. They 
went away, however, after a short time, threatening with 
smiles to conie again. Lieutenant Speke was also in- 
. formed that the Southern Dulbahanta tribes had beeq 
defeated with loss by the northern clans, and that his 
journey would be interrupted by them. Here the tra¬ 
veller remarked how willing are the Sonial to study: as 
usual in this country, any man who reads the Koran and 
can write out a verset upon a board is an object of envy. 
. The people are fanatic. They rebuked the interpreter for 
not praying regularly, for eating from a Christian's cooking 
pot, and for cutting deer's throats low down (to serve as 
specimens); they also did not approve of the traveller's 
throwing date stones into the fire. As usual, they are fear¬ 
ful boasters. Their ancestors turned Christians out of 
the country. • They despise guns. They consider the 
Frank formidable only behind walls: they are ready to 
fight it out ip the plain, and they would gallop around 
cannon so that not a shot would tell. Vain words to con¬ 
ceal the hearts of hares 1 Lieutenant Speke justly remarks 



496 


API^ENDIX I. 


that, on account of the rough way In which they are 
brought up, the Somal would become excellent police* 
Vien; they should, however, be separated from their own 
people, and doubtless the second generation might be 
trained into, courage. 

At Blyu -Hablay Lieutenant Speke, finding time as 
well as means deficient, dropped all idea of marching to 
Berberah. He wished to attempt a north-western route 
to Hais, but the Her Hamaturwa (a clan of the Habr 
Gerhajis who occupy the mountain) positively refused 
passage. Permission was accorded by that clan to march 
• due north upon Bunder Jedid, where, however, the travel¬ 
ler feared that no vessel might be found. As a last resource 
he determined'to turn to the north-east, and, by a new 
road through the Habr Gerhajis, to make Las Kuray. 

January. — The Abban again returned from his home, 
and accompanied Lieutenant Speke on his first march to 
the north-east. Early in the morning the caravan started» 
over the ground before described :• on this occasion, how¬ 
ever, it traversed the belt of jungle at the foot of the 
mountains. After a march. of /six miles they halted at 
Mirhiddo," under a .tree on elevated ground, in a mere 
desert, no water being nearex\ than the spring of JId Ali. 
The Abban took the opiK)rtunity of Lieutenant Speke going 
out specimen-hunting to I'eturn home, contrary to orders, 
and he did not reappear till the traveller-walked back and 
induced him to« march. Here a second camel, being in 
articulo,'" was cut up and greedily devoured. : ^ 

2lst January. — The Abban appeared in the morning. 



LIEUTENANT SPEKE'S DIARY. 497 

and caravan started about noon, over the stony ground 
at the foot of the hills. After a mile's inarch, the Pro¬ 
tector" again disappeared, in open defiance of orders. That 
day's work was about ten miles. The caravan halted, late 
at night, in the bed of a watercourse, called Hanfallah 
Lieutenant Speke visited the spring, which is of extraor¬ 
dinary sweetness for the. Warsingali country: it flows from 
a cleft in the rock broad enough to admit a man's body, 
and about 60 feet deep. 

23rd January ,—Lieutenant Speke was about to set out 
under the guidance of Awado, the Abban's mother, when 
her graceless son reappeared. At noon the caravan tra¬ 
velled along a rough road, over the lower spurs of the 
mountains: they went five miles,.and it was evening when 
they unloaded in a watercourse a little distance up the 
hills, at a place called Dallmalay. The bed was about 150 
yards broad, full of jungle, and showed signs of a strong 
deep stream during the monsoon. The travellers made 
up a Kraal, but found no water there. 

24^A January, — Early In the morning the caravan 
started, and ascended by a path over the hills. The way 
was bare of verdure, but easy: here a camel unable to 
walk, though unloaded, was left behind. One of Lieutenant 
Speke's discharged camel-men, a Warsingali, being refused 
passage by the Habr Gerhajis, on account of some previous 
quarrel, found a stray camel, and carried it off to his home 
amongst the Dulbahantas. He afterwards appeared at Las 
Kuray, having taken the road by which the travellers 
entered the country. Having marched eleven miles, the 


K K 



498 


APPENDIX I. 


caravan arrived in the evening at Gobamiray, a flat on 
the crest of the mountains. Here again thick jungle ap^ 
peared, and the traveller stood over more on the seaward 
side. Water was distant. 

On arriving, the camels were seized by the Urus Sugay, 
a clan of the Habr Gerhajis. The poor wretches pretended 
to show fight, and asked if they were considered a nation 
of women, that their country was to be entered without 
permission. Next morning they volunteered to act as 
escort. 

25th January. — Loading was forbidden by the valiant 
sons of Habr Gerhajis; but as they were few in number, and 
the Warsingali clan was near, it went on without inter¬ 
ruption, This day, like the latter, was cloudy; heavy 
showers fell for some hours, and the grass was springing 
up. Rain had lasted for some time, and had not improved 
the road. This fall is called^by the people Dairtiit is 
confined to the hills, whereas the Gugi or monsoon is 
general over the plateau. 

About noon the caravan marched, late, because the 
Abban's two horses had strayed. These animals belonged 
to a relation of the Protector^" who called them his own, 
and wished as a civility to sell the garrons at the highest 
possible price to his client. The caravan marched down a 
tortuous and difficult road, descending about four miles. It 
unloaded as evening drew near, and the travellers found at 
Gambagahh a good dormitory, a cave which kept out the 
rain. Water was standing close by in a pool. The whole 
way was a thick jungle of bush and thorn. 



. LIEUTENANT SPEKB'S DIARY. 499 

26^/i January. — The Somal insisted upon halting to 
eat, and the caravan did not start before noon. The road 
was tolerable and the descent oblique. The jungle was 
thick and the clouds thicker; rain fell heavily as usual in 
the afternoon. Five cloths were given to the Habr Gerhajis 
as a bribe for passage. After a march of six miles the 
caravan halted at a place called Minan. Here they again 
found a cave which protected them from the rain. Water 
was abundant in the hollows of the rock. 

2'lth January. — Early in the morning the caravan set 
out, and descended the hill obliquely by a tolerable road. 
They passed a number of thorn trees, bearing a gum called 
Falafala or Luban Mey ti, a kind 6f frankincense: it is 
thrown upon the fire, and the women are in the habit of/ 
standing over it. After travelling six miles the travellers 
unloaded at Hundurgal, on the bank of a watercourse 
leading to Las Galwayta: some pools of rain-water were 
observed in the rocky hollows of the bed. 

2^th January. — At about 9 A.M. the caravan crossed 
one of the lower ridges of the mountains by a tolerable 
road. Lieutenant Speke had preceded his camels, and was 
sitting down to rest, when he was startled by hearing the 
rapid discharge of a revolver. His valiant Abban, either 
in real or in pretended terror of the Habr Gerhajis had 
fired the pistol as a warning. It had the effect of collect-, 
ing a number of Bedouins to stare at the travellers, and 
cogitate on what they could obtain; they offered, however, 
no opposition. 

At midday the caravan reached a broad and deep 


K K 2 



500 


APPENDIX I. 


Fiumara, which contained a spring of good sweet water 
flowing towards the sea. Here they halted for refresh¬ 
ment. -Again advancing, they traversed another ridge, 
and, after a march of twelve miles, arrived in the evening, 
at another little watercourse on the Maritime Plain. That 
day was clear and warm, the Tain being confined to the 
upper ranges. The name of the halting-place was 
Farjeh. 

January* — The caravan marched over the plain 
into Kurayat, or Little Las Kuray, where Lieutenant 
Speke, after a detention of upwards of a fortnight, took 
boat, and after five days* sail arrived at Aden, where I was 
expecting him. He was charged forty dollars —fi.ve times 
the proper sum —for a place in a loaded Buggalow; from 
Aden to Bombay thirty-five dollars is the hire of the whole 
cabin. This was the last act of the Abban, who is now 
hj the just orders of the acting Political Resident, Aden, 
expiating his divers offences in the Station Jail. 


Conclusion- 

Lieutenant Speke has passed through three large tribes, 
the Varsingali, the Dulbahanta, and the Habr Gerhajis. 

The Warsingali have a' Sultan or Chief, whose orders 
are obeyed after a fashion by all the clans save one, the 
Bihidur. He cannot demand the attendance of a subject 
even to, protect the country, and has no power to raise 
recruits; consequently increase of territory is never con- 



LIEUTENANT SPEKE'S DIARY. 501 

templated in this part of the Somali country. In case of 
murder, theft, or dispute between different tribes, the 
aggrieved consult the SuUan, who, assembling the elders^ 
deputes them to feel the inclinations of the '^public." The 
people prefer revenging themselves by violence, as every 
man thereby hopes to gain something. The war ends when 
the enemy has more spears than cattle left—most fre-* 
quently, however, by mutual consent, when both are tired 
of riding the country. Expeditions seldom meet one 
another, this retiring as that advances, and he is deemed 
a brave who can lift a few head of cattle and return 
home in safety. The commissariat department is rudely 
organised; at the trysting-place, generally some water^ 
the people assemble on a day fixed by the Sultan, an^ 
slaughter sheep: each person provides himself by hanging 
some dried meat upon his pony. It is said that on many 
occasions men have passed upwards of a week with no 
other sustenance than water. This extensive branch of 
the Somal is divided into eighteen principal clans, viz.: 

1. Ker Gerad (the royal 10. Nuh Umar, 

family). 11. Adan Said. 

2. Her Fatih. 12. Her Haji. 

3. Eer Abdullah. 13. Dubbays. 

4. Eer Bihidur. 14. Warlabah. 

5. Bohogay Salabay. 15* Bayabarhay. 

6. Adan Yakub. 16. Eer Yasif. 

7. Gerad Umar. 17. Hindudub. < 

8. Gerad Yusuf, 18. Eer Garwayna. 

9. Gerad Liban. 


K K 3 



502 


APPENDIX I. 


The Northern Dulhahantas are suffering greatly from 
intestine war. They are even less tractable than the 
Warsingali. Their Sultan is a ruler only in name; no 
one respects his person or consults him in matters of im¬ 
portance ; their Gerad was in the vicinity of the traveller; 
but evasive answers were returned (probably in consequence 
^ of the Abban's machinations) to every inquiry. The elders 
and men of substance set^Jle local mattery and all have a 
voice in everything that concerns the general weal: such 
for instance as the transit of a traveller. Lieutenant Speke 
saw two tribes, the Mahmud Gerad and Rer Ali Nalay. 
The latter is subdivided into six septs. 

The Habr Gerhajis, here scattered and cut up, have little 
power. Their royal family resides near Berberah, but no 
one as yet wears the turban; and even when investiture 
takes place, a ruler's authority will not extend to Makhar. 
Three clans of this tribe inhabit this part of the Somali 
country, viz., Bah Gummaron, Rer Hamturwa, and Urus 
Sugay. 

I venture to submit a few remarks upon the subject of 
the preceding diary. 

It is evident from the perusal of these pages that though 
the traveller suffered from the system of black-mail to 
which the inhospitable SQmal of Makhar subject all 
strangers, though he was delayed, persecuted by his •^pro¬ 
tector," and threatened with war, danger, and destruction, 
his life was never in real peril. Some allowance must also 
be made for the people of the country. .Lieutenant Speke 
was of course recognised as a servant of Government; and 



LIEUTENANT SPEKE's DIABY. 


503 


savages cannot believe that a man wastes his rice and 
cloth to collect dead beasts and to ascertain the direction 
of streams. He was known to be a Christian; he is 
ignorant of the Moslem faith; and^ most fatal to his enter* 
prise, he was limited in time. Not knowing either the 
Arabic or the Somali tongue, he was forced to communicate 
with the people through the medium of his dishonest 
interpreter and Abban. ^ 

I have permitted myself to comment upon the system 
of interference pursued by the former authorities of Aden 
towards the inhabitants of the Somali coast. A partial 
intermeddling with the quarrels of these people is unwise. 
We have the whole line completely in our power. An 
armed cruiser, by a complete blockade, would compel the 
inhabitants to comply with any requisitions. But either' 
our intervention should be complete, — either we should 
constitute ourselves sole judges of all disputes, or we should 
sedulously turn a deaf ear to their complaints. The former 
I not only understand to be deprecated by our tulers, but 
I also hold it to be imprudent. Nothing is more danger¬ 
ous than to influence in any way the savage balance of 
power between these tribes: by throwing* our weight on 
one side we may do them incalculable mischief. The 
Somal, like the Arab Bedouins, live in a highly artificial 
though an apparently artless state of political relations; 
and the imperfect attempt of strangers to interfere would 
be turned to the worst account by the designing adven¬ 
turer and the turbulent spirit who expects to rise by 
means of anarchy and confusion. Hitherto our partial 


K K 4 



504 APPENDIX I. 

intervention between the Habr Awal of Berberah and the 
Habr Gerhajis of Zayla has been fraught with evils to 
themj and consequently to us. 

But it is a rapidly prevailing custom for merchants and 
travellers to engage an Abban or Protector, not on the 
African coast, as was formerly case, but at Aden. It is 
clearly advantageous to encourage this practice, since it 
gives us a right in case of^fraud or violence to punish the 
Abban as he deserves. 

Lastly, we cannot expect great things without some 
establishment at Berberah. Were a British agent settled 
there, he could easily select the most influential and 
respectable men, to be provided with a certificate en¬ 
titling them to the honor and emolument of protect-, 
ing strangers. Nothing would tend more surely than this 
measure to open up the new country to commerce and 
civilisation. , And it must not be inferred, from a perusal 
of the foregoing pages, that the land is valueless. Lieu¬ 
tenant Speke saw but a small portion of it, and that, too, 
during the dead season. Its exports speak for themselves: 
guano, valuable gums, hides, peltries, mats, clarified butter, 
honey, and Dumbah sheep. Prom the ruins and the tra¬ 
ditions of the country, it is clear that a more civilised race 
once held these now savage ^hores, and the disposition of 
the people does not discourage the hope entertained by 
every Englishman—^that of raising his fellow man in the 
scale of civilisation. 


Camp, Aden, March, 1855. 



LIEUTENANT SPEKB'S OBSERVATIONS. 505 


METEOROLOGieAL OBSERVATIONS 


M<ide ^ Lieutenant Speke^ during hie Experimental Totr in E/ostem 
Africa^ portions of Warsin^ali^ jOulbahantdt 


Date. ' 

6 a.m. 

NODpl. 

3f.m. 

Melcorolofiical Notices. 

1854. 





Oct 

70? 

87® 

?112® 

Wind from tlie 1^. E. strong. ? Ex- ' 

yfSa: 

1 70 

87 

85 

Dittos [posed to sun. 

„ 

68 

88 

35 

Ditto. 

Nov. 1. 

67 

8$ 

82 

Ditto. (Theso observaiions froai 

' o 

62 

86 

85 

Ditto. the 29th Octto the 7th 

« 3. 

59 

86 


Nov.) were tnken in the 

„ 4. 

65 

86 

84 

Ditto* tent.) 

» 3, 

65 

88 

- 

Ditto. 

' n 6. 

63 

88 

86 

Ditto. 

« ?.¦ 

: 74 

90 

88 

Cloudy in the morning. 

« 8; 

66 

83 

88 

Wind strong from the N. E: (In open . 

n 

64 

. 84 

82 

Ditto. nir, but not exposed 

« 10. 

69 

84 .. 

82 

Ditto: ' to the snn.) 

„ lU 

70 

84 

82 

Ditto* , 

n 12. 

68 

83 

82 


n IS. 

64 

85 

82 


« 14. 

77 

82 

82 


; ,, 15, 

70 

83 

83 


' ^16. 

72 

83 

82 

• 

^ 17. 

62 

.118 

104 

In open air ^exposed to spn^ ' 

„ 18. 

62 

95 

96 


« 19. 


i02 

95r 

AH these observations Were token during 

„ 20. 

-¦ 

98 

103 

the N* E. monsoon, w'hon the wind 

.. 21-; 

It 

II 

II 

eomesfrom that quarter.* It gene- ' 

22. 

59 

74 

77 

rally makes its appearance .about 

« 23. 

56 

81 

.75 

half-past 9 A.M. 

,, 24. 

59 

78 

82 


» 25. 

' 58 

78 

79 


« 26. 

60 

74 

75 


4> 27.^. 

59. 

82 . 

77 


n. 28. 

59. 

82 

72 


• « 29i 

59 

¦- 

80 


V* 30. i 

61 

82 

80 


1. 

52 

78 

86 


« 2. 

50 

86 

89 


'» 3. 

It 

II 

It 


« 4. 

• 

69 

It 


» 5. 

54 

84 

84 


It 6. 

- 

97 

98 


t, 7. 

52 

- 

89 


» 8,^ 

52 

95 - 

100 

' 









50 & 


APPENDIX I, 


Date. 

6 A.U. 

Noon. 

1854. 



Dec. 9. 

38° 

90° 

a 

10. 

42 

92 


11. 

42 

a 

n 

12. 

45 

73 


13. 

40 

81 


14. 1 

25 

76 


15. 1 

33 

80 

»» 

16. i 

47 

91 


17. 

36 

84 


18. 

34 

82 


19. 

54 

78 


20. 

52 

77 


31. 

- 

89 

1855. 



Jan 

t. 1. 

40 

98 


2. 

43 

84 


3. 

34 

84 


4. 

32 

86 


5. 

28 

96 


6. 

34 

92 


7. 

39 

91 


8. 

39 

95. 


9. 

40 

81 


10. 

55 

- 


n. 

50 

91 


12. 1 

53 

87 

• »» 

13. i 

14. ! 

51 

39 

94 

84 


16. ! 

40 

81 


17. ' 

46 

78 


18. 

42 

86 


19. 

44 

82 


20. 

40 

fi 


21. 

38 

87 


22. 

50 

91 


23. 

52 

86 


24. 

52 

- 


25. 

51 

79 


26. 

58 

65 

>» 

27. 

58 

>» 


30. 

72 

82 


31. 

71 

! 88 

Feb. 

1. 

67 

96 • 


2. 

74 

89 

fy 

3. 

68 

. 87 

99 

4. 

68 

89 

19 

5. 

68 

84 

99 

6. 

72 

88 

99 

7. 

68 

83 • 


Meteorological Noticei. 


82 

82 

82 

89 

90 
84 
84 
83 
88 


98 

86 

86 

84 

87 

94 

80 


72 

90 

90 

94 

95 

87 
81 

88 
83 

93 

84. 

98 

62. 

66 

63 

it 

82 

93 

80 

80 

88 

>? 

83 


In open air exposed to the sun. 

All these observations were taken 
during the N. E. monsoon, when 
the wind comes from that quarter; 
generally making its appearance at 
about half-past 9 a.h. 


On the north or sea face of the War- 
sangali Hills, during 24th, 25th, 
and 26th, had rain and heavy 
Vlouds during the day: blowing 
off towards the evening. 

From the 27th to the 7th the observa'* 
tions were taken at the sea. 


On the 7th observations were taken 
in tent. 











LIEUTENANT SPEKE S OBSERVATIONS. 


507 











APPEJl^DIX II. 


GRAMMATICAL OUTLINE AND VOCABULARY 

OF THE 


HARARI. LANGUAGE 




511 


GRAMMATICAL OUTLINE., 


PEELIMINAET EBMARKS. 

The caution necessary for the stranger who would avoid 
exciting the suspicions of an African despot and Moslem 
bigots prevented my making any progress, during my short 
residence at the capital. In the Harari language. But once 
more safe among the Girhi Mountains, circumspection 
was no longer necessary. The litterati who assisted in my 
studies were a banished citizen of Harar; Said Wal, an old 
Bedouin; and All Shair, the Poet," a Girhi Somal cele¬ 
brated for his wit, his poetry, and his eloquence. I found 
the last most useful, and his linguistic sagacity enabled me 
to perform a feat of no ordinary diflSculty, that of drawing 
Out a grammatical sketch of the language- But t^e 
pressed, and few days remained for work. Our hOurs 
were spent in unremitting toil: we began at sunrise, the 
hut was ever crowded with Bedouin critics, and it was late 
at night before the manuscript was laid by. On the even¬ 
ing of the third day, my three litterati started upon their 
feet, and shook my hand, declaring that 1 knew as much 
as they themselves did. 

Returning to Aden, I was fortunate enough to find there 
a friend. Lieutenant;^ Dansey, Ist Bombay European regi- 



512 


APPENDIX II, 


ment, who, seeing nie embarrassed by preparations for an 
expedition, kindly volunteered to write out, and, with the 
assistance of one Farih Dibani, a Somali of the Habr Jul 
Jailah clan, to revise my notes. He spent much time and 
more trouble over his self-imposed task, and the attention 
which he bestowed upon each word may be considered a 
guarantee of accuracy.* 

'^Whether the scholars of the Hebrew, Ethiopic, and 
Arabic," I may remark in the words of M. Krapf Outline 
of the Kisuaheli Language," p. 6.), will derive any im¬ 
portant aid from the knowledge of this tongue, is a 
question which I must answer in the negative; though it 
cannot be uninteresting to the Arabic scholar to observe 
the manner in which the Arabic has been amalgamated 

with the African lannjuage." 

o o 


1. The people of Harar ignore the origin of their 
language. It probably dates from our mediaeval times, 
when the Hadiyah Empire flourished upon the ruins of the 
Christian states. In the present day it is absolutely con¬ 
fined within the walls of the city, which is surrounded on 

all sides by Gallas. Through the medium of Harari the 

\ 

' * Afterwards at Berberah I met the Harar caravan; and here^my 
difficulty of procuring an instructor was truly characteristic. The 
timid merchants feared to lose their heads, and I should have failed 
but for the presence of a Sayyid, Aydrus bin Mohammed el Barr el 
Madani, who, with the real Sherif spirit, aided me, in the hope that 
one day I might revenge his wrongs upon the Amir of Har^. 



HABAKI LANGUAGE. 


513 


Arabic language and the religious sciences are explained 
to the inhabitants : almost all the women and not a few of 
the citizens can speak no other tongue. The numerous 
Somal who visit and temporarily settle at Harar usually 
learn some sentences. But few penetrate deep into 
the language: at this moment, in Aden, amongst about 
2000, one only is found capable of revising the voca¬ 
bulary. 

2. The Harari appears, like the Galla, the Dankali, and 
the Somali, its sisters, to be a Semitic graft inserted into 
an indigenous stock. * The pronouns, for instance, and 
many of the numerals are clearly Arabic, whilst the forms 
of the verb are African, and not unlike the vulgar tongues 
of modem India* Again, many of the popular expressions, 
without which conversation could not be carried on {e. g. 
Labbag, here I am," in answer to a call), are pure Arabic. 
We are justified then in determining this dialect to be, 
like the Galla, the Dankali, and the Somali, a semi- 
Semite. t 

* " In th*e Abyssinian language, especially in the Ethiopic (or Ghiz), 
and in the Tigre and Gurague, its dialects, we find the Semitic element 
is still predominant; the Amharic manifests already a strong in¬ 
clination of breaking through this barrier. The Somali and Galla 
languages have still more thrown off the Semitic fetter, whilst the 
Kisuaheli and its cognate idioms have entirely kept the Semitic 
aloof.*'—Arfl/)/', Preface. 

j* Lieutenant (now Captain) Rigby, 16 th Regiment Bom. N. I., in 
an excellent paper published by the Bombay Asiatic Society, under 
the modest title of an " Outline of the Somauli Language, with Vo¬ 
cabulary," asserts that the dialect of which he is writing " has not the 
slightest similarity to Arabic in construction." A comparison of 


L L 



514 


APPENDIX II. 


3. The Harari is not a written language, and the 
Arabic character imperfectly, expresses its sound. It 
excites our wonder to see longues so elaborate, with rules 
of eloquence and a poetry cultivated after the canons of 


the singular persons of the pi*onouns will, I believe, lead to a different 
conclusion. 


, Arabic. 

1. Ana, I 

2. Anta, thou 
8. Huwa, he 


Somali. 
Ana or Anega. 
Adega. 
Husagga. 


The affixed article again suggests an Arabic derivation, which at-first 
sight might escape the eye. Mindi, is a knife; Mindi-d4, the knife. 

The vulgar corruption of Ha'za' ihis^ affixed to the noun, as in 

Egypt and in many parts of Arabia (e. g, El Bajul dd, 
this man), may have given rise to this and to the other forms of the 
Somali article kfi, ki, gd, and gi. The interrogative pronoun Ayw 


(who?) is clearly a corruption of the Arabic -^7 aud Mah4 

(whatf) of M4 (Uo). Similarly the reciprocal Kaf (/ myself) is a 
contraction of the noun Nafs used in this sense, throughout 

Arabia. In many Somali words there is a direct derivation froin the 
Arabic, which cannot be detected without a knowledge of the people's 

inability to articulate certain sounds. Khubz ) I*' Arabic is 

bread. The Somali, avoiding the harsh kh4 generally 

converting'z4 ^ into sin have changed the vocable into 

hibis. They have preserved intact the Arabic form of the Ism el 
nisbah fo^^ instance, Adariyah means Je- 

longing to Addri (Harar) ; Aushiyah, belonging to the Aushi (Abyssi- 
nians). Of the Somali numerals, two only present any resemblance 
to the Arabic: Sadah, three, to Sal4sah (ajUj) 5 and Afar, four, 

to Arba Both are derived through the Galla " Shadi" and 

" Afur, 



HABABI LANGUAGE. 


516 


rhythm and rhyme, destitute of an alphabet.* In Sindh 
and India, on the contrary, every local variety of dialect 
has its own syllabarium modified from the Arabic or the 
Sanscrit. To account for the phenomenon, we must take 
refuge in some psychical cause hitherto unexplained. The 
Harari^ when writing their songs and translations, use the 
Koranic character. 

4. The pronunciation of the Harari dialect,! unlike the 

* Whether the Galla tongue possesses a distinct syllabarium is still 
a disputed point. 

f The pronunciation of the Somali tongue is partly Semitic, 
partly Indo-Germanic. 

Of the Semitic we find two characteristic sounds :— 

1. Gh, The Arabic Ghayn occurs but rarely; as in the word 
A^Aal, a homes 

2. H. The Arabic (^) is common; as inHiA ^^j^, a goat; 

DiA « valley. 

The Sanscrit sounds are:— 

1 . D cerebral (^) ; as in the words 7>eg j), drowned; Gad 
(.tr )>« beard, 

2. L, ( J ); as in Go? ( )> a barren woman. 

3. N. nasal (i^); as in the prohibitive, Hd thigin go not. 

4. R, cerebral ns in the word Gar governments^ an order. 

And, finally, the Somal, finding a difficulty in articulating the sounds 
Ch, P, and Z, change them into J, B, and S: e, g. 

Ajjd, for Achha (in Hindostani, good), 

Bahdr, ybr Pahdr (in Hindostanl a hill). 

Jasirahj/or Jazirah (in Arabic, an island), 

L L 2 



516 


APPENPIX II, 


soft G^lla and Somali^ is harsh and guttural; ^ fact 
which causes astonishment, as it is spoken in a warm 
climate and within walls, where men generally soften 
sound. The Arabic letter khd (^) is its characteristic. 


The Lettebs which require comment in this sketch 
are— 

1. The Arabic hamzah or broken a' ( ; e. g, ma'altu, 

day, bd'u, a merchant.* 

2. A peculiar sound resembling eJiya in Sanscrit; 

e. g, hoch a eunuch. In pronunciation it is some¬ 

times confounded with sh ; e. g. abosh or abocA, a man. 

3. The Arabic h& (^); as in giA ^ ^^ve coal; 

zikeA, gold. 

4. The Arabic kdf (cJli); as in Aaytal a ship: 

this sound is also common in Somali. 

5. The Sanscrit I (5)' as in hi/Zu truly. 

6. The Sanscrit nasal n (w) ; as in the pronoun Iwyash 

we. 

. . 7. The cerebral t (?); as in the word dt a bone. 

Like the Somali, the Harari tongue is remarkable for 
the hardness and the distinctness with which the conso- 

* The Semitic Ajrn (^)) in Harari as in Hindostani, is converted 
into a simple a. 



HAKAUI LANGUAGE. 517 

niants, those great discriminators of language, are articu* 
lated» To investigate this phenomenon, which has the, 
peculiarity of varying according to the position of the 
letter, would lead me into a digression for which I have 
neither time nor space. Whenever a consonant is to be 
emphasised, it is denoted in the following pages by re¬ 
duplication. 

The system of orthography is the modified form of 
Sir W. Jones's alphabet; accents, however, have been 
used to denote the long vowels. 

1. a is pronounced as in the English hat." 

2. a, as in father." 

3. ay, as in hay." 

4. ay, as in the Spanish ** ay." 

5. iy as in the English if." 

6. e, as ee in the English sheer." ^ 


OF THE ARTICLE. 

5. The definite is like the indefinite article, inherent 
in the noun. 

e. y. A horse and an ass; faras wd wajayrd. ^ 

The son of the king^ nagdrshi lijjay. 

* The other long and short vowels are omitted from this list, 
their pronunciation being according to the Italianised system now 
in vogue. , 


Z« !• 3 



518 


appendix II. 


The following examples will show the peculiantv nf 
this part of speech: — 

A plate and the knife; Sehan wd mashah. 

The town of Aden;, Adan bdd. 

He went to the king; Nagarshi de h&rL 
The child and the father; Lijjay wd au-zo (literally, 
his father). 


OF THE NOUN. 

6. The noun has two genders^ Masculine and Feminine. 

Masculine nouns may be converted into feminines by 
three processes. The ^rst changes the terminal vowel 
into or adds At to the terminal consonant. 

rdgit, an old woman, 
bushshit^ a bitch. . 
wasifit, a slave girl. 

^Animals of different sexes have different names, and 
this forms the second process. 

e. bdrS, an ox; l^m, a cow. 

The third and the most common way of expressing sex 
is by means of ahosh male or man/' mUinuti 


e. g. r£g^, an old man; 
bushshi, a dog; 
wasif, a slave boy; 



HARABI LANGUAGE, 


519 


(corrupted from the Arabic unsa woman, female." 

They correspond with our he-" and she-". 

e. g. faras, a stallion; inisti faras, a mare. 

abosh baghl, a he mule; inisti baghl, a she mule. 

7. The noun has two numbers. Singular and Plural 

The affix ^ash changes singulars into plurals. 
g, abosh, a man ; aboshdsh, men, 

wandag, a servant; wandagash, servants; 
gar, a house ; gd,rdsh, houses. 

Nouns ending in the long d become plural without re¬ 
duplicating this letter, 

e, g* gafd, a slave; gafash (for gdfaash) slaves. 

. gubnd, a harlot; gubndsh, harlots. 

When the singular terminates in the sound -ay, so 
common in the Somali and Harari dialects, the plural is 
formed by affixing -ash to the consonant preceding that 
diphthong. 

e. g. lijjay, a son; lijjdsh (for Hjjiash), sons. 

The same is the case with nouns terminating in u 
. e. y. kabri, a grave; kabr^h (for kabriash), graves. 

When the singular ends in the soft sibilant, it is usually 
changed into is, 

c, y. faras, a horse; farazdsh, hordes. . 
iras, a cloth; irazasb, cloths. 


z. L 4 



52a 


APPENDIX II. 


8. The noun in Harari, as in the Somali language, has 
no cases: the following is the way in which casal relations 
are expressed:— 

Nom. and Acc., amir, a chiefs 
Dative, amir lay, to a chief. 

Vocative, amir-ol O chief * 

Ablative, amir bay, or hc^from a chief 

The Genitive .case, as in the Soitiali, is expressed by 
simply prefixing the name of the person to the thing pos¬ 
sessed. 

ie. g. The Amir's son, Amir lijjay (literally. Amir-son). 

The Sultan's house, Sultan gdr. 

The gardens of Harar, Gay Harsh&h, 

To obviate the unintelligibility often arising from this 
formation, or rather absence of formation, the word zo or 
so (his) is sometimes added to the name of the thing 

e. g. Ahmed's turban, Ahmed imamah-zo (literally, 
Ahmed his turban). 

The Kazi's brother^ Kazi ih -zo* 

? This o is generally a^ded, as in the Somali tongue, to titles and 
proper names: e. g, Amir-o! Arab-o I Ahmad-o! Sometimes the 

purely Arabic y4 (b ) is used, and when the address is unceremo¬ 
nious, Akh^kh y^ 0 thou ! 




HARAB! LANGUAGE. 


521 


OF THE ADJECTIVE. 

9. The adjective, like the noun, has no cases properly 
so called. In some instances they precede their nouns. 

e, g. Tdy barti, a black staff. 

Gidor abb^ a tall man. 

At other times they follow their substantives, 
e. g* Shundud zikeA, a golden necklace. 

Majlis gidir, a large assembly. 

' Adjectives, like nouns, alter their terminations in the 
feminine form, 

e» g. Uzn zalayla, a deaf man; in the feminine, tlzn 
zalaylit. 

Eibri z^Id, a proud man; in the feminine, Kibri 
zali 


. As in the Somali tongue, degrees of comparison are exr. 
pressed by phrases, not by any change of the adjective. 


e. g. 

Comparative. I 


This is greater than that* 

Ya be yi igadri hal (lit. that than this 
great is). 


Superlative. 


* This is the greatest. 

^ Yf jarami be igadn hal (lit. this all than 
great is). 



622 


APPENDIX II. 


OP NUMERALS, 

10. The following are the cardinal numbers: — 


1. Ahad 

2. Kot. 

3. Shishti. 

4. Harad 

5. Hamisti 

6. Saddistir 

7. Sdti. 

8. Sot or Sut. 

9. Sdhtan (Zehtayn). 

10. Assir. 

11. Ahad assir. 

12. Kot wa assir. 


20. Koyah. 

30. S4seh. 

40. Arbaia(?). 

50. Hamisti assir. 

60. Siddisti assir. 

70. Sdt assir. 

80. Sdt assir. 

90. Zehtand or Sehtand. 
100. BakldorBoghol(j^, 
the Somali word). 
1000. Kum (Somali) or 
Alfi (Arabic). 


11. The ordinals are formed by affixing -khd to the 
numerals. 

e. g, Ahad«khd, first. Harad-khd, fourth. 

Kot-khd, second. . Hamlstf-kha, fifth. 

Shishti-khd, third. | 

12. The fractional numbers are, 

Rubd (Arab. f Shishtiruba. 

^ Nus (Ar. or Keni, a Slnshtisam. 



HARAKI LANGUAGE* 


523 


OF PRONOUNS. 

13. The system of pronouns in Harari, as in the 
Somali language, is artful and somewhat Complicated.. 
Like the Arabic it may be divided into separate and 
affixed. The separate or personal pronouns which have 
neither gender nor case are:— 

Singular. Plural. 

^ Ist Pers. An Inndsh or T^zyash* 

2nd „ Akhdkh(^U.^). Akhdkhdsh 

3rd ,, Huwa Hiyydsh. * ^ 


14. The affixed pronouns or possessives attached to 
nouns are:— 

* Singular. 

1st Pers. -e, my or mine. e.g. G^r-e, my house. 
2nd ,, - khd, thy or thine. Gar-khd, thy house. 

3rd ,, ~ zo or -so, his. Gar-zo, his house-f 


Plural. 


Ist Pers. - ziwyaor smya, OMr. e.g. Garziwya, our house. 
2nd - kho, your. Gdr-kho, your house, 

3rd „ -> zi«yo or smyo, Gar-zinyo, their house.. 


• Itta, she (near). Yata, she (far), 

f These words are also pronounced zd, sii, and khu. Of the former 
pronouns there are also singular and plural separate forms, 
e. g. Azo or Azu, his. 

Azydsb or Xykch^ their. 



524 


, APPEi^DIX' II,, 


In the same way attached pronouns are affixed to 
verbs: — 

€, ff, Sit-ayn, give (thou to) me^^ 

• Sit-ana, give (thou to) us., 

15. The demonstrative pronouns are: — 

Sing. Yi, this* 

/ Y&, that 

Plur. Yidsh, or yi acA, these. 

Y^'dsh, or ya'acA, those, 

* 

16. The interrogative pronouns are the following:— 

Mantd (isjto), 

Mintd ^hat ? 


17. The reciprocal pronoun is expressed in Hararl. as in 
Somali, by naf. Another common word is atte^ 

€. g. An atte harkho, I myself went, 

Akhdkh attekh hdrkhi, thou thyself wentest, 
Huwa attezo hdrj^ lie himself went. 

The Arabic word R^ih life or soul) is also used 
for self" in such phrases'as this: — 

Moliofljtio ruh-e, I smote myself. 



HABAKI XANGXJAGE. 


525 


OF VERBS. 

18 . The Harari verb, like the Somali, has only two tenses, 
a Past and a Present. The Future of the Indicative, as 
well as the Conditional and the Optative tenses, is formed 
by adding significant particles and the use of the substan¬ 
tive verb. The root is the 2nd person of the Imperative, 
and a Prohibitive is obtained by prefixing at (c^^), or 
by affixing rnekh. In the negative forms, the Harari is 
more artfully constructed than the Somali verb. 

19. The following are the two auxiliary verbs. 

Past Tense. 

(Affirmative Form.) 

Singular.' 1. I was. An narkbo ( 

2. Thou wast^ Akhdkh narkhi. 

3. He was^ Huwa ndrd. 

Plural. 1. We were^ Inyash ndrna. 

* 2. Ye were, Akhdkh^h narkhd 

3. They were^ Hiyydsh naru. 


(Negative Form.) 

. Sing. 1; I was noty An alndrkhdm 

2. Thou wast not^ Akhakh alndrkhim* 

3. He was noty Huwa alndrura. 



P/wn 1. fVie were not, Iwydsh alndmdm. 

2* Ve wer€ not, Akbdkhdsh aln^rkhiim* 
3. They were not, Hiyydsh alndrum. 


Present Tense, 

(Affirmative Form.) 

Singular^ Plurah 

^ /'O^v 

1. I am. An halko, 1. We are, Inyash halna 

2. TAowarf, AkhakhhalkhL 2. Ye ,, Akhdkhfish halkhtL 

He is,, Huwa hal ( J>). 3. They „ Hiyydsh halti. 


(Negative Form.) 

1. I am not, An elkhflm. 1. Iwydsh eln^m. 

2. Thou art not, Akbakh elkhim. 2. Akhdkbdsh elkbtim. 

3. He is not, Huwa elum. 3, Hiyyash elfim. 


Imperative. 

Singular Plural. 

2. Be thou, Hal (j^). 2. Be ye, Halkhd (j^ssU). 


The second auxiliary has the sense of to become, and 
corresponds with ''jirrah" of the Somal, who express 
am " by wd jogd, literally^ I stand.'* 



HABARl LANGUAGE. 


527 


Past Tense. 

Sing» 1. I became^ An iMni narkho. 

2. Thou becamesty Akhdkh tiAdni ndrkhi. 

3. He becamcy Huwa iMni nard. 

Plur^ 1. We becamoy l72ydsh niMni nSrnd. 

2. Ye becamcy Akhdkhdsh tikd.ni n^rkhti. 

3. They becamey Hiyy&h ik&m n^rti. 

Present Tense. 

Sing. 1. I becomey An iMnakh 

2. Thou becomesty Akhdkh tiMndkh. 

3. He becomes^ Huwa iMndl. 

Plur. 1. We becomey Iwydsh niMndnd (UbUj). 

2. Ye becomey Akhdkhash tiAdndkhu. 

3. They becomey Hiyydah iMndlu. 


Imperative. 

Singular. Plural. 

2. Become thouy Kdnm{j^^5). 2. Become ycy Kdnnu 


Prohibitive. 


Sing. 2. Become noty ikdnnimekh 




Plur. 2. Become not yCy ikdnnumekh 




528 


APPENDIX II. 


23. The following is a specimen of a verb regularly 
conjugated. 

Past Tense. 

(AflSrmative Form.) 

Sing. 1. I went. An letkho. 

2. Thou wentesty Akhdkh letkhi. 

3. He wenty Huwa leta 

Plur. 1. We went^ Iwydsh letna 

2. Ye wenty Akhdkhdsh letkhti. 

2. They wenty Hiyyash letfi. 

(Negative Form.) 

Sing. 1. I went noty An alletkhlim. 

2. Thou wentest noty Akhdkh alletkhiai. 

3. He went noty Huwa alletdm. 

Plur. 1. We went noty Iwy^sh alletnam. 

2. Ye went noty Akhakdsb alletkhdm. 

3, Th^ went noty Hiyydsh alletfim. 

r * 

Present Tense. 

\ 

(Affirmative Form.) 

Singular. Plural. 

Igoy An ilet^kh 1. Inydshniletdnd. 

2. Thou goesty Akhakh tiletinakh. 2. Akhdkhash tiletdkhd. 

3. He goes, Huwa yiletdl. 3. Hiyydsh yiletdlu. 



HARAHI LANOtTAOE, 


529 


(Negative Form.) 

Sing^ 1, I go not j An Iletumekh. 

2. Thou goest noty Akhdkh tiletumekh. 

3. He goes noty Huwa iletumel. 

P/wn 1. We go noty Iny&sHi niletumena. 

2 . Ye go noty Akbdkbdsh tiletumekbti* 

3. They go noty Hiyydsh iletumelti. 

As in tbe Somali tongue and in the Semitic dialects 
generally, the Present serves for a Future tense; I go," 
for I shall or will go." A definite future is formed ^n 
Harari by adding the substantive verb to a participial 
form of the verb required to express futurity \ e. g. . 

Sing. 1. I will goy An iletle halkho. 

2. Thou wilt goy Akhdhk tiletle halkhi. 

3. He will goy Huwa iletle hal 

Plur. 1. We will gOy Iwydsh niletle halna. 

2. Ye will gOy Akhdkhdsh tiletle halkhd. 

3. They will gOy Hiyydsh niletle halna. 

Imperative. 

Singular. Plural. 

2. Go thouy Let. 2. Go ye, Letti. 

M M 



530 


APPENDIX 11. 


Pkohibitivb. 

2. Go not thou, At let. 2. Go not ye, At letA 


Paeticiples. 

Going, Yiletdl (^ot going, Petumel. 
Gone, Itletle. 



HARARI LANGUAGE. 


531 


DIALOGUES AND SENTENCES. 

Art thou well? Amdnta khi? 

Are ye well ? Amdnta khu ? 

Madam (to elderly female). Abb^y. 

Sir. AbbA Yd Sayyidi. 

Are you well this morning ? Amda hadarkhd ? 

Are you well this evening ? Amdn wa'alkhu ? 

Good morning. Amdn be kero. 

Good night. Aman be hedero. 

I am well Aman mtand. 

I am unwell. Nattu Balband. 

What is the matter with you ? Min aganyekh ? 

Is your family well? Gar havvdzum amdnta khd? 

I am better. Orintdy. 

What news to-day ? Hdji min war hal ? 

Good news to-day. Amdn intd hdji. 

It is cooler to-day than yesterday. Tdjind be hdji baradtd. 
The air Is cold, Ddf bdrid intd. 

Come in and sit down. Nd tageb. 

What is thy name ? Sumkhd mintd ? 

Come here (to,woman). Lakambay. 

Dost thou drink coffee ? Bun tiseshdkhi ? 

I want milk. Hay ikhdshdkh. 

Is water to be had here ? Mi hali ye atdybe ? 

Una 



532 


APPENDIX II* 


Where goest thou ? Ayde tahurdkh ? 

I go to Harar. Gay uhurdkh. 

Send away the people. Walamosh yi uso'p. 

I love you. An wadad kh6sh. 

What is thine age ? .Kamikhd aygay sintd ? 

Don't laugh. Asehak* 

Kaise your legs. Igir hafdshu 
Don't go there. At bar yadde. 

This man is good. Yi abbd kordm iniL 
He is a great rascal. Huwa gidir hardmintd. 

I don't want you (woman). Ikhdshd shdmekh. 

Go from this. Let yibi>— Jehannam bar. 

Leave my house. Gdr«e be witd. 

Farewell I Allahu le amdnat! (literally, ^^In Allah's 
charge.") 

Allah pardon thee! Aufi ashkhukh! 

What is the price of this coffee ? Yi bun min betasimakh ? 
Five ashmfi* a bale. Ahad firasilah hamisti ashrafi. 
This is dear* Yi gdl intd. 

This is very cheap. Yi kannd rakhis intd. 

Give me bread. Sitmn dkhdt. 

I will beat thee. An imet akhdkh. 

I will not give. An istdmekh. 

I am hungry. Kdhdbenya. 

I am thirsty. Tararenya. 

I am tired. Ddldgenya. 

Where is thy house ? Aydenta gdrkhd ? 

* The Ashrafi is a nominal coin used in accounts: three of these 
compose a dollar. 



HARABI LANGUAGE. 


533 


I have much to do to-day. Htiji bajih habi halbayw. 

We are abqjat to travel. Safar nahurdn^. 

How large is Harar ? Gay aygay sint^ ? 

How far from this to Harar ? Yi atdy wd Gay aygay sintd ? 
How many people at Harar ? Gay uso'o aygay sintd ? 

Dost thou know him ? Akhakh toAakbi ? 

Dost thou know Arabic ? Arab, sindn toAakhi ? 

I don't know it. An tikumekh. 

Hold my horse. Faras lahadlayn. 

The price of this horse is a hundred dollars. Yi faras bakla 
kirshif yakdchd.1. 

There is. Hal. * 

What delayed you ? Min lahadekh ? 

Is this knife thine ? Yi mashdh dinatkhdnta ? 

How many horses hast thou? Misti farazdsh halakh? 

He killed him with a knife . Nifti bayn gadald. L , 

Open the door. Argabgi fitah. 

Shut the door. Argab^ igad. 

Fill my pipe. Gdyd mildlayn. 

Where is the book ? Beld kitdb ? 

It is in the box. Sanduk bayn hah 
What o'clock is it ? Min sd' anta ? 

It is one f.m. Zohr be ahad sa' ate hara. 

It is new moon. Warhe bakald. 

The sun is eclipsed. Khusdf khdna irr* 


? The Arabic hirsh (girsh, karsb, or garsh), probably derived from 
groschen,*' is used as well as riycH in the Somali country) and at 
Harar. 


K H 3 



534 


APPENDIX IX. 


SPECIMEN OF A SONG IN HARARL 

3vKAnA, bukdh4 wd tazkirat bukdhd.: 

Nabi baAale surure fankazebay. 

Alif kutub zal be diti wd im&nla tutur> 
Sabn saMtin tutdr. 

Hamistdyn zobe nabbi aziowin tutur. 
iNabbi gdrkho be, gdr kho zardrabe 
Jannat sbira be, nabbi afosba be 
Allah I ilahiyo, hurtay maMhiyo! 


Tbanslation. 

I weep, I weep, and I weep with (fond) remembrance, 
(Thinking of) the Prophet's mule (he sitting) beautiful 
upon her back. 

Alif-lam was written, faith and religion carrying. 

Patience and prayer carrying, 

(For the) fifth time the Prophet carrying. 

The Prophet from his ^ouse, from the enclosure of his 
house. 

To the midst of Paradise, the Prophet near— 

Allah I O my Allah! near him place us I 



HARARI LANGUAGE. 


535 


The names of the months are 

1. Ash6rd (meharram). 

2. Safarwarhe. 

{ including the two Kabla 

1 1 T ^ 

ana the two J amadi. 

7. Bajab. 

8. Shaab^n. 

9. Kamazdn. 

10. Shawwdl. 

11. Zulka'adah* 

12. Zulbijjah. 


Corn, holcus, and other grains are sold by this measure: 
9 Handfuls =1 Sugud 

5 Sugudasl Kt tdrad 

6 Tit tdrad=l Tdrad. 

The usual measures of length are r 

Zumzurti span, 

Kdrti cubit. 

The common weights are: 

Kuss Batli, the half pound. 

Katli, the pound. 

Nuss fardsilah, ten pounds. 

Fardsilah, the maund, 20 lbs. 


M M 4 



536 


APPENDIX 11, 


VOCABULARY.. 


N.B, In the following pages, A, denotes that the word is pure Arabic; 
A. c. corrupt Arabic; Amh. Amharic; S. Somali. The mark (?) shows 
that the word is uncertain. 


A. 


Abandon, v. 

- .GIfFarr (if). 

Abdomen 

- Karsi (A. c.). 

Abide - 

- Tageb. 

Abode - 

- .Gdr* 

Above - 


Absence 

- Zalaylkho (?> 

Abuse - 

" Masdab. 

Accumulate - 

- Sdmti. - 

Adulterer 

- Fdsik (A),^wl F&ikit 

Afraid - 

Pirate 

After - 

- Ehirr. 

Afternoon - 

• Asri. Asr (A.)* 



HARABI LANGUAGE. 537 


Age - 

- 

- 'Umri(A.). 

Air 

- 

- Ddf. 

Alive (well) 

- 

- 

All . 

- 

- Jammi. 

Also (thus) 

- 

- Azzoktit. 

Always 

- 

• Daime (A,). 

Amir's wife 

- 

- Gisti. 

Ancient 

- 

- IX&g&ffem. Ragit. 

Angel - 

- 

- Maldikah (A.). 

Anger, a. 

- 

- Ghazab (A*). 

Angry - 

- 

- Ghazbdn (A,). 

Another 

- 

- ^vO')- 

Answer 

- 

- Jawdb (A,). 

Ant (black) 

- 

Chtich. 

„ (white) 

- 

- Kaywhtir. 

Arise, V. 

- 

- Halfbal. 

Arm • 

- 


Arm-pit 

- 

- Kilkildt. 

Army - 

- 

- Mdkhed^ Askar(A-), Amfr 

Askar, the Amir's army. 

Arrow - 

- 

- 

Artificer 


- S^igh (A. esp. ''goldsmith"). 

Ash (ashes) 

- 

- Hamad, j?/. Hamaddsh. 

Ask 

- 

- Athebri (?). 

Asleep 


« Manyit. 

Ass 

- 

- Wajayrfi., 

Ate {preL) 

- 

•* Bal^ 

At once 

- 

- Ahad sd'ah (A.)." 



638 V appendix !!• 

Aunt (maternal) • Ikhist^ 

„ (paternal) • Annd (ul)- 
Avaricious - - Bakhil. 

Awake - - Haf bak 

Away 1 (begone I) - Let! 

Axe - - Kalkd^ pL Kalkdsh. 


B. 


Back - 

- niohi. 

Bad - 

- Yegasst 

Bag - 

- KIs (A.). 

Baggage 

- Mahawi. 

Baker - 

- Ukh^t- Zdli (fern, as only women 


'sell bread). 

Ball (bullet) 

- Bas^ (-A..)* 

Band - 

- ^ Ndzi (the black Aatin- ribbon worn 


by women round the head to 
fasten the fillet which contains 
the hair). 


Band - - - Nagdrat (the Amir's , kettle-drums, 

beaten at the hour of night pray- 
drs, as tocsin in times of danger, 
at the two festivals, and when¬ 
ever the Prince leaves the palace. 

Barren (women) - 2at wilat, Goblan. 

Barter - - Mandwat. 

Base - • - Yegassi. 



HABARI LANGUAGE. 


639 


Basket - - MuddL 

Bath, 5. - - Sagarfi (prop, a privy). 

Bathe - - Hdteb. 

Battle - - G^dal. 

Bazaar - - Magdlah. 

Beard - Daban. 

Beat (kill) - - Mahat. 

Beautiful - * ^oram. -Kbr-zdlahj^Wn. ^orzali. 

Bed - - Firdsh (A.). 

Bedstead - - Ddfdn. 

Bee - - - Nijjdt^ Akds (?). 

Beef - • • Ldm Basar. 

Beer (boozah) - Gohay. (Dakhbi is beer mixed 

with mead.) 

Before . - - AyAad (jJbl). In early part of/* 

Nadi 

Beggar « - Sakadad-bdy (A. c. 

Behind - - Ehirr. 

Behold, V. - - Hayj. 

Belly. - - Kars (A. a). 

Below (beneath)' - Tahdy 
Bet - - - Shart (A.). 

Beyond (outside) - Kdchi. 

Bile - - - Safrd (A.). 

Bird . • . Uf, plur. XJfdsh. 

Bitch - - « Bushit (Bushshit). 

Bitter • • • Marri ^A. 

Black • * « rdy. 



540 


APPENDIX II. 

Blacksmith • 

- 

Tumtu. 

Bllnd^ adj, - . 

* 

In-zalayM,y*^. In-zalaylit. 

Blood 

- 

Dam (A.). 

Blood-money 

- 

Diyah (A). 

Blunt^ adj. - 

- 

Dumdum, bdrid (A.). ^ 

Boat • 

- 

Za'imah (A,). 

Body - 


Kim (A. c. Xo\j). 

Bone - 

- 

A^ (cbl )• 

Book - 


Kitdb. 

Bottle - 

- 

Kirdrat (A. c.). . 

Bow - 

- 

Digdu, 

Box 

- 

Sdtdn (?) 

Boy (son) 

- 

I^ijjay- - 

Bracelet (ivory) 

- 

Aj (A,). 

„ (man's) 

— 

Mdl dij& (the pewter armlet of 
Galla chief). 

„ (woman 


Sh^nkhdyt. 

Brain - 

- 

HanguZ/4. 

Bran (chaff) 

- 

Hanshar. 

Brave - 

- 

Gisi (S.), ishullo (?). 

Bread - 

- 

'Ukh^tl 

Break 

- 

Sibarr. 

Breast (girl's) 

- 

Kuitn4. 

^Breeches 

- 

Gann^fi, JSTanndfi (?)• 

Bride - 

A 

Ardzit (A. c.). 

Bridegroom - 

- 

Artiz (A. c.).' 

Bring - 

- 

Adej. 



HAKABI LANGUAGE. 


541 


Broadcloth - 

- 

J6A -A.r. Jokh), 

Broken 

- 

Dalldl (A,). 

Brothers 

- 

-A* c»^» 

Bug - 

- 

Tukhdn (A. c.). 

Bull - 


Bard. 

Bum, V. imp. 

- 

MagdL 

Burnt 

- 

Magad. 

But 

- 

Ldkin (A.). 

Butcher 

- 

Suwiyyd (A.). 

Buttocks 

- 

Fuddi (S.> 

Buy - 

- 

I^hab 

Buying and selling 

Mokhab. 

By all means 

- 

Ld budd (A.). 

By fmr means 

- 

Amdn be. 

By foul means 

- 

Yegassi be. 



c. 

Calf, w. 

- Bahas. 

Carpenter - 

- Najjar (A.). 

Carpet 

- Firdsh (A.). Prayer-carpet, Sljjdjah 


(A. c.).. ^ 

Camel - 

- Qamaylah (A. c.), fern. Gamaylit. 

Cannon 

Madfd (A.). 

Cat - 

- Adurru, Adan (?). 

Cathedral 

. J&mi(A.). 



542 

APPENDIX II. 

Cattle - •• • 

Diuat. 

Certainly 

Dirkhi(S.). 

Chain 

Silsilah (A.). 

Change (barter) - 

Man^wat. 

Charcoal 

Kasai. 

Charm (talisman) 

Kirt& (A.). 

Cheap - - - 

Rakhis (A.). 

Child - 

Waldi (A. c.), pi Wilddsh. 

Cinnamon - 

Korf4 (A. c.). 

Circumcision 

Absum. 

• 

Citron - - • 

Turungd (A. c.). 

City - - - 

Mag^Iah. 

Clarified butter - 

Nazif(A.). 

Clay - - - 


Clean - 

. Muk ishish. • 

Climb, t?. « 

Isal. 

Cloth (man's ^^tobe") Irds, ph irdzdsh. 

„ (woman's) - 

Gtiltxbdy (worn out of doors over 
the head). ** Ldy morad " is that 
thrown over the shoulders. 

Cloth (man's shirt) 

Gidir kamis. 

Clouds 

Danah. 

Clove - - - 

Korutiful (A.). 

Club . 

Gidir barti. 

Coal (live) - 

GiA. ' 

Cofiee - 

Bun (A.). ^^ATutti'^ is the decoc¬ 
tion of the leaf drunk by the 
Hararis. 

Cold (catarrh) 

Hargab. 



HARABI LANGUAaE. 


543 


Cold, adj. • - Birdi (A. c.)* 

Colour - - Jin8i (A, c.)» 

Comb - - - nid (S. firin). 

Cornel - - Ndl 

Containing (doing) — ZdM, 

Cook (man) - - Dirig-zdld, Leli (?). 

„ (woman) - Dirig-z^li, Eabdbah-zdlt 

Cooked - Khfoah. 

Cooking-pot (earthen) Makdto. 


Copper 

- 

Nihas (A.). 

Coral - - 

- 

Murjain (A. c.). 

Corpse 

- 

Jandis (A. c.)» 

Corn - 


Ays (A. €• ?) 

„ Indian 

- 

Arab ikhi, lit. Arab holcus. 

Corn (Indian roasted) Arab ikhi tinkd. 

Cotton 

- 


Cough 

- 

t!h y). 

Court-yard - 

- 

Katam ban* 

'Cousin (female) 

- 

Zer kahat* 

„ (male) 

- 

Zer«waldi, pi. Zer walddsh. 

Cow - 


Ii£m« 

,, (milch) - 

m 

Hdy-zdli. 

Coward 

- 

Wahaylo,yWn. Wahaylit. 

Creeper 


Tdj (so called when worn by men 
upon their turbans and women 
upon their fillets). 

Crepitus 

- 

Fas (A.). 

Crooked 


Wanddll^ 



APPENDIX II. 


"544 

Crow - 
Cubit - 
Cultivation - 
Cultivator • 

Cummin seed 
Cup - 
Cupping-hom 

Cut 

Cuts (in cheek) 


Dagger 
Daily 
Dance - 
Danger (fright) 
Darkness 
Date (th6 fruit) 


Daughter 
Day 
To-day 
Yesterday - 
Third day ago 


- Kurr^ 

Kflrd. 

Zard (A.). 

Argat^ (opposed to Galld," a No¬ 
mad). 

Kamtin (A.). 

Geb. 

Mahgdt (Mahgdt-in^ is the opera¬ 
tor). 

KqcJi» 

MaAdad (beauty-marks). 


D. 

Shotal. 

- Jammi ydmtim. 

- FaAarr. 

- Firit. 

- Jilmah (A. c.). 

- Timir (A. c.). ^^Bami" is the 

Muscat date; *^Sehdri" the small 
black date; Farad" the large 
and juicy red variety. 

- Kahat. 

- Ma'altd. 

. Hfijt 

- TajenS. 

- Sestind. 



HABAEI LANGUAGE. 54« ' 


Fourth day ago 

Kdtind. 

Day after to-morrow Sestd. 

Third day hence - 

Ba'atd. 

Fourth day hence - 

Zirabe'itd (?). 

Fifth day hence 

Zi^urkusta (?). 

Dead (man) - 

Jan^is (A. c,); Mayyit (A.). 

Deaf (man) - 

Uzn-zalayld. 

„ (woman) 

Uzn-zalaylit, 

Deaf and dumb 

Dudab, fern. Dudit; it also means 
idiotic. 

Dear,^t(f- 

Ghdli(A.); Kimahtabig. 

- Death - - - 

Maut (A.). 

Debt - - 

Mugot. 

Deer - 

Waydali. 

Delay - - 

Kaldh 

Denial - - - 

Nakir(A.); Hdshd (A.). 

Deponent (witness) 

E4ga, 

Deposit 

Amdnat (A.). 

Descend, v; 

Wirad (?). 

Descent 

Maurad. 

Desert, 5, • - 

Udmd bdd. * 

Desert, adj, - 

Udmd (generally applied to land 

. 

without trees). 

Deserving - 

W^jib (A.). 

Desire* (want) 

Fdj. 

Devil (Satan) 

Iblis(A.); Shaytan(A.> 

Devil (sand-storm) - 

Duf. 

Die (dice) - 

Lafo (S.). 


N N 



546 

APPENDIX II. ' 

Difficult 

Tabfg. 

Dig - 

Hifarr. (A. c.); Khirr (?). 

Dirt - - - 

Wasakh (A.). 

Discharge (release) 

Gifarr. 

Disease 

Mattu. 

„ (venereal) - 

Jabtti (S. Jabti). 

Dish - - - 

Sehni (A. c.). 

Dish-cover - 

Mot; mo'ot (generally made of 


plaited straw). 

Distant 

E-uAuA 

Ditch (pit) - 

Chayr. 

Doer(w 2 a^c. or fern.) 

Indi (?). 

Dog - 

Bushshi. 

Dollar - . - 

ATarshi (Ar. ATirsh). 

Door - - - 

Gebti. 

Doubt - - r 

Shakk (A.). 

Doubtful 

ShakanyS (A. c.). 

Dream - 

BIrzdz. 

Dress - - - 

Libdsh^ (A. c.); Irdzash. 

Dried - ' - 

DaraAa. 

Drink, v. - - 

Sich. 

Drinkables - 

Mashjd. 

Drug - - - 

Dawa (A.). 

Drum - - - 

Karabd. 

Drummer 

Karabd-zdld. 

Drunk (intoxicated) 

Sakhrd (A. c.). 

Dry, u. - - 

DaraA; Darag. ' 

Dumb, masc» - 

Jabakd; arrat-zalayld. 

„ fern. - 

Jabakiti aiyat-zalaylit. 



HARAKI LANGUAGE. 


647 


Dust - 

- Sfsd (Sesd S.). 

Dwarf, masc. 

- Hajayr. 

„ fern. - 

- Hajayrlt. 


/ 


E. 

Each »^ 

- 

Ahad(A, c.). 

Ear 

- 

Uzn, Uzun (A. c.). 

Ear-ring 

- 

Faror. 

Earth - 

- 

Dashi (Tashshi ?). 

East 

- 

Irrtflj. 

Easy - 

- 

Yasir (A.> 

Eat! V. 

- 

Bill 

Eatables 


Mabll Eatables and drinkables, 

mabld mashjl 

Egg - 

- 

uw. y). 

Eight - 

- 

Sot. 

Eighth - 

- 

Sotkhl 

Eighty - 

- 

Sot assir. 

Elder, eldest - 

- 

Gidirr. 

Elephant 

- 

Dukhun. 

Eleven - 

- 

Assir ahad. 

Eloquent 

- 

Tihayn. 

Employment - 

- 

HabL 

Empty - 

- 

Abf. 

End I (finish!) 

- 

Thbosh. 

Ended - 

- 

Tkbayyd. 

Enemy 

a 

Dinl 


N H 2 



548 


APPENDIX II. 


Enough 
Envy - 
Envious 
Escape - 
Eunuch 
Evening 
Every - 
Everything 
Evidence 
Exchange 
Expense 
Eye - 
Eyelash • 


Face - 
Faeces - 
Faith (religion) 
Fall, V. 

False - 
Fame - 
Fan (fly-flapper) - 
Far - ~ - 

Farewell 1 ' - 
Farmer • 

Fast, adv. 

Fast,- 


Hidak. Yokdl. 

Husud (A.). 

Hasid (A. c.). 

Sik. 

Koch, Tow&h (A.). 
Mash^ (A*)- 
Jammi (A. c.). 

Jammi Shiytin (A. c.). 

Kdg^. 

Mandwat. 

Farzi. 

In (A. c.). 

In chigarr 

F. 

Fit. 

Gaf: Kaf(S.> 

Dm (A.). 

WidaA , 

Ejzb4«yd. 

Ndmt^s (A.), 

Zimbi Marwahah (A.). 
Ruhug. 

Am£n! (A.) 

Harrdsh. 

Fitan. 

Soman (A. c.). 



habAri language. 549 


Fat (strong) - 

¦ - 

Jabdbir (A, c.); Aassd (S.) Wadal. 

Fate ^ " 

- 

Ayydm (A.)* 

Father - 

- 

Awa. 

Fault - 

- 

Ghalat (A.). 

Fearl u. 

- 

Fir. 

Fearful 

- 

Firat. 

Feather 

- 

Bdiii (s. Bay 

Feet - 

- 

Ingirdsh. PL of IngiiT. 

Female 

- 

Inisti (A. c, ?). 

Fetch - 

- 

Adej. 

Fetters 

- 

Ingir birat. 

Fever - 

- 

Wiyi nattd. 

Few - - 

- 

Tinne'o- 

Fillet (for woman's 


hair) 

- 

Gdftd. 

Finger 

- 

Afeibinyd. PL A^dbiwy4sh. 

Fire 

- 

Isdd. 

Fire-wood - 

- 

Mamdgad. 

First - 

- 

Ahadkhd. 

Fish - 

- 

Tdlam, 

Fist 

- 

Dubuj. 

Five - 

- 

HamistL 

Fifth - 

- 

Hamistikhd. 

Fifty - 

- 

Hamisti assir. 

Flag - 

- 

Alan (A. c. and S.). 

Flea - * 

- 

Kundj ; Takfi (?); injir bodo (S.). 

Flesh - 

. - 

Basar. 

Fly -¦ - 

- 

Zimbi (A. c.). - 

Fodder 

• 

Sa'ar. 


N K 3 



650 


APPENDIX 11* 

Food - 


Mabl& 

Fool ^ 

- 

JIndm (A. c.). 

Foot (leg) - 

- 

Inglr. 

Footstep 

- 

Hardd. 

Force - 


mh (A. cO. 

By force 

- 

Yegassi be. 

Forehead 

- 

Frit. 

Fort - 

- 

Khlai g&r ;* darbi-g^. 

Forty - 

- 

Arbain (A.). 

Foul (Impure) 

- 

Najis (A.), 

Four - 

- 

Harad; harat. 

Fourth 

- 

Haratkhd. 

Fowl - 

- 

Atdwfig, fern, at^w^gitL 

Friend 

- 

Rafik (A.); marren (?).. 

Frog - 


Ankurdrati. 

From - ' - 


Be; bay* 

FuU . 

- 

Mullu (?). 



G. 

Gall (bile) - 


SaM (A*)* 

Game - 


DabSl (esp. the Laab el Khayl). 

Gambler 

- 

Kammfir (A.). 

Garden 


. Harshi. 

Gardener ^ - 


Harshi-wandag. 

Garllo - 

- 

Tummd (A* o.); tonl(S.). 

Gate - 

- 

B4ri (A.> 

Gate-keeper - 

- 

Bdri-goltd. 

Gather, v. 

- 

Samti. 



HAKARI LANOUiLGE. 


551 


Gazelle 
Generous 
Generosity - 
Get up 1 r. - 
Gift - 
Ginger 
Giraffe 

Girl (marriageable) 
„ (aged) - 
Puella suta - 

„ aperta 
Girl (slave) - 
Girl . 

Give, r, - - 

Glad - - - 

Glass (cup) - 
„ (looking) - 
„ (bottle, black) 
„ (red) - 
Glory - - - 

Glue (gum) - 
Go 1 1 ?. - 
Gone (j>ret) • 

Let go I 
Goat (he) 

„ (she) - 
God - . - 


Sagdro (S.). 

Sakhi (A.). 

Sakhdwat (A.). 

Hafbal. 

HadIy^h(A.); mastd(?). 

ZanjabilL 

Girhl (S.). 

Wahashi. PI, Wahashi'Sch. 

Gidir Wahashi. 

Duffun WahasW (sicut est mos 
Somalorum et nationis Gallse). 
Kufut Wahashi. 

Wasifit; Amharet. 

Kahat. 

Sit (S.> 

Tass ; tasstass. 

Kds (A.). 

Murd'it (A. c,). 

Kirarat Tay. * 

^ayA 

Ndmds (A.) 

Mukdt. 

Let (to a woman, Lechi). 

Let&. 

Hidak; Gifarr. 

Kurmd.. 

Dau. 

Goitd. N.B.—The Argobbas call 
the Supreme Being " Gaeto," the 

K K 4 




562 APPENDIX ID 


Gallas "Goite" or and 

the Somal Aybah 


Gold . 

- 

ZikeA (A. c.). 

Goods - 

- 

Mahdw^ 

Good - 

- 

Abr^m.- 

Good news - 

- 

War am^n* 

Governor 

- 

Nag&hi 

Grandfather - 

- 


Grandmother 

- 

Ummd, 

Grape - 

- 

Anab (A,). 

Grass - 

- 

Sa'ar. 

Grass-cutter (sickle) 

Zdhabi. 

Gratis - 

- 

Bil^h (A.). 

Grave - 

- 

Kabri (A.); Plur. Kabr&L 

Grave (saint^s) 

- 

Awash Kabri. 

Gravel 

- 

Un. 

Great, - 

- 

Gidir. 

Greatest 

- 

Jammi be Gadri. 

Green - 

- 

Ddipa: fern, D^mit* Akhzar (A.) 

Groom - 

- 

Zdhabi. 

Ground 

- 

Tashshi (?)» 

Ground (sloping) 

- 

Goband. 

Guest - 


Nugda. 

Guide - 

- 

tjga ytikzalinta (?). 

Guinea fowl - 

- 

Zikra, 

Gum - 

- 

Mukatt ^ 

Gun 

- 

Nifti. 

Gunpowder - 

- 

Bdriid (A, c.) 



HABAEI LANGUAGE. 


H. 


Habitation 

- 

- 

Gdr. 

Hall, s. 

- 

- 

Un ZInab. 

Hail, V. 

- 

- 

Amdn bidichkhd. 

Hair - 

- 

- 

Chigar. 

Hair (pecten) 

- 

FocA chigar. 

Hair-pin (woman's) 

FO^ 

Half . 

- 

- 

Nuss (A. c.): Kem. 

Hammer 

- 

- 

Madosh^; Buruj (?). 

Hand - 

- 

- 

Iji. 

Handful 

- 

- 

Mahfass; Antobo (S.). 

Handwriting- 

- 

Kitab. 

Hang (tie. 

V.) 

- 

Igad; Bala^ya (?). 

Harbour 

- 

- 

Marsd (A.). 

Hare - 

- 

- 

Askoki; Bakhayld (S.), 

Harlot - 

- 

- 

Gubnd. 

Haste 1 - 

- 

- 

Fitan. 

Hatchet 

- 

- 

KalkS. 

Hay 

- 

- 

Sa'ar. 

Head - 

- 

- 

Urus (A* c.). 

Health - 

- 


Afet (A. c.). 

Hear - 

- 

- 

Simd (A. c.). 

Heart - 

- 

- 

TT^azanah. 

Heavy - 

- 

- 

Razin (A.). 

He - 

- 

• 

Huwa. 

Heel - 

- 

- 

K6b (A. c.). 



554 


APPENDIX II. 

Heir - 

• 

Yurs Zdlintd. (The Arabic word 



Mirds'^ is used for a legacy. 

Hell, - 

- 

Azdb (A.); Jahanam (A.). 

Here - 

- 

Idday. Here I am," Labbay (A.). 

High (tall, long) 

- 

Gidorr. 

Hill, s. 

- 

Sart 

His - 

• 

Zo or So. 

Ho! - 

- 

YdhdCS.); Akhdkhyd. 

Hog - - 

- 

Hariyyd. 

Holcua Sorghum 

- 

Ikhi. 

Hole - 

- 

Gadd. 

Holloa I 

- 

Akhdkh yd. 

Honey 

- 

'Dds. 

Hoof - - - 


Ingir. 

Horn (beast's) 

- 

Aarr (A. c.). 

„ (cupping) 

• 

Mahgdt. 

Horse - 

- 

Faras (in Ar. a mare; in Som. a 



horse). 

Hot 

- 

WiyL 

House - 

- 


„ (thatched) 

- 

Sa'at gdr; Gambisa. 

„ (stone) 

- 

Darbi gdr. 

How much? - 

- 

Misti ? 

Humble 

- 

Miskin (A.). 

Hundred 

- 

Bakld. 

Hunger 

- 

Abdr. 

Hungry 

- 

Bahab. 

Husband 

- 

Abosh. 

Hut 

- 

Wantaf gdr (the Bedouin's mat tents. 


called by the Somal, Gurgi). 



HARABI liANOUAOE, 


^55 

L 

I, pers. pron* An. 

Ice - - Ml darak. 

Idle (useless) - - Mabldl. 

If^. - - - Girr(?). 

Ignorant - - Jdhil (A.) ; Wij (the latter gene¬ 

rally means young "). 

Immense - - Bajih. 

Immerse, v. « - Esbi. 

Immediately - - Pitan. 

In - - - Bayn (A^ ?). i 

In that place • Yadday. 

Infirm - - GofdL 

Inform, w. - - Warosh; 

Information - - War (Amh.). 

Injury - - - Khasdrd (A.). 

Ink - * - Maddi (A. o. from 0 

Inkstand - - Dibet (A.j;}.). 

Inquire, v. ^ - Athebri (?). 

Inside - - TJstd. 

Instead - - Mandwat; Tandwat. 

Intelligent - - A'kil (A.). 

Inter, r. - - Aibarr. 

Interest (usury) - Ribdh (A). 

Intestines (lower) - MaracAi. 

,, (higher) - Kars (A. Q.). 

Intoxication - - Kayf (A.). 



556 


APPENDIX II* 


Intoxicating articles Khamri (A.). 
Iron w • - BIrat (S. bir.). 

Itch, - - Wi'ir. 

Ivory - • - Aj; dukhun-sin. 


J. 


Jackal - - - 

Jail • - - 

Javelin 

Jewel - - - 

Joke - - T 

Joker - - - 

Journey 

„ (by day) - 

„ (by night) 

Jowari (holcus) 

„ (straw) 

Joy - - - 

Judge - - - 

Jump, r. - - 

Just - - - 

Juvenile 


V. 

Aizagadd (S. idagald, burrowing 
below ground"). 

Hasbi (A. c.). 

Waram (S.). 

Jauhar (A.). 

CAarr^Aah 

FdhdcA. 

Safar (A.). 

Hdji Safar* 

Mishayt Safar* 

IkhL 

Aarah* 

Farhah (A.); Tast. 

Fikih (A.); Kazi (A.). 

Shafbal. 

A'dil. • 
i)armd. 


Kat-plant - Jat. 

- Kettle - • - Disdi (A. c.); MaAatu. 



HARARI - LANGUAGE. 


557 


Key - 

- 

- 

Miftah (A.); MifchSh (A. c.). 

Kick, V. 

- 

- 

Kigat. 

Kidney 

- 

- 

Kuldy (A. c.). 

KIU - 

- 

- 

Gidal 

Kiss, V. 

- 

- 

MaA (as among the Somal it is dis¬ 
liked). 

Kitchen 

- 

- 

Awelddd. 

Kite (bird) 

- 

- 

TilH. 

Knee - 

- 

- 

Gilib. 

Knife - 

- 

- 

MashdA. 

Knot - 

- 

- 

JEuturr. 

Know - 

- 

- 

ija: 

Knowledge 

- 

- 

Ilm (A). 

Koosoo- 


¦ - 

Sdti (the well-known vermiAige, 


called Hedo by the Somal). 


L. 


Labour 

- Ta^ab (A.). 

Lake (colour) 

- AayA 

Lame - . - 

- Ingir zalayld. 

Lamp - 

- Makhtdt, 

Landlord 

- Gdr-zald* 

Lane - 

- Kachin dga. 

Language 

- Sindn. 

Large - 

- Gidir. 

Lass • * • 

- Kahat. 

Laughter 

- SaAaA (j;^ A. c.); Mashak (?). 

Law 

- Shariah (A.), 



558 


APPENDIX ID 

Lazy 

- 

Mabl6l 

Lead - 

- 

Kisds* 

Leaf - 

- 

WaraA (A.)Kutti, 

Leak (hole) - 

- 

Nuddl. 

Lean - 

- 

Gofdy. 

Learning, - 

- 

Ilm (A,> 

Learned (man) 

- 

^Kabir(A.); Shaykh (A.> 

Least - 

- 

Jammi be angdh 

Leather (hide) 

- 

Gog^ 

Leech - 

- 

Aykti uU'51 (S.). 

Left - 

* 

Gurd . (Gragnay Amh, Guray S. 
left-handed "). 

Left hand 

- 

Gurd, igi. 

Leg - 

- 

Ingir. 

Lend, r# 


LikcA 

Leopard 

- 

Gargord. 

Less y- 

- 

AnsdI. 

Liar 

- 

Kizbawyd. 

Lie - 

- 

Kiz (A. c.). 

Light, adj. - 

- 

Khafif (A.) TKafif (A. c.). 

Lightning 

- 

BirjA (A. c.); 3irig. 

Like - 

- 

Kut (yi kut, " like this*" Azzokut, 



^ " like unto him"). 

Lime (fruit) - 

• 

^arbissi. 

Lime (cement) 

- 

Ndrat (A.). 

Lion - 

- 

Wandg. 

Lips - 


Lafl^ 

Listen, r. 

- 

Simd. 

1 

1 

- 

Tit ' 



HABARI LANGUAGE, 


559 


Liver - - - 

Living - - ' - 

Lol. - 

Load • - - 

Locust 

Look, V, - - 

Loose (open), v. - 
Loss - - - 

Lose (the way, &c.) 
Love - - - 

In love (man) 

In love (woman) - 
Louse - - ^ 

Low, adj. 


Mad - 
Mad-dog 
Madam 
Magic - 
Magician 
Maid servant 
Main mast - 
Make, V. 
Malady 
Male - 
Malice - 
Man - 


Kdt* 

Udi 

Haych. 

Td'an. 

KaQor. 

Haych. 

Fitah ^ Matmas. 
Khasd.rd (A.); Kobul 
(IJga) JTabad. 

Ishki (A.). 

Abosh ^shakd. 

Indosh dshaktL 
Kfimdy (A. c. ?). 
Hdchir. 

M. 

Jindm. 

Jindm bushi. 

Abbdy. 

Fold (S.). 

Fala*zdIA 

Gdfit. 

Gidir dagal. 

tsh. 

Nattfi. 

Abosh. 

Dinah* 

Abosh. 



560 


APPENDIX II, 


Many - - - BajiA 

Many times - - gir. 

March, - Malayt. 

Mare - - - Inisti faras. 

Mariner - - Bahri (A.). 

Mark, - Astd. 

Market place - Magdlah. 

Marriage - - Mans^L 

Marriage-portion - Mehr (A,). 

Married (man) - Mishti-hdld, 

„ (woman) - Abosh-hdli. 

Master - - Mari«. 

Mat - - - Saylan, 

Match (gun's) - Nifti fatilat. 

Mead - - - Taj. 

Meal (ground corn) Ays fichah. 

Measure - - Sifar. 

Meat - - - Basar. 

Merchant - - Bd'u: tdjir. 

Message - - Lo'okh. 

Middle - - Gu(ti; ustd(?): in the middle, gutti 

bayn. 

Milk . - - Hdy. 

Milk-pot - - Kadddah. 

Milk-pot cover - Offd. 

Minaret - - Khutbd. 

Mine (it is) - An zdd intd. 

Misery - - Masibah (A. c.). 

Model - - - Ayinah (A.). 



HABAltl LANGUAGE. 


561 


Money 

Monkey 
Month 
Moon - 
In the morning 
Mortar 

I 

Mortgage 
Mosquito 
Mother 
Mould (earth) 
Mountain 
Mouse - 
Mouth - 
Mud . 

Mule - 

Murder 

Murderer 

Murdered 

Musjid (mosque) 

Musk 


Mustachio 
My . 
Myrrh - 


Mahallak (a brass coin current at 
Harar).^ 

Z%arti. 

Warhay. 

Charakd. 

Subhi (A.). 

Mokaj (the pestle is called ^'Ka^ 

balld"). ' 

Bahan (A.); LuAut. 

Bimbi. 

A'e. 

Afar. 

Sari 

Ftir(A. c.). 

Afe (Amh. S.). 

Chebd. 

' BagAl. 

Motd. 

Igadli-zdl; Gaddy (?). 

Gidald, 

Masgxt. 

Misk (A). Zabdd (A. civet, gene¬ 
rally confounded by Orientals with 
musk). 

Shdrib (A.). 

—e. 

Karabi 


o o 



562 


APPENDIX II. 


Nail - 
Nail (hand) - 
Naked - 
Name - 
Narrow 
Nasty - 
Navel 
Near - 
Necessary (it is) 
Necessity 
Neck - 
Necklace 
Needle - 
Needy - 
Negro " 
Neighbour - 
Nest " 

Never - 
Never mind - 
New - 
News - 
Night - 
By night . - 

Nine - 
Ninth - 
Ninety - 


N. 

Mismdr (A.). 
Tlfir (A. c.). 
Kofh. • 

Sum (A. c.). 
Chinki, 

Yegassu 

Hamburtu 

ATurrd. 

YakhdnSL 
Hdjah (A.). 
Angat. 

Shanddd. 

Morfi. 

Fu^rA 

Gm. 

Afoshd. 

Uf gdr. 

Abadan (A,). 
Ahadum ayla. 
Pajis^ 

War (S.> 

Artd. 

Mushayt. 

Sehtan; Zehtdyn* 
Sehtan khL 
Sehtan d. 



HABABI LANGUAGE. 


563 


Nipple (man's) 

,, (woman's) - 
No 1 - 

Nobody (there is) - 
Nonsense 

»North - - - 

Nose - - - 

Nostril - - - 

There is nothing - 
Now - - - 

Number 


T<yt 

Kunnd. 

May I 

Uso'o ayldm. 

Kishn£. 

Jdh(A.); Kiblah(A.). 
IJf. 

Uf nuduL 
Ayltim. 

AkhkhA 

Helkt 


O. 


Oath - 

- 


Tirayt. 

Ocean - 

- 

- 

Bahr (A.). 

Oil - 

- 

- 

Salayt (A.). 

Old - 

- 

- 

E;dgd,/m. Rdgit. 

Omen - 

- 

- 

Fdl(A.). 

On (upon) 

- 

- 

Ld'ay. 

Once - 

- 

• 

. Ahad mutti; Ahad gir. 

At once 

- 

- 

Fitan. 

One 

- 

- 

Ahad. 

One third 

- 

- 

Shishti-sdm (a. 

One-armed 

- 

- 

\ 

Ahad iji zalaylA 

One-eyed 

- 

- 

Ahad in zalaylA 

One-legged 

- 

- 

Ahad ingir zalaylA 

Onion - 

- 

- 

SHunkortA 

Open, V. 

- 

- 

Fitah. 


o o 2 



564 APPENDIX II. 


Opened 

- • 

- 

Futoh. 

Oppressor 

- 

- 

Zdlim (A.). 

Oppression 

- 

- 

Zulmi (A. c.). 

Or 

- 

- 

Walau (?). AlnmS (A.). 

Order - 

- 

- 

Amr (A,). 

Orphan 

- 

- 

Yetiai(A.); zalayla,^ mother¬ 

less ; ^^dwa zalayld," fatherless. 

0>atrich 

- 

- 

Gurdyyd (S.). 

Our 

- 

- 

Ziwya. 

Outside 

- 

. - 

Mantd. 

Owner - 

- 

- 

Zi6\6^fem, Z&\\ 

Ox - 

.. 

• 

Bdra. 



R 

Pace - 

« Malaytfi. 

Pair 

- Kut; Ko'ot. 

Palace - 

- Nag^hi g4r. 

Palm (hand's) 

- Kafi'i (A. c.> 

Paper - 

- Talhayyd. 

Paranaour 

- Gazan. 

Partner 

- Shank (A.). 

Pass, r. 

- Let • 

Path - 

- Kachin uga. 

Pauper 

- Zaygd. 

Pawn - 

- Rahan (A.). 

Peace - 

- Amdn (A.). 

Pearl - 

. Ltil(A.). 

Pen 

~ jfiTalara (A.)* 



HABARI LANGTJAGB, 


565 


Penis - 

- 

Gantir. 


Pepper (black) 

- 

Arab barbari. 


„ (red) 

- 

Barbari. 


People 

- 

Uso 'o. 


Perform, v, - 

- 

Osh. 


' Perspiration « 

- 

WizL 


Pestle - 

- 

Kaballa. 


!]^iece - 

- 

Koch (?). 


Pig - 

- 

Hariyyd; KarkarrtL 

Pigeon 

- 

Hamimi (A. c.). 


Pillow 

- 

Makhaddd (A.). 


Pimple 

- 

Kim* 


Pin ^ - 

- 

Pild. 


Pinch, V, 

- 

Kontd. 


Pipe (smoking) 

- 

Gdyd (the-Indian 

" Gurguri "). 

„ tube 

- 

Bnk. 


Pistol - 

- 

Tinneo NaftL 


Pit (cesspool) 

- 

Gadu. 


Pity - 

- 

Eahmah (A.)« 


Place - 


Attm. 


Plain - 

- 

Didd. 


Plantain 

- 

Mauz (A.). 


Plate (for bakin 
bread) 

S 

jfiTib^bah (A a); 

mah (?> 

Platter (wooden) 

- 

Gabatd. 

• 

Plough 

- 

Willita; Mahras (A.). 

Plunder 

- 

Mahmat. 


Pocket 

- 

Kis (A.). 

' 

Poetry 

- 

FaAarr. 



0 0 3 



566 

Poison 
Poisoned 
Pomegranate 
Ponderous - 
Possible (it is) 

Pot (earthen) 
Pot-bellied - 
Pound (weight) - 
Pox - - - 

Pretence 
Pregnant 

Price - - - 

Pride - - - 

Priest - - - 

Prison 
Prisoner 

Privy - - - 

Procurable - 
Prodigious - 
Profit - - - 

Proof - - - 

Proud (man) 

' (woman) 
Provisions - 
Pud, ^waiKBia • - 
Pumpkin 

Purse - - - 


APPUI^BIX II, 

Summi (A.). 
Summi-zaI4. 

Rumm£n (A.). 

Razin (A.), 

Yakhfindl, 

MaAatti, 

Kasd-zdIA 

Katli, 

Kitin. 

Haylah (A.). 

Karsi; Zali. 

Bdy. 

Kibri (A.). 

Faklh (A.), 

Hasbi (A,). 
tJgud. 

Sagara. 

Yaganyo. 

Ajab (A.). 

Nafi (A, c.). 

Hag^ 

Kibri-zdla; Kibranyd. 
Kibri-zali; Kibriyyit. 
Mabld. 

Dfir. , 

Arab dubbd (S*). 

Kis (A.). 



HARARI LANGUAGE. 


567 


Quadruped - 

Quantity 

Quarter 

Quarter (of town) 
Qiieen 
Question 
Quickly; 

Quill - 
Quiver 


Rage - 
Raid . 
Raiment 
Rain - 
Raise, u. 
Raisin 
Ram - 
Ran, V, pret 
Rapid - 
Rascal - 
Rat 
Raven 
Raw - 
Razor - 


Q. 

Dinat. 

MistL 
Rubd (A.). 
Afochd. 

Gisti. 

Mathebar. 

FItan. 

BdlH (S.). 
Hinn^ch. 

R. 

Za'al (A.); herdr. 
Dina. 

Irdzdsh. 

Zindb. 

Hafush. 

Zablb (A.). 

Tdy. 

Sakd. ' 

Fitan. 

MabMl, 

Fdr (A.). 

Kurrd. 

Teri. 

Shald^ (?). 

O O 4 



668 


APPENDIX n. 

Head *- 

• 

^ira (A. c.). 

Real (dollar) 

- 

j^arshi. 

Rebel - 

- 

Asi (A.). 

Rebellion 

- 

Balwd (-A.*)* 

Receive , 


Nisa. 

Red - 

- 

Kayh: Kaybit. 

Region 

- 

B^d. 

Regret 

- 

Hammd(A. c.); Ghammfi (A, c.)* 

Rein (bridle) 

- 

Hakamd (S.). 

Relations 


Ahl (A.> 

Remain 

- 

A'irr(A# c.). 

Remainder - 

- 

^arrS. 

Remedy , - 

- 

Dawd^ 

Remote 

- 

Ruhuk, ruhug. 

Remove 

- 

IJstL 

Repletion 


TuK (?> 

Reply - 

- 

War, (Bring a replyWar adej." 
Take my reply: " Ware usti.'^) 

Reptile 

- 

Hubdb. 

Residence 

- 

Gdn, 

il^est^ Sm " 

- 

Rd/^ah (A.). 

Return (*• e* 
me back) 

give 

Argabgilayw. 

Revenge, s. - 

- 

Kis6s (A.), 

Take revenge 

- 

jK'is^s ushd. 

Reverse, V. - 

- 

Gargab. 

Reward 


Sakah; dinat (?). 

Rib < 7 


Maytak. 

Rich - 

- 

Ghanl (A.> 

Rice - 

- 

Ruz (A*). 



HARABI LANGUAGE. 


569 


Ride, V* 

- 

Isah 

Right (proper) 

- 

^ordm. 

Right hand - 


Kai«yit. 

Right and left 

- 

Gurd wd. Kainyit. 

Ring - * 

- 

Makhtar. 

Riot - 


Matmahat. 

Rise up 

- 

Hafbal. 

Rlbing (ground) 

- 

Kar^t. 

Risk - 

- 

Fir. 

»River - 

- 

Zar; Masri (?). 

? 

Road - 

- 

tlga. 

Roast, V. - • 

- 

Absih (Roast the meat. Basar 
absih") 1 

Rob, V. 

- 

Rojh. (He robbed me. ** Rojha- 
bay«.") 

Robber 


Rojhi* 

Robbery 

- 

Marojha. 

Robe (woman's) 

- 

Indosh ir£s. 

„ (blue) - 

- 

JSy ir^. 

„ (white). 

- 

NajiA ir^s. 

Rock - 

- 

Sari. 

Rogue 

- 

Mabldl. 

Roof - 

- 

Darbenji. 

Room - 

- 

Kitrat. 

Root - 

- 

Sirr; Hedid (S.). 

Rosary 

- 

Tasbi^ (A..)- 

Rose-water - 

- 

Md-ward (A.). 

o 

o 

1 

1 

- 

Fatit. 

Ruin - 

- 

Kh'rdb (A.). 

Ruler - 

- 

Nag^hi. 



570 


APPENDIX II, 


'Run, V. 

Run away I - 


- Tar^wat. 

- Rot! Sik! 


S. 

Sack (ox"Skin) - Dawulld (large bags used on jour- 
4 neys). 

,, (sheep-skin) - Jirdb (A. c. small saddle-bags; the 
bags for asses ^re called 
tan 


Saddle 

- 

Kor(S. Kore); HSnkd (?). 

Saffron 

- 

Waras (A,). 

Saint - 


Wall. 

Salt - 

- 

Assti. 

Sand - 

- 

Afar. 

Sandals 

- 

Ashin* 

Sash (girdle) 

- 

Hankot. 

Say, r. 

- 

Asaynni. 

Scales - 

- 

Mizdn (A.). 

A single scale 

- 

Kaffi. 

Scent - 

- 

Suchnd. 

Scissors 

- 

Ma^rajah,' 

Scout - 

- 

* Ildlah (S.). 

Scum - 

- 

Wasakh (A.). 

Sea 

- 

Bahr (A.). 

Sea-coast 

- 

Bahr aff. 

By sea and by land 

Bahri barn (A.). 

Seal - 

- 

Tab^ (A. c.). 



HAEAEI LANGUAGE. 


571 


Seal-ring . - 

- 

Makhtar. 

Search 

- 

Mafdch. 

• 

Second {ordinal 

71 .) 

Kotkhd. 

Secret 

- 

Sirri (A.). 

Secretly 

- 

Shemakna. 

See^ " 

- 

Haych. 

Self - 

- 

R6h (A,); Naf(A.c.> 

Sell,^v,- 

- 

Assim. 

Sepulchre 

- 

Kabri. 

Serpent 

- 

Hifin;. Hubdb. 

Servant 

- 

Wandag. 

Servile caste - 

- 

Bon (Dankali word). 

Seven - 

- 

Sdti. 

Seventh 

- 

Sati kha* 

Seventy 


Sdt assir. 

Sew, V. 

- 

Sif. (^' Sew the cloth," ir& SIf.) - 

Shade (shadow) 

- 

Ch&y& (Sanscrit ?). 

Shallow water 

- 

Tinneo mi. 

Shame 


Hayd (A.). 

Shank - 

- 

jKultum. 

Sharp, adj. - 

- 

Balah 

Shave, v. 

- 

Mashaylad. 

She - 

- 

Itta. 

Sheath (swords) 

- 

• Sif gdr (dagger's sheath, '^shoi 
g^r"). 

Sheep - 

- 

Tdy. 

Sheet - 

- 

Ldy morad ; irds. 

Shepherd 

- 

Agabart 

Shirt - 

- 

Kamis (A.). 



APPENDIX II. 


612 

Shield - . - - Agri. 

Shop - - Dukkdn There are no regular 

shops at Harar). 

Short - - - Hdjir. 

Shot, - Rlsds (A-). 

Shut, V. - . - Galab. 

Sick - - • Nattfi. 

Sickle - - - , Manja. 

Silence, r. - - Us, 

Silver - - - Me'et. 

Sin - - - Abbd. 

Sister - - - Ihit(A. c.). 

Sit I V. - - Tageb. 

Six - Siddisti. 

.Sixth - Slddistikhd. 

Sixty - - - Siddisti assir. 

Skin - - - Goga. 

Skin (for water) - Aarbat (A. c.). 

Skullcap - - Kalota (la Calotte). 

Sky - - - Sami. 

Slave (wa5.) - - Wasif; Amhara. 

,, - Gafit; Wasifit; Amharit. 

Sleep, w. - - Many it (Pass the night. ^^Heder") ; 

Niyen (?). ¦ 

Slippers - - Ashin. 

Small - - - Tinii^o; Ted (?). 

Small-pox - - Gifri (in S. Fantu). 

Smell (perfume) - Suclmd. 

Smoke, s, - , - Tan. 



HABARI LANGUAGE. 


673 


Smoke, r. - - Sich. 

Snot _ - - Infit. 

Snuff (tobacco) - Jamali (Give me a pinch of snuff, 

Jamali Makonat"). 

Sole (of foot) - Hard^. 

Sopali - - - , Tumurr (a slighting name). , 

Son - - - Lijgay. 

Son^ - - - FaAarr. 

Sore - - - TtiM. 

South - - - Ke'ebd. 

Span - - - Zumzurti. 

Spear ^ - Waram. 

Spider - - - AshdrdrdhtL 

Spider's web - - Ashd,rdrfihti gdr. 

Spittle - - - MirdA (A.). 

Spoon - - - Fandlah (S. Fanddl). 

Staff, - Barti. 

Star - - - Tui 

Stench - - 7 Chikndr. 

Stick - - Barti. 

Stone - - - IJn. 

Stop (hush) - - SambaL 

Street - - - ^ Mag^lah 6ga. 

Strong - - - Tdkh-zdlA 

Stupravi matrem A'e khd lagatkho# 

tuam (vulgar 
abuse) 

Stuprari patrem Aukhd ligat. 

tuum 



674 

-APPENPIX II* 

It suffices 

. Ypk41. 

Sugar - r 

- Sukkar (A.). 

Sugar-cane - 

- Ala Shankorr (S.)< 

Sun 

- Irr. 

Sweat - 

- Wizi. 

Sweet - 

- Yatundl. 

Switch - 

- Tinne'o bartL 

Sword - 

- Sif(A.). 


Take, v. 


T. 

Yakh (to woman Yash"). 

Take hold of 

- 

Lahat. 

Take care 

- 

Takayr4h hL 

TaU - - * 

- 

Gidorr* . 

Talisman 


Kartds (A.). 

Tax (on merchan- 

Ashtir (A. c.). 

dise) 

Tax (on land) 

. 

Zakdh (A.). 

Tear - 

- 

Ibi. 

Ten - 

- 

Assir (A. c.). 

Tenth - 

* - 

Assirkhd. 

That (pr.) - 

- 

Y4. 

Thatched hut 

•- 

Gambisd. 

Their - 

- 

Zi?iyo. 

Then - 

- 

Yi s^'ah. 

Thence 

- 

Yi attay* 

There - 

- 

Yadday. 



HARARI LANGUAGE. 575 


Here and there 

- 

Idday yadday. 

Therefore 

- 

Yi le bdyti. 

These - 

- 

Yi 'fich. 

Thief - 
• 

- 

Rojhi (fern. Rojhit). - 

Thick - 


Wadal. 

Thigh - - 

- 

Badii (?); Gonjh 

Thin - 

- 

GofSy* 

THifie (thy) - 

- 

-kh5. 

Thing - 

- 

Sha'i (A. c.). 

Third 

- 

Shishti khtu 

Thirty - r 

- 

Saseh. 

Thirst - 

- 

rirri . 

Thirsty 


rirrdr.. 

This - 

- 

Y£. 

Thorn - 

- 

Usukh. ¦ 

Thorn fence - 

- 

Hutur (Chuguf ?). 

Thread 

- 

Fatli (A. c.). 

Three - r 

- 

Shishti. 

Three quarters 

- 

Shishti rub^ 

Thrice - 

- 

Shishti.'ihuttt . 

Throat - 

- 

£(ang5r; marmar. 

Throne 

- 

Ti%(?.> 

Throw, V. 

- 

Ghinbd (?); ginya. 

Thumb 

- 

Gidir A<abiwyA. 

Thunder 

- 

Birdk (?); birdg (A. c,). 

Tie, V. - 

- 

Igad. (Tie the camel with a cord. 



" Gamaylah fatit be %ad.^"), 

Tie (knot) - 

- 

K&tre (Knot with your cloth. *5 Ir& 


t be Ktoe."); akoflj (?). 



576 


APPENDIX IX. 

Time ^ 

- 

Sa'ah, 

At what time ? 

- 

Ay S^'ah ? 

At all times - 

- 

Kullu girum. 

Tired - 

- 

Dalagay. 

Tobacco 

- 

TunbdkhA 

To - . 

- 

Lay; le. 

To-day 

- 

Hdji. 

Toe - 

- 

Ingir a^abiny^ 

Together (with) 

* 

B^h, (I will go with 
akhdkhbdhiUtdkh.") 

Tomb - 

- 

Kabri. 

To-morrow - 

- 

Gish. 

Tongue 

- 

Arrdt. 

Tooth - 

- 

gin (A.). 

Town - * - 


Magdlah. 

Town-wall - 

- 

Jugal. 

Travel, v. 

- 

Sifar (A. c.). 

Tree - 

- 

Lafti. 

Tripe - 

- 

AnAar. 

True - 

- 

HillAy Au/Zd. 

Truly - 

- 

d 

d 

Turban 

- 

imdmat (A.). 

Turban (amir's) 

- 

Kd'dk (Turk.). 

Turmeric 

- 

Hdrdi inji. 

Twenty 

•- 

Koyah. 

Tweezers 

- 

NecA; Aarabah (?). 

Twice 

- 

Kot mutti. 

Two * 


Kot. 



HAKAEI LANGtTAGE. 


577 


U. 


Vg^y - 

- 

YagassaL 

Ulcer - 

- 

Tdlu, pi ruld^dsh. 

Unarmed 

1 

• 

Agra waram zaltd {lit shieldless 
and spearless). 

Uncle (paternal) 

- 

-?er. 

,, (maternal) 

- 

Kaka. 

Under - 

- 

Tahdy. 

Understand - 


Tukdkh, 

Unfortunate 

- 

Ayydmum ay la, fenu Ayydmum 
ayli. 

Unjust 

- 

Zdlim (A.)* 

•Unkind 

" 

Rahmatum ay la, fern* rah mat urn 
ayli. 

Unsafe 

- 

Amanum altd, fern, amdnum altL 

Untie - 

- 

Fitd^(A. c.). 

Untrue 

- 

XCiz (-A^ c«). 

Up - - 

- 

Ld'ay. 

Up and down 

- 

Ld'ay wd tahdy^ 

Go up I 

- 

Isal. 

Bring up I ^ ^ 

- 

Ld'ay hafush. 

Upon (it) 

- 

Usd Id'ay, 

Urine - 

- 

Shahad. 

Us - 

iM 

—ena. 


p p 



578 


APPENDIX II. 


V. 


Value - 


Bdy (What is the price of this ? 
"B^y zo mintd? " ) 

Veil ^ 

• 

Gulub (blue muslin fillet on women's 
hair). 

Vela - 

- 

Watar (A.). 

Vengeance - 

- 

Kis^ (A.). 

Venom 

- 

Summi (A.) 

Venomous - 

- 

Summi-zal^ 

Venereal (disease) 

- 

ChohtA ; Kitin. 

Very - 

- 

BajiA. 

Very good - 

- 

BajiA kordm. 

Vile . 

- 

Vegassi. 

Village 

- 

Gandd; Tinne'o geh ; tinne o bad. 

Viper - 

- 

Hubdb summi-zdla. 

Virgin 

- 

Wahasht 

Void (naked) 

- 

Kofh, 

Voice - 

- 

Jbba. 

Vomit - 

- 

Nataka. 

Vow 

- 

Ballamd. (He vowed a mare. Bal- 
lamd ziTiya inisti faras.") 

Vulture 

- 

Aumar. 



HARARI LANGUAGE. 


5 ? 9 


W. 


\VuIst - 
Wall (house) 
„ (town) 
Want, 5- 


War - - - 

Warm • 

Was - 
Wash, V, imp. 
Washing 

Watch - - - 

Water - - - 

Water-pot - 
Watered (garden, 
field, Sec*)-. 

Wax - 
Way (road) - 
We - - - 

Weak . 


Hankot^ 

Digadag. 

Ugal. 

Hdjah (A.). 

Ahad ifdjakh I want something. 

Wandag akhashakh I want a 
servant. 

Matmdhat. 

Wiyi. 

Nar; fern. nd.rti. 

Mayeh. 

Wessd. (the ablution called '^Wu- 
zd "). 

Zolanyd (night patrols through the 
city). 

Ml. . 

Hau (S.). 

Masnd. 

Shaina (A.). 

Uga. 

Iwya; inydsh. 

Takhum ayla. 

P P 2 



580 


APPENDIX II. 


Wealth 

- 

Bajih dinat. ^ 

Weaver 

- 

Hayydk (A.), 

Weigh 

- 

Ameznu 

Weight 

- 

Mizdn (A.), 

Well (water) 

- 

Zar (?> 

Well (being) 

- 

Amdn (A.). 

West - 

- 

Irr kitbo (?); Kilmash (?). 

Wet • 

- 

Kutta* 

What? 

- 

Mintd ? * 

Of what sort? 

- 

Min Siwya (?). 

Wheat 

- 

Ays (A. c. ?). 

Whence ? 


Ayde ? (Whence comest thou ? 
Ayde be dichkhi ? '*) 

Where ? 

- 

Bayla? bela? 

Whetstone - 

- 

MolaA. 

Whip . 

- 

Aaytal (A. S.> 

Whisper, r. - 

- 

Ishayt be assayni. 

Whistle 

- 

Afij, 

White - 

- 

Najih. 

Who ? 

•• 

Min? (Who art thou? *^Min 
^inyintakh ? ") 

Whore ? 

- 

Gubnit. 

Why? 

* 

Millay ? (Why dost thou beat me ? 
Millay gadalkhdyn ? ") 

Wick - 

- 

Fatflat (A.). 

Widow 

- 

Armalah (A.), 

Widower 

- 

Indosh motb^ 

Wife - 

- 

Indosh; mishtt 



HARARI LANGUAGE. 581 


Wig (sheep-skin 
' dyed red) 

Gurud ; arabji karr; i\m& bayt (S.), 

Wind - 

Ddf. 

Window 

TaAet (A. c.). 

Wine - - - 

Gohay. 

Wipe,- 

Mdsh. 

Within - - 

Usto. 

Witnout (outside) - 

jfiTacAay. 

Without 

Ay 1dm; ayltim (?). 

Without reason 

Sabab bilay. 

Without hope 

Haylad blldy. 

Wolf - 

Warabd (S.> 

Woman 

Indosh; mishti. 

„ (barren) - 

Tulddmayt. 

„ (pregnant) 

Karsi-zdli. 

Wonder 

Dink. 

Wonderful - 

Ajab (A.). 

Wood - 

Inchi. 

Word - 

Sindn. 

Wound 

Mahjd. 

Write . - - 

Kitab. 

Writing" board 

LoA (A.), 


Yard (court) 

Y. 

- Katam-barL 

Year - 

- Amad. 


P P 8 



582 

APPENDIX II. 

Last year 

- Amnd. 

Every year - 

- Jammi arnmatum. 

Yellow 

- Hurcli, fern. Hurdit. 

Yes! - 

- I; dy. 

Yet - 

- Will. 

You - 

- Akhakhash. 

Young - 

- Darmd. 

Youth - 

- Darradsh (?). 


Zebra - 
Zinc 


Z. 


- Farrii (S.). 

- K-Ayh birat. 



APPENDIX in 

METEOEOLOGIGAL OBSERVATIONS IN THE COLljl; 
SEASON OF 1854-5. 

BY 

LlEUTENA^^TS HERNE, STROYAN, AND BURTON 


P P 4 




METEOEOLOGICAL'OBSERVATIONS by Liedt. HERNE, at and near iERBERAH, 
During the months of November and December, 1854. 


585 


At Aynterad, 

At Berberah. 

Ditto. 

Ditto* 

At the foot of the second range 

At Garbadir* [of hills* 

At baif.past 1 p*M*,barom. 24*600, 
therm* 6)i^, top of Gulays, 

At the foot of Guiays, 

Ditto* 

At Berberah. 

Aneroid Barometer. 

s 

fii 

(0 

is, 

^oo'feoe'S* S* • 

if,il, 

S 

< 

c» 

go 

Isesgg Ke. 

fi.' 

ssss sa 

Mountain Barometer. 

s 

fiu 

CO 

& o 

*««* * • * *3* '3*S3*SoocSS 

1, , ,, , ,S, ,p ,ii ,ilii 

a 

< 

o> 

i o 

1 -§8 • .. SSSgiSSSSSSg 

i ^g| .IliiiSSSlil 

A 

s 

.trgasa'"' ""ssssssssssags • 

1 A 


Corrections for Mountain Barometer, 

Capacities, Neutral point, 29*762* Capillary action, •f 050* TemperatTirer-6(K>« Reading higher than Observatory Standard, 0*030, 




METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS Vy Libot. HERNE, at near BERBERAH, 

In January, 1855. 


586 



Corrections for Mountain BUromcUr* 









OBSERVATIONS hy Lieut. HERNE, 1st Bombay European Regiment of Fusiliers, taken at BERBER AH. 


I.IEUTENANT HEUNE'S OBSERVATIONS. 


587 



A little rain this morning. 

Cloudy, and having the appear¬ 
ance of rain. 

The last two at hair.past'4. 

Raining among the hills close to 
Berbcrah. 

Had rain more or less up to 3 P.tf. 

Rain more or less the whole day. 

Ditto, 

Rain in the morning; remainder 
of day One. 

Rain in the morning. 

Rain*in the afternoon. 

Rain the whole day. 

• Mountain barom. packed up. 

Mountain barometer, 

N.B. The Aneroid for February, 

1855, was 027 h i gher t iian 
Mountain barometer corrected 
for temperature. 

S ' 
ti. 
to 

3 

+ 

*5 

S 


152 SS5S~|§!!;SSg2iiiii!2S2S28 f fg52g2S2 S8 

SmO P 9 ~ O ^ » C 9% C'n m C a AO AO p, SA<Mp«p —p 'T ^ 

' 

Noon. 


. 

• "S^p — ppp — c — ppAOAOAppp^^pW — e^ — A.-p — — O *0^ 

<< 

Oi 

1 

<.1 

*5 

X 

, QQ —— o AAxoor- , , , ,^.oAA , Ar--.--'>wf9f2«rS—A««9 . , c* 

Ci-t.- * A X A A A r-f . ¦ 't..r<.o.c.. ' t.. a a a cc a6 A A a a x a * *a 'a 

III ,2iig;|^|?| ,. , ,l"ili§ssi§S2lSS2il.,1.1 

a ^ a ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ a ^ SI 

< 

s 

& 

X 


u 

' f^8S 552 iSTSv.-n g 

Pc-J — — p — p—p-c^pppT-A, , , , » i^pAp ,p — p, , , 

Ci 

o 

s 

RSgSftRRaftiics ,2 5 « 5 tt « 

^ 

A A o M C* to ¦O' *fi O r- A AO — ACO^tA tp A — AtCAt.. 

2. A • W 

So s^t s - a s s - t tsts-ss s t - J5 s-—x 

Ut . * S 


* Moved into a tent IVoin temporary house. 

Mountain Barometer. — Capacities, Neutral point, 29-762. Capillary action, +050. Temperature, 60©. Reading higher than 

Observatory Standard, '030* 































. 588 


APPENDIX III. 


THERMOMETRIC OBSERVATIONS by Lieut. BURTON, 
During the month of November, 1854. 



Temperature. 


Date. 

6 a.m. 

Noon 

4p.m, 

Remarks. 





r At Zayla. Thermometer placed in a room 

Nov. 4 

78° 


83° 

J opening to the S. and W. Day cloudy, 

1 cirri; nights, cool, heavy dew. Sea 

(_ breeze from N.E. 

5 

81 

82 

- 

Cirro-cumulL 

r On the terrace at dawn 71® ; in the sun at 

6 

7 

8 

9 

77 

78 
77 

76 

82 

81 

81 

82 

82 

83 

82 

noon 118°. Sky clear; heavy dew at 

L night. 

Misty morning ; dark horizon. 

Air oppressive. 

r Zayla is open to both the land breeze (el 

barri) and the sea breeze (el bahri). 

10 

76 

82 

78 

The sea breeze usually set in at 10 a.h , and 





J continued as at Aden until sunset. Wind 
\ from W. and S.W. 

11 

77 

82 


The land breeze endured from nightfall till 





8 A. M., when there was generally a calm. 
Wind from N.E. 

12 

78 

83 

83 

rNimbus in morning from E. and N.E. 

\ Cloudy day. Horizon dark at nightfall. 

13 

77 

83 

- 

Hazy day ; cold clear night. 

14 

15 

75 

79 

81 

83 

83 

83 

Cold night ; clear day. 

f Rain clouds gathering. Bain expected by 

\ ' people about this time- 
f Cloudy morning. In afternoon rain fell 





16 

79 

83 

84 

<1 upon southern hills. Atmoi^here close in 
plain. 

17 

82 

83 

84 

f Thunder in morning ; close and cloudy at 
(_ noon. ' At night rain fell on hills. 

18 

80 

83 

84 , 

Cloudy morning. 

19 

81 

83 

83 

Cloudy forenoon. 

20 

82 

82 

82 

fRained heavily at Zayla from 9 A.H. to 
\ 2 p.M. Rain from N.E. 

21 

22 , 

81 

82 

82 

83 

- 

Fine clear day. Lightning at night, 
f Black clouds in morning from S.E. Windy 


\ night. Lightning from N. 

23 

82 

83 

83 

Cloudy morning. Clear day. 

24 

76 

82 

82 

Cool morning. Hot cloudy day. 

25 

78 

82 

. 

Ditto Ditto. 

.6 

77 

82 

82 

r Fresh morning. Cloudless day. Fine even- 
\ ing. All signs of rain have vanished. 

27 1 

76 

82 

- 

Cloudless day. Cool night. 

L»eft Zayla at 3 p.m. on 27th Nov. 

28 

- 

88 

88 

rin hut at Gudingaras on Zayla Plain. Sea 

L breeze at 10 a.m. 

29 

73 

. 

88 

At same place. Rain expected. 

30 

- 

88 

86 

Cloudy morning. Cool day. 








LIEUTENANT BURTOn'S OBSERVATIONS. 589 


THERMOMETRIC OBSERVATIONS by Lieut. BURTON, 
During the months of Dec, 1854 and Jan, 1855. 



Temperature. 

Remarks. 


6a.h. 

Noon 

4 p.m. 




1854. 






Dec. 1 

72® 

86° 

84® 

In hut. Light clouds at dawn. Hot day. 

3 

- 

82 

80 

fin hut below hills. Nimbus in 
1 Hot sun. 

morning. 

r 4 

70 

80 

- 

fRain at 8 a.jl Cloudy day. Heavy dew 

1 at night. 

K 


80 


J In open air under tree. Hot sun. Cold 




1 night breeze. 




79 

80 

f In hut at foot of ascent. Wind gusty. Day 



1 cool and cloudy. 

1 

7 

63 


71 

f Under tree. Clear cold day. Hot sun at 



1 noon 


8 

52 

73 

- 

Under tree. Cloudy morning. Cold day. 

10 

51 

74 

72 

f In hut below hills. Clear day; 
1 shade : hot in sun. 

cold in 

11 

56 

72 


f Fine clear day. Atmosphere resembling thkt 1 


\ of Pisa, in Tuscany. 

1 

12 

52 



In hut. Hot sun. Cold wind. 


13 

61 

78 

80 

r In hut at Harawwah valley. No rain; season 

\ sickly ; drought and dysentery. 


14 

54 

- 

- 

Sun very hot, 120® at noon. 


17 

52 

79 


In hut at Agjogsi. At dawn 41®. 


18 

49 

50 

4l 

76 

.71 

72 

- 

j At Agjogsi, under the hill Korala. Fine 

20 

40 


> clear weather. Nomads lament want of 

21 

42 

74 


J Tam. 


22 

41 

82 

- 

In hut under Konti hill. Close day. 

23 

51 

- 

- 

Observations taken in open air. 


24 

- 

73 

72 

In hut under Gurays hills. Sun powerful. I 

25 

42 

72 

71 

At the same place. Cool day. 


26 

51 

- i 

- 

f Ditto, Till end of December cold winds 
i and hot suns. 

1855. 
Jan. 3 

68 



In hut below Kondura. 


15 

61 

71 

68 

f High wind. Cumuli. Furious wind" 



k at night.. 


16 

58 

69 , 

69 

Fine clear day. 


17 

56 

72 i 

1 

6 ' 

f Clouds on hill tops. Cold night, 

In hut, 


k and high wind. 

^ at 

18 


70 i 

70 i 

Hot day. No wind or clouds. 

Wilensi. 

19 

56 

77 I 

73 ; 

Hot day. Cloudless warm night. 


20 

56 

78 ' 

- 1 

Day hot and cloudless. 


21 

57 

77 ! 

- ' 

Fine warm day, 


22 

56 

- 

- 

fLeft Wilensi. Hot day. Nimbi 
k No rain. Warm night. 

at 2 PM. 

23 

66 

73 

77 

In the Marar Prairie. Warm cloudy day. | 







590 


APPENDIX III. 


Thermometer Boiled. 


Place. 

Degrees. 

Temperature. 

Corrected 

Altitude. 

Zayla (sea level) - - - 

- 210® 

83® 


Halimalah (hill-top) 

- 204 

. 64 

3,347 

Agjogs! (foot of Harar hills) 

- " - 201 

79 

5,133 

Wiiensi (near Harar) - 

- 200 

70 

5,656 


Harar about 5,500 

Berberah (level of sea) - 

- 210 

86 




APPENDIX IV. 


8 




APPENDIX IV. 


It has been found necessary to omit this Appendix. 




APPENDIX V. 


?q Q 2 




APPENDIX V. 


CONDENSED ACCOUNT 

Off 

AN ATTEMPT TO REACH HARAR FROM 
ANKOBAR. 


The author is Lieutenant, now Commander, William Babkeb of the 
Indian Navy, one of the travellers who accompanied Sir William 
Cornwallis, then Captain, Harris on his mission to the court of 
Shoa. His services being required by the Bombay Government, 
he was directed by Captain Harris, on October 14th, 1841, to 
repair to the coast via Harar, by a road hitherto untrodden by 
Europeans.*' These pages will reward perusal as a narrative of 
adventure, especially as they admirably show what obstacles the 
suspicious characters and the vain terrors of the Bedouins have 
thrown in the way of energy and enterprise. 


Q Q 3 




599 


A CONDENSED ACCOUNT, &c. 


** Aden, February 28. 1842. 

Shoetlt after I had closed my last communication to 
Captain Harris of the Bombay Engineers on special duty 
at the Court of Shoa (14. Jan. 1842), a report arrived|at 
Allio Amba that Demetrius, an Albanian who had b^en 
for ten years resident in the Kingdom of Shoa, and who 
had left it for Tajoorah, accompanied by Johannes,'* 
another Albanian, by three Arabs, formerly servants of the 
Embassy, and by several slaves, had been murdered by the 
Bedoos (Bedouins) near Murroo. This caused a panic 
among my servants. I allayed it with difficulty, but my 
interpreter declared his final intention of deserting me, as 
the Hurruri caravan had threatened to kill him if he 
persisted in accompanying me.' Before proceeding farther 
it may be as well to mention that I had with me four 
servants, one a mere lad, six mules and nine asses to carry 
my luggage and provisions. 

" I had now made every arrangement, having, as the 
Wallasena Mahomed Abugas suggested, purchased a fine 
horse and a Tobe for my protector and guide, Datah 


Q Q 4 



600 


APPENDIX V, 


Mahomed of the clan Seedy Habroo, a eubtrlbe of the 
Debeneh. It was too late to recede: accordingly at an 
early hour on Saturday, the 15th January, 1842, I com¬ 
menced packing, and about 8 a.m. took my departure 
from the village of Allio Amba* I had^pent there a weary 
three months, and left it with that mixture of pleasure and 
regret felt only by those who traverse unknown and in¬ 
hospitable regions. I had made many friends, who accom¬ 
panied me for some distance on the road, and took leave 
of me with a deep feeling which assured me of their 
sympathy. Many endeavoured to dissuade me from the 
journey, but ray lot was cast. 

** About five miles from Allio, I met the nephew of the 
Wallasena^ who accompanied me to Farri, furnished me 
with a bouse there, and ordered my mules and asses to be 
taken care of. Shortly after m;^ arrival the guide, an old 
man, made his appearance and seemed'much pleased by 
my punctuality. 

At noon, on Sunday the I6th> the Wallasena arrived, 
and sent over his compliments, with a present of five loaves 
of bread. I called upon him in the evening, and reminded 
him of the letter he had promised me; he ordered it to be 
prepared, taking for copy the letter which the king (Sahala 
Salassah of Shoa) had given to me. 

My guide having again promised to forward me in safety, 
the Wallasena presented him with a spear, a shield, and a 
Tobe, together with the horse and the cloth which I had 
purchased for him. About noon on Monday the 17th, we 
quitted Farri with a slave-caravan bound for Tajoorah. I 
was acquainted with many of these people, the Wallasena 



LIEUTENANT BAUKER'S NARRATIVE. 


601 


nho recommended me strongly to the care of Mahomed 
ibn Buraitoo and Dorranu ibn Kamil. We proceeded to 
Datharal, the Wallasena and his nephew having escorted 
me as far as Denehmelli, where they took leave* I found 
the Caffilah to consist of fifteen T^oorians, and about fifty 
camels laden with provisions for the road, fifty male and 
about twenty female slaves, mostly children from eight to 
ten^ years of age. My guide had with him five camels 
laden with grain, two men and two women. 

The Has el Caffilah (chief of the caravan) was on6 
Ibrahim ibn Boorantoo, who it appears had been chief of 
the embassy caravan, although Essakh (Ishak) gave out 
that he was.- It is certain that this man always gaive 
orders for pitching the camp and for loading; but we being 
unaware of the fact that he was Has el Caffilah, he had 
not received presents on the arrival of the Embassy at 
Shoa. Whilst unloading the camels, the following con¬ 
versation took place. KabtanP (O Captain) said he 

addressing me with a sneer, ^ where are you going to ? — 
do you think the Bedoos will let you pass through their 
country? We shall seef Now I will tell you!—you 
Ferlngis have treated me very ill I—you loaded Essakh 
and others with presents, but never gave me an 3 "thing. I 
have, as it were, a knife in my stomach which is con¬ 
tinually cutting me — this knife you have placed there! 
But, inshallah! it is now my turn ! I will be equal with 
you!—you think of going to Hurrur— we shall see!' I 
replied, You know me not! It is true I was ignorant that 
you were Has el Caffilah on our way to Shoa. You say 
you have a knife cutting your inside—I can remove that 



602 


APPENDIX V. 


knife! Those who treat me well, now that I am return¬ 
ing to my country, shall be rewarded; for, the Lord be 
praised! there I have the means of repaying my friends, 
but in Shoa I am a beggar. Those that treat me ill shall 
also receive their reward.^ 

" My mules, being frightened at the sight of the camels, 
were exceedingly restive; one of them strayed and was 
brought back by Deeni ibn Hamed, a young man who 
was indebted to me for some medicines and a trifling 
present which he had received from the embassy. Ibrahim, 
the Ras el CaflSlah, seeing him lead it back, called out, 
* So you also have become servant to the Kafir (infidel)I' 
At the same time Datah Mahomed, the guide, addressed 
to me some remark which he asked Ibrahim to explain; 
the latter replied in a sarcastic manner in Arabic, a language 
with which I am unacquainted,* This determined hostility 
on the part of the Ras el Caffilah was particularly distress¬ 
ing to me, as I feared he would do me much mischief. I 
therefore determined to gain him over to my interests, and 
accordingly, taking Deeni on one side, I promised him a 
handsome present if he would take an opportunity of ex¬ 
plaining to Ibrahim that he should be well rewarded if 
he behaved properly, and at the same time that if he acted 
badly, that a line or tw^o sent to Aden would do him harm. 
I also begged him to act as my interpreter as long as we 
were together, and he cheerfully agreed to do so. 

''We were on the point of resuming our journey on 
Tuesday the 18th, when it was found that the mule of the 

* Thus in the original. It may be a mistake, for Captain Barker 
is, I am informed, a proficient in conversational Arabic. 



LIEUTENANT BARKER'S NARRATIVE* 


603 


Kas el Caffilah had strayed. After his conduct on the pre¬ 
ceding evening, he was ashamed to come to me, but he de¬ 
puted one of the caravan people to request the loan of one 
of my mules to go in quest of his. I gave him one readily- 
We were detained that day as the missing animal was not 
brought back till late. Notwithstanding my civility, I 
observed him in close conversation with Datah Mahomed, 
aboui the rich presents which the Feringis had given to 
Essakh and others, and I frequently observed him pointing 
to my luggage in an expressive manner^ Towards evening 
the guide came to me and said, ' My son! I am an old 
man, my teeth axe bad, I cannot eat this parched grain— 
I see you eat bread. Now we are friends, you must givd 
me some of it! ' I replied that several times after prepay 
ring for the journey, I had been disappointed and at last 
started on a short notice—that I was but scantily supplied 
with provisions, and had a long journey before me: notwith¬ 
standing which I was perfectly willing that he should share 
with me what I had as long as it lasted, and that as he was 
a great chief, I expected that he would furnish me with a 
fresh supply on arriving at his country. He then said, * it 
is w'ell I but why did you not buy me a mule instead of a 
horse ? ' My reply was that I had supposed that the latter 
would be more acceptable to him. I divided the night 
into three watches: my servants kept the first and middle, 
and I myself the morning. 

We quitted Dattenab, the frontier station, at about 
7 o'clock A. M., on Wednesday the 19th. The country at 
this season presented a more lively appearance than when 
we travelled over it before, grass being abundant: on the 



604 


APPENDIX V. 


trpes by the roadside was much gum Acacia, which the 
Caffilah people collected as they passed. I was pleased 
to remark that Ibrahim was. the only person ill-disposed 
towards me, the rest of the travellers were civil and respect¬ 
ful. At noon we halted under some trees by the way- 
side. Presently we were accosted by six Bedoos of the 
Woemah tribe who were travelling from Keelulho to Shoa: 
they informed us that Demetrius had been plundered and 
stripped by the Takyle tribe, that one Arab and three 
male slaves had been slain, and that another Arab had fled 
on horseback to the Etoh (Ittu) Gallas, whence nothing 
more had been heard of him; the rest of the party were 
living under the protection of Shaykh Omar Buttoo of the 
Takyle. The Bedoos added that plunderers were lying in 
wait on the banks of the river Ho wash for the white people 
that were about to leave Shoa. The Has el CaflSlah com¬ 
municated to me this intelligence, and concluded by saying: 

^ Now, if you wish to return, I will take you back, but if 
you say forward, let us proceed! ' I answered, ^ Let us 
proceed! ' I must own that the intelligence pleased me 
not; two of my servants were for returning, but they were 
persuaded to go on to the next station, where we would be 
guided by circumstances. About 2 o'clock p. m. we again 
proceeded, after a long Cullam " or talk, which ended in 
Datah Mahomed, sending for assistance to a neighbour¬ 
ing tribe. During a conversation with the Has el CafBlah, 

I found out that the Bedoos were lying in wait, not for 
the white people, but for our caravan. It came out that 
these Bedouins had had the worst of a quarrel with the * 



LIEUTENANT BARKEU'S NARRATIVE. 605 

last Caffilah from Tajoorah: they then threatened to attack 
it in force on its .return. The Ras el CaflSlah was assured 
that as long as we journeyed together, I should consider 
his enemies my enemies, and that being well supplied 
with firearms, I would assist him on all occasions. This 
offer pleased him, and we became more friendly. We 
passed several deserted villages of the Bedoos, who had 
retired for want of water towards the Wadys, and about 
7 o'clock P. M. halted at the lake Leadoo. 

On the morning of Thursday the 20th, Datah Maho¬ 
med came to me and delivered himself though Deeni as 
follows: ' My son I our father the Wallasena entrusted you 
to my care, we feasted together in Gouchoo—you are tb 
me as the son of my house 1 Yesterday I heard that the 
Bedoos were waiting to kill, but fear not, for I have sent 
to the Seedy Habroo for some soldiers, who will be here 
soon. Now these soldiers are sent for on your account; 
they will want much cloth, but you are a sensible person, 
and will of course pay them well. They will accompany 
us beyond the Howash ! ' I replied, * It is true, the Wal¬ 
lasena entrusted me to your care. He also told me that 
you were a great chief, and could forward me on my 
journey. I therefore did not prepare a large supply of 
cloth—a long journey is before me—what can be spared 
shall be freely given, but you must tell the soldiers that 
I have but little. You are now my father I' 

Scarcely had I ceased when the soldiers, fine stout¬ 
looking savages, armed with spear, shield, and crease, mus¬ 
tering about twenty-five, made their appearance. It was 



606 


APPENDIX V. 


then 10 A. M, The word was given to load the camels, 
and we soon moved forward. I found my worthy pro¬ 
tector exceedingly good-natured and civil, dragging on 
my asses and leading my mules. Near the Ho wash we 
passed several villages, in which I could not but remark 
the great proportion of children. -At about 3 P.M. we 
forded the river, which was waist-deep, and on the banks 
of which were at least 3000 head of horned cattle. See¬ 
ing no signs of the expected enemy, we journeyed on till 
5 P.M., when we halted at the south-eastern extremity 
of the Howash Plain, about one mile to the eastward of 
a small pool of water. 

At daylight on Friday the 21st it was discovered that 
Datah Mahomed's horse had disappeared. This was 
entirely his fault; my servants had brought it back when 
it strayed during the night, but he said, '^Let it feed, it 
will not run away 1 ' When I condoled with him on the 
loss of so noble an animal, he replied,. * I know very well 
who has taken it: one of my cousins asked me for it yes¬ 
terday, and because I refused to give it he has stolen it; 
never mind, Inshallah! I will steal some of his camels.' 
After a ^Cullam' about what was to be given to our 
worthy protectors, it was settled that I should contribute 
three cloths and the Caffilah ten; receiving these, they 
departed much satisfied. Having filled our water-skins, 
we resumed our march a little before noon. Several herds 
of antelope and wild asses appeared on the way. At 
7 P.M, we halted near Hano. Prevented from lighting 
a fire for fear of the Galla, I was obliged to contend 



J.IEUTENANT BARKER'S NARRATIVE. 607 

myself with some parched grain, of which I had prepared 
a large supply. 

At sunrise on the 22 nd we resumed our journey, the 
weather becoming warm and the grass scanty. At noon 
tre halted near Shaykh Othman. I was glad to find that 
Deenl had succeeded in converting the Ras el Caffilah 
from an avowed enemy to a staunch friend, at least out¬ 
wardly so; he has now become as civil and obliging as 
he w^as before the contrary. There being no water at 
this station, I desired my servant Adam not to make any 
bread, contenting myself with the same fare as that of the 
preceding evening. This displeasing Datah Mahomed, 
some misunderstanding arose, which, from their ignoranch 
of each other's language, might, but for the interference ^f 
the Ras-el-Caffilah and Deeni, have led to serious results. 
An explanation ensued, which ended in Datah Mahomed 
seizing me by the beard, hugging and embracing me in a 
manner truly unpleasant. I then desired Adam to make 
him some bread and coffee, and harmony was once more 
restored. This little disturbance convinced me that if 
once left among these savages without any interpreter, 
that I should be placed in a very dangerous situation. 
The Ras-el-Caffilah also told me that unless he saw that 
the road was clear for me to Hurrur, and that there was 
no danger to be apprehended, that he could not think of 
leaving me, but should take me with him to Tajoorah. He 
continued, ' You know not the Emir of Hurrur; when he 
hears of your approach he will cause you to be waylaid by 
the Galla. Why not come with me to Tajoorah ? If you 



608 


APPENDIX V. 


fear being in want of provisions we have plenty, and you 
shall share all we have!' I was much surprised at this 
change of conduct on the part of the Kas el Caffilah, and 
by way of encouraging him to continue friendly, spared 
not to flatter* him, saying it was true I did not know him 
before, but now I saw he was a man of excellent disposi¬ 
tion. At three P.M. we again moved forward. Grass 
became more abundant; in some places it was luxuriant 
and yet green. We halted at eight p.m. The night was 
cold with a heavjr dew, and there being no fuel, I again 
contented myself with parched grain. 

At daylight on the 23rd we resumed our march. Datah 
Mahomed asked for two mules, that he and his friend 
might ride forward to prepare for my reception at his 
village. I lent him the animals, but after a few minutes 
he returned to say that I had given him the two >vo 2 'st, 
and he would not go till I dismounted and gave him the 
mule which I was riding. About noon we . arrived at the 
lake Toor Erain Murroo, where the Bedouins were in 
great numbers watering their flocks and herds, at least 
3000 head of horned cattle and sheep innumerable. 
Datah Mahomed^ on my arrival, invited me to be seated 
under the shade of a spreading tree, and having in¬ 
troduced me to his people as his guest and the friend of 
the Wallasena, immediately ordered some milk, which was 
brought in a huge bowl fresh and warm from the cow; 
my servants were similarly provided. During the night 
Adam shot a fox, which greatly astonished the Bedouins, 
and gave them even more dread of our fire-arms. Hearing 



LIEUTENANT BAUKEE'S NARRATITE, 609 

ttat Demetrius and bis party, who had been plundered of 
everything, were living at a village not far distant, I 
offered to pay the Ras el Caffilah any expense he might be 
put to if he would permit them to accompany our caravan 
to Tajoorah, He said that he had no objection to their 
joining the Caffilah, but that he had been informed their 
wish was to return to Shoa. I had a long conversation 
with ^the Ras, who begged of me not to go to Hurrur; 

^ for,^ he said, ^ it is well known that the Hurruri caravan 
remained behind solely on your account* You will there¬ 
fore enter the town, should you by good fortune arrive 
there at all, under unfavourable circumstances. I am sure 
that the Emir*, who may receive you kindly, will even-l 
I tually do you much mischief, besides which thesJ 
Bedouins will plunder you of all your property.* The 
other people of the caravan, who are all my friends, also 
spoke in the same strain. This being noted as a bad 
halting place, all kept watch with us during the night. 

The mules and camels having had their morning feed, 
we set out at about 10 A. M. on Monday the 24th for the 
village of Datah Mahomed, he having invited the Caffilah's 
people and ourselves to partake of his hospitality and be 
present at his marriage festiviti^. The place is situated 
about half a mile to the E. N* E. of the lake; it consists of 
about sixty huts, surrounded by a thorn fence with separate 
enclosures for the cattle. The huts are formed of curved 

* This chief was the Emir Abubakr, father of Ahmed: the latter 
was ruling when I entered Harar in 1S5S* 


R R 



610 


APPENDIX V. 


sticks, with their ends fastened in the ground, covered 
with mats, in shape approaching to oval, about five feet 
high, fifteen feet long, and eight broad. Arrived at the 
village, we found the elders seated under the shade of a 
venerable Acacia feasting; six bullocks were immediately 
slaughtered for the CaflSlah and ourselves. At sunset a 
camel was brought out in front of the building and killed 
—the Bedoos are extremely fond of this meat. In the 
evening I had a long conversation with Datah Mahomed, 
who said, ^ My son I you have as yet given me nothing. 
The Wallasena gave me everything. My horse has been 
stolen—I want a mule and much cloth.' Deeni replied 
for me that the mules were presents from the king (Sahala 
Salassah) to the Governor of Aden: this the old man 
would not believe. I told him that I had given him the 
horse and Tobe, but he exclaimed, ^ No, no I my son; 
the Wallasena is our father; he told me that he had given 
them to me, and also that you would give me great things 
when you arrived at my village. My son I the Wallasena 
would not lie.' Datah was then called away. 

Early on the morning of Tuesday the 25tb, Datah 
Mahomed invited me and the eldera of the CaflSlah to his 
hut, where he supplied us liberally with milk; clarified 
butter was then handed round, and the Tajoorians anointed 
their bodies. After we had left his hut, he came to me, 
and in presence of the Eas el CaflSlah and Deeni said, 
* You see I have treated you with great honour, you 
must give me a mule and plenty of cloth, as all my people 
want cloth. You have given me nothing as yet!' 



IrlEUTENANT BAEKER'S NARRATIVE. 611 

Seeing that I became rather angry, and declared solemnly 
that I had given him the horse and Tobe, he femiled and 
said, ^ I know that, but I want a mule, my horse has been 
stolen.' I replied that I would see about it. He then 
asked for all my blue cloth and my Arab ^ Camblee' 
(blanket). My portmanteau being rather the worse for 
wear—its upper leather was torn—he thrust in his 
finger^ and said, with a most avaricious grin, ' What 
have you here?' I immediately arose and exclaimed, 
*You are not my father; the Wallasena told me you 
would treat me kindly; this is not doing so.' He begged 
pardon and said, ^ Do not be frightened, my son; I will 
take nothing from you but what you give me freely. 

I You think I am a bad man; people have been telling you 
ill things about me. I am now an old man, and have 
given up such child's work as plundering people.' It 
became, however, necessary to inquire of Datah Mahomed 
what were his intentions with regard to myself. I found 
that I had been deceived at Shoa; there it was asserted 
that he lived at Errur and was brother to Bedar, one of 
the most powerful chiefs of the Adel, instead of which it 
proved that he was not so highly connected, and that he 
visited Errur only occasionally. Datah told me that his 
marriage feast would last seven days, after which he would 
forward me to Doomk where we should find Bedar, who 
would send me either to Tajoorah or to Hurrur, as he 
saw fit. 

I now perceived that all hope of reaching Hurrur was 

B K 2 



612 


APPENDIX V. 


at an end. Vexed and disappointed at having .sufifered so 
much in vain, I was obliged to resign the idea of going 
there for the following reasons: The Mission treasury was 
at so low an ebb that I had left Shoa with only three 
German crowns, and the prospect of meeting on the road 
Mahomed Ali in charge of the second division of the 
Embassy and the presents, who could have supplied me 
with money. The constant demands of Datah Mahomed 
for tobacco, for cloth, in fact for everything he sa^Y^ would 
become ten times more annoying were I left with him 
without an interpreter. The Tajoorians, also, one all, 
begged me not to remain, saying, ^ Think not of your 
property, but only of your and your servants' lives. Come 
with us to Tajoorah; we will travel quick, and you shall 
share our provisions.' At last I consented to this new 
arrangement, and Datah Mahomed made no objection. 
This individual, however, did not leave me till he had 
extorted from me my best mule, all my Tobes (eight in 
number), and three others, which I borrowed from the 
caravan people. He departed about midnight, saying that 
he would take away his mule in the morning. 

" At 4 A. M. on the 26th I was disturbed by Datah 
Mahomed, who took away his mule, and then asked for 
more cloth, which was resolutely refused. He then 
begged for my ^ Camblee,' whlch,^ as it was my only 
covering, I would not part with, and checked him by 
desiring him to strip me if he wished it. He then left me 
and returned in about an hour with a particular friend 
who had come a long way expressly to see me. I 



LIEUTENANT BARKER'S NARRATIVE. 


613 


acknowledged the honour, and deeply regretted that I had 
only words to pay for it, he himself having received my 
last Tobe. * However,' I continued, seeing the old man's 
brow darken, ' I will endeavour to borrow one from the 
Caffilah peojde.' Deeni brought me one, which was 
rejected as inferior. I then said, ' You see my dress — 
that cloth is better than what I wear—but here; take 
my Durban.' This had the desired effect; the cloth 
was accepted. At length Datah Mahomed delivered me 
over to the charge of the Ras el Caffilah in a very im¬ 
pressive manner, and gave me his blessing. We resumed 
our journey at 2 P. M., when I joined heartily with the 
caravan people in their * Praise be to God 1 we are at| 
length clear of the Bedoos I ' About 8 P. M. we haltedl 
at Metta. 

At half-past 4 A.M. on the 27th we started; all the 
people of the CaflSlah were warm in their congratulations 
that I had given up the Hurrur route. At 9 A.M. we 
halted at Codaitoo: the country bears marks of having been 
thickly inhabited during the rains, but at present, owing 
to the want of water, not an individual was to be met 
with. At Murroo we filled our water-skins, there being 
no water between that plac^ and Doomi, distant two 
days'journey. As the Ras el CaflSlah had heard that the 
Bedoos were as numerous as the hairs of his head at 
Doomi and Keelulhoo, he determined to avoid both and 
proceed direct to Warrahambili, where water was plenti¬ 
ful and Bedoos were few, owing to the scarcity of grass. 
This, he said, was partly on my account and partly on his 



614 


APPENDIX V. 


own, as he would be much troubled by the Bedouins of 
Doom!, many of them being his kinsmen. We con¬ 
tinued our march from 3 P. m, till 9 P. m., when we halted 
nt Boonderrah. 

At 4 p. M., on January 28tb, we moved forward 
through the Waddy Boonderrah, which was dry at that 
season; grass, however, was still abundant. From 11 
A, M. till 4 P. M., we halted at Geera Dohiba. Then 
again advancing we traversed, by a very rough road, a 
deep ravine, called the Place of Lions/' The slaves 
are now beginning to be much knocked up, many of them 
during the last march were obliged to be put upon camels. 
I forgot to mention that one died the day we left Murroo. 
At 10 p, M. we halted at Hagaioo Geera Dohiba: this 
w^as formerly the dwelling-place of Hagaioo, chief of the 
Woemah (Dankali), but the Eesa Somali having made a 
successful attack upon him, and swept off all his cattle, he 
deserted it. During the night the barking of dogs 
betrayed the vicinity of a Bedoo encampment, and caused 
us to keep a good look-out. Water being too scarce to 
make bread, I contented myself with coffee and parched 
grain. 

At daylight on the 29 th we resumed our journey, and 
passed by an encampment of the Eesa. About noon we 
reached Warrahambili. Thus far we have done well, but 
the slaves , are now so exhausted that a halt of two days 
will be necessary to recruit their strength. In this 
Wady we found an abundance of slightly brackish water, 
and a hot spring. 



LIEUTENANT BARKER'S NARRATIVE* 615 

Smiday^ ZOth January. — A Caffilah, travelling from 
Tajoorah to Shoa, passed hy. The people kindly offered 
to take my letters. Mahomed ibn Boraltoo, one of the 
principal people In the Caffilah, presented me with a fine 
sheep and a quantity of milk, which I was glad to accept. 
There had been a long-standing quarrel between him and 
our Has el Caffilah* When the latter heard that I aa~ 
ccpted the present he became very angry, and said to my 
servant, Adam, ^ Very well, your master chooses to take 
things from other people; why did he not ask me if he 
wanted sheep? We shall see!' Adam interrupted him 
by saying, * Be not angry; my master did not ask for 
the sheep, it was brought to him as a present; it h^s 
been slaughtered, and I was just looking for you to dis¬ 
tribute it among the people of the Caffilah*' This ap¬ 
peased him; and Adam added, * If my master hears your 
words he will be angry, for he wishes to be friends with 
all peoplk' I mention the above merely to show how 
very little excites these savages to anger. The man who 
gave me the sheep, hearing that I wished to go to Ta¬ 
joorah, offered to take me there in four days. I told him 
I would first consult the Ras el Caffilah, who declared it 
would not be safe for me to proceed from this alone, but 
that from Dakwaylaka (three marches in advance) he 
himself would accompany me in* The Ras then presented 
me a with sheep* 

« We resumed our journey at 1 p.m., January 31st, 
passed several parties of Eesa, and at 8 p.m* halted at 
Burroo Ruddah. 


R R 4 



616 


APPENDIX T. 


February Ist we inarched from 4 A.M, to 11 
A.M., when we halted in the Wady Fiahloo, dry at this 
season. Grass was abundant. At 3 p.m. we resumed 
our journey. Crossing the plain of Amahdoo some men 
were observed to the southward, marching towards the 
Caffilah ; the alarm and the order to close up were instantly 
given; our men threw aside their upper garments and pre-^ 
pared for action, being fully persuaded that it was a party 
of Eesa coming to attack them. However, on nearer 
approach we observed several camels with them; two men 
were sent on to inquire who they were; they proved to be 
a party of Somalis going to Ousak for grain. At 8 p.m. 
we halted on the plain of Dakwaylaka. 

At daylight on February the 2nd, theRas el CafBlab, 
Deeni, and Mahomed accompanied me in advance of the 
caravan to water our mules at Dakwavlaka. Arriving 
there about 11 a.m. we found the Bedoos watering 
their cattle. Mahomed unbridled his animal, which rushed 
towards the trough from which the cattle were drinking; 
the fair maid who was at the well baling out the water 
into the trough immediately set up the shrill cry of alarm, 
and we were compelled to move about a mile up the 
Wady, when we came to a pool of water black as ink. 
Thirsty as I was I could not touch the stuff. The Caffilah 
arrived about half-past 1 P.M., by which time the cattle 
of the Bedoos had all been driven off to grass, so that the 
well was at our service^ We encamped close to it. Ibrahim 
recommended that Adam Burroo.of the Assoubal tribe, a 
young Bedoo, and a relation of his should accompany our 



LIEUTENANT BARKER'S NARRATIVE, 


617 


party. I promised him ten dollars at Tajoorah.* At 
3 P.M., having completed my arrangements, and leaving 
one servant behind to bring up the luggage, I quitted the 
Caffilah amidst the universal blessings of the people. I 
was accompanied by Ibrahim, the Ras el Caffilah, Deeni 
ibn Hamid, my interpreter, three of my servants, and the 
young Bedoo, hH mounted on mules. One baggage mule, 
fastened behind one of my servants' animals, carried a little 
flour, parched grain, and coffee, coffee-pot, frying-pan, and 
one suit of clothes for each. Advancing at a rapid pace, 
about 5 P.M. we came up with a party consisting of 
Eesa, with their camels. One of them instantly collected 

the camels, whilst the others hurried towards us in a su^ 

( 

picious way. The Bedoo hastened to meet them, and we 
were permitted, owing, I was told, to my firearms, the 
appearance of which pleased them not, to proceed quietly. 
At 7 P. M., having arrived at a place where grass was 
abundant, we turned off the road and halted. 

At 1*30 A.M., on Thursday, 3rd February, as the moon 
rose we saddled our mules and pushed forward at a rapid 
2 >ace. At 4 am. w^e halted and had a cup of coffee each, 
when we again mounted. As the day broke we came 
upon an encampment of the Debeneh, who hearing the 
clatter of our mules' hoofs, set up the cry of alarm. The 
Bedoo pacified them: they had supposed us to be a party 


* As the youth gave perfect satisfaction, he received, besides the 
ten dollars, a Tobe and a European saddle, " to which he had taken a 
great fancy." 



618 


APPENDIX V,, 

of Eesa. We continued our journey, and about 10 A.m: 
we halted for breakfast, which consisted of coflfee and 
parched grain. At noon we again moved forward, and at 
3 P.M., having arrived at a pool of water called Murhabr 
in the Wady Dalabayah, we halted for about an hour 
to make some bread. We then continued through the 
Wady, passed several Bedoo encampments till a little 
after dark, when we descended into the plain of Grurgudeli, 
Here observing several fires, the Bedoo crawled along to 
reconnoitre, and returned to say they were Debeneh,- We 
gave them a wide berth, and about 8*30 p.m, halted. We 
were cautioned not to make a fire, but I had a great 
desire for a cup of coffee after the fatigue of this long 
march. Accordingly we made a small fire, concealing it 
with shields. 

At 3 A.M. on Friday, the 4th Februaiy, we resumed 
our journey. After about an hour and a half arriving at 
a good grazing ground,, we halted to feed the mules, and 
then watered them at Alooli. At 1 P,M, I found the sun 
so oppressive that I was obliged to halt for two hours. 
We had struck off to the right of the route pursued by 
the Embassy, and crossed, not the Salt Lake, but the hills 
to the southward. The wind blowing very strong con¬ 
siderably retarded our progress, so that we did not arrive 
at Dahfurri, our halting-place, till sunset. Dahfurri is 
situated about four miles to the southward of Mhow, the 
encampment of the Embassy near the Lake, and about 
*300 yards to the eastward of the road. Here we found 
a large basin of excellent water, which the Tajoorians 



LIEUTENANT BARKER'S NARRATIVE, 


619 


informed me was a mere mass of mud when we passed 
by to Shoa, but that the late rains had cleared away all 
the impurities* After sunset a gale of wind blew. : 

"At 1 A.M. on the 5th February, the wind having de¬ 
creased we started. Passing through the pass of the Rer 
Essa, the barking of dogs caused us some little uneasiness, 
as it betrayed the vicinity of the Bedoo, whether friend or 
foe we knew not. Ibrahim requested us to keep close 
order, and to be silent. As day broke we descended into 
the plain of Warrah Lissun, where we halted and ate the 
last of the grain. After half an hour's halt we continued 
our journey. Ibrahim soon declared his inability to keep 
up with us, 60 he recommended me to the care of ^ke 
Bedoo and Deeni, saying he would follow slowly. We 
arrived at Sagulloo about 11 A.M., and Ibrahim about two 
hours afterwards. At 3 p.m. we resumed our march, and 
a little before sunset arrived at Ambaboo. 

The elders had a conference which lasted about a 
quarter of an hour, when they came forward and welcomed 
me, directing men to look after my mules. I was led to 
a house which had been cleaned for my reception. Ibrahim 
then brought water and a bag of dates, and shortly af¬ 
terwards some rice and milk. Many villagers called to 
pay their respects, and remained but a short time as I 
wanted repose : they would scarcely believe that I had 
travelled in eighteen days from Shoa, including four day's 
halt. 

"Early on the morning of the 6th February I set out 
for Tajoorah, where I was received with every demon- 



620 


appendix V. 


stratlon of welcome by both rich and poor. The Sultan 
gave me his house, and after I had drunk a eup of coffee 
with him, considerately ordered away all the people who 
had flocked to see me, as, he remarked, I must be tired 
after so rapid a journey. 

It may not be amiss to mention here that the British 
character stands very high at Tajoorah. The people 
assured me that since the British had taken Aden they had 
enjoyed peace and security, and that from being beggars 
they had become princes* As a proof of their sincerity 
they said with pride, ^ Look at our village, you saw it a 
year and a half ago, you know what it was then, behold 
what is now!' I confessed that it had been much im¬ 
proved." 

(From Tajoorah the traveller, after awarding his at¬ 
tendants, took boat for Zayla, where he was hospitably 
received by the Hajj Sharmarkay's agent. Suffering 
severely from fever, on Monday the 14th February he 
put to sea again and visited Berberah, where he lived in 
Sharmarkay's house, and finally he arrived at Aden on 
Friday the 25th February, , 1842. He concludes the 
narrative of his adventure as follows.) 

It is due to myself that I should offer some explanation 
for the rough manner in which this report is drawn up. 
On leaving Shoa the Caffilah people marked with a jealous 
eye that I seemed to number the slaves and camels, and 
DeenI reported to me that they had observed my making 
entries in my note-book. Whenever the Bedoos on the 
road caught sight of a piece of paper, they were loud in 



LIEUTENANT BARKER'S NARRATIVE, 


621 


their demands for it.* Our marches were so rapid that I 
was scarcely allowed time sufficient to prepare for the 
fatigues of the ensuing day, and .experience had taught me 
the necessity of keeping a vigilant watch, f Aware that 
Government must be anxious for information from the 
^ Mission/ 1 performed the journey in a shorter space of 
time than any messenger, however highly paid, has yet 
done it, and for several days lived on coffee and parched 
grain. Moreover, on arrival at Aden, I was so weak from 
severe illness that I could write but at short intervals. 

It will not, I trust, be considered that the alteration in 
my route was caused by trivial circumstances. It would 
have been absurd to have remained with the Bedojys 
without an interpreter: there would have been daily dis¬ 
putes and misunderstandings, and I had already sufficient 
insight into the character of Datah Mahomed to perceive 
that his avarice was insatiable. * Supposing I had passed 
through his hands, there was the chief of Bedar, who, 
besides expecting much more than I had given to Datah 
Mahomed, would, it is almost certain, eventually have 
forwarded me to Tajoorah. Finally, if I can believe the 

* In these wild countries every bit of paper written over is con¬ 
sidered to be a talisman or charm. 

f A sergeant, a corporal, and a Portuguese cook belonging to 
Captain Harris's mission were treacherously slain near Tajoorah 
at night. The murderers were Hamid Saborayto, and Mohammed 
Saborayto, two Dankalis of the Ad All clan. In 1842 they seem to 
have tried a ruse de guerre upon M. Rochet, and received from him 
only too mild a chastisement. The ruffians still live at Juddah 
(Jubbah ?) near Ambabo. 



622 


APPENDIX V. 


innumerable reports of the people, both at Tajoorab and 
Zalaya, neither I myself nor my servants would ever have 
passed through the kingdom of Hurrur. The jealousy of 
the prince against foreigners Is so great that, although 
he would not injure them within the limits of his own 
dominions, he would cause them to be waylaid and 
murdered on the road." 



INDEX. 




INDEX. 


A, 

Abadan, Bishop of Cape Aden, 
iOO.n. 

Abar (Jahr of the Arabs), the term 
explained, 204. ra. 

Abaskul, tribe of the, 280. 

Abbadie, M. Antoine d*, the Abyssi¬ 
nian traveller, 445. n, 

Abban, or protector, 89. and n. 
Various names for, among different 
tribes and races, 89. n. His 
multiform duties, 89* n. Greedi¬ 
ness of one, 92, 93. 

Abbaso Valley, the, 208. 

Abd el Malik, the Shaykh, his tomb, 
256. 

Abd el Muttaleb, grandfather of 
Mohammed, his sacrihee, 87. n. 

Abd el Rahman el Burai, the cele¬ 
brated Arab poet, specimen of his 
melancholy imagery, 53—55. 

Abd el Rahman bin Umar el Harari, 
the Kazi, 333. 

Abdool Kader Ansari Jezeri, Sheikh, 
a Mahomedaii author, quoted, 
78. n, 

Abdool Kurreem, a victorious Mo¬ 
hammedan general, 66. n. 

Abdy, an abbreviation of Abdullah, 
9. n. 

Abdy Abokr, or ** End of Time,** 
(servant of the author*s), his per¬ 
sonal appearance, 9. His slioiv 
of religion, 10. and n. His 
power of repartee, 10. His extra¬ 
vagance and rascality, 10. His 
satirical remarks, 11. His skill 
in smoking and buffoonery, 11. 


His apt remark, 93. His irre¬ 
verence, 112. Keeps watch in 
the Desert, 142. His despicable 
advice, 153. His horsemanship 
derided by the Bedouins 168. 
His fearfulness,-165. His sus¬ 
picion of the Somal, 168. Remark 
concerning the Bedouins, 20^. 
His reception from the elders of 
Harar, 211. Declines joiniiig 
in an elephant hunt, 227. His 
dry answer to a boastful speech, 
238, His inspiration, 255. His 
humility, 366, His caution, 405. 
His terror in a storm, 439. 

Abdy Mohammed Diban, proprietor 
of the Aynlerad Fort, 434. 

Abesi, a venomous snake, its deadli¬ 
ness 159. 

' Abody, or Bukayyah, the beautiful 
bird so named, 224. and n. 

Aboo Abdallah Mahomed Dhabhani 
ibn Said, supposed to have been 
the first to introduce coffee into 
Arabia, 78. n. 

Aborigines, or Hamites, race of 
Eastern Africa, 98. 

Absi, the term explained, 170. n. 

Abtidon, the Gudabirsi mule'driver, 
249. His song, 266—271. His 
boastfulness 365. 

Abubakr, the Amir, story told of, 
335. n. 

Abu Jahl, tale of, referred to, 33. ' 

Abu Kasim, of Gaza, 30. n. 

Abu Shujaa, of Isfal)an, 30* n. 

Abu Sittah (the Father of Six), 
name given by the Bedouins to a 
Colt's revolver, 84. 



626 




Abu Zarbay. See xbrabitn Abu 
Zarbay. 

Abyssinia, custom, in, of detaining 

^ guests, 3. Artisans ^considered 

sorcerers in, 33. n. Superstition in, 
that the Jews are eaters of human 
blood, 37. Its existence threatened 
by the Turks, 69. Destroyed by 
Mahfuz the Moslem, 307. Sale 
of Christians as slaves in, punished 
with death, 436. n. 

Abyssinian travellers, their Inability 
to enter Harar, 1. An Abys¬ 
sinian matron described, 27, 28. 
The "Quarry" oy Tob^ 29. n. 
Descent of the Ahyssinians from 
Solomon, 98. Eusebius's declara¬ 
tion respecting, 99. ». "J'heir 
exalted estimate of salt, 136. n. 
Their " Tej" or mead, 355. n. 

Acacia, the Arman, its dense growth, 
397. - 

** Achha," " all right," 359. 

Adad, or the Acacia gum^ 163, 164. 
Its purity in the country of the 
Gudabirsi, 246. 

A dan, chief of the Gudabirsi tribe, 
his sons, 239. 

Adan, Prince of the Girhi, 92. Adan 
bln Kauslian, Gerad of Saghar- 
rah, description of bis baton, 
254. His sinister appearance, 

275. His cunning and treachery, 

" 275. His extensive family con¬ 
nexions, 276. His covetousness, 

276. 

Adari, the Somal name for Harar, 
869. n. 

Adel, a refuge for the Indian trade, 
68. Its commerce with India * 
impeded by the Turks, 69. Its 
very existence jeopardised, 69. 

Aden, difficulties and delays at, 

3. An Aden crew described, 

5. Their food and habits, 5. 
Ridiculous social distinctions in 
Aden, 39, 40. Its breed of 
asses, 75. n. The Aden Stone, 
100. n. Its climate, 418. *w. 
Prevalence of scorbutic diseases 
at, 419. a. 

Adule, or Adulis^ the port of Axum, I 
the Bay of Zayla confounded with, j 


66. n. Various opinions as to its 
position, 66. n. 

.^tliiopia, its slave trade, 70. Its 
emperors, 306—320. 

Africa, its staple manufacture, 27. n. 
Appetite of the Africans, 28. 
Various distinct races of Eastern, 
98. Popular method of landing 
in, 439. 

African rulers, their strange super¬ 
stitions and interdicts, 2. n. 

Afrikus, King (Scipio Africanus?), 

] 01. and n. 

Afur, or morning meal, of the Somal, 
264. 

Agjogsi well, 234. 

Allan, or funeral feast, 202. 

Ahmad bin Sultan Abibakr, Amir 
of Harar, his appearance and cos¬ 
tume, 298. His court, 299. Con¬ 
spired against by Arab pedlars, 

3 29. 1 ufirmity of his health, 332. 

His four Avives, 332. Severity of 
his rule, 333* His wealth, 334. 
His state, 335, 336. Attends 
at the harvest home, 354, 355. 

Ahmad bin £1 Ashraf, Prince of 
Senaa, his reception of the sons of^ 
Saad el Din, 65. 

Ajam, comprehensiveness of the 
name, 12. n. 

** Akl el Salikin," or the Food of the 
Pious, 348, 

Aksar, the, or Elixir, superstition 
concerning, 57, 58. 

Alakud, the autelope so named, 234. 
and n. 

Albuquerque, the Great, viceroy of 
India, 309. 

" Alhamdulillah !" the exclamation, 
366. 

All, the Somali poet, his erudition 
and acuteness, 368, 369. His 
song, 369. 

Ali, son of Saad el Din, 67, 

All Addah, or White All, his six 

. sons, 218. 

All Iskandar, an Arab mercenary, 
his sarcastic pleasantries, 84. 

All, the Somal term for a raid, 94. 
n. et seg, 

" Allah help the Goer, but the Re¬ 
turn is Rolling," the adage, 379. 



INDEX 


627 


« Al Ndr jra 14 al Ar," the Arabic 
maxim, 37 K n* 

Amnn 0 , King of Hadiyo, 306. 
Amba G 6 shc, the mountain of> 310. 
Amda Sion, Emperor of iEthiopia, 
806, 

Aminah the pert, 355, 

Amirs, origin of, 331, 

Andreas, Gabriel, an 'Abyssinian 
. spldier, kills Mahfuz the Moslem 
in single combat, 309, 

Angagarri, the well, 153. 

Angelo, Mr„ a Zanzibar merchant, 

4m ». 

Ao .Abdal, tomb of, 293, 

Ao Barhe, the settlement so celled, 
384. . 

Ao Samattar and Ao Nur, half¬ 
witted hedge-priests, their appear- 
t ance descril>ed, 239, Casuistical 
question of the former, 261. 

Ao Umhr Siyad and Ao Kahtnah, 
the saints, their tomb, 292. 
Apartment, the, of Sharmarkay, 
governor of Zayla, described, 16, 
. 17 . 

Aqueduct, the, at Berberah, its con¬ 
struction attributed by the Somat 
to the ancient Pagans, 425, More 
probably constructed by the Otto¬ 
mans, 425. », 

Arabia, introduction of ooffee into, 
by Shaykh cl Shazili, 76. a. 

A Tablet, a Mohammedan people so 
called, 66 . a. 

Arabs, the, their costuniie, 29. n. 

. Their mercenaries superior tp the 
Sotlinl in the use of arms, 46. 
Specimen of their melancholy 
imagery, S3 — 5^. Tlio Arabs 
supposed to have been the carlipst 
colonists of Zayla, 66 . u, llicir 
strong prctli lection for Kdt, 77. 

34S. Their superstition respecting 
it, 77. n. Their fondness (br orna¬ 
ments, 81. Their skill as marks¬ 
men, 84v Their antiquated 6 re- 
arms, 85. ^Position ^vhen in the 
act of firing, 84. Particularity 
of the nobles as to their chtU 
dren's names,103. n. Their 
aiTectibn for their horses, 222 . 
' Conspiracy of Arab pedlars agaiiist 


the Amir of Horar, 329., Tlieir 
maxim, Al Ndr wa Id al Ar,'** 371, 
It, Tlieir unscrupulous conduct, 
436. It, # 

Arcadi^ a Somal, described, 142.' 
143. 


Arish, or cowhouse, the govemor of 
Zayla> preference for, 16, Mul¬ 
titude of them in Znylp, 21. n* 
Armo creeper, the, its berries some¬ 
times used for fpod^ 185. n. ' 

Amott, Dr*, his observations upon* 
the poison called Wdbdyo, 199. 
His experiments upon animals' 
with, 199—203. 

Arrah, tlie sons of, 403. 

Arrows, poisoned, of the Midgan 
tribe, 34. it. • 

Ashrafi, -the Harar coin so named, 
its varialdc value, 335. it. 
Asliurbara, or southern gate of Zayla, 


47, ' _ , ¦ . 

Ass, superiority of the Bedpuin, 74. 
The Somali, its principal occupa¬ 


tion, 75. It, 


Assegai, the, of the Kaffirs, 42, 43. 
n. 


A ububah, the $liaykh, dcscriptipn pf 
his tomb, 217. 

Audal, or Atizal, the Somal name' 
for Zayla, 21 . 65. 369. it. 

Audalli, or necklace, 85. it, 

Auliya Kumbp, or Holy Hill, 76. 
403, 

Avalites, the ancient name of Zayla, 

66 . 

** Awwalin,** the, their toml^, 165, 

Aybla Farih (Deenarzade), her 
size, usefulness, aiid ^basjhfulness, 
1.33. 

Ayntcrad, the village of, 434, 435, 
Description of the Fort, 436, 
437, 

Ayyal Alxlfihdi, the royal race of 
the Habr Awal, 330. n, 

Ayyal Nuh Ismail, clan of the, their 
devastations, 9.3. Their blood¬ 
thirstiness, 94, 95. Their cruel 
Superstitions, 95* 

Ayyan Shtrdon, a clan of the Habr 
Awal, 316. 

Ayyal Yunis, the sept of, massacre 
of, by tlw Bedouins, 111.. , 


6 0 2 



628 


INPKX. 


B. 

Bab cl Mandeb, Straits of, occupied 
by the Turks, 69* 

** Badan,'* or sleeveless cloak, 349« 
Bagalns, or sailing craft,'-408, 
Bagnuld, Captain, his testimonial to 
Sharmarkay, Governor of Zayla, 
18, 19. 

Bahr Assal, th^r or 'Salt Lake, 135. 

V. 

** Ba),"' Somal name for the ostrich 
feather, 94, ». Proclaims its pos¬ 
sessor a brave, 149. 

Ball, the game of, 47. Importance 
attaciied to winning the game, 47. 
Balyus, £1, or the Envoy (Mahmud 
of the Mijjarthayii), 433, His^ 
bravery and interference, 452, 

«Ban,** explanation of the terra, 
1.58, n. 

Banka Hadla, plain of, 400, 

Banyan,, or trader, facetious name 
given to, by the Somal, 432, 

** Baradublay" ( Somal name for the 
grey rat), its voraciousness, 160. », 
''Barbarah** (Berberah), its reputa¬ 
tion, 100 , 

Bargaining, the Asiatic style of, 
124. ». 

Barjimo, or stool, of the Somali, 59. 
Barker, the Abyssinian traveller, 1 . 
Barker, Lieut, William, I. N,, his. 
account of an attempt to reach 
Harar from Ankobar, 597—622. 
Barki, or Somali pillow, 59, 

Bartema, the traveller, his aceount 
of Zeila (Zayla), 69—^71. His 

description of Berberah, 407, 
"Barwako** (Rakha), or place of 
plenty, 204,». 

Battaladayti Taranay,**'the Flats of 
Taranay, 397, 

** Baime,*' or Hyrax Abyssiniohs, 
237. 

Beads, their occasional use in the 
Somali country in lieu of money, 

• 86 . n. 

Bedouins. (See also Soma},) Their 
reasons for avoiding codee, 17. a. 
Their encampment at Zayla, 21 , n. 
Purveyors of milk, 23. n* Mur¬ 
der of two infants by, 31, Tlieir 


personal appearance despribed, 48, 
Tlieir dress and warlike imple¬ 
ments, 48. Fear of the Bedouin 
children at the sight of a wliitcman, 
49. Their goodnature, 49. Trans¬ 
lation of a remark of the author's 
by a Bedouin, 49, Their irrever¬ 
ence and blasphemy, 52, Supposed 
to have learned the languages of 
birds and beasts, 57, Superiority 
of their animals, 74, Their un¬ 
couth appearance, 75. Tlieir danc^ 
75. Tlieir name for the castorr 
plant, 81, Their prejudice against 
eating birds, 82. The ** price of 
blood,** 86,87. Trepidation of the 
inliabitants of Zayla at the appear¬ 
ance of three, 87, Vanity and 
cruelty of, 88 , Their migration 
during ihe monsoon, 93. w. Their 
blood feuds, 95, Their style of 
hair dressing, 106. llieir beauty- 
marks, 108. Their hospitality and 
gratitude, 111 , 112 . 224. Frauds 
practised upon, by the inhabitants 
of the towns, 124. Their fond¬ 
ness for salt, 135. n. Their ap¬ 
pellation of ** sun-dwellers,** 189. 
Curiosity at the approach of a 
caravan, 144. Their contempt 
for modern weapons, 143, Their 
astonishment at the eifects of rifle- 
practice, 145. 7'heir mute solici¬ 
tations, 146. Dislike of account¬ 
keeping, 146. tt. Disgusting 
method of testifying their good 
wishes, 147. and n. Sim]>licily of 
their funerals, -148. Facility in 
discovering the breed of animals, 
150. n. Their gluttony and fas¬ 
tidiousness, 154, 155. Cupidity 
and menaces of a Bedouin escort, 
156, 157. Frightened into pro¬ 
priety of conduct by threat of 
sorcery, 157. Their horror of 
serpents, 159. n* Their fancy for 
eating gums, 163. Their curiosity, 
188. Their "palaver,*' 189, 1*90. 
Circumlocution, 191. Use the 
pod of the acacia as food, 198, n. 
Their fondness for heat, 2tw>, 
Tlieir << sham attacks,** 212 . - Their 
water bottles, 214. Their pro- 



INDEX, 


629 


pensity for horse racing and bet¬ 
ting, 222. Humiliation of a Be¬ 
douin warrior, 225. The Wer,** 
or symbol of widowhood, 248. and 
n. Hudeiie^of the Ayyal Shirdon 
tribe, 899. Deceitfulness of the 
, Bedouins. 448. Their attack upon 
the English camp at Berberah, 
449 —>458, Their war-dance, 454, 
Their greediness for spoil, 455. 

** Belly of the Master is not known," 
the phrase, S8S. 

Berbefah, the Somali, confounded 
with the Berbers of Nubia, 67. n. 
Description of, by the traveller 
Bartema, 407-. And by Lieut. 
Cruttenden, 408—410. Its Fair, 
409, 410. Its origin, 411. Its 
situation, 415, 416. Salubrity of 
its climate, 417. n. Disputes of 
Abbansat, 419. n. Its system of 
dues, 419. «. Its currency, 419, 
n. Supposed amount of the 
money dues taken during the Fair 
season, 420. n. Ruins in the 
neighbourhood of Berberah, 420, 

421. Its geological formation, 

422, n. Its Aqueduct, 424, Its 
ex]>orts, 425. n. Its confusion 
during the Fair, 441—443. De¬ 
serted during the monsoon, 447. 
Meteorological observations at, by 
Lieut. Herne, 583. 

Berbers, the, their settlement at 
Zayla, 67. Their descent, 67- n. 

Berille, the loud-lunged, 354, 355. 

Berteri, a clan of the Somal, 278, 

Beuh, the son of White Ali, 218. 
His procrastination and timidity, 
226. Takes part in an elephant 
hunt, 227. His fear of a lion, 
252. 

Bidaa, Kumayyo, or witch, 58. 

Bilad Wa Issi, the Land of give 
me Something,*^ 112.. 

Binnur," a peculiar sort of bead, 

' 86. n. 

Birbisa, the tree so called, 288. 
and ». 

Bird, Dr., his interpretation of the 
Aden stone, 100. n. 

** Birsan," meaning of the .word, 
242. ?i. 


" Biya Hablod," or the Girls* Water, 
16*3. 

Biyu Gora, or Night-running Water, 
the, 425. 

Blasphemy common among the So¬ 
mal, 50, 51. 

Blood money, only accepted under 
certain circumstances, 88. a. 

Blyth, Mr., the naturalist, his opi¬ 
nion concerning the Waraba, 83. n. 

Boeda Mariam, Emperor of .Ethio¬ 
pia, 307. 

Bolungo, or ordeals, of Western 
Africa, 113. 

Books, beauty of those of Harar, 
.361. 

Boon, or coffee berry, 78- n» 

" Bor,'* meaning of the expression, 
158. «. 

** Bori,'* the Eesa name for tobacco, 
156. 

Bruce, the traveller, his description 
of Zayla, 64. n. His pedantry 
and vanity, 312. n. f 

Buamado, or castor plant, 81. 

" Budd,'* the, or club, of the So¬ 
mali, described, 45, 46* 

Buh [ Buh 1 Buh 1 the exclamation, 
236. 

Bnlliar, the site of, 401. 

Bulho Faranji, the Franks* Water¬ 
ing-place, 404, 

Burckhardt, the traveller, objection 
of the Hejazis to, 143. n. Unsuc¬ 
cessful termination to his pilgrim¬ 
age, 432. 

Burhale Nuh, the Abban, his dis¬ 
pute, 429—431. 

Bursuk, a Somal tribe, 279. 

Burton, Richard, determines to enter 
Harar, 2. Embarks from Maala 
Bunder, 3. Enters the Zayla 

Creek, 13. Arrives in sight of 

his destination^ 14. Refuses per¬ 
mission to land, 14. Goes ashore 
in a cockboat, 15. Reception at 
the gate of Zayla, 16. His intro¬ 

duction to Shannarkay, the gover¬ 
nor, 16. Is assigned the princi¬ 
pal seat in the governor's apart¬ 
ment, 17. Life in Zayla, 26. 
His numerous visitors, 28—37. 
His evening occupations, 41, 


f S 8 



630 


INDEX. 


. Practises with Somali weapons, 
44—46. Reputed to be the 
strongest man in ZayJa, 46. Pro¬ 
ceeds to the Ashurbara or Sou¬ 
thern Gate, 47. Games of ball 
and hockey, 47. Inspects a Be** 

• ¦ douin encampment, 48, Asto¬ 
nishment of the Bedouin children 
at his appearance, 48. Flattered 
by the attentions of a small black 
girl, 49. Remark of the author's 
translated by a Bedouin, 49. Dis¬ 
belief in the opinion that the idea 
of^ Supreme Being is familiar to 
all barbarians, 50, n. His rest 
disturbed by the groans of an Kesa 
lady, 51. After-supper employ¬ 
ments, 52, Superstitiousness of 
his companions, 55. Attends ser¬ 
vice in the Cathedral, 61. Visits 
Saad el Din, 64. Historical in¬ 
quiries,* 65. Inspects the Daftar, 
or office papers, 65. His wander¬ 
ings through the island, 73.* Open- 
air feeding and siesta, 73. De- 
. parts from Saad el Din, 74. 
Meets a caravan of the Danakil, 
74. Quizzes the Bedouins' war¬ 
like accoutrements, 75. Goes 
with an escort to the Hissi or 
. well, 77. Scowled upon by Eesa 
camel owners, 80, Starts upon a 
sporting expedition, 81. His suc¬ 
cess, 82. Meets a party of Eesa 
. girls, 85. Proposes marriage to 
one of the party, 85. Unable to 
agree upon terms with the lady, 
85. Reception on his arrival at 
Zayla, 86. Requests an Abban, , 
or protector, from the Hajj at 
Aden, 89, His irritation at the 
indolence of the Hajj, 90. Pre¬ 
parations for bis departure from 
Zayla, 97, Starts for llarar, 129. 
Interchanges salutes with the sol¬ 
diers, 129. Assumes the charac- 
V ter of a Moslem merchant, 131, 
Description of his caravan, 132. 
Enumeration of his attendants, 
132—IS8. Dines off a pet lamb, 
137. List of his expenses, 187'. «. 
Order of march, 138. Miserable 
. travelling, 139. Suffers from the 


effects of the sun, 139. Halts at 
'*Gagab," 140. Homely supper 
in the Desert, 141. Luxuriates in 
the night breeze, 141. Sleeps with 
his rifle for a p^low, 141. Non- 
apprehensiveness* of danger, 141. 
Continues bis Journey, 142. Ar¬ 
rival at " Gudingaras," 144. Wea¬ 
pons derided by the inhabitants, 

145. Astonishes tliem with his 
rifle-practice, 145. Applied to 
for a charm to cure a »ck camel, 

146. Is spit upon, for good luck, 

147. Goes on a hunting expedi¬ 
tion, 147. Vbits the tomb of an 
Eesa brave, 147. Leaves Gu¬ 
dingaras, 149. Takes the post of 
honor on the march, 150. Re¬ 
ceives the appellation oF ** the old 
man who knows knowledge," 151. 
Inspects the Dihh Silil, or freshet, 
151. Reaches Kuranyali, 153. 
Receives questionable advice from 
the ** End of Time," 153. His 
proposed departure from Kuran- 
yali demurred to by the Be¬ 
douins, 156, 157. Restores them 
to their senses by threatening them 
with sorcery, 157. Is' permitted 
to depart, but without the pro¬ 
mised escort, 157. Protects him¬ 
self against venomous reptiles, 160. 
Crosses "jBiya Hablod," or the 
Girls' Water, 163, Arrives at an 
Eesa kraal, 166. His entertain¬ 
ment there, 167. Bathes in a sul¬ 
phureous spring, 171. Reception 
by the inhabitants of a village, 

171. Singular titles given to him, 

172. His opinion of the Eesa, 
176. Departs from the Zayla 
hills, 183. Ascends the Wady 
Darkaynlay, 186. Scarcity of 
water, 192. Frightens a body of 
predatory Gudabirsi into submis¬ 
sion, 194. Interview with a pretty* 
woman of the tribe, 195, 196. 
'Stung by ants, 197, ' Arrives at 
the Kafir's Grave, 200. Halts at 
the ** Halimalah," or Holy Tree, 
204. Visits Dnrbiyah Kola, or 
Kola's Fort, .2 09. Approaches his 
journey's end, 211* Endures the 



IKDKX 


631 


miseries of a kraal^ 212, Suffers I 
ill health, 216, Starts, for the 
ruins of Aububah, 216. Visits 
the battle held, 217. Attends at 
a Soma) feast, 219. His indispo* 
sitlon and the remedy applied, 

219, 220, Reaches the Haraw- 
wah valley, 224, Writes a letter 
to the Gerad A dan of Sagharrah, 
'226. Encounters and defeats a 
Bedouin at single ^ stick, 225. 
Joins in an elephant hunt, 227. 
Reaches tlie base of the Koralay, 
or Saddleback Hill, 233. Honors 
a Bedouin lady with a salute of 
one gun, 234. Ascends to the 
summit of the Saddleback, 235. 
Crowned king of the country by 
the « End of Time," 236, 237. , 

His letter to the Gerad A dan re¬ 
turned unopened, 237. Acquires 
an evil reputation, laSS. Visited 
by two half-witted hedge-priests, 

239. Presents them with copies 
of the- Koran, 239. Enters the 
Prairie of Marar, 249. Pursued 
by a lion, 252. Visited by 
" Dahabo," sixth wife of the Gerad 
Adan, 254. Arrives at Wilensi, 

262. Conducted to the cottage of 
Sudiyah,the Gerad's prettiest wife, 

262. Acts as a peacemaker, 271. 
Practical answer to the question 
of a Midgan, 272, Arrives at 
Sagharraii, 280. His ilhiess at the 
Gerad's house, 281. Kindly 
treated, by the inmates, 281, In¬ 
terview with the Gerad, 281—28.3. 
Suspected by a Harari deputation, 

282. Proposes to start for Harar, 

28.3. Opposition of his com¬ 
panions, 284. Writes a letter to 
the Amir of Harar, 285. His 
escort, 286. Pays toll at the Galla 
Pass, 287. Crosses the Erar River, , 
290. Disappointed at the aspect 
of Harar, 291. Arrives at the 
city, 295. His audience of the 
Amir,298—SOI. Visitsthe Vizier 
301. Bed-time reflections, 303. 
Collects a Harar vocabulary, 324. 
Called upon by the Arabs and 
Somal of Harar, 345, 346. Waits 

8 8 4 


upon the Gerad Mohammed, 346, 
His theology approved of by the 
Vizier and his court, 349. Second 
visit to the Amir, 349. Explains | 
his intentions, 350. Visited by 
the Shaykh Jami, 350. Damned 
by the Shaykh for a heretic, 352. 
i^cond visit to the Gerad Mo¬ 
hammed, 357. Final audience of 
the Amir, 358, Again visited by 
theShaykh Jami, 361. Dines with 
him, 362, Last visit to the Gerad 
Mohammed) 362. Departure 
from Harar, 364. Enters the 
village of Sagharrah, 366. En¬ 
thusiastically received by the in¬ 
habitants, 366. Hospitably en¬ 
tertained in the house of the Gerad, 
367. Congratulated by the peo¬ 
ple of Wilensi, 367. Endeavours 
to console Mad Said, 370. En¬ 
tertains Shaykh Jami and l^Is , 
companions, 371. Determines fo 
depart from Wilensi, 372, Vexa¬ 
tious (Jelays, 373. Re-enters the 
Marar Prairie, 374, Interview 
with Madar Farih, a Somal chief, 
375. Rejoined by his companions, 
375. Fresh .disappointments, 376 
—378. Crosses the Marar Prairie, 
378, 379. Inconvenience result¬ 
ing from compulsory uncleanli- 
ness, 379. Takes leave of his 
friends and property, 381. Places 
himself under the guidance of 
"Dubayr,"the Donkey, 383. Suf* 
ferings from thirst, 387. Pleasing 
visions and dreadful realities, 387. 
Descends the Gogaysa Valley, 
388. Discovers pools of water, 
388, Enters Wady Danan, or 
" The Sour," 389. Arrives at 
Dihh Murodi, or Elephants' Val¬ 
ley, 391. Falls in with the tribe 
of the Ayyal Shirdon, 399. Ob¬ 
liging proposal to the warriors of 
the tribe, 400. Inspects the site 
of Bulhar, 401. Arrives at Ber- 
berah, 406. His reception by the 
inhabitants, 413, 414. His visit 
to ruins near Berberah, 419—421. 
Inspects the Biya Gora, or Night¬ 
running Water, 425. Settles a 



632 


INDEX. 


dispute between rival Abbans, 
4j9 —431. Leaves Berberab, 431. 
Embarks on board El Kasab, or 
the Reed, 431. Arrives at Siyaro, 
432. Visits the wells there, 433, 
Reaches Aynterad, 433. Arms in 
defence of the village, 434. His 
dangerous situation, 434. Amused 
at the feai^ of the crew of the 
" Reed,*' 438, 439. Leaves Ayn¬ 
terad, 439. Lands at Aden, 440. 
Again visits Berberah, 441. Num¬ 
ber and character of his party, 443. 
Position of bis camp, 443, 444. 
Attacked by the Bedouins, 449. 
Is wounded with a javelin, 452, 
Escapes to a vessel in the creek, 
453, Returns to Aden, 458, His 
Grammatical Outline and Vocabu¬ 
lary of the Harari Language, 509 
-^582. 

** Biisen," whence derived, 5665, n, 

Bushman, the, his mode of destroy¬ 
ing the elephant, 228. n. 

" Bus^*' or half-decked vessel, 
5. n, 

" Buzah,'* or millet beer, 265. «. 


C. 

Calmat el Catiat, or Cafta, its in¬ 
toxicating effects, 78. n. 

Camel drivers, female, their boister¬ 
ous mirthfulness, 80. 

Camels, their flesh the principal 
food of the ancient Zaylans, 68. 
Those of the Somali expensive 
and comparatively useless, 74. n. 
Superiority of those of the Dan- 
kali, 74. n. Example of their 
unaccommodating disposition, 
128. Camels* milk used medi¬ 
cinally by the Somal, 178. Prices 
of camels, 446. n. 

Cape Kafirs, the, mutilation of their 
enemies by, 95. n. 

Caravan of the Danakil described, 
74, 75. The Ogadayn caravans, 
432. n. 

Carlyle, Mr., 418. 

Carter, Dr., of Bombay, note by, 
422. n. 


Caste, the system of, general amongst 
the Somal, 33. n. 

Casuistry, Mahomedan, 78. n. . 

Cattle-trough of the Somali de¬ 
scribed, 80. 

Cerastes, or serpent, superstitions 
respecting, 159. n. 

Children, the Somal, method of 
training, 123. 

Christians, the Abyssinian, ^ their 
dislike to coffee and. tobacco, 
17. n- Confederacy against them, 
65. 

Christopher, Don, a Portuguese 
general, defeats the King of Adel, 
313. His martyrdom, 316. Tra¬ 
dition respecting, 316. 

Circumcision, practised by the So¬ 
mal, 123. 

" City of the Slave Merchant,*' Ta- 
jurrah so called, 13. 

Civilization unfavourably contrasted 
with barbarism, - 9. 

Clans, tbe Eesa tribe divided into, 
174. Enumeration of them, 174. 
n. 

Claudius, Emperor of .Ethiopia, 
killed in battle with the Moslems, 
319. Canonised, 320. 

Coffee, objection of the Abyssinian 
Christians to, 27. n* Fondness 
of the Gallas for, 17. n. Fertile 
theme for Mahomedan casuistry, 
77. n. The coffee of Harar, 840, 
341. 

Coffee-houses, absence of, in Zayla,. 
17. n. 

Coffee-tea, the, of the Harari, 353. 
and n. 

Collyrium, the gall of the crow used 
by the Arabs for, 82. * 

Commerce, the, of India, serioudy 
injured by the Turks, 68, 69. 

Compass, the mariners*, or Dayrah, 

S. R. 

, Coronation, ceremony of, among the 
low-caste Bedouins, 237. and n. 

Covilhao, Pedro, the Portuguese 
envoy, imprisonment and death of, 
in Abyssinia, S. n. 

Corvus crassirostris, or raven, de¬ 
scription of the, 261. and n. 

Crow, the, Somal tradition respect- 



INDEX. 


633 


ing, 82. n. Numerous varieties 
of) in Africa) 83. n. The **king> 
crow " of India, 83. «. 

Cruttenden, Lieut., quoted, 2. His 
description of Berberab, 408 — 
410. Attributes the construction 
of the Aqueduct at Berberah to 
the Persians, 425, n. His obser¬ 
vations on the port of Karam, 
437. n. 

Gumming, Mr, Gordon, his opinion 
respecting the Waraba, 83. n. 

I 

D. 

Daasa, the operation so called, 
133. n. 

Dabagalia, the, or ground squirrel, 
160. 

Dabasenis, the hill, 402. 

Daftar, or oihce papers, of Moham¬ 
med Khaiih, 65. 

Dagah^ meaning of the word, 
208. n. 

Daga Malablay, a detached rock, 
416. n. 

Dagger, the Somali, described, 45. 

** Dahabo," wife of the Gerad Adan 
of Sagharrah, 253, 254, 

Ddir, or cold season, of the Somal, 
204. n. 

Dairti or Hals, the rain so called, 
204. n. 

Darnel, or pod, of the acacia, its 
use as food by the Bedouins, 
193. n. 

Danakil, a caravan of the, descrip¬ 
tion of, 74, 75. Their camels, 
74, n. Their blood feud, 95, 96. 

Dances, Somali, description of their 
peculiarities, 59. 60. 

D'Anville, the traveller, his opinion 
of the situation of Adule, 66. n. 

Dar, or aloe, three species of the, 

- described, 192. n. 

Darbiya Kola (Kola's Fort),209. 

Darud Jabarti bin Ismail bin 
Akil, his supposed sacrilege and 
punishment, 103, 104. Position 
of his tomb, 104. n. 

Dates, singular use of, by the So¬ 
ma), 455. i». 


^ Daudaulay, the, or woodpecker, 205. 

Daughters, among the Somal, not 
considered as part of the family,. 
121 . 

David, King of Ethiopia, destruc¬ 
tion of Saad el Din by, 65. 

David 111., Emperor of Ethiopia, 
defeats the Moslems, 309. Killed 
by Mohammed Gragne, King of 
Adel, SiO. 

" Dawwir el farman," the order, 
438. 

Day rah, the, or mariners* compass, 
its origin according to the Orien¬ 
tals, 3. and n. 

Duyyib, or pine, of the Somal, 257 
n, 

De Bey, his remarks respecting the 
Cape Kuhrs, 95. n. 

" Debra Berhan," the ** Hill ef 
Glory,** 306. n. 

Del, the, or milk-pail, 215. 

Delgorgue, M., the French travell- 
ler, 83. n. His assertions concern¬ 
ing elephants, 229. n. His re¬ 
marks on the honey'bird, 390. n. 

Dera, or gazelles, 163. 

Desert, a night in the, 141. Its 
vegetation, 19.3. Geological com¬ 
position of parts of, 197. 

" Devils," ,Arab name for pillars of, 
sand, 154. n. 

D*Herbelot, his remarks respecting 
Caftah, 78. n. 

Diary and Observations of Lieut. 
Speke, 459. 

Digarin, the Somal name > for spur- 
fowl, 82. n, 

** Digo," or sticks for hut building, 
214. 

Dihh Murodi, or Murodilay, the 
Elephants* Valley, 391. 

Dihh Silil, the, described, 151. 

Dijajat el Ba,rr(the wild hen), 81. n, 

" Diksi as,** red venomous fly, 24, n, 

" Dir,** signification of. the word, 
158. ». 

Dirrand Aydur, tribes of the Eesa 
derived from, 17.3. 

Divorce, frequency of, among the 
Somal, 122. Solemnity of the 
divorce-oath, 448. 

Diwan el Jabr, or Civil Court, 126. 



634 


IK1>EX. 


'** J)iyat.** the, or price of blood, of 
the pagan Arabs, 87. n. 

" Dobo'dogonguswen,** the bird so 
called, 224. 

Doghlab, the rill so named, 289. 

Dogs, settled Somal horror of, 148. 
«, Treasured by the wild people, 
144. n, 

Donyale, or waspdioncy of the Somal, 
S9i. «. • - 

Door, the, a valutable article among 
the Harari, 297. n. 

Draughts (Shantarah), the gatne of, 
described^ 41. n,- 
^Dua, or blessing, S48.' 

Dubada Gumbar Madu, the Two 
Black Hills, 433. 

Dubar Wena, or Great Dubar, 423. 

Dubar Yirr, or Little Dubar, 423. 

** Dobayr,*' the Donkey, a Bedouin 
guide, 383. Relates'the legend 
of " Moga^s eye-tooth,'* *385, 
388. 

Dubshid, or New Year's Day, its 
literal meaning, 114. n. 

«Durdur," the word explained^ 
151. ». 

Duwao, or jackal, his epicureanism 
251. ». 


E. 

Edens of Adel, the, 151. 

Eesa, tribe- - of. (See Bedouins.) 
Villanous expression of their faces, 
6. Rain measure chaunted by an 
Kcsa youth, 6, Their savage at¬ 
tack upon a caravan, and diaboli¬ 
cal cruelty, 15^ n. Prefer the 
lance to other weapons, 44. Tticir 
irreverence and blasphemy, 32. 
Their blood feuds, 95, 96. Tomb 
of an Eesa brave, 147. Methods 
of distinguishing their warriors, 
149. ». An Eesa kraal, 166, 167. 
Hospitality of the Eesa, 167. 
Their covetousness, 168. Cruel 
treatment of their sick, 169. Power, 
extent, and ancestry of the Eesa, 
173. Thcirdivision intoclans, 174. 
and a. Their recognition of an 
Ugaz, or chief, 174. ' Their go¬ 


vernment, 175. Their character, 
175, 176. Their personal appear¬ 
ance, 177. Principal sources of 
wealth, 177, 178. Monotony of 
their life, 179. Names given to 
their animals, 179. «. Their 
diseases, 180. n. 

- Egyptians, the ancient, their venera¬ 
tion for the ostrich feather, 
94. n. 

Elal-jog, or Dweller at "Wells,'* the 
pigeon so called, 237. 

Elaoda, the village of, 291. 

Elephant hunt, an, description of, 
228. Abundance of elephants in 
Harawwah, 230r 
** Elphinstone," the, 444. 

** End of Time," the, its allusion to 
the Moslem priesthood, 9. »., ct 
seg. See Mulla and Abdy 
Abokr. 

England, barbarism of its mining 
. counties, 49. 

Erar River, tlie, 290. 

Eusebius, his declaration concerning 
the Abyssinians, 99. n. ' 
Expenses, travelling, list of, 137. n« 


F. 


Fakih A dan, the, 33. 

Fakr oud Deen Mekki, his treatise 
• on the use of colFee, 78. «. 

Fal, meaning of the word, 87. n 
248. 

I Families, outcast, among the Somal, 
33. «. 

« Faranj,-' the Bedouin name for a 
Frank, 145. 

** Faras^" ¦ or horses, of the Somal, 
described, 220. 

Farasilah, the weight so called, 246. 
340. 

Fath el Habashah, the, 303. 

FolaShas, or Jews, supposed by the 
Abyssinians to possess the power 
of metamorphosis, 57. n. 

r^61on, his description of tlie savage 
dress, 108. n. 

Fida, or expiatory offering, 281. 



INDEX. 


635 


w*Fid-iPcr," pr the* evening flyer, 
Somali name for a bat, 23. n. 

Fin, the. a bird of ill omen, 161. n. 
'•* Fire, but not . shame !'* the Somul 
doctrine, 371. 

Firman, the late, of the Sultan of 
t Turkey, consequences of, 339. n. 
Fish, the principal food of the Kay- 
Ians, 68. Out of favour as an 
' article of diet, 6fl. n* Despised 
by the Bedouins, 164. 

Flogj^ng, public, in Harar, 398.* 

Fol Kr Aj, decoration lor the arm. 

M9. «. 

** Fola,** tbc ceremony so called, 366. 
Forimo, the, or reed-pipe of the 
Ecsa, 180. 

Forsknl, Mr., his^remarks respecting 
f tile Kat plant, 77, n, ^ 

Forster, Rev. Mr., liis interpretation 
of the Adbn stone, 100. n* 

^ Fdyst,** or •half, decked vessel, 5. «. 
Frciicfh lady, sensation caused among 
. the Snmal by a, 216. a. 

Furzei), • the, or custom house, at 
Siyaro, 433. • 

Futoh, or loin-cloth, 326. 


G. 

** Ga'angal," or ** fairies* tyell,*'* 393* 

Gnfra^ the village of, 288., 

Gagah,** a resting pWc forjra- 
velicrs, 140. 

Gallajab, tii|a ** Plentiful Water,** 

. 233; 

Ga.llas, a half-caste race of Eastern 
Africa. 98. Various opinions as to 
their origin, 99* The Nolc Gallos, 
127. Tlieir various clans, 278. 

Gnll-nuts used * as .a dye by the 
$omali women, 27. 

GalUj** the hWa so called,, SOmal 
superstition respecting, IGK i». 

Gamhisa, or hell-sliapcd hut, 267. 

Game,, its abundance In the Sbmal 
country, 81 . 

Gomes played by the Sontal enume¬ 
rated, 41, 42. n* 

Gashah, the, Or slueld'of the Somali, 
described, 46. , 


n Gate of tiic Pleiades,*^ tlic, Bab cl 
^ Mandeb •So called, 11. and * 

Gay ' liumhurti, I'larar*5 ^avel, 320. 
361. 

** Gel>i,". meaning of the term^ 1.48.». 
Gedi, or march of tho Somal; i 27. ». 
Gelt Ad, or white camels, 446. n, 

** Gcljirn,** oi* camel driver,' 196. w. 
Genealogies, the pagan, Still knoy^li 
to the Somal, enumerated, 103.' 
Gerad Hirsi, chi^f of -the' Berteri 
tribe, story told of, 61, 62. Be¬ 
trothal Of his daughter, 275. 
Various Opinion^ Concerning, -279. 
Geradah, or princess, 262. 

German missionary,'a, -his mild re¬ 
quest, 13. a.- • 

** Gcsi,*^ or hcro,'240. 

Ghauts, appearance pf the, 183. 
416. «. 

Ghcsala, Arab name for an untelppie, 
82.^. 

, Girhi, or *• GiralTcs,** the, 277. Their' 
principal clans, 277. n. * j 
Gisti, the Harari word for pmn^ 
cess,*' 276.«. 

Gi^ti l^atimali, Uic quCcn dp wager of 
Harar, 333. ' 

** Gohan,** the term explained, '168. p. 
Gohiyan, or ^at, the bird so called, 
184.224. 

Gogavsa valley, the, 388, 389. 

** Gulden Mount,***the, 319. 

Gut, tine, or fock snake, 169.'a.' 
Governor, the Turkish, t'of Mocha 
and H'odayuh, farms out Kayla to 
Sharmarkay, 71. ' ' 

Groan (Mohammed Gragne), his 
generals take possession of Oozi, 
66. a. See Mohammed GragiK*. 

** 6ragnci**/or Gutay,** meaning of 
thc'word, 310. «. 

Gragne Moliammcd. See Moham¬ 
med Gmgne. 

Grave ' of Honor, gunpowder so 
oallcd by French knights, 42. a* 
Grecgree-mCn, tll|e, or seers, of 
Western Africa, 113. 

Gub, or Jujube, its Use as a perfume, 
206. 

Gudabirst, tribe of the, 92. et ttq„ 
Tkeir attempt to seize an Abban, 
194. • 'Lpajira, or cotvherd boys, 



636 


INDEX. 


195. Their tombs, 207. Their 
politeness, 216. Description of. 
their equestrian paraphernalia, 
222. 223. A maiden of the tribe 
in search of a husband, 241. 
Sketch of the tribe, 241—246. 
Stigmatised as ignoble by the 
Somal, 242. Their propensity 
for lying, 242. Th*eir principal 
clans, 242. n. Tlieir personal 
appearance, 245, Their turbu¬ 
lence, 243. Comparative security 
of life amongst them, 244. Dis¬ 
simulation natural to them, 244. 
Their commerce and wealth, 244, 
245. 'Dieir method of tanning 
hides, 245, 246. 

" Gudingaras,** a halting place in the 
desert, 144. 

Gugi, the, or monsoon, 143. n. 

^iny -season of the Somal so 
""called, 204. n. 

Onlays, the hill, Lieut. Herne's re¬ 
marks respecting, 416. n. 

Guled (servant of the author), his 
family, 8. His personal appear¬ 
ance, 8, 9. A strange mixture 
of courage and nervousness, 9. et 
seq. His calmness in a storm, 
439. 

" Gunny bags," used as saddles by 
the Somal, 91, n, 

Guraf, or baling vessel, 215, • 

Gurgi, or hut, 75.153, 

" Gurgur," or vulture, hated by the 
Somal, 145. 


H. 


llabash, El, Usually translated Abys¬ 
sinia, 100. 

Habr, its signification, 103. 

Habr Awal, the tribe, its treachery, 
289. Enumeration of its principal 
clans, 380. n. Its internal feuds, 
412, 413. 

Habr Gerbajis, the tribe, its clans, 
402. n. Its blood feud, 403. n. 

Habr Tul Jailah, the ^ribe, its 
principal settlements, 437. n. 


Hadagali hills, the, residence of an 
Eesa chief, 174. 

Hadiyah, the province of, 305. • 
Haga, or hot season, of the Somal, 
204. n. 

Haines, Mr., his experiments with 
the Somali arrow poison, 200— 
203. ^ 

" Hajar Abodi," a talismanic stone, 
225. n. 

Halimalah,'* or holy tree, reverence 
of the Somal for, 204, 205. 

Halwk, or sweetmeats, 136. 

Haji Abdullah, the Shaykh, 360< 

" Hamlelv" the, of the Arabs, 127. n. 
Hammal, or master of the cere¬ 
monies, 16. 

Han, the, or wickerwork bucket, 
2i5. , 

" Hangagarri,*' or halting place, 
140. 

Hararai, Et, or the Ruffian, name 
given to a camel, 129. 

Harar, a counterpart of Timbuctoo, 
1. Its inaccessibility to travellers, 

1. Hatred of the natives to 
foreigners, especially to the Eng¬ 
lish, 2. 329. Slavery prevalent in, 

2. Tradition existing amongst the 

people of, 2. n. Its breed of asses, 
75. n. Visit of Ibrahim Abu 
Zarbay to, 74. Value of salt at, 
136. , A Harar grandee, 291, 

Appearance of the city from a dis¬ 
tance, 291, Its approaches, 293. 
Its palace and courtyard, 297. 
Value of doors in, 297. Various 
names given to, 304, Its geo- 

I graphical position, 304. Its 
climate, 305. Its history, 306— 
320. Tomb of the Amir Nur at, 
320. Description of the city, 321, 
322. Its five gates, 321. n. The 
Jami, or cathedral, 322. Has 
the reputation of being an Alma 
Mater, 323. Tomb of the Shaykh 
(Jmar Abadir el Bakri at, 323. 
The language of H arar, 324. 
Description of its citizens, 325. 
Their dress, 326, 327. I^axity of 
their morals, 328, Their boast¬ 
fulness, 329. Population of Harar, 
330. Its government, 331. Its state 



INDEX. 


637 


dungeon, Method of exe> 

cuting murderers at* S3S. Punish¬ 
ments for various offences, 334. Its 
coinage,335. Itsarmy,336. Weak¬ 
ness and insecurity of the town, 
337, Its commerce, 337, 338. In¬ 
dolence of the inhabitants, 338. 
Its slave trade, 339, Its ivory 
trade, 340. Its exports, 341. 
Superiority of its Tobes and sashes, 
342. Its caravans, 343. House 
furniture, 343. Style of living of 
the bihabitants, 344. Their fond¬ 
ness for Kat, 348. Monotony of 
life at, 353. Its coffee-tea, 353, 
and n. Harvest home, 354 355,* 
Strong drinks, 355. and n. Beauty 
of its books, 361. Fickleness of 
the inhabitants, 363, G ram- 
matical outline and vocabulary of 
the language, 509—582, 

Harash, or coffee cultivators, 341. 

Harawwah Valley^ the, its extent 
and position, 223. 

Hard as the heart of Harar," the 
proverb, 325. 

« Harisah," a favourite dish with the 
Somal, 23. n. 

Hassan Turki, his Shishkhanah ride, 
85. 

Hawiyah, tribe of the, its impudent 
assumption, 105. Its Pagan origin, 
105. 

Haydrus, the Sherif, patron saint of 
A den, said to have stolen the 
Prophet *s slippers, 104. «. 

Hazramaut adventurer, 8,32. Hard¬ 
ness and determination of 'the 
Hazrami, 32. Their migratory 
liabits, 32. Story told of a run- ' 
away, 32. «. The forty-four 
propagandist saints, 76. 

Headdress, peculiar, of the Somal, 
described, 106. 

Hea<iland of the Well (Ras el Bir), 

12 . 

Heat hurts,' but cold kills,*' the 
proverb, 261. . 

« Hedi," a Somal perfume, 206. n. 

Hejazis, the. their objection to Burck- 
hardt, 143. a. 

Henna, the wild, of the Somali, 81. 

Herne, Lieut., his remarks on the 


Gulnys mountains, 416. n. His 
calculation of the money dues 
taken during the Fair season at 
Berberali, 420. ». His surprising 
escape from tlie Bedouins, 453. 
His meteorological observations at 
Berberali, 583, 

Herodotus of the Arabs, the, referred 
to, 4. n, 

Hiddik or Anukub, the porcupine, 
use of its quills among the Somal, 
237. «. 

Hidinhitu bird, the, 160. 

Hig, the, a species of aloe, 193. 

His.si, or Well, the, 77, 

Hockey, juvenile game of, among the 
Somali, 47. 

Holchus Sorghum, the common 
grain of Africa and Arabia, 5. n. 

Honey-bird, the, bis supposed trea¬ 
chery, 390. Superstitions xelat* 
ing to, 390. n, 

Hossain, a Mohammedan general, 
takes possession of Gozi, 66. n. 

Hottentots, their belief in the trea¬ 
chery of the honey-bird, 390, n. 


I. 

Ibn Batuta, his description of Zayla, 
67. 

Ibn Said, his allusion to the " Rivef 
of ZayJa," 80.«. His ancient de¬ 
claration respecting the people of 
Zayla, 81. 

Ibrahim Abu Zarbay, orthography 
of his name, 75. a. Description 
of his tomb, 76., His name im¬ 
mortalised, 76* 

« Idngallah," or earth-burrowers, 
403. n. 

Ijarah," tfie term, 372. 

Ikamah, el, or call to prayer, 62. 

lUyat, the, of Persia, 93. n. 

Imagery, melancholy, of the Arabs, 
specimen of, 53—55. 

India, its trade disturbed by the 
Turks, 68. Its coinmerce takes 
refuge in Adel, 68. Threatened 
with annihilation, 69. 

Indian girl, an, her coquetry, 27. 



• 638 


INDEX, 


Inftfk el Maysur it Tartkh bilad el 
Takrur, its incorrectness, 101. n. 

liind>tarad>nd->hu, explanation of the 
term, 104. 

** Inshallah Btilcra/* ** if Allah please, 
to-morrotr," the phrase, 50. 

Isenberg, the Abyssinian traveller, 1. 

Ishak bin Ahmed, the Sherif, heads 
an Arab immigration, 102. His 
wives and children, 102. Sup* 
posed to be the ancestor of all ge* 
nuine Somali, 102. 

Iteghe Helena, the regent-of Ethio¬ 
pia, her emltassy to Albuquerque, 
S09. 

Ivory trade, the, in Harar, 340. j 

** I will," danger of, 15. 


J. 

Jabarti, or Ghiberti, various opinions 
as to the meaning of the name, 
103. 

** Jahr, El," or civil law, in Zayla, 
126. 

Jacobins or Abyssins, the king of, 
70. 

Jalah, or the Coffee Water, 292.' 

Jambel, or lynx, 251. « 

Jami, or Cathedral, described, 60. 
licligious services performed 
therein enumerated, 61, 62. 

Deportment of the worshippers, 
63. 

Jami Hasan, the Abban, his contro¬ 
versy with Burhale Nub, 429— 
431. 

Jami, Shaykh, most learned of the 
Somal, 76. 101. His*appearance 
and character, 351, 352. His 
attempted proselyting, 352. 

Jana, or black ants, described, 197. n. 

Janissaries, the, their rajjacity, 68. 

**Jannah Siri," prediction respect¬ 
ing, 256. 

"Jar," the word explained, 1.58. n. 

"J^t," or Kat, a narcotic plant, 
357. 

Jebel Shamsan at Aden, the sup¬ 
posed sepulchre of Cain, 250. 
The peak of, 44p. 


Jeddah garrisoned by the Turks, 
69. a. 

Jemal el Din, son of $aad el Din, 67. 

Jibril Abokr, clan of tire Habr 
Awal, 205. 

Jihad, the, ot Moslem crusades, 
305. n. 

Jim, the dry season of the Somal, 
204. n. 

JilUnh, or Kardas, a kind of neck¬ 
lace, 262. and a. 

Jir Ad, or field rat, 160. 

Jizyah, or tribute, S65. 

"Jogsi,** the delicate operation so 
termed, 133, 134. " 

tfohnston, Mr., his travels in Southern 
Abyssinia referred to, 12. a. Hts 
derivation of the word Galla, 99. 
n, 

Juba, the river, 104. a. 

Jujube,, the, 184. 


K. 

Kablr, meaning of the word, 325. «• 

Kabir Khalil, one of the Ulema, 
360 : 

" Kadar," the Splugen of Somali¬ 
land, 395. 

Kadi, the, a species of aloe, 81. 

Kahlah, the Bedouin, 251* 

Kafirs, tlie Cape, their barbarity to 
their enemie^ 95. a. 

Kafir's Grave, the; 200. 

Kakatua, Arab name for the'jay, 
184. a. 

Kalil, the fifth season of the Somal 
204. a. 

Aaliyah, or Salul (toasted ^ grain), 
366. 

Kamus, or Arab dictionary, lOOj 
101. 361. 

Karara (Kurrum), the port of,, 437, 

" Karanji," a kind of bread, 338. 
368. 

" Karanli,^* a perfume used by the'^ 
Somal, 206. a. 

Kariyah, die Arabic term for Kraal, 
213. a. 

Kat, El, an exetunt . introduced 
into El Yemen by the Shaykh 
Ibrahim Abu Zarbay, 76. Its 



INDEX, 


639 


description and uses, 77 — 79, 
A synod of Mussulmans* ver- 
diet regarding the use of, 79* n. 
Various species of the plant enu¬ 
merated, 79. n, 

Kasab, £1, or the Reed, the vessel 
so named, 431. Trickery of the 
captain, 435. Intense fearful ness 
of the crew, 438, 439. 

Kata^ the bird so named, 393. 

Kaum, or Commando, Arabic name 
for a party of freebooters, 94. 
and ^ 

« Kawurmeh," the term described, 
135. n. 

Kazi, or Judge, harangues as a 
preacher, 62. His ignorance, 62. 

Kedi, the, or porcupine tree, 206, 

Khain, the term explained, 158. a. 

Khalaiviyah, the, or workers in me¬ 
tal, their disabilities, 33. n. 

Kharify.its signi6cation, 14. 

Khatibj the, or Moslem preacher, 
61, 62. Ignorance of one of 
them, 62, 

" Khayr inshallah ! it is well if Allah 
please I ** 302. 

« Kirsh," the coin so called, 21. n. 

Kissing,/entirely unknown among 
the Somal, 123. 

Kitab el Anwar, the (the Book of 
Light), S3. 

Kloofs, or ravines, of the Ghauts, 
184. 

Kobbo, or valley, the, 259./ 

Kola's Fort (Durbiya Kola), 209. 

Kondura, the mountain so called, 

286, Beauty of its scenery, 286, 

287. 

Kor, or wooden bell, the, 143. 

f* Koralay," or Saddleback Hill, the, 
description of, 233. Beautiful 
view from its summit, 236. 

Krnpf, the Abyssinian traveller, 1. 
His derivation of the name Adel, 

12. R. 

Kud tree, the, described, 164. 

Kudidah, the tree so named, 355. n, 

" Kullan," the tree so called, 161. 

KuUiban, " May Heaven aid ye 1 *' 
solemnity attached to the words 
by the Somal, 234. and n. 

Kura, or edible Acacia, 193. 


Kuranyali, or " place of knts,*' de¬ 
rivation of the name, 153. and n. 
Kurkabod, Che game of, 41. n. 

" Kurrah-jog," or " sun-dwellers,** 
the Bedouins so named, 139. 
Kursi, or cot, 24, 

Kutti, or cultivated districts, 260. 


L. 

Labbau, or " milk-seller," the name 
held to be a disgrace by both tlie 
Somal and the Arabs, 179. 

" Laben," Somal name for cream, 
178. 

Laconism, little prized by the Afri¬ 
cans, 431. 

"'La ilaha ill* Allah,** the inscrip¬ 
tion, 335. n. 

Lane, Mr., his Modern Egypt re¬ 
ferred to, 62. I 

Language, the Harari, Grammatical] 
Outline and Vocabulary of, 509—^ 
582. 

Las, or Pits, 423. 

Lauh, or wooden tablets for talis¬ 
mans, 239. 

Leopard, the, a scourge to the So¬ 
mal sheplierd, 56. 

" Let! Let 1** (Go I Go !) the ex- 
clamaticn, 336. 

Libah ! the exclamation, 252. 

" Lillah," meaning of the terra, 351. 

Lion, the, its timidity and stealthi¬ 
ness, 236. 

Loajira, or cowherd boys, ^of the 
Gudabirsi, 195. Derivation of 
the name, 195. n. 

Lobo, Father Jerome, the Jesuit, 
311. n. His account of the death 
of Mohammed Gragne, 318. 

Lopez Suarez Alberguiera, a Por¬ 
tuguese, Zayla taken and burned 
by, 7L 


M. 

Madar Farih, the Somali, 374,375. 
Majid, Shaykh, supposed by the 
Eastenis to be the inventor of 
the mariners* compass, 3. n. Ima- 



INDEX. 


HO 


gincd by them, to have been a 
' Syrjnn saint, 3, 

* B/^dkuk, £1,*^ or Kat paste, MU 
Mahallak, or brass money, of Ha- 
rar, 334. 

'^labfus the Moslem, destriictibn of 
Abyssinia by, 307. 31ai.n in 
single combat, 30^^ 

** Mnhi,'* .tl>e sclijOoner, 441. 
Mahkamah, or tribunal of (he Kazi, 
126. n: 

** Majidi Kitab," the, or Oriental 
Ephcmcris, 4> 

Mrilub Sliinni, or bcc-liOney, of the 
Somal, 39i. ir. 

Malunnh,- dr Accursed, a pdeket 
Colt so termed by the Bedouins, 
.84. 

*' ** Man," or ** Himjbah," the shrub so 
named, 3)0. 

Mansur, son of Sand el Din, 67. 
Mnrar, the Prairie of, described, 249* 
Its beauty at sunset, 251. 
Marayhan, tribe of the, 280. 

Marer, or gum tree, 163. 

Marhalah, or halting place, 141. 
Mariners* compass, the (Dayrah), 
Eastern notion as. to its origin, 
3; n. 

Masharrad,'or joy-cry, 366. 

Masud (adopted son of Sliarmar- 
kay ), his murder, 14, 15. and n. 
Matron,. an Abyssinian^ described, 
27, 28. 

Mats, a staple manufacture in Africa, 
27. ». 

Mcccah, the conquerors of Gozi sup- - 
posed to Imveeomc from, 66k n» 
Meccah and £1 Mcdinah," tyork 
tipph^ referred io, 37. a- 
Mcdinah, the village of, 66. a* 

** Mckkawi,*' or ornament for the 
neck, 85. n. 

Melancholy, Arab, specimen of, 5S^ 
55. 

Members,, the seven, of the Zayla 
Empire, 305. 

** Mercator,'* a Moslem, 35. A cu^. 
ridus compdund, 131. His im- 
p6rtanc^> 1.31. 

Mdamorphosis, Bedouins supposed 
to possess the power of, 57. 

Midgan^ tribci^ of the, considered by 


the Somal as outcasts, 34Va' llieir 
occupations, 34. «. Their wea¬ 
pons, 34.^. T3ieir personal ap¬ 
pearance, 34,». 

Mihrab, 6r prayer niche, tl^,-2l0. 

Mikahil, clan of the, its bloodthirsti¬ 
ness, 128. »? 

Misr, a Galla chief, legends respect¬ 
ing, 201. 203. 

Missionary, a German, his unreason• 
able request, 13. a. 

** Milch cows," Banyans so called by 
the Somal, 432. 

Missioiners, Roman Catholic, ex¬ 
cluded fr6m Harar, I. 

Mocha, garrisoned* by the Turks, 
69. »? 

Mod! Mod! ** Hoiibr to thee I" 
the exclamation, 234. 

Moga Medir, **'Moga's eye-tooth/' 
'legend of, 385, 386* . • * 

Mohammed,'a Sliaykbash, his itine¬ 
rary, 331. 

Mohammed, servant of Lieut. Stro- 
yon, 4.50, «, 

Mohammed kin Yunis cl Siddiki, 
assists" in the destruction of a pa¬ 
gan magician, 102. 

Mohammed el Barr, the Sayyid*, 

33: 

Mohammed Gragne, King of Adel, 
his victorious campaigns, 310; 
Defeated by the Portuguese, 313. 
Defeated a second time* and slain 
in battle, 318. 

Moliammied Khatib, liis Daflar, or 

« office pa|iers, 65. 

Mohammed Mahmud (£1 HammaV, 
or the pprtcr), one of the author's 
I servants^ T. His personal appear¬ 
ance 7. His ignorance, 7. Na¬ 
tural inventiveness, 8. Iniiospi- 
tablencss of bts cbinncxton^^, 4^: 
His wonderful *? pluck," 405, 

Mohammed of Muscat, the unscru¬ 
pulous shipowner, 43$^ n, 

Mohammed Musa, Kazi of ^yta, 
65, 

Mohammed, the Gerad, Vizier of 
Harar, 301. His apartment of 
state, 347 . 

Mohammed Sammattar, the Abban, 
444. 



INDEX* 


641 


Mohammed Wui^, of the Jibril. 
Abokr, 275. 

Money-, table of Hie value of, in 
Harar, 334. 

Monogamy, the growth of ctviiiza- 
.lion, 121.«, 

Modern year, most auspicious day in 
the, 2. " Mercator," a, 35. Rule 

. of the Moslem faith as regards 
prayer, 50.». Moslem rosary, the, 
described, 55. 

Moslems, the, assign the invention 
of Hid mariners' compass to 
. Shaykh Majid, a Syrian saint, 3. 
n. Tlieir nautical men repeat the 
Fatihah prayer in his honor, 3. 
Corpses of the IVloslenls sentient 
.in the tomb, 53. n. Their deri¬ 
vation of the word Cal la, 99* it. 
Their fatalism, 285. The Jihad, 
or crusades, 305. n. Th^ir de¬ 
feat by David III., Emperor of 
^Ethiopia, 309; Defeated by the 
Fortuguese, 3t3. 

Mosques, those at Zayla described, 
22 . n. 

** Mother of the Poor," the Arab 
name for Rerberah, 414. 

Muezzin, the, 25. 

Mukattib, the, or courier, 127. n. 

Mules, their exponsiveness, 97. n. 

Mullah, ** End of Time," described, 
9. See Abdy Abokr, and ** End 
of Time." 

Mullah (Parson), or lizard, 160. 

Murderers, how treated in Harar, 
333. 

Musalla, or prayer carpet, 132. 

Muscovites, the old, their way of 
¦ commencing married life, 120* 

Mushgur, the. ornament so called, 
81. 

Mussulman Synod, a, its decision as 
to the use of Kat and Caftah, 7. n. 

MuttUtion, practice of, in Asia and 
Africa, 95. n. Opposed to both 
Christianity and Islamism, 95. n. 


N. 

Kaat, El, one of the divisions of a 
Moslem sermon, 62. 


" Nahnu mutawakkilln," the phrase 
explained, 51. 

Napoleon's ** Book of Fate," a spe¬ 
cimen of old Eastern superstition, 
56. n. 

Nestor, a Bedouin, his advice to his 
tribe, 157. 

Nole Gallas, the, their subjection to 
a Christian chief, 127. 

Nubia, description of peculiar cus¬ 
toms in, 593 *r- 595. 

Nur, the Amir, King of Adel, con¬ 
ditions of his marriage with Tal-. 
wambara, widow of Mohammed 
Gragne, 319* Defeats the Em¬ 
peror Claudius, 319. Tradition 
concerning, 320* 

O. 

Ohservations,meteorologtcal, at Ber- 
herah, by Lieut. Herne, 583. 

** Oddai,^* or old man, 1;$I. .Shnykh 
or head man amongst Che Eesa, 
175. 

O'gadayn, its caravans, 432* n. 

Og6, meaning of the word, 1 53. n. 

Oriental EphemeHs ("Majidi KU 
tab"), 4. n. 

Orientals, the, their notion as to the 
origin of the invention of the 
Day rah, or mariners* compass, 3. 

Either hot lovers or extreme 
haters, 130. 

Ornaments, the, of the Bedouins, 
85. n. 

Ostrich feather, the, looked upon by 
the clan Ayyal Nuh Ismail, and 

. by the ancient Egyptians, as an 
emblem of truth, 94. and n. Wild¬ 
ness of the ostrich,. 163. ». 

Ottomans, the, supposed to have 
constructed the Aqueduct at Ber- 
berah, 425. 

** Ourat," the hills so termed, 416* n. 

Outca.sts, families of Somal, enume¬ 
rated, 33. ». 

P. 

** Peace conference," a, 431. 

Persians, the Berberah Aqueduct 


T T 



642 


INDEX. 


attributed to the» by Lieutenant 
Criittendon, 425. ». 

" Petite oie, la,** French term for 
Platonic love, 122. n» 
Pharmaceutical Journal,** the, ex¬ 
tract from, 77—79. 

** Place of Ants'* (Kuranyali), deri¬ 
vation of tlie name, 153. and n. 

** Platonic love,** names for, among 
various tribes, enumerated, 122. 

" Pillar of the Faith,*' 32, n. 

Pillow, the Somali, described, 59, 

poetry and poets, extreme fondness 

, of the Somal for, 115, 116. 

Poison-tree, the, of the Somal, 193, 

Polygamy, as a.general rule, 121. 

». 

Portuguese, the, their defeat of the 
Moslems, 313, 

Prayer, an in>f>ious, of an Eesa lady*, 

. 5U 

Presbyter- Johannes, or Preciosus 
' Johannes, king of the Jacobins or 
Abyssins, 70. 

Price of blood, the, 87. and ». 

Proverb, an Eastern, 339. «. 

Puggree, or turban, 410, 


R. 

liaghe, a petty Eesa chief, acts as 
protector, 92. His greediness and 
extortion, 92> 93. His affected 
terror, 93. Description of him, 
132. His fearfulness, 194. 

Rajalo, a division of the Somal year, 
] 13. and ijt. 

Ras el Bir, or Headland of the Well, 

12 , 

Rj\s el Sanah, New Year*s Day of the 
Arabs, .114* n. 

Rayhan, or Basil, the plant so called, 
81. 

Reptiles, feared by the Somal, 159. 
Various descriptions of, 159* n. 
Traditions respecting, 159. n\ 

Rer, or Kraal, of Eastern Africa, its 
position and means of defence, 213. 

Her Galeni, dan of the Eesa tribe, 
their murder of Masud, tlie 
adopted son of Sharmarkay, 15. », 

** Rig Veda Sanhlta,** the, of Profes¬ 


sor Max Muller, referred to, 
51.«, 

Rtrnsh, one of a Gudabirsi escort, * 
his appearance, 170. 

** Rish," the ostrich feather so called 
' by the Aral>s, 94. ?*. 

** River of Zayla," the, its supposed 
identity wiUi tlie Takliushsliah, 80, 
" lioblay ** (Prince Rainy), name of 
an Eesa chief, 174, 

Rochet, the Abyssinian traveller, 
French agent at Jeddah, >., bis 
bargain, 20. ». 

Roman Catholic missloners excluded 
from Harar, 1. 

Rosary, the Moslem,'description of, 
55. ». 

" Rowtie,** or tent, 444. and n, 
llukaat, or bow, the, 62. 

Rulers, African, their Interdicts and 
superstitiom^ 2* ftnd n. 

S, 

Snad cl Din, visit to, 64. Descrip¬ 
tion of the island, 64. Its insalu¬ 
brity, 64. legend concerning, 
65. Extant remains at, 72. Its 
desolation, 73. A dinner at, 73, 
Saad el Din, the heroic prince of 
Zayla, his death, 67, ^is cause 
retrieved by his sons, 67, Tomb 
of, 72. 

Sabaya, or sweet cake, 23. n. 

Sabr el Din, son of Saad el Din, 67. 
Sabu, the month, kept holy by the 
Somal, 114. 

I$acy« De, extract from his researches, 
78. n. 

Safar, 6th of the month of, the date 
of tlie foundation of Islatnism, 2. 
and A, 

Sagaro, the Somal name for a rabbit, 
82. 

Sagbarrab, tliip village 274, Tlie 
Gerad of, 275, et seq, . 

Sagsug, the creeping plant so named, 
its uses, 143. 

** Suhil,** the Somal name for Ber- 
berah, 369. n. 

Said, Shaykh, his last resting-place, 

11 , «. 



INDEX, 


643 


8 aid Wal, or MadJSaid, an old GLrhi 
Bedouin, 2>I, HisafflictioOvSTO. 

Saints' Tomb, the, at Zayla, 22. n. 

Saints, three celebrated, their visita^, 
tion places, 223. 

Saj, the Arab, term for teak, 257. 

" Salab," Arab name for an aloe, 193, 

Salimayn, secretary to Sharmarkay, 
tlie governor of Zayla, 55. 

Salt, the traveller, his opinion as to 
the position of Adule, 66. n. 

Salt, fondness of the Bedouins for, 

135. n. Its high price at Harar, 

136. n. Identified by the Abys- 
sinians with wealth, 136. n. 

Samawai, the Shaykb, 249. 

Samaweda Yusuf (Shehrazade), her 
corpulence, endurance, and mo¬ 
desty, 133. Receives an offer of 
marriage, 156. 

Sand antelope, ti)e, Somal method 
of captuiing it, 82. n. 

Sanhaj and Sumamah, the Himyar 
chiefs, descent of the Berbers from, 
100 . 

Sauda, a cotton stuff, standard of 
value in Berberah, 419. n, > 

Sauda Kashshi, an imitation calico, 
92. n. 

Sauda Wjlayati, or dyed calico, 92. n. 

Sawahil, the Moslem name for the 
African coast, 55. n. A tradition 
of, 66. rt, 

Sayyid Mohammed el Barr, the 
Sherif of Mocha, his tribute from 
Shartnarkay, 71* Dispossessed of 
his authority in Zayla, 71. 

Sayyid Yusuf el Baghdadi, his visit 
to' Siyaro, near Berbera, 101,102. 
Assists in the destruction of an 
infidel magician, 102. 

Scorpions, effects of their sting, 
159. n. 

Scotland, ** mobbing" in, 49, 

Seasons, the four, of the Somal, 
204. >*. 

Selim and Sulayman, Emperors of 
Turkey, garrison the Abyssinian 
ports, 69. n. 

Sending to Coventry," the term, 
153. 

Sepulture, mode of, among fhe 
Bedouins, 148. 


Shabta, the dish so called, 301. 

Shadeli, the order, 78. n. 

Shahh, the gameo^ described, 41, a. 

Shanabila Sayyids, the Kazis of Zayla 
in the 17th century, 65. Their 
long retention of the office, 65. 

Shantarah, or draughts, description 
of the game of, 41. n. 

Sharmarkay bin Aii Salih, el Hajj, 
governor of Zayla, his unpretend¬ 
ing apartment, 16. His politeness, 
17. H is descent, 17, His early 
career, 17, 18. Enumeration of 
his ancestry, 18. n. Signification 
of the name, 18. n. Succeeds to 
the governorship of Zayla, 19. 
His personal appearance, 19. Tes¬ 
timonial to his bravery from Cap¬ 
tain Bagnold, the British resident 
at Mocha, 19. n. His ambition, 
20, 21. Deposed from power, 
20 . n. His partiality for tlie 
English, and fear of the French, 
20. n. His substantial h6use in 
Zayla described, 22 — 24. HU 
humility, 24. His deportment at 
the Cathedral, 63, Feared by the 
people of Harar, 356. His mar- 
tello towers at Berberah, 408. n. 

Sharmarkay, Mohammed (son of the 
Governor), his position among his 
father's visitors, 17. His com¬ 
manding aspect, 30. His literary 
and religious tendencies, 30, 31. 
His reverence for his father, 31, 
H is ambition and determination, 31. 

Shaykhash, or " Reverend," a clan of 
the Somal, its supposed descent, 
279, 280. 

« Shaykhs of the Blind," the Somal 
name for the black fly, 229. 

Shaytan or Devil, name bestowed by 
the Bedouins upon a Colt's re¬ 
volver, 84, 

Shazili, El, the Shaykh, his introduc¬ 
tion of coffee into Arabia, 76. n. 

Shebayli, the river, 104. n. 

Sherwa, son of the Gerad Adan of 
Sagharrah, 254. His honesty, 255, 

Shimal wind, the, its violence, 401. 
435. 

Shimber Libah, or lion-bird, the, 
Somal name for the' owl, 256. 


r T 2 



644 


INDEX. 


Shimbcr Load, or cow*.bird, 185. 

" ShimberaU Valley/* the, 417. ». 

Shishkhanah rifle, the, of Hassan 
Turki, 85. 

Shukkab, or balf>tobe, 92. n. 

** Sifr, El," or whistling, hatred of the 
Arabs to, 148. «. 

« Sigo," the Somal name for pillars 
of sand, 154. ti. 

Sihah, the, or Arabic dictionary, 
S5J. 

Sinaiibar, Arab name for the pine, 
257. «. 

Siyaro, or Mazar, 185. 

Siyaro, a noted watering place, 432. 
Its wells, 433. Its Fnrzeh, or 
custom-house, 433. 

Slave-trade, its prevalence in Zayla, 
21. «. 70. 

Somal, tribe of. ( See also Bedouins.) 
Their list of the points of the 
compass, 4, 5. ». Their gram 
called Hirad, 5. «, Their fear¬ 
lessness of the moonlight, 6. n. 
Differ from the Arabs in the for¬ 
mation of their proper names, 7. n. 
Their inability to conceal tlieir 
thoughts, 8. Suppose scattered 
teeth to be indicative of a warm 
temperament, 9. and n. Call their 
country Barr el Ajam, or barba¬ 
rian land, 12. Their indifference 
to coffee as a beverage, 17. ». 
Plagued with flies and mosqui¬ 
toes, 17. n. A journee in the 
country, 26—63. Two of their 
women described, 26, 27, llieir 
Tobe, or outer garment, 29. ». 
Prevalence of the system of caste 
among them, S3, n, Enumera¬ 
tion of outcast families, S3, ». 
'Their dread of blacksmiths, and 
all workers in metals, S3, a. 
Their conduct when on a visit, 37, 
Their games of Shantarah and 
Shaiih described, 41.* n. Their 
favourite weapons, 42. Games 
played at by their children, 42. n« 
Description of their spear, 43. 
Method of its use," 44. The 
javelin, 44. The dagger, and 
their modfr of using it, 45. The 
" Budd/* or club, 45.^ The 


Gasban, or shield, 46. Then* 
comparative ignorance of the use 
of weapons, 46, Juvenile i^me 
of "hockey,*' 47. Forwardness 
of their children, 47, The game 
of balb 47. Ludicrous enthusiasm 
displayed by the winners of the 
game. 47. Irreverence of the 
Somal,. 51. An elderly lady's 
impious prayer, 51. Tale of a 
Somal chieb 51. Belief in for¬ 
tune-telling and prophesying, 55, 

56. Instances of their credulity, 

57, 58. Their women in every 
quarrel, 58. Ungallant saying 
respecting their women, 59, De¬ 
scription of their Barki or pillow, 
59^ Of their Barjirao, or stool, 
59 . n. Mode of summoning to 
a dance, 59. Their style of 
dancing described, 60. Compul- 
soriness of their religion, 60. 
Their Jami, or Cathedral, de¬ 
scribed, 60. Description of their 
religious worship, 61, 62. Their 
deportment in church, 63. Sup¬ 
posed affinity between them and 
the Berbers of Northern Africa, 
67. n. Their Gel Ad and Ayyuu, 
or camels, 74. 7i. Comparative 
uselessness of these animals, 74. n. 
Description of the Somali ass, 75* 
«. Their cattle-troughs, 80. The 
Sagaro, or rabbit, 82. Somal me¬ 
thod of capturing it, 82. n. l*heir 
horror of the Tuka, or crow, 82. 
n. Their tradition respecting it, 

82. «. The Waraba, or hyaena, 

83. «. Belief of the Somali as to 
the complex character of its sex, 
83. ». Timidity of the Somal of 
the towns, 86, 87. I'heir use of 
beads and tobacco as money, 86. 
Tlie " price of blood," 87. «. 88. 
Their Abban, or protector, 89, 
and n. l*heir camel-saddles de¬ 
scribed, 91. n. The " Bal," or 
ostrich feather, 94. n, I'heir ori¬ 
gin and peculiarities, 98. Their 
name variously derived, 101. and 
n. Their descent from, the Sherif 
Ishak bin Ahmed, 102. /.Their 
genealogies, 103. Proved to be a 





645 


hatr>Qaste*tribey 105. Description 
qfjheir personal appearance^ 105. 
Addicted to the practice of chew** 
• ing tobacco, 107. 135. n* Their 
susceptibility |and levity, 109. 
Their treachery and cruelty, 110, 
111 . Marriage ceremony, 112. 
k 120. Their, numerous supersti¬ 
tions, 113, 114. List of their 
men and women's names, IH. n. 
Tl>eir superficial religion, 115. 
Description of their language, 
115. Their facility of acquiring 
languages, 115. n. 'i'heir poets 
and poetical compositions, 116. 
Description of their women, 117. 
Physical superiority of the 
female sex, 118. Their im¬ 
morality, 119. Intermarriages 
with other tribes, 119^ Maniage 
portions, 120. Their method of 
taming a shrew, 120. Number 
of wives of the Somal chiefs, 121. 
Frequency of divorce, 122. Ab¬ 
sence .of chivalric ideas amongst 
the Somnl, 122. Mode of bring¬ 
ing up their children, 123. Dis¬ 
posal of a man's property afler 
ins death, 123. Their inveterate 
idleness, 124. 'rheir mode of go¬ 
vernment, 125, 126. Method of 
reckoning their journeys, 127. n. 
Their ** Song of Travel," 128. 
Camel loading, 128, 129. Their 
mode of carrying water, 136. 
System of ''side-lining " their 
horses, 141. n. Somali Arcadia, 
143. Their horror of dogs, 143. 
«. Their dislike to tlje " Gur- 
gur," or vulture, J 45. I'heir 
astonishment at the effects of rifle¬ 
shooting, 145. Simplicity of their 
funerals, 148. Form of their graves, 
148. n. The migration, 149. A 
Stentor, 149. Strange appellation 
bestowed upon the author by the 
Somali women, 151. " Oddai,** 

or old man, i5I. n. " Sending 
to Coventry," 15.8. Their glut¬ 
tony, 40. 154. Their squeamish- 
ness^ 155. Their contempt for 
small eaters, 155* Their freedom 
from superstitious dread, 159. Pre¬ 


valence of venomous, reptiles, 159. 
Legend respecting a Somali horse¬ 
man, 159. n* Story of the Hidin- 
hitu, or red plover, 160. and n. 
Their weakness, 161. Want of 
foresight, 162. Ostrich stalking, 
163. n. Medicinal use camels' 
milk, 178. Their mode of treat¬ 
ing various diseases, 181. ». Their 
names for mountains, 183. n. Their 
W5ba, or >poison tree, 198—203. 
Experiments with their arrow 
poison upon animals, 199—203. 
Four seasons of their year de¬ 
scribed, 204, Sensation created 
among them by a French lady, 
216. n, A Somal feast, 219. 
Treatment of the horse among the 
Somal, 221, 222. Their supersti¬ 
tions concerning the Abodi, or 
hawk, 225. n. Their method of 
hunting the elephant, 228. Hi¬ 
deousness of their old women, 247. 
Comparative honesty of the Somal, 
255, Their proverb, " heat hurts, 
but cold kills," 261. Interior of 
their cottages described, 262, 263. 
Their manners and customs, 264^ 
266. Surprised at the appear- 

, ance of a kettle, 265. Their 
Farshu or millet beer, 265. A 
jSomal dwarf, 281. and n. Kind¬ 
ness of the Somal of Harar, 354. 
Desire of preeminence among 
their clans, 370. Their doctrine, 
** Fire, but notshame ! " 371. Their 
credulity, 376. Their supersti¬ 
tion concerning the honey-bird, 
390. «. I'heir various kinds of 
honey, 391. «. llieir Splugen, 
395. The Ghauts' mo untains, 
416* n. Suppose the ancient Pa¬ 
gans to have constructed the Aque¬ 
duct at Berberah, 4^5. n. Effects 
of terror upon the Somal, 439. 
'fheir method of ascertaining the 
extent of injury received by the 
wounded, 455. n. 

" Son of the Somal," a, his earliest 
lesson, 155. 

" Song of Travel," the* 128. 

Sorcery, the Bedopins dreaded as 
practisers of, 56. Terror of the 



646 


INDEX. 


£esa at being threatened with, 
157. 

JSpear, the Somali, description of, 43, 
.44. 

Speke, Lieul^, his remarks upon the 
animals of the Somali. 74. 75, n. 

Purchases camels at Karam, 446. n. 
Desperately wounded by the Be¬ 
douins. 456. H is miraculous 

escape. 456. His rapid recovery, 
457, n. His diary and observa¬ 
tions when attempting to reach 
the Wady Nogal, 459—507. 
Squeamishness of the Somal, 154, 
155. 

Stigmates, or beauty marks, of tlie 
Bedouins. 108. 

Stone, sacredness of, among the 
Arabs, 208. n. 

Stroyan, Lieut., his part in a disputed 
Abhanship, 430. Killed by the 
Bedouins, 451. His funeral at 
sea. 458. 

Suaheli, the, of Eastern Africa, his 
wasteful expenditure of tin^e, 124, 

n. 

Suakin, a seaport of Abyssinia, gar¬ 
risoned by the Turks, 69. «. 

" Subhan Allah!" the exclamation, 
168. n. 

Suhhanyo. or whipsnake. tlie, 159. n, 
^udiyah, tlie pretty wife of the Gerad 
of Sagharrah, her appearance and 
costume, 262. 4 ' 

Sujdah. or prostration, the, 62, 

Sufi ism. the Eastern parent of Free¬ 
masonry, 361. 

Sultan, a Harari eunuch, his sin¬ 
gular appearance, 353, 

Sultan el Bahr. or Sea**king, a species 
of whale, 440, 

Superstition of the Somal, 56. et seq, 
Syucellus, his opinion of the date of 
the A by ssinian migration from 
Asia, 99. n. 

T. 

Taabanah, El, the term explained, 
89. n. et seq^ 

Table, the genealogical, of Sharmar- 
kay, govemorof Zayla, 18. n. 
Tajurrah, the " City of the Slave 


' Merchant," a German missionary's 
advice respecting, IS. n. Black 
basalt found near, 72. The Ilajj 
of, his procrastination, 90. His 
assumed fearfulness, 91. 

Takhushshah, the, 80. 

Takhzinah, or quid, of the Somal, 
107. n. 

Takt el Din Makrizi, his account of 
ancient Zayla, 66. 

Takiyah, or cotton cap, of Egypt, 
326* 

Talwarabara, the heroic wife of Mo¬ 
hammed Gragne, story told of, 317« 
and n. Married to her husband's 
• brother, 319. 

Tanks, artistic, at Saad el Din, 
described, 72. 

Tarud, or Darud, the Rejected, ori¬ 
gin of the term, 104. 

Tawuli. or seers, of the Somal, 113* 

" Tej," Abyssinian for mead, 355. ru 

Tennyson, the poet, quoted, 53, 

** Thousand and One Nights, The/' 
referred to, 36. ' - 

Tobacco, Surat, the sort preferred 
by the Somal, 135. and «. An 
indispensable article in Africa, 
135. «. That of Harar, 341. 

Tobe, a Somali garment, described, 
29, n. et seq* 

Tomal, or Handad, the (blacksmiths), 
-servility of their position, 33. n. 

Topchi-Bashi, the (or master of the 
ordnance), his usefulness and en¬ 
tertaining powers, 37. 

Trade, origin of, between Africa and 
Cutch, 68. n. 

Travellers, their irritability, 90. 

" Tukk," or crow, the, abhorred by 
the ^mal, 82. n. 

Turks, the, conquer Yemen, 68. 
I'hose of Arabia take possession of 
Zayla, 69. Their oppression o. 
the India trade, 69. 

Two-bow Friday litany, th^ 62, * 


U. 

Ubbah, or bitter gourd, 250. 

Uddao, a Bedouin watchman, bis 
fondness for the fire, 235.^ 



647 


UgaZ) or ciiier or me r^esa, 17 1 * 

Umar Abadir el Bakrt, Shaykli, his 
tomb at Harar, 325* 

Umar, the Caliph, his smile and his 
tear, 358. and ». . 

Umbrella, the, a sign of princely 
dignity, 336, 

Usbayban, tribe of tlie, their prinici- * 
pal clans, 280. 

Ushr, or Asclepias, the, 193. 


V. 

Vaughan, James, Esq., his remarks 
concerning the Kat plant, 77. n. 

Veddahs of Ceylon, the, their manner 
of destroying the elephant, 228. n. 

Vegetables, the, of the Somal, 81. 

Visitors, their observances and mode 
of reception in Zayla, 28, 29. 37. 

Volney, the philosopher, 323. 


W. 

Waaz, El, or advice sermon, 62. 

V^'Sh^ or poison tree of the Somal, 
its description and properties, 
198. ». 

WSbdyo, the poison so called, 198, 
Experiments upon various animals 
with, 199 —^203. 

" Waday," or Christian chief, 127. 

Wady Danan, or The Sour," 389. 

Wady Duntu,the, description of, 395. 

Wady Harirah, the, described, 273. 

Waliabit, a victorious Mohammedan 
general, 66. n. 

Wait, or Akill, Eesa elders, 175. 

Wait-a-bits, or thorns, 387. 

Wakil, or agent, 340. 

Wanag Suggud, meaning of the 
phrase, 308. n. 

Waraba, or Durwa, doubts of natu¬ 
ralists concerning, 83. n. The 
Somali opinion as to its sex, 83. n* 
Its destructiveness, 83. n. 

Waraba lay, or Hyenas* Hill, 82. 

** Warabod," or Hyenas* Well, 140. 

War-dance, the, of the Bedouins, 
described, 454. 


??war jogaT ' peculiar significance 
of the term, 96. 

Wars, or Safflower, the, 341. 

" Wasitah,** explanation of the word, 
349. 

Water, pure, essential to the health 
of travellers in Africa, 136. ». 

Weapons, Somali, 42. Contempt of 
the Somali for modern, 42, Their 
spear described, 43, 44. The 
javelins, 44. The dagger, 45. 
The " Budd,** or club, 45. 

Webbe Shebayli, or Haines River, 
290. «, 

Webbes, or rivers, 104, 

Wells, the two, of Siyaro described, 
432, 433. 

Werne', the Afrhran traveller, his 
description of the customs of 
Nubia, 593—595. 

West, or wicker bottle, 132. 215. 

White ant, hilts of the, 186, 187. 

Widads, or hedge-priests, 238, 239, 
Their tiresomeness, 248. | 

Widows, among the Somal. their 
destitution on the death of their 
husbands, 123. Usually married 
to one of their husband's relations, 
123. 

Wild henna of the Somali, the, 81. 

** Wilensi," the mountain so called, 
261, The village of, 262. En- 
thusiasm of the inhabitants, 367. 

Woman, an Indian, described, 26. 
27. An Abyssinian, 27, 28. De¬ 
scription of a pretty woman of the 
Gudabirsi tribe, 195, 196. i 

Women, supposed at Zayla to be 
concerned in every quarrel, 58, 59. 
Ungallant saying with reference 
to, 58,59. lliose of the Danakil, 
74. Cruel treatment of, by the 
Ayyal Nuh Ismail, 94. Costume 
and personal conformation of those 
of the Somal, 117, 118. The 
Somali women superior in pUysiqtu: 
to their lords, 118. Their im¬ 
morality and fecundity, 119. 
Those of Harar, 326, 327. Public 
flogging of, 328. and «. Price of, 
in Harar, 339. 




llieiF number* 33* «. 

Yemen ^ tiitroductidn of cc^ffee into, 
by AH Sbadeti ibn Omar, 78* n* 
Ciiftab prohibited in, in conse¬ 
quence of its effects upon tJie brain, 
73* fi. Bigotry of the natives, 
115* The Eye of Yemen, 418* 

Y* S., the chapter, *^6^* 

Yusuf, the ** Kalendar,*''his morality 
arid cruelty, 1S4 h 

Yusuf Dura, repreaentative of the 
Gerad of Sagharrah, 375,578. 


2 * 

Zaat (black woollen twists)^ its use 
among the Artbs, 160 * 

Zara Yakub, Emperor of A^thiopta, ^ 
BOG. 

Ztribat el Haraf, the coinage of 
Harar, 33 >, 

or mead, 355. n* 

Zayla, its position and appearance 
described, 14* ShaHowness of the 
water near, 15* Entire absence of 
codee^houses in, !7*i»* Wish of 
the Frencb'to aecurC a footing jtr. 


2*3, n* Appearance of the town ^ 
by night, 25* Eife in Zayla, 26, ^ 
Description of breakfast in, 2S* « 
Tfie women of, in every quarrel, ' 
58* Uncertainty of the origin of ' 
Zayla, 65, 66* Its ancient magni-* * 

' tude and splendour, 66* Ita tbit ^ 
and desolation* 67* Death of its , 
prince, Saod el Din, 67* Descrip- ' 
tion of, by'lbo Balutah, 68, Its 
inhiibitants worship tlte sun, 68, n. 
Taiten po'tsession o<f by the Turks 
^ of Arabia* 69* Bartcma's account i 
of the city and its productions, 70* 
Taken and burned by the Portu¬ 
guese, 71* Posses under the *• 
authority of the Slierif of Mocha, 
7J* Twice fermed out to Shar- 
markay, 71* Suffers from wai^t 
of water, 72, n. Snad cl Din its ^ 
patron saint, 72* Tlte Ashitrbara ^ 
Gate of, itiscripilon o\"er, 74. Its 
iruits and vegetables, Bl** Friday 
ati idle day in Zayla, 124. Policy * 
of the .governor, 125, Various ^ 
punishrneiits inflicted in, 125. The ^ 
seven members of the Empire, 305. * 
Zebid garrisoned by the Turks, 69* n* \ 


THE END* 


LoHna?i t 

luted by SpoTTisweofiK & Co,, 
M vvr'Stre«t^S(|t) are. 





00038105 



Digitized with financial assistance from the 
Government of Maharashtra 
on 05 April, 2016 







