About This File

This file is part of a corpus compiled by Caitlin Matheis (University of Nebraska-Lincoln) for a 2021 computational text analysis project for the One More Voice recovery project (onemorevoice.org). This corpus encompasses a wide range of plain text (TXT) files containing nineteenth- and early twentieth-century literary works centered on Africa by several dozen different British and African writers. Questions about the corpus and project can be directed to Caitlin Matheis (cmatheis2@huskers.unl.edu), the creator of the corpus, and Adrian S. Wisnicki (awisnicki@unl.edu), lead developer for One More Voice.

File Source: Internet Archive, http://archive.org/details/chargedeliveredo00crow

--------------------------------------
A CHARGE 



DELIVERED 



ON THE BANKS OF THE RIVER NIGER IN 
WEST AFRICA. 



SAMUEL ADJAI CROWTHER, D.D. OXON., 

(NATIVE MISSIONARY BISHOP).



LONDON: 

SEELEY, JACKSON, & HALLIDAY, 

54, FLEET STREET. 

1866. 



LONDON : 

PRINTED BY C. F. HODGSON & SON, 

OOUGH BQUAEE, FLEET STREET, B.C. 



CONTENTS. 



I. DiSAPPOIXTMEXTS OF FIKST ATTE5IPTS TO ESTABLISH A MIS- 
SION ON THE BANKS OF THE RIVER NiGER 6 

The late Prince Consort. — Sir T. Fowell Buxton. — 
Mr. McGregor Laird. 

n. EaRLT EVENTS OF THE NiGER MISSION 9 

Present Statistics. 

III. Social benefits to the Heathen of the Mission. ... 13 
Industry, the hand-maid to the Gospel. 

rV. Directions for first preaching the Gospel to a Heathen 

PEOPLE 17 

Our Lord's Discourses, and need of sympathy and 
compassion. — Take advantage of the Practice of 
Sacrifice. 

V. Chief obstacles to the reception of the Gospel in 

West Africa 22 

"Want of a written language. — Polygamy and its 
concomitant evils. — Influence of aged relatives. — 
Mahometanism and its Charms. 

VI. Extension of Mission by occupation of New Stations. . 36 
Cautions necessary. 

VII. Condition of the Unevangelized Heathen after death 37 



a2 



A CHARGE, 



My dear beloved Brethren, — 

The object of this meetmg, which is the first 
gathering together of the Bishop and Clergy in this 
Mission, is, to take a retrospective view of our work 
in this country ; to know what has been done, in what 
way it has been done ; to detect our errors and to 
correct them, so as to be able to start with fresh 
vigour and earnestness in the strength of the Lord 
in this good work. If it be necessary for the army 
and the navy, the merchants, and others in different 
departments of labour, to take from time to time a 
review of the past, to ascertain the state of their staff, 
the progress of their work, and the healthy state of 
their funds, so as to enable them to suggest suitable 
plans for future operations, with a renewed energy 
and resolute determination to accomplish their objects ; 
— if this is needful in other departments of opera- 
tions, it is more so with us missionaries, to whom are 
committed certain talents by the Grreat Householder, 
to occupy till He come. In doing which, may the 
Lord help us to be faithful. 



6 

I. A review of the past in this Mission will bring 
to remembrance many things of a chequered nature, 
things which will excite in us feelings of pain and 
regret, which will call forth in us the exercise of im- 
plicit faith, and fresh earnestness in prayers and sup- 
plications to the God of Missions, and things which 
will excite feelings of hope and expectation, which will 
stimulate us to persevering efforts to labour on, be- 
lieving that though our faith may sometimes be sorely 
put to the test, yet that in His own good time the 
Lord will answer our prayers, and grant our earnest, 
humble jDetitions, to estabhsh firmly tliis Mission 
among the teeming population of the countries through 
which these mighty rivers flow. 

Among the matters of pain and deep regret above 
alluded to, I may mention the failure of the great 
efibrts which were made by the British Government, 
and the well-digested plans of Christian philanthro- 
pists in England for the welfare of this country, 
resulting in the Niger Expedition of 1841, presided 
over by our much lamented late Prince Consort with 
deepest interest, having in view the twofold object 
of striking the slave-trade at the root, to introduce 
industry and legitimate commerce in its place, and of 
spreading Christianity among the people, as the surest 
means of elevating Africa in the scale of nations. 

One of the greatest projectors and master-minds, 
who framed the plans of that great enterprise with 
deep foresight and profound thought, (the late Sir 
Eowell Buxton,) termed the sum total of that which 
was needed for the benefit of Africa, the Gospel and 
the Plough — in other words, Christianity and hidiistry. 



These two words are worlliy to be written in letters 
of gold, and preserved in a casket of silver. 

Well digested and mature as tliese plans were, it 
appeared God's time had not yet come. In the midst 
of heart-cheering success in the chief object of the 
Expedition, its progress was arrested by an invisible 
hand ; its successful operations were checked by an 
unexpected sickness which broke out among the Euro- 
peans, on whom solely depended the carrying out 
the objects of those noble efforts. Being thus beaten 
back by sickness and painful deaths, in 1842 the 
Expedition was abandoned, to the great grief of the 
projectors, and perhaps more so to the great disap- 
pointment of the native population, to whom it had 
held out the highl}'- cherished hopes of their national 
improvement and prosperity, by having the oppor- 
tunities of dealing with people of civilized nations, 
through whose commercial enterprises the natural re- 
sources of their countries would be called forth. 

This abandonment of the Expedition was a heavy 
blow to the country. It appeared as if the Niger was 
doomed to remain in perpetual seclusion, and its 
mighty waters destined to float down only human 
cargoes, aggravating the miseries of the countrj'' and 
her people ; — as if, instead of becoming a highway 
through which to convey light, life, and liberty 
into the heart of the country, it should present 
as it were an impassable barrier to their introduction, 
and thus keep the people and country still in the 
darkness of superstition, ignorance, and vice, in a most 
servile and abject degradation and slavery, and in a 
state of spiritual death, in trespasses and sins. 



8 

Eleven long and hopeless years rolled away before 
another effort was made. The heart of the late Mr. 
McGregor Laird was sth-red up. This benevolent 
English merchant, whom nothing daunted, deter- 
mined to make another effort, and being backed by 
Her Majesty's Government, in 1854 he planned out 
an exploring expedition to the Tshadda branch of the 
Niger, which proved successful beyond all expecta- 
tions. Being thus encouraged in 1857 the visit was 
repeated, with attempts to establish trading stations 
at given points, where also a Christian Mission was 
to be commenced among the people. From this 
period we date the commencement of this Mission. 
The period from 1842 to 1854 had been indeed a 
time of severe trial to the faith of God's praying 
people. He at last answered their prayers, when, in 
1857, a beginning was made of a Christian Mission 
on the banks of the Niger. 

The interval between 1857 and this year (1866) 
has comprised nine je-drs of hopes and fears ; yet, being 
enabled to persevere through many conflicting changes, 
we have held on, and may well look back and say, 
"Hitherto the Lord hath helped us." 

This review is a necessary preliminary to the special 
objects for which we this day meet. Such facts teach 
us God's mysterious dealings with His people ; but 
especially in connection with our Avork here ; so that 
we may look back and learn resignation to His 
will, and patiently to wait His good time, when our 
own fondest hopes are disappointed, and our well-laid 
plans are frustrated, and to work on in hope, though 
for a long time we may not see what good may result 



9 



from our persevering labour, yet believing that God 
will fulfil His promise, and accomplish His work in 
His own good time and way. 

II. Having thus briefly stated the means God 
emploj^ed to give us a footing in this country, for 
planting a Christian Mission among the people, it 
will be necessary for me to describe the commence- 
ment of our work ; and then to stand as it were upon 
an eminence, and view the land, and the people, 
which we have to rescue, and the fortresses and 
strongholds we have to assail and pull down in our 
spiritual warfare, under the Captain of our salvation. 

Our first station was commenced at Onitsha in 
1S57, where our dear brother the Eev. J. C. Taylor 
was landed, assisted by the late Simon Jonas, a Scrip- 
ture reader. Their lodging was an oblong verandah- 
hovel, some three feet wide, just enough to spread 
mats on, without any other comforts. In this place 
they remained for months, and went out to preach as 
well as to work, building their own Mission-house on 
the spot which we now occupy. 

The next place attempted to be secured for a 
Mission-station was Gbebe, at the confluence of the 
Kwara and Tshadda rivers ; which unitedly form the 
Eiver Niger. While arrangements were being made 
to eflect this, to be completed at my return from the 
exploring voyage of the Kwara branch, the "Day- 
spring," the exploring steamer, was wrecked at Jeba, 
twenty miles above Eabba, where we were obliged to 
encamp for twelve months. In the meantime, another 
calamity took place ; the trading establishment was 
accidentally burnt down at Gbebe, and all the property 



10 



destroyed. It seemed at the time as if another great 
doom was impending on the workiiig of the Niger, 
from the wreck of the " Dayspring," and the de- 
struction of the trading establishment at Gbebe ; but 
the God of Missions had something in store for the 
future of the Niger. 

In 1858, the "Sunbeam" was sent for our relief, 
and some native teachers also to strengthen our 
hands ; thus I was enabled to place three readers, 
Messrs. James Thomas, Edward Klein, and Jacob 
Newland, to begin at Grbebe ; and on the return of 
Mr. Taylor and Simon Jonas to the coast, to remove 
their families to the Mission, Mr. John Smart, asso- 
ciated with Mr. W. Eomaine, a Christian trader, 
whose services were secured as a teacher, were left to 
work the station in Mr. Taylor's absence. 

It pleased God to remove Simon Jonas and Edward 
Klein from our number by death, just at the very 
time their valuable services seemed to us indis- 
pensable. Here again is another mysterious dispen- 
sation, too deep for us to fathom. 

Akassa station was subsequently taken up, at the 
mouth of the Nun, with a double view, of having 
a halting-place at the mouth of the river in going up 
and down from the upper stations, as well as to do 
what we can for the people by offering them an 
opportunity to accept the Gospel of Christ, which is 
to be preached to all nations. 

Death was again permitted to thin our ranks. We 
were deprived of the valuable services of Mr. James 
John, Catechist, at Akassa, and of those of Mr. Thomas 
Joseph, Scripture Eeader, at Gbebe. 



11 



Last year, 18G5, steps were taken to extend our 
borders ; two out-stations were taken up at Onitsha 
to be worked each by a catechist, under the super- 
intendence of Mr. Taylor. A new station was estab- 
lished at Idda, the capital of Igara, under the superin- 
tendence of Mr. Coomber, assisted by two lay teach- 
ers. Lokoja, near Gbebe, at tlie juncture of the Kwara 
and Tshadda rivers, was occupied under the superin- 
tendence of Mr. John, assisted by a lay agent. They 
labour among a mixed population of Haussa, Nupe, 
Ekie or Biinu, &c., in the jurisdiction of Moham- 
medan government, and under their immediate in- 
fluence. 

The situation of Lokoja is on the western side of 
the Niger, and it is hoped it will become a nucleus 
of trade ; some of the above-mentioned tribes, com- 
posing its resident inhabitants, being natives of the 
countries between the Niger and the coast, this 
station, if sustained under the protection of our 
gracious Master, is calculated to extend our ope- 
rations westward, and to bring the Niger and Yoruba 
Missions in conjunction at some central point in that 
direction. While Onitsha and Idda stations promise 
to work conjointly eastward towards the Tshadda 
river. 

During the same year a Mission was also commenced 
among the people of Bonny, on the coast in the Bight 
of Biafra, at present worked by two native teachers, 
till we can supply it more efficiently. This Mission 
will ultimately coalesce with that of Onitsha, as the 
Ibo language is spoken in both places ; the ver- 
nacular of Bonny is a dialect of the Idzo. 



12 

When we look back to the results of these feeble 
attempts to plant the banner of the cross among our 
benighted countrymen, and that, too, under many dis- 
advantageous circumstances, one of which has been a 
want of regular communication and supplies, — though 
we have not much to speak of, yet we have cause to 
give thanks unto the Lord of the vineyard, that, 
under peculiarly trying circumstances. He has not left 
himself without a witness ; His word, preached by 
faith in His name, has not returned unto Him void ; 
marked changes have been perceptibly observed and 
felt, and publicly acknowledged both by chiefs and 
people. The worship of idols is being duly reflected 
upon by a large number of the population, as far as 
our influence, or rather the influence of our preaching, 
has been felt; the system of idol worship is being 
looked upon by such persons to be of no value, and 
the fears of receiving injury from their imaginary 
deities are gradually losing their hold upon the minds 
of the people. Multitudes have been taught, and many 
have learned, the value of the only true sacrifice 
by the blood of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ ; 
and in the belief of the efficacy of that blood alone to 
atone for our sins, many have cast away their idols, 
and enlisted themselves as candidates of the new re- 
ligion ; and after a due course of regular instruction 
and careful watch over their characters and motives, 
believing them to be sincere and in accordance 
with the requirements of the Gospel, they have been 
received into the Church by the Sacrament of Bap- 
tism ; and some have become regular partakers of the 
Sacrament of the Lord's Supper, in commemoration of 
His dying love, and to feed on Him by faith. 



13 

The statistics of the Mission are exhibited in the 



following table 


: — 








stations. Baptisms. 


Candi- 
dates. 


Communicants. 


School- 
children. 


Congi-egations. Marriages. 


Onitslia* . 103 


23 


C 45 natives 
1 19 settlers 


25 


120 8 


Idda — 


— 


— 


24 


70t 








^transferred to Lo--^ 


Gbebe ... 39 


24 


25 


J koja 


since Gbebe 's [ 2 








C destruction by war. ^ 


Lokoja ... — 


9 


— 


36 


50t 


AVassa ... 3 


— 


— 


10 


22 1 


Bonny ... 1 


— 


— 


54 


— 


Total... 146 


66 


89 


149 


272 11 



III. The effect of the preaching of the Grospel among 
the heathen authorities and chiefs of the country may 
thus be estimated. Repeated representations have been 
made to them of the abominable practice of human 
sacrifices, which prevail more or less among the dif- 
ferent tribes; although the King and chiefs of Onitsha 
frankly confessed the evil of the thing, yet as they 
said they could not at once break ofi" from the prac- 
tice; still, when timely notice was given to the Rev. 
J. C. Taylor that a human sacrifice was about to take 
place at such a time, and the evil of the practice was 
strongly represented to them, they have again and 
again yielded the " custom," and substituted animal 

* The river Niger, near the sea, divides into several branches, 
of which the Nun is the principal. Akassa is at the month of 
the Nun. Onitsha is 150 miles, Ida 215 miles, and the con- 
fluence, Gbebe and Lokoja, 260 miles from the sea. 

t The number of persons attending service both at Lokoja 
and Idda were as high as from 100 to 160; but as these 
numbers fluctuated, 70 and 50 will be the average attendance at 
service. 



14 



victims in its place. There has been more friendly 
feelings and union between neighbouring tribes since 
our establishment among them ; and on more than 
one occasion have the Mission agents been made 
mediators in reconciling contending parties ; and 
the Mission House has been chosen by themselves 
as the neutral meeting-ground, and is a place much 
respected by all. 

Industrious habits have been encouraged. "When 
we arrived at Onitsha in 1857, we found the people 
in a state of idleness, and with its attendant 
evils ; they were scantily and filthily clothed, and 
in a state bordering upon starvation, especially 
between the cessation of the old and the 
ripeness of the new crops : the old crops were 
barely sufficient to supply their scanty wants for 
nine months of the year ; they did not grow 
more, although the exuberant fertile soil was ready 
to yield them a hundredfold increase in return ; 
the remaining three months was a time of dearth 
and scarcity, when they had to live upon fruits and 
other edible plants, the spontaneous produce of the 
fields, as might be found in the bushes anywhere. 
But since the introduction of the Cassada plants into 
the country by Mr. Taylor, and other fruit trees, and 
the people have been taught to raise a second crop of 
Indian corn by Mr. John Smart, a Scripture reader, and 
how to grow their yams better by the united example 
of all the Mission agents, they have had enough to eat 
and to spare. The introduction of the Cassada plants 
into the country is universally acknowledged as one 
of the greatest temporal blessings brought to them by 



15 



their zealous minister. The trading establishment 
has contributed greatly to stimulate them to labour 
in collecting palm oil for sale, for which they are paid 
in Manchester goods ; and now they are getting into 
the habit of going about more cleanly and decently 
apparelled. 

I regard industry as a necessary, though a secondary, 
part of missionary labours ; it is a direct command of 
the Apostle Paul to the converts at Thessalonica. 
" For even when we were with you, this we com- 
manded you, that if any would not work, neither 
should he eat. For we hear that there are some 
which walk among you disorderly, not working at 
all, but are busybodies. Now them that are such we 
command and exhort by our Lord Jesus Christ, that 
with quietness they work, and eat their own bread." 
(2 Thes. iii. 10 — 12.) Those who were already made 
converts are commanded and urged to habits of 
industry. I have enlarged upon this head thus much, 
to show that we have acted consistently with our pro- 
fession, by introducing the Gospel and the Plough, or 
Christianit}^ and Industry ; both have worked hand in 
hand, — the Gospel primarily ; Industry, as the hand- 
maid to the Gospel. 

But in these days it is necessary to guard such a 
statement as I have now made from being misinter- 
preted. Beware of those who propose to suspend, 
at the beginning, teaching the people by preaching, 
and first to teach them mechanical arts and industrial 
habits, to better their temporal condition ; and then 
afterwards to introduce Christianity among the 
people as a secondary thing : then, say these men 



16 



of reason, the heathens will believe your preaching, 
because they will say, these men, who have taught us 
to make our houses better, to cultivate our lands, and 
to better our temporal condition, must be true in w^hat 
they tell us of their new religion. I have been posi- 
tively told by one of these reasonable advisers, that 
unless I put aside teaching the natives the art of read- 
ing and writing, and teach them carpentry, coopery, 
cookery, &c., he would never subscribe a farthing 
towards my missionary work to convert the heathen. 

But, my dear brethren, to set aside these futile rea- 
sonings, we need not go so far as to the Chinese or to 
the Hindoos in the East, who have been notable for 
ages for skill in works of arts, or for a state of afflu- 
ence, and who are not behind in the literature of the 
East. Let us look at home, and make our advisers 
themselves our witnesses, who not only have the 
honour of being the sons of the first nation in the 
world, the country which is the seat of wealth, and 
of arts and sciences, in their present perfection; 
but also the sons of the nation which is the main- 
spring of the world, through her wealth, putting all in 
motion, both by land and water, through the inven- 
tion of steam, and who can communicate their minds 
from one country to another with the quickness of the 
lightning through electricity ; surely our advisers 
cannot deny this wonderful pre-eminence attained by 
their nation above all others. Let us ask them what 
favourable effects have these wonderful advantages had 
upon their own minds towards their reception of the 
Gospel ? Do they so much as pay the smallest honest 
tribute to the Bible, and the religion which it teaches 



17 



as being the source from which all tliese blessings flow ? 
I fear there are no such effects. Neither themselves, 
nor many who maintain such an opinion, are found 
near the doors of the places where the Gospel is 
preached : it is to them foolishness. Would their plan 
be more favourable among the heathens ? Painful 
experience belies this. 

The weapons of our warfare are not carnal, but 
mighty through God to the pulling down of strong- 
holds ; it is the faithful preaching of the Gospel, 
which is the power of God unto salvation to every 
one that believeth ; it is that alone which can work a 
chano-e in hearts both at home and abroad. 

IV, Our next enquiry shall be as to the best mode 
of proceeding in preaching the Gospel among the 
heathen. 

In this we have the best example ever given on the 
subject, and that by the preaching of Christ himself. 
The Sermon on the Mount ; His Parables ; His Dis- 
courses ; these are the standards of Missionary ser- 
mons among the untutored heathen. Take any portion 
of these, sublime and lofty as the sentiments therein 
expressed are ; yet they are so simple, that every 
heathen can understand them; and so appropriate, 
that every one can see himself represented in them. 
Imitate Christ, then, to reach the understanding, and 
not to move the feelings only ; speak to the people as 
they are able to bear it ; speak to them with all sim- 
plicity as to children ; a simple exposition and appli- 
cation of a discourse or parable will often be fol- 
lowed by lasting impressions and great effects. In 
this way I have not only got an attentive hearing 

B 



18 

from the lieatlien, but from" Mahometans also ; bi- 
go!;ed as they are, they could not help attesting to 
the soundness of the doctrine of our religion, though 
they could not embrace Christianity lest they should 
be cast out of the Mosque. 

Whether we hope to make converts from among 
the heathen, or from the followers of Mahomet, our 
aim should always be to preach to all as to needy 
and helpless sinners, who must be pardoned through 
the atoning blood of Christ alone. Preach without a 
prejudiced mind ; the hearts into which the seed is 
sown belong to the Lord, who owns both the seed 
and the hearts. The growth of the seed cast into 
such a heart is in His power, just as we sow our 
natural seed, both morning and evening, and know 
not whether this or that shall prosper, or whether 
both should be alike good. So must we preach the 
Gospel to a mixed congregation of heathen and 
Mahometans ; thus sowing by prayer and faith, we 
must leave the results to the Disposer of all hearts, 
who can influence them by the inspiration of His holy 
Spirit. 

Again, in preaching, divest yourself of a disposition 
to dispute with Mahometans, or to censure heathens ; 
rather be possessed with the feelings of sympathy 
with all classes of hearers. Whenever there is an op- 
portunity of preaching to, or speaking with, Maho- 
metans, unfold the truth of the Gospel of Christ 
in its fulness, commending the truth to their con- 
sciences in the sight of God. It was not always that 
Christ made severe rebukes upon the Scribes and Pha- 
risees, as hypocrites, in His discourses ; though some 



19 



were probably always present to hear Him, though 
not with the intention to profit, but to watch and 
catch something from His mouth, that they might 
accuse Him. Though He knew this, yet generally He 
preached as if He knew not their wicked intentions. 
The effects on them we are told thus : " Among the 
chief rulers, also, many believed on Him, but because 
of the Pharisees they did not confess Him, lest they 
should be put out of the synagogue, for the}'' love the 
praise of men more than the praise of God." Even the 
officers who were sent on one occasion to apprehend 
Him, were disarmed by His powerful and resistless 
preaching, and returned without Him, with this con- 
viction and frank confession of His heart-searching 
sermon : " Never man spake like this man." Aim at 
suj)plying the hearts of the hearers with the infallible 
truth of the Gospel of Christ, in the room of the doc- 
trines and commandments of men. 

With the heathen population we have mostly and 
chiefly to do : them you must not censure as ignorant, 
stupid, and foolish idolators ; your dealing with them 
must be that of sympathy and love, as you would deal 
with the blind who errs out of the way ; surely he 
would not have wittingly gone out of the way, but for 
want of sight. Thus the Bible tells us, "He" (Satan) 
" hath shut their eyes that they cannot see, and their 
hearts, that they cannot understand." 

This is beautifully paraphrased l)y the late cele- 
brated Bishop Heber : — • 

" The heathen in their blindness, 
Bow down to wood and stone." 

When we first introduce the Gosj^el to any people, 

B 2 



20 



we should take advantage of any principles which 
they themselves admit. Thus, though the heathen 
in this part of Africa possess no written legends, 
yet wherever we turn our eyes we find among them, 
in their animal sacrifices, a text which is the main- 
spring of the Christian faith : " Without shedding of 
blood there is no remission." Therefore we n)ay with 
propriety say, " That which ye ignorantly practise 
declare we unto you : " " The blood of Jesus Christ, 
the Son of God, cleanseth from all sin." 

Whoever observes the rite of animal sacrifices as 
performed by the heathens in this country, cannot but 
be struck with the similarity, in many cases, though 
rudely done, with the Le\dtical institution. For in- 
stance, the application of the blood of the victims on 
the person of the offerer, or on his forehead, with a tuft 
of the hair of the beast, or feathers of the bird, most 
frequently of the pigeon, attached to the blood on the 
forehead, which must remain on him till it dries and 
falls off" : the application of the blood on the doors 
and door-posts, and on the lintels : the share of the 
priests : and the parts which must be taken out into 
the highway, to be exposed to the evil spirits in- 
tended to be pacified or propitiated, reminding one 
especially of the portion of the burnt-oflfering, whose 
ashes must be conveyed to some place without the 
camp ; and, as we have lately discovered at Onitsha, 
the yearly human sacrifice for the sin of the nation. 
All these cannot but lead one back to conclude that 
these rites must have their remote origin from imita- 
tion of the Levitical institution of sacrifices, which 
have degenerated as they were handed down from the 
tradition of the Fathers. 



21 



Here is a foundation for our preacliing. The 
institution of sacrifices by God as types and shadows 
of good things to come, will naturall}" form a grand 
topic of the doctrine of the Gospel we bring among 
them. 

We admit that it is judicious to introduce at tlie 
first among the people such portions of God's word 
as are necessary for their salvation, such as the 
Gospels and the historical books of the Old Tes- 
tament, and, as they are growing in knowledge, the 
Epistles ; yet we do not think, as some would re- 
commend, to withhold from them such parts of 
the Pentateuch as seem to countenance sacrifices, 
polygamy, holding of slaves, and other practices, 
against which we preach as inconsistent w^ith the 
Christian profession. ' The very fact of proving from 
the Pentateuch the Divine institution of sacrifices, 
and for w^hat end, wdll tend to bring home our preach- 
ing against their present practices more powerfully 
to their consciences than otherwise. This is also 
applicable to the system of polygamy and slave-hold- 
ing. The honesty of presenting the Holy Scriptures, 
in all their parts, as God has delivered them to us, 
will draw more blessing upon our work than keep- 
ing back portions of them for fear of defeating our 
own object. We have no such apprehension. Inas- 
much as w^e have not followed cunningly devised 
fables, it is our bounden duty to deal honestly with 
the people committed to our instruction, by not shun- 
ning to declare unto them the whole counsel of God ; 
although we are not unmindful that babes must first 
be nursed with the sincere milk of the word, that they 



22 



may grow thereby, reserving the strong meats till 
they are of full age. 

By this mode of proceeding the Gospel has been 
introduced into this part of Africa, and the formidable 
hindrances have been overcome. I have stated it 
as a matter of fact, that converts have been made 
from among the heathen by our preaching. Some- 
times, indeed, we have feared and doubted whether 
some of them were sincere, and knew enough how 
much would be required of them in their profession 
of the Christian faith. It was our duty to receive 
them, as they offered themselves as candidates of the 
new religion, and to teach them by degrees the prin- 
ciples of Christianity ; though with mingled hopes 
and fears whether they would be able to endure the 
voyage in which they had embarked. We have 
discovered, with sorrow and disappointment, that 
some have only followed for the sake of imagined 
loaves and fishes to be obtained, and when disap- 
pointed would walk no more with us ; and some have 
made shipwreck of their faith from long old habits, 
which they could not altogether part with and entirely 
forsake ; and others have proved, like Demas, to love 
this present world : for all these characters are repre- 
sented among our converts. Yet, by the grace of Grod, 
we have been encouraged, by seeing many sincere 
converts who hold fast their Christian profession 
without wavering, who seem to be made partakers 
of Christ, holding the beginning of their confidence 
steadfast to the end. 

V. The antagonists of modern Christian Missionary 
Societies sometimes strive to discredit our work by 



23 



saying that the present system of teaching Christi- 
anity to the heathen must be defective, because it has 
not been followed by a Pentecostal success. 

To this I reply, that the introduction of Chris- 
tianity among the natives of West Africa is beset 
with many and great disadvantages, one of which is, 
the want of a written language. Putting aside the 
means God was pleased at the first to use, to aid the 
Apostles in propagating the new faith, — such as the 
miraculous gift of tongues, the gilt of miracles and 
of healings, &c., as credentials of their Divine mission, 
— it was a great advantage that the age in which 
Christianity was introduced into the world was that 
of literature. The Grreaks and Romans, who were 
successively masters of the then known world, were 
men of letters ; their literary works, though heathen 
productions, have continued to be the standard of 
academical honours and degrees, to modern Chris- 
tian scholars. To the Jews were committed the 
oracles of Grod. If this be true, here were natural 
facilities in the way of the Apostles in prosecut- 
ing their important mission among both Jews and 
Gentiles. St. Paul, in his first sermon at Athens, 
could bring to the remembrance of his sophistical and 
sceptical hearers the saying of one of their stand- 
ing authorities, a poet w^ho said, " We are also 
His offspring." So St. Peter took advantage to 
refer the Cretans to the saying of one of them, 
who said, " The Cretans are always liars, evil 
beasts, slow bellies." The Thessalonians and the 
Bereans were particidarly noted in that they searched 
the Scriptures daily to see whether those things were 



24 



so. Here at once were the advantages of literature ; 
it enabled the people to search and prove for them- 
selves, out of the Scriptures, the veracity of the word 
preached. We learn also that many who used curious 
arts, imposed upon the people by means of books ; 
for, on proving the veracity of the Scriptures, they 
brought their books together, and burned them before 
all men. And they counted the price of them, and 
found it fifty thousand pieces of silver. Christian 
Missionaries to this part of Africa have never had the 
advantage of books or a reading people. Their dis- 
advantages in this respect are two-fold; not only 
that the natives, whom they come out to teach, have 
not a written language, but that the Missionaries 
themselves must make a written language out of the 
lips of the natives, learn the language, and then teach 
the use of it to them in books. Thus, with the intro- 
duction of Christianity, they have also to introduce 
the elements of literature, before they can expect any 
amount of results in the Missionary work by the read- 
ing of Grod's word. 

This great drawback must be gradually over- 
come by a steady and persevering labour in places 
where we have to establish new Missions. Where 
this great difficulty has been overcome, the hitherto 
ignorant natives, who had never known how to derive 
information from the thoughts of others through the 
medium of books, nor how to communicate their own 
thoughts to others through that channel, have betaken 
themselves, with all diligence, to acquire the art of 
reading ; and it may be witnessed in those who have 
mastered this new and mysterious acquirement, what 



25 

is tlieir estimate of the art of reading, by their attach- 
ment to the poi-tions of God's holy word transhited 
into their native tongue, which they value as a pearl 
of great price. They, having nothing here like the 
Vedas of the Hindoos from which to argue for the 
antiquity of their mythology, and nothing like the 
Koran of the Mahometans to stiffen them in arguing 
for the superiority of the religion of Mahomet to that 
of Christ, receive the translated portions of the Bible 
which we put into their hands, with the eagerness and 
simplicity of children, even the engrafted word which 
is able to save their souls. Thus God is overruling the 
very great obstacle in the way of the rapid progress 
of Christian missions, wherever it has been overcome 
by persevering labour and faith, to a permanent estab- 
lishment of the knowledge of His Gospel among the 
heathen. 

Idolatrous worship, with all its concomitant evils, 
which is repugnant to the spread of Christianity, is 
another great obstacle to be contended with. But this 
is common to all heathen nations and countries in 
the world. 

Another great evil with which we have to con- 
tend in this country is the system of polygamy. 
It is indeed a great obstacle, but it may be overcome. 
Many would place it prominently above all other 
obstacles in the way of Christian Missionaries in 
Africa; but perhaps I do not go to the same extent as 
they do in ranking it as the greatest hindrance in the 
way of the heathen embracing Christianity, though 
it is the most common. The system prevails 
throughout the country ; it insinuates itself into the 



26 



corrupt and unsubdued will of the children of Adam ; 
it has become a second nature; to break off from it is to 
part with the right eye, the right hand, or the right 
loot ; it is such a darling system to depraved nature, 
that it does not only enslave the practisers of it them- 
selves, but it presses thousands of unwilling victims 
into its service. So the song of the women of Israel 
in honour of David after his successive victories over 
the Philistines may well be applied to this system : — 
" Saul hath slain his thousands, and David his ten 
thousands." Other obstacles, taken separately, have 
kept back, each its thousands, but the system of poly- 
gamy its ten thousands. The system is a net of the 
lust of the ^(?6'/^, which is the parent evil. "It is 
the fault and corruption of the nature of every 
man, that is naturally engendered of the offspring 
of Adam ; whereby man is very far gone from 
original righteousness, and is of his own nature 
inclined to evil, so that the flesh lusteth always con- 
trary to the spirit." But when once the old man is 
crucified, the meshes of polygamy will give way, and 
the wrongly oppressed victims enclosed therein will 
easily be set at liberty and the system abolished. " For 
the law of the Spirit of life in Christ Jesus hath made 
me free from the law of sin and death." Eom. viii. 3. 

But as some have, in this day, advocated the ad- 
mission of polygamists into the Christian Church, let 
us honestly view this subject in its various bearings, 
and enquire into the lawfulness and unlawfulness 
of the system from God's own word and acts, and 
from its effects upon our social state and happiness. 

The act of God, co-existent with the Creation, is 
to be taken as the standard pattern throughout the 



27 



family of mankind. " It is not good that tlie man 
should be alone ; I will make him an helpmeet for 
him." "And the rib which the Lord God had taken 
from the man made he a woman, and brought her 
unto the man. And Adam said, This is now bone of 
my bones and flesh of my flesh : she shall be called 
Woman, because she was taken out of man. There- 
fore shall a man leave his father and his mother, and 
shall cleave unto his wife ; and they shall be one 
flesh." This was God's first act in our social state, 
the man and his wife. And to this the last of the 
Prophets refers (Mai. ii. 14, 15): "Did He not make 
one? Yet had he the residue of the Spirit. And 
wherefore one ? That He might seek a goodly seed. 
Therefore take heed to your spirit, and let none deal 
treacherously with the wife of his youth." 

Our Saviour confirmed this ordinance, when He said 
to His disciples, " Have ye not read, that He which 
made them at the beginning, made them male and 
female ; and said, For this cause shall a man leave 
father and mother, and shall cleave unto his wife ; and 
they twain shall be one flesh. Wherefore they are no 
more twain, but one flesh." 

The Apostle St. Paul was very clear in this respect 
in his Epistle to the Corinthians : " Let every man 
have his own wife, and let every woman have her own 
husband." 

After the lapse of 1000 years from the Creation, 
and Adam's fall, when mankind had departed from 
the original institution, and God saw fit in His 
righteous judgment to punish the world of the un- 
godly, he restored out of the ruins of man's depravity 



28 



that holy estate which had been buried in the rubbish 
of corruption, in honour of his own original institu- 
tion, from which man had departed, by saving eight 
persons, four pairs, four men and four women, from 
the waters of the flood. If God was not pleased to 
create Adam more helps-meet for him than one at the 
creation, — had it been His will that the S3"stem of 
polygamy should be introduced, maintained, and en- 
couraged in the world, — how easy it was for Him to 
save several innocent young females, who had not 
participated in the wickedness of their parents, that 
by them the earth might again be quickly repeopled ? 
Wliat did Grod mean to show to those who come 
after, but that He still regarded and honoured His 
first ordinance, " very good," by this divine testimony 
in the midst of His fierce anger, when He drowned 
the world of the ungodly ? 

But this was not heeded. Like other evils, poly- 
gamy has extended to remote nations and to succeeding 
ages. But what are its consequences ? It has enslaved 
the female population of the countries where it pre- 
vails, and made many to be miserable victims to the 
carnal lust and depraved appetite of one man. It has 
wrenched from them the right of nature which God 
has implanted in each for her own social happiness. 
Let us stand above the level, and take a view of this 
social evil. We are in the midst of it, and are in no 
danger of misrepresentation. When a man has com- 
menced the life of a polygamist, he at the same time 
has commenced a life of neglect of conjugal duty 
and disquietude ; the neglect creates quarrel, and 
disturbance of domestic peace ensues. It is impos- 



29 



sible for every pol3"gamist in this country to support 
from two to half a dozen wives out of his own scanty 
resources ; and when this is the case, there is no alter- 
native but that every wife must enter into a life of 
labour and drudgery, and shift for herself the best 
way she can ; hence, to earn her livelihood, she must 
become a carrier of loads from one market town to 
another, or she must become a trader to neighbouring 
towns and tribes, which involves an absence of days, 
and weeks, and months, from home ; and on her return, 
it has not unfrequently happened, that she provides 
for the husband out of her earnings, in addition to 
providing for herself and her children, if she has 
any; for the chief care of the children devolves 
on the mother and her relatives. The occasional 
gift of a few cowries from the father to the children 
for their morning gruel, and perhaps occasional 
share of yams to the mother, constitute, mainly, 
the support from the father. The mother, having 
the chief maintenance of the children in many 
tribes, the native law has justly decided that she 
has more right in the children than the father, 
though he exercises authority over all. It has been 
often remarked by the men themselves, that when a 
man had but one wife, there was that degree of love 
and affection between them as might be observed in a 
married state in civilized countries ; the}^ were one in 
everything. But no sooner was a second wife added, 
than the cord of union and affection was broken, and 
domestic evils immediately showed themselves. Hence 
arose this memorable proverb among the Yoruba 
females, Obiri kb rubo hi o li orogun, " No woman 



30 



would ever undergo the expenses of a sacrifice, to 
procure a rival," (^. e., that her husband may have an 
additional wife). These are the feelings of the female 
population on the subject ; the proverb is their own, 
it is their watch-word, showing the repugnance of 
their feelings against the system, and may be heard 
among them to-day ; but it is generally suppressed, 
like their other proper rights, which they forego, for 
fear of being reproached with jealousy. 

There is another very cruel oppression practised 
under this system, as it may be observed in this 
country; that is, the practice of a walled harem ; a 
large open courtyard, like that of a prison, is walled 
up, wherein scores of unfortunate females are shut 
up,* being the wives? of a king, or chief. "What is told 
of these unfortunate persons rather excites pity than 
reproach. They are reasonable beings, in whom God 
has planted certain rights and feelings in common 
with other people ; but when such rights are selfishly 
taken away from them, and those feelings cruelly 
oppressed, are not their cruel and sensual oppressors 
more to be blamed than they ? Can it be otherwise 
expected but that these unfortunate, despairing pri- 
soners, enslaved to the lust and carnal appetite of a 
person old enough, it may be, to be their grandfather, 
should scale the walls at night, at the risk of their being 
detected by the keepers of the women, and severely 

* N.B. To begaile the tedious hours of seclusion from public 
exercises within these walls, the time of these unfortunate persons 
is employed in spinning cotton wool into thread, or dying cotton 
cloths in indigo blue, the proceeds of which add to their main- 
tenance. 



31 



piinislied, or even of losing tlieir heads for it. Selfish- 
ness has disturbed the equilibrium of social rights, 
there being as many young men who are also thus 
selfishly deprived of their right of the social privilege 
of an allotted companion. 

One evil leads to another ; for the safe keeping of 
the harem, numbers of eunuchs are made to be keepers 
of the women. 

The system of polygamy will not check the evil of 
sensuality, or else we would not have occasion so 
often to witness the accusation of one polygamist 
against another polygamist for intrusion into his 
right. And if the system be such as it has been 
stated, whether we look at it on the one hand from 
the personal wrong done to the female sex, or on the 
other hand the injustice and oppression of which the 
man is guilty, who, 1 may ask, correctly knowing 
this state of things, can conscientiously recommend 
its continuance? 

It has been suggested by some, that the present 
polygamists could be received into the Church by the 
Sacrament of Baptism, on the condition that such 
persons promise not to add to their already possessed 
wives ; but who can guarantee that young persons will 
not purposely hold back till they have possessed as 
many wives as their hearts desire, before they oflfer 
themselves to be admitted into the Church by the 
same rite after the example of their fathers ? The 
human heart is so deceitful and desperately wicked, 
that it will ever find a loophole to gratify its carnal 
propensity. Once establish a precedent, you cannot 
easily change it. 



32 



Having adverted to the system of polygamy as 
being a great hindrance in the way of the male popu- 
lation to embrace Christianity, it remains also to ask, 
What hinders the female population from a readier 
profession of the religion ? Whether their husbands be 
polygamists or not, as long as a woman remains faithful 
to her husband, upon her profession of faith in Christ 
as the all-sufficient Saviour of sinners, after a course 
of instruction, she is received into the Church by 
baptism : her husband's fault cannot be imputed to 
her ; and if her will were consulted, she would rather 
be the only help-meet for him. 

As one half of the population of any village, town, 
or country is composed of females, it might be thought 
that the number of female converts would double or 
triple that of the males, many of whom are prevented 
from coming forward, being polygamists. It might 
have been so if there were not other obstacles in the 
way; there might have been no difficulty, com- 
paratively speaking, in making the female popu- 
lation converts to Christianity. Yet with some 
advantages in their favour, we find in many cases 
that the females have proved not quite so easily 
brought round to embrace Christianity as might 
have been expected. They are the mot addicted 
to idolatrous worship ; their combination with their 
priestesses is a formidable barrier to break through ; 
they have such a tenacious influence over one another 
as defies any other power, but that of the irre- 
sistible influence of the Spirit of God to detach 
them from it, so that we are sometimes almost in 
desppi'r of ever being able to do any good among 
theni. 



33 

Grandmothers and mothers have been found to 
prove a great hindrance in the way of their children 
or family connections coming forward to embrace 
Christianity. These influential grandams who could 
say, " After I am waxed old, shall I have pleasure," 
are the very ones who, like their companions of the 
other sex,' stand aloof from Christianity as interfer- 
ing with the custom of their ancestors. They have 
been born in idolatry, brought up in it, have a most 
superstitious belief in it ; they are wedded to it, and 
in it they determine to die, and go to the generation 
of their fathers. 

We have thus considered what are the chief 
hindrances in the way of the reception of Chris- 
tianity both by males and females ; polygamy on the 
part of the males, and superstitious idolatry on the 
part of the females. But neither the one nor the 
other is the sole cause or root of the evil. The 
great evil is the universal one which prevails in 
countries where the Gospel has been long preached, 
as well as in heathen lands where it is recently 
introduced. The secret of all is this, " the carnal 
mind is enmity against God; for it is not subject to 
the law of God, neither indeed can be." It is the 
corrupt will of man, which will not submit to the law 
of God : the doctrine of repentance, and amendment 
of life, and mortification of the flesh, is what the proud 
rebellious heart will not so soon yield obedience to. 
When the will is subdued, every other obstacle gives 
way with it. The polygamists very soon see their mis- 
take in their way of life contrary to the ordinance of 
God in the holy estate of matrimony ; they will soon 



34 



see rightly tlieir own true interest, and their duty to 

their neighbours. When once they have a correct view 

of this, they give themselves no rest till they reform. 

They are never compelled to do anything; we leave 

the matter to their own deliberate consideration ; 

they are never urged to cast away their idolatrous 

objects of worship; but they either voluntarily cast 

them away themselves, or bring them to us, being 

truly convinced of their utter helplessness. Thus 

we find the most obstinate rebels against truth and 

the Gospel, who at first were staunch opponents to 

Christianity, become zealous followers of the Lord Jesus 

Christ by faith in His blood, both men and women. 

We might have dwelt on Mahometanism as 
another obstacle in the way of Christianity; but it 
is so weU known, that it is unnecessary to say a word 
about it. Yet I may notice some devices they practise 
in this country to recommend its adoption to the 
heathens. They pursue systems in direct opposition 
to Christian missionaries. Besides propagating their 
religion with the sword, they work upon the super- 
stition of the heathen by making charms, which 
they sell to them to confide in like their own 
idolatrous fetishes or greegrees. These charms, 
which are writings of words or sentences in Arabic 
from the Koran, are made to suit almost all occasions, 
and the superstitious wishes of the people. I may 
mention some, as follows : — Protective charms. These 
are made to protect against every danger, at home or 
abroad, against sickness, witchcraft, an evil eye ; but 
especially when they go to war or on kidnapping expe- 
ditions, to ward ott' arrows or gunshot, and to make 



35 

blunt the edge of the sword if the}'- come to close 
contact with their antagonists in battle. — Vanishing 
charms. These are issued to a warrior or kidnapper, 
that he might disappear and vanish away when he 
is in danger of being caught himself in his slave- 
hunting raid. — Successful charms. These are issued to 
a person that he may have a good luck in any under- 
taking ; to catch slaves in war, to succeed in anything 
taken in hand, to prosper in trade or on a journey ; 
to obtain favour in the sight of the rich or great, or 
of any one it is sought ; to make one rich, &c. — Pro- 
creative charms. These are mostly sought for by 
women who are very anxious to be favoured with 
children ; and in case of conception, as it is believed 
through such influences, the infant is destined to 
be a Mahometan. Thus, if there be one thousand 
births under such a delusion, one thousand infants are 
converted to Mahometanism by means of charms. 
When such a child is grown up, ^3 reach to him a 
change of religion, his reply will be, " I cannot, I was 
destined to be born a Mahometan." — Confounding 
charms^ which are often called tying charms ; because 
it is believed that such charms have an enchanting 
and fascinating influence on the person against whom 
they are issued, that he cannot act in opposition to that 
influence. Thus, to tie or confound the enemies with 
whom they are at war, they throw or secretly bury 
such charms in their camp or town, and thus the 
people are led to believe that the enemies will be con- 
founded or paralysed. Charms are issued out against 
any person of property, or in better circumstances, 
whose prosperity is envied, that he may become 



36 



a spendthrift and waster, and be reduced to poverty- 
Charms are given to render a man an idiot, charms to 
kill, &c. &c. In short, there is not a case for which 
the superstitious, credulous heathen apply to a Ma- 
hometan priest, for which he does not procure 
him a charm. Can we be surprised that the foolish 
heathen, who are thus worked upon by a man looking 
into a book and writing out such scraps from it in 
the name of Grod and Mahomet his prophet, are more 
easily made converts to Mahometanism than to 
Christianity? But Christian Missionaries cannot 
have recourse to such deceits to recommend the way 
of salvation to the heathen. 

Foolish, however, as the heathen are to believe in 
these things, yet the popular feelings are, and their 
belief is this, and they have often expressed it, that 
the religion of the Anazora (e. e., Christianity) will 
supersede all other religions in the end. 

VI. Before I conclude I must touch on the subject 
of occupying new Stations. 

Small and insignificant as it may appear to be, yet 
we must regard the occupation of a new Station as a 
step onward in extending the Eedeemer's kingdom. 
Christ sent his disciples to every city and place 
whither he himself would come, to preach the Grospel. 
Not only the conversion of souls in such a place or 
village is of the utmost importance ; but God may 
make such a place another starting point to occupy 
new ground, or to work wider around that locality. 

Yet great caution is required at the occupation of a 
new Station. It is necessary, according to the custom 
of the country, to exchange presents, and to give 



37 



presents, whicli is another name for paying for land, 
by which our right to occupy it unmolested is re- 
cognized. These preliminary precautions are prudent 
and necessary ; yet it is right, at the same time, 
that we do not impose upon ourselves the unnecessary 
tax of giving periodically, so that it should become 
an established rule, from which we may find it 
difficult afterwards to free ourselves. We should 
not forget the cupidity and selfishness of some native 
chiefs, whose aim and desire is to make a gain of us 
by constantly drawing from our imagined inexhaust- 
ible resources as much as they can ; this is a par- 
ticular trait in their character. We should never be 
backward to impress on them that it is their duty 
to bear a part share in the expenses of the Mission 
from the very beginning, till they are able to bear the 
whole cost themselves. 

The principle of self-support should never be lost 
sight of. To introduce this system, the plan of a 
Christian relief fund may be set on foot, which must 
be gradually improved upon, bearing in mind the prin- 
ciple of contributing to the expenses of the Mission, 
and ultimately of self-support in due time. 

VIT. Before I bring this Charge to. a close, there 
is another topic which is frequently brought to 
my notice, with a view to perplex, not to satisfy 
doubts. The question is, What shall become of the 
heathens who die without having the opportunity 
of hearing the Grospel of Jesus Christ? This is 
a new version of the question of the inquisitive 
hearer in the Grospel : " Lord, are there few that be 
saved ? " To such captious questions our answer 

f 2 



38 



is furnished by St. Paul, Eom, ii. 11-16: "For 
there is no respect of persons with Grod. For as many 
as have sinned without law shall also perish without 
law : and as many as have sinned in the law shall be 
judged by the law. For not the hearers of the law 
are just before God, but the doers of the law shall be 
justified. For when the Grentiles, which have not the 
law, do by nature the things contained in the law, 
these, having not the law, are a law unto themselves ; 
which shew the work of the law written in their 
hearts, their conscience also bearing witness, and their 
thoughts the meanwhile accusing, or else excusing, 
one another. In the day when God shall judge the 
secrets of men, by Jesus Christ, according to my 
Gospel." This should be a sufficient reply to such a 
question. 

AVith all submission, I will remark that it is 
not the will of God to reveal unto us what shall be- 
come of such persons. 

Known unto Him are all His works from the crea- 
tion of the world. " The secret things belong unto 
the Lord our God, but those things which are revealed 
belong unto us and to our children for ever and ever, 
that we may do all the works of this law." Our duty 
is plain, — " Go ye therefore and teach all nations." 
Although eighteen hundred years have elapsed since 
this command was given, and the Gospel is not yet 
universally preached to all nations, yet still the com- 
mand continues in full force, — " Go and teach all 
nations." 

Though we are not permitted to know what shall 
become of those who have not had the opportunity to 



39 

hear of tlie Gospel of Christ, yet we are plainly told 
by Christ himself what shall become of those who 
hear of Him, but believe not. "They are condemned 
already, because they believe not in the name of the 
only-begotten Son of Grod : and this is the condemna- 
tion, that light is come into the world, but men love 
darkness rather than light, because their deeds are 
evil." 

Hence, the servant that knoweth his master's will, 
and doeth it not, shall be beaten with many stripes ; 
but he that knoweth not, and doeth things worthy of 
stripes, shall be beaten with few stripes. 

To the inquisitive inquirer of what shall become of 
the heathens who have not had the opportunit}^ of hear- 
ing of the GosjDel of Christ, this is the answer : Thou 
who knowest thy master's will, but doest it not, shall be 
beaten with many stripes, in proportion to your light, 
knowledge, and opportunity you have, but which you 
have abused. The heathens, who have not the like 
opportunity of knowing, but commit things worthy of 
stripes, shall be beaten with few stripes, in proportion 
to their lack of additional knowledge and light. " Shall 
not the judge of all the earth do right ?" 

S. A. CROWTHEE, 

Missionary Bishop. 



[Appeal issued in 1864.] 



WEST-AFRICAN NATIVE BISHOPRIC FUND. 

The Eev. Samuel Ceowther, D.D.,* has been consecrated 
Bishop of those parts of West Africa which He beyond the 
Kraits of the Diocese of Sierra Leone. He has received the 
degree of D.D. from the University of Oxford, and was con- 
secrated on the 29th of June by the Archbishop of Canter- 
bury. This appointment marks an era which is full of hope 
for the extension of Christianity in those regions by a Native 
Church under a Native Episcopacy. Dr. Crowther wiU still 
continue in connexion with the Church Missionary Societ}'^, 
receiving his salary from its funds, communicating with its 
Secretaries, and acting in concurrence with the Society in 
all Missionary operations in which the Missionaries of the 
Society are engaged. 

But, beyond those operations, a Native Bishop will have 
large opportunities of stimulating native zeal, if he have the 
means of making small grants out of a fund at his own dis- 
posal, as a commencement and encouragement of local Mis- 
sionary efforts. For example, he may prompt native converts 
to erect preaching-houses or school-houses by offers of com- 
paratively trifling pecuniary aid. He will be able to meet 
cases in which Native Chiefs, not yet converted to Christi- 

* Dr. Crowtlier was born of heathen parents, in the town of Oshogun, in 
West Africa. He was taken prisoner by a hostile tribe, and sold as a slave. 
He was afterwards rescued by a British cruiser, and Hberated, and educated 
in Sierra Leouc. 



41 



anity^ apply to Missionaries to send tliem Teacliers or Sctool- 
masterSj who will be ready partly to support them, if their 
first expenses and a portion of their salary be defrayed. He 
will be able to receive messengers from distant Kings aid 
Tribes, who occasionally visit a Mission station, and whom it 
is desirable to entertain as guests. He may engage inter- 
preters and copyists in reducing new languages. In such 
and many similar cases, if the funds of the society were em- 
ployed, there would be danger of checking that spirit of self- 
reliance and independent action which it is most desirable to 
cherish in the Native Church, while to many such objects the 
funds of the Society are not applicable. 

If the African Native Bishopric fulfils, through the blessing 
of the great Head of the Church, the expectations which may 
be reasonably entertained, there will be a constant and in- 
creasing call upon the fund from year to year, as the Native 
Church extends its bounds. It will soon require its own 
Theological School, and a Native Church Fund. In this 
prospect the contributions now received will be husbanded 
with all due caution ; but it is hoped that, when they are ex- 
hausted, the appeal may be renewed. For whatever is con- 
tributed through this channel will tend to foster the free action 
and self-support of the Native Church, instead of an unhealthy 
dependence upon, and subordination to, a foreign Missionary 
Society. As the objects to which the fund is applicable in- 
crease in numbers and importance, the Bishop will take counsel 
with his Native Presbyters respecting its distribution. 

The Bishop's Fund might be further apphed with ad- 
vantage in occasionally redeeming Christian converts who 
have been carried into captivity, in promoting native 
industry by the gift of cotton gins or mechanical tools, and 
for other presents to Chiefs ; for which purposes the funds of 
the Church Missionary Society cannot properly be employed. 
There will also be at first many extra personal ex]3enses, 
such as an outfit, and, afterwards, journeys and voyages, for 
which the fund will be available. 



42 



It is the Bishop's wish that all Contributions to this Fund 
should be paid into the hands of the Treasurers in London, 
with whom he proposes to communicate from time to time as 
to the appropriation of the Fund, and to whom he will trans- 
mit an annual account of the expenditure, and notices of the 
Missionary operations which it has helped to sustain. 



Out of this Fund the Mission in Bonny has been sup- 
ported, the native chiefs having been induced to contribute 
half the expense of the buildings. Encouragement to in- 
dustry is also a charge upon this Fund. A statement of the 
receipts and expenditure is to be had on appKcation to the 
Church Missionary House. 



Treasurers of the Fund, John Gueney Hoare, Esq., T. 
FowELL Buxton, Esq., and the Rev. Heney Venn. Contri- 
butions to be paid to the " West- African Native Bishopric 
Fund,'' Messrs. Baknett, Hoare, and Co., Bankers, Lombard 
Street, City, E.C. 



London: Printed by C. F Hodgson and Son, Goiigh Square, Fleet Street. 



^,«I3 



