About This File

This file is part of a corpus compiled by Caitlin Matheis (University of Nebraska-Lincoln) for a 2021 computational text analysis project for the One More Voice recovery project (onemorevoice.org). This corpus encompasses a wide range of plain text (TXT) files containing nineteenth- and early twentieth-century literary works centered on Africa by several dozen different British and African writers. Questions about the corpus and project can be directed to Caitlin Matheis (cmatheis2@huskers.unl.edu), the creator of the corpus, and Adrian S. Wisnicki (awisnicki@unl.edu), lead developer for One More Voice.

File Source: Internet Archive, http://archive.org/details/gospelonbanksofn00crow
--------------------------------------

THE GOSPEL 
ON THE BANKS OF THE NIGER. 



JOURNALS AND NOTICES 

or THE 

NATIVE MISSIONARIES 

ACCOMPANYING THE 

NIGER EXPEDITION OF 1857-1859. 

BY THE 

REV. SAMUEL CROWTHER 

AND THE 

REV. JOHN CHRISTOPHER TAYLOR, 

NATIVE MISSIONARIES OF THE CHURCH MISSIONARY SOCIETY. 

With Appendices and Map.



LONDON: 
CHURCH MISSIONARY HOUSE, 

SALISBURY SQUARE; 

SEELEY, JACKSON, AND HALLIDAY, FLEET STREET. 
1859. 



W. M WATTS, CROWN COOET, TEMPLE BAR. 




PREEACE. 



The following pages contain records of the last 
Niger Expedition, being the third undertaken either 
directly by the British Government, or by private 
enterprise aided by its sanction and pecuniary support. 

The first, in 1841, under the conduct of Captain H. 
D. Trotter, R.N., succeeded only in penetrating as far 
as Egga, and the disastrous mortality amongst those 
engaged in it is familiar to all interested in the annals 
of African discovery. It was accompanied by the 
Church Missionary Societi/s Missionary, the Rev. J. 
F. Schon, who then laid the foundation of that know- 
ledge of West- African languages, wliich has of late 
years proved so invaluable an auxiliary to the trans- 
lation of the Holy Scriptures into Hausa, I bo, and 
Yoruba ; and also by Mr. Samuel Crowther, a re-cap- 
tured slave of the Yoruba tribe, at that time about 
thirty -three years of age, who then displayed so many 
excellent qualities, that he was in consequence invited to 
England, and, after a course of study at the Society's 
Institution at Islington, received ordination from the 
late Bishop of London. This Expedition, calamitous 
as it appeared, was one of the proximate causes of 
the establishment of the Yoruba Mission, now, at its 
two chief towns, Lagos and Abbeokuta, a flourishing 



iv 



PREFACE. 



centre of that legitimate commerce which has accom- 
panied the introduction of Christianity. 

Many years, however, elapsed before any further 
attempts were made to explore the Niger, and the re- 
markable fact was presented of a navigable stream 
flowing for thousands of miles through fertile and 
populous countries shut out from intercourse with the 
civilized world, for years after it had been explored, 
owing to the dread of the malaria which infected its 
banks. 

Meanwhile, however, the discovery of the preven- 
tive qualities of quinine, and other improvements in 
the treatment of African fever, encouraged further 
attempts in this direction, and the well-known African 
merchant, Macgregor Laird, Esq., of Mincing Lane, 
who had himself ascended the Tshadda in 1833, and 
to whose enterprise and perseverance the negro race 
will ever be deeply indebted, pressed on Her Majesty's 
Government the importance of another effort to open 
the Niger. The result was the Expedition of 1854, in 
the screw steamer "Pleiad," under the command of Dr. 
Bailde, R.N., which, after staying in the river 1 18 days, 
returned without the loss of a man. This Expedition 
also was accompanied by the Rev. Samuel Crowther, 
who has given a narrative of it in his interesting and 
valuable journal,* published by the Society in the fol- 

* Journal of an Expedition up the Niger and Tshadda Rivers, un- 
dertaken by Macgregor Laird, Esq., in connection with the British 
Government, in 1854. By the Rev. Samuel Crowther. With Map and 
Appendix. London, Church Missionary House, 1855. 



PREFACE. 



V 



lowing year. The Natives everywhere exhibited a 
friendly spirit. Several points were designated as 
suitable sites for Mission Stations or for Factories 
hereafter; the town of Onitsha, in the Ibo country, 
with a population of 13,000 inhabitants, about 150 miles 
from the Nun mouth of the Niger, — the Confluence of 
the Niger and Tshadda, called by the natives Gbegbe 
or Igbegbe, and about as much further up the River, 
commanding the Nufi and Kakanda districts, — and 
Rahha itself, about 200 miles further west, abutting 
on the widely-extended Mahommedan Hausa tribes, — 
were definitely indicated ; and, in fact, a strong con- 
viction was left on Mr. Crowther's mind by all that he 
saw and heard, that the whole country was open to 
Christian enterprise. This fact cannot be better de- 
scribed than in his own words : " Having proved," says 
he, " the good will of the chiefs and people, the respect 
they have for their countrymen who have enjoyed 
greater advantages than themselves, their willingness 
to be taught, and their anxious expectation to see us 
fulfil the promise long made to the late King of Ibo ; 
in this respect, I cannot but conclude my report by 
saying, I assuredly gather that the Lord had called the 
Church to preach the Gospel to them." 

In the following pages we are now able to report 
the opening realization of these encouraging prospects. 
The success of the "Pleiad "determined the Admiralty 
to enter into a contract with Mr. Macgregor Laird for 
five years, commencing from January 1, 1857, to ex- 
plore the Niger and its tributaries. Under this agree- 



vi 



PREFACE. 



ment was despatched the steamer " Dayspring," which 
entered the Niger in the July of that year. The Rev. 
Samuel Crowther, and the Rev. J. C. Taylor, a native 
clergyman, born in Sierra Leone, but whose parents 
had been sold as slaves from the Ibo countiy, together 
with Simon Jonas, and other Catechists, accompanied 
the Expedition as Missionary Agents. Mr. Taylor 
was left by Mr. Crowther at Onitsha, to commence a 
Mission there, and the extracts from his journal relate 
to his sojourn of twenty months in that important town. 
The journals of these two native Missionaries are now 
presented to the reader. These documents have re- 
ceived a few grammatical corrections in passing through 
the press. They are chiefly confined to INIr. Taylor's 
MS., whose knowledge of English is not equal to 
that of Mr. Crowther. 

The importance of this great enterprise, in a mer- 
cantile point of view, is full}/ described in an ad- 
mirable summary of the results already attained, and 
the preparations for further commerce, in the follow- 
ing Memorial to the Lords of the Treasury from the 
Manchester Cotton Supply Association: — 
"The Memorial of the Cotton Supply Association, 
to the Lords Commissioners of Her IMajesty's 
Treasury. 
" Humbly showeth, 

" That from the accounts of recent travellers in 
Central Africa, sent out at the expense of Her Ma- 
jesty's Government, it appears that cotton, of quality 
equal to that from New Orleans, is extensively culti- 



PREFACE. 



vii 



vated in the counti'ies traversed by the navigable 
streams Niger and Tshadda. 

" That your Memorialists consider it of the greatest 
importance that measures should be taken to ensure a 
regular communication by the Niger, with these 
cotton-producing countries, and they consider that the 
provision for visiting the principal mouths of this cele- 
brated river, in the new contract entered into with the 
African Steam-ship Company for the conveyance of 
the mails, will prove of the greatest value in the de- 
velopment of the trade. 

" Your ]\Iemorialists, however, consider, that in 
order to encourage the settlement of Europeans and 
liberated African traders on the banks of the Niger 
and its tributai'ies, this postal communication should 
be carried monthly up the Niger as far as the con- 
fluence of the Tshadda with that river, in steam 
vessels of light draught of water ; by which means 
the piratical tribes in the Delta would be kept in 
order, and cotton and other bulky articles of trade 
would have a safe and free passage to the sea. 

" That your Memorialists are informed that between 
Rabba (which may be considered the centre of the 
cotton-producing countries, situated about 450 miles 
from the mouth of the river), and the sea, there are 
five changes of conveyance, owing to the jealousy of 
the native chiefs, and that consequently the transit of 
such a bulky article as cotton is practically made im- 
possible. 

" That your Memorialists are aware that English 
capital and skill are waiting to be employed in the 



viii 



PREFACE. 



establishment of cotton-presses and gins on the hanks 
of the Niger, more particularly at Rabba, provided 
there be a certainty of the passage through the Delta 
being kept open by the regular and frequent passing 
of steam vessels, which your Memorialists consider to 
be essential to the security of the transit. 

" That the medical experience acquired during the 
late ascents of the Niger, prove that the Delta can be 
safely passed by Europeans, and that the long resi- 
dence of Dr. Earth, Dr. Baikie, and English and 
American Missionaries in the interior, lead to the con- 
clusion that Central Africa is much healthier than the 
coast, and not more injurious to life than other tropical 
climates where cotton for the English market is 
largely cultivated. 

" Your Memorialists, therefore, pray that Her Ma- 
jecty's Government will take advantage of the present 
favourable opportunity to encourage the return of 
liberated Africans to their native lands, the settlement 
of free blacks from all countries, and the establishment 
of European Agencies in Central Africa for the col- 
lection of produce, and the pursuit of legitimate trade, 
by extending the monthly mail communication from 
the sea to such parts of the Niger as may appear most 
advisable. 

" Signed on behalf of the Executive Committee of 
the Cotton Supply Association, at a Meeting held 
at' the Offices of the said Association, 19th Oc- 
tober 1858. 

" Edmund Ashworth, Vice-President. 

" G. R. Haywood, Secretary.'' 



PREFACE. 



ix 



The prayer of this Memorial has not yet been com- 
plied with ; and the Government has given notice to 
Mr. Laird of their intention to terminate their contract 
with hira at the close of three instead of five years. 
But, at the present apparent rate of commercial progress 
on the West Coast of Africa, such regular postal com- 
munication up the Niger must ere long be conceded. 

The influx of European commerce, and its conco- 
mitant temptations, cannot fail to be a severe test to 
the rising Christianity of Western Africa. Mr. 
Crowther is fully aware of them, as his latest words 
(p. 445), in the subsequent pages, abundantly show. 
There is reason, however, to hope, that under the wise 
and parental counsel of the European Missionaries in 
the Yoruba country, this difficulty, like others that 
meet the introduction of the Gospel into a semi- 
civilized country, will be successfully overcome. A 
grave responsibility rests, also, on our British mer- 
chants for the selection of those only as their agents 
and representatives in Africa who will exhibit there 
the deportment, and practice the self-control of 
Christian gentlemen. One of the most serious draw- 
backs to the success of Missions all over the world 
has been, alas ! the recklessness and profligacy of our 
own countrymen in heathen lands. 

It is impossible to close these few remarks without 
one reflection. The journals and papers now submitted 
to the reader record the first lodgment of the Gospel 
on the banks of the Niger. Sir T. Fowell Buxton, 



X 



PREFACE. 



who planned the first Niger Expedition, and his son, 
Sir Edward N. Bnxton, who never wavered in his 
interest in the cause of Africa, have both passed away 
to their rest. Still, more recently, the leader of that 
expedition. Rear- Admiral H. D, Trotter, has been 
suddenly removed from us, and his death is traced to 
disease contracted dui-ing that trying time. He ever 
cherished a lively concern in the opening prospects of 
the Niger. He has been taken away, like so many 
others, just at the moment when the enterprise which 
he initiated seemed about to be crowned with success. 
With mere earthly undertakings, the poor shadow of 
posthumous fame is all that would remain. Africa 
does, indeed, owe to these tried friends such a 
posthumous ]\Iemorial ; but their reward is far higher 
than this. The love of Christ was their great motive, 
and their record is on high. " They rest from their 
labours, and their works follow them." 

W. K. 

Church Missionary House, Sept. 1659. 

Note. — In the spelling of native names, Lepsins's Standard 
Alphabet, adopted by the Church Missionary Society, has been 
employed, with the omission of diacritical marks which might 
embarrass the English reader. It is sufiBcient to state that the rowels 
have the Italian sounds, and that no sj'Ilable is ever mute, e.ff. Nupe 
(or Nufi) is a dissyllable — Nu-je. 



CONTENTS. 



PAGE 

Journal of the Rev. S. Crowther 1 

Journal of the Rev. J. C. Taylor at Onitsha . . 241 

Canoe-passage from Onitsha to Rabbaltc|the . ¦> 
Rev. S. Crowther j 

Appendix I., Table of Expenses of ditto . . . 425 

Appendix II., Notices of Onitsha, &c., by the Rev. 
S, Crowther ... - 42G 



Appendix III., Ibo Proverbs collected by the Rev. 
J. C. Taylor 447 



r 




PEIITCUTOIT 



THSOLOGICii 



JOURNAL. 



June 29, 1857 — After thirty-seven days' detention 
at Fernando Po, we got on board the " Dayspring" this 
afternoon : our stay, however, at this place was not 
without its advantages. On the Lord's-day two services 
were regularly held in the spacious hall belonging to 
the British Consul, Mr. Lynslager: they were well 
attended by nearly all the European residents on the 
island, many from the ships in the cove, as well as by 
a good number of native settlers. Mr. Taylor and 
myself took the services alternately, both morning 
and afternoon. It gave me no small joy to hear my 
younger brother in the ministry declare with zeal 
and earnestness the truth of the gospel as a faithful 
ambassador for Christ. Had not our candles been 
long kept under a bushel, and the smoking flax 
long suppressed, surely the number of faithful native 
preachers would have been twice as many. May the 
Lord increase the number of those who shall go forth 
under the direction of His Holy Spirit, to gather flocks 
into His fold ! Our time during the week was employed 
in filling up and improving the Ibo vocabulary, and 
in receiving lessons in the powers of Arabic characters 
from my Arabic interpreter. 

On the arrival of the " Dayspring," which brought 
us the Ibo Primer, an Ibo Primer class was immedi- 



2 



DEPARTURE FROM FERNANDO PO. 



ately formed for an hour or two every morning before 
breakfast, with which the Ibo settlers at Fernando 
Po were much pleased, this being the first elementary 
school-book that ever appeared in print in that lan- 
guage. On Thursday evening, previous to our em- 
barkation, the members of the Baptist Church held a 
prayer meeting on behalf of the Expedition, to which 
we were invited. Such Christian sympathy and united 
prayers in a Missionary cause caimot fail to have the 
desired effect in drawing down blessings from above. 
May the spirit of union increase among Christians of 
different denominations in the Church of Christ ! The 
kindness which we received from Governor Lynslager, 
and J. T. Hutchinson, Esq., H. B. Majesty's Consul, 
and from our own countrymen, during our stay on 
the island, could not be passed unnoticed. At our em- 
barkation many of them accompanied us to the beach, 
and some on board, when they left us with expressions 
of many good wishes for our success. The schooner 
having sailed before us, on the previous Friday, to-day, 
at eight p.m., the " Dayspring" weighed for Brass. All 
the ships in the cove, among which was H. M. Steam 
Ship " Trident," Captain Close, cheered us one after 
another as the " Dayspring" steamed past Governor 
Lvnslao;er illuminated the cove with six brilliant blue 
lights, which example was followed by some of the 
ships; but unfortunately our own blue lights and 
skyrockets were so damp that we could not answer 
in acknowledgment of their good wishes and kind 
sympathy. 

July 3 — Owing to a strong curi'ent, heavy swells, 
and contrary wind, we could not get to the mouth 



ARRIVAL AT BRASS RIVER. 



3 



of the Brass river till yesterday morning. To-day, 
following flood-tide, we crossed the bar, and entered 
the river in the afternoon, where we saw five palm- 
oil ships and a hulk lying. The arrival of the 
"Dayspring" created some excitement and novelty 
among the merchants, because steamers very seldom 
visit Brass River. We were soon visited by the 
captains and supercargoes of those ships, among whom 
many old friends were recognised by the gentlemen 
on boai'd the " Dayspring," some having parted from 
each other at Balaklava, in the Crimea, and unex- 
pectedly met again in this secluded part of Africa. So 
unlooked for a meeting in such an unfrequented part 
of this country made the circumstance the more in- 
teresting. We arrived here before the " George." 

July 7 — The " George" crossed the bar and en- 
tered the river this afternoon. During; the time we 
were waiting for the schooner we visited the village 
of Tuon, at the terminus of a short creek on the left 
side of the river, at the mouth of which were several 
palm-oil canoes : the village is in swamps, and the 
inside of the houses very damp. We walked to the 
extreme end of it, where we met a man flattening two 
sides of some sticks for boards, of about three to five 
inches in width, of which materials his house was 
built : he was the only person in the village able to 
procure such materials. I asked him whether any 
boards were to be had in the village, to which he 
replied in the negative. Although there are many 
trees which might be sawn into fine boax'ds just at 
the back of the village, yet there is no one who takes 
any interest in teaching the people, or inducing them to 



4 



FUNERAL CEREMONY. 



improve their condition. The right side of the village 
is separated by a swamp, which is not easily crossed, 
except by wading through or being carried over it. 

There was a funeral ceremony of a woman of some 
consequence going on, which for some days was at- 
tended with a great deal of firing at intervals. Thus, 
this and many other towns and villages in the delta 
will remain for years to come, if not supplied with 
the light of the gospel. Though the palm-oil trade 
has been carried on with this people for years, yet it 
makes no impression or change in their social or 
moral condition. 

The chief town of Brass is Nembe, which is situated 
about thirty or forty miles higher up from the mouth 
of the river, and ruled by two chiefs, namely, Kaan, 
of one division of the town, and Arisima of the other. 
There is a village near Nembe, called Okpama, or 
Fishtown, and ruled by Ab asi. In the interior behind 
the Brass country is a tribe called Ogbiyan, speaking 
a dialect of their own, and dealing with Brass in palm- 
oil. A boat communicates with Bonny from Brass 
River in two days, at which place all Brass English 
letters are left by the African mail steamers, as they 
do not enter Brass river, which is about a mile and 
a quarter wide inland, and open to the sea breezes, 
which were much enjoyed all the time the "Dayspring" 
was lying there. We anchored about one-fourth in the 
midst of the stream. All the palm-oil ships anchored 
rather too close to shore, for the convenience of 
shipping ; but their proximity to the bush facilitates 
their being infested by myriads of mosquitoes and 
sandflies, with which the shore abounds, and they 



ENTER THE NUN KIVEK. 



5 



are deprived of the benefits of the refreshing sea 
breeze, especially as their ships are closely housed 
in with bamboo mats. 

July 8 — Having written our last letters, which 
were kindly taken by Captain Mitchell, of Mr. 
Horsfall's firm, the schooner was lashed side by side 
with the " Dayspring," to ci'oss the Akassa creek 
to the Nun, which was sounded by Lieutenant 
Glover the day before. In rounding the north point 
of the creek the " George" slightly touched, but was 
soon hauled afloat : she drew eio;ht feet of water. 

After clearing into the broad lake in the creek, Mr. 
Mitchell and party, who had kindly accompanied us 
thus far, took leave of us with loud cheers, which 
mark of good wishes generally characterizes enlight- 
ened nations when their friends are embarking on 
any enterprise. Towards the evening the schooner 
ran into shoal water, but the flood-tide, with some 
exertions, set her to rights by morning. 

July 9 — Ran into shoal water again at low tide. 
While waiting for flood-tide, the officers went to sound 
different creeks. Having got afloat again, we steamed 
into the Nun by sunset, and anchoi'ed in the midst 
of the stream below Albaruka islands. The Akassa 
ci'eek is about ten miles from the Brass to the Nun, 
and varies in depth from one and a half to three 
fathoms or more. The Nun bar is less intricate than 
that of the Brass, though the Nun perhaps may have 
less water, it being two fathoms on the bar when 
crossed at three-quarter flood. The Brass River is 
more intricate, though it has more water, which ap- 
peared to be about two and a quarter fathoms when 



6 FIELDS FOR MISSIONARY LABOUR. 



crossed at half-flood. If the Nun bar were more ex- 
amined, it would be found to possess greater facilities 
than that of the Brass to communicate direct with 
the Niger. 

Before leaving this bight, I am constrained to make 
a few remarks on a subject which has so long occupied 
my mind, respecting the great harvest before the 
Church of Christ, and, being on the spot, it comes 
the more seasonably. The Bights of Benin and Biafra 
divide themselves by means of their rivers into four 
great Missionary fields of labour, which, if they were 
so taken, and occupied by different Missionary So- 
cieties, would prove of great advantage to the rapid 
progress of the gospel. 

1. From the River Yolta to Badagiy is one 
division, which takes in Whydah, Dahomey, Puto 
Novo, Badagry, and all speaking the Popo language 
on the coast ; and, in the interior parts, the Shabe 
and Borgu countries to Busa, on the banks of the 
Niger. 

2. The second division would be from Lagos to 
the Nun river, which takes in the Ijebu and Shekiri 
countries of the Yoruba dialects ; and in the interior 
are the Yoruba and the kingdom of Benin to the 
banks of the Niger at Ibo, Igara, Kakanda, and Nupe 
countries. 

3. The third grand division would be from the Nun 
to Old Calabar river, where, at Brass, Idzo, New 
Calabar, and Bonny, kindred languages are spoken: 
this division will include the large portion of the 
Ibo country inland towards the banks of the Tshadda. 

4. The fourth division would be from Old Calabar 



SEPARATE WORK RECOMMENDED. 7 



to the CameroonSj having all the inland tribes north- 
eastward to the upper part of the Binuwe, to the 
country of Kororofa, the capital of which is Wukari. 

Most happily the English Baptist Missionaries have 
turned their attention to the Cameroons, whilst the 
Missionaries of the Scotch Presbyterian Society have 
sole occupation of the Old Calabar river ; and if this 
example were followed by the Church, the Wesleyan, 
and the American Baptist Missionary Societies, so as 
to occupy separate fields of labour, without intersect- 
ing each other's line of operations, or having their 
stations so close, in the same town and village, as to 
bring each other's peculiarities to the notice of the 
new converts, or heathen population at large, who 
cannot understand them, — if each Society worked in 
its own sphere of labour, we should be moi'e success- 
ful in our Missionary efforts. 

At Sierra Leone this unavoidable evil has gone to 
a great extent, and it has been unhappily introduced 
into the newly-established Yoruba Mission, where it 
has already begun to cause strife and disparagement 
of one another's church connexion among the newly- 
converted natives belonging to different Missionary 
Societies: this does no good in a new Mission field, 
either to the new converts or to the unconverted na- 
tive population, and has caused us many sorrowful 
days and weeks. 

It is of the utmost importance that timely measures 
should be adopted by the great Societies, whose sole 
and benevolent object is the conversion of the heathen 
fi'om idolatry to Christianity ; and to do this effectually, 
and with greater success than hitherto, they should, 



8 



OUTWARD UNITY NEEDFUL. 



and ought, to work separately for the extension of the 
Church of Christ. Why should not this generous- 
hearted proposal be as applicable to Christian Missions 
as to the settlements of Abraham and Lot ? " Is not 
the whole land before thee ? Separate thyself, I pray 
thee, from me : if thou wilt take the left hand, then I 
will go to the right ; or if thou wilt depart to the right 
hand, then I will go to the left." At least the same 
town should not be occupied by Missionary Societies 
of different denominations. The highly-talented pre- 
late of the Church at the antipodes, and his band 
of Missionaries, have felt the same evil, and have laid 
down a rule, with fii-m determination to avoid its in- 
crease and bad effects in their Missionary fields in 
the South Sea. He expressed himself in these words 
— " I speak, of course, with diffidence of any thing that 
relates to the state of religion in England, but I am 
bold to speak of that which I have seen and heard in 
the Mission field. There I assert, without fear of 
contradiction, schism is looked upon as an acknow- 
ledged evil. There may be the utmost charity and 
brotherlykindness among the Missionaries themselves, 
but that is not enough : no inward and spiritual unity 
can act as an outward evidence. .The keen-sishted 
native convert soon detects a difference of system ; 
and thus religion brings disunion instead of harmony 
and peace. I seem, then, to be justified in drawing 
you to this conclusion, that religious strife is wrong in 
principle, and also proves, experimentally, to be in- 
jurious to the progress of the gospel. We make a 
rule never to introduce controversy among a native 
people, or to impair the simplicity of their faith. If 



REACH SUNDAY ISLE. 



9 



the fairest openings for Missionary effort lie before us, 
yet if the ground has been pre-occupied by any other 
religious body, we forbear to enter. And I can speak 
with confidence upon this point, from observations 
ranging over nearly one half of the Southern Pacific 
Ocean, that wherever this law of religious unity is 
adopted, there the gospel has its full and unchecked 
and undivided power : wherever the servants of Christ 
endeavour to keep the unity of the Spirit in the bond 
of peace, there the native converts are brought to the 
knowledge of ' one Lord, one faith, one baptism, and 
one God and Father of us all.' (Eph. v. 6.) Nature 
itself has so divided our Mission field, that each 
labourer may work without interference with his 
neighbour." (Bishop of New Zealand's Sermon before 
the University of Cambridge, pp. 59, 60). 

July 10 — Weighed early this morning, and com- 
menced our ascent with the tide, which greatly helped 
our progress, the schooner being lashed side by side 
to the " Dayspring ;" and in the evening we anchored 
a considerable distance above Sunday island. 

July 11 — Weighed early, and anchored a mile above 
Angiama in the evening. To-day we began to meet 
with villages, and, as our progress had been hitherto 
so good. Dr. Baikie made it a point to halt opposite 
each of them, because we never stopped at any of 
them before (especially below Angiama) to hold 
friendly intercourse with them : accordingly we halted 
at the villages of Kperemabiri, whose chief was Fula ; 
at Ekeao, chief Mugbe ; Angolo, chief Doezen ; 
Oyoma, or Kalakporoma, chief Ekpokpo ; Okpokpo- 
roma, chief Bukpara, son of Nonjo ; Angiama, chief 
Ndawa, our old friend of 1854. 



10 



TETISH HOUSE. 



July 12: Sunday — We remained at anchor. After 
service we landed in the town of Angiama, on a visit 
to the chief, to whom, with a large crowd of specta- 
tors, we spoke a few words on religious subjects. In 
walking about to see the extent of this village, we 
came unexpectedly on a fetish-house, into which the 
priest, who had been following us, entered, and took 
his seat, evidently expecting that we should make 
some presents to the gods. H«re, also, we spoke a few 
words on the folly of idolatrous worship, contrary to 
the priest's expectation. 

July 13 — Weighed early this morning, but our 
progress was very slow. We anchored off Ogobiri, and 
on the 14th, off Hipporoteama, where we purchased 
stock, and held friendly intercourse with the people. 
As the current began to be stronger, which greatly 
retarded our progress, and the schooner now and then 
touched in shoal water, because we had to steer close 
to shore to avoid the force of the strong current 
in the midst of the stream, where there was plenty of 
water, our halts at these villages were less frequent, 
but we endeavoured to get the names of all from 
those who boarded us. On the 17th we anchored a 
little below Agbiri ; and, on the morning of the 
18th, off the above village, where we bought stock 
and wood, and invited the chief on board, Dr. 
Baikie having previously landed on a visit to our old 
friend Agbekun, who was, after all, found not to be 
the chief, but a man of some standing among the 
people. The old chief and the head trader came on 
board : they were very open and friendly, and would 
be glad to have a trading establishment in their town, 
and to see their childi'en and people taught the white 



"dayspring" ran aground. 



11 



man's book. Started from Agbiri, and, in crossing the 
point above Truro island, the "Dayspring" ran 
aground. There was enough water for the " George " 
on the starboard side, but the current and eddy were 
so strong that it was with great difficulty she was 
kept at her anchorage, and she became so ungovern- 
able that she came several times in contact with the 
" Dayspring," and smashed the gig of the steamer, 
so that it was rendered unfit for repair, and con- 
sequently became useless. This was a great loss to 
our supply of boats. The " Dayspring " being hove 
off, we started with a favourable breeze, passed the 
Wari branch by four o'clock, and anchored about 
sunset. 

July 19: Sunday — As we had already lost much 
time, and our progress had become slower on account 
of the strong current, (unless favoured with a breeze, 
when sdls are of great use,) it was thought necessary 
to move on Sunday, and halt for service at half-past 
ten A.M. Weighed early this morning, and anchored, 
about ten, opposite Umuoru, when we had service. 
Preached from St. Luke xii. 32, after which I admi- 
nistered the Sacrament of the Lord's Supper, in the 
saloon, assisted by Mr. Taylor : twelve natives, in- 
cluding ourselves, and three Europeans, communi- 
cated. Although we were few, and situated^ under 
disadvantageous circumstances, yet we felt and be- 
lieved the presence of the Lord was with us to 
strengthen both body and soul in His service. In the 
afternoon we moved, and anchored about three miles 
below Abo. 

The increased improvement among the Idzo, the 



12 GENERAL IMPROVEMENT OF THE NATIVES. 

natives of the delta, was very perceptible. Clothes 
have become articles of more general use : shirts have 
become very common among the males, even when 
engaged in fishing or in other daily employments. 
Shirts and JNIanchester goods are in demand, in ex- 
change for goats, fowls, yams, and wood. There is a 
decided improvement in the cultivation of the soil. 
Although, comparatively speaking, they are much be- 
hind the natives of the interior in this respect, yet their 
present application is an improvement upon former 
years. In coming close to the banks on which the vil- 
lages stand, steps were observed cut in the slopes to faci- 
litate landing; and at other places, where the banks did 
not admit of such cutting, ladders were constructed 
of pieces of stick tied together for the same purpose. 
These I had not observed before in my former voyages 
up and down this river, perhaps because the ship did 
not go near enough to render them perceptible, or they 
had been covered at high water. Brass canoes are 
numerous on the river : seventeen were counted off 
the village of Hippoteama, and more or less were 
observed abreast of the villages or in the creek as 
we passed along: there could not have been fewer 
than 100 large Brass canoes met with — some carrying 
six puncheons — trading in palm-oil. Opposite the 
village of Kayama there is an interior tribe called 
Egen, speaking, nearly like the Idzo, a dialect of Brass 
and Bonny. These people manufacture palm-oil, and 
brincT it to the bank of the river, to be sold to Brass 
traders. To know the interior countries in the delta 
better, a short excursion should be made inland in 
the dry season, from the back of some villages, say 



NIGER VILLAGES. 



13 



t'roni Angiama, Hippoteama, Kayama, or Agbiri. I 
under the impression that the country a short 
distance from the banks of the river, at the back of 
these villages, is drier than we generally imagine. 
I asked Ndawa, the chief of Angiama, whether there 
were no drier spots on the back of the town where a 
town might be built. He said there were. 

The number of villages whose names are known and 
marked down in the chart, situated on or near the 
banks of the Niger, on the delta, from the Kperemabiri 
to Akra Utiri, below Abo, is twenty-seven. The 
population of each of these villages is estimated at 
from 250 to 700, which makes the average of the 
two extreme numbers to be 475 ; and the aggregate 
population of the twenty-seven villages immediately 
on the banks of the river to Akra Utiri 12,825 
souls. 

These villages could easily be occupied by School- 
masters or Scripture Readers, under the superinten- 
dence of one or two Native Missionaries, furnished 
with boats or canoes to facilitate their periodical 
visits to them : thus the highway to the interior, 
by means of this river, will be fully thrown open 
when the poor inhabitants of the delta are en- 
lightened. 

July 20— Moved close to Abo, but, mistaking the 
old creek which was concealed by grass, we an- 
chored about half a mile below the usual anchorage, 
opposite a creek leading to a palm-wine place near 
Abo. 

Simon Jonas was sent to announce our arrival. 



14 



aje's visit. 



and, soon after twelve, Aje came on board, with three 
of his sisters and one of his wives and attendants : he 
expressed his joy at seeing us again at Abo. After 
some conversation on deck, he requested to be shown 
into the saloon, with his sisters and some of his atten- 
dants, where matters were talked over again for a good 
while. He asked for rum, but some wine diluted with 
water was served, of which he drank many glasses : 
but not being satisfied, he asked for rum for his atten- 
dants. Every thing went on quietly till he perceived 
the conversation did not lead to the subject of presents : 
so he introduced it. He was told to wait till to-morrow, 
when business matters would be talked over tocether 
with him and his brother Tshukuma on shore ; but 
this he did not want, and even demanded his presents 
at once, which of course the doctor positively refused 
to give. Aje manifested his covetous propensity to- 
day beyond description : his conduct on board dis- 
gusted everybody, his own attendants not excepted. 
His familiarity with Europeans from his youth, and 
the kind indulgence he has ever met with from them 
as a son of Obi, have completely spoiled him. His 
tenacity in keeping his attention fixed on any object 
he cast his eye upon, or which entered into his brain 
to ask for, was beyond con-ception. My pair of shoes 
first attracted his observation, which he took without 
asking permission, and tried to put one on ; but, 
fortunately for me, my No. 8 shoe could not admit 
his enormous foot of the size of No. 11 or 12. 

Mr. Taylor's were the next, but they were smaller 
still, being only No. 6. Next he plucked off one of 



HIS COVETOUSNESS. 



15 



my slippers (we were sitting together on the cushion 
in the saloon,) and tried to force it on his own 
foot, but he did not succeed. He turned again to Mr. 
Taylor's shoes, (Mr. Taylor having hid mine out of 
his sight,) which he tried to force on, with no greater 
success than before. He then proposed to have them 
split to make them fit his enormous feet, from which 
all remonstrances failed to dissuade him. He had 
already given them to the charge of one of his at- 
tendants. This certainly was very annoying and vexa- 
tious, even if the shoes had been large enough for him, 
as he would have then deprived Mr. Taylor of the 
only strong pair of shoes he had to wear in travelling 
about the country. It was not till after much talk and 
dissuasion from our interpreters that he delivered them 
up. I was sitting behind him, and, as he was tired, 
he reclined on my feet, so I offered him a cushion 
to rest his back upon instead, but he asked whether 
I was not going to give it to him to take home. A 
new trade hat caught his eye, which he was very 
anxious to lay hold of, but it was kept away from 
him. He wanted to go on deck, (it was then raining,) 
and he asked for something to cover his scarlet coat 
from wet. It was certain that a cloak or waterproof 
coat lent him would not be returned ; so Captain Grant 
gave him some trade handkerchiefs for this purpose : 
these he refused, and they were of course taken 
back ; but before he left the ship he asked for them, 
because they would have been a loss to him. The 
handbell which was rung to give notice to get dinner 
ready did not escape his grasp ; and finally, when he 
could get nothing else, he snatched the cigar which 



16 



INTERVIEW WITH AJE 



was in Dr. Baikie's hand, and embarked with it in 
his canoe, paddled by thii-ty persons. These trifling 
details would have been unnecessary, if they were 
not intended to show what kind of man Aje is, 
and how careful one should be in entrusting goods to 
such a person, who has no control over his covetous 
propensity. I have observed this failing among the Abo 
people more than in any other with whom we have had 
communication in the upper parts of the river. Pre- 
sents from the people should be avoided or refused as 
much as possible, otherwise one is placed in the painful 
position of an insolvent debtor : if a sprat be received, 
a salmon is sure to be required in its stead. 

Juhj 21 — Mr. Taylor and myself landed this 
morning, in company with Drs. Baikie, and Davies, 
Messrs. May, Barter, Dalton, and Captain Grant, 
on a visit to Aje and Tshukuma. As they could not 
be got together, we went first to Aje's house, as he 
was the most influential and troublesome of the two, 
and entered into business matters. Every thing went on 
well, with the exception of some prejudices against 
our forming an establishment at Onitsha or Asaba, 
under the pretence of their being at war with those 
places ; but that did not concern us. We, being men 
of peace, consider those people friends as well as these. 
When Aje perceived that he could not dissuade us 
from our intention to establish ourselves at Onitsha, 
he said that we should pay him first, in order to 
reconcile him to the arrangement. He was told, that 
as we had not seen the place yet, we could say 
nothing more. His presents were then produced. 
Captain Grant gave him a pink cocked-hat with 



AND TSHUKUMA. 



17 



feathers, a red umbrella, and sundry small ar- 
ticles. Among many other good things, Dr. Baikie 
gave him an ornamented gilt-edged looking-glass, 
but unfortunately he discovered there were two 
in the parcel. Here Aje's failing was roused again, 
and he said that no other person should possess 
a similar looking-glass, or any articles like those he 
had received. This remark applied to his elder brother 
Tshukuma, whom he wanted to put aside altogether 
as an inferior, because Aje was aspiring to be called 
the king of Abo, which title the people did not seem 
willing to give him, but only an equal footing with other 
chiefs, though they admire his activity in public 
matters. Leaving Aje, we proceeded to Tshukuma. 
After we had gone through the same round of business 
matters, similar presents were made to him as to Aje. 
The objection which Tshukuma made to our intention 
to form an establishment at Onitsha was candid and 
straightforward. He said Onitsha was their chief 
oil market, and, by our establishment there, we should 
cut them off from all supplies of oil, of this he was 
told not to be afraid. According to promise, Mr. 
Taylor and myself returned to Aje, because he had 
promised to give us a man to show the boundary of 
the spot for the Mission premises, or to show us 
another place in preference to that I had already 
selected, as well as to make arrangements for its 
clearance, and prepare materials for a temporary 
building. While talking about these matters, Aje's 
spies returned from Tshukuma, and reported in a 
whisper, placing their mouth to his ear, the presents 
his brother had received from us. When he heard 



18 



aje's obstixact. 



that similar presents to his own had been made to 
Tshukuma, he was so indignant that he would neither 
do nor concern himself about any thing, unless by their 
united consent, because we had made them equals 
by our presents: he would not send his presents 
of two bullocks on board till he had seen what Tshu- 
kuma would give us. I told him that we were dis- 
appointed in his positive promise that he would send 
a person with us to settle the arrangements to-day. He 
said we should wait till to-morrow. I told him that 
we had resolved to remain on shore till sunset, that 
we might settle all business about the work to-day, 
because the ship might move upwards to-morrow ; 
but Aje, in his fits of covetousness and ambition, would 
not yield : he called for his cocked-hat, and remarked 
that his brother had received the like, so he twisted 
it with contempt, and took up the umbrella likewise 
as unworthy of his acceptance. When I perceived 
that he would not be cooled down, and was getting 
violent in his temper, I thought it better not to irritate 
him any longer, but to leave him to calm reflection. 
We had done him no wrong. If justice and equity be 
our error in this respect, we are glad of our pro- 
ceedings. 

Before Aje's glory was eclipsed by his being made 
equal with his brother, he again coveted my shoes. 
I told him, had he said he needed a pair when 
I was here last, I would have taken the measurement 
of his feet, and brought him a pair. He wanted to know 
whether the queen put on leather shoes as well as 
her subjects. I told him I believed so. Then he said 
he would have his shoes made of brass, as a mark of 



ARRANGEMENTS FOR THE MISSION STATION. 19 

distinction between him and other people. This of 
course he shall have when I hear of a patent brass 
shoemaker in London. Aje asked for a caskful of 
specimens of trade goods to show to the people of Abo; 
but as it was not safe to entrust goods to the hands of 
such an insatiable character, his request was not 
granted. A quarrel existed between a division of Abo 
and Ossamare. Aje said he would have nothing to do 
with it, because it was his mother's town, and she was 
still living there. This state of things shows weakness 
in the government of Abo, for every headman ap- 
pears to be master in his own quarters. 1 think such 
a man as Aje should no longer be indulged; and, with 
this determination, I intend to move to-morrow in 
making arrangements about clearing the gi'ound and 
preparing materials for a temporary Mission station, 
as was intended. On our return on board in the 
afternoon, we met Orisa, the headman of the other di- 
vision of the town of Abo, in whose quarters the 
ground selected for the Mission premises happened to 
be. I spoke with Orisa on the subject, and he was 
agreeable to my wishes ; so I promised to land next 
morning, to attempt an arrangement about the land 
affairs. 

July 22 — Mr. Taylor and myself landed early 
this morning before breakfast, on a visit to Orisa, 
the owner of the land selected for the Mission ground, 
who was to show us the boundary, and to make ar- 
rangements towards its clearance. He was very kind 
and attentive, and at once sent three men with us, by 
whose assistance we were able to fix the boundaries. 
This done, we returned to consult him about clearing 



20 DIFFERENT CHARACTER OF THE BROTHERS. 

and preparing materials for a temporary building, so 
he was invited on board to receive some advance 
towards the payment for the work. Now we disco- 
vered that Aje had no influence whatever on this part 
of the town, although it was said to have belonged to 
him three years ago. Aje is haughty in character: he 
despised Orisa and his party altogether, and behaved 
in a similar way to his brother Tshukuma; conse- 
quently he is not liked in return. Being such a grasp- 
ing person, whatever gets into his hand never comes 
out of it again. While Orisa was making ready to 
come on board, Tshukuma's and Aje's canoes pre- 
ceded him, so he thought it advisable to keep out of 
the way to avoid coming in collision with his rivals. 

Tshukuma put on his new cocked-hat, which looked 
very well ; but Aje, in order to outdo his brother, as 
he thought, put on a fanciful cap decorated with flat 
pieces of brass, and dressed his wives in flags of bunt- 
ing, which he must have received fi'om some former 
expeditions. The characters of the two brothers are as 
opposed as black and white : while Tshukuma is easy 
and tractable, Aje is haughty and exorbitant. They 
did not show such brotherly feelings one towards an- 
other, when together on board, as might have been ex- 
pected : however, the}'' gave liberal presents to the 
ship of a bullock each, to which Aje added 200 yams : 
they also gave me and Mr. Taylor a goat each, for 
which we made returns of a piece of small handker- 
chiefs to each of them. On Tshukuma's leaving, to- 
wards evening, Simon Jonas returned to Abo town in 
his canoe, to bring Orisa on board in the morning, to 
settle the land business. Tshukuma, having been in- 



DEPARTURE FROM ABO. 



21 



formed of the steps I had taken, approved of them. 
Some of Aje's people saw us when we went to fix the 
boundary of the land this morning. When they came 
on board, they showed a little dissatisfaction, of which 
I took very little notice, knowing this arose from self- 
ishness : they have no power over Orisa. 

July 23 — About 7 a.m. Orisa's canoe made its ap- 
pearance, with Simon Jonas, and a decent man he 
was. I told him what I could give for clearing the 
land and providing materials for the building, which in 
a few minutes was agreed upon, with the promise and 
assurance that all should be accomplished against the 
return of the ship to Abo, which was fixed at four 
months' time. Captain Grant left no trader here, but 
this step towards a Mission establishment will give 
confidence that the people are not deceived. 

As the river was not yet come to its height, a great 
portion of Abo was walked over with comfort. A little 
improvement might secure the bank at the end of the 
town now selected, from being broken by the overflow 
of the river. Having settled with Orisa, the ship 
weighed, and anchored below Bullock Island about 
7 p. M. Aliheli, the Hausa interpreter who was 
employed in the expedition of 1854, was again en- 
gaged, as he was very useful in giving information of 
various things, as well as of changes which have taken 
place in the towns on the river since that period ; but 
his situation was not so prominent at this time, on 
account of our being well provided with interpreters 
from Sierra Leone. Before quitting Abo for the pre- 
sent, I think it right and just to say a word in favour 
of Aje's faithfulness in one respect, whatever his fail- 



22 aje's faithfulness to his promise. 

ings may be in other matters. It will be remembered, 
that, through our interposition in 1854, two prisoners, 
who were confined, and would have been either killed 
or sold for their offences, were then released. Since 
that time they have never been touched, but really 
pardoned according to Aje's promise to us. One of 
these men, on seeing me, fell on his knees in thankful- 
ness for his deliverance, and on the return of his com- 
panion, who had been absent, they brought me some 
palm wine, as an acknowledgment of their gratitude. 
Had not these men introduced themselves three years 
after, it might perhaps have been doubted whether 
Aje had fulfilled his promise. 

July 24 — Arrived at Ossamare at noon, where we 
landed, because the river had not yet come to its 
height : the town was dry and pleasant. Nzedegun, 
who was chief here in 1854, died a short time after 
our return to the coast, and was succeeded by Ayan- 
hunrun, an elderly person, who was kind and civil. 
Dr. Baikie spoke to him on the subject of the ship's 
return to the river, all which was agreeable to the 
chief's wishes. I told him of the promise the late chief 
had made to receive Christian teachers, which he also 
agreed to do; and promised that, as soon as we were 
ready, he would show us a good spot of land, which 
is never inundated, for a Mission station. I requested 
Mr. Taylor to send him a note, as a memorandum of his 
promise. In return for the presents which the chief 
received from Dr. Baikie and Captain Grant, he gave 
a bullock, which he requested some one should be sent 
from the ship to shoot, as the animal was too wild to 
be caught ; which task was accomplished by Lieut. 



OSSAMAEE. 



23 



Glover. Mr. Taylor found the people spoke plainer 
Ibo here than at Abo. After leaving the chief, 
Afubese, the son of the late chief, invited us to his 
house, and entertained us with bamboo palm wine. 
We had a long conversation, and received information 
of the country in the interior, at the back of Ossamare. 
There was a man of Aron in the house, lately come 
from that place. Mr. Taylor will pay a visit to Ossa- 
mare, and select the best spot for a station, as soon as 
possible. The population of Ossamare is estimated at 
3000, scattered along the bank of the river, about 
two miles in length. About three o'clock p. M. we left 
Ossamare, and, being favoured with a good bi'eeze, we 
anchored above the village Utshi. 

July 25 — Weighed early, and passed the villages of 
Oko. The chief, Akerema, sent a canoe after us, to in- 
vite us to anchor, a request we could not comply with 
this time. Arrived at Onitsha market at 5 p.m., just 
before a squall set in from tlie westward. Here a trad- 
ing establishment was to be made: but the town beinff 
some distance from the river, we could not communi- 
cate this afternoon : a few persons made tlieir appear- 
ance from their farms and fishing huts. 

July 26 — Had service on board; Mr. Taylor offi- 
ciated : after which we landed on a visit to the town 
of Onitsha. The inhabitants having never seen white 
men in their country before, (except Odiri, the king's 
son, whom we met in the market-place three years 
ago,) they no doubt suspected the motives of two large 
ships anchoring off their shore. They were quite 
frightened, armed themselves for self-defence, and 
shunned us as we approached them ; but a little ex- 



24 



TOWN OF ONITSHA. 



planation and friendly conversation soon ensured confi- 
dence, and one of them offered to be our guide to the 
town. The road, which led between extensive culti- 
vations of yams and Indian corn, among which young 
cotton plants were just growing up, was very good, 
clean, and dry, at times breaking into loose sand. It 
is a gradual ascent ; and, by the time we reached the 
entrance of the town, which is about a mile and a-half 
distant from, and about 100 feet above the level 
of, the river, the Niger lay in full view below us, ap- 
pearing through the scattered trees and plantations 
from the border of the town. The surface of the 
ground is covered with slight sandy soil, but, below, is 
deep red marl or brick clay, with which the natives 
build their houses after the fashion of the Yoruba square 
mud walls, though very inferior in their arrangements, 
and imperfect in their constructions. Passing through 
the town, which is literally enshrouded in groves of 
tall and immense bombax, cocoa-nuts, palm, and other 
trees whose names I do not know, we were made to 
halt at the gate of Orikabue, one of the king's council- 
lors ; but he was absent from home, so we proceeded 
with our guide, who conducted us to the house of 
Odiri, the king's son. By the time we arrived here, a 
large crowd had collected around us, of all ages and 
both sexes, who now and then rushed away at the 
approach of any of the Europeans with long beards 
and full whiskers. After some detention at Odiri's, we 
were invited to the king's quarters, and desired to wait 
at the audience-hall, an open building outside the 
square, with spacious ground before it. After a long 
waiting we were invited into the outer square, where 



INTERVIEW WITH THE KING. 



25 



we were received by the king Akazua. After the 
usual salutations, Dr. Baikie briefly stated the object 
of our visit to Onitsha, which was very favourably 
responded to by the king; after which he withdrew with 
his four councillors, of whom Odiri was one, to hold 
conference. On their return tlie king addressed the 
assembly to this effect : that as the white men desired 
to dwell among them and trade, if any one had any 
objection, he should state it now ; and that those who 
had nothing to sell should not go to the establishment, 
lest they be tempted to steal, and bring trouble upon 
themselves and the country. A man from the assembly 
came out, and spoke in the name of the people of their 
concurrence with the king's wishes, which they consi- 
dered were for the good of the country. However, the 
matter was to be discussed to-morrow, and we were 
permitted to look out for land in any place we pleased, 
and let them know the next morning. We were enter- 
tained with kola nuts, and then returned to Odiri's 
house, who refreshed us with palm wine and gave us 
kola nuts. To Odiri, Orikabue, and Ayankoha, the 
king's brother and councillor, I quietly intimated our 
intention to form a Mission establishment in their town, 
quite distinct from the trading factory already men- 
tioned to the king, and that Mr. Taylor, who was with 
me, would stay among them. They were quite pleased 
with the idea. 

Ayankoha accompanied us down to Orikabue's 
house, who also entertained us with palm wine and 
kola nuts ; Ayankoha then told us that this chief was 
to conduct us to the king's house to-morrow. All the 
time we were moving about I kept looking out for the 

c 



26 PEOEOSAL FOR THE MISSION WELL RECEIVED. 

best spot which might answer our purposes, intending 
to apply for it to-morrow. At our return on board 
we met Akerema, the chief of Oko villages, who had 
come with three canoes, and brought stock for trade, 
and also a bullock as a present to Dr. Baikie. This was 
very generous in Akerema, because v,e could not land 
at his town yesterday, although he urged us by his 
messengers, who got but very small presents from the 
Doctor to the chief on their return. He expressed his 
satisfaction at our intended establishment at Onitsha, 
which he looked upon as the beginning of their future 
prosperity. He returned with the stock for trade till 
Monday. 

July 27 — Went to the town of Onitsha after break- 
fast, according to appointment, and proceeded to the 
king's house. Our business soon commenced, when Dr. 
Baikie told the king at full length his object in coming 
to this country. Simon Jonas interpreted for him. 
The king and his people were perfectly agreeable to all 
that was said, and promised to make good trade with 
the settlers. jSIr. Taylor was then introduced as the 
religious teacher who was to reside, and teach them 
the word of God, and their children how to read ; and 
they were told, that, if they paid attention to him, 
many more would be sent to live among them, which 
they promised to do. After this. Dr. Baikie and Cap- 
tain Grant gave their presents, first to the king, and 
then to his councillors. The king was quite delighted. 
After the excitement was a little over, he energetically 
addressed the audience, and demanded their opinion 
whether they were agreeable to the establishments or 
not, to which they all replied in the affirmative. 



INFERIOR STATE OF BUILDING. 27 



Odiri, the king's son, addressed the people at full length, 
and so did Ayankoha, the king's brother, and Orika- 
bue. The people expressed their concurrence by firing 
off muskets. The king withdrew with his councillors, 
and called Simon Jonas and Augustus Radillo, to 
consult them as to what was proper to give in return 
as presents to the gentlemen, when a bullock was 
agreed upon, which was to be shot, because too wild 
to be caught. After this we left the court, to point out 
the piece of land we had selected, and to get a house 
hired for Mr. Taylor. While busy in looking out for 
the house, all the chiefs went down to the river side, 
to see about the site for the factory ; so the inspection 
of the land for the Mission premises was put off till 
to-morrow. Houses are very inferior here : they are 
mere enclosed verandahs, in oblong squares of mud 
walls, without rooms. After diligent search, we fixed 
upon one small square, which needed much alteration 
to make it habitable for any length of time. The near- 
ness of it to the spot intended for our establishment 
made it preferable to any better one at a greater dis- 
tance. The price was agreed upon for six pieces of 
romal handkerchiefs at five shillings per piece, to occupy 
the whole of the little square till our own place is built. 
There is one great disadvantage to the situation of 
Onitsha — its distance from any water : the people have to 
fetch water for their household use from the river, a 
distance of about two miles from the centre of the town. 
The rainy season is the best time to prepare building 
clay, by catching and preserving rain water in clay- 
pits to mix the building clay with. 

July 28 — Soon after breakfast we went to town, to 
c 2 



28 



SITE FOR THE FACTORY. 



bring the house and land affairs to a conclusion. The 
chiefs Orikabue, Ayankoha, and Odiri, had already 
come down, with a large number of men, to have the 
grass cleared off on the site for the factory, where a 
shed was to be erected for protection of the goods to 
be landed here ; so Orikabue was appointed to accom- 
pany us to inspect the ground. The land selected for 
the Mission station is on the right as you go up on 
the west border of the town, on a gentle slope, clear 
of wood, airy, and from which the river is in full view. 
Orikabue asked whether this would answer our pur- 
pose, to which we answered in the affirmative. He 
said as soon as the yams and corn were gathered in 
the land should be at our service. The bargain of 
the hired house being concluded, as mentioned above, 
with the assistance of three Sierra-Leone men, who 
came with Dr. Baikie as traders, we commenced at 
once to make such alterations as were necessary, by 
breaking down shelves, and removing such rubbish as 
would be too much in our way. The three settlers 
are allowed to occupy the house with Mr. Taylor and 
Simon Jonas, as they are members of our church, and 
would form agreeable companions and useful helpers. 
Seven women were employed to clean and red wash 
the house ready for use. While they were doing this 
we took a stroll about the town, to know the extent 
of it, as well as to make acquaintances. We paid a vi- 
sit to four groups of houses, the chiefs of which ex- 
pressed their great joy at our establishments among 
them. The town of Onitsha is about one mile in 
length, if not more, through which one broad road 
runs lengthwise, which divides it into two sections. 



PREPARATIONS FOR SETTLING. 29 



On either side are groups of houses, a little remote 
from the high road, ruled by heads of families or in- 
ferior chiefs. Both sides of the road are either covered 
with bushes or plantations, till you come to an open 
road, leading to a group of houses further back, but 
some of the groups are close, and open to the high 
road, where also a market is held occasionally. In 
the afternoon we returned on board, thankful for the 
success God had granted to us, though we felt fatigued 
after a good day's exertions. The whole of yesterday 
and to-day was a very busy time about Onitsha: 
goods were landed, bushes were cleared, and sticks 
cut, for the construction of the factory shed; the 
botanist and naturalist took their departments in the 
fields ; while some of the naval gentlemen, not content 
to go out in the dawn of the morning, to lay wait for 
the hippopotami in their hitherto undisturbed haunts, 
pitched their tent in the immediate neighbourhood of 
these amphibious quadrupeds, if possible to shoot one 
of them, at the same time they were pursuing their 
nautical observations ; but the mosquitoes, the uni- 
versal pest of the rivers, did not leave them unmolested 
during their nightly watch. 

July 29 — To-day was spent in making arrangements 
for Mr. Taylor's removal on shore : stores and supplies 
were received from the ship, and Simon Jonas re- 
moved on shore with the three traders from Sierra 
Leone. Mr. Taylor accompanied them, to see things 
safely housed, and he returned on board in the after- 
noon. I took a short walk in the extensive corn and 
yam plantations, when I had a good opportunity of 
observing that cotton was planted to the same extent 



30 



TRADE OF THE NATIONS. 



nearly, to be an after crop when yams and corn are 
removed from the fields. The people of Onitsha ma- 
nufacture their own clothes, generally plain or fanciful 
white. European manufactured goods are not so com- 
monly used here as in the lower parts of the river : 
shirts, jackets and straw hats are in great demand by 
the people. Cowries are current here, but their rela- p 
tive value I have not been able to ascertain ; the po- 
licy of the natives being to get the goods as cheap as 
they can from us, to be retailed to advantage among 
themselves. Abo people bring salt and other goods 
from the lower parts of the river, as far as to Igara, 
which are also taken to the Confluence by the people 
of Idda, and are sold for cowries or ivory, and the 
cowries are brought to Onitsha market, to purchase 
palm oil. 

A woman offered to supply me and Mr. Taylor 
*with two casks of palm oil for good large coral beads. 
Two or three months will determine what quantity of 
palm oil is to be got here, and what articles are in 
great demand. The people came to work to-day at 
the shed, but their attention was taken away more by 
curiosity than by their work. The pickaxes, spades, 
the use of the carpenters' saws, and the building of 
palm-oil casks, with many other things, occupied the 
best part of their attention and time, and they gazed 
at them with wonder and interest ; but some of them 
were very attentive and diligent at work when properly 
guided. During my ramble, 1 followed a foot-path 
which brought me to the edge of the river, where was 
a fishing trap watched by four men. We had seen 
these traps at a distance, but we never went near 



FISHING TRAP. 



31 



enough to inspect them. At a convenient distance on 
the bank the watchshed is erected: six long sticks, 
from ten to twelve feet high, are placed erect in the 
ground on a space of about six feet square : on the 
three fronting the river, cross sticks are tied, forming a 
ladder nearly to the top, where a platform is raised : 
over the platform a roof is made just high enough 
to allow the watchman to sit erect: it is some- 
times open at both ends. This is the watchhouse. 
The trap itself is an oblong basket, made of split cane, 
about eight feet in length, four in breadth, and two 
deep, with a bag or hollow in the centre resembling 
that of a seine. Then sticks are pinned on the ground 
inside the river, at short distances, resembling a 
skeleton fence, from twelve to eighteen feet from 
the bank of the river, and strengthened by two or 
more cross ties of the same materials. On this the 
basket is made fast with cane rope, at the further end 
and at both sides, at such lengths as to allow the 
basket to sink or be lifted up above the surface of 
the water. To the end opposite the shore a long rope 
of cane from the watchhouse is attached, by which 
the watchman now and then lifts up the basket from 
the water, to see if there be any fish within : if not, 
he lets it down again ; but if any be found, the other 
men below hasten down into the canoe close by 
and secure the prey. In this way it is said a large 
quantity of fish is caught This kind of trap is very 
common from the lower parts of the river to Asaba, 
where we began to find them rare, or missed them 
altogether. 

Besides the traps, a large number of people employ 



32 



POPULATION OF ONITSHA. 



their time in fishing in canoes with hooks. On 
Sunday, the 25th, we counted fifty-four of these 
fishing canoes returning to Oko villages : each canoe 
contained one person only. 

July 30 — Was busy arranging papers the early part 
of the day, and making a plan for Onitsha Mission 
station. After one p.m. we walked to the town on a 
visit, as well as to ascertain the number of groups of 
houses, so as to be able to form an idea of its 
population. We counted twenty-six groups, which 
contain at the lowest average 250 persons each, 
which gives 6500 souls in the town of Onitsha. 
During our walk we visited some headmen in their 
houses, to whom we spoke a few words on religious 
matters : they were very glad to see us, and promised 
to listen to Mr. Taylor's teaching. Many others invited 
us to their houses, but, as the night was drawing near, 
we promised to call next time. The people have been 
troubled by war with their Ibo neighbours of the in- 
terior, in consequence of which a great many good 
houses were deserted at the east end of the town, 
where a constant look-out was kept for the approach 
of the enemies, and the inhabitants have removed to 
the west parts, which are safer. We fell in with one of 
these look-out stations. On a large tree, whose height 
could not have been less than 120 feet to the lower 
boughs, a ladder of small sticks was constructed : 
by this they climbed to the uppermost boughs 
of the tree, which command a distant view, it being 
situated on the crown of the hill on which the town 
of Onitsha is built. We were told that the ene- 
mies had killed twenty of their people, while they 



INTENDED HUMAN SACRIFICE. 



33 



killed but three of them. In this state of things 
our establishments at Onitsha were most welcome to 
them. 

As we entered the town to-day, and approached 
our lodging, we saw a large number of people in the 
street neatly dressed in their best ; and in one of our 
landlord's squares there was a crowd of people of 
both sexes dancing to the beat of drums, with which 
was kept up constant firing of muskets. We stepped 
into the entrance to see what it was, but the crowd 
was so thick that we could not see much, except the 
dancers, who were moving in frantic gestures. 

When we came to our lodging, one of the headmen 
paid us a visit, and I asked him the cause of the 
amusement, and was told that it was in honour of 
the burial of a relative of our landlord, who died 
some six months ago. Simon Jonas, who remained 
on shore last night, had heard that a human sacrifice 
was to be made to the manes of the dead, and he told 
the people of the wickedness of the practice. On my 
putting the question as to the cause of the amusement, 
the headman was conscience- stricken, and told Simon 
Jonas that the victim was not yet killed. We then 
took the opportunity, and spoke most seriously to the 
headman in the hearing of many people, who stood in 
our square, of the abomination of this wicked practice, 
the more so as the victim was a poor blameless female 
slave. He then assured us that they had not known it 
was wrong to do so ; but as we had now told them, the 
human sacrifice should not be performed, but a bullock 
should be killed in its stead. He proposed that we 
should buy the woman, that they might buy a bullock 



34 



PREPARATION FOR BUILDIXG. 



with the cowries in her stead. This we refused to do, as 
we were not slave-traders. He then said the woman 
should be sold to somebody else, which we thought 
was better than to kill her. Before we returned to 
the ship, Simon Jonas was told that the poor woman 
was loosed from her bonds. On holidays the people 
appear in their best, in cloths of their own manu- 
facture, from cotton grown on their own farms. Their 
cloths are nearly all white : no dye is used to checquer 
and stripe them as in the upper parts of the river, but, 
when kept clean, they present a pleasing appearance. 

As no time was to be lost, I asked our landlord 
about getting materials for our intended building. 
Clay was first to be got before the rains were 
over, to save enormous expenditure of labour and 
cowries in fetching water from a distance of nearly 
two miles to mix it. Orikabiie fell in with my idea, 
and promised to make ready for the work at the com- 
mencement of the second rain, when plenty of water 
would be caught and secured in clay pits after the 
clay is dug. The settling of the bargain must be 
left to Mr. Taylor, because the ship wUl soon move 
upwards, and we cannot drive the people in setthng 
a matter of this kind. To have a place of our own 
as soon as possible is a matter of necessity, and that 
in many respects. The native houses here are mere 
sheds or verandahs, and afford no safe shelter for any 
length of time without re-modelling the house alto- 
gether ; and it would be cheaper to have at once a 
place of our own, where we should have better accom- 
modation to receive numerous visitors who would 
constantly pour upon us from the interior. At Abo 



MR. TAYLOR STATS AT ONITSHA. 



35 



and Ossamare only small places should be made for 
the present, to be used during periodical visits, till we 
have somebody to be stationed there. 

July 31 — Every preparation having been made, it 
was decided that the ship should move to-morrow 
towards Igara. Having given Mr. Taylor directions 
as to his future proceedings, we left him on board 
to get his dinner at five p.m., while Dr. Baikie, Lieut. 
Glover, and myself, went to pay a farewell visit to 
the king. His three councillors were with him. They 
promised evei'y protection to the factory, and all atten- 
tion to what Mr. Taylor should teach them, and to 
render every assistance in their power to erect the 
necessary buildings on the Mission ground. They 
renewed their promise to abolish human sacrifices, 
and to exclude strangers from the white man's country 
from the law which allows no mat, or any kind of seat 
except the bare ground, to strangers visiting the court. 
Thus ended our interview with king Akazua, and we 
took our leave. Odiri, the king's son, would have us 
give a few minutes' call at his house, late as it was. 
The doctor complied with his request, and he enter- 
tained us with palm wine, which we partook of 
standing. He presented the doctor with a kid, with 
the excuse that he, being a boy (inferior), was not 
able to do more. Leaving Odiri, we called at Mr. 
Taylor's lodging, thinking he had already returned 
from the ship, but he had not. After speaking a few 
words of advice and encouragement to Simon Jonas 
and the three young traders from Sierra Leone, we left 
them, hoping to meet Mr. Taylor on board ; but we 
had not got half-way when we met him, and we took 



36 



PARTING DIRECTIONS 



affectionate leave one of another, wishincr each other 
God's blessing, and every success in the great work 
before us : so we parted in body, but not in spirit, 
when we plead God's promises at the throne of grace. 
This, the first important move of the Church Mis- 
sionary Society in planting a Mission from a native 
ministry, and an entii'e native offshoot from the colony 
of Sierra Leone, is a step in advance of the yoruba 
Mission, commenced and worked under the direction 
of European Missionaries. Mr. Taylor has to break 
open the fallow-ground, and to sow the seed of a future 
bountiful harvest among the people of his fatherland. 
May this be the beginning of a rapid overspread of 
Christianity in the countries on the banks of the 
Niger, and in the heart of Africa, through native 
agents ! I here insert the directions left to Mr. Taylor 
for his cmidance at Onitsha. 

Niger Mission, Onitsha, July 31, 1857. 

My dear Brother, — Though we are about to 
separate for a season, yet you are not alone. " Lo, I 
am with you alway," is the faithful promise of the 
Lord of the harvest to His disciples : this will also be 
realized concerning us. I doubt not the Society will 
take immediate steps to strengthen your hands. Before 
parting, I wish to direct your attention to some parti- 
cular and most important points, preparatory to the 
establishment of a new Mission like this. 

1. Cultivate friendship with all the people as much 
as possible, so as to gain their goodwill and con- 
fidence. 

2. Your ministerial duties will be very simple and 



TO MR. TAYLOR. 



37 



plain. You will have to teach more by conversation 
when you visit the people, or they visit you, at the 
beginning, than by direct service. Be instant in season 
and out of season. May the Lord give you wisdom to 
win souls to Himself! 

3. You will need much patience to bear and forbear 
with the ignorance and simplicity of the people : they 
are like babes. 

4. It will be most advisable to attend to the re- 
duction of the language, correct the primer in the 
course of using, improve and enlarge the vocabulary, 
and make as many translations as you can. 

5. Try to get the names of the tribes and countries 
around you, and ascertain as much as possible their 
relative positions to each other, their distance, and 
how far their intercourse with the coast extends, and at 
which point, whether at Brass, Bonny, or Calabar, 
and whether by land or water. 

6. Be not disappointed if you find the people do 
not act up to their engagement : it is rather a matter 
of surprise that they do so much. They must be taught 
the lesson of justice and truth, and that by our own 
example. We must first show that we place con- 
fidence in them to fulfil their engagements by making 
them small advances, as I have done at Abo, till they 
are acquainted with day-labour. 

7. All our first buildings must be temporary, but 
as good and comfortable as we can make them with 
present materials, till we are established, and are better 
acquainted with the resources of the country. It is 
necessary that one small house should be made at 
Abo and one at Ossamare as soon as practicable, 



38 



DIRECTIONS, &C. 



SO as to be able to locate teachers at once in each 
of these places on their arrival from Sierra Leone, or 
for Missionary occupation during a periodical visit ; 
but the first and most important place to which your 
attention should be chiefly directed is Onitsha, which 
appears to be the high road to the heart of the Ibo 
nation. 

8. Should I not be able to pursue my journey to 
Abbeokuta by land as it is anticipated, you will see me 
again after our mission to Sokoto. By that time you 
will have heard from the Parent Committee, to whom 
you must write by every opportunity. 

9. Keep regular journals, and omit nothing of your 
proceedings and your notices of the country and 
customs of the people, for the information of the 
Parent Committee. 

10. If the cowries and goods I leave with you, to 
pay salaries and to defray the expenses of the buildings, 
are not sufficient, you may take cowries or goods to 
the amount of 251. more from the factory, an ac- 
count of which you will have to render to J. M. Holl, 
Esq., at the Church Missionary Society's House, 
London. 

11. Should any one be sent to join you in the Ibo 
district, and specific instructions are not given by the 
Society respecting his location, he should be stationed 
at Abo, as the next place claiming our attention. 

I remain. 

My dear Brother, 

Yours very affectionately, 

Samuel Crowther. 

The Rev. J. C. Taylor. 



VISIT TO ASABA. 



39 



Mr. Thompson, a member of our church, was left 
in charge of the factory near the water-side, with 
seven men under his dii'ection. This party, together 
with Mr. Taylor, and the four men with him in the 
town, make a total of thirteen persons left at Onitsha. 
We spent seven days here in making all necessary 
arrangements. Having seen more of the situation of 
Onitsha, I am fully convinced there could not have 
been a better place selected as the head-quarters of 
our Ibo Mission-establishments, for salubrity and 
elevation of the country above the swamps of the 
delta, as well as for facility to communicate with the 
interior. 

Aliheli, the Hausa interpreter who was engaged at 
Abo, deserted the ship to-day, and went away in one 
of the trading-canoes which were alongside, leaving 
his country cloth covering behind. He had not 
felt comfortable since he came on board, because 
he was not made so much of as in former expeditions, 
and because he had been detected in an attempt to keep 
back something out of the presents to Aje at Abo, 
when he was sharply rebuked for liis dishonesty, by 
which his character suffered. It might be he was 
afraid of involving himself in trouble with Aje, who 
was opposed to our establishments at Onitsha, as 
lending a helping hand to accomplish what he opposed 
as being against the trading interest of his people. 

August 1 — Left Onitsha this morning, and anchored 
off Asaba, where a large number of people was collected 
near the water-side; but they showed no fear, as on our 
former visit. The king's son led me to the town, and to 
the king's house, which is about three-quarters of a mile 



40 



DESCRIPTION OF ASABA. 



from the water's-edge. We took our seats, and in a 
little time the king made his appearance. He was the 
same person whom we met in our former visit, to whom 
Dr. Baikie spoke of the object of his return to the 
river. 

The people were urgent that a factor)' should be 
established at Asaba, as well as at Onitsha, although 
the distance between the two places is scarcely three 
miles. They said they did not go to Onitsha because 
Aje kidnapped them ; and no assurance that Aje would 
not do so, as our establishment is at that place, would 
satisfy them. This showed a spirit of jealousy on 
their part of the preference of Onitsha to Asaba- 
The latter is certainly a fine town when considered as 
a station of itself : it is nicely cleared, and the roads 
leading from one division to another are wide, and in 
the nicest order. Though it is situated on the top of a 
ground rising immediately from the water's-edge, yet 
the town is about three-quarters of a mile inland, and 
all around is covered with trees and jungles, which 
entirely conceal the river from view, and it is not 
open to the breeze from the west and south, as Onitsha. 
Being on the right bank of the river, it loses all the 
advantages of being visited by traders from the in- 
terior, except they could cross over in canoes, which 
are not many hereabouts. However, Asaba shall not 
be left unnoticed when we are able to take it up. 
Started from this place about four p.m. : the schooner 
touched at the lower point of Long Island. After 
heaving her off, we anchored for the night. 

August 2 : Sunday — Weighed early, aud anchored 
below Walker Islands, for service, at half-past ten. 



SAMENESS OF THE BANKS OF RIVERS. 41 



Preached from Matt. xv. 27, 28. At half-past twelve 
p. M., weighed, and anchored off a village called Adekpe 
about six p.m. As we had cleared away from I bo 
district, I distributed Schon's Matthew and John, in 
Hausa, among those gentlemen who are turning their 
attention to the study of that language, and I hope the 
gift will be of use to them. 

August 3— Weighed from Adekpe, and anchored 
off Ala before breakfast. In our former voyage we 
mistook this place for Adamugu, but were corrected 
this morning by the natives, who told us this was Ala, 
and that we had left Adamugu some miles below. The 
sameness of the rivers' banks hereabout, and the uncer- 
tainty of meeting the huts on the same spot on a second 
visit, are apt to mislead one in finding those villages 
which are not visible from the river. At Ala we 
landed, and were kindly received and entertained by 
the chiefs, who gave us kola nuts and palm wine, and 
p^ade us presents of goats, fowls, and very fine yams : 
they recognised those of us who landed here in 1854. 

Here we learnt for certainty that the old Ata of 
Idda was dead, and that there was a dispute between 
two rivals for the throne. At Ala, both Igara and 
Ibo languages are spoken: the people mix one with 
another, as this is one of the boundary towns between 
the two countries. We also spoke with the people 
through Hausa interpreters. Weighing from Ala, we 
anchored off a village called Abijaga. 

Jugust 4— Our progress was rather slow to-day, 
no wind to help us onward. In the course of the 
afternoon the schooner got into shoal water, but she 
was soon got off. In the evening we anchored off 



42 



ENGLISH ISLAND. 



Aiya and Akai villages, on the left side of the river, 
below Lander Islands. 

August 5 — Some people came on board this morning 
with yams, corn, and other produce, and one tusk, the 
first that had been brought to the ship since we entered the 
river. About 8 a m. we weighed, and steered close to 
shore, to take advantage of the counter- current, when 
the "Dayspring" ran aground. She was got oflp in 
about two hours. Having a favourable breeze, we an- 
chored of Idda just about sunset. Having no one on 
board who spoke Igara, there was no communication 
with shore this evening. 

August 6 — At the dawn I heard the gongon at the 
landing-place, and the town-crier said something about 
the oibo, which I could not understand. At seven 
A.M. we landed on English Island, where we met Ama 
Abokko, our old friend, who had come from the Con- 
fluence some time ago, on political business. He had 
heard of our arrival at Abo, and had been expecting 
us. Having entertained us as usual, he was requested 
to send a messenger to announce our arrival to the 
Ata, and our intention to visit him in the com*se of 
the day : he would not tell us, when asked, whether 
the old Ata was alive or dead: his reply to that 
question was, " King never dies." We returned on 
board for breakfast. Before noon we landed, to pay 
our respects to the Ata, and were conducted by Ama's 
messenger, first to Abeya, where we were kindly re- 
ceived and entertained according to custom. After a 
considerable delay, we were conducted to the house 
of our old friend Ehemodina, who embraced me and 
Dr. Baikie with open arms, to express his joy at seeing 



DIFFICULTY OF INTRODUCTION TO THE KING. 43 

US again. Here we sat, and were entertained as 
usual. In the mean time the head eunuch, whom we 
had seen riding as we were entering Ehemodina's house, 
came in and took his seat, and was respected as the 
representative of the kuig by the people who were 
about us. He was soon joined by six other eunuchs 
much younger than himself : then we were told that 
the head eunuch was to conduct us to the king. As 
much time had been spent in this peculiar way, the 
Doctor told the chief, Ehemodina, without the least 
expectation of meeting with any difficulty, that he was 
ready to move towards the palace. The head eunuch 
said we could not see the king until to-morrow ; that 
the Ata was going to send us presents of a bullock 
and a tusk ; and that we should receive them first 
before we saw the Ata. The Doctor reasoned with 
him as to the annoyance of such treatment, and said, that 
as he had come so far from the ship purposely to pay 
*his respects, he was determined to see the Ata to-day ; 
and that, if he failed in doing so, he would sail away 
to-morrow, and would take no more trouble about 
seeing him. The head eunuch, supported by another 
of his companions, was determined the Ata should not 
be seen to-day, and said, rather with a tone and gesture 
of insolence, that if the Doctor would not wait till 
to-morrow, he might sail away if he liked, as the river 
was open for everybody. After he was assured that 
the Doctor would act upon this determination, our 
party began to move. Our generous hearted-friend, 
Ehemodina, attempted to mediate : he reasoned with 
the eunuchs, who no doubt tried to win the old chief 
over by pleading the old custom of court etiquette. 



44 ANNOYANCE AT THE HINDRANCE. 



Ehemodina attempted to persuade the Doctor to yield, 
as to-morrow was no distant period, and, being a holi- 
day, would be better for the king to see us than to-day. 
But he was told that the inconvenience attendinjr an 
interview with the Ata was not only to-day's com- 
plaint, but that it was the same sixteen years ago. 
When Captain Trotter visited this place with four 
ships, Mr. Beecroft fared no better ; and it was 
with hard labour and much trouble that we saw 
the Ata in our last expedition. That no chief or 
king ever treated white men so ; and that, after we had 
gone from one chief to another as a preliminary step 
to see the Ata, in the heat of the sun, at the risk of 
health and life, to be turned back to the ship without 
performing our business after all was very disrespectful; 
and that if the Ata could not respect white men 
better than this, they would no more take such trouble 
to see him. With this we took leave of Ehemodina, 
and returned to the ship. Ehemodina was sorry. He 
stopped me, and asked, " Are you going away really ?" 

There was an expression of confusion in the eunuchs' 
countenances: they felt they had committed themselves 
by their presumption. Ama's messenger returned 
with us on board, and was sent over to his master 
on English Island, and he no doubt reported all that 
had taken place to the chief. In the afternoon, Ama 
Abokko, and his mother Amada, accompanied by two 
princes, whose mother was related to the old lady 
Amada, whom they now call their mother, with a 
large number of attendants, came on board. Dr. 
Baikie was absent on shore, on business, at the time, 
but Ama Abokko and his mother patiently waited 



PROMISE OF VISIT ON THE MORROW. 



45 



his return ; when they were taken to the saloon, where 
the chief and his mother, and the two princes, asked 
forgiveness for what had passed between him and the 
two eunuchs on shore to-day ; that to-day was an un- 
lucky day in their estimation, but that to-morrow 
every thing would be settled amicably. Amada, the 
chief's mother, assured us that she would go to the 
king on her return, and inform him of the bad effect 
of this day's conduct towards us ; and that, on our way 
to the palace to-morrow, we should first call on her, 
when she would tell us what she had done. I told 
Ama Abokko that the Ata had promised, sixteen years 
ago, to receive Christian teachers, which promise he 
renewed in 1854 ; and that I was now sent to secure a 
piece of land for a school-house, and dwellings for the 
teachers, who may shortly be expected in this country. 
They said there would be no difficulty about that after 
w^e had seen the Ata. In consideration of the earnest 
desire of Ama Abokko and his mother, and the two 
princes, that friendship should be renewed between us 
and the eunuchs, together with a desire to satisfy 
ourselves whether the old Ata were dead or alive, 
or whether there be any or no Ata at all, Dr. Baikie 
yielded, and promised, in deference to their kind in- 
terference, that he would visit the Ata to-mori'ow. 

This promise removed, as it were, a heavy weight 
from their minds : their faces beamed with smiles, 
and many promises were made as to what they would 
do to restore peace and right understanding in future. 
Amada presented the Doctor with a goat and twenty- 
four yams. One of the princes gave a kid, and pleaded 
poverty : three other traders gave two kids and sheep. 



46 POWER IN THE HANDS OF THE EUNUCHS. 

After five p.m. our crowded decks were relieved of their 
numerous visitors. As an instance of the weakness 
of the power of government at Idda, proclamation 
was made this morning by the town-crier that no one 
was to transact any business with the ships till the 
Ata was seen, and business opened. But no sooner 
did we return from the town, than a tusk was brought 
on board, fowls, cloths, goats and sheep, and various 
kinds of articles were brought alongside, and these at 
the very moment when there was no good under- 
standing between us and the palace. It appears to 
me the management of political affairs rests too much 
with the eunuchs, whose influence has very Httle eflfect 
upon the people. 

August 7 — Early this morning the ship was full of 
people, some with ivory, others with various articles 
for sale, so that there was no room to move on deck. 
About eleven A.M. we left the ship for Idda, on our 
way to an interview with the Ata. The party con- 
sisted of Dr. Baikie, Lieut. Glover, Messrs. May, 
Barter, Dalton, and myself. In the first market-place 
the bands of musicians waited to receive us, but Oti, 
our old guide, had been unfortunately killed in the war 
between the Igara and the Bassas, soon after our 
return from the river in 1854. However, we soon 
made new acquaintances, who led us through the 
town, and brought us again to the house of Abeya, 
who sent a Hausa servant of Ehemodina's to lead 
us to Amada's house, who was living in the king's 
quarters of the town, only a short distance from the 
palace. She first entertained us, before she told us 
that she had been to the king— as she had assured us 



INTERVIEW WITH THE KING. 



47 



yesterday that she would do — and had given account 
of what the eunuchs had done to us, whom she blamed 
very much for their conduct, and informed us that 
the king would be seen to-day, and all matters end 
amicably. 

She then led us to the house of the chief eunuch, who 
was to conduct us to the king. After going through 
the usual custom of entertainment, the old eunuch 
made public apology to Dr. Baikie for his conduct of 
yesterday, assigning as his reason for persisting, that 
as the word had gone from him before the people that 
we should not see the king, he could not recall it ; and, 
besides, he did not know how to deal with white men. 
He was told that his apology was accepted, and pardon 
gi'anted, but that there would be a few words more 
before the king. Amada took the lead again, and 
brought us to the entrance of the palace, which ap- 
peared no better than it was in 1854. The eunuch 
went by a private way to the king, and got there 
before us. After about half an hour's waiting, we were 
invited in, and mats spread before us in a small 
oblong square, which served for a mere passage to 
the inner buildings, at the doorway of which the 
Ata took his seat in state, being dressed in a light 
green rich silk velvet tobe. In him we found a new 
sovereign, a much younger person, and lighter in com- 
plexion than the late king. The head eunuch sat 
outside the passage-way before him, and the other 
eunuchs occupied their seats right and left. In the 
mean time many courtiers, especially Abokko's people, 
walked in and took their seats. After the custom 
of giving and accepting the kola nuts was past, the 



48 



HIS PROMISE OF FRIENDSHIP, 



Doctor addressed himself to the Ata, and expressed 
his grief at the annoyance and inconvenience he had 
been put to yesterday in his attempt to have an in- 
terview with him; after which the Doctor told the 
Ata the object of his return to the river. The chief 
eunuch was Ata's spokesman. He first gave the reason 
of the unpleasantness of yesterday, by calling our 
attention to the king before us, whom we must have 
seen to be a different person from the one we saw in our 
last visit. He told us that the old Ata was no more, 
that his son had succeeded to the throne ; that he was 
not to appear in public till after the expiration of 
three years, when he would be fully crowned. This 
he assigned as the cause of their perplexity yester- 
day; but as the matter had come to such a state, 
they had arranged that we should have a private 
interview with the Ata, as we should well remember 
this was not a place of public audience. 

The Doctor expressed his sympathy on account of 
their bereavement, and many good wishes for the 
preservation of the life of the present king, and his 
long and happy reign : to which there were shouts 
of approbation from the attendants about him. 
Twice the Ata addressed himself to the Doctor, that 
he would not draw back from following the steps of 
his father as regards his friendship with white men. 
I then introduced myself to the Ata as the person 
who had got the promise of his father to receive 
Christian teachers at Idda, and to give us ground 
whereon to build a school-house and dwellincrs for 
the teachers. I said that this was my third visit to his 
country, and that I was directed to secure the piece 



THE LADY AMADA. 



49 



of land to be occupied as soon as I return from our 
journey to Sokoto, when I hoped to be able to place 
some teachers there, who may shortly be expected 
from the white-man's country. To this the Ata re- 
plied, that when Messrs. Landers, Laird and Oldfield 
were here, his predecessor showed them a place 
whereon to build, and he told me I was at liberty to 
choose the most eligible spot at Idda, which would be 
readily granted to me, and he also promised to send a 
messenger to go with me about the town and look, 
and said he would be too glad to see us settle in the 
town and teach his people. 

After our business was favourably settled, a pot of 
beer was served round. The king gave Dr. Baikie a 
tusk, weighing about 50 lb., and a bullock, which was 
to be shot in the fields. The Doctor made him suitable 
return for his presents. The kind services of the 
Lady Amada were publicly acknowledged before the 
Ata in the court. She sat close by me all the time 
of our interview, and was particularly commended 
before the king as a worthy character ; while on the 
contrary, one of the most insolent eunuchs was singled 
out as deserving of blame. So we left the palace with 
the Ata's many good wishes, after he had requested 
the Doctor to procure him some rare articles from 
Europe, among which were particularly mentioned 
the brass salt pans used for boiling or evaporating 
salt water on the coast. Leaving the palace, every 
one took different directions : the botanist went in 
search of plants, and Lieut. Glover, with his rifle, went 
after the bullock. At the return of the messenger, I 
went to point out the pieces of land I had fixed upon 

D 



50 



MISSION PREMISES. 



for a church or school, and the intended Mission pre- 
mises. That for the former is a spacious central 
piece of ground, in the midst of which is a large 
tree with lofty spreading branches ; and the piece for 
the dwelling-house was chosen on the opposite side, on 
the right hand of the road going up from the river, 
having the first group of huts on the same side as the 
upper boundary, so that the premises may be extended 
downwards, as occasion may require. Idda cliff was 
measured from the top to tlie water's edge by Lieut. 
Glover, and found to be 117 feet high at that place, 
but more at the north side of the cliffs. The elevation 
of the spot selected for the Mission premises will be 
between two and three hundred feet above the level of 
the river, well drained and open to the breeze on every 
side. After the inspection of the lands, as we were 
returning to the ship, Kasumo, the Arabic interpreter, 
who had fallen in with a brother mallam here, and also 
with a Yoruba slave, was privately informed, that, about 
three months ago, an Albino slave boy, whom we saw 
here in 1854, about nine years of age, was offered in 
sacrifice as a peace-offering in the settlement of their 
political disputes ; that the hands and feet of the poor 
boy were dislocated, after which he was put alive into 
a pit prepared for him, over which a large pot was 
placed : so the poor creature had to linger the remain- 
ing days of his miserable existence in torture and agony. 
He was there three or four days before he expired, when 
the pit was covered up. I regretted this was told me 
too late, or else I would have indirectly gone about 
the spot to see where this unfeeling act of barbarity 
had been practised. This is another instance which loudly 



EHEMODINA. 



51 



calls for help, for these dark places of the earth are 
full of the habitations of cruelty. At this place my 
Haussa interpreter fell in with a son of the king of 
Zaria, a mallam, who formerly was living in the same 
house with him, before the interpreter was kidnapped 
and sold into slavery. This mallam had been here for 
the last four years, and would remain one year longer 
before he returned to Zaria. He was in possession of a 
full copy of the Koran, and another volume, which 
Kasumo told me was a commentary or notes on the 
Koran, in Arabic. As it was not a translation into the 
native lansuatje, it was not a thincj which the Societv 
particularly desired me to obtain. There were several 
Mohammedans here from Nupe, from whom we ob- 
tained some imperfect intelligence of Sumo Zaki and 
Dasaba. As Dr. Baikie was too much engaged in re- 
munerating those persons who had rendered us many 
services, he requested that I should pay a farewell 
visit to our old friend Ehemodina, accompanied by 
Mr. Dalton with some presents, as an acknowledgment 
of his kindness, which the chief received with great 
gratitude. As our grounds are but a short distance 
from his house, and in his district, I begged him to 
suffer no one to build on them till we come and occupy 
them ; to which he made a faithful promise, and said 
that he himself would have a hand in the buildings, 
should his life be spared till that time. He then told 
me, that when he saw us return yesterday with dis- 
pleasure at the conduct of the eunuchs, he immediately 
despatched a message to the Lady Amada to proceed 
without delay to the English island, requesting that she 
and her son should go on board and bring the matter 

D 2 



52 TRANSMISSION OF INTELLIGENCE. 

to a favourable issue. He said he was acquainted with the 
usages of the Europeans, and used to sleep on board 
the former expedition, but now he is too old to move 
about ; and as a brother to the late Abokko, he would 
not suffer any ill-feelings to exist between us and them. 
After wishing one another God's blessing, we returned 
to the ship at eight p. M. 

August 8 — Having completed our business at Idda, 
and paid a short visit to Ama Abokko, who gave a 
messenger to accompany us with a message to his son 
at Gbebe, and having written a hasty note to Mr. 
Taylor at Onitsha for experiment, which the chief 
promised to forward by Abo raarket-canoes, we weighed 
for the Confluence, and, being favoured with a good 
breeze, we anchored above Bird's rock at sunset. 

August 9 : Sunday — We remained still at anchor. 
Lieut. Glover went up to mount Purdy, to take the 
bearings of the countries around. Had service at half- 
past ten A. M., and preached from Ps. Ixxiv. 20. After 
service, accompanied Dr. Baikie on a visit to Ekpe, 
a farm village on the right side of the river. On our 
way we landed on Bird's rock, which was nineteen feet 
high from the water, by actual measurement, and 
between 200 to 300 feet round at the base : the depth 
of the water immediately at the foot of it was six fa- 
thoms. At Ekpe we collected some information of 
Rabba and Sokoto, and the countries around. Cross- 
ing to the left side, we landed in the district of Orisa- 
pia, containing about twenty groups of villages, all 
bearing the same name, only distinguished by their 
respective headmen. Two of these groups are en- 
tirely occupied by Nupes, who, during the political 



RECOGNITION OF EELATIVES 



53 



disturbances of their country, sought refuge here in 
the country of Igara. The population of the two 
groups would be about 600 inhabitants : they are a 
mixture of Mohammedans and pagans. The chiefs 
were very civil and hospitable, and made Dr. Baikie 
presents of goats and fowls, besides beer for our enter- 
tainment. Here we collected more information, and 
returned to the ship towards evening, 

August 10 — Weighed about eight A. M. Having a 
good breeze, in the course of the afternoon we anchored 
off the lower end of the ruins of old Odokokodo, where 
the factory was intended to be established. 

August 11 — We were visited after breakfast by our 
kind friend the Galadima, and other old friends, who 
expressed their great joy at seeing us again, and made 
kind inquiries after several persons who wei'e in the 
former expedition, but who had not come in this. 
About noon we landed, at the same time with the Ga- 
ladima, who introduced us to Wari, the eldest son of 
Ama, in whose charge the town of Gbebe was left 
during his father's absence in Idda. Several other 
short visits were made ; after which I walked about 
the south-east suburbs of the town, to see what kind 
of a place it was. At Gbebe, as at other places we 
visit, the liberated Africans from Sierra Leone are sure 
to find some of their scattered relatives. W. Reader, 
of the Owe tribe of Kakanda, who was brought by 
Dr. Baikie to see the state of the country, and report 
to his countrymen at his return, found his elder sister 
here with four children. Mr. Crook, an old disbanded 
soldier of the Nupe nation, who was liberated at Sierra 
Leone in 1813, found an aged woman here, who for- 



54 



BY THE AFRICANS. 



merly was his father's wife. W. Parker, a Bassa 
man, also found his sister ; and Mr. Turner, a Yoruba 
man, fell in with some persons belonging to the same 
town as himself. There was a great stir among the 
people who came together to witness these unexpected 
meetings. With this impression on the minds of the 
inhabitants, we left the parties on shore, and returned 
to the ship. 

August 12 — The ship was cleaned and painted, and 
cargoes were arranged for a separation from the 
" George," preparatory to our voyage up the Kowara 
branch. After two p. M. Dr. Baikie and I landed at 
Gbebe on a visit, and to arrange business on shore. 
To-day I walked on the north side of the town, to see 
if there were any suitable site for Mission premises. 
On my return, I told the Galadima of my intention, of 
which he approved. The site for the factory, or 
Laird's town, was chosen on the other side of the river; 
but as the Mission station must be in the midst of the 
people, because we can never expect them to go 
the distance of a mile to receive religious instruction 
before they know its real benefits, I have made up 
my mind to establish ourselves among the people ; it 
will be easier for the settlers to go across for church 
service, than for the natives to do so, who know 
nothing of Christianity. The Galadima was as hospi- 
table as ever : he prepared a large calabash of pounded 
yams for us, a little of which we took, and gave the 
remainder to our people. A robbery had taken place 
inthe Galadima's house some time ago, and the thief 
was not detected. As we were preparing to return on 
board, a court of justice was held in the yard. The 



MEETING OF MOSLEMS. 



55 



Galadima produced an old copy of the Koran. After 
declaring his innocency of the act, he swore by touch- 
ing the Koran on his head, in a kneeling position ; so 
did the rest, one after the other, who were concerned in 
the matter. Kasumo, the Arabic interpreter, took the 
copy, examined it, and read off the first chapter or two, 
which caused the admiration of all who were present. 
He said the copy was a very old one, but quite correct 
Leaving the Galadima, Abdul Kader, Dr. Baikie's 
Foulah interpreter, an intelligent Arabic scholar, ex- 
pressed his wish to see the copy of the Koran, which 
was brought, with three others besides, to the Arabic 
schoolmaster's room. Though the schoolmaster pro- 
fessed to teach Arabic, yet when he was tried by Ka- 
sumo yesterday, he was foimd to understand very little 
beyond mere reading. Abdul Kader and Kasumo 
compared the copies. In this meeting of Moslems, 
Abdul Kader displayed his ability, as he read off one 
chapter after the other with such fluency as astonished 
his brother Moslems : not only so, but he shut up his 
book, and repeated one chapter after the other from 
memory, to their great surprise. This young Ara- 
bic scholar is a Fasta Toro, the son of Mukhtar Demba^ 
a war-chief of Dingirai, When young, his father sent 
him to school among the Moors, for some ten years, 
where he not only learned to read Arabic, but to speak 
it almost better than his own Foulah lancruage. 

The further we go, the more convinced I am of the 
necessity of introducing the study of Arabic into our 
institutions at Sierra Leone. What advantage it would 
have given, if any one of the Christian teachers could 
also have stepped forward and read a few verses out of 
his Arabic Bible, such capability would place the teachers 



56 



USE OF THE ARABIC CHAKACTEE. 



of the Anasaras in a much more prominent position 
among tliese self-conceited people. Besides this, I be- 
lieve that in this part of Africa, where the knowledge of 
Arabic is so imperfectly known, the vise of the Arabic 
character, combined with teaching in Roman or Italic 
characters in the native tongues, would be the means of 
counterbalancing the rapid spread of Mohammedanism 
among the rishig generation. But as long as the use 
of the Arabic character is excluded from our schools, 
and left to the use of the ignorant followers of Moham- 
med alone, they will take advantage of this to continue 
their deception upon the ignorant heathen by holding 
these letters as more holy than any others in the world; 
but by these characters being brought into common 
use, their artful cheat would be laid open. It appears 
to me there has been an increase of Ai-abic schools, 
both at Idda and Gbebe, since our last visit: the 
people are nevertheless very friendly, and warmly 
welcome our intended establishments. 

While at the Galadima's, an Haussa trader met us 
who only arrived last night from Hano, and will 
make some stay in this place for trading. To make it 
convenient for his business, as he had done in other 
places, he purchased three huts for 30,000 cowries, 
where he was at once settled. He spoke Yoruba, and 
had been to Ilorin, where also he had a house. From 
this man we learnt some more news of the interior 
towards Sokoto : that the unconquered Haussa tribes 
of Goberi and Hambari are always troublesome on the 
direct route to Sokoto : hence the round-about way 
which was given us from Kabba by way of Youri, to 
avoid these hostile tribes. 

August 13 —Spent a great part of the day on shore. 



SLAVE DEALING. 



57 



Asaban, or Saban, the one-legged man of Kogankoto 
of 1854, was met here: he remembered us quite well, 
and begged that we should pay a visit to his house. 
He also oflFered to supply Dr. Baikie with twenty 
slaves. In order to know what number of slaves 
pass through this place every month, the Doctor ar- 
ranged to pay Saban a visit to-day. We saw two 
slaves confined in his house ; but Saban had already 
been told by somebody that we are opposed to the 
slave trade, and therefore every question put to him, 
as to where the slaves came from, the number sold 
monthly, and the comparative number with ivory, was 
so shyly answered, that no dependence could be 
placed on any thing he said. As we could not gain 
much from him, we left, assuring him that we had 
nothing to do with slaves, whether sold for little or 
much, but only wished to know for our own informa- 
tion. Many slaves have been brought down for sale 
lately from the interior, especially since the conquest of 
Umoru, whowas formerly the head war-chief of Sumo 
Zaki ; but who had sided with Dasaka and Mashado, 
the son of Majea, to drive Sumo Zaki out of Rabba. 
He afterwards proved unfaithful to Dasaba, whose 
head war-chief he became, and effected his expul- 
sion from Lade. After the reconciliation of Sumo Zaki 
and Dasaba, Umoru was subdued. It is said he was 
drowned in the stream of Gbako, which runs into the 
Lafun, otherwise called Kaduna by the Haussa people. 
His followers were scattered, and many poor innocent 
people became a prey to the conquerors: hence the large 
supply of slaves about the country at this time. Some 
Yoruba traders to Kano were among the slaves. I saw 



58 



DIFFICULTY WITH THE FARMERS 



one who belonged to Ibadan, and another to Ago, who 
had been unfortunate enough to fall into the hands of 
the conquering armies of Sumo Zaki. 

August 14 — Captain Grant having changed his 
mind as to having the factory on the other side, he 
selected a site for it on the south side of the town. 
After his affairs were settled, I requested Wari, accom- 
panied by the Galadima, to go with me and see the 
land for the Mission premises on the north side of the 
town ; Dr. Baikie went with me. They were willing 
to give me the land, and requested that I should clear 
away such portions of it as were unoccupied by plan- 
tations, till the yams and corn are ripe and gathered 
in. I at once engaged some men to commence clear- 
ing to-morrow morning, leaving Kasumo to see that 
they begin in good time, and work well before I come 
on shore. 

August 15 — Early this morning, Wari, who had not 
been on board before, visited the ship accompanied 
by the Galadima, and staid about an hour. After 
breakfast I went on shore, according to arrangement, 
expecting to see the bush cleared away, that I might 
be able to lay out a plan for a small temporary build- 
ing, to be erected, during our ascent, against the return 
of the steamer, but was much annoyed to find that the 
farmers had not been told by the king's son that their 
farms were to be given away ; so they had opposed the 
workmen, and nothing was done. Hearing this, wc 
were requested by the Galadima to see Wari, wliich 
we did. The fault was Wari's, for his independent 
action, without regard to common right, it was due to 
the farmers, to liave informed them of his intentions. 



ABOUT LAND FOE THE MISSION. 



59 



In consequence of this he was suspected of having re- 
ceived large presents from us, which had influenced him 
to act so independently in giving their land away without 
sending them any information. We told him that we 
were ready to declare his innocence, inasmuch as we 
had made no present of any kind, either to him or to 
the Galadima, because his father had not yet received 
any thing from us ; but if the farmers were dissatis- 
fied, we were willing to pay them. Wari replied, that 
all the lands belonged to his father ; that neither his 
father, nor he, nor the farmers, who were strangers in 
the town, could sell any land, because the land is 
God's ; and that we should build our houses where we 
pleased, for that was his father's instruction. How- 
ever, he would immediately send to the farmers, and 
to-morrow we should hear the result ; so we returned 
to the ship. 

August 16 — Had service on board at half-past ten 
A. M. and preached from John i. 29. After service 
I went on shore, to make a beginning of public 
Christian instruction in the town of Gbebe. Mr. Crook, 
the disbanded soldier of the Nupe nation, interpreted 
for me in Nupe, there being a large number who speak 
that language here. Besides my English, I took an 
Arabic Bible, and Schon's translations of St. Matthew 
and John into Haussa, and an Ibo primer, out of 
which to teach the alphabet. Taking my seat in the 
Galadima's ante-hall, which is the common resort of 
all people, holding from forty to fifty persons, a 
number of both sexes, old and young, soon en- 
tered as usual, to look on. Having carefully placed 
my books on the mat, after the custom of the mallams. 



60 



ARABIC BIBLE. 



Mr. Crook sitting on my right, and Kasumo on my 
left, I commenced my conversation by telling them 
that to-day was the Christian Sabbath, on which we 
rest from our labour, according to the commandment 
of God. The Galadima came in, and to him I read 
some verses from the third chapter of St. John, in 
Haussa, in the hearing of the people, which he under- 
stood, and which, by further explanation, became more 
intelligible to him. In the mean time some Moham- 
medans walked in, and desii-ed to see the Arabic Bible, 
which I delivered to Kasumo, to read and translate to 
them. The Galadima, who reads Arabic, expressed a 
wish, as soon as the school is opened, to learn to read 
Haussa in Roman or Italic character. There was an 
intelligent young man present who could read Arabic, 
who was also very anxious to read our translations in 
Italic character. After a long talk, I ran over 
the alphabet from the Ibo primer several times with 
the Galadima and the young man, at which they 
showed much quickness and intelligence : I then gave 
the Arabic copy of the Bible as a present to the Gala- 
dima. This was so unexpected, that he did not know 
how sufficiently to express his gratitude in words; and, 
contrary to the usage of the Mohammedans, he actually 
was going to throw dust on his forehead, as a token of 
the value he placed on this gift, when Kasumo stopped 
him by saying it was not our custom to do so. He 
said his father would be able to read it fluently. May 
the Lord bless this small and feeble beghming of an 
attempt to introduce the religion of Christ into this 
benighted part of Africa ! May the prayers of the 
Church be heard on its behalf! 



SCHOOL COMMENCED. 



61 



August 19 — As Wari had acted indiscreetly in the 
land matter, and it was dfficult for him to settle it 
before his father's return, I was put to a stand still as 
regards working according to my plan : however, we 
landed to pay visits to some persons, or for some important 
business. Dr. Baikie was very anxious that something 
should be begun by way of schooling ; so he kindly 
instructed Mr. Simon Preddy, a Christian whom he 
brought from Sierra Leone as a trader, to make a be- 
ginning, and had Mr. Crook to assist him in speaking 
to the children, and in striving to induce the parents to 
send them to school. The Galadima brought five 
boys to begin with, whose names were taken down 
in a list. We were particularly requested that the 
children should be taught to read in Haussa. I hope 
by the time these children can say their letters per- 
fectly, the Haussa primer will come up. Having; 
supplied Ml-. Preddy with foolscap sheets to write the 
alphabet upon, and with as many school materials as 
our little stock would allow, we returned on board, 
where I hoped to have a few quiet days to put my notes 
in form, before we began to ascend the Kowara branch, 
and, if possible, to send despatches otf, if we are to visit 
Ilorin before proceeding to Sokoto, according to the last 
arrangement. The " Dayspring" moved down towards 
Mount Soracte, to complete the survey of that place. 
August 22 — This afternoon the ship returned to Gbebe 
August 23 — Had service on board at a quarter past 
ten A.M. and preached from Exodus xx. 8. "Re- 
member the Sabbath-day to keep it holy." At two 
o'clock I landed to hold religious conversation with 
the people on shore : Lieut. Glover accompanied me. 



62 



PREACHING. 



On Saturday I selected the text from Matt. vii. 12, 
in Haussa, on which to found my discourse to-day. I 
got it well read in Haussa, and made Kasumo read it 
in the Arabic Bible, that he might be prepared to read 
and translate it in that language, if occasion required. 
I took my seat, as on Sunday last, and in a short time 
a large number of people walked in as usual, and stood 
before us. The five schoolboys were first examined in the 
alphabet, and found to be quick : they knew the names 
of several letters, which did Mr. Preddy credit for his 
pains and attention. When a sufficient number was 
collected, I began to address them from the text named 
above, to which they paid very great attention. I read 
the text from the Haussa translations as occasion re- 
quired; and as the Galadima was present, I made 
Kasumo read the verse from the Arabic Bible, to as- 
sure him that the Haussa translations agreed with the 
Arabic text. Lieut. Glover took his seat on one side 
of the raised floor, to witness our mode of teaching. 
Every attention was paid to all that was being said, 
when a little interruption took place among the hearers. 
As the people stood thick against the doorway, a re- 
spectable looking man who was present desired a girl 
of about thirteen years of age to move a little out of 
the way to give room, but she abused the man by 
calling him a dog. The man, being indignant at such 
an insult, proceeded to punish her with his long pipe 
stick, which caused such a disturbance, just at the 
moment I was telling them of the dying legacy Christ 
left to his Church — "Peace I leave with you, &c" — 
that I was obliged to stop and pacify the man, while the 
girl made her escape through the opposite passage. 



THE LAND MATTER SETTLED. 



63 



This circumstance directed my discourse to the duty 
of obedience which children owe to their parents, and 
inferiors to their superiors. I kept them long, till I per- 
ceived they were beginning to be weary, when I ceased 
speaking, and employed the remainder of the time in 
teaching from the Ibo primer, till half-past three, when 
I closed altogether. 

As it was likely the ship would move in the middle 
of the week, I told the Galadima that I was quite dis- 
appointed in the land matter, because I had been 
waiting on them for the last ten days, and nothing was 
done, nor was Ama Abokko likely to return before we 
sailed ; so he promised to stir up the chiefs, and on the 
morrow, to bring the matter to a conclusion. Lieut. 
Glover and myself took a walk over the ground, and 
paid a friendly visit to the farmers whose huts were 
close by. 

August 25 — Yesterday Dr. Baikie and myself 
landed, to hear what steps had been taken with the 
farmers. Wari told us he had not been silent on the 
subject ; that the elders and headmen would be called 
together that evening ; and that hehimself would come 
on board to fetch us direct to the spot the next day, 
and have the matter settled. As I had not yet given 
him nor the Galadima any thing, and they had been 
taking so much trouble on my account, I gave two 
yards of green cotton velvet and a plush cap to each, 
in order to encourage them. To-day the Galadima 
came on board to fetch us, according to promise. 
Accompanied by Wari and some of his own brothers, 
we went to a blacksmith's shop, where we had a meefc- 
ing with the farmers, and the matter was discussed 



64 



PREPAEATIOXS FOR BUILDING. 



between them, and satisfactorily settled. Wari and 
his attendants, the farmers. Dr. Baikie, and myself, 
went together to the spot, to fix the boundary, and 
have a clear understanding between us : thus the 
matter ended to my satisfaction. This done, I imme- 
diately engaged labourers to clear away the portion 
unoccupied by plantations, and as it was late to plan 
any building, I arranged for providing building mate- 
rials against the return of the "Dayspring" fromRabba, 
towards the expenses of which I made an advance of 
thirty-six heads of cowries to the Galadima, who un- 
dertook the work. Dr. Baikie and Lieut. Glover en- 
gaged themselves to provide funds for the erection of 
a church in connection with the station. After my 
return from Rabba, I hope to be able to put the pre- 
mises into shape before the arrival of Christian teachers 
from Sierra Leone. 

August 26— The people set to work early this 
morning, according to promise, while I was getting 
cowries counted to give towards the payment for 
building materials. In the afternoon I landed with 
the cowries, and Mr. Barter, the botanist, took a box 
of plants he brought from Sierra Leone and Fernando 
Po to set them in the ground of the Mission premises, 
for security till our return, until they could be properly 
planted. To encourage Mr. Freddy, the schoolmaster, 
I promised him five heads of cowries at my return. 

August 27 —Got under weigh early this morning. 
The "Dayspring" having got rid of the "George" 
easily, went up the Kowara, and in the afternoon we 
were boarded by Tshigidi Amsala, a Kakanda trader 
from the town of Idere : he was going to the Con- 



VISIT TO THE CHIEF OF IDERE, 



6.5 



fluence to trade, having heard of the ship's arrival 
there ; he had three slaves on board his canoe, besides 
some other merchandize at the bottom, covered with 
mats. He was very anxious that we should anchor 
at his town, which was not far off, and he wished to 
return with us ; so his canoe was let go to be paddled 
after us by his people. Passing the town of Ikelebe, 
we anchored off Mere about five p. M., when several 
canoes immediately came alongside with stock and 
provision for sale. Our progress to-day from Gbebe 
was about thirty miles. 

August 28 — Landed at Idere with Dr. Baikie before 
breakfast, on a visit to the chief, whom we found to be 
a young man of about 25 yeai's of age, the old chief 
having lately died ; he did not talk much, but was 
very friendly : he gave the Doctor a sheep and a kid, 
and three pots of beer for presents, and about 1000 
cowries to Ama Abokko's messenger, according to 
custom, for all which Dr. Baikie made him a satis- 
factory return. The town of Idere is large, and would 
contain about 3000 inhabitants : there seemed to be 
no Mohammedans in the place, or at least they were 
very few, and of no importance. When the people 
were asked whether they would like to have their 
children instructed in the white-men's book, the same 
as those at Gbebe, the chief said, at our return 
from Rabba he would send some children down with 
us, I told him we did not wish to take away their 
children, but we hoped in course of time to be able to 
send some one to settle among them, and teach them, 
a proposition which they received with much willing- 
ness. At our return we found many canoes alongside 



66 



LAND AT MUTE. 



the ship, with various articles for sale, such as cotton 
in the seed, palm-oil in pots, and calabashes of from 
three to six gallons each, ivory, tobacco, Cayenne 
pepper, rice, Indian com, yams, goats, sheep, fowls, 
eggs, wood, and bullocks' hides. Here we were told, 
that Dasaba's messengers were at Muye, and that they 
had arrived there only the day before. The towns of 
Ikelebe, Idere and Muye were formerly on the right 
bank of the river ; but, from the frequent visits of the 
Felanis, all have shifted to the left bank, or rather to 
islands not easily accessible, except by canoes : but 
in order to be allowed to remain there unmolested, the 
people have consented to pay tribute to Dasaba, 
Having returned on board, we weighed, and anchored 
off Muye, only a short distance from Idere. We landed 
in the midst of a thick crowd of spectators, the " Day- 
spring" being only a short distance from shore. Among 
the crowd were Sumo Zaki's and Dasaba's messengers, 
who came here to demand taxes from the people. 
We reached the chiefs house, not far from the water 
side, where we were seated. In a short time a grey- 
bearded person, in satin tobe, made his appearance. 
After the usual salutations, the Doctor told him his 
object in coming to his town, and the cause of his 
visit to the river in general. But, before he had 
finished speaking, Abdul Kader walked in with the 
Felani messengers ; so the chief at once called their 
attention to all that was being spoken, that they 
might be able to report direct to their master. This 
the chief of Muye said, in order to clear himself 
from the suspicion of saying or doing any thing dis- 
paraging to the character of the Felani kings, which 



THE VISIT WELL RECEIVED. 



67 



might afterwards involve him in difficulty. But he 
expressed his joy at what the Doctor had said, and 
still more so at the prospect of seeing some of tlie lost 
people return, and uttered many good wishes that God 
would prosper this message of peace to all to whom 
it should be delivered. The mention of the return of 
his people from the white-men's country was a wel- 
come note, the echo of which was a thousand prayers 
for our success. The chief presented the Doctor with 
a sheep, yams, and a pot of beer, which latter was 
distributed and drunk before him. We took leave, 
with a request from the Doctor that the chief would 
send some one on board, as he had something to give 
him in return ; but he privately requested Mr. Crook 
not to let the Felani messengers see what would be 
given, a hint that was well understood. We returned 
on board, and the presents to the chief of Muye were 
given, and hurriedly concealed under cloths before 
the Felani messengers came ; for as these were coming, 
the others were returning. Here we begin to enter 
into a district immediately under the influence of the 
oppressive government of the Felani, 

From Dasaba's messengers we learnt that their 
masters were still at Bida, only a few hours' walk 
from the left side of the river, and they proposed to 
send messengers with us, to show us the right way of 
landing, and to announce our arrival when we reached 
the landing-place. The Doctor prudently declined to 
take any of tliem on board, for many reasons, but 
told them they were at liberty to send a canoe, to in- 
form their masters of our coming. These men were 
sent from the war party at Bidon (Budu), where they 



68 



TAXATION OF THE PEOPLE. 



lodged, to collect taxes from the people, after threaten- 
ing the destruction of Gori market, wliich a message 
from Dasaba caused them to leave unmolested. These 
people had been at rest since the expulsion of Dasaba 
from Lade to Ilorin : the tax imposed upon them at 
this time was 300 slaves, or cowries to that amount. 
We started from Muye with a view to visit Bidon, 
where it was said 400 of Dasaba's soldiers lived: 
being the capital of Kakanda, it is of importance ; but 
access to the landing-place is difficult, a long line of 
swamp extending in front of the town. As it was 
getting late, we returned from the creek to the main 
river, and anchored off a small village called Olugudo, 
on the left bank. 

From the Confluence to Muye, the country on the 
right is entirely a succession of table mountains, some- 
times to the very bank of the river ; one of these hills 
is very rich in palm-oil trees, growing to the very top, 
and if cotton or coffee were planted among them, they 
would form one of the most beautiful parts of the 
scenery of this river. The hills recede from the left 
bank gradually inland. On their slopes are situated the 
towns of Koto nkarifi (Kattam karifi) and that of 
Nwonle, Igbira towns, in order to avoid the approach 
of the Felani depredators, to whom, since the visit of 
Dasaba to that neighbourhood, all the towns on the 
banks of the river pay tribute, as far down as to Ajara, 
a village at the foot of mount Patte, near the Con- 
fluence. 

The Bassas, who inhabit the fastnesses of mount 
Soracte and the Ikere mountains, with the inhabitants 
of Wefa and Igbira Sima, have opposed Dasaba's am- 



SUSPICION OF THF BASSAS. 



69 



bition, and, with their poisoned arrows, expelled his 
soldiers from their rocky defences. In consequence of 
this, the Bassas, who appear to be irritable in their tem- 
perament and violent in their manners, are very suspici- 
ous of any strangers who attempt to enter their towns 
and villages, and look upon them as traitors and spies, 
who come to betray them into the hands of the Fe- 
lanis. We have always heard of the rough conduct of 
the Bassas, and have also experienced something of it, 
but we could not previously arrive at the true cause, 
which is explained above. Dr. Baikie, Lieut. Glover, 
and party, landed on the 20th inst., with the intention 
of going up to mount Soracte for scientific purposes, but 
they met with firm opposition from the Bassas, whose 
town was at the foot of the hill ; they even told W. 
Parker, the intei'preter, their own countryman from 
Sierra Leone, that they suspected he had come with 
the white men as a traitor to his own countrymen. 
As they would not be persuaded by words of assu- 
rance, or offer of presents, the attempt was given up, 
lest it should create serious consequences, if proceeded 
with by force. On the 23d a party went on a visit 
to the Bassa town of Patte, on the back of Gbebe, 
but they also met with firm opposition, so they had 
to return without entering the town. The cause as- 
signed for this was, that Dasaba made use of their 
captured countrymen to betray them into his hand. 
But, with proper explanation, the messengers of the 
Gospel will have no difficulty in getting among them. 
The Bassas on the banks of the Tshadda differ from 
those below the Confluence in many respects ; al- 
though tradition says, that they are a stock of those 



70 



OPPRESSION OF THE PEOPLE. 



on the Binuwe who emigrated here on their hunting 
expedition. The language of the Bassas below the 
Confluence is very much like that of the Nufes, and their 
national marks like those of the Kakandas ; but the 
Bassas on the Binuwe have no marks, and their lan- 
guage is pecuhar. They are said to have emigrated 
from a place towards Zaria, called Gabi, from which 
circumstances their king is called Agabi ; but more of 
these tribes another time. 

August 29 — Landed at the village Olugudo, and 
met the poor distressed chief with only a handful of 
people : he, however, very kindly received us, and 
entertained us according to his means : here the op- 
pressive power of Dasaba's soldiers is sensibly felt 
The late headman of the village had been killed, and 
a large number of the inhabitants had been carried 
away. If cowries are demanded, and the people have 
none to pay, their clothes are taken from their body, nor 
do the agricultural implements escape the cupidity of 
their enemies. The villagers would not come along- 
side, because they were afraid ; for they were ready 
to fly away into the bush at the sight of any suspi- 
cious-looking canoe, especially as 400 of Dasaba's 
soldiers were then lodging at Bidon. The poor chief 
presented the Doctor with twelve yams and a pot of 
beer; but the Doctor declined accepting the yams, 
on account of his poverty and distress. Though the 
chief thanked him much for his sympathy, yet he 
urged him to accept them, fearing he was not pleased 
with him, if he refused To remove every cause of 
fear they were received, and some clothes were 
civen in return, for which the chief was thankful. 



VISIT TO EGGA. 



71 



Weighing from Olugudo, we anchored ahout a mile 
below Egga, as it was getting too late to find out the 
landing-place. 

August 30 — Early this morning we moved oppo- 
site the town of Egga, properly Egdn, as pronounced 
by the inhabitants. We were boarded by the Rogan's 
messengers, to inquire who we were. Had service at 
half-past ten a. m., and preached from St. John ill. v. 9. 
At two we landed on a visit to the Rogan, the successor 
of the one we met in 1841, who died some time ago, as 
well as to my landlord Aruna, in whose house I lodged 
at the time when I bore a message to the chief from 
the "Albert." Beiki, the present Rogan, an elderly- 
looking person, was very civil ; after the Doctor had 
told him the object of his visit to this country, the Rogan 
proposed sending a messenger to apprise his masters. 
Sumo Zaki and Dasaba, of our arrival at Egan, which 
was approved of. He remembered Trotter's expedi- 
tion of 1841. I told him I was the messenger who 
brought some presents to the late Rogan at that time, 
and was lodged in the house of Aruna. Having pro- 
cured a pot of beer to entertain us with, he desired us 
to withdraw into a private room and partake of it, 
which we did. After this we returned to the ship. 
There were upwards of six hundred people at the land- 
ing-place to look at us. Themarket is daily held here, 
but it is in an extremely filthy condition. 

August 31 — Went on shore with Dr. Baikie and 
Mr. May, to give the Rogan his presents, which was done 
in private, to avoid the observation of the servants of 
Sumo Zaki and Dasaba, who would teU their masters, 
to the danger of the old Rogan's being deprived of them. 



72 



EXACTIONS OF THE SOLDIERS. 



This done, the Doctor returned on board, while Mr. 

May and myself remained on shore to walk about the 
town. Egan had undergone great changes since the 
expedition of 1841 : there were then open spaces about, 
where the weavers had room to stretch out their 
works, but now it is one mass of huts, as thickly built as 
they can be put together. This place being an island, 
has become a place of refuge for the fugitives since 
the destruction of Rabba and the desertion of Lade, at 
the late revolution of Umoru against Dasaba. During 
the dry season the swampy creek on the west side of 
Egan gets dry, and the town was in such danger from 
Umoru four years ago, that it was deserted for a whole 
year for the island of Akinami: now all have re- 
turned, and rebuilt their huts, which had been burnt 
down, but the inhabitants are not much better off than 
before. Since the subjugation of Umoru, and the 
reconciliation of Sumo Zaki and Dasaba, their soldiers 
have taken unrestrained liberty to oppress the poor 
inhabitants, in addition to the exorbitant annual tax of 
fifty bags, or 100,000 cowries, laid upon them ; so 
much so, that when cowries are demanded of them by 
the soldiers, and none are forthcoming, their goats and 
sheep, and even unfinished cloths from their looms, 
are taken away, which, if finished and sold, would 
have paid the share of the tax and have left something 
for the support of the weavers. However, the Sultan 
of Sokoto has sent orders to stop these most tyrannical 
acts of oppression ; but the inhabitants, as a whole, are 
not yet exempt from occasional demands of cowries or 
slaves, independent of the annual tax mentioned above. 
Even at this time there were messengers hei'e with a 



SWAMPY STATE OF EGAN. 



73 



demand for twelve slaves for Sumo Zaki and Dasaba, 
to which Rogan had not replied when we arrived. 
Under such oppression, it can never be expected that 
the people can rise into a state of comfort and ease. 

In a town closely inhabited by a population of about 
12,000, confined within a small compass, surrounded 
by swamps, (the island itself being divided by a creek 
into two parts,) very little can be expected by way of 
cleanliness. The outskirts of the town are pestilential; 
the landing-place in the front, where market is daily 
held, is an abominable heap of nuisances ; a quarter 
of an hour's rain softens the passage ways so much, 
that high wooden clogs are immediately made use of 
by those who possess them. 

September 1 — On our visit to take leave of Rogan, 
as the ship was to move down to Mount Elphinston 
Fleming, and it had just rained, Rogan put on his 
clogs, and asked us how we could manage to move 
about without having our shoes sink in the mud to 
the ankles. The Doctor replied that all the streets 
are paved with stones in his country. The chief no 
doubt thought that every country must be in the same 
unimproved state as the swampy island of Egan. 

As we were passing through the passage way on 
Monday, I heard a little boy repeating his lesson in 
Arabic with all his might. Being inquisitive to see the 
school, we opened the mat which served for a door, 
and stepped in, when the only little pupil in the room 
sprang from his seat and ran for protection to 
his mother in the back yard : there was no school- 
master near. Kasumo endeavoured to allay the fears 
of the little boy, and, by repeating part of his lesson. 



74 



barber's shop. 



tried to induce him to go on, but he was too frightened 
to resume his task. There was a building near the 
market, at the landing-place, which, from its peculiar 
construction, I took to be a mosque : it was spacious 
and well ventilated with many holes through the walls, 
and had five doors. I went towards it with Kasumo : 
the Doctor and party followed. On entering, we found 
it to be the barber's shop, where two persons of that 
profession were pursuing their work with their native 
instruments, which were as keen as if they had been 
set by the best cutler in Europe : they not only shaved 
the head, the eyebrows, and the armpits, but the 
nostrils also, into which a small razoi", made for that 
purpose, is thrust, and turned about, to clear the hair 
within, which it does with as little uneasiness as if 
some round instrument were being moved in the nostril. 
It is asserted that the population of Egan profess Mo- 
hammedanism ; that there is not a pagan in the town, 
except strangers who may have come to market from 
neio;hbourins; tribes. This town is said to be the com- 
mencement of the Nupe Proper below the Kowara : all 
other tribes, though belonging to Nupe, yet are not 
strictly so called, but are distinguished according to 
the difference of dialect; as, Kupatshi, on the west bank 
of the river, and bordering on Kakanda, called Bunu 
or Shabe; and the Isitako and Dibo, on the left side, 
from opposite Egan downwards to the back of Mount 
Elphinston Fleming, having Bassa of the Tshadda as 
their interior neighbour. These different tribes of 
Nupe shall be mentioned together in another page. 
Egan, properly speaking, belongs to the Kupatshi 
ibe, but is inhabited by the people of Nupe Proper, 



ASCENT OF MOUNTAIN. 



75 



who, from their different districts, have made it a place 
of refuge. In the afternoon we moved down to El- 
phinston Fleming to take in wood. 

September 2 — This morning I accompanied Lieut. 
Glover, Dr. Davies, and Mr. Barter, the botanist, up 
the mountain, about 500 feet above the level of the 
river. Half way up the ascent was easy, being a regu- 
lar slope ; but the remaining half was inclined to be 
upright, and required one to ascend with the assist- 
ance of trees and twigs met with on the path. About 
twenty feet from the top is a line of cliffs, but our 
path was directed to a gap in the cliff, through which 
we climbed upon all fours. Lieut. Glover having 
found a spot answerable for his scientific purposes, 
we soon constructed two booths of branches of small 
trees, under shelter of which we passed the day very 
pleasantly. The top of the mountain is about a mile 
wide in front, and extends far on the back : it is of 
sufficient extent to contain a large population, and 
could easUy be defended against marauders. The 
view from the top, south and west, is commanding, 
but the east and north sides are shut up by the extent 
of the mountains in those directions, and by the short 
trees which grow on them. The top is rocky, and 
appears to have gone through the action of fire; but in 
some places the surface is covered with a gravelly soil, 
on which small trees and short grass grow. There 
was formerly a village at the foot of the hill, called 
Ela, the ruins of which only remain : the inhabitants 
have been either carried away, or compelled to shift 
from the front, to seek refuge in a ravine on the back 
of the mount, or on the numerous islands in the 
Kowara. e 2 



76 



DEATH OF THE MATE : 



September 3— Weighed this morning about eight 
A.M. for our ascent : halted at a small village on the 
right bank, called Edogi, where we landed, and met 
the poor inhabitants, few in number, and most miserable 
objects of pity to every one who saw them. All this 
arose from the oppression of those who are stronger 
than they. A few words of comfort were spoken to 
them, and the chief received a small present from Dr. 
Baikie. Starting from this place, an attempt was made 
to go through Egan creek, but it became so shallow 
that we were obUged to return and anchor in the main 
river for the night. 

September 4 — Weighed this morning as soon as the 
steam was up : passed Egan, the first village of Fofo ; 
but opposite Little Fofo the " Day spring" ran into 
shoal water and got aground, but was soon got off 
after a little exertion : so we anchored opposite the 
village to buy stock and collect information. Weigh- 
inor from Fofo, we anchored a short distance above it 
after sunset. Mr. Rees, the mate, became so seriously 
ill, that it was thought necessary to remove him from 
the fore cabin to the quarter deck for the benefit of 
air and better attention. The doctor who attended 
him despaired of his recovery two days ago, but I only 
knew of it this evening, when I attempted to draw his 
attention to the great Physician of both body and soul. 

September 5 — This morning, at seven o'clock, the 
poor mate breathed his last : he became unconscious 
while I was speaking to him, though he recognised 
me, and replied " Yes" to all I said. While the coffin 
was being made by the engineers and one of the men, 
we anchored off Idomowo, a place of encampment, 
where we met Sumo Zaki's and Dasaba's messengers, 



HIS BURIAL. 



77 



who said their masters had heard of our coming four 
days ago, and had sent them to meet us at Egan, and 
to accompany us to Bida, with directions which road 
to take : they liad also a message to Rogan ; so they 
hastened downwards in their canoe, and promised to 
overtake us by the time we arrived at the mouth of 
the Lafun river which leads to Bida. Moving a little 
above Idomowo, on an island on the right bank of the 
river, opposite the lower corner of Rennell mountains, 
we buried Mr. Rees under a little tree, on which 
crosses, and his initials and dates, were cut with a chisel 
and knife by Lieut. Glover and Mr. Barter. The fu- 
neral was attended by nearly all the ship's company, 
and a photographic view of the ceremony was taken 
by Dr. Berwick. The day was intensely hot, the ther- 
mometer 91° on deck under the awning, and 112" on 
the sand-beach where the burial took place. This is 
the first case of death in the expedition, and it is pain- 
ful to reflect that a man of his rank was not better 
treated by those who ought to have cared for him, as 
the depression of spirit under which he was labour- 
ing, before he was taken ill with tlie fever under which 
he sunk, might have been relieved by a different treat- 
ment. Weighing from hence, we anchored off Toi 
about sunset. From Egan to Idomowo the adjacent 
banks are swampy, but the cliffs of the hills about 
Rennell mountains here give a pleasing variety. 

September 6 : Sunday — Very wet morning. Had 
service at 12 a.m., when the rains admitted our assem- 
bling on deck, but the day was cool and pleasant. 
Preached from St. John iii. 14, 15 ; after which I 
administered the Sacrament of the Lord's Supper to 



78 



REPAIR OF THE VESSEL. 



four Europeans and two natives, the rest of our com- 
municants being left at Onitsha and Gbebe at the 
Confluence. In the afternoon we paid a visit to the 
chief of Toi, commanding three groups of villages si- 
tuated on an island : the people were obliged to take 
refuge here from the constant robbery of the soldiers. 

September 7 and 8 — The false rudder of the " Day- 
spring" being badly bent at one of her groundings, 
which much impeded her progress, these days were 
spent in dipping her bow, so as to raise her stem, that 
the rudder might be got at, which was accomplished 
this morning. The ship being put to rights, we 
weighed in the afternoon, and anchored opposite the 
village of Igbagi for the night. 

Sej^temher 9— Before steam was up, the people came 
on board to sell corn and beer; and before noon we 
reached the town of Muregi, at the confluence of the 
Kowai-a and Lafun, or Kadiina, called Kundunia in 
Captain W. Allen's chart of this river. As it pre- 
sented a navigable appearance, attempt was made to 
ascend it as far as possible, to get to Sumo Zaki and 
Dasaba at the camp in Bida. We passed the villages 
of Nupeko and Bojofu, on the right bank of the Lafun, 
and the villages Nku and Abogi on the left ; and at 
sunset we anchored off the ruins of Gbara, the former 
capital of the Nupe country, which is now reduced to 
a small village of potters, going by the name of the 
old capital. The situation of Gbara is on elevated 
ground, at the foot of a solitary hill known by the 
name of Mount Barrow in Captain Allen's chart, but 
called Kpati Gbara (Gbara hill) by the natives. When 
the town was in its prosperous state, it must have been 



THE INTERPRETER. 



79 



very pleasantly situated, its site being one of the most 
beautiful, and perhaps the best yet seen in the Nui^>e 
country. Mr. Crook, the Nupe interpreter, after an 
absence of forty-five years, on seeing the site of the 
capital again, soon called to recollection the circum- 
stances of his early days. Mr. Crook was liberated 
in Sierra Leone in 1813, about which time he was 
seventeen years of age, and was enlisted in the African 
corps, in which he served for seventeen years, but is 
now a pensioner. He was for a long time employed as 
a baker to the troops in Sierra Leone, a post which he 
filled to the satisfaction of all. As old age gained 
upon him, he gave vip the work in connexion with 
government, but continued it as a private baker. When 
Dr. Baikie arrived in Sierra Leone, to select suitable 
interpreters for the present expedition. Crook, being 
recommended, was asked, and having a desire to do 
some good to his country and people, though at the 
latest hours of life, he consented to be thus employed, 
and this service he is now accomplishing very much 
to his credit, his consistent character and conduct 
adorning the Wesleyan church, with which he is con- 
nected. 

September 10 — Got under weigh early, but unfor- 
tunately the ship ran into shoal water, but was hove 
oflP after a little exertion. The current was strong in 
the main stream where there was plenty of water. 
Being short of fuel, we got close to shore to cut a dry 
tree on the bank. Here the king-'s messengers, whom 
we left at Toi, overtook us, they had pulled all the 
night to come up to us before we should reach the 
landing-place at Wuyagi. They were I'eceived on 



80 



THE FERRY ON THE LAFUN. 



board, and their canoe taken in tow to relieve them ; 
but unfortunately the wood we had procured had the 
dry rot, and could not keep up the steam. In conse- 
quence of this we made but very little progress, so we 
anchored at a place for wood below a village called 
Dakpon, on the left bank. 

September 11 — Spent the morning in wooding, and 
the messengers were sent off in their canoe, to an- 
nounce our approach. We started about noon, and ran 
into shoal water again, and were occupied about two 
hours in heaving off. We anchored for the night a 
little above a village called Dogbe, on the right bank. 

September 12 — Having got a canoe-load of dry 
wood, to help in keeping up sharp steam, we weighed 
after breakfast, passed the village of Wuyako, on the 
right bank, and anchored off the landing-place to 
Wuyagi village, which is about two miles inland. 
Here we met the ferry-men conveying passengers to 
and fro on the Lafun. The first canoe which caught 
our eyes as we drew near to the ferry had four horses 
on board, and four more were taken across after 
our arrival. Thursday and Friday had been similarly 
employed, because a division of the army from Bida 
was said to be going on a foraging expedition west- 
ward. Our anchorage at the ferry was about thirteen 
miles from the confluence of the Lafun and Kowara. 
This tributary stream varies from three to five fathoms 
in the main channel, but at the dry season it is said to 
be fordable in many places. The Lafun runs be* 
tween Early Grey Range, and appears navigable to a 
greater distance than Wuyagi : the last Nupe village 
on its bank is said to be Gbarishiko, which, if the 



SCARCITY OF FRESH FOOD. 



81 



statement be correct, makes the thirtieth village on 
this stream, reckoning from Muregi, at the confluence 
with the Kowara. Shea butter abounds on this stream, 
which was offered for sale as cheap as could be de- 
sired. 

September 13 — Had service at half-past ten A.M.,and 
read the eighth Homi]yof the United Church of Eng- 
land and Ireland, on the Danger of falling from 
God. After the exertions of the week, nearly all the 
gentlemen felt more or less indisposed. The weather 
was hot, having had no rain to cool the atmosphere 
since the 6th instant This, together with the want of 
fresh provisions to exchange for salt ones, which pro- 
voked insatiable thirst, increased by a continuous heat, 
produced nausea. Since we left Muye, one of the 
chief towns of Shabe, or Kakanda, scarcity of live stock 
began to be felt ; the constant complaint being, that 
the soldiers had deprived the people oftheir live stock. 
Fowls, which wei'e bought with bottles and little look- 
ing-glasses or knives below and about the Confluence, 
could not be got here under an enormous sum : 1000 
cowries were refused for the only fowl or chicken 
which was brought for sale, which was about 2s, ster- 
ling, and no such thing as a sheep or goat was to be 
had. Attempt was made by Lieut. Glover to cast the 
seine, but the current was so strong that the rope gave 
way. It was no wonder, under these circumstances, 
that the health of nearly all suffered : some lived 
mostly on vegetable diet, and avoided salt provisions 
for a time. 

September 14 — Pi-eparations were made for visiting 
the camp at Bida, horses having been sent to await us ; 

E 3 



82 



VISIT TO THE CAMP AT BIDA. 



but Drs. Baikie and Davies not being well enough to 
travel, the journey was put off till to-morrow. 

September 15 — It rained copiously from day -break 
till two P.M., and the time was past for starting on 
the journey ; but that it should not be put off alto- 
gether, as the kings sent constantly, to know when we 
were coming, and that we might not appear inconsistent 
with our word, Lieut. Glover made up his mind to go 
this afternoon ; so I made ready to accompany him. 
We left the ship a little before three, and took horses, 
on wliich we crossed a very nasty swamp, about half 
a mile wide, inland from the edge of the river. The 
town of Wuyagi was about two miles from the ferry. 
At Wuyagi the guides wanted us to stop over the night, 
which'^ve refused to do. After a little threat to report 
their conduct to their masters, they reluctantly con- 
sented to go on. We would have travelled faster, but 
feai'ing lest we • should take a wrong path at the divi- 
sion of the road, we were obliged to wait till one of 
the men came up to us, and ultimately we were com- 
pelled to keep pace with him altogether. We did not 
arrive at the camp till near nine P. M. The country 
being dry and the road good, we felt no inconvenience 
in this respect. On our entering the camp, we were 
led to the huts of Seriki nHausa, where we were to be 
lodged. After taking some refreshment, and commit- 
ting ourselves to the care and keeping of our heavenly 
Father, who had so much favoiu'ed us in our journey, 
we retired to rest. 

September 16 — Had a very refreshing rest during 
the night in our grass huts, temporarily built for pre- 
sent accommodation in the war camp. The dampness of 



MOHAMMEDAN DEVOTION. 



83 



the ground was counteracted by a fire, which was 
kept burning all night, by two pieces of wood, between 
Mr. Glover's bed and mine, and the hut being entirely 
free from mosquitoes, added to the soundness of our 
sleep. At dawn the time of devotion was cried out in 
all quarters of the camp, for all the Mohammedans to 
perform their morning prayers, and as far as we could 
hear, voices were heard uttering the " Alia haku baru" 
all around us. Our Arabic interpreters, Abd ul Kader 
and Kasumo, were not behind their brethren of the 
same faith. As soon as it was light enough, our small 
Christian party met in the hut, and I read the 72d 
Psalm, thanked God for the mercies of the past night, 
and asked His blessing upon the proceedings of the 
day. Before breakfast, messengers came from the 
king and Dasaba, to inquire after our health. Not 
wishing to visit any of them till the arrival of Dr. 
Baikie, we sent to inform the king that we could not 
come till our headman had arrived, but in the mean 
time we wished to stretch our legs by walking about 
the camp, to which he gave his consent. 

Coming out of our huts, we were led through the 
market, which was held in the front of the king's 
quarter of the camp, but kept in a most filthy state. 
We visited a blacksmith's shop, the owner of which was 
busily engaged in making knives, and another person 
was beating out the blade of a new sword, after the 
eastern pattern. A little onward we went to the brook 
which divided the camp into two parts, where two pits 
were dry in the sand, one of which received the water 
drained and filtered from the higher ground, and in 
the other were several springs bubbling out from tlie 



84 



SURVEY OF THE CAMP. 



sand, with water as pure as from a dripstone. This 
in some measure helped to explain my view of an im- 
portant question as to the cause of the rise of these 
gi'eat rivers during the latter rains, above any other 
time, as there is but little rain then compared with the 
first rains ; namely, that they are supplied from all parts 
of the country through subterraneous passages which 
drain the country into the rivers, and cause a gradual 
rise, even before the latter rains begin to fall. Re- 
turning from the springs, we went to the west side of 
the camp, if possible to reach an elevation, where the 
whole camp could be seen, so that Mr. Glover might 
take a sketch of it in one view. On our way we 
passed many carcasses of horses dragged aside, on 
which the Turkey buzzards were feeding with the ut- 
most composure I need not say, that from this state 
of things, and other filthiness, the paths were 
very offensive. After reaching the extreme huts of 
the west end, we found the ground not high enough, 
and it was, besides, full of water, so we took another 
direction. On our way we came to a carpenter's shop. 
The man was chopping stools and wooden shoes, or 
clogs, out of pieces of green wood, some mortars 
having been already finished and put out for sale. 
Leaving the carpenter's, we came into a whitesmith's 
shop, where the smith was repairing the royal brass 
trumpet, called " Akakin" by the Nupes, the possession 
of which constitutes the sovereignty of the Nupe 
kings, and the deprivation of which is a token of loss 
of power. As we proceeded from this, it was driz- 
zling, so we took shelter in a shed where many persons 
were sitting round a fire in the midst. Here we were 



SLAVE MARKET. 



85 



requested to buy slaves ; and when told that we were 
not slave dealers, we were asked for silver dollars to 
the amount of from two to three thousand, which they 
would have been glad to purchase. Here our conver- 
sation turned to lawful trade and commerce, till it was 
fine enough to proceed in our walk, which brought us 
to a market-place, where we were surrounded by a 
large concourse of people. As the camp could not be 
seen here in one view, we were returning home, when 
one of the spectators, a warrior, invited us to his hut, 
and entertained us with palm-wine. J ust close to our 
lodging was the slave shed in the market-place, which 
we also visited, and counted forty slaves, including 
men, women with their infants, and little boys and 
girls. I inquired, for information sake, the price of 
a woman with her infant: 70,000 cowries were asked, 
which, at the rate of 4s. for 20,000, is 11. sterling. 
Before breakfast was over, (after which we intended 
to rest a little previous to the arrival of our friends), 
our hut was literally blocked up with visitors of all 
classes, princes, princesses, and other persons of rank. 
Provisions came in from all quarters, from the king 
and others. About one p.m. Drs. Baikie and Davies, 
and Messrs. Barter andDalton, arrived at the camp, and 
were led direct to the king, who, supposing we should not 
have sufiicient room, ordered their lodging in another 
direction; but we soon went after them, and brought 
them to our quarters. Having an additional hut pre- 
pared, we divided ourselves three into one, and were 
comfortably lodged. The friends having taken some 
refreshment which we had prepared against their 
arrival, we paid an official visit to King Sumo Zaki, a 



86 



COKDIAL RECEPTIOX. 



person of about sixty years of age, who received us 
very cordially. Having shaken hands with us alljwe took 
our seats on mats spread on the ground in the open 
yard before him, when we were loaded again with 
salutations and expressions of joy for our coming to 
him. He said that it was not for his own goodness, 
but it was God who directed us to this place just at 
this time, when every thing was amicably settled. 
Dr. Baikie then told him the objects of his visit to the 
country, and to him in particular ; all of which met 
his full approbation. 

After this I introduced myself to him as a mall am 
sent by the great mallams from the white man's 
country, to see the state of the heathen population, 
and to know the mind of the rulers, whether we might 
teach the people the religion of the Anasara, and at 
the same time introduce trade among them. To this he 
at once gave a full consent, saying that it was all one, 
we might teach them, and that he would give us a 
place for a station at Rabba on their return after the 
rains. He also gave free consent to trade in all parts 
of the river, with his protection as far as his influence 
extended. He then entertained us with a large cala- 
bash full of kola nuts, some of which he first took 
himself, and, after dividing them, gave the parts to Dr. 
Baikie as a token of great friendship between us. 
After his presents were given him, with which he was 
well pleased, he requested us to visit Dasaba in his 
department, which was about half a mile distant from 
Sumo Zaki. The Doctor had tried to get them both 
together before the interview took place, but it was 
not practicable. Dasaba is half-brother to Sumo 



VISIT TO DASABA. 



87 



Zaki on the father's side, who was Mallam Dendo, but 
his mother was a Nupei. We met him dressed in a fine 
light silk tobe. He is between 40 and 50 years of age, 
and appeared to be a person of very lively disposition, 
and humorous in his manner. After the usual saluta- 
tions we took our seats on the mats and hides spread 
on the ground for us. When the Doctor repeated the 
object of his coming to this country, it pleased him so 
much, that he rolled on his mat for joy, and in such a 
jocular manner that it excited us all to laughter. He 
was quite agi*eeable to any thing which his brother 
agreed to, as he gave the first place to him, and made 
his brother's wishes his own. After the kola nuts 
were passed, he presented the Doctor with a cow ; but 
when he had received the Doctor's presents, he was so 
pleased, that he added a sheep, lots of yams, and a 
pot of palm oil. On our leaving, he accompanied us 
to the street, and saw us mount in safety, and we re- 
turned to our lodging. When once bad prejudices 
are raised in the mind, especially of a bigoted people 
like the Mohammedans, whose religion does not teacli 
them to put charitable constructions on what may be 
said of any other people, how absurd and unlikely 
soever it may be, it is a most difficult task to overcome 
such prejudice in any other way but by showing the 
reverse in our own dealings with them. It had been 
circulated about the country, and believed, that as the 
Anasaras do not belong to the religion of Mohammed, 
they cannot be friendly with the people of that faith, 
and that they cannot bear the sight of a Moham- 
medan praying in the name of Mohammed, whom his 
followers believe to be the true prophet of God. But 



88 



PREJUDICES DISPELLED. 



the appearance of Abd ul Kader, the Foota Toro inter- 
preter, and Kasumo, a Ycruba, both of them Moham- 
medans, and tolerable Arabic scholars, in our company, 
excited some inquii'ies respecting their situation, and 
the treatment they received from us on board. Sumo 
Zaki himself was not behind in having his curiosity 
gratified in this respect. They were not a little sur- 
prised to hear from these men of their own persuasion 
that we treated them with the utmost kindness, and 
did not in the least put any obstacle in the way of 
their performing their religious exercises. This was 
certainly unexpected tidings to a people shut up in the 
interior of the country, having no intercourse with the 
civilized world. Those who brought them news from 
the coast were not such as had opportunity of disarm- 
ing themselves of the prejudices they had imbibed by 
mingling with Christians of sound principles, and of 
friendly dispositions. A Mohammedan can never be 
brought round by his religion being quarrelled with, 
and abusively charged with falsehood and im- 
position ; but by kind ti'eatment he may be led to read 
and study the Christian's Bible, which by the bless- 
ing of God, may lead him from the error of his 
way. 

The rest of the afternoon was spent in receiving 
visitors, by whom our huts, and the little open spaces 
about them, were completely blocked up. In the 
evening we assembled in our hut, and thanked God for 
the blessings of the day, and craved His protection on 
the ensuing night. 

September 17 — Wishing to start from the camp as 
early as possible, that we mightbe able to cross the swamp 



VISIT TO THE KING. 



89 



by daylight, Seriki nHausa was sent to ask the 
king for an early interview, but he could not be seen 
till after eight o'clock when we went to him. He was 
sitting in his room close by the doorway, which was 
screened by a coarse bamboo mat, through which he 
could see outside. Mats were spread for us outside in 
front of the door, where we took our seat. The king 
apologized for not coming out or taking off the mat, 
because he had not yet dressed himself ; but at last 
he called for his tobe, folded up the mat, and shook us 
by the hands. He very earnestly urged the Doctor to 
pay a visit to three persons of consequence before we 
left the camp, to clear him of any charge or suspicion 
of having hindered us from going to their quarters to 
pay our respects. These persons were, Umoru, a 
first cousin of his, an influential man, and by whose 
valour and exertions the rebel Umoru, of the same 
name, was conquered : the next person was the young 
prince, Isa who is to be made king of Nupe, and to 
share the country with the Felani kings : the third 
person was the king's own sister, Abibata, who had 
been very liberal to us, she sent milk and butter, and 
a large turkey, for our entertainment at the camp. 
Sumo Zaki said, he, his sister Abibata, and Dasaba, 
were the only three remaining of the children of their 
father. 

The Doctor consented to comply with this request. 
Seriki nHausa taking the lead, he conducted us to 
the other side of the brook, which we crossed by a 
strong bridge of palm trees laid across the water about 
five feet wide, and firmly filled with earth between 
for foot and horse passage. The valley through 



90 VISIT TO THE RING AND HIS RELATIVES. 



which the brook runs was cleared of all under bushes, 
while the great grove of lofty palm and other trees of 
evergreen foliage gave it the appearance of a well- 
planned avenue, with agreeable shade on a sunny day, 
if regard was only paid to free it from all kind of nui- 
sance. Passing the carcasses of horses just dragged 
tliither for the vultures, we walked by the walls of the 
town of Bida, from which the camp receives its name. 
In the opposite camp we visited Isa, a nice, quiet- 
looking man of about thirty years of age, who is to be 
the king of a portion of Nupe. From there we visited 
the king's sister in the town of Bida, but owing to 
some circumstances or custom of the Felani, we could 
not see her. She spoke to us from behind a mat which 
served as a partition between us. She called Mr. 
Crook in, and presented him with a nice cloth as a 
token of remembrance for the high respect she had for 
his father, and would have been very glad, if ]\Ir. 
Cook could have staid with them. From the king's 
sister we went out of the town of Bida to the camp of 
Prince Umoru, a considerable distance. Umoru 
was dressed in a shirt and tobe of silk damask, 
and scarlet superfine Turkish trowsers: a claret- 
colour superfine cloak, richly braided with gold lace, 
laid by his side, and a slave kept constantly fanning 
him. He was a fine-looking young man of about thirty 
years of age, and is generally called the king's son. 
He sent us a bullock the evening before, for which the 
Doctor thanked him, and promised to make him a re- 
turn if he sent a messenger with us to the ship. He 
was very anxious that we should see his brothers, for 
whom he had sent; but as they had not made their 



INDIFFERENCE TO SUFFERING. 



91 



appearance, we left without seeing them. We were 
about three hours performing these visits, when we 
returned to the king and reported ourselves ; but he 
once more begged and urged our perseverance to see 
the head of the escort who came with him from So- 
koto, which we did; after which we took leave of liim, 
and he appointed a messenger to accompany us to 
Ilorin, or to any other place we wished to visit. On 
our way to the king this morning, by the slave-market, 
we unexpectedly passed the dead body of a neglected 
sick slave, who died during the night ; and on our re- 
turn, we avoided the sight by winding our way to our 
huts in a different direction, showing thereby the deli- 
cacy of our feelings, and sympathy with a fellow- 
suft'erer, and a tacit reproof of their apathy and hard- 
heai-tedness. Abd ul Kader,the Foota Joro interpreter, 
went to the king, and told him how we felt at such an 
unusual sight as this ; whereupon the king expressed 
his regret, pleaded ignorance of the case,orelsehewoidd 
have ordered its immediate removal, which he soon did. 

Having completed our visits, preparations were 
made for our i*eturn ; but as the people kept their best 
horses for kidnapping and warlike purposes, they did 
not like to fetch them out for our use to the river side, 
so it took about another hour to get horses, and finally 
to get our packages taken by carriers, with promise 
of pajanent. Dasaba was very anxious we should call 
on him as we passed by, his camp being on the way, 
which we did. He had sent us additional presents of a 
pot of honey and about one bushel of rice. On our 
arrival at his house he showed the superfine tobe, and 
a length of printed muslin, which tlie Doctor had 



92 THIEVISH PROPENSITY OF THE SLAVES. 



presented him with, as the only portion he kept for 
himself: the rest of the things he gave to his brother 
Sumo Zaki. I at once saw the policy of this. They, 
being the only persons to whom presents were made, 
thought their secondary chief and headman should 
have some share with them also : hence he sent a 
portion of his to his brother. Dasaba remarked that 
he had three times seen steamers come up the river, 
but they never traded with them. How that was, we 
could not account for ; but he was assured this time, 
that a regular trade was about to be now introduced 
into the river, with which idea he was highly de- 
lighted. He accompanied us outside, and saw us 
safely on our way; Lieut. Glover and Dr. Davies 
having preceded us, to ascend a hill from which a 
sketch of the whole camp could be taken in one view. 

In a disturbed country like this it cannot be other- 
wise expected but that the majority of the people will 
be very poor. Since our arrival at the camp we 
were constantly warned to keep our articles out of the 
way to prevent robbery. The slaves are not cared 
for by their masters : they live upon what they can 
produce in the fields, or what they can earn by 
labour, but the male population delights in nothing 
but war. The number of people in the camp, 
women and children inclusive, is estimated at 60,000. 
The females are great traders into all parts of the 
country, to buy grains and yams to sell in the camp. 
Just as we were leaving the camp, a party of kid- 
nappers were returning from their foraging expedition 
to some neighbourinof tribes. After meeting with 
severe repulses, they at last overcame the poor people. 



STORM. 



93 



The face of the country is an open plain, undulating 
and dotted about Avith shea-butter and locust-trees in 
great abundance. The soil is rather poor and sandy 
about the camp, but half-way towards the river it is 
tolerable, where dawa corn, ground nuts, and beni 
seeds are cultivated. As our horses were not of equal 
strength, we could not keep pace together. I was 
the last to come to the swamp, which, by the light of 
two lamps sent from the ship, I was enabled to cross by 
wading to the middle, and I got on board about nine 
P.>r. The horses were left on the other side of the 
swamp, because it was safer to go through it in the 
night without them. 

September 18 — Paid ofiF the messengers and carriers, 
and about two P. M. we weighed from the ferry in our 
downward voyage to the Kowara, and reached the 
mouth of the Lafun, otherwise called Kaduna by the 
Hausa, about 6 p.m. We had just entered the main 
river when stormy clouds gathered on the east, which 
burst upon us just as the ship was about to anchor, 
and raised such waves and motions that the cable 
parted, and we lost our best anchor opposite the vil- 
lage of Muregi, in the point between the Kowara and 
the Lafun. 

September 19 — Weighed from Muregi as soon as 
steam was up: halted a little while at the village called 
Ela, on the right side of the river, and about noon 
anchored off Jegede on the left side, where it was said 
the master of the river was residing. Jegede was an 
extensive encampment, but a great portion of it was 
under water. This camp will be removed to Rabba, 
with the king and Dasaba, after the rains. We have 



94 



WOOD SUPPLIED BY AVOMEN. 



just passed Tshua, three groups of villages on the 
right side, the port to Lade, said to be accessible 
through a small creek, leading from Tshua to one side 
of that town. From Lade is one route to Ilorin by 
land. After a short stay at Jegede we weighed, and 
made for Poto, sometimes pronounced, on the left bank, 
Kpoto, off which we anchored about sunset. Poto is 
another starting-point for Ilorin, after crossing to the 
right side of the river to Lafiagi. Poto being the 
nearest route to Bida camp, between Lade and Rabba, 
the travellers crossed here ; but Ilorin passengers had 
gone away from Poto, so nobody was met to give us 
accurate information of the way to Ilorin. 

September 20 — Spent the Lord's-day here. Had 
service at half-past ten A.M., and read the Sixth Ho- 
mily of the United Church of England and Ireland, On 
Charity, for our mutual edification. Landed in the 
afternoon on a visit to the son of the chief, the father 
being; from home at Jeo;ede. 

September 21 — Weighed early this morning for 
Rabba. Our fuel being nearly exhausted, we halted 
at Tshiji on the right bank, a small village of entire 
pagan Nupes, where wood was puixhased from the 
women, who were amply rewarded for their industry 
by receiving yards of calico, looking-glasses, and 
needles, for loads of wood, which the men thought 
beneath them to be employed at. Weigliing from 
Tshiji, we anchored about two miles below Rabba 
after sunset, having the cliff in sight. 

September 22 — Anchored off the ruins of Rabba, 
about eight A.M., opposite a small village of about one 
hundred huts, which goes by the name of the old town. 



FELANI POAVER. 



95 



At this place the caravans from Kano halt to be 
crossed to the opposite shore towards Ilorin, A short 
distance below the end of the ruins is a village on an 
island, called Dukunna; and, on the right side, opposite 
the clilFs, is the village of Zigozhi (Zagozhi), where the 
ferrj-men live ; so there is a little group or commu- 
nity about the ruins, among which we stay. Hence 
the conflicting accounts we used to receive that Rabba 
was rebuilt, and again that it was not. The extent of 
the ruins of Rabba at the water frontage is about a 
mile and upwards, and on the back towards the in- 
terior about as much. The first thing that struck me 
in viewing the cliffs of Rabba was the resemblance 
which they bear to those at Idda, which brought to 
my recollection the tradition related in my journals of 
the expedition of 1854, respecting the Ata's separation 
from the king of Yoruba at Rabba, to seek a place of 
security, which was the country of Igara, very similar 
to the situation of Rabba. Rabba was formerly an 
insignificant place to the time the Nupe country was 
overrun by the Felanis, when it became a place of 
great importance as the capital of the Nupe country. 
Mahamajia invited the Felani power to assist him in 
the subjugation of his rival Edirisa, when Mallam 
Dendo, the father of Sumo Zaki, took the lead. This 
done, the Felanis established themselves, and Maha- 
majia himself became subject to them. However, he 
retained the title of king till his death, when his son 
Dashado was totally svipplanted of the right of sove- 
reignty over the Nupe nation. Hence many plans were 
devised to turn the Felanis out of the country. 
After the death of Mahamajia and Mallam Dendo, 



96 



INTRIGUES OF THE CHIEFS. 



Sumo Zaki became the Felani king at Rabba, having 
Umoru, of Arabian extraction on the father's side, as 
his general and war chief, and Hausa on the mother's. 
Umoru was formerly a merchant. At the intrigues 
of Dashado and Dasaba, whose mother was Nupe, but 
who were half-brothers to Sumo Zaki on the father's 
side, these being joined by Umoru, Sumo Zaki was 
compelled to desert Rabba, when the place was re- 
duced to extremity by starvation, at which time many 
lives were lost for want of food. Sumo Zaki 
escaped to Sokoto in about 1845, and Dasaba took his 
seat at Lade, and became king of Nupe, Dashado 
having died some time before, and Umoru, who resided 
at Ezigi, became Dasaba's general. About 1853, 
Umoru, upon the ground of sympathizing with the 
people on account of the tyrannical rule of Dasaba, 
gained their confidence and help, and turned Dasaba 
out of Lade, when he took refuge in Ilorin, and Umoru 
endeavoured to establish himself as king of the Nupe 
nation. In the mean time the Sultan of Sokoto had 
reconciled Sumo Zaki and Dasaba, who both, now 
seeing their errors, determined to live amicably. 
Sumo Zaki was escorted to Nupe by a powerful army 
from Sokoto, when invitation was sent to Dasaba from 
Ilorin, and Umoru from Ezigi, to have matters talked 
over at Bida. Umoru, who knew the position in 
which he was with the two brothers, gave battle to 
Sumo Zaki's force, and repulsed them three times in 
succession ; but he was at last subdued, and ran into 
Gbako, a small tributary stream to the Lafun, where 
he was caught and beheaded. His skull we met unex- 
pectedly on a pole at the landing-place at Rabba. 



CARAVANS. 



97 



Sumo Zaki is now the acknowledged king, though 
Dasaba is also addressed as such, yet he gives the pre- 
ference to his brother, as the head over all. The 
Sultan of Sokoto proposed the return of Sumo Zaki 
to Rabba, and Dasaba to Lade ; but Dasaba preferred 
going to Rabba with his brother and put himself 
under his direction : so the matter was again sub- 
mitted to the approval of the Sultan. Rabba is the 
highway from Kano to Ilorin. Two Hausa caravans 
had just passed to Ilorin with horses donkeys, and 
bullocks, laden with ivory and natron, the day before 
our arrival. This is a much nearer way to Ilorin 
than by way of Lade, or by the way of Poto. Having 
been told at the ferry in the Lafun that two streams 
run from Ilorin farms into the Kowara, one of which 
is called Avvon, or Awonkoyin (the crooked Awon), 
and the other Osin, and that the latter was navigable 
for boats or canoes within a day's journey of Ilorin, 
soon after our arrival we began to make inquiry after 
these streams, but all those who seemed to have some 
knowledge of them advised us not to attempt them, 
on the ground that the Awon, which is said to be a 
little below Rabba, was very rocky ; and Osin, a 
little above Rabba, was blocked up with snags, and is 
not navigable to any habitable place near Ilorin farms. 

September 23 — Another caravan party from Kano 
arrived with horses and donkeys, which brought their 
loads, and some were for sale. In the afternoon we 
landed on a visit to the chief of the village, and to see 
the caravan. Among the party was an Arab of Mizra 
(Egypt), who has for the last fifteen years been moving 
about the countiy. He has a house at Kano, and also 

r 



98 



THE ARAB MERCHANT. 



at Ilorin, both of which places he considers as his 
home. He saw Mr. Mann at Ilorin last year, as well 
as the American Baptist Missionaries. He had been 
away from Ilorin for the last five months on trading 
business, and was just returning. I shall give the 
route from Kano to Rabba in a separate column. As 
they have halted at short stages, and rested many days, 
they have been about seventy days in coming from 
Kano to Rabba. They halted at thirty-two places, so 
as not to overdrive their cattle. 

September 24— Abi Bakir, the Arab merchant 
whom we invited yesterday, came on board this 
morning, and Dr. Baikie had a very long talk with 
him. He was a very intelligent man, about seventy 
years of age, but full of energy. He knew the father 
of Abd ul Kader, the Foota Toro interpreter ; and, 
with the exception of some small obscure places on 
the Binuwe, in Hamaruwa, he knew all the places 
mentioned by Dr. Baikie in the interior of Africa. 
This man had 2200 dollars worth of property in 
Kano, and 4400 dollars at Ilorin. In the afternoon 
we paid a visit to the chief of Zigohzi, who is at pre- 
sent at the head of the ferry. From him we received 
no encouragement to attempt getting to Ilorin farms, 
by either the Awan or Osin streams. 

September 26 — Another party of caravans arrived 
from Kano, and also a returning one from Ilorin. 

September 26 — Early this morning there was a stir 
in the village about Umoru's skull, which was stolen 
away last night. Two persons were said to have been 
appointed to watch it every night. If true they were 
negligent last night, as it has disappeared. Suspicion 



RABBA. 



99 



was attached to the caravans, and so they were de- 
tained from pursuing their journey till the skull 
should be found. The returning party from Ilorin was 
strongly suspected of having stolen it, Umoru having 
been half Hausa. In the mean time inquiry was 
made on board the " Dayspring," if any one had taken 
it as a curiosity, but the question was evaded. 
The caravans would have been made responsible for 
it, if the injustice of such a charge had not been 
pointed out by Dr. Baikie. Upon a due considei-ation 
the caravans were freed, but the day was passed, so 
they could not proceed on their journey. 

September 27 — Had service at a quarter past ten 
A.M., and preached from Rom. viii., part of the 15th 
verse, "For ye have not received the spirit of bondage 
again to fear." 

September 29 — Went on shore in the afternoon, to 
see the ruins of Rabba on the north and north-east 
sides, in order to form some correct idea of the extent of 
the town. I walked about fifteen minutes before I came 
to the walls and ditches on the north side : the north- 
east side was distant, so I could not reach the walls of 
the fortifications, about half an hour's walk from the 
river's edge. The ruins stand nearly east and west, 
parallel with the banks of the river. When Captain 
Allen was here, in 1834, the east side of the clifi^'s was 
principally occupied ; but as the population increased, 
they built westward on the cliff, in height ninety-six feet 
from the edge of the water, which was before avoided 
on account of its disadvantages in communicating im- 
mediately with the river. From the Admiralty range 
the country rises parallel with the river, in a range of 
F 2 



100 



DESCRIPTION OF THE COUNTRY. 



hills, which gradually falls about Rabba, the conti- 
nuation of which are the cliffs on which the town 
stood. From Egan (Egga) to the part of Rennell 
Mountains, the immediate vicinities of the river right 
and left are low and swampy. From Rennell ISIoun- 
tains, westward to Rabba, highlands recede from the 
river right and left, so that there is at least an extent of 
eight miles swamp, or low grounds, from the highlands 
on both sides, between which is the bed of the river 
which overflows these banks of lowlands, to more or 
less extent according to their situation. Towards 
Rabba the river runs close to the highlands, a portion 
of which forms the cliffs. 

September 30 — Went on shore this afternoon with 
Mr. Glover, in the same direction as yesterday, with 
a view of his taking the angles and bearings of the 
surrounding countries. From the ruins of Rabba the 
highlands in Yoruba are in full view, and Saraji hill, 
the halting-place on the way to Ilorin, is seen at a 
distance on the opposite shore. This place, being the 
highway between Kano and Yoruba, is of the utmost 
importance. When Rabba is rebuilt, and inhabited 
by the population we saw at Bida, with the scattered 
remnants in different towns and villages along the 
banks of the river, the population of Rabba will 
amount to 70,000, composed of Felani, Nupes, Hausas, 
and a mixed body of Yoruba and Egbas, who are in 
the service of the Felani kings. Hei'e, and at Ilorin, 
are the principal strongholds of Mohammedanism in 
Nupe and Yoruba countries. It will be an important 
point gained if Christianity is allowed a place among 
them. Without directing immediate efforts to the 



HAUSA LANGUAGE. 



101 



conversion of the Mohammedans, yet judicious ar- 
rangements should be made, so as to induce a spirit 
of inquiry after the way of arriving at the truth, 
through the only channel they have, viz. the reading 
of the Arabic Bible, at the same time the reading of 
the Hausa and Nupe languages is taught as a medium 
of communication. 

It has been discovered that the Hausa language is not 
so generally knovi^n among the Nupes as was at first 
supposed. Sometimes there was not a person in a village 
who could speak it, and they who can are generally 
found to be heathen ; but in the capital, as Rabba, 
it is very much spoken amongst the mixed population. 
The Hausa is, however, in every sense of the word, a 
commercial language, known by those who travel 
about the country as traders and merchants ; and by 
the mallams, who establish themselves as teachers and 
schoolmasters, and at the same time carry on their 
trade among the people. 

This night, Joe, one of the sailors, a South-Sea 
islander, died, after an illness of about nine weeks. He 
was one of the two who were long sick after their first 
attack When he was convalescent, he wanted care. 
He had no control over his enormous appetite and, con- 
trary to the advice of his messmates, he ate some wild 
roots which he found in the bush below Mount El- 
phinstone Fleming, which, he said, resembled cassada 
roots, which were eatable in his country. But the 
result showed the reverse. His mouth was peeled, and 
no doubt it had the same effect on his bowels, from 
which time he began to suffer again. This was not 
told till he became seriously ill and past recovery. 



102 



BURIAL OF A SAILOR. 



Every attention was paid him to the very last. He lost 
his power of speech about three days before his death, 
which was felt by all. 

October 1 — Buried Joe to-day before noon, on the 
point of the cliff, which was readily given us on this 
occasion by the chief of Rabba village. He assured us 
that nobody would interfere with us in its use for the 
future. Mr. Glover took very much pains to have it 
well cleared of grass, and the earth was properly 
tux'ned over, that it might appear decent ; and, to 
separate it from adjoining lands, some live fence was 
planted across it. 

October 4 — Had service at a quarter past ten A.M., 
and preached from Eph. v, 14, "Awake, thou that 
sleepest, and arise from the dead, and Christ shall 
give thee light." 

October 5 — Went on shore this morning to relieve 
Mr. Glover in superintending the Krumen who were 
clearing the piece of land on the point of the cliff. 
When the men were fairly set to work, I went to 
collect information about the interior and upper parts 
of the river. While thus engaged, some Borgu 
traders arrived from Ilorin with their donkeys, laden 
with their merchandise : they travelled to and from 
Ilorin by land, crossing the Kowara twice, once below 
Busa, and the other time at Rabba : thus they made 
a short cut from below Busa to Rabba in two days, to 
avoid the circuitous river passage, which, in their 
canoes, would take them several days ascending. 
Borgu is divided, as other countries, into various 
tribes speaking the same language, but with some 
dialectical differences. Those joining the Nupes, and 



MUNGO park's boat. 



103 



occupying both banks of the river, are called Busa ; 
those of the Borgu nation who embrace Mohamme- 
danism are called Dindi, Dendi, or Dendawa ; and 
Borgu Proper, called Ibaruba by the Yorubas, whose 
capital is Niki, or Liki, are pagans. From all 
accounts, Busa is a place of a mixed population of 
Borgu, Nupe, Hausa, and Kambari ; but as I have 
not yet been at that place, I cannot speak positively. 
The Borgu trade with the Ashanti. They have to 
travel thirty-nine days' journey, according to their 
short stages, to Araha market, in the country of Gonja, 
whence kola nuts are brought to Nupe and Hausa, as 
an article of commerce. Araha market is nine days' 
journey from Kumasi, but the Borgus are not allowed 
to go beyond this towards Kumasi. Some of the 
Borgu traders speak Ashanti. At my request, one of 
them saluted Dr. Baikie's servant, a Fanti, and ex- 
changed a few words of conversation with him. I 
took these men on board, as they were all good Yo- 
ruba speakers, to see the ship, especially as they had 
given me plenty of information ; amongst other things, 
that they knew the very spot where Mungo Park's 
boat was wrecked, which their fathers used to tell 
them was built of brass at the bow, and the inside 
was full of sharp irons, against which they used to be 
warned when attempting to dive in that direction. 
They said there was plenty of water, but that the 
boat went rather close to shore, where there were rocks 
which caused that serious mischief. We were all full 
of hope soon to see those rocks ourselves. The men 
were shown the ship, and small presents were given 
them with the request, that they would inform their 



104 



THE OSIN RIVER. 



friends, should they reach before us, of our coming. 
These men would have purchased dollars, had there 
been any on board, and they would have paid cowries 
in exchange. 

October 6 — Our letters and despatches for England 
and the coast being ready, Sumo Zaki's messenger 
was sent to convey them to Ilorin, from which place 
the mail was to be taken to Abbeokuta. Having put 
Sumonu, the messenger, in a canoe, to convey him to 
Fanagun, the landing-place on the other side of 
the river, about two p.m. we weighed for a further 
ascent of it. Passing Zigozhi, Luftia, and Luishi 
villages, on the right bank of the river, we came up 
to the mouth of the Osin, a tributary stream which 
flows from Yoruba, on the right bank, off which was 
the village of Ghere, or Gheli, and Fanga, on the 
bank of the Osin, we anchored a little above it for the 
night. There have been many and contradictory 
accounts of this stream, so we could not arrive at a 
satisfactory conclusion about its being navigable, even 
for small boats or canoes ; but the fact that the Nupe 
people ascend it far into the interior, to make canoes 
and float them down to the Kowara, seems to favour 
the opinion of its navigableness for canoes or boats to 
within a moderate distance of Ilorin, though the peo- 
]jle do not make use of it as a means of conveyance 
or traffic to the Kowara. This we hope still to ascer- 
tain by further inquiry. 

October 7 — Weighed early this morning. As we 
cleared the lowlands, and approached the rocky hills, 
between which the river forced its passages, the 
scenery was most charming and picturesque. On the 



JEBA ISLAND. 



105 



riglit side of the river are the rocky hills, about 300 
feet high, which serve as boundary-lines betwetin Nupe 
and Yoruba. The former claim the hills as a part of 
the belt of their land on the right side of the Kowara, 
though they are not inhabited, on account of their 
height and craggy surface. Not being habitable by 
the Nupes, and leading direct to Yoruba, these hills 
are generally called Yoruba hills, though, properly 
speaking, they are Nupes. On the left is a hilly 
island called Jeba, on the north side of which the vil- 
lages of Jeba stand. The peculiar and novel appear- 
ance of these adjacent parts of the river I cannot 
sufficiently describe. Following the curve of the 
stream on the right side, with abundance of water, of 
from three to five fathoms, as we rounded Jeba island 
the Kowara was again found in three divisions, form- 
ing two rocky islands in the midst of the streams, one 
of which was inhabited, and called Kasangi ; the other 
is a huge rocky sugar-loaf peak, standing about 250 
feet high in the centre of the bed of the river. The 
pilot, who was asked which of the streams we should 
take, said both were passable. Still, to make sure, the 
villagers were asked : they said the other passage had 
water also. The passage on the right side of the 
sugar-loaf island was /taken, and the pilot was particu- 
larly requested to point out every spot where rocks 
were mider water, that they might be noted down. 
There was plenty of water, vai'ying from two to five 
fathoms. Soon after, we came to another passage, 
through which water rushed into the main channel, on 
the right side, from rocky beds ; this forms another 
rocky island abreast of the peak. The lead continued 



106 WRECK OF THE " DATSPRING." 



to go on. When we came to the top of the sugar- 
loaf island, and to a small creek on the right side, 
which here joins the main channel, before us were 
two great blocks of rocky islets, one standing about 
fifty feet high, and the other about ten feet, above the 
surface of the water. The true passage being doubt- 
ful, the ship was stopped, and Lieut. Glover went to 
sound, first the creek, and then the passages between 
the two rocks. Having found enough water, three 
fathoms, outside the smaller rock, and the gig of five 
oars being able to stem the current of five knots 
through this narrow passage, it was calculated that 
the "Dayspring" would be able to pass with her full 
power. While the ship was at anchor, and sounding 
going on, one of the chiefs of Jeba was sent as mes- 
senger to salute us. Four canoes came alongside ; 
but they said nothing of a better passage than this. 
Having cleared the canoes from alongside, the anchor 
was taken up, the ship dropped down a little, and was 
directed to the narrow channel at half her speed : the 
chief engineer was standing by the engine, the second 
engineer was stationed close by on deck to pass the 
word, and Lieut. Glover took his post by the helms- 
man. For a few minutes the ship was put to her 
right course at half her speed, and then with her full 
power of 120 revolutions; but she could not keep 
up : she was drifted a little, and struck her head upon 
the rock on her port bow. The engine was stopped 
for a moment to allow her to drop down a little, when 
she was started again with her full power. For a few 
moments she stood steadily before she recovered her- 
self, and made head fairly. By this time the current 



DANGER OF THE CKEW. 



107 



and eddy caught her on the port side; and there 
being about ten or fifteen feet more to clear out of 
this narrow channel, of sixty yards in breadth, she 
was drifted on the sunken rocks in the bed of the 
river, on her starboard side, where she remained fast 
and steady, and soon began to make water in the 
engine-room and in the aft cabin. The pumps were set 
to work, and immediate measures taken to heave her 
off, and put to the nearest sand-bank or shore. In 
the mean time, every thing was being removed from 
the aft-cabin ; and as the fore-cabin and the forecastle 
were perfectly dry, things were transported thither as 
the best place for their security. The hawsers being 
made fast on the rock from the quarter-deck, and to 
a tree on shore, from her bow, the windlass and capstan 
began to work, when, upon a sudden jerk, the vessel 
began to heel, and was about shipping water from 
her portholes. It was now becoming dangerous. All 
hands were ordered on shore, and then as many things 
as could be were landed. As the water was gaining 
in the hold and in the engine-room, the steam was 
blown off, and the boiler discharfjed. Having but 
two boats, the gig and the dingy, we should have 
been in very great difficulties, had we not received 
ready assistance from the native canoes which were 
just alongside and about us. All the people were 
landed on the nearest sand-banks, just showing out 
from the fall of the river, with as many things as 
could be taken out. A better footing being desirable. 
Dr. Baikie and Mr. May went to look for one. To- 
wards evening we removed on shore, and cleared a 
piece of land from grass, where temporary tents were 



108 



A TORNADO. 



made for the night: the canoes helped in landing 
things till the evening. Lieut. Glover and Captain 
M'lntosh remained last on board; but as the ship 
continued to heel and take in water through her 
portholes, it vs^as not safe for any one to remain on 
board over night, as she was expected to go down 
before daylight. We were thankful that, in the 
midst of the hui*ry and bustle which unavoidably must 
take place on such an occasion as this, no life was lost. 

October 8 — Last night we had a heavy tornado, 
with copious rains. However, we managed to pass it 
the best way we could: rain-coats, mats, and um- 
brellas over our heads, helped us through. At dawn? 
all our eyes were directed towards the situation of the 
" Dayspring," scarcely expecting to see her above 
water ; but we saw her head sunk, her stem standins; 
above: she rested on some rocky beds amidship. 
The weight of water in the forecastle and fore-cabin, 
with the current running over her, forced her 
head down to the deep, while her keel was hang- 
ing about two feet out of the water ; the rudder and 
fan suspended, as it were, in the air, her port side 
being completely under water. In this position she 
remained rocking, and continued gradually to slide 
down with her bow in the deep. Attempts were made, 
and a few more things were recovered. From the 
rain of last night, and upon further inspection, it was 
found that we had encamped in a swampy ground : 
therefore a drier and more elevated spot was selected, 
and some hands were taken to clear it, under 
the superintendence of Mr. Glover. All were busy 
one way or another landing things from the ship, 



ARRANGEMENTS FOR SHELTER. 109 



clearing grass, whilst others were drying wet things. 
Messengers from the neighbouring villages came to 
sympathize with us in our trouble. We were then 
told, that when Mr. Beecroft came up here, some 
years ago, he anchored off one of the villages, and 
stopped two or three days, during which time he 
went up the river in his boat to seek out the right 
channel, and that he took the left side of the river 
instead of the middle passage. The whole of these 
passages will be examined, and the true channel 
marked out, by Lieut. Glover. 

October 9 — I was busy erecting a tent of mats for 
myself and for some of our interpreters, while others 
were being made of sails and awnings for the ship's 
company in general. Having sufficiently covered 
them to afford shelter for the night, we all removed 
to a higher and drier ground, which was much more 
pleasant. Every effort will be used to make it as 
comfortable as possible. The " Dayspring" continued 
to slide deeper, head downwards, into deep water: a 
visit to her was now becoming dangerous. 

October 10 — We were still busy about our tents, 
and clearing the ground around. A provision market 
was opened by the natives, who readily supplied us 
with stock, yams, and vegetables. That we might 
not be overstocked, every Tuesday and Friday were 
particularly named as market-days at our camp. 

October 11 : Sunday — Had service a little earlier, at 
ten A.M., to avoid the extreme heat of the sun upon 
the canvas of which the large tent was made. No 
sermon being prepared during the bustle of the week, 
and from other circumstances, I read for our mutual 



110 THE " DATSPRING" ABANDONED. 



edification the Tenth Homily of the United Church of 
England and Ireland, on Good Order and Obedience 
to Rulers and Magistrates. 

October 12 — All hands were busy in drying wet 
things and damaged goods, and in improving the 
camp. The engineers paid a visit to the " Dayspring," 
as the water began perceptibly to fall. A hole was 
discovered on her starboard bottom ; but as her port 
side was still under water, they could not tell the 
amount of damage done. Her present position led 
them to think she was irrecoverably lost. The cap- 
tain, finding that he could not do any thing to save 
the ship, abandoned her. 

October 13, 14 — After much consideration as to 
the best step to be taken, it was decided that the 
wreck should be sold, and the intelligence of our 
situation be communicated to the Confluence, that the 
" Sunbeam" might come up and supply the place of 
the " Dayspring " as soon as possible. 

It could not but be expected, that, after the excite- 
ment, exertions, and consequent exposure attending the 
desertion of the ship — passing two nights in temporary 
tents on a swampy ground, before others were erected 
on a di'ier and more elevated position, which caused 
much labour by day, and, worse still, sleepless nights 
from swarms of mosquitoes, whose grassy nests we had 
disturbed — that all hands would suffer more or less 
from these circumstances. Mr, Dalton, who had been 
suffering from the diarrhoea previously, was much 
worse. After the excitement of the first and second 
days was over, he became very ill in consequence, and 
it required no ordinary care and attention to keep 



SICKNESS OF THE CREW. 



Ill 



him from the effect of the weather in our very much 
exposed tents. Others were laid up for a short time, 
one after the other, with ague, fever, or headache, 
from which, however, they soon recovered. It was 
afterwards discovered, by comparing the temperature 
of my tent of mats, opened four feet high all around 
at the bottom, with mat curtains or screen, to be 
opened for ventilation as occasion required, with that 
of canvas tents, that the mat roof was much cooler 
than that of canvas, which draws immense heat into 
the tent from the hours of eleven a.m. to four p.m. 
It was therefore proposed that a roof of mats, with 
bamboo poles, be erected, with openings for ventila- 
tion, according to the pattern of my tent. While 
materials were being collected, my tent was opened 
to the sick, and to all who desired a change from the 
canvas tent during the heat of the day. 

Being somewhat more settled in our camp, com- 
posed of a company of fifty persons — twelve Euro- 
peans and thirty-eight black men — I opened regular 
morning and evening prayers in my tent, at half-past 
five A.M., and at eight P.M., to be attended by as many 
as were disposed. 

October 17 — It being decided to send down to the 
Confluence to look for the " Sunbeam," which was 
expected from England, a messenger was sent to 
Ndasi, the chief of Rabba village, to procure two 
canoes to go direct to the Confluence, with a party to 
communicate the tidings of the fate of the " Dayspring." 
Two canoes were sent, but they could only bring us 
and our things to Rabba, because no canoe could take 
the king's strangers away to the Confluence without 



112 



DIFFICULTY ABOUT THE MAIL. 



his knowledge and order, lest they implicate them- 
selves. As there was no alternative, the messenger 
was sent to the king at Bida, to ask his permission for 
two canoes to be sent on a message to the Confluence. 
It is four days' journey to Bida from this place, by 
land. 

October 18: Lorcfs-day — Service at half-past ten 
A.M. I preached from Matt. xxi. 28 — 32 : had the 
evening prayers at the usual time. 

October 19 — Sumonu, our mail messenger to Ilorin, 
returned this afternoon with two messengers — one 
from the king, and the other from the war chief of 
that place — to acknowledge the receipt of the mail, 
and to tell us that the only difficulty in the way of 
forwarding it was, that no messenger from us accom- 
panied it ; that as Ilorin and the king of Yoruba were 
not on very friendly terms, the king of Yoruba, 
through whose town the mail has to pass, would sus- 
pect it as being a charm made to do him hurt, which 
would involve them in difficulties ; so the king of 
Ilorin requested one of our own men to accompany 
his messengers as om* representative to Abbeokuta: 
this would do away with all obstacles. We were 
disappointed that the mail had not yet gone : but as 
there was no other difficulty but this, which we our- 
selves could easily remove, we were thankful, and 
resolved to send some one direct from us as soon as 
we had made up other letters to go with the former 
by December mail. 

October 20 — This afternoon the Ilorin messengers 
returned home. 

Oct)ber23 — Went out after an early breakfast 



TRACING OF THE RIVER. 



113 



with Lieut. Glover, who was going to trace the pas- 
sages of the river, and to pay a visit to the chiefs of 
the neighbouring villages, to thank them for their 
sympathy, and the assistance they had rendered us by 
their canoes and men. We visited Kpasua and Jeba 
A'illages, the inhabitants of which are pagans. At 
Jeba two images of human figures, male and female, 
stood in the verandah of the god's house. The old 
chief was not in a very good humour with us ; the 
present of a fathom of turkey-red, which was given 
him, being as much as we could spare under our pre- 
sent circumstances, did not seem to please him ; not 
like the chief of Kpasua, who was not only very 
thankful, but anxious to make suitable returns for 
what he received. He gave us a mat, a very useful 
article to us at this time, also a pot of beer, and pro- 
mised to send us two fowls in addition to what he had 
already given. Leaving Jeba late towards evening, 
we returned to our camp. 

October 24 — As we could not complete our visit 
yesterday, nor Mr. Glover his tracings of the river 
passages, we went out this morning, and landed first 
at Kasangi, where we obtained various information of 
the river, and which of the passages got dried up, and 
which contains most water during the dry season. 
Mr. Beecroft took the passage in fi'ont of the villages, 
off which he anchored for some time, till he found the 
right channel : the people promised us every assist- 
ance in their power to haul the ship from the rocks, 
should their help be required. From Kasangi we 
crossed over to Gbiaja. It was the chief of this vil- 
lage Avho came alongside just before we struck, and 



114 



KETSA ISLAND. 



whose canoes rendered us great assistance in landing 
our people and things. We thanked him very much. 
He was very glad to receive this acknowledgment from 
us, besides a fathom of turkey-red and a small zinc 
mirror, in return for which he gave a fowl. From 
Gbiaja, Mr. Glover began his tracings of those nume- 
rous passages in these rocky beds. The first passage 
on the right side of the river, abreast the Ketsa 
island and peak, had three or four fathoms of water ; 
but the current, which ran through it with great 
eddies, was so strong, that the gig of five oars could 
not stem it. 'We returned and tried the creek pre- 
viously sounded on the 7 th; but as the river was 
getting low, the beds of rocks which ran across it 
became visible, and it was impassable for the boat. 
The channel between the shore and the rock, fifty feet 
high, was taken, and it was with great effort and the 
utmost speed that the boat stemmed it, as the rush of 
the current and eddy was threatening. The channel 
attempted by the " Day spring" was the best which 
could have been taken at that time, before the creek 
alonffshore was discovered. Lieut. Glover havino; 
completed the tracings of these network passages, we 
landed on the island where the worshippers of Ketsa, 
the god of the sugar-loaf peak, reside, and met three 
boys on shore, who ran, as it were with panic, to carry 
tidings to their fathers. Before we took a few steps 
towards the village, the priests came out, with their 
cloths thrown over their shoulders, in great rage, to 
demand the business which brought us there. Su- 
monu, our Nupe interpreter, who was aware of the 
consequence of our visit, kept in the boat, and was 



DISLIKE OF THE GOD TO RED CLOTHES. 115 



very slow in coming out till I called him. After the 
second priest had had a very long talk with Sumonu, 
which amounted to a reprimand of him because he 
ought to have known better, the matter was explained 
and amicably settled. 

Since our ship struck we have been told by many 
of the natives what they believed in part to be the 
cause of our disasters. It is the belief of all the 
natives that Ketsa, the god of the peak, has a parti- 
cular dislike to red clothes, and no one passing up 
and down the river in their canoes dare put any on 
till they have cleared it a long way ; that we, having 
red things about our ship, excited the anger of the 
godj which they believed was the cause of the fate of 
our vessel. For three or four nights there was con- 
stant beating of drums, singing, and dancing. On 
inquiry, we heard that the Ketsa was about to be 
worshipped. All these particulars made us more 
inquisitive to visit the village, and see, if possible, the 
shrines of Ketsa. The first cause of complaint, and 
the priest's anger, was, that the next morning after 
our slxip struck, the natives came to sympathize with 
us, but no notice was taken of them ; so they kept to 
their village, and forbad their wives to come to trade 
at our market. The next cause of their anger was, 
that we came to them with our red dresses on, con- 
trary to the law of Ketsa, which forbids any to ap- 
proach with such a colour; nor were they allowed, 
during the time of worship, even to put their shirts 
on, for we saw they were obliged to put on country 
cloths, whereas we came there contrary to the law 
and custom of Ketsa, When he had exhausted his 



116 INTERCOURSE WITH THE PEOPLE. 



store of complaints, we explained the cause of the 
seeming indifference with which they thought we had 
treated them : that being strangers, and in such an 
unsettled state, it was impossible for us to know every- 
body, or the village from which they came to visit us ; 
but now, being settled, we began to pay them visits ; 
and hearing that their god disliked red things, we 
brought them nothing, as we had given red cloths to 
their neighbouring chiefs. Mr. Glover told him that, 
as for his red clothes, he would never change them : 
they were what he used in his own country, and that 
if he changed his red dresses, he must change his red 
face also, which they said was impossible for him to 
do. I asked if their Ketsa forbade their drinking 
palmwine, eating fowl, mutton, or beef, and whether 
that was binding on others also. Then they burst 
into a fit of laughter, and said such was not the case. 
I told them it was just so with the law of Ketsa as 
regards red cloths : it was binding on them, but not 
on us. The matter being thus brought to an amica- 
ble end, they promised to pay us a visit to-morrow, 
which, being the Sabbath, I took the opportunity to 
tell them was the day of Soko (the Great God), who 
made of one blood all nations of the earth (here I took 
hold of Mr. Glover's hand, and that of the Nupe in- 
terpreter, being of three different nations, yet God 
made us alike, in the members of our bodies, pointing 
to each separately) : the Great God who made these 
great waters on which we came here, the long ridges 
of hills which hemmed us round, and the high hill of 
Ketsa, which stands in the midst of the great waters ; 
is the God whom we worship, fear, honour, and love. 



VISIT OF THE PRIEST. 



117 



and nothing else: that to-morrow was His day, on 
which we do not buy nor sell, nor work, it being de- 
dicated to his service. They were surprised to hear 
we have a sacred day also. We told them we would 
be glad to see them on Monday. 

October 25 : Sunday — Had service at half-past ten 
A.M., and preached from Phil. i. 21, and the evening 
prayers at the usual time. 

October 26 — Early this morning Landukolo, whose 
office title is Sadu, assistant priest to Doro, the chief 
priest of Ketsa, came from the sacred village Dorofu, 
which, he told us, is also called Tiye, to pay us a visit 
according to his promise of Saturday. We went over 
all the matter of our visit on that day. He said he came 
in his cloth cast over his shoulders, because he dared 
not put on a shirt during the time of the ceremony 
of Ketsa. We asked particulars about this god whose 
residence is the cave under the peak. He said, Ketsa 
was an ancient god, held in very great veneration by 
the kings of Nupe from old time, as he was told by 
tradition, and named some of the kings of Nupe who 
used to send bullocks to be offered to Ketsa, viz. Etsu 
(king) Mazun, Etsu Jia, Etsu Ikanko, Etsu Zimada, 
Etsu Isa, and that before Rabba was destroyed. Sumo 
Zaki sent bullocks twice, and Dasaba several times, 
to propitiate Ketsa ; but, since their return to Bida, 
none of them had as yet sent any. The cause of 
Ketsa's aversion to red cloths he could not tell us. 
We expressed a wish to see the shrine of Ketsa, and 
the cave in which he lodges, but we could not get 
him to promise to take us there : however, he would 
be glad to see us in the village of Dorofu, or Tiye. 



118 



TORUBA LANGUAGE. 



From him we had the confirmation that the portion of 
the country on the left bank of the river, where we 
now encamp, occupied by a division of Nupe called 
Gbedegi, was formerly inhabited by the Yoruba nation, 
but they were driven away by the king of Nupe to 
the opposite shore behind the hills, which are called 
Yoruba hills ; and that the remnant of the Yoruba 
families which remained behind composed the tribe of 
Nupe, called Gbedegi; ghede, being a Yoruba word 
which means to understand a language, with the Nupe 
termination gi, which means little ; Gbedegi, then, 
was applied to a people who imderstood the (Nupe) 
language a little. It is a very singular fact that the 
priest is obliged to know something of the Yoruba 
language, to make him efficient for his office, as the 
ceremonies must be performed in that language. I 
asked whether the Yoruba kings ever sent over to wor- 
ship Ketsa, but the priest had no recollection of any 
havinor ever done so. Women are forbidden to make 
mention of the name of Ketsa. I called an old Yoruba 
female slave, who was in this place three months 
before the Albaruka came to Rabba in 1834, as she 
was so long in this place, and was a pagan, that I 
might glean some particulars of this god from her : 
but she was so afraid to mention the name, that I 
scarcely got any other information, than that the priest 
performs the ceremonies in the Yoruba language, and 
he is the only person who can go into the cave. After 
we had got from the priest what he was willing to tell 
us, for he began to be very reserved in many things, 
Dr. Baikie gave him a knife and a small zinc mirror, 
for which he was very thankful. 



OFFERS OF ASSISTANCE. 



119 



October 28 — Sumo Zaki and Dasaba, hearing of 
the fate of our ship, immediately sent messengers to 
all the heads of the river villages, from Zigozhi to 
Mazhi, to go and inspect the position of the " Day- 
spring," and gather all the villagers together, to cut 
sticks and push the ship from the rock into the water 
without delay, and to take care that not an article be 
missed from the ship during the time of their working 
at her. Five of these headmen came this morning, 
headed by the chief of Zigozhi with the kings' mes- 
senger, to deliver the king's message. The Doctor 
thanked the kings for their very good intention, and 
the chiefs for their promptitude in coming to execute 
the kings' orders. They were requested to wait till the 
water had fallen and the state of the ship was properly 
ascertained : then, if their aid were needed, he would 
avail himself of the kings' kindness and their readiness 
to help. After some presents were given them, they 
went to see the position of the ship, according to the 
kings' orders, that the messenger might be able to 
report from personal inspection. The kings and their 
subjects had no idea of our huge ship, and they were 
struck with wonder when they beheld the " Day- 
spring," like a mass of iron, hanging on the top of the 
great rock. Their goodwill to help us, however, was 
accepted for the deed. 

October 29 — Early this morning my Hausa inter- 
preter was missed in the camp : he deserted yesterday 
afternoon when the canoes of the masters of the ferry 
were returning to Jeba ; from the Confluence. Since 
he had fallen in with several of his countrymen from 
Zaria his conduct had changed very much to my 



120 



DESERTED BY THE INTERPRETER. 



dissatisfaction. Sometimes he would go on shore with- 
out leave ; and when he got leave to go and return, 
he would stay on shore. All warnings and remon- 
strances had no effect, and I had to threaten him with 
discharge from my service. This seemed to have some 
effect for a little time. But since our visit to Bida 
Camp, and thence to Rabba, when he fell in with 
many more of his countrymen, his conduct was any 
thing but satisfactory. However, he was useful. I 
had already made arrangement to transfer him to 
Lieutenant Glover for his intended journey to Ba- 
garmi and Wadai, as I should have no more need of 
his services after our visit to Sokoto, and Lieutenant 
Glover had, on this account, sent for one person less 
from Sierra Leone, reckoning upon Solomon Abd u 
Lahi here on the spot for one ; but since our ship 
struck, and we were consequently delayed in our 
journey, he had been meditating to desert me, and 
therefore took the opportunity of the visit of the chiefs 
of the ferry, when he secretly left the camp without 
the knowledge of any one. I was much annoyed by 
this man's conduct, having brought him thus far ffom 
Sierra Leone ; and to desert me thus, just at the time 
his services were most needed, for he was a good 
Hausa interpreter, and his services were much valued 
by the members of the expedition. But we must be 
prepared for such disappointments in this country, 
where one is under the necessity of depending upon 
another as an interpreter, especially on such over 
whom one has no control. 

October 31 — Our second mail being ready, I sent 
Kasumo, the Arabic interpreter, to accompany Mr. 



THE priests' village. 



121 



May to the coast, to afford facility for our communi- 
cation with Abbeokuta, according to the suggestion of 
the king and war chief of llorin : they left this after- 
noon by canoe, and dropped to the village of Fangan, 
from whence they had to make a fair start for llorin 
on the morrow. 

November 1 — Lord's-day — Had service at the usual 
time. 

November 2 — To-day Lieutenant Glover, Mr. Barter, 
and myself, took boat, and crossed over to Dorofu, the 
priests' village, on the island opposite Ketsa peak ; 
but before we landed two sickly-looking young men 
came to meet us at the landing-place, to tell us that 
the priests were absent from home, they earnestly 
begged us not to go to the village in their absence. 
This I perceived was a trick of the priests to keep us 
away fi om approaching the sacred shrines of Ketsa ; 
so we returned, leaving this message to them, that 
if they wished to see us, they might send a message 
to us to that effect. 

November 3 — I commenced collecting materials to- 
day with a view towards the reduction of the Nupe 
language : a tolei*able vocabulary, with copious illus- 
trative sentences is essential to the beginning of a 
scriptural translation into an unreduced language. 

November 4 — There has been observed a spirit of 
insubordination among the Krumen of late. Before 
the evil grew to a crisis, it was thought advisable to 
crush it in the bud. They had been engaged only for 
six months' service on the river, when they would be 
exchanged for another set; but in our present circum- 
stances it was not possible to fulfil this engagement. 

G 



122 INSUBORDINATION OF THE KRUMEN. 

They thought they might be allowed to find their way 
down to sea in canoes, which was by no means ad- 
visable in such an unsafe state of the lower parts of 
the river in the Delta ; and, besides this, the expedi- 
tion would have been entirely crippled in its present 
state, if the services of the Krumen were lost before 
the " Sunbeam " came up with another set to relieve 
them. To check this spirit of insubordination, the 
headman was threatened to be put in irons, which 
threat had the desired effect. He promised obedience, 
and so the matter ended. 

ISovember 7 — Danganna, our messenger to Bida, re- 
turned this morning, havingbeen twenty -one days away. 
However, the kings sent with him two canoes, to be 
sent down to the Confluence, or as far as Idda, if 
necessary : they also put in two messengers as their 
representatives, so that no one should molest the 
canoes on their return with stores and provisions, in 
case they should be returning alone, without our men 
on board. This was very good forethought in Sumo 
Zaki and Dasaba, to prevent any difficulty or delay on 
the way, and it was necessary, because Nupe canoes 
do not go beyond Kakanda, according to the market 
regulations, as also between Igbera and Igara traders, 
between Igara and Abo, and between Abo and the 
Idzo in the Delta. 

November 8 — Had service at the usual time. 

November 9 — Dr. Berwick, the two engineers. 
Fisher, Lieutenant Glover's servant, and three sailors, 
left the camp this morning for the Confluence, with 
hopes of meeting the schooner there, or at Onitsha or 
Abo, before she dropped down to the mouth of the 



SUPERSTITION OF THE KETSA PEAK. 123 

river : their departure was a great relief to the demands 
for provisions in the camp with the limited means 
now in hand. The second engineer left in a rather bad 
state of health, but we hope the change from the camp 
to the river will do him good. 

iVbi)em6er 10 — It was very desirable to get horses 
to facilitate moving about the neighbourhood, which 
at present is covered with high grass, as well as to 
enable us to make excursions into the surrounding 
towns and villages : we requested that some might be 
brought for us to purchase. This request broughtto light 
another superstition connected with the Ketsa. It is 
affirmed that the peak is never seen or looked at by a 
horse, as the act is sure to prove its death. On hear- 
ing that we intended buying horses, we were imme- 
diately warned by the inhabitants of Jeba of the risk 
we should run of losing them. We thanked them for 
their information, and told them we would bear the 
consequences. This morning Abd ul Kader, a young 
Felani chief, relative of Alihu, the Sultan of Gondu, 
brought a horse to the neighbourhood, and en- 
camped with his followers in the cornfields of the peo- 
ple of Jeba, where the high peak of Ketsa was well 
concealed by the high stalks of Guinea corn. Mr. 
Crook, Dr. Baikie's Futa Toro interpreter, and 
myself, went to see the horse, and to bargain for him 
for Lieutenant Glover. Certainly he was a fine crea- 
ture, well built, and plump, a moderate-sized pony, 
which would undergo a great amount of labour ; but 
no less than 200,000 cowries were asked for him, 
which, at the rate of 2000 for 4s., is 20/. sterling. As 
this was altogether out of the qjiestion, and even half 



124 ABD UL KADER, THE FELANI CHIEF. 

that amount was too much for the horse, I declmed 
making any offer. Abd ul Kader spoke highly of the 
qualifications of the horse, as being one of the best 
war horses, and that, if he mounted him, he would 
not care for the whole body of about forty persons who 
were then round about him in the cornfields where we 
were sitting. I supported him in the praise of the 
horse, because I knew the value of such a beast ; but 
as we did not want a war horse, that would not 
suit our purpose : any inferior creature, worth from 
30,000 to 60,000 cowries, so that he was a good 
walker, would answer our purpose as well. Such he 
promised to brmg us in the course of ten days. T\^iile 
we were sitting with Abd ul Kader in the corn- 
fields, I observed several implements of agriculture 
put together aside : at first I thought they were car- 
ried about by his men, to enable them to prepare places 
at their several encampments in the bushes, in the 
course of their rovings ; but I was soon informed how 
they came into their possession. We took leave of 
him, to return to the boat for our camp, and as he 
wished to accompany us, we gave him and his next 
headman passage in ovu' boat : his followers accompa- 
nied him to the waterside to see him embark. As the 
boat was getting ready, we observed a poor Nupe woman 
kneeling close by on the bank in deep grief, which she 
now and then gave vent to by heavy sobs. Before we 
had time to take suflicient notice of her, one of Abd 
ul Kader's followers, with the greediness of a wolf, 
snatched a plantain out of her hand, the remainder of 
the little provision she had prepared for herself and 
the child at home. On seeing this, Mr. Crook, myself. 



RAPACITY OF HIS FOLLOWERS. 125 

and Dr. Baikie's Futa Tore interpreter, felt very indig- 
nant at his base conduct, took the plantain from him, 
and made bitter complaint against this act of oppression 
to Abd ul Kader, the chief. It was then found out that 
a calabashful of corn flour had been previously taken 
away from her by one of the soldiers, which was the 
cause of her excessive grief. Dr. Baikie's Futa Toro 
interpreter was furious at the shameful conduct of the 
followers of his countryman, and the chief was in the 
utmost confusion, when I seriously told him that God 
would plead the cause of the oppressed. He pleaded 
ignorance of these violent proceedings of his men — a 
most daring untruth, which could only be told by a man 
of unprincipled character. However, he ordered the 
restoration of the flour, and that the offender should 
be bound up till his return. To save the poor woman 
from further trouble, we took her in the boat with us, 
and landed her on the island, with her provisions, be- 
fore we proceeded with the chief to our camp. No 
sooner did we land, than his followers arrived, and 
the culprit, who was ordered to be put in bonds, 
was also pointed out among them. The agricultural 
implements we saw at their camp were taken away 
from the farmers to be sold for as much as they could 
get, to procure them food. This young chief seemed to 
be one of the most artful of his tribe. In his first visit, 
about three days before, he delivered the message of his 
uncle, with presents of mats and sundry other articles, 
for which very handsome presents were made to him- 
self and to his uncle. Yesterday he came again, with 
another man, with mats and sundry other things, 
sent by his uncle to be given to different officers of the 



126 MEETS A SCHOLAR FROM ABBEOKUTA, 

expedition. He said he had met the messenger on the 
way, and so he returned with him to dehver the message 
properly. This was so artfully done, that, though I had 
mystrong suspicion, yet T had no groundfor doubtingthe 
man's sincerity. However, the Doctor made him some 
return, and sent him away ; but his wives had some 
shea butter, which they had bought pui*posely to sell 
to us, yet nothing would satisfy this man, neither by 
explaining to him the want of means to buy any, the 
want of a ship to store it in, nor showing him the two 
or three casks which were saved from the wreck, full of 
shea butter, which was being used as lamp-oil, and some 
portion of it was running waste on the ground. He 
wished us to buy his shea butter, which he had 
plundered from the people, and it mattered not what 
we did with it. He left the camp in disgrace, from his 
selfish character. 

November 11 — On our visit to the camp at Bida, 
on the 16th of September, among the numerous visi- 
tors, a strange voice was heard amid the crowd 
saluting us with " Good morning, sir,' in a manner 
I did not expect to hear from the motley specta- 
tors, about us. In looking out to find from whom 
the salutation proceeded, a person in ragged and 
filthy cast-off" tobe and Turkish trousex's introduced 
himself, and reminded me that he was one of my 
congregation and a Sunday scholar at Abbeokuta, 
Henry George by name. I at once recalled to mind 
who he was, and I inquired what had brought him 
to such a remote place from home. As every young 
person is apt to do when a little lucrative trade is 
open, six years ago he took goods on credit to the 



ENGAGES HIM AS ATTENDANT. 



127 



amount of twenty-five dollars, and made his way 
towards the Nupe country, with the hope of making a 
handsome profit; but he lost all his goods in the 
revolution of Umoru against Dasaba ; and finding it 
hopeless to return to Abbeokuta as an insolvent 
debtor, he joined one of his countrymen, who 
hired his services as a head warrior of Dasaba, 
with whom he went to many a battle and kidnapping 
expedition. He was thankful that he returned in 
safety, after many a narrow escape from being killed 
or caught. I asked whether he had forgotten his 
reading, which he had not, and he even wrote his 
name at full length, with his finger, on the sand in our 
tent at the time. I also inquired whether he was slave 
to any one in the camp, but found he was not. 
As I had promised to transfer my Hausa servant to 
Lieut. Glover, I proposed to Henry George, that if he 
liked to return to Abbeokuta, 1 would take him as my 
servant, and by the time we returned to Abbeokuta, 
his wages would go towards paying his debt. This met 
his wishes, and he promised to apprise his headman of 
his intention to leave him. Just about this time, when 
I was destitute of any attendant, Abd u Lahi having 
deserted me, and Kasumo having been sent with Mr. 
May, with the mail, to the coast, Henry George made 
his appearance, to avail himself of my proposal, and 
said he would remain with me. This was certainly no 
less advantageous to myself than to him : his six years' 
stay in Nupe enabled him to speak that language 
and Hausa tolerably well; so I reported him to 
Dr. Baikie, changed his tattered dress, and hired him 
at four heads of cowries per month. 



128 OPPRESSION OF ABD UL KADER. 



As Henry George was passing through the village 
of Gbongborofu this morning, he found it deserted by 
the inhabitants, who were oppi'essed yesterday by the 
soldiers of Abd ul Kader, on their way to Bida. With 
his pretended regret and appearance of good character 
before us yesterday, this act of continued oppression 
showed he was a dissembler and a rogue. 

November 15: Lord's-day — Had service as usual. 

November 16 — This morning, Lieut. Glover and 
Mr. Barter went up the river in a boat as far as the 
current would allow, the former intending to con- 
tinue his tracings of the river. The chief of Jeba 
sent one of his headmen to beo; Dr. Baikie to use 
his influence to prevent our Felani visitors from 
plundering the farms. The chief said, had he known 
we were about to make so long a stay as this, he 
would have shown us an island for our encampment, 
inaccessible to the soldiers, because they would not 
have crossed them in their canoes, and so there would 
have been an end of their numerous visits. The 
Doctor was sorry they should have been sufferers on 
our account, and promised to take steps to check the 
evil. 

We received many visits from the soldiers. They 
always managed to fetch something in the shape of 
presents, such as yams, fowls, mats, &c. We had 
begun to suspect how these things were obtained, and 
to-day Sumo Zaki and Dasaba were open enough 
to warn us, through their messengers, from receiv- 
ing a message fi'om any one as coming from them 
unless through a well-known messenger; but the 
people come as good friends. 



PRESENTS REFUSED. 



129 



November 17 — To-day, Gabriel, one of the Felani 
visitors of last week, who then brought ten large 
yams for presents, which were refused, because sus- 
pected to have been plundered from the farms of the 
Nupes, retui'ned with a large white cock, which he 
was very anxious the Doctor should receive, to strike 
friendship with him. Having been informed that the 
ten yams of last week were plundered from the 
farms of the Jeba people, the Doctor gave him such a 
lecture as he would never forget, and he had to leave 
the camp with shame, with his stolen cock and idle 
followers, as fast as he could. This will show with 
what characters we had to do at the early part of our 
encampment. I would have joined the party in the 
up-river trip, but as we shall have to pass through 
Bousa and Yawuri, on our way to Sokoto, in the 
course of a few months, I thought I could spend my 
time more profitably in the camp ; so I turned my at- 
tention to taking a copy of my journals from Fernando 
Po, to the end of October, to be sent to the Society by 
the next opportunity, Several papers had been lost 
in the wreck of the " Dayspring," but I had been for- 
tunate, my journals having had a narrow escape : for- 
tunately I always transcribed from my note-book into 
the journal-book, which I kept in my little black 
bag, so they were saved ; but my note-book, in which 
I had not much at the time except what I could 
remember, as well as my copies of Schon's Hausa trans- 
lations of Matthew and John, in which I had made notes 
in the course of reading, these being in use on deck at 
the time the ship struck, were washed away : there- 



130 



VISIT OF AMODU. 



fore, in order to secure my journals against future ac- 
cidents, I consider it advisable to make a copy to 
be sent to the Parent Committee. 

Sumonu, the king's messenger who had accompanied 
us from Bida, and had been twice sent to Ilorin with 
the mail, returned to Bida yesterday. He was certainly 
a well-behaved young man. I only regretted it was 
not in my power to remunerate him, on account of his 
faithful services. 

November 18 — This afternoon, Amodu, a son of 
Sumo Zaki, paid us a visit from a village up the river : 
as it was getting late, he was in great perplexity what to 
do with his followers: it was too late for them to return 
to the village that evening in their little canoe, and he 
was so distrustful of the inhabitants of Jeba, that he 
did not like to pass the night on the island. In this 
perplexity, he was asked to stop in the camp over 
the night, if he chose, which offer he readily accepted. 
He was afraid of passing the night at Jeba village, be- 
cause he had been a conspicuous character in the 
plunder of the island and the capture of the inhabitants 
some six years ago, and feared he might be poisoned 
in retaliation, but with us he felt perfectly safe and 
secure. Again, the people of the islands of Jeba 
look upon us as the best of friends, while they 
look upon the Felani with the greatest suspicion and 
distrust. 

November 22 : Lord's-day — Had service at the usual 
time. 

November 23— Every thing was going on well in 
oiiT market at the camp, till this morning a slave- 



A SLAVE-TRADER. 



131 



trader took it in liis head to bring a little girl, about 
six years of age, for sale. What a contrast was there 
between the cheerful countenances of the children who 
accompanied their mothers, assisting to carry their yams 
and rice to the market, and the dejected spirits of 
this unfortunate slave-child, under the hand of an un- 
feeling slave-trader ! As soon as the news of the 
fact had reached Dr. Baikie, he marched the slave- 
trader out of the camp with his merchandize, 
in the sight of innocent traders, with no ordinary 
effect. They have heard that the English are averse 
to the slave-trade : now they have opportunity of 
proving it to demonstration. 

November 27 — Received a note from Lieut, Glover, 
from Wuru, the last village but one of the Nupe on 
the upper bank of the Kowara. At this place, about 
thirty miles from the camp, the river became impass- 
able, even for the boats, at this season of the year, owing 
to the channels being contracted by rocks, through 
which the water gushed down in a manner threatening 
danger to any boat or canoe which ventured to approach 
it. Here they proposed to leave the boat behind, and 
travel by land to Wawa and Bousa, on a visit to these 
places. Tempting as the invitation of Lieut. Glover was 
to me to join the party, yet, being in the midst of my 
writing, and having the reduction of the Nupe language 
before me, I abode by my first arrangements. 

November 29 : First Sunday in Advent — Had ser- 
vice as usual, and pi-eached from 2 Pet. i. 19 — 21, 
the text on which I proposed to ground my discourses 
during the four Sundays in Advent. 



132 



THE FELANI KINGS. 



December 1 — Had our evening prayers as usual. 
Immediately after prayers, Abd ul Kader, the Futa 
interpreter, asked, " Who said, Come, buy wine and 
milk, without money and without price ? " the words 
having been used in my prayer in pleading God's 
promises for a supply of his graces, which He has pro- 
mised to give us freely. I explained ' the passage to 
him, and had a long talk with him about the privi- 
leges of the Christian religion. 

December 2 — Completed a copy of my journals to 
be sent to Abbeokuta, and thence to England, to 
secure them from future accident. 

December 4 — We \vere informed to-day that the 
titles of the Felani kings at Bida have been finally 
settled. Sumo Zaki is entitled the king of the Felani, 
by way of superiority ; and Dasaba is designated the 
king of the Nupes, which entitles him to the exercise 
of his rule over the Nupe nation, without any danger 
of interference from his brother, although he, as king of 
the second rank, has to give preference to his brother 
in sharing the revenues produced from all the coun- 
tries under Dasaba's rule. The truth of the case is 
this : it was intended that Dasaba should not be called 
king at all, but that he should have the title of prince, as 
there could not be two kmgs over one country ; this he 
refused to accept: as he was king before, he would 
not be degraded to the rank of prince, which title be- 
longs to his yomiger brother. Everybody was under 
the strong impression, that, if Dasaba was not made 
king, the country would have no rest, because the 
people at large are prepossessed in favour of Dasaba, 



MORE VISITORS. 



133 



on account of his activity and generosity : therefore, to 
avoid any future quarrels, the matter was brought 
about as above mentioned, to the satisfaction of both 
parties. 

December 6 — Had service as usual, and continued 
my discourse from 2 Pet. i. 19, the subject being, Pro- 
phetic types respecting Christ. 

December 7 — This morning we were visited by the 
king's constable, with twenty followers, sent out from 
Bida about two months ago, as he said, to drive the 
soldiers out of the towns and villages from which they 
had scattered, and the poor oppressed inhabitants, the 
king disapproving of their conduct in this respect. 
But the fact is, an army is being collected to go to 
war against the Gbari nation, a tribe eastward of Nupe, 
and, to effect their leaving the villages for the camp, 
the head constable was provided with a heavy club, 
encircled with six large, rough iron rings, with which 
he was empowered to break the head of any who 
should refuse to obey the king's orders. The head 
constable was a Nupe, and the man who acted as his 
second officer was a Felani. Thus, by giving the 
chief command to the Nupe, his countrymen would 
not have much cause to complain of tyranny ; at the 
same time, the Felani second officer served to 
watch the movement of the constable amonfr his 
countrymen, whether it be to the interest of the Fe- 
lani authorities. Dr. Baikie made them some pre- 
sents, and on their return to the river side, they could 
not restrain themselves from pilfering the women in 
the market of their articles, under pretence of buying. 
As soon as the Doctor was informed of this, he 



134 PROCEEDS WITH THE NUPE LANGUAGE. 

threatened to report the conduct of the head con- 
stable to the king, if the stolen things were not re- 
stored or paid for ; so the head constable was obliged 
to use his influence, and every article stolen was paid 
for before the canoe put off. 

Considering the state of government in this country, 
it cannot be otherwise : these soldiers, or messengers, 
whichever they may be called, are not paid by the 
kings, nor provided for in any way : they must be fed 
by the inhabitants of the villages through which they 
pass ; and as such demands are so frequent that the 
poor people are not always able to do this, and the 
soldiers or constables must have something to live 
upon, hence arises the system of plunder and extortion 
which oppresses the people and impoverishes the 
country. 

December 8 — Having accomplished as much of my 
writing as I intended to send away for security, I re- 
sumed my reduction of the Nupe language, having 
engaged Ibrahima, a native of Jeba, a Mohammedan, 
who is master of both the Nupe and Hausa languages, 
as my teacher. My servant, Henry, who speaks Nupe 
and Hausa a little, becomes most useful, as he also 
speaks English and Yoruba. Ibrahima speaks a little 
Yoruba also. Thus we have the advantajre of three 
languages, viz. the English, the Hausa, and the 
Yoruba, to fix the fourth, which is Nupe ; and as this 
is so carefully done, much error cannot creep into the 
work. It was very amusing to hear some of the 
visitors, when a word is given in Hausa, joining to 
give it in Nupe and Yoruba, and, if their knowledge 
extended beyond these, in Borgu and Kambari also. 



AN ELEPHANT TRACK. 



135 



They felt very much interested in seeing their lan- 
guage being reduced to writing. 

December 10 — About noon, one of the natives, who 
had been cutting; sticks in the neichbourhood of our 
camp, came across a track of elephants which had 
passed by during the night. I went with him, accom- 
panied by one of the interpreters, to see it. It appears 
the creatures had passed many times through this plain 
to the lake between the hills, for watering : the track 
was a well-beaten one, though the fresh traces showed 
it to be but a single animal which had passed last night : 
the print of the foot was about the size of a large 
dinner plate. We followed it to a little distance, till 
it entered a foot-path, when we left off tracing, and 
returned to the camp. This part of the country is 
very favourable for the resort of wild-beasts and 
reptiles. Our camp is pitched upon an elevation of 
rocky beds, about fifty feet above the level of the 
river : we are hemmed in by ridges of rocky hills on 
all sides, excepting the part fronting the river. These 
hills consist of detached blocks of sandstone full of 
crevices, between which wild beasts have good security, 
inasmuch as they are very seldom visited by man, 
except occasionally by hunters. Several nights the 
cry of hyenas was heard, but at some distance from the 
camp, as they were kept away by our fires. Ante- 
lopes were seen, but before preparations were made to 
go after them, they bounded away among the rocks. 

December 11 — We were taken by surprise this 
afternoon, by the Rev. Mr. Clark, the Baptist 
Missionary from Ogbomosho. This gentleman was 
very kind and attentive to Mr. May on his way to 



136 



ARRIVAL OF MR. CLARK. 



Lagos. At his representation of the state of our expedi- 
tion, Mr. Clark very readily made up a load of pro- 
visions, consisting of sugar, tea, and coifee, of which 
we have been quite destitute, and forwarded the tea 
to Ilorin, to be sent to us by Suraonu, the war-chief 
of that place, as soon as possible. But as much depen- 
dence cannot be placed on the punctuality of the native 
chiefs, the box of provisions remained under the war- 
chiefs care till Mr. Clark had returned from his visit to 
Ilesha and Ila, which was many weeks after the box 
had reached Ilorin. As Mr. Clark was desirous to 
visit the Niger, he brought it with him. I need not 
say this unexpected supply was a welcome relief to us 
all, as we have been living upon the entire produce of 
the country, decoction of parched Indian corn, pounded 
in a mortar, having been substituted for tea or coffee, 
and honey for sugar, these many weeks. It was cer- 
tainly a great change to the sick among us. Mr. 
Clark's visit brought us again connected with the civi- 
lized world, after having been away from the coast 
about, five months, from July, without a letter or news- 
paper to give us any information. To-day we were 
first made acquainted with the disastrous mutinies 
which had taken place in India, and the newspapers 
he brought were read with avidity. 

December 14 : Lord's-day — Had service as usual. 
Mr. Clark left the camp this afternoon, in a canoe to 
Fangan, on his way back to Ilorin. By him we had 
an opportunity of sending letters to the coast, which 
was very timely, as we were disappointed in the mes- 
senger from the king at Bida. I sent the first portion 
of my journals to the Secretary of the Yoruba Mission 



A LEOPARD KILLED. 



137 



by this opportunity, to be forwarded to England as 
soon as possible. 

December 14 — A leopard was killed by the inha- 
bitants of Jeba, on account of which, loud cries, 
shrieks, and beating of drums were kept up from the 
dawn to daylight. Ibrahima, my Nupe teacher, 
came and told me of it. Dr. Baikie wishing to have it 
as a specimen, as it was not yet cut in pieces, Ibrahima 
was sent to induce them to bring it to the camp, 
which they did, accompanied with beating of drums 
in honour of the god of hunting, who had given 
them success. The face of the animal was covered 
with gi'ass, to conceal the eyes from the women, lest 
they should be frightened by them. According to 
custom, when a leopard is killed, it is brought to the 
head chief of the village, who claims the skin : the 
head is by right dedicated to the god as his portion ; 
and the flesh is divided and eaten by the inhabitants 
with rejoicing. Makolo, who headed the party of 
hunters, said this was a departure from ancient cus- 
tom, owing to the regard they had for the white men. 
The bargain was, after a little while, settled : the pur- 
chase was made by a piece of printed madder handker- 
chiefs, which had been some forty days in water in the 
"Dayspring," before it was rescued from the wreck. 
Their choice of this coloured piece was very singular, 
because the Doctor had given them a much better 
cloth, of greater value, which they refused, and asked 
for the handkerchiefs in preference. 

December 18 — Awudu Isadza, the master over 
Dasaba's slaves, paid us a visit to-day in the camp : 
his retinue came in three canoes. He is a Nupe, 



138 CURIOUS REQUEST OF A NATIVE. 



and holds a high position under Dasaba, by 
whom he is much trusted with his poHtical affairs. 
Awudu had been sent out on business to the chiefs 
in the villages on the river, and to Rabba, to clear 
the graves of some persons of consequence among the 
ruins, and to order sheds to be made over them, as a 
token of their intention to retui'n soon to their old 
habitations : at the same time, building materials were 
to be ordered against their removal from Bida. Awudu 
was shown many things about the camp, and was 
particularly amused at the bell, which he struck, and 
was anxious his wives also should see it: so they 
were called up from the canoe at tlie water-side. 
He received nice presents from the Doctor, and did 
not manifest that begging disposition which many 
showed at other times. Amongst so many things 
which he saw, he begged for nothing else but for 
an iron spoon, which he took a fancy to at the cook's 
galley. Dr. Baikie and myself accompanied him to 
the water"s-edge, to see him off in safety ; after which, 
to amuse ourselves, we set the grass on fire which 
was at the landing-place. This is the w^ay many 
afternoons had been spent in burning the bushes, in 
the first place to keep the neighbourhood of the camp 
clear of grass, as well as for a little change to break the 
monotony of the time. We had scarcely been back 
to the tent about ten minutes, when Kasumo arrived 
with the mail from the coast. The whole camp was ex- 
citement : letters and newspapers were received and 
read with eagerness. Though there were no official 
letters from England, except a few private ones, 
which had strayed to Lagos, yet the newspapers 



WELCOME ARRIVAL. 



139 



from the consul and from my Missionary friends, 
with kind letters of sympathy, revived us not 
a little. Mr. Campbell sent a supply of tea, coffee, 
sugar, and biscuits ; and my Missionary brethren at 
Abbeokuta and Lagos promptly sent nie the supplies 
I requested on account of the Church Missionary So- 
ciety, as a resource against future exigencies. Mr. 
Townsend was kind enough to send two of the con- 
verts of Abbeokuta to accompany Kasumo, and to 
render the carriers every assistance in the way. Ka- 
sumo was entrusted with presents and messages from 
the consul to the king and war-chiefs of Ilorin, all 
which he faithfully delivered. Mr, Campbell desired 
that the presents should be given to the king and 
Sumonu, the war-chief, personally ; but by the time 
Kasumo reached Ilorin, the war-chief had already 
started for a war-expedition against the Efon, and 
encamped about a day's march off. But as Ka- 
sumo determined to act according to the instruc- 
tions he had received from Mr. Campbell, he left his 
party of carriers at Ilorin, and went after the war- 
chief, with his present, to the camp at Idofinha, where 
he met him, and delivered the consul's present and 
message to him directly. The unexpected presents 
from the consul, in acknowledgment of the assistance 
Mr. May had received from them on his way to the 
coast, with a further request to open the way for 
communication between the Niger and the coast, made 
such impression on the war-chief, that he expressed 
himself in the highest terms, as ready to do any thing 
to meet the wishes of the white men, to facilitate com- 



140 



SATISFACTORY INTERCOURSE. 



munication between the coast and the Niger. He 
appointed another messenger from his war-camp to 
accompany Kasumo to Ilorin, to take his presents, 
together with the king's, to be delivered to the king 
at Ilorin, with the same message from the consul. 
The next day Kasumo, accompanied by Sumonu's 
messenger, returned to Ilorin with the presents, which 
were also delivered to the king directly : he expressed 
great satisfaction with them, and made as much pro- 
mise to facilitate our communication between the coast 
and the Niger as the war-chief had done. To show they 
were pleased, the king gave Kasumo three heads of 
cowries, and the war-chief gave him one head, and 
they sent a sheep and a small calabash of shea- 
butter, as presents to the Doctor at the camp. 
They were thinking of making suitable returns to the 
consul at Lagos, about which they asked the advice of 
Kasumo as to what would be most suitable. Sumonu 
was very anxious to have some canvas for making a 
tent, which he requested of Mr. May; and on Mr. 
Clark's return from this place to Ilorin, three weeks 
ago, his wishes were gratified by the Doctor's sending 
him a load of canvas through that gentleman. These 
are the steps taken to open communication between 
this part of the country and the coast, which I hope will 
be followed up. From what I can gather, the feelings 
of the people, both on the banks of the Niger and at 
Ilorin, are favourable towards us, and their desire to 
have a trading establishment at Rabba is very urgent. 

December 23 — Having written our coast letters, we 
sent some of the messengers and carriers away, de- 



CELEBRATION OF CHRISTMAS. 



141 



taining two to take the English mail down at the 
proper time. By this division, we increase the opportu- 
tunity of communicating with the coast. 

December 25 : Christmas-day — With the exception 
of Lieutenant Glover, who was up the river, all the 
remaining party of the expedition were present at the 
camp, well, and in very good spirits. As soon as it 
was morning, preparations were made for the celebra- 
tion of Christmas : branches of green shrubs were 
cut, with which the tent was adorned profusely. The 
Union Jack, and two rows of flags, were flying on the 
topmast, which, at present, serves for the east post of 
the big tent, whilst a tree of the acacia tribe serves 
for that of the west. My tent and the others had 
each a flag flying in honour of the day. At the pi'oper 
hour — about a quarter past ten A. M. — we had service, 
when I read the Twenty-fourth Homily, on the Nativity 
and Birth of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ, and 
I doubt not w^e were all profited by it: it brought us 
nearer to the multitudes of pious worshippers who 
kept this holy day, especially this merry season, in 
which we celebrate the birth of Christ. After ser- 
vice, when it was twelve o'clock, seven guns were 
fired, the echo of which vibrated in succession, as the 
sound met the high rocky peak of Ketsa, and passed 
through the valley to the Yoruba hills on the opposite 
side of the Kowara. Mr. Howard, the purser, was 
very provident and economical : he gave us a good 
dinner of very large fowls, well roasted, as a substitute 
for turkeys; and from Indian corn-flour and a few^ 
currants he managed to give us a nice pudding, in 
the room of plum-pudding, which he shaped like the 

H 



142 



HEALTH OF THE PARTY. 



sugar-loaf peak of Ketsa, very characteristic of the 
scene before us ; and to wind up the merriment, he 
produced two bottles of champagne, out of the three 
which were rescued from the wreck, with which toasts 
were proposed by Dr. Baikie. Thus our Christmas 
was spent on the bank of the Niger, where we had 
encamped ever since the wreck of the " Dayspring." 
Trifluig as the account of the way we spent our 
Christmas may appear to be, yet to me it told a 
great deal — that the health of the European members 
of the expedition continued good, and their spirits 
cheerful, after being nearly six months away from 
home, friends, and relatives, and under privation of the 
common necessaries of life to which they had been 
accustomed. To me it was a matter of much satis- 
faction and thankfulness to the Giver of all good 
things, that the party continued in such good 
health in a place believed to be most deadly in 
its influence on the European constitution. 

December 27 — Had service as usual : preached from 
Acts xxvi. 7, " Unto which promise our twelve 
tribes, instantly serving God day and night, hope to 
come." 

January 1, 1858 — "A happy new year to you!" 
was the salutation and wish which passed from one to 
the other early this morning. Last night we all kept 
up till twelve, and the old year passed away, and the 
new one commenced. Two large guns were fired to 
welcome this new round of time. How many recol- 
lections of the past were brought to mind, and how 
serious the thought of what the new year may bring 



UNCERTAINTY OF MOVEMENT. 



143 



forth ! May God prepare us to meet every event as 
faithful soldiers of Christ ! 

January 3 : Lord' s-day — Had service as usual : read 
the second part of the Homily on the Lord's Supper ; 
after which I administered the sacrament of the Lord's 
Supper to three Europeans and a convert of Abbe- 
okuta, our mail messenger. I believe the Lord was 
with us. 

January 5 — Mr. Glover arrived from Busa this 
afternoon, just as the mail messengers were sent away 
to Fangan ; but Kasumo was sent after them with Mr. 
Glover's letters, and met them at Ikogun. 

January 7 — To-day three months we were cast 
here. The canoes which were sent to the Con- 
fluence had not returned to give us any information, 
or provisions. There was a great doubt whether the 
"Sunbeam" had come out at all, because it was in- 
timated, in a private note, that possibly she might 
be employed in Indian service : in that case, we should 
have to remain here for another three months, or 
more ; and as our means of support were getting 
low, and we had no means of undertaking it, the 
journey to Sokoto was put off till next dry sea- 
son. In the mean time, when the river rises, the 
Binue exploration will be undertaken, at the return 
from which the journey to Sokoto will be taken up. 
This state of circumstances completely alters my pre- 
vious arrangements, and my future plans will entirely 
depend upon the news the expected mail will bring. 

January 28 — Since our encampment here, night- 
watches have been regularly kept up, as on board 
ship. When the gentlemen who took part in these 

H 2 



144 



ATTACK OF A LEOPARD. 



watches were absent from the camp on duties else- 
where, I also took a part in them. I had the mid- 
dle watch, from twelve to two A.M., when I was 
relieved by Mr. Barter, botanist. I had just turned 
in, and not yet fallen asleep, when, about half-past 
two o'clock, I heard a sudden bound, and a sup- 
pressed cry of a kid, close to the west end of my 
tent, where two favourite kids, which were born 
on board the " Dayspring," were used to lie by the 
fireside. As the noise was strange, I suspected 
something wrong. I sprang from my bed, took a 
fire-stick, and made for the direction of the kids, 
when I found but one, in great fright : the other was 
gone. Mr. Barter, who had also heard the bound 
of the ferocious beast, soon came out to see what 
was the matter. Search was made for the kid, but 
it could nowhere be found : it was taken away by the 
hungry leopard. The beast must have been watch- 
ing till a very quiet moment, for I had been sitting 
close by the fire only a short time before, when it took 
the opportunity between the change to seize its prey. 
The two kids were so tame, that, during my watch, 
when I sat close to the fire, near which also they used 
to lie, they often came to pull my trousers with 
their mouths, or gave me a playful push with their 
little heads. This occurrence caused a little excitement 
in the camp. To secure the rest of the goats and sheep, 
a shed was erected in the centre of the camp, with a 
roof of mats, where the creatures were made fast, as 
we supposed, in safety. 

January 9 — My watch last night was from ten to 
twelve, when I was relieved by Mr. Barter. At one 



SECOND VISIT TO THE CAMP. 



145 



o'clock A.M. the leopard paid us another visit: he 
sprung into the shed, and instantly pawed one of our 
best milch goats, which was expected to kid shortly. 
Mr. Barter, hearing the noise, as he stood not very 
far off, gave alarm, clapped his hands, and shouted, 
which instantly roused the whole camp, when the ut- 
mostconfusion ensued. The Krumen, roused on a sudden 
from sound sleep, took to their heels, some to the big 
tent for safety, and others towards the river side, 
shouting lustily, after the example of Mr. Barter, 
without knowing the cause. Some thought that the 
big tent was on fire, so they made there for its rescue ; 
but the confusion was so great, and the leopard itself 
was so alarmed, that it could not carry away the goat 
it had attacked, especially as she was fastened with a 
rope to the post. Not being able to retreat by the 
way it came, as I sprang out of my tent I saw it in 
the front of the big tent, running towards the rocks 
among the Krumen, just as a dog in the midst of a 
crowd : it thus made its escape unhurt, and, thank 
God, without hurting anybody but the goat. Had 
it been furious, it would have been bad for us, for 
not a single person among us had any weapons ready, 
either offensive or defensive, so secure were we in the 
camp from any fear of molestation. Our night-watches 
were kept up merely as a form of order and regu- 
larity, and perhaps to keep off our Krumen from 
robbing us in the camp. The stroke which the poor 
goat had received from the paw of the leopard was too 
heavy to recover from, so her throat was cut at once, 
to save it from being a total loss. 

January 10 — Preparations were made yesterday to 



146 CONVERSATION ON THE CHRISTIAN RELIGION. 

shoot the beast, should it come again. Captain 
Macintosh and Mr. Barter made watch-stations, each 
on a tree; Lieutenant Glover was ready with his 
rifle and revolver ; the men were provided with match- 
locks and spikes; I also took a matchlock, in addi- 
tion to which, I had a good stout stick, as I am no 
gunner. Fires were made at convenient distances, so 
as to betray the sneaking beast when it came to at- 
tack the goats ; but it did not make its appearance, 
though it was supposed to have come near the camp, 
but not within gun shot: perhaps it had not reco- 
vered from the fright it had by the alarm of yesterday 
morning, to take courage to come again into the camp. 
Had service as usual. On Kasumo's return to the 
camp, his nephew accompanied him from Ogbomosho. 
Though Kasumo is a INIohammedan, and an Arabic 
school-teacher, yet he was very anxious that Oshon- 
wemmo, his nephew, should be taught to read Yoruba 
and English, as we teach in our Mission. This after- 
noon I gave the boy the first lesson in the alphabet 
of the Yoruba Primer. As the people appreciate the 
reading of the Yoruba translations, so, I believe, when 
school is fairly started up the Niger, it will likewise 
be appreciated by the Ibo, Haussa, and Nupe speakers. 

January 13 — It was my watch from ten to twelve 
P.M. : at eleven o'clock, Kasumo and Abd ul Kader, 
the Futa interpreter, were both up, and came to me, 
when we had a long conversation on the subject of the 
Christian religion, till one o'clock a.m. The doubts 
they wished to be cleared up were, whether it was 
Christ himself who had suffered death on the cross, 
or whether another person was substituted in His 



EXPLANATION OF THE GOSPEL. 147 



place, to save Him from that ignominious death, which 
they had been taught God would not suffer Christ to 
endure, out of the great honour put upon Him. This 
naturally led to a long explanation, and an account of 
Christ's passion : that if Christ himself had not died, 
then we are found false witnesses, because then he 
had never shed His blood, which is the price of our 
redemption ; that if any thing were kept back from 
Christ's ignominious death, from a desire to honour 
Him, by so doing we detract from the great dignity 
He obtained by His sufferings and death. So much 
were they impressed with the truth of the Gospel, 
that both of them said that their knowledge from the 
Koran alone was very scanty and weak. Kasumo has 
requested that he should be assisted in reading the 
Arabic Bible, by explaining the portions read in 
Yoruba, with which desire I was ready to comply. 

January 25 — For the sake of comparison, to know 
how the Nupe stands in relationship with its neigh- 
bouring tribes, I got a few words to-day in Borgu, of 
which Bousa is a tribe, on the right side of the Ko- 
wara, bordering on Nupe, and a few words in Ebe, a 
tribe immediately bordering Nupe, on the north island: 
these specimens will be exhibited in their proper 
places of comparison. 

January 26 — To break the monotony of a camp life, 
as well as to look round about the country a little, as 
the weather is now perfectly dry, to-day I made a 
visit to Rabba, in company with Captain Macintosh 
and Mr. Barter. This visit was particularly desir- 
able, as steps are taken to rebuild a few new huts at 
Rabba; and Tshuwa Kuta, the eldest son of Kuta, the 



148 



VISIT TO RABBA. 



master of all the ferry chiefs, has removed there, and 
established himself on one of the islands immediately 
opposite Rabba, to command the ferry, because nu- 
merous caravans are now pouring in from the Haussa 
country towards llorin. We arrived at Rabba in the 
afternoon, and took our lodging with Ndeshi, the old 
friendly chief. Kolofin, the chief of Zogoshi, an active 
but keen trader, very soon paid us a visit, and 
wished to know whether we wanted horses, so that 
he might help us to purchase them — for which act he 
would receive his remuneration as a broker ; but we did 
not want any, and promised to pay him a visit the next 
morning, that he might introduce us to Tshuwa Kuta, 
who is now his superior in rank. The whole of Rabba 
village was full of people composing the caravans, 
down to the water's edge, and the beasts of burden 
overspread the fields. Though a house was giv6n to 
us, yet the crowd was so great that we found it 
much more convenient to cook and take our meals 
in the boat, and return to sleep on shore. 

January 27— After breakfast we made for Zogoshi. 
Such a scene of active business is not often seen or 
met with in Africa ; and such sights came more fi"e- 
quently under the notice of enterprising African tra- 
vellers, their opinion as to the general indolence of the 
Afrcans would be greatly abated. Large caravans 
of about 3000 people and upwards of 1000 head of 
cattle, horses, donkeys, mules, and bullocks were 
being taken across from Rabba to the opposite shore, 
towards llorin : at the same time, the returning cara- 
vans were crossing to Rabba, for the interior, with 
their beasts of burden. It was in vam to try to count 



TRADE AT ZOGOSHI. 149 

either men or beasts : forty-one large canoes were 
employed both Tuesday and Wednesday in crossing 
them, some carrying as many as six or eight horses 
and donkeys, with their drivers. The principal mer- 
chandise they had were slaves, silk, trona, and cattle. 
Both Captain Macintosh and Mr. Barter, who were 
with me, were quite surprised at the concourse of 
people, the beasts of burden, and the active scene 
before us; they had not expected such a sight in 
Africa. The occupation of Rabba as a Mission station 
is another matter of very great importance. When the 
people saw us there again, they thought that we had 
now come to begin our establishments among them ; 
but, not to be sanguine in building too much upon the 
fair promises of the people, I will only say, that one of 
the principal chiefs has promised to send his children 
to school as soon as we have opened one at Rabba. 
The chief of Zogoshi was kind and civil : after he had 
entertained us according to custom, he accompanied 
us to Tshuwa Kuta, on the island, a young person of 
about twenty-seven years of age, an intelligent looking 
man. His father Kuta (his office title) is still residing 
at Tshuwa, which is the port to Lade, and will not 
move from the place till he knows the final arrange- 
ments between Sumo Zaki and Dasaba as to where 
the permanent seat of each king is to be. Kuta and all 
the ferry chiefs sympathised with Dasaba, though at 
the present time they seem to show no preference to 
one more than to another, inasmuch as all public 
business is executed, and messages are delivered, in the 
name of both by their united messengers, the mes- 
senger of one serving as a check to that of the other. 
H 3 



150 



DISSATISFACTION OF A CHIEF. 



Tshuwa Kuta attempted to show a little dissatisfac- 
tion at our conduct ; first, for not calling on him at 
Bidon, the chief town of Kakanda, when we steamed 
past that place in September last year, for he was 
then at war with Gori, one of the Kakanda towns, 
formerly a market-place. Captain Trotter landed 
there in 1841. Secondly, he had expected that we 
should land at Bidon, and advise him to give up the 
war, which he would have considered sufficient to bring 
it to a close ; and that he was disappointed when we 
passed by : that on our arrival yesterday, we had not 
first called upon him, when we passed on to Rabba, 
as he had made ready for our reception. To these 
supposed slights, I replied, that we were ignorant who 
was the headman of the village or town, because we 
were perfect strangers, but the same friendly inter- 
course was extended to all ; that we had attempted to 
effect a landing at Bidon, but the extensive swamp 
before the town, prevented us, and the creek we had 
followed, supposing it would bring us nearer, led 
us away from the town, and, night coming, we were 
obliged then to return to the main stream, as must 
have been witnessed that afternoon, for there was 
a large concourse of people watching from the river's 
bank ; and as to our not coming to him first on our 
arrival yesterday, we did nothing more than what 
he would have done on the same occasion, had we 
lived with Ndeshi, the chief of Rabba village, for two 
weeks previously; he introduced us to Kolofin, the 
chief of Zogoshi, who was then the head of the ferry, 
and had been attentive to all our wants during that 
time, and it was only right that he should introduce 



i 



SATISFACTORY EXPLANATION. 



151 



U3 to him who now occupied the position of the chief 
master of the ferry. They all soon saw the pro- 
priety of our conduct, and Tshuwa Kuta immediately 
offered his hand, which we shook heartily, as a sign of 
friendship. Kolofin was not a little pleased at the re- 
spect we had paid him, by our being introduced 
to Tshuwa Kuta through him. 

This young head ferry chief soon showed us tokens 
of friendship, by his liberality: provisions, which he 
had already prepared, with beer, honey, and fura (a 
preparation from Indian or Guinea corn, to drink) 
were produced, more than sufficient for ourselves and 
our men. We asked him about the canoes which 
were sent down to the Confluence with our people, 
when we were informed that the canoes had been de- 
tained at Muye twenty days, on account of some trad- 
ing regulations which exist between the Nupes and 
Kakandas, that the canoes of the former should not go 
beyond the latter ; but that the Kakandas afterwards 
took them to the Confluence. The news, however, 
was so vague and uncertain, that we could not 
depend upon it. I wanted particularly to know 
whether he had heard that any of them had died, 
especially as the second engineer was not in good 
health when they left the camp. He said nothing 
had happened: that he would not conceal it if any one 
had died, because God, who gave life, had a right to 
take it away when He pleased, and it was nothing 
to be concealed. After we had spent some hours 
with him, we took leave; but he asked us into his 
inner yard, to show us something. We went in, and 
stood on one side of the grass inclosures, and he 



152 INTRODUCTION TO THE KINg's WIVES. 

ordered all his wives, about twelve in number, to come 
and pay their respects to us, which thej did, all falling 
upon their knees. To him and to Kolofin we gave 
such little presents, as we then could afford. Captain 
Macintosh gave them a dollar and a half in silver, to 
which I added a looking-glass each. Before leaving 
Rabba, I took a regular round of the western portion 
of the ruins, accompanied by Captain Macintosh. 
Though the grass was high, yet it was dry and brittle, 
so that we could wade through it with ease ; besides 
this, the beasts of burden had so trampled it, that 
beaten paths were formed intersectedly about. Here 
Captain Macintosh missed his chronometer watch 
from his pocket; but it was found, by carefully retracing 
our footsteps in the bushes and plantations. About 
three p.m. we left Rabba ; halted a little at the village 
of Bere, where stock was bought for our use at the 
camp; and Mr. Barter collected some natural curiosi- 
ties. About seven p.m. we arrived at Mbele, where 
we stopped over night. A hut was prepared for us, 
and the people, to express their joy on our arrival and 
stay at their village, kept up brisk drumming, singing, 
and dancing very close to our hut till midnight. Mus- 
quitoes became so troublesome in the night, that our 
sleep was very much disturbed. Mbele is the head 
village of the ferry to all the villages up the river. 
Both Bere and Mbele are hunters of hippopotami to 
the kings : whenever a hippopotamus is killed up the 
river, it must be brought to them. But many people 
do not like to take the trouble of carrying such an 
enormous beast about when killed, so that they care 
very little about killing them ; but sometimes it is killed 



DEATH OF MR. HOWARD. 



153 



and made away with privately, if it be a small one. 
The kings claim the hippopotami in the river. These 
two fishing villages ai'e pagan. 

January 28 — Left Mbele about seven A.M. ; 
landed on the right side of the river. Mr. Barter 
wanted to cut down a tall fan palm-tree, to get sec- 
tions for specimens. We arrived at the camp about 
sunset. 

February 15 — This afternoon Lieutenant Glover, 
with Selim, his servant, left the camp for Lagos, on 
their way to Sierra Leone. A few hours after, Mr. 
Howard, the pui'ser, who had been suffering from 
diarrhoea, died : he was a person between forty and 
fifty years of age, and of very delicate state of 
health, predisposed to consumptive affection ; the 
doctor said his case assumed the symptom of the 
last stage of consumption. He had many times ex- 
pressed himself as in better health since he came out 
than when he left England, till he was attacked by 
the diarrhoea. 

February 16 — The remains of Mr. Howard were 
committed to the earth, close by those of one of the 
Krumen, who died of the same disease last Sunday. 

February 14 — The king's messengers, who were 
sent down to the Confluence in the canoes with the 
party since "the 9th of November last, made their 
appearance to-day, being four months and five days 
away from this place. The party which they took 
down got to the Confluence in safety, in twenty-three 
days from the camp ; having to change canoes at 
certain stages, including seven or eight days' deten- 
tion at Muye, where the Kakanda people refused to 



154 BAD CONDUCT OF CAPTAIN GRANT. 

take them on; till, finally, Ama Abokko sent his canoe 
from Gbebe to Muye, and took them to the Con- 
fluence, where they were still w-aiting, as the schooner. 
" George " had already gone down before their ar- 
rival at Gbebe. The messengers brought no good 
tidings of Captain Grant's conduct before he left the 
Confluence. They stated that he fed and treated his 
Krumen and men badly ; so they ran to Ama for pro- 
tection and redress, which almost led to an unhappy 
and serious collision between Captain Grant and the 
chief Ama, and the inhabitants of Gbebe. Informa- 
tion of this circumstance by letters and notes was so 
scanty — and even some notes received from those who 
were eye-witnesses on the occasion contained no men- 
tion of this shameful conduct — that it appeared to me 
every one was afraid to mention it in his letter, lest, if 
detected, he should suffer for it ; but I have not the 
slightest doubt that when Dr. Baikie gets to the Con- 
fluence, the whole affair will be brought to light. 
With such an example as that of Captain Grant befoi'e 
the heathen and Mohammedan chiefs and their people, 
what recommendation can it be to the character of 
civilized Englishmen, who come to civilize and im- 
prove the barbarism of Africa? Will not they say. We 
have seen enough of you : one example is quite suf- 
ficient for us : " Physician, heal thyself" 

March 17 — Kasumo arrived this afternoon from 
Lagos, with letters and papers which had been directed 
to us by way of Lagos, but no official documents for 
the expedition, nor such private letters as were eagerly 
expected. This was, in a certain degree, great disap- 
pointment; but I am very thankful that the Society 



FALSE MESSENGERS. 



155 



has so readily complied with my request, as to send me 
a duplicate copy of their letter by way of Lagos, 
which has safely come to hand, whereas those by the 
" Sunbeam " will be at least three months behind. 
The encouragement which the Society's letter con- 
veys corresponds with my previous arrangements, 
and, as my way is made clear by their instruc- 
tions, I shall, without delay, take steps to put the plans 
into execution. May the Lord direct our steps. 

March 22 — Evei-ybody amongst the natives must 
liave seen our anxious wish to see the ship arrive ; 
therefore, as a ready way of getting handsome presents 
from the anxious Anasaras, no news will be so wel- 
come to them as that of the arrival of their ship on 
the lower parts of the river. Although we have 
been repeatedly warned by Sumo Zaki and Dasaba 
to beware of false messengers, yet we have been re- 
peatedly taken in by the idle and hungry warriors or 
soldiers, who often represented themselves as the king's 
messengers. This morning three men came to the 
camp as the king's messengers, despatched from Bida 
by Sumo Zaki, in great haste, to inform us that infor- 
mation had reached him from Gori of Kakanda, that 
our ship had arrived at that place, and was labouring 
under some difficulty for want of sufficient water ; 
that they had left Bida only three days ago, having 
travelled hard, because the king was anxious we 
should receive the intelligence as soon as possible. 
Although there were doubts expressed by some about 
the truth of the matter, yet no one was inclined to dis- 
believe it, because the time so corresponded with 
Mr. Laird's calculation that the " Sunbeam " might 



156 



SUSPICIONS CONFIRMED. 



be expected at the Confluence about the 10th of 
March. Every one's face beamed with joy at this 
welcome news, and the expectation of soon getting 
away from the camp gladdened every heart. The 
time I had fixed for another visit to Rabba was Tues- 
day; but these tidings made it a day sooner. Cap- 
tain Macintosh and myself made preparations to go 
down the next day ; he was to land me at Rabba, while 
he proceeded to meet the boat or the steamer at 
Gori. These messengers were liberally rewarded, 
and conveyed over to the island of .Teba, with all 
respect, in our boat. 

March 23 — We left the camp after breakfast, about 
9 A.M., and went on straightforward to Tshuwa Kuta, 
from whom we thought we should have a confirmation 
of the news of the steamer ; but he suspected it, and re- 
gretted that we had not brought any of the messengers 
in our boat; for if the ship had arrived at Gori, or 
anywhere down the river, the news would have 
surely reached him before it reached the king. Dis- 
appointed as we were, yet Captain Macintosh deter- 
mined to go further down and make inquiry, to satisfy 
himself, before returning to the camp. After landing 
me at Rabba, he proceeded down the river. In a 
country like this, where there is no regular system of 
government, no order to regulate the conduct of the 
messengers, every one when he is employed as such, 
takes advantage of the opportunity to impose upon 
all he meets with, and thus earns his living till 
the time of his messengership is over, which he takes 
care to spin out as long as he can. No wonder the 
king's messengers sent to the Confluence did not return 



ARRIVAL OF MESSENGERS. 



157 



to the camp till after four months and five days, a 
trip which might have been accomplished in three 
weeks. These messengers, on their arrival at the 
camp, on the 14th inst., told us that they had been 
detained forty-three days at Muye, and were threatened 
to be killed, with all the Europeans ; and many such 
like stories they told, in order to make sure of a large 
remuneration for their trouble; but Dr. Berwick's 
letter enabled us to detect their falsehood, which was 
exposed, to their shame and confusion. These men left 
the camp two days before us, on their way down the 
river, with letters and medicines to the Confluence, 
by the return of Ama's canoe ; but, behold, we met 
them quietly sitting at Rabba, as if they had come to 
make a stay of many weeks. They became very 
uneasy at our sudden appearance, and as Captain 
Macintosh passed on that evening, they feared the 
consequence of his reaching the Confluence before 
them, so they hastened away from Rabba before the 
morning of the next day. The longer we remain in 
the country, the more we shall become acquainted 
with the bad practices of these unprincipled mes- 
sengers. But among them are to be found faithful and 
conscientious men, who act worthy of the office en- 
trusted to them. Those three liars in the name of the 
king, endanger their heads if found out by the kings. 

March 24 — Having permission from Ndeshi the 
chief, I fixed upon a place for the Mission premises, 
on the cliff", which can easily be inclosed on three 
sides, to prevent any annoyance from the beasts of bur- 
den which often overspread the ruins in search of pro- 
vender : it being both dry and airy, and not exposed to 



158 LAND GRANTED FOR THE MISSION. 

constant fires, which now and then break out among 
the groups of huts, I applied for it. He accompanied 
me to the spot, with several of his headmen and chiefs, 
and granted the land for the use of the Church Mis- 
sionary Society. He said all the west division of 
Rabba belonged to him, as chief of the Nupe population ; 
whereas the east division belongs to the Felanis, who 
are still at the camp at Bida. Some hundred new 
huts have been erected at Rabba during the last few 
months. 

As the huts of the people have but one entrance, 
and no ventilation of any kind, and no verandah to 
shelter the walls, in consequence of which they are 
very close and uncomfortable, especially when the 
only entrance is blocked up by constant visitors, I 
have arx'anged for five conical huts to be built on the 
Mission ground, for the use of any one who may be 
sent here, or for the accommodation of visitors from 
the Yoruba Mission, to keep up the place, till supplied: 
the huts will be got up for the small sum of 61., in an 
improved state. The chief, Ndeshi, has undertaken 
the work, and if they are faithful to their promise, 
they will be completed in the course of a fortnight, 
when I shall return to Rabba after Easter. When I 
was selecting the piece of land, I first pitched upon a 
place where there was a pile of hippopotamus bones, 
which Ndeshi told me was a fetish-ground belonging 
to his brother, now living on the opposite shore, and 
requested that I should move a little higher up for 
the present, till he had informed his brother that he 
intended to give his sacred ground away to the Anasara. 
Thus at Rabba, a chief seat of Mohammedanism before 



NUPE YOUTHS HIRED. 



159 



its destruction, heathenish superstition continued to 
have a strong hold on the minds of a large portion of 
the population. 

March 27— Having made all necessary arrange- 
ments about the huts, I left Rabba, by land, about 
7 A.M., that I might see the character of the country 
inland along the northern bank of the Kowara. The 
way to the camp leads, from east to west, over a 
thinly-wooded plain, perfectly dry; soil, red mould, and 
partially covered with sand. The road runs in a 
parallel line with the river, from one to three miles 
inland from the water's edge, according to the bend of 
the river. I crossed a few dry watercourses, and two 
continued running into the Kowara. The distance 
from Rabba to the camp, by land, is about sixteen 
miles. Passed through three villages, which were 
being re-built : the scattered inhabitants were just re- 
turning home from their flight: their names are 
Tatabu, Safa, and Gbongborofu. 

April — As thei'e are but two boats here at the 
camp, which ai'e in constant use up and down the 
river, for conveyance and scientific purposes, to faci- 
litate my visits to Rabba, or to any other village on 
the banks of the Kowara, I have purchased a small 
canoe, for fifteen heads of cowries, about 3/. 5s. first 
cost, on the Church Missionary Society's account ; and 
with the kind assistance of Captain Macintosh, it was 
made fit for use, and was launched this morning, to 
convey me to Rabba. I hired two Nupe youths as my 
polers, to whom I paid 200 cowries each per day, as 
long as they should remain with me at Rabba, till I 
return to the camp. This is the first attempt to 



160 



THE MISSION CANOE. 



introduce the day-labour system. This little canoe, which 
can conveniently convey six persons — including the 
polers, with light travelling traps — is to be known by the 
name of the Mission Canoe. We went down to Rabba in 
it very comfortably, in seven hours ; but had to shun a 
large herd of hippopotami, which completely lined the 
right side of the river, as they would not give way at our 
approach, though within a revolver shot. To frighten 
them, Dr. Davies, who was going to Rabba with me 
for a change, fired a charge from his revolver, which 
frightened them a little. I believe one of them was 
wounded ; but as they still kept their position, we 
shunned them as fast as we could, to avoid being 
attacked. This is one danger to which canoe navi- 
gation is exposed in the river; but it must be watched, 
as the natives are acquainted with their frequent haunts. 
It is more dangerous to travel in the night, which 
the natives always avoid doing as much as possible, 
except fishermen and the hunters of these amphibious 
creatures. By some misunderstanding or other, the 
huts, the walls of which had been long completed, 
were not yet roofed when I got to Rabba ; but as soon 
as the cause of the mistake was explained, the roofs 
were soon ordered to be put on. To-night we slept in 
our tent, which was pitclied on the Mission ground, 
near the walls of the huts. 

April 13 — We paid a visit to Tshuwa Kuta, and 
thence to Kolofin, the chief of Zogoshi. This chief 
presented me with fifty sticks, to make a small in- 
closure behind the huts for private use : he professes 
Mohammedanism, and is now fasting. Two of the huts 
being covered in, we occupied them in the evening. 



CONVERSATION WITH MOHAMMEDANS. 161 

April 14— Kolofin of Zogoshi, and several other Mo- 
hammedans, paid me a visit, with whom I had some 
religious conversation. The first question they asked 
me was, " Whom do you hold fast (believe), Mohammed 
or Anabi Isa ?" I said, " Anabi Isa." They said, " We 
hold Mohammed fast." They said, moreover, " We 
understand that the Anasaras do not like Mohammed's 
name to appear in their book, as the names of Abra- 
ham, Moses, David, &c." I replied, that Mohammed 
not having been born till six hundred years after 
Christ, and after the close of the Anasaras' Bible, his 
name could not be mentioned there, any more than the 
name of this child (about two years old) could be men- 
tioned at the time of the revolution, when Rabba was 
destroyed sixteen years ago. They were satisfied 
with this explanation, and said they had seen it so in 
their book, that Mohammed came last of all. The next 
subject of conversation was about the second coming 
of Christ to judgment, which they also believe, and 
they had serious conversation about the wonderful 
change which shall take place on that great day. 

April 17 — About seven a.m. we left Rabba, and 
Kolofin, on the opposite shore, saw our canoe start 
from under the cliff. According to his promise, he got 
his two mares ready to accompany us along the south 
bank of the river to the village of Bere, about three 
miles from Rabba, where he stopped, and we landed 
and took leave, and thanked him for his kindness. 
We reached the camp about nine p.m., being fourteen 
hours going from Rabba, about sixteen miles, against 
the current and strong head wind : the strength of my 
polers was not equal, or else we might have reached 



162 



WELCOME RAIN. 



earlier. Dr. Davies was much better for the change, 
and Dr. Baikie improved in health at the camp. 

April 20. — This afternoon, after a long six months' 
drought, and parching heat, we had the first rain in our 
camp, which greatly improved the atmosphere by its 
coolness. For some weeks back it had been raining in 
the Yoruba hills, and in the southern parts of the 
country, but it never reached us till to-day. 

April 23 — ¦ About middle watch we had again 
copious rains, which continued more or less till about 
five A.M. : it was certainly a great change to see the 
thermometer stand at 76° at eight o'clock A.M., in- 
stead of at 86° about the same time, when the weather 
was dry and scorching ; especially as we were between 
rocks, which attracted and retained great heat a long 
while: the thermometer was always about 10° higher 
at our camp than at the water-side, which is low and 
swampy. 

I have had occasion to mention the deceit the people 
practised on us at the camp in the king's name ; I 
have since heard more of these wicked practices. The 
king's soldiers are not paid, but are obliged to provide 
for themselves the best way they can. Whenever 
there is war declared against any town or tribe, the 
way of getting supplies is laid open, the hungry sol- 
diers make frequent visits to those districts for 
kidnapping, or plundering the inhabitants or wayfar- 
ing travellers : on the event of slaves being caught, 
the kings and chiefs claim the larger share, and the 
soldiers but a very small portion for his pay or part 
of the spoils. However, to distinguish such, he is 
either provided with a sword, or rewarded with a 



PLUNDERING SOLDIERS. 



163 



tobe ; and if very deserving, he gets a horse, to aid him 
in his future acts of man-stealing. When no war is 
declared for any length of time — and the unprovided- 
for soldiers must live upon something, and being either 
too proud to labour, or too lazy to betake themselves 
to it, they have recourse to many acts of oppression or 
deceit to get their daily food — they shift from one 
town to another, and from village to village, to deceive 
the inhabitants, in the name of the kings, or of some 
persons of note. Two or three persons often combine 
on a pretended message to the chief or chiefs of towns 
and villages. As the king generally sends kola-nuts 
on such occasions by the hand of an accredited mes' 
senger, followed by several attendants, these soldiers fre- 
quently imitate this sign : having no cowries, they take 
on credit a certain quantity of kola-nuts, which they 
divide into as many portions as they wish, and start 
to deliver the king's pretended message. On getting 
to the chief, they present the kola- nuts in the name of 
the king, and praise the chief for his good manage- 
ment, and say that the king was quite pleased with 
his conduct, and desired him to continue in so doing, 
as he would certainly take notice of such an act of 
loyalty. The poor deceived chiefs, full of joy at this 
supposed voluntary acknowledgment from their master, 
entertain the pretended messengers hospitably, and 
give liberal presents to them and to the king, which 
often never reach him. When such a cheat is in 
danger of being found out, they are sure to find pro- 
tection under some powerful chiefs, with whom they 
divide their deceitful gain. From these circum- 
stances, it requires no small amount of know- 



164 FALSE MESSENGERS DETECTED. 



ledge of these people to escape being taken in bj them. 
It was not long ago three young men, able-bodied 
fellows, but ragged and dirty, were thus detected. 
Early in the morning, before breakfast, they made 
their appearance in the camp, with three large pots full 
of palm-wine. They pretended to come from Lushi, 
the chief of Lom, with these pots of palm-wine, as pre- 
sents to Dr. Baikie, with the chiefs compliments. 
Fortunately it w^as but the day before that Lushi's real 
messenger had been to the camp, with the present of a 
large sheep. The messenger and the chief's sister had 
not yet returned: they were lodging in one of the 
villages of Jeba. The three pretended messengers 
were suspected, but without showing it to them, Lushi s 
messenger was sent for to confirm the messages of these 
men, before whose presence they were confounded, 
and confessed that they had made up the matter by 
themselves, and were not sent by the chief. They 
received a severe lecture from the doctor ; and to 
punish them, the palm-wine was taken away from 
them : one pot was given to Lushi's messenger, and 
the other two to the Krumen, and they were sent away 
empty handed. Had not Lushi's messenger been near 
at hand to report their conduct to the chief, their 
swords would have been taken from them and sent 
to the chief, that thereby they might be easily detected 
and punished. They were thankful to get oflF in the 
way they did, though the palm-wine was not yet 
paid for, as they only took it on credit that morning, 
with a promise to pay for it on their return from the 
camp — of course with part of the presents from the 
credulous Anasaras. Another instance of the kind 



DECEIT OF A MESSENGER. 



165 



may be mentioned. Lieut. Glover made two visits to 
Bousa during our encampment here ; the last visit was 
to buy some horses for his journey down to the 
coast, which purchase he accomplished with success 
from the king of Bousa. On his return to the camp, 
he was greatly assisted in getting can'iers by a man 
who was sent as messenger by the king to Bida 
camp, and whom the lieutenant remunerated for his 
kind services. But this man thought he might do 
his best to get something more from the liberal Anasaras; 
so he framed an abominable falsehood, as follows: — 
On the fourteenth day after Lieut. Glover last saw 
him, at a village called Buka, he made his appearance 
in the camp, and stated that he had been to Bida 
camp, and back to Bousa ; and after only two days' rest 
at home, the kino; hurried him out ajjain with this mes- 
sage to Mr. Glover. That on the lieutenant's return 
from Bousa with the king's white horse, which he 
had purchased at a great sum, all the people remarked 
on the way that the king loved the Anasara veiy 
much, and had presented him with his best white horse. 
As the people rumoured this about, and the king 
knew he had not given the horse, but sold it, 
he had sent him with all haste to say that Lieut. 
Glover should send a person to return with him 
from the camp as messenger to Haussa, by whom the 
king would send a horse for a present to Mr. Glover. 
This was so nicely framed, that at first there was in- 
clination to believe it ; but I suspected the possibilitv 
of making a journey to Bida, and back to Bousa, within 
the period of time since Mr. Glover had seen this man. 
This led to a close examination, and we made him 

I 



166 



HIS DETECTION. 



score on the sand the days of his journey to Bida and 
back to Bonsa, which according to his own account 
of stages of hahing and rest, at Bida and Bousa, 
amounted to twenty-four days. Thus was this liar 
detected, and sent away with shame. These in- 
stances of the unfed kidnappers and plunderers will 
suffice. Some sign of authentic message from and to 
the kings is very necessary in this country. 

April 26 — After a short stay, to prepare letters 
for the mail, accompanied by Dr. Davies, I left the 
camp, and arrived at Rabba about four p.m. We 
were better housed this time than at our first visit: 
the verandah shed connecting the two opposite huts 
was nearly completed, but the wind having blown 
off' the thatch at one end, the powerful rays of the 
sun were admitted, and also rain, which made it 
uncomfortable for a time. 

Jpril 27-29 — These days were passed in making 
visits to Tshuwa Kuta island and to Zogoshi, and re- 
ceiving visits from different persons. Kolofin, of Zo- 
goshi, came over this morning with his brother, a mal- 
1am. I showed them my Arabic Bible, which they 
examined and wondered at, but could not read. 
Produced Faris's El Shidiac's Arabic Grammar, and 
pointed out a few words of the vocabulary, such as 
drink, dry, duck, which the mallam read, but could not 
translate ; and by the assistance of the English trans- 
lation column, I was enabled to tell him what they 
meant in Nupe : and informed him it was the way we 
teach from a foreign language, and then explain it in 
the native tongue, which was quite a new idea to him. 
Paid the women for their labour in beating smooth 



FIRST SERVICE ON THE MISSION GROUND. 167 

the ground-floor of the huts, and thanked them for 
their readiness : they were headed by Nakentsi, Chief 
Ndeshi's first wife. 

April 30 — A young person rode to the premises very 
early this morning, before I came out of my hut and 
afterwards returned. I was told he was a nephew 
of Dasaba : his father died some time ago, and he was 
left to the care of his father's brother, who had taken 
care of him as his own son. I gave him a knife, 
for a present. Mr. Dalton arrived from the camp for 
a little change. In the afternoon we took a walk to- 
wards Mokwa Road, as far as the brook in the middle 
of the ruins of Rabba. 

May 2 — Lord's-day: This is my first Sunday at 
Rabba on the Mission ground : at half past ten o'clock 
I kept service, in English, among ourselves. 

May 5 — Returned to the camp about six P.M., and 
met Mr. May, who had returned by land fi*om Fer- 
nando Po, to report that there was not sufficient water 
for the " Sunbeam " to come up, she being of a large 
draught. 

May 9 — Kept service as usual, and administered 
the sacrament of the Lord's Supper to four persons. 
Preached from 1 Cor. ii. 26. 

May 10 — Dr. Davies left the expedition, for Eng- 
land, this morning, his health having suffered con- 
siderably, even from Fernando Po, before we entered 
the river ; having been several years out on the coast 
previously, he ought to have returned to Europe to 
recruit his health. 

May 12—1 returned to Rabba to-day, to make a 
much longer stay. 

I 2 



168 



RAMADAN FAST. 



May 13 — Busy putting things to rights in the huts. 
Kolofin came on a visit with several persons. 

May 14 — Very heavy tornado, accompanied with 
sharp lightning and thunder: not much ruin. Paid 
and sent my canoe-men back to Jeba. Haussa cara- 
van arrived from Kano : I was visited by some of the 
party. 

May 15 — To-day is the great festival after the Ra- 
madan fast, which concluded yestei-day, at the appear- 
ance of the new moon. AH people were busy about 
the festival. Prayer was held, on a sandy bank in the 
midst of the Kowara, by the people of Tshuwa Kuta's 
village and the people of Zogoshi. The inhabitants 
of Rabba village formed a separate party, and held 
their prayer outside the village by themselves. The 
time was passed by beating of drums and firing of 
muskets by those who were able to afford it, especially 
by Tshuwa Kuta, Ndeshi sent me a large calabash of 
cooked rice, with sauce. As the caravan could not be 
craned to day, a great many of the people passed their 
time with me on the Mission ground. Some of the 
learned among them could not do more than make out 
some words from the Arabic Bible, a few letters in the 
printed book puzzled them. I showed them the Pen- 
tateuch, the Psalms, and the Gospels separately ; but 
they could not make any thing of them. The 
Alphabet and Steps to Reading, which I got from 
Kasumo, very much attracted their attention, and 
words of the vocabulary from Faris's El Shidiac's 
Gianmiar. In the evening I took a walk in the 
village. Paid a visit to Ndeshi. Met him sitting at 
the entrance hut with a very ragged tobe on, and his 



THE FESTIVAL. 



169 



elder chiefs about him. Many drummers and fifers 
were playing outside, and the dancers came out one 
or two at a time, and performed their parts before them. 
On entering in he made place for me at his side, 
where I took my seat for a while and looked on the 
musicians, who at this time redoubled their elForts in 
beating the tomtom, and took as much part in the 
dance as if they were beating and fifing for themselves. 
I stayed about five minutes, and went out. There were 
drummings and amusements in small detachments 
outside in the streets, in all which only the male, no fe- 
male took a part — the latter sat only as spectators. The 
people appeared in their holiday garb, by which their 
circumstances may be best judged of. They are poor, 
having suffered very much from constant wars. A very 
intelligent-looking man was relating to us the other day 
the distressing circumstances attending the destruc- 
tion of Rabba, and the distresses of war in general : 
he said that he had changed his abode ten times. From 
constant wars and disturbances, what can the people 
have? Among the dresses exhibited on this occasion, 
goods rescued from the wreck of the " Dayspring," and 
bartered for provisions, appeared most conspicuous, being- 
made into caps, trousers, and coverings, and head-bands 
by the women, especially striped Turkey red and Ma- 
dras handkerchiefs. Though I was the only Christian 
in tlie village, with my servant, yet I was greatly re- 
spected. The people of the Haussa caravan, who had 
been spending a great part of the day witli me, showed 
me their lodging, if I should be disposed to give them 
a call. I walked towards the north-west gate, where 
I observed several pathways recently cleaned, leading 



170 



INTENDED HONOUR DECLINED, 



from the main road to some ruins, or places of impor- 
tance among the ruins. On inquiring, I was told that 
these new roads led to the graves of their deceased 
pagan kings, to whom the pagan population offered 
sacrifices of food, which they eat on the spot about the 
time of the Ramadan festival. The names of nine 
pagan kings of Nupe buried at Rabba, to whom 
sacrifices are made, are as follows : — Dziba, Wari, Zan- 
giinla, AH, Sin-aba, Yamori, Sabu, Zimada, and Sado. 
The Mohammedans went and prayed over the grave 
of Mallam Dendo. 

May 16: Lord's-day — Beating of drums announced 
the break of day. The festival merriment continued 
as yesterday among the leading men ; the ferrymen 
went to work, crossing the caravan with their beasts 
of burden. I had several visits to-day from Tshuwa 
Kuta's island and from Zogoslii village ; but I told 
them to-day was the Christian Sabbath, in which we 
rest from all worldly transactions — that the day is 
entirely devoted to God's service. While speaking with 
the first party, the company of drummers and fifers made 
their appearance, with their instruments of music, sent 
by the chief Ndeshi to do me honour on the occasion of the 
feast. I called Mahamma, the son of Ndeshi, who headed 
the party, and requested him to call his companion near, 
which he did. I thanked the chief for his good inten- 
tion to do me honour ; but said that to-day was the 
Christian Sabbath, on which we rest not only from 
worldly labour, but from all amusements also, as using 
it for such purposes would be robbing God of the day 
He claimed for Himself. To carry the subject deep into 
their hearts, I asked, " What would you think of a son, to 



THE aBSERVANCE OF THE SABBATH EXPLAINED. 171 



whom the father gave six yams out of seven, reserving 
only one for himself, if that son wei'e to take the 
seventh also from the father, in addition to his six 
which the father had given him freely ?" They all 
replied with one voice, " He would be ungrateful." I told 
them, also, that if a person were to offer to pay me a 
debt of 1 00,000 cowries to-day, I could not receive them, 
because it would be a violation of the Sabbath to be 
thus employed. On hearing this, they were quite 
astonished at the strictness of the Anasaras in tlieir re- 
ligious observances. Having promised that I would 
acknowledge their intended honour at a future period, 
they quietly left the premises, without striking their 
drums or blowing a fife. During the fasting-days, the 
constant question was, "Do not the Anasaras fast?" My 
reply was, "Yes, they do fast; but the fast of the 
Anasaras is of a more private and conscientious kind 
than your public one ; thousands of the Anasaras 
may fast to-day, and their neighbours know nothing 
of it, but their fast is known to God and to themselves : 
just so is their prayer in secret, as Christ has taught 
us." The answer I always received was, " You are true 
persons, your religion is superior to ours." But, be it 
remembered, this acknowledgment is made by the 
people, who only follow as they are led, and who 
embrace Mohammedanism because it is superior to 
the religion of the heathens ; but from those who pro- 
fess to be leaders and teachers of that religion, we 
cannot expect such a ready acknowledgment, but 
rather opposition. Having no one but uiy interpreter 
with me, I might have kept the day, in quietness to 
myself, in reading and prayer; but it is necessary to 



172 CULTIVATION OF THE MISSION GROUND. 

let this people see we have a regular form of 
worship to go through, and wherever we go we keep 
it up, without regarding in what language. About 
service-time I read the prayers and lessons in 
English, having instructed my interpreter to invite 
any one who might come in to take his seat quietly 
and look on. No adult came, but six boys entered, 
with their hoes on their shoulders to clear the 
Mission ground; they sat quietly till the prayers 
Avere over : then I spoke a few words to them about 
the Christian Sabbath, and sent them home till to- 
morrow, before they could do any work for us. A 
woman, who has got the title of Soronia Girowa Mata, 
a chief dancer, from Sumo Zaki, came from Bida, and 
was sent over by Tshuwa Kuta to pay me a visit ; but 
I sent her away till to-morrow, before I could receive 
any such visitors. 

May 17 — Labourers cleared the grass around the 
huts, so as to keep reptiles off, and the Mission ground 
decently clean, as well as to stu' up the mosquitoes from 
their grassy nests : by so doing the Mission ground 
can be properly marked out, and the boundaries 
settled, when further understanding is had with the 
kings. 

May 18, 19 — As the ground has been turned up, to 
prevent rapid growth of grass, it would be as profitable 
also to sow some Indian and Guinea com on it, which 
would come in well to feed the horses and donkeys 
towards the end of the year. We put some Indian 
corn in the ground these afternoons, as fast as the 
labourers were turning the ground over, in small 
heaps, according to the plan of the natives. 



ARRIVAL FROM LAGOS. 



173 



May 20 — Lieutenant Glover ari'ived from Lagos, 
havina; been to Sierra Leone and back: be brouglit 
supplies for tbe expedition, and a box for me, from 
Mr. C. Taylor, containing sundry articles for barter 
which could not be got at Lagos. 

May 21 — As Dr. Baikie, who was written for last 
night by Lieutenant Glover, could not come, he sent 
Mr. Dalton, who arrived this afternoon. 

May 24 — Mr. Dalton having reached the camp 
yesterday. Dr. Baikie came over to-day to confer 
with Lieut. Glover, on various matters of the expedi- 
tion, and returned to the camp on the 25th. 

May 30, 31 — These days were spent in preparing the 
mail. Dr. Baikie having returned on the 30th. Pre- 
vious to his coming, Lieut. Glover proposed measuring 
the land along the cliff to the walls westward, to 
ascertain how much, and into how many lots it may 
be divided, should there be a consulate and some mer- 
cantile houses be necessary in this place hereafter. 
Before this was done I sent for Ndeshi the chief, to tell 
him of the lieutenant's intention, to which he readily 
agreed. 

June 1 — Lieutenant Glover left this morning for 
Lagos, to wait for the expected little steamer, the 
" Spero Meliora." 

June 6 — During service-time Mohammodu Osusbe, 
a Brazilian emancipado, who is living at Ilorin, 
came at my invitation. Mohammodu has a long time 
availed himself of the influence of the Missionaries of 
the Church Missionary Society, to protect his people 
and property from being stolen during the constant 
intestine wars at Badagry and Lagos : and when he 
I 3 



174 INTERCOURSE WITH THE ENGLISH 



was about removing to Ilorin, the Mission com- 
pounds at Abbeokuta and Zjaye were made as step- 
ping-stones and protection to him. As he was 
a person of good sense, and had received so many 
favours from the Missionaries (he always makes 
himself friendly), I thought now we might make 
use of him as a mail-bearer between Rabba and Oyo, 
if he would consent to be thus employed. He was 
quite willing, if we could come to terms and arrange- 
ments about the time of starting : it only remains for 
me to see Dr. Baikie, and come to some agreement 
about the matter. 

June 7 — Yesterday, about noon, the old chief Ndeshi 
received an alarming question from the king's eunuch, 
who was sent here as messenger, viz. Whether it 
was the chief Ndeshi who had built my huts ? In 
the afternoon he was called to meet the eunuch on the 
island at Tshuwa Kuta's, when the chief told the 
eunuch he had done nothing more than accomplish 
the king's instructions, namely, to see that we had all 
we wanted, and that nothing happened to us. Ndeshi 
came very early this morning, to inform me of what 
had passed between them ; he believed it was a 
made-up thing between the eunuch and some ill- 
disposed persons, and that the king had not sent him 
such a message. That either the eunuch would 
come over, or I might be called: so he mstructed 
me what to say. Before breakfast, Tshuwa Kuta 
sent to inform me that the king's messenger was 
with him ; and as he would pass towards the camp 
to-morrow morning to Dr. Baikie, he thought it 
right that I should see him: so I went over after 



KOT DESIRED BY THE SLAVE HUNTERS. 175 

breakfast. They were absent from the house, busy 
at the water-side collecting the fares from the Haussa 
caravans; but they came as soon as they received 
my message. After the salutation, we entered into 
conversation about matters in general. Several times at- 
tempts were made to introduce the question about my 
hut-building, but they did not know how to begin it. 
Questions were put about the articles the English would 
want if they came to trade here ; so I enumerated to 
them all produce good for European markets which 
their country grows. Tshuwa Kuta wanted to know 
whether they would not buy slaves ; to which I replied in 
strong negatives, "No, never !" This of course does not 
exactly meet the wishes of the slave-hunters. At last 
the eunuch had room to ask what kind of huts I had 
built — whether native or English ? I told him, "Native, 
for immediate use, till we have further consultation with 
the kings." Then he promised, at his return from his 
visit to Dr. Baikie at the encampment, to come up and 
pay me a visit ; so I wrote a note by him to apprise 
the doctor of what was going on. The eunuch, as an 
influential messenger from the kings, is often made use 
of as a tool in the hands of some men of influence, who are 
ill-disposed one toward another, to intimidate each other, 
by getting the eunuch to take up matters, as if they 
have either come to the knowledge of the kings, or 
with an intention to report the same. The Nupees 
in general, as a nation, whether Mohammedans or 
Pagans, are very favourable to our stay among them ; 
but there are a few ill-disposed persons, who dread the 
idea of the English establishments at Rabba, and these 
are the class of slave-hunters. The introduction of 



176 



CHRISTIANITY OPPOSED TO THEM. 



Christianity is a matter of great fear and aversion, as it is 
opposed to their religious system, whether Moham- 
medanism or Paganism, as in every other place ; but if 
we do not go rashly to condemn Mohammedanism, 
each one can follow his own way, such is the gene- 
ral conclusion I have always heard made. They 
measure the English by their own crooked ways of 
dealing, in taking possession of other countries; 
hence arises the fear that if the English are allowed 
a spot, they will deprive them of the country. The 
news of the big guns at the camp is universally spread. 
This fear was increased by the report that many Nupes 
and Haussas in Sierra Leone would be glad to avail 
themselves of the openings of the way from Lagos to 
Rabba and Kano, to return to their own country ; 
and it was still more strengthened by Lieut. Glover's 
passing the measuring chain over the grounds on the 
cliff, to ascertain what quantity of land there was, 
with a view to futm'e tradmg establishments, and in 
all probability a consulate also. I was perfectly aware 
that difficulties would arise, in one shape or other ; 
therefore I was anxious to know their nature, that I 
might prepare to meet them before leaving this part of 
the river. 

June 13 — The king's messenger returned from his 
visit to Dr. Baikie at the camp, and paid me a visit, 
with his attendants. Old Ndeshi, the chief, came over 
also. Though a long talk was made about many other 
things relating to the Haussa traders, the loss of their 
slaves, loads, and sheep, for which Ndeshi is to be 
made accountable if they are not restored, the eunuch 
never made mention of any dissatisfied feelings respect- 



ANXIETY OF PEOPLE TO RECEIVE THE ENGLISH. 177 



ing my hut-building, as expressed either by the 
king or any other person. The only allusion he made 
to the huts was, that he merely asked the question, 
whether it was Ndeshi who had built them. He 
said nothing more : every one had taken occasion to 
make it appear as if he had said the king was against 
the Anasaras, whereas the king did not send him to ask 
the question, but he did so for his own information, 
because whatever he saw he was to report to the king. 
As all this was said in the course of warm discussions 
between themselves, and no direct question was put to 
me, I thought it better to say nothing till it was proper 
time; but after a long talk about other matters, they went 
over to the village. On the eunuch's leaving, I begged 
to be excused, saying that the day was the Christian 
Sabbath, on which we have no cowrie transactions ; so 
I could not entertain him, according to custom, till to- 
morrow, when I hoped to send him some cowries for his 
provisions on the way : with this he complied readily. 
On the eunuch's return, the doctor sent a letter 
and message by his Futa interpreter to Sumo Zaki, 
the king, at Bida ; Dasaba being absent from Bida, 
at Kambari, to which place he had escorted the mes- 
sengers and escorts from Sokoto. 

June 14 — The king's messenger, with the doctor's, 
left Rabba this morning for Bida, the former by canoe, 
and the latter by land : we are now waiting the results 
of their different messages to the king. The anxiety 
about us shown by the inhabitants of Rabba since these 
Uttle unfavourable incidents was very great ; many 
walked to my hut dejected, to ask me what was the 
result, either of my visit to the eunuch, or his visit to 



178 PURPOSE OF THE EXPEDITION SUSPECTED. 

me; and their minds were calmed when told there 
was nothing serious to apprehend. My clearing the 
gromid around the huts, to keep the grass under, in 
which I had some Indian corn planted, was even men- 
tioned by those who wished to make the most against 
me, as if I had planted the corn to make provisions for 
thousands of people from the white man's country ; and 
the fact of our intention to get horses for our proposed 
journey to Sokoto was greatly suspected, as if war was 
our pm'pose. 

June 21 — Mr. Dalton came from the camp to-day with 
some articles for sale, to pay a debt of 100,000 coAvries 
due to Tshuwa Kuta, with which the carriers brought 
by Mr. Glover had been paid. Bohari, a youth, an 
adopted son of Sumo Zaki, said to be of the family of the 
Nupe king, paid us a visit, to whom we made little pre- 
sents. Solomon Abdu Lahi, my Haussa interpreter, who 
had deserted me on the 29th of October, 1857, taking 
occasion of the youth's visits returned with him, to beg 
to be forgiven and received again into my service. 
Since he left me, he had travelled over the country to 
Zaria, Kano, and Sokoto ; but, instead of being made 
much of, as he supposed, he was reduced to want, 
and had to get his subsistence by following persons 
of note about the country. I had forborne taking 
measures to prosecute him immediately after he had 
deserted me, which I could have done; for the 
chief Ndeslii sent to ask, whether he was a slave 
or a freeman, — whether he was to catch, or let 
him go. At this time he could have been seized 
and punished; but as the impression, which even just 
measures taken against him would have made on the 



MIXTURE OF MOHAMMEDANISM AND PAGANISM. 179 

minds of the native population, who could not under- 
stand our way of proceeding, would have been un- 
favourable, we were indifferent about his seizure, 
unless they could fetch him back without violence, as a 
freeman, which of course they did not do. During 
his rovings about the country, he has seen his folly in 
leaving me, by which he lost his situation, and forfeited 
his wages, having broken his engagements : although 
I have forgiven him, I have no more need of his ser- 
vices. In the course of the day a messenger came 
from Rabba, and presented himself as from Dasaba, of 
Kambari, to Tshuwa Kuta, to warn him against any 
opposition to our establishments at Rabba. The mes- 
senger came to me also, in the name of Dasaba, to 
say that no one was to molest us, and that we should 
stay where we pleased ; and if there were any more 
people in tlie white man's country disposed to come, 
he would be glad to see them ; that he himself would 
pass through Rabba, on his way back from Kambari, 
to see his father's grave. Messengers were also sent to 
the doctor at the camp with a sheep and three fowls, as 
presents from Dasaba, with an encouraging message. 
From these favourable circumstances, we could not 
but see the hand of God in his providence over us : 
still I received every thing with moderation and caution. 
This day was one of singular incidences : the old chief 
Ndeshi worshipped his deceased ancestor, to whom a 
sheep was killed in sacrifice, a portion of which was 
sent to me. Last month this chief kept the fast of the 
Ramadan, whereby he acknowledged himself as a fol- 
lower of Mohammed ; this day he performed sacrifices 
to his deceased father, whereby he showed himself still 
a Pagan in his belief and practices. Here was semi- 



180 



A SNAKE IN THE HUT. 



Mohammedanism and Paganism in its motley form, 
exhibited by the chief of Rabba. Tshuwa Kuta, the 
head master of the ferry, professes Mohammedanism. 
A fortnight ago he headed the hippopotami himting 
party, when four large creatures were killed, the flesh 
of which was cut in pieces, and dried by smoking: 
a portion was sent to Sumo Zaki at liida, and a por- 
tion to Dasaba at Kambari by twelve carriers. A few 
days afterwards a great dance was held on the oc- 
casion by the hunters, who were pagans at Tshuwa 
Kuta's village, in the island, in honour of the god of 
hunting, to which they pay superstitious worship, 
Tshuwa Kuta himself not excepted. 

June 28 — Two nights ago a large snake was seen 
by Mr. Dalton, moving about in the neighbourhood of 
our huts. At one time we fired a hole, supposing it 
had got into it. To-day, about noon, as Henry was 
putting the bags of rice and cowries to rights in my 
hut, he saw a large black snake coiled between, and 
was frightened by the sight, so he gave alarm. We 
soon armed ourselves with stick, matchlock, or paddle, 
or with whatever first came to hand, and the crea- 
ture was killed and drawn out. It measured six 
feet and nine inches long : it got in through the door- 
way last night to catch the rats, which come every 
night to eat my rice. The rushing of the rats about 
the bags was rather unusual last night : I did not 
know there was also a snake in the room with me. 
This afternoon the mail arrived from the camp, sent 
to me by land by Mr. Dalton, who has since returned. 
I was thankful to receive many kind letters from 
Christian friends, and a most encoiu'agino; letter from 
the Parent Committee. 



A CHARM REQUESTED. 



181 



July 2 — Early this morning the chief Ndeshi came 
to me very much dejected in spirit, to beg my assist- 
ance : I asked him in what respect ? he said on account 
of his late troubles which the people had brought upon 
him ; he was charged with every petty fault, justly or 
unjustly, for which he was compelled to pay fines in 
cowries ; a child of his had been missed during the last 
four days, and he had not heard any trace of her: that 
it was rumoured about that he had received a velvet 
tobe from me, which false report led him to be hated 
and envied by his countrymen. Dr. Baikie had made 
him some presents, but not so many as to Tshuwa Kuta. 
The assistance he particularly requested of me was that 
I would give him charms to assist and defend him against 
all these troubles. 1 sympathized very much with him, 
but assured him there was nothing else worth depending 
upon but God, who rewards every man according to 
his works. I showed him my hands and neck, that I 
had never used charms, and told him I never should, 
because there is no help to be had from them. I then 
encouraged him to look up to God for help ; so he went 
away much relieved in his mind. 

July 3 — Having finished my letters, I sent them 
away to Dr. Baikie at the camp. In the afternoon I 
waded to the sandbank in the midst of the Kowara to 
see if there were any sign of the springing of the river, 
when, for the first time, I perceived that it had begun 
to soak the dry edges of the banks, and that there was 
a seeming increase in the water. 

July 4 — The springing of the river still more per- 
ceptible; my hopes of soon being able to see the 
steamer to take us down the river were brightened. 



182 



DESIRED APPEARANCE OF RAIN. 



July 6 — Dasaba's nephew, a lad of about twelve 
years of age, came on a visit, to whom I made suitable 
presents, as his uncle takes an interest in us : he said 
that his uncle wished us to remain quiet, and nobody 
should disturb us. 

July 7 — Mr. May, who had been travelling about 
the south side of the Niger, arrived here to-day by way 
of Lade, wetted by rain on the way ; about the same 
time we also had a little shower, after a very long 
drought On the 9th, he left his horse here, and went 
in my canoe to the camp at Jeba. From the morning 
of the 14th June to the 7 th July, there had scarcely 
been any rain at Rabba ; although it had rained 
almost daily at the lower parts of the river, and in 
the south. The plants in this part begin to droop 
and wither, and the heathen think of making sacrifices 
to draw down rain. 

July 10 — Copious rains nearly all night, and the 
increase of water on the bank, though gradual, is en- 
couraging. 

July 17 — This afternoon, the men who are living in 
the yard with me went into the village to purchase 
provisions, and on their return, said that three men 
had just arrived on horseback from Bida with three 
slaves, a man and woman with her infant on her back, 
and that they had inquired after me, so they supposed 
they had known me. I took very little notice of it, as 
I thought they were slave-traders, and that if they had 
known me, they would soon find their way to my huts. 
In the evening some time after eig-ht, a confidential 
native, Nupe Mohammedan, came to me by an indirect 
road, and having privately called me aside into the hut 



AS UNEXPECTED MESSSENGER. 



183 



told me that the three horsemen from Bida came with 
a hostile message from the king, so he came to make 
me aware of it beforehand. 

Juhj 18 — Sunday : Very early in the morning as I 
was about to wash, I heard the voice of Mahamma, 
one of Ndeshi's sons, who was sent to call me ; but he 
was told that I would come after washing, so he re- 
turned; soon after, another messenger followed, and 
by the time I had washed and dressed myself, the three 
messengers had already come to the yard ; so I came 
out of my hut, and invited them into the verandah to 
take their seat. Among them I soon recognised 
Sarika-n-Haussa, one of the king's most confidential 
attendants and messengers, in whose huts we were 
lodged at Bida, and who led us about the camp visit- 
ing different chiefs. We shook one another heartily 
by the hand, and asked after each other's welfare. As 
there was but very little time to lose, and they had a 
letter and a message to Dr. Baikie at the camp, in order 
to save time in translating the letter here, first from 
Arabic into English by Hamodu, Lieutenant Glover's 
Arabic interpreter, and then translating Dr. Baikie's 
reply in English into Arabic, he requested that I should 
accompany them to the camp, as they had positive 
orders to return to Bida in five days from this date. 
This was rather unexpected, but as the message must be 
of some consequence, judging from the private hint of 
last night, and the messenger himself, one who is never 
sent out but on an errand of great importance, I at once 
decided on accompanying them, taking Hamodu with 
me. Having nothing else to take but my rain coat, 
Bible, and a few biscuits, in five minutes I was ready 



184 



CONFLICTING MESSAGES. 



to go with them, taking passage in their canoe. We left 
Rabba in one of the ferry canoes, which took us across 
to Tshuwa Kuta island, where better canoes for Jeba 
would be got ready; the three slaves crossed in the same 
canoe with us. Here we were delayed about one hour 
before the canoes were made ready. Etsu Bake, a con- 
fidential under-oflicer of Dasaba, had the appointment 
of conveying the king's messengers to the camp on all 
occasions. I was directed to take passage in his canoe, 
and leave the kino-'s messenfjers to themselves in the 
other, which I did, with Hamodu and my Nupe 
interpreter. As we were separate, and the canoes were 
some distance one from the other, Etsu Bake gave me 
some more hints about the nature of the king's messag-e 
to the camp ; that Tshuwa Kuta had arranged it so that 
I should be in his canoe, in order that he might be able 
to inform me of the state of thing-s, and that we might 
know what to answer in return. He said there was 
fear in the mind of the king and a certain party about 
our stay at Rabba; that since we had seen him at Bida 
he was completely changed in his mind ; but that 
Dasaba was entirely for us, as I myself could perceive 
by their conflicting messages to us. Dasaba's mes- 
senger was on the island that very evening Sumo 
Zaki's messenger arrived with a message which was 
entirely contradictory to Dasaba's encouraging one to 
us ; that the same messenger w^ho had been instructed 
by Dasaba to wait tUl after the Laya feast before he 
should return to Bida, was despatched immediately that 
morning to inform Dasaba of the state of things. Sumo 
Zaki is exceedingly afraid of Dasaba's familiarity with 
us, thinking that when he is once strengthened by us. 



EVIL REPORTS OF THE EXPEDITION. 185 

there will be no more control over him. This was the 
reason of the hasty message to us fi'om Sumo Zaki, 
before Dasaba's return fi-om his journey to Bida. 
After much delay in calling at one village and at 
another, about 5 p.m. we arrived at Jeba village, where 
I met Dr. Baikie, who had paid a visit to the villagers 
on the island; here I left the canoe, and told Dr. Baikie 
all that I had learned respecting the purport of the 
present message. We soon arrived in the boat after 
the messengers had landed at the camp. As they were 
in a hurry, no time was to be lost in hearing them. 

First, a letter was produced as from the king, written 
in Arabic, which commenced with copious salutations 
ccording to the usual form ; then there was a long 
string of complaints,, which were said to have been 
made to the king by the inhabitants of Jeba islands, of 
our bad and unkind treatment, both of the inhabitants 
of that place, as well as of our own people, confirmed 
by the man who was acting as consul, as well as by 
Abdul Kader, Dr. Baikie's own Futa interpreter, w^ho 
was then at Bida as his messenger. It was also stated 
that we were bad, bad people ; that if he (the king) had 
listened to all that had been said about us, he would 
not have allowed us to remain where we were for a 
single month, but he did not take this immediate mea- 
sure on account of Abdul Kader, who was called in the 
letter his (the king's) son ; that T was to remove from 
Rabba to the camp, because I was not of the same 
adini (faith) with them, and therefore we could not deal 
together ; that the Yoruba had sent information that 
we had spoiled their country ; that the king did not 
trouble us, but God had troubled us, because he had 



186 



AN ENEMY IN THE CAMP. 



allowed our ship to be broken, so that we could not 
return to our country, and he hoped we should soon go 
away. This was the substance of the letter. 

Second, The oral message, which was quite differ- 
ent, was as follows : — The king saluted us many 
times over, and so did Abiba his sister, whose mes- 
senger was also present ; he sympathized with us in 
all our troubles, and wished us to be patient ; our ship 
would soon come, that we should deal kindly with the 
people, and trade with those who came to trade with 
us, and if any person offended us, to report that person 
to him ; but if any one intruded into our establishment 
at night, we should shoot him dead. 

The letter and oral message were quite contradictory, 
so the letter was to be read over again: Hamodu inter- 
preted it one way, and the Nupe Arabic interpreter who 
accompanied the messengers, but was by no means a 
pleasant-looking man, both in appearance and temper, 
turned and twisted every thing which Hamodu had 
read, and interpreted them in another way ; then he 
said the letter was not well written, he could have 
written a better one, but they thought that as Abdul 
Kader was one of us, he had better write it; that the king 
himself did not say all that was written, but he only re- 
lated what the people had said to him, in order to let 
us know that he had heard all, but the king had no 
bad feelings towards us. This at once shewed who 
was at the bottom of all this confusion, an enemy in 
the camp, our own messenger. 

Dr. Baikie summed up his reply and message to the 
king; as follows : — 

1. That he had not yet properly spoken with the 



REPLY TO THE KING. 



187 



kings about matters which were deferred till their re- 
moval to Rabba, which was to have been in two months' 
time after our first visit, according to their intention 
at that period. 

2. That had he known we should have to stay so 
long, he would have requested the king to send some- 
body to watch our conduct always at the camp. 

3. That he could not leave the country until he had 
delivered the message he had to the Sultan of Sokoto. 

4. That the English nation trade with people in all 
parts of the world ; however, he would say no more, 
as he himself was in hopes of seeing the kings shortly, 
and talking over matters personally. 

5. That in Sierra Leone there were more than 4000 
Mahommedans of different nations in the British co- 
lony, who follow their religion without molestation 
from our government ; that the matter of faith is a 
thing to be left between us and God, and cannot be 
settled by man : therefore, we should be left to the 
exercise of our own. 

One of the messengers said, that all the flying re- 
ports commenced since the huts were built at Rabba, 
and the corn planted about the ground, which made 
the people fear we should not go away from the coun- 
try. This was a very straightforward statement. We 
then told them that the huts were built for temporary 
uses merely, both for a change to the sick among us, 
and for our use till our mission to Sokoto is over, and 
we have a proper understanding with the kings ; and 
that it was better to have corn about the huts than grass 
around them, which harbours snakes, two of which we 
had already killed, one in my own hut. With regard 



188 



SATISFACTORY EXPLANATION. 



to our being of different adini (faith) as the objection 
to my stay at Rabba, I called Hamodu, a Futa Jallo 
interpretei', and Abdul, a Futa Tero, now at Bida, to 
bear witness, whether there were not more than 4000 
Mahommedans of different nations at this present mo- 
ment in Sierra Leone, who would at this gi'eat Laya 
feast worship there, m a British colony, without any mo- 
lestation from our Government ; why, therefore, should 
we, a mere handful, be prevented from staying in 
the country on account of our religion. Hamodu bore 
testimony to the fact of the Mohammedans living in 
Sierra Leone without molestation in the exercise of their 
faith. The matter seemed now to be struck at the root, 
and the most prej udiced messengers were brought to sober 
reflection, because they were particularly charged to 
tell all these things faithfully to the king who sent them. 
One of them remarked, "Now we see plainly, this is the 
way good friends have been taken for enemies." After 
this. Sumo Zaki's and Abiba's presents to Dr. Baikie 
were produced, consisting of three tobes, one of which 
was of very superior materials, and a large quantity of 
kola nuts from the king; and a quantity of sweet- 
meats and dates from his sister Abiba, with their com- 
pliments. These costly presents do not show inuch of 
hostile feelings from the king ; but it was difficult to 
come to the bottom of the matter. Etsu Bake, the 
master of the canoes, who all the while sat aside as 
quietly as a lamb, became very indignant at the base 
and crooked proceedings of the messengers ; for they 
never intimated to Tshuwa Kuta that they were bear- 
ing presents to the camp, but told him only of a letter 
of displeasure to the Anasara. These Etsu Bake would 



UNEXPECTED SABBATH WORK. 189 

report to Tshuwa Kuta, to whom Dasaba's messengers 
were always open and frank. They returned to Rabba 
the same evening. 

This was the way my Sunday was spent; little 
thinking of visiting the camp when I first got up in 
the morning, and less still, that I should be employed 
in such business; but it was a work of necessity, which, 
if attended to in due time, may prove the salvation of 
many souls; and if neglected, may prolong igno- 
rance of the only way, the truth, and the life, Avhicli 
God has appointed, by which man is to be saved. It 
is not an ox, or an ass, which has fallen into a pit, and 
ought and must be lifted up on the Sabbath, but the 
people of a whole nation ; and, probably, nations may 
thus be lifted up on the Sabbath-day. On our way 
to the camp I met a man at Mbele who had been to 
Porto Novo to sell slaves, he told me that a steamer 
(the " Brunell," I supposed) met him there, forbidding 
the slave-trade at that place. 

July 19 — Remained to-day in the camp, to talk over 
matters with Dr. Baikie, as it was now seven weeks 
since we had been together. 

July 20 — Returned to Rabba in the dingy with 
Mr. Dalton, who came to sell a few articles for cowries, 
and to receive some cowries due; we ran down in four 
hours : the day was cloudy, cool, and pleasant. 

The king's messengers left Rabba on the evening of 
Monday, to hasten to Bida for the Laya feast-day, 
which was to be on the 22nd ; but it seems as if truth 
and uprightness of conduct are contrary to the faith of 
this people ; they could not leave Rabba without forcing 
something out of the hand of old Ndeshi, upon an in- 

K 



190 EXTORTION OF THE MESSENGERS. 



vented charge, which they raised into a great fault 
against him: that, notwithstanding the king's direct 
message to him to see after us, and to let us have all 
we wanted, which Ndeshi, in order to satisfy liimself 
as to the correctness of the message, sent his own son 
to ascertain from the king; yet these crooked and 
money-making messengers would not be satisfied, but 
found fault with him because he did not first inform 
the king before he built the huts at Rabba ; for which 
they said, I had given him a large sum of cowries, and 
a great quantity of cloths. They even attempted to 
implicate five other villages, Bere, Mbele, Tatabu, 
Mowo, and Moko, in this frivolous charge, thereby to 
create larger sums of cowries for payment as settle- 
ment of their fault, because, said they, by their settling 
us thus at Rabba, they were admitting two kings, for 
the Anasara is a king ; but old Ndeshi would not yield 
to their cunning and mercenary trick, by admitting 
that the other villages had any thing to do with the 
building of the huts ; so they most unlawfully squeezed 
16,000 cowries from him, and made his two children 
carry- them to Bida ; but Ndeshi intended paying 
the king a visit, and laying the case before him in 
person. 

July 22 — To-day is the Laya festival of the Moham- 
medans, by which time the king's messengers were to 
be back to Bida. It is said, that at the meetings held 
during the festivals, all important matters are settled. 
It was to hear what should be said at such a meeting, 
that Dasaba had requested Dr. Baikie to send a very 
sensible messenger who understood Nupe well to Bida, 
just about the time of his return to that place; but 



THE LAYA FESTIVAL. 



191 



the Doctor preferred visiting Bida in person, and see- 
ing the king himself. 

July 24 — The Laya feast, which lasted three days, 
ended to-day. During this time, Mr. Dalton was 
here with me from the camp. The head chiefs did not 
forget to make us presents of mutton, cooked provisions, 
and other tokens of friendship, for which we also made 
returns according to the means we had in hand. Con- 
stant beating of drums, and display of fine cloths pre- 
vailed at this time. Tshuwa Kuta, the chief ferry-mas- 
ter, who had a large share of cowries at his disposal, 
was the most conspicuous. His wives were dressed in 
the best country manufactured cloths, and such showy 
Manchester goods as they could purchase. Tobes 
which had been collected against this time were distri- 
buted among his under officers as presents, and large 
sums of cowries were squandered among the drummers 
and dancers. Thus he made his name to be spoken of 
far and wide, as one of the most wealthy and liberal 
persons in the Nupe country. Mr. Dalton left for the 
camp early in the morning; and in the afternoon, 
Lieut. Glover's carriers came with the mail and supplies 
from Lagos, and a load for me. Sent the mail to the 
camp on the 25th; and on the 26th, Mr. Dalton ar- 
rived to carry away the supplies in the boat to the 
camp. 

July 31 — Abdul Kader, Dr. Baikie's messenger, re- 
turned from Bida, with another messenger from the 
king's sister, to summon the chief Ndeshi to her to the 
camp. This Futa messenger, who is very much list- 
ened to by the king's sister, brought me no favourable 
message at all, but made every thing very discouraging 

k2 



192 



DECEIT OF AN INTERPRETER. 



as regards our prospect of establishing a Missionary 
station in this place. My suspicion is growing stronger 
daily that this man is working tlurough the king's sister 
against me ; but, however, time will decide what God 
will do for liis own cause. In the evening Ndeshi 
came, very much cast down, to tell me that he was 
sent for by Abiba, the king's sister, on the question of 
liis building me the huts; that the 16,600 cowries which 
the messengers took from him were carried to her house; 
and that he would not go without the messenger of 
Bube, the governor of those parts of the country, ac- 
companying him. He had already sent to Bube to tell 
him of the matter. Ndeshi very seriously advised me 
to warn my friends in the camp, to take care as to what 
they say to the Futa intei'preter, from what he was 
heard to say about us, he is suspected of doing us much 
mischief ; the same liint was given by the people in the 
ferrymen's island. I lost no time in apprising Dr. Baikie 
of what I had been told. 

August 3 — The river began its permanent rise: there 
has been no rain here worth noticing since the 19th of 
July. It was just about this time one month ago, the 
river began to spring. During tliis period, there have 
been two or three risings and fallings, till it has now 
commenced its steady rise. This will be a most proper 
time to calculate upon the rise of the Kowara ; which 
may be ascended from the confluence. 

A visitor came here from Gbadzibo, a town on the 
upper part of the river, to see the ruins of his former 
house at Rabba. He had not been here since this place 
was destroyed about fourteen years ago according to 
his calculation. He lost eight persons diu'ing the siege. 



NATIVE IDEA OF THE RAINBOW. 



193 



his wives and children died thi'ough starvation. The 
lad who accompanied him was the only survivor of his 
family ; the boy could not refrain from tears when 
the father related the distressing death of his mother. 
He said he would never have come near this place, 
had he not heard we were here. I spoke to him a few 
words of consolation. 

While talking, a fine rainbow appeared in the east : 
I asked for its name in Nupe, which was given, duwa, 
with the idea of what they took it to be. Duwa is 
thought to be a very large snake which rises from the 
earth towards the sky, forming an arch till it touches 
the ground on the other side ; but should it take a larger 
compass than its length, and in the course of its bend- 
ing towards the ground on the other side, its tail be 
detached from the ground before the head touched, it 
would fall down and die. One was affirmed to have 
fallen down and died in this way at a place called 
Dzugumo, a little distance from Rabba, and my infor- 
mant said he had seen its scale, which was as broad as 
the palm of his hand. Allowing for exaggeration about 
the size of the scale, it is very likely that what they had 
taken for the rainbow, was a large boa-constrictor, 
which is said to be about the country. I took this op- 
portunity of correcting their idea about the rainbow 
being a living creature; but the subject was too abstruse 
to be apprehended at once by mere explanation. Both 
in the Yoruba, as well as in the Nupe country, a foolish 
idea prevails connected with the notion of the rainbow 
being a living creature, which only civilization will 
correct, it is that whosoever is in possession of the dung 
of the rainbow can never be a poor man. Many a 



194 SUPERSTITION CONNECTED WITH IT. 



covetous person has been deceived by cunning people, 
who manage to get some unknown stuff from the 
Europeans on the coast, which they give out as the 
dung of the rainbow, and sell to those who desire to 
get rich ; bo, instead of the purchaser being enriched, 
he enriches others. I have not prevailed on any one 
to shew me what the dung of the rainbow is, although 
I have many times asked to see it, so as to be able to 
satisfy my numerous applicants about this much sought 
for produce of wealth. I was once told that I knew it 
well, and was in possession of it, or else I could not have 
so much money to spend daily, both in building at 
Abbeokuta, and in feeding so many children, without 
having any merchandise to sell. On being told that 
they were quite mistaken in their idea of such a 
thing as the dung of the rainbow, they said my father 
must have had it, and, therefore, I was inheriting the 
effect of his possession, though unconscious of it So 
deep is this superstitious belief, which only civilization 
can radically correct. 

August 12 — To-day, Bube the governor, a very 
sensible and respectable Felani, arrived here on his 
way to the kings at Bida. His ears had been filled with 
all kinds of reports concerning us, and so he passed 
through Rabba to see for himself. 

It so happened, I was sharing out a portion of my 
Indian corn, which was ripe, among the chiefs of Rabba 
that morning, of which Bube gladly partook. Hewalked 
to the river side, and saw some of the carriers from 
Lagos, and enquired who they were, so they told him 
their own histories. Among them he recognised two of 
his own soldiers, who were caught during the Umoru 



VISIT FROM A GOVERNOR. 



195 



war about two years ago, and sold. They told 
him that they had been protected safely to Rabba 
through the influence of the British Government ; that 
many more were ready to follow their example, if the 
king would only listen to what the British Government 
says to them. Bube exclaimed, " Is it true that the 
English do this? I lost forty men in that war, and 
would gladly pay any amount to recover some of them. 
I want to see the mallam who received and lodged you 
here ; and I shall report all this to the kings at Bida." 
In the afternoon, I paid him a visit at his lodging, ac- 
companied by the carriers, and other native members 
of the Expedition. We withdrew into the backyard, 
where I told him who I was, and what was my work, 
and spoke of the benevolent proceedings of the British 
Government, which seeks the welfare of every nation 
and people. The men who accompanied me being both 
Mohammedans as well as Christians, bore testimony to 
all my statements ; and Bube was so delighted that he 
rose up, took a fowl, and presented it to me, pleading 
absence from home as excuse for the smallness of the 
gift. He promised to tell Sumo Zaki and Masaba all 
he had seen and heard. I treated him also according 
to his rank, as the limited means I then had in hand 
would allow. When he got to Dukungi, the villao-e 
where he halted, he sent a message to me, to send four 
men to fetch some rice for my use ; and that I should 
pay no attention to what anybody might say to me, but 
to make myself easy. These carrier^ were slaves who 
had escaped fi'om their Portuguese ov^ers from Porto 
Novo, Whydah, and Aguey in the Biglit of Benin, and 
had taken refuge at the British consulate at Lagos, from 



196 



DIFFICULTIES REMOVED. 



whence they got passports to this place as carriers. 
These men are natives of Zanifara, Kazina, Dawura, 
Damagaran, Kano, and Zaria, in the Haussa country, 
and since their arrival here, they have fallen in with 
relatives and friends among the caravans, who have 
spent a great part of their time with them about the 
premises, talking about homes and old matters, as well 
as about their adventures since they were lost from the 
country. 

August 23 — Dr. Baikie made a trip to Rabba on a 
short visit, and left about an hour after ; I was glad 
to see him looking so well. 

August 29 — The messengers who went with Bube to 
Bida returned ; Ndeshi sent for me to hear the message. 
Ndeshi was quite justified by Sumo Zaki for building 
me the huts to live in at Rabba, and I was placed 
afresh under his care direct from the king, until they 
come in December, four months lience. Sarika-n- 
Haussa, who took cowries from Ndeshi, was severely 
reproved by the king, with a degradation never to be 
sent again on any important message. Thus the Lord 
has silenced the mouths of my enemies for a time, for 
which his Holy Name be praised. 

Apart from the soldiers, who do not and will not 
work at all, the working population of the Nupe may 
be divided into three parts, namely, the farmers, the 
canoe-men, and general tradei's. 

The farmers are the most numerous class of people 
in Nupe. They are mostly Pagans, and the most op- 
pressed of the inhabitants ; from the nature of their 
work in the fields, they are the greatest sufferers dur- 
ing the time of war, or political disturbance. Their 



DEPRESSED STATE OF THE FARMERS. 197 

produce, the results of a whole year's labour, on these 
occasions falls into the hands of the soldiers, who eat 
up every thing, as the locusts devour the grass of the 
fields. At such times, not only their produce is ex- 
posed to plunder, but their implements of husbandry 
are liable to be snatched away from them by the sol- 
diers, and sold for a few cowries, and their persons are 
also in danger ; if saleable, they are caught and sold 
into slavery, either to be immediately ransomed by 
their relatives, or to pass into perpetual slavery, either 
foreign or domestic. The only way to save themselves 
is to abandon the farms to the mercy of the soldiers, 
and keep out of the way. From these and other causes 
this people, as may be expected, always remain poor. 
Besides these disadvantages, they are subject to heavy 
taxes, which are annually exacted from them, as well 
as from constant occasional demands to meet urgent 
cases. The towns and villages are divided between the 
kings, certain persons of rank among the king's rela- 
tives, and chief officers, as their exclusive revenues. 
On the death of any of the tributary inhabitants, if he 
or she be a person of property, half of it is claimed by 
the chief to whom he is tributary, and the remainder 
is left to the family. 

In connexion with the farmers may be mentioned the 
produce of the country. In the interior, where palm- 
oil trees almost entirely cease, except now and then 
in groups on the banks of the river, and along water- 
courses or brooks, shea-butter trees take their place in 
great abundance. A large quantity of shea butter may 
be purchased in the upper parts of the Kowara at a very 
cheap rate. The next produce which may be men- 
' K 3 



198 



COTTON AND OTHER PRODUCTIONS. 



tioned is cotton, which may be grown to any amount 
if there be demand for it. At present the people grow 
but a very scanty supply for their own consumption, and 
even for that they have no large amount of pur- 
chasers. Those who weave are too much taken up with 
slave-catching, to sit long at the weaving-frame for a 
very small profit from cloth-weaving, although Nupe 
cloths are in constant demand. The next produce fit 
for European markets is the beni seed, and ground nuts, 
which may be grown to any amount if asked for ; also 
(/U7n may be obtained. Rice yams, Indian corn, guinea 
corn, of which there are two distinct kinds, Dawa 
grain and Gero grain, which are sub-divided by the 
natives under ditierent names. Vai ious kinds of beans, 
sweet potatoes, large onions, and tobacco, which is 
cured in the country way, not had. There are sheep, 
goats, fowls, not many ducks ; cows are owned by the 
Felani only at present, not by the Nupe. The people 
manufacture their own cloths and mats : the latter are 
woven by the hand in various patterns and colours, 
about three inches wide, and neatly put together. The 
women manufacture earthen pots of various sizes, 
holding from a pint to twenty gallons, for various uses. 
Persons who betake themselves to these occupations 
are mostly farmers. 

The next class of the working population is the 
watermen. They divide themselves into Batasizi, Pa- 
rongizi, and Kedezi. 

The Batasizi, from bata, swamp, are the inhabitants 
of the swamps all along the banks of the river, who 
employ their time mostly in fishing in their small canoes, 
and in a little farming, particularly the cultivation of 



TRADING CANOES. 



199 



rice; and ferrying farmers, passengers, and petty 
traders to the other side of the river. They are the 
humblest class of watsrmen in the Kowara. 

The Parongizi are owners of trading canoes. These 
very large trading canoes are constructed of broken 
pieces of canoes and rough boards, put together by iron 
nails, pointed at both ends in the shape of flat staples 
in a very rude manner. There is immense w^aste of 
nails in putting a canoe together, sufficient are used to 
build two or three boats. The crevices or joints of the 
boards are stopped by the soft cotton of the bombax 
fruit, in the room of oakum. From the rudeness of this 
imperfect construction, the canoe is always leaky, and 
constant baling is kept up by one or two of the passen- 
gers. These canoes are always deeply laden with produce, 
which they take from one market to the other, mostly 
from the upper parts of the river to the lower. They are 
propelled with bamboo poles by two or four men, or 
more, according to their sizes, especially in their ascent^ 
when they are obliged to keep as near to the bush as 
possible, to avoid the strong currents in the midst of 
the stream, as well as to have the advantage of the 
bank, trees, roots, or shrubs, upon which they strike 
their poles when they have lost the bottom. This kind 
of navigation is, of course, very tedious and laborious, 
yet, they manage to go thirteen or fifteen miles a day 
in their ascent, when the current is very strong. These 
canoes are partly housed in, some with grass roofs, but 
chiefly with mats made from the soft inside of the bam- 
boo poles, in which the trading women patiently remain 
for days, with their children and cooking utensils, which 
they take with them in their long voyage. Paddles are 



200 CANOES ORNAMENTED WITH THE FORM OF A CROSS. 

very little used in these canoes in their ascent, except 
for steering, or when they have to cross from one side 
of the river to the other, when their poles find no bot- 
tom in the midst of the stream ; but in their descent, 
with the exception of the man who steers with his 
paddle at the stern, and perhaps, another with his 
paddle at the bow, who occasionally gives it a pull, no 
further exertion is used, they sit comfortably on the 
piles of the produce, with their cloths cast about their 
body, and leave the canoe to be drifted by the cvirrent, 
because they consider it useless to exert themselves 
while the current does the work for them. 

The Kedezi are canoe- men employed by the kings. 
They are the ferrymen where there is a highway from 
one shore to the other, as Rabba, Poto, Tshua, &c. ; 
through which ports large caravans cross to and from 
Yoruba. 

The canoes with which the caravans are crossed are 
of one solid piece of wood, some fifty feet long, and 
five wide at the stern ; they are propelled with bamboo 
jjoles ; some of them would take from six to eight horses 
and donkeys with their drivers. Those owned by 
Pagans are known by a slip of white cloth besmeared 
with blood or kola nuts, used in sacrifice to propitiate 
the god of the river. Many of these canoes are orna- 
mented with various cuts in their bows : among these 
ornamental cuts, a cross is often met with, but the 
people cannot give any other account of the origin 
of the mark except that they learnt it from their 
fathers. Canoes used at the ferry are owned by 
several persons : some belong to the kings themselves, 
others lo some persons of rank, who have a shai'e in 



AMOUNT OF TOLLS. 



201 



the fare of the ferry : others again are owned by per- 
sons of some property, who hire them out in crossing 
the passengers at 2000 cowries, or one dollar, at the 
crossing of every caravan. Tshuwa Kuta, the head 
master of the ferry at this place, has the privilege of 
owning two canoes, the produce of the fare of which is 
his own, and not accounted as the kings', or among 
public revenues. The present rates of fares, as I have 
been able to ascertain, are as follows. They have often 
undergone many changes, and where there is no public 
register kept, it is difficult to arrive at the exact sums : 
they, however, shall be given as near as possible, to 
furnish some idea of the state of traffic in this part of 
the river. 

Fares at Rabba in crossing the Kowara : — 
For crossing every horse, donkey, and bullock, with 
its load and driver, 1000 cowries. 
For crossing a Haussa passenger and load, 120 cowries. 
„ a Yoruba „ „ 200 „ 

„ a Nupe trader „ ,,100 „ 

„ a Passenger without load, 50 ,, 
The canoe-men demand of every passenger for them- 
selves, independent of the general fare, 20 cowries. 

The collector of tolls at Rabba demands for every beast 
of burden with its load before crossing, 100 cowries. 

The average number of beasts of burden which are 
crossed in six months to and from Ilorin, is about 7000, 
which, at 1120 cowries a head, amount to 7,840,000 
cowries, and 2000 cowries being equal to a dollar, the 
amount of fare from beasts of burden is 3420 dollars ; 
load and foot passengers will average 20,000 at the 
fare of 98 cowries each, which would make the sum 
1,960,000 cowries : 2000 per dollar will give 980 



202 



OWNERS OF THE FERRIES. 



dollars, making a total of 4400 dollars collected at the 
ferry of Rabba in six months. Besides this place, there 
are other ferries at Poto, J egede, Tshuwa, port of Lade, 
and Ila, near Muregi, about the mouth of the Lafun, 
which all four together will bring in as much again 
about the same period of time, though some affirm it 
to be more. Thus the ferries alone will bring 8800 
dollars in the six driest months in which the Haussa 
caravans travel most. 

When the fare cowries are collected into one large 
heap, those collected by Tshuwa Kuta's two canoes, 
and the twenty cowries, the ferrymen's allowance ex- 
cepted, and after 2000, the hire of every private canoe, 
is paid off, the remainder is divided in due proportion 
between the kings and those persons of rank who are 
entitled to have a share in these fares. 

Kuta is the title of the first rank, or master of all 
the ferries ; Showode is the next in rank to Kuta ; 
Egba is the third; Tshiowa, which means an heir 
or first-born of Kuta, who by way of corrupt pro- 
nunciation, is called Tshuwa Kuta, now master of the 
ferry at Rabba, holds the fourth rank, with many 
under officers. These are naval officers of Nupe, 
their goodwill is very much regarded by the kings, be- 
cause the strength or weakness of a king very much 
depends upon their allegiance or disafiection, therefore 
great care is taken to give them no needless ofl'ence. 
When leaving Bida last year for Rabba, Sumo Zaki 
gave us instructions to pay them due respect, for they 
were his strength and support ; certainly he had cause 
for the caution, for he owed in part his expulsion from 
Rabba to their disaflFection. The canoes of the chiefs, 
which are the same as those used in the ferry, are 



HUNTERS OF HIPPOPOTAMI. 



203 



paddled by from ten to sixteen persons, all in a stand- 
ing posture, with their paddles about ten feet in length, 
which serve also as poles when water is shallow ; when 
pulling together, the handles of these paddles cross one 
another in such a regular manner that it is not un- 
pleasant at first sight. The ferrymen are also fisher- 
men, and hunters of hippopotami, whose skulls are 
always piled up on scaffolds made for that purpose ; 
and sometimes the bones are piled up on the ground in 
front of the fetish house, among which were skulls and 
bones of other creatures, which the naturalists recog- 
nised as those of a manatis, called Anagbaxun by the 
Nupes. A great many of these bones are still lying 
about on the ground selected for our intended Mission 
station at Rabba. The villagers of Lushi, Bere, and 
Mbele, are chief hunters and fishermen. The kings 
claim all hippopotami killed in the river, and some fish, 
periodically. Tshuwa Kuta takes an active part in 
killing hippopotami also, which is done at night when 
the river is low, from March to July. The hippopotami 
are waylaid in their frequent grazing banks on which 
they land at night, when they are attacked with a great 
many harpoons provided with floats and long cords, so 
that the beast will be secured though it may get into 
the river before killed. After the three villages had 
contributed their shares, Tshuwa Kuta loaded four 
large canoes of hippopotami flesh, and twelve of smoke- 
dried fish, which he sent to Bida during the Laya 
feast. 

Nupe traders are those who have very little to do 
with farming, or with the working of canoes, but pur- 
sue, as their chief business, buying and selling with 



204 TRADE CARRIED ON BY WOMEN. 

little profits. Among these the women are the most 
active ; they not only deal in cloths of native manu- 
facture, but also in such European goods as they can 
purchase from traders from the coast. The men, many 
of whom are weavers as well as tailors, deal mostly in 
tobes, shirts, trousers, country cloths, and other gar- 
ments used by men ; whereas the women are mostly 
engaged in country cloths and caps for both sexes, 
beads and other like articles in the shape of jewellery. 

The women are the most active traders in produce, 
such as yams, Indian and Guinea corn, beans, plan- 
tains, calabashes, cotton, &c., which they purchase from 
the farmers, and load in their large hired canoes, which 
are to be met with in every part of the river, going 
from one market to another. The female population 
may be said to be the life of trade in this country, they 
are industrious and indefatigable. Tell them you want 
any article, if they are sure it will meet with a ready 
sale, the market will be glutted with it in a short time. 
A saving club, called Dasi, is practised by the Nupe as 
by the Yorubas, but chiefly by the females, whereas in 
Yoruba it is maintained by both sexes. 

A great deal of labour is entailed on the women : on 
them solely devolves the care of their childi-en, to feed 
and clothe from childhood until they are able to render 
their mothers a little assistance if they are females, or 
if they are boys, till the fathers claim theii- help in the 
farms, if they be farmers. With such a charge upon 
them, without help, havhig to labour hard in bearing 
burdens, for they are the cliief carriers of loads, grind- 
ing corn upon the millstones, many times till late hours 
of the night, beguiling the tediuos labour by their mill 



y THEIR LABORIOUS LIFE. 205 

songs ; which labour is again resumed at an early hour 
of the morning, preparing the flour into meal, retailing 
the same in the market, or hawking it about the town 
from house to house, and providing their husbands with 
food from it; it is no wonder that they are soon worn out, 
and a female of thirty years of age has an appearance 
of forty. The most distressing part of the whole is, 
that in time of war, when these poor women are 
unfortunate enough not only to lose their own liberty, 
but also that of their children, the additional care of 
procuring a ransom for themselves and their children, 
adds ten-fold more to their already heavy burdens. 
During the war which terminated in the subjugation 
of Umoru, thousands of families had been brought into 
slavery by it, which added not a little to their painful 
toils. Very little is done by the husband to ransom so 
many wives and children ; the consequence is, every 
woman must see after herself and her children, the best 
way she can, to prevent their being sold into fox'eign 
slavery ; hence they have no other means but to have 
recourse to the system of pawning, as is done in Yoruba. 
One example here will suffice. 

Fatumo, the aged mother of our good friend Da - 
ganna, the Galadima at Gbebe at the Confluence, was 
met here, living in the village of Kawura, about a 
day's journey from Rabba ; she had the misfortune to 
have three nieces under her care, who were caucht 
during the Umoru war : her son being afar off at the 
Confluence, she had no help, there was no alternative, 
these children were to be sold northward by the way of 
the desert, or westwai'd down to the coast if ihey were 
not forthwith ransomed. In this dilemma she could 



206 



METHOD OF TAKING HONEY. 



not do otherwise than sell all she had that was saleable, 
and then have recourse to a loan of cowries to make up 
the amount required. Two of the children were put in 
pawn for 20,000 cowries each, their labour was taken 
for the interest till the principal could be paid, and she 
herself was pawn for another 20,000, for which she 
had to pay the interest of 30 cowries a-day, making 
210 cowries per week. Since we had been cast up 
here, she had been actively at work, selling yams, rice, 
rice flour, and such articles as we needed, and by small 
helps from us, she had almost cleared up her debts 
when I last saw her. We should have been glad to 
release her at once, in consideration of the assistance 
we had so many times received from her son, if our 
means could have admitted of so doing. Honey is an 
article of trade among the women, and may be got at 
any time of the year in Nupe, because there are always 
some trees or herbs in flower at which bees may be seen 
in great numbers busily collecting the rich store, but 
chiefly, honey is plentiful from February to May, when 
all trees are in fresh foliage, and many bearing sweet- 
scented flowers, the fragrance of which is perceived at 
a great distance in the direction of the wind ; the scent 
of the shea-butter flowers is very strong. To insure a 
large and good collection, the natives procure large 
earthern pots or pitchers, open on one side in addition 
to the mouth, which they place between the forks of 
large trees such as the locust or shea-butter trees. 
These serve for hives, in which a large quantity of 
honey will soon be collected by the industrious bees ; 
when the collector comes at night, he surprises the bees 
with torches or lighted grass, when they fly away, he 



THE HORSE NOT KNOWN. 



207 



then takes possession of their stores ; having emptied 
the contents, the pots are set up again. These pots may- 
be seen about on the trees in the fields in great num- 
bers. Some honey is very rich and sweet, but some 
rather inferior, especially if not allowed sufficient time 
to come to maturity. 

None of the natives south of the Kowara, throughout 
Yoruba to the Bio-hts of Benin and Biafra, use horses, 
donkeys, and bullocks, as beasts of burden, only for 
riding. In the Bight of Biafra, it appears, horses 
are not even known. The first that was ever 
seen, as related by Mr. Hutchinson at Old Cala- 
bar, was introduced by the palm-oil merchants as 
a present to one of the kings. The natives could 
not find a name for it, and it has been called the 
white man's cow. In the Ibo country it is known, but 
not used. Horses must have been introduced from the 
Haussa country through Nupe and Borgu into the 
Yoruba country, as they are continually being brought 
down to this day by hundreds, with bullocks and 
donkeys, to Ilorin, where they are sold into various 
parts of Yoruba. By the Haussa and other nations in the 
north, horses, donkeys, mules, and bullocks are used 
as beasts of burden, and for riding also. Nupe has 
not yet followed the example of the Haussa in using 
these creatures as beasts of burden. Camels are not 
in Nupe, nor in the Yoruba country ; except such as 
may be brought and owned by the kings as a curiosity. 
If there be need anywhere for a humane society for 
the protection of domestic animals, it is more especially 
needful in this country. From bad management in 
making pads for these poor creatures which have to 



208 



CRUELTY TO ANIMALS. 



carry heavy loads, from 200 to 300 miles or more, and 
from poor feeding, the backs and sides of these beasts 
are sadly galled and deeply cut, so much so, that the 
sight of them excites pity in every person havinu any 
feelings at all, except from the owners, who, from habit 
and familiarity with these cruel usages, think very 
little of them. The thumps which the creatures con- 
stantly receive from the thoughtless boy-drivers, with 
large sticks in their hands, are very often unbearable to 
witness, and several times when close by, I had to 
interfere in defence of the poor dumb creatures. 

The time of crossing them over the Kowara in large 
canoes is a scene of barbarity and confusion ; the 
strangeness of the water and canoes, and the con- 
fused noise, at which the donkeys, and especially the 
bullocks, take fright, and become obstinate, often 
calls forth a more severe beating and thumping 
to compel them to yield, enough to make one's heart 
ache to witness. Often bullocks got furious, and be- 
come untractable. Once a bullock knocked down his 
driver into the water as he was being led to be shipped 
in a canoe ; this provoked a violent fit of laughter from 
the bye-standers, instead of help. The animal swam 
across the narrow passage, and bounded away into the 
fields, where he was sought for, and led back to the 
river, and instead of being embarked, he was floated 
across. In some cases, the poor creatures are landed 
just in time to cut their throats to save them from being 
a total loss to the owner. Bones of dead horses, donkeys, 
and bullocks, left behind to die in their camps, being 
sick or weary, and unable to bear their burdens, 
or to go any farther, are sure signs that the Haussa 



THEIR WOUNDS SEARED. 



209 



caravans have passed that way ; many such have been 
left to perish at Rabba, instead of killing them at once. 
A horse and a donkey Avere thus left behind on the 
sand-banks in the midst of the river, and they were 
each a full week before they died from sheer starvation. 
I believe a little care and food would have saved and 
restored them to use : some such have been purchased 
for a trifle by the people of Rabba, and saved and 
rendered useful again. 

To ease or benumb the dreadful galls on the backs 
of these animals, they are held tight by several 
persons, and the sore is burnt with a red-hot iron over 
night : thus the animal is prepared to bear the load of 
another day. If the same care were taken of these 
beasts of burden as is taken of war-horses to catch 
slaves, or of those kept for pleasure and fame, one can- 
not but come to the conclusion that the Haussa, with the 
use of their beasts, would improve the mode of convey- 
ance in this part of the country. Goats and sheep are 
also driven here all the way from Kano, but not in 
great numbers — they suffer less, because they bear no 
burdens, and are more tractable. The constant passing 
of caravans through Rabba from Kano to Ilorin renders 
that place a most important central position of commu- 
nication between Haussa and Yoruba. It forms quite a 
new starting-point for further exploration of the upper 
parts of the Kowara or Jolliba. A trading settlement 
at Rabba would bring a vast population of the interior 
into acquaintance with the Anasaras, of whom so many 
and strange stories have been told and carried about 
without means of contradiction. It is an easy journey 
of a few days to Bousa above the rapids, and prepara- 



210 



ORIGIN OF RABBA. 



tion either of boats or large canoes could conveniently be 
made at the depot at Rabba for such an exploration, 
instead of at the Confluence below. From Rabba, by 
a judicious plan of communication, letters could be sent 
and received by every returning mail. As a Missionary 
station, it would be a connecting point between Yoruba 
and Haussa, and a stride into a Mohammedan country, 
under a direct Mohammedan government, and, through 
God's blessing, may be a position to diffuse the light of 
the glorious Gospel of Christ into this part of Africa. 

On inquiring the origin of the name of Rabba, a tra- 
dition was related to me as follows : — There was a pre- 
vious people of Nupe ; but once a man named Shorgede 
came by a canoe from the Ata of Igara, and made his 
abode at Rabba. He died and left a female child whose 
name was Laba. When she grew up, not wishing 
to quit the burying-place of her father, she collected 
clay with her own hands to build a house upon the 
spot. After a little time she was married to a man of 
Igara, whereby she was distinguished from other per- 
sons of that name, by being called Laba si Gara or 
Laba Ga. When any one was going to the village he 
would say, I am going to Laba Ga or to Laba ; which, 
in course of time, was corrupted into Rabba, There 
were two villages near each other which went by the 
same name, but distinguished thus, Labako, or the large 
Laba village, and Labagi, the small Laba village ; but, 
in course of time, as the population increased, both were 
merged into one Laba, as many still continue to pro- 
nounce it. 

Moko, properly pronounced Mokuwa, about four or 
five miles from Rabba, was formerly a farm village be- 



UNCERTAIN EXCHANGE OF COWRIES. 



211 



longing to it. When any one died in the farm, the body 
used to be brought to Rabba for burial ; but as it al- 
ways involved a great expense, the practice was dis- 
continued, and burials were made in the farm at Moko, 
and it became a separate village. 

Cowries are used in Nupe as a medium of circulation. 
Dollars are asked for to beat into rings and bracelets 
by those who are able to afford such things. As cowries 
are much higher here, fewer are paid in exchange for 
a dollar than on the coast, or even as at Ilorin. At 
Lagos, where cowries are cheap, a dollar is exchanged 
for 4000 ; at Ilorin, for about 3000 ; and beyond the 
Kowara, they will not give more than 2,500; and many 
times 2000 cowries are offered, and even this by the 
kings or chief persons, only for making into rings or 
bracelets ; therefore very little dependence can be placed 
upon changing of dollars into cowries to any great 
amount here for the present. 

Having been about twelve months stationary on the 
banks of the Kowara, and having had opportunities of 
noticing its different changes during that period, a brief 
account of them may not be improper. 

We fairly commenced our ascent of the Niger on the 
10th of July, 1857, taking in tow a sailing schooner 
deeply laden with merchandize, drawing eight feet 
water. We arrived at Abo op the 20th, and at Onitsha 
on the 25th, where goods were landed for the settle- 
ment ; on the 5th of August we reached Idda, and the 
Confluence on the 10th, where the schooner was left 
at the trading settlement. Through the whole way 
there was sufficient water for the ships, except when 
the channel was missed and we ran on shoal water. 



212 



PROGRESS OF THE EXPEDITION. 



On the 27th of August the " Day-spring" commenced 
her ascent of the Kowara with sufficient water, 
drawing six feet when deep with wood. On the 12th 
of September she anchored about thirteen miles up the 
Lafun, a tributary stream to the Kowara, about 200 
yards wide, with plenty of water, from three to five 
fathoms in the middle of the stream, which was always 
avoided on account of a strong current which ran about 
three or four knots per hour, the power of the " Day- 
spring" not being sufficient to stem it and advance. 
On the 22nd September we anchored off the ruins of 
Rabba, where we remained a fortnight ; the river being 
then about its height when we sailed for a further 
ascent on the 6th of October; the accident took place 
on the 7th. The sandbank on which we landed was 
only partially uncovered on the highest point, over 
which the water never gained after our landing 
on it; a plain proof that the river had come to its 
height last year when we landed there. From this 
time the river seemed to remain stationary for about a 
week, when it began slowly to fall. About the middle 
of February it had fallen six feet, and about the end of 
that month there was a slight rise of about twelve 
inches, which the natives called Yangbe, they had told 
us of it before, and they always expect this rise every 
year. On being asked the cause of it in the middle of 
the dry season when there is no rain, the only answer 
which could be given was, that the Edu, the Nupe name 
for the Kowara, disdains being supplied by rain water, 
as it is able to supply itself when it pleases. Either 
there must have been a supply of rain about the source 
of the river at that season of the year, or some sub- 



FALL OF THE RIVER. 



213 



terraneous communications with springs which con- 
tributed to the rise. After this, the river remained 
stationary till about the beginning of April, when a 
final but rapid fall began. During the months of 
April and May the river may be said to fall, but in 
June and July it dries up fast. Sandbanks, which had 
been concealed to the end of May, appear in every di- 
rection, so that even canoes which used to go over all, 
must take heed to follow the zig-zag channels from one 
point of the sandbanks to the other, unless when they 
come to deep pits where there is plenty of water, and 
these extend to no very great distance, when they are 
again obstructed in their line by steep banks of sands 
and shallows. In June the Kowara dried up so fast 
that people crossed in the midst of the stream from one 
sandbank to another, and but for a small strip of deep 
water between, the river might be crossed by wading 
to the opposite shore. Bullocks are taken across partly 
by wading, and when they come to deep water, they 
are floated till they find bottom again. This narrow 
deep passage is about 300 yards wide, and about twelve 
feet deep at the driest time right opposite the cliflF, 
where a steamer might be safely anchored if kept up 
here during the fall of the water. More than two- 
thirds of the Kowara were left quite dry in extensive 
sandbanks. On the 5th of June I walked about on 
these sandbanks in the midst of the stream, which con- 
tinued to dry off. On the 3rd of J uly I went again on 
the sandbanks, when 1 perceived that the Kowara began 
to spring, the same having been observed about Jeba 
in the narrow creek on the ^8th of June. The natives 
told us many times at the camp, about the middle of 

L 



214 



UNCERTAINTY OF ITS RISE. 



February, that they did not expect the great rise of the 
water till about four moons' time, which they calculated 
to be about the time the gero corn is ripe, which 
was not then sown. At any other time we might be 
inclined to acknowledge that the natives ought to know 
the river better than we, they having witnessed its rise 
and fall year after year ; but at this time, in our present 
anxious state to get away, such an informant, from 
the people in the camp, could only be looked on as 
a foolish and ignorant person. Mr. Laird's calcu- 
lation was looked upon in a more favourable light, that 
about the middle of J une the " Dayspring" ought to 
be able to cross the rapids of Bousa, and that the 
" Sunbeam " was to be expected at the Confluence 
about the 10th of March; these conjectures were more 
favourable to read over and believe, than to take the 
words of the natives, which tended much to discourage. 
But time shewed who was right. The gero corn was 
sown in April, it grew ripe, and was cut in July, when 
the Kowara was observed seemingly to rise two inches. 
There are certainly instances when the words of the 
natives may be cast aside as useless, especially when 
tinged with superstition, or being the result of igno- 
rance ; but when they inform from actual knowledge, 
and long experience, their words ought to be regarded, 
or else we make ourselves to be as fools before them. 
Though the Kowara began to spring, and alternately to 
rise and fall in July, August is the proper time to cal- 
culate upon its rise without any danger of mistake : it 
may be navigated by a suitable steam-boat to the end 
of March. There are many superstitious and ignorant 
ideas about this river entertained by the Nupes. It is 



SUPERSTITION OF THE NATIVES. 215 

believed that the Edu (the Kowara) is the mother of 
all rivers, to which all the small ones give the head ; 
that when the gero corn is ripe, and the first-fruits of 
the new grains are offered to it, then it is propitiated, 
and immediately it begins to rise rapidly as in answer 
to prayers, independent of any supplies from rain-water, 
of which there has been but very little in this part of 
the Nupe country to the fii'st week in July. The people 
worship the manes of the dead, the spirits of whom are 
personified under a mask, as is done in Yoruba; in fact, 
it is asserted both by Nupe and Yoruba that the latter 
adopted this god of the dead from the former, as well 
as that of thunder and lightning. The masquerader, or 
the Gunuko of the Nupe, is of an enormous height, 
from twelve to fifteen feet, raised by means of light 
bamboo poles, whereas that of the Yoruba is about the 
ordinary height of the masquerader. These dance 
about from village to village and receive cowries. They 
exercise some tyrannical influence over the people dur- 
ing the time of their appearance. Crocodiles are wor- 
shipped in some parts of the country, especially at Moko 
village, at the head spring of the brook which runs 
through the ruins of Rabba into the Kowara ; there 
they are fed, and are become so tame that they are 
pushed with the hand to give way for the people to 
take water : also at Denbon they are held sacred, but 
at the Kowara they are not so : perhaps those con- 
sidered sacred may be a particular species. 

The sugar-loaf rocky-peak Ketsa is an object of much 
superstitious worship. The chief-priest and his assis- 
tant-priest are forbidden to put on tobes when per- 
forming worship before the shrine, and in the cave of 
L 2 



216 



ORIGIN OF THE CANOE. 



the rock, nor are they allowed to use any red clothing : 
every woman having a red head-band on when passing 
by in a canoe must take it off till she is at a great dis- 
tance. To this god sacrifices of bullocks are made, 
which are sent by different chiefs according to their 
rank, especially by the kings of Nupe at the beginning 
of their reign : and I have been often told that Sumo 
Zaki and Dasaba, pei'haps from policy to keep the 
people quiet, have contributed their shares also ; sheep 
are also sacrificed. Brahima, my Nupe teacher, him- 
self now professing Mohammedanism, very gravely 
told me, that the two brazen figures which were stand- 
ing in front of the fetish house at Jeba were in olden 
time brought there by the Yorubas. There were 1500 
of them when they started with these figures, that be- 
fore they reached Jeba only 140 of them remained, the 
rest died on the way : the survivors would go no fur- 
ther, so they made Jeba their home, and their offspring 
in time mingled with the Nupes, which are now called 
Gbedegi. This may account in part for the necessity 
of the priest of Ketsa knowing something of the Yoruba 
language, to qualify him for his sacred office. He also 
told me what gave the first idea of a canoe. There was 
at one time a large bombax tree which fell on the river, 
when it was dry, in the holes about this tree a rat 
brought forth her young ones ; as the water began to 
rise, they were in danger, so the old rat took her young 
ones and put them in an open pod of the bombax fruit 
which is very much like a weaver's shuttle, and swam 
with them to shore by pushing the pod with her mouth 
before her. Some one who stood on shore at the time ob- 
served this, and thus originated the idea of canoe-niaking. 



SYSTEM OF PRESENTS. 



217 



The god of hunting is worshipped particularly by the 
hunters ; it is called Egiin, which is the same as Ogiin 
of the Yoruba, before the shrines of which the heads of 
particular animals killed in hunting are offered. 

The god of thunder and lightning is worshipped, it 
is called Sokoo;ba: though it is said to have been 
adopted from the Nupes by the Yorubas, yet it is not 
so much worshipped by the former as by the latter. Of 
the Yoruba, it may be truly said, " In all things, I per- 
ceive that ye are too superstitious ; ' this is often re- 
marked by themselves. 

The system of presents or gifts is a most difficult 
work to a stranger. It is an established system in this 
country, and very much practised by persons of rank, 
and therefore to keep to the custom of the comitry, and 
to take a judicious step in order to ensure success in the 
object one has in view, this practice must be yielded to 
for a time, for if injudiciously fought against at the be- 
ginning, one may prepare for nothing else but annoy- 
ance, deceit, slander, and all kinds of difficulties. Un- 
like civilized countries, one cannot see a chief or king 
for the first time or so, with intention to enter into any 
matter of importance, without first exchanging presents, 
of which the stranger's must be the greatest. A per- 
son's influence or reputation is judged of here by the 
attendants and subjects of the chiefs or kings, by the 
amount of presents he can make to their master ; and 
to witness this, many idle persons, who have very little 
or nothing to do, will enter the place of audience, and 
continue there till the whole is concluded, that they 
may be able to spread the news abroad of the import- 
ance or otherwise of the stranger. The first report 



218 CHARACTER ESTIMATED BY GIFTS. 



carried about of him establishes his character among the 
people, and it may be the means of getting him into 
favour or disrepute. By means of freeness in giving 
presents, one chief gets the upper hand of the other : he 
who gives out more, of course, gains the favour of the 
people : his character otherwise is taken very little into 
account. 

The store of the white man is considered inexhaus- 
tible, especially as he is reported about the country, and 
believed to be of a people to whom God has given his 
portion in this world, and therefore he must have 
abundance to give away, and that to everybody : hence 
the frequent petty presents of a pot of beer, a fowl, a 
goat, or sheep, to draw out of him ten times the value ; 
and if the retui'n does not meet their high expectations, 
the party leaves much dissatisfied, as if the pot of beer 
or the fowl had been thrown away. However, this 
is very easily remedied. A few cases excepted, from 
policy, to refuse presents from pretended friends flatly, 
and to offer to purchase them at the market price, will 
keep many others from coming. 1 had recourse to this 
plan at Rabba, and found it work most effectually, and 
it saved me from endless trouble in receiving and giv- 
ing presents, which I could not do to the satisfaction of 
my new friends, from my limited means, having to de- 
pend upon the sale of needles and small looking-glasses 
to obtain cowries to get my daily meal. I shall give an 
instance or two of this. 

Soon after my arrival here, I received many vis'ts 
from the inhabitants, with whom I exchanged presents. 
Among them was a woman who brought me ten balls 
of a country meal, called sondokoria, as I was at work 



TROUBLESOME COURTESIES. 



219 



in the front of the huts with the labourers, levelling the 
ground. I could not think at the time what to give her 
in return : she waited till the next day, when I gave 
her a paper containing twenty-five needles, about the 
value of her present of sondokoria ; she returned the 
needles with contempt, and said she could do nothing 
with them. Fortunately, I had not given all the sondo- 
koria away to my men, so I called for the remainder, 
and offered to pay her the value if she would only tell 
me what they were worth. I would have returned 
them according to Dr. Davies' advice if I had not al- 
ready given four to my labourers to eat. I told her I 
did not know how to eat her sondokoria, but had re- 
ceived it out of regard for her kindness, so she ought 
to have received my needles and have given them away 
if she could do nothing with them, just as I did. When 
she saw that I was serious in my intention, and not ex- 
pecting to get anything else, she was ashamed and per- 
plexed, and began to beg my pardon, requesting me to 
keep the sondokoria, as she gave them because I was a 
mallam, as her father was ; so I took my needles back, 
and sent her away empty-handed — everybody thought 
I was right in the case. 

A long time after this, a man, followed by half-a- 
dozen lazy men, came to pay me a visit, with a small 
fowl for a present. I refused it on the ground that I 
was not able to make him a return such as would sa- 
tisfy him, but said that I would buy the fowl from him : 
he replied that he was above selling fowls, and could 
not think of doing so, and urged me to receive it as a 
present from him. I refused it, and told my servant 



220 



POWER OF THE MESSENGERS. 



to return itto him, which he did. After awhile he gave it 
back, and assured me he gave it to me without expect- 
ing any return. I told him that I could not think of 
receiving a present from a Nupe without making a re- 
turn. He said his case was different, and begged me 
to receive it, which I did, and told him that if he were 
patient, when the ship came I should be able to have 
something suitable to present to him, so he left my huts 
with his followers. Just about sunset, this man sent a 
messenger to take back the fowl which he had given 
me, which, of course, I was glad to return, as I was no 
longer his debtor. Afterwards, I heard him blaming 
Henry, my interpreter, saying that it was he who had 
dissuaded me from giving^ him presents, as I had that 
day given to Dasaba's son. 

With the messengers of the kings or chiefs one can- 
not dispense with giving of presents, either m cowries 
or any other article. They subsist upon what may be 
given them during the time they are bearing the king's 
message, as they are never provided with more than a 
few cowries before starting. The presents on these 
occasions are to be dealt out according to the standing 
of the messengers, the message he, bears, or the presents 
he may be the bearer of to the person to whom he is 
sent ; this must be left to the judgment of the receiver, 
but great care must be taken to avoid these messengers 
carrying a bad impression of one's unkindness, because 
they can do a great deal of good, if properly treated ; 
and likewise immense mischief by their evil-speaking 
both to the chiefs or to the kings by whom they are 
sent, as well as among the people. To such messengers 



PREDICriONS OF THE MALLAMS. 



221 



I would advise good treatment and kind attention as 
representatives of their masters, who act the same part 
to our messengers. 

The return of the kings to rebuild Rabba has been 
in contemplation for the last twelve months ; when we 
visited Bida, it was said then that they were about to 
remove thither in two months' time, which would have 
been in November, or, at the latest, December ; but 
various causes combined to delay the accomplishment 
of this most desirable object, of which the following 
seemed most to weigh with them. Some time in the 
early part of this year, it was reported that the mallams 
had looked into their book, and predicted many evils 
which would arise out of the re-building of Rabba as 
the seat of Government, that it would only last three 
years after it had been re-inhabited. Oilier places, as 
Guzan, Gata, Zima, and Tatu, were suggested as the 
new seat of Government ; but their fate was predicted 
by the mallams as follows, and the people believed these 
predictions : — 

That Rabba would be destroyed after its re-building 
in the course of three years. 

That Guzan, a little below Rabba, would be destroyed 
after building in three years. 

That Gata, near Ezigi, below Rabba, would be de- 
stroyed in three years. 

That Zima, near Lafun, would be destroyed in eight 
years. 

Tatu, about five days' journey from Rabba, and two 
and a half from Bida, was finally fixed upon, and con- 
sidered as a more lucky place. 

Notwithstanding these predictions, the hearts of 
L 3 



222 



MODE OF RAISING SUPPLIES. 



the kings were towards their old residences. Sumo 
Zaki was for Rabba, and his brother Dasaba with 
him ; although Dasaba had preference for his old 
town. Lade, if he had been left to have his choice ; but, 
from policy, he consented to act according to his 
brother's wishes. Among other obstacles which px'e- 
vented their removal during the last dry season, was a 
want of presents to dismiss the messengers and escort 
from Sokoto; taxes of cowries, cloths, and garments 
were imposed upon their subjects, but they would not 
cover the expenses; then war was declared against an 
independent tribe north-east of Nupe, called Gbari, to 
enable them to procure a sufficient supply of slaves to 
meet their demands. The escort from Sokoto was also 
present in the camp against the Gbaris, and nearly all 
the slaves caught by the soldiers of Sumo Zaki and 
Dasaba were taken away from them on the spot, and 
claimed by the escort for the Sultan. After many losses 
of lives on both sides, the Ramadan fast brought them 
back to Bida, when the escort and messengers left with 
as many slaves and other things as they could collect 
as presents to the Sultan. They were accompanied 
half-way by Dasaba and Umoru Sin-aba, generally 
known by the title of Daudu, a nephew of Sumo Zaki, 
who had played many a double-dealing trick during 
the revolution which caused the ruin of Rabba and 
Lade, and ultimately the downfall of the rebel 
Unioru, for whom Umoru Sin-aba professed intimate 
friendship. It is affirmed that the rebel Umoru was 
subdued through the exertions of his pretended friend 
Sin-aba; and that when taken alive in the river, Sin- 
aba pleaded for his life, but it was not granted. 



IRREGULAR GOVERNMENT. 



223 



There were various conjectures how far Dasaba 
would reach with the Sokoto messengei's. Many af- 
firmed that he would go direct to Sokoto and see the 
Sultan himself, and have his matter decided person- 
ally ; but his brother. Sumo Zaki, did not like his visit- 
ing the Sultan, because he was afraid he would gain 
the Sultan's favour to be made king through the large 
presents which he was well able to make, and this 
would weigh with the Sultan more than any thing else; 
but as long as Daudu was with him, he could not easily 
accomplish the visit to Sokoto without some opposition. 
I have also been told that the Government of the Nupe 
country was about being disputed by another Umoru, 
residing at Zaria, of royal blood, of the former Sultan 
of Sokoto. That, properly speaking, neither Sumo Zaki 
nor Dasaba had right to the Government of Nupe ; that 
their father, Mallam Dendo, was allowed to govern 
Nupe merely by way of compliment or favour ; and 
that, after his death, none of his children had right to 
claim the throne, not being of royal blood ; that Umoru 
of Zaria sympathized with the rebel Umoru, whose 
soldiers had fled to Zaria and joined his army, he or- 
dered all the weapons and other things taken from 
Dasaba to be restored, and others of his own to be pro- 
vided ; that on hearing of Dasaba's move towards Gondu 
and Sokoto, he sent persons to Kabi and Kambari, hos- 
tile tribes to oppose his passage. Dasaba and Daudu 
halted a long time at a town called Laba of Kambari, 
after the messengers and escorts had passed on to 
Sokoto, from whence they returned to Bida for the Laya 
feast. In this ujisettled state of affairs, the princes of 
the Nupe kings who had been promised a share in the 



224 



PRIDE OF THE FELANIS, 



government of the country, have very little to do but 

to wait the issue of things. The female children of the 
Nupe kings were allowed to return to their old towns 
and villages, from which they had been scattered by the 
Umoru war. During these revolutions, which ruined 
many people, and brought much distress into the 
country, the female members of the king's families 
were great sufferers ; they were caught as slaves like 
other people, and their property plundered ; however, 
on their being recognized as children of the Nupe kings, 
they were released, but their properties were lost ; so, 
with the exception of the gain of their liberty, they lost 
everything ; but many who were not timely known be- 
longing to the kings were sold away. We have had 
visits from many of these princesses, who, though they 
were very pooi*, yet tried to keep up themselves as 
people of rank. From policy, as well as from charity, 
we were obliged to deal out our little stock of presents 
to them also, as far as they would go. 

The pride of the Felanis is very great, and it is very 
much fostered by their religion, as well as by their being 
the masters of a vast territory in the central parts of 
Africa. The Felani thinks there is no nation so powerful 
as his own, and that no other people surpasses in holi- 
ness, except the inhabitants of Mecca itself. All nations 
subject to the Felanis, whether they profess Moham- 
medanism or not, are called harbe, slaves ; if Pagans^ 
they are called black kaferi, or blind harbe, these are 
considered as given to them by God to serve them as 
rewards of their faithfulness as his servants; hence 
their constant demands upon the poor kaferis for cow- 
ries and produce have become very oppressive, m which 



HABITS OF PLUNDER. 



225 



they shew no pity. The particularity they observe in 
the choice of their food is so well known, that it is use- 
less to repeat it. They would not eat food pi-epared by 
a heathen male cook, but if by a female, it is welcome. 
On one occasion, desiring to entertain, as far as lay 
in our power, a youth who visited our camp as a 
son of Dasaba, Dr. Baikie ordered the meal which 
was in the course of preparation for some of the Fe- 
lani visitors, to be given to this youth and his at- 
tendants ; but without making any apology as against 
his creed to eat it, the food was taken to the water- 
side, and there given to our own Krumen to eat, 
and the vessels sent back ; the reason assigned was, 
because we never said Bisimilahi when we killed 
an animal, and, besides this, the meal was pre- 
pared by a male cook instead of by a female. This 
one example opened our eyes, and we never again re- 
peated such an intended act of kindness or hospitality 
to a Felani visitor. 

Very often some of the sons or nephews ofthe Sul- 
tan of Sokoto, or of the Felani kings of Nupe, go about 
the country, with a number of savage followers,, plun- 
dering the roads or the markets, by taking away what- 
ever smted them best, whether cowries, goods, produce, 
or cattle. While Mr. Glover was staying a few days 
with me at Rabba, one of these rovers, who gave him- 
self out as a son of Mallam Alelu of Gondu, and brother 
to the Sultan of Sokoto, paid us a visit in the mission 
huts, with head and mouth muffled up with a very 
filthy turban. We introduced him to Hamodu, a Futa 
Jallo, Mr. Glover's Arabic interpreter; but I shall never 



226 



ROVING PRINCES. 



forget the contempt with which this youth treated Ha- 
modu, his own countryman, perhaps because he thought 
he did not pay him such respect as he ought to have 
done, being a son of the Mallam, and brother to the 
gi'eat Sultan ; and the contempt almost grew into pas- 
sion by Hamodu's examining the sword borne by the 
followers of this youth, which he drew out of its sheath. 
Their conversation was quite as different as that of the 
Yoruba is from the Egbas or Ijebu; and the youth with 
his high comiection seemed to be very poor in his edu- 
cation, for he could not converse with Hamodu in 
Arabic, nor have I yet met with any of the sons of the 
Nupe kings who have so advanced their education. I 
presented this youth with a round looking-glass on a 
stand, for which I received no thanks ; and when he left 
our verandah, which was on a sudden, there was no 
good-bye said. 

Another visitor soon followed as a son of the Sultan 
himself, who fell upon the Haussa caravan and took 
cowries and some merchandize from it : so, in whatever 
road, town, or village any of these roving princes are 
heard to be, that road, town, or village must be avoided 
by everybody who has any regard for his property, be- 
cause, when once seized by their followers, there is no 
chance of recovering it. In this way, all the earnings 
of many months are taken away in a moment by order 
of the prince, who has a right to take anything from 
those whom he regards as his slaves. Had the Sultan 
or the kings settled a certain allowance on their chiefs, 
officers, and children, these acts of oppression would 
have ceased from distressing the country. But many 



DIRTY HABITS OF THE PEOPLE. 227 



people say, that neither the Sultan nor the kings are 
aware of these evil practices, or the offender would be 
severely punished for them. 

Our dresses are looked upon as poor, because they 
are not flowing as those of the natives ; considering 
what they have heard of the riches of the Anasara they 
believe that we have, but do not know how to enjoy our 
possessions. From, our liberal disposition to all, as well 
as from our own circumstances in the camp, when we 
were obliged to barter some fine cloths for food, they 
almost look upon us as very foolish people, with this 
exception, that we know something of book-reading. 
Very often I heard the name of Anasara mentioned 
with contempt, as a people who have no lands to build 
upon, and are therefore compelled to move about in 
ships all their days. But our detention in the country 
by the wreck of the " Day spring," and the delay of 
the " Sunbeam," has very much connected their wrong 
idea of us. Many have since seen and known more 
about us, and have not only acknowledged the superi- 
ority of the Anasara in every respect, but, if there were 
a chance of doing so, would conform to our practices. 
Notwithstanding the pride of the people on account of 
their flowing dresses, it is a reproach to them all that 
they go about in them in a most filthy and disgusting 
state ; they are never washed from the time they are 
made and put on, to the time they are worn thread- 
bare, and they are the receptaicles for all kinds of ver- 
min, which they are not ashamed to pick out from their 
garments even when in company, when admonished by 
those tormenting creatures that their garments need 
ablution as well as their hands, feet, and other parts of 



228 OBJECTIONS TO WASHING CLOTHES. 



their body before prayer. Even tbeir ablutions are an 
abomination, especially as they are promiscuously per- 
formed by both sexes in the sight of each other on the 
edge of the Kowara : a description of them would in- 
sult the pure heart of a Christian ; it is a violation of 
the law of decency, sanctity, and holiness, which the 
law of God demands ; and yet, in this deluded act of 
holiness, the followers of Mahomet build their hope of 
acceptance with God. May the Lord in mercy visit 
them with the saving knowledge of His Son Jesus 
Christ. There is soap manufactured in the country, 
and thei'e are women who go about as washerwomen; 
there is also plenty of water in the Kowara, so there is 
no excuse for their filthy practices, which have become a 
custom. The question was put to some of them some time 
ago, "Why they did not wash their clothes?" a very 
respectable chief replied, " It is no use to wash them, 
because if I have these trousers and to be washed clean 
now, and put them on, when I go to the king I must 
sit on the ground, and in the dust again." The poor 
people are afraid lest washing should soon wear out 
their garments, as they have no others to replace them. 
In this respect our example of regular washing, 
and appearing always clean in comparison with them, 
our poor dresses, causes soon to put theirs in the back- 
ground. Some inquisitive persons could not refrain 
from asking my servant the question, when he took some 
clothes to wash in the river, "What was the matter with 
them, were they not new clothes?" when he told them 
they were not new, but dirty old clothes, they could not 
see them to be so. The females go about much cleaner, 
and their moderate cloths around their body would have 



WRITING IMPLEMENTS EXAMINED. 229 



appeared cleaner and more decent still, if they were not 
stained by being dipped in cam-wood, which gave them 
a dull and dirty reddish appearance ; but now and then, 
we meet with respectable cleanly dressed persons both 
among the male and female population. 

I received many visits botli from the Mohammedans 
and the heathen inhabitants of Nupe and Haussa from 
the interior. As soon as we got a little familiar in con- 
versation, my writing implements attracted their atten- 
tion, and a display of their penmanship immediately 
followed. My note-book was often offered for this pur- 
pose, in which they scribbled the first three words in 
the Koran — Bismiliah, arahamani, arahimi — the forms 
of which, if I had not known before, I should have 
learned them now, they were written so many times by 
different visitors. 

Having the opportunity of hearing from Hamodu, 
a Futo Jallo, Lieutenant Glover's Arabic inter- 
preter, many stories told, as contained m the Koran, 
and as they are instructed by some great prophets or 
successors of Mahomet, I insert a few here for ex- 
ample. 

Nemerudu (Nimrod) was a notable character among 
the Mussulmen as a gi'eat and wicked Kaferi, and many 
stories are related of him by them. This wicked man, 
who wanted to kill Abraham, had a very bad sickness 
in his head which no medicines could cure ; he was 
greatly distressed, and all the people about him on this 
account, for they could not relieve him : Satan, seeing 
this, went to them, and proposed that the sick head of 
Nimrod should be cut off, and he would supply another 
perfectly well to be placed in its stead ; the people be- 



230 STORIES FROM THE KORAN. 

lieved Satan and did so, but there was no new head 
forthcoming, so Satan laughed at them : thus Nimrod, 
the wicked Kaferi, was taken away from the world. 
This was the only good action which Satan ever did ; 
and for which he was praised by God. The story of 
the ants numli : — The prophet Sulumana-bun-Dauda 
(Solomon the son of David) was about going out with 
his troops to war, and when the chief of the ants heard 
it, it ordered all its companions to get into the nest 
under-ground, because Sulumana would surely trample 
them with his horses : no sooner was this said by the 
chief of the ants, than Sulumana heard it in an mstant 
about the distance of seven days' journey, whereupon 
Sulumana ordered his troops to take care never to 
trample upon the ants. Dauda encamped near about 
the nests of these ants at one time, where the horses of 
his troops were fed with corn ; on their departure, the 
ants gathered up every grain, and stored them up in 
their nests ; when Sulumana came about the same 
place with his troops, theu- horses had no corn to eat ; 
then the ants said. We have heard that you were very 
rich, but we will show you that somebody is richer than 
you ; so the ants supplied all Sulumana's troops with 
corn, which they all ate till they were satisfied : from 
this circumstance the ants have been much taken notice 
of, because they served Sulumana. This story was 
called forth by my directing the attention of Hamodu 
to the mdustry of the ants in the front of the huts, when 
I quoted this passage, " Go to the ant, thou sluggard : 
consider her ways, and be wise." The above he also 
gave as a like instruction from his book. 

The white ants, or bug-a-bugs, also served Sulumana. 



MAHOMET IN A CAVE. 



231 



The prophet Sulumaua supported himself on a tree in a 
standing posture, where he died, and remained in that 
position for seven days: as every one was doubtful 
whether he was alive or dead, so the bug-a-bugs 
climbed up, and got to the branches, which they ate, 
and that which supported Sulumana broke off, and he 
fell, so they knew that he was dead : thus the white 
ants also served Sulumana. 

The frog is regarded as a holy animal, because when 
Nimrod wanted to burn Abraham in the fire, the frog, 
which was a flying creature at that time, flew and 
brought water, with which it quenched the flame, so 
Abraham was delivered. The frog is a praying animal, 
as may be observed by its pant-like breathing, just as 
the Mussulman does when he silently says his prayers 
and counts his beads. The frog is even compared with 
the angels for its continued prayers. 

When Mahomet was once pursued by his enemies, he 
entex'ed into a cave, where he hid himself ; his pursuers 
asked an oracle of a diviner on sand, who said he was 
not in the cave ; they likewise asked an oracle of a 
diviner by stones, who said he was in the cave ; when 
they came there, they found birds' eggs at the entrance, 
and spiders' webs across, whei'eby they came to the 
conclusion that he was not there, while Mahomet stood 
close by and heard all. When they were returning, the 
lizard, who was at that time a blacksmith, but who had 
gone out about that time as a hunter, being on a tree, 
called to them and said Mahomet was in the cave ; but 
when they returned they could not see the person who 
spoke to them, so they went away : thus to punish the 
lizard for its officiousness, it became dumb, and could 



232 



THE HEAVEN OF THE KORAN. 



only beckon with its head : its red head was the cap it 
had on at that time. On account of this the lizard is 
hated by all the Mohammedans. 

The felicity of heaven is commented upon from the 
Koran, as follows : — As soon as a Mussulman dies, he 
enters the first gate of heaven, the keeper of which is 
a very fine young woman, whom the newly-arrived 
saint supposes to be his intended wife ; but the young 
woman answers, " No, I am but a slave, and keeper of 
the gate, proceed on, and you will find much better 
persons than I am :" so he proceeds to the next gate, 
where he meets with a still finer person, on whom he 
fixes his eyes, but she also refers him to wortliier per- 
sons farther on. Then he comes to an immense build- 
ing, the width of one door-way of which extends to the 
journey of 500 years: in the building itself are 1000 
rooms, each room contains 1000 beds, and each bed 
1000 women : the bed of the saint is self-moving into 
any part of the rooms he pleases; the eyes of the 
women are like shining gold, and give light to the 
distance of seven miles, described thus : — There is a 
rumi (river) which contains large nuggets of gold called 
" /mZm," so glistening that it can give light to the distance 
of seven miles. There are some amphibious creatures 
in this river which land every night to graze, each one 
always brings one of these shining nuggets to give it 
light during its feeding : persons who seek gold always 
watch for this favourable opportunity' to em'ich them- 
selves : when the shining nuggets are taken away, the 
creatiires are sure to bring up others at their next feed on 
shore. The glare of the eyes of these heavenly women is 
compared to these nuggets of gold. 



STORY OF JONAH. 



233 



If tlie hair of the head of any one drop to the earth, 
it will scorch every green thing, and will be visible as 
the sun in every part of the world ; and if any one 
stretches her leg to the earth all creatures will perish, 
because it is too dazzling to behold. 

The story of Jonah is as follows : — Unusa-bun-Mata 
(Jonah the son of Amittai), confident of his being a pro- 
phet, one day pi'esumptnously cast himself into the sea ; 
whereupon, to punish him, a large fish swallowed him 
up, and an alligator swallowed up the fish which swal- 
lowed up Jonah, and a hippopotamus swallowed the 
alligator with the fish and Jonah together, in whose 
stomach they all lived 1000 years. When Jonah re- 
membered and confessed that he had done wrong, then 
God commanded the hippopotamus to throw out the 
alligator, and the alligator to throw out the fish, and 
the fish to throw out Jonah on dry land, which was 
done. Jonah became as tender in every respect as a babe ; 
but a larjie snake was sent to him to give him its tail 
to suck as milk, till Jonah was found and taken home 
by some persons. The lesson learnt by this wonderful 
story is, that when a fish-bone stops in the tluroat of 
any one, he has only to say, Unusa-bun-Mata, Jonah 
the son of Amittai, and the fish-bone must pass through ; 
this is an effectual charm. 

I have seen exhibited many times a long narrow roll 
of paper on which are written the names of the four 
great angels, and four other inferior angels : the names 
of eight patriarchs and prophets, and the name of Jesus 
standing at the bottom, as the greatest personages who 
appeared in the world previous to the coming of Ma- 
homet. They are as follows :— 



234 GREAT PERSONS PREVIOUS TO MAHOMET. 

The angel Gabriel is the messenger of God to all the 
prophets. 

The angel Michael has the office of measuring out 
water. 

The angel Asarayifilu is the great trumpeter. 

The angel Ajarayilu has power to take away life. 

The other four inferior angels, whose offices are not 
specified, are Samsa-kaya-yUu, Ramla-ka-yilu, Adufa- 
la-yilu, and Sa-kaya-yilu. Then follow the names of 
Eliasa, Elias ; Yahaia ; Nuha, Noah ; Ismaela, Ishmael ; 
Sulumana, Solomon ; Aruna, Aaron ; Musa, Moses ; 
and Isa, Jesus. When this roll of paper is opened and 
exhibited before the ignorant believers in Mahomet, 
the mallam with an attitude of very great importance, 
an air of gravity, and an assimiption of profound 
learning and deep researches in literature, pointed out 
the name of each angel, prophet, or patriarch, as if each 
one were bodily visible to him at that time, thus : — "this 
is Yibirila" (Gabriel); then followed a brief explanation 
of his work and office; then Michael, and so on: to this 
the poor ignorant believers listened with all attention, 
and frequently exclaimed, " Allahakubaru ! Allahaku- 
baru ! " The mallam who can exhibit these names of 
course passes as a very learned one, and claims great 
respect from all who hear him. 

The mallams also show their abihty in natural history 
as learnt from the Koran. The ages of insects, animals, 
and reptiles are given as assigned to each by God. 

The sand- flies are destined to live - 3 da vs. 
mosquitoes „ „ - 10 „ 

common ffies „ „ - 40 „ 

locusts „ jj - 6 months 



DOCTRINES TAUGHT BY MUSSULMEN. 235 



The cows or bullocks are destined to live 30 years. 
„ mules. „ „ - 50 „ 

„ wolves or hyenas „ - 100 „ 

„ snakes „ - 100 „ 

„ elephants „ „ - 700 „ 

„ vultures or turkey buzzards • 700 „ 
„ monkeys „ „ - 800 „ 

„ black scorpions „ „ - 1000 „ 

„ salamander „ „ - 1000 „ 

Other like doctrines related and taught in this coun- 
try by the Mussulmen might be mentioned ; such as — 
death is not known in heaven, but life everlasting; 
therefore, there is no killing of animals for food, because 
they cannot die : if any one has appetite for mutton, he 
has only to call for a sheep ; and when he has eaten as 
much of its flesh as he wishes, the sheep will return, 
without feeling any loss of flesh. In like manner he 
may feed on oxen, cows, or bullocks, when he pleases. 
The meanest saint in Paradise has 50,000 servants to 
wait on him : and under his house is a river of water, 
and milk and honey for his use to his heart's content. 
Between the place of final alkiyama (judgment) and 
paradise, there is a bridge as narrow as the edge of a 
razor, over a great vacuum, about the distance of 1000 
years' journey : after the judgment is past, the saints, 
according to the degree of their holiness, pass to para- 
dise on it as follows : — The least saint in holiness may 
take many years to travel on it, but is sure to arrive 
in heaven at last ; another degree of saints may ride a 
horse on this narrow way in safety ; others may gallop 
their horses on it ; but the holiest of the saints will fly 
over the vacuum in the twinkling of an eye. 



236 



THE BIBLE AND THE KORAN. 



At times, one hears something said which is imme- 
diately recognized as borrowed from the sacred volume 
of the Old and New Testaments, such as, one Mussul- 
man is the salt of the country; all Kaferis are dead 
men, they only move about for nothing: they have dark 
eyes which cannot see ; God saves mankind not because 
they pray too much, but because of the Anabis or the 
prophets ; eye never saw, ear never heard, the heart 
can never think to know what God keeps for a Mus- 
sulman. In the course of conversation or preachintr, 
when I touched upon passages like the above, they at 
once concurred with the sentiment of our book. The 
mere fact of the names of Adam, Noah, Abraham, 
Moses, and other patriarchs and prophets, being men- 
tioned in the Koran, is sufficient to rivet them in the 
belief of their book being the same as ours. The priests 
frequently collect together (especially on their holiday 
feasts, such as the Ramadan or the Laya) at night in 
the house of a king or chief by turns, and spend the 
whole nicrht in readincj the Koran to them, and com- 
menting upon it in the manner above described. At 
the last Ramadan, Sumo Zaki gave twelve slaves to 
these mallams ; I have not learned what Dasaba gave ; 
Tshuwa Kuta, the master of the ferry at Rabba, gave 
them for their night's teaching, 120,000 cowries, equal 
to 60 dollars, which at 4s. 4d. is £13. 

These are the people Christian missionaries have to 
withstand and oppose ; their false doctrines have to be 
exposed, their errors corrected, and ihey, as well as the 
heathen population, led and directed to Him who is 
*' the way, the truth, and the life." In doing this, a few 
things need to be remembered, namely, that they are 



HOW TO DEAL WITH MOHAMMEDANS. 



237 



tlie masters of the country, and bigoted protectors of 
their religion, and that by this craft, the Mallams have 
their wealth. 

If these things are not well pondered, and the in- 
struction of our blessed Saviour, " Be wise as serpents," 
is not closely adhered to and practised, we may defeat 
our object of doing any good, either to the Moham- 
medans themselves, or to the heathen population under 
their govei'nment. After so many centuries have passed, 
without the light of the glorious Gospel of Christ 
shining into the country, and into the dark hearts of 
this benighted people, now that it has pleased the Lord of 
the harvest to give the Church an access to them, shall 
His servants by an unwise step block up the way against 
themselves and the introduction of the Gospel of Christ 
by a zeal without knowledge, which may prompt them 
to act as if the nation were the nation to be converted 
in a day ? I hope these considerations will be well 
weighed by the Parent Committee, who have the wel- 
fare and the salvation of this people at heart. 

I would ask, for the sake of information, whether the 
name of Mohammed might not be passed by in silent 
contempt, when we begin to preach Christ, until Cliristi- 
anity has a firm footing in the country ; then the sober 
truths of the Gospel will commend themselves to the 
consciences of those who embrace them, while the ima- 
ginary fables of the Koran will be rejected by such with 
scorn. A similar plan was adopted in the Yoruba Mis- 
sion. Had we been obstinate in the public exposure of 
their national super stitions,Chri3tian Missionaries would 
long ago have been turned out of the country, the con- 
verts put to death, and the country would have been 

M 



238 



THE SWOHD OF THE SPIRIT. 



long barred against the messengers of salvation. But 
what is the result of the caution and prudence exercised? 
the whole country is opened to us, stations are occupied 
in different directions, churches are built, congregations 
are collected, and converts are numbered by hundreds : 
and yet we do not make the least compromise with their 
superstition ; but, on the contrary, we are weakening 
its power, though without open violence, and, in gene- 
rations to come, it will die a natural death. With the 
Mohammedans of this country cannot a like course be 
tried ? They have great respect for the books of Moses, 
the Prophets, and the Psalms, and, to some extent, for 
the Gospel of Christ also, all of which they know mostly 
by name. If they be quietly referred to these books, 
the Law of Moses, the Prophets, the Psalms, and the 
Gospel in things concerning Christ Himself, we may thus 
have opportunity of bringing before their minds the 
wholesome substance of those blessed books. 

Our undue rashness in quarrelling with, and our un- 
timely exposure of, Mohammedanism, can do no good ; 
but may irritate, and prove most injurious to the 
heathen population under that government with whom 
we have more directly to do, and who may properly 
be said not to know their right hand from their left — 
tliey are perishing for want of the spiritual food of the 
Gospel. To have the bread and water of life taken 
away from them by our being turned out of the 
country in defence of Mohammedanism, through an 
injudicious action, would be to them the greatest in- 
jury possible. 

It should also be remembered, that God, who has 
permitted the religion of Mohammed to remain so long. 



Christ's universal reign. 



239 



and to overspread the earth, can easily remove it when 
He pleases, without violence or rash proceedings on oui" 
part : the united fervent prayers of the Church, for whose 
correction perhaps God has permitted this religion to 
stand so long, may at last prevail. May it please Him 
to fulfil the promise made concerning His Son, that at 
the name of Jesus every knee shall bow, of things in 
heaven, and things in earth, and things under the earth ; 
and that every tongue shall confess that Jesus Christ 
is Lord, to the gloiy of God the Father. 



M 2 



EXTRACTS FROM THE 



JOURNAL OF THE REV. J. C. TAYLOR, 

DURING THE YEARS ISoff^AND IBb'fi 



Having closed all business connected with my sta- 
tion at Bathui'st, I preached a farewell sermon on Smi- 
day, the 26th of Jpril, 18 5^ to an overflowing congre- 
gation, from Phil. i. 20 ; in the evening, from Acts 
XX. 32. On this occasion I entered fully into the 
minds of faithful pastors on such seasons of sepa- 
ration from tlieir respective flocks on the eve of 
their departm-e to distant lands. I could very well 
read their countenances, w'hich evidenced true marks 
of filial love and affection. The Mission-house was 
crowded with old men and women, who came to bid 
me farewell, heaping up blessings on the Church Mis- 
sionary Society, for their generous efforts in sending 
the harmonizing gospel to the Ibos. An old man, 
whom I have known as a communicant from my boy- 
hood, stood in my parlour before the young men, and 
those who were present at the prayer- meeting which 
we kept during the night, raised his worn-out coun- 
tenance to heaven and burst out with the following 
expressions of joy — " Thank God, thank God ! Go, 
my son, and tell the happy news to the heathen. Oh, 
is this word true, that our children too can go out 




242 



FAREWELL TO SIERRA LEONE. 



like white men and preach the gospel ? If any one 
had told us this word in bygone years, who would 
believe it ? Lord, send plenty of our children more ; 
go, do not fear, people will talk plenty word and say> 
They will kill you, they will eat you. The Bible says, 
' the hairs of your head are all numbered.' Ah, who 
can thank the Church Missionary Society ? Who can 
pay them for their goodness to poor Africans ? No 
man on earth — none but God." Hearing such ex- 
pressions from an experienced saint melted me into 
tears of gratitude. May the Lord be with them, and 
keep them His unto the day of Jesus Christ ! 

Afay 10 — The Rev. J. Millward had previously 
asked me to occupy his pulpit this morning. At eleven 
A.M. we walked along to Christ Church, Pademba 
Road. On entering the door the very sight of the 
interior of the church weighed my spirit down. The 
pulpit, desks, communion rails, vestries, and pews 
were covered with deep badges of mourning, in re- 
membrance of their much-loved pastor, whose voice 
of late filled every corner of the church, but is now for 
ever silenced. He has gone to receive his eternal 
reward from Him whose service he had accomplished 
while on earth. Long will the name of the late Rev. 
J. Beale be revered in Africa. I preached from Col. 
i. 12, 13, to a large congregation, and great attention 
was paid to the word of life. In the afternoon we 
heard the report of the signal for the mail, and in a 
couple of hours slie was at anchor in the harbour. 

May 13 — As the steamer "Candace" was to leave 
to-day, my house was thronged with friends, who 
came to shake hands with me and wish me aprospe- 



LAGOS, PAST AND PRESENT. 



243 



rous voyage. Some of my late flock from Benguema 
also came, and those who Avere not able sent their 
expressions of love and goodwill. At length arrived 
the tune to part with my family. My dear wife and 
children hanging about me, each one in turn gave me 
a parting kiss ; my servants were all bathed in tears ; 
I trust I could say from my heart, that " none of 
these things moved me." The Revs. W. Young, 
J. Wilson, J. Campbell, and Mr, (J. Moore, my sis- 
ters, and my son, John Christopher, accompanied me 
into the ship. They took leave of me and went on 
shore. We started at twenty minutes after nine A.M. 
I quite resigned myself up to the Lord for His work, 
to which He has so graciously called me, unworthy 
though I be, leaving my dear wife and five children 
behind in the hands of our covenant-keeping God. 

0 my God, how great is thy loving-kindness ! Pro- 
sper the Mission to my fatherland, let me feel thy 
love in my heart ; let thy blessing attend me in this 
expedition, which, I trust, may have thy glory in 
the welfare of perishing men for its object ; may many 
be turned from darkness to light, and from the power 
of sin and Satan to God, through the merits of my 
blessed Saviour ! Amen. 

May 20 — At five p.m. we anchored at Lagos. Here 

1 counted sixteen vessels, exclusive of the man-of- 
war, waiting for oil. Lagos was a subject of deep 
mortification to me, taking into consideration that it was 
once the place where my forefathers were taken into 
slavery. But instead of that cursed trafiic in human 
beings, 1 this day witnessed legitimate commerce. In- 
stead of floating dungeons plying about the Bight of 



2i4, 



LAWFUL COMMERCE. 



Benin for slaves, the slave-trade has been, it may be 
hoped, for ever paralyzed. The rapid progress of the 
true light is now enlightening them, and the Sun of 
righteousness has arisen upon them with healing m 
his wings. Christianity and commerce are going on, 
hand and hand, as befitting instruments for amelio- 
rating her condition. Those who once patronized 
slavery, and tried to extinguish the light which Chris- 
tian Missions have established within her pale, Avit- 
ness the utter failure of their expectations. What is 
Lagos now ? She is now becoming a first-rate port 
in the Bight of Benin for lawful trade. Through the 
aid of a glass I could read the telegraph flags of the 
steamer " Jarrow," which Captain Hawkesley kindly 
explained to me was waiting for cargoes. Not human 
cargoes, but the very produce of her soil, which hea- 
ven has graciously lavished on her soil for her speedy 
regeneration. The American, Danish, and Ham- 
burgh flags graced her harbour. The British flag 
was seen fl} ing in one of the men-of-war. 

Mai/ 21 : Asce7ision-day — At three p.m. Mr. Crow- 
ther joined us. Dr. Baikie and myself stood on the 
gangway to receive him; our meeting that evening 
must be rather imagined than described. We were 
truly edified in the strength of the Lord, whose work 
we are now undertaking, hand and heart, to promote. 
It is a source of great blessing to us to move the 
wheels of Missionary enterprise on the banks of ill- 
fated Niger. 

July 11 — Got under weigh about five a.m. and 
resumed our voyage. The country is beautiful and 
the heat very great. A gentle breeze rippled the 



THE RIVER NIGER. 



245 



surface of the water, through which the steamer 
moved as steadily and smoothly as a living thing. 
The verdant banks of the river are adorned here and 
there with mangroves, trees, and fishermen's huts. 
In some places rich fields of opening plantations waved 
in the breeze. Rain fell early in the afternoon, pre- 
ceded by intense sultry heat. We arrived at the two 
villages, under the name of Angiama, about six P.M., 
and anchored for the Sabbath. Here I counted six- 
teen canoes, with puncheons, buying oil for the mer- 
chants at Brass. 

July 13 — At ten a.m. we anchored off Ogoberi. 
Dr. Baikie, the Rev. Mr. Crowther, Dr. Berwick, 
Messrs. Barter, Dalton, and myself went on shore. 
The people were at first frightened ; they came to us 
with spears, and scimitars, and poisoned weapons. 
After we had told them our object, they reconciled 
themselves, and saw that we were not enemies, but 
friends. Here also we met twelve canoes buying oil. 

July 24 — About half-past two P.M. we resumed our 
journey for Onitsha. As we steamed along I gazed 
upon the river, and cannot but draw this reflection 
upon it. It is a noble and exquisitely-beautiful river, 
and richly fringed with fruit-bearing and other trees, 
some of them of gigantic growth. The interior on 
either side of the river is one mass of dense tanorled 
forests, which no feet had penetrated. The beautiful 
plantain trees, with their splendid fohages and nod- 
ding bunches of fruit, the different species of birds 
with gaudy plumage flitting across the river, warbling 
their songs of gratitude to God their Maker, and the 
peacefully-running stream joining the main river, all 
M 3 



246 



BRIGHT PROSPECTS. 



conspire to form a scene of a delightful description. 
Glide on, ye white waters of Joliba, in submission to 
the Almighty fiat: may thy channel ever be full. 
Assist to fertilize the plains below. Upon thee shall 
the messengers of peace ride on and proclaim liberty 
to the captives, and the opening of the prison to them 
that are bound, that they may be called trees of right- 
eousness, the planting of the Lord, that He might be 
glorified. The happy time is fast hastening on -when 
the most rugged and difficult paths in the interior 
shall hear this joyful sound of the gospel. At the 
hearing of this sublime message, kings of every tribe 
" shall fall down before Him, all nations shall serve 
Him." Mayest thou be an emblem of those heavenly 
blessings which shall ere long water the morally and 
spiritually barren deserts of Central Africa, and cause 
them to rejoice and blossom like the rose. There can 
be no doubt that this is the time to favour Central 
Africa; yea, the set time is come. May the Apo- 
calyptical angel fly with greater celerity than ever, 
and may the whole church of God give pinions to 
his wings, that the banks of the Niger to the Kwora, 
as far as to Sokoto, from the Cameroons to Timbuctoo 
from Itebu, Oru, and the Ibo district to the Con- 
fluence, even to the heart of the Apa country, may be 
flooded with His divine grace. O my God, hasten 
this glorioiis period ; may there be never wanting a 
seed in Sierra Leone, and other Cliristian lands, to 
sustain thy holy cause, and to break up the fallow 
ground of Central Africa ! 

July 25 — Yesterday we weighed anchor and halted 
for the night above Osutsi Creek. Early before break 



ARRIVAL AT ONITSHA. 



247 



of day the steam was up, and we soon passed some 
Oko villages. Here a concourse of spectators stood 
on the bank of the river. They turned out as we 
passed by their huts, and cheered us most vocife- 
rously. The chief sent a canoe after us to invite us on 
shore ; the men paddled hard to reach us, but returned 
without success. We arrived at Onitsha at four p.m. 

July 26 : Lord's-day — Privileged once more to see 
another Christian Sabbath, I preached on board from 
Luke xix. 10. About two p.m. Drs. Baikie, Davis, 
the Rev. ]\Ir. Crowther, Messrs. May, Barter, Dal- 
ton. Captain Grant, and myself, went on shore to 
\-isit King Obi Akazua, and promised to pay him 
another visit, d.v., to-morrow. 

July 27 — After breakfast we went on shore. The 
people were frightened at us, calling us spirits, or 
Moa. Many of them took to their heels and fled 
into the bush, peeping at us, with their guns, swords, 
&c. One actually pointed his gun, and held the trig- 
ger ready for action. We walked up to the chiefs 
house. Dr. Baikie spoke to him for the first time, 
and stated that the Queen of England wishes to make 
friends with all African kings, &c. 

August 1 — The steamer left us early this morning 
for the Confluence. In the course of the morning a 
misunderstanding took place between the Onitsha 
people and Oko villages, on the opposite side of the 
right bank of the river ; the Onitsha people being 
jealous, because they came to trade with Europeans 
without first consulting them. Also two men from 
the interior came with oil, but they could not bear 
the spirit of jealousy on the part of the Onitsha people. 



248 



ALONE ON THE NIGER. 



My informant told me that they and the Oko people had 
fallen into a dispute, and had it not been for Orikabne, 
a sensible man of this place, it would certainly end in 
a desperate fight and bloodshed. As soon as I heard 
this unpleasant occurrence I went down to Laird's 
Port to ascertain the truth, as well as, if possible, to 
explain matters to them and reconcile them. Un- 
fortunately, the people had gone away before I 
arrived there. 

I am now left alone to dwell in the midst of hea- 
thens who are deeply sunk in idolatry. O my God, 
shield, comfoi't, and support me ! I know that thou 
hast promised to be with thy servants alw^ays, even 
unto the end of the world. Help me to be faithfal, 
and to preach nothing "save Jesus Christ and Him 
criicified," and to point to the heathen and say, " Be- 
hold, behold, the way to God." 

August 2: Lord's-day — Where am I this day? 
Where is my stated congregation, who would join me 
in hearty responses of our beautiful Liturgy ? Where 
is the pulpit to deliver the message of the Sovereign 
God, the universal King? I am now plainly in a 
strange country. At half-past ten A.M. I conducted 
divine service for the first time in my fatherland. 
The day was indescribably beautiful, the face of na- 
ture seemed to join with us in holy concurrence. I 
began giving out that beautiful hymn, " Jesus shall , 
reign where'er the sun." The traders joined me in 
the tune pitched to it. I preached in the open air 
from 2 Cor. x. 14, the latter part, " We are come as 
far as to you also in preaching the Gospel of Christ." 
There were no fewer than between from 200 to 400 



THE FIRST SUNDAY AT ONITSHA. 



249 



present, half-dressed men and women, and naked boys 
and girls. Our Saviour had no stated pulpit, but 
went everywhere preaching. In the afternoon, at 
half-past four p.m., I went to the king's yard for ser- 
vice. His Majesty King Akazua, with his captains 
and chiefs, was present. I preached from the same 
text to a crowded congregation in the open air. There 
were present from 500 to 600 souls ; all of whom be- 
haved well, but the children laughed when we knelt 
down to pray. The conduct of the adults, on this 
occasion, was as orderly as any one could wish, and 
they seemed much pleased with the attention given to 
their immortal interests. Mr. Simon Jonas interpreted 
for me, and the discourse was conversational. I drew 
their attention to the Creation, and the fall and 
misery of man. As we have no bell to call and as- 
semble them, the simple use of the concertina soon 
collected them. I am quite sure that the singing 
seemed to fill them with the utmost delight. We 
closed this interesting service with prayer. 

August 3 — To-day I am glad to be present at the 
decision of the controversy which took place last 
Saturday. I am glad to report that it was amicably 
settled. 

Busily engaged in writing out the alphabet in large 
characters, to facilitate teaching, as we have no school 
apparatus to commence with. At half-past ten a.m. 
I went down to the market, where I saw about 700 or 
800 people. I went principally to inspect their trans- 
actions with each other. Cowries are of little value 
to them. Their trade is chiefly in cloths, beads, &c. 

August 4 — Busily engaged in writing. Some of 
the chiefs paid me a visit during the day ; many of 



250 



DOMESTIC SLAVERY. 



them promised to bring their children to us to-mor- 
row. I have heard that two children from the inte- 
rior were taken down to the opposite banks for sale, as 
slaves to the traders at Abo. The system of domestic 
slavery is carried on to a great extent on the banks of 
the Niger. This is the second heart-aching story I 
have heard. Yes, Satan is busy ; he is going to and 
fro, up and down in the world. We desire to meet 
him and his agents in the battle-field : our Eock is sure ; 
in His strength we shall mai'ch onwards, for He has 
bruised, does bruise, and will for ever be brusing 
his head. His kingdom is doomed to fall, and the 
kingdom of Christ shall be built upon its desolate 
x'uins. 

August 5 — Took a walk this afternoon, and paid a 
visit to Obi Ijoma, one of the chief men in this place. 
We entered into profitable conversation. I drew his 
mind to the pi'inciples of religion, and pointed to hini 
about the sinful state of man by nature. I asked him 
whether he had a soul ? " Yes," he replied. " How 
is that soul to be saved ?" " Amagom,^'' i.e. " I do not 
know," was the answer. Then I pointed to him that 
Jesus Christ is the way, and the truth, and the life. He 
exclaimed, " Jesu Opara Tsliuku, Zim uzo oma,'"' i. e. 
"Jesus, Son of God, show me the good way." Lord, 
bless Thy word, spoken for Thy great name's sake I 

I commenced to-day regular prayers, reading the 
book of Isaiah in the morning, and the Epistles in the 
evening, with a few reflections upon each chapter or 
verse. About a hundred persons attended in the 
morning. Met a funeral pi'ocession on the way : their 
mode of performing the ceremony is very singular. 
They had buried the dead person in the house, but 



FUNERAL PROCESSION. 



251 



cover a piece of wood in the form of a sofa, two per- 
sons bearing it on their heads ; the procession con- 
sisting of six men and six women, the men with cut- 
lasses in their hands, and the women clapping their 
hands as they passed along through each street, and 
crying, in their language, "Ozu, wunruyo o la na ulo 
moa" i. e. " This is the dead body of him that is dead, 
and is gone into the world of spirits." While this is 
going on no one is permitted to come out of doors to 
see them. It forcibly reminded me of the Jewish cus- 
tom of crying, " unclean, unclean." 

August 6 — Twelve children were brought to me to 
be educated by their respective parents and guar- 
dians. I looked upon them as the commencement of 
our direct Missionary work. We lost no time, but 
began to teach them ABC. 

August 7 — We had family prayers in the morning, 
about fifty persons attended. Busy in writing my 
translation. At half-past ten a.m. I assisted Mr. 
Jonas in teaching the children. Obi Ijoma paid me a 
visit in the afternoon, and told me that our conversa- 
tion was sweet, and he wanted more. I drew his 
mind to our first parents, and showed him that that 
was the spring of all our unhappiness, but in Christ 
alone is our security. He thanked me by saying, 
" This is the best food he had eaten." Thank God for 
this opportunity of imparting " precept upon precept, 
line upon line, here a little, and there a little." 

August 8 — The news, of Beke, or Oibo* [a 

*"OiBO, Oyibo, s., one who comes from the country beyond the 
the sea." — Croivther's Yoruba Vocabulary, 1852. Beke has the same 
signification in Ibo — " a stranger, a foreigner."— Ed. 



252 



VISIT FROM INZI. 



foreigner], being at Onitsha had reached into 
the interior and intervening towns from here. An 
Itshi man from Inzi, about one or two days' 
journey from this place, came down to pay us a visit, 
I questioned him about the distances of the countries 
around us, and in particular about Aron, the consult- 
ing place of all the Ibo tribe concerning Tshuku, their 
god. He said that the distance from here is three 
good days' journey, and a day from Inzi, his town. 
" How many days would it take one from here to 
Bendo, the capital of Ibo ?" He replied, " Six days, 
but four from Inzi." " How many days from here to 
Isuama?" "Two days." Having nothing at my 
disposal, I asked one of the emigrants to give him any 
thing they thought proper. Mr. Jonas gave him a 
small mirror. I told him to tell his friends of British 
love and affection towards the Ibos. 

August 9 : Lord's-day — Attended early prayers ; 
about forty natives joined us. At half-past ten a.m. 
conducted Divine Service at the king's yard, and 
preached from John iii. 16, 17. I drew the minds of 
the people to the history of Nicodemus, and the exten- 
sion of God's love. The remarks of King Obi Aka- 
zua were very striking. I am happy to record his 
own words, Nikodemus, mar a ife ya? mho; Jesus 
Opara Tshuku, kaya oku," i.e. "Does Nicodemus know 
his own things [i.e. know what he is talking about]? 
Not so ; Jesus, the Son of God, surpasses him in 
speaking." In the afternoon I went to the other chief, 
about two miles fi'om our village, and preached fi-om 
the same text. O God of Abraham, do thou bless 
thy word, and hasten the glorious time when nations 



WARS AND RUMOURS OF WARS. 



253 



that knew not thee shall run unto thee because of 
the Lord thy God, and for the Holy One of Israel ! 

August 10 — Busily engaged in making arrange- 
ments for the building. The heat is very intense. 

August 11 — There was no school to-day, as the 
scholars went to work at their parents' farms. I felt 
sorry for it, but could not help it. I trust, by and by, 
when a proper master comes, whose direct work will be to 
watch over them, they will see the necessity of learning. 

August 12 — The children did not make their ap- 
pearance to-day at school. About noon I heard 
frantic cries of women and cliildren running here and 
there about the streets on account of war. The 
neighbouring tribe, especially the Ogidi people, are a 
pest to this people ; repeatedly do they come in their 
skirmishing way of fighting with the Onitsha people. 
I am sorry to hear that three persons were killed, 
among whom was a girl about twelve or thirteen 
years old. Her head was severed from the body, and 
carried away as a trophy to their deities. Nothing 
is left of them but the relics of mutilated bodies. O 
awful fact ! three immortal souls hurried into eter- 
nity. Surely Christians will not fail to send amongst 
the Ibos the harmonizing Gospel. 

August 13 — Many of the petty chiefs paid me visits. 
I went round two squares and gave a lecture about 
the Creation to some young men. A man ponited to 
me his 07-isa, which he had served from his boyhood. 
They are two ugly-looking lumps of earth moulded 
together in the shape of a keg of gunpowder, about 
two feet in height and six inches in circumference. A 
shed is erected over them. On the top is placed a small 



254 



THE FOLLY OF IDOLATRY. 



bowl made of the same material, tinged with blood 
and fowls' feathers, kola-nuts, and cowries. " This," 
said he, " is what my father used to worship." I took 
the opportunity of directing his mind and attention to 
this simple fact : " Wade" (a word used in addressing 
the sons of gentlemen) " you worship Tshuku?" "Eye,''' 
("yes.") "Do you worship moa?" (spirits.) He 
replied, " Yes." " Now, suppose there were no trees in 
Onitsha except what is over the shed of your idol, 
and here are all your children crying with hunger ; 
you have yams and corn to satisfy their craving 
appetites, but no sticks for a fire to cook them, what 
would you do then ?" He sensibly replied, " I would 
pull down the shed and take the sticks off, and make 
fire, and roast or boil the yams and corn for the chil- 
dren ; afterwards, when other trees have grown up, I 
will cut from another." I then pointed to him the 
lump of earth. " Here is your earth ; you make pots 
of earth with it ; is it not so ?" " Yes," he replied. 
" How ? Can it be possible that you put your god in 
the fire and use it as a pitcher for water ?" Here he, 
and his children, and wives burst into a fit of laughter, 
and said, "Obu otuahan obu ezi oku^^ i. e. " It is true, 
it is a true word. We are glad that you are come to 
teach us the good way." He said, moreover, " This 
is the right thing we want ; we are tired of offering 
daily sacrifices to them. To-morrow I shall bring 
my sons, and give them to you to instruct them." I 
hope the day is not far distant when the people of this 
country shall feel convinced, and despise theii- multifa- 
rious gods, and with far more rapturous voices exclaim, 
" The Lord He is the God, the Lord He is the God!" 



AN AFRICAN PROVERB. 



255 



August 14 — Attended school at nine a.m. and 
taught the children. At a quarter past three P.M. 
took a walk i-ound the town, and asked Obi Ijoma 
to get rafters for the intended building. I gave a 
lecture to about two hundred people, including chil- 
dren, about Christ healing the lame man. 

Augunt 16: Z-orciWa?/— Attended our early morning 
prayers. One of the chiefs was present. I read 
prayers and offered an ejaculatory prayer to God. 
After prayers I asked the chief what did he think of 
this act that we had been doing ? Instead of giving 
me a direct answer, he illustrated it by their idiomatic 
saying, — " Okuko ohunru, obia na ata, ona uku na ala, 
ona na me wayo, ele ndo sia." The meaning is this : 
" A new fowl when brought into the yard, walks 
gently and looks steadily on the old ones, to see what 
they do." So we, who have been old in Christianity, 
are the " old ones ;" they being the new fowls brought 
into the garden of Christianity, must necessarily walk 
gently and look steadily at our proceedings. At 
eleven a.m. I conducted divine service under the 
shades of bombax trees to more than 500 persons, 
and preached from Matt. vi. 24. Deep attention was 
paid to the word of life. About an hour after service 
I went to the market-place, where I met with nearly 
400 women buying and selling. I stood upon an 
elevated stump of a bombax tree, and played upon the 
concertina to command and gain attention. I began 
there to proclaim the message of eternal love. I did 
not prepare any subject for the occasion, nor did I think 
what to say to this vast assembly ; I relied upon the 



256 



MARKET-DAY AT ONITSHA. 



Holy Spirit for His divine teachings. I opened my 
mouth with these sublime words, " Lay not up for 
yourselves treasures upon earth, where moth and rust 
doth corrupt, and w^here thieves break through 
and steal. But lay up for yourselves treasures in 
heaven, where neither moth nor rust doth corrupt, 
and where thieves do not break through nor steal." 
I thank God that he enabled me to give full utterance 
to His word. In the evening I went to Okosi's yard, 
where I delivered the word of God to 102 persons 
from the morning's subject. I trust that I could say 
from my heart, that 1000 souls have this day heard 
the untold mysteries of Salvation. Lord, hasten, Oh, 
hasten that happy day when the Ibos w'ill have their 
sacred temples erected for the w^orship of the one true 
and living God, and her joyful myriads crowd thy 
gates ! 

" Sit down at our Tmmanuel's feet, 
And learn and feel his grace." 

August 17— Engaged in teaching the children in the 
shed ; as to-day, being their market-day with the 
neighbouring towais, their parents took them. I -went 
to see the market after school. I saw about 700 or 800 
people from Igara, Inam, Asaba, Oko, and Ossamare, 
at Laird's Port. I did not speak to them, but merely 
inspected their articles of trade, viz. small kegs of 
gunpowder, goats, dogs, fowls, cloth, ivory, pot- 
ash (tuhi, or koung,) splits of camwood, yam, salt 
in bags, fishes, corn, palm-wane, oil, cocoa-nuts, 
guns, cutlasses, straw bags, mats, pots, earthen 
pitchers, parrots' tails, and several varieties too 



NATIVE AND ENGLISH TOOLS. 



'257 



numerous to mention, besides slaves, two men and a 
woman, tied up with shackles to the knees. 

August 18 — The Igara traders paid me a visit to-day. 
They are very clean in their person and tidy in their 
habits. I asked them how many days they took in 
coming down ? " Two days." Did they see the steamer 
and the schooner " George " ? " Yes. " Were they at 
Igara before you left ? " Yes ; they just dropped down 
their anchors before we started for Onitsha market" 
May the Lord go with them, and prosper their mission to 
Sokoto, and give them favour in the eyes of the Sultan 
and the sanguinary Felatas. May their lives be pre- 
served, that when (d.v.) we meet again in joy, telling 
each other of the news of our Mission intrusted to us ! 

August 19 — To-day the heat is very intense. As I 
have no thermometer by me, I could not ascertain its 
height. I am quiet at home, busily engaged in writ- 
ing my journals and translation. 

August 20 — Busily engaged in making preparations 
for the building of a Mission-house. Went out in the 
even to visit. I addressed six squares, in each there 
being from twenty to thirty persons. I placed before 
them Christ, and Him crucified, which is to them the 
hope of glory. 

August 2 1 — Operepu, one of the chiefs, paid me a visit; 
he is a craftsman here. He has in his possession an 
old rude saw of his own making, with which he had 
endeavoured to make such things as country-seats, 
and ivory rings, &c. He admired and was surprised at 
the dexterity of an English-made saw. The heat is very 
intense. I assisted Mr. Jonas in teaching the children. 
August 22 — I remained quiet at home. I could not do 



258 



AN AFRICAN LVDIA. 



any thing on account of so many visitors fi'om Oboshi 
and Inzi pouring on me. I was obliged to set aside all 
my business as they came from the interior. 

August 23 : Lord^s-day — Having heard that there 
were some people from Igara at the market, down at 
Laird's Port, I resolved to hold service there this morn- 
ing. I met five canoes laden with great varieties for sale. 
I preached from John ix. 1 — 14, to about 400 or 500 
souls. I must confess that it was so singular — one 
could himself hear no noise whatever — so much so 
that I fancied myself to be in the midst of a civilized 
congregation. They paid the utmost attention to the 
woi'd of life. The sight was truly delightful to me, 
and would cheer the hearts of my friends at home, and 
in England, I went down to the mouth of the river 
to have a look at it, and found, to my great surprise, 
thesandy banks were all covered from the rain which has 
recently fallen. It has risen higher, and the increased 
depth of water adds greatly to its beauty. In the 
afternoon I preached under the shade of a tree near 
our hired house from 1 Cor. iii. 10. 

August 24 — Okuma and her son Ewenuzo, from 
Igara, paid me a visit early this morning. She said that 
she had heard of us, that we are living amongst her 
people, and that induced her to come and see for her- 
self whether the report be true. I was surprised at 
hearing her relating the sermon she heard yesterday, 
and saying, " Ohu ezi oku, odi na obi 'm" i. e. 
" It is a true woi'd, I kept it in my heart." May she 
be like Lydia in some future day, attending to the 
things which shall be spoken to her by God's faithful 
messengers ! She gave me a present of a goat and 



COMMTRCIAL IMPORTANCE OF ONITSHA. 259 



four good-sized j'ams, three feet in length, and eighteen 
inches thick. I gave her in return, from the Httle I 
had, three fathoms of satin stripe. Thankful to God 
for his invariable kindness to me. 

August 25 — -We had an early school this morning. 
At midday I was busily engaged in writing my transla- 
tion. In the evening, Mr. J. L. Thompson, the clerk 
at Laird's Port, paid us a visit, and attended our 
evening prayers. Fifteen of the natives attended. May 
the Lord bless us and give us his peace, in the merits 
of his Son Jesus Christ. 

August 26 — Went out early this morning about three 
miles to see and measure the posts and rafters cut for 
our temporary Mission-house. Some people from 
Abo paid me a visit. Onitsha will be in time to come 
the depot of trading should the highway to the in- 
terior be opened and made accessible. The only way 
and means to accomplish this end is to make, or per- 
suade the king and his chiefs to form a treaty with 
them, and a few trifling presents from some kind 
friends will compass this most desirable end. I trust 
that God will in mercy pity this portion of the globe, 
by disposing the hearts of some friends at home and in 
England to aid us to facilitate the cause of peace, and 
to quell the spark of violence. 

August 27 — Busily engaged in Avriting my journals. 
The heat is very oppressive. Two men from Inzi, a 
town lying in the north-east direction from Onitsha, 
paid me a long visit. I asked them whether they 
heard of us in the interior ? They replied in the affir- 
mative. I give it in their own words. — " The news of 
white men reached us from far, just like fire raging 



260 



AFRICAN GRATITUDE. 



along." I told them of our object, and pointed to them 
the British love towards poor degraded Africa. More- 
over I impressed upon them, that I am unable to thank 
the English for their promptitude, their fostering care, 
their undeviating kindness exercised towards the 
oppressed African race, in their restoration to the land 
which gave them birth. They heard me with astonish- 
ment. We produced ourselves as living witnesses of 
British pliilantliropy. Ah ! my most sanguine expec- 
tations never presented to me scenes like this. May 
the Lord reward the British nation for their kindness. 
The fruit of their labours is seen in every opening 
flower in Africa, now scattering its fragrance all around. 

Angus 28 — This morning after breakfast we went to 
tlie brook to wash our clothes. No one could do it 
for us, as the people are afraid of us, calling us "woa," 
[spirits]. Children are still taking to their heels to 
escape us, notwithstanding every means used to satisfy 
them ; one and another of them would have the courage 
to come near us, but his heart is leaping, and he would 
fix his eyes sternly at you. Should there be any stir^ 
they would run fast as ever, and screen themselves 
under shades of trees. I am obliged to play like a 
little boy with them, and try to gam and secure their 
affection. 

August 29 — Busily employed in bringing materials 
for the building. About midday three Itshi men from 
Aboshi paid me a visit. I tried to instil into them the 
object of our visit to these regions of darkness, and to 
place before them the work we are come to promote. 
It has for its objects the glory of God and the welfare 
of their immortal souls. I also made inquii'ies as to 



A NATIVE DOCTOR. 



261 



some localities about Oboshi. — liow far Obosbi is from 
Onitsha. From their calculations I guessed it to be 
about four or five miles distance. I promised to pay 
their village a visit. They had heard of us, and came 
expressly to see us. I sent an oral message of salutation 
to their chief. About noon, the former Itshi man, to 
whom Mr. Jonas gave a small mirror, came to pay us 
another visit. He told us that the looking-glass we 
gave liim broke. We told him that we were sorry 
about it, but how did he manage to get it broken ? He 
frankly told us, without concealment, that as he was a 
great doctor, pretending to drive out " moa," [spirits] 
the people paid him so much respect, and with which 
he had long bewitched his countrymen. One day he 
wanted to exhibit wonders to them, by saying that 
he has been to see " Beke " or " Oibo,"* his " moa " 
companions, they had given him a wonderful reflector. 
He then placed it among his Ofos, and unfortunately 
smashed it to pieces. He came to ask us to 
spare him another, or any thing else. I took the 
liberty of pointuig to him that God has given us 
knowledge to make glass, but does not sanction us to 
dedicate it to superstitious rites, and to deceive our 
fellow-creatures ; consequently you have lost the glass 
altogether, and we are sorry we can do no more for you. 

August 30 : Lord'n-day — At half-past ten A.M. I 
conducted service at Wabi Gwe's yard, and preached to 
100 people from Isaiah xlvi. 22, 23. This is the first 
morning service at which I found so small an attend- 
ance. As we returned home, we saw a large black snake 
coiled up on a branch of an " Artocarpus," (called by 

* See p. 249, Note. 
N 



262 



THE POWER OF COMPASSION. 



the Ibos " Ukwa ") within five or six yards of us. I 
felt anxious to kill it and to measure it, but, if we could 
have obtained a gun, this was the Sabbath. We 
viewed it until it uncoiled itself, fell down, and made 
its way through the jungles. 

In the afternoon I went to Obi's yard, where I 
preached the same sermon to 200 persons in the open 
square; there being 110 children, 60 men, and 30 
females. Great attention was paid to the word of life. 
In the evening, Mba, a man whom I had engaged to 
get me some rafters, came in. He began to relate a 
sad story. He said that he had caught a little girl 
about eight or nine years old, for debt, and should sell 
her durmg the week. Ah me ! As soon as he had 
repeated these words, it pierced my heart and made 
me sad. I interposed for the unfortunate lass, that he 
might not sell her so soon, but patiently wait for the 
parents. He asked me to follow him to his house. 
We went with him, and he called his elder brother, and 
told him that he never saw such conduct as he had wit- 
nessed in the " Oibo OjV^ [black stranger.] He related 
every thing that I had told him, and said that he had 
promised to let the girl go to her parents, should they pay 
him his debt or not, for the sake of the "Oibo OJi,'' who 
never knew the girl, her parents, or himself. But his 
brother scorned us, and told liis men that they are 
fools, that if they do not catch more children and sell 
them the next market-day, it is to their disgrace. He 
left us, and loaded me with abuse as God's minister. 
I went out quietly without saying a word. 

August 31 — This morning I went down to Laird's 
Port on busmess, and returned about eleven, a.m. On 



THE LABOURERS ARE FEW. 263 

my way homeward, I met two sickly men on the way, 
going down the wharf ; they held out their skeleton 
hands to me, and tried to speak to me, and tell me 
their woes. One of them was a Kakanda ; as to the 
other I cannot tell, for there were no visible tattooing 
marks to identify his tribe. They were slaves ; they 
made siirns to me that their master is taking them to 
Asaba to sell ; the poor man then passed his fingers 
round his throat as signs that they were going to be 
killed. Oh, it is a painful sight ! too mournful to relate. 
Two immortal beings are to be hurried away into eter-« 
nity, because they do not thrive in their master's hands. 
Oh, that we had more help here ! What obstacles our 
scanty numbers throw in the way of our usefulness ! 
Merciful God, raise up more of thy faithful servants, 
from whatever section of the Church of Christ, to en- 
gage more effectually in a grand spiritual welfare — to 
subdue the spirit of cruelty — to snatch millions of im- 
mortal beings from the iron fetters of Satan — to trans- 
form them from the delusive spirit of self-interest — to 
guide them into the spirit of love, meekness, and ten- 
derness — and to deter them from imbruing their hands 
in human gore. Christians ! would you remain quiet 
at the tale of such woe ? Till then, we are insufficient 
to accomplish this glowing desire which may rise in 
us; for Gideon and his three hundred men are not 
here with us, and we cannot strike the blow ; but come 
that day will when the dark recesses of the Niger shall 
be filled with joy, and the foul blot upon her shores be 
wiped away. How can it be effected? When the 
Church of Christ puts forth vigorous efforts, and when 
there is a Joshua in our holy camp, the Missionaries 

n2 



264 



SLAVERY AND THE GOSPEL. 



will listen to the watch-word when it shall proceed 
from his mouth, " Shout, for the Lord hath given you 
the city." The door for our usefulness is widely open, 
and the banks of the Niger stand at this very moment 
in an imploring attitude, and entreat our help. 

September 1 — Early this morning, while in bed, a 
man stood at our gate, and calling out " Jonas I 
Jonas I open the door." Mr. Jonas opened it, and said, 
" Mba, what's the matter, that you have called on us 
so early this morning ?" He replied, " I wanted to 
speak to Eze.''^* On hearing it, I got myself dressed 
and came out. Well, friend Mba, what is it? He 
said that he came expressly to me for the matter I told 
him of on Sunday — to release the girl, and let her go to 
her parents, and if possible forgive them the debt, for 
God's sake — overwhelmed his mind, and he could not 
but admire the " Oibo Oji,^^ (black strangei'); they do 
not know the parents of the unfortunate little creature, 
and they never knew him before, and yet they earnestly 
intreated him to let her go. Moreover, he begged me 
not to take notice of his brother's conduct towards us 
last Sunday. He wished me to follow him again to 
his house, and he will then and there deliver up the 
girl. We accompanied him to his house, and found 
the little square crowded with men and women, who 
doubtless came to inspect us. On such an occasion 
as this I spoke a few words to those who were present, 
and warned them to keep themselves free from debts- 
It is only a trifling sum, about ten heads, or 700 to 
800 cowries. I drew their minds to that pernicious 

* Fze literally means " Master," and is applied to kings and to 
those who are in au importaut ufEce. 



THE SLAVE SET FREE. 



265 



habit of marrying so early, &c. I took the girl and 
delivered her to her mother, and thanked Mba for his 
marked kindness. This is the best of days I ever 
enjoyed at Onitsha. Oh! who can describe the joy 
which at this moment thrilled her throbbing breast, t-o 
see her fondling the child, the fruit of her womb 
restored to her, and the debt which was impending on 
her — otherwise she would have been for ever a debtor 
to Mba — this debt cancelled. She raised her eyes to 
heaven with apparent thankfulness, and every mouth 
offered a congratulation. I then took my leave of 
him, highly gratified that a man like this should be so 
well disposed towards us. May the Lord so bless 
this feeble undertaking, that glory may redound to 
His holy name and cause ! 

September 2 — Busily engaged in buying sticks, 
posts, &c., for the building. About a quarter past 
three p.m. I paid the king a private visit. We entered 
into conversation. I began to direct his attention to 
spiritual things. I found him to be very sensible, 
soft in manners, but not easily to be persuaded and 
won over to Christianity. I then told him of my 
visit to Oboshi. 

September 3 — The king and his chiefs begged me 
to reconcile them and their enemies, the Ogidi people. 
I asked them to give me a man to send with a mes- 
sage to the king of Ogidi. Early this morning a man 
was sent to me, and I despatched him to Ogidi. 

September 4 — Engaged in buying materials for the 
building. To-day I witnessed what the Moa cere- 
mony is. The whole of this week was spent in 
making preparation. It is merely a dinner-party 



26G 



THE MOA CEREMONY. 



which each chief gives to his family in honour of his 
deceased ancestors. He, of course, makes ample pre- 
parations to that effect — rich supplies of provisions, 
and plenty of palm and bamboo wine ; then follows 
the distribution of kola nuts. He calls his wives, one 
after the other, and says to each of them the following 
expressive words : *' Let evil happen to those who 
seek thee evil, and good follow those who think good 
of thee." He pours out wine on the heads of their 
idols, Ikevga, Ofo, and Tshi. This being done, the 
young men then rise up, and begin to play and dance 
for the dead, which ends in a feu-de-joie. I must 
confess that women are not deprived of their rightful 
status in society, nor, as in other tribes, doomed to 
perpetual degradation. 

September 5 — Pamful intelligence reached us this 
day. A fine lad, about sixteen or seventeen years of 
age, accompanied the Igara traders when they paid 
me the last visit. I read a few portions of the Hausa 
Testament to him, as he could understand me a little. 
Poor fellow ! he was shot dead in their canoe by the 
people of Asaba, on the right bank of the river, on 
their way home. Alas I it is too true a tale. An 
immortal being hurried into the presence of his Maker 
without a moment's warning! How little did I think 
you would so soon become an inhabitant of another 
world when I told you, " Next time I shall give you 
an Hausa Testament!" Death and the hand of vio- 
lence have taught us — " Boast not thyself of to- 
morrow, for thou knowest not what a day may bring 
forth." 

September 6: Lord's-day — I intended to conduct 



THE KING OF OJIDI. 



267 



divine service at Oboshi Road this mominor, but was 
hindered by the threatening appearance of the clouds, 
which gave indications of rain. However, we managed 
to conduct service at our usual place in the open square, 
and I preached from James i. 23 — 25, to 170 souls. 
In the evening, I went to Ebunike's yard, and preached 
from Isaiah xlv. 22, 23, to 140 persons present. I 
was obliged to shorten my discourse, as the sk}^ sud- 
denly wore a different aspect. We had scarcely gone 
two yards, when we were overtaken by a tornado: 
the lightning flashed over our heads, and we were 
obliged to run as fast as we could to get home. Our 
attendance was small to-day, owing to the Mo 2 
custom, with which the people are enjoying them- 
selves during the week. Thankful for the labour j of 
this day. Those who were present paid steady atten- 
tion to the word of life, and many a heart appeared 
warm with gratitude to God for what they had heard. 

September 7 — Busily engaged in writing my trans- 
lations. About midday I purchased materials for 
the building. 

September 8 — To-day I kept quiet at home. Tlu-ee 
men from Inzi paid me a short visit. We entered 
into conversation, and I told them that, by-and-by, 
God will open a way for civilized people to settle in 
their country. May the Lord hasten that time, when 
" many shall run to and fro, and knowledge shall be 
increased." 

September 9 — Very heavy rain to-day, with thunder 
and lightning. A messenger fi'om the king of Ogidi 
was sent to me through the king of Onitsha, beseech- 
ing me, if possible, to reconcile them with the people 



268 



PliAYER FOR GUIDANCE. 



of Onitsha, "and that they look to us to accomplish 
this desirable end for their welfare. As we have no 
convenient place to shelter the children in the school, 
I was obliged, though reluctantly, to send them home. 
I sent the messenger who was waiting on me with an 
oral message to Obi Akazua, to call his influential 
men to wait on me to-morrow, D.v., when I shall 
consult with them what steps to take, as I do not like 
to be too forward in their matters ; on the contrary, 
I would do my best to support and establish that 
peace, by the assistance of God, between these two 
contending parties, without which it would be, as far 
as human judgment goes, an impediment to our work 
for the future in the interior. O my God, thou God 
of missions, direct me in this and every undertaking 
which may have thy glory for its object! may I so 
look to thee, as the strong one, for strength, and the 
wise for wisdom, to accomplish and effect this end! 
Bless the consultations of the enlightened and unen- 
lightened: may it be for the advancement of thy 
glory and the good of thy church ! Hear me, O 
Lord, and prosper thy work in my hands, for Jesus 
Christ's sake. Amen. 

September 10 — Early this morning Obodo Etshina, 
king Akazua's son, conveyed the message to me, that 
his father begs me to postpone what I have suggested 
to him yesterday, as all his chief men are not at home 
until to-morrow morning. About noon two men 
from Nsube paid me a visit, and said that they had 
heard of us, and that they were very glad, but they 
hope we " will come and settle amongst them, as we 
are now at Onitsha." I told them, " I cannot now 



WILLING HEARERS. 



269 



promise them, but shall make known to our Society 
their wish to have a resident Missionary among them." 
I asked them about their soul. " Do you know who 
made you and all men?" They replied, "Tshuku." 
"What has God done for you?" "He keeps me 
from every thing.*' " What thing do you mean?" 
" From war, and every thing, bad as well as good." 
"Wliich thing do you call bad?" " Amusu (witch- 
craft) is a bad thing." " When any one dies, where 
do you think he goes?" "I think he dies, and goes 
to Tshnku." " Very true," I said: " he dies, and goes 
to his Maker." "Is death an easy thing?" "No." 
" But do you think a man can save himself and go 
where God lives?" Here one of them was puzzled, 
but the other caught at the word, thinking he could 
give a decisive answei', but the word "salvation" 
they could not fully comprehend. Both of them, after 
a few minutes' struggling, said they did not know. 
Then I began simply to point out to them the meaning 
of that little but emphatic word " salvation," and after- 
wards directed them to " the Lamb of God which 
taketh away the sin of the world." It is through Him, 
and in His blood alone, we sinners can have access 
unto God. They were astonished to hear the word 
"salvation" illustrated by a canoe being upset, and 
the people saved from drowning. We had now ocular 
demonstration, in the mas^ of the heathen around us 
that they are not far from being enlisted under the 
banner of Christ. I pressed it home to them, and 
asked them to carry it to their friends, and tell them 
what they had heard to-day. 

September 1 1 — This morning, about eight o'clock 
N 3 



270 



COUNSELS OF TEACE. 



the king sent his son to call me, as he had gathered 
his chiefs together for consultation, to adopt measures 
to return an answer to the king of Ogidi. I asked 
them, On what terms do they wish to consult my 
opinion?" One of them said that I should aid them 
to get guns, cannons, shot, and powder from the 
Factory to fight their enemies. Another said, that if 
the people of Ogidi would not come to terms with 
them, they will beg me to ask the Oibo to bum down 
Ogidi for them. The third said they would first hear 
my opinion, and would follow what I said, because 
God has sent us to do them good! I told them that 
the first proposition of guns, and powder, and shot, I 
could not coincide with, for that would be to waste 
men's lives ; but my opinion is, that they should try, 
as far as God has said, to live peaceably with all the 
surrounding tribes: to sue for peace would be far 
better than wasting away men's lives: it is better to 
promote peace without shedding of blood. I then 
proposed the following course to be adopted: — That 
the king of tills place and the chiefs should come to 
one mind and determine for peace, and that they should 
first send to acquaint the king of Ogidi to consult his 
chiefs, and if they come to one opinion, to fix a day 
when and where they should meet to confer together 
and establish that peace, and the Oibo would accom- 
pany them and be between them. Accordingly, they 
adopted this measure, and despatched a messenger to 
tlie king of Ogidi. We are waiting to hear an 
answer in return. May the God of peace go 
before us! 

September 12 — I felt unwell all day, which dis- 



THE lord's prayer IN IBO. 



271 



abled me from doing any business. At seven p.m. a 
heavy tornado came on and lasted for some good 
while, the rain was very heavy, and the thunder and 
lightning were awfully grand. Whilst we were en- 
gaged at our evening prayer, we could scarcely hear 
ourselves. Our little square is surrounded with gi- 
gantic trees, which made us afraid lest the thunder- 
bolt would dart upon one of them. But God is our 
refuge. 

September 13 .• Lord's-day — Permitted once more 
to see another Christian sabbath in foreign lands, I 
awoke with these sublime words — 

" How are Thy servants blest, 0 Lord, 
How sure is their defence ! 
Eternal wisdom is their guide, 
Their help. Omnipotence !" 

I conducted divine service at eleven a.m., in the 
war-camp, and preached from Matt. xx. 30 — 34, to 
about 200 persons, who were waiting for their enemies, 
the Ogidi people. In the midst of the service I ob- 
served an Oboshi man, who paid every attention to 
the word of life. Here, for the first time, I made use 
of my revised translation of the Lord's Prayer ; the 
people seemed to enjoy that part of the petition, "But 
deliver us from evil," and the doxology which crowns 
the whole of the petition, by hearty response thereto 
from scores of voices. In the evening, at half-past 
four, I held service at Osodi's yard, one of the 
chiefs, and preached to 300 persons from Isaiah xliv. 
9 — 18. The congregation was large and attentive. I 
used the Lord's Prayer in the Ibo tongue, as in the 
morning. Osodi and his people seemed very much 



212 



THE OVERTHROW OF IDOLATRY. 



pleased with what they saw and heard. While I was 
speaking of the folly of idol-making, and the supersti- 
tious rites of Feticisin, and the goodness of God, the 
word of God darted into their minds like fire, and they 
felt the force of that word, " Deliver me, for thou art 
my God." I do not mean to exaggerate, nor paint in 
flowery representations, neither pretend to magnify 
my own performances, but I must record, that their 
features underwent an extraordinary change, their 
countenances beamed with delight and satisfaction, and 
they seemed carried away by the splendid illustration 
of the facts contained in the text. Their idols Ikenga, 
Tshi, and Ofo, their country gods, are now tottering, 
and I hope will be ere long for ever paralized. I am 
thankful to say, that I began to see signs of the re- 
marks of the late Bishop Vidal behig fulfilled, " That 
the time will come when the Tshuku (gods) of Abo, 
and the Ibos in general, shall fall down before the Gos- 
pel, as Dagon fell before the ark. Their multifarious 
shrines shall give way for the full liberation and in- 
troduction of the Gospel to their forlorn, degraded, 
long-bewitched, but ransomed people to God." Come, 
then, Christians, of evexy denomination to such an 
extensive field now open for your usefulness. Come, 
and let us throw the Gospel yoke upon the wasted, 
but teeming population in the Ibo district : come, try 
and take your share in this holy enterprise. Come, 
and let us take out of the Gentiles a people for Christ. 
Come, and place yourselves in an even line upon the 
banks of the Niger, and let us mai'ch onwards into the 
interior of central Africa. The promise is sure for us. 
"The idols He shall utterly abolish." We look be- 



THIRST FOR THE WORD OF GOD. 



273 



yond, to the promise which was long predicted, with 
intense earnestness — and faithful is He that hath pro- 
mised it — " Ethiopia shall soon stretch out her hands 
to God." May God in mercy hasten this time in our 
day, for His Son Jesus Christ's sake ! 

September 14 — This morning, Wabi Gwe, Obi 
Ijoma, and Operepu, the principal men in this coun- 
try, called on me. Operepu called me aside from the 
company, and begged to say that he wished to ask me 
a favour, if I could grant it to him. I interrogated 
him. What is it ? Who would not be astonished with 
me to hear his earnest request ? "I want you to come 
to my place next Lord's day for service, and preach 
to me and my neighbours, and my children, as you 
have done to others, and in the streets ; my friends 
told me what you said last Sunday. I am glad to 
hear that word, ' Tshuku will make us leave all our 
gods.' " I promised him, D. v., to come there next 
Lord's day, as he wished it. Whatever reflections 
might be lightly made upon his proposal, I looked 
upon Operepu's invitation as a favourable sign, that 
our work is being blessed by God. It was a heathen 
man's solicitation. Philip was directed to go into the 
desert — he went, therefore, and the I'esult was success- 
ful. This simple act will serve to get them gradually 
to embrace the opportunity of attending places of wor- 
ship for themselves. At half-past seven p.m. Orika- 
bue came to me, and asked me to teach him " God's 
book." Moreover, he began to tell me, that he was 
peculiarly blessed by God to see such an important 
day in Onitsha, and that his forefathers were not pri- 
vileged to see such a day, nor to hear the word of 



274 



MORE VISITORS. 



God preached in their own yard. I then drew his 
mind to the history of Nicodemus, who held an impor- 
tant situation in the Jewish government ; he being next 
to the king in this country, it would be well for him 
to seek God, by following the plain way which He has 
so graciously brought into his country. He joined us 
in our evening prayer. It is pleasing to know that 
the Gospel is not only engaging attention in this coun- 
try, but that the leaven of truth is working secretly in 
men's hearts. Would to God that the time may soon 
come, when many will stir up themselves, and inquire 
the way to Zion ! 

September! 5 — Busily engaged with my translations. 
In the after part of the day I went out visiting, and 
returned home about six p.m., thankful to God for the 
many mercies He has so graciously strewed me on 
my way. Attended prayer and expounded few verses 
from the chapter we had read ; I much enjoyed St. Paul's 
remarks, " That he has a thorn in his flesh, the mes- 
senger of Satan to buffet him, lest he should be exalted 
above measure." I am situated like him. I fully feel 
with him. Oh, may I with him daily gaze upon the 
precious promises, and receive instruction therefrom : 
" grace is sufficient for thee ; for my strength is 
made perfect in weakness." 

September 16 — The heat is very oppressive. Two 
men from Oboshi paid me a visit. They were intro- 
duced to me by Operepu. I asked them whether they 
would like to have Beke or Oibo in their town, who 
will teach them the right way to serve God, and His 
Son, Jesus Christ, They replied, by unanimously 
raising up their hands to heaven and saying, " God 



THE SCHOOL OF THOUGHTS. 



275 



hasten that day." I am sorry I had nothing to present 
them, but I gave each of them a handkerchief, as a 
mark of afiection. 

September 17 — The day is indescribably hot. Our 
little compact abode is so low, only one entrance, no 
windows, and sui'rounded with high trees in their pri- 
mitive state, which take every breeze from us, and 
render it very uncomfortable. I could not do much 
in my translations, as my time was much interrupted 
by making purchases of raw materials for the tempo- 
rary buildings. 

September 18 — Little showers of rain drizzled, fol- 
lowed by intense sulti'y heat. For thx'ee nights conse- 
cutively I could not enjoy sound rest. My sleep for- 
sook me, I went into the school of thoughts. Whether 
I am a monitor in that school, or as a scholar, I am 
unable to comprehend, devising plan after plan that 
might be useful to the cause which we now have in 
hand. O fur physical strength, and the undaunted 
grace of faith and patience, adequate for these onerous 
duties now incumbent upon me ! We really have not 
sufficient labourers to occupy our present extensive 
field. 

September 19 — Busily engaged from six A.M. in 
paying off the labourers for their work till ten a.m. 
After breakfast, I turned in to write in my journal, 
and filled up the blanks in my translation. I went to 
wash a few clothes, to prepare myself for the sabbath. 

Septem ber 20 : Lord^s-day — This morning I was 
sadly disappointed, because some of the Abo people 
came here for trade, to-day being their general 
market-day. Operepu came to tell me to postpone my 



I 



276 



THE TOWN OF NKWERE. 



coming until the afternoon. As I was not strong 
enough to go out, I perfoz'med service at home in our 
little habitation, and addressed the emiorants and ten 
of the natives from Philemon. At half-past two P.M. 
I was engaged in teaching and catechising the men at 
our little sabbath-school ; a heavy shower of rain fell, 
preceded by awful flashes of lightning and deafening 
peals of thunder. It lasted until seven p.m. 

September 21 — Three chiefs paid me a visit this 
morning. We entered into spiritual conversation. 
1 drew their minds to the rudiments of Chi'istianity. 
Thomas Samuel, one of the traders, left us early on 
a visit to Nkwere, a large town on the N. E. of Onitsha, 
and returned in the evening about six He re- 
ported that the country is very clean and nice, and 
that the king had received him with every mark of 
kindness and respect. I hope one day, D.v., to have 
a personal view of it. The reception that Thomas 
Samuel had received from his countrymen, bespeaks 
the confidence with which their friends will own them 
and regard them as having been enlightened. 

September 22— Went down to Laird's Port on busi- 
ness. I am glad to see the diligence of the natives in 
bartering goods for oil. Encouraging as things are, 
I may hope the time will soon arrive, when the com- 
bined influence of the spii'it of commerce and Chris- 
tianity -will be employed to stop the miserable fountain 
of African woe. Rain fell in the evening, accompanied 
with tliunder and lightning, until midnight. 

September 23 — At half-past six A.M. we started for 
Oboshi. The weather was fine, owing to the heavy rain 
which fell last night ; the air was cool, suitable to our 



JOURNEY TO OBOSHI. 



277 



journey. On the way we met six men well armed with 
guns, swords, and spears, who came to escort us safely to 
their town. As we advanced to the top of the rising 
ground, the scenery was picturesque as far as the naked 
eye could reach, having the river on our right; we 
could see hills at a very great distance in the interior. 
Their concatenation is grand, and the proximate low- 
lands' formation beautiful. As I have no pedometer 
to ascertain the distance, and my watch is out of order, 
I could give no accurate estimate of the distance we 
had walked. The distance could not be less than be- 
tween five to six miles. On our way I saw beautiful 
flowers opening from different shrubs and trees, scatter- 
ing their balmy fragrance over the passers-by ; numer- 
ous crustaceous insects crawling and climbing on the 
way and trees. I never saw before such splendid but- 
terflies, well streaked with colours of the richest hue, 
as to-day. We arrived at Oboshi about eight a.m. 
This place is well situated upon a little rising ground, 
having the ri^'er on the west. The road is pretty good 
all along. We passed several yam plantations, which 
looked very healthy, and reflected great credit on the 
fertility of the soil. We came to a declivity, which led 
us into the town. The little eastern range rises more 
abruptly than the western. The town is skirted on 
one side by immense forest trees^ chiefly palm and 
bamboo trees, and cocoa-nut trees. The whole town 
is enveloped with woods of immense height ; the streets 
are not so clean, crooked in some parts ; it wants the 
help of civilized hands to show them how to accomplish 
it. Oboshi lies on the S. S. E. of Onitsha. I walked 
about until I came into the market-place, where more 



278 



KING EZE-WAYAM. 



than seven hundred people burst into view. Some of 
them actually ran away and hid themselves in the 
bush ; others ran and climbed up trees, for fear they 
had seen spirits. One crying, ta moa. The women 
exclaiming le-le-le o I One woman calling out loudly 
to her friend Beke-e, hia le le-o ; nde moa {i. e. " Sis- 
ter Beke, come and see those spirits.") Having been 
the object of their astonishment, I seized the opportunity 
of visiting those sacred groves and trees, towering to 
an enormous height, and their huge branches in their 
primitive state bespeaking centuries. There were pots 
of divers shapes, some oblong, others conical, tied up 
with pieces of white calico of English manufacture. 
Having seated ourselves in the private house of one 
of the men who had escorted us, a messenger was 
despatched to the king announcing our arrival. We 
waited for almost an hour, when the king sent to say 
that he would be glad to receive us. We were intro- 
duced to his majesty. King Eze-Wayam, who sat on 
a small mound of earth as his throne. I was much 
taken up with his dress. He had on a soldier's 
red coat of an English regiment, a tobe studded with 
feathers, and a little cloth round his waist- He 
treated us with no little degree of kindness. Kola- 
nuts were the first thing he served to us, as an emblem 
of peace ; afterwards a small pot of palm-wine. The 
extensive area was thronged with men and women half 
dressed ; but the children and young women in perfect 
nudity. I asked the king's permission to preach to 
him and his subjects : he told me to go on. I brought 
out my pocket Bible, and read Matt. xiii. 16 — 17. 
Simon Jonas interpreted for me. I put several ques- 



THE king's prayer. 



279 



tions to the king, among which I asked hira whether 
he would like that Christian teachers should come and 
dwell in his country, and teach him and his people 
white man's book, and that they should love God, and 
serve Him better than they have done. He took hold of 
his ofo (sceptre) and struck it on the ground, and said, 
" Tshuku mere y a ngica,''' i. e. "God grant it to be done 
soon!" and added, "Here is ground for you to build on." 
I gave a little present to hira, from what I have to sup- 
port myself, and he gave me in return a goat. We 
retm-ned about two p.m. Thank God for this favour- 
able interview with the king, and especially for jour- 
neying mercies. May it be for His glory ! 

September 24 — I am quiet at home writing my 
translation. Rain fell at intervals from ten a.m., till 
five P.M. 

September 25 — Busily engaged at my quarters 
writing and filling up my vocabulary. Took a walk 
inthe evening, and expounded the word of God to six 
men who were sitting round a bivouac fire, and re- 
turned late in the evening. 

September 26— Two men and a woman came from 
Ibeaku, and paid me a visit. This is a country in the 
interior, lying N. E. of Onitsha, about three days' 
journey, as my informant gave me to understand, but 
I could not credit it, for what they calculate as three 
days with them, is a day and a half with us. I was 
much struck with the dress which the woman had 
on ; it was a sort of country cloth deeply dyed with 
camwood, two broad plates made of brass, as leg- 
rings, and her hands strung with ivory as white as 
snow. I seized the opportunity to inquire firom them. 



280 



NEW HOPES FOR AFRICA. 



if they had heard that we had come to settle among 
them ? They replied, " Yes." I drew their minds to 
the love which good people in England have for Africa, 
and that many of their countrymen and women are in 
my country, and that by and by they will return to 
their long-lost homes, teach them better things, and 
ameliorate their wretched state. They gazed on us 
with astonishment, until one gave full vent to his feel- 
ings, and said, " My father never saw what I have 
seen to-day; truly peace shall be established between 
us and the Ibo country. Oh, if my father had been 
alive, he would have sent for you !" I told them, that 
they must come to-morrow, D. v., and hear God's 
word. We parted for the evening. 

September 27 : Lord's-day — This morning, about 
seven, I held divine service at Operepu's yard, 
and preached from Matt xiii. 16, 17, to a good con- 
gregation; about 200 present. We had heavy rain 
in the forenoon, which prevented me from going out 
However, I kept service at eleven a.m., in our little 
habitation, and read prayers and addressed the traders 
from Job. xv. 11. In the evening I went to our 
usual place for service, as the weather was fine, and 
preached from the morning's subject to 100 persons in 
the open air. Deep attention was paid to the word of 
life. The people seem to hang upon our lips, and suck 
out the word of living truth, and some of them even 
heaved the sigh of grateful feeling, saying, " True, 
their fathers saw not such a glorious day." Surely the 
truth of the following passage is applicable to these 
poor deluded people — " Who being ignorant of God's 
righteousness, and going about to establish their own 



THE BIBLE FITTED FOR ALL. 



281 



righteousness, have not submitted themselves uuto the 
righteousness of God." May the time soon come when 
mightier movements will take place in the Missionary 
band, for sending forth labourers into this vast field 
which the Lord has so graciously opened to us ! God 
in His goodness has reserved to Himself 7000 
men who will not henceforth bow the knee to 
Ikenga. 

September 28 — Early this morning the Ibeaku 
strangers called on me, to return their thanks for what 
they had heard yesterday. But they wanted to satisfy 
their curiosity, and asked, " Which way the book you 
held yesterday came from ; did it drop directly from 
the clouds ? Ah, plenty of words you said, just as if 
you had been in my town and seen the people there ; 
that 's wdiy you are Beke — why you are a spirit," I told 
them that this was a large question ; but I related to 
them how God had given the law to Moses, and that 
other holy men were also inspired to write down the t-asZ? 
finding that their views were random, their words be- 
coming ad i7ijinitum ; and wishing not to trifle, I 
changed the conversation. As the season is far ad- 
vanced, Orikabue accompanied me to Odori, the king's 
son, and told him that I wanted to commence building 
the house. We had heard that the parcel of ground 
Mr. Crow^ther and I had selected for the Mission- 
house would be refused to us, as the king had changed 
his opinion as to the spot. I had got all the materials 
ready, but fear to lose the spot, which is well adapted 
for our purpose. We waited on the king for two 
good hours to get his consent. The answer we re- 
ceived kept us in suspense. The matter would be 



282 



NEED OF PATIENCE. 



talked over, and the king would give me an answer 
to-morrow. 

September 29 — Odiu, the king's son, and Uzoka 
came to me early this morning, and invited me over 
to the king. Wet day from eight a.m. to 2 p.m. We 
seized the interim at half-past four to have a private 
interview with the king. After twenty minutes' pa- 
tience, the king made his appearance. We saluted 
each other. As he refuses to shake hands with peo- 
ple, I did not offer mine. The custom of his subjects is 
to fall on their knees and bow their heads to the ground. 
It has ever been a source of deep mortification to 
me to see such a humiliating posture before a human 
being. It is a custom derived from their forefathers, 
but I hope by and by it will wane away and be for 
ever eclipsed, I must stand neutral for the present, 
for this is wisdom. The king told me to come up and 
build in his quarter, and to be always near him. 
Finding that he was jealous of our being at the village 
of Umude, I replied that I had no objection to comply 
to his wish, but that we like to be near the river, 
where we can have a sufficient breeze and the sight of 
the river. He paused for awhile, and then told his 
son to tell me that he would give me a decided answer 
by to-morrow ; but he hoped to receive some presents 
from me. This I had anticipated as the result of his 
backwardness in giving me a direct answer. I was 
sorry I had nothing good by me to give him, if he 
should demand it from me. Oh, for patience! I 
frankly confess that a Missionary work is a work of 
deep patience ; it requires wisdom, self-denial to com- 
plete the desirable object in view. But why do I com- 



A LESSON FROM RUPERt's LAND 



283 



plain ? What are these in comparison to the Rev. Mr, 
Crowther's early trials, his unwearied patience in his first 
Mission to Badagry ? If he were to relate them to me, it 
would fill separate volumes of Missionary facts What 
an amount of self-denial, ardour, and patience does 
the Rev. Mr. H. Budd* show, in his Mission to Nepo- 
wewin, compared with mine ! What has been the results 
of these servants of God in their " work of faith, and 
labour of love ?" Let me ever reflect on this. Oh? 
may I constantly look to the Strong One for strength, 
and to the Wise for wisdom I 

September 30 — This morning the king of Oboslii 
sent me fifty yams as a present, and begged me not 
to forget him and his subjects : he would be glad that 
I would remember him to the Commissioners when- 
ever they returned from Sokoto. I returned him 
many thanks for his kindness, and promised to do all 
I could for his people's temporal as well as spiritual 
welfai'e. Above all, I will lay their wants before the 
Committee of the Church Missionary Society. 

October 1 — I went down early this morning to see 
the height of the river. I found, to my great surprise, 
that the piece of ground which runs slantingly to our 
first landing-place was entirely inundated, and the 
water was swelling gradually on to the market-place. 
I dmed with Mr. Thompson in the afternoon. On 
my return, I heard the sounds of drummings, accom- 
panied with wild music. As I approached nearer to 
our little abode, I saw the people were in high glee, 
marking their faces with stripes of red ochre or uri, 
and white clay. The deafening sounds of musketry, 
* One of the Society's native clergymen in North-west America. 



284 



NATIVE FESTIVITIES. 



the playing of swords and spears, the decoration of 
Orikabue's house with pieces of handkerchiefs, young 
men and women, old men, women, and children, all 
vigorously employed in jigging, clapping their hands, 
and uniting in the boisterous mirth, each in their turn 
dropping into the circle — all these things were done 
in honour to Orikabue for his new commissional title 
as Jasere. I learned in the evening that the king was 
prejudiced against him on our account, as we are in 
his village, and have loaded him with many good 
things. r> 

Ocloher 2 — am obliged to suspend all my writing 
business this day, for I cannot do any thing, on 
account of the noise and firing of muskets, and the 
grand play in our landlord's place. Heavy rain fell 
during the night, with thunder and lightning. 

October 3 — The enjoyments of the past days are 
still in high glee. I have heard that the people had 
agreed that they wull not sell any thing to us, as we 
have sold our things in the Factory very dear to them. 
We have nothing to live upon, such as flesh, &c., for 
to-morrow. I think they did these things in order 
to try us for certain ends. But God will in mercy 
counteract whatever ill designs they might have pur- 
posed, and make the " wrath of man to praise Him, 
and the remainder of wrath He shall restrain." 

October 4.- Lord's-day — The attention of the people 
was much occvipied by their frivolous eating and 
dancing. There has been much sensation at meeting 
with the king in his annual festivity. I held service 
at our place at eleven A.M., and expounded the Gospel 
for the day. In the evening, I went to INIba's place 



THE king's annual APPEARANCE. 



285 



and held service, there being about fifty present, and 
I preached from Matt. vii. 7. 

October 5 — There was much excitement in the 
town to-day. An awful accident happened last even- 
ing. One of the king's sons shot a slave of his father, 
which caused an xmfavourable impression in the minds 
of his petty chiefs. Poor fellow! he called on me 
some time last week, and said " he would like to learn 
white man's book." Oh, thou art hurried into eter- 
nity without due preparation for it! Great God, 
make bare Thy arm and ride on high, and in mercy 
look down upon this land, which is full of vio- 
lence ! 

October 6 — To-day I understood that the king 
made his annual appearance to the public. In the 
evening one could hardly enjoy himself. To hear 
the deafening sounds of musketry, the exulting strains 
of mirth, the wild beating of tinkling cymbals, and 
clapping of hands ! You will find them going to and 
fro in the streets, making melody and bawling out 
their rustic songs. Though I could not, of course, 
admire the dance, yet it spoke well to their credit as 
the result of peace among them; for blessed is the 
country that is at unity with itself. Whilst gazing at 
the broad side of this outward unity, and looking for- 
ward with confidence to the happy effect which the 
Gospel shall eventually accomplish in them, it pro- 
duced in my mind the most lively sensation. 

October 8 — To-day terminated the festivity of 
Onitsha. It is a sort of holiday to them, as we have 
the annunl enjoyment of Christmas holidays, &c. 

o 



286 



NWADl's DEATH. 



Thanks to God, it ended in peace. I humbly hope, 
and look with patience, that ere the next season of 
this enjoyment should return, one at least may be 
brought into the pale of Christ's church. 

October 9 — About three this morning we heard a 
doleful cry which rent the air. As the dawning of 
the day was rapidly approaching, poor Nwadi died. 
She was a Kving creature last Tuesday, when they 
were so busily engaged in making preparations 
towards the king's quarters. She had on that occasion 
attired herself with beautiful cloth, and two large ivory 
rings on her legs and eight on each hand. Ah, little 
did she think that she was approaching to her last. 
She died this morning after child-birth. Truly in 
the midst of life we are in death. In the night Ori- 
kabue came to me in great distress of mind on account 
of his youngest son, who was taken ill suddenly. I 
was called out of sleep, and administered a little 
medicine to him, finding that he was in a swoon. I 
tried to find out the cause, and found it to be teething. 
I am happy to say I have, by the blessing of God, 
been enabled to check the disorder: the child is now 
recovered. 

October 10 — Went about during the day visiting 
the people in their houses. The last was an old dila- 
])idated house. Spoke to the wretched inmates about 
the life to come, and returned late in the evening. 

October 1 1 : Lord' s-day — This morning I conducted 
divine service at the king's yard: only a few persons 
attended, as to-morrow they will have another fetish 
custom to perform. I preached from 2 Kings xviii. 



THE WAJI CUSTOM. 



287 



3 — 5. The king was pleased to hear the account of 
Hezekiah's good reign, and expressed his hope that 
God would enable him to do likewise. 

About two P.M. I conducted the Sabbath-school 
among the traders, and catechized them from 2 Cor. x., 
the lesson for the day. At five p.m. I went to Ife 
Jofo's yard, a good way oflF from Umude, and con- 
ducted service, and preached from Isaiah xlv., for the 
first time, to 300 people. O my God, hast Thou not 
promised that Thy word shall not return unto Thee 
void, but that it shall accomplish that which Thou 
pleasest, and shall prosper in the thing whereto Thou 
hast sent it? Enable me to work out Thy will, and 
spread Thy praise among these poor people ; for duty is 
ours, events are Thine! 

October 12 — To-day there arose another fetish cus- 
tom,termed Waji,{i.e. eatingof the new yam) — a custom 
chiefly held by those who are called nde na kpo odu, 
(i.e. those who hold a kind of long tusk, or trumpet 
in their hands, and carry them aU about with them, 
even to their farms.) I have not as yet learnt the 
mystery of it, but I hope by-and-by to have a thorough 
knowledge of it. It is as much a mystery to me as 
a Freemason's apron : when asking the meaning of 
it, no one would divulge it to me. However, I give 
an abridged account of the performance of the custom 
of Waji. Each headman brought out six yams, and 
cut down young branches of palm-leaves, and placed 
them before his gate, roasted three of the yams, and 
got some kola-nuts and fish. After the yam is 
roasted, the Libia, or country doctor, takes the yam, 
scrapes it into a sort of meal, and divides it into 

O 2 



288 



SACRIFICE TO IKENGA. 



halves ; he then takes one piece and places it on the 
lip of the person who is going to eat the new yam. 
The eater then blows up the steam from the hot yam, 
and afterwards pokes the whole into his mouth, and 
says, "I thank God for being permitted to eat the 
new yam:" he then begins to chew it heartily, with 
fish likewise. The remaining thi-ee yams are the 
doctor's fee for performmgthe ceremony. Thus he goes 
from place to place, with his fellow-companions, seek- 
ing his bread during these feasts of heathen practices. 

October 13 — To-day the king was pleased to give 
me a decided answer about the ground, after I had had 
so many interviews with him. Rain fell at one^P.M. 
and lasted for about three hours. I began to prepare 
mud to make temporary walls. 

October 14 — Went down to Laird's Port on busi- 
ness. As to-day was the great market-day, I was 
unable to estimate the precise amount of people that at- 
tended. I believe it was more than 2000. On the 
road towards the market I observed six women and a 
man under a grove performing a fetish custom. The 
women brought out chicken to offer sacrifice to Ikenga, 
telling it to "bless them that bless her, and curse 
those that curse her to-day in the market." The man 
then took his stick, called Ofo, and struck it on the 
ground, and returned her an answer by saying, "A 
great thing is coming to her as a present, and she 
must share part with him of that fortune." 

Having observed them, I pi'oceeded towai'ds the mar- 
ket, and found, for the first time, the follow^ing symbols 
on the road, of which I give a sketch : — On the right 
w-as a round wooden bowl, mounted on a small pedestal 



OIL-TRADE OPEN. 



289 



containing tliree white pebbles ; the centre was a 
curious stone., said to be a " thunder-bolt" or " axe ;" 
and the third was also a very curious stone, decorated 
with gems, with which nature had adorned it. The 
meaning of the symbol is, " The person who had pre- 
viously stolen one of his neighbour's fowls — if the 
stolen fowl be not speedily returned, so let the thunder- 
bolt dart upon the person, or persons, and remove 
him or them from the face of the earth." 

October 15 — The schooner "George" arrived here 
about one p.m. from the Confluence. I received a 
long and interesting letter from Mr. Crowther, dated 
on board the " Day-spring," olf Gbegbe, August 
25th, 1857, Captain Grant and I went up to the 
king, and Captain Grant asked the reason why the 
trade was so dull. Fortunately the king had repealed 
the law which was enacted against us before he had 
arrived at Onitsha. Melancholy death of J ohn Peter, 
who was drowned at the Confluence on the 9th in- 
stant. This is the first serious accident which has 
happened since we entered the river. 

October 10 — Went on board the "George" on 
business, and returned home about one p.m. The 
trade in oil is now freely opened, and plenty of oil 
was coming down from the interior. 

October 18: Lord's-day — To-day the two carpen- 
ters and cooper, from on board the " George," attended 
service. ¦ Our congregation was pretty good, and I 
preached from John x. 27, 28. At two p.m. kept 
Sabbath-school for the traders, and catechized them 
from the second lesson for the day. In the evening 1 



290 



THE MISSIONARY PEACEMAKER. 



went up to the southern end of the town and con- 
ducted service. As I gave out a hymn, and we all 
knelt down to pray, rain began to pour down upon us. 
I was obliged to close. In the morning, Simon Jonas 
being indisposed, Mr. Augustine Radillo, the Baptist 
Deacon, offered to interpret for me. Oh, my God, 
do Thou bless Thy own word spoken, and give it suc- 
cess ! My position is now " As the voice of one 
crying in the wilderness, Prepare ye the way of the 
Lord, make straight in the desert a high way for our 
God." 

October 19 — Went out very early this morning to 
some of the chiefs to ask them to take part in pre- 
paring the mud walls. At ten a.m. I went down to 
Laird's Port to make arrangements with Captain 
Grant for a future supply of materials for the accom- 
plishment of the building. I returned home about 
three P.M. 

October 20— To-day Orikabue, my landlord. Obi 
Ijoma, Opei'epu, and Osodi, four principal men in this 
country, came to me and unfolded their minds. For 
seven years they had been inveterate enemies to each 
other, but since we came into then- country they liad 
frequently visited me, and my ways pleased them 
very much. They felt conscious of our kindness to- 
wards them, which prompted them to come forward 
and beg me to reconcile them, and establish a true 
peace amongst them. I am thankful for such steps. 
I got Simon Jonas to aid me by interpreting the latter 
part of Eph. iv. 25 — 32, and prayed with and -for 
them. Afterwards they shook each other's hands 



THE UNKNOWN GOD. 



291 



warmly, and parted, I trust, in good humour. Most 
humbly do I hope the Lord may bless them, and re- 
store them to perfect amity, that henceforth they 
might learn to lead a quiet and peaceable life. 

October 2\ — Tliis evening I went out visiting the 
people in their houses. On my way to Oboshi Road 
I saw the people were sacrificing in an idol's house, 
eating and di'inking palm-wine. I spoke to them a 
few words, and exhorted them to turn to God, the 
living and real object of their worship. One of them 
who had drunk to intoxication said, " Oibo, come and 
eat." I told him that I thanked him for his civUity, 
but was sorry I could not eat any thing which had 
been offered to idols. This part of the town needs a 
Missionary ; the town is wholly given up to idolatry. 
How would it have moved Paul's heart, just as when 
he stood in the midst of Mars' Hill and viewed Athens ! 
Although there are no visibly-legible characters writ- 
ten " to the unknown God," yet their altars and 
shrines of Ikenga prove it to be so with them. I 
hope the time will come when they, too, shall turn 
from these dumb idols to serve the living God. 

October 22 — This morning I went to the king to 
have a decided answer about the ground, whether I 
am at liberty to build on it or not. I heard that lie 
had changed his mind about letting me have that 
piece of ground. He insisted upon my purchasing the 
piece of ground for the use of the Mission. As I have 
no specific instruction to purchase any land, I am 
obliged to leave his and look out for another. I went 
about all day trying all I could. Orikabue also as- 



292 



READY HEARERS. 



sisted me to get another place opposite to the king's 
ground, the property of a private individual. I set 
about it at once, and struck a bargain about preparing 
mud for the building. Anayaka, and his brother 
Oryi, gave me liberty to choose any portion near his 
ground. 

October 23 — Early this morning I left home for 
Laird's Port on business, which required my personal 
appearance, in order to shew the people what I should 
pay them for their labours. As soon as the " George " 
weighed anchor I left for home. The sun was very 
hot to-day. The king purchased a cannon, to protect 
his palace and country, for a puncheon of oil. In the 
evening we had rain. Orikabue, with some of his 
family, attended our evening prayers, and I exhorted 
particularly from the chapter we read for our even- 
ing's lecture, 1 Thess. iii. They took delight in 
coming at the stated time for morning and evenirg 
prayers. They appeared under no restraint to come, 
and enjoyed for themselves the privileges of Chris- 
tianity, which is perfect freedom. The river began to 
fall. 

October 25 : Lord's'day — This morning I conducted 
Divine service at Wabi Gwe's yard, at eleven a.m., 
and preached from Luke ix. 23 — 27. The yard was 
crowded with devout hearers, who listened to the 
word of life with breathless attention. Mr. Jonas 
being indisposed, and Thomas Samuel having caught 
cold, Mr. Radillo assisted me to interpret. During 
the time of my discourse I laboured under a severe 
fever, and I tried all my best to support myself until 



BRIGHT PROSPECTS. 



293 



the service was over. As we were going home, two 
women came to me and said, "The word is a true word ; 
we will not be ashamed of Tshuku (God) ; you must 
bear patiently till God shall tiirn the whole of Onitsha 
to fallow your religion, which is far better than all 
our fetish customs." I gave them a few encouraging 
words, bidding them follow that Saviour of whom 
they heard to-day. One of them raised her eyes vinto 
heaven, and, with uplifted hands, heaved out this 
short petition — " Opara Tshuku mere ayi ehere^' i.e. 
"Son of God, have mercy upon us!" Christians, 
imagine my feelings on this occasion. Might not 
the words of our Saviour be applied to her — " Ought 
not this woman, being a daughter of Abraham, whom 
Satan hath bound, lo, for these many years, be 
loosed from her bonds on the Sabbath day?" 

At two P.M. I kept the Sabbath-school as usual. 
A heavy tornado came on, with lightning, thunder, 
and rain, which lasted for five hours : it prevented me 
from going out in the evening. The rain poured down 
in torrents, till part of the wall in our little house, in 
the room where I was sleeping, fell down. Taking a 
bird's-eye view upon the labours of this day, there 
cannot be the least shadow of a doubt that the Lord 
is among us. I look forward with gratitude to Him 
who has commanded us to " go into all the world and 
make disciples of the heathen." If there is any 
portion of the heathen world which would be born to 
God in a day, this is the place. Already we see signs 
of their multifarious deities being despised. Startling 
prediction! The strong man is here keeping his 
palace, but his kingdom is doomed to fall. The 

o 3 



294 



VISIT TO ODIRl OF OKO. 



stronger than he is with us ; having Him as our head 
we shall go cheerfully to work, until He in his good 
time will draw the people from his fangs, and make 
them free indeed. 

October 27 — This morning I was busily engaged in 
copying my translation, which I had prepared last 
night, when, for want of time, I could not do so. 
About three p.m. I took Simon Jonas with me to 
Oko ; we went in one of their trading canoes. I went 
to Odiri, the man who had treated me so kindly. I 
w^as surprised to see him with three puncheons, which 
Captain Grant had given him a few days ago, filled 
with oil. He is a good trader. I paid a short visit to 
the schooner " George," and passed the night on shore 
with Odiri. Many people in that neighbourhood 
visited us in the night. I tried to speak to them 
about the word of God. I promised to pay them a 
second visit, and to stop with them for two days. In 
the night, truth to say, notwithstanding all the kind- 
ness of our friends, sleep never condescended to visit 
our eyes, especially mine, so intense had the heat 
been, so great the havoc committed by legions of 
mosquitoes and other uncomfortable bed compa- 
nions, with whose society we would most cheer- 
fully have dispensed. The two slaves, who had 
charge of the fire, went on nodding and buttincr 
their heads together, and then opening their eyes and 
blowing up the fire ; for a short time they repeated 
the same action, until they were soon lulled in the 
arms of sleep, and told me so by their snoring, which, 
in addition to the mosquitoes, greatly increased my 
wakefulness. One of them rose up : 1 was obliged to 



MISSIONARY OPENING?. 



295 



tell him to sleep and take his rest, as they had been 
paddling all day long in the canoe. About five in the 
morning we entered into conversation, one of them 
being a Kakanda, and the other Hausa. These two 
boys gave me information respecting Bassa, that if a 
white man goes there, it would take a long time before 
the people would listen to him, because some of them 
are Mohammedans. Poor fellows! they rattled Ibo 
as their own mother-tongue. I told them about 
Tshuku, for which they thanked me heartily. Yes, this 
counsel which we had together was one of the sweetest. 

October 28 — As I did not sleep last night, I was 
the first who arose, and came out doors and walked 
in the street. Odiri and several headmen of the 
place, and I, entered into conversation. I asked them 
whether they would like to have a person as teacher 
to settle among them, and to teach them white man's 
fashion. They told me that they had heard what I 
was doing at Onitsha, and they should like me to 
come and do the same to them. I promised them 
that, by-and-by, they should have some one whose lot 
should be, in the providence of God, to reside among 
them. This place contains more than 10,000 inhabi- 
tants, for which three Missionaries and catechists 
would very well do for the present. Thank God for 
what my eyes have seen and what my ears have 
heard. As the schooner " George " was to leave the 
Oko villages to-day, I went on board to bid Captain 
Grant farewell. We returned by one of the canoes 
for Onitsha, to-day being the general market-day. 
We arrived at about nine a.m. I was broken down 
on account of the sleep I lost last night. 



296 



ESTABLISHMENT OF THE 



October 29 — About half-past four p.m. I went out 
to visit. I came to Okosi's place. We entered into 
conversation: soon we were surrounded with twenty- 
persons more. I began there to expound that beauti- 
ful Psalm, " The heavens declare the glory of God." 
The moonlight was indescribably beautiful. I told 
them that I should be glad to see them to-night at 
our family devotion. In the evening, about 250 per- 
sons attended, and I explained the word of God: the 
portion of Scripture I read was Psalm cxv. They all 
joined us in prayer to God, and repeated the Lord's 
Prayer in Ibo very nicely. ]\Iany of them acknow- 
ledged that Christianity is far superior to their religion, 
and that they had determined to embrace it Surely 
it is no wild enthusiasm to hope, to believe, that the 
day is coming wlien Christianity shall triumph in the 
hearts of the Ibos, with many minds to appreciate its 
worth, and to thank God for His goodiiess towards 
them. May the cloud of darkness be soon dissipated, 
and the hght of heaven shine mightily, with more 
glittering rays than ever ! 

October 30 — 'This morning the chief Orikabue 
caused the Jconko to be sounded tln^ough the streets of 
Umude, to make peace with the people of Nkwere 
before Oibo would go there, and to take oaths between 
themselves that, upon certain conditions, henceforth 
none should trouble another. The last council was 
held in the night, and I was summoned to attend it. 
A strange but pleasing resolution was brought before 
me. " We call on you to tell'you that we wish to alter 
our Eke (or day of rest, which takes place every fourth 
day — ^the day fixed for cessation of work.)" They had 



CHRISTIAN SABBATH AT ONITSHA. 



297 



found that we had six days to labour, and on the 
seventh we rest, and talk of God's word ; so, as they 
are next to the throne, especially Orikabue, who is 
the prime minister, they begged me to pardon their 
liberty in encroaching on me. It was almost too great 
a delight to believe that these people were beginning 
to feel the effects of religion. I told them, may God 
assist them to carry forward this good resolution, 
which will have His glory in the furtherance of the 
Gospel, and that the one Cliristian Sabbath would be 
universally embraced. 

October 31 — This morning the konko was again 
sounded about five o'clock. His majesty, king Aka- 
zua, escorted some of his people, with those of 
Umude, to go half-way with Orikabue, and the king 
of Nkwere will send some of his people, that they 
might settle their matters and take a solemn oath. 
They wanted me to follow them and witness this 
peace, but I was not quite well, for I felt rather too 
weak in my body and unfit to travel, having no ham- 
mock to convey me ; but I followed them in my heart. 

November 1: Lord's-day — Tliis morning I tried to 
sit up, but I could not do any thing. The Lord is 
pleased not to accept of my services this day. I am 
still confined to my bed. I told Simon Jonas to try 
his best to take the two services where I had already 
made promises for the day. He and the traders went 
out, and left me at home. He returned, and reported 
that there was a goodly number present, about 150, 
who listened to him with much attention when he 
spoke to them from John xiv. 1 — 4. To use his own 



298 



JOY IN SICKNESS. 



words, " No one made a noise, and some of them shed 
tears." In the evening he went to the other side of 
the town, and spoke from Acts x. 1, 2, to 180 present. 
I am thankful that I have a suitable person to aid me. 
How could one alone chase a thousand ? 

I was not left alone in the house. I know in whom 
I have believed. Although I was excluded from 
delivering the message of the Heavenly King, yet I 
enjoyed much of his presence. May we be to these 
people a light that shineth in a dark place, until the 
day dawn, and the Day Star arise in their hearts : for 
they that sow in tears shall ere long reap in joy. 

November 2 — This morningr the King of Oko sent 
his canoe for me, requesting me to come over, as he 
wished to open his mind to me. Though unwell, I 
tried my best to go and listen to this call from an 
heathen king for the glory of God. We started about 
3 P.M., as the sun was very hot. The men paddled 
with pleasure along the beautiful river, and the rapid 
stream wafted us down. We took twenty minutes to run 
down, and landed quite safely. The king saluted us 
by firing a cannon, which he had lately bought of 
Captain Grant. I spoke to him afterwards, telling 
him that we do not seek worldly applause. He came 
to us, and conducted us into his house, and showed us 
a room which he had prepared for us. He brought a 
goat and eight yams and a pot of palm-wine for our 
dinner. 

November 3 — I went out very early in quest of a 
suitable place for a Mission House, and found out a 
fit spot, and told him to secure it, for otherwise in 



COMMERCIAL PROSPECTS. 



299 



due time some one will occupy it, and that I would 
teach him and his people how to serve God. I ex- 
pounded the Word of (jod to them in the evening. 

November 4 — To-day we left Oko for Onitsha. I 
am thankful to God for His goodness vouchsafed to 
me, and for the favour given us in the sight of the 
heathen kings. It is a very good omen that they are 
well disposed to His cause. This people understand 
the nature of trading. There were several puncheons 
of oil here. Captain Grant, on his way down the 
river, filled sixteen puncheons in the course of four days, 
exclusive of the canoes from Brass. Every thing pre- 
sents a glorious aspect, both in a commercial and 
spiritual point of view. Here also I met several per- 
sons from the interior of Ibo, two men from Inzi, 
especially one from Oka, who shewed me keys which 
he himself made. They are made of brass. The 
workmanship and cui'ious embellishments he had 
wrought upon them, and the dexterous composition that 
he had used, reflects great credit on him, and show the 
natives' susceptibility of culture, if properly trained. 
The chief, with his wives and children, brought us 
home in his own large canoe. 

November 6 — The heat was very oppressive to-day. 
Went out this evening to visit a sick man in the 
neighbourhood, and directed his attention to the God 
who made him. I asked him whether Ikenga would 
assist him to effect his recovery ? As he could not 
speak much he replied, " N-o, no." I said to him, 
" It is high time for you to cast away your idols, and 
prepare your mind to accept that salvation, which is 



300 THE CONSTRAINING LOVE OF CHRIST. 

SO freely offered to you." May God in mercy impress 
these truths on his mradj to the saving of his soul ! 

November 7 — We are fast approaching the dry 
season. The heat was very intense. I went down to 
see the river, which was falling very rapidly. I met 
hundreds of people from Igara, Oko, and this town 
trading in the market. About one p.m. a little rain 
drizzled, but instead of cooling the air, it increased 
the heat tenfold more. 

November 8 : Lord^s Day — The heat was the same. 
I could not go out this morning to hold service on 
account of the sim. About four p.m. I went out as 
the sun was setting, and preached in one of the streets 
leading to Nkwere Road to 300 souls, from 1 Tim. i. 15. 
A man after service told me, during the coui-se of pri- 
vate conversation, "that Opara Tshuku (the Son of 
God) must be a good man, as he was willing to be sa- 
crificed for us ; that all their sacrifices are nothing, 
and that they are only waiting till we have finished 
the house we intend to build." Deep attention was 
paid to the word of salvation. The two traders left 
us this morning, George Cole and William Romaine, 
for Igara and Odokodo, otherwise called Adan-Rodo, 
meaning the junction of two rivers, which we term 
"Confluence." These young men took passage in one 
of the canoes proceed mg to Igara, and from thence to 
Gbegbe, or the Confluence. About six p.m. a heavy 
tornado came on, preceded by lightning and thunder 
for hours before rain fell. What with the atmosphere 
filled with electric fluid, the bowlings of the wind, the 
thunder rolling through the vault of heaven, and 



VISIT TO NSUBE. 



301 



shaking the trembling roof of our little habitation — 
the state of our minds can only be imagined. Having 
God as our preserver, let the storm heave out its 
gushing winds, and let the thunder peal louder and 
louder over our heads, and let the little house tremble; 
the voice of Omnipotence is heard above, " Touch not 
mine Anointed, and do my prophets no harm." 

November 9 — I had proposed to have a tour through 
the intervening towns in the Ibo district. Early this 
morning Simon Jonas, Augustine Radillo, and I, went 
to Nsube. Two canoes took us as passengers. We 
passed the estuary of the river Amambara, which is on 
the left side of the main river. We left Onitsha's wharf 
about nine A.M., and reached the wharf of Nsub^ 
about midday. Our things being landed, we walked 
for nearly two miles to the town. We were obliged, 
on account of the swamps on the way, to wade through 
them up to the knees. Being exhausted with thirst, I 
attempted to drink some water, but to my regret it 
was covered with tadpoles, and the stench rising from 
its stagnant state rendered it unsavoury. Before we 
reached the town, the news that Oibo was coming 
had spread abroad. Shortly a motley assemblage of 
people burst into view. Some were standing, and 
others leaning against their fences. The men who 
escoi'ted us conducted us to the king's house. The 
large and spacious square was immediately crowded 
with living multitudes who had long wished to see us. 
The king made his appearance ; he is a very nice- 
looking man, about forty years old, and of good 
temper. His dress was simple — a red cap, adorned 
with twelve feathers and eight small rams' horns, and 



302 



QUEEN VICTORIA. 



a red damask sheet. We could scarcely enjoy any 
breeze on account of the crowd. The king saluted 
us, and wished us peace and prosperity. The next 
thing he did, according to the custom in Africa, was 
to pull out four kola-nuts, and holding one which 
had four valves, to ask me, " What is your king's 
name?" I told him that we had no king, but a queen 
instead of a king. He was astonished to hear it : he 
admired us, and said, " What ! can woman rule over 
man ?" Then he said, " Truly God blesses Oibo, 
that's why they are great; there is no partiality in 
them." " Woke'm,^'' said he to his people, " ge'nti^^ 
i.e. "Friends, hear!" He made a sensible speech, 
and afterwards a long harangue. The volubility of it 
rendered it less tedious. He distributed the kola-nuts 
to us and to his people, of which we all participated. 
I told him that our object in visiting his country was 
that our beloved Queen wished him and his country 
good, and that white man would open trade with him 
and his people, to better their condition and make 
them happy. He asked me, " What is the name of 
your Queen ?" I replied, " Queen Victoria." I was 
surprised when he pronounced the name very distinctly, 
shewing at once that there is V in the Ibo alphabet. 
He resumed his speech, and then drank her Majesty's 
health. I told him that I was a messenger of the 
Church Missionary Society, and that they wished me, 
as well as other servants of theirs, to live in the Ibo 
country, and teach them how to serve God. Moreover, 
I told him tliat he is responsible to God for his people. 
He told me to walk about in his district, and seek out 
any spot; but added, that he did not believe the word 



BEAUTIFUL LANDSCAPE. 



303 



to be true. Christians, here is another gem to be 
added to Christ's crown. Will you be callous to the 
call ? Will you not seek to reclaim this district, 
which is sunk in the darkness of Paganism ? 

November 10 — Last evening, King Obi Oferi paid 
us a visit at our private quarters, and begged to know 
whether I would really come to settle in his country, 
and instruct him and his people. I told him that 
Godwin provide him one by-and-by for his wants. This 
morning we walked about the town, and I must do it 
tlie justice to say, that the country is indescribably 
beautiful, covered with shades of cocoa-nut and palm- 
trees. The place is pleasantly situated on the borders 
of Nkwere, and surrounded by extensive plains. The 
streets are as well laid out as if they had a surveyor ; 
the streets are swept every morning, and the houses 
are of the same construction as Onitsha. It is a 
Jericho, or town of palm-trees, — plenty of oil here, as 
well as cotton, and the soil very good. 

About eleven a.m. we went to Upper Nsubc, to pay 
a visit to the other King, Obi Emetsheta. He re- 
ceived us with marked kindness. I walked about the 
town. They had recently removed from their former 
locality, and are building this new place. From this 
place I .saw beautiful mountains in the interior. I 
went up a little way to a little hill, to have a full view 
of this attractive scene. The chain of the mountains, 
in a considerable stretch with a high peak, filled my 
mind with delightful emotion, remembering that these 
are the "Kong Mountains." For sixteen years I in- 
structed youths at Sierra Leone in their name ; to- day 
I beheld them. 



304 



KING OFERI. 



Nsube is about thirty miles from Onitsha. The 
King being filled with joy, and being overwhelmed 
with it, could not suppress his spirit ; he rose and danced 
before us, and said, " he thauked God that he saw what 
his forefathers had not seen." They had long heard of 
Oibo, but to-day they were satisfied with what they 
have seen. I preached at Upper Nsube, from Luke 
xix. 9, "This day is salvation come into this house," 
to more than 600 people, in the open air. Having 
given notice that I shall preach at Lower Nsube, I 
returned, after about three hours' visit. The distance 
between the two places could not be less than two miles. 
King Oferi called his people together by the sound 
of his large drum ; in not more than half an hour there 
were not fewer than between 700 or 800 present, 
and I preached from Rom. i. 11, and explained to 
them the unparalleled love of God to mankind. They 
repeated the Lord's Prayer in the Ibo tongue very 
nicely. Here I saw several persons from places in 
the interior, such as Umu'-Ehi, Ibeaku, Omo, Inam, 
Obunike, Nando, Oka, Umu-Aturu, and Nteja. I 
am glad that some of them were here: they would caiTy 
home to their respective places what they saw and heard. 
This gave me an opportunity to tell them of British 
love to them, and the ai'dent wish of the English to 
evangelize Africa in general. Two of them belonging 
to Inam begged me to follow them, and have a peep 
at their town, which is about four to six miles over- 
land. I told them I could not promise them now, as 
we should leave to-morrow, D.v., for Onitsha. 

November 1 1 — Two chiefs, Udeze and Odogu, sent 
for us and asked us to pay them a visit before we 



HOPE FOR AFRICA. 



305 



leave. In eacli of these places I addressed them 
simply upon the love of God to perishing sinners, and 
that we obtain pardon through the meritorious death 
of His Son Jesus Christ. I endeavoured to press 
home on their minds that, by-and-by, their own 
countrymen would come and settle among them. 
After breakfast we bade them good-bye, and came to 
the King's Court. The King felt sorry at om* leaving, 
so much so that silent tears filled his eyes. He accom- 
panied us about two yards from his palace, and begged 
us to return again to his town. Our things were 
brought, with a present of four goats, to the wharf, where 
the canoes were waiting, which my landlord, Orikabue, 
sent to fetch us down. We resumed the same route, 
and underwent the same process of wading. About 
two P.M. we arrived quite safe at Onitsha. I feel 
great pleasure in visiting these regions, which have 
hitherto been terra incognita. 

I cannot close this interesting visit to Nsube without 
one or two remarks. I had often read the promise, 
" Ethiopia shall soon stretch out her hands unto God," 
with deep interest, but not until this day did I feel its 
force, when there sat before me a congregation of pure 
Africans, who had met together to worship the God of 
the universe. Here for the first time the joyful news of 
salvationwas announced, and the people seemed to enjoy 
it Again, if Ethiopia must hear the untold mysteries of 
the Gospel, by whom must they hear them ? It cannot 
be otherwise but by her own sons and daughters. 
There is no cause to fear in the Ibo district : the people 
are ready to receive the Gospel from the mouth of 
their own children. Ye enlightened sons of Africa, 



306 



APPEAL FOR NATIVE MISSIONARIES. 



that are inured to the climate, will you leave the 
26,000 inhabitants of Nsube to perish for lack of the 
bread of life ? Ye sons of Africa in general, whether 
born at Sierra Leone or the West Indies, here are 
tracks marked out for your usefulness ; though these 
people are only just emerging out of darkness, yet they 
can value the Gospel of Jesus, and do manifest as much 
attention and respect to us, whilst preaching, as you 
could desire. Had you beheld our assembly, I am 
sure your heart would have leaped for joy ; and your 
hands would have been strengthened in the good 
work of the Lord. Certainly, you would have beheld, 
seated on the fine sandy ground, the mother with her 
sable children around her, the aged and infirm, listen- 
ing with breatliless attention, whilst the mercy and 
grace of a crucified Saviour was set before them. To- 
day for the first time the rocks, and hills, and valleys 
became vocal with the praises of Jehovah, the 
Sovereign God. If there is African blood in you, 
and if you wish to ameliorate your countrymen, seek 
that divine grace which is in Clu'ist, learn of Him as 
he laboured for His countrjnnen, and for our redemp- 
tion. Spend and be spent for Him, as He has done 
for you. Come and rank youi-selves in this glorious 
enterprise, for the " wolf shall dwell with the lamb, 
and the leopard shall lie down with the kid, and the calf 
and the young lion and the falling together; and a little 
child shall lead them." Hail, beautiful countries ! May 
you soon resound with the name of Jesus ! There is 
much in the signs of the times to make us believe that 
the set time to favour Central Africa is come, and the 
rapid development of the Redeemer's kingdom is near. 



THE DUTY OF AFRICAN CHRISTIANS. 307 

Cherish, therefore, your hope of evangelizing and 
civilizing your race. Look at the antipathy which 
England felt towards your degraded state — look at 
her perseverance and exertions to prevent slavery, 
more especially their purpose of introducing among 
the numerous tribes on the banks of the Niger, and 
the interior, the comforts and blessings of civilization. 
Will you not prize this opportunity, and thank God for 
His goodness? Who would sit contented without 
making efforts for the diffusion of the Gospel? If 
such there are, " Tell it not in Gath, publish it not in 
the streets of Askelon," 

November 12 — Many people came to my place 
since last night until now to congratulate us on our 
safe arrival from Nsube. I admired them, and 
thanked God for giving me favoiu" in the eyes of this 
heathen people, and leading them to have a strong 
attachment to me. I tested them by saying, " I shall 
go to Nsube, and stop and build a house." " Oh !" they 
all burst out and said, " God forbid:" you must stay 
with us, and tell us the word of God: who shall teach 
us if you go?" 

November 1 3— I had many visitants this morning, 
and all joined in our family devotion. 

November 14 — To-day I was busily engaged in 
copying the sketch of the banyan-tree which I took 
at Nsube. While I was sketching it, abouu 100 
people surrounded me, to whom I expounded the 
Sa'v'iour's parable of the fig-tree. In the evening I 
went out to visit some sick persons in the town, and 
also to a few widows. I called on two invalids whose 
ends were fast' approaching, and told them that all 



308 



HEATHEN OBSEQUIES. 



things whicli happen to us come from God ; only, if 
we can give Him our whole hearts, that is what He 
requires of us. One told me that he suffered much 
from amusu (witchcraft), but I tried to examine his 
case, and found it to be consumption. His emaciated 
state convinced me that he had fallen into his last stage. 
I told him plainly that he was past recovery. Poor 
man ! he died two days after my visit. 

November 15: Lorcts-day — Wet day from morning 
mitil night, which prevented me from going out to 
preach. About eight A.M. a sick child was brought 
to me for a little medicine. I was obliged to with- 
hold it, as I had given the greater part of the little 
I brought, and, besides, the child was far gone. She 
died a few minutes after theyhad gone. I am sorry 
to say that the custom in this country, and in pai-t of 
tlie interior of the Ibo district, refuses uiterment to 
cliildren from six years old and vmder: they are put 
into an earthen pot, squeezed into that narrow shell, 
and sometimes the limbs are cut off to make the 
shoulders get in. This being done, they are carried 
and thrown out into the fields, a prey to the multitude 
of vultures that are soaring over the country-. I shall 
give an account of it by-and-by, when I sum up my 
notices of each country. I kept service at home to a 
few persons, and expomaded the Gospel for the twenty- 
third Sunday after Trinity. 

November 16 — Went out visiting. I called upon 
Orissa, and spoke to him about the goodness of God. 
He was quite convinced of the truth of God's good- 
ness, in perfect reHance upon His holy word. He 
began to relate to me their superstitious follies, and 



A HEATHEN MOTHER IN SORROW. 309 

said, Dibia (doctors) used to deceive them, and pre- 
tended to withhold or give rain at their option, and 
such like pretences ; but they had now found out their 
secrets, and none of them would henceforth believe 
them, for it is God alone who has the winds and rain 
in His charge. I called upon another, who spoke of 
the folly of fortune-tellers, that " he used to do so, but 
when he saw what we are doing and telling people 
about God, he found that he could not well deceive 
the people, and that when he used to play with his 
sand and shells the result had always been unfavour- 
able; consequently, he had thrown them into the 
river Niger, henceforth determined to follow what 
God has said." 

I also called upon the woman who lost her daugh- 
ter yesterday. Poor creature! as their custom is 
to lie down in ashes, so I found her from head to 
feet, and all over her body, covered with ashes. 
There were a few friends who came to sympathize 
with her. I asked her, " Wambo, do you feel the 
loss of your child?" She replied, "Yes." "Do 
you know where she is gone to?" "God has taken 
her." "Do you know where God lives?" "In the 
heavens." " Do you think that God has done you 
any harm by taking away the fruit of your womb?" 
Here she gave full vent to her feelings, and said 
that this was the eighth child she had buried, or rather 
thrown away, and there were only two surviving sons 
remaining for her. " Why does God allow others to 
bear girls and keep them, and see their daughters 
prosper in the world, and she only suffer from 
time to time? what bad luck had she brought into 
the world, and what harm had she done to Him?" 

P 



310 



VISITORS FROM OBUNIKE. 



Here I tried to sootlie her sorrows, and directed lier 
to trust in God ; for what He does now is for our 
good. I listened to this sorrowful tale with an aching 
heart. O Christianity, what happiness is found in 
thee! Had they experienced thy sacred comforts to 
cheer them, their griefs would be comparatively light ! 
Could they but appreciate thy worth, though they 
would weep, yet the tears would flow with less dejec- 
tion. God grant that this time of trouble and excite- 
ment may be the means of awakening sleepy hearts, 
and leading them to Christ! 

November 18 — Two men from Obunike paid me a 
visit. I asked them, " How far is Obunike from 
here?" I judged it, from their information, to be six 
miles, as they axe on the borders of this town. They 
asked me to pay a visit to their town, and would be 
glad to receive me ; for although their king is dead, 
yet the one who should succeed him would be glad to 
see us. This place lies east of Onitsha. I tried to 
ask them about several places near them. They gave 
me the following information: — Umu-dioka is a mile 
from them, as they are bordering on its precincts, 
Inzi, Nkpo, and Oka. I went out in the evening to 
visit, and called upon two principal men, and expounded 
the goodness of God towards us, and returned home a 
little after dark. 

November 19 — Early this morning I discovered, to 
my regret, white ants had destroyed my things in my 
box — books, clothes, and goods ; the goods, excepting 
five pieces out of twenty, escaped, but the rest had 
holes in them. After dinner I had promised Orissa 
that I should hold service at his yard this afternoon. 
We got ourselves ready, but were hindered on account 



DISPUTE AVITH UMUDE. 



311 



of the heavy ram which fell, accompanied with vivid 
liffhtniiior and thunder. The rain lasted until mid- 
night. 

Novemler 22: Lorcfs-day — Having promised to 
hold service this morning in the middle of the town, I 
was sadly disappointed by a quarrel which broke out 
with the people at the other side, or end of the town, 
on account of a chief who wished to desert his village 
and come down where we intended to build. The 
people of Umude refused : they told him, as he was 
concerned in the late war of Ogidi, he should first go 
and be reconciled with them. He gathered his 
parties, well armed, to come out and at once clear 
the ground on which he intended to build. As we 
were engaging at prayers, we heard the sound of the 
war-drum, which soon collected the people together, 
some with sticks, others with bows and arrows, guns, 
matchlocks, or scimitars. Oh, what a bustle! We 
could scarcely believe that this was a sacred day, a 
day appointed for spiritual rest, an emblem of that 
eternal rest. 1 went there afterwards to pacify them, 
but before I reached the highway they had driven 
them away; nevertheless, I went out to Ogidi road 
and held service, and preached from Isaiah Iv. 6, to 
200 present, there being about fifty women, fifty 
children, and one hundx'ed men. As to-day was their 
market at Obosi, very few women were at home. 
The evening threatened rain, which prevented my 
going out agam, as I had been out under the sun in 
the open air for nearly two hours. I kept Sabbath- 
school for the emigi'ants. Several old men looked in 
and sat quietly listening to us as we read the Second 

p 2 



312 



THE BETTER RELIGION. 



Lesson for the day, John xiv. I began to catechize 
them, and told Simon Jonas to expound the first two 
verses to them. I myself tried to unfold to them the 
truths contained in the chapter. One of them re- 
marked of Tshukuma, alias Augustine Radillo, the 
Baptist deacon, that to see me instructing the people 
to read, and never sitting down one day to rest with- 
out engaging in writing or preaching, was a matter of 
course, as I was born in an English country ; but to 
see Tshukuma, an Ibo man, once their slave, knowing 
how to read and write, and understanding the wonder- 
ful truths contained in God's eternal book — to see him, 
an Itshi man, from the interior of Ibo, reading an 
English book, and having his mind expanded, and 
leaving off the customs of the Ibos, was more than he 
could ever have anticipated. Surely our religion 
must be better ; and he was determined now to em- 
brace it, should it please God to help us in accomplish- 
ing our buildings. We closed this uitei-esting school 
with prayer. 

November 23 — Nothing but confusion prevailed 
this day. The sound of the war-drum was heard, on 
account of the audacity of Wabuvo, the chief of Odo- 
jari, who had incurred the high displeasure of the 
people of Uraude, and yet headed his troops and 
encouraged them to persevere in the combat. They 
were defeated, and were obliged to retreat : on either 
side there was no loss sustained. Towards the even- 
ing I went out visiting, and spoke to several families 
about the love of Christ, and especially urged on them 
the necessity of living together in unity. About mid- 
night the sounds of musketiy were heard close by us : 



A COUNCIL. 



313 



I thought it was war, but I learnt that the youngsters 
were enjoying themselves in high glee. 

November 24 — Tliis morning the konko was sounded 
to collect the counsellors together, to adopt the measures 
to be taken should Wabuvo dare to presume to-day. 
I was told afterwards that they had taken an oath to 
wage war against him. During part of the day I was 
busily engaged in sawing some posts for our dwelling- 
house. 

November 25 — The konko was again sounded, for 
the counsellors to assemble themselves and discuss 
the conduct of Wabuvo. Last night he had sent 
some men to take away the large drum of Umude 
They came to this conclusion : that they would not 
first kill any man belonging to them, but that if he 
dared to retain the drum, and persisted to occupy 
that portion of land, they would certainly carry on war 
with him, and were determined to do so. They arose, 
and one of them took a wooden bowl filled with pebbles 
and a stone, going roimd them three times ; then they 
all unanimously burst out, "According to this oath, so 
would we have it." Towards the evening, when the 
young men had retired from their field labours, they 
collected them, and told them to be ready at all times, 
for they had determined to wage war with those of 
Odojari. I saw a black stone placed on a green leaf, 
and the young men, all of them, stood up, and one of 
the counsellors took up the stone with the leaf, going- 
round them. He said, " Young men, be on your 
guard, and fight for your right : none must be a 
coward, but be bold and manly. Remember this iyi 
[oath-stone] : it has been done so in bygone days by 



314 THE DAY OF SMALL THINGS. 



our forefathers: tliey were very stoutliearted, and 
Jiever shrank back in any thing they had determined 
to perform." The oath was then administered to 
them in the same manner as in the morning. Placed 
as we are in such a critical position, what can we do, 
but to do our best to dissuade them from carrying their 
wild thoughts into effect ? The many things that we 
have seen, instead of damping our minds, encourage 
us to hope with patience. If we be earnest in sup- 
plicating the God of Missions, the result will even- 
tually be favourable. Why do we complain of such 
trifling beginnings ? Is it not with such beginnings 
that the way of evangelization commenced ? It is so 
with every new Mission. Let me ask those indefa- 
tigable Missionaries of New Zealand whether it is not 
so. Then surely, " The Lord of Hosts is with us, and 
the God of Jacob is our refuge." 

November 26 — I left home early this morning to 
make a rough sketch of the river, as it was falling 
very fast. About six p.m. I returned, and found 
some persons were waiting on me for prayers, and to 
hear the word of God read to them. It is painful to 
niy mind, as I have not as yet begun the house 
which we intend to put up, on account of the yam- 
plantation on the spot ; but I hope in the course of a 
week they will be removed by their owners. 

November 27 — As I had not completed my sketch 
of the river, I went down after breakfast. We had 
scarcely got out into the street, when the king sent a 
messenger to me, to say that I had been absent for a 
long time from visiting him and his people ; and that, 
as he is not allowed to go out from his palace, he 



i 



A SYMBOLICAL LETTER. 



315 



should be glad to see me come up to his quarters next 
Sunday, and talk to him of God's word, for he liked 
it very much. I returned an oral answer to him 
that, D.V., I would come, and he must get his people 
ready. I looked upon king Akazua's invitation as a 
decided manifestation of a leading Providence. I 
trust the invisible hand of the Holy Spirit is moving 
him like Cornelius of old, so that he might be enabled 
to say, " We are all present before God, to hear all 
things that are commanded thee of God." 

November 28 — To-day the king of Nsube sent me 
a symbolical letter, consisting of the following articles : 
A new pot, containing palm-wine tied up with 
plantain leaf. The meaning of it is as follows : — as 
we are new friends, he hoped to see me ; the wine 
implying that it would make him glad : he had sent 
his servants expressly to come and invite me over to 
talk God's word to him and his people. In the 
evening Obi Akazua sent another messenger, to remind 
me to come over to-morrow, for he would be waiting 
for me. I hope tliese two invitations, in whatever 
view I look upon them, are providential. Does not 
the church long to see the happy time "when all kings 
shall fall down before Him, all nations shall serve 
Him?" 

November 2% : Lord's-day. Advent Sunday — This 
morning we went to the king's quarters, and found a 
few persons assembled, and the king seated on a little 
mound of earth, which served as his throne. He 
accosted us, and said that they were waiting for us, 
and that he was glad to see us. I conducted divine 
service in the open air, and preached from Romans 



316 



ADVENT SUNDAY. 



xiii. 11, 12. I directed the king's and liis subjects' 
minds to Advent Sunday, and spoke about the good- 
ness of God in sending his only Son into our world ; 
adding, that we have four weeks before us to prepare 
for His coming. I asked him, if he were to stand on 
the banks of the river Osimiri, and had a cable in his 
hands, and saw a canoe belonging to one of his 
subjects capsized, and the people nearly drowned, 
what would he do but throw off the cable to them, 
and request them to catch hold of it and save them- 
selves. Such an act of his we should call " Salvation." 
So God has sent His Son to save the whole world, by 
presenting to them the word of life. By A-irtue of His 
Son Jesus Christ, through Him, and by Him alone, 
we can have access unto Him. He, being filled with 
joy at the hearing of it, stood up with deep composure 
of mind, lifted up his hands to heaven, and repeated 
these words : " Opara Tshuku hiko napu ga'm, Opara 
Tshuku, hiko napu ayi nile;^'' i.e. " Son of God, save 
me ; Son of God, save us all." I admired the phrase- 
ology of the king's ejaculation, first for himself, and 
next for his subjects. Ye who are in Christian lands, 
take care that the heathen do not go into the kingdom 
of heaven before you. 

November 30 — A woman from Odokodo paid me a 
visit. From her I learnt that the steamer had 
reached Lade, and ran between the reefs thereabouts; 
and that those who were left in the factory at Laird's 
Town were quite well. As I was engaged in writing, I 
was seized with ague and shivering cold for nearly 
five hours, being alone in the house w'ithout a servant. 
Simon Jonas had gone to the market. At his return. 



RESTORED HEALTH. 



217 



he was surprised to find me' in that state, and ordered 
that I should be immediately removed to the Factory, 
for change of air. I was carried on a hammock quite 
unconsciously. I am thankful that Mr. J. L. Thomp- 
son did all he could to help me on this occasion. 

December 7 — Blessed be God ! through His good- 
ness, though unworthy to return Him sufficient thanks 
for preserving me once more, yet He can accept my 
few weak praises of gratitude. I am once more 
spared, and in the land of the living. Finding that I 
was able to move about, 1 went out very early to see 
the spot for the workmen to commence clearing the 
ground. I had suffered much from the want of the 
natives to be faithful, according to their frequently 
so-called faithful, but unfulfilled, promises, which had 
many a time so sadly disappointed my hopes of com- 
mencing the building. I enjoyed pretty good health 
during the day, as the harmattan is now fully set in. 

December 8 — Jonas came early to me, and reported 
that the owners of the ground refused to have it 
cleared now, until they have cut down their guinea- 
corn from the spot. Here was another fresh trial to 
damp my sanguine hope of commencing ; for I am 
always on the look out for the " Dayspring," to join 
her and return home, as the time when I promised 
the Committee to return is far past. 

December 9 — I am much better to-day. News had 
arrived that the people of Oko had pirated some 
canoes from the people of Inam, who were on their 
way down to Laird's Port, to trade with pots of palm- 
oil, ivory, &c. 

December 10 — Many persons from the town came 
p 3 



318 FOUNDATION OF A MISSION-HOUSE. 



to pay me a visit at Laird's Port. Feeling conva- 
lescent, I took a walk down tlie fine beach, where I 
saw the ankles and skull of a human being lie bleach- 
ing on the sand. I think it to be some one who had 
been drowned somewhere, and the current had 
bi'ought the body down. I reflected upon the spiritual 
state of these dark regions, which lie bleaching in the 
sand of ignorance ; and the call to the church to put 
forth strenuous efforts, crying mightily, "Come, O 
wind, and breathe upon these slain, that they may 
live." This district is the citadel of Satan, but his 
kingdom is doomed to fall. Blessed be God, it shall 
fall ; and the kingdom of the Son of God shall be 
built upon its desolate ruins. Hail, happy day I long 
to see ! 

December 11 — Having gathered a little strength, I 
walked up to the spot I intended to build on. I was 
happy in laying the foundation of the Mission-house, 
fifty feet by thirty ; and returned at ten a.m. This 
being the first house built by a Christian Mission in 
these ill-fated lands, may it be a blessing to millions 
of human beings — may it be the means of paramount 
good to generations yet to come ! 

December 12 — My time was much engaged in the 
building to-day. Being just raised from the bed of 
sickness, I could not do much, as the sun was so 
powerful, being now in his zenith. A man whom 
I had engaged had on round his waist the vertebrje of 
a boa constrictor. It looked to me more like a cham- 
gang than an ornament. 

December 17 — As I was busily engaged in the 
building, a lad about ten years of age came to seek 



AN INQUIRER. 



319 



me, and sat for a long time waiting on me. Thomas 
Samuel, one of the traders, asked him what he wanted 
me for. He said that he came on purpose to hear 
the word of God ; and that he felt conscious of what 
had been spoken every Lord's-day. Samuel told him 
that he was sorry I was absent from home, but would 
inform me of his good purpose. He sat still, and 
asked Samuel if he could not assist him by telling 
him one word of Jesus Christ before he left. Samuel 
then began to tell him that when the house is finished 
he must come there to learn. But the lad was 
dissatisfied, and said, " No, I cannot go till you tell 
me of Jesus Christ, and what He has done." Then 
Samuel told him that " J esus Christ died to save 
sinners ;" and added that, " He liked little boys to 
pray to Him." The name of this little boy is Aliize. 
He returned home, and went on his way rejoicing. 
About four P.M. I observed a band of young men with 
muskets and a large drum, and an old worn-out 
instrument, called Ogalle, or bell ; an iron sceptre, 
ornamented with fringes of small bells ; yams, stuck 
with fowls' feathers ; a wooden bowl, containing marsh 
yam oiled ; a horse-tail ; a pot of broth and kola-nuts : 
to-day being the end of the Ibo year, such are the 
things used at its celebration. 

December 18 — Early this morning another trial 
came on me at Laird's Port, where I was staying to 
recruit my health. My overcoat, flannel drawers, 
and vests, day and night-shirts, pocket-handkerchiefs, 
trousers, and socks were stolen — sixteen pieces in the 
whole — from the little stock of clothing I had brought 
with me from home. I am now almost left destitute 
for want of clothing, only three shirts remaining in 



a20 



THE NEW YEAE. 



my possession. We made search, but have not, as 
yet, discovered the parties. I now understand the 
apostle, in his incessant trials which befell him, causing 
him to say, " In perils of robbers, in perils by my own 
coimtrymen, in perils by the heathen, in perils in the 
city, in perils in the wulderness." I am confident 
that my God will supply all my wants. 

December 20: Lord's-day — To-day the inhabitants 
of this town kept their New-year's day. Every 
family brought a fire-brand out into the public streets, 
and threw them there ; returned, and exclaimed as 
they went along, " Osokura ! Osokura ! afo ohonru o 
putaol" i.e. "The gods of the new year! New 
year has come round again."* At eleven a.m. I 
conducted divine service, and px'eached from Isaiah 
liv. 13 : "All thy children shall be taught of the Lord, 
and great shall be the peace of thy children." There 
were no fewer than 400 persons present, old men and 
women, young men and children. The congregation 
was very quiet and attentive. I pointed to them, 
1st, the teacher ; 2nd, the lesson they are to learn, viz. 
their need, and to believe in Jesus ; 3rd, the efi'ects of 
this teaching, viz. Peace w ith God, and love to all 
men. All these heads were delivered in the usual 
way of conversation. I was well pleased with the 
several answers the old men made, which reflected great 
credit on them. You who have the privileged oppor- 
tunity of hearing the word of God in Christian lands, 
how would you excuse yourselves at the dreadful day 
of judgment ? Mind ! " to whom much is given, much 

* The meaning" of the custom seems to be, that the fire is to 
drive away the old year, with its sorrows and evils, and to 
embrace the new year with hearty reception. 



OBI EMETSHETA. 



321 



shall be required." Unless you repent," says our 
Saviour, " you shall all likewise perish." Strive more, 
strive in earnest, lest the heathen get into the kingdom 
of heaven before you; yea, before many professed 
Christians. The Bible, like a mighty engine, is 
working ; and the leaven of divine truth is oj)erating 
and fermenting in the hearts of the heathen, and its 
life-wivino; fire is burning within their breasts. Kinw 
Jesus, come ! 

" Come, thou mighty king of kings, 
Rise with heahng in thy wings ; 
Bare thine arm, and ride on high, 
Glorious in thy majesty. 
Thou hast mercy still in store, 
E'en for India's coral shore ; 
Afric's sable sons shall know 
Thou hast mercy to bestow." 

December 21 — An express messenger from Obi 
Emetsheta, king of Upper Nsube, was despatched to 
me very early this moi'ning. The message was as 
follows : — Emetsheta, king of Upper Nsube, begs me 
to come over once more, and tell them God's word ; 
for that those words which I had spoken unto them 
are nearly out — only a little bit remaining in their 
minds — and that they desire more. I was obliged to 
send him away without complying with his earnest 
calls. The messenger went half away, and returned ; 
and said that many people from the interior had heard 
that Beke had come to reside at Nsube, and they had 
come to see for themselves whether it was a fact. 
Oh, had we more assistance here ; we should be able 
to speed and spread the savour of Jesus' name to 



322 



WIDOWS MOURNING. 



every corner of the Ibo district, and as far as the 
curse is found. We hope ere long " all the kings of 
the earth shall praise Thee, O Lord, when they hear 
the words of thy mouth." 

December 23 — Busily engaged in the building all 
the day. In the evening a man from Inzi paid me a 
visit, and reported that their king had sent him to 
salute me. I entered into conversation with him, and 
asked him whether their country is far from this 
place. He replied, " No, it is about a day's journey." 
I told him that by-and-by God would send one 
whose lot should be to settle among them, and teach 
them how to serve God, and ti'y to better their condi- 
tion. He thanked me, and before he left, asked me 
to give him some presents ; but I was unable to give 
him any thing, as I had nothing at my disposal. 

December 24 — I kept quiet at home. I saw twelve 
women, who were widows, passing down to the river. 
Cui'iosity led me to follow them, and see what that 
custom was. A little girl went before them as con- 
ductor. All of them had their heads shaved, walked 
down to the river, dipped their feet in the water, and 
then, having placed their right hands in their jaws, 
returned, and sat in the market-place and wept. 
Their clothes consisted of a piece of old cloth dried in 
the smoke, with white bands tied round their waists ; 
their term of mourning is from ten to twelve months. 
They are to lie down in actual ashes during the 
above-mentioned term of mourning. 

December 25 : Christmas Day — Spared once more 
to behold the annual return of this Christian festivity. 
Spai'ed amidst the griefs of sin in this wilderness of 



ENCOUKAGEMENTS. 



323 



mortal woe. To-day being market-dajj I was obliged 
to wait until the evening for service, when I preached 
from John i. 14, to 200 persons. The Igara traders 
reported the fate of the "Dayspring," which was 
injured off Rabba. I inquired, and found that it was 
so in reality ; but 1 suspended all conjectures until the 
return of Cole and Romaine from the Confluence. I 
am happy to say that the people listened to the word 
of God with deep attention. 

December 27 : Lord's-day—^aLvXy this morning I 
went out to the town where I had given notice for 
divine service. I was sadly disappointed, as the 
people were so busy about gathering in their crops 
from their farms, and tying up their yams and beans 
in their stores and pens. However, I tried to see 
some of the infirm, and spoke to them about God's 
love. The heat being cooled a little, I visited several 
yam-pens, and addressed the people from 1 Tim. iv. 8. 
I admired the men, who left oft' their work and listened 
to me with peculiar attention, wliile I unfolded to 
them the truths contained in the text. They felt 
them, and promised to attend next sabbath. One of 
them went aside and communed with his friends, and 
each of them gave a yam ; they brought them to me, 
and asked me to take them. This of course I could 
not receive, but thanked them for their goodwill ; and 
returned home fully satisfied in my mind that it was 
a rich reward for what was lacking in the morning. 
May the word of God dwell richly in their hearts ; 
and may they learn to prize the sabbath at no very 
future day, when it shall please God to open their 
eyes, to know how to rest from the toils of the week ; 



324 



HOPES FOR THE FUTURE. 



to appreciate the happiness of spending a day with 
God ; and, above all, to remember the sabbath-day to 
keep it holy. 

December 28 — I was early at work to see the 
labourers. Two men sought me, and, when I asked 
them for their reason, said that they came to hear the 
word of God. Of course I felt quite refreshed in my 
mind, although I had just returned from the heat of 
the sun. I explained a few words from the Scripture, 
more especially I dwelt on the first commandment. 
In the evening I walked down the river, and observed 
four large trading canoes paddling down and up the 
river, bound to Igara with goods. Oh, I hope the 
day is not distant when there will be a British settle- 
ment formed here and at the Confluence, as posts for 
the spread of civilization. 

December 29 — Several persons from the town had 
gratuitously helped us in roofing the house ; and the 
women brought me two pots of palm-wine, of pretty 
good size, and kola-nuts for the people. Might not 
some of these very women at no distant period become, 
as in the days of the Apostolical church, such as 
Phebe, Priscilla, and Mary, and Dorcas, and Julia, 
and Tryphena and Tryphosa, in the modern church 
of Central Africa? Nearly all the influential men 
aided me during the week, trying their best to facilitate 
the accomplishment of the dwelling-house. They had 
not seen any house built like that. It had an ap- 
pearance of novelty to them, and attracts the eyes of 
passers-by. 

December 30 — To-day I saw thi'ee children brought 
from Igara. One is about five years old, and the 



DOMESTIC SLAVERY. 



325 



other two between seven and eight; they were 
purchased as domestic slaves. The little child ran 
about as heartily as ever. Poor fellow, unconscious 
that ere long he should be used as a slave, he came 
running up to my arms. I don't know when so many 
tears of sympathy flowed down my cheeks. I was 
obliged to repress those tears. I spoke to the owner, 
but it had very little effect on him. Oh, had I a secret 
place, like Joseph, to weep, I could have wept aloud. 
" 0 Christians, to their rescue fly, 
Preach Jesus to them eve they die." 

Tliis is what is wanting for Central Africa. 

December 31 — Since Tuesday, Jonas returned from 
Oko ill. I was obliged to attend him in his fever. 
Having no medicine with me, the little I had having 
been used in my illness, I was in great distress of 
mind, perplexed with many inward trials. To Thee, 
O God, I look for help in every time of need ; help 
us, O Lord, and raise us up for the cause we have in 
hand ! Amidst all, my chequered life has been spared 
to see the last day of another year, — one so marked 
out in the providence of God as an eventful one to me. 
May I be enabled to say from my heart, " Bless the 
Lord, O my soul, and all that is within me, bless His 
holy name ! " May this Mission be honoured by Thee, 
and may nrany come willingly to labour in pulling 
down the strongholds of Satan's kingdom ; for the 
whole of the Ibo district is his citadel. Ewenuzo of 
Igara requested me to give a book to him, or a note. I 
gave him the following text, as I had no tract : " Trust 
in the Lord for ever, for in the Lord Jehovah is ever- 
lasting strength." 



326 



ANOTHER YEAK. 



January \, 1858 — I am again spared to see the be- 
ginning of the new year. I bless God for His nu- 
merous blessings vouchsafed to me, numerous mani- 
festations of His mercies which I have experienced 
during the year that is gone ; and may I humbly con- 
fide more in Him, and trust in Him for divine guidance 
to sustain His holy cause in this part of Africa, where 
idolatry is rampant. 

January 2 — Last night news was conveyed to us 
that the man who had stolen our goat died, and it 
had caused great sensation in the town. This is the 
third time we have experienced pilfering, and it is 
very strange that none of those who had done so lived. 
The news was spread abroad that, if my clothes which 
had been stolen were not speedily restored, God would 
surely punish that man; for Beke (or Oibo), would pray 
to God, and that individual would certainly die. 
Busily engaged in paying the workmen from nine to 
twelve. In the evenmg I made preparations for the 
ensuing Sabbath. 

January 3 : LordCs-day — As the people wei'e so busy 
in penning up their yams and guinea-corn, I had an 
early service about nine a.m. and preached from Ro- 
sea X. 12, to 200 persons — being 100 men, 50 women, 
and 50 children. After service I went out, visiting 
those who were in the village where I had officiated, 
and spoke to them of the goodness of God. I held the 
evening service with some of the traders, and ex- 
pomaded Psalm cxxii. May the commencement of the 
first Sabbath in the new year be the means of awaken- 
ing many of these heathen who ai-e still slumbering 
in Paganism ; and may the Holy Spirit work in them 



DANGER FEOM FIEE. 



327 



mightily, till they learn to sit at the feet of Jesus, 
clothed and in their right minds. 

January 4 — I went out very early to see the 
workmen, and show them how to lath the roof, and 
returned home about mid-day. Jonas is still very 
unwell, sufi"ering most from rheumatism, fever, 
and cough. I have no medicine for him, but we 
trust in the Lord, for His mercies are great and new 
every morning. The liarmattan is daily waxing 
stronger and stronger. A dreadful fire broke out in 
the fields, which caused great excitement in the town. 
The kroomen at Laird's Port, Mr. Thompson, and my- 
self, were obliged to do our best, by beating off the 
rude flakes whicli flew across the factoiy houses, and 
trying to secure the property ; others were employed 
in cutting down the high grass. Fortunately, the 
wind changed its course, and blew in a direction suf- 
ficiently oblique to save the houses from danger. 
Much of the grass being dry at this season of the year, 
a little fire would do great harm to houses and pro- 
perty. The fire broke out just behind where I am 
building. It was good that the fields were thus burnt 
down before I commenced thatching the roof. 

January 5 — Two influential men of this town paid 
me a special visit in the afternoon, and wished me to 
expound the word of God to them. We tried to con- 
vince them of the folly of superstition. One of them 
remarked, that the only thing left for them to do is to 
believe the word of God. The other asked me to give 
him my Bible, for he loved it, and the words contained 
in it. I told him that it would be useless for him to 
have it u.ntii he first knew the rudiments of reading : 



328 



MARKET-DAT. 



then he should have one, and read it for and by him- 
self. The conversation was as follows : " How did 
God make the world ? " One said, " I heard you said 
one day that God made the world out of nothing." 
"Do you think the heart of man is always good ? " 
Both of them replied, " No." " How can you prove 
it?" They referred me to their constant quarrellings 
with each other, and wars and fightings. The former 
I looked upon as one' "almost persuaded to be a 
Christian," whilst the other chatted on, till his talk 
ended in vulgar jargon. 

January 7 — The sad report of the unfortunate wreck 
of the "Day spring" was fully confirmed to us by the 
safe return of Messrs. G. Cole and W. Romaine 
from the Confluence. I was thankful to receive 
a long letter from Mr. Crowther, containing a full 
account of the sad catastrophe of the steamer, and the 
breach made by death among them. I received ample 
information as to the localities oflgara, and its capital, 
Idda. Mr. Simon Priddy wrote me a very discou- 
raging note. Having been employed as a temporary 
teacher at the Confluence, he said that the moral state 
of the people is bad, to the highest degree of tui-pitude. 
Mohammedanism is the predominant religion there. 

January 8 — To-day being the general market-day, 
many people from Ndoniyi, Abo, Igara, and Oko at- 
tended it. Some of the traders from the lower parts of 
Ozipita were seen with their canoes actively paddling 
up the river, and many from the lower parts of Igara. 
I counted fifty canoes on the beach. A slave from 
Ndonij'i escaped from his master's hands, whilst they 
were bartering m the market, and fled into the town. 



A FUGITIVE SLAVE. 



[329 



A woman caught him by tlie way, and took him up to 
the king- for protection. The owner, having heard the 
report, went up to the king, and begged him to give 
him his slave, and at the same time took with him half 
a barrel of gunpowder, to compensate him for his 
kindness. The king refused the " dash," as well as 
to give up the slave. The first act of king Akazua, 
in securing the slave, was praiseworthy ; but little did 
he reflect what might follow hereafter. If a servant 
flies from a neighbouring country into his land, he is 
never to be delivered up to his former master, nor to 
be oppressed by a new one ; but yet would never be 
considered as a sojourner, but a fugitive slave. The 
king, however, ought to have given the owner his 
slave, thereby to secure himself and his country from 
war. I very well know the state of jealousy now 
existing, which is strongly manifested in the spirit of 
cruelty and revenge among the surrounding people in 
this district against Onitsha. They will one day com- 
bine and wage the long-contemplated war, which they 
have been fostering. The owner looked upon the 
king's conduct towards him as an insult, and will, most 
probably, be instructed to bear implacable hatred 
against him, and, in return, exercise a sanguinary re- 
venge. The king looks upon every fugitive that comes 
to his hands as a gift from God. 

January 9 — Very early this morning a public crier 
went round the town, proclaiming to its inhabitants as 
follows : " Onitsha 1 Whereas it has been reported to 
me by certain parties, that the people of Ogidi have a 
confederacy with Oboslii, I therefore caution all 
whom it may concern, that from this date, none shall 



330 



PItOCLAMATION. 



go to Oboshi for trade, until the space of some weeks 
lience, till information shall have been obtained more 
satisfactorily fi'om the king of Oboshi, whether he has 
broken alliance with me." An assembly of their 
Council was convened in the afternoon, to discuss 
what steps should be adopted. 

January 10: Lord* ¦''-day — Early this morning I 
went to Obozra, the king's village, for service. I 
preached from 1 Peter i. 12 — 16, to 350 souls. The 
congregation was devout, and great attention was paid 
to the word of eternal life. In the evening I addressed 
another village, Umu Asere, on the same subject. 

January 11 — Several men from Oboshi, well anned 
with guns, swords, and spears, came to Onitsha to 
clear themselves from having any part with the Ogidi 
people, saying also, that neither had they received any 
bribe from them to fight against Onitsha. I under- 
stood that they were made to take oaths according to 
their custom. 

January 13 — The heat was very intense durmg the 
middle part of the day, with a strong harmattan, which 
gave one frequent head-ache. This day is my birth- 
day : I am now thirty-seven years old ; but oh, how 
little a portion of my life have I spent in the service 
of God ! How unprofitable have I been ! even my 
best services are imperfect in His sight. O Lord, 
strengthen me more and more with Thy grace : bless 
all that I do, especially in the translations of the lan- 
fruace of mv fatherland. 

January 14 — To-day I could hardly get any person to 
work, as they have another Moa custom to celebrate, 
called Ojoku. It is a feast made from cocoa-nut and 



TUE OJUKO FESTIVAL. 



331 



yam seeds, to propitiate them to bear well the next 
season, with thanksgiving to God for the fruits of their 
past labours. Mr. Radillo returned from Igbokein, 
a place below Igara. Anarau, a mighty Avarrior on 
the river, received him since Sunday evening. He 
stated the idolatrous character of the place. I received 
an Arabic letter from Mohamma, an Hausa slave. 

January 15 — The law which the king had made as 
to Oboshi was repealed, and trade with the factory is 
improving. Amaro, alias Udeme, of Igbokein, wished 
us to give him a note of recommendation to any of the 
steamers that miglit pass by his village. We con- 
jointly gave him one to-day. 

January 17 : Lord's-day — Early this morning I left 
home for Odojari, a village about two or three miles 
east of Onitsha. It is under the government of the 
king. We left about seven, and arrived there about 
half-past eight. I found a good congregation — 420 
persons present — to whom I preached from INIatt. xiii. 
16, 17. I am sure any one would feel pleased with 
the attention paid to the word of life; every one 
seemed to suck the word out of my mouth, and blessed 
God for what they had heard. Wabuvo, the chief, 
begged me to locate a teacher amongst them, in order 
that they might hear the word of God continually. I 
promised him that by-and-by some one should be 
placed amongst them. O God, raise up and send forth 
men for this district ! Truly " the harvest is plenteous, 
but the labourers are few." 

January 18 — The king of Inzi sent his son to pay 
his compliments to us, and desired that we should 
come to his town, a place in the heart of this district. 



332 



THE DWARFS OF INZI. 



whicli lies N.E. of Onitsha. I wonder how dwarfs are 
here : whence came they ? whether by birth, or how, 
I am unable to say. The women of Inzi are very 
small in stature, but stout, and robust in constitution ; 
the men are the same ; so that if one should see them 
walking together, they are Uke little boys and girls 
from school. 

January 19 — Yesterday I was busily engaged in 
the building. In the course of the day eight men 
from Obunike called on me, and told me that they 
were sent to see us. I told them that I hoped to see 
them by-and-by. I regret that my time is so taken 
up with the building ; but it is always the case in every 
new field of labour. The heat was very oppressive 
to-day. 

January 20 — Very early this morning, about five 
A.M., a strong tornado blew, with lightning and 
thunder, accompanied by a heavy rain, which lasted 
for nearly three hours. We wrote letters by the Abo 
traders to those who are stationed there by Captain 
A. Grant. In the course of the day ten men from 
the interior paid me a visit, whilst I was busily em- 
ployed in the building. They wondered to see such 
a temporary house in a new style, quite foreign to their 
forefathers. My workmen boasted, and said, " This 
house is to surpass the work of every tribe in the in- 
terior." I tried to speak to them, but the workmen 
several times broke into our convei'sation and inter- 
rupted us. However, I told them to pay me another 
visit when I shall have finished my house. These 
men came from Umu-dioka, a town on the confines of 
Obunike. The glowing thought that I shall soon be 



VISIT TO OKO, 



333 



privileged to own a place in this dark portion of the 
globe filled me with overflowing joy. 

January 25 — Having obtained a passage from one 
of the trading canoes bound to Oko, I left in the after- 
noon. J onas accompanied me. I gave the smith three 
iron bars, to make me hooks, hinges, nails, &c. 
He charged me twenty bags of cowries, equal to 
j£l . 12*. 6d. sterling. I promised him fifteen or 
eighteen, should the bars I left with him be insufficient, 
he should purchase two more to complete the job. I 
thought that we should return the same day ; but 
where is the canoe to be got ? Night coming on so 
fast, we were obliged to get into one of our friend's 
houses to pass the night. A mat was spread on the 
ground for us by our hostess, to sleep on. I committed 
myself to God, my indulgent Father in Christ J esus. 
The night was cold, and I had no covering excepting 
my clothes on my body. The mosquitos tantalized 
me much. Surely, when man fell from his Maker, 
the creatures (little as they may be) were made to 
take up arms against him. This I pondered for a 
good while witli deep considei'ation, until sleep had 
pity on me and lulled me off in her arms. 

January 26 — Early this morning I visited the smith, 
having heard his bellows echoing loud, and the sound 
of his hammer on the anvil in high glee. I found that 
he had finished about twenty nails. He told me to 
send for my work about seven days hence. We were 
obliged to wait for nearly five hours before the retui'n 
of the canoe; then we could obtain a passage for 
Onitsha, where we landed quite safely. To God be 
all the praise for journeying mercies. I must state, 
Q 



334 



RETURN TO ONITSHA. 



as a fact for future guidance, that every Missionary, 
whose lot it should be to labour on the banks of the 
Niger, should be able to command a boat or a good 
canoe, or the progress of the Mission work will be 
greatly retarded. 

January 27 — I went to inspect the building. The 
heat was very intense. I am obliged to watch the 
people in the work. I do not merely look with joy 
to the time when the building shall be accomplished, 
but I look beyond, when the devout prayers of the 
Church of God shall be poured forth. I know that 
the richest blessings will come from above, by dint 
of " effectual fervent prayer." 

January 28 — During part of the day we heard the 
report of muskets from the eastern direction of Onitsha, 
as the sound of a distantly murmuring thunder. 
The people of Ogidi had sent a messenger to inform 
the people here that they should meet in the fields 
during this month. At about two P.M. the sound was 
heard close by the borders of the town. The young 
troops were turned out to meet their enemies. A 
desperate struggle took place. It was a skirmish 
fight ; each part being in ambush (as my informant 
told me), and moving briskly on, until they sallied 
forth against each other. The spies on the top of trees, 
with their piped instruments, congratulated any man 
when he fired at and killed another. The people of 
Onitsha drove away their enemies, having killed four 
men. We have been often cast down by such gloomy 
times as these. 

January 29 — Nothing was heard more of the fight 
yesterday ; only we learned that the king had stuck 



SUNDAY SERVICES. 



335 



an eagle's feather on one of the young soldiers' head, 
as a mark of distinction for his valour as an expert 
warrior. I was quite refreshed in my mind when I 
read the third Epistle of John about Gains, and the 
apostle's commendation of his piety, 

January 31 : Lord's-day — This morning the traders 
and I went into the town. I conducted Divine service 
in the king's palace. The congregation was devout, 
and tlie king listened to the word of life, and questioned 
me afterwards about heaven. The text was from Col. 
iii. 2. He spoke very sensibly to his subjects, and 
told them that it is time for them to think about 
serving God. In the afternoon I went to the village, 
where I had service on the 3rd instant. Whilst I was 
directing them to the same subject, twelve men from 
Obunike came in, and sat quietly listening to the 
mysteries of revealed truth. May the Lord bless 
those who hear His holy word, both in this and the 
adjacent towns ; may they carry home the word of life 
in their hearts ; for we are commanded to " cast our 
bread upon the waters, for we shall find it after many 
days." On my way homeward I called upon an old 
man who heard me on the 3rd instant. I found, to 
my utter sorrow, that he had gone the way of all the 
earth. How fleetmg are our lives ; as a shadow they 
fly away to eternity. 

February 1 — In the afternoon I left for Oko, to visit 
the smith. Here we found fifty canoes from Abo, going 
up to Igara market. I paid the smith for his work. 
As the sun was so hot, I postponed our journey until 
the evening. 

February 2 — As I was engaged in the smith's shop, 
Q2 



336 



CRUEL SACRIFICE. 



my eyes happened to see a strange sight, which at- 
tracted me much. A man stood at his gate vrith a 
little white chicken in his hand, with scarcely any 
down upon it. He plucked oft' the feathers of this 
poor thing, and stuck them on in the following order: — 
one on each of his temples, one on the forehead, one 
•on each of his breasts and knees ; and, at the last, 
killed it by holding it by its neck, waving it round his 
head four times, and then throwing it out into the 
streetjto be a prey for vultures or hawks. And so 
did another. Such is the idolatry of this district. 
What a broad line is there between Clu'istianity and 
Paganism ! 

February 7 : Lord^s-day — At half-past ten A.M. I 
conducted service in the town, and preached to 200 
persons, in the open air. In the afternoon I kept the 
Sabbath-school with the traders and some of the native 
children. I had the pleasure of hearing, several 
times, the rustling of the leaves of ^Ir. Crowther's 
Ibo Primer, which I had given them, and to see the 
scholars poring over them with minute attention. I 
catechized the traders from the Second Lesson for the 
day, Mark vii. The evening service was in English, 
and 1 preached from Psalm xxvii. 9. Some of the 
natives attended, and paid deep attention. To-day 
the people, with one accord, said, that if their king 
would give them public notice to shake off" the tradi- 
tions of their forefathers, they would gladly throw ofi" 
tneii- multifarious deities, with all the hideous rites 
and sacrifices, which are a bui'den to them. I simply 
pointed out to them, that no man must wait for his 
brother; on which they all burst out into a sweet. 



EUMOURS or WAR. 



337 



but serious laugh ; and each gave applause by snap- 
ping his fingers together. Oh, may the leaven of 
Divine truth thoroughly pervade the minds of this 
mass of people, that they may soon learn to join with 
the Christian Church in saying with sweeter accents, 
« Thou art the King of Glory, O Christ !" 

February 8 — To-day Orikabue and his partners 
came to me for payment for the mud wall of the 
Mission-house — one-and-a-half cwt. of cowries. As 
they have not as yet quite finished their work, I, of 
course, covdd not yield to their proposal. They went 
away with grief; but 1 cannot repent until they have 
performed their task. 

February 10 — As our hands were busily engaged in 
the building, a sudden cry broke out in the town, 
women and children running about with frantic noise, 
as if they were dei'anged, on account of the Ogidi 
people resuming their assaults, regardless of the 
recent sacrifice of the men they had lost in the 
fight which took place last week. The young troops 
had recourse to charms, and slung on their war- 
amulets ; fowls, goats, and chickens were sacrificed to 
propitiate their gods. This being done, they were 
ready to use their so-called gigantic strength in an 
instant attack upon any foe that might dare to invade 
their domain, — the watchmen, on the top of high trees, 
piping with their trumpets and calling to them. These 
trees vary in height, some from fifty to sixty feet high : 
on the top of the boughs are pieces of wood formed into 
a floor, well tied or lashed with ropes, made only just 
wide enough to admit of its occupant sitting, with 
room for his gun and pouch, made of straw bags. 



338 



HEATHEN CEREMONY. 



They pursued their opponents, and drove them 
almost to the gate of their town. How can a man 
enjoy peace of mind in such a place as this ? Never- 
theless, we are safe amidst all these tumults. Satan 
is busy : let him bring out all his implements of 
war and assaults, but ere long it shall work for 
good. Our hope is sure. The word which we read 
gives us an assurance of the hope that swells in our 
hearts, " They shall beat their swords into plough- 
shares, and their spears into pruning-hooks : nation 
shall not lift up sword against nation, neither shall 
they learn war any more." 

February 1 1 — Early this morning, as I was busy in 
laying out the fence, I heard a woman close by the 
Mission-house, using dreadful imprecations. This 
she continued for nearly two hours. To-day being 
the general market-day, she (as it is often the case) 
brought the symbols of her oath and placed them 
on the highway. As the sound of her voice waxed 
louder and louder, I thought to turn aside and see 
what it meant. I saw the woman under a palm- 
tree, just on the way, with the following fetish 
things : — 1. A flat calabash, containing an earthen pot 
in the form of a cooler, and a piece of jointed stick, 
called ofo. (This stick is one of the sacred sticks held 
by the Ibos, used during the time of making oath.) 
2. A round hollow calabash, containing another small 
earthen bowl, ornamented with pebbles and white clay, 
of an oblong shape. 3. A long stone, about eight 
inches long and three wide, supported by a cushion, 
and the centre of the stone marked out by a stripe of 
white chalk. 4. A broken pot with pebbles, feathers, 



THE ONE THING NEEDFUL. 



339 



dust, egg-shellsj with various combustibles. 5. A 
round earthen pot, with clay horizontally arranged 
inside it, and, to grace the whole, a line drawn around 
in the form of a square. I asked, " What is the mat- 
ter with you, Nne V She began to shed tears, and 
said, " Oh, Oibo nna ! people have slandered me by 
saying that I have been to Ogidi and revealed to them 
about the contemplated war." She had already paid 
420 cowries (which is \0\d. in currency) to their fetish 
priest for this oath. " What is your name ?" " Ana- 
gody." " Do you think you will pacify your mind 
by thus wallowing yourself in the dust ?" She re- 
plied, that she had a bad character with her country- 
people ; that they always reported falsely of her things 
that she never thought of; and that she had better 
die than live and witness such repeated provocations. 
I told her that she lacked one thing : if she had known 
that thing, she would immediately collect all this trash 
together and go away quietly. She, with tears, asked 
me to tell her what that thing was. I said, if she had 
known the virtue of Christianity she would have left 
her cause to God for redress. I then began to bring 
before her, and those who were surrounding us, the 
comforts which Christianity gives under all trving 
circumstances. She thanked me, and at once collected 
her fetish things, picked up her sacred ofo, put them 
in her basket, and said, " Truly these Oibos who came 
to our country are true men ; they can feel for every 
body, and show us what is right, and how to bear trials.' 
About two minutes after she was out of siffht. 

February 12 — This morning we heard that Oboshi 
and Oko had had a quai-rel yesterday and the day be- 



340 



INVITATION FROM NSUBE. 



fore. The contention became very sharp between them, 
and ended in desperate struggle and bloodshed. They 
armed themselves, and went to a small village of 
Onitsha, called Odekive, when the Oboshi killed and 
wounded two of them. I cannot tell the exact amount 
of loss on the other side, but only heard that three 
men from Oboshi were killed. At this season of the 
year there are wars and rumours of wai' all 
about. 

In the course of the day the king sent two mes- 
sengers to invite us to his place. I could not go, as 
my time was so precious, but I sent Mr. Jonas to 
apologise for me. Mr. Thompson, the Agent at Laird's 
Port, sent liis interpreter likewise. They returned 
about three p.m., and said that the king wished them 
to tell us that he is surrounded with war, and begs us 
to lend him aid by supplying him with powder, gims, 
and shot. He has indeed been kind to us ; but we 
have no business to support him in any way, for that 
would create unpleasant feelings towards us, if any 
should hear that we are abetting the king of Onitsha. 
We suspended the matter, without returning him an 
answer. 

February 13 — A messenger was sent to me by the 
chiefs of Nsube, to inquire whether I would come 
and tell them the word of God. Luckily he met me 
at the building, where I have to superintend about 50 
or 100 men. I told him to see how full my hands 
are of work, and that I could not go anywhere just 
now until I had finished it. Thus precious is the 
word of God to these people, even more so than I 
could anticipate. To-day I paid Orikabue and his 



PREPARATIONS FOR AVAR. 



341 



partners for the work of plastering the mud walls, 
and also the labourers. 

February 15 — As I was walkmgin the town I saw 
the king's village and other parts busily engaged in 
making preparations for the ensuing war with Ogidi. 
I understood that the king had administered oratshi, 
or sassa-wood water, to two females whom they sus- 
pected to be witches. After this poisonous water was 
given to them they died in a few hours. 

February 17 — Throughout the whole town nothing 
but preparation for war was heard ; and in the adja- 
cent places the young and middle-aged men are 
directed to lance their breasts, hands, and backs, 
and instil medicine into the wound, which they look 
upon as an antidote against shots and arrows. We 
are pi'eparing to hear the result. The king himself 
took an active part, and advised his subjects to have 
courage. 

February 19 — Last night the man Mora, who 
had been so actively engaged in splitting wood for 
me to make boards of, shot one of his brothers, and 
escaped into the land of Oboshi for protection. What 
produced such a violent temper I am not able to say. 
A young woman who came from the interior paid me 
a visit this afternoon, from whom I learnt many parti- 
culars about the localities of places not very far from 
this town. Had I had presents with me, I would 
have penetrated into the interior on a direct Missio- 
nary tour. Aron, the famous consulting-place of 
Tshuku, lies E. of Onitsha, about three days' journey : 
if one takes the route from Ogidi, toward half a day's 
journey more. 

q3 



342 



THE MISSION HOUSE. 



February 20— Busily engaged in paying off the 
labourers from three p.m. to five p.m. Dr. G. Ber- 
wick, Mr. Laird's representative, descended the river 
to Onitsha. From him we learnt that the whole town 
of Gbegbe, or the Confluence, was entirely burnt down, 
and not a house escaped the general conflagration 
excepting the king's. He told us the pitiable con- 
dition of the crews, and also gave us fuller information 
of the wreck of the " Dayspring." 

February 22 — As Dr. Berwick was suffering from 
diarrhoea, I gave him special instructions about his 
diet, and that he should not drink the river-water, 
but pure water from the stream. I also boiled a 
medicinal plant which I have seen the natives make 
use of, and gave him a little dose of the decoction, 
which, by the blessing of God, checked his dysentery. 
We walked up to the Mission-house, and he was sur- 
prised to see a good-shaped house erected in so short 
a time — a pledge on the part of the Church Missio- 
nary Society for the speedy redemption of Central 
Africa. The natives here having heard of the sad 
catastrophe of the factory in Laird's Town, two of 
them came to sympathize with Dr. Berwick. The 
women of the factory also paid their respects to him. 

February 23 — Dr. Berwick intended to go down to 
Abo for a supply of goods. I also received letters, 
desiring me to go down there and see about clearing 
the land for a Mission-house. We went in a little 
canoe to Oko, where we intended to hire a larger 
one. As we could not come to any decided bargain, 
we left the town, and returned to Onitsha. As we 
were at Brockedon Island, and crossing over to 



ANNUAL HUMAN SACRIFICE. 



343 



Onitsha, a strong wind blew, and the bow of the 
canoe being too low, there was much water in it, 
up to the seats ; then another heavy swell came on, 
which would have upset us, but fortunately we gave 
it the stern, and escaped the danger, and in a few 
minutes landed quite safely. This was the first 
day I saw waves in this zigzag river, which reminded 
me of good old Sierra Leone. 

February 24 — I was early at work on the building. 
As I was marking out something for the carpenter, a 
man came in to see the house, and several times ex- 
claimed, " 0 beke, beke 1 asokwa oibo oibo ! who can 
build so great house as this ? Send for all the Ibos 
to come and see this building ; God will preserve 
Oibo and keep them ; with such a house as this we 
surpass every nation or tribe." Another, who was 
standing in the road, said to him, " Come, and let us go, 
for I am in great fear of the house. By-and-by, I 
shall dream about it in the night. Heigh ! Asokwa 
ulo nioa. It is a spirit's house." To-day Mr. James 
Macaulay left Onitsha for the Confluence. 

February 27 — After dinner Dr. Berwick, Mr. 
Thompson, and I, went to Oko on business. We 
returned about eight p.m. As we advanced towards 
the factory we heard Mr. Radillo, the interpreter of 
the factory, bawling out to some of the natives, and 
eaying, " Ah, this is a great crime in the sight of God ; 
your country is spoiled; your land will be destroyed; we 
came here to tell you to leave oflp this wickedness, but you 
all still persist in following your old ways." We began 
to suspect that there must be something wrong, which 
caused us to hasten to the spot. We found, to our 



344 



ANNUAL HUMAN SACEIFICE. 



deep sorrow, a poor young woman, about nineteen 
or twenty years of age, with her hands tied behind her 
back, and her legs fastened together with a rope, deco- 
rated with young palm-leaves. In this position she was 
drawn, with her face to the earth, from the king's 
house to the river, a distance of two miles. Though 
shocked at such a sight, I could not then give them 
an open rebuke ; but when I see the king personally, 
I shall then and there point out to him that such yearly 
practices are odious in the sight of God ; and that, if he 
is determined to have a sacrifice, he should at least 
sacrifice animals for the sins of his subjects, rather 
than human beings. I now could only tell them they 
must have their own way, and obey their king. The 
young woman was dying, tlu-ough the suffocation of 
dust and sand in the streets. The motley groups who 
attended her premature funeral cried, as they drew 
along the unfortunate creature, victimized for the sins 
of their land, Aro, ye! Aro! Aro! i.e. "Wickedness! 
wickedness !" This alarm is given to notify to the 
passers by to screen themselves from witnessing the 
dismal scene. The pretended sacrifice was to take away 
the iniquities of the land. The body was dragged along 
in a merciless manner, as if the weight of all their 
wickedness were thus carried away, whilst the life 
was still beating in the palpitating bosom of that un- 
fortunate girl. We had scarcely returned before 
Mr. Radillo pursued after them, and still remonstrated, 
begging to have the body. He ventured to untie the 
hands, and sent for me ; but I thought it would be 
best not to meddle now with a public custom till I 
could speak to the king. However, the body was 



ATONEMENT BY BLOOD. 



345 



drowned in the river. I heard, also, that there was a 
man killed, too, as a sacrifice for the sins of the king. 
The body of the latter I did not see. Thus two 
human beings were offered as sacrifices, to propitiate 
their heathen deities, thinking that they would thus 
atone for the individual sins of those who had broken 
God's laws during the past year. A sad mistake ! 
We know that the Son of God was once offered for 
the sins of the world. 

The question might be asked, whether they actually 
offer their own cliildren in Onitsha? No. Those 
who had fallen into gross sins during the past year — 
such as incendiarisms, thefts, fornications, adulteries, 
witchcrafts, incests, wars, slanders, &c. — were ex- 
pected to pay in twenty-eight ngugus, or, £2 . Qs. 
as a fine ; and this money was taken into the interior, 
to purchase two sickly persons, to be offered as a sa- 
crifice for all these abominable crimes — one for the 
land, and one for the river. A man from one of the 
neighbouring towns was engaged to execute this atro- 
cious deed; and twenty ngvgus, or £l . 12s. 6rf., was 
paid him for the duty. One of them was seen, with his 
paddle on his shoulders, going down to the river, where 
he was to paddle out the canoe, and drown the body. 
Thus these unhappy creatures fared like Jehoiakim 
of old — they were buried with the burial of an ass, 
drawn and cast forth beyond the gates of their city. 

February 28 : Lor(Vs-day — Very early this morn- 
ing I went to the town for service, where, to my great 
joy, I found nearly 200 persons assembled for Divine 
worship, and preached from Acts viii. 37. Several of 
the people expressed their gratitude to God for hear- 



346 



MESSAGE PROM THE KING. 



ing those soul-reviving words. May they, like the 
eunuch of old, be initiated at no very future day into 
the full privileges of the church. As Dr. Berwick 
was still poorly, I thought it good to have prayers in 
the factory; and I read Psaltn cxxxvi. in the even- 
ing. Two of the natives attended. During part of 
the day, Orikabue, Odiri, the king's son, Haramuzo, 
and Uzoka brought a message from the king to us. 
The message was delivered by Orikabue, who is the 
next person to the king, and also my landlord. It 
was to this effect : " Obi Akazua sends his compli- 
ments to us, and sympathizes with Dr. Berwick for 
the loss which he, as well as others, have sustained at 
the Confluence, and feels grieved at the destruction of 
the property by fire. Moreover, as he has heard of 
the wreck of the " Dayspring " at Jeba, he sends to 
inquire after the Commissioners if they are well." 
This being ended, after a while he resumed his speech, 
by saying, " That the king was highly shocked at our 
conduct towards him last evening, in interfering with 
his people in executing their duty of drawing the 
body down to the river, which custom his forefathers 
had always followed; that he should leave us un- 
punished ; and allowed us the freedom of his country 
to move about without molestation ; and that he de- 
sired to cultivate a true spirit of friendship vnth 
white men. Had any of his subjects done so, he 
would know how much he was to be fined. Now we 
were to make good the law which we had forcibly 
broken by paying the value of two slaves and a goat. 
Yes, this is the word of a king." I was obliged to 
speak to them mildly, but boldly. " Please return 



ANSWER TO THE KING. 



347 



our compliments to the king, and say, that we are 
sorry that one of us did trespass on liis Moa custom. 
As we have long been in the habit of civilization, and 
enjoyed tranquillity in Christian lands, we felt very 
sorry to see a human being dragged out in such a 
shameful manner. Wherever white men go, they will 
try to put all these things to rights ; but the king 
ought to have sent us word, or given us timely notice, 
that such yearly custom would take place, and that 
we must not be present at it. As he had given us no 
notice, he was to blame." They went aside, and 
communed among themselves, and thanked me for in- 
terfering in the matter; and instead of Mr. Radillo 
having to pay for slaves, he promised them a goat the 
next day. The messengers and counsellors of the 
king were satisfied with our apology, and went away. 

March 5 — To-day my time was occupied in going 
about to inspect the spot for the contemplated Mission- 
house. I called upon Orissa and Okeya, and told 
them to remember what Mr. Crowther and I told 
them about that spot. I found, to my regret, that 
tl*e river had reached a good part of the ground where 
we had proposed to build. I think it was wise to in- 
spect it beforehand, prior to the commencement of a 
building, and to have a correct idea of the rise of the 
river, and where the house should stand. Ojubari, 
one of Aje's relations, invited us to his house. In the 
afternoon we went there. According to custom, he 
brought out kola-nuts, and afterwards palm or bam- 
boo-wine, as signs of peace. He conducted us to an 
apartment which belonged to one of his wives. We 
saw, to our astonishment, a piece of rich satin, about 



843 



OFFERING TO TSHI. 



two fathoms and a half long, spread fore and aft, and 
beautiful mats also spread on the mud floor for our 
reception. We thanked the good lady, and so took 
our seat. She then brought out palm-wine, and told 
us that she was going to offer sacrifice, or guo moa, to 
Tshi (a god supposed by the Ibos to preserve them 
from harm, especially from witchcraft). Her son, 
Imegu, then brought a goat before this Tshi, while 
the parents and a man held it, and ran a knife through 
the throat, and let the blood run over the stumps of 
sticks placed in a bowl, which was Tshi. She offered 
or repeated many prayers over the slain victim. The 
following is one of the propitiatory prayers : Biko 
Tshi, mere'm ihoma, ngi wo ndu, biko hpere Tshuku 
Abiama, giva ya obi'm dum ma-biko wepo ihinye ojo 
di na cbVm, tsufu Amusu, mekwa akku bia'm, lekwa 
ehu ngi, may a ngi, i.e. "I beseech thee, my guide, 
make me good ; thou hast life. I beseech thee to in- 
tercede God the Spirit ; teU Him my heart is clean. 
I beseech thee to deliver me from all bad thoughts in 
my heart ; drive out all witchcrafts ; let riches come 
to me ; see your sacrificial goat ; see your kola-nutS ; 
see your rum and palm-wine." This was the 
prayer of Wamah of Abo, Ojubari's wife. It is now 
left for the reader to form his own judgment how far 
or near she is to be brought, at no distant period, 
under the benign influences of the Gospel. We told 
them plainly and pointedly, that we could not partake 
of nor drink any thing that had been offered to idols. 
The former wine we had taken at her husband's room 
was sufficient. They were astonished to hear this, 
inasmuch as it was strange to them ; they felt sorry 



CAPTAIN TEOTTER's TREATY. 



349 



for it. I spoke to them a few words, and gently re- 
minded them not to trust in the aid of sticks, but to 
the living God, and then bade them good evening. 

March 6 — Early this morning, as I took up my 
abode at Aje's, he called me, and showed me a long 
document, cased in a small tin tube. To my surprise 
it was the treaty made to his late father in 1841, 
signed by Captain Trotter, the two Aliens, Cook, 
Schon, &c., and a long list of articles which the Com- 
missioners had given him. I perused it with great 
delight. " Well done !" I said, " this document I 
heard was lost." Most of the valuable articles, such 
as the telescope, organ, and Bible, were put into the 
grave of his late father. I asked him to let me ha,ve 
a copy of the treaty ; but he refused. He had de- 
ceived his people by telling them that it was lost. I asked 
him whether he had shown it to the Commissioners of 
the expedition in 1854. He said that he told them 
that it was lost. 

March 7 : Lor(L\-day — To-day, being the first Sab- 
bath I spent at Abo, I conducted three services— one 
at half-past ten a.m. ; another at two p.m. ; and the 
last at half-past four p.m. That of the morning was 
at Aje's. There were about 150 persons present ; and 
I preached from Isaiah lii. 6. Aje interrupted me 
during the time I was addressing them, by calling out 
for his tobacco-pipe : which was instantly brought to 
him by one of his slaves. I told him to put it aside, 
for it was wrong in the sight of God to use it at 
divine worship. He at once took it out of his mouth, 
and sent it away. In the afternoon I went to 
Tshukuma's, and spoke to him and about fifty of his 



350 



HENSMAN FROM BRASS. 



people from John iii 16 ; and reminded him of what 
Mr. Crovvther had spoken to him, that God is faithful, 
and brings what He has said to pass. I pressed on 
them, also, the value of their immortal souls, which 
had caused our Saviour to come down to our world. 
In the evening I went out to the other side of the 
town, where we intended to build ; and I preached, 
from Prov. xvi. 20, to nearly 160 persons. May the 
Lord bless His own word spoken to the good of His 
people, and may many turn to acknowledge Him as 
their guide and friend. They listened to the word of 
God with deep attention. 

March 8 — Tshukuma sent for me, and asked Simon 
J onas to kill a goat to entertain us ; but he would not 
do so unless he had our consent first, because he 
knew how strict we are about our diet. He killed 
the goat in our presence, to prevent any suspicion that 
it was not killed as a sacrifice. We had a good 
breakfast, and thanked him for his hospitality in thus 
providing for us. During the after-part of the day 
we went out visiting. A man, whose name is Hens- 
man, lately come from Brass, saw Simon Jonas, and 
warmly embraced him, and took us to his house. He 
looked stedfastly at Jonas, and, holding up his 
hands, said, " My friend, I liky you ; I tankee you ! 
my friend, I liky you ; I tankee you !" "We asked 
him whether he had seen Captain Grant going out of 
the river ? He said, " He did not see the ship, but 
he heard that the Oru people had openly fired at him." 
We hoped that the " George " had got quite safely out. 
1 interceded for the woman who had been put into 
stocks yesterday by Aje. He said that he would 



DESCENT OF THE RIVER. 



351 



never deny any request from us, and so allowed me to 
set her at liberty. I was thankful when I took hold 
of the stocks and let her free. 

March 10 — About three p.m. we left Abo for 
Onitsha, and slept in the sand-banks off Ndoniyi. 
The men lightened their paddling by singing the 
following words in full chorus : 

Ijeje, Ije je! 
Mara na O ! 
Amara Ijeje, Ijeje ! 
Mara na O. 
Amara di ke! 

March 12 — I understood that Abo and Oko had 
joined to carry on war with Ossamare during this 
month, until the rise of the river. We passed several 
crooms under the names of Utshi, Osutshi, and Atani. 
We were six hours paddling and propelling the canoe* 
We went in a large party, which formed a fleet, well 
armed, in case of disturbance. Sometimes the men 
were obliged to leap out, and drag the canoe, to find 
out the channel. At this season the river falls very 
low indeed. The natives here are dexterous canoe- 
makers. About two we arrived at Osutshi. 

March 13 — We resumed our journey very early 
as we determined to reach Oko to-day. About 
twilight we came to Alenso, and found several per- 
sons well armed and sitting on the beach, perhaps 
waiting for their enemies. We greeted each other, 
and went on. About half-past nine A.M. we came to 
Odekwe. Whilst the breakfast was in preparation, 
we went into the town to have a peep at it. It is a 
large village; but during the inundation the river 



352 



RETURN TO ONITSHA. 



comes very near the towii. There are many fine bul- 
locks here. We started after breakfast for Oko, at 
which we safely arrived about two p.m., and remained 
the whole night. 

March 14 : Lord's-day — As we were much per- 
plexed to know what had become of Dr. Berwick, 
whom we had left behind sick, we resolved to resume 
our journey for Onitsha. We started early, and safely 
arrived at Onitsha at half-past nine A.M., and fomid 
Dr. Berwick much better, and all our friends quite 
well. I conducted Divine ser^'ice in the factory, and 
several natives attended, and preached from Psalm 
cxix. 146 — 149, "Bless the Lord, O my soul, and 
all that is within me bless His holy name !" for jour- 
neying mercies to and from Abo. 

March 15 — I spent the greater portion of my time 
in the building, and in making preparations to remove 
in it, for it was nearly completed. Wrote a letter to 
Dr. Berwick for a supply of goods, as I heard that he 
would suspend all trading alfairs, and reserve the goods 
for our sustenance. In the evening I went to see 
Anj^aka. He held out his skeleton hand to me, which 
was wasted away by consumption. Poor man I since 
we came here he has suffered much. He often ap- 
plied to me for medicine, but I was imable to help him. 

March 18 — This morning we were makmg prepa- 
rations to remove to the new Mission house. About 
four P.M. I entered ii Although it was not quite 
finished, yet it was much better than remaining where 
we were before. Thankful to see a Mission house 
established in this part of the globe for the spiritual 
welfare of the children in the Ibo district. 



THE NEW MISSION HOUSE. 



353 



March 19 — I was busily engaged in paying the la- 
bourers for the past and present week's labour, and in 
arranging our beds and boxes in the apartments which 
we were to occupy. About half- past tlu-ee p.m. the 
people of Ogidi sent a man to Obori, in the room of 
the man they had killed some time ago, which had 
created the unhappy fightings which have incessantly 
occun'ed. Poor fellow ! he was to be killed to atone 
for the crimes of others. After he was killed they 
took the body home to bury it. 

March 20 — Several persons paid me visits during 
the day, and congratulated us on the building, as they 
had not seen such a house before. No one coidd be 
able to express the feelings of my mind on this new 
beginnmg. I told them to look upon it as a marked 
blessing from God and the goodwill of the Christian 
people in England. 

3Iarch 21 : Lord's-day — To-day I conducted ser- 
vice in the Mission house. This being the market- 
day, only fifty attended. We sung that beautiful 
hymn — 

" Great God ! the nations of the earth 
Are by creation Thine; 
And in Thy -works, by all beheld, 
Thy radiant glories shine." 

I preached from Ezra v. 11. In the evening twenty 
natives attended, and I exhorted them from Psalm cii. 
26, 27. Deep attention was paid to the word of life. 
May the Lord brmg many daily to hear His holy 
word ; for " faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by 
the word of God !" 

3farch 25 — I had many visitors this morning from 



354 



DUMB IDOLS. 



the interior. Went out into the town. Happened to 
call on a man who was carving sticks, to make Ikenga 
and Tshi, their gods of wood. I fell into conversation 
with him, and said, " Friend, who made this tree be- 
fore it was cut down ?" He replied, *' Tshuku." 
" Does Tshuku allow idol-worship ?" " Yes." " How 
do you know that Tshuku allows it ?" " Because our 
forefathers told us so." " Your forefathers worshipped 
what they knew not : it is forbidden by God to wor- 
ship any creature under heaven, but Him alone. You 
gave it mouth, ears, and feet, but can they perceive 
me ?" Here he was mute, confounded, and ashamed 
of his work. I repeated that passage in Isaiah xliv. 
13 — 17. He exclaimed, "It is very true! it is very 
true !" One of his neighbours overheard him, and 
inquired what it was : he told liim to come and hear 
for himself. He came ; and I rehearsed it to them, 
and, as it was towards dark, bade them good evening. 
Last night we heard a doleful cry. We inquired : 
it was poor Anyaka who had died. 

March 26 — After prayers I was engaged in writing 
my translation, and going on with the prayers of the 
Church of England. 

March 27 — I went to visit the widow of the late 
Anyaka, and comforted her in her desolation. Poor 
creature 1 unconscious of the soothing balm which re- 
ligion yields, she said, " All you spoke is true: Tshuku 
takes him to rest from pain and suffering." 

March 28 : LorcTs-day — Early this morning Ori- 
kabue caused the konko, (or ogogo or ogele^ to be 
sounded throughout the village of Umude for Divine 
service. Who would not be interested to hear the 



OKOSI'S VISIT BY NIGUT. 



355 



speech of the crier — " Umude ! To-day being Nso^ 
Tshuku (God's holy day), our ruler says everybody 
must attend at the house of Oiho, otherwise he shall 
fine such an one for non-attendance." We had a good 
service this morning, about 77 persons, including 
the emigrants. I read prayers, and preached from 
Mark V. 8. In the evening I told Simon Jonas to 
address them, and sat quietly listening to him wliilst 
he expounded Rom. x. 1 — 4. I was much pleased to 
hear him, especially in his introductory remarks. I 
have arranged that every fortnight one of us shoidd 
go into some quarter of the town for service. There 
were fifty persons present. The market-day inter- 
fered : we could not get much people. 

April 1 — Went out visiting in the afternoon, and 
gave notice to several families about Good Friday. 
About half-past seven p.m. Okosi came to me and 
unfolded his mind. He said he wanted to follow our 
way, and try to serve God better. I told him that what 
he suggested was very good; but had he decided about 
it in his mind ? He should go and re-consider the 
matter ; for religion is not a momentary thing : he 
must make up his mind to bear reproaches fi"om his 
countrymen ; and if he is not stedfast in his mind, 
and does not ask God's blessing to attend his good 
resolution, he may relapse into Ids country fashions. 
He told me that he had two wives. One he is very 
fond of ; and, should he join the church, he would dis- 
pense with the other, and give her her fortune and send 
her to her friends. I urged him to go and make his 
resolve a subject of prayer to God, that He would bless 
him in this good undertaking which he purposed in 



356 



THE NEW MISSION HOUSE. 



his mind. He never missed our morning and evening 
prayers. I must make one or two remarks respecting 
this man. I mentioned his name in the foregoing part 
of this journal. Since our arrival in this country he 
has been a constant attendant at all our devotions ; 
and not only so, he had brought his children and 
neighbours to church to hear for themselves the won- 
derful works of God in their own tongue. He had 
given me many hints how to meet the natives in their 
views, all which I have tried and found successful. 
He assisted us in laying the fotmdation of the Mission 
house ; he worked himself zealously in clearing the 
high grass on the spot, dug holes for posts, &c., so that 
he was laughed at by his Moa brethren. His seat in 
the church has never been vacant. 

April 2: Good Friday — At half-past ten A.M. I 
conducted Divine service in the Mission house : 57 
natives attended. I read prayers, and preached from 
John xix. 30. Great attention was paid to the word 
of life, I tried to go on in the Ibo language, as Jonas 
had been still unwell for nearly two weeks. After 
service I went out visiting the people in their houses. 
I called on the king, and delivered the message which 
Aje told me to give him, that he is very anxious to 
make peace with Onitsha, as Beke is in his country. 
Abo had been for a long time at war with Onitsha, 
and consequently, the way, once accessible, was 
closed against them. Now they wish to come to us. 

April 3 — The news of the Mission house had 
reached in the interior. We had constant visitors, 
who came for novelty's sake to inspect the house. I 
allowed tliem, to satisfy themselves, to go about and 



EASTER-DAT. 



357 



pass from room to room, as we had notliing in it as 
furniture. 

April 4: Easter-day — Early this morning I held 
divine service in the Mission house, and preached 
from Rom. vi. 5. Eighty of the natives attended. 
In the evening I went out in the town for service 
and I left Jonas in the Mission house. Fifty attended 
in the Mission house, and 159 in the open air at 
Umuorori village. Among those who assembled in 
the open air were eight whom I had told to attend 
and hear the word of God.- Two of them were lame, 
one was totally blind, and theotherdimon account of old 
age. Several of them more or less infected with leprosy. 

April 9 — Mba came to inform me of the death of 
his child. Poor thing ! it Avas put into a small earthen 
pot and thrown away into the fields : such is the cus- 
tom of the land ! 

April 10 — We were busy in white- washing part of 
the house. In the night, as we sat in the poiiiico to 
enjoy the breeze, a viper crawled into the house. 
Providentially I had quitted the seat where I sat. 
One of the traders saw something crawling along in 
the piazza like a snake. We got a light, and found it 
was one. We killed it, and found the length to be 
three feet six inches. The neck was as red as 
crimson. 

April 1 1 : LorcPs-day — I conducted service this 
morning chiefly in English, as I do when any Euro- 
pean is present, and preached from Gen. vii. 1, to 100 
natives. In the evening from Matt. v. 6 — 9 ; ninety 
natives and seven traders present. Two Marrabos, 
from the Confluence, attended service both morning 

R 



358 



MOHAMMEDAN HEAKEES. 



and evening. I cannot help looking generally at these 
Mohammedans, who treat Christianity with superlative 
contempt, as trying to " compass sea and land to make 
one proselyte, and when he is made, becoming two-fold 
more the child of hell." To-day's service was a sight new 
to them in the annals of Central Africa. From their 
exclamations and gestures, they seemed e\"idently sur- 
prised and deeply interested in what they heard from 
the word of God. Notwithstanding all the super- 
stitious rites of their Koran, we may safely tell them 
to go away with their subterfuge, for this district de- 
sires none of their Bismi lahi araha mani, nor their 
fanatical rosai'ies. It is not with the sword we can 
make disciples of all nations. We may safely tell 
them that Christ is the true Messiah the Prophet, and 
not the usurper Mohammed. We may safely tell them 
that the Gospel which He taught His followers, we 
desire in succeeding generations to follow, adopt, and 
appreciate, for it is pure, wholesome, and good ; inas- 
much as it has God for its Author, truth without any 
mixture of error for its contents, and salvation foritsend. 

April 14- — After the market the people flocked into 
the house, and asked me when the Sabbath would take 
place, so eager were they about it. The king of 
Nsube sent me dried fish, and requested to know when 
I should pay him a second x^isit. Rain fell in the 
evening, with heavy tornado. 

April 15 — The inhabitants still inquiring after the 
Sabbath. I gave Okosi instruction in the evening in 
the Lord's Prayer. 

April 1 8 : LonTs-day — I conducted service in the 
Mission house. A good congregation present: na- 



TRANSLATIONAL WORK. 



359 



lives 100; emigrants 8; total, 108; and preached 
from John s. 14 — 16. After service, we heard that 
three Europeans had descended the river and come to 
Onitsha. At mid-day a heavy tornado came on, which 
lasted about an hour. In the evening. Captain 
M'Intosh and Mr. Barter, the botanist, accompanied 
by Dr. Berwick, attended service. I read prayers as 
usual, and preached from Isaiah xl. 81. We were 
sorry to hear of tlie death of Mr. Howard, the purser, 
and Mr. George Rhodes, steward. 

April 23 — As we were busily engaged in transla- 
tion, we saw a sickly man carried in a hamper for sale. 
No one could imagine what gloom it cast on my mind. 
To hear his groanings at intervals, A ??a e/ mm e / 
i.e. "father! father!" overwhelmed me with pity. 

April 2i — Early this morning I accompanied Mr- 
Barter in a botanical excursion, and returned about 
eight A.M. 

3Iai/ 11 — Engaged in translation. Oh for more 
strength in these mental exercises ! How often 
is one obliged to rack his brains for the derivation 
of words, and the construction of sounds, especially in 
the nasalization with which the Ibo language abounds. 
Nevertheless it is a delightful work: it has the 
highest aim — to convey the wonders of redeeming 
love to mankind. With this thought we go cheer- 
fully to work, and wait in patience for its accom- 
plishment. 

3Iai/ 12 — Translating the Litany. How sublime 
are the expressions used in these soul-reviving 
prayers ! 

3Iay 13 : Ascension Day — Kept service in the 
R 2 



360 



ASCENSION DAT. 



afternoon. I liad forgotten to give public notice ; but 
the people, as they passed along, heard us when we 
sung a hymn, and popped in and joined us. There 
were forty-five present. INIy text was Luke xxiv. 
49, &c. I tried to explain to the natives why we ob- 
served this day, because several told us afterwards 
that " Sunday was not half come yet," that " three 
days more were left." Thus these natives have borne 
in mind the return of the Sabbath. To God be all 
the praise ! By degrees they are led on, first to know 
the day, then the hour, and, lastly, give themselves 
wholly to the Lord. 

. May 14 — I went out visiting in the eveiung. I 
called upon Orikabue, where I imexpectedly found the 
old men called Ndi-itshe, i.e., "old counsellors," con- 
vened, in order to decide about an unpleasant occur- 
rence which happened two days ago. The circum- 
stance was this : — A young man had a wife who was 
born in this country and whose parents are still 
living ; and as he had a dislike to her, he went and 
sold her in private. Another had taken his own child 
and sold it to Asaba, because it was so weak in body. 
The chiefs said that it was an omen of evil on their 
country, and they resolved to make a strong law 
against the practice, and to do every thing to prevent 
slavery in their land. 

May 18 — The rainy season is now set in. Two 
men from Ibuzo, a lai'ge town at the back of Asaba, 
paid me a visit to-day. I w^as much pleased to gain 
considerable information from them about this town. 
They were surprised to see the house, and expressed 
their desire to have some one to be amongst them. 



THE TRUE SACRIFICE. 361 

May 19 — Went out visiting. I called to an old 
widow, and read the word of God to her. She asked 
me the following questions : — " Eze, is it true that bad 
men cannot see God?" I replied, " It is very true, 
for the word of God says so." " If man makes a sacri- 
fice for his sins, do not you think God will accept of 
it and give him a good place ?" " God does not now 
require any sacrifice from us, except the sacrifice of a 
broken spirit and a contrite heart. What does that 
sacrifice mean? God wants your heart, and not 
fowls or chickens." " Why not do the things our 
fathers did, and we are still doing ?" " Your fathers 
did tliem ignorantly ; but now, God in mercy has sent 
us to tell you all that you had a wrong way of wor- 
shipping Him : leave off that sacrifice ; for His Son 
was once off'ered up as a sacrifice for the sins of the 
whole world." " You said God's Son ; who is that?" 
" It is through Him that our prayers are heard ; 
and God has promised to give us every thing needful 
through Him." She then said, " I am now restricted, 
according to our custom, whilst mourning ; but I have 
heard from those who attend your services, and I hope 
God will allow me one day to come and hear for my- 
self." I was thankful for this visit, and patiently 
hope it will please God to make His way known upon 
earth. His saving health among all nations. 

May 20 — Three men from the interior paid me a 
visit. They gave much information respecting the 
interior, especially of the Isuama territory. 

May 23 : Whit-Sunday — Conducted service in the 
Mission house, 1 Cor. xii. 13. Three hundred and 
eleven souls attended the services of this day. May 



362 



THE queen's BTRTHDAY. 



the miction of the Holy Spirit descend upon us, and 
smile upon us for good, that the " day of small things 
miglit not be despised." 

May 24' — To-day I was busily engaged in writing 
Towards noon many visitors came in. I was obliged 
to suspend my work. We told them that this day is 
kept as a holiday in our country, in honour of our 
beloved Queen, in remembrance of her birthday. 
One asked me, " What is her name ?" Another re- 
plied, "Have not you heard on Sundays when Eze» 
Tshuku prayed for Eze- W anyi Vikitoria V I hope, 
ere long, the children in this district will join in the 
well-known anthem, " God save the Queen ! Long 
live the Queen !" 

May 28 — I heard to-day of the mischievous intention 
of the people of Asaba, plotting to kill and take alive 
the people of Onitsha next market-day, over the beach 
opposite Brockendon Island. 

May 29 — To-day another painful occurrence hap- 
pened at Nkwere market. The women of Onitsha, 
and those of Nsube, attended market in Nkwere. 
Those from Nsube had brought good native articles, 
but those from Onitsha also Eiu'opean manufactures. 
The people of Nkwere envied them, and determined to 
plvmder their goods. Each one contrived to get 
something ; and the poor women were obliged to take 
to their heels, and escape for their Ha^cs. 

ilfar/30: Trinity -Sunday — Our ears were saluted 
very early this morning with unpleasant tidings. The 
people of Asaba had shot a man belonging to Orika- 
bue. This caused a great alarm in the neighbourhood 
of Umude. I thought there must have been some- 



MORE HOSTILITIES. 



363 



tiling strange, as I did not hear liis bell warning the 
people for service. A short time after, he came per- 
sonally to me, and reported the wicked state of the 
people of Asaba, and that he was going down to the 
wharf to despatch a canoe in search of the body. I 
sympathized with him. At half-past ten A.M. I con- 
ducted Divine service. Seventy natives were pre- 
sent. In the afternoon Sabbath-school in Ibo. At 
half-past four p.m. held service, although not very 
well, and addressed them from Matt. iii. 9. Deep 
attention was paid to the word of eternal life. Ori- 
kabue managed to attend the evening service. He 
told us after service that they had indeed shot at the 
man, but fortunately the bullet passed him, and only 
the wads set fire to his cloth. He thanked God, and 
said, "Truly God loved him ; and this was the second 
favour God had shown him." His brother was slight- 
ly wounded at the late conflict with Odekwe. Had 
he not had recourse to the water, and swam away, he 
must have been killed. 

June 1 — The general market-day. Two fine-look- 
ing men from Oka, a town in the interior, paid me a 
visit. Tliey met me just as I had finished that portion of 
the Scripture in the Communion Service, Matt, vi., 
" Lay not up for yourselves treasure upon earth." 
I explained it to them ; and they seemed quite carried 
away with the magnificent thought. They kept con- 
stantly snapping their fingers and nodding their heads, 
to express their assent. 

June 3 — To-day the inhabitants of Onitsha cele- 
brate another Moa custom, called Ra tshi, to a god, 
supposed by them to protect their vegetables and to 



364 



VISIT TO THE KING. 



prosper their sowing. These muUiplied sacrifices are 
occasioned by the light which they have of God's 
goodness and sovereignty over them. 

June 4 — Busily engaged in writing in my journals 
and transcribing the translation. About noon the 
dales were reverberating with the sounds of musketry. 
The people of Nkwere had apologized for their 
plunder of the women of this place who went to their 
market last. Ample compensation was made by them, 
and peace restored. 

June 5 — Went out visiting the king. We had an 
interesting conversation about the plan of salvation. 
His answers were very good. I again pressed him to 
forward the law for abolishing their day of rest, which 
takes place every fourth day, as he had long promised 
me to do. Instead of answering directly, he said, 
" You are grieved with me because I do not keep to my 
w^ord." I replied, "Not altogether; for I fully con- 
fide on you to forward it now ; but when the king has 
made a promise, and does not perform it, that does not 
look well." I perceived that there must be something 
3^et to be unfolded, and so kept silence for some time. 
At length he resumed his speech. " How is it that 
when I sent my messenger to you last time, to, come 
and teach me God's holy book, you did not come? 
My messenger told me that you drove him away from 
your house." I inquired what day that was. " It 
was Afo" i.e. " the day on which our Sabbath fell." I 
said it was Nso Tshuku, (our holy day,) and that I 
was engaged on duty that day. " Did your mes- 
senger say I drove him away?" Here he called out 
to the messenger. I asked liira, *' Did I see you ?" 



PEOPLE FROM ABAJA. 



3G5 



"No." "Did you see me?" "Yes." "Why did 
you not come to me and deliver your message ? " 
" I was afraid to come near you, for you had on a 
large robe (surplice), and were talking to many people, 
who sat quietly listening to you. One of the traders 
drove me away as I stood by the door." I asked the 
king to point out my fault in it ; and now he asked 
my pardon for his conduct, saying that it vexed him, 
and that, had he known that I was engaged on that 
day, he would have deferred it until another time. 
He then turned i-ound and gave his messenger a good 
scolding, and promised to forward the law of the Sab- 
bath July 19th next. 

June 8 — Three men and a woman from Abaja 
Otoro, a town in the Abaja district, paid me a visit. 
I inquired of the name of their king. " Eze Ogin- 
yeh," was the reply. " What is your name ?" 
" Ogu-ebu." " What is your mode of salutation ?" 
" Otshi-akanabo." " What is the name of your wife ?" 
" Tshi-eru." I proceeded, for fuller information, 
" How many days is it from here to Abaja district ?" 
" Half a day's journey." I found that he was one of 
the king's sons. " How many days from Otoro to 
Bendo?" " Three ; and from hence three and a half 
or four days' journey." I had a very strong desire 
to follow him, but had nothing with me for presents 
on my journey. During the day three Igara men 
were kidnapped by a man here for debt. 

June 11 — Four men from the interior paid me a 
visit. They came from Obunike and Agreze. I con- 
versed with them, and showed them that God will 
by-and-by send some one to teach them His ways, 

R 3 



866 STRANGERS FROM THE INTERIOR. 



and how to serve Him, by faith in His Son Jesus 
Christ. 

June 13: Lord's-day — The persons from the in- 
terior, of wliom I made mention on the 8 th inst., at- 
tended service in the afternoon, and heard, for the 
first time, the VFonderful works of God preached in 
their own tongue. One of them told me, after ser- 
vice, that he should carry the same to his own people, 
and relate what he had heard to his father. Who can 
tell ? Perhaps the seed which was sown this day with 
a trembling hand may be the means of paving the way 
for future usefulness in the interior. " So shall He 
sprinkle many nations ; kings shall shut their mouths 
at Him ; for that which had not been told them shall 
they see ; and that which they had not heard shall 
they consider." 

June 17 — Attended a meeting of the Council about 
Aje's proposal to make peace with the people of 
Onitsha. As I was invited by the king, I of course 
gave such advice as I thought would best stimulate 
them to sue for peace. 

June 18 — As Aje wished to see me personally at 
Oko, where he lived, I visited him, and found him 
fully prepared to come up to Onitsha, but wanting 
the people of Onitsha to send him a cow or goat to 
offer as a sacrifice to his deceased father. 

June 22 — Went to Laird's Port on business. Aje 
despatched another messenger to the king of Onitsha, 
saying that he was going home, and should return 
shortly. The Councillors were convened, and dis- 
cussed what steps they should take. The king sent 
to consult me. I told him to suspend the matter, and 



DEBATE IN THE COUNCIL. 



367 



told Aje that the king would be glad to see him when 
I'eadj to make peace. 

June 25 — To-daj being market-day, four men from 
the interior paid me a visit. Among that number was 
a man who looked very wild in appearance, exceed- 
ingly fierce. I inquired why his hair was kept so 
dirty and shabby, neither washed nor trimmed. "He 
was dedicated to ArusV I inquired, " Who created 
hiiji ?" " God," was the reply. " How can you take 
God's creature and give it to Arusi — to an idol?" 
Here they all smiled, and said, " It is true, it is true, 
God made people for Himself; but shall we take 
God's people and give them to Arusi ? Asokwa 
(Pshaw !) Arusi is notliing !" 

Ju7ie 26— Information had reached me about the 
consultation of the king with his Councillors respect- 
ing the law of the Christian Sabbath and the abolition 
of idols. I heard that the debate was strong. They 
consented to the former ; but the latter was postponed 
for further consideration. I am thankful to say that, 
though I never brought the case of the abolition of 
idols before the king, those who had attended my 
ministry warmly advocated that idols should be 
abolished, and Christianity permitted in their land. 
Such is the word of God, which is destined not to re- 
turn unto Him void, but to accomplish the thing 
whereto He has sent it. " The idols He shall utterly 
abolish." 

June 27: Lord^s-day — Conducted Divine service at 
the usual hour ; preached from 1 Sam. xii. 24. The 
congregation was very thin, as their natives are busy 
in reaping their ?ihanshi, a kind of corn resembling 



368 FRUITLESSNESS OF IDOLATRY. 



kooskoos, or guinea-corn. I sent Simon Jonas to the 
king's quarters to read and expound some of our 
Lord's parables. 

July 2 — Went out to visit the king, and gave him 
instruction in the Lord's Prayer. I went to Ofero, 
the widow to whom I have made several visits in her 
desolate state, and spoke a few words of comfort to 
her. In the evening Bosa came to me, and told me 
that he had offered many sacrifices to idols to appease 
them, but to no purpose ; trouble upon trouble had 
befallen him, and now his only daughter was dying : 
could I help him ? I told him to turn his mind to the 
Lord, who would comfort him in all his trials. He 
said that Dibia had deceived him many times, and he 
had wasted much of his substance on foolishness, but 
now he would tui'n his attention to following the 
Lord. 

July 3 — Okosi came to me privately, and told me 
that he desired to be admitted as a candidate for bap- 
tism. I gave him an indirect answer, in order to test 
him further, whether his desire was momentary or 
substantial, I went out to visit a poor man who had 
been ill for a length of time, and directed him to look 
to God for patience in all his affliction. 

July 4 : Lord's-day — We heard a doleful cry last 
night. This morning Orye's (who gave me the 
ground to build the Mission house) wife died after 
child-birth. Cases like this frequently occur here. 
Everywhere in the town two or more die, leaving 
motherless infants, or themselves entering the tomb 
whilst travailing. How warmly ought we to put the 
prayer for " all women labouring of child !" Let it 



SLAVERY. 



369 



be reiterated, " We beseech thee to hear us, good 
Lord!" I preached from Heb. iv. 15, 16. During 
the day a little girl was brought to me for sale. She 
was about six years of age. I told the man and 
woman that I was grieved that they should think of 
depriving her of her fond mother. Cases like this 
have come under my notice many times. Such is 
paganism I 

July 5 — Went out for a little exercise to the river 
to observe it. This is the proper time to ascend it with- 
out encountering any danger. 

July 9 — Dr. Berwick paid me a short visit this 
morning, and told me that the height of the river, by 
the tide- pole, was three feet. At eight p.m., as we 
had just finished reading, and were about kneeling 
down, committing ourselves to God's watchful care, 
we heard an alarm. An awful fire had broken out in 
the neighbourhood, which consumed several houses. 

July 11: Lord's-day — A universal desire pervades 
the population for the abolition of their own day of 
rest, and for union with us. Deep attention was paid 
to the word of eternal life. To hear the Creed 
repeated in the Ibo tongue fills the people with decided 
awe. After service they talked among themselves. 
Okosi explained to one of his countiymen the nature 
and purport of the text as it struck him. He said (as 
I sat close by him), " Ah, the woman brought us to sin 
and death, but Adam ought not to have hearkened to 
her to bring death upon us !" Every one of them ex- 
claimed, " True, true, true !" He then concluded by 
saying, " Hear what I say : Jesus Christ has come to 
set all these things to rights." I am glad that such an 



370 



EJfTRANCE or THE LIGHT. 



opportunity has been afforded to me of judging how 
much they prize the words of eternal truth. INIay the 
Holy Spirit, with His life-giving influence, manifest 
Himself to them, and may they see light ; " for with 
Him is the fountain of life : in Thy light shall we or 
they see light." 

July 15 — Awudu, an Hausa slave here, came tome 
to read to him the Hausa Testament. I read John iii. 
He was much struck to hear me read it. I asked him 
whether he knew who is here meant by "Zsa." Poor 
slave ! blinded with twofold blindness, he knew Him 
only in the Koran, but not in the heart. He said he 
liked the expression, Gaskia, cjaskia, na tshe maka, 
saidai mutum a haifasa daga bissa, ha shi tan ganni 
saranta alitshana. (John iii. 3.) I expounded this to 
him, and he promised to steal time to come and hear 
tliis wonderful book, and at the same time he would 
bring Umoru, his companion in slavery. But I ques- 
tion when he will get a convenient siason. 

July 16 — Okosi assisted me much to-day. He said 
that he had told his Moa brethren, when he was 
called up last for their distribution of cowries, that it 
was his last time of meeting with them, for his mind 
did not wish to participate in, nor meddle with, their 
proceedings, as he had determined to follow the Chris- 
tian religion. He comes to me ever}^ niglit to learn, 
and he has now committed the Lord's Prayer in the 
Ibo tongue to memory. I am now giving him in- 
struction in the Creed, and am about admitting him 
as candidate for baptism. 

July 18: Lord's-day — After service, the congre- 
gation held a warm conversation about the principles 



, THE FIRST CANDIDATE FOR BAPTISM. 371 

of tlie Christian I'eligion. Ofero, the widow of whom 
I made mention in the former part of this journal, 
attended the services of this day, after her mourning 
was over. She had on a peculiar dress ; a black 
country cloth dyed in smoke, and fibres made of straw 
round her neck. This she must have on until they 
drop to pieces, and wheresoever these straw fibres 
happen to break and fall, she must not, upon any 
condition, pass that way : it is an unhallowed spot to 
her. Okosi made an urgent request to be admitted as 
a member of the Church. A well-known doctor in 
this town wished to have his name put down in 
Tshuku's book, meaning our class-list, or, as they 
afterwards termed it, Otu Tshuku. (God's company.) 
I asked Obuha, for so is Okosi's title-name, " Do you 
wish to follow the people of God ?" " That is my 
desire," replied he. " Do you not think that, as you 
are a doctor, your colleagues will deride you ?" "I do 
not care for that," he says. " Mind you, think well." 
He continued his request by saying, " I have deceived 
many people, but since I heard the word of God I am 
ashamed, and must give it "up." I told him still to 
attend service, and by-and-by I would see about it. 

July 20 — Early this morning, after prayers, Okosi 
came to me. I saw the spirit in which he laboured 
last night after our family prayers. We read Isaiah 
vi., and I lectured upon it. He came to me in earnest 
to have his name put down as a candidate for baptism. 
I felt truly thankful to be permitted to have his name 
claim the first place in our list. I have tested his zeal, 
as well as his consciousness of what he is about to un- 
dertake. I admitted him conditionally, until he should 



372 DECREE IN FAVOUR OF THE SABBATH. 

understand the Christian religion in all its separate 
bearings, and keep to one wife. None could withhold 
from him the privilege of holy baptism. It was a day 
of joy to him as well as to me. It brought to my mind 
the secret vow I made before leaving the colony, if the 
Lord would go with me, as He went with Eliezer, 
Abi'aham's servant ; that wherever, in the Ibo district, 
a woman should go in the brook and fetch me water 
without being asked, there, surely, is the field which 
the Lord has appointed for our labour. A month 
after my choice of this portion in the Ibo district, a 
woman brought us water. Truly our God is a prayer- 
liearing and prayer-answering God. How truly is 
this portion of Scripture realized to me ! "Prove me 
now herewith, saith the Lord of hosts, if I will not open 
you the windows of heaven, and pour you out a bless- 
ing, that there shall not be room enough to receive 
them," 

July 21 — Went down to Laird's Port on business. 
The king gave his yearly dinner to-day to his loi'ds 
and captains, and then and there gave them warning 
of the Sabbath to keep it holy, and to cease from all 
public work. I was exceedingly thankful for this 
righteous law from a heathen king: may it be the 
commencement of better things amona; the Ibos in 
general. 

July 22 — I went out visiting in the afternoon. I 
happened to fall in with a man who was sacrificing to 
his idols. I asked him to give me a kola-nut, as he was 
placing them in halves on the mouths of his gods, to 
show him the absurdity of the ceremony. I took one 
piece and asked him to chew it ; he took it, and pressed 



IDOLS ACKNOWLEDGED WORTHLESS. 373 

it with his teeth, and chewed it. I then took the other 
piece and placed it on the teeth of his idol, and bent 
my ears to it. I told liira that I did not hear any 
thing. He frankly confessed that it was true ; they 
had swerved from the truth of God's law. 

July 27 — Admitted Mba into the class. The people 
visited me from hour to hour without intermission. I 
am thankful to add another to my list. To God be 
all the praise ! 

Augiist 1 : Lord^s-day — Conducted Divine service at 
the usual hour. In the evening, at half-past four, the 
people flocked in half an hour before the time, half 
dressed as usual, the boys and girls in perfect nudity. 
We have struck the idols, Ikenga and Tshi, to their 
very roots ; they are tottering, and will at last give 
way, like Baal of old. 

August 2 — Went out visiting to Odojari, and to in- 
spect the place. I have selected it for a Mission 
house. Having been invited to decide on a dispute 
between the people of Obosi and Onitsha, I went early, 
at half-past seven a.m., when I met the Obosi people 
well armed. One of them having stolen a deer from 
one of the traps belonging to the other people, they 
had caught him and put him in the stocks with the 
stolen article. Judgment was on the side of Onitsha. 
Went on to see the king, and spoke to him a few words 
about his soul. 

August 7 — ^Visiting the people in their houses from 
half-past twelve to four. Before I left each family I 
gave warning about the Sabbath, as we have no bell 
to call them together. In a certain family I was ex- 
plaining the love of God. While I repeated John iii. 



374 



god's love in redemption. 



16, two women inquired, " What ! does God love this 
bad world?" One of them requested me to repeat 
those words again. I did so ; and told them that they 
were true, and contained the real message which God 
sent to her and to all people in her country, that she 
and all might not perish, but have everlasting life. 
They felt the remarks of the exposition, and each fell 
down to the ground, humbly kneeling ; and putting 
their faces to the earth in lowly attitude, both of them 
exclaimed, Tshuku merim ebere biko, ahonze'gi, i.e. 
*' God have mercy upon me ; grant it for Thine 
honour." From this simple fact it is that we get to 
understand the vastness, the condescension, and the 
omniscience, as well as the love of God, in a way 
more simple and impressive than by any didactic 
statement. 

Jugust 15 : Lorcf s-day — To-day I was fully satisfied 
to see so many influential men attend service. The 
king has enacted the law for the Sabbath to be strictly 
observed. No fewer than 171 natives were present. 
I preached from 2 Kings v. 27. School with the 
natives. In the evening I preached from Eph. ii. 8. 2o8 
souls attended the services of this day. The word of 
God is taking root in the minds of these simple people. 

August 16 — A man who attended our morning 
prayer, for the first time, was struck when we repeated 
the Lord's Prayer in Ibo. He said that he had lost 
good by not attending the ordinances of the Sabbath, 
and that to talk to God was better than all their vain 
superstitious ceremonies ; moreover, that in about two 
or three years they would all give up their idols, and 
throw them away, and be at rest. I spoke to him more 



children's avelcome. 



375 



fullj of " that Way," and pointed him to Christ cru- 
cified as our only hope. 

August 18 — Last night, twenty-five naked children 
came to the Mission house to see me. They began 
to sing some charming music in their native tongue, 
and, clapping their hands, danced and enjoyed the 
beautiful moonlight. I was thankful, as it afforded 
me an opportunity to speak to them a word of Jesus, 
who, in the days of His flesh, loved such little lambs. 
I had often seen some of them attend service every 
Lord's-day, and invited them into my humble parlour, 
and made them sit down while I read a few verses of 
the psalm for our evening prayer, which Avas well 
adapted for the occasion, " That our sons may be as 
plants grown up in their youth ; that our daughters 
may be as corner-stones, polished after the similitude of 
a palace." The whole party were as eager as ever to 
catch my remarks, and fixed their animated eyes on 
me with breathless attention. We sang a hymn. The 
words were translated into their own tongue. How 
nicely did they repeat the Lord's Prayer with us in 
the vulgar tongue of Ibo ! They were, on the whole, 
very quiet. One of them struck her sister, and she 
began to cry, and disturbed us. After prayer, I in- 
quired why she had behaved so rudely. Her answer 
was. Because her sister did not " kneel down as others." 
These are the children who, last year, would not on 
any account approach me. Will they not, at no distant 
period, join with the children of Jerusalem in lisping 
the Saviour's praise ? These are facts to leave a salu- 
tary impression iipon my mind, and lead me to wait in 
humble patience for the performance of the promises. 



376 



AGED INQUIRERS. 



How forcibly do they speak to those in Christian lands, 
" Come over, and help us, or we die !" 

August 21 — Busily engaged in translation, from 
seven a.m. till twelve. Four elderly men, bowed 
down with age, and their heads white as snow, came 
to me for service. They mistook the day ; when I 
told them that to-morrow was the day for sennce, and 
not to-day. They came from Odojari. However, 
we sat for several hours conversing, and I placed be- 
fore them the wonders of the creation. In the evening 
I went out visiting at lyawo. 

August 22 : Lordfs-day — We were on the look-out 
for the " Sunbeam" almost every moment. Conducted 
service at eleven a.m. There were present 160, and 
I preached from Mark vii. In the midst of the ser- 
vice, a kroo boy brought a letter to say that the steamer 
was in the harbour. There was such confusion that I 
was obliged to shorten my discourse. We went down 
to the wharf. After a salute of two guns from the 
factory by Mr. J. L. Thompson, Laird's agent, it was 
responded to by four from the steamer. 

September 7 — Early this morning we made prepa- 
ration to go overland to Nsube and Nkwere, a journey 
about forty miles. 

^September 8 — We started, after an early breakfast, 
for Nkwere, and arrived at twelve o'clock. The 
market of this place was beautiful. Many of the 
women and men were frightened at seeing us, and we 
were conducted to the king's quarters. I learned 
afterwards that there was no real king over them since 
the late sovereign ; and Lize-isebe, alias Ogo-kwe, his 
title of salutation, though conceded to the present 



THE SACRIFICE FOR THE LAND. 377 



king, is not yet recognised in the government of the 
country. He treated us very hospitably ; and we staid 
in his village and walked about in quest of a good site 
for future buildings. We took some refreshment under 
a banyan-tree, which spread itself in the centre, above 
the market. We were surrounded with nearly 100 
spectators, who watched all our movements. Some 
of them, who had paid me several visits at Onitsha, 
offered to carry some of our luggage, and I promised 
to reward them for it. They wished us to stay a 
whole day with them. I promised them to do so at our 
return, but said that we must haste to get to Nsube 
before dark. We were escorted by the market men 
from Nsube, and arrived there about three p.m., after 
two hours and a half walkino; throu2;h dense tangled 
forests. We were conducted into Obi Udeze's yard, 
without luggage, &c. His joy at seeing us was proved 
by the beating of his large drum. He danced before 
us : his head-wife joined him in the ring and danced 
heartily, since a piece of honour had been shown to 
them, Beke having come under their roof. 

September 9 — This morning I went out visiting the 
other chiefs. Everywhere we met with kind recep- 
tion. To-day being one of their festive days, we took 
the opportunity of witnessing their performances. This 
feast is called Guo aid, i.e. sacrifice for the land. 
Under each large banyan-tree, for which Nsube is 
noted, there was a little lump of earth raised, and a 
stick placed in the centre. The person who performs 
the sacrificial act sits down, and, holding kola-nuts in 
his hands, says, " Let good come out for us ; preserve 
us ; give us children," &c. We proceeded to Upper 



VISIT TO NKWERE. 



Nsube, and Obi Emetseta received us very kindly. 
We returned home to Lower Nsube. 

September 11 — We started early for Nkwere. As 
we had received presents of three goats and a lamb, 
I gave the parties in return two soldiers' coats and 
two fez caps, which I took to barter for live stock. 
Obi Udeze sent men to escort us to Nkwere, and we 
were twenty in number. We arrived at Nkwere about 
half-past eight A.M. After breakfast we resumed our 
journey, through jungle and brushwood, which now 
and then afforded us a good shade under the burning 
tropical sun, and at length arrived at Onitsha, about 
mid-day ; thankful to God for journeying mercies, 
who has led us out and brought us in in safety, and 
has given us tokens of encouragement to hope for 
better days dawning upon Central Africa. 

September 16 — A man from Obaja Otoro paid me a 
visit, and requested me to follow him to his town, for 
his father had sent him to invite me over to his district. 
As my time was short, I was obliged to tell him that 
I could not very well yield to his brother's kind invi- 
tation, but wished him every spiritual and temporal 
blessing. I am daily in expectation of the steamer, to 
return by her to Fernando Po. We shook hands to- 
gether, and bade each other farewell. 

September 29 — To-day the Moa custom of Ekwensu 
took place, as last year. Okosi expressed his opinion 
respecting it. He went down to Laird's Port, and 
there concealed himself. I asked him about it. His an- 
swers were very good, and gave me a lively hope of 
his being settled in his mind about Christianity. This 
ceremony will last some time before it dies away. 



THE king's annual LEVEES. 379 



October 1 — To-day the king made his annual ap- 
pearance to the public. We went to witness the sight. 
The king attired liimself in his best — a coarse hat adorned 
with twelve eagle feathers, and held in his hand a 
hoi'se-tail and a rude sceptre. He danced before his 
subjects. The whole levee lasted about two hours. 

October 2 — Last night we had heavy showers of 
rain, accompanied with vivid glaring hghtning and 
loud pealings of thundei-, &c. 

October 3 ; Lord's-day — Conducted Divine Service 
at Odojari. Mr. Smart accompanied me. There 
were 106 persons present ; and I told Mr. Smart to 
address them. He took his text from Matt. xviiL 
11 — 14. Simple and plain was his address. The 
chief of that place, with his people, was much affected 
at it. Such men will do a great amount of good. In 
the evening I took the service in the Mission house, 
and preached from 1 Tim. ii. 5. — The comet appeared 
at half-past six p.m. 

October 4 — Went to Laird's Port on business. 
About half-past two p.m. the steamer " Rainbow" 
made her appearance. 

October 5 — Lieutenant Glover received me with 
every mark of courtesy, alter an absence of a year and 
two months. I received several letters from Sierra 
Leone and Fernando Po. We were very sorry to 
hear of the melancholy death of Mr. Radillo, the 
Baptist deacon, at Fernando Po. Orikabue showed no 
little kindness to the commissioners, by sending them a 
goat and some yams, likewise the king, Obi Akazua. 

October 7 — Breakfist on board the " Rainbow." 
Kindness of Lieutenant Glover and Captain McNevin 



380 ARRIVAL OF THE "SUNBEAM" AND "RAINBOW." 



towards me. This day the " Rainbow" left for the 
Confluence. 

October 11 — "Went down to Laird's Port. My ob- 
servation of the river showed that it has gradually 
fallen : it does not attain the same height as last year. 
Mba's house was burnt down last night, about eight 
o'clock P.M. Heavy rains all the night, until break of 
day. 

October 12 — After class, Mba said to me, " Sir, 
this trial comes directly from God, to make me under- 
stand what I am about. My goats and fowls ran off 
when the flame was blazing high ; even the rats were 
seen running and quitting the scene of woe : but my 
idols could not exert themselves ; where they lay, there 
they were burnt to ashes. Why could they not help 
themselves ? It is all a piece of nonsense." Thus is 
the Gospel taking root in the hearts of the degraded 
people of this district. 

October 13 — Busily engaged in making preparations 
to leave, to get myself in readiness, as the river has 
commenced falling. Hired labourers to clean the yard 
and street. 

October 18 — Went down to see Anarow, and gave 
him three fathoms of handkerchief ; and requested him 
to take good care of the future teachers who shall be 
settled in his place bye-and-bye. 

October 24 : LorcCs-day — Arrival of the ships 
" Sunbeam" and " Rainbow." Conducted service, 
read prayers, and preached from John vi., " I am the 
bread of life." In the afternoon, I went to the ship to 
see and welcome my friend Mr. Crowther. 

October 27 — At eleven o'clock went on board the 



TAREAVELL TO ONITSHA. 



381 



"Rainbow." The influential men, my little congre- 
gation — men, women, and children — accompanied me 
down to the wharf. Some hung on my neck, others 
took me by the hand, others held my shoulder, and 
some were seen bathed in tears, telling me to return to 
them again. It was a sight truly affecting. These 
were the people who termed me last year a " spirit " 
without toes (on account of my shoes) ; who even re- 
fused to give me a mat to lie down on ; nor even dared 
to approach me, nor touch my clothes when even asked 
to wash them. Now they looked upon my removal 
from them as a matter of grief for our separation. 
They all bade me good bye : we shook hands together, 
in hopes of seeing one another again. In a short time 
the steamer was out of sight. 

November 9 : Fernando Po. — Many people in the 
island paid me visits during almost the whole day. 1 
heard that Simon Jonas was ill. He was attended by 
Dr. Berwick. 

November 12 — Early this morning, I went to see 
Jonas, and some other sick people on the island, and 
to them read the word of God, and prayed with and 
for them. 

November 14 : Lord^s-day — The " Sunbeam" and 
" Rainbow" left to-day for Prince's Island, to pur- 
chase live stock ; the former will proceed thence to 
England, and the latter will return to Fernando Po 
and up the Niger. No Protestant service on the island. 

November 15 — I w'ent to see Mr. Jonas about eight 
A.M. Read the Twenty-third Psalm, and prayed with 
him. He was fast declining. I asked him if he had any 
thing to say to me. He could not say any thing then. 



382 



DEATH OF SIMON JONAS. 



I left him and returned home. Went to see Mrs. 
Diboll. A messenger was despatched to seek for me — 
that Jonas wanted to see me. I hastened to the spot. 
He then told me, " I call on you, and beg you to say 
to the Church Missionary Society in England, that this 
is the third time I have gone up the Niger with their 
agents, and the last was the best I have spent in my 
fatherland." As we were going to our family prayers, 
a messenger came to inform me of his death. I went 
there to close his eyes, but was broken down with tears. 

November 16 — I buried Jonas this evening, in the 
presence of respectable friends, who paid the last 
respects to his mortal remains. Thus died a zealous 
servant of God, who told Mr. Crowther and me, before 
parting, that he desired to return to Onitsha with his 
family. As for me, I am at a loss what to say. " How 
unsearchable are Thy ways, O Lord !" 

Novemher 24 : LorcTs-dny — This morning, a woman 
came into my residence and requested me to follow 
her, for she wanted to see me very particularly. I 
got myself ready and went with her. After walking 
about two miles, came to a very beautiful sand-beach, 
where, to my great surprise, I found twenty-four per- 
sons, well clad in decent dress, being twenty women 
and four men. One of them rose up and said, " Sir, 
we expressly sent for you to preach to us the word of 
God ; do, for we thirst to hear God's living word : 
please, Sir, help us." I stood under an hollow tree, 
and told them I was sorry I had no book with me. 
To my great surprise, each one brought out his hynon- 
book. I tlien gave out that beautiful hymn, " Jesus, 
where'er thy people meet ;" and I took one of their 



ARRIVAL AT SIERRA LEONE. 383 



Bibles, and expounded the words of the Apostle Paul 
from Acts xvi. 13 — " And on the Sabbath we went out 
of the city by a river side, where prayer was wont to 
be made ; and we sat down, and spake unto the 
women which resorted thither." Thank God for this 
opportunity ! 

December 17 — Arrived at Sierra Leone. 



JOURNAL ON THE NIGER 
IN 1858 AND 1859, 

BY THE REV. S. CROWTIIER. 



CANOE-PASSAGE FEOM ONITSHA TO RABBA. 

Onitsha : Dec. 2, 1858 — After a fortnight's waiting 
for the return of the canoe of Ewonruzo, which had 
gone down the river, he having faithfully promised to 
take me up to the Confluence, returned last night. 
Tliis morning I went down to the factory, so as, with the 
help of Mr. Thompson, to settle the passage bargain. 
Ewonruzo is an inhabitant of a village between Idda 
and Onitsha, known by the name of Onugba, which 
signifies, in the Ibo language, a mixture, wliich in all 
probability may mean a mixture of the Ibo and Igara 
inhabitants. Ewonruzo is half Ibo and half Igara — 
his mother being an Ibo, and his father an Igara. 
A person, under his circumstances, has the privileges 
of both nations. Ibo canoes are not allowed to go 
beyond Idda market, nor are Igara canoes allowed to 
go below Abo ; but a person under Ewonruzo's cir- 
cumstances has the privilege of going beyond both 
points. I was very glad to seize tliis most favourable 
opportunity to get direct to the Confluence, and that 
also with a person whose relatives and wife were at 
Onitsha. This man's former kindness to Mr. W. 
Romaine and Mr. G. Cole, by giving them almost 
free passage to the Confluence in 1857, recommended 



386 



DIFFICULTIES OF TRANSIT. 



him to me as a fit and trustworthy person. Although 
I had a passage offered me in an Abo canoe, to take 
me to Idda; yet, relying upon the promise of 
Ewonruzo, I declined any other, and preferred to wait 
a few days longer for him. Making money bargains 
with a trader, whether he be an Ibo, Igara, or Igbira, 
is one of the most difficult things to accompligh in 
this coimtry, and the task is one I would most gladly 
be spared, if it were possible. My patience was never 
more tried than when I had to enter into money 
matters with an Ibo, Igara, or Igbira, on account of 
their covetousness. A fortnight ago, Ewonruzo ap- 
peared to be so indifferent as to what I should give 
him, that he left the settlement of the bargain entirely 
to his mother, and only said, whatever his mother 
might wish to have, he for himself would be satisfied 
with two trade muskets as his share. With the 
mother this was settled about two weeks ago, with a 
pair of St. J ago blue and yellow striped cloths for her- 
self : she attempted to get two pair, but we would not 
give more ; so the bargain, amounting to 21. 7*., stood as 
before. What always makes such a bargain more 
difficult, is their unwillingness to charge, as if they 
were afraid to say too httle ; and when urged to say 
what they would ask, they would name such a ridi- 
culous sum, large enough to bring a first-class cabin 
jjassenger from England to the Confluence on the 
Niger. Then they would say, " Show us what you 
intend to give : if it please us we will say so ; if not, 
we will not take it." How could one know what 
would please such a person, among a variety of goods 
exposed in the factory? Half an hour, and even 



EXORBITANT DEMANDS. 



387 



more, is spent in this way before the mind of the 
person with whom one has to enter into bargain is 
known. 

After much time is spent in urging him to make his 
unreasonable charge, the next difficult task is to bring 
him down to reasonable terms, and he is not wanting 
in numerous covetous advisers not to keep to his 
charge, because the Oibos have enough to pay, and 
their store is inexhaustible ; — if they can f^fford to give 
so much away gratis, how much more will tliey be 
able to pay for the services required of them ? Our 
friend Ewonruzo being called, and shown what bar- 
gain we had concluded with his mother (she had not 
taken away the things), was dissatisfied, and said Tiis 
mother had asked for two pairs of Si Jago cloth, 
and not one : he had also told some one standing by 
that he would ask for a brass-sheathed sword which 
he had just seen in the factory in addition. But we 
stood firm to the old bargain of two muskets and a 
pair of St. Jago cloths. Ewonruzo, however, stood 
out for two pairs, or else he would not take me : he 
took advantage of my depending on liis canoe, there 
beins: none other near at hand to wliich I could turn 
when he became so exorbitant in his demands. Upon 
a due consideration, for the sake of 15s. more, I would 
not lose the passage, considering what amount of work 
was awaiting me at the Confluence, and every day be- 
coming more valuable to me than 15*. So I yielded, 
and gave him two pairs of St. Jago cloths and two 
muskets, amounting in all to 3/, 2s. The bar- 
gain, after much trouble, annoyance, and vexation, 
was at last concluded, and I was told to be down at 



388 



EWONEUZO. 



the beach by daylight the next morning, when the 
canoe would be ready to start. To prevent any pre- 
tence as cause of delay on my part, I took my luggage 
down to the factory that evening, and slept there, 
ready for him in the morning. Mr. Smith, a Yoruba 
settler of Fernando Po, who came in the " Rainbow " 
to see for a place at the Confluence, with a view to 
remove liis family up the river, and ray servant, were 
with me. Ewonruzo had previously made inquiry 
as to our packages, consisting of three small boxes 
and six bag packages, at the average of a box and 
two bag packages to each, with which he was per- 
fectly satisfied. I got up early in the morning and 
got every thing in readiness, so at a moment's notice to 
be removed to the water's edge ; but there was no sign 
of the canoe moA-ing. I stepped down to the river- 
side, and met Ewonruzo and his wife, and a companion, 
sitting in the canoe with composure as if they had 
not to go away to-day. I told him I was quite ready, 
only waiting his orders to take my tilings down. He 
said he would order them as soon as a man for whom 
he was waiting had come from the town. Some time 
after, the things were called for, and taken down. 

On his arrival hereon Wednesday night, his intention 
was to dispose of a large portion of salt with which 
his canoe was deeply laden from the lower parts of 
the river : but, perhaps, he could not get what he 
asked, so he did not sell an3-, consequently his canoe 
was as deeply laden as ever. On seeing our luggage, 
he said that I had told him there were only three 
boxes and three bag packages ; but, fortunately, be- 
sides our own party, there were some of his own 



BROKEN FAITH. 



389 



friends, who put him to rights as to the correctness of 
what I had told him. But the yams, rice, and other 
eatables I had for the passage, and our mats and 
blankets to lie upon, were to him so many additional 
loads that he made difficulties. However, some of 
his friends convinced him that we must have some- 
thing to eat, and to sleep on ; so this objection was 
removed also. Ewonruzo was then at a fix: his 
canoe was deeply laden with salt, and it was 
plain he had no room for us. He attempted to make 
room, by landing some useless articles with which 
their canoes are usually filled; so he got in four 
packages, but no more could be got in, and the canoe 
was already deep enough. He then asked to borrow 
Mr. Thompson's canoe, to lighten liis till he got to the 
village of Onugba; but Mr. Thompson's canoe was not 
near at hand. He next proposed to land some of his 
salt at the factory, and take us to his village, where 
we should have to wait five days, till the small canoe 
came to Onitsha, and back to Onugba, with the salt 
left behind. I at once saw the difficulties and troubles 
which would attend this arrangement ; so I dechned 
altogether going with him, as he had not been faithful 
to me in the performance of his engagement ; seeing 
that if he dealt with me thus when I was yet inde- 
pendent at Onitsha, he would act doubly so when I 
should be entirely under his control in his village, 
and his five day's detention might be calculated as ten 
or fifteen. So I ordered my things to be removed 
back to the factory, and then wait for another chance. 
The two muskets and two pairs of St. Jago cloths 
he returned with vexation. 

s 3 



390 



BROKEN FAITH. 



The cause of Ewonruzo's delay soon became known. 
A slave was to have been delivered to him for sale on 
tlie upper parts of the river, but the slave was ap- 
prised of the intention of his master ; so he took the 
opportunity of the confusion which took place about 
arranging the canoe matter, being assisted by some 
who were opposed to his being removed out of 
the Ibo country, because there has been already too 
much dispute about the man who had escaped before. 
Ewonruzo, missing the slave, became enraged. As he 
was passing to the town of Onitsha, to make inquiry 
of the runaway slave, he met us sitting under a tree 
in the market. He stepped towards us, and said that 
it was on my account that his slave ran away : but I 
gave him no answer. At his return from the town, 
he came to Mr. Thompson, and said tliat he would 
demand five slaves from him, in payment for his 
runaway slave, because he made his escape when he 
was engaged with us. He would not listen to any 
explanation — that our business, for which we paid him 
handsomely, demanded time to talk about it, as well 
as the bargain about his slave, or any thing else he 
had to sell : this would not satisfy him, having lost 
his handsome pay for our passage in his canoe, and 
his slave escaping into the bargain. He forgot all 
former friendship with Thompson or Romaine, who 
had recommended him, so far, that he took oflP his 
shirt and offered to fight witli Thompson ; which 
challenge he readily accepted, and poor Ewonruzo 
wovdd have been knocked down to the ground by the 
muscular fist of Thompson, had we not timely inter- 
posed. Thompson is colony-born, of Kissey town. 



ARRIVAL AT OKO, 



391 



Sierra Leone, and of Yoruba parents. Ewonruzo being^ 
led away by his friends, got into his canoe and moved 
away with great mortification. Thus ended my first 
attempt to get a passage to the Confluence. 

December 6 — I accompanied Mr. Thompson to the 
king, to apprise him of a robbery of three goats from 
the factory on Saturday night, which he promised to 
inquire into. On our return, the cooper from Abo 
was landed at Onitsha by a small canoe from Oko 
village, brought to that place by Aje's brother, whose 
large canoe had proceeded during the night towards 
Id da. I was mortified at my ignorance of such a 
fair opportunity, and therefore suggested to Mr. 
Thompson that we might go to Oko village, and 
make known our intention to get a passage in any 
canoe going to Idda or the Confluence, which he 
thought was advisable. 

December 8 — Kindly taken by Mr. Thompson 
in his canoe, and, accompanied by Mr. Romaine, 
we paddled down to Oko village, on the left side 
of the river. Here many Abo canoes touched and 
halted on their way up and down the river : they 
always avoided Onitsha, because Obi's family is not 
on friendly terms with the people of this town, on 
account of some old quarrel inherited from their father. 
There was no canoe immediately ready for Idda, but 
Akirima, the younger brother of the chief of Oko, 
promised to send an empty canoe to Idda for sale six 
days hence, and said that he should be happy to take 
me ; so the bargain was to be settled on Friday, which 
was the market-day at Onitsha, when Akirima pro- 
mised to come to the factory for that purpose. Though 



392 



A HARD BAKGAIIT. 



this chief gave his word as true, he indulges too 
much in palm-wine, and is very seldom sober ; so, 
after all, very little dependence can be placed upon 
the promise of such a man, though he might be 
sincere in what he said. However, I told Mr. 
Thompson to leave the matter open, and that if I 
got another opportunity before six days I should 
embrace it. So we returned to Onitsha in the after- 
noon, satisfied with the present arrangement. 

December 9 — Early in the morning two 
large Idda canoes paddled in, laden with salt, kola- 
nuts, powder, rum, and other trade articles. Mr. 
Thom^ison wrote from the factory to inform me of 
this opportunity. I immediately went down and met 
them disposing of their merchandise. The larger canoe 
was paddled by forty persons, of different ages, and 
the smaller by thirty. The masters of the canoes 
were called to the factory and asked for passage to 
Idda. They wanted to know to whom I was going. I 
told them, to Ama Abokko, at Gbegbe, at the Con- 
fluence. Having told them how many persons we were, 
and what luggage we had, they waited to know what I 
would give them. The old troubles and difficulties com- 
menced again. We showed them a musket and a 
piece of cloth, at which they scorned. As they would 
not charge, of course they wished us to produce 
pieces of cloth and muskets tUl they were satisfied, 
wliich of course we were not such fools as to do : the 
distance was not so great as to the Confluence. We 
oftiered two muskets and a piece of cloth, to which 
they wo\dd not agree. At last they said they wanted 
no cloth at all, and that if we would give them 
five muskets, they woidd take us to Idda. The 



JOURNEY TO IDDA. 



393 



cost of the five muskets, at 16s. each, was 4/., being 
18*. more than what was agi'eed with Ewonruzo to take 
us right to the Confluence. Not only the headman, 
but nearly all the boys were up, and said that if I 
would not give them five muskets they would not 
take me. "We debated a long time about these, but 
at last they refused, and went away. After a good 
while, I consented to add a fourth, which they sternly 
refused. Here was the difficulty: — the canoes would 
start this afternoon for Idda ; every day was becoming 
more valuable to me than 20s. ; if I let this oppor- 
tunity slip, I might yet be disappointed by Akirima 
of Oko village, or his bargain might become harder, 
as they knew my anxiety to get to the Confluence, 
and there was no other opportunity. Therefoi'e, with 
great reluctance, I consented to give five guns, and 
thus the bargain was at last settled. 

The prospect of getting to the Confluence, and 
meeting my friends the Christian visitors, and gaining 
a little time there before the " Rainbow " arrives, made 
me forget the dearness of the bargain. I did not 
mind spending a few days at Idda also, before getting 
another canoe for the Confluence. About 3 o'clock 
our luggage was got into the larger canoe, in which 
room had been made for us ; and about 4 o'clock we 
started from Onitsha, after forty-six days' stay here ; 
and I was not a little thankful for this opportunity 
of moving to the upper parts of the river. After 
paddling from Onitsha for about half an hour, they 
pulled towards an extensive sand-bank, and stopped 
awhile to play a little trick, to feel mj pulse — whether 
I would show any anxiety or timidity among them. 



394 



EXORBITANT DEMANDS. 



being a perfect stranger. The larger canoe carried 
in all forty-seven persons, and the smaller thirty-fivej 
and we three were the only strangers among them. 
They speak Igara, Ibo, and Igbira; and there were 
some Hausa, Nufi, and Yoruba slaves among them. 
On their hauling-to on the sand-bank, Alikerr, one of 
the headmen, who spoke Hausa, was called to tell 
me that they wanted some clothes in addition to the 
five muskets I had paid them. I told them it was 
unreasonable, and contrary to any rule of transacting 
business, to make such a demand. They said that if 
I would not promise to give it them, they would land 
me on the sand-beach and go away. I told them 
they were quite at liberty to do as they chose, but as 
to giving cloth or any thing else in addition to what 
had been paid, they should not receive it. Seeing 
my composure and firmness, they gave up for the 
present. 

About sunset, we halted for the night on a larcre 
sand-bank, between Asaba and Onitsha. The Asaba 
people are hostile to some of the Abo and Igai'a 
traders : for this reason great watchfulness is necessary 
in passing tlirough their districts. About 10 o'clock 
P.M., Alikerr was called upon again, to make another 
attempt to get a promise of some cloth from me — 
true, not now in the tone of threatening, but in that 
of begging. They said the muskets would be de- 
livered to their master, and they themselves would 
have nothing. I told them I was ignorant of the 
master of the canoe, as well as of the aiTangement 
between him and them ; but I was satisfied that I 
had paid for my passage over and above what any of 



NATIVE CREWS. 



395 



them, under any circumstances, would or could have 
paid. After failing in this also, they gave up further 
attempts. Towards morning a canoe was perceived 
coming towards us down the river, and alarm was 
given. Every man stood to his arms, loaded muskets, 
bows bent, and arrows ready on the string. When 
the canoe was within hail, they hailed it with the 
guns ready pointed: if no answer was forthwith 
coming, to fire at it. The voice from the suspected 
canoe proved to be that of an Igara friend, proceeding 
to Abo, taking advantage of the current and moon- 
light night to keep in the midst of the stream, and so 
avoid the hostile Asaba : thus the fear passed off in glee 
and laughter. 

December \Qth — As soon as the day broke we moved, 
as they had to keep close to shore, to avoid the 
strong current, and take advantage of the back-tide. 
The headmen had their muskets ready in their hand, 
with their bows bent and arrows pointed on them, 
pointing to the bushes as the canoe passed along, and 
pretended to shoot, as if they had espied an enemy 
hiding in the bush: at the same time the paddles 
were worked with all their power, till they had got out 
of the suspected ground. Thus, with the exception 
of half an hour's respite to collect firewood in the 
bush, the hands of the paddles were constantly in 
motion, from six in the morning to six in the evening. 
The paddlers were from men of five-and-twenty to 
little boys of only ten years of age. No regular time 
was allowed for taking meals : a piece of yam, a bit 
of com, or any eatables they had by them from the 
morning, are taken in small bits as they paddle on. 
Twice or thrice during the passage I perceived that 



396 



ARRIVAL AT ADAMUGU. 



yams were pounded for them. A man passed along 
with morsels of this preparation, moistened with some 
rotten fish- sauce, which he put into the hand of each 
boy, who swallowed it at two or three bites. Thus 
they worked at the paddles from morning till late in 
the evening, when they got into a halting-place. 
When the bodies of the paddlers became heated at 
mid-day, each boy splashed water on the head and 
back of his companion, to keep him cool ; and when 
they were weary, and the canoe got on slowly, the 
stroke-oar was admonished by a hit from a paddle, 
which he also repeated to his fellow, one after the 
other, to the first boy in the bow. During the day 
some suspicious characters were seen on the beach on 
the right side of the river, spread over an extensive 
sand-beach, and were pointed out to me as enemies. 
I examined them with my glass, and told the crew 
that as the Oibos never troubled others, we should 
not be molested by any. That side of the river, from 
Asaba to nearly opposite Adamugu, was always 
avoided by trading canoes from Abo and Igara. In 
the evening we halted on an extensive sand-bank 
before Adamugu. The headmen of our canoe became 
more and more polite, and assisted in getting firewood 
to prepare our meals; and when their meals were 
ready, invited us to partake with them. 

December 11 — We did not move from tliis place 
till about half-past eleven A.M. There was a little 
trading business going on here: this was the true 
Adamugu, for which, by mistake, we had taken the 
village Ila, a little above. Starting from this place, 
the boys pulled hard, having rested nearly half of the 
day, but paddled till late in the evening, when we 



IDDA. 



397 



halted on a sand-bank ; and on Sunday, the 12th, 
moved on to the village Eja, where again a little trade 
was made till noon. Here we met the canoe of Aje's 
brother, which had brought the cooper, with packages 
fi'om Abo to Onitsha, on Monday : he was not ready 
to go on, so we left him behind. Had we come with 
this canoe, we should have been delayed here at least 
four days, waiting till he had finished his trading 
business. Had it been in my power I would have 
stopped the canoes and given the boys rest from their 
hard labour, but it was not so. My own position in 
the canoe was any thing but comfortable, and being 
deprived of a Sabbath's rest, I felt doubly so ; but there 
was no help for it. We started about noon, and 
halted on a sand-beach for the night. 

December 13 — Started early, and arrived at Idda 
about 5 P.M. Here we were particularly cautioned to 
take care of our things, because Idda swarmed with 
thieves : they themselves would not attempt to land 
their things when it began to grow dark ; so they left 
them in the canoes, and set a watch over them. Early 
the next morning the things were landed, and I was 
requested by Gbaje, the captain of our canoe, to see 
Olumene, their master, to whom they had spoken of 
me ; adding, that when I had seen him he would pro- 
vide me a lodging, and send me to the Confluence in 
his small canoe when I was ready to go. Considering 
the changed conduct of these men, after theu' failure 
to take advantage of me, and having an opportunity 
of spending a few days at Idda, I gave up my idea of 
encamping on the beach till I got a canoe for the 
Confluence ; so I got our packages, with the assistance 



398 



VISIT TO 0LU3IENE. 



of their men, to the house of Olutnene, where we were 
found a lodging. Here also we met unfaithful Ewon- 
ruzo, with his canoe yet deeply laden. His men saw 
uSj and came to salute us : he himself shunned me 
as much as possible ; but I did not concern myself 
about him, leaving him to be judged by his own con- 
science. All the paddlers in the canoes, whether free 
men or slaves, are allowed to have a certain quantity 
of things for themselves, with which they make a 
little trade for their own advantage, and consequently 
they feed themselves in part during the trading 
voyage. No sooner did the canoe come to a market- 
place, than almost every little boy had his bag of 
kola-nuts, beads, &c. ready, which he either bartered 
for other things, or sold for cowries, of which they 
are not a little proud. Among these hard-working 
paddlers, there were three children of Olumene him- 
self, who never remitted working the whole way ; and 
there was a young woman in the other canoe, whose 
perseverance at the arduous task of baling water out 
of the leaky canoe attracted my attention ; and when 
I made inquiiy as to who she was, I was told she 
was a daughter of Ama Abokko at Gbegbe, and a 
wife of Olumene's brother, who was in the canoe as 
the master. This fact led me to change my opinion of 
the severity of working the slaves in these canoes, 
as the children of the chiefs and owners of canoes 
are not excepted on the occasion. 

Having seen Olumene, he told me that when his 
men had rested for a day or two, he would send them 
to take me to Gbegbe. This was agreeable to my 
own wishes, because I wanted to spend a few days 



olumene's covetousness. 



399 



at Idda to know a little more of the place, and to 
make acquaintances. Olumene paid me several visits, 
which I also returned ; he made me a present of ten 
yams, and twice sent me cooked meals from his own 
house, in retvirn for which I presented him with half 
a pair of St. Jago cloth and 100 needles, the latter 
he particularly asked for; but Olumene, seeing my 
boxes and the bags containing wearing apparel, salt, 
and sundry small articles for our use during the 
passage, supposed I must have been possessed of im- 
mense wealth, and particularly coral beads, which 
they had seen carried about in like boxes by the 
old explorers of this river (but of which I had not a 
grain), refused the half pair of St. Jago cloth, Avhich 
cost me 7s. 6c?. in the factory at Onitsha. Without 
saying much, I took the cloth and put it by. His 
head slave advised me to put something more valuable 
to it, or give him something else which would please 
his master better. I knew that all I said would 
be conveyed to Oliunene ; and in order to convince 
them of their mistaken idea of my riches, I opened 
my tin box, containing books and papers, and showed 
him what they ignorantly supposed were coral beads 
and rich cloths. I then told Gbaje, the head slave, that 
if my presents were not worthy of his master's ac- 
ceptance, neither were his ten yams worthy of mine ; 
I was in need of none, having a large stock yet 
with me which I brought from Onitsha, with a supply 
of rice. This beat him down, so he went out, no doubt, 
to communicate with his master. Some of the people 
paid me a visit in the evening, so I introduced the 
subject of the present. I opened the piece of cloth 



400 



SITE FOR MISSION-HOUSE AT IDDA. 



by lamp-light, which showed its rich blue and red 
colours to advantage. I asked whether any one would 
refuse such a present at Idda, to which they answered 
in the negative ; but I said that my landlord had re- 
fused it, as not sufficient in exchange for ten yams, and 
that to-morrow I would convey my luggage back to the 
beach, and wait there for an opportunity to proceed to 
the Confluence; that I owed him nothing, having 
paid my passage expenses from Onitsha to this place, 
and would not have come to his house had not his 
men urged it. This had the desired effect; Gbaje 
soon again made his appearance, and after a few lame 
excuses, said his master did not refuse the cloth, but 
thought that if I had given it into his hand when he 
visited me, it would have pleased him very much. I 
told liim that I treated him as a gentleman by sending 
my own men to him, and that it was not our practice 
to make gentlemen carry the presents given them. 
However, to make the matter up, I added a small 
looking-glass to it, and the present was at last received 
with thanks. 

In the mean time I made short visits about the 
town to see some persons of consequence, who also 
returned the visits with presents of yams and fowls. 
Our old friend, Ghemodina was very imwell when 
I saw him. However, he was very glad to see 
me, and presented me with fine yams sent by his 
boy, which I returned with a present of two tin pans. 
Having made several visits about a part of the town, 
and inspected the outskirts of the old fortification 
walls, to know more of the dryness and salubrity of 
Idda, in which I was not disappointed, I began to feel 



MORE BEGGING. 



401 



anxious to move towards the Confluence. Thursday 
and Friday had been spent in coming to a bargain about 
the canoe to take me to the Confluence. Not to repeat 
all the annoyances and vexations, it was at last settled 
for four pieces of cloth, which cost me 11. 13s. in 
the factory at Onitsha. Olumene could not refrain 
from begging me to give him any thing that came 
into his head to ask, although it is affirmed that he 
owns upwards of 200 slaves and a large property. He 
is a very coi*pulent person, who would weigh, I 
should think, twenty stone of fourteen lbs. I told him 
it was a disgrace in white men's country for a gentle- 
man to beg; he said it may be so there, but he did 
not know any person in this country who would be 
ashamed to beg of an Oibo, who is considered by 
everybody superior in every thing. I told him that 
I was but a traveller, and had no more than to defray 
my travelling expenses. He said he kncAv that, but 
any little thing I could give him would be peculiarly 
regarded. Before leaving, Olumene begged for some 
charms from me which should make people fear and 
respect him, as well make him strong. I told him 
that I never made such things, but trusted in God, to 
whom I made known all my wants and necessities ; 
that I prayed to God morning and evening to preserve 
me from all evils, and that charm-making was of no use ; 
but I did not think he was satisfied with my advice. 
I gave him a small piece of Windsor soap and the 
remainder of the Eau de Cologne which I got from 
Lieutenant Glover, and which he seemed to prize as 
medicine. The last difficulty I had to contend with here 
was witli his slaves who were to take the canoe to the 



402 



FIRM REFUSAL. 



Confluence. On Friday night about bed- time, Gbaje 
said that the boys who were to take us up requested 
something to eat ; as that was but a trifling thing, I 
promised that they should not be in want. When 
Olumene came on Saturday morning, the same thing 
was repeated, and I made the same promise. But he 
said that I should give them at once what I had to 
give. So to make a short work of the business, I 
ordered 400 cowries to be counted for their pro^-isions, 
though it was not my place to supply them, having 
paid their master. But Gbaje had the audacity to say 
the cowries were not enough, and that they wanted 
cloth instead of cowries. I was quite indignant at this, 
and determined not to add a single cowry to them ; 
and as to cloth, they should not receive a rag from me. 

I commenced taking my things out, to show that 
if Olumene did not choose to take me in liis canoe, I 
would go down to the beach and hire another. This 
determination altered their tone and conduct, and in 
about half an hour my things were down to the 
beach. After much discussion between themselves, a 
small broken canoe was brought to be paddled by 
seven boys ; they themselves loaded it with a larger 
cargo of their own merchandize than all I had put 
together. After a long time dodging about, we at 
last got away from Idda about noon, for which I was 
not sorry. The boys asked me for something to eat 
in the canoe. I told them I had already given them 
400 cowries ; but it appeared that Gbaje never gave 
them : he kept them for himself. The conduct of 
these boys was any thing but satisfactory, having no 
proper headman, all being equals, every one was 



VEXATIOUS DELAYS. 



403 



master, they paddled or poled lazily. There were 
plenty of quan-els ; some times they wanted to fight 
the headman, who was a lazy sleepy Bunu. In this 
way we went on till the second night, when we 
managed to get to the village Igbo (Ogbo) opposite 
Beaufort Island, where we passed the night in the 
canoe, in which it was necessaiy for us to keep, as I 
was informed the place was full of thieves. 

January 18 — On Monday morning, instead of start- 
ing for the Confluence as I had imagined, we were 
detained the whole day, because the head boy of 
the canoe said that his master had instructed him 
to sell some salt at this place, and purchase yams, 
which they should have to take to Idda on their 
return. A few hours more would have landed 
me at Gbegbe, but they would not move; salt 
bags were piled on shore, waiting for purchasers, 
while the canoe boys, with some idlers from the vil- 
lage, spent the whole day and a great part of the 
night, being moonlight, in gambling. I could do 
nothing but yield to circumstances, although I was 
not a little annoyed by this unexpected delay, almost 
within sight of IVIount Patte. 

January 19 — In short, we could not get away 
till the morning of Tuesday, about nine a.m., and 
that not without much quarrel. At last, about 
five P.M., I was glad to be landed at Gbegbe; thus 
terminated the first part of my canoe passage from 
Onitsha to Gbegbe. I had made up my mind to 
spend one month at the Confluence, helping the Chris- 
tian visitors in the works of the station, if the " Rain- 
bow" was not returning up the river, and then to leave 
for Rabba. I took the precaution to begin making 



404 



VOYAGE CONTINUED. 



inquiry for passage in any canoe for Egan (Egga) a 
week earlier, which was mentioned to Ama Abokko, 
and he promised to see to it ; however I did not rely 
on his promise, he is too procrastinating. A few days 
after I went to remind him of his promise. He said 
his boys were afraid to take canoe to Egan alone ; 
but the fact was, he had quarrels with some people 
in that part of the river, who would gladly seize any 
canoe or people belonging to him, I was told no 
canoe would go direct to Egan from Gbegbe, but to 
Muye I might get a passage. Upon inquiry, the 
Muye canoes were deeply laden with salt, so they had 
no room for us. It was then proposed that if I liked 
a small canoe might be made ready to take me as far as 
Muye, from which place I might get a passage to 
Egan. This proposal suited me best ; and after the 
unpleasant task of bargaining, beginning from fifteen 
pieces of cloth, through the assistance of Messrs. 
Watts and INIacaulay at the factory, it was at last 
concluded with five pieces, wliich at 15s. each, equal 
to 3/. 15*. at the factory. 

January 21 — The canoe being manned with nine 
persons, and filled with their own trading articles, we 
left Gbegbe for Muye, which was ordered to be 
reached by their master, Ishinakodzi, in two days, 
and the canoe to return the third day. As soon as 
we were out of sight, these slave canoe boys began a 
great quarrel among themselves, which nearly termi- 
nated in blows, there being no one to control them. At 
last they were quiet, and moved slowly on, and had 
not gone one-thii'd of the way when night came, and we 
put to in a fishing village at the foot of a hill. 

January 22 — Started early next morning, and halted 



ARRIVAL AT MUTE. 



405 



at a village called Ido Ahanna, where the headman of 
the canoe told me they were ordered to demand cowries 
of a man who had bought a slave from their master. 
The man not being found in the village, was looked 
for in the next. The time taken in going and re- 
turning and talking about the debt, consumed tlie re- 
maining half part of the day, and then I was told we 
must stop here for the night. 

January 23 — Early in the morning we started 
and got to I dene about noon. After landing things 
here in the new settlement on the beach (the 
old town was deserted, for fear of the army of Dasaba, 
which was moving in that direction), we arrived at 
Muye about four p.m. 

I had an introduction to the son of a Nufi woman 
here from the Confluence, to whose house I was led, 
but unfortunately the man, Sado Dzuru, was absent 
from home, having just gone to Egan in one of the 
trading canoes. This would have been a fine oppor- 
tunity for me, but I missed it, and there was no help. 
I was next introduced to Anshe, a Kakanda, a man of 
some property, to whom our little canoe was con- 
signed. He was unwell, suffering from headtxche, 
lying on a mat under the shed in front of his house, 
his head supported by a woman. He wanted me to 
get my luggage up to his house, but, from former ex- 
perience at Idda, I told him I did not mean to stay, 
and it was not worth while to take things up and 
down, but that I was going to the water-side to get a 
canoe to take me to Egan, or else hire a lodging near 
the water-side. He then proposed, if agreeable to 
me, to send his small canoe to take me to'Bidan, where 

T 



406 



UNTRUSTWORTHY CRE-\V. 



I was sure to get passage to Egan in a much shorter 
time. As that would be a step in advance, I agreed 
to the plan, as it would also give me an opportunity of 
visiting Bidan (Budu, of Trotter), which I believe has 
never been visited since 1841. The bargain was here 
in cowries, and easier for me ; it was concluded at 
eight heads, or 16,000 cowries, which I had counted 
out and paid, at the same time I had 1000 counted 
out to give to the canoe-boys who brought us 
from Gbegbe, though their conduct deserved no re- 
ward, but they refused this sum with scorn, as not 
sufficient, so I put the cowries back into my bag, and 
said nothing more. These unprincipled persons, who 
had been seeking every opportunity, by various con- 
trivances, to rob our things in the canoe at night, but 
had no chance, through my vigilance, determined to 
do mischief as they were going away empty handed. 
Our things being still in their canoe, with Mr. Smith 
watching them, three or four of them got into it and 
threatened to take it back to Gbegbe, as I had refused 
to reward them sufficiently, thinking, by so doing, to 
frighten me to comply with any demands they might 
choose to make ; but seeing that I did not heed that 
tlireat, they were called back by their companions, 
and then returned, demanding cowries, as they got 
nothing for pulling us up to this place. I told them 
it was not my fault that they got nothing, their mas- 
ter ought to have paid them for their services. This 
would not do for them, but they would take the canoe 
back, and, being half drunk with guinea- corn beer 
they would listen to nothing, but pulled away again 
into the midst of the stream, evidently seeking for 



FREE AND SLAVE-LABOUR. 



407 



room to steal something out of our luggage when at a 
distance, hut Mr. Smith heing in the canoe they had 
no opportunity. Every time they returned with the 
canoe they increased the confusion, till it was getting 
dark, when I perceived that they would take the op- 
portunity of the dark evening to do mischief. As I 
could not control them, and to apply to the authority 
of the place would only cause much trouble, delay, 
and expense, at the request and entreaty of a Moham- 
medan Mallam, I gave them 2000 cowries, which, at 
last, quieted them ; but during the bustle they ma- 
nao-ed to steal Mr. Smith's great coat and a few small 
things ; however, as the coat w^as no use them, 200 
cowries effected its restoration. 

January 24 — After all this, our things were put into 
Anshe's canoe, ready to take us to Bidan, and eai'ly on 
the morning we started for Bidan, poled by five men. 
The canoe was headed by Anshe's brother, and they all 
poled and paddled most cheerfully. I could not help re- 
marking the difference between free and slave-labour : 
the slave canoe-boys fr^m Idda and Gbegbe worked, 
as it were, because they must do it, but these men 
from Muye did it with the feeling that they were 
paid, and ought to perform their engagement, and 
that cheerfully. We halted a little above Gori for 
breakfast, and about three p.m. we were off Bidan, 
No time was lost in communicating with Saidu Aiwon. 
othewise called Nakodzi, the present chief of this 
place, and he soon walked over with us to Ndamariki, 
a Nufi by birth, but placed here as consul by Da- 
saba, to see after the interest of the Felani. Hearing 
that I was going to Rabba, he said that if I did him 

T 2 



408 



THIEVES. 



good he would soon get me to Egan. As I was getting 
among the influence of the Felani kings, it was right 
that I should take advantage of it, so I gave liim ten 
Bandanna handkerchiefs, which pleased him, and he 
ordered the old chief, Nakodzi, to find me a passage 
to Egan. Having paid Nakodzi 8000 cowries and 10 
yards maddapollam, with the present to Ndamariki 
making in all 27|, a canoe was got ready to take us 
on the next morning. The chief, Nakodzi, asked me 
to remove my luggage up into a lodging, but I de- 
clined doing so, prefei-ring their being shifted into the 
canoe, and so losing no time in stai'ting early in the 
morning ; he said there were plenty of thieves about 
In the evening, with his assistance, our things were 
shifted into a Bidan canoe for Egan. Three nights pre- 
vious I had spent watching. Through the loss of three 
previous nights' sleep, and exposure to excessive heat of 
the sun the whole time (for we had no awning, and could 
not contrive one, having to shift so many times from one 
canoe to another), I was overcome with sleep rather 
early ; Henry, wishing to make himself comfortable 
for the night, got into a large and spacious canoe close 
by, and settled his mat there ; the soimd sleep of Mr. 
Smith, confirmed by his loud snoring, was a sufficient 
notice to those who had been watching us to take the 
opportunity of our weariness to rob us. INIr. Smith's 
bag was removed from the side of mine, and Henry's, 
which was lashed to the tot of the canoe, was also 
taken away ; the bag of each contained all he had, 
both wearing-apparel and sundry articles. I awoke 
about three a.m., and looked about me, for I was 
lying upon my boxes and bags ; I missed those of Mr. 



APPROACH TO BIDAN. 



409 



Smith and Henry, they were stolen. I roused them 
up, but no one could tell what had become of them. 

January 25 — About four A.M. the chief, Nakodzi, 
was down the water-side to see his men start with us 
to Egan ; I told him of what had taken place ; he ex- 
pressed regret, but he and the canoe-men, who had 
brought us from Muye, were very strongly suspected, 
judging from the late time of the night the chief was 
seen near the water-side with some boys, as if to see 
after our security ; but we may be wrong, and should 
not suspect any one wrongfully. Having told the chief 
of our losses, that he might not be ignorant of them, we 
started, and got into the main river by break of day. 
When we stopped for breakfast, we discovered that 
the three table-knives and a tin pan had been picked 
out of our provision-bag also ; this confirms the sus- 
picion that our canoe-men had a hand in the robbery. 

Of all the places in the river, Bidan seems to be 
most badly situated of any as regards access from 
the main river. A wide creek from the main 
river leads towards it, from which a long narrow 
grassy bar branches off, running in front of the town, 
very difficult of access ; and before the town is an 
extensive swamp, covering miles of space impassable 
for boats or canoes ; thus the town is shut out from 
the main river. The town itself is divided into five 
or six groups of huts, separated by creeks running 
between them ; behind, as well as before, is swampy, 
and is difficult of access by land during the rainy sea- 
son. The people between Bidan and Egan are called 
Sitakotsi, a tribe of Nufi, who it appears are unwil- 
ling to pay tax to the Felani kings ; on their hearing 



410 



ARRIVAL AT EGAN. 



that Masaba had marched out from Bidan towards 
Gbari, they all deserted theirtowns, lest he should come 
suddenly upon them ; this part of the river, from 
Bidan to Egan, was the most deserted of any, only a 
few solitary canoes were seen from Egan to Bidan, or 
Muye. At Gbatsinku we began to find some of Ma- 
saba's troops loitering about at the water's edge. 
Having purchased some eatables at the village of 
Lefiama, on an island, we put to for the night on a 
sand-bank opposite Mount Elphinstone Fleeming. 
This is one of the places abounding with hippopotami ; 
they commenced landing close by to feed immediately 
after sunset: then, grunting and bellowing may be 
heard till about two o'clock in the morning, when 
they seem to return to the river to sleep, and there 
was perfect stillness. 

Jamiary 26 — Started early the next morning. 
We arrived at Egan about three p.m., and went 
to Rogan, to whom my canoe-boys were directed to 
take me. Rogan came out to hear the message, and 
requested me to wait for him at the entrance-hall, 
which I did. On heai'ing that I was sent by the 
Consul at Bidan to be helped on to Rabba as the 
king's stranger, he doubted the correctness of the 
message, because, though Nakodzi's boys pulled us to 
Egan, yet he did not see the messenger of Ndamariki, 
the Consul, with them ; he would not see or speak 
with me until he had called the six councillors 
of Egan, to consult with them on the subject, for he 
was greatly afraid to commit himself with the king, 
which might cost him dearly, if not the loss of his 
office. In the meantime an intelligent young man, a 



eogan's fears. 



411 



soldier, came to salute me at the water-side ; on my 
telling him the correct statement of the matter, he 
assured me there was no unwillingness on the part of 
the chief, but fear ; but that all cause of fear would 
soon be removed from their minds. When all the 
chiefs were present, old grievances were related as fol- 
lows — That when the " Sunbeam " touched at this 
place, and a gentleman (Captain Fairweather) landed 
to ask for a pilot to take the ship to Rabba, he, 
Rogan, proposed to send first and inform the king of 
the ship's arrival — it would have taken about four 
or five days before the messenger returned — but the 
gentleman, without saying a word, returned to the 
ship, and ran away ; the ship returned from Rabba, 
and never stopped at Egan to salute them, or give 
them any information, but passed on : they could not 
understand this state of proceedings. Fortunately 
Captain Fairweather had told me of the circumstances 
of his calling to ask for a pilot, and so I was enabled 
to pvit the best construction on it possible. Fears 
that the steamer might be employed to take the 
Nufi country were spread abroad, and idlers and 
mischief-makers were not wanting to exaggerate the 
number of ships coming for this purpose, and the evil 
consequences impending on the country : however, 
the most sensible part believed otherwise. Having 
explained the matter, fears were removed from the 
mind of Rogan and his councillors. I made him a 
present of eight Madras handkerchiefs, which pleased 
him not a little ; so the canoe which brought us from 
Bidan was manned with two persons fi'om Egan, to 
take us to a small village, called Ikpogi, up the river. 



412 



ARRIVAL AT EGBON. 



which would procure canoe and men to take us for- 
ward early the next morning. I was thankful no time 
was lost here, and that we should be able to proceed 
up as fast as possible. 

January 27 — We arrived at Ikpogi rather late, 
on account of the canoe-man's missing the en- 
trance in the top of the island opposite the town, 
and we had to drop to the bottom before we could 
set in : here ^ve took our rest on shore in a hut. 
Four fathoms of satin-striped cloth and some needles 
were sufficient to settle all business here as presents, 
and on the nest morning two stout Nufi young men 
were appointed to take us in a very nice comfortable 
canoe to a village, where another party was to take 
us forward. We landed at Fofo for a short time, 
where we were entertained with a large pot of 
guinea-corn beer, which I returned with a few 
needles, to the chiefs and some kind friends of the 
place ; so we proceeded to Buko, on the right side of 
the river, where we changed canoe, and rewarded the 
men with 800 cowries for their labour. Our 
new canoe was not a very sound one, very old and 
leaky, but there was no danger as long as the water 
was continually bailing out. We met two headmen 
belonging to the town of Idomowo, sitting on the 
beach in the cool of the afternoon, who were saluted 
by our canoe-men, when they were told that they 
ivere taking us to Egbon, a village at the foot of Ren- 
nell Mountains, into which we could not get till late 
in the evening, both on account of the many hippo- 
potami in the river and strong cui'rent ; one of them 
offered his larger and sounder canoe, of which we ac- 



JOURNEY CONTINUED. 



413 



cepted with gratitude, and I gave him six yards of 
satin stripe for his kindness. We did not reach 
Egbon till about nine p.m. As the village was far from 
the water-side, and on a small elevation, we could not 
go in, but landed on a sandy island for the night, and 
sent away the canoe-men from Buko, with a reward 
of 800 cowries and a few needles. We had shifted 
into three canoes to-day. 

January 28 — Early before daybreak the people 
of Egbon took us to Toi, where we chancred 
canoe again, in which the people of Toi took us to 
Muregi, at the juncture of the Kowara and the Lafun, 
which has become a small stream, as the water has 
greatly fallen, the body of water being confined to a 
smaller compass. The men from Egbon were re- 
warded with 400 cowries, and those from Toi with 
600, according to the distance they had taken us. 

At Muregi we were comfortably lodged in a hut 
near the water-side. As we were now getting among 
friends and nearer to Rabba, I had no more appre- 
hension of detention, or of being doubly dealt with. 

January 29 — We woke much refreshed and ready 
to start on our journey ; but we had to wait for the 
canoe to take us to Ila, only a short distance from 
Muregi ; this was not convenient, as we should have 
to shift again so soon, but I could not alter their plan 
and mode of conveying king's passengers. The people 
of Ila getting no canoe ready, arranged to take us in 
the Muregi canoe to the nest village, Gawogi. The 
men from Muregi and Ila were rewarded with 400 
cowries. At Gawogi we had a large canoe, which 
took us to Danko, but the men were not present at 

T 3 



414 



NO SABBATH IN HEATHENDOM. 



home except tte chief, so they were requested to take 
us to Esun Lati, from which place the canoe men 
were to return, and were rewarded with 400 cowries. 
At Esun Lati we changed canoe, which took us to 
Dakani, where we passed the night in the canoe. The 
canoe-men were rewarded with 600 cowries. 

January 30 : Lord\-day — The same canoe which 
hrouglit us here was arranged to take us to Tsua 
early this morning ; as it was but a short distance, I 
was glad to rest there with the old kuta, the head 
master of the river. We started as soon as it was 
daylight, and landed at the first village, one of the 
groups properly called Tsua ; hei'e they refused to re- 
ceive us, on the ground that when they had crossed 
Mr. May last year without orders from their head 
chief on the island, they were fined 6000 cowries, to 
teach them a lesson for the future, for in that way, 
they were told, they would facilitate access of enemies 
into their country at their great peril ; so the canoe- 
men had to take us to Gedegedegi, the island on which 
Kuta himself resides. I landed and went to salute 
him. I asked whether he did not remember my 
telling him that if the ship should not be able to re- 
turn, I would retui'n in a canoe, and that I would 
tell the people I was going to him, which he re- 
membered perfectly well. I told him I should hke to 
rest here to-day, and to-morrow proceed on my jour- 
ney, but he objected to ray stay, because the same 
canoe which brovight us to him must proceed with us 
at once to the proper stage, the village Tsewuru, 
where we should get another canoe to-morrow morn- 
ing. As regards my wanting to rest, he said I did 



HALT AT KETSa. 



415 



nothing, but sat quietly in the canoe. As I could 
not change their regulations, I was obliged to follow 
as they had planned it. I presented Kuta with a 
brass pan and ten yards of niaddapallam. The chief 
gave strict orders that care should be taken of us, so 
he named the stages by which we should be conveyed 
to Rabba. We arrived at Tsewuru before sunset, and 
were comfortably lodged in a hut near the waterside : 
the canoe men were rewarded with 800 cowries, 

January 31 — Started from Tsewuru about half- 
past six in the morning in a rather narrow canoe, 
which at first appeared very dry, but the water con- 
tinued imperceptibly to ooze in, which wetted our 
things, and my blanket and mat ; however, we could 
not remedy it unless we were to stop and shift every 
thing, a task which had become rather loathsome to me. 
We halted at Ketso, the island on which Shoyede, the 
second master of the river, resides. I could not see 
him, as it was said he caught cold, so he could not 
come out. He had a grudge against the expedition. 
It was reported that he got a large quantity of wood, 
as well as stock and other things, ready for presents 
to the " Sunbeam," but the ship would not stop nor 
notice him, so he felt hurt ; but as this was merely 
related to me, and I could not see himself, I did not 
enter into any explanation ; but to keep up friendship 
with him, I sent him the like presents as I gave to 
Kuta, because they are nearly alike in rank, a 
brass pan and ten yards of maddapallam. In return 
he sent me a large pot of guinea-corn beer and about 
1000 cowries, and gave strict orders to the canoe- 
men to take care of us. The canoe brought us to 



416 



TO FUMOTSHE. 



Kpasia, where we changed into another, w'hich took 
us to Ikpegi the same evening, where we took a 
lodging in a hut. The chief of Kpasia was a drunkard ; 
he was scarcely ever sober as long as a pot of beer 
was to be had. He caused us much delay to get 
away from this place. A pilot was refused to the 
" Sunbeam" here also, on her way down the river, in 
consequence of which she had much difficulty to clear 
away from the intricate passage in front of these 
groups of villages. I rewarded the canoe-men from 
Tsewuru with 600, and those from Kpasia with 400 
cowries. 

February 1 — Left Ikpejl early and arrived at 
Kpafin Afun, only a short distance from each other. 
Unfortunately we found the chief just dead, and there 
was much lamentation and disorder of things, in con- 
sequence, in the village. Very little attention could 
be paid to us, but we were told to wait a little and we 
should be taken on. After waiting more than three 
hours it was at last arranged that Ikpeji's canoe, with 
one of the boys, and another from Kpafin Afun, 
should take us to Fumotshe, the next village on the 
other side of the island, and the people of Fumotshe 
were to take us on to Tada ; but some doubted whe- 
ther Fumotshe would consent, because they refused 
receiving such passengers from them on former occa- 
sions ; but others thought, from their present circum- 
stances, and, perhaps, with a desire to get rid of us, 
said, they would not object to it ; and that when we 
got to Fumotshe we should at once land our luggage 
and wait on them, so the canoe started with us. 
When we came to the top of tlie island we had to 



ARRIVAL AT TADA. 



417 



descend nearly half as much as we had come up 
before getting to Futraotshe, and, true enough, they 
refused to receive us, as we had come to them from 
a wrong direction, and not by their line. I would 
not land our things unless received by somebody, or 
we had shifted into another canoe. As there was 
no alternative, the boys had to take us back to- Kpafin 
Afun, thus, going and returning, we made six miles 
for nothing. In the meantime the people of Fumotshe^ 
who were going to sympathize with their neighbours on 
account of the death of their chief, arrived there before 
us, when the matter was fully discussed between the 
two villagers, and was finally decided that each vil- 
lage should provide a strong man to take us right on 
to Tada, according to the regulation of Kuta. I dis- 
missed Ikpegi's canoe-boys with 200 cowries. Leav- 
ing Kpafin Afun about three p.m. we arrived at Tada 
late in the evening, about nine p.m., amidst the 
grunting and bellowing of hippopotami, some of 
which followed our canoe a considerable distance. 
At Tada we were comfortably lodged in a capacious 
hut. I rewarded the canoe-men with 800 cowries for 
their exertions. The second chief of Tada, who gave 
us his large hut to lodge in, was particidarly polite ; 
he attended to all our wants, though at a late hour in 
the evening. He began to hear remarks made about 
the inhabitants of Tsidzi, where Abbega's things were 
stolen in October last, yet we could not understand 
perfectly the reason of the remarks, with jokes and 
laughter. All the way the people had been shy in 
touching any thing belonging to us, unless particu- 
larly i-eci,uested to help to convey them. 



418 



ARRIVAL AT RABBA. 



Fehruary 2 — On the morning a canoe was prepared 
for us, and just for a little fun the chief asked whe- 
ther we should not like to be taken to Tsidzi. On my 
answering in the negative, they burst out into a fit of 
laughter, and said, The people of Tsidzi are not good, 
they are thieves, we shall not take you there, but 
straight on to Rabba ; for which I thanked them. I 
distributed twelve yards of satin stripe between the 
three chiefs, with a few needles, for which they were 
very thankful. Three strong lads were put in the canoe 
to pole us direct to Rabba, and they did their work 
well. About four p.m. we arrived at Rabba, and met 
the men we left there well and comfortable ; and I 
was not a little thankful to get once more, after thir- 
teen days' constant moving and shifting, and exposure 
to the powerful rays of the sun and fatigue of sitting 
in uncomfortable canoes, to be once more in the Mis- 
sion huts at Rabba, where I could enjoy rest for a 
while without anxiety from unknown strangers. I 
rewarded the canoe-boys with 1000 cowries and sent 
them away. 

The foregoing pages give a connected view of my 
passage up from Onitsha to Rabba in native canoes in 
nineteen actual working days and in eighteen canoes, 
and will show the disposition of the different inhabitants 
on the banks of the Niger, the difficulties and many in- 
conveniences connected with depending upon native 
hired canoes ; but, at the same time, showing the 
practicability of communicating between Rabba and 
Abo, if proper conveyance be had, viz. one's own 
canoe and men, so that one can fit it up as he pleases, 
move and stay as suits him best ; his luggage being 



REQUISITES FOR NAVIGATING THE NIGER. 419 

once stored, needs no more sliifting, to be gazed at and 
remarked upon by every idler and thief who watches 
every opportunity to steal. Above all, the exposure 
and risk of health will be very much avoided, which 
cannot be too much attended to in this country. The 
expense will not be very much against this arrange- 
ment, as will be seen by what it cost me from Onit- 
sha to Rabba, which if I had had to pay all the way, 
according to the rate at Onitsha, Idda, Confluence, 
Muye, and Bidan, would nearly double the present 
sum. If Mr. Laird determines to have a factory at 
Rabba, arrangements for such communication will be 
indispensable, especially as^ regards the mail, when no 
steamer can come up. Had not I come with the mail 
from Onitsha and the Confluence, he would not have 
heard of the state of his factories till the end of the 
year nearly. If this land road is to be kept open, 
and the river to be made use of by means of boats or 
canoes, it must be kept up in a proper manner, not 
depending upon the will of the natives, exposing the 
passenger to be always taken advantage of and insulted, 
when they see that we cannot do without the aid of 
their rotten leaky canoes. Mr^ Watts, who had char- 
tered a canoe from the Confluence to take him to Onit- 
sha and Abo, in order to replenish his store, has ex- 
perienced the same thing ; he has written to Mr. Laird, 
so I need not enter into the account of his trip to Onit- 
sha ; the master of the canoe refused to proceed to Abo 
with him according to agreement, and flatly asserted that 
the agreement was not to Abo, but to Onitsha only. 
Was it not mortifying that three splendid boats should 
be lying at Onitsha housed up, and no men to work 



420 



DEATH OF SUMO ZAKI. 



them ? What advantage it would have been to Mr. 
Laird's factories to be able to keep them in motion 
during the absence of the steamer ! But I hope next 
year will produce better results as regards the supply 
of men, casks, and goods for the factories. 

On my arrival at Rabba the first news that I 
heard was of the death of king Sumo Zaki, which 
took place, according to all accounts, about the 
24th of January ; this occurrence put me at a stand 
as to the best step to take. My arrangements were, 
after reaching Rabba, to pay a visit to the kings at 
Bida, explain to them the reason the ship could not 
return, as they were promised she would do before the 
river became low, and thank them for the care they 
had taken of our people during our absence, but 
especially for the trouble they had taken in finding 
out the persons who had robbed Abbega's things, and 
for punisliing the offenders, as well to assure them of 
the ship's return, of which many of them very much 
doubted, and then to return to Abbeokuta. Dasaba, 
who is now king of Nufi, was absent from Bida, at 
war with the Gbari, with all the great men of Bida 
vnth him. 

February 3 — Went to the master of the ferry, 
on the island, to ask his advice, who said, I 
should wait till Dasaba has returned from war : old 
Ndeshi advised the same thing. As I did not meet 
Dr. Baikie here, and it is likely he might not be 
able to come up till the rise of the water, it is ne- 
cessary for me to visit Abbeokuta, and arrange busi- 
ness before the rains, but not to be able to communi- 
cate with Dasaba, either personally or by messenger. 



THE LATE KING. 



421 



before leaving, was in my opinion not right. We 
had been moving up and down the country without 
seeing them more than once, and their suspicion as 
regards our motives is not altogether removed. When 
Abbega was at Bida in November, after the ship had 
gone down tlie river, he was told by Dasaba that he 
did not believe the ship would return : Abbega as- 
sured him to the contrary. Dasaba said they had 
not seen any trade yet, and that the English were very 
slow, if they meant wliat they said; but former 
experience made him suspicious, for so his father did 
before he became master of Nufi. Abbega tuld him 
the English would not do such a thing, but that their, 
motives were pure and good. Hamodu, Dr. Baikie's 
messenger, who was to have waited for him at Bida, 
was advist'd to return to Rabba with Abbega. With 
such impressions on the minds of those in authority, I 
considered it very imprudent for me to return to 
Abbeokuta without communicating with Dasaba, to 
express our sympathy and regret on the death of his 
brother, king Sumo Zaki. In the evening an official 
messenger came from the camp to the master of the 
ferry, to announce the death of the king, as well to 
get supplies of provisions for the camp. Here an 
opportunity offered to send a messenger with the 
king's, with suitable presents on behalf of the expedi- 
tion. It should be mentioned, to the credit of the late 
king Sumo Zaki, that he was fully persuaded in his 
own mind that the Anasara's* motives were pure and 
good, and that it was on his accouat that they had 

* Anasara — a Mohammedan term for Christian — " Nazarene." 



422 CARAVANS FROM THE INTERIOR. 



village of Sidzi ; they were taken as slaves, and had 
to be purchased by their families ; the inhabitants of 
Sidzi, who it appears were aware of the theft, but 
made no effort to produce the thieves, were heavily 
fined, from which they are now suffering. The 
report of the king's public testimony in favour of the 
Anasara, his active measures in finding out the 
thieves, and punishing them, and his official charge to 
the master of the ferry and to old Ndeshi, of Rabba, 
to take care of our people in the absence of the 
steamer, had no doubt been conveyed down the river ; 
hence the civility and kind care I had experienced in 
my passage up as soon as I got into the Nufi coun- 
try. The return of the slaves, assisted by passport 
from the Consulate at Lagos, must have also worked 
most favom-ably on his mind. Under these circum- 
stances I did not think it advisable to leave Rabba for 
Abbeokuta without a word of sympathy to king 
Dasaba at the war-camp. An arrangement having 
been made to this eff'ect, on the 18th instant, Abbega 
left with the king's messenger to the wai-camp as my 
messenger on behalf of the expedition, and on the 
18 th, to save time, I left Rabba on my way to Abbeo- 
kuta, as Abbega was not likely to return from the 
camp in less than three weeks. I have since received 
a very favourable answer from Dasaba. 

The caravans from Kano, Sokoto, Masina, and 
other interior parts of Hausa, have been passing to 
Ilorin with their laden donkeys and bullocks in great 
numbers, but no horses and swords were allowed to 
come to this country. He was severe in punishing 
the thieves who had robbed Abbega's boxes at the 



UMORU GUAMADZI. 



423 



be brought. The Sultan of Sokoto, now in fear of 
the increasing power of one Umoru Guamadzi, of 
Zaria, who, for some time past, has been encamping 
against a tribe of the Gbari, on the way between this 
and Kano, and who appears to be the sultan's half-bro- 
ther, that he might, when sufficiently strong, make an 
attack upon, and dethrone him, has forbidden horses 
and swords to be brought any more to Nufi and 
Yoruba, lest they fall into the hands of Umoru Gua- 
madzi. It was reported that a prohibition was made 
that no one from Nufi should sell provisions to the 
soldiers of Umoru ; and that an order was given that 
every one who was in favour of Guamadzi, in the 
camp of Dasaba, should forthwith leave the Nufi 
country and join him ; and if any in the camp of 
Guamadzi, in favour of Dasaba, should do likewise. 
From this state of things it was much feared that 
Guamadzi and Dasaba are likely to come in contact 
at some future period. 



( 425 ) 



APPENDIX 1. 

PASSAGE EXPENSES IN NATIVE CANOES FROM 



ONITSHA TO RABBA. 

£ s. d. 

From Onltsha to Idda, in little more than three 
days, five muskets, at I6«., paid at Onitsha ..400 

From Idda to the Confluence, made in three, instead 
of two days 1 13 0 

From Gbebe to Muye, made in three, instead of two 
days, five pieces Can toon, at 15* 3 15 0 

From Muye to Ibidan, in one day, eight head of 
cowries, at 4s. 4<f 114 8 

Prom Ibidan to Egan and Ikpogi, in two days, in 

cowries and cloth 174 

From Egan to Egbon, in cowries and cloths ... 19 0 

From Egbon to Muregi, in one day, in cloth and 

cowries 6 10 

From Muregi to Dakani, in one day, 1400 cowries, 3*. 3 0 

From Dakani to Isewura, in one day, 800 cowries, 
Is. 8c? 18 

At Gedegedegi and Ketso I presented to the two 
masters of the river, under whose orders I was 
taken up so cheaply, two brass pans, 10s. ; twenty 
yards maddapollam, 10s 10 0 

From Isewuru to Ikpegi, in one day, 1000 cowries, 
2s. 2cZ 2 2 

From Ikpegi to Tada, in one day, 1000 cowries, 2s. 2d. 2 2 

From lada to Rabba, in one day, 1000 cowries, 2s. 2c?. 2 2 

At Rabba I presented to the master of the ferry 
and his next officer, one brass pan, 6s. ; half a 
piece of St. Jago cloth, 7s. 6d. ; one glass goblet, 
Is. ; and six yards of maddapollam, 2s. dd. ... 156 

A few papers used as presents not reckoned. 



Total passage expenses from Onitsha to Rabba, in 

nineteen days 16 2 6 



APPENDIX II. 



A FEW NOTICES OF ONITSHA, ID DA, AND GBEGBE, 
AND OF THE OVERLAND ROUTE TO ABBEOKUTA. 



Ml'. Taylor's stay at Onitsha, upwards of twelve 
months, will enable liim to give minute accounts 
of the country, as well as the habits of the people; 
but it will not be amiss for me to state a few facts 
which came under my observation during a pe- 
riod of nearly seven weel^s' stay at Onitsha. The 
population of this place was greatly under-estimated 
by us in 1 857 at 6500. We had just then seen the 
front groups of huts ; but a longer stay, and frequent 
visits into the town and houses of the people, soon 
convinced us that the number might be safely doubled 
at 13,000 inhabitants. The peculiarity of their houses, 
built in, and covered by, bushes, except the front pas- 
sage out, very much conceals them. It is very diffi- 
cult to see twelve houses from one spot, unless when 
they are built particularly near, or the bushes have 
been cleared. The southern part of Onitsha, called 
Ido Odzere, nearly forms one-third of the population; 
and as regards situation is higher and seems better 
than the northern part. Ogene, the chief of this dis- 
trict, never shook hands witli anybody, from fear of 
being poisoned, and partly to keep others in fear of 
him, on account of his medicmes, for which he is 



APPENDIX II. 



427 



famous. He even would not come to the Mission 
house from fear, because he calis us the spirits of the 
dead from white man's country ; yet, on my visit to 
him in his quarter of the town, on inviting him to the 
Mission house, he came, but sat down under a ti'ee in 
the back yard, because he would not enter the house 
of the spirit. There I entertained him, and he became 
so friendly and disarmed of his fears that he offered 
his hand, and shook mine, which he was scarcely even 
seen to do with anybody. This cliief has promised a 
nice piece of ground to Mr. Taylor, should a Station 
be made in Ido Odzene. At this part of the town, as 
at the king's quarters, watchmen are kept continually 
on the top of lofty trees, to watch the approach of 
their neighbouring enemies, the inliabitants of Ogidi, 
who often come by stealth into the town by night, 
shoot any inhabitant met with in the streets, and hastily 
make their escape away into the bush. Sometimes 
they surprise them in the farms, and on the outskirts 
of the town during the day. It is a peculiar law 
among the Ibos, that when the inhabitants of one town 
are at war with another, and one part or division of 
the town will not join in the war, they can, without 
molestation, visit their relatives in the town which is 
at war with a division of his own, wdiether men or 
women, no person touching them. Strangers Hving 
in the country, as we are now at Onitsha, might visit 
Ogidi from Onitsha without apprehension, because 
strangers have no hand in their quarrels. Should 
there be an intermediate town between the two con- 
tending towns, neither the one nor the other can step 
over the intermediate one to attack his enemies, with- 



428 



APPENDIX II. 



out a due notice and permission from the intermediate 
one, unless they beat their way in a roundabout di- 
rection to effect their purpose. When they do come 
to an open fight in the plain, it is said they are fierce. 
They do not capture to make slaves, but they kill 
every one they lay hold of, and take their heads as 
trophies to their homes. To prevent their own dead 
bodies being taken away by their enemies, women fol- 
low them to their battles, and are employed in removing 
the dead and wounded out of the way, so that the men 
do not lose time in doing tliis, but continue to face 
their enemies. 

Onitsha being ruled merely by a nominal king, the 
inhabitants are very independent, I may say in a great 
measure lawless, troublesome, and quarrelsome neigh- 
bours. They have a quarrel of one kind or another 
with the surrounding towns, and hence they are shut 
up by themselves ; and although people from the in- 
terior come to them, they do not feel themselves safe 
to pass through the neighbouring towns, with wliich 
they are at variance, to visit the interior. They are 
at quarrel with Ogidi,who lately planted a cocoa-nut, 
and swore, that till the nut grew, bore fruit, and was 
eaten, their quarrel with Onitsha should not be settled. 
Onitsha has been at enmity with Abo from the time of 
Obi Ossai, who swore that, as long as there was a son 
of his living, he should be at variance with Onitsha. 
They have lately managed to pick up a quarrel with 
Nkure, Obunike, and Nsube, from the cu'cumstance 
of a man received in pawn, but unjustly detained, and 
who was lately attempted to be sold away. This was 
the same man whom Ewom'uzo, mentioned elsewhere. 



APPENDIX II. 



429 



intended to convey away, but he made his escape. 
Nor are Onitsha and Asaba on friendly terms ; so 
there is no free communication between the two 
places. Till the factory and our Mission establish- 
ment were formed here, Onitsha was entirely shut up, 
and dared not visit the water-side, except in a large 
armed body ; and at the market-days, unless nearly all 
the male inhabitants turned out armed, to guard their 
wives, no one would venture. But since the establish- 
ment of the Factory and the Mission Station, our esta- 
blishments have become neutral ground. However, 
a few days before I left Onitsha, a man of this place 
found his way to join some wretches at Asaba, and 
attacked an Abo canoe, which was returning from 
Asaba, whither Aje had sent it to purchase a bullock, 
and wounded three persons, one dying on the spot. 
The king having very little or no power, the people 
fall into all kinds of mischief, to their own inconve- 
nience, being thereby shut up from communication 
with their neighbours. 

After a long and tedious quarrel, such quarrels are 
settled with oaths, which in many instances are as 
binding as oaths of enmity. In some of these quarrels 
the king and some head chiefs of Onitsha requested 
me to interfere in settling, which I declined ; but I 
have no doubt, that if Dr. Baikie, or any person from 
Government^ authorised to open the way for trade on 
the banks of the Niger, would advise the people to do 
away with their eninity, and apply their time to trade 
and agriculture, they would readily comply with this 
advice, which a few presents would effect. 

Though the I bos in their appearance are fierce, and 
u 



430 



APPENDIX II. 



in their quarrels boisterous, yet no sooner is the storm 
pacified, than they are again in extreme quiet and 
yielding. Even in common transactions, as buying 
and selling, &c., they get so warm at a little difference 
or misunderstanding in settling the price between 
them, that I often imagined they were going to give 
blows ; but they soon settle it, and all is calm and 
friendly again. 

The law of life for life among the Ibos is very 
strong, and is more to be dreaded than any other. 
Should any person, by accident or grudge, kill any 
of another family, life must go for life — there is no 
way of escape; if the murderer or manslaughterer 
himself does not suffer for it, some one else in his 
family must; and again, if the person killed be a 
great person, and the manslaughterer be an inferior, 
this inferior person will not be accepted for the pay- 
ment of the superior ; but some person of equal Avorth 
in the family must be delivered in his stead. Should 
this not be complied with now, the injured family 
keep quiet, and a watch is kept, it may be for years, 
and at an unguarded hour, when it appeared all things 
were forgotten and past, one of the injured family 
aims a deadly shot at a person of worth, equal with 
his slaughtered relative. It was on this account the 
inhabitants of Onitsha, especially the chiefs, were 
afraid to venture out of their town, not knowing but 
some one might waylay them to avenge the death of 
some one killed by the people, either accidentally, 
maliciously, or in war. 

The Ibo mothers do not carry their children about 
on their backs, as the Yoruba and Nufi do; they 



APPENDIX II. 431 

carry them chiefly in their arms ; and in their absence 
from home, leave the young one to the charge of an 
elder sister, if grown big enough to carry the infant 
about, and give it cold water to drink when thirsty. 
The mother may be absent perhaps the whole day; 
the infant is fed with nothing but water : it cries, 
plays, and sleeps at times, till the mother returns in 
the evening, when the poor creature's hunger and 
thirst is satisfied from the breast. The little nurses of 
these infants compose one of om* girls' day schools at 
Onitsha. I often marked their watchfulness, when the 
infants can creep or stagger about on their legs: 
their eyes are parti}'' on the alphabet-board on the 
walls, and partly on their young charges, lest they 
should fall into danger. The Ibos seldom punish their 
children ; hence they have their own way, and are 
very self-willed ; yet they are very docile and imita- 
tive, and with very little trouble will soon be made 
inteUigent scholars. On my leaving Onitsha, on the 
9th of December last, I promised to send some slates 
to Mr. Romaine, the schoolmaster, from the Conflu- 
ence ; which I did by Mr. Watts. The schoolmaster 
acknowledged the receipt on the 6th of January, thus 
— " I have gladly received the dozen iron slates, and 
two dozen slate-pencils, from the bearer, Mr. Watts. 
The school-children cease from their farms a little. 
They sometimes attend me twice a-day ; and Okosi, 
a candidate for baptism, and his five boys, attend every 
night, and sometimes in the day, when there is not much 
for them to do on their farm. One, of Okosi's sons 
begins to read the Primer ; and the others, with some 
of the little girls, begin the three letters in the 

u 2 



432 



APPENDIX II. 



Primer." From all I could ^father by observation, 
the Ibos are very emulative : as in other things, so it 
will be in book-learning. Other towns will not rest 
satisfied until they have also learned the mystery of 
reading and writing, by which their neighbours may 
surpass or put them in the shade. 

It is a curious fact, that land is possessed by inheri- 
tance in the Ibo country ; and the right of alienation 
is not in the power of the king, nor in that of an indi- 
vidual member, unless by consent of all the leading 
members of the family owning the land. Although no 
sale of land is proposed, yet, before any portion is 
given away, it must be with their united consent, for 
which suitable presents may be given, in acknowledge- 
ment of the transfer. 

A king is acknowledged in every district of the Ibo 
country, though at Onitsha his power is very much 
limited. The king is assisted by councillors — of whom 
there are four principal ones — by whose assistance law 
is made and public affairs are transacted. The people 
pay him no tribute, but he has a portion of the fines 
put upon them for misdemeanour, and a certain por- 
tion of the game they catch in hunting. The king's 
throne is a raised bank of mud in the verandah, about 
four feet long, two wide, and two feet high, from the 
level of the floor ; on this is spread an eld ragged mat, 
and a dirty white calico. The same cloth is spread on 
the walls against the king's back, stretching from the 
top of the walls to that spread on the mat on the 
tlu'one. This is a sign of royalty, and prerogative 
of the king, which no one in the country is to 
imitate. Strangers are not allowed a mat, stool, or 



APPENDIX II. 



433 



any kind of seat in the king's palace. Even on our Ex- 
pedition gentlemen were denied this common act of 
civility : either we must stand, or sit on the bare I'ed 
ground in the court while before his majesty. This 
selfish law has been spoken against ; but, the king 
having established it with an oath, does not as yet 
know how to revoke it as regards English visitors ; for 
this cause many do not like to visit the king, unless 
they have urgent business with him. Obi means 
king ; but he is addressed by his subjects, on their 
knees, by the title of Igue, supreme head. The king 
does not step out of his house into the town, unless 
a human sacrifice is made to propitiate the gods : on 
this account, he never goes out beyond the precincts of 
his premises. But the sinfulness of this practice i* 
being impressed on him and his councillors, to which 
they give a listening ear, especially the king's son who 
will succeed his father on the throne of Onitsha. 

There are two classes of great men among the Ibos, 
which ranks are attained by paying a great sum before 
admission. One is a class of men who, upon paying 
about 15 goats, 200 fowls, about 100,000 cowries, and a 
large quantity of yams, accompanied with a large sup- 
ply of palm wine, are admitted into the class of gentle- 
men called Ndi Nze or Ndo Nze ; now, as a mark of 
rank, each is allowed to cany a horn-like shaped ivory, 
with a hole made into it to blow into, which makes a 
shrill discordant sound. Whenever this sound is 
heard, or in whose hand this ivory horn is seen, he is 
to be recognised as a great gentleman, who has pur- 
chased his rank. I saw the like ivory horns in the 
hands of some old persons at Eya, an Ijara village. 



434 



APPENDIX II. 



The ivory horn itself is called Odan, and Nze means 
gentleman ; therefore, Odan Nze has been modified 
to Ndi Nze. In making and supplying these horns to 
a large number of people, who vie to attain this rank, 
no small quantity of tusks are wasted There are 
upwards of 200 persons of this class of men at Onit- 
sha alone. The other, and higher class, who are 
considered above carrying a horn, carry bells, which 
are attached to their bags, and borne before them by 
a little boy ; thus, a continued jingling noise is made 
wherever they go. This is that superior class of 
men, who have paid enormous sums to obtain this 
rank. There are only about six of them in Onitsha. 
The bell they carry about them is called Mboriba, and 
the persons entitled to carry them are called Ndidzi- 
horiba. Upon their entering a room, every one must 
stoop, and address each of them by the title he bears ; 
thus, if Onowu, he is addressed, Onowu, Onowu, 
Onowu, ever so many times ; if Ogene, or Adze, in 
like manner. It is a great insult to salute these gen- 
tlemen with the common salutation, except by the 
title they bear. Each one must occupy a separate 
seat : a bench may be twelve feet long, but as soon as 
Onowu, or Adze, has made towards it, it must be 
quitted by all its previous occupiers, in honour of 
him ; on this account, each one carries his sheep-skin 
or goat-skin about with him, and sometimes his stool. 
Mr. Smart had to make small stools to accommodate 
these gentlemen when they attended service on the 
Lord's day, that the congregation on the benches be 
not disturbed by giving room to them. They are not 
a little proud of their greatness. 



APPENDIX II, 



435 



All persons of some property are called Oganranyan. 
The doctor, or priest, called Dibia, is another person 
of consequence, and is very much feared by the peo- 
ple. He has a great sway over the people, from his 
pretension to be able to foretell things to come, and 
discover secrets. A captain of war is called Odogo ; 
and is distinguished for having killed as many per- 
sons in war, as long feathers being attached to his 
cap : when they amount to six, he gets into the 
highest rank of captains ; and, to pepetuate his valour, 
whenever one has killed an enemy of consequence in 
war, a young bombax is planted on the occasion ; 
hence may be seen a great number of these huge trees 
close together, and sometimes in a regular row, about 
in the town of Onitsha. The group of old cocoa-nut 
trees, as well as large groves of old and lofty trees, 
said to have been planted by their forefathers, together 
with the old age of many persons now at Onitsha, 
from fifty to sixty, whose parents were said to have 
been born here, shew that it is one of the old towns in 
the Ibo country, and that the country has been very 
little disturbed by slave-wars, except by their own 
petty quarrels. 

The Ibos cultivate the land, and grow yams, corn, 
beans, bananas, and plantains ; but, as everyone cul- 
tivates only what will do for his own wants, pro- 
visions become very dear before a new crop comes in. 
Hence it is advisable to lay in a good stock of provi- 
sions, yams, and corn, about the harvest time, when 
the surplus of their crops is sold oflF ; or else one 
must starve at Onitsha, or pay an enormous sum in 
cowries for a trifle at the time of want. Cowries are 



436 



APPENDIX II. 



of very little value here ; and very little difference is 
made between the quality of cotton cloths. Iron bars, 
salt, but particularly American leaf-tobacco, are the 
most useful articles for barter, for almost every thing. 
They have eight markets — four of which are called 
great markets — and four small ones, which are held in 
rotation ; and the name of each is so well known that 
time and business is regulated by them. Some per- 
sons from Sierra Leone, not considering that eight 
days must expire before these markets are held 
in turn, and the ninth day begins the first market 
again, have improperly called the eight days a 
week, trying to assimilate them with the seven days 
of the week of the Christians. The names of the 
four great markets are, Orie Uko, Afo Uku, Nkuica 
Uku, and Eke Uku ; the four small ones are Orie 
Nta, Afo Nta, Nkiiwo Nta, and Eke Nta. The word 
Uku means great, or big ; Nta means little, or small. 
These markets may have been large or small in past 
periods, but what is called "small market" is very often 
fuller than the large ones, as they may happen to be 
attended by their neighbours, Ibos and Igara. Sheep, 
goats, fowls, fish, kola-nuts, and palm oil, are brought 
by the Ibos, to exchange for trona, gunpowder, iron 
bars, salt, and rum, from the trading canoes. Upon 
the whole, Onitsha is a very promising field of Mis- 
sionary labour, if properly attended to, and a fair 
opening into the interior of the Ibo country ; fi-om 
thence communication may be opened with Idda by 
land, in two or three days' travel. 



APPENDIX II. 



437 



My stay at Idda was but a short one — of four days. 
The second day after my arrival, an execution took 
place, of a man, a notorious thief, a slave of Ama 
Abokko, who had escaped to this place from the hands 
of vengeance. The man was said to have been in the 
habit of stealing slaves, whom he sold away ; till at last 
he was caught and executed, by being staked in a 
public road, after he had been stunned by a blow on 
the head, and was exhibited as a warning to others. 
It is very much to be regretted that this had but very 
little effect upon a large majority. The night after 
the execution, two bags of salt and kola-nuts were 
stolen from one of the sons of Olumene, my landlord ; 
It was also reported that the Atta suspected one of 
his slaves, and that very night he was ordered to be 
put to death. A new English cotton cloth, belonging 
to Gbaje, the head slave of Olumene, was stolen. 
Though a certain slave was suspected, yet the cloth 
was not recovered. This stealing propensity is not to 
be wondered at : the slaves are not fed by their mas- 
ters ; each one is left to provide for himself. After 
their service in the canoe for a week or so is over, 
they are left to themselves, to do little jobs for their 
own support, or to sell wood, which latter employment 
many do not relish. Also, when a new slave is 
bought, he is given to an old slave to be taken care of, 
and fed as his boy. With the exception of some very 
little boys, very few of them get any meals at their 
master's expense. They scarcely have any thing for 
them to do, until the canoes are ready again for the 
markets. The same remark is applicable to Abo and 
Gbe, at the Confluence. Being accustomed to lead an 



438 



APPENDIX II. 



idle life, and to ask much for doing little, it is very 
difficult to get them to work, especially in handling 
the hoe or any agricultural implements, they priding 
themselves as being the sailors of the great water, who 
can take canoes from the Confluence to Abo and back 
in safety, in which they consider themselves as extra- 
ordinary people. 

Accumulation of slaves at Abo, Idda, and Gbegbe, 
to show how wealthy they are — because a man's 
worth is estimated by the number of his wives and 
slaves — is the prevailing ambition of the people. Olu- 
mene is said to hold about 200 slaves, with whom 
he lives in a separate group of huts at Idda. Akaia 
and his brother, who have inherited their father's 
property, are said to own about 400. Many of 
them have made their escape, and after a careless 
search are given up, with the boast, that their place 
shall soon be supplied with new ones. It appears, 
that since the slave-trade has been abolished in the 
Bight of Biafra, slaves have become very cheap; and by 
active trade with Bassa and Abo, from whence goods 
are conveyed to Idda and the Confluence, they have the 
means of purchasing a great many slaves. Some of the 
old slaves have themselves become owners of a lars:e 
property and many slaves; and thus become, in a 
great measure, independent of their masters, except 
waiting on them occasionally. All the trading toiivTis, 
such as Abo, Idda, and Gbegbe, have very little to do 
with agriculture : they are mostly supplied with pro- 
visions from their neighbours. This was acknow- 
ledged by Ama Abokko, the Chief of Gbegbe ; who 
said, if they had not been always suj^ported by the 



APPENDIX II. 



439 



Bassas, they could not live. Markets were held for 
two days on the beach of the English island, opposite 
Idda. Thex'e could not on this occasion have been 
less than 150 canoes, of all descriptions, from points 
up and down the river. I did not go over, but stood 
on the cliff, to look at the busy multitude. No sooner 
was the market over, than all dispersed to their homes. 
Tshukuma, the elder brother of Aje, fi'om Abo, was 
present in this market. A few more notices of Idda 
will be seen on another page, among the connected 
accounts of my passage from Onitsha to Rabba. At 
the Confluence 1 met the Chinstian visitors, doing 
well ; but one of them, Mr. Newland, was suffering 
from a bad leg, and could not move ; the other two, 
Messrs. Thomas annd Cline, had been actively en- 
gaged among the people, and made several visits 
among the Bassas. On the 5th of January I paid a 
visit to the Bassa town of Kpata, on the hill, about 
three miles on the back of Gbegbe ; and was very 
kindly received by their chief. Eta, the other chief, 
Yankpa, was not at home — absent in his farm; it 
being harvest time, every one was busily engaged 
gathering in the rich crops of yams and corn. Tlie 
population of Bassas, inhabiting the hills and the foot 
of the mountains, cannot be less than 50,000, living 
in about ten towns and villages, between Idda and 
Gbegbe. Their suspicion of strangers entering their 
town arose from the wrongs they had suffered from 
their neighbours, through their simplicity; but as 
soon as they knew we were men of peace, who seek 
their welfare, we were at once welcomed among them ; 
and they promised to receive a resident teaclier, to be 
placed in their town, Kpata. 



440 



APPENDIX II. 



On my return to Gbegbe, the ground having been 
cleared, immediately we commenced erecting a tem- 
porary house for the Society's agents, as I wish to 
remove them from the hired huts, so as to make them 
more comfortable and independent in the Mission 
premises, and to enable them to receive visitors more 
conveniently. Seven days' hard work soon made the 
temporary house habitable: it was occupied on the 
loth, and on Sunday the 16th I opened divine service in 
the shed attached to the house in the place of verandah. 
Having arranged every thing, and given orders to the 
factory for future supplies of the Mission, to enable 
them to build a dwelling-house according to the plan left, 
I made ready to leave for Rabba on the 21st instant. 

Before leaving Onitslia, as well as the Confluence, 
I administered the sacrament of the Lord's Supper to 
the small body of church members in each place, 
which I believe was refreshing to the souls of those 
who partook thereof. May we all be strengthened 
both in body and soul unto everlasting life ! 

1 arrived at Rabba on the 2nd February. In spite 
of misrepresentations from the enemies of Christianity, 
the Mission huts are visited by very large numbers 
of caravans from the interior. Abbega is very useful 
here; last Sunday there were several groups of 
visitors around him, with whom he spoke on religious 
subjects, and read portions from the New Testament 
in Hausa. We have always had listening ears, 
and confession of self-condemnation was made by 
many persons. If we can do nothing more for the 
present at Rabba than spread the truth of the Gospel 
among the thousands of the interior, in this wa}', 
ought we not to be thankful ? 



APPENDIX II. 



441 



I started for Abbeokuta on the 18th instant. A 
few days before leaving Rabba, I perceived symptoms 
of dysentery, and, having no medicine to check it, I 
suffered much before I reached Ijaye on the 5th of 
March, having halted two days at Ilorin, two days at 
Ogbomosho, two days at Oyo, and nine days at Ijaye, 
under the kind and hospitable roof of Mr. Mann, 
where I met every kind attention and good nourish- 
ment. My son, Samuel, sent medicines to me at Ijaye, 
as he had several patients in hand, merchants at Ab- 
beokuta, suffering from the same complaint, whom he 
could not leave ; but Mr. Mann's experience and know- 
ledge of diseases made up for his absence, and, after 
three days' confinement to my bed for rest and quiet, 
under God's blessing I got over the complaint, and 
was again upon my legs, but very weak for some 
time after. I am thankful to say I am quite strong 
again. I can only trace the cause of this complaint to 
long exposure during my passage up the river from 
the Confluence to Rabba — thirteen days' exposure to 
the scorching rays of the sun, as we could not manage 
an awning, having to shift so often from one canoe to 
another, as well as exposure to dews by night on the 
beach and in the creeks where we had to pass the night, 
lying upon uneven packages, as well as living on irre- 
gular diet. By the end of the journey I began to feel 
pains in the spine, and a few days after perceived 
symptoms of dysentery ; that this case may be avoided 
by having a better and more comfortable boat or canoe 
properly fitted and provided, there is no doubt. 

At Ilorin I was most favourably received and wel- 
comed, both by the kmg, the head war-chief, and the 



442 



APPEXDIX II. 



chief Mallam. There was a large meeting on the 
occasion of mv interview with the kincj at court, when 
various subjects became topics of conversation, both 
political, commercial, religious, and geographical, in all 
which they received such information that they ac- 
knowledged they never had things so clearly stated to 
them before. In point of rehgion, the subject of 
Christ's being the Son of God was the most impor- 
tant I asked. Do you not believe that the angel 
Gabriel was a true and faithful messenger whom God 
used to send to all the prophets, and that it was he, 
as you believe, who was sent to Mahommed ? It was 
the same Gabriel, 600 years before Mahommed, whom 
God sent to announce the conception of the Virgin 
Mary, that she should conceive of the Holy Ghost, 
and bear a son, and that that son should be called the 
Son of God. The angel made no mistake in all his 
predictions, the Virgin did conceive, and did bear a son ; 
so he could not make a mistake in the title by which 
that son was to be called, namely, the Son of God. 
Both the king, war-chief, and chief Mallam were 
struck by this undeniable proof, but of course did not 
confess, but wonder at my book-knowledge, as I could 
refer to the Koran as well as to the Christian book, 
with ease and readiness almost on every point. I 
left the court with kind expressions of God's peace 
and blessing to be with me. The king presented me 
with 6000 cowries, and a sheep formy entertainment, 
and the head war-chief with 2000 cowries, and a 
lage supply of yams ; and on my leaving Ilorin, gave 
me an Hausa ram, to be taken home as a curiosity. I 
presented the king and war-chief, each with a brass pan, 



APPENDIX II. 



443 



which cost 6*. 6d. a-piece at the Conflnence. The head 
war-chief was most anxious to know what 1 in- 
tended to do ; but I could not tell him then, till God 
had made our way plain for the future. He perfectly 
knew that through our influence as Christian teachers, 
Abbeokuta is becoming a marked place for prospe- 
rity in this part of the country ; though our religion 
is not asked for, yet the inseparable advantages, peace 
and prosperous trade, which follow in its train, are most 
eagerly sought ; and they will not object to the intro- 
duction of our rehgion for the sake of its worldly 
advantages, which they mostly look for. 

As if by appointment, the Bishop and Dr. Baikie 
arrived at Abbeokuta from Lagos the same day I 
did from Ijaye, so it was a very providential meeting. 

I was thankfid to meet all the members of the 
Mission, tolerable in health, and the work of God pro- 
spering in their hands. Many new faces were seen 
amoncf our old commimicants and candidates who 
came to salute me on my arrival : these have, since 
my absence, been gathered from the scattered sheep 
amoncr the thousands who are vet wandering from the 
fold of God. I hope and trust many more yet will 
hear the caU of Christ through His faithful servants by 
the preaching of the Gospel. After an enlargement 
of old Ake church, it was finally given up for a larger 
and more substantial one, which can aflbrd room 
for twice as many as the old church could con- 
tain. The sister church at Igbein is following the 
example of that of old Ake church by an additional 
length of twenty feet, and that of Ikija is preparing 
to follow the same plan. 



444 



APPENDIX II. 



These increases of congregations and enlargements 
of churches are very striking to one who has been 
absent for a time from the Mission, though it may not 
be so to those who are immediately occupied in the 
work. My hearty prayer is, that not only at Abbeo- 
kuta, but in all other places where we have been per- 
mitted to have stations, obstacles may be removed out 
of the way, that many who are at present ready to 
join the church, but kept back through the fear of 
man, or through the influence of sin, may be released 
from their bondage, hear the call of Christ, and join 
His church. 

Another striking circumstance as regards the gene- 
ral population of Abbeokuta, is the increased atten- 
tion to the cultivation of the soil. Many who some time 
ago applied themselves mostly to war and kidnapping, 
and others to palm-oil trade, wholly or in part, when 
tliat trade was newly introduced at Lagos, have, since 
the introduction of the cotton trade, turned their at- 
tention to the cultivation of the land as well, growing not 
only produce for home consumption, but cotton largely 
for exportation. Stimulus is given to this now, not 
only by the Industrial Establishment, but by the ap- 
pearance of Mr. Scala in Abbeokuta, in whose cotton 
cleaning factory twenty saw gins, with his cotton 
screw-press, are daily at work, except on Sunday, 
either by hired labourers or those who clean with his 
saw gins, to sell to him on their own account, and also 
by the appearance of four Manchester merchants, who 
were known to come here to buy as much cotton as 
Abbeokuta can produce. 

All this put together has given Abbeokuta the appear- 



APPENDIX II. 



445 



ance of a step forward : it cannot but be expected that 
such changes will influence different people differently, 
either for good or evil ; it is a time of trial and test of 
character, when the stable and the mere outward profes- 
sors of the Christian religion are each shown out in their 
true colours ; this cannot be avoided, though greatly 
to be lamented ; yet the general good influence which 
the introduction of lawful commerce has on the popu- 
lation at large cannot be denied. May the prayers of 
the church be answered for a large blessing on West 
Africa Missions ! 

SAMUEL CROWTHER. 

June 10, 1859. 



APPENDIX III. 



IBO PROVERBS COLLECTED BY THE 
REV. J. C. TAYLOR. 



1 Atoro omara ya mara ; atoro ofege nya 

febiri. 

When a parable is spoken to a wise man he 
understands it ; but with the foolish it is not 
so. 

2 Onye noru se odi iri we?'e ya ti na aJcpa ? 
Who will (be satisfied to) hear (you) say, (It 

was) ten (pieces) that you put into the purse 
(without allowing you to see how many there 
are?) i.e. No one is satisfied without ocular 
demonstration. 

3 Ohiaru be onye abia bune mbg olaga mkpuvipo 

apuni ya na asu. 
He who comes to pay you a visit without doing 
you harm, when he returns will not have a 
hunchback : i. e. No harm will happen to him. 

4 Akpara okpu issi aliara issi tiya na ubu aka. 
A hat is made for the head, but (fools) leave the 

head (uncovered) and put it on the shoulder. 

5 Ori oJian osui ohan ugu o. 

He who embezzles the public fund will have to 
refund it. 



448 



IBO PROVERBS. 



6 Onu mi odika gnu nwa. 

Like the sprouting of the yam is the birth of the 
first-born : i. e. As the farmer rejoices to see 
the young yam, so does a father to see his 
first child. A proverb often used by the 
people to express their pleasure at the news 
of the Gospel. 

7 Uzo dunsvo aka Sui akku emega ya. 

The hand of money can make a bad road become 
a pleasant path. 

8 Aka sui akku aningi wim'O. 

The wealthy has no enemy, but all esteem hiin 
for his wealth's sake. 

9 lyi bum ogwe, kiti ma mkpata akukuo f 

If an overflowing brook carries away a bridge, 
what will become of a dry leaf? 

10 Osui eSui ememe, obeyan ka ya ma. 

He that has, and does not give, the poor is better 
than he. 

11 Miri na ma ohu na ma onye kporo ya ga. 
The rain beats upon the slave-dealer as well as 

the slave. — c/. Matt. v. 45. 

12 Nwata mara ihinye ya bue onye buru nnaya 

ehue ya. 

When a child comes to age he will know who 
killed lus father; but, if he is stupid, the very 
man who killed his father will kill him. 

13 Madu nawo na ba izu, Tsuku se, Ya me afo. 
When two persons talk in secret, God says, I 

make a third. 



IBO PROVERBS. 



449 



14 Ka moa cli otuahan l(o issi ya. 

As a child is, so you must trim its hair : i. e. 
You must describe a man according to his 
ways. 

15 Onye is-ue ha issi awo ma. 

The traveller surpasses the grey head. 

16 Onye ama odika miri osvo. 

A slanderer is like bad water (to the taste), 

17 Akpa esuu gnu. 

The bag (of the covetous) is never full. 

18 Osisi ha mma na ala otoro. 

(Every) tree is good in the land where it 
grows : i. e. Every man's country is good in 
his own eyes. 

19 Ri sui afo datze uzo. 

Eat greedily, and you shut up the way (for all 
that come after). 

20 Ahunho uwa biaru niadu dum. 

The troubles of life come to all alike. 

21 Tsi na uwa agin na nliuon benile. 

We drink the sorrows of life every day. 

22 Onwun bu issi. 

Death is the head : i. e. the end of all things. 

23 Onwun ha. 

Death conquers (all). 

24 Para-huhu se, Ya wo eze, ya sui ghan ma ohan 

wenya. 

The wild-pigeon says, I rule over the country, 
and the country rules over me : i. e. The 
king must consult his subjects. 



450 



IBO PROVERBS. 



25 Uso ohugi nnono ohugi animanu ana ofe elu. 
The bat has no connexion with creeping 

things, i. e. Take care to choose fitting com- 
panions. 

26 Oke mere iyi alobeyi okri nne ya eburu ite 

soya (or doya). 
The rat goes for water and never comes back ; 
yet his mother takes a pot and goes the same 
way too : i. e. People never learn from the 
experience of others. 

27 Oke se, Gi na baram oyan, were anu me ya, 

agama were issim bio. 
The rat says, " You are setting a trap for me ; 
well, then, take your meat and set it, I will 
take my head and come for it :" i. e. What a 
man is very fond of he is easily caught by. 

28 Ana be se ake tabru madu, ngwa re tsiri mi 

nabo sue wa ize madu ga fo kwa ? 
People cry out that the rat has bitten and killed 
them ; should the lizard begin to sharpen its 
teeth, will any men be left alive ? i. e. If the 
first ruler have been harsh and severe, and his 
successor surpass him in severity, who could 
bear it ? 

29 Nkita se, Ya soro onye afo suu. 

The dog says, " I follow those who have plenty 
(to give). 

30 Itseku se, Ya ngna gue egn na gdu ya. 

The parrot says, " Play with me anywhere 
else, but not with my tail. " 



IBO PROVERBS. 



451 



Wan nikpi se nne ya, Babara ya aga ndu, 
abaru naya aguto, onye dondu etogito. 

The he-goat says to his mother, "Ask for a 
long life for me ; do not ask that I may 
grow fast ; everybody must have time to 
grow : i. e. " Do not ask for riclies, but seek 
first a long life, and then you will obtain 
every thing besides." 



W. M. WATTS, CROWN COURT, TEMPLE BAR. 



DATE DUE 











i-t'-ijmTgtfl 


















i^HSfi? 








































































-2013 







































Demco, Inc. 38-293 
