About This File

This file is part of a corpus compiled by Caitlin Matheis (University of Nebraska-Lincoln) for a 2021 computational text analysis project for the One More Voice recovery project (onemorevoice.org). This corpus encompasses a wide range of plain text (TXT) files containing nineteenth- and early twentieth-century literary works centered on Africa by several dozen different British and African writers. Questions about the corpus and project can be directed to Caitlin Matheis (cmatheis2@huskers.unl.edu), the creator of the corpus, and Adrian S. Wisnicki (awisnicki@unl.edu), lead developer for One More Voice.

File Source: Internet Archive, http://archive.org/details/missionsinwester00free

--------------------------------------


MISSIONS 

IN

WEST AFRICA:
 

INCLUDING 


MR. FREEMAN'S VISIT TO ASHANTEE. 


FROM THE LONDON WESLEYAN METHODIST MAGAZINE. 


New York: 

PUBLISHED BY CARLTON & PORTER, 

SUNDAY-SCHOOL UNION, 200 MULBERRY-STREET, 


1842?



MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 


CHAPTER I. 

Introduction to Mr. Freeman's Ashantee Journal- 
Cape Coast Castle— The Fantee country — And the king- 
dom of Ashantee. 

It is with feelings of the deepest and most 
anxious interest that we commence our “ no- 
tices” for the new year, by presenting to the 
friends of the Wesleyan Missionary Society, 
and to the Christian public at large, the various 
documents to which this double number will be 
almost exclusively devoted. They well deserve 
the large space thus allotted to them ; and we 
publish them together and at once, because we 
think that the impression which they ought to 
make on all the friends of Africa would be in- 
terrupted and weakened if they were printed 
and circulated otherwise than in this complete 
and continuous form. The most novel and im- 
portant of these documents is the communication 
from the Rev. T. B. Freeman, of our Cape Coast 
Castle mission, which includes the narrative of 
his recent journey of observation and inquiry t p 


8 


MISSIONS IN WESTERN AF. 


the country and capital of the king of Ashant'SS i 
and which evinces at once the necessity which 
exists there for the exertions of evangelical phi- 
lanthropy, and the probability that such exertions 
would be favourably received, and would by the 
blessing of God be eventually crowned with 
considerable success. All that we just now 
request from our readers, in reference to this 
Journal, is, that it may have their careful and 
immediate perusal. The rest may then be safely 
left to the operation of those emotions of bene 
volent commiseration for the benighted and bar- 
barous heathen, and of pious zeal for the salva- 
tion of immortal souls, which such a perusal, 
we are sure, will not fail to excite in every 
Christian heart. 

To Mr. Freeman’s Journal we have deemed 
it advisable to prefix some brief historical no- 
tices, referring to the causes, circumstances, 
and results of the Ashantee war, which some 
years ago produced so painful a sensation, in 
connection with the defeat and cruel death of 
the late excellent and much lamented Sir 
Charles M’Carthy, then governor of Sierra 
Leone, and commander-in-chief of the British 
troops in Western Africa. The relations of 
Ashantee to Great Britain, and its importance as 
a field of missionary enterprise, will thus be 


MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 9 

better understood, and felt with deeper interest. 
Subjoined to Mr. Freeman’s Journal will be 
found in the same communication a letter, ad- 
dressed to him by President Maclean, the present 
governor of Cape Coast Castle and its British 
dependencies, to whom the Wesleyan Society 
is greatly indebted for his uniform kindness and 
very valuable assistance to its agents in the 
prosecution of their arduous labours on the Gold 
Coast, and for the facilities he afforded to Mr. 
Freeman in connection with his journey to 
Ashantee. And with a view to show our friends 
that, even independently of the prospect of an 
extensive opening for the introduction of Chris- 
tianity and civilization into Ashantee, the most 
delightful results have already followed from 
our existing mission in that part of the African 
continent, we have inserted some other commu- 
nications from Mr. Freeman, which, we doubt 
not, will be read with pleasure and gratitude. 

Ashantee is a powerful kingdom contiguous to 
he Gold Coast, in Western Africa. Coomassie, 
the capital, it has been calculated, is more than 
one hundred and thirty miles from Cape Coast 
Castle in a horizontal direction, but the distance 
is considerably greater by the pathway through 
the forest. The inhabitants of Coomassie alone 


10 MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 

have been estimated at seventy thousand ; and 
the capital is surrounded by numerous towns 
and villages, which contain a large population. 
Juabin, at the distance of a day’s journey, is 
said to be one-third of the size of Coomassie 
The entire population of Ashantee, with all its 
dependencies, is upward of four millions. 

The martial exploits of the Ashantees in the 
countries on the coast, since the commencement 
of the present century, have rendered their na- 
tional name familiar in Europe. The Fantees, 
who were originally an inland people, subject 
to the Ashantee crown, having, in the year 1807, 
afforded protection to Cheeboo and Apoutai, two 
of the vassal chiefs of Osai Tooto Quamina, 
king of Ashantee, who had rebelled against his 
authority, the king invaded Fantee with a pow- 
erful . army. In the first instance he appeared 
solicitous to obtain possession of the two rebel 
chiefs by amicable means ; but he became so 
exasperated by the insults and indignities which 
were offered to him, that he formed the resolu- 
tion entirely to extirpate the Fantees. Orders 
were accordingly issued to spare neither man, 
woman, nor child ; and the country in the rear 
of the advancing army became, in consequence, 
a scene of utter desolation. Having signally 
wreaked his vengeance upon Abrah, the seat 


MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 1 1 

of government, where his messengers had been 
barbarously murdered, the king with one half 
of his army pursued the retreating enemy toward 
the coast ; while the other half was employed in 
destroying the towns as they passed along, 
leaving none of the people alive, except some 
of the highest rank, who were reserved to ex- 
perience more refined cruelties on the return of 
the conqueror to Coomassie. 

The advanced guard of the army, led on by 
the viceroy or tributary king of Dinkira, first 
obtained sight of the sea in the neighbourhood 
of Cormantine. This town was destroyed, and 
the Dutch fort taken possession of by the Ashan- 
tees. The successes of the invaders now be- 
gan to excite uneasy apprehensions at Annama- 
boe ; and Mr. White, the governor of the fort, hu- 
manely endeavoured to put a stop to the further 
effusion of blood, by friendly explanations. Bu* 
vain was the attempt. The king had bound 
himself by “ the great oath” that he would not 
go back to his capital without the heads of 
Cheeboo and Apoutai ; who, after the destruc- 
tion of Abrah, had in the first instance taken 
refuge at Annamaboe, which was then the 
largest town upon that part of the coast. As 
the Ashantees approached, they, however, re- 
tired to Cape Coast, on the invitation of the na- 


12 MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 

tives of that place. When the king presented 
himself before Annamaboe, he found that the 
inhabitants had drawn out their forces to meet 
him ; but they soon gave way, and were pursued 
to the very walls of the fort, which afforded 
them only slender protection. The cannon were 
shortly rendered useless, as the Ashantee marks- 
men picked off the soldiers as fast as they ap- 
peared at an embrasure, or showed their heads 
above the ramparts ; and before the close of the 
day the efforts of the little garrison were exclu- 
sively confined to the defence of the gate, which 
the enemy attempted to force or burn. At least 
eight thousand of the natives perished in the 
contest, and Mr. White, the governor of the fort, 
was severely wounded. After two or three 
days the king prepared to renew the attack upon 
the fort, with six thousand men selected for the 
occasion ; but in the morning of the day on which 
he had vowed to seat himself, “ by the help of 
his gods,” in the governor’s chair, a white flag 
was lowered from the walls. A negotiation en- 
sued. The chief governor Torrane went over 
from Cape Coast Castle, and concluded a treaty 
of peace. Apoutai had made his escape, but 
Cheeboo was delivered up to the king, who 
withdrew his army, carrying with him many of 
the surviving inhabitants as his prisoners. In 


MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA- 13 

the rejoicing which afterward took place at the 
capital, the wretched Cheeboo suffered the most 
exquisite torments, and his head became one of 
the principal decorations of the death drum of 
the king. 

In the year 1811 Fantee experienced a se- 
cond invasion from the Ashantees ; and a third 
in 1816, when Cape Coast underwent a long 
blockade. These repeated attacks inflicted 
great miseries upon the Fantees, and thousands 
were dragged into the interior to be sacrificed 
to the superstitions of the conquerors. 

To avert a continued succession of such ca- 
lamities, an embassy was sent to Coomassie ; 
and Mr. Bowdich, who was placed at its head 
after the recall of Mr. James, concluded a treaty 
with the king. Mr. Hutchinson was left behind 
as resident in Ashantee, but returned to Cape 
Coast on the eve of the war with Gaman. 

After this Mr. Dupuis was sent by the British 
government to Coomassie, invested with consu- 
lar powers. He concluded a second treaty, and 
returned to Cape Coast with numerous presents, 
accompanied by ambassadors to the king of 
England. 

New misunderstandings, however, arose ; and 
an Ashantee army again marched toward the 
coast at the close of the year 1823. Sir Charles 


14 MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 

M’Carthy took the field against them with the 
most encouraging prospect of success ; for, be- 
sides a strong bo’dy of regular troops which was 
under his command, many chiefs threw off their 
allegiance to Ashantee, and all the districts on 
the sea coast west of the Volta were in arms, 
to the amount of thirty thousand warriors. But 
disastrous was the result of the first campaign. 
The governor, with a division of the army, having 
crossed the Praa, advanced into the Warsaw 
country, where he engaged the Ashantees, and 
experienced a complete defeat. Sir Charles 
himself, after having been severely wounded, 
fell into the hands of the enemy, who cut off 
his head, and preserved it in the usual manner. 
His heart was eaten by the principal Ashantee 
chiefs, in order that they might, as they ima- 
gined, imbibe his bravery ; and his flesh, having 
been dried, was divided, together with his bones, 
among the men of consequence in the army, 
who kept their respective shares about their 
persons as charms to inspire them with courage. 

In the month of May following, the new king, 
Osai Ockotoe, (the brother of Osai Tooto Qua- 
mina,' who had died soon after the commence- 
ment of the war,) came down to his army at the 
head of a strong reinforcement, with the avowed 
intention to destroy Cape Coast Castle, and 


'MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 15 

drive the English into the sea. After some 
hard fighting, and when the Ashantee army had 
suffered the loss of many thousands of men by 
the ravages of disease, and the want of provi- 
sions, the king drew off his forces in the direc- 
tion of Annamaboe. The last and decisive bat- 
tle was fought about the middle of the year 1826, 
twenty-four miles north-east of Accra, when the 
British and their allies gained the victory, and 
took the Ashantee camp and baggage. After 
this battle negotiations were commenced ; but, 
owing to various causes, it was not until the 
month of April, 1831, that a treaty of peace 
was signed, when the king sent one of his sons, 
and a son of the preceding king, as hostages, 
with six hundred ounces of gold, to be lodged 
at Cape Coast Castle, as a security for the per- 
formance on his part of the conditions of the 
treaty for the term of six years. At the end 
of six years the gold was returned; and the 
present king, Quacoe Duah, who had in the 
mean time succeeded his brother, Osai Ockotoe, 
consented that his nephews, who had been given 
up as hostages, should be sent for education to 
England, where they at present remain. 

It was shortly after the execution of this 
treaty that the land which had been so awfully 
desolated by war was visited, in the order of 


16 MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 

divine Providence, with the blessings of the 
gospel of peace. The Wesleyan missionary 
committee were led to accept the generous offer 
of Captain Potter, of Bristol, to take a mission- 
ary in his vessel, free of expence to the society ; 
and in the year 1834 the Rev. Joseph Dunwell 
was sent on a visit of observation to Cape Coast 
Castle. He was welcomed by many of the na- 
tives with gratitude and affection ; and his 
faithful labours among them were crowned with 
signal success. The work which thus so aus- 
piciously commenced has since extended along 
the Gold Coast eastward, as far as Accra ; seve- 
ral chapels have been built, or are in course of 
erection ; and six hundred converts from hea- 
thenism have been united together in church 
fellowship. 

Interesting as this mission appears when 
viewed in its beneficial effects upon the natives 
of the Gold Coast, it however rises in import- 
ance when regarded as the means by which the 
way has been opened for the introduction of the 
gospel into Ashantee. JTe establishment of 
this mission has served to excite more particu- 
lar attention to the circumstances and spiritual 
wants of the Ashantee people ; and has created 
the facilities by which Mr. Freeman has been 
enabled to visit Coomassie. It deserves, more- 


MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 17 

over, especially to be noticed that immediately 
on the commencement of this mission, its bene- 
ficial influence began to be exerted upon the 
two Ashantee hostages. Under the ministry 
of Mr Dun well they became impressed with the 
truth and excellence of that divine religion 
which they have since formally embraced in 
this country ; and they are now on the eve of 
their return to their native land, at the very 
juncture when their uncle, the present king, has 
become favourably disposed to missionary exer- 
tions. Thus has access been afforded to a peo- 
ple, the conversion of whom to vital Christianity 
could not fail, considering their geographical 
situation and their weight in the scale of African 
nations, greatly to promote th5 spread of the 
gospel, and at the same time advance the cause 
of humanity and civilization throughout the con- 
tinent of Africa. 


2 


18 MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 


CHAPTER II. 

Journal of the Rev. Thomas B. Freeman , on a visit from 
Cape Coast to Ashantee , in interior Western Africa , 
from the thirtieth of January to the twenty-third of April, 
1839. ( Addressed to the secretaries of the Wesleyan Mis- 

sionary Society.) 

OBJECT OF THE JOURNEY ; DIFFICULTIES, AND THEIR 
REMOVAL. 

Rev. and Dear Sirs, — According to my 
promise in my last, I embrace the opportunity 
of sending you, per brig Maclean, a copy of my 
Journal during my recent mission to Ashantee, 
with a few accompanying remarks. 

Before I commence, however, I beg leave 
briefly to state my object in undertaking such a 
work, and the prospects I had at my setting out. 

Ever since my arrival on this station, I have 
felt deeply anxious to visit Coomassie, the capi- 
tal of Ashantee, and residence of the king. 
The tales of horror, wretchedness, and cruelty, 
which I had often heard respecting the Ashan- 
tees, wrought in my mind the deepest commise- 
ration, and a constant restlessness to commence 
missionary operations among them. 

Opposed to this project were, First, The fears 
of a large majority of our members as to the 
results of such an enterprise, concerning my 


MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 19 

health. Secondly, The very heavy expenses 
attending such a journey. Thirdly, The fears 
of many with whom I conversed on the subject, 
that I should not succeed even in ari attempt to 
get to Coomassie, on account of the almost uncon- 
querable jealousies :>f the king. Fourthly, The 
strong claims of our societies on the coast, from 
which, in the event of my undertaking the jour- 
ney, I must in all probability be absent from two 
to three months. And, lastly, The importance 
of my being at Cape Coast on the arrival of a 
fellow-labourer, whom I had for several weeks 
been expecting. 

The first obstacle was removed by our mem- 
bers gaining a steady and increasing confidence 
that God would preserve me, (if I endeavoured 
to take care of my health,) and bring me back 
in safety. 

The second obstacle was removed by a pro- 
mise, on the part of our societies here, to render 
me all possible assistance by their prayers and 
contributions. 

The third obstacle was removed by a promise 
of all necessary assistance on the part of his 
excellency, President Maclean. 

My fourth obstacle was removed by the ex 
pectation that a new missionary would arrive 
in the course of a few weeks at the longest ; 


20 MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 

and by my obtaining the assistance of an excel- 
lent young man, (Mr. W. De Graft,) who was 
ready to take charge of the mission house, of 
our societies, &c., during my absence ; and 

My fifth obstacle was in a measure removed 
by considering that I could write a long letter 
by way of information and instruction, and leave 
it in the mission house for my fellow-labourer 
on his arrival. 

Having therefore determined on commencing 
my journey without delay, I immediately began 
to prepare myself by packing up a supply of pro- 
visions, hiring hammock men, carriers, &c. , 
while President Maclean kindly provided me 
with two soldiers, a sergeant and a private, 
to conduct me ; and put into my hand a letter 
of recommendation to the king of Ashantee. 

ANNAMABOE, DOMONASSIE, YANCOOMASSIE ; ASSIN CHIBBOE. 

Deeply sensible of the difficult and dangerous 
nature of my undertaking, and not forgetful of 
that Eternal Source from whence I must receive 
all my strength, both of a physical and spiritual 
nature, I took an affectionate leave of our society 
at Cape Coast, on Tuesday evening January 29th, 
1839, and on the following morning, January 
30th, at half-past seven, A. M., I left Cape Coast 
for Coomassie, and reached Annamaboe at noon. 


MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 21 

In the afternoon I made arrangements for 
starting for Domonassie the following morning. 
Domonassie is not in the direct road to Ashan- 
tee ; but as it is not far out of the way, I chose 
to call and visit our societies there before I left 
the circuit. 

Thursday , 31st. At eight A. M., I proceeded 
on my way to Domonassie, where I arrived 
early in the afternoon, a little unwell ; the heavy 
anxieties which I had felt for several days, on 
account of leaving for the interior, having brought 
on a slight fever : here I rested until the fol- 
lowing afternoon, hoping to recover strength. 

February 1st., Friday. At three P. M., I 
proceeded to Yancoomassie, where I arrived at 
a quarter past five P. M., and immediately re- 
paired to the residence of Assin Chibboe, the 
chief of the town and surrounding country. He 
received me very kindly, provided me with 
lodgings for the night, and made me a present 
of a sheep and some green plantains. 

Saturday, 2d. At ten A. M., I again resumed 
my journey, Assin Chibboe providing me with 
four men and a boy, to assist in carrying my 
luggage to my next lodging place, gratis. 

Yancoomassie is one of the largest native 
towns I have yet seen in Fantee, and it is kept 
remarkably clean. Assin Chibboe is a young 


22 MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 

man of more respectable appearance than many 
of the chiefs of the country. During my short 
stay with him I had some conversation with him 
concerning the worship of the true God. He 
paid some attention to what I said, and appeared 
to be void of that obstinacy which characterizes 
many of the Fantee chiefs and Caboceers, when 
conversed with on religious subjects. There 
are many hundreds of souls in Yancoomassie to 
whom much lasting good might be done by a 
teacher residing among them, who is zealous 
for the glory of God, in the eternal welfare of 
his fellow-countrymen. 

MANSUE ; PREACHING TO THE CHIEF AND CAPTAINS 

At three P. M., I reached the town of Man- 
sue, and was very kindly received by the chief 
and his captains. Finding myself feverish, 
with a violent headache, I thought it prudent to 
nave recourse to medicine this evening. Before 
I retired to rest, Gabrea, the chief, sent me a 
present, consisting of a good sheep, some plan- 
tains, and pine apples. His mother also sent 
me some yams and plantains. 

"Sunday, 3rd. Much better in health, my 
fever nearly gone. At four P. M., I preached 
the word of life to the chief and his captains, 
and many of the people, on, “ Go ye into all the 


MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 


23 


world, and preach the gospel to every creature ” 
Considering their ignorant condition, they be- 
haved very well. I do not remember that I 
ever witnessed a more soul-refreshing and in- 
teresting scene than that which took place at 
the close of the sermon. The sublime truths 
concerning the mysterious plan of human re- 
demption, — God becoming incarnate and dying 
to save his rebellious creatures, and bring them 
to eternal glory, — made such an impression on 
the minds of the chief and his captains that they 
could no longer contain themselves ; but spread- 
ing abroad their hands, and lifting up their voices, 
they acknowledged the loving kindness of God, 
and declared before many of their people who 
were present, that they would worship God ; and I 
verily believe they would, if they could be watch- 
ed over, and attended to continually, by a mis- 
sionary or teacher. “ The harvest truly is great, 
but the labourers are few.” O God of love I wilt 
thou not undertake for these souls ? G save them 
from the power of the enemy, and strengthen the 
hands of the few, very few, labourers in this ex- 
tensive vineyard! Is it not of thine own planting 1 

“ Art thou the God of Jews alone. 

And not the God of Gentiles too ? 

To Gentiles make thy goodness known. 

Thy judgments to the nations show ; 


24 


MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA 

Awake them by the gospel call : 

Light of the world, illumine all !” 

They are as the dry bones in the valley. But, 

0 thou Fountain of life ! thou Spirit of eternal 
truth! breathe upon these slain, that they may 
live ! 

FESSU, BERRACOE, RIVER PRAH ; CHARACTER OF THE 
FANTEE COUNTRY. 

Monday , 4th. At a quarter past seven A. M., 

1 left Mansue, and proceeded on my way to 
Fessu. Our way lay through a dense forest, 
abounding in lofty silk-cotton and other trees, 
and many handsome varieties of fern. Many 
small rivulets nearly dried up by the long drought 
remind me that I am in a torrid clime. At five 
P. M., I reached Fessu. 

1 uesday , 5th. At seven A. M., I left Fessu, 
and reached my next resting place, Berracoe, 
at five P. M. Fessu and Berracoe are both 
small crooms, or villages, belonging to Mansue. 

Wednesday , 6th. At a quarter past six A. M., 

I started from Berracoe for the River Prah ,* 
which I reached nine minutes before nine A. M. 
The river, the largest I have yet seen in Africa, 
with its thickly wooded banks, abounding in 
palm trees and mimosae, presented a beautifully 
picturesque and interesting scene. When the 
* Boosemprah of Bowdich. 


MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 


25 


river is at its greatest height, its depth may be 
about thirty or forty feet, and its breadth about 
ninety yards. Near the crossing place, its bed 
is very rocky. As it was very low, I could see 
many large pieces of granite above the surface 
of the water. The River Prah forms the bound- 
ary between the Fantee country and the domi- 
nions of the king of Ashantee. On the Fantee 
side of the river is a small towm, called Prah- 
soo. Here I halted until the following morning, 
that my people might have an opportunity of 
refreshing themselves by bathing, &c. 


In the course of the day my interpreter had 


> the misfortune to cut his foot with an oyster 
shell, while bathing in the river, which made 
him almost incapable of walking for two or 
three days ; I was, therefore, obliged to ease 
him by walking more than usual myself, that he 
might ride in my little travelling chair. I was 
soon, however, obliged to hire four extra men 
to carry him in a basket which I had taken the 
precaution to take with me, besides my chair, 
as my heels became so sore with biles, occa- 
sioned by the intensity of the heat, that I was 
little able to walk myself. The road also was 
exceedingly bad, being in many places not more 
than nine inches wide, and that full of holes, 
and roots of trees rising above the ground. 



26 MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 

The whole of the Fantee country through 
which I passed, from within a mile or two of 
Cape Coast Castle up to the River Prah, a dis- 
tance of about eighty-five miles, is covered with 
luxuriant vegetation, consisting of plantains, 
bananas, palms, bamboos, pines, many large 
forest trees, covered with climbers, epiphitical 
orchidea , and ferns. Among the shrubs and 
herbaceous plants, I noticed a very pretty variety 
of croton ; also lantana odorata, and a species 
of gardenia hedychium , or garland flower, canna 
Indica , and a handsome blue variety of maranta , 
the leaves of which were, on the upper side, 
of a pale green colour, and underneath of a 
bright purple. My ears were also charmed 
with the notes of some of the feathered song 
sters of the forest ;* and my attention arrested 
by the well-known sound of the woodman’s hook 
and axe, while clearing small tracts of ground 
in the forest for cultivating yams, &c. 

ENTRANCE ON THE ASHANTEE COUNTRY ; THE ASSINS 
ANSO, QUISSAH. 

Thursday , 7th. At seven A. M., I crossed 
the Prah in a large heavy canoe, and journeyed 
through a country formerly inhabited by the 
* The general remark that the notes of the birds of tro- 
pical climes are not harmonious, is not applicable to this 
part of the world ; many of them sing melodiously. 


MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 27 

Assins, a people who were incorporated with 
Ashantee until the late war between the Ashan- 
tees and the British, when they threw off their 
allegiance, and took refuge in Fantee, under the 
protection of the British. In the evening I 
reached Anso, a small croom, where I halted 
for the night. 

Throughout the day the Harmattan was very 
strong, affecting my eyes very much, and pro- 
ducing a sensation like what is felt with a vio- 
lent cold in the head. 

During the night I slept in a small hut ; and 
having nothing but thin strips of bamboo tied 
close together to supply the place of walls, I 
felt the cold damps severely, although I lined 
this frail dwelling with a blanket and sheet. 
I was also mortified in the morning to find that 
a rat had eaten some of my hammock strings, 
which almost rendered it unfit for use. 

Friday , 8th. At seven A. M., I started for 
Quissah, the first town of any importance on the 
Ashantee side of the Prah, where I arrived at 
five P. M. Immediately before entering Quis- 
sah, I passed over a hill of considerable height, 
the ascent of which occupied seventeen minutes. 
'This hill is, I think, the highest of a long chain 
of hills which form the boundary between 
Ashantee proper and the Assin country. Were 


28 MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 

it not for the thick bush which covers the sum- 
mit of this hill, a very extensive prospect of part 
of the Ashantee and Assin countries might be 
obtained. Its soil is very rich, consisting of a 
mixture of yellow loam and clay. A spring of 
the most delicious water I ever tasted rises 
about half way up the hill, as far as I could 
judge ; and after tumbling down its rocky bed 
of granite, bubbles by the small town of Quis- 
sah. The Assin country, though possessing a 
very rich and fertile soil, covered with luxuriant 
vegetation, presents one unbroken scene of de- 
solation, except here and there a few huts oc- 
cupied by Ashantees whom the king sends to 
take care of the path. 

[If you compare this brief account of Fantee 
and Assin with that given by Bowditch, (pages 
23, 24,) you will perceive that the Fantee coun- 
try is rapidly improving under the fostering care 
of the local government of Cape Coast ; while 
the Assin country, abandoned by its rightful 
owners, is in ruins.] 

PREACHING TO CORINTCHIE, THE CHIEF OF FOMUNNAH. 

I had not been in Quissah more than an 
hour when I was informed by the chief that I 
could proceed no further into the Ashantee 
country, without obtaining permission from the 




MR. FREEMAN PREACHING TO CORINTCIIIE. 


31 


MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 

chief of Adansie, who resides at Fomunnah, a 
neat little town, about a mile distant from Quis- 
sah. Being provided with a lodging place, I 
therefore halted here for the night. I was de- 
lighted to find in Quissah several Fantees, mem- 
bers of our society, who had come hither for 
trading purposes. 

Saturday , 9th. This morning the chief in- 
formed me that Corintchie, the chief of Fomun- 
nah, had sent over for him, in order to converse 
with him respecting me ; and shortly afterward 
a messenger arrived from Corintchie, requesting 
me to go over and visit him, which I imme- 
diately prepared to do. When I entered the 
town, Corintchie was sitting before the front 
of his house, under his large umbrella, waiting 
to receive me ; his captains and people occupy- 
ing the ground on his right and left. After the 
usual compliments on meeting, he asked me 
what object 1 had in view in wishing to pass 
up to Coomassie. I told him I had nothing to 
do with trade or palavers, but was come into 
the country to promote the best interests of the 
king of Ashantee and his people, by directing 
them in the way of peace and happiness through 
the preaching of the gospel. He then said he 
should like to hear the gospel in his town before 
I proceeded any further into the country. I 


32 MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 

hereupon proceeded to speak to him and all 
present on the being of a God. I commenced 
by taking into my hand a leaf which had fallen 
from a banyan tree under which I was standing, 
and asking them if they could make one like it ; 
and they answered, Debida, “ No.” I then 
asked them if they thought it possible for all 
the wisdom, power, and genius in the world 
united to make such a leaf ; they answered 
again, Debida. Having brought them to this 
conclusion, I directed their attention to the al- 
mighty power, mercy, and truth of “ God, who 
made the world and all things therein and 
spoke to them on the nature of the Christian 
religion. They readily gave their assent to all 
I said ; and Corintchie requested me to pay 
them a visit on the morrow, that they might hear 
more from me concerning the Christian religion. 
On my remarking that as I was a minister of the 
gospel I could not prudently make them presents 
according to the usual custom, it being beneath 
the dignity of Christianity, which is so truly 
excellent in itself, that it requires no recom- 
mendation except a conviction of its value ; he 
answered, “ We do not desire any of the cus- 
tomary presents from you, but wish rather to 
become acquainted with Christianity.” I then 
asked him when I could proceed to Coomassie ; 


MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 33 

to which he answered that I should know more 
about it on the morrow. 

Sunday , 10th. At three P. M., I again went 
over to Fomunnah to preach the word of life, 
followed by the chief of Quissah. I took my 
station in the same place in which I stood on 
the preceding day. Corintchie and his people 
pon made their appearance, and I commenced 
divine service by giving out some verses of the 
hymn, — 

u Plunged in a gulf of dark despair,” &c. 

I had a goodly number of our people with me, 
who assisted in singing the praises of God. 
After a short prayer in Fantee by my interpreter, 
we sung the first verse of the hymn, — 

“ Lord over all, if thou hast made, 

Hast ransom’d every soul of man 

after which I preached from Mark xvi, 15, when 
I explained more fully the nature of the gospel ; 
and gave them many arguments which prove 
the divine origin of the Bible. Solemnity sat 
on their faces, and the deepest attention was 
paid to the grand and awful truths which were 
laid before them : every minute almost did they 
utter a hearty Eou , “Yes,” by way of giving 
their assent. At the conclusion of the sermon, 
Corintchie and his captains said it was a “ good 
3 


34 MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 

palaver.” On my telling them that I had not 
laid before them a thousandth part of the sub- 
lime truths contained in the Bible, they said 
they should like to hear more of them ; and es- 
pecially what Yancumpon, “ God,” liked, and 
what he disliked ; and seemed much pleased 
when I told them I should be happy to preach 
to them again whenever they pleased. 

Knowing their jealous disposition, I thought 
it prudent to make them as sensible as I possi- 
bly could of the disinterested character of my 
mission. I therefore told them that it was my 
love to God and the souls of my fellow-creatures 
which caused me to leave my happy native land 
behind me, and come among them ; and that 
this love was the fruit of my having embraced 
Christianity, as I was once as ignorant of prac- 
tical religion as they were, and did not feel the 
desire to benefit my fellow-men until I had re- 
pented of my own sins and turned to God. 
On hearing this they were struck with astonish- 
ment, and said that the religion which I thus 
recommended to them from practical experience 
was good. There were about five hundred per- 
sons present. 

DETENTION AT QUISSAH ; REMOVAL TO FOMUNNAH. 

Monday , 11th. I am still detained at Quis- 
sah, waiting for an answer from the king of 


BHSSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 35 

Ashantee to the information sent him the other 
day concerning me. I find this delay to be a 
heavy trial, as I am anxious to return to our so- 
cieties on the coast as early as possible. I trust, 
however, that it is the Lord’s doing, and will be 
productive of future good. 

Tuesday , 12th. The Harmattan is very 
strong, and the air so cold, that the thermome- 
ter has been down as low as 66° (Fahrenheit) 
at eight o’clock in the morning for several days 
past. This I find very trying to my constitu- 
tion ; my lodging place being a small hut or 
open shed, with a thatch of palm leaves, so thin 
that I can see through it in many places. I am 
continually taking cold, but I trust that I shall 
still be preserved for usefulness in this danger- 
ous climate. I often see many of my people 
shivering with cold at six o’clock in the morning, 
much more than I have done in England on a 
cold morning in January. To-day Corintchie 
again sent for me ; and shortly after my arrival 
at his residence a messenger arrived from Coo- 
massie with the king’s compliments, also a pre- 
sent of nine ackies of gold dust, £2 5s. sterling, 
and a promise from the king that he would send 
for me in a few days, during which time the 
messenger is to stay with me. Corintchie 
having made me the offer of waiting the king’s 


36 MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 

pleasure at Fomunnah, instead of Quissah, l 
readily embraced it, as Fomunnah is much 
larger, more open, and healthy than Quissah. 
I consequently removed to Fomunnah in the 
evening. 

Wednesday , 13th. Since my arrival in Ash- 
antee, the fetishmen seem to have taken the 
alarm. A day or two back the Quissah fetish- 
man said that the town was in danger of being 
destroyed by fire, and that they must make fe- 
tish to ward off the danger. On my way to 
Fomunnah on Sunday last I saw the path lite- 
rally strewed with offerings to fetish ; consisting 
of boiled eggs, beads, plantains, &c. This is 
the work of those wretched fetishmen, whose 
employment is to impose on the weakness of 
the poor deluded people. 

Thursday, 14th. At eight, A. M., Corintchie 
sent to my lodgings, requesting me to pay him 
a visit. I immediately repaired to his house, 
where I found him seated with his captains 
ready to receive me. He informed me that they 
were waiting to hear me explain some of the 
truths of Christianity. Knowing the injurious 
effects of talking much in this climate with an 
empty stomach, I asked Corintchie to excuse 
me for a few minutes while I stepped home to 
take my breakfast, which I was about to do at 


¦TT ST.l 3 




# 



MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 39 

the moment he sent for me. After hastily taking 
breakfast, I again repaired to Corintchie’s house, 
and conversed with him and his captains on the 
doctrine of the general resurrection, on which 
subject their minds seemed very much confused. 
By divine assistance I succeeded in convincing 
them of the possibility of such an event ; after 
which I directed their attention to the doctrine 
of future rewards and punishments. 

Friday , 15 th. About eight A. M., Corintchie 
sent to make every inquiry respecting my mis- 
sion, as he was about to send another messen- 
ger to the king ; upon which I furnished him 
with all necessary information, and handed to 
him my letter of recommendation from Presi- 
dent Maclean to the king, with which he de- 
spatched the messenger in the course of the 
day. 

Saturday, 16 th. At eight A. M., Corintchie 
paid me a visit at my lodgings. I swung my 
iammock (having mended it, and made it fit for 

e again) under a large banyan tree in the 
principal street in the town, where a group of 
the-natives soon collected around me. I soon 
fell into Conversation with them concerning some 
superstitious offerings, consisting of soup made 
with the palm nut, eggs, &c., which I saw pre* 
paring near me for an offering to fetish. Upon 


40 MI-SSrONS IN’ WESTERN AFRICA. 

my.questioning them on the matter, they seemed 
confident that it was just and right for them to 
do so ; but when I pointed out to them the folly 
of these heathenish observances, &c., they 
seemed convinced of it, and said their fetishmen 
told them nonsense, and deceived them. 

Sunday , 17th. Blessed be God, through 
whose good providence I was born in a Chris- 
tian country ! 

“ Thine ’s the sabbath peace, my land, 

And thine the guarded hearth.” 

How amazing the difference between England 
and Ashantee! Here no village bell, sweetly 
sounding “ across the daisied mead,” invites the 
humble Christian to the sanctuary of God. Here, 
it may be presumed, no hymn of praise ascends 
from the natives of this country to their Creator ; 
no house of prayer is seen standing with its 
doors wide open, inviting man to share in its 
sacred immunities. May the happy day soon 
arrive, when even over this sanguinary country 
the olive wand of sacred peace shall be triumph- 
antly extended ! 

In the afternoon I sent to inform Corintchie 
that we were about to commence the worship 
of God at my lodgings, and that I should be glad 
if he would join us. He immediately came, 
amended by his captains, &c. God was present 


MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 41 

with' us by the gracious influence of his Holy 
Spirit on our hearts ; and the minds of many 
present seemed deeply impressed with the so- 
lemnity of the service. 

Monday , 18th. In the evening one of Co- 
rintchie’s captains made me a present of a pot 
of palm wine. 

HUMAN SACRIFICES IN FOMUNNAH ; SUPERSTITIOUS 
OBSERVANCES. 

Tuesday , 19th. Last night a sister of Co- 
rintchie died, after a long sickness. Her death 
was announced by the firing of muskets, and the 
“ mourners going about the streets.” When an 
Ashantee of any distinction dies, several of the 
deceased’s slaves are sacrificed. This horrible 
custom originates in some shadowy ideas of a 
future state of existence, in which they imagine 
that those who have departed hence stand in 
need of material food, clothing, &c., the same 
as in the present world ; and that as a vast 
number of concubines, slaves, &c., are the chief 
marks of superiority among them here, so it must 
also be in a future state. Accordingly, as I 
walked out early in the morning, I saw the 
mangled corpse of a poor female slave, who had 
been beheaded during the night, lying in the 
public street. It was partially covered with a 
common mat, made from the stem of the plan- 


42 MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 

lain tree ; and as this covering is unusual, I 
concluded that it was thrown over it merely in 
order to hide it from my view. In the course 
of the day I saw groups of the natives dancing 
round this victim of superstitious cruelty, with 
all manner of frantic' gestures, appearing to be 
in the very zenith of their happiness. In the 
evening I was informed that as Corintchie and 
his captains did not wish me to see more head- 
less trunks lying in the streets, they had not 
sacrificed any other persons during the day, but 
would most probably do so during the night. 
I am happy to say, however, that I could not 
ascertain that any more sacrifices were made. 
That only one person was sacrificed, I believe, 
resulted entirely from my presence in the town. 

In the afternoon I received a present of palm 
wine, plantains, yams, and pine apples, from one 
of the king of Ashantee’s sisters, «who is paying 
a visit in a distant croom, her place of general 
residence being Coomassie. Throughout the 
day I saw females fantastically dressed, with 
their faces and shoulders daubed over with red 
ochre, parading the town as mourners for the 
deceased. 

Friday , 22d. My interpreter informed me, 
that as he w r as going from Fomunnah to Quissah, 
he saw the mangled trunk of the poor sacrificed 


MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 43 

female slave lying in a ditch, a few hundred 
yards from the town ; and that at the time she 
was sacrificed she was in the prime of her 
days. Thus exposed to public view, in a 
ditch near the common road, the corpse, de- 
prived of its head, must lie and putrefy, unless 
the turkey-buzzards, or some beast of prey, 
devour it. 

O thou God of missions, who wiliest not that 
any should perish, but that all should come to 
the knowledge of the truth, have mercy upon 
these benighted people ! May thine everlasting 
gospel speedily spread itself through the length 
and breadth of the land, and chase the demon 
from these his dark abodes of cruelty ! 

Saturday , 23d. Early in the morning the 
fetish tune was played through the town, to 
collect the people together for the finishing of 
the “ custom” for Corintchie’s sister. In the 
afternoon nearly all the principal persons in the 
town were dressed in their gayest attire : a large 
group of them was collected under the fetish 
tree, to see and hear the fetishman, while he 
made his orations, and danced to the sound of 
several drums, which were played by females. 
The appearance of the fetishman was very much 
like that of a clown : his face was bedaubed 
with white clay ; he had a large iron chain 


44 MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 

hanging around his neck,* which seemed to be 
worn as a necklace ; around his legs were tied 
bunches of fetish ; and he held in his hand an 
immense knife, about fifteen inches long, and 
two and a half inches broad. Sometimes he 
danced with many frantic gestures ; and at other 
times stood gazing around him with every indi- 
cation of a vacant mind.. While I stood at a 
distance looking at him, he set out and ran to a 
distance of about a hundred yards. Anxious to 
keep him in sight, I walked forward past a small 
shed which would have concealed him from me, 
and saw him standing with a musket at his 
shoulder aiming at a turkey-buzzard on a tree 
hard by. Having fired without hitting his mark, 
he returned to the tree from whence he started, 
and began to make a speech to the people. 

It is at these public meetings that these men 
deliver to the poor deluded people the messages 
which' they pretend they have received from the 
fetish ; which messages are received by the 
great body of the people as sterling truth. 0 
man, into what an awful state of degradation art 
thou fallen ! 

Sunday , 24th. At a quarter past seven A. M., 
I conducted divine service at my quarters 

* I tried some time afterward to get this chain of the 
fetishman as a curiosity, but could not succeed. 


MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 45 

Several of our members from Cape Coast, who 
are trading in the * neighbourhood, attended. 
During the service Corintchie came to pay me 
a visit, but did not stay until the conclusion. 
He looked wild and confused, having been up 
during the whole of last night finishing the 
custom for his sister. I believe that nearly 
every person in the town has been up the whole 
night. Nearly all those whom I saw as I walked 
out in the evening had a sottish appearance. 
At half past four P. M., I again conducted divine 
service at my quarters. To screen myself from 
the oppressive heat of the day, I went to my 
usual place of retirement on the skirts of the 
forest, intending to swing my hammock to some 
of the trees, and remain there until toward even- 
ing. As I approached the place, I found that 
the air had a putrid smell, which reminded me 
that I was not far from the spot where the body 
of the poor sacrificed female had been thrown. 
Prudence therefore obliged me to return to my 
quarters, as I could find no other place suffi- 
ciently quiet on the one hand, and free from 
large ants and snakes on the other. 

Tuesday , 26th. I went into the forest, where 
I saw some very large monkeys, and several 
kinds of birds of the most exquisitely beautiful 
plumage imaginable. 


46 MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 

Wednesday, 27th. I had a long conversation 
with some of the natives on the subject of the 
general resurrection, and of the injury done to 
their country by human sacrifices. Many of 
the natives seem to have an utter dislike to this 
horrid custom, while others are sunk into such 
a state of apathy that they are quite indifferent 
about it, though their lives as well as others are 
continually in danger. 

Thursday , 28th. I paid Corintchie a visit, 
and reasoned with him closely on the painful 
consequences of human sacrifices and customs 
for the dead. He readily acknowledged the 
evil, and expressed himself as ready to abolish 
it, if he were at full liberty to do so ; but he 
feared the king. The only reason he could 
give for making customs, over and above human 
sacrifices, for the dead, was that they felt very 
unhappy when they lost their relatives ami 
friends, and were then very glad to have re- 
course to drunkenness or any thing which would 
drive gloomy thoughts from their minds for a 
season. As he thus gave me a good opportunity 
of directing him to the only sure refuge for a 
troubled mind — the consolations of true religion 
— I told him God alone was able to sustain the 
human mind under afflictions and bereavements. 
He seemed affected with what I said to him. 




SACRIFICE OF A HUMAN BEING 


MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 49 

In the evening he sent me a present, consisting 
of a sheep, yams, and plantains. 

March 1st, Friday. Early last evening the 
fetishman called many of the people together, 
and continued playing his drum all night ; the 
noise of which disturbed me so much that I had 
very little sleep ; consequently, I arose this 
morning so unwell that I was under the neces- 
sity of going to bed immediately after breakfast. 

Saturday , 2d. To-day another human victim 
was sacrificed, on account of the death of a per- 
son of rank in the town. As I was going out 
of the town in the cool of the evening I saw the 
poor creature lying on the ground. The head 
was severed from the body, and lying at a short 
distance from it ; several large turkey-buzzards 
were feasting on the wounds, and literally roll- 
ing the head in the dust. This unfortunate 
creature appeared to be about eighteen years of 
age ; a strong healthy youth, who might in all 
probability have lived forty, fifty, or even sixty 
years longer. As I returned into the town, 1 
saw that they had dragged the body to a short 
distance, and put it into the ditch where the 
poor female slave was thrown the other day 
On my conversing with some of the natives 
concerning the horrible nature of human sacri- 
fices, they said they themselves did not like 


60 MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 

them, and wished they could be done away 
While the poor creature was lying in the public 
street many of the people were looking on with 
the greatest indifference ; indeed, they seem to 
be so familiar with these awful and bloody 
scenes that they think no more of them — yea, 
they do not think so much of them as they would 
of seeing a dead sheep, dog, or monkey. 

Sunday , 3d. About half-past seven A. M., I 
conducted divine service at my lodgings, and 
also at half-past four P. M. God was in the 
midst of us. 

Tuesday , 5th. This afternoon I received 
letters containing some very interesting intelli- 
gence concerning our societies on the coast. 
Blessed be God, all is well with them. 

Thursday , 14th. As I was returning home 
from my afternoon exercise, (a walk in the for- 
est,) I saw a splendid species of epidendrum 
clinging to a tree, at a considerable height from 
the ground. Anxious to obtain it I sent a per- 
son up the tree for that purpose, who, while in 
the act of pulling it off, espied a venomous snake 
in a hole nearly close to his hand. It did not, 
however, attempt to bite him, though one of the 
worst kind of snakes ; and the man, having 
pulled off the plant, descended in safety. The 
country abounds in snakes. 


MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 


51 


APPETITE FOR ' BLOOD. 

Saturday , 16th. The Ashantees are very 
fond of eating the blood of beasts. This I 
learned from a scene which I witnessed this 
morning. Having agreed to purchase part of 
an ox which was brought into the town for sale, 
I had felt a curiosity to see their method of 
slaughtering. Soon after break of day the owner 
sent to inform me that they were ready to slaugh- 
ter the ox ; but as I was afraid of the damps, 
(much rain having fallen during the night,) I 
sent my interpreter to see it killed, who soon 
returned to inform me that the beast was too 
strong for them ; so that instead of tying it down 
and cutting the throat, they would be obliged to 
shoot it. I hereupon put on my cloak, and re- 
paired to the place where the beast was, to see 
how they would proceed. It was standing about 
twenty yards from the man who was preparing 
to shoot it. The first shot was fired without 
effect ; the second wounded it in the shoulder ; 
which they no sooner perceived than forty or 
fifty men surrounded it. Some caught it by the 
horns, some by the tail — and thus they endea- 
voured to drag it along the ground, to a conve- 
nient place for cutting it up. The beast, how- 
ever, soon recovered strength, and, rising upon 


52 MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 

its feet, kicked on? man down, and made the 
others escape in every direction. On seeing 
this I loaded my fowling piece with a ball, and 
shot it in the head, which soon stopped it. It 
was no sooner on the ground than the greatest 
uproar ensued. A number nf them (ten or 
twelve) stood over it with immense knives, 
which they flourished around them while quar- 
relling about the blood ; a few of them wishing 
to cut off the head immediately, while the others 
wished to catch as much blood as they could 
before it died. I verily believe that for the sake 
of the blood, they would have let the poor ani- 
mal bleed and suffer for half an hour, if I had 
not been present to urge them to kill it. On 
inquiry why they clamoured for the blood in 
such a manner, I learned that they were so fond 
of it as to make stews with it. Their chief 
food, however, is soup made from the palm nut, 
boiled up with dried fish or the flesh of the 
monkey ; to which they add a kind of pudding, 
(native name, f oof oo,) made with the green fruit 
of the plantain tree, (musa paradisiaca,) which 
they first boil, and then pound with a large 
wooden pestle and mortar. These mills are to 
be heard going in almost every house, while 
passing through the town during certain hours 
of the day. This work is generally performed 


MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 53 

by females, one of them using the pestle, and 
the other keeping the food in a lump by plying 
it with her hands, that the pestle may act more 
effectually. The same method is practised in 
Fantee ; but the Fantees are not obliged to use 
the plantain so much as the Ashartfees, as they 
have plenty of Jndian corn, ( zea mays,) with 
which they make both bread and puddings. 
The Ashantees have a tolerable supply of sheep, 
which they seldom use for any other purpose 
than that of making sacrifices to fetish. They 
have also plenty of fine poultry, which they 
keep for the sake of the eggs, abundance of 
which they offer to fetish. While travelling 
through the sombre gloom of the forest, the 
crowing of chanticleer, a sure indication that a 
croom is at hand, is very pleasing. The ave- 
rage price of a fowl in Ashantee is Is. 3d., of an 
ox £b, and of a sheep £1 15s. 

PREACHING AND FURTHER PROCEEDINGS AT FOMUNNAH. 

Sunday, 17th. At half past nine A. M., I 
conducted divine service at my lodgings ; after 
which I felt the air so cold, (occasioned by a 
strong Harmattan,) that I was obliged to put 
on a warm cloth dress. In the afternoon I 
again conducted divine service, and preached 
from Matthew xix, 17, “If thou wilt enter into 


54 MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 

life, keep the commandments.” Corintchie and 
several of his captains were present, and ap- 
peared much excited during the sermon ; but 
more especially during that part in which I 
explained to them the commandments contained 
in the decalogue. They often stopped me in 
my discourse to ask questions ; among which 
was the following, “ Is the offering of human sa- 
crifice murder ?” I answered, “ It is even so ; 
and you will henceforth be left without excuse, 
if you still persist in that horrible practice .” 
After I had directed their attention to the ex- 
cellence of the ten commandments, especially 
describing the temporal and spiritual blessings 
which the consecration of the Christian sab- 
bath is calculated to introduce among mankind, 
I proposed the following question, “ Who are 
the happiest persons, those who conscientiously 
keep God’s commandments, or those w r ho wil- 
fully break them ?” They answered, without 
hesitation, “ Those who keep them.” And I 
verily believe that this answer was given in 
sincerity, as they appeared to be deeply im- 
pressed with the solemnity of the discourse. 

Monday^ 8th. “ How excellent is thy loving 
kindness, O God!” Truly God is good. Al- 
though I am in a sickly clime, and exposed to 
many peculiar dangers, yet how r trifling are my 


MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 55 

sufferings ! Indeed, they are not worthy to be 
mentioned. “ Bless the Lord, O my soul !” 

Tuesday , 19th. Corintchie came to pay me 
a* visit, when I embraced the opportunity of re- 
freshing his memory concerning the discourse 
which he heard on Sunday last. Remembering 
the fourth commandment, he said he had always 
thought that God had appointed different days to 
be kept sacred by different nations ; such as one 
day for the Ashantees, another for the Fantees, 
another for tho Warsaws, &c. ; and, if so, the 
keeping of the Christian sabbath was not bind- 
ing upon the Ashantees. I told him there is 
now but one day which God has consecrated 
and set apart for his special worship ; and that 
the observance of that day is binding upon all 
men who are favoured with information con- 
cerning it. 

Wednesday, 20th. This morning Corintchie 
paid me another visit, when the subject on which 
we conversed yesterday was again resumed. 
During our conversation he appeared more 
deeply convinced of the truth than he did yes- 
terday, and requested me to accongypany him to 
his residence. After we had taken our seats 
in his house, our former topic of discourse was 
again resumed. While we were conversing, 
several of his captains, and the king’s messen- 


56 MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 

ger, a respectable old man, joined us. As some 
of them still thought that the Christian sabbath 
was not intended for them, I asked them to prove 
the truth of what Corintchie had stated yester- 
day, namely, “That God had set apart different 
days for different nations.” They then said 
that there was a person in the interior who had 
lived ever since the creation of the world ; and 
that he knew these things, and could prove them. 
I told them I should very much like to see 
him. Upon their hinting that they feared they 
would expose themselves to much danger as a 
nation, by giving up their fetish days, and keep- 
ing the sabbath, I endeavoured to convince them 
that their fears were groundless, and that, so 
far would it be from bringing a curse upon the 
nation, God would abundantly bless them ; 
and I referred them to England as a proof of 
my assertion. I told them what England was 
once, in its state of heathen barbarism, and of 
the mighty change which it has experienced 
since the introduction of Christianity. This 
argument was too strong for them, and they 
consequently gave up the point. 

Thursday , 21st. This morning I paid Co- 
rintchie a visit, and found him seated in com- 
pany with several of his captains and the king’s 
messenger. I entered into conversation with 


MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 57 

them concerning my long detention at Fomun- 
nah, and the importance of my seeing the king 
and returning to Cape Coast before the com- 
mencement of the rainy season. I told them that 
I fancied some bad persons about the king were 
endeavouring to frighten him, by telling him 
that I was come into the country as a spy ; and 
that it would be my duty to turn aside, and carry 
the glad tidings of salvation to another nation, 
if I found them averse to receiving the truth. 
At this they seemed very much concerned ; and 
said they felt no disposition to oppose the intro- 
duction of Christianity among them, and that 
they believed the king would also be glad to 
hear the truths of the gospel, and that he would 
wish me to stay a long time in Coomassie, after 
my arrival and first interview. 

In the afternoon I rambled through the thicket 
to the summit of a distant hill, where one of the 
most splendid pieces of scenery I ever saw 
burst upon my view. The bush on the summit 
being rather low, I had an opportunity of view- 
ing the surrounding country, in some directions, 
for several miles. Down the sloping sides of 
the hill the splendid plantain tree was luxuriat- 
ing and waving its beautiful foliage before the 
balmy zephyrs which whispered around. Then 
followed the delightful vale, winding to the 


58 MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 

right and left, studded with gigantic silk-cotton 
trees, acacia mimosa, with an endless variety of 
climbers, chiefly papilionaceous, running up and 
reclining on the topmost branches, descending 
and embracing the earth, and again ascending to 
the top — that portion of their stems between 
the ground and the high branches of the trees 
appearing like immense cables.* Beyond the 
valley were seen other hills rising in the dis- 
tance, clothed with the most beautiful verdure 
to their very summits, except here and there 
a small spot cleared by the natives for the pur- 
pose of cultivating yams, &c. While I stood 
gazing on this scene of splendid though wild 
luxuriance, 

“ I felt an inward bliss spring o’er my heart.” 

Even the Fantees who were with me, whose 
ideas as to the beauties of nature are generally 
bounded by the skirts of the forest which girt 
their little croom, expressed their participation 
in the satisfaction which I enjoyed, by exclaim- 
ing in the native tongue, Oyafieu doodo, “It is 
very handsome.” “ These are thy glorious 
works, Parent of good, Almighty.” But alas ! 

* These stems are so strong that a man may climb up 
them with the greatest ease and safety. In more than one 
instance I have sent a man up them to get some of the 
numerous orchidea growing on the large trees. 


MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 59 

how painful is the reflection, “ Man seems the 
only growth that dwindles here !” What dark 
lines on these fair colours are the habitations 
of cruelty, superstition, and death ! In vain do 
the pretty jessamine, jasminium gracile , and 
other odoriferous flowers perfume the air, while 
man murders his brother, and taints the atmo- 
sphere with the noxious effluvia arising from 
the putrefying carcass of the mangled victim 
of his superstition and cruelty. O thou Al- 
mighty Being ! hasten the day when even san- 
guinary Ashantee shall be evangelized ; when 
its repentant inhabitants “ shall go out” of cap- 
tivity “ with joy, and be led forth with peace 
when these “ mountains and hills shall break 
forth before them into singing and when “ all 
'the trees of the field shall clap their hands.” 

During this interesting ramble I found a pretty 
variety of amarillis albus in full bloom. I also 
saw a tree, or rather a shrub, at a short distance, 
but to which I could not conveniently get near, 
on account of the thick underwood, which ap- 
peared, by its almost naked stem and beautiful 
scarlet flowers, to be a species of eryihrina . 
At the foot of the hill is a small rivulet, over- 
hung by trees covered with mosses and ferns, 
some of the latter of which are very fine. 

Friday , 22d. I informed Corintchie that I 


60 MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 

should soon be under the necessity of returning 
to the coast. In answer to this he said that he 
expected a messenger down from Coomassie 
on Tuesday; but was not quite certain of his 
coming so early. I consequently agreed to 
wait until after Sunday before I made any ar- 
rangements for returning. 

Saturday, 23d. How true and faithful is the 
Lord ! In what a large degree do I realize the 
truth of the promise, “ As thy days, so shall thy 
strength be !” Notwithstanding my long deten- 
tion in this place I feel no tedium : — 

“ With me no melancholy void, 

No period lingers unemploy ’d.” 

Sunday , 24th. At half past nine A. M., I 
read prayers, and preached from Prov. xii, 21. 
Our little congregation was very attentive. In 
the afternoon I held a long conversation with 
several heathens and Christians, who are tra- 
velling with me, concerning the salvation of 
their souls. It was a solemn and delightful 
service, and lasted about two hours. In the 
evening I administered the holy sacrament of 
the Lord’s supper to the members of our society. 
In this sacred ordinance I found my soul 
strengthened ; and I believe many felt it to be 
a refreshing service. A heavy tornado was 
raging around us, and the lightning was glaring 


MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 61 

into our little sanctuary ; but while the elements 
were raging we were in peaceful and happy 
serenity. 

OBSTACLES TO PROCEEDING FURTHER IN ASHANTEE , 
RETURN TO QUISSAH. 

Monday , 25th. I called on Corintchie, and 
informed him that I had made up my mind to 
commence my return on Wednesday morning 
next, if I did not see a messenger from the king 
before that time. As he appeared careless 
about what I said, I began to suspect him of a 
treacherous intention to keep me longer on the 
way than was really necessary, and therefore 
deemed it prudent to teach him that I would not 
be detained and trifled with in such a manner. 
Consequently, in the course of the day I re- 
packed my boxes, and put myself in a state of 
readiness for returning. In the evening he 
(Corintchie) came with his two linguists and 
some of his captains, to entreat me to wait an- 
other day or two, before I made up my mind to 
leave ; which I agreed to do, upon the condition 
that he should provide a messenger to accom- 
pany the sergeant to Coomassie, with a letter 
which I intended to write to the king, on the 
following morning ; and after he had used every 
means to persuade me to the contrary, he con- 
sented with much reluctance. 


62 MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 

Tuesday , 26th. Early this morning I wrote 
a letter to the king, ordered the sergeant to pre- 
pare for starting to Coomassie, and sent to Co- 
rintchie to inquire if his messenger was ready. 
In answer to this he said he had sent to Quis- 
sah for the king’s path keepers, and as soon as 
they arrived he would consult with them, and 
let me have a messenger. Shortly after this, I 
sent a second time, and received the same an- 
swer. Feeling satisfied that this delay was in- 
tended for the purpose of frustrating my design, 
I thought it prudent to act with as much prompt- 
itude as the circumstances of the case would 
allow, and therefore repaired to Corintchie’s 
house, and inquired for him, but was informed 
that he was not within. Every thing which I 
saw confirming my suspicions, I went from 
thence to the residence of the king’s messenger, 
and inquired of him the reason of the delay ; in 
answer to which he said that they were waiting 
for the linguists belonging to other chiefs on the 
way to Coomassie, to speak with them also be- 
fore they prepared a messenger. At this I felt 
displeased, seeing plainly that all this was said 
on purpose to hinder me from sending to the 
king, or from going either backward or forward. 
I r< turned to my lodgings, and ordered my peo- 
ple to get ready for starting back to Cape Coast 


MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 63 

immediately ; and then repaired to Corintchie’s 
house again, taking the precaution of sending 
one of my attendants toward the back door of 
the house to see if Corintchie would attempt to 
make his escape out of my sight in that direction, 
as I went in at the front door.* When I ar- 
rived at the door, I saw one of the linguists, 
who said Corintchie was not within. Not sa- 
tisfied with this answer, I stepped into the house 
before any one could get to Corintchie to tell 
him I was coming, and found him leisurely 
taking his breakfast. I then upbraided him for 
his unjust conduct, and requested a messenger 
as soon as he had finished his breakfast. On 
his promising to settle the matter immediately, 
I withdrew into another apartment, and waited 
for him nearly half an hour : I then sent my in- 
terpreter to see if he was ready, who returned to 
inform me that Corintchie had finished his break- 
fast and escaped. Finding that he was trying 
to get the mastery over me, I saw the necessity 
of securing his compliance with my wishes, by 
coming to the determination that if he would not 

* As the despotic nature of the government under which 
they live often places their lives in danger, all the Ashan- 
tee chiefs, captains, &c., build their houses in such a man- 
ner that they can readily escape at one door at the same 
moment in which any person enters at tl e other. 


64 MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 

let messengers go forward, I would immediately 
go backward. Accordingly I sent to one of the 
linguists to inform him of my intention, returned 
to my lodgings, and began to start my people 
off with my luggage. While I was busily en- 
gaged in doing this, one of the linguists came 
and begged of me to stop, promising that a mes- 
senger should be immediately provided for 
Goomassie. I answered, “ Let me see the 
messenger ready to commence his journey 
without delay, or I will soon be out of the town.” 
He then left, saying he would get one imme- 
diately ; but I did not believe him, and therefore 
continued to send off my luggage. He came 
again, saying, “ The messenger is nearly ready.” 
I answered, “ Let me see him,” but no messen- 
ger came. Having sent off all my people, in- 
forming them where I wished them to stop for 
me on the road, I again walked to Corintchie’s 
house, to take my leave of him ; he appeared 
stupid, brutal, and sullen, and would not give 
me his hand ; I consequently turned from him, 
and waited a moment to tell the king’s messen- 
ger I was going. Before I parted with the 
messenger, I asked him whether he did not 
think forty-six days a sufficient length of time 
for me to wait patiently, especially as I was 
getting short of provisions, and the rainy season 


MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 65 

was fast approaching. He candidly acknow- 
ledged that I had been detained too long, and 
that he could not blame me for returning. I had 
proceeded but a short distance on my way when 
Corintchie sent begging me to stop and speak 
with him ; to which message I thought it right 
not to pay any attention. 

When I arrived at Quissah I found my people 
waiting for me in the street ; and I again ordered 
them to proceed. While so doing, the chief 
(one of Corintchie’s captains) came to entreat 
me to stay for a day or two at Quissah. This 
I should have had no objection to do, had I not 
been aware that it was a scheme of Corintchie’s 
played on purpose to hinder me from proceed- 
ing homeward ; but as I was fully aware that 
this was the case, I again proceeded on my way, 
and began to ascend the high hill which sepa- 
rates the Ashantee and Assin countries. When 
I was about half way up the high hill, one of 
Corintchie’s linguists came running after me, 
entreating me to return, saying that his master 
was very sorry for what he had done ; that if I 
would go back, the messenger should be pro- 
vided instantly ; and that he should travel to 
Coomassie during the night by torch-light :* but 
as I thought he was not sufficiently frightened, 
* To travel on this road in the dark would be verydan- 
5 


66 MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 

I still proceeded on my way. Corintchie no 
sooner found out his mistake in -supposing that 
I would allow myself to be played with, than he 
became very much alarmed, and applied to a 
Fantee residing in Quissah, whom I knew very 
well, entreating him to follow after me, and tell 
me that he sincerely begged my pardon, and 
hoped I would forgive him and return ; and that 
he would send messengers to conduct me back. 
Notwithstanding this, I still proceeded, and took 
up my lodgings for the night in a small croom, 
about nine miles and a half from Fomunnah. 
I had scarcely arranged my people for the night, 
ere several messengers arrived from Fomunnah 
and Quissah, among whom were Corintchie’s 
two linguists, entreating me to return in the- 
morning. 

The croom in which I lodged was very small, 
containing about eight or nine little huts, scarcely 
affording us room to take shelter from a tornado, 
which commenced soon after our arrival. The 
hut which I had chosen to sleep in was little 
more than six feet square. Into this small 
place I received the messengers, to shelter them 
from the rain, and to hear their tale. They re- 
presented Corintchie as very unhappy because 

gerous, on account of the serpents and panthers which in- 
fest the country. 


.MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 67 

I had left the town ;* and said that all their 
lives would be in danger if I left the country. 
They also reminded me that I came into the 
country on purpose to promote their happiness ; 
and said they hoped I would think of the thou- 
sands of their fellow countrymen who would be 
benefited by the introduction of Christianity 
among them, rather than of the insult which 
Corintchie had offered me. These were of 
course my own feelings ; personally I cared 
nothing about Corintchie’s bad conduct ; but I 
knew very well that if they saw any thing in 
my behaviour like indecision, they would give 
me a great deal of trouble, and thought I had 
better put a stop to their trifling at once. I 
• therefore continued to conceal as much as pos- 
sible any wish on my part to return with them, 
and said I would still proceed homeward until 
I had crossed the Prah, and entered Fantee; 
which I really thought of doing, and there wait- 
ing for a message from the king. 

Fearing lest I should put this design into exe- 
cution in the morning, they said that if I would 

* I believe this to have been the truth, as I found on 
my return that Corintchie had actually made “ custom,” 
and sat up during the whole night, playing his drums, 
drinking, dancing, &c., on purpose to keep the thought 
of my departure out of his mind. 


68 


MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 


return, Corintchie would allow me to proceed 
to within a few miles of Coomassie. This sa- 
tisfied me that he was at last sincerely sorry 
for what he had done, and that he would behave 
better for the future. I therefore now agreed 
to return, upon condition that they (the messen 
gers) should provide people to carry my luggage 
back, so that my hammock men might be at 
liberty to carry me to the foot of the hill, as the 
journey on foot would have been exceedingly 
trying to me, on account of the immense hill 
over which I must of necessity walk, it being 
too steep to admit of my being carried over it.* 
To this they readily consented; and said that 
as a proof of their sincere anxiety to get me 
back, they were ready even to carry my lug- 
gage themselves, and that they thanked me very 
much for my kindness in consenting to return. 

JOURNEY TO THE CAPITAL RESUMED, THROUGH DOOMPASSIE, 
ACCOMCOWASSIE, EDGEWABIN, ESSARGOO, AND 
FRANFRAHAM. 

Wednesday , 27th. Early after break of day 
x returned with Corintchie’s messengers, and 

* The labour of ascending this hill is so great, that I 
was obliged to clothe myself in flannel, to avoid taking 
old from a violent perspiration, occasioned by exertion, 
being checked by the keen wind on the summit ; which I 
had no sooner reached than I found it necessary, in addi- 
tion to the flannel, to wrap myself in a cloak. 


MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 69 

had only been in the town half an hour when a 
messenger arrived from the king, requesting me 
to proceed, and with him two or three persons 
whom Corintchie had expressly despatched to 
Coomassie as soon as he found me determined 
to go back, if I were not permitted to go forward. 
Corintchie having personally acknowledged'his 
fault, I of course freely forgave him, and every 
thing was finally arranged for my starting to 
Coomassie the following morning. Though 
Corintchie was evidently deserving of censure 
in this affair, yet I believe that much of it arose 
from jealousy on the part of the king, who is 
not to be blamed, when we consider the con- 
fused notions which he must have concerning 
the real objects of a missionary, together with 
the fact that he is surrounded by Moors, whose 
great object it would be, without doubt, to poi- 
son his mind, and put a base construction on 
every thing connected with the idea of the intro- 
duction of Christianity into his dominions. 

Thursday , 28th. About eight A. M. I com- 
menced my journey, and travelled through a 
fine fertile country of diversified hill and dale, 
full of luxuriant vegetation, and studded with 
immense silk-cotton and other forest trees, co- 
vered with many varieties of orchidea and cryp - 
togamia . At nine A. M. I stopped in a pretty 


70 MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 

little town called Doompassie, to take my break- 
fast. I had no sooner taken my seat than a 
large group of the natives collected around me ; 
but on my taking a telescope to look at some 
orchidea on a distant tree, they all began to run 
away, supposing that I was going to shoot at 
them. 

At half past three I reached the small town 
of Accomcowassie, and took lodgings for the 
night. 

Friday , 29th. At a quarter past eight A. M. 
I proceeded on my way through a country very 
similar to that through which I passed yester- 
day, crossing several small rivers, the largest 
of which was about nine yards broad, and three 
feet deep. About half past four P. M. I passed 
through Edgewabin, one of the largest towns I 
have yet seen in Ashantee, but in a very dilapi- 
dated state, many of the houses being tenantless 
and tumbling down. At half past five P. M. 
we reached the small eroom of Essargoo, about 
nine miles distant from Coomassie, having had 
a long and trying day’s journey, which had tired 
the carriers, &c., so much, that several of them 
appeared quite exhausted. As for myself, I am 
mercifully blessed with extraordinary strength, 
so that I could have proceeded several miles 
further, though I had already walked many miles 


MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 71 

in order to rest the hammock men. A mission- 
ary passing up to Coomassie is so strange an 
occurrence that nearly all the people in the dif- 
ferent towns and crooms through which I pass, 
turn out to see me ; and so totally ignorant aro 
they of Christianity, — or should I not say of any 
reasonable way of worshipping God ? — that they 
actually run away when they see us engaging in 
that solemn duty. On my arrival at this place 
a female relative of the king brought me some 
palm wine in a calabash ; and being very thirsty 
I took a hearty draught. It was, I think, the 
best palm wine I have tasted since I have been 
in Africa. Many of the natives are very kind ; 
I every day received presents from some of 
them, consisting of palm wine, yams, plan- 
tains, bananas, ground nuts, &c. The banana 
is a very delicious fruit, and not so likely to 
cause a superabundance of bile as some other 
fruits. 

Saturday, 30th. No travelling to-day. Pre- 

ring for the sabbath, and for starting forward 
*iaj mediately after the arrival of another message 
or invitation from the king. I do not expect to 
leave this place until Monday morning, as the 
king is fully aware that I will not travel on the 
sabbath day. 

Sunday , 31st. At half past eight A. M, I 


72 MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 

conducted divine service. During the day, 
which was excessively hot, I saw troops pass- 
ing up to Coomassie from different parts of the 
country. The passing of these soldiers, toge- 
ther with a heavy tornado in the evening, hin- 
dered us from having any afternoon or evening 
service. About six P. M. a messenger arrived 
to inform me that his majesty wished me to pro- 
ceed early the following morning. 

April 1st, Monday. Throughout the night I 
was disturbed by the noise made by the troops 
as they passed up to the capital. At four A. M. 
we commenced our journey. The morning was 
so very damp and foggy, that a thick November 
fog in England could scarcely equal it ; not- 
withstanding which, the heat was so great that 
I could scarcely bear a light Mackintosh lightly 
thrown over me, which was necessary to keep 
out the damps, though I was only clothed in a 
light linen dress. 

About eight A. M. we reached Franfraham, a 
small croom about a mile and a half from Coo- 
massie, (built for the accommodation of stran- 
gers travelling to the capital,) having halted an 
hour,, at least, on the road. Here I took some 
refreshment, and waited for another invitation 
from the king. While waiting, we held a 
prayer meeting, for the purpose of imploring the 


MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 73 

blessing of the God of missions upon our un- 
dertaking. 

For several days past I have felt an inde- 
scribable sensation, best known, I presume, to 
those whose awful employment it is to bear the 
standard of the cross, “ to proclaim the accept- 
able year of the Lord, and the day of vengeance 
of our God.” “ Simon, Simon, behold, Satan 
hath desired to have you that he may sift you 
as wheat ; but I have prayed for thee that thy 
faith fail not.” “ Lo, I am with you alway, even 
unto the end.” 

ENTRANCE INTO COOMASSIE, AND RECEPTION BY THE KING. 

% 

At two P. M. a messenger arrived from the 
king, requesting me to proceed as early as pos- 
sible. I immediately dressed myself ; and 
while so doing, three other messengers arrived, 
each bearing a gold sword, requesting me to 
hasten forward. I then proceeded toward the 
town, preceded by the messengers, and some 
soldiers bearing arms. Having reached the 
outside of the town, we halted under a large 
tree, and there waited for another royal invita- 
tion. In a short time his majesty’s chief lin- 
guist, Apoko, came in a palanquin, shaded by 
an immense umbrella, and accompanied by mes- 
sengers bearing canes nearly covered with gold, 


74 MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 

to take charge of my luggage, and see it safe 
lodged in the residence intended for me. All 
these things being properly arranged, another 
messenger arrived, accompanied by troops, and 
men bearing large umbrellas, requesting me to 
proceed to the market place. “ The king’s 
commandment” being “ urgent,” we pushed 
along with speed, preceded by a band of music. 
As soon as we arrived at the market place, I 
got out of my little travelling chair, and walked 
through the midst of an immense concourse of 
persons, a narrow path being kept clear for me, 
paying my respects to the king and his nume- 
rous chiefs and captains, who were seated on 
wooden chairs, richly decorated with brass and 
gold, under the shade of their splendid umbrel- 
las, some of them large enough to screen twelve 
or fourteen persons from the burning rays of the 
sun, and crowned with images of beasts covered 
with gold, surrounded by their troops and nume- 
rous attendants. I was occupied for half an 
hour in walking slowly through the midst of 
this immense assembly, touching my hat and 
waving my hand, except before the king, in 
whose presence I of course stood for a moment 
uncovered. I then took my seat at a distance, 
accompanied by my people, and several re- 
spectable Fant.ee traders who are staying in the 


MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 


75 


town, to receive the compliments of the king, 
&c. according to their usual custom. After I 
had taken my seat, the* immense mass began to 
be in motion ; many of the chiefs first passed 
me in succession, several of them cordially 
shaking me by the hand, accompanied by their 
numerous retinue. Then came the officers of 
the king’s household, his treasurer, steward, 
&c., attended by their people ; some bearing 
on their heads massive pieces of silver plate, 
others carrying in their hands gold swords and 
canes, native stools, neatly carved, and almost 
covered with gold and silver, and tobacco-pipes 
richly decorated with the same precious mate- 
rials. In this ostentatious display, I also saw 
what was calculated to harrow up the strongest 
and most painful feelings, the royal execution- 
ers, bearing the blood-stained stools on which 
hundreds, and perhaps thousands, of human vic- 
tims have been •sacrificed by decapitation, and 
also the large death drum, which is beaten at 
the moment when the fatal knife severs the 
head from the body, the very sound of which 
carries with it a thrill of horror.* This rude 

* The language of this drum is understood by the natives 
whenever they are within hearing ; so that they are as 
well aware of the moment when a sacrifice is made, as 
though they were on the very spot. While the king was 


76 MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 

instrument, connected with which are the most 
dreadful associations, was literally covered with 
dried clots of blood, and decorated (awful sight!) 
with the jaw bones and skulls of human victims 
Then followed the king, Quacoe Dooah, under 
the shade of three splendid umbrellas, the cloth 
of which was silk velvet of different colours, . 
supported by some of his numerous attendants. 
The display of gold which I witnessed, as his 
majesty passed, was truly astonishing. After the 
king, followed other chiefs, and lastly the main 
body of the troops. This immense procession 
occupied an hour and a half in passing before 
me. There were several Moors in the proces- 
sion, but they made by no means a conspicuous 
appearance. While I was sitting to receive the 
compliments of some of the first chiefs who 
passed, his majesty made me a present of some 
palm wine. 

I suppose the number of persons which I saw 
collected together exceeded forty thousand, in- 
cluding a great number of females. The wrists 

making sacrifices during the custom for his brother, I wa3 
in a -distant part of the town conversing with my interpre- 
ter, who, knowing the fatal meaning of the sound of the 
drum, said, “ Hark ! Do you hear the drum! A sacrifice 
has just been made, and the drum says, ‘ King, I have 
killed him !’ ” 


MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 77 

of some of the chiefs were so heavily laden 
with gold ornaments that they rested their arms 
on the shoulders of some of their attendants. 

The appearance of this procession was ex- 
ceedingly grand and imposing. The contrast 
between the people themselves and their large 
umbrellas (seventy in number) of various co- 
lours, which they waved, and jerked up and 
down in the air, together with the dark green 
foliage of the large banian trees, under and 
among which they passed, formed a scene of 
that novel and extraordinary character, which 
I feel unable to describe. 

I gazed on this concourse of heathens with feel- 
ings of sorrow and joy. I sorrowed in the reflec- 
tion that most, perhaps all, of them were totally 
ignorant of the great Author of their being, with- 
out one ray of divine consolation to cheer them 
amid the changing scenes of this visionary world. 
Are they laid on a bed of languishing ? They 
have nothing to comfort them, or buoy up their 
drooping spirits. Does death, which stalks 
through the land in horrid forms, rob them of 
their friends ? Alas for them ! they must sor- 
row as men without hope. They never hear the 
shouts of departing Christian friends, as they 
ascend the steep of the heavenly Zion, to join 
the church triumphant above. Neither do they 


78 MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 

• 

see, with the eye of faith, the blood-bought 
throng standing in the presence of God, “ clothed 
with white robes, and palms in their hands.” 
Does death stare themselves in the face, and 
ask the panting breath ? Alas for them! they 
have no Christian hope beyond the grave, 
blooming with immortality. Is it not so ? Tell 
it, ye murdered human victims, whose blood 
disfigures the streets, and whose putrefying 
bodies taint the air ! Tell it, ye midnight revel- 
lers, who vainly strive to draw the anguish from 
your hearts by the fumes of intoxication ! Tell 
it, ye carniverous birds, and ye wild beasts of 
the forest, that feed on the mangled corpses of. 
the thousands of victims of superstitious cruelly ! 
And, lastly, tell it, ye human bones that lie 
bleaching in the open day ! 

Have these poor victims no voice ? Have 
they no tale of wo to tell ? Methinks I hear 
them lifting up their voices, and crying to Bri- 
tish Christians especially, “ Come, pray come, 
and look at our unhappy country ! See how it 
groans beneath the iron despotism of the prince 
of darkness ! It is true that it is a beautiful 
country, its fertile soil producing a hundred 
fold ; but what avails its beauty or fertility, 
when it is converted into one immense slaugh- 
ter house ! O ye who enjoy the high blessings 


* MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 79 

of Christianity, allow us to entreat you to direct 
your energies toward this scene of moral deso- 
lation.” Thus brooding in melancholy o‘ver the 
blood-stained wilds, fancy carries me to my na- 
tive land, where, entering into a well-known 
place in imperial London, I hear the cause of 
Christian missions ably advocated, in the pre- 
sence of assembled thousands, whose hearts 
burn with love to their perishing fellow-crea- 
tures. I hear them speaking of unhappy, de- 
graded Africa ; of the pressing wants of its pe- 
rishing millions ; and of the vital importance of 
increased exertions on the part of British Chris- 
tians, for the extension of the blessings of Chris- 
tianity among this mass of immortal men. Me- 
thinks I hear a resolution moved and supported, 
that much more shall be immediately done for 
Africa, and especially for Guinea. Returning 
again ,to this immense field of labour, I feel en- 
couraged to cry, “ O ye dry bones, hear the word 
of the Lord !” “ The captive of the mighty shall 
’ be taken away, and the prey of the terrible shall 
be delivered.” Yea, “ He that sitteth upon the 
circle of the earth, and the inhabitants thereof, 
are as grasshoppers ; that stretcheth out the 
heavens as a curtain, and spreadeth them out 
as a tent to dwell in.” He hath said, “ Ethio- 
pia shall stretch out her hands unto God. n 


80 MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 

“ Enlarge the place of thy tent, and let them 
stretch forth the curtains of thine habitations ; 
spare hot, lengthen thy cords, and strengthen 
thy stakes. For thou shalt break forth on the 
right hand and on the left ; and thy seed shall 
inherit the Gentiles, and make the desolate cities 
to be inhabited.” O ye dry bones, hear the 
words of the Lord’s people ! Their prayer for 
you to God, our Saviour, is, 

“ The servile progeny of Ham, 

Seize as the purchase of thy blood.” 

Yes, for Africa they pray, and over Africa they 
weep. A brighter day is approaching ; a day 
when the death drum shall give place to the Bi- 
ble ; and when instead of feeling the terror and 
dismay carried in the footsteps of the bloody 
executioner, the peaceful native shall exclaim, 
“ How beautiful upon the mountains are the feet 
of him that bringeth good tidings, that publish- 
ed peace, that bringeth good tidings of good, 
that publisheth salvation ; that saith unto Zion, 
Thy God reigneth !” 

“ The watchmen join their voice, 

And tuneful notes employ : 

Jerusalem breaks forth in songs, 

And deserts learn the joy.” 

The arduous duties of the day being over, I 
immediately repaired to my quarters ; and 


MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 81 

spreading a cloth upon the floor, sunk, tired and 
weary, into the arms of sleep. 

Tuesday , 2d. I rested myself, and arranged 
things in my new quarters. 

Wednesday , 3d. This being the king’s fetish 
day, I heard nothing from him. T w ° Moors 
visited me, and told me they came from Mosou. 

Thursday , 4th. This morning the king sent 
his linguists (some of whom were heavily laden 
with golden ornaments) to make every inquiry 
as to my object in visiting him. I gave them 
all necessary information ; but found much dif- 
ficulty in making them understand me. And 
no wonder ; for how can those who are buried 
in superstition, and who witness scarcely any 
thing but Scenes of cruelty arising from that 
superstition, form any just idea of the motives 
which stimulate the Christian missionary to visit 
them ? 

“ O that they were wise, that they understood 
this !” 

Friday , 5th. Finding the place where I am 
quartered intensely hot, I sent my people into 
the forest to get materials for erecting a bower, 
to protect me from the burning rays of the sun.* 

* My lodgings were very small, containing about ten 
small sheds of the average size of six feet by seven, each 
having only one opening, and that into a small yard, about 
6 


82 


MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 


HUMAN SACRIFICES IN COOMASS1E. 

This morning I received information that the 
king had lost one of his relatives by death, and 
that in consequence thereof four human victims 
were already sacrificed, and their mangled bo- 
dies lying in the streets. I therefore concluded 
that I should not have an opportunity of seeing 
the king for a day or two. Shortly afterward 
I saw Apoko, the chief linguist, and told him 
that I was aware that there was bloody work 
going on to-day, as I saw a number of large 
hawks and turkey buzzards hovering over a 
certain spot, where I judged these poor victims 
were lying. “ Wheresoever the carcass is 
there will the eagles be gathered together.” 
He said it was even so, and, in consequence 
thereof, I should not have an opportunity of 
seeing the king to-day, and perhaps not to-mor- 

nine or ten feet square, in which no breeze could be felt. 
Surrounding one of these small yards, there are generally 
from two to four of these small sheds, the whole premises 
being connected by small doors leading out of one yard 
into another. In this small place I had about twenty per- 
sons ; such as carriers, hammock men, dec. And what 
increased the heat was, that they were here obliged to 
make their fires for dressing their food. This place, bad 
as it was, was one of the best that could be procured for 
me, unless I had gone up into the very heart of the town, 
which, for many reasons, would not have been prudent. 


MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. S3 

row. I told him that I did not like the being 
confined at one small place, in a low, unhealthy 
part of the town ; and that I must walk out and 
take exercise, otherwise ray health would suffer. 
I also told him that I was anxious to commence 
my journey home to the coast on Monday next. 
On hearing this, he went immediately to the 
king, and informed him of what I said ; shortly 
after which he returned, accompanied by two 
messengers, (one of them bearing in his hand 
an immense gold sword, to which was fastened 
a golden decanter, which would hold about a 
pint,) stating that his majesty begged of me not 
to go out into the town to-day, as he was mak- 
ing a custom for a departed relative, and he 
knew Europeans did not like to see human sa- 
crifices ; but that he did not wish to keep me 
from seeing his capital ; that he was fully satis- 
fied my object was to do good ; and that he 
would see me as soon as the custom was over. 
I, of course, complied with his wishes, and made 
up my mind to wait patiently. 

Throughout the day I heard the horrid sound 
of the death drum, and was informed in the 
evening that about twenty-five human victims 
had been sacrificed ; some in the town, and 
some in the surrounding villages, the heads of 
those killed in the villages being brought into 


84 MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 

the town in baskets. I fear there will be more 
of this awful work to-morrow. 

Saturday , 6th. This morning I again talked 
of walking out into the town, when Apoko in- 
formed me that more sacrifices would be made 
during the day, and that I must not go out until 
to-morrow. I therefore remained in my quar- 
ters until the afternoon, when, on finding my- 
self in rather a dangerous state for want of ex- 
ercise, I insisted upon walking out at one end 
of the town for half an hour. In the evening I 

learned that several more human victims had 

% 

been sacrificed during the day, but could not 
ascertain the exact number. The most accurate 
account I could obtain was that fifteen more 
had suffered, making a total of forty in two 
days. 

While speaking to Apoko, I did not fail to 
remind him that the law of God forbids this 
awful practice ; and that they were under a 
great error in supposing that the persons sacri- 
ficed would attend on the deceased relative of 
the king, in some other state of existence. 

These poor victims were allowed to lie naked 
and exposed in the street, until they began to 
swell like dead dogs ; and such is the callous 
state of mind in which the people live, that ma- 
ny were walking about among the putrefying 


MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 85 

bodies, smoking their pipes with astonishing 
indifference. 

Sunday , 7th. At nine A. M. I conducted di- 
vine service at my quarters ; many Ashantees 
were present, and some of them paid deep at- 
tention. At four P. M. I again commenced the 
worship of God, but was compelled abruptly to 
close the service by a tornado. 

Monday , 8th. This morning his majesty sent 
me a handsome present, consisting of a cow, a 
sheep, a pig, a quantity of palm nuts, yams, and 
plantains, and one ounce and four ackies of gold 
dust, {£5 currency,) also three ackies for my 
interpreter, and five ackies for my other attend- 
ants. The gold was brought in a golden blow- 
pan, weighing several ounces. 

DESCRIPTION OF THE TOWN OF COOMASSIE. 

Having asked his majesty to allow me to see 
the town to-day, he readily gave me liberty to 
go wherever I pleased. I therefore embraced 
the opportunity of looking over it, which occu- 
pied about one hour. The streets are large, and 
more clean and uniform than any I have seen 
in any other native town since my arrival in 
Africa. The breadth of some of them is at least 
thirty yards, and the average length from three 
hundred to six hundred yards. The town is 
situated or a bed of granite ; fragments of which 


86 MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 

are strewed in abundance over the finest streets ; 
the average size of them being about twenty 
inches square (cube.) A row of splendid ban- 
ian trees, planted at a considerable distance 
from each other, occupies some of the largest 
streets, affording a most delightful shade from 
the burning rays of the sun. The streets differ 
also in appearance from those of any other town 
which I have seen in the interior, by the houses 
on each side having open fronts, the floor being 
raised from two to three feet above the level of 
the ground. The space between the ground 
and the level of the floor, and in some houses a 
foot or two above the level of the floor, presents 
a front of carved work beautifully polished with 
red ochre. In some the carved work is continued 
up to the roof ; and where that is the case, it is 
covered with white clay, which has the appear- 
ance of a lime white wash. The roofs are 
made chiefly with bamboo poles, or sticks, with 
the bark stripped off, and thatched with palm 
leaves. 

Behind each of these open fronts are a num- 
ber .of small houses, or rather open sheds, in 
which the people dwell, (the room open to the 
street being more of.a public seat than a private 
room,) at an average number of from thirty to 
r orty to each open front. These small dwell- 


MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 87 

mgs in the background are in many cases en- 
tirely hidden from the observation of any one 
passing along the streets ; the only indication 
of them being a small door on the left or right 
of the open front. The houses are all built on 
the same plan, from that of the^king down to 
the lowest rank of captains ; and these are, with 
a few exceptions, the only persons who are al- 
lowed to build in any public situation. The 
rocky bed on which the town is built is, in ma- 
ny parts, very irregular and unlevel. Some of 
the streets are so full of holes, occasioned by 
the heavy rains washing the earth out of the 
fissures of the rocks during the rainy season, 
that any one attempting to walk through them 
in the dark would place his neck in danger. 

There is only one stone-built house in the 
town, which stands on the royal premises, and is 
called the “ Castle.” All the other buildings are 
of wood and swish, and by no means durable. 

The market place is a large open space about 
three quarters of a mile in circumference. 
There is no regularity in its form, but it ap- 
proaches nearest to that of a parallelogram. 
On one side of it is an extensive dell , surround- 
ed by large trees and high grass,* into which 

* There is a kind of grass in the immediate neighbour- 
hood of Coomassie, which grows to the enormous height 


88 MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 

they throw at last the dead bodies of sacrificed 
human victims. As I passed by this dell , 1 
smelt a most intolerable stench, proceeding from 
the poor creatures who were thrown there on 
Saturday last. My feelings would not permit 
me to look into this horrid receptacle of the 
dead ; but the very idea of it is dreadful. Yet 
even “ there the prisoners rest together ; they 
hear not the voice of the oppressor.” 

There are no regularly-built stalls in the mar- 
ket place. Many articles of merchandize were 
placed on the ground, and others on little tem- 
porary railings, which might be put up or taken 
down in a few moments. Among the commo- 
dities exposed for sale, I saw Manchester 
cloths, silks, muslins ; roll tobacco from the 
interior ; large cakes of a kind of pomatum^ 
made from the fruit of a tree found in the depth 
of the interior, and used by the Ashantees for 
anointing their bodies to give a polish to their 
skins ; native tobacco pipes, of very neat manu- 
facture ; cakes of a kind of whiting, used by 
the natives for marking their bodies ; kankie, 
(native bread,) yams, plantains, bananas, pines, 
ground nuts, fish, and the flesh of monkeys and 
elephants. 

of twenty feet, the stalk of which is about three quarters 
of an inch in diameter. 


MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 


89 


BANTAMA. HEATHEN JEALOUSIES. 

In the afternoon I asked his majesty to allow 
me to visit Bantama, or the “ Back Town to 
which he readily consented. I found it to be 
a small town, nearly one mile distant from Coo- 
massie, and connected with it by a long street, 
which runs from one town into the other. The 
only difference between the two towns is that 
the streets of Bantama are much more noiseless 
than those of Coomassie which difference 
arises from the former being looked upon as sa- 
cred, on account of the fetish house , which con- 
tains the bones of the former kings, being in it. 
Very few Europeans, or even Ashantees, are 
allowed to visit Bantama. Some of Apoko’s 
men, who conducted me thither, informed me 
that I am the only European who has been per- 
mitted to visit it during the reign of his present 
majesty ; and that the people of Coomassie are 
only allowed to go there when the king himself 
goes (which he does every forty days) to visit 
the tombs of his ancestors. Several splendid 
banian trees are luxuriating in the centre of the 
main street ; on one of which I saw a pretty 
variety of epiphitical orchidece , in full bloom. 

Before I left Bantama, I visited the chief, 
one of the greatest men in the kingdom, who 


90 


MISSIONS IN. WESTERN AFRICA. 


received me very kindly, and regaled me with 
some palm wine. 

As we were proceeding homeward, two or 
three men belonging to the chief came running 
after us, requesting us to stop. As soon as they 
came up with us, I learned that they had been 
watching us, to see if we gathered any thing 
from the banian trees, as we passed under them ; 
and on seeing my interpreter, who was riding 
in a palanquin, raise his hand to protect his face 
from the leaves, &c., they thought he had 
plucked some by my direction, and that I intend- 
ed to make a medicine from them for the pur- 
pose of poisoning the king ! They seemed fully 
satisfied, however, from an explanation on the 
part of my interpreter, that they were under a 
mistake. I believe their jealousy was excited 
by seeing me look up into one of the trees, 
where a variety of the or chide® was flowering ; 
and as they have scarcely any idea of the beauty 
of a flower, they thought I must have some sinis- 
ter intention in thus closely examining the tree. 

As I passed by the king’s residence on my 
way home, a small group of physic-nut trees, 
thirteen in number, was pointed out to me as 
being the memorials of the former kings ; an 
additional tree being planted at the decease of 
every monarch. 


MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 91 

On my arrival at ray quarters, which are on 
Apoko’s premises, I told him of the affair at 
Bantama, concerning the banian leaves, &c., 
and asked him if they saw any thing in my con- 
duct which authorized them to suspect me of 
any evil motive in visiting Bantama ? He an 
svvered, “ No and seemed to pay very little 
attention to the matter. However, to convince 
him more fully, I showed him some drawings 
of different varieties of or chide® in flower, and 
told him that the English are very fond of cul- 
tivating flowers from all parts of the world, and 
that I was very fond of studying their nature, 
character, &c. Apoko seemed much pleased- 
with the plates as they were laid open before 
him. 

Tuesday , 9th. The sudden change of tem- 
perature on Sunday last being very great, (from 
91° Fahrenheit, in the shade, to about 74°, or 
75°,) accompanied with heavy rain, I caught a 
violent cold, although I took the precaution to 
cover myself partially with a cloak, as soon as 
the change took place. I began to feel the evil 
effects of this cold this morning. 


92 


MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 


INTERVIEW WITH THE KING I PREPARATIONS FOR RETURN 
TO THE COAST : APOKO THE CHIEF LINGUIST. 

About half past nine this morning I went to 
the king’s residence to thank him for the hand- 
some present which he made me yesterday. 
He appears to be about thirty-six years of age. 
He is of middle stature ; his complexion is not 
so dark as that of many of his subjects ; his 
manners are pleasing and agreeable. He has 
an aversion to drinking and smoking, a quality 
this quite unusual among the Ashantees.* 

Thursday , 11th. Feeling better to-day, I 
walked out into the town for air and exercise. 
As I passed the end of one of the streets, I saw 
a group of persons surrounding a large Caboo- 
ceer’s umbrella. A band of music was playing, 
and a human victim was lying on the ground 
before them, exposed to public view. I turned 
from the disgusting and awful sight with painful 
feelings. Coming round to the further end of 
the same street, I saw it crowded with people, 
and numbers more joining them in rapid suc- 
cession. The king was seated in the street 

* While I was staying at Fomunnah, I once reproved 
Corintchie for drunkenness ; when he said that the king 
had checked him for it once, and since I also had done it, 
which was the second reproof he had received, he would 
endeavour to avoid it for the future. 


MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 93 

under his umbrellas, to drink palm wine with 
his chiefs, &c., previous to a week’s partial 
seclusion in his palace, immediately after the 
conclusion of the custom for his relation, who 
died on the fourth instant, this being the last 
day of the custom. 

In the course of the day I reminded Apoko 
of my anxiety to obtain an answer from his ma- 
jesty, respecting the establishment of schools, 
&c., in Ashantee, who answered, “ The king 
will speedily give you an answer ; and we hope 
you will come to Coomassie again and pay us 
another visit, as we shall be always glad to see 
you. The king believes that you wish to do 
him and the people good.” 

Saturday, 13th. I again reminded Apoko 
that I must speedily return to the coast, as the 
rains were becoming frequent and very heavy. 
He immediately went to tell the king ; and re- 
turned to inform me that his majesty had been 
so busily engaged throughout the morning that 
he could not see me and make me ready to start 
to-day, but that he would do so to-morrow. 

From the general aspect of things I became 
sensible that though I should not meet with any 
thing to discourage me, yet it would cost me 
another journey to Coomassie, before the confi- 
dence of the king would be fully secured ; as 


94 MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 

his jealous disposition is of such a nature as to 
require a considerable length of time and much 
patience and perseverance to overcome it. 

Sunday , 14th. At half past seven A. M. [ 
conducted divine service at my quarters, and 
found it to be a time of spiritual refreshment. 
I continued in anxious expectation of a message 
from the king until about eleven o’clock, when 
I found upon inquiry that Apoko had not remind- 
ed his majesty of seeing me to-day, because he 
thought I would not like to transact any kind of 
business on the sabbath day. (This idea was 
the result of a previous consultation with Apo- 
ko ; during which I explained to him the nature 
and claims of the Christian sabbath.) I told 
him that my business with his majesty was of a 
purely religious nature ; and that I had, there- 
fore, no objection to seeing him immediately. 
It was then too late, however, to hope for an 
interview to-day. 

Early this evening I held a prayer meeting, 
which was no sooner concluded than the rain, 
which had been threatening for several hours, 
commenced with awful violence. In a few mi- 
nutes, the small yard in the centre of my resi- 
dence was covered with water, to the depth of 
twelve or fifteen inches ; and as the thatch of 
my sleeping shed (I cannot call it a room) was 


MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 95 

in bad repair, the rain poured in almost in a 
stream on my pillow. I soon began to feel the 
evil effects of the damps, and felt some fears as 
to the consequences ; which fe&rs were height- 
ened by the consideration that my provisions 
were nearly exhausted, so that I could not make 
myself a cup of tea or coffee, having no sugar 
left ; neither had I any flour, bread, or biscuit. 
Trusting, however, in the mercy of God, I par- 
took of some native food, to satisfy the cravings 
of hunger, and slept in peace. 

Monday , 15th. I arose from my bed, deter- 
mined to make an attempt to commence my 
journey back to the coast to-day, if possible ; 
the commencement of the rains, of the violence 
of which a stranger to a tropical climate can 
form but a faint idea, together with the sickly 
state of several of my people, and the pressing 
claims of nearly seven hundred members of our 
society on the-roast, rendering my speedy re- 
turn imperative, i therefore began to pack up 
my things, while Apoko,* (whose attachment to 

* Apoko is the only person who is allowed to visit the 
king at any time he wishes. I therefore enjoyed many 
a d v an t a ges, from being placed by the king under his care. 
I was informed that had it not been so, I should have had 
much greater difficulties to contend with in holding inter- 
course with the king. Apoko is a fine-looking man, about 


96 MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 

me has daily increase^,) true to the promise 
which he made me yesterday, repaired to his 
majesty’s residence to remind him of the neces- 
sity of allowing me to leave to-day. 

In about two hours Apoko returned, accom- 
panied by a host of attendants, linguists, and 
messengers, with a present from his majesty, 
consisting of two ounces and four ackies of gold 
dust, (j£9 currency.) and a slave, for myself,* 
also eight ackies (£2 currency) for my inter- 
preter and other attendants. He also gave me 
the following message from the king : — “ His 
majesty knows that you cannot stop longer on 
account of the rains ; and as the thing which 
you have mentioned to him requires much con- 
sideration, he cannot answer you in so short a 
time : but if you will come up again, or send a 
messenger, after the rains are over, he will be 
prepared to answer you.” With this message 
I was pleased ; and said that I would certainly 
either come up again, or send a messenger at 
the time mentioned. I then repaired to his ma- 
jesty’s residence to take my leave, and found 
him seated in one of his apartments, surround- 

thirty-six years of age, and seems to have great influence 
with the king. 

f This slave, it will be seen in the sequel, Mr. Freeman 
had the pleasure of emancipating very soon. — E d. 


MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 97 

ed by an immense number of attendants : when 
he requested me, with a courtesy which one 
could scarcely expect from a person in his cir- 
cumstances, to present his compliments to his 
excellency President Maclean, and take a mes- 
sage to him. 

COMMENCEMENT OP RETURN I SLAVE EMANCIPATED. 

Having taken my leave, I commenced my 
journey at noon, preceded by an escort of troops. 
After I had proceeded a short distance along 
the street, Apoko came to testify his affection 
by a hearty shaking of the hand. 

When I reached Franfraham, the troops left 
me, and I stopped a few minutes to emancipate 
the slave whom his majesty had given me. 
This poor fellow r is a native from the depth of 
the interior, and is now in the prime of his life. 
On my informing him that he was now become 
a free man, he appeared overwhelmed with gra- 
titude, and almost fell to the earth before me in 
acknowledgment of the boon. He had not all 
the joy to himself, however ; for while I enjoyed 
the luxury of doing good, many of my people 
looked on him with delight ; and our pleasure 
was heightened when he told us that he had 
been brought out twice for the purpose of sacri- 
fice, during the recent custom, and had been 
. 7 


98 MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 

twice put in irons and sent back alive ; and that 
when he was brought out this morning, he ex- 
pected to be sacrificed in the, course of the day 
Happy change ! instead of having his head cut 
off, and his body thrown to the fowls of the air, 
he now finds himself in the enjoyment of liberty, 
safely proceeding with us far away from the 
scenes of his captivity. 

I then journeyed on with speed, and reached 
the town of Edgewabin about five P. M., where 
I took up my quarters for the night. 

Tuesday , 16th. At six A. M. I again pro- 
ceeded. In the course of the morning a torna- 
do, which had for a long time been grumbling 
in the distance, overtook us. We took shelter 
for a short time, and then ventured onward in 
the rain ; as I chose rather to expose myself 
to the rains, however pernicious, than to the 
only alternative of swimming across the rivers, 
which were swelling very fast. 

The soil being clayey, the rain made the 
roads so very slippery that nearly all my car- 
riers, &c., were tumbling down with the boxes ; 
and while I was riding in my chair to rest my- 
self a little, the hammock men stumbled with 
me twice, notwithstanding the greatest care on 
their part. 

During the whole of the day I did not stop 


MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. - 99 

to take any food, but pushed along like a man 
escaping for his life. 

FOMUNNAH . KINDNESS OF CORINTCHIE : JOURNEY BAOK 

TO THE COAST. 

Night closed in nearly an hour before I 
reached my resting place ; but we kept our path 
through the forest without much difficulty, and 
reached Fomunnah, at a quarter after seven 
o’clock, wet, weary, and hungry. I immediately 
repaired to Corintchie’s residence. He seemed 
overjoyed to see me, gave me a hearty shaking 
with both hands, put his arms around my neck 
in transport, and made me a present of palm wine 
and a mess of soup made with the flesh of the 
monkey. I then retired to my lodgings, and 
thankfully partook of Corintchie’s monkey soup, 
to satisfy the cravings of hunger, having little 
else to eat. 

Wednesday , 17th. Early this morning Co- 
rintchie came to my quarters, shook me cor- 
dially by the hand, and testified his delight at 
seeing me safely returned from Coomassie. 
On my telling him that I should want him to 
assist me in holding further intercourse with the 
king by sending messengers, &c., and, perhaps, 
in returning to Coomassie again in the course 
of the next dry season, he said be would readily 
do any thing which I requested of him. 


100 MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 

One of my attendants being so ill as to be un- 
able to walk over the Adansee hills, I applied 
for assistance to Corintchie ; who immediately 
supplied me with four strong men, to assist in 
carrying the invalid. About half past eleven 
A. M. I again proceeded, crossed the Adansee 
hills, and travelled through the forest until four 
P. M. ; when, finding the people weary, I was 
obliged to stop in a small croonj, and take up 
my quarters for the night. 

Thursday , 18th. At seven A. M. I resumed 
my journey, under rather trying circumstances ; 
being almost without food. About noon I stop- 
ped to rest the carriers, &c., and took a little 
refreshment, consisting of a piece of boiled yam 
and a little butter, with some heavy and sour 
pudding made with Indian corn, having nothing 
better to eat. 

About half past four P. M. I halted for the night 
at a small croom, about seven miles from the river 
Prah. On my arrival at this place I felt tired and 
hungry, and the God of providence kindly “ fur- 
nished me a table in the wilderness.” A wild hog 
had been killed in the neighbourhood, a portion 
of which I purchased, and found it very deli- 
cious. “ Thy bread shall be given thee ; thy 
water shall be sure.” My sleeping place, it is 
true, was a very bad one, such as an English- 


MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 101 

man would hardly put a pig in ; but I laid me 
down with humble confidence, and slept in 
peace. 

“ How do thy mercies close me round ! 

For ever be thy name adored ! 

I blush in all things to abound : 

The servant is above his Lord 

“ Inured to poverty and pain, 

A suffering life my Master led ; 

The Son of God, the Son of man, 

He had not where to lay his head. 

“ But lo ! a place he hath prepared 

For me, whom watchful angels keep ; 

Yea, he himself becomes my guard, 

He smooths my bed, and gives me sleep.” 

Friday , 19th. At six A. M. I started for the 
Prah, which I reached in about two hours. I 
stopped to breakfast at Prahsoo, on the Fantee 
side of the river ; and after resting the people, 
and allowing them time to refresh themselves by 
bathing in the river, I again proceeded at one 
P. M., and reached the small croom of Berra- 
coe about five o’clock, when I halted for the 
night. 

Saturday , 20th. At six A. M. I set out for 
Fessu ; which place I reached at noon ; and as 
the day was excessively hot, and the people 
very weary, I determined on stopping here and 
spending the sabbath. 


102 MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 

Sunday , 2 1st. At half past seven A. M. I 
conducted divine service, and preached from 
Mark viii, 36, 37. Many of the natives were 
present, and some of them paid deep attention. 
About five P. M. we had a comforting prayer 
meeting. 

Monday , 22d. At a quarter before six A. M. 
I started for Mansue. Arriving at a neat little 
croom on the way, I was pleased to find that a 
carrier, bearing provisions, whom I had been 
expecting several days, had just entered the 
croom. Thus I was enabled to take a comfort- 
able breakfast, consisting of suitable food, the 
want of which I had felt severely during the last 
seven or eight days. My people, who had seen 
with regret the privations I suffered, sat at a 
distance, looking at me while I was taking my 
breakfast, with countenances which told how 
happy they were in seeing my wants supplied. 

After breakfast I again proceeded, and reach- 
ed Mansue at one P. M. Gabree, the chief, 
welcomed me back, and entreated me to stay 
with him until the morrow, as I had already 
travelled a fair day’s journey ; but, as I was 
extremely anxious to reach Cape Coast as early 
as possible, I told him I could not stop to-day, 
but would pay him a visit at the earliest oppor- 
tunity. On my inquiring whether he would 


MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 103 

like a mission to be established at Mansue, he 
said, “Yes;” and he should feel very happy 
if he had a missionary residing with him. Ga- 
bree is one of the most respectable chiefs in 
Fantee. 

Mansue and the adjacent villages contain a 
population of at least ten thousand souls ; and it 
is admirably situated for the establishment of a 
mission.* 

Leaving Mansue, I proceeded to Wanquassoo, 
a small croom, about nine miles from the last- 
mentioned place ; where we stopped for the 
night. 

Tuesday , 23d. At six A. M. I again resumed 
my journey, and reached Yancoomassie at nine, 
where I stopped to breakfast. Assin Chibboe, 
the chief, received me very kindly, and asked 
me to stay with him a day or two ; but our so- 
cieties on the coast acted as a powerful magnet, 
which seemed to draw me with almost irresist- 
ible force toward them. I therefore promised 

* Many important advantages would, in all probability, 
result from our having a school house and teacher at Man- 
sue. It is two days’ journey on the road to Coomassie ; 
and would, consequently, facilitate our operations in Ashan- 
tee. The situation also is open and healthy ; and would 
in due time be a very eligible place for the residence of 3. 
missionary. 


104 MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 

Chibboe a visit at some future opportunity, and 
hastened on my way with all speed. The road 
was so much overgrown with luxuriant vegeta- 
tion, that I was literally dragged through the 
bushes, which soon compelled me to walk. 
The morning sun was also intensely hot, and 
the path so narrow that an umbrella was of- lit- 
tle use. Instead of passing through Domonas- 
sie, as I did on my journey up to Coomassie, I 
left it on my left, and took a shorter road to 
Cape Coast. 

About noon I reached Doonqua, (Payntree’s 
croom of Bowdich,) where I rested my carriers, 
&c., a few minutes ; after which I proceeded 
about four miles, took some refreshment, and thep 
pushed on to within about nine miles of Cape 
Coast. Finding that many of my people were 
unable to proceed any further, I left them in a 
little croom for the night, and urged on my way, 
taking with me only the hammock men, whom 
I had rested the greater part of the day by walk- 
ing about twenty-five miles, and a soldier. As 
I approached nearer to Cape Coast, the roads 
were much better ; and, having the advantage 
of a fine moonlight night, I reached the mission 
house in safety, about nine P. M., and obtained 
a refreshing view of the deep, deep sea, which 
unites Cape Coast with my native land, with 


MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 105 

feelings of humble gratitude to Almighty God, 
who had mercifully preserved me in the midst 
of so many dangers, not imaginary but real, and 
brought me home in health, peace, and safety. 


CHAPTER III. 

Practicability of a mission in Ashantee. Letter of Pre- 
sident Maclean. 

I trust, my dear sirs, that these oopigus 
extracts from my journal will convince you that 
God, in his infinite mercy, is gently opening 
before us our way into the interior of this vast 
continent. Future difficulties will doubtless 
arise ; but I am fully confident that they will not 
be of such a nature as to hinder the Christian 
missionary from pressing on in the glorious con- 
flict. It is true that this spiritual Jericho at 
present stands strong ; and that Satan, its mon- 
ster king, still has the triumph of seeing thou- 
sands of helpless men, for whom Christ died, 
dashed into the dust iir dishonour : but Israel 
shall surely triumph ; the mystical rams’ horns 
shall not be blown in vain ; the enemy shall be 
taken in his strong hold, and the Redeemer 
shall have these “ heathen” for his “inheritance” 
and these “ uttermost parts of the earth” for his 
“ possession.” 


106 MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 

I believe that my long detention at Fomunnah, 
on my way to Coomassie, was all the Lord’s 
doing. The great length of time which I re- 
mained there gave me an excellent opportunity 
of becoming acquainted with the people, and of 
gaining their affections. I also became accus- 
tomed by gentle degrees to those horrid and 
awful scenes which are every-day occurrences 
in Coomassie. 

Fomunnah is a much more desirable place 
for the establishment of a mission, at the present 
time, than Coomassie. The people are more 
prepared for the reception of the gospel ; and 
their chief, Corintchie, is exceedingly well dis- 
posed toward us. Nevertheless, I should have 
no hesitation in attempting the establishment 
of a mission even in Coomassie itself. 

To carry on this glorious work in Ashantee, 
and other parts of the interior, it will require 
men of great nerve, patience, forbearance, and 
perseverance. I also here deem it necessary 
to remind you of the importance of sending per- 
sons who are rather light than heavy in weight, 
as the hammock men will not carry them if they 
are very heavy. Yet, on the other hand, they 
must not be too small and weak ; if so, they will 
never, humanly speaking, bear the very heavy 
toils of travelling in this climate. If I were $ 


MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 107 

little larger than I am, I should meet with almost 
insuperable difficulties in travelling. If I were 
not very strong, through divine goodness, I could 
not have borne half the toils through which I 
have passed. 

I have no doubt as to getting up to Ashantee 
for the future with much less expense than has 
been incurred in my first visit. The king would 
not make so much ado the second time, as I am 
no longer a stranger. I also think that even 
with a stranger h^ would not adopt the same 
course as he did with me, inasmuch as the no- 
velty is over. 

While I was staying at Fomunnah, the king 
sent down a messenger to see what kind of a 
person I was. When the messenger returned, 
he asked him what he had seen, in language 
something like the following : — 

The king. “ You have seen the fetishman ?” 
Messenger. “ Yes.” 

King. “ Had he plenty of drums with him ?” 
Messenger. “I saw no drums.” 

King. “ Why ! he is a fetishman ; he must 
have drums with him.” 

Messenger. “ I saw no drums. He has plenty 
of boxes ; but I cannot say what they contain.” 
King. “ Why did you not endeavour to learn 
whether the boxes contained drums or not ?” 


108 MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 

I was informed that the king was exceedingly 
angry with the messenger because he could not 
give him a satisfactory answer. At another 
time the king said, “ Never since the world be- 
gan has there been an English missionary in 
Ashantee before. What can he want?” As I 
have been to Coomassie, and not only so, but 
have visited him in his own residence ; as well 
as been for a fortnight under the watchful care 
of his chief linguist, Apoko, who has his entire 
confidence ; his jealousies aifc, doubtless, so far 
removed that he will not be likely to detain a 
missionary so long on the road again, while per- 
plexing and puzzling himself with questions of 
the before-mentioned character. 

It was manifest that a mighty change had 
taken place respecting me in the mind of the 
king, after I Ifad been a few days in Coomassie ; 
for he seemed very anxious to detain me, if pos- 
sible ; and I believe he would have kept me 
several weeks longer, thereby placing my life 
in the greatest danger from the rains, &c., but 
for the kindness of President Maclean, who, 
knowing the probable consequences of my being 
detained in that manner, wrote to the king, some 
time after I left Cape Coast, requesting him to 
let me leave Coomassie whenever I thought 
proper. 


MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 109 

I certainly deeply regretted the necessity 
of leaving so early ; but had I stayed longer, I 
must, in all probability, have stayed until the 
rainy season was over, which I was not prepared 
to do. 

Doubtless, there has been a great advantage 
gained by this enterprise ; and I trust, my dear 
sirs, you will, by the liberality of British Chris- 
tians, and especially those of our own body, be 
enabled to follow up that advantage by sending- 
out, as early as possible, three or four mission- 
aries, at the least, that more attention may be 
paid to Ashantee. 

I intend sending up a messenger to the king, 
to keep the communication open, as soon as 
the rains are over ; and shall wait with great 
anxiety for an answer from you, as to what 
steps are to be taken. If it were practicable, 
a handsome present, of the description I men- 
tioned in my last, [namely, a poney-phaeton 
and harness, suitable to the country,] would 
be well received by the king, and be of much 
importance in influencing his mind in our favour. 

After I had prepared the preceding extracts 
from my journal, I felt it my duty to hand them 
over to his excellency, President Maclean, who, 
after he had perused them, returned them with 


110 MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 

the following letter, which he has kindly permit- 
ted me to annex to them : — 

“ My Dear Sir, — I herewith return your 
narrative of your journey to Ashantee, which I 
have perused with very great interest. 

“ I would fain hope, from the manner in which 
you were received in your avowed character as 
a missionary, throughout the whole of your ar- 
duous journey, that there will not exist many ob- 
stacles to the accomplishment of the first object — 
getting a locus standi in the country. Cer- 
tainly I think there will be no insuperable ob- 
stacle. 

“ I hope and trust the Wesleyan Missionary 
Committee will be satisfied that there is such 
an opening as will justify them in pushing the 
advantage gained by your indefatigable zeal. 
I would almost go so far as to say that, if they 
have the means , a serious responsibility will rest 
upon them, and on Christian England, if so glo- 
rious an opening into interior Africa, if so rich 
a harvest, be neglected. But I hope better 
things. And I do not despair of yet witnessing 
the peaceful triumph of the cross, even in that 
strong-hold of Satan, Coomassie. 

“ I expect considerable advantages will arise 
from the Christian education of the two Ashan- 
tee princes now in England. If well supported, 


MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. Ill 

(for all depends upon that,) their influence in 
Ashantee will aid the good cause much. I shall 
not fail to direct them to be introduced to the 
Wesleyan Missionary Committee. 

“ Believe me yours very truly, 

“ George Maclean. 

“ Cape Coast Castle , July Qth, 1839 . 

“ The Rev. T. B. Freeman.” 

Thus, my dear sirs, I have endeavoured to 
discharge what I feel to be a very important 
duty. And casting myself, as usual, on your 
kind indulgence, for having used so many words 
in support of a cause which I know would 
strongly recommend itself to your hearts and 
affections without my saying any thing* 
subscribe myself, &c., 
(Signed) T. B. Freeman. 

Mission House y Cape Coast Castle y Jdy 10 * 1839 , 


112 


MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA, 


CHAPTER IV. 

Hopeful results of the journey of Mr. Freeman to 
Ashantee — Missions on the Gold Coast — Notices of the 
Wesleyan Missionary Committee relating to Ashantee — • 
Ordination and valedictory services ; and departure of 
Rev . Thomas B. Freeman and party. 

HOPEFUL RESULTS OF THE JOURNEY OF MR. FREEMAN TO 
ASHANTEE. 

The following extract of a letter from the 
Rev. T. B. Freeman, dated Cape Coast Castle, 
September 17th, 1839, shows the hopeful re- 
sults of his journey to Ashantee : — 

“ I am very glad that you have received my 
letter of May 7th ; and hope, ere this reaches 
you, you will have received my journal and 
other papers. The results of my mission to 
Ashantee are now beginning to be manifest. 
The king, I hear, from good authority, is be- 
coming anxious respecting the establishment 
of a school in Coomassie, and is expecting me 
to pay him another visit ; and many of the 
Ashantees who became acquainted with me 
during my late visit, call at the mission-house 
to see me, when they come down to Cape 
Coast. A brother of Corintchie has this morn- 
ing paid me a visit, presenting Corintchie’s re- 


MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 113 

gards, and stating that they will be very happy 
to see me in Ashantee again. If the advantage 
already gained can be followed up, I have no 
doubt that, under the blessing of the God of 
missions, we shall, in due time, meet with 
abundant success in Ashantee.” 

MISSIONS ON THE GOLD COAST. 

The following communication from Mr. Free- 
man, in connection with his journal and letters 
respecting Ashantee, afford very gratifying evi- 
dence, that the signal blessing of Almighty God 
has already attended the labours of the Wes- 
leyan mission among the heathen of that part- 
of Western Africa in which he has been em- 
ployed. — Edit . Wes. Mag . 

Rev. and Dear Sirs,- — I am happy to inform 
you, that our new chapel at Annamaboe is in a 
sufficient state of forwardness for constant use. 
The foundation was laid August 14th, 1838. 
It is built with stone from the bottom of the 
foundation to the height of one foot above the 
ground : the remaining part of the walls are 
swish. The walls are two feet thick, very 
strong and durable, and carried to the height of 
sixteen feet. The roof is made with deal, pur- 
chased at a reasonable price in the neighbour- 
8 


114 MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 

hood, and thatched. Its dimensions are fifty- 
three feet by thirty, and will seat from four to 
five hundred persons. "The floor is of the same 
material as the greater part of the walls. A 
pulpit and communion rails are erected, and the 
whole of the remaining space is fitted up with 
fixed benches. Had not the people exerted 
themselves exceedingly, it could not have been 
so forward ; but I am glad to say, that they 
came nobly forward to the work, both in labour 
and contributions ; and the happy consequence 
is, that it is placed out of all danger from the 
rains, which have been very violent and de- 
structive this season. A few days after my ar- 
rival from the interior, I went down to x\nna- 
maboe, taking with me carpenters, bricklayers, 
&c., to prepare it for opening as early as pos- 
sible. All things being ready, on Sunday, May 
26th, 1839, I opened it for divine worship. 

At seven A. M. I read prayers, and preached 
to an attentive congregation, from, “ Know ye 
that the Lord, he is God,” &e. Psalm c, 3, 4. 
Many felt it to be a delightful service, and the 
tear of gratitude to Almighty God was shed. 
Many of our members at Cape Coast came 
down, though the distance is twelve miles and 
a half, to congratulate their Annamaboe friends, 


MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 115 

and share with them in the solemn and sacred 
blessings of the day. 

At three P. M. I again preached to a very 
large congregation, amounting to about one 
thousand persons, from Heb. i\\ 9-13. The 
chapel would not -hold the whole congregation : 
several hundreds of heathens crowded the win- 
dows. 

At seven P. M. I again preached, from Heb. 
iv, 14-16. We had a large, attentive, serious 
congregation. Many present felt it u good to 
wait on the Lord.” 

The collections amounted to £10 3s. 9 d., 
notwithstanding the previous exertions on the 
part of the people. 

It affords me much pleasure to state, that I 
called upon the gentlemen residing in Annama- 
boe, a few days before the chapel was opened, 
to solicit their aid, and succeeded in every ap- 
plication. Several gentlemen at Cape Coast 
also rendered us their timely and friendly aid. 
The sum thus raised at Cape Coast and Anna- 
maboe amounts to £32 currency ; for which we 
feel thankful. 

Our cordial thanks are due especially to 
Henry Barnes, Esq., (in whose house I always 
find a hearty welcome, and a comfortable home 


116 MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 

whenever I visit Annamaboe,) for his kind as- 
sistance, not only in his liberal contributions, 
but also in superintending the work at all times 
during my absence ; and in sending his work- 
men (carpenters and bricklayers) to assist in 
carrying on the work at the chapel, at various 
times, gratuitously. 

While the chapel walls were building, many 
of our people at Annamaboe, not excepting 
some of the most respectable among them, were 
often seen busily engaged in carrying swish, &c., 
as early as two or three o’clock in the morning. 

Since the chapel has been opened, my kind 
friend Mr. Barnes has, at his own expence, 
painted the pulpit and communion rails, &c. ; 
and as the inside of the chapel has had one 
coat of whitewash, it has now a very neat ap- 
pearance. Blessed be God, who thus prospers 
the work of our hands ! 

I have also the high satisfaction of informing 
you, that our little chapel at Winnebah is open- 
ed for divine worship. The foundation-stone 
was laid July-25th, 1838. Our little society 
there exerted themselves to the utmost of their 
power; stimulated and led on by Mr. William 
De Graft, who is now living with me in the 
mission-house, as provisional assistant. The 
walls are built with swish, on a stone founda- 


MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 117 

tion, and carried to a height of fourteen feet. 
The roof is made with native w T ood, and thatch- 
ed. Its dimensions are thirty-four feet by nine- 
teen. 

After I had opened the Annamaboe chapel, I 
proceeded to Winnebah, for the purpose of fit- 
ting up and opening the chapel. Finding, how- 
ever, that it was hardly ready for me, I sent up 
to Cape Coast for an extra carpenter ; and then 
journeyed on to British Accra, (a distance of 
forty miles,) to visit our society, &c., recently 
established there. 

During my short stay at Accra, I received 
much kindness from the gentlemen and autho- 
rities ; especially from J. W. Hanson, Esq., the 
commandant, and from J. Bannsman, Esq., with 
whom I always find a cordial welcome. 

As I had no convenient place for meeting the 
society while staying at Accra, Mr. Hanson 
kindly lent me the large hall in the fort for that 
purpose. I am glad to say, that I found the 
society and schools in a flourishing condition. 
There are thirty-five members in society ; and 
in the schools sixty-five boys and twenty girls. 
The boys’ school has been established six 
months, and the girls two months. The local 
government having undertaken to bear half of 
the expenses of the boys’ school, the command- 


118 MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 

ant has kindly made comfortable arrangements 
for the schoolmaster and mistress to reside, and 
for both schools to be kept in the fort, until I 
can make some final provision concerning them. 

The government will take no part in the ge- 
neral management of the boys’ school, that be- 
ing entirely left to us. Several of the boys, 
who knew not their letters when they entered 
the school, can now read lessons in the New 
Testament. God be praised, our prospects at 
British Accra are of the most encouraging na- 
ture. Pray send out a missionary for Accra 
without delay. v 

Having stayed at Accra a few days, I again 
returned to Winnebah, and proceeded to fit up 
the chapel without delay. In eight days after 
my return, we had a neat little pulpit erected, 
the remaining space fitted up with fixed bench- 
es, and every necessary arrangement made for 
opening it on Sunday, June 23d, 1839. 

At seven A. M. we held a prayer meeting in 
the chapel ; and at eleven A. M. I read prayers 
and preached to an attentive, serious congrega- 
tion, from, “ For thy Maker is thine husband, 
the Lord of hosts is his name,” &c. Isaiah liv, 
5-8. God was in the midst of us, and blessed 
us. The chief, and many of the most respect- 
able heathens in the town, were present ; and 


MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 119 

many of them paid deep attention to the word 
spoken. 

At three P. M. I again preached to a large 
congregation, from, “ It is appointed unto men 
once to die,” &c. Heb. ix, 27. The chief 
and his captains, &c., again attended, and be- 
haved very well indeed. The respectable be- 
haviour of these heathens reminded me forcibly 
of the mighty change which has taken place in 
the character of the Winnebah people during 
the last few years. Several years ago there 
was a small linglish fort in the centre of the 
town. Some misunderstanding having arisen 
between the natives and the commandant, the 
former rebelled against the latter and slew him. 
The consequence was, that some British men- 
of-war fired on the town as they sailed past it, 
and battered the fort to the ground ; causing 
the refractory inhabitants to retreat into the fo- 
rest. On the very spot where the fort once 
stood, and where these unhappy events took 
place, stands our little chapel ; and on this very 
spot were collected together, peacefully attend- 
ing to the words of eternal life, the descendants 
of those who had, in former days, been collect- 
ed together to shed blood. This mighty change 
has taken place partly through the instrument- 
lity of the local government of Cape Coast ; 


120 MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 

and, secondly, by the introduction of that in- 
comparable blessing, Christianity. 

After the conclusion of the afternoon service 
I spoke to the people concerning the opening 
of a school for the instruction of their children. 
They readily consented to send their children, 
whenever I could make arrangements for a 
commencement. 

The rains are now very violent, and travel- 
ling rather difficult ; but as soon as they are 
over, (which will be, I hope, in a few days,) I 
intend sending down one of the ^buths whom I 
have had in training in the mission-house, on 
purpose to commence the school. Winnebah 
is a place of great importance to us, being about 
midway between Cape Coast and British Ac- 
cra. While toiling along the coast for a dis- 
tance of nearly or quite a hundred miles, visit- 
ing our societies, I find Winnebah a delightful 
retreat from the heavy sand beach, the burning 
rays of an almost vertical sun, and the strong 
breeze from the Atlantic. I hope to see much 
lasting good result from the erection of a cha- 
pel, and the establishment of a school at that 
place. 

Our little chapel, or, rather, school-room, at 
Domanassie, I am happy to say, is also fit for 
use. 


MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 121 

I must here beg leave to insert a few ex- 
tracts from my Journal for the last year, 1838. 

November 22 d, Thursday . — At five A. M. I 
left Annamaboe for Domanassie. As I was 
passing through the glens I saw a splendid 
production of nature : several large trees, from 
thirty to forty feet high, covered with blossoms 
nearly as large as a tulip, of a fine scarlet co- 
lour, ornamented round the lamina with a golden 
fringe, courted my attention. On examination 
I found it to belong to the class “ didynamia ” 
of Linnaeus. Amidst the various beauties of 
Flora, on which I have feasted my eyes, both 
in England and Africa, I have seen nothing 
comparable to this splendid tree : even the 
horse chestnut, the glory of Mount Pindus, 
cannot vie with this beauty of the glen. 

About half past twelve I reached Domanas- 
sie ; and, to my great satisfaction, found our 
society increasing in divine knowledge, in num- 
ber, and in peace. 

Saturday , 24th . — I was engaged in levelling 
the floor of the little swish chapel, which our 
people have built nearly at their own expense ; 
intending to preach in it on the morrow, though 
it is in an unfinished state. 

Sunday , 2 5th . — At seven A. M. a prayer 
meeting was held in the new chapel. I felt 


122 MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 

greatly encouraged in seeing this little African 
temple full of persons, joining in- one general 
burst of praise to God. How applicable, spi- 
ritually, to this scene are the words of our 
hymn ! — 

“ Hark ! the wastes have found a voice, 

Lonely deserts now rejoice, 

Gladsome hallelujahs sing, 

All around with praises ring. 

* “ Lo ! abundantly they bloom, 

Lebanon is hither come ; 

Carmel’s stores the heavens dispense, 

Sharon’s fertile excellence. 

“ See, these barren souls of ours 
Bloom, and put forth fruits and flowers, 

Flowers of Eden, fruits of grace, 

Peace, and joy, and righteousness !” 

It is with heartfelt pleasure I also inform 
you, that we have a small society at a large 
croom called Salt Pond, (which takes its name 
from a salt pond near it,) situated on the beach, 
about eight miles above Annamaboe ; and that 
they are very anxious to build a little chapel, 
which they will accomplish themselves ; the 
laying of the foundation, and the doors and 
window-shutters, being excepted. Consequent- 
ly, as soon as the rains are fairly over, I intend 


MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 123 

to go down and commence the building for 
them, and then get the doors and windows 
made at Cape Coast, and send them down in a 
canoe. Without chapels very little can be done 
on this station. 

I trust, my dear sirs, that you will not blame 
me for drawing £25 for the Annamaboe chapel, 
£15 for the Winnebah chapel, and £5 for the 
Domanassie chapel, as I have done so from 
pure necessity. A coat of plaster and white- 
wash outside is nearly all that any of the above- 
mentioned chapels will require ; and that, I 
hope, we shall be able to accomplish without 
any further assistance from you. 

The heavy rains have done some damage to 
the vestry at Cape Coast, which will place me 
under the necessity of employing two or three 
bricklayers for some time in repairing it, after 
the rains are over. 

I had just returned from Winnebah to Anna- 
maboe, and was resting myself there a few 
days, when I received information that the 
vestry had suffered materially from the rains. 
This unpleasant news arrived just as I was 
taking my dinner ; and I speedily packed up 
my things, and came up to Cape Coast the 
same afternoon, fearing lest the chapel should 
sustain any injury. I am happy, however, to 


124 


MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 


state that it has taken no harm, neither is it in 
any danger. 

The two old native houses, which stood near 
the chapel at Cape Coast, I have purchased, 
and pulled down, to avoid any accident by fire. 
I have only drawn on you for the payment for 
one of them, as I am not prepared to give you 
an account of the exact amount of the purchase, 
some trifling things in connection therewith 
not being finally settled. I also hope to make 
some arrangements for removing the female 
school to the present mission-house, as soon as 
I obtain your permission to purchase it for a 
permanent residence ; and then there will be a 
year or two’s rent of the house (the old mission- 
house taken by Mr. Wrigley) in which the fe- 
male school is now kept, which would nearly 
or quite pay for the purchase of the old native 
house in question. 

There will always be new perplexities and 
expenses arising on this station about houses, 
until a purchase is made, and the school kept 
on the same premises. 

At Yancoomassie, a large native town in 
Fantee, about twenty-eight miles inland, there 
is an excellent opening for the establishment 
of a school, &c. Assin Chibboe, the chief, 
called on me at the mission-house a few weeks 


MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 125 

after I passed through the town on my return 
from Ashantee ; and, on my asking him if he 
would assist us in erecting a chapel in his town, 
he answered, “ Yes. If you will send a person 
or two to direct, I will find men to do the greater 
part of the work.” For further remarks on the 
kindness of Assin Chibboe, and the character, 
Sic., of his town, see my Ashantee Journal. 
(Pages 21, 22, 103, of this work.) 

I verily believe, that ere another rainy sea- 
son arrives, there will be three or four more 
chapels erected on this station by the Christian 
zeal of our native societies. 

I trust, my dear sirs, that a glorious host of 
immortal souls will be realized in this part of 
Africa, if these advantages can be followed up. 

The amount of good done on this station, 
during the short time your missionaries have 
visited it, has a much greater latitude than the 
Fantee country ; though that is very exten- 
sive. 

The trading habits of many of our members 
cause them to travel hundreds of miles into the 
interior. To these trading places they carry 
the word of life ; and I anx glad to say, that the 
Lord blesses their humble exertions in giving 
them “ souls for their hire.” Incredible as the 
following incident may appear, the fact is not 


126 MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 

the less certain. While I was in Coomassie, 
one of these converts to Christianity, from the 
interior , applied to me for Christian baptism. 
As I found, during his examination, every proof 
of a sincere desire and purpose to live as a 
true disciple of Christ, I, of course, granted his 
request; and publicly baptized him in the pre» 
sence of many Ashantees. Surely, Ethiopia is 
stretching out her hands to God. 

As I know that the bare statement of these 
facts will have more weight with you than any 
observations I can make, I need not cry, “ Men 
of Israel, help !” I therefore humbly submit 
them to your serious consideration. 

Believe me, rev. and dear sirs, your obedi- 
ent servant in the gospel of Christ, 

Thomas B. Freeman. 

NOTICES OF THE WESLEYAN MISSIONARY COMMITTEE RE- 
LATING TO ASHANTEE. 

Soon after the reception of this letter, the 
committee issued the following notice : — 

The committee of the Wesleyan Missionary 
Society are thankful to find that they were not 
mistaken in supposing that the Journal of the 
Rev. Thomas B. Freeman’s late visit to Ashan- 
tee would be perused with feelings of much 
more than ordinary interest, and that the ap 


MISSIONS IN WEST RN AFRICA. 127 

peal with which they deemed it their duty to 
accompany that document could not fail to 
produce, in due season, a suitable response. 
The response, the practical and pecuniary re- 
sponse, has already commenced. We have 
great satisfaction in inserting the following 
letter from one of the oldest and best friends 
of the society: — - 

“To the General Secretaries' of the Wesleyan 
Missionary Society. 

“Liverpool, January 13 th, 1840. 

“ Very Dear Sirs, — I have just finished 
the reading of Mr. Freeman’s account of his 
visit to Ashantee. I see you must have an 
extra effort to do any thing to purpose in that 
quarter. The effect of his statements, and of 
your observations, impels me to annex an order 
on Smith, Payne, and Co., for ten guineas, 
[about fifty dollars,] for that special object ; 
and I sincerely wish you may have, generally, 
such encouragement as will enable you, pru- 
dently, to meet Mr. Freeman’s views. May the 
great Head of the church give you such men 
as himself to aid him and you ; and preserve 
their lives for this great work ! 

“ With best wishes, &c., I remain, very dear 
sirs, yours, sincerely, 


“Thomas Crook. 


128 MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 

The committee have also been favoured with 
the following special donations, spontaneously- 
forwarded, for the same object, namely : — 


£ s. d. 

Thomas Farmer, Esq., Gunnersbury house - 52 10 0 

Thomas Crook, Esq., Liverpool , (see his letter 

on the preceding page) - - -10100 

Mr. G. W. Harrison, Wakefield , by the Rev. 

W. Bacon - - - - 10 10 0 

Samuel Mills, Esq., Russell- square , London - 10 10 0 

A friend to missions - - - 5 0 0 

E. J., a member of the society of Friends - 5 0 0 

* Rev. Thomas Rogers, Oxford - - 2 0 0 

A friend, Camden-town - - 1 0 0 

A friend to missions, by the Rev. Dr. Alder - 10 0 


Thus the work of providing the means for 
one of the noblest enterprises which the true 
friends of Africa were ever called to attempt, 
has been happily commenced. The committee 
anxiously trust that it will proceed with a 
promptitude and liberality worthy of the occa- 
sion, and that, very soon, they shall receive 
such further substantial proofs of the sympathy 
of the Christian public with themselves in this 
great undertaking, as will justify them in taking 
measures forthwith for its accomplishment. 

After this Mr. Freeman made a visit to Eng- 
land. He arrived in London in June, 1840, 
accompanied by Mr. William De Graft, a na- 


MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 129 

t,ive local preacher. At the conference held at 
Newcastle-upon-Tyne, the following month, 
four missionaries were appointed for the west- 
ern coast of Africa, including Ashantee, and 
two more were to be selected. By the month 
of June, 1841, $25,000 had been received by 
the treasurers of the Missionary Society ex- 
pressly for that mission. 

ORDINATION AND VALEDICTORY SERVICES ; AND DEPART 
URE OF REV. THOMAS B. FREEMAN AND PARTY. 

On Monday, the 1st of December, a special 4 
service was held at Great Queen-street chapel, 
connected with the departure of the missiona- 
ries appointed to Ashantee and the coast of 
Guinea; and notwithstanding the limited ex- 
tent to which previous notice of the meeting 
had been circulated, the chapel was well filled 
with a very attentive and devout audience. 

The service was conducted by the Rev. Drs. 
Bunting, Hannah, and Alder, and Messrs. 
Beecham and Hoole. The newly appointed 
missionaries, Messrs. Hesk, Watson, Shipman, 
Thackwray, and Walden, were introduced to 
the meeting ; and the three former gave a brief 
detail of the circumstances by which, under di- 
vine Providence, they had seen it their duty to 
offer themselves for the arduous services of a 
9 


130 MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 

mission to Africa. The five missionaries were 
then solemnly ordained to the office and work 
of the Christian ministry. Dr. Bunting con- 
ducted the ordinance service ; and the other 
ministers above mentioned assisted in the “ lay- 
ing on of hands.” The Rev. John Beecham 
next addressed the missionaries on the peculiar 
circumstances and duties of the mission to 
which they had been solemnly designated. He 
then introduced the Rev. Thomas B. Freeman, 
who, with deep feeling, acknowledged the 
kindness he had experienced during his visit to 
this country ; and expressed his thankfulness 
for the success he had met with in his endeav- 
ours to awaken a more lively interest and act- 
ive exertion in behalf of that part of Africa 
which it was his business to represent. Mr. 
De Graft, a native Fantee assistant on the mis- 
sion, who had accompanied Mr. Freeman to 
this country, took his farewell of the Christian 
public, by a most appropriate and interesting 
address ; at the close of which Dr. Bunting, in 
the name of the committee, presented to him a 
Bible as a token of their regard and affection, 
and expressed a hope that he would still suc- 
cessfully study and publish those blessed and 
important truths which that holy book re- 
veals. 


MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 131 

The Rev. Dr. Hannah, theological tutor of 
the Wesleyan institution, delivered to the mis- 
sionaries a very instructive and impressive 
charge ; and, at the close of the service, the 
whole congregation appeared to unite most fer- 
vently in the prayer which was offered up in 
behalf of the missionaries, and for the success 
of the mission, by the Rev. Dr. Bunting. 

On Wednesday, the 2d of December, the 
missionaries and Mr. De Graft took their for- 
mal leave of the general committee of the Wes- 
leyan Missionary Society, and of the Wesleyan 
ministers of London and its vicinity, a great 
number of whom were present on the occasion 
in Hatton-Garden. 

The sailing of the 44 Osborn,” by which ves- 
sel the missionaries were to proceed to Cape 
Coast, was delayed until Thursday, the 10th of 
December : on that day the whole party em- 
barked at Gravesend, and immediately set sail. 
They are, in all, eleven persons ; namely, Mr. 
and Mrs. Freeman, and native boy ; Mr. De 
Graft; Mr. and Mrs. Hesk ; Mr. Watson ; Mr. 
and Mrs. Shipman ; Mr. Thackwray; and Mr. 
Walden. Never was a missionary party dis- 
missed from the shores of England with a more 
intense feeling of interest and sympathy. All 
acknowledged the very arduous and difficult 


132 MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 

character of the mission, as well as its import- 
ant bearings on the welfare of the human race, 
and one of the boldest efforts yet made by the 
church in modern times to introduce Christi- 
anity and its attendant blessings to the inde- 
pendent negro states of interior Africa. Thou- 
sands of prayers have been offered in behalf 
of these missionaries and their undertaking ; 
and we do not doubt that they will be con- 
stantly remembered at the throne of grace, by 
those who are concerned for the prosperity and 
extension of the kingdom of Christ. 


LETTERS FROM MISSIONARIES. 
Extract of a letter from Rev. Thomas B. Freeman , 
dated Annamaboe, Gold Coast , Western Africa , 
May 5th , 1841. 

A Bristol vessel being about to sail for Eng- 
land from British Accra, I embrace the oppor- 
tunity of informing you of our arrangements 
and operations, our health and prospects. 

On Wednesday, March 31st, we held a meet- 
ing, at which your instructions were read, and 
arrangements were made for carrying your 
plans into effect. 

Mr. Mycock’s departure for England, and the 


MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 133 

peculiar position of Dix-Cove, — which place 
some of our American brethren from Cape 
Palmas had thought of occupying, but have 
now relinquished, because we were prepared 
to supply it with a missionary without delay, 
and because they wish to adhere to the princi- 
ple of non-interference, — have rendered some 
alterations in the stations of the brethren es- 
sentially necessary. In consequence thereof 
Mr. Watson occupies Dix-Cove, and Mr. De 
Graft resides at Winnebah. 

All the brethren, except Mr. Thackwray, 
have proceeded to occupy their different posts ; 
and I have made arrangements for proceeding 
to Domonassi with Mr. Thackwray early to- 
morrow morning. Mr. Brooking is now resid- 
ing at Mansu, and making preparations for our 
enterprise in Ashantee. Mansu will be a place 
of great importance to us while carrying on our 
operations in Ashantee ; and I think we shall 
find it to be a very healthy situation. I have 
received an encouraging message from the king 
of Ashantee, from which I learn that he enter- 
tains friendly feelings toward us, and will be 
very glad to see us in Coomassie. On the 29th 
of March we held our missionary meeting, 
which had been postponed for several weeks 
on account of our party not having arrived : 


134 MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 

President Maclean, with his usual kindness, 
occupied the chair. The meeting was one of 
some interest ; and the collection, including the 
subscriptions of our worthy chairman, and other 
friends, and j£ 14 from the societies in sheep, 
goats, <&c., amounted to £51 lls. 3d. 

Our chapel at Annamaboe, which was so se- 
riously injured by the rains last year, is, I am 
glad to say, nearly fit for occupation. I hope 
to see it re-opened next Sunday week. 

In my last I informed you of the recovery 
from fever of Messrs. Hesk, Watson, and Ship- 
man. Mrs. Shipman, I am glad to say, is also 
regaining her strength ; and Mrs. Freeman has 
safely passed through her seasoning fever, and. 
is sufficiently strong to undertake a journey by 
land to Annamaboe, where we are now staying. 
The effects of the seasoning fever are still re- 
maining in Mr. Hesk’s constitution ; and he 
has, in consequence, taken a short cruise up 
the coast for the benefit of his health, I hope 
the Lord will bless the means used for his 
recovery, and that he will soon return to us 
strengthened and improved. I trust the lives 
of our whole party will be mercifully preserved 
for extensive usefulness among the millions of 
pagans around us. 


MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 135 

Our congregations are good. The societies 
are enjoying peace. The number of children 
in the schools is increasing, and all things 
around us are promising. 

We have our trials ; but they are such as we 
cannot but expect, and we do not wish to mag- 
nify them. In the strength of the great Head 
of the church, we believe that we shall triumph 
over every obstacle. 

It is an encouraging fact for us to know, that 
we have an interest in your prayers, and those 
of the Christian public of England. We beg a 
continuation of that interest ; and earnestly do 
we pray for the peace of Jerusalem, that peace 
may be within her walls, and prosperity 
within her palaces, and that all the ends of 
the earth may speedily see the salvation of 
our God. 

I trust that, ere this reaches you, an ample 
special fund, for the support of the Gold Coast 
mission, will have been realized ; and that you 
will send us out another missionary without 
delay, as we shall very much need another 
brotner to occupy Cape Coast, while Messrs. 
Brooking, Walden, and myself, are in Ashan- 
tee. 


136 


MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 


Extract of a letter from the late Rev. William 

Thackwray , dated Annamaboe , Gold Coast , 

Western Africa , May 5th , 1841. 

Honoured Brethren and Fathers, — Hav- 
ing another opportunity, I gladly embrace it to 
write to you again. I am happy to inform you 
of my own health and welfare, but sorry to say, 
that Mr. Hesk, my superintendent, is very ill, 
having suffered a relapse, — such 1 think it has 
been, — when he was beginning favourably to 
recover from his seasoning fever. He exerted 
himself, I fear, too soon and too much, forget- 
ting that he was in Africa ; and the result has 
been great debilitation, from which nothing has 
been able hitherto substantially and perma- 
nently to raise him. Having a favourable op- 
portunity in the Pitt, merchant vessel from 
Bristol, to cruise along the coast for a few 
weeks, he went a few days ago ; the captain 
(Antrobus) being a friendly man; and we hope 
the experiment will issue favourably. All the 
rest of our party are well, unless I except Mrs. 
Freeman, who is not quite recovered from her 
seasoning, and Mrs. Hesk, who is temporarily 
indisposed. All have now had their seasoning 
save Mr. Walden,* Mrs. Hesk, and myself. 

* A subsequent letter from Mr. Freeman states, that 


MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 137 

Mr. Walden has been favoured with exceed- 
ingly good health ; and mine is at least 
as good in Africa as in England. A warm 
climate appears to suit me very well ; for 
which I feel thankful to Almighty God. I am 
just on the point of leaving for Domanassie, 
most of my boxes and household requisites 
having arrived there already. I would not for- 
get to mention to you with pleasure, that a na- 
tive merchant here, Mr. Parker, has made me 
a present of a lathe, not of the first-rate kind, 
it is true, but still useful, which I immediately 
devoted to the mission, and it has gone off to 
Domanassie this morning, with other things. 
Mr. and also Mrs. Freeman are here at pre- 
sent ; the former designing to accompany me 
to-morrow morning to Domanassie. With re- 
spect to Ashantee, we can say as yet but little 
or nothing. Mr. Freeman, as perhaps he will 
inform you, has had a very friendly and grati- 
fying correspondence with the king of Ashan- 
tee ; and we confidently hope, that, by the fa- 
vour of an over-ruling Providence, the gospel 
of our Lord Jesus Christ will be happily intro- 
duced and established among the barbarous 
and warlike Ashantees. Yes, I trust the bless- 

Mr. Walden has safely passed through the usual “ season- 
ing.” — Edit. 


138 MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 

mg of heaven will descend upon them ike 
showers upon the mown grass ; that the moral 
wilderness may be glad for English Christian 
missionaries, and that the intellectual and spi- 
ritual “ desert” of Ashantee will “ blossom as 
the rose.” True it is, that the national charac- 
ter of the Ashantees has been prominently dis- 
tinguished by ferocity, and (perhaps sometimes 
not without cause) by political jealousy ; and 
that, therefore, this great and critical enter- 
prise should be undertaken with the greatest 
prudence, and managed with the utmost cau- 
tion. Even at this moment, owing, I believe, 
to the death of one of the king’s relatives, there 
is a great “ custom” being made in Coomassie, 
which is to last for several weeks, and in which 
perhaps one hundred and fifty or two hundred, 
or perhaps more, will unhappily, by this cool, 
yet blood-thirsty religion of the devil lose their 
lives. Yet far be it from us to be discouraged. 
Other tribes and other people, as fierce as the 
fierce Ashantee, have been tamed and subdued, 
converted and evangelized, by the preaching 
of “ the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ.” And 
does lie still live? Yea, “he everliveth.” And 
are his will, and willingness, and power the 
same ? Without controversy, “ He changeth 
not ;” and I delight, even on African ground, to 


MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 13S 

remember, that it is declared — it is written in 
the volume of infallible inspiration — that the 
“ Gospel of the kingdom shall be preached in 
all the vrorld, for a witness unto all nations 
yea, and that another prophecy of the same vo- 
lume is, “ The kingdoms of this world shall 
become the kingdoms of our God and of his 
Christ.” We will not, then, by the grace of 
God, be - faint-hearted. Rather, we will be 
highly animated and encouraged, in our blessed 
and soul-cheering work. The Lord has ena- 
bled me to introduce the gospel into Eg-ga, 
(E-ga,) a croom (village) on the beach about a 
mile from Annamaboe. It was formerly visited 
by Mr. Wrigley, but it was afterward unvisit- 
ed, and in that sense neglected ; and hence the 
partial success gained had gradually vanished 
away. Mr. Hesk has been too ill to visit E-ga, 
so that the interpreters and I have had it to 
ourselves. We did not hold regular service, 
(this would have been premature,) but cate- 
chetical conversations ; and the effects are 
pleasing and promising. 

At present I can say no more than that I am 
yours obediently, * 

William Thackwrav. 


140 


MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 


Extract of a letter from Rev. Thomas B. Freeman, 
dated Cape Coast Castle, Western Africa, 
May 2 6th, 1841. 

I am happy to inform you that the blessing 
of God is resting on our labours. 

On Sunday, May 1 6th, our chapel at Anna- 
maboe was‘ re-opened for divine worship. The 
public services at six, A. M., at half-past three, 
and at half-past six, P. M., were well attended, 
and found to be very delightful means of grace. 
Mr. Joseph Smith preached in the morning 
and evening, and Mr. Walden in the afternoon. 
According to our previous arrangements, 1 
should have preached in the evening, but I was 
obliged unexpectedly to leave for Cape Coast 
about six o’clock; and to relieve Mr. Walden 
(who has not yet had his seasoning) from too 
much exertion, Mr. Smith kindly supplied my 
place. 

The collections, including a handsome dona- 
tion of £10 from B. Cruikshank, Esq., the com- 
mandant of Annamaboe, amounted to £22 Os. 
lid., currency. The feelings of our society at 
Annamaboe were, as might have been expect- 
ed, of a very peculiar nature, on account of the 
trying circumstances under which they have 
been placed by the injury done to the chapel 


MISSIONS IN WESTE.RN AFRICA. 141 

first by fire, and afterward by the rains. Many 
a tear was shed, and many a heart lifted up to 
God in thankfulness for his mercies in blessing 
the labour of our hands, and enabling us to 
bring forth the topstone with joy. 

This pretty little chapel is now, I trust, out 
of all danger either from fire or rain ; as its flat 
roof, covered with stone, renders it fire-proof ; 
and the stout iron pillars, which are placed 
down the middle, relieve the walls so much, 
that we have nothing to fear from the rains. 

I am not at this moment prepared to state the 
amount of expences incurred by these repairs ; 
but I trust, by the zeal and liberality of our so- 
cieties and friends here, we shall be able to 
raise a considerable sum, in addition to that 
already mentioned, toward the defraying of 
these expenses. 

Since I wrote my last, Mrs. Hesk and Mrs. 
Freeman have safely passed through their sea- 
soning fevers ; for which we praise and glorify 
God. Mr. Thackwray is now residing at Do- 
manassie ; and is, in addition to his other im- 
portant duties, busily engaged in directing the 
necessary arrangements for the model-farm. 

Mr. Thackwray has not yet had his season- 
ing fever ; but we do not consider that he is 
running any risk in going so far into the interior 


142 MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 

at so early a date. From past experience, I am 
fully satisfied that the interior is, in many re- 
spects, more healthy than the coast : almost 
every thing, however, depends on the proper and 
judicious care of our health, under the blessing 
of God. 

Mr. Brooking is still at Mansu, and enjoying 
excellent health ; much better than he has ever 
had before since his arrival on the station. 
From accounts just received from him, I learn 
that our mission-house there will soon be fit for 
occupation. 

Mr. Hesk left us in a sickly state about a 
month ago, to try the effect of a voyage to sea ; 
and we learned a few days afterward, that the 
vessel touched at Dix-Cove, and that he was 
better. We are expecting him back in about a 
fortnight ; and trust that the voyage will be, un- 
der the blessing of God, the means of restoring 
his health. 

Mr. Watson is still prosecuting his labours 
at Dix-Cove. He has had much difficulty in 
obtaining a residence. He is now living in a 
house not at all adapted for the residence of an 
European ; and we shall therefore be under the 
necessity of building a house at Dix-Cove as 
early as possible. We have selected a piece 
of ground on which our American brother. 


MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 143 

Dr. Savage, intended to build, before the board 
of missions with which he is connected had 
decided on the non-occupancy of Dix-Cove : 
and I trust these preparatory arrangements will 
meet with the approbation of the committee. 

We earnestly beg the committee to send us 
instructions on this matter as early as possible, 
as the circumstances under which we are placed 
will not admit of delay on our part without a 
great risk respecting Mr. Watson’s health. As 
building materials are cheap at Dix-Cove, I 
think we might build a house there which would 
answer our purpose very well for about j£450 
sterling. I expect to pay Mr. Watson a visit in 
a short time, after which I will write again on 
the subject. 

Mr. Shipman gives a very pleasing account 
of their prospects at British Accra. 

Mr. De Graft’s appointment to Winnebah is 
very satisfactory to the people, both Christians 
and heathens ; and I trust the Lord will abund- 
antly bless his labours among them. 

I am preparing to leave Cape Coast for Abassa 
to-morrow, where I expect to meet Mr. Thack- 
wray on Sunday next, and to assist in opening 
our little chapel there. Abassa is about forty 
miles from Cape Coast, and about twenty miles 
from Domanassie, 


144 MISSIONS IN WESTERN AFRICA. 

In every part of the mission our prospects 
are encouraging. A second pleasing message 
from' the king of Ashantee, in which he informs 
us that he will be very glad to see us in Coo- 
massie, leads us to trust and believe , that the 
Lord is going before us, and opening our way 
among that benighted people. 

We are now making all necessary prepara- 
tions for our journey to Coomassie after the 
rains ; and leave all events in the hands of that 
Almighty Being who hath said, “ Go ye into 
all the world, and preach the gospel to every 
creature and, “ Lo, I am with you alway s 
even unto the end of the world.” 


THE END. 


DATE ORDERED— MONTH 



! RUSH INDICATE DATE WANTED, 



w> - 


/ 





