About This File

This file is part of a corpus compiled by Caitlin Matheis (University of Nebraska-Lincoln) for a 2021 computational text analysis project for the One More Voice recovery project (onemorevoice.org). This corpus encompasses a wide range of plain text (TXT) files containing nineteenth- and early twentieth-century literary works centered on Africa by several dozen different British and African writers. Questions about the corpus and project can be directed to Caitlin Matheis (cmatheis2@huskers.unl.edu), the creator of the corpus, and Adrian S. Wisnicki (awisnicki@unl.edu), lead developer for One More Voice.

File Source: Internet Archive, http://archive.org/details/goldcoastnativei00hayfiala

--------------------------------------

GOLD COAST NATIVE
INSTITUTIONS. 



WITH 



THOUGHTS UPON A HEALTHY IMPERIAL POLICY 
FOE THE GOLD COAST AND ASHANTI. 



BY 

CASELY HAYFORD, 

OF THE INNER TEMPLE, ESQUIRE, BARRISTER-AT-LAW, AND OF 
THE GOLD COAST BAR. 



LONDON: 

SWEET AND MAXWELL, LIMITED, 

3, CHANCERY LANE, W.C. 
1903. 



BRADBURY, AONEW, & CO. LD., PRINTERS, 
LONDON AND TONBRIDGK. 



r 



THE LIVING INFLUENCE 

OF 

BEATRICE 'MADELINE CASELY HAYFORD, 

MY LATE WIFE AND DEVOTED FRIEND, 

THIS WOEK 
IS REVERENTLY AND AFFECTIONATELY 

INSCRIBED. 



1273589 



TABLE OF CONTENTS. 

TABLE OF CASES. 
PRELIMINARY. 

CHAPTER I. 

THE ADMINISTRATIVE PROBLEM. 

CHAPTER II. 

NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. 

1. The Native State 2 (A). The King 2 (B). The King's Para- 
monntcy 3. The Chief 4. The Linguist 5. The Councillors 
6. The Headman 7. The People 8. The Company System 9. The 
Judicial System 10. The Commercial System 11. The Fetish 
System 12. The Municipal System. 

CHAPTER III. 

THE CONFLICT OF SYSTEMS. 

CHAPTER IV. 

THE STATUS OF THE GOLD COAST. 

1. The Gold Coast Settlements denned : their Nature and Extent 
2. Early Jurisdiction of the King : its Nature and Extent 3. Bearing of 
Ashanti Affairs upon the British Position on the Gold Coast 4. Bearing 
of Treaty Relations and Acts of Parliament upon the British Position 
on the Gold Coast. 



vi TABLE OF CONTENTS. 

CHAPTER V. 

LANDMARKS. 

1. Early Political Movements, and the Rise and Progress of 
Journalism 2. The Constitution of the Fanti Confederation 3. The 
Debate on the Second Reading of the Lands Bill 4. The Concessions 
Ordinance 5. Native Jurisdiction. 

CHAPTER VI. 

THE CONFLICT OF SENTIMENTS. 

CHAPTER VII. 

IMPERIAL GOLD COAST AND ASHANTI. 

1. Building the Empire 2. Wrecking the Empire. 



APPENDICES. 

A. DECIDED CASES. 

1. Oppon v. Ackinie 2. Regina v. Cudjoe Imbrah 3. The* Chidda 
Concession Enquiry 4. The Chidda Certificate of Validity. 

B. COLONY OE PROTECTORATE ? 

C. 1. THE CONSTITUTION OF THE FANTI CONFEDERATION 2. THE FANTI 
NATIONAL EDUCATION SCHEME. 

D. OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE AND OTHER INFORMATION. 

1. Draft of an Order of the Queen in Council 2. Lord Stanley 
to Lieutenant- Governor Hill 3. The Earl of Carnarvon to Governor 
Strahan 4. Draft of a Proclamation defining the Nature and Extent 
of the Jurisdiction of the Queen on the Gold Coast 5. Bond, 
March 6th, 1844 6. British Charter providing for the Government 
of Her Majesty's Settlements on the Gold Coast, &c. 7. Palaver 
held at Government House, Cape Coast, May 10th, 1865. 

E. OTHER MATTER. 

1. The Sale of Land at Sekondi 2. List of some principal Native 
States, with the Names of the Paramount Kings. 



TABLE OF CASES. 



PAGE 

1. Homia v. Hurna, C. C. Apps 22 

2. Coffie Yammoah v. Abban Cooma. ..... 88 

3. Opposed Concession Enquiries, Nos. 150 and 343, Axiui 
(Esubankassa and Indumsuasu) 39, 58, 59 

4. Enima v. Pai .......... 41 

5. Bayaidee v. Mensah ........ 41 

6. The African (West) Exploitation and Development Syndicate, 
Ltd., v. Sir Alfred Kirby and the Princes River Gold Mines, 

Ltd 41, 42, 45, 74 

7. Opposed Concession Enquiries, Nos. 164 and 169, Axiin 
(Impatassi) 49, 50, 58, 59 

8. Appenquah's Case ........ 53 

9. Quarnin Dansue v. Tchibu-Darcoon and Cancarn ... 53 

10. Concession Enquiry No. 136, Axim (Essarman) ... 71 

11. Hima Dicki v. Anansu Mensah ...... 74 

12. Oppon v. Ackinie 94, 208, 273281 

13. Hutton v. Kutah 202 

14. Bolton v. Madden, L. E. 9 Q. B. 55 . . . . . 205 

15. Begina v. Cudjoe Inibrah 260, 281288 

16. Concession Enquiry No. 5, Cape Coast (Chidda) . 203, 289310 

17. Le Neve v. Le Neve, White and Tudor's Leading Cases . 301 

18. Punchard v. Tomkins, 31 Weekly Reports, 286 . . . 301 

19. Yates Bros, and Shattuck v. Garshong ..... 301 



PKELIMINAEY. 

IN the present work I have indicated, or attempted 
to indicate, the true nature of the problem which 
Great Britain has to face in her administration of 
the Gold Coast and her hinterland. 

To find out what that problem is, and the way 
successfully to deal with it, it has been necessary, 
on theone hand, to examine the aboriginal State 



System, holding, as I do, that apari from the .Natives 
of the soil any attempt at statesmanlike adminis 
tration is doomed to failure^ On the other hand, I 

\ n T i 

have collected and preserved the most important of 
the evidence available as to the political relations, 
past and present, of Great Britain with the Gold 
Coast. I consider that there can be no greater safe- 
guard to British administration on the Gold Coast 
than in the free dissemination of the historical facts 
embodied in this book. Further, I have ventured 
to suggest a key to the solution of the problem. 
It is none other than the imperialisation of the 
Gold Coast and of Ashanti on purely aboriginal 
lines, leading ultimately to the imperialisation of 
West Africa. 



x PEELIMINAEY. 

The propositions in the chapter on Native Institu- 
tions have generally been supported by decided 
cases ; and they may be taken, on the whole, as 
a statement of the law as it exists at present. 
I have also in this chapter given a sketch of the 
Native State in Ashanti, as embodying the highest 
development thereof, since both the Fantis and the 
Ashantis come from the same stock, and may be 
regarded as cousins, if not brothers, the difference 
in character arising merely from their respective 
local environments. 

In the chapter dealing with early British relations 
with the Gold Coast, and the bearing of Ashanti 
affairs upon such relations, is embodied a deal of 
evidence of a highly important character. It forms 
essentially the Constitutional History of the Gold 
Coast, and indicates her status. 

In the Appendices I have collected a deal of 
important matter which could not conveniently find 
room in the body of the work. No earnest student 
of the Constitutional History of the Gold Coast can 
afford to pass them by. 

The events to which this work relates mostly 
happened during the reign of Her late Most Gracious 
Majesty Queen Victoria. Little does the world 
know how great was her influence in allaying 
irritation and preserving peace among her dusky 
subjects and allies on the Gold Coast. Long will 



PEELIMINAEY. xi 

be remembered the solicitude which she showed for 
the good government of this country and the welfare 
of its people in the dark days of 1898. I take this 
opportunity, therefore, of recording most respectfully 
the high regard all Aborigines of the Gold Coast had 
for her person and character. 

It is the desire of the author that the ministers of 
His Most Gracious Majesty King Edward VII. may 
have some means of ascertaining the true relations 
of Great Britain with the Gold Coast, and the nature 
of the difficulties with which they have to contend ; 
and if this book should be the means of even merely 
promoting earnest and intelligent inquiry in proper 
channels for information to guide future conduct, I 
shall not have laboured in vain. 

Kow,J,he sources of information in regard to the 
Gold Coast are so meagre and, in parts, so unreliable, 
that the intelligent reader may justifiably enquire 
how I have come by the facts recorded in this book. 
I shall satisfy that curiosity; and I do so the more 
willingly, as I am desirous thalTthe reader should. 
I have the opportunity of testing thp truths 
stated for himself. 



In the fall of 1897, I was requested professionally 
by the Executive Committee of the Gold Coast 
Aborigines' Eights Protection Society to prepare a 
brief for the Western Tribes of the Gold Coast Pro- 
tectorate, dealing with the new line of legislation then 



xii PRELIMINARY. 

introduced by the Colonial Government, with par- 
ticular reference to fundamental grounds of objection 
to the famous " Lands Bill " of 1897. 

Early in that year, the public mind of the country 
had been deeply agitated by reason of the introduc- 
tion into the Legislative Council of the said Bill, 
and it was sought to prevent its becoming law by 
appealing to Her Majesty in Council in the most 
effective way. 

In order to meet the general argument of a claim 
of right on the part of the Government to legislate 
away the lands of the Aborigines, I had to examine 
carefully into the past history of the country, as 
disclosed, among other materials acknowledged in 
this work, in tomes of official reports and Govern- 
ment Blue Books, and was in the end able to form 
a clear, and, I flatter myself, a correct idea the 
result of the evidence I had collected as to the true 
position of the Gold Coast in her relation to Great 
Britain. 

Some result of my labours was to enable the 
Executive Committee of the Society to place in the 
hands of counsel in England, through the Society's 
solicitors, a clear case for the country, which formed 
the basis of the petitions to Her Majesty in Council, 
which were submitted after the same, I believe, had 
been settled by Mr. Asquith, K.C., M.P. The fate of 
the " Lands Bill, 1897," is a matter of history. The 



PRELIMINARY. xiii 

Colonial Office yielded to the logic of facts, and the 
lands of the Aborigines of the Gold Coast were 
preserved unto them. 

It occurred to me, in the course of my critical 
examination of the issues raised and the evidence 
necessary to throw light upon them, that ample data 
existed, if only one would search for them, for a 
concise statement of the political past and present 
of the Gold Coast 'Aborigines, which would be useful 
in the future, not only to the Aborigines anxious to 
know the Constitutional History of their country, 
but also to the official of the Government, seeking for 
precedents to guide his conduct. 

I have endeavoured, therefore, in the present 
work, to embody the evidence collected by me, 
which was partly unused in the preparation of the 
brief ; and my object has been to present the facts 
in the most authentic way in order that the results 
arrived at may be obvious to the intelligent reader. 
Nor can a charge of partisanship be levelled at me, 
since the matters with which the historical parts of 
this book deal have, by the imprimatur of the 
Colonial Office, passed from the province of con- 
troversy to that of history. 

It only remains for me to add that the other 
general propositions of law contained in this work 
are based upon materials collected by me in the 
course of over six years' extensive practice at the 



xiv PBELIMINAEY. 

Gold Coast Bar, such propositions being generally 
supportable by decided cases in the Supreme 
Court. 

The following Blue Books have been referred to 
in the. course of this work: .(1) Papers relating to 
the Gold Coast, 1864 to 1878 ; (2) Eeport from the 
Select Committee on Africa (Western Coast), together 
with the Proceedings of the Committee, Minutes of 
Evidence and Appendix, ordered by the House of 
Commons to be printed 26th June, 1865. With 
kind permission, reference has also been made to 
" Fanti Customary Laws," the able work of my 
learned friend, the Honourable John Mensah Sarbah, 
and to other works, which will be duly acknowledged 
in the text. 

It is my settled conviction that, unless the 
administration of the Gold Coast and her hinter- 



bhe 

-"1 L.'/ 



land is based upon sound moral principles, ' it is 
doomed to failure. It is for this reason that in 



tne last chapter 1 have ventured to indicate the 
moral duty of Great Britain to the country and the 
hinterland. 

Now, I know of no more thankless task under the 
sun than that of criticism. Why a sensible man 
should criticise at all, it is sometimes difficult to tell. 

Surely, it is far more agreeable to take things as 
they come than to be called a fool by one's friends 
by assuming the role of a critic. 



PRELIMINARY. xv 

Yet, what would become of Government, Politics, 
and even Keligion itself without criticism, fair and 
fearless ? 

But as regards criticism on the Gold Coast in 
public matters, a greater than I has written : 

" English merchants cannot afford to offend the 
Governor; they may tender for Government contracts, 
or they may be guilty of some technical violation of 
the Customs regulations and have to beg for the 
remission of a penalty. They look on with approval 
while some more reckless man expresses his and 
their mind in the press. They may bring their 
grievances to him to be ventilated, but they carefully 
abstain from all overt acts of opposition to the 
powers that be." 1 

If the truth may be told, English merchants on 
the Gold Coast are by no means singular in a policy 
of self-preservation. 

Personally, I confess, I cannot see any reason 
why the powers that be should object to fair and 
open comment upon public matters. There is, on 
the contrary, good ground for assuming that an 
enlightened Government would welcome fair and 
intelligent criticism, however much such criticism 
may expose administrative weakness. 

Be that as it may, no matter what the personal 
inconvenience to myself may be, I shall be well 

1 Ernest Eiloart, Barrister-at-Law, in " The Land of Death." 



xvi PEELBIINARY. 

satisfied if, by stating the truth and my honest 
convictions, I am able in some slight degree to 
promote the successful administration of the Gold 
Coast and of Ashanti, and to help the cause of the 
Fatherland ! 

My acknowledgments are due to Mr. E. Haigh 
Chalmers, the Editor of West Africa, for his courtesy 
in allowing the reproduction of matter indicated in 
the Appendix ; to the Kev. Attoh Ahuma, formerly 
Editor of The Gold Coast Methodist Times, for kindly 
giving me leave to use the article, " Colony or Pro- 
tectorate " ; and to the Rev. Dr. Mark Christian 
Hayford, whose assistance in connection with the 
correcting of the proof-sheets has been invaluable. 

C. H. 

THE LIBRARY, 

INNER TEMPLE, 

July, 1903. 



GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS, 

CHAPTER I. 

THE ADMINISTRATIVE PROBLEM. 



G.C. 



... In dealing with Crown Colonies people at home are 
apt, on the whole, to take a very narrow and material view 
indeed, deliberately or unconsciously. And yet these Colonies, 
even the smaller ones, are countries often as large and as full 
of people as many a place in Europe which holds a niche of its 
own in the world's history, and whose movements are watched 
and recorded by the public press of the world. These latter 
countries, however small they may be, are deemed important 
as the homes of a people who are, or have been, factors in the 
political and social questions of the day. Of imports there may 
be none beyond those necessary for the civilised wants of a 
frugal race, and the exports may be equally unnoticeable, 
because the people are of more importance in the world than 
the productions they have to dispose of. With the Crown 
Colonies it is different ; they are apt to be written and spoken 
of as if their productions, actual or potential, were of more 
importance than the inhabitants ; and yet it is a fact that 
imports and exports, and revenues and debts, may all show an 
increase, and the condition of the people may not be advanced, 
or may even have retrograded amidst all this show. 

All this is so obvious to those acquainted with these Colonies 
that it gives rise to a conviction in many minds that the only 
people fit to judge of internal affairs in any country whatever 
are the people who inhabit it. C. S. SALMON, Ex- Administrator 
of the Gold Coast, in "The Crown Colonies of Great Britain," 
pp. 1, 2 and 3. 



CHAP. i. THE ADMINISTRATIVE PROBLEM. 



CHAPTER I. 

THE ADMINISTRATIVE PROBLEM. 

AFRICA, I believe, has been compared somewhere 
by Dr. Blyden in his writings to the Sphinx of old, 
which, sitting by the wayside, calmly propounded 
riddles. Trouble and great confusion to the nation, 
European or otherwise, which would attempt to 
read them without her aid. It could only mean 
disappointment bitterer than Jordan apples. 

The analogy holds good with regard to the attempt 
on the part of Great Britain successfully to ad- 
minister the Gold Coast and Ashanti without the co- 
operation of the sons of the soil. Indeed, the very 
difficulties which beset the path of the British 
Administrator can be correctly indicated sometimes 
only by the intelligent ones of the country, and the 
method, if not the means, of solution must also be 
with them. I venture here to indicate the problem. 

It is desirable, at the outset, to clear our minds 
of certain impressions which recent writers upon 
the Gold Coast have sought to create. It has been 
assiduously inculcated that the only object of Great 
Britain on the Gold Coast is trade legitimate trade, 

12 



4 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP. i. 

if you please. It is then urged that, since trade 
follows the Flag, and civilisation trade, the Aborigines 
of the Gold Coast cannot but be benefited by the 
presence of the British upon their soil. This is true 
to a certain extent ; but let me point out in what 
way it is not wholly true. 

There is a keen pleasure in the sense of posses- 
sion. My land, my house, as contradistinguished 
from your land, your house, will remain, till the end 
of time, worthy objects of ambition. As with the 
individual man, so with the individual nation. That 
being so, when you come across professions on the 
part of writers upon the Gold Coast and others that 
Great Britain is on the Gold Coast for trade and no 
more, do not take them seriously. You may assent 
to the proposition, if you please, that her only 
reasonable ground of occupation is the free expan- 
sion of her trade. But that is a different matter. 
Whether you call them spheres of influence, terri- 
tories, possessions, protectorates, or colonies, there 
is hardly a European power which will not fight for 
their acquisition, even though there is derived from 
holding them not one farthing's worth of profit, 
taking the outlay it involves into consideration. I 
believe Mr. Andrew Carnegie has shown conclusively 
in an able article 1 how comparatively unprofitable 
for purposes of trade are some of the colonies and 

1 Nineteenth Century, May, 1901. 



CHVP. i. THE ADMINISTRATIVE PROBLEM. 5 

protectorates of Great Britain, let alone the so-called 
possessions or spheres of influence. There is, in 
some cases, an insane thirst for territorial acqui- 
sition, cost what it may. 

To state the proposition broadly, it is simply the 
primitive instinct of acquisitiveness in man which 
operates in the case of nations, no matter the extent 
of their boasted civilisation. Primitive ma.n in/ 
primitive society says : " I will have your land, 01 
your hut, if you will ffive it to me. If not. I 
take it. When I have taken it, and yon cannot 
; retake it, of p.onrsp^ T will frgfip it." The civilised 
nations of the world are to-day like unto primitive 
man, else international courts of arbitration would 
more frequently be sitting in one European capital 
or another, and the weak nations of the earth would 
have a little peace, if not a little justice. 

If you are inclined to deny the foregoing propo- 
sition, then I ask you to accept this, that commonly, 
there are two ethical sanctions to the fact of posses- 
sion. In the first place, you must come by your 
possession honestly, and secondly, you must bear 
manfully its responsibilities ; which two sanctions 
are generally not observed, if recognised at all, by 
the great nations of the earth. 

Since, however, the world is as we know it to be ; 
since the weak must go to the wall, and the fittest 
survive, irrespective of what is right or wrong, fair 



6 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP. i. 

or unfair ; it is, I confess, but practical philosophy 
that the weak should side with the strong. 

From this point of view, always remember, the 
Aborigines of the Gold Coast triumph in the wave 
of imperialism which at present sways the public 
sentiment of Great Britain. It may overwhelm 
them, and play havoc with all that is dear to them 
of law, custom and practice ; it may reduce them 
to the condition of bondsmen and captives in their 
own fair domains ; it may denationalise them and 
make them a people of no reputation, a by-word 
and a reproach among men ; but, for all these things, 
they would rather have the ills that they know of 
than fly to others that they know not of. It is 
nothing but common sense. What is more, they 
know what evils there are, are such that they can, 
cope w r ith, and that, truth being on their side, they 
will triumph in the end. 

Now, since we have the British with us, and the 
object of an enlightened Government should be to 
promote the healthy national development of the 
governed by conserving and not destroying the 
institutions of the people ; and since in the past 
the tendency has been toward disintegration rather 
than toward conservation we have the right to say 
to them : " You have disorganised our institutions, 
you shall help to reorganise them ; you have 
enriched your homes with the luxury that the 



CHAP. i. THE ADMINISTRATIVE PROBLEM. 7 

Gold Coast has afforded, 3*011 shall help us to rebuild. 
our homes ; you have made here princely fortunes*. 



you shall help us to live peaceably in our own 
vineyards and under our own fig trees " it is about 



time, I hold, that the Authorities at Downing Street 
confined themselves more to external administration, 
leaving the internal government of the people to 
develop upon the natural lines of their own institu- 
tions.___Will the public opinion of Great Britain 
insist upon this being done, or will it allow the 
work of spoliation to proceed ? This is the 
problem in its naked form. The people of the 

Gold Coast observe that for nearly a century you 

i\ / 

have been trying to mould for them their insti- 
tutions, and that you have most signally failed. 
They see in the civilisation you offer much that 
is fair, but cannot fail to perceive the weak spots 
and blemishes in the same. They say to you, " We 
are anxious to take part in the race of nations 
towards the attainment of higher ideals, if you will 
only give us a chance to work out our ow r n salvation." 
But no, you will continue to regard them as inno- 
cents, and they, the pigmies, must march with you, 
the Colossus, whether it is expedient or not. This 
is not right or fair. It is not even common sense. 
Therefore, with all earnestness, I humbly urge that 
henceforth the Aborigines and their Protectors should 
adjust themselves respectively to their proper spheres 



8 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP. i. 

of work. Let them do this, and the problem of a 
century will readily be solved. 

But how about this adjustment ? you will ask. 
Permit me to ask you to go to history and to science, 
and they will teach you what to do. Science will 
tell you that there can be no healthy growth except 
from within ; and the history of the Gold Coast will 
disclose to you the facts and circumstances which 
must guide such internal growth. This has been 
the stumbling-block all along, this want of adjust- 
ment of the proper spheres of work of the parties 
concerned. It must be removed now. Let us 
see how. 

Truly, the present is a critical moment in the 
constitutional history of the Gold Coast and her 
hinterland. He who runs may see that the time 
has come to determine what policy shall govern the 
administration of the country by the Colonial Office 
in the commercial interests of Great Britain and in 
the practical uplifting of the native tribes in the 
scale of civilisation. 

But unhappy recollections surround the name of 
the Colonial Office in the mind of the historian. That 
hoar-headed institution, generally dormant and leth- 
argic, occasionally erratic and irrepressible, if not 
irresponsible, will have much to answer for in the 
day when the public intelligence of Great Britain 
will awaken to the golden opportunities which the 



CHAP. i. THE ADMINISTRATIVE PROBLEM. 9 

Empire has lost on the Gold Coast and in Ashanti 
through its blunders. 

Let me at once clear this matter, namely, the 
blunders of the Colonial Office, of all misconcep- 
tions. The custom has grown up, within recent 
years, that the moment the Colonial Office is men- 
tioned the mind of the reader instinctively flies back 
to the right honourable gentleman who at present 
presides over that institution. He is at once fixed, 
rightly or wrongly, with all the blame, past and 
present, attributable to that office. This is not. fair ; 
and I will say this, that the Aborigines of the Gold 
Coast, in their criticism of the methods of the 
Colonial Office, disclaim the propriety of attacking 
any particular Cabinet Minister who, in past, present, 
or future Administrations,was, is, or will be, Secretary 
of State for the Colonies. 

But, without apportioning blame, one can pretty 
accurately indicate the line Colonial Office policy 
has taken under the guiding genius of a particular 
Colonial Minister. Bear in mind, if you please, 
that there is a Colonial Office policy, which may be 
allowed to droop, or pursued to its logical objective, 
according as the Colonial Minister for the time being 
is a weak or a strong man. And, remember, the 
world always admires a strong man who has the 
courage of his convictions. 

If, therefore, you complain of Mr. Chamberlain, 



10 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAF. i. 

you only complain of the circumstance that the 
Unionist Government, for once, has done the 
Colonies the unique honour of placing at the head 
of their affairs and the direction of their destinies 
a first-rate man, who has the courage of his con- 
victions, and who presses such convictions home to 
their logical conclusions. Hence the crisis. Here 
is a man of nerve, who has schooled himself inta 
the belief that his objective is the right goal. Will 
he wreck the ship, or will he save it ? Men of local 
experience and knowledge think it looks like ruin ; 
and it becomes necessary to sound the alarm if, 
haply, the steersman will heed, correct the chart, 
change the course, and save the ship. For, pray, 
remember that, whatever the capacity of a Colonial 
Minister, and with the best of intentions in the 
world, he cannot be expected to be fully acquainted 
with local conditions, native peculiarities, and the 
past constitutional history of the Gold Coast. 

Unlike Australia, Canada, and other Colonies 
of Great Britain rightly so denominated, here, on 
the Gold Coast, you have to deal with an aboriginal 
race with distinctive institutions, customs, and laws, 
which, now and again, European writers may attempt 
to portray, but which they can never fully interpret 
to the outside world. 

It follows, therefore, that a Colonial Minister has 
to gather information, as guide for his conduct, 



CHAP. i. THE ADMINISTBATIVE PEOBLEM. 11 

second-hand. Now, what are the sources of infor- 
mation open to a Colonial Minister ? There is 
principally the Colonial Governor, whose tenure of 
office is so uncertain, and who, during his adminis- 
tration, be it long, or be it short, -is somehow 
generally surrounded with officials not always the 
best qualified to inform him accurately concern- 
ing the significance and hidden meaning of Native 
institutions. He, the Colonial Governor, sometimes 
supplements the erroneous ideas he thus acquires 
by desultory reading of authors who, in writing, 
seek not the making of history, but that of their 
own ephemeral fame. In his despatches he freely 
makes use of such information ; and the Colonial 
Minister, when pressed for a division in the House 
of Commons, presses into his service the ill-digested 
lesson he has learnt from the despatches. Thus, 
between the Colonial Minister and the local 
Governor, ignorance at times reigns supreme as to 
the real merits of a given issue. This adds to the 
difficulty of the problem under consideration. 

What, for example, could have been more pitiable 
than the excuses put forward by the Colonial Secre- 
tary in the " Golden Stool " debate in the House of 
Commons on the 19th of March, 1901 ? Speaking of 
the cause of the rising in Ash'anti, the right honour- 
able member for West Birmingham said : " The 
earlier expedition was so far successful that it was 



12 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP. i. 

concluded without a single drop of blood having 
been shed. And when you ask what is the cause of 
the subsequent disturbance, I have no hesitation in 
saying that it was the bloodlessness of the previous 
expedition. The people of Ashanti, in common with 
every savage tribe, hold it to be a point of honour to 
fight for their chief, and to fight for their cause. They 
are ready to accept defeat, but they are not ready to 
accept the consequences of defeat without being 
actually defeated." l (Sic.) Unhappy Ashanti, a nation 
steeped in grossest barbarism, addicted to human 
sacrifices, slave-raiding, and the breaking of treaties! 
You must be thankful for small mercies ; for, until 
the Colonial Secretary spoke, we,, your brethren on 
the Gold Coast, could not believe that you could be 
guilty of such a thing as a point of honour ! But 
there it is in black and white. Who told Mr. Cham- 
berlain this ? Did he read it in books, or in Sir 
F. M. Hodgson's despatches ? I have never seen 
this in any authentic book on savage tribes, and so 
it is just possible it was from the despatches. 

Or, again, take this bit : " Sir Frederick Hodgson 
did not ask my permission to go for the golden stool, 
but, speaking now after the event, I entirely approve 
of his attempt to secure it. The golden stool is of 
very great moral and intellectual value (laughter). 

1 Times report, March 19th, reproduced in West Africa, March 
30th, 1901. 



CHAP. i. THE ADMINISTRATIVE PROBLEM. 13 

It is not loot in the sense the honourable member 
supposes. It has no great pecuniary value. But in 
the opinion of the tribe, and according to the custom 
of the tribe, the possession of the stool gives supre- 
macy. And if, therefore, we should secure this stool, 
we would be doing mure for the peace of Ashanti 
than, probably, by any armed expedition. Therefore, 
it was of the greatest importance to get hold of this 
symbol of sovereignty, if we could possibly do it." 1 

Again, how came the Colonial Secretary by this 
ex post facto explanation ? This time I have read 
somewhere something very similar. Here it is : 
" The stool appears among the Ashantis and neigh- 
bouring peoples to be the emblem of possession, for 
the expression ' to succeed to the stool ' is applied 
not only to a king on his accession, but also to 
private persons when they inherit property. Hence 
a conquered country is not considered to be fully 
subjugated until the royal stool has passed into the 
hands of the conqueror. It was for this reason, no 
doubt, that King Ajiman of Jaman exhibited such 
eagerness when he spoke to me of his desire to invade 
Ashanti and recover the Gold Stool, and this is also 
the probable explanation of the fact that in neither of 
the British invasions of Ashanti has this stool been 
allowed to fall into the hands of the invaders." 2 

1 Times report, reproduced in West Africa, March 30th, 1901. 

Dr. Freeman's " Travels and Life in Ashanti and Jaman," 
pp. 442443. 



14 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP. i. 

The first point to note in reading these two 
passages is that, from Dr. Freeman's account of 
the King of Jaman's eagerness to recover the " gold 
stool," the said stool must once have been the stool 
of Jaman, otherwise there could be no need to 
"recover " it. That being so, the reflection is 
reasonable that, upon Jaman losing her " gold 
stool," she did not cease to be a nation, or to 
possess a stool, "gold" or otherwise, upon which 
.subsequent kings sat, down to the time of Ajiman. 

The second point to note is that the Colonial 
Secretary disclaims having directed Sir Frederick 
Hodgson to go for the golden stool. It is very 
unlikely, therefore, that Mr. Chamberlain knew till 
"after the event" of the great "moral and intel- 
lectual value" of the golden stool. But Sir 
Frederick Hodgson must have known of it, or he 
would not have, unsolicited, gone in quest of it. 
I am sure he did not get his information from any 
of his advisers, for his conduct in this matter has 
received the severest condemnation alike of officials 
and the general public of the Gold Coast. It is 
charitable to assume that the good Governor probably 
misread Dr. Freeman. Dr. Freeman, like the 
-careful writer that he is, speaks of " appears," " no 
doubt," "probable explanation." He kept an open 
mind in the matter. Perhaps later observation and 
experience might show that, after all, there was no 



CHAP. i. THE ADMINISTRATIVE PROBLEM. 15 

virtue in the " golden stool." But when these 
tentative propositions pass through the official mill, 
they come out in a debate in the House of Commons 
as positive facts. 

This sort of thing, or anything like it, is a source 
of danger, and adds to the difficulty of the problem 
before us. We want an intelligent and scientific 
study of Native Institutions, and a right under-' 
standing of the nature of the work Great Britain 
is called upon to do in the Gold Coast and Ashanti, 
and the limit of her capacity to carry out such work 
apart from the Aborigines of the country. When 
once this principle has been .fully grasped and an 
attempt made to work it out, we shall, at last, be on 
the way to a successful administration of the Gold 
Coast and Ashanti. 



CHAPTER II. 

NATIYE INSTITUTIONS. 



G.C. 



I had asked him how the more intelligent of the peasantry 
and workmen regard those constitutional reforms which the 
educated non-official classes demanded with almost one voice. 

" What do you mean by reforms ? " he interrupted. 

" Western institutions generally a Parliament, liberty of 
the press, legal guarantees." 

" What on earth have we to do with legal guarantees and 
Western institutions?" he interrupted, seemingly astonished 
that any one should ask such a question. " Your mistake is 
always assuming that Western institutions are a stereotyped 
model upon which all forms should be based. It is this 
delusion that is at the bottom of half the wars and predatory 
aggressions carried on by Europeans against men of other 
races. If reforms are wanted in Eussia, it is not either 
Western or Eastern reforms, but measures suited for the 
people, and not other peoples. The assumption that reforms 
so-called must be constructed upon Western models is a pure 
product of Western exclusiveness, and is opposed both to 
Christianity and to common sense." COUNT TOLSTOY, Eeview 
of Reviews, May 15th, 1901. 



CHAP. ii. THE NATIVE STATE. 19 



CHAPTEK II. 

NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. 

1. THE NATIVE STATE. 

THE Native State, in its highest development, is to 
be found where a number of considerably important 
communities combine and own allegiance to one 
central paramount Authority. Such Authority is the 
King, properly so called. Thus in Ashanti, before 
the breaking up of the Court at Kumasi, there 
were the Manpons, the Juabins, the Kokofus, the 
Beckwas, the Adansis, and several other large and 
important communities, owning allegiance to the 
stool of Kumasi as the paramount stool of all Ashanti. 
Each of these important communities, when regarded 
with respect to the entire State, was a sort of imperium 
in Imperio in fact, several distinct native states 
federated together under the same laws, the same 
customs, the same faith and worship, the people 
speaking the same language, and all owning allegiance 
to a paramount king or president, who represented 
the sovereignty of the entire Union. 

The greater the number of such states in one 

22 



20 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP. n. 

great native federal Union, the greater the import- 
ance of such Union. Hence the supreme influence 
which the occupants of the golden stool exerted in 
the nineteenth century, and the efforts they made, 
by war or otherwise, to keep the federal States 
together. This natural process of self-preservation, 
instinct with high statesmanship, has been, by ill- 
informed writers, set down for a slave-raiding 
propensity. You may as well call the war of the 
North and the South of the United States, or the 
struggle in the British Isles to preserve the inte- 
grity of Great Britain, slave-raiding wars. Having 
arrived at the zenith of her power about the first 
quarter of the last century, the central Authority 
in Ashanti, represented by the occupants of the 
golden stool, which had its seat at Kumasi, strove 
steadily to keep the Union together up to the 
last quarter of the century, when Her Majesty's 
Government, consciously or unconsciously, set to 
work to disintegrate the Union. Mr. Fox Bourne 
seems to think that Great Britain undertook this 
work consciously, and with a light heart. For he 
says in a recent pamphlet : " The desire to assert 
control over natives far away from the seat of 
government, and for whose conduct the authorities 
were in no way responsible, had striking exemplifi- 
cation in the treatment of the Ashantis, which, 
for the time being, culminated in the occupation 



CHAP. ii. THE NATIVE STATE. 21 

of Kumasi in January, 1896. Ever since the 
Ashanti War of 1873-74, by which the powerful 
dominion of King Kwofi Kara Kari and his pre- 
decessors was broken clown, it had been the policy 
of the British administrators on the Gold Coast to 
coax away from allegiance to the occupant of the 
1 golden stool ' at Kumasi all its former adherents, 
and especially those nearest to the coast." 1 This 
passage is, unfortunately, strikingly in accord with 
facts. Here we find a civilised Christian Power, the 
professed Protector of native races, doing unto a 
people struggling to maintain its national integrity 
that which she would not be done by. It is as if 
America should steadily set to work to coax Ireland 
away from her allegiance to the British Crown. The 
wrong being clear, will Great Britain make repara- 
tion by helping now to restore the integrity of 
Ashanti, or will she say, it is but a weak, savage 
nation, and pass by on the other side ? 

In^ the Gold Coaat J>roper we have, for example, 
the native states of Fanti, Ahanta, Insima, Ga, 
Wassa, and others, having more or less the same 
laws and customs, and ^sneaking generally the 
same language, or dialects of the same language. 

Each federal State takes rank in the order of its 
importance in the native States Union, and its com- 
position and constitution is the same as that of the 

1 " Blacks and Whites in West Africa," p. 36. 



22 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP. n. 

principal or premier State, which is usually the State 
of the paramount King. 

Next in importance to a federal State is a province 
of such a State. A province is the district of a Head- 
Chief. Thus, taking Ahanta as a native State, the 
district over which Atta, the Head-Chief of Axirn, 
in Ahanta, rules would be a province. A province 
may be a large or a small one, but every province 
consists of a number of towns and villages whose 
principal town or capital is the town of the Head- 
Chief. The same principles guide the constitution of 
a province as that of a federal State. Then come the 
other towns, villages, and hamlets of the province, 
the government of the smallest hamlet being more 
or less on the same lines as that of a town. 

I may now usefully trace the beginnings of the 
Native State from the hamlet to its highest develop- 
ment, a union of Native States under one King or 
President. Let me make use of the facts of a con- 
crete case. In the case of Homia v. Huma, which 
went up to appeal, the facts were as follow : l A 
man named Inkertsia, a huntsman, had asked per- 
mission to squat near a village called Ankraku for 
the purpose of hunting elephants, and founded there 
a hamlet which was called after him Inkertsia Krom, 
that is, Inkertsia's hamlet. Now, Ankraku, according 

1 Homia v. Huma, Cape Coast Appeals, November, 1900. Coram 
Griffiths, C.J., and Nicoll, J. 



CHAP. ii. THE NATIVE STATE. 23 

to the evidence, was a village of the district whose 
chief town was Ayenasi, the district of Ayenasi being 
in the province of which Attuabu was the capital, 
which province was the premier province of the State 
of Appolonia. It was stated that cases arising in 
Inkertsia Krom, and not disposed of, were first 
referred to Ankraku, thence to Ayenasi, and thence 
to Attuabu. Here you have complete the links 
uniting the lowest to the highest native community. 

There is hardly a native of the Gold Coast, where- 
ever he may roam, who will not tell you, when you 
ask him, the name of his paramount King. I shall 
long remember the air of self-satisfaction and pride 
with which a body of Fanti labourers I once had for 
clients gave me to understand that they were the 
subjects of Okra Kwa, King of Mankessim. And 
well might they, for the King of Mankessim, before 
the disintegrating influence of the Government upon 
Native Institutions, was the premier paramount King 
of the entire Fanti Union. 

The authority of the King of the paramount State 
is no mere shadowy matter. The Head of each pro- 
vince pays him the highest deference. He is the 
arbiter in cases of dispute between two provinces 
within his State, and his ruling was always, and even 
now is, generally obeyed. He never directly inter- 
feres in the internal government of a province, but he 
can bring external pressure to bear in suitable cases. 



24 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP. n. 

Thus, with a strong central government, directed by 
a strong personality, the Native State has all the 
elements of progress, liberty, and enlightened good 
government in its composition. 1 How light would 
have been the task of Great Britain if she had learnt 
this elementary truth when Governor Maclean sought 
to press it home by the wise policy which he adopted. 2 

But let me now, in further illustration of the 
principles which govern the formation of the native 
state, attempt a sketch of the Native State in Ashanti. 
It is idle to suppose that the national spirit has been 
crushed out of existence since the expedition of Sir 
William Willcocks. You may destroy a nation, but it 
is another thing to destroy the spirit, of nationality. 

Without going into the vexed question as to the 
original habitat of the Ashantis and Fantis, it is 
enough, for practical purposes, to state that they, in 
common with other tribes, once lived in the neigh- 
bourhood of the Kong Mountains, and were pressed 
southwards by external conflicts, and, subsequently, 
by inter-tribal warfare. Nor is any ingenious argu- 
ment necessary in proof of this. Nature supplies all 
the argument necessary. They speak the sjimejan- 
guage with only a difference of accent, such j|iffe_reruie 
being a refinement upon whichever form of speech 

1 See Appendix E (2) for a list of the principal Native States with the 
names of the Paramount Kings, chiefly based upon information given 
by Mr. Annaman in his book " The Gold Coast Guide." 

2 For Governor Maclean's policy, see pp. 243, 244. 



CHAP. n. THE NATIVE STATE. 2j 

was the original type. It is probable the Ashanti 
type is the original, since it is reasonable to suppose 
that the coast tribes were detached from the Ashantis, 
and not -rice versa. There is no tradition showing 
that the Fantis were ever a distinct and separate 
people from the Ashantis. On the other hand, there 
is historical evidence that, at the dawn of European 
intercourse with the Gold Coast, the Ashanti Union 
fully recognised the existence and independence of 
the Fanti Union ; and the current of immigration 
southwards from the north of tribes now dwelling 
between Ashanti proper and Fanti proper, all of whom 
have in common the same language with the Ashantis 
and Fantis, lends weight to this striking fact. At the 
present moment the guardian to the King Kwamina 
Enimil, of Eastern Wassaw, in the protectorate, is 
one Kojo Buaful, an Ashanti man, who is charged 
with the training of the young and intelligent King. 
In tracing, then, the Ashanti Native State I am but 
tracing the Native State of the Gold Coast in its 
highest development and applicability. 

The reader must be prepared to disabuse his 
mind of all prejudice in this matter. If you once 
start with the premises that the Ashantis are a bar- 
barous, bloodthirsty people, whose only lot is to 
be gradually wiped off the face of the earth, you 
naturally take a different standpoint from the 
historian, whose object is the ascertainment of truth 



26 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP. n. 

from facts as they are, and not as they are supposed 
or wished to be for purposes of argument or invec- 
tive. Sensible writers are beginning to think that 
the Ashanti has been greatly misjudged. Let us be 
fair to him for once, and follow me calmly, if you 
please, while I attempt to examine his institutions. 

The premier State of the Ashanti Union was, 
before the expedition of Sir Francis Scott, the State 
of Kumasi, where the King paramount of all Ashanti 
sat upon the golden stool. In Kumasi proper there 
were seventy-seven stools, representing seventy-seven 
public functionaries, as, for example, the Bantuma 
Chief, or the Chief of the Eoyal Burial Grove, the 
Ateni Chief, or the Chief of the Lamplighters. 

The King's household was controlled by a number 
of captains. There were the Captain of the Sword- 
bearers, the Captain of the Stool-bearers, the Captain 
of the Elephant's Tail-bearers, the Captain of the 
Court Criers, the Captain of the Koyal Butlers, the 
Captain of the Eoyal Huntsmen, the Captain of 
the Koyal Farmers, and the Captain of the Koyal 
Physicians. 

The local government of Kumasi was in the hands 
of the Kwaintsirs, a body of men who were the keepers 
of the golden stool. They formed the Department 
of War, and the great General Amankwatsia was 
formerly their Chief. The fact that the Department 
of War held in its keeping the royal stool illustrates 



CHAP. ii. THE NATIVE STATE. 27 

vividly the origin of the kingly office in the Native 
State, which will be explained later on. 

The Akwnamus were the aristocrats of Kumasi, 
from which body a King was selected to sit upon the 
stool. Not that the King was selected haphazardly, 
but the family from which the selection was made 
belonged, as a matter of course, to the best blood 
in the land. The Akwuamus were consulted in all 
internal matters. Assafubuaki was formerly at the 
head of the Akwuamus. I write in the past tense, not 
because the Native State idea has been destroyed 
for that can never be while there are living any 
Ashanti women to keep alive in the minds of their 
sons the ancient traditions of the nation but 
because the Native State itself has been disorganised 
liv British aggression and interference. 

The King's sons, although they do not succeed to 
the stool, have a distinct rank in the nobility of 
Ashanti. They are known by the title of " Sai " or 
' ' Osoo." Thus, Sai Bonso, a son of King Kweku Dua, 
was the father of Osoo Ansah, the father of Prince 
John Osoo Ansah and Prince Albert Osoo Ansah, 
whom the Colonial Office, a few years back, attempted 
to discredit in the eyes of the world, but, happily, 
without success. The title "Sai" or "Osoo" 
exactly corresponds to the title "prince." Much 
ingenuity was used at one time to prove that the 
Ansahs were not princes. 



28 . GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP. n. 

The Inkidoms or Akempims were the King's 
bodyguard. Their Chief was Subir. 

There were other minor bodies, as the King's 
scouts, -and keepers of the royal arsenals, who 
properly came under the Department of War. 

It is obvious why there should have been a 
Department of War in the local government of 
Kumasi, since the premier State of the Union must 
have been strong in order to command the respect of, 
and keep together, the several States of the Union. 

Every fortieth day the Adayi custom fell. It was 
a time of national festival and general rejoicing. 
The King on this occasion distributed among his 
several chiefs, according to their rank, large sums 
of money. They were not supposed to use the 
money for their own self-indulgence, but they were 
expected, like the stewards in the parable, to trade 
with the money of their master, so that he who had 
received seven peregwans might add seven peregwans 
thereto, and render a due account when called upon 
to do so ; though, as a matter of fact, it was seldom 
that an account was called for. In this way the 
State naturally encouraged thrift, and in olden days 
it was quite common to see thousands of Ashantis 
coming down regularly to the coast and buying goods 
for their masters, which in turn found their way into 
the very heart of Africa. Kumasi then was the 
centre of a state system which directly fostered the 



CHAP. ii. THE NATIVE STATE. 39 

trade of the coast and connected it with the trade of 
the hinterland. It is curious to note that most of 
the early wars between the Fantis and Ashantis, 
prior to British advent, were due to the Ashantis 
wishing to trade directly with the coast, and the 
Fantis wishing to act as middle-men, and, therefore, 
sometimes ill-treating the Ashantis when they came 
down to the coast. There were, besides, actual gifts 
to different persons in the State by the Sovereign on 
these State occasions. 

Kumasi being the capital of the premier State of 
the Union, it formed the central convict establish- 
ment. Thither, month by month, were brought 
from the tributary towns persons who had been 
convicted of different offences and w r ere sentenced 
to be executed. There was a chief of tne execu-~ 
turners, and it was his duty to act as head-gaoler'. 
But the criminals were not executed as soon as they 
were brought to Kumasi. Some were never killed 
at all, and, in course of time, were reprieved. On 
state occasions, when all the people from the tribu- 
tary provinces would flock to Kumasi, it was usual 
to execute a large number oi tnose who had been 
condemned to die. Such public execution s"wouffi; 
of course, have a deterrent effect upon the people of 
the State in general. And when we consider that 
not only murder but offences like stealing from a 
farm, rape, swearing an oath upon the King's life, 



30 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP. n. 

selling a real-born Ashanti, kidnapping, immorality 
of a certain kind, were all punished with death, it is 
conceivable the large number of criminals that would 
be in the convict settlement at a given time. Let 
the enlightened reader, before moralising on the 
depravity of the Ashanti, recall to mind the fact that 
persons were hanged in England for sheep stealing, 
and witches burnt at Smithneld, not so very long 
ago. The Ashanti does not boast of being a civilised 
man in the sense of the European. He is only yet 
feeling his way out of darkness. But, surely, he is 
not the savage that he is painted. 

Nor is it true that the Ashantis waged war for 
the sake of securing prisoners to immolate at the 
fetish customs. They had a better eye to business. 
They sold the prisoners of war, most of whom, until 
Europe suddenly turned convert, found their way 
to European forts and settlements on the coast, and 
thence to the plantations of the New World. Could 
not those who participated in the offences of the 
Ashantis against humanity have had a little patience 
with them, since they could not help thinking that 
the work of regeneration in the European was too 
sudden to be true ? 

Let me clear this matter of all doubt. The 
Ashantis waged war among themselves either to 
preserve the integrity of the Union, or to ward off 
external attack, where the conflict was with a power 



CHAP. ii. THE NATIVE STATE. 31 

outside the Union. The heads of the enemy killed 
in battle were considered a portion of the trophies of 
war ; but yon may be sure that not all the heads 
that were brought to Kumasi were the heads of 
executed prisoners. The ghastly practice existed 
of cutting off the head of a fallen foe, which was 
brought up to the capital to swell the number of 
skulls in the public arenas of Kumasi, over which 
ill-informed writers have waxed eloquent. 

Now, I have said that Kumasi was the premier 
State of the Union. The other principal federal 
States were Mampon, Beckwa, Insuta, Juabin, 
Kokofu, Adansi, Akropong Manasu, Asanti Akim, 
Awiku, and Mamponsu, who were all several thou- 
sands strong, with internal governments similar to 
that of Kumasi, which is, again, simply an elabora- 
tion of the Fanti State System, but who were all 
subject to and owed allegiance to the paramount 
stool of the Union, namely, the golden stool of 
Kumasi. 



32 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP. n. 



NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. 
2 (A). THE KING. 

At the head of the Native State stands prominently 
the Oldn (King), who is the Chief Magistrate and 
Chief Military Leader of the State. He is first in the 
councils of the country, and the first Executive 
Officer . His influence is only measured by the 
strength of his character. He it is who represents 
the State in all its dealings with the outside world ; 
and, so long as he keeps within constitutional 
bounds, he is supreme in his own State. 

The term " Ohin" is applied to the head of any con- 
siderable community of Aborigines, but all kings are 
not of the same degree. Hence the distinction which 
is sometimes made of applying the term "king" to 
the paramount ruler of a state, and the term " chief " 
to subordinate rulers under the King paramount. 
Thus the Head of the State of Ahanta is the King 
Baidoe Bonso, whose capital is Busua, near Dixcove, 
while the Head of the Province of Axim, in the State 
of Ahanta, is also known as Ohin Atta among all 
natives. Nor is this in any way strange, since each 
native community, be it small or be it large, is a 
composite whole, having its form and method of 



CHAP. ii. THE KING. 

government the same in all essentials. The 
entire fabric in either case may be analysed into the 
same elements. 

The term " Calboceer" was at one time employed 
to mark chiefs of first importance from minor chiefs, 
but it has fallen into disuse. It will be good policy 
to revive the title, and generally to enhance the 
dignity of the native Chiefs, as their influence for 
good in a well regulated system of government will 
be simply incalculable. 

The office of king is elective. No king, that is to 
say, is born a king. There are a number of circum- 
stances which may prevent the nearest to the stool 
from ever sitting thereon. A junior heir to the 
stool may be selected to sit upon the stool, if a 
senior heir is a profligate, or otEerwise incapable of 
maintaining the kingly_jlignity. Nor does a king 
acquire an indefeasible title to the stool when once 
he has sat upon it. It is the right of those who 
placed him thereon to put him off the stool for any 
just cause. But no other authority can rightly inter- 
fere with his position, if his people are satisfied with 
him. He holds such position for life, and, upon his 
death, his younger uterine brother, cousin, or eldest 
nephew, is selected to succeed him. During his life 
the King often indicates who such successor shall be, 
jrally, his wishes are respected. 1 



1 Coffie Yammoah v. Abban Cooma, " Fanti Customary Laws," p. 83. 
G.C. 3 



34 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP. n. 

In the case of Hinui Diki v. Acjiman and others, 
decided as recently as the 7th of February, 
1901, by His Honour Mr. Justice Nicoll, in the 
Divisional Court at Axim, Hima Diki, the King of 
Dixcove, had been deposed by the people of Dixcove, 
and replaced by Anansu Mensah, his uncle. The 
ex-king sought to recover from the defendants, as 
representing the Chiefs and Elders of Dixcove, the 
stool and the paraphernalia thereof. Said His 
Honour in giving judgment: "I find (1) that the 
plaintiff was King of Dixcove and duly instooled ; 
(2) that he was deposed according to native custom 
about a year ago." 

Nothing daunted, the ex-King next brought an 
action to test the legality of his destoolment. It 
came before the same learned judge on the 21st 
day of October, 1901, when evidence of a highly im- 
portant character as to the Customary Law thereto 
appertaining was given. Kweku Atta, King of Axim, 
was called as an expert witness. 

"Question: In the case of a town chief would you 
tell the procedure in taking him off the stool first 
when the family complain ? 

"Answer : The family complain to the townspeople, 
who put me on the stool, and we meet, and I am 
found to be in the wrong, I ask the townsmen to beg 
my family. They beg my family to forgive me. I 
satisfy them. If I do it again a second time, again 



CHAP. ii. THE KING. 85 

forgiveness. The third time, yon must go, yon ninst 
have opportunity of defending yourself. 

"Question: Now when the townspeople complain? 

"Answer : Your family accompany you to the meet- 
ing of the townsmen, and the townsmen put before 
the family what you have done, and after you have 
made your defence, and your family found that you 
are in the wrong the family and yourself beg the 
town to forgive you. They forgive you, and you 
pacify them. If you repeat it four times, then, they 
tell the family they don't want you any more, and 
that ends it. That is the native law and practice." 

The Court in giving judgment in this case said : 
" I find that the plaintiff was Chief of Dixcove, and 
that he has never been properly deposed, and is 
now Chief of Dixcove, sitting on Dixcove stool ; and 
I order the stool to be given up to plaintiff, or some 
one for him." 

The case of Kweku Inkruma, ex-King of Peppissa 
District, is in point. In April, 1901, the King 
Kwamina Enimil of Eastern Wassaw being in Axim, 
the Councillors and Elders of the stool charged 
Kweku Inkruma with divers acts unbecoming the 
kingly office, and, the facts being proved to the satis- 
faction of the King's Court, he was put off the stool. 

From the foregoing cases the following principles 
are clearly deducible as to the destoolment of a 
king. 

3-2 



36 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP. n. 

Firstly : the authority which, in accordance with 
the Customary Law, called the King to the stool, 
is the only authority which can call for his destool- 
ment. .- 

Secondly : To render the destoolment of a king 
valid, he. must have been properly destooled ; and 
before he can be properly destooled, he must have 
had full opportunity of showing cause why he should 
not be destooled. 

Thirdly : It is not for every petty act of mis- 
conduct that a king's destoolment can be called for. 
He must have been convicted of acts seriously detri- 
mental to the State, or otherwise gravely unbecoming 
the kingly dignity. The Customary Law herein 
carries out the spirit of the direction to pardon your 
brother, if he sins against you seventy times seven. 

Fourthly : The proper tribunal, in accordance with 
the Customary Law, must try the King, and the law 
is jealous of the procedure on such occasions. 

It is obvious why the Customary Law keeps a 
wakeful eye over the proceedings affecting a king's 
destoolment. The kingly office is, as we have seen, 
of the highest importance in the State, and the 
person of the King is, indeed, sacred. If it were 
possible for every trifling cause to arraign the first 
Magistrate of the State before his peers, or to deprive 
him of power by the merest whim of his people, there 
would be little or no stability in the State itself.. So 



CHAP. ii. THE KING. 37 

that, to some extent, it may be said that the people 
are ever indulgent to their King, and cast around his 
person a halo of dignity and prerogative which cannot 
be lightly broken through. 

Now, what does it mean when a native king is said 
to be put on, or off, the stool ? What is the idea 
conveyed by the stool in its concrete sense 
upon which the King is said to sit ? I have 
said that the King is the First Magistrate of the 
State, essentially the fountain of justice, and the 
allusion to him as sitting upon a stool bears out this 
principle more than anything else. For, you see, 
in a native state every matter is settled by the 
"bringing together of stools." When there is a 
big "palaver" coming on, the people say they 
are going to bring together stools u-o ri bobo ingwu. 
What actually takes place at the appointed hour of the 
meeting is, that you observe a number of attendants 
carrying to the public arena a number of native 
stools of the pattern generally seen in public 
pictorial prints after a military expedition in the 
hinterland of the Gold Coast. Each of these stools 
represents an ancient house in the community, and the 
King's stool would, naturally, be the most important 
and the most ancient stool present. They are now 
going to hold a "palaver," and the owners of the 
several stools will be the Councillors, and the occu- 
pant of the kingly stool will be the President of the 



88 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP. n. 

Council. It is the King's Linguist who will open 
the proceedings. It is he who will announce to the 
assembled people the decision of the Council, thus 
clearly showing the King to be the first Magistrate 
of the State. 

But what is the origin of the native kingly office, 
and what are the principles which govern the election 
of a king ? The kingly office springs from a period 
in native history when there was continual warfare 
among the different tribes inhabiting the country. 
The choice of a king was most probably determined 
by the personal valour, intelligence, and capability of 
the individual to lead the forces of the community in 
time of war. Such individual was undoubtedly the 
best man the community could produce. The suc- 
cessful leader would in time of peace be the first 
man of the community and naturally its head. He 
would come in for a larger proportion of the lands 
that had been acquired by the strength of his arms, 
and when he died, in accordance with the Customary 
Law, his nephew would succeed him. So also where 
the community settled in a new country whose virgin 
forest they cleared, pressed down, probably, after a 
disastrous war. All the native communities on the 
Gold Coast proper settled in the country in this way. 
The old war chiefs came to unoccupied land and 
X settled thereupon, first clearing the virgin forest. 
The principle of partition would be the same as in 



CHAP. ii. THE KING. . 39 

the case of settlement after conquest. In all my 
several years of active practice at the Bar, I have 
not come across a case where title to land has been 
based upon a right of conquest. It is perfectly safe 
to say that it is more the exception than the rule. 
It is a well-known fact that Kwantabissa, King of 
Denkira, as late as 1901, claimed the right to lease, 
and actually did lease, land on the other side of the 
Offin Eiver from which his ancestors had been driven 
by the Ashantis in ancient times. The usage of war 
among the Aborigines would seem to be that after 
the conclusion of peace the vanquished still retained 
their lands. 1 

So long as the nephew was a man of character and 
capacity he would not be disturbed in his leadership 
of the people, and, gradually, the kingly office would 
become an institution, and remain in a given family. 
But still the community would continue to possess the 
power of veto in case a given member of the royal 
family was found incapable of performing the kingly 
functions. They would say, in effect, to the incom- 
petent aspirant, " We appointed your ancestor to the 
kingly office as a reward for uncommon abilities, and 
we are prepared to honour his family by seeking 
election to the kingly office from and by it ; but 

1 Opposed Enquiries, Nos. 150 and 343, Axirn, July, 1902. Corarn 
Xicoll, J. ; Williams for Aka Ayiina, Hayford for Yaniike Kweku and 
Blay, Ribeiro and Addo for Vanderpuye. 



40 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP. n. 

we must object to being ruled by any unfit person. 
We will, through the family council, decide which 
member of the family shall govern us, if we are 
dissatisfied with the family's own selection." And 
thus we arrive at the principles which govern the 
election of a king. 

Now, how comes it about that there are so many 
kings in a given native state ? The reason is 
obvious. Before the country was settled in a 
peaceful way there were many independent chiefs, 
each a king in his own province. Intertribal strife 
then began, and, gradually, the weaker kings went 
to the wall, and the fittest and strongest became 
the paramount king of a number of provinces in a 
given state. 

Upon the demise of a king, the Councillors meet 
and demand of the royal family a successor. The 
royal family then nominates a successor, who may 
be the uterine brother, the cousin, or nephew of 
the deceased King. Descent being traced through 
the female line, such a cousin would be the son of 
the sister of the deceased King's mother ; and such 
a nephew would be the son of the sister of the 
late King. The person nominated is next presented 
to the Councillors, and, upon being approved, is 
placed by them upon the stool. This is the strict 
theory of the law; but, as a matter of fact, during 
the lifetime of the King, there is an heir apparent 



CHAP. ii. THE KING. 41 

upon whom both the Councillors and the royal family 
cast an eye, so that the power 'of veto is seldom 
exercised by the Councillors. But that such a power 
exists is a clearly established principle. In the case 
of Emma v. Pai l the plaintiff sought, inter alia, to 
be declared the rightful successor to the Assankra 
Breman or Kwinbontu's stool in the Wassaw district 
to which the Werempims, or Councillors, of Assankra 
Breman had elected Pai, and upon which they had 
actually placed him. The plaintiff and the defendant 
being cousins, the question was as to the right of 
selection by the Wercmpims, which the Court had no 
difficulty in upholding. 

The King is the Chief Executive Officer of the 
State, but not the Executive Council of the State. 
Such a council exists, and any acts done by the King 
without its concurrence are liable to be set aside. 

In the case of The African (West) Exploitation and 
Development Syndicate, Ltd., v. Sir Alfred Kirby ami the 
Princes Ptirer Gold Mines, Ltd., 2 the Head-Chief of 
Princes had granted a lease of the lands in dispute 
to the plaintiff company without the concurrence 
of his Chiefs, and his successor, Kofi Ainibah, had 
granted the same lands to the defendants with such 

1 Coram Morgan, J. ; Renner and Ribeiro for plaintiff, Sarbah and 
Hayford for the defendants : Axim Records, April, 1900. 

3 Coram Nicoll, J. ; Sarbah for plaintiff, Hayford for defendants : 
Axim Records', July, 1898. Compare the case of Baijaidee v. Mensah, 
" Fanti Customary Laws," p. 79. 



42 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP. n. 

concurrence. After taking a deal of expert evidence, 
the Court decided 'that the subsequent lease should 
prevail, and judgment was entered for the defendants. 
Upon appeal 1 the point as to the right of the 
Councillors to concur in the lease was upheld. 

The King is the President of the Legislative Board, 
but he seldom, if ever, initiates any legislative act. 
It is the province of the people through their repre- 
sentatives, the Councillors, to introduce legislation, 
and say what law shall direct their conduct. Hence, 
when a law is to be promulgated, which is done by 
the "beating of the gong-gong," the formula, in 

the mouth of the Linguist is, " The King and his 
^f 

Councillors and Elders say I must inform you " ; 

then follows the particular command and the words, 
"PAR HI," an emphatic exclamatory phrase, and a 
loud rattle of the gong, by way of a general procla- 
mation. Such a law, once thus promulgated, lives 
from generation to generation, within the memory of 
the community, and the command is never without 
its sanction. Any other way of enacting laws for 
the people is not in accordance with the Customary 
Law of the people. 

The King is the Chief Military Officer of his forces. 
In time of war, he directs the operations ; and if he 

1 Coram Griffith, C.J., Smith, J., and Richards, J. ; Sarbah for 
appellants, and Hayford for respondents : Axim Appeal Records, 
February, 1899. See also Sarbah's " Fanti Customary Laws," pp. 75, 
96 and 253, where the principle is ably discussed. 



CHAP. ii. THE KING. 43 

is a man of capacity, he has the leading place in the 
councils of war. There is generally a Tufu Hin, or 
Captain-General, of the forces ; but his authority is 
subordinate to that of the King, and he is, in every 
essential, an officer of the King. 

The King is also, as we have seen, the first 
Magistrate of his people. In the Native State 
System the people have not yet arrived at the stage 
when the King is merely the fountain of justice and 
appoints officers to dispense it merely in his name. 
He himself presides over the hearing of all important 
cases, supported by his principal Chiefs, Councillors, 
and Linguists. There are other important Chiefs 
in a state, who are empowered to decide cases ; 
but the courts of such Chiefs are subsidiary to the 
King's Court, and not independent of it. 



44 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP. n. 



NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. 
2 (B). THE KING'S PAKAMOUNTCY. 

To the student of jurisprudence, fresh from the 
law schools of Great Britain, the doctrines of Para- 
mountcy in the Customary Law must be bewildering 
and difficult of comprehension. Hence it is that 
there is so much haziness of view upon the subject. 
The principles involved are of supreme importance 
alike to the Administrator and to the occupant of the 
judicial bench. A mistake here may involve hard- 
ships which to the European mind may seem 
trifling, but which to the Aborigines may affect the 
very core of Native Institutions. 

Now, what are the rights of the King in 

M / O V- J 

respect of the lands of a community ? The King, 
qua king, does not own all the lands of the State. 
The limits of his proprietary rights are strictly 
defined. 

There are first of all lands which are the ancestral 
property of the King. These he can deal with as 
he pleases, but with the sanction of the members of 
his family. 

Secondly, there are lands attached to the stool 



CHAP. ii. THE KING'S PARAMOUNTCY. 45 

which the King can deal with only with the consent 
of the Councillors. 1 

Thirdly, there are the general lands of the State 
over which the King exercises paramountcy. It is a 
sort of sovereign oversight which does not carry 
with it the ownership of any particular land. It is 
not even ownership in a general way in respect of 
which, per se, the King can have a locus standi in a 
court of law. To him, indeed, belongs the power 
of ratifying and confirming what the subject grants, 
though he may not himself grant that which is given. 
Such ratification is not even absolutely essential to 
make the transaction valid, though as being evidence 
of good faith, such ratification or confirmation is 
resorted to and is, indeed, becoming quite common 
in modern grants. Nor is it difficult to see the 
reason of this. In the early stages of the Native 
State System, upon the acquisition of lands by con- 
quest or settlement by members of a given com- 
munity, the lands so acquired or settled upon would 
be apportioned among those worthy of them in the 
order of merit. Upon that basis, the Chief Military 
Commander, who subsequently becomes the King, 
would have his requisite share, and so would every 
member of the community down to the lowest ranks 
of the fighting men. Thus, each man's land would be 

1 The African (West) Exploitation and Development Syndicate, 
Ltd., v. Sir Alfred Kirby and the Princes River Gold Mines, Ltd., 
ante, pp. 41 and 42. 



46 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP. n. 

his own special property and that of his family 
though the King, as overlord of all, would, un- 
doubtedly, exercise sovereignty over the whole land, 
every inch of which, however, would have an 
individual family owning it. 

Bearing in mind the foregoing preliminary obser- 
vations, we may now proceed to discuss the funda- 
mental principles of Paramountcy. 

At the outset we must rid our minds of mis- 
conceptions. And here we must carefully distin- 
guish between Paramountcy and Ownership. But 
is Ownership in the Customary Law the same as 
Ownership in Koman Law ? If we examine the 
incidents thereof in the two systems, we shall find 
that there is an important difference. 

In the time of Justinian, at all events, Koman 
society had advanced beyond the communistic stage. 
It was possible even then to speak of the owner's 
right to possess as a right against all the world, 
a, right in reni. Indeed, so far had the notion of 
exclusive possession gone, that a person, sui juris, 
could pass his property by will. In the early stage 
of testamentary disposition, it is true, the appoint- 
ment of an heir to continue the legal personality of 
the testator was the primary idea ; but later, we 
come to find the Roman will making the heir a mere 
trustee for the distribution of property. 

But, in the Customary Law, we find no trace of 



CHAP. ii. THE KING'S PARAMOUNTCY. 47 

individual ownership. What the head of a family 
acquires to-day in his own individual right will, in the 
next generation, be quite indistinguishable from the 
general ancestral property of which he was a trustee. 
Even during his lifetime the person on the stool 
scarcely makes a difference in his own mind between 
what he received as family property and what he 
adds thereto by his exertions. And the law of 
succession furnishes the best reason for the pheno- 
menon. Both what came to the head of the family 
and what he has made pass, at his death, to his 
uterine brother, cousin, or nephew, as the case may 
be, who being the only possible and legitimate suc- 
cessor to the stool-holder, the latter gladly regards as 
the trustee in one sense, and one of the beneficiaries 
in another sense, of all after his death. 

With this important qualification, namely, that 
the family in the Customary Law is the unit for 
the purpose of ownership, we may now proceed to 
distinguish Ownership from Paramountcy. 

The notion is somewhat common that where a 
chief pays tribute to another, the latter is necessarily 
the paramount Chief of the former. But this is only 
a loose way of applying the term " paramount." 
Tribute is not only payable to a chief, but to any 
person holding land in the country, say, as head of a 
family, by whose leave another person works upon the 
family lands. It would be absurd to call the licensor 



48 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP. n. 

in such a case the paramount Chief of the licensee. 
Take an extreme case, and the absurdity will appear 
all the clearer. A. has a portion of the family lands 
allotted her for the purpose of growing ground nuts 
thereon. A. allows B., her friend, to till a portion 
of the ground, on the understanding that B. will 
give her one-third share of the ingathering crop. 
In what possible sense is A. " paramount " to B. ? 

It is clear, therefore, that the payment of abusa, 
one-third share, is not the test of Paramountcy : it 
merely indicates the person having the right to 
possess. Indeed, the custom of the paramount 
Chief to receive an occasional contribution, be it small 
or be it large, is in respect of allegiance due to him 
by a subordinate chief. Where a paramount chief 
happens to receive abusa, that is, one-third share, of 
the proceeds of land, then it is by reason of the fact 
that the right to possess is ultimately traceable to 
his stool. Thus, we have the case where a person 
receives a portion, usually a third, abusa, of the pro- 
ceeds of a sale of land by a licensee of that person ; 
and the case where a paramount Chief receives a 
customary present, the extent of it depending upon 
circumstances, upon the happening of any event in 
respect of which the subordinate may suitably mark 
his allegiance to the superior Chief. The latter may 
be called the custom of occasional contribution to the 
superior Chief ; the former, the right of the owner, 



CHAP. ii. THE KING'S PARAMOUNTCY. 49 

or the person having the right to possess, to abusa, 
one-third share. Much confusion of ideas would be 
saved by confining the term "tribute" to the case 
where a licensee is under obligation to make one- 
third payment to a licensor, and "allegiance fee" 
to the case where a vassal is expected to acknow- 
ledge the sovereignty of a paramount chief by the 
customary present. 

In Ashanti, where a stranger kills big game on 
another's land, the licensee takes to the licensor a 
portion of the meat, the latter, in turn, taking to 
the Head-Chief a leg of the animal killed. Again, 
where a nugget is found in mining, the licensee 
brings to the licensor a portion of the gold with 
the nugget, the licensor sending the nugget to the 
King. In the two cases, the licensor would be the 
person having the right to possess, the Head-Chief 
or King merely having a claim to the allegiance 
of the licensor. Hence the importance of using 
"tribute" to denote what is contributed to the 
licensor, and the phrase " allegiance fee" to what 
the licensee offers to the overlord. Tribute would 
thus be an incident of Ownership, while allegiance 
would be an incident of Paramountcy. 

In the Impatassi case * expert evidence was given 

1 Opposed Enquiries, Nos. 164 and 169, Axirn. Coram Morgan, J. ; 
Eenner and "Williams for claimants, Hayford for grantors, Ribeiro 
for opposer : Axim Records, February, 1902. 

G.C. 4 



50 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP. n. 

by Atta, King of Axim. The question was asked : 
"Was tribute ever instituted in respect of the 
sovereignty of one stool over the other ? " 

Answer: "The person on whose land you have 
settled, although his stool may be small, can claim 
tribute. Tribute is paid in respect of ownership." 

In giving judgment, the learned judge remarked : 
" Now, from the evidence of the King of Axim, it 
appears that the right to demand and receive tribute 
on land is based on ownership, and I am of opinion 
that on ownership also must be based the right to 
give or withhold consent to dealings with land. It 
may possibly be that by custom in some cases a chief 
can claim tribute from his sub-chiefs in respect of 
their lands apart from the question of ownership of 
such land, but in such cases I do not think that 
his consent would be necessary to render valid deal- 
ings with land the right to hold and occupy which 
was not derived from his family or town stool." 

This case went up to the Court of Appeal which 
sat at Cape Coast in October, 19O2, 1 which affirmed 
the judgment of the Court below, declaring the con- 
cessions, the subject of the enquiries, to be invalid 
on the ground that the consent of the opposer had 
neither been asked for nor obtained, the right of 

1 Coram Sir Brandford Griffith, C.J., Smith, J., and Nicoll, J. ; 
Hayford for grantors, Renner and Williams for claimants, Savage for 
opposer : Cape Coast Appeal Records, October, 1902. 



CHAP. ii. THE KING'S PAEAMOUNTCY. 51 

the grantors of the concessions, the subject of the 
enquiries, to hold and occupy the lands comprised 
therein being derived through and from the stool 
on which the opposer was now sitting, and that the 
opposer's consent was necessary for the valid leasing 
of the said lands. 

On the 6th of .October, 1902, counsel for the 
claimants moved ex parte " for leave to appeal from 
judgment of the Full Court, dated 1st October, 1902, 
refusing to grant special leave to appeal from the 
judgment of the Divisional Court of 28th April, 
1902, at Axim," and the Full Court, in ruling upon 
the motion, took opportunity to emphasise the point 
that in its opinion the judgment of the Court below 
"is right," and "is supported by the evidence." 

The Full Court, therefore, clearly supported the 
proposition that " the right to demand and receive 
tribute on land is based on ownership . . . and 
that on ownership also must be based the right to 
give or withhold consent to dealings with land." 

Having shown that tribute pure and simple is 
really an incident of Ownership in the Customary 
Law, and that the obligation of a vassal to render 
allegiance fee to his superior lord is erroneously 
termed tribute, it will be interesting now to discuss 
"allegiance" the bond which unites the superior 
chief,, usually a king, to his vassal. 

Allegiance, then, is that personal relationship 

4 2 



52 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP. n. 

between the occupants of two stools whereby the 
inferior acknowledges the authority of the superior 
over him. Such acknowledgment may take the 
form of military or other service, and occasionally 
an allegiance fee. Such relationship has nothing to 
do with the lands of the vassal. It may happen 
that the superior lord is at the same time the 
licensor of the vassal in respect of his holding, but 
that will be merely accidental. 

That allegiance is personal and not territorial is 
seen from a number of instances in the history of 
certain communities of the country. Take for 
example the case of the Akataki people, known as 
the Commendas. Now, it is an historical fact 
that the people of ATcataki originally came from 
Akatakiiva in the Inkusukum district, the present 
Head being the well-known King Essandor. Now, 
if you trace the etymology of the two words Akataki 
and Akatakiiva, you will find that the one is the 
feminine form of the other. Whether it be that 
Akataki, the masculine form of the word, was 
chosen by the people of Commenda to indicate 
their origin, or whether Akataki, the brother of 
Akatakiiva, founded the present town of Commenda, 
matters little ; but there can be no doubt about it 
that the two branches of the Inkusukum people have 
always recognised the same origin, the Akataki 
people owning allegiance to the paramount King,. 



CHAP. ii. THE KING'S PARAMOUNTCY. 53 

Essandor. Such relation is personal, and has no 
territorial significance ; but it is, nevertheless, as 
vital in the conceptions of Native Institutions as 
Succession is to property in the Customary Law. 

The case of Apenquah 1 is in point. It came 
before His Excellency Governor E. B. Andrews in 
Council at Cape Coast, on the 7th of February, 
1861. The main point in the case was whether 
or not Apenquah, being a subject of the stool of 
King Chibbo of Assin, could rid himself of his 
allegiance to the 'Stool or transfer his allegiance 
to another stool. Said the Court: "It has been 
decided long since that Apenquah was not a private 
slave to any person, but that he was a subject of 
the stool of Assin Chibboo, and at this day is con- 
sequently a subject of Amba Danquah, Kegent of 
Southern Assin, and, according to strict law, he 
cannot rid himself of the allegiance to the stool. 

"The Court has taken into its serious considera- 
tion the importance of this case. There are grave 
questions involved ; the most important, and that 
which in this peculiar country might be practised 
with the most serious consequences to the well- 
being and tranquillity of the protectorate, is a pro- 
ceeding similar to that which the Court is now 
called upon to decide as to its legality, it being 

1 See Sarbah's " Fanti Customary Laws," p. 203 ; also, idem, the 
case of Qiiamin Dansue v. Tchibu-Darcoon and Cancan, p. 130. 



54 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP. n. 

whether a man occupying a considerable position, 
as does Apenquah, can suddenly march off with a 
number of his prince's lawful subjects, and deliver 
himself, and them to a rival chief. 

" The Court is of opinion that Apenquah does 
not possess the right to leave his sovereign Amba 
Danquah, with all his people, and place himself 
under Inkee, and that he has not been able to show 
any grounds on which he could complain of bad 
treatment towards him by his sovereign. . . . 

" For the future, it is to be distinctly laid down 
that a headman, captain, or chief shall not be 
suffered to transfer his allegiance with his followers 
to the chief or prince of another country. Neither 
shall he be allowed to domicile in another country 
as a captain with his followers, though he may 
not have removed his allegiance to his former 
prince. 

" To act thus shall be held to be treason, the 
punishment being the loss of all property and 
degradation of rank within the protectorate, such 
headman, captain, or chief to be given up with his 
followers, it being a high crime, the prince harbour- 
ing them to be deposed from his stool. But where 
a headman, captain, or chief is of full age, and 
wishes to domicile in another country, and is a free 
man, he shall be permitted to do so, taking with 
him his one wife and children by that wife ; at the 



CHAP. ii. THE KING'S PARAMOUNTCY. 55 

same time he shall not transfer his allegiance to the 
prince of his adopted country as a captain, but 
retire to live under that prince as a private man, 
leaving all his possessions, which become forfeited 
to the sovereign whose country he has quitted." 

Our early Administrators and the Judicial Asses- 
sors somehow always managed to get to the core of 
Native Institutions. It may be because they took 
the precaution not to decide a given point without 
collecting the opinions of native Councillors, compe- 
tent to advise upon the point in issue. Thus, it 
happens that Apenquah's case states the doctrines 
of Allegiance in a form at once intelligible and 
scientific. 

We gather the essential features of. Allegiance, then, 
to be : ' 

1. That it is a personal relationship which has 
nothing to do with property rights. 

2. That a subject holding any public position in a 
country cannot transfer his allegiance at will with- 
out forfeiting his rank and "all his possessions 
to the sovereign whose country he has quitted." 

And the doctrines of Allegiance have the sanction 
of sound common sense. 

But what happens where the subjects of a native 
king found a colony in another district with the 
sanction of such king, as in the case of the Akatakiwa 
colonists settling at Akataki, Commenda ? It would 



56 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP. n. 

follow, as a matter of course, that they would carry 
with them the protection of their King, and, conse- 
quently, they would remain loyal to him and owe 
him allegiance. Here they would pay tribute for 
the land they have settled upon to the owner of 
that land ; while they would repair occasionally to 
their ancient and mother country with suitable 
presents to the paramount King, and which we have 
called " allegiance fee." If the paramount King went 
to war, he would call for the services of his children 
over sea or over country. Hence you have the 
phenomenon in a given war of seeing the people of 
even a small town dividing themselves under the 
banners of contesting paramount Kings. 

When the reason of things begins to dawn upon 
one, one is moved to pity the helplessness of present- 
day Administrators of the country, who are in the 
dark as to why, for example, Essandor, King of all 
the Inkusitkums, should tenaciously cling to the tie of 
allegiance which unites Akataki with Akatakiwa ; or 
why people in the far west end of the country should 
wish to preserve their allegiance to one paramount 
King instead of to another. 

In further illustration of the principles we are 
discussing, take the case of the community of Esiama, 
in the state of Elmina, who, nevertheless, own 
allegiance to the state of Anamaboe. In the Gold 
Coast Leader of September 13, 1902, the Anamaboe 



CHAP. ii. THE KING'S PARAMOUNTCY. 57 

Correspondent, writing on the "stool festival " of King 
Amonoo V., says : " The arrival of the Klanamonoos 
and other vassals in full force from Amonoo Ekroful, 
Eshroa, Mpredwi, Fomina, Abonu, and other villages 
on the evening of the 1st announced the beginning 
of the festival. . . . Chief Kofi Nyam, of Esiam 
(Elmina district), whose distance was rather long, 
arrived in the nick of time with his retinue to offer 
presents and participate in the ceremony." 

Now, note carefully the colonist, Chief Kofi Nyam, 
of Esiama, 1 coming all the way from the state of 
Elmina to "offer presents," but not to "pay 
tribute" to his paramount King. If you enquire to 
whom he pays tribute, the answer, of course, is to 
the person who gave his ancestors leave to settle 
upon Esiama lands in other words, the person 
having the right to possess the colonial lands. 

Other instances of colonists maintaining alle- 
giance to the paramount stool are found in the 
Imperegus of Abura, who acknowledge the stool of 
Anamaboe, and the King of Agimaku's vassals in 
the Akem country. 

We may now usefully and satisfactorily address 
ourselves to the question, whether the paramount 
King's consent is necessary to the validity of a grant 
of land ? If you confine the term " paramount " to 

1 The name of the town is Esiama and not Esiam, and the dropping 
of the final " a " was probably a typographical omission. 



58 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP. n. 

its legitimate and appropriate use in the way I have 
above explained, we can answer the question only in 
the negative. It is clear that by no stretch of 
imagination could Amonoo Y. claim tribute, qua 
tribute, from his vassal at Esiama, the relation 
between him and his vassal being purely personal 
and not territorial. And it is equally certain that 
Amonoo Y.'s consent would not be necessary before 
Kofi Nyam could deal with Esiama lands. The 
only authority whose consent is necessary is that of 
the stool having the right to possess Esiama lands, 
the stool, that is, whose occupant originally allowed 
the Esiamas to live on Esiama lands. "I am of 
opinion that on ownership also must be based the 
rights to give or withhold consent to dealings with 
land." 1 

In the Esubankassa and Indumsuasu Opposed 
Enquiries, 2 which raised the important issue of Para- 
mountcy, expert evidence as to consent was given. 
The Court examined Quamina Annobil, the principal 
Linguist of the King of Lower Wassaw. Said he : 
" The under chief can sell his land without the 
head-chief's consent ; he only gives him a share of 
the money." This evidence coming from the Lin- 
guist of the King of Lower Wassaw, where almost 

1 Per Morgan, J. Impatassi Opposed Enquiry, ante, p. 49. 

2 Opposed Enquiries, Nos. 150 and 343. Coram Nicoll, J. ; Williams 
for Aka Ayima, Hayford for Yamike Kweku and Blay ; Klbeiro and 
Addo for Vanderpuye : Axiru Records, June, 1902. 



CHAP. ii. THE KING'S PARAMOUNTCY. 59 

every chief pays tribute to the King, or, in substitu- 
tion thereof, has handed to the King a portion of his 
lands, is remarkable. But it denotes clearly the 
general rule of which the particular tenure of 
lands in the Wassaw country is, perhaps, the sole 
exception. 

The Court, in its judgment, found " that the King 
of Beyin is not the owner of any of these lands. 
The owners of these lands must, however, report to 
the King before they dispose thereof." The italics 
are mine. This case also went up to the Court of 
Appeal, 1 which sat at Cape Coast on the 6th October, 
1902, the same Court which decided the Impatassi 
case; and the judgment of the Court below was 
upheld. Let us now recall the express words of the 
judgment of the Court below in the Impatassi 2 case. 
They are : "I am of opinion that on ownership also 
must be based the right to give or withhold consent 
to dealings with land," from which proposition the 
Full Court did not dissent. Clearly, the two judg- 
ments are in conflict with one another. Assuming 
that the owner of land only has the right to give or 
withhold consent, why must a person who is not such 
owner be informed before the owner of land disposes 

1 Opposed Enquiries, Nos. 150 and 343. Coram Sir Brandford 
Griffith, C.J., Smith, J., and Nicoll, J. ; Hayford for appellants, 
Yamike Kweku and Blay ; Benner and Williams for respondent, Aka 
Ayirna : Cape Coast Appeal Records, October, 1902. 

2 Ante, p. 49. 



60 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP. n. 

thereof ? One can only come to the conclusion that 
the Full Court failed to draw the distinction between 
"tribute" payable to a landowner, and a customary 
present, " allegiance fee" rendered to a paramount 
chief after the owner, it may be, has disposed of his 
land, and not necessarily in respect of such disposal. 
The point is an important one, and it is to be hoped 
that some day the Appeal Court will patiently hear it 
argued out, and the full weight of its learning and 
authority be brought to bear upon a vital point in 
Native Institutions. 

The learned author of " Fanti Customary Laws " 
has remarked upon this matter thus : 

" Where the concession is made by a subordinate 
chief, enquiries should be made to find out whether 
the concurrence of his paramount chief is necessary 
or no, for whatever lawful grant or permission is so 
given by a person de facto chief with the concurrence 
of men de facto members of the village council or 
stool, is good and valid according to Customary Law, 
and the grantee by taking possession of the land 
and working thereon becomes a tenant of the stool, 
village council, or family, as the case may be, and 
not of a specific individual." l 

Here we find one of the best authorities on the 
subject making it clear that the "concurrence" of 
the paramount Chief may or may not be necessary. 

1 P. 57. 



CHAP. ii. THE KING'S PABAMOUNTCY. 61 

As I have before shown, the only possible case 
in which the paramount Chief's "concurrence" 
or consent will be necessary is where such para- 
mount Chief's stool is the root of the licensee's 
title, while, at the same time, the licensee owes 
allegiance to the stool of the licensor. If care is 
taken, as suggested, to use the terms " tribute " and 
" allegiance fee" in their proper connections, there 
need be no confusion of ideas. 

Ownership, then, must be carefully distinguished 
from Paramountcy. The principles involved in the 
foregoing discussion may be embodied in a few 
simple rules : 

1. A. gives permission to B. to settle on Daman 
Land. The permissee becomes a tenant at will, 
who, so long as he does not claim adversely to the 
permissor, will be supported by the permissor in his 
holding. But the moment the permissee sets up 
adverse title to the land, the permissor's ownership 
or right to possess revives as against the permissee' s 
right of possession. 

2. While the permission subsists, the permissee 
would be liable to contribute one-third, alusa, of the 
proceeds of the land to the permissor, whose consent 
would be absolutely necessary before the permissee 
could validly deal with the land. 

3. A. is B.'s paramount King. B. holds lands, 
the title to which is not derived from A.'s stool. 



62 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP. n. 

A. has only a right to B.'s allegiance; and the 
customary present (which I have called " allegiance 
fee") which B. brings to A. from time to time is 
certainly not tribute in the sense that A. can exact 
it as of right. Such personal relation between A. 
and B. is Paramountcy pure and simple, which has 
nothing to do with property rights. 

4. The paramount King, as such, has no right to 
exact tribute, nor is his consent necessary to make a 
grant valid. 

5. Tribute is an incident of Ownership, in other 
words, of the relationship subsisting between land- 
lord and tenant. 

6. Allegiance is an incident of Paramountcy, 
indicated sometimes by the rendering of "allegiance 
fee." 



CHAP. ii. THE CHIEF. 63 



NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. 
3. THE CHIEF. 

The term "chief" is in the present day used 
indiscriminately to represent a king, a chief, or 
even a headman of a village. It is a careless 
use of the word. The foreigner, unable or lacking 
the patience to discern between one native authority 
and another, groups them all under the designation 
" chief." Let me try to bring order out of chaos. 

The Chief properly so called is that important 
personage next to a king in the Native State. When 
he is a principal chief of a king, he is properly called 
a head-chief. 

In a township, a province, or a state there may be 
several chiefs, who will rank among themselves in 
the order of their importance and influence. 

Chieftainships in the country spring from the 
same circumstances which originate the office of a 
king. In early times, when the King led his men to 
battle, the most valiant and intelligent among his 
men would be selected to carry out his orders, and 
to lead portions of the army. In times of peace, 
naturally, the king's lieutenants in the field would 



64 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP. n. 

be rewarded with portions of the lands of the van- 
quished, and when internal civil disputes arose the 
King would, of course, call in the war Chiefs to settle 
them.- Hence it happens that we have the same 
term sarfuhim, primarily meaning a war chief, used 
as a designation for both a captain or a war chief 
as well as for a civil chief. The term brempon is. 
sometimes used to designate a civil chief, but it is 
by no means general. It appears to be confined to 
chiefs who have been so created by reason of their 
immense wealth or civic services. 

A chief is generally a captain of a company. In 
fact, every male member of the community is liable 
to military service in time of war, and during peace 
he has to drill every year with his company. A 
fortiori, a chief is the natural leader of the men of 
his company. There are cases known, however,, 
where civil chiefs hold no military command in 
their companies. 

It is the duty and privilege of a chief to hold 
court and decide cases arising in the community 
according to his influence, character, and import- 
ance. Whether his court will be regularly resorted 
to by the entire community, or only by his imme- 
diate dependents and the people of his ward, is 
purely a question as to what extent his court com- 
mands respect in the community. In fact, it may 
be stated generally and broadly that the judicial 



CHAP. ii. THE CHIEF. 65 

function appertains to the head of every ward and 
every family in the country. 

But the Chief whose position entitles him beyond 
all question or doubt to the full exercise of the 
judicial function after the King is the Tufu Hin, 
who is next in rank to the King. He holds regular 
courts, and is entitled to receive court fees and 
fines, which form to him a source of revenue. 
There is a right of appeal from a minor chief's 
court to the court of the Tufu Hin, and from the 
latter to the King's Court, although there may be a 
direct appeal from the court of a minor chief to the 
King's Court. 

The important position of the Tufu Hin, or the 
Captain-General, in the community arises from the 
same circumstances as I have described in the case 
of a chief. Being the King's right-hand man in 
time of war, it is only natural he should hold rank 
next after the King when the community has settled 
down to peaceful pursuits. 

The Tufu Hin is at the head of the Military System 
of the community. He it is who regulates the affairs 
of the seven companies of the community. He is 
present at their annual general drill to inspect the 
men, and to satisfy himself how far the Head-Captains 
of the several companies have done their work during 
the year. In time of war he leads the van of the 
army, the King in person bringing up the rear. He 
G.C. 5 



66 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP. n. 

is, in brief, the King's principal military Councillor 
and executive officer. 

The Tufu Hin is, ex ojfieio, also the principal civil 
Councillor of the King. All the Chiefs of the com- 
munity have a right to sit in the King's Council. 

The same order of chiefs we shall find in a com- 
munity whose head is a king or a head-chief. It is 
only a matter of degree as to the importance of the 
respective chiefs of the two communities. 

Where the paramount King of a state summons 
the Head-Chiefs of provinces and chiefs of minor 
communities to attend a State Council, it is the 
privilege of the Councillors of the several com- 
munities composing the State, according to their 
rank and importance, to accompany their several 
Heads to the capital and to join in the " palaver," 
or discussion, that will take place, the King in 
person presiding over the deliberations, supported 
by his own Councillors and principal Linguists. 
This is the full Parliament of the people, who are 
thus fully and duly represented in every way from 
the highest to the lowest. The commands which go 
forth from this assembly are binding upon every 
individual family of the entire State, from the most 
important province to the most insignificant hamlet, 
and the sanction operates equally upon all. 

In time of war, the Chiefs share in the delibera- 
tions of the King as to the means of defence or 



CHAP. ii. THE CHIEF. 67 

offence as the case may be, and the terms of peace 
are discussed with them before being submitted to 
the enemy. 

To put it generally, the Chief is the right-hand 
man of the King. By the oath of allegiance which 
he swears to the King upon his enstoolment he 
undertakes to be always loyal to the King, to attend 
to the latter 's summons by night or by day, anafo-o, 
au-ia-o, as the native expression runs; and, supported 
by a religious sanction, it is remarkable how faithful 
he is to the King, and how harmoniously the Native 
State System works together in its different parts. 

The succession to a chief's stool is regulated by 
the same principles which govern the succession to 
a king's stool, and the like statement is true in the 
case of his destoolment. 



52 



68 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP n. 



NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. 
4. THE LINGUIST. 

The Linguist is a most important personage in the 
Native State. He is in some cases more influential 
than the Chief. But he must not be taken literally. 
He is not a person skilled in the tongues of men ; 
he generally speaks but one language. He was 
called a linguist first by a half-educated native inter- 
preter, tasked to explain his position to the white 
man, and as "linguist" he has been known ever 
since in the language of law and politics on the Grold 
Coast. We might correct the term and substitute 
"spokesman" for it, but it will be going dead 
against all precedent, so I shall content myself with 
the explanation that the so-called "linguist" is the 
spokesman of his lord and master. But he is more 
than a spokesman. He is by no means a mere figure- 
head : he is one of the main props in the Native 
State System. Both the King and the Head-chief 
have their Linguists, and so have the Tufu Hin and 
even subordinate Chiefs. He is a sort of confidential 
officer, who is always about the person of the King 
or Chief, and is his mouthpiece in every public 



CHAP. ii. THE LINGUIST. 69 

function, as well as in judicial proceedings. He is, 
generally speaking, an intelligent, bright, and witty 
individual, skilled in the use of language, smoothing 
down an angry word of his master, or putting a keen 
edge to a retort, when the occasion demands it. If 
he is a right down capable man, he often attains to 
a position of great influence in the community. 

The Linguist's place is not filled by his successor 
to the ancestral stool. It is filled by his son if he 
follows in the steps of his father, and has his capa- 
bilities. The son, living in his father's house, and 
often carrying his stool to the public meetings and 
to the King's Court, would, if he were intelligent, 
pick up the knowledge which would qualify him to 
become a linguist after his father. 

The Linguist is generally the repository, or, if 
you like, a walking encyclopaedia, of all traditional 
knowledge and information in connection with the 
stool under which he serves. He is supposed to be 
acquainted with the etiquette of the Court, and, in 
case of a new succession, it will be his duty to 
instruct the new monarch in the functions of the 
Crown. As a reward for valuable services, he may 
occasionally be promoted to the King's Council, in 
which capacity he will practically be the ruling voice, 
warranted by his great experience. 

The Linguist, as we have seen, comes by his know- 
ledge from his very early acquaintance with Court 



70 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP. n. 

functions, history, and tradition, continuing his 
education or training throughout the greater portion 
of his life, and often extending the field of his 
enquiries till his knowledge embraces the political 
history of the whole State, as well as of sister 
States. When he speaks, therefore, he does so as 
one having authority, and is listened to with the 
greatest respect. 

When the Linguist rises up to speak in public, 
he leans upon the King's gold cane, or a subordinate 
linguist holds it in front of him. He is going to 
make a speech now, and it is sure to be a happy 
effort. It will sparkle with wit and humour. He 
will make use freely of parables to illustrate 
points in his speech. He will indulge in epigrams, 
and all the while he will seem not to possess any 
nerves so cool, so collected, so self-complacent 1 
He comes of a stock used to public speaking and 
public functions. 

The art of "linguistic" oratory is at its best in 
Ashanti, where, coupled with acuteness of a high 
order, it makes the members of the linguistic body 
about the most enlightened men of the kingdom. 
Boatsin, the Linguist of the King of Ashanti, being 
once pressed with questions about the indemnity in 
a "palaver" between the Governor and some 
Ashanti ambassadors, calmly said : " tie yen lo inkoro, 
na sc ijaiisa na yen (hi k('i ascni <l.:in, inkc imi Im In. 



CHAP. n. THE LINGUIST. 71 

Na iyi die icaba itiimi asem; " meaning, " If this 
were a regular 'palaver,' and we were discussing 
matters with wisdom, I could hold my own. But 
this is a matter of might." 

Moreover, the Linguist often represents his master 
in matters where he cannot be present. Now and 
again the rule of best evidence is relaxed, and 
a linguist is allowed to give evidence on behalf 
of his master where the former has been sent 
down to represent the latter in an enquiry before 
the Court. This is quite correct. For in strict 
customary practice the King or Chief is not sup- 
posed in public functions to speak save through 
his Linguist. 

In Enquiry number 136 (Essarman), 1 Kwarnina 
Annobil, sworn, stated: "I am Linguist to King 
Eniinil of Wassaw. The King is a minor and his 
guardian is Chief Buaful, and as such guardian 
he sent me and the other Linguists to this Court." 
The distinguished Linguist then proceeded to give 
expert evidence. 

In the days of the Judicial Assessors, when Sir 
David Chalmers of honoured memory was Chief 
Magistrate of the Gold Coast, the Kings and Chiefs, 
when required to assist the Court with points in the 
Customary Law, sat on the Bench with the Magis- 
trate, and the latter lost none of his dignity thereby. 

1 Axim Concession Records : Coram Nicoll, J. ; October 30th, 1901. 



72 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP. n. 

There will be no harm in going back to the old 
practice, particularly now that the stools of the Gold 
Coast are gradually being filled by men with English 
education. It will inspire yet greater confidence in 
the hearts of native litigants in purely native cases. 



THE COUNCILLORS. 73 



NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. 
5. THE COUNCILLORS. 

The Councillors in a native community are those 
intelligent men who, by reason of their experience 
in matters political and judicial, are selected by the 
Head of the community to assist him with their 
counsel in the affairs of the community. 

The Chiefs of the community are, ex qfi-cio, mem- 
bers of the Council ; and the King may include such 
other men, being captains, headmen, or otherwise, 
who by general consent are competent to help in 
the public deliberations of the community. 

The Councillor holds his office for life. So long as 
he behaves himself, it is not customary to remove 
him. When he dies, in the case of an ex ojficio 
member, his heir, if of mature age and experience, 
succeeds him. If not, the infant's- guardian takes 
his place in the Council until he becomes competent 
to act for himself. Where the Councillor has been 
selected by the King with the concurrence of the 
other Councillors, the office does not go from uncle 
to nephew, or from father to son, though it is not 
unusual, as a matter of courtesy, if the nephew or 



74 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP. n. 

son is a man of intelligence and experience, to 
appoint him to take the place of the deceased 
Councillor. 

The Council, when duly constituted, is the ruling 
voice in all matters political as well as judicial 
in the community. The head of the community 
can do no legal act affecting the interests of the 
community without the knowledge, approval, and 
concurrence of the Councillors. 1 They represent 
the sovereignty of the people, the King heing their 
Head and the embodiment of the sovereign idea. As 
such, they pay him every homage and respect, but 
he must in turn respect their time-honoured laws, 
customs, traditions, and sentiments. If he goes 
contrary to any of their well-cherished ideas of 
proper government, they can call him to account, 
and, in serious cases, may in due course demand his 
deposition. But the Councillors cannot exercise 
their right capriciously. Every step they take 
must be legalised by tradition and custom. 2 As a 
matter of fact, it is very rare that the Councillors 
of a community have occasion to resort to extreme 
measures with the Head thereof. For the person 
of their King is as sacred to them as the person of 
the High Priest of the community. 

1 The African (West) Exploitation and Development Syndicate, 
Ltd., v. Sir Alfred Kirby and others. Coram Nicoll, J. ; Sarbah for 
plaintiffs, Hayford for defendants : Axini Reports, June, 1898. 

' 2 Hima Dicki v. Anansu Mensah : Axim Reports, October, 1901. 



CHAP. ii. THE COUNCILLORS. 75 

The Councillors are entitled to a portion of the 
public revenues of the community. What comes to 
them they again subdivide among subordinate head- 
men of their wards, and they in turn among their 
dependents, until it becomes true to say that every 
male adult member of each ward has at least 
" drunk" his portion of the distribution. It is com- 
munism of a very high type. Is it to be wondered at 
that the average Native is so contented and satisfied 
with his surroundings ? The careless foreign critic 
puts down the nonchalance of the Native to in- 
grained laziness. Whenever I come across such critics 
I smile at their simplicity. As a matter of fact, the 
"lazy Fanti " is capable -of putting forth effort 
amidst his own surroundings which men of no other 
race on earth can. Who, in truth, have been the 
pioneers and developers of the mahogany, gold, and 
rubber industries of the Gold Coast but the " lazy 
Fanti " ? Moreover, I make bold to say that the 
future work of the country will be done by him, but 
not in the foreign critic's way. 



76 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP, n 



NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. 
6. THE HEADMAN. 

The Headman, as his name implies, is the Head of 
a village community, a ward in a township, or of a 
family. His position is important, inasmuch as he 
has directly to deal with the composite elements of 
the general bulk of the people. 

It is the duty of the Head of a family to bring 
up the members thereof in the way they should go ; 
and by "family" you must understand the entire 
lineal descendants of a head materfamilias, if I may 
coin a convenient phrase. It is expected of him 
by the State to bring up his charge in the know- 
ledge of matters political and traditional. It is 
his work to train up his wards in the ways of 
loyalty and obedience to the powers that be. He is 
held responsible for the freaks of recalcitrant mem- 
bers of his family, and he is looked to to keep them 
within bounds, and to insist upon conformity on 
their part with the customs, laws, and traditional 
observances of the community. In early times he 
could send off to exile by sale a troublesome relative 
who would not observe the laws of the community. 



CHAP. ii. THE HEADMAN. 77 

It is a difficult task that he is set to, but in this 
matter he has all-powerful helpers in the female 
members of the family, who will be either the 
aunts, or the sisters, or the cousins, or the nieces 
of the Headman ; and as their interests are identical 
with his in every particular, the good women spon- 
taneously train up their children to implicit obedience 
to the Headman, whose rule in the family thus 
becomes a simple and an easy matter. " The hand 
that rocks the cradle rules the world." What a 
power J;or good in the Native State System would 
the mothers of the Gold Coast and Ashanti become 
by judicious training upon native lines ! 

The Headman is par excellence the judge of his 
family or ward. Not only is he called upon to 
settle domestic squabbles, but frequently he sits as 
judge over more serious matters arising between 
one member of the ward and another ; and where 
he is a man of ability and influence, men from 
other wards bring him their disputes to settle. 
When he so settles disputes, he is entitled to a 
hearing fee, which, however, is not so much as 
would be payable in the regular Court of the King 
or the Chief. 

The Headman is naturally an important member 
of his " company," and often is a captain thereof. 
When he combines the two offices of Headman 
and Captain, he renders to the community a very 



78 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP. n. 

important service. For, in times of war, where 
the members of the ward would not serve cordially 
under a stranger, they would in all cases face any 
danger with their own kinsman as their leader. 

The Headman is always succeeded by his uterine 
brother, cousin, or nephew the line of succession, 
that is to say, following the Customary Law. 



CHAP. ii. . THE PEOPLE. 79 



NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. 
7. THE PEOPLE. 

We now come to the general bulk of the people 
whose system, representatives, and officers of state 
I have discussed in the foregoing parts of this 
chapter. They are, generally speaking, intelligent, 
and take great interest in all political movements 
around them. This is not to be wondered at since 
every Gold Coast and Ashanti mother takes a pride 
in educating her sons in the traditional history of 
the country. If the son is intelligent, he will have 
graphically portrayed to him in a way that a native 
mother only can the causes of the political situation 
of the day, and he will retain every scrap of informa- 
tion thus imparted to his dying day such wonderful 
memory the average native has. I have often been 
surprised at the accuracy with which a Gold Coast 
illiterate witness has described in Court his genea- 
logical line from the remote matcrfamilias down to 
himself. When he has exhausted the list and his 
counsel can breathe more freely, to the question, 
"Who told you your family history?" the answer 
is often returned, " My grandmother told me," the 



80 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP. n. 

probability being that he first learnt the story at 
his mother's knees. 

And they are a people with no mean history. 
Driven southwards by their more powerful brothers, 
the Ashantis, they have shown, in the struggle for 
existence, some of the finest traits of manly 
character. Cautious, slow, and diplomatic, the Gold 
Coast man is sometimes by the ignorant foreigner 
labelled ""stupid," but when this stupid piece of 
human mechanism is examined with a calm and 
impartial judgment, it is found to possess those 
high qualities which make it easily, in the race 
for existence amidst its own environment, the 
survival of the fittest. 

Moreover, they are conscious of their destiny, and 
they are working steadily towards its attainment. 
Where so-called stronger and more intelligent races 
have gone under under British rule or protection, 
losing all they hold dear of liberty and political 
rights, these people have from the first held tena- 
ciously to their ancient rights, political and other- 
wise, with the force of a logic which no decent 
British Cabinet can withstand ; and, to-day, their 
position is unique in the history of British 
Dependencies and of political conceptions, as far 
as they relate to so-called subject races. And 
yet certain wiseacres dub them " stupid," and 
find no epithet strong enough to express their 



CHAP. ii. THE PEOPLE. 81 

contempt of this coming people of the African 
continent. 

And they are a progressive people, but they add a 
grain of salt to such progressive tendencies which 
they affect in the way of a sort o natural con- 
servatism. It is not quite thirty years since a High 
School was opened at Cape Coast, which did not go 
on regularly working for more than eight years. 
With such meagre advantages the sons of the soil 
have since competed successfully for the highest 
honours in arts, law, medicine, and divinity. In 
every industry and in the practice of every pro- 
fession they are to the fore, and if they only had 
a Government which went to work on scientific 
lines, what could not these people do ? Whatever 
the Gold Coast man becomes in the struggle for 
existence, whatever position he attains, he generally 
remains a Gold Coast man who loves his country 
dearly. He may adopt European culture, European 
tastes, European comforts and amenities ; but, take 
him for all in all, he remains at heart a Gold Coast 
man, ready to serve his country at any moment with 
all the resourcefulness, tact, and practical common 
sense of his nature. 

Before the "Emancipation Ordinance " of 1874, the 
people of the Gold Coast might be roughly divided 
into two classes, freemen and slaves or pawns. 

The freeman, or dilii, is he whose ancestors were 

G.C. 6 



82 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP. n. 

Aborigines of the country, and who can trace the 
line of such ancestors up to a remote mateifamiliaa. 
He is a free man in every sense of the word. He 
is eligible for any important office in the body 
politic, and he can always hold up his head among 
his fellows, however poor his condition. So dearly 
does the freeman prize his condition that, if by 
any act of folly on your part you call him a slave, 
he will bring you before a native tribunal, prove 
that he is no slave, and get you mulcted in heavy 
damages. The freemen formed the bulk of the 
people. 

There were next the class of people known as 
slaves. But Gold Coast slavery was neither the 
slavery of ancient Rome, nor that of Afro-American 
history. The Gold Coast master was always humane 
and considerate. He actually went so far as to 
consider the slave a member of his family, and to 
adopt him as such. When his line of descent failed, 
he promptly named the slave his heir. There is no 
form of slavery, ancient or modern, to compare with 
what Gold Coast slavery was. But, for all that, the 
dividing line between the two classes of people was 
always clearly defined. The slave never forgot, 
however highly he might rise in favour with his 
master, that he was a slave. Hence arose the 
saying : " Akioa onyi ni wura la rigura, na nakica oivo 
ni tsirim; " meaning; " When a slave is playing with 



CHAP. ii. THE PEOPLE. 83 

his master's son, he remembers his condition of 
being a slave." It is remarkable, even in post- 
emancipation clays, with educational and civilising 
influences all around in the country, how true and 
loyal the descendants of slaves remain to the ancient 
houses which afforded their progenitors in times 
past food, shelter, and protection. It speaks 
volumes for the humanity of Gold Coast masters 
in the days that are gone. 

The system of pawns was a form of servitude 
practised among persons of the same community 
when they were sore pressed and wanted aid. 
The uncle pledged his nephew, or his niece, for 
a sum of money, with a proviso for redemption upon 
the first opportunity. He invariably took steps to 
redeem his kith and kin at the earliest moment, an 
everlasting disgrace becoming attached to the family 
if he, or any member thereof, did not perform this 
sacred duty. 

People generally pawned their relatives with 
persons they knew well, and who, they felt sure, 
would be kind and considerate to the pawns. In 
some cases it took the form of a training for the boy 
or girl, and instances are known where pawns have, 
after redemption, elected to remain with their 
guardians. 

In an age when no member of the community 
could read or write, it was found convenient by the 

62 



84 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP. n. 

system of pawns to register and evidence a loan. In 
the hands of the pawnee, the pawn served as a charge 
upon the loan advanced. Thus the system origin- 
ated, nat in a barbarous spirit of enslaving people of 
the same community, but as a guarantee of good 
faith to return a quid pro quo for help rendered in 
the hour of need. 



THE COMPANY SYSTEM. 



NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. 
8. THE COMPANY SYSTEM. 

We have seen that every adult member of the 
community belongs to a ward, and that each ward 
constitutes a company, with its captains and 
subordinate military officers. The Captain-General 
of all the companies, usually seven in number, 
is the Tiifu Hin. It is his duty to supervise 
the military training of the different Companies, 
and he is present once a year at the general 
review, when all the Companies turn out with 
their flags and banners and full accoutrements. 

The annual review takes place about the time 
of the yam festival, known as Aliuba in the Fanti 
States, and as Kuntum in the Wassaw and Ahanta 
countries. Almba Kakraba, or Small Ahuba, takes 
place about May of each year. The crops are not 
yet gathered in; they are even now maturing. So 
this is not the yam festival proper. What is it, 
then ? It is a season of mourning a time when 
the deeply religious native mind remembers the 
dead, and mourns them accordingly. At four in 
the morning of the day Almba Kakraba falls, you 



86 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP, n, 

would hear a general wailing all over the town, or 
village, as if a great calamity had suddenly over- 
taken the community. The whole State is similarly 
in mourning. Here and there, in some ancient 
ruins, you would see women weeping as if their hearts 
would break, and the menfolk offering libations to 
the spirits of the departed. It is a solemn act of 
faith in the unseen world around us, which, renewed 
every year, and from one generation unto another, 
tends to deepen the highly religious sense of the 
Aborigines. 

Nine weeks after Ahuba Kakraba comes the festival 
known as the " Stool Celebration." The King is now 
about to remember his dead, in the same way that 
his subjects had done nine weeks previously. But 
that is only a part of the ceremonial. He is about 
to inaugurate at the same time the harvest rejoicings, 
for the crops are nearly matured by this time, and 
the king will taste of the first fruits of the earth. 
For the purpose of this ceremonial, he has caused to 
be gathered into his capital all his vassals from the 
four corners of the State, who have all arrived in 
fine style, with their big drums, big silk umbrellas, 
and sweet-sounding horns, the several Head-Chiefs 
riding in their palanquins, and all assuming great 
pomp, with the women in holiday attire, for this 
great festival. Each Head-Chief has brought the 
picked men of his Companies, who will range them- 



CHAP. ii. THE COMPANY SYSTEM. 87 

selves in their respective regiments at the capital. 
The Tuafus of each province will have joined the 
Tuafus of the capital, and the Inkidoms will have 
joined the Inkidoms, and all under the orders of the 
King's Tufa Hin, before the great ceremonial takes 
place. These regiments will take an important 
part in the ceremonial that is about to take place. 
And wherefore has the King gathered all his vassals 
together on this special occasion ? It is but to 
receive the allegiance of all, from the least even 
unto the greatest. 

But let us now come to the actual functions of the 
day, in the course of which we shall perceive clearly 
the working of the Company System. The King, if 
he has any regard for his memory, will have caused to 
be manufactured for him a stool by which to mark 
his reign. This is not the stool upon which he sits. 
It is only a symbol that he has come to the stool of 
his ancestors, the great Stool of the State. The first 
function of the day is a religious one. There will 
be a procession of all the small stools of the State, 
followed by the great Stool, and the King, in semi- 
state, will mount his palanquin, with the horn- 
blowers, sword-bearers, and other functionaries after 
him. His praises, and the praises and glory of his 
ancient house, will be proclaimed by the minstrels, 
and slowly the procession will wend its way in a 
particular direction, first through the town and 



88 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP. n. 

then out of it. Whither is it bound ? you will 
begin to wonder. Follow it, if you please, and 
you will soon know. First through the plantain 
farms of the capital ; then through the yam-fields, 
whose vines are fast shedding off the leaves which 
crowned them with virgin glory, a sign that Nature's 
work for man is nearly done ; then an abrupt turn, 
which leads first up a hill, and then down dale, till 
gradually you come to where the primeval forests 
unite their myriad foliage in one everlasting shade, 
away from the warm embraces of the mid-day sun. 
Here the procession suddenly halts, the music ceases, 
and the King dismounts. The fact is, the people 
have arrived at the sacred stream of the capital. 
Its clear, pellucid water, through which you can 
discern the white, clean sand, is very tempting, 
and you would fain quench your thirst at this 
nectar of the gods, but that the ceremony which 
immediately follows the halt is one that is awe- 
inspiring. This stream is probably the first from 
which the hero-warriors of the ancient royal house 
drank, when they settled in the neighbourhood, and 
which has been made sacred since the little com- 
munity grew and expanded into a state. The Priest 
now proceeds to offer up a sacrifice, sprinkling the 
royal stools with the blood of the slain. Next 
follows an act of purification, which consists in 
sprinkling the stools with the sacred water of the 



CHAP. ii. THE COMPANY SYSTEM. 89 

stream, the Priest the while going through the 
necessary incantations. The procession then re-files, 
and returns to the capital. 

And now begins the festive part of the functions 
of this unique anniversary. After a short interval 
of rest, the King, in full state, takes his seat at the 
public open square of the capital, surrounded by 
the court functionaries, the big horns and drums 
playing the while. The several Head-Chiefs and 
minor Chiefs from the provinces and districts have 
also assembled, and the moment of rejoicing has 
arrived. The women, adorned in rich silks and gold 
ornaments, are dancing before the King, and palm 
wine flows like water. It is a season that comes 
once a year, and all are invited to help themselves 
freely to the good things which the King has provided. 

Meanwhile the different regiments, under their 
several Head-Captains, and all commanded by the 
Captain-General, are preparing to go through their 
manoeuvres. To avoid disputes, the several regi- 
ments parade through the town one after the other, 
pouring forth thunderous volleys from their long 
flint Dane guns. After the parade each regiment 
presents to the King its flags and emblems, new and 
old, as an act of homage, which the King returns 
with suitable words. The several Head-Chiefs next 
renew their allegiance to the King ; and, after more 
dancing and popular rejoicing, the King retires to 



90 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP. n. 

his " compound," where his vassals subsequently take 
leave of him, each vassal receiving a suitable present. 
The King has now sacrificed to his Stool Oliin iratn 
nay-giva du all his people having turned out in their 
best to pay their homage, and all hearts having 
warmed to show attachment to the ancient royal house 
of the State. The corresponding function in Ashanti 
is iheApafram festival, when all the provincial Kings 
and Head-Chiefs, such as the King of Mampon, the 
King of Juabin, the King of Kokofu, and other 
Kings, met at Kumassi to pay their homage to 
the King paramount of all Ashanti. Three weeks 
pass, and we come to the time for Alniba Kcsi, or 
Great Ahuba, the real harvest festival of the year, 
which is celebrated separately by each province. 

It occasionally happened that at the annual turn- 
out of the regiments, one regiment tried to outshine 
the other in smartness and skilful manoeuvring, and 
war songs in praise of past exploits were indulged in. 
This at times led to friction between one regiment 
and another, ending in a free fight. Deplorable as 
these conflicts were before the display was regulated 
by ordinance and practically put an end to, the 
annual military review was a means of familiarising 
the young men with the use of firearms and preparing 
them for national defence in time of war. It was, 
moreover, an important adjunct to an imposing 
ceremonial. It ought to be possible to allow the 



CHAP. ii. THE COMPANY SYSTEM. 91 

annual displays under suitable control and regula- 
tions. In former times every male adult of the 
community understood fully the use of a gun, and 
made a point of possessing one with the first money 
he earned, or could coax from his uncle or father. 
Such are present governmental restrictions that 
hardly ten per cent, of the young men of the country 
either possess, or can use, a gun ; and as for powder 
and shot it is extremely difficult for the Natives to 
obtain any even for ordinary sport. 

In time of war the King and Head-Chiefs supplied 
the Companies with powder and shot. When they 
marched to battle the Tufu Hin led the van and the 
King the rear-guard. The King, Tufu Hin, Head- 
Captains, and principal Chiefs formed themselves 
into a council of war ; and the King held supreme 
command throughout the struggle, though the 
Tufu Hin would practically be the Commander- 
in-Chief. 

The flags of the Company are of immense impor- 
tance to the Company, whose members guard them 
as a sacred trust. They generally have worked in 
them emblems with symbolical meanings. There is 
a guard of honour attached to each company, whose 
duty is to guard the flag. They are known as 
Assikamba, being the picked men of the Company. 

The women of the wards form a sort of commis- 
sariat department to the Company. They may be 



92 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP. n. 

seen at the front in time of active war, carrying 
refreshments to their husbands, brothers, fathers, or 
uncles. They are full of the praises of their Com- 
pany, and to hear them chant their beautiful war- 
songs is to nerve one for the severest struggle. It 
is moreover the privilege of the women of the wards 
to propitiate the gods, and ask for blessing upon the 
arms of their country. They do this at home while 
the Priests busy themselves at the front, attending 
to the wounded among other things. The women- 
folk may be seen in the interval between one supply 
of victuals to the men in the field and the getting 
ready of the next, bedaubed with white clay and 
dressed in white calico, singing solemn dirges 
through the streets of the town. So fervent is their 
belief in spiritual forces influencing mundane affairs. 

The military spirit is not dead in the people. It 
deserves to be encouraged on scientific lines as an 
element of strength in Gold Coast manhood. It is 
absurd to practically destroy martial spirit in a 
people, and then turn round and call them cowards 
in a given emergency. 

It is an historical fact worth placing on record 
that the people of the Gold Coast steadily held their 
own against Ashanti incursions, until by diplomatic 
weakness and mistakes the British Government 
forced inglorious war upon the people in the first 
quarter of the nineteenth century. 



CHAP. ii. THE JUDICIAL SYSTEM. 93 



NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. 
9. THE JUDICIAL SYSTEM. 

The King is the Chief Magistrate of the com- 
munity, and, as I have shown, there are minor 
courts exercising concurrent, but not co-ordinate, 
jurisdiction with the King's Court. 

You have first the Courts of Headmen, then Chiefs' 
Courts, and, finally, the King's Court, which is both 
a court of first instance and a court of appeal. In 
suitable cases, the King's Court can require a matter 
before a minor court to be brought up before it for 
adjudication. 

At a "palaver," which is the word for a suit 
before the Court, the King sits with his Councillors ; 
and the Court is an open one, which any member of 
the community may attend. There is no secrecy 
about the proceedings. 

The complainant states his case as fully as he 
can, and he is given a patient hearing. In the 
course of his statement questions are freely asked 
him by the Councillors, and doubtful points eluci- 
dated. The same process is gone through with the 
defendant, and with the witnesses called by either 
party. The Council then retires to deliberate upon 



94 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP. 11. 

the facts, and its verdict is given by the King's 
Linguist, leaning over the cane of state, or the same 
being held before him by a sub-linguist, who cries 
out " Wontsey, wontsey" meaning, "Hear, hear," 
while the Linguist proceeds with his delivery. 

Where there is a strong conflict of evidence, and 
the Court is unable to arrive at a decision, the 
ordeal is resorted to, which consists of drinking a 
large quantity of a herbal preparation known as cdnm. 
If the party drinking returns the stuff, he is declared 
free, or not guilty. If he retains the ednni, he 
is found guilty. In some parts of West Africa 
the suspected person, in criminal matters, is made 
to chew a handful of rice. If he is unable to do so, 
he is declared guilty. I have heard this explained on 
physiological grounds as being highly scientific, and 
possibly there may be some physiological reason why 
a guilty person attempts in vain to return the eduin. 

The Gold Coast Ordinances recognise the juris- 
diction of the Kings and Chiefs of the country in 
matters judicial, such jurisdiction being regulated 
by Ordinance No. 5, of 1883, and sanctioned by the 
opinion of the Full Court, 1 consisting of Mr. Justice 
Macleod, C.J., Mr. Justice Smallman Smith, J., and 
Mr. Justice Francis Smith, J. an abler appellate 
trio the most critical mind could not desire. 

1 Oppon v. Ackinie: Cape Coast Appeals, October 24th, 1887; 
reported in Sarbah's " Fanti Customary Laws," pp. 207 212. 



CHAP. ii. THE COMMERCIAL SYSTEM. 



NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. 
10. THE COMMERCIAL SYSTEM. 

In the olden times a most active trade was carried 
on between this country and the hinterland through 
Ashanti. There were merchant princes in those 
days, when such men as the Hon. Samuel Collins 
Brew, the Hon. George Blankson,. the Hon. James 
Bannerman, Samuel Ferguson, Esq., the Smiths, the 
Hansens, and others flourished. Those were grand 
times. The run of Europeans who came out to the 
Gold Coast were quite a superior class of men. They 
mixed freely with the intelligent sons of the soil, and 
helped to lay the foundations of a new civilisation. 

The King of Ashanti knew most of these merchant 
princes, and His Majesty, at stated times in the 
commercial year, sent some of his head tradesmen 
with gold dust, ivory, and other products to the 
coast to his merchant friends in exchange for 
Manchester goods and other articles of European 
manufacture. In one visit the caravan cleared off 
several hundred bales of cotton goods, which found 
their way into the uttermost parts of Soudan. 

It was a part of the State System of Ashanti to 



96 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP. n.< 

encourage trade. The King once in every forty 
days, at the Adai custom, distributed among a 
number of chiefs various sums of gold dust with a 
charge to turn the same to good account. These 
chiefs then sent down to the coast caravans of 
tradesmen, some of whom would be their slaves, 
sometimes some two to three hundred strong, to 
barter ivory for European goods, or buy such goods 
with gold dust, which the King obtained from the 
royal alluvial workings. Down to 1873 a constant 
stream of Ashanti traders might be seen daily 
wending their way to the coast and back again, 
yielding more certain wealth and prosperity to the 
merchants of the Gold Coast and Great Britain than 
may be expected for some time yet to come from 
the mining industry and railway development put 
together. The trade Chiefs would, in due course, 
render a faithful account to the King's stewards, 
being allowed to retain a fair portion of the profit. 
In the King's household, too, he would have special 
men who directly traded for him. Important Chiefs 
carried on the same system of trading with the 
coast as did the King. Thus every member of the 
State, from the King downwards, took an active 
interest in the promotion of trade and in the keeping 
open of the trade routes into the interior. 

Nor was the Fanti petty trader left in the lurch ; 
for, while the merchant princes drove magnificent 



CHAP. ii. THE COMMERCIAL SYSTEM. 97 

trade with the caravans from Ashanti, the native 
petty trader hawked his goods to great advantage in 
the intermediate towns and villages, his customers 
being private speculators from the interior. 

Often the men in the coast towns acted as middle- 
men between men of the interior tribes coming down 
to trade and the merchant houses, and gained an 
honest means of livelihood in that way. 

Some of the Chiefs in the intermediate districts 
would sometimes prove obstreperous to the caravans 
coming down, which became a cause of grievance to 
His Majesty the King of Ashanti, whose ruffled 
temper would often be smoothed down by diplomatic 
messages and an exchange of presents. Thus all 
went merrily, and the country prospered, until the 
dawn of that evil day when its Protectors, instead 
of letting well alone, began to meddle with un- 
scientific hands in the working of its State 
System. 

The commercial prosperity of the Gold Coast 
was affected by the "Emancipation Ordinance" of 
1874. Soon after that enactment the traders who 
came down with their men, some of whom were 
slaves, found they could not take back the mer- 
chandise they had bought, as some of these men 
were induced to run away from their masters and 
join themselves to the band of freedmen, in the 
case of Cape Coast, at Freetown, most of whom 

o.c. 7 



98 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP. n. 

eventually perished from disease and want. As the 
traders could not afford to hire men to go back with 
them, they in most cases left their goods behind- 
cursing the system which caused them such grievous 
losses never to return again. After the first shock, 
some of those traders generally made their way to 
Assinee and to French and German ports, thus laying 
the foundation for, and subsequently establishing, 
the French and German trade on the Guinea Coast. 

Let it be distinctly understood that the bulk of 
the trade done at the present moment is but the 
remnant of the great trade which sprang up in the 
thirties, and was at its meridian in the sixties, 
between Ashanti and the Gold Coast, the Gold Coast 
then being the source of supply, and the Ashantis 
the middlemen who distributed it among the most 
distant peoples of the Great Desert and elsewhere. 

It was a trade based on good-will and mutual 
confidence between merchants on the Gold Coast 
and their friends, the middlemen, in Ashanti. 

That confidence, by slow degrees, has been com- 
pletely shattered by British diplomacy and aggran- 
disement ; and it is doubtful whether a system of 
railways will materially affect the situation. The 
fact is, that Downing Street policy has killed the 
goose the Ashanti middleman, that is which laid 
the golden egg ; and the man at the helm has not 
even yet discovered the mistake. What a miserable 



CHAP. ii. THE COMMERCIAL SYSTEM. 99 

counterfeit is the opening of Government stores in 
the hinterland in the vain hope of inducing trade ! 
Whoever heard of Government stores anywhere in 
the land even as far back as the first half of the 
old century ? As if the Aborigines of the Gold 
Coast, Ashanti, and the hinterland were not born 
traders, and accustomed to European goods, even 
while the old century was young. The truth of the 
matter is that the people must believe in and trust 
the Administration before they will build towns and 
villages along the railway route. You may lead a 
horse to a brook, but you cannot compel it to 
drink. What if, as fast as the Government extended 
the line, the native village communities trekked 
further north, east, or west, until they threw 
themselves into the ready arms of the French or 
Germans ? The matter requires neither argument, 
figures, nor official assurances. It is one to be 
approached with ordinary common sense, which 
dictates that the open sore of Ashanti must be 
healed as quickly as possible. The Ashantis will 
remain restless while their institutions lie crumbling 
in the dust ; and a state of restlessness in a people 
is not one calculated to promote trade and the arts 
of peace. It is important for British merchants and 
tradesmen to open their eyes to the situation, if the 
trade of the Gold Coast is not to be ruined. 

The fact of the case is, when you strike at Native 

72 



100 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP. n. 

Institutions and those ideas that are dear to the 
aboriginal mind, you strike at native trade and native 
co-operation. The only way to remedy the past is 
to under what wrong to the Ashanti middleman has 
already been done ; and the way to do so is by restor- 
ing his Native State System as nearly as may be, 
and his exiled princes. I do not say you are wrong 
in every particular of your policy, but this I do say, 
that you will never be able to convince the native 
mind that you are right from the historical facts as 
he knows them, and how he is affected by them. 
And, after all, you cannot do without the Native. 



THE FETISH SYSTEM. 101 



NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. 
11. THE FETISH SYSTEM. 

Overs hading and permeating the political, judicial, 
and social economy of the Aborigines is that 
system of faith and worship known as Fetishism. In 
no department of his life is the Gold Coast Native 
more faithful to the traditions of his forefathers than 
in matters of faith and worship. Here and there 
you find so-called converts to Christianity, but it 
seems difficult for an uncultured Native ever abso- 
lutely to forsake the gods of his fathers. 

And why should he ? When he comes to examine 
the teaching of the missionary, he finds there is a 
good deal in it that is unsuitable to his condition, 
and that he is required to give up practices which 
to the unscientific mind seem barbarous, but which, 
when critically examined, cover a mine of truth and 
inspiration. 

The Native of the Gold Coast profoundly believes 
in the world of spirits. He believes that the spirit 
in man never dies. So vivid is his faith that he 
holds open and direct communion with his dead 
friends, not through a medium, but, as it were, face 



102 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP. n. 

to face. You should watch him as he takes offerings 
of food and drink to the grave-side. There he care- 
fully sets a chair for the dear one gone hefore, then 
places the meal in order, and pours out a libation, 
addressing the spirit of the departed the while. He 
earnestly believes that the spirit of the departed 
relative hovers around him by day as well as by 
night, and he has both the physical and the spiritual 
sense to perceive its presence. He sees in the mam- 
miferous bat, winging its flight from room to room at 
night in the home once dear to the loved one, who 
is supposed to dominate it, a kindly providence 
which does not leave him all forlorn in his grief, but 
sends the spirit of the departed back occasionally to 
watch and to protect. He even speaks to it in 
endearing terms at times, and would fain believe 
that it understands and is in full sympathy with 
him. You may sneer at the seeming simplicity of 
the native mind, but the Aborigines believe that 
there are mysteries in this world yet unrevealed to 
man. He, the Native, implicitly believes in ghosts, 
and has many an authentic story to tell of some 
strange visitation which he has experienced. Nay, 
more, his sense of smell detects the presence of a 
ghost in a house. 

If there is aught that is invigorating in absolute 
faith in things beyond while man struggles here 
below, surely you find it in its simplest and truest 



CHAP. ii. THE FETISH SYSTEM. 103 

type in the heart of the Native of the Gold Coast. 
Mark yon, he does not look to conimnnion with the 
gross, material matter that lies mouldering in the 
grave ; but he looks to that indefinable something 
beyond which has defied the reason of mankind for 
all time. He looks beyond his present squalid sur- 
roundings to a world hereafter where he will meet 
every member of his family, and particularly those 
whom he has dearly loved, and where he will dwell 
with them in joyous intercourse as he has done in 
this world. It matters not what happens to-day, 
since to-morrow may find him in the grave and at 
rest with his forefathers. In this happy frame of 
mind he goes through life contentedly, free from 
carking care, and wonders sometimes at all the 
excitement and ado of men of another race. And as 
for a material hell, the scarecrow of the missionaries, 
he merely smiles at such a suggestion. Is there not 
trouble enough in this world ? God knows there is. 
Why should God add trouble to trouble ? Thus he 
reasons with philosophy. 

I shall not soon forget a scene I witnessed in a 
grave-yard on the Gold Coast not long ago. A widow- 
had just lost her only son, whom I knew. He had 
belonged to a friendly society, and at his burial the 
" brethren " had brought flowers for the bier. A few 
days afterwards I noticed this woman come to the 
grave of her son, who had belonged to the Church, 



104 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP. n. 

with the usual food and drink for the dead. But 
she had brought something else a bunch of flowers. 
Surely her son would want the flowers would like 
them. I saw her a simple native woman, who, 
probably, in all her life, had never loitered by the 
wayside to wonder at God's simple daisy amidst her 
tears, gently place the flowers upon her son's grave, 

On another occasion I was lingering in the same 
grave-yard by the side of a figure of "Hope," my 
thoughts far away from the immediate surroundings. 
Suddenly a woman's voice addressed me : "Ye u-ura 
aliad : awurdba su ahao;" meaning, "Master, good 
day; and you too, mistress, good day!" I was 
startled at the strangeness of the salutation ; and, 
before I could recover my senses, she had slowly 
walked away. So fervent is their belief in the here- 
after. To them man never dies. 

Now, when the missionary comes along, simple 
soul that he is, and gives the would-be converted 
Native the comprehensive command to give up all 
fetish as a thing abominable in the sight of God, his 
reason reels, and the foundations of his faith are, 
for the first time, shaken. But he soon finds him- 
self on terra Jirma : and when he remembers the 
lessons of his youth and considers that, after all, the 
missionary may be wrong in a matter that affects the 
vital interests of the life beyond, he remains for ever 
afterwards only a Christian worshipper in form, if 



CHAP. ii. THE FETISH SYSTEM. 105 

he does not openly revolt. Where he remains a 
formal worshipper, it does not necessarily follow 
that he is a hypocrite. The fact is that he likes 
the music and the ceremonials of the Christian 
Church, and would fain continue to enjoy them, 
while at heart he remains true to the faith of 
his fathers. 

Yet, what a different state of things would prevail 
if the missionary had first studied the Eeligious 
System of the Native before trying to improve it, or, 
which is worse, before introducing a new one ! Why, 
for example, should not the native convert sing his 
own native songs, and play his native airs in 
church ? Why should he not attune his horns, his 
adz lira, his yomeij, or for that matter, his adankum, to 
the praise of God, much as the Israelites of old 
praised Jehovah upon the cymbal and the harp ? 
Again, why should not the native be invited to church 
by the call of the big drum, as he is generally called to 
any public meeting in the country ? Why, in the 
name of reason and common sense, should not the 
Native bear his own name and wear his own native 
garments ? Why, indeed, except that the simple 
missionary has, from the beginning, ruled that all 
these things are against the letter, if not the spirit, 
of the Gospel ? There will never be anything like 
genuine Christianity on the Gold Coast and in the 
hinterland till the missionaries have begun from the 



106 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP. n. 

beginning to build up a national Church on scientific 
lines a Church wherein the Spirit of Christ will be 
all in all, and the letter a dead thing. 

The King, in the Native State System, is the 
Spiritual Head of his people. But the actual working 
of the System is in the hands of the Priests, who com- 
bine with their office the cure of disease. Some of 
them are very good doctors and pull through cases 
where European skill has failed. They are skilled in 
the use of herbal remedies, and it might repay 
European medical men to study native thera- 
peutics in its application to the treatment of 
diseases peculiar to the Gold Coast. 

The Priest generally invests his practice with a 
certain amount of secrecy. He pretends to hold 
communion, not in a spiritual sense, but in a matter- 
of-fact way, with the spirits of the dead, and he will 
often bring you back a message from a dead friend, 
if desired. When a priest is called in from a dis- 
tance to attend a case, he will generally tell the 
friends of the patient much about the family history, 
and indicate that a deceased relative is troubling the 
patient for some act of disobedience. The deceased 
relative must accordingly be propitiated. How does 
he come to know the history of the family to which 
he is a stranger ? There is a Guild of Priests in the 
country to which all Priests belong, whose members 
are absolutely faithful to one another. Upon the 



CHAP. ii. THE FETISH SYSTEM. 107 

arrival of the Priest in the town where his attend- 
ance is required, he immediately goes to meet his 
brother Priest, or some student of the Priest, if he is 
out of town, who gives him all the information he 
requires, and which he subsequently puts to such 
effective use. The people understand the decep- 
tion, but they never expose it ; for the Priest's 
office is a sacred one, and they philosophically 
look to the spiritual side of things and not to 
the letter. 

A Priest's training begins early in his life. He 
is generally sent away to another district to a 
seminary, where he serves out his apprenticeship, 
which may cover a period of three years. During 
that time he learns the use of herbs and their appli- 
cation to the cure of disease, at which he becomes 
very proficient in the course of after practice. 
When he returns from his apprenticeship to his own 
town, he generally gives a show, which takes place 
when his "company" folk hold a "company" dance. 
He, on this occasion, performs various feats in clever 
dancing to the beating of his favourite airs on 
the torn torn, and he generally succeeds in working 
himself into a frenzy of excitement, when the 
" fetish " is said to have come upon him " Suman 
aba nu du." 

In time of war the Priest goes forth with the 
army, and he generally can tell, or is supposed to 



108 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP. n. 

be able to tell, what the result of the conflict will 
be. He is supposed to be bullet-proof, and he 
generally gives such rude aid as he can to the 
wounded. He would now and again be called in 
consultation with the Council of War. 



THE MUNICIPAL SYSTEM. 109 



NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. 
12. THE MUNICIPAL SYSTEM. 

The principle of municipal government* in so far 
as this country is concerned, is as old as the hills. 
Without asserting that at any time in the history of 
the country the genius of the people had developed 
the idea to the same extent as may be found in 
civilised countries at present ; yet the fact that the 
Aborigines of this country have always in their 
townships and districts had a system of municipal 
government, independently of the central govern- 
ment of a given province, may be distinctly traced 
by the careful student of their history. 

To note this the more clearly, the observer has 
only to travel a few miles up country, and there he 
will find that each important township has its 
Sanitary Board, arrangements for the carrying out 
of public works, and other necessary provisions for 
the due and proper regulation of the internal govern- 
ment of the little community. These arrangements 
may not be on a grand scale, but the idea is dis- 
tinctly there, and there cannot be the slightest doubt 
that, in the hands of an intelligent civilised central 



110 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP. n. 

government, the different embryo municipal corpora- 
tions of the country may be developed and adapted 
to the local peculiarities of the people without 
coming into conflict with any of their cherished 
ideas. 

I have indicated in the preceding parts of this 
chapter the functions of the Headman of the ward. 
It is his duty also to supervise the sanitary 
arrangements of the ward. He would ordinarily 
cause the womenfolk at regular and stated periods 
to sweep out the whole ward, the women of each 
family doing the cleaning up of their portion of the 
ward. This would include the brushing up of weeds 
and all waste vegetable matter and other noxious 
substances, which would be burnt. 

The menfolk of the ward would be turned out in 
a company to clean up certain portions of the main 
road leading from the township to the next town- 
ship up to such a point as the two townships would 
agree upon. They would also provide places of 
public convenience both for themselves and the 
womenfolk. When such places of convenience were 
out of repair, they would be burnt down and fresh 
ones provided. In erecting places of convenience 
and lavatories, care would be taken to place them 
where the township would suffer least from bad 
odours. 

In advanced communities the head of the ward 



CHAP. ii. THE MUNICIPAL SYSTEM. Ill 

would see to the regulation of the buildings of the 
ward, so that when you arrived in a township, it 
would present broad streets and avenues, hardly 
to be expected in the heart of Africa. 

The effect of intercourse with Europeans on the 
part of the people of the coast towns has been to 
disorganise their own former municipal arrange- 
ments, and to throw them back upon such haphazard 
provisions as the Government has felt inclined to 
make. It is like the case of the dog in the manger. 
The Government will do nothing effective, and 
they neutralise the influence of the native Chiefs 
who would otherwise carry out necessary sanitary 
arrangements. 

It is true that there is in existence a " Town 
Councils Ordinance" on the Gold Coast which has 
been applied to Accra. But it does not work, and 
it is because it is not on a sound basis. The people 
of Cape Coast have steadily refused to form a 
corporation under the Ordinance, feeling as they 
do that no system of municipal government on the 
Gold Coast will succeed which is not based on 
popular and representative lines. 

The idea of rates and taxes without the people 
having an effective voice in the expenditure 
thereof is obnoxious to the average aboriginal 
mind. The Native resents an imposition of this 
kind upon the same principle involved in his 



112 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTION CHAP. n. 

protest against the " Lands Bill" of 1897. He 
considers that the land upon which stands his 
family house is his own peculiar lot and portion, 
much in the same way as he regards his gold, 
rubber, and timber lands. He will spend his 
uttermost farthing in defending his rights to the 
one or the other when the occasion arises. There- 
fore, when you ask him to pay rates and taxes upon 
his house, giving him no adequate control over 
the funds, he imagines you are simply introducing 
the thin end of the wedge, and sees no difference in 
the claim put forward and one which would oust 
him altogether from his tenement. To him the 
principle is the same. 

Nor does the working of the Ordinance appeal 
even to the sober sense of the average educated 
native. The Government element prevails to an 
alarming extent. There is too much eagerness 
to collect every available penny, and there is 
want of tact in the practical working of the 
scheme. 

Take at random a report of a meeting of the Accra 
Town Council, held at the Municipal Offices on 
Tuesday, the 12th day of April, 1898, at 4.50 p.m. 
First, as to the personnel : of the five members present 
two were Government officials, Mr. J. K. Holmes, 
the District Commissioner of Accra, being the 
President. 



CHAP. ii. THE MUNICIPAL SYSTEM. 113 

Secondly, as to the business discussed. Inter alia, 
under the heading Finance Committee, the following 
resolution appears: "That notices for the issue of 
summonses for non-payment of rates be placarded 
throughout the municipal area, and that the Town 
Clerk institute proceedings against KingTackie for the 
recovery of the rates due by him on his two houses." 

If you have a little imagination it will occur to 
you how this resolution, put into action, would 
appear to the King of Accra, referred to in the said 
resolution. " Has it come to this," he would say to 
his courtiers, " that I, to whose ancestors ground- 
rent was paid for the very land upon which stands 
the forts of Accra, must pay tolls for occupying my 
own houses, about the only possession left to me 
now ? " He will but see in the situation a travesty 
upon human affairs. The irony of it all ! It is like 
the Lord of the Manor being subjected to fines and 
forfeitures because forsooth he would not pay rates 
for the tenements, his own, standing upon his ancient 
domains. Your matter-of-fact Englishman is too 
prosaic for the average native intelligence. The French 
do these things differently, and succeed where the 
English fail. Common sense and tact are their forte. 
They work through the native Chief wherever they 
can, and generally effect what they seek in the end. 

To restore, then, the original municipal institu- 
tions of the people is the surest way to popularise 

G.C. 8 



114 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP. n. 

the principle of municipal government on the Gold 
Coast. And you cannot do this unless you give full 
sway to the working of the Native State System 
by candidly recognising the authority of the Kings 
and Chiefs, strengthening their influence, and 
working through them. Barring cases of gross 
injustice, there should be as little interference as 
possible in the internal native government of the 
Provinces. When once you have adopted this policy, 
under the direction of a well-informed central 
government, firm but conciliatory, you have gone 
a great way in solving the problem of Gold Coast 
administration. For you will easily perceive that 
in this question of municipal government, unless, 
the native Authorities have the power to enforce 
the necessary regulations, backed by their ancient 
prestige, there can be no progress possible. 

I believe that when once it has been impressed upon 
intelligent native municipal councils that the destiny 
of their towns is in their hands, free from unnecessary 
interference on the part of the central government, 
funds will be forthcoming to meet the requirements 
of the municipalities. "Where works of public utility 
for the township are being undertaken, there will be, 
in my view, no difficulty in raising money from the 
different wards in the customary way. 

But before calling upon the people to contribute, 
the Government must have redeemed their pledges 



CHAP. ii. THE MUNICIPAL SYSTEM. 115 

in the past. When the ad valorem duties of ten per 
cent, were imposed during the Administration of the 
late Sir William Brandford Griffith, it was pro- 
claimed from the housetops by the Government that 
works of public utility would be undertaken ; but 
the sums thus collected were spent largely in 
fruitless expeditions, the same thing occurring in 
subsequent Administrations. It is true a railway is 
being built, the cost of which is being met by loans 
upon the country's credit ; but where are the 
wharves, the harbours, the pierheads, and the water- 
works which have been promised over and over 
again in the Budget speeches of succeeding Adminis- 
trations ? They simply do not exist, and there is no 
apparent hope of their ever doing so. Progressive 
people in the country, European and otherwise, are 
burning to transform the Gold Coast into a fairly 
decent country ; but the Authorities do not seem to 
be in touch with the times somehow. 

Again, I suggest, get a well-informed central 
government, with a Science Department, directing 
but not interfering with internal native government 
and institutions ; encourage foreign capital to open 
up the country, licensing syndicates to light up the 
towns and to introduce modern conveniences ; and 
you have gone a great way in setting this country on 
the path of progress, which will lead to the fulfilment 
of her destiny. 

82 



CHAPTER III. 

THE CONFLICT OF SYSTEMS, 



Where the power of legislation is so loosely conferred on 
such a variety of persons, it is certain there will be great 
confusion of laws, and there is also great danger of the worst 
of all evils, namely, of doubts being raised as to whether the 
legislative authority of some of the subordinate bodies has.not 
been exceeded. 

For the supreme sovereign authority is always obliged to 
allow the authority of its subordinates to be questioned, in 
some form or other, by judicial authority, in order to keep up 
a check on their usurpation of power; though sometimes it 
resorts to that highly unsatisfactory expedient for getting out 
of the difficulty an ex post facto ratification of acts which are 
admittedly illegal. MABKBY, Elements of Law, 

***** 

With respect to the public opinion of the Crown Colonies, 
it is undeniably a power which in recent times is making itself 
more and more felt. The press in many of them has organs 
conducted with ability, and in some of them with singular 
power and conspicuous fairness ; the proprietors and editors are 
not confined to any one race, and no one could proclaim from 
internal evidence the nationality of a writer. But the wants 
and rights of the majority of the people are not always repre- 
sented in the columns of the public press in a Crown Colony, 
and this makes it the more necessary for the people and 
Parliament of the United Kingdom to pay some attention to 
what is passing, for they are undoubtedly responsible for the 
laws and systems upheld in such dependencies. C. S. SALMON, 
Ex-Administrator of the Gold Coast, in " The Crown Colonies 
of Great Britain, 1 " p. 5. 



CHAP. 111. THE CONFLICT OF SYSTEMS. 119 



CHAPTER III. 

THE CONFLICT OF SYSTEMS. 

THE Gold Coast, whose institutions we have been 
considering, is at present legislated for by the 
Governor in Council. Such Council is composed of 
Ave Heads of Departments, with the Governor as the 
President thereof, namely, the Chief Justice, the 
Colonial Secretary, the Attorney-General, the Trea- 
surer, and the Officer Commanding the Troops, 
formerly known as the Inspector-General. If, 
therefore, you reckon the Governor's " original vote 
in common with the other members of Council, as 
also a casting vote, if upon any question the votes 
shall be equal," 1 you have six distinct official votes 
in the Council. 

There are generally four unofficial members of 
Council, who are Government nominees, and who 
hold their appointments for five years, subject to 
renewal for a further period of five years, upon the 
recommendation of the Governor. They take their 
leave of absence from the country in the same way, 
and with the same sanction, as ordinary officials in 

1 Standing rules and orders of the Legislative Council. 



120 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP. in. 

the Government service. They keep their seats 
during the pleasure of the Government. A recalci- 
trant member may never cross the threshold of the 
Council chamber again after his first term of office. 
It is a system altogether peculiar to Crown Colonies. 
At the present moment, I believe, the number of 
unofficial members has been increased to five, t 

Of the five unofficial members of the Council, 
three are Europeans, one of whom is a solicitor 1 In 
local practice, the other two representing, as w? 
may take it, the mining and the mercantile interests 
respectively of the country. 

The two native non-official members of the Council! 
may be said to represent the Eastern and Western 
Provinces of the Gold Coast. 

The official members of the Council are bound to 
vote with the Government. At a meeting of the 
Legislative Council held at Government House, 
Christianborg Castle, on Wednesday, the 26th day 
of June, 1889, there were present : His Excellency 
the Governor, Sir W. Brandford Griffith, K.C.M.G. ; 
His Honour the Chief Justice, J. T. Hutchinson, 
Esq. ; the Honourable the Colonial Secretary, 
F. M. Hodgson, Esq. ; the Honourable the Queen's 
Advocate, E. Bruce Hindle, Esq. ; the Honourable 
the Treasurer, Charles Pike, Esq., C.M.G. ; the 

1 This chapter was written before the Honourable Member was 
made the Attorney-General of the Gold Coast. 



CHAP. in. THE CONFLICT OF SYSTEMS. 121 

Honourable Major Bingham, 2nd Batt. W. I. 
Regiment, Commanding the troops on the Gold 
Coast ; and the Honourable Charles W. Burnett, 
Esq., unofficial member. The Honourable John 
Sarbah, Esq., unofficial member, was absent. 1 

At this meeting, " Mr. Burnett asked the ques- 
tion, of which he had given previous notice, as to 
whether official members are bound to vote with the 
Government." 

" The Colonial Secretary replied that the officers 
of the Government, being part and lot of the 
Executive Government, are bound to obey the 
Queen's commands, conveyed by the Secretary of 
State, in their legislative as well as their executive 
capacities, whether or not the course presented 
accord with their personal views and opinions. In 
questions of religion, and other questions of high 
moral import in respect of which officers of the 
Crown may happen to have conscientious scruples, 
which, after being explained to the Governor, His 
Excellency is unable to remove, they may reasonably 
expect to be excused from taking part in measures 
to which they object on these grounds. At the 
same time an officer, whose seat in the legislature 
is by law inseparable from his office, could not be 
continued in his office and his seat if his conscience 

1 See the report of the meeting published in the Gold Coast 
Echo, August 15th, 1889, reproduced from the Government Gazette. 



122 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP. HI. 

should not permit him to give the Crown such a 
measure of support as might be necessary to enable 
the Governor to carry on the business of govern- 
ment in the legislature -in accordance with the 
Queen's instructions." 

In whichever way you view this diplomatic answer 
to a simple question, one must see how awkwardly a 
Chief Justice, for instance, may find himself placed 
in the Legislative Council. Being an officer of the 
Government, he is " part and lot of the Govern- 
ment," and, as such, bound to support the policy 
of the Government, or, in plain English, take the 
alternative of being sent about his business. If 
he is a strong man, he will hold out occasionally, 
and may even go so far as to sit a silent member in 
the Council, holding that his function is not to 
make, but to dispense, the law ; not to administer, 
but to judge between person and person, if even one 
of the parties should happen to be the Executive 
branch of the Administration. In a country teeming 
with political issues, where a judicial officer may at 
any moment be called upon to decide upon the 
legality of an administrative act, the Chief Justice 
will perceive the incongruity of " supporting " a 
governmental policy, and the possibility of afterwards 
sitting as judge to decide issues arising out of such 
a policy, and would, therefore, wish himself out of 
an ambiguous position. But it is a peculiarity of 



CHAP. in. THE CONFLICT OF SYSTEMS. 128 

the Crown Colony System that it insists upon this 
unsatisfactory arrangement. A. way out of the 
difficulty, while the System lasts, would be to place 
the control of judicial appointments in the hands of 
the Lord Chancellor of England, and remove a judge 
of the Supreme Court from a seat in the Legis- 
lative Council of the Gold Coast, substituting the 
Solicitor-General. 

But to come back to Mr. Burnett's question. 
The honourable member, in a matter before the 
Council, was hard pressed for support. The odds 
were six to one, and he was obliged to put the ques- 
tion point-blank. The difficulty which confronted 
Mr. Burnett as to the permanent non-official minority 
still confronts us. The non -official members are 
men of business. Occasionally you have one or two 
of them away on leave. If even they are in the 
country, it is not always that they can be present in 
their places ; and if they could all be present, still 
their minority would be none the less a minority. 

But all this is on the assumption that from the 
non-official members is expected free criticism. 
That is not so. They are supposed to support the 
Government. Their province is not so much to 
criticise as to advise. When they do advise, they 
must do it in such a way as to fall in with the view 
for the moment entertained by the Government. If 
you want to know the truth of the matter, they are 



124 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP. HI. 

put there as an apology for the denial of proper 
representation to the country. They never initiate 
legislation. How can they ? It would be a presump- 
tion on their part to attempt it. For that matter, 
the Governor himself does not initiate legislation : 
he merely suggests. Legislation proper comes from 
Downing Street, and the Governor and his Council 
are merely the obedient servants of the Colonial 
Secretary. To see the matter in its proper light, 
even after a given measure has passed the Legisla- 
tive Council, it is subject to revision by the Authority 
at Downing Street, who may or may not advise His 
Majesty to exercise his power of veto. 

If you want further light upon the matter, you 
have it in the perfunctory way in which Bills are 
passed into Ordinances in the Council. It is a 
matter of course where a Bill has received the 
official imprimatur. There cannot, in the circum- 
stances, be any such thing as a regular debate when 
raised by a recalcitrant member. 

It so happens, therefore, that when the people 
think themselves seriously affected by the provisions 
of a given Bill, they resort to the expediency of 
getting themselves represented by counsel in the 
Council Chamber. For the rest, they allow legisla- 
tion to pass over their heads by default. The right 
of the people to present petitions is admitted in 
theory, but in practice, if the petition is ever attended 



CHAP. in. THE CONFLICT OF SYSTEMS. 125 

to by the Council, the attention is given after the evil 
prayed against has become an accomplished fact. 
If you want to have an idea as to how this sort of 
thing works, let me refer you to an interesting corre- 
spondence between the Axim branch of the local 
Aborigines Society and the Government anent the 
sale of lands at Sekondi, which, with the kind 
permission of the Editor, I have reproduced from 
West Africa of July 5th, 1902, in the appendix. 1 

What system is this which places in the hands 
of the Governor, as the obedient servant of the 
Colonial Secretary, a power beyond that exercised 
by the Sovereign, Emperor-King of the British 
Dominions ? A curious arrangement this, surely, 
by which the Governor is not responsible to the tax- 
payers, who keep the machine going, and who do 
really. k now what is good for them, but to an over- 
tasked official, some 3,000 miles away, who may or 
may not be a capable man, and who gleans his 
information as to the local conditions from his 
obedient servant, the Governor ! How long will 
public opinion tolerate a system which makes against 
true imperialism and the expansion of British influ- 
ence and prestige in the dark corners of the earth 
which throws a damper, in several directions, upon 
British capital and enterprise ? 

The laws passed by the Legislative Council are put 

1 See Appendix, pp. 382396. 



126 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP. in. 

in force by the Executive Council, which consists of 
the official members of the Legislative Council, save 
one, with the Governor, again, as its president. 

Sometimes the only information that an ignorant 
Native has of the passing of a given law is when he 
has to pay the penalty. A typical case is that of the 
Criminal Code, which penalises a good many acts 
which are not offences by the general principles of 
the Criminal Law of England, or by the Customary 
Law of the Gold Coast. 

We have seen from the discussion of Native Insti- 
tutions how widely diffused among the people is the 
idea of representative government. It is the very 
essence of the Native State System. In that System, 
the right of every adult member of the community to 
be represented in the State Councils is fully recognised 
and guaranteed. What conflict of ideas must there 
be in the mind of the Native when he contemplates 
the farcical pretext in respect of the representation 
of the country in the presence of the non-official 
members of Council in the Council Chamber ! 

The trend of progress the whole world over is 
toward free institutions a state of society whose 
members are free to govern and regulate their own 
affairs. It is the keynote of healthy imperialism. 
It is this very principle, recognised by Great Britain 
in her relations with the Dominions over the Seas, 
which is strengthening and consolidating Greater 



CHAP. in. THE CONFLICT OF SYSTEMS. 127 

Britain. But I shall possibly be met with the criticism 
that self-government is reserved by Great Britain 
for those English-speaking Colonies whose popula- 
tions are nearly or wholly white. That may be. 
But what is the essence of the matter ? I am 
inclined to think that it is not so much a question 
of the particular people inhabiting a particular 
Dependency, as a yielding to the logic of facts in the 
given circumstances. Statesmen, in time, have come 
to learn the hidden meaning of the bitter lesson 
which cost Great Britain the, loss of the American 
Colonies, and the world one of the greatest oppor- 
tunities of conserving universal peace, progress, and 
goodwill among men. In the case of the Gold 
Coast we shall appeal to the logic of facts, and 
shall not appeal in vain. 

I believe, therefore, that whenever a strong case has 
been made, showing the capability and the right of 
any given community in free alliance and friendship 
with Great Britain, call such connection by what 
name soever you please, to manage its own internal 
affairs, Great Britain will not be backward in extend- 
ing to such a community the blessing of free 
institutions, feeling certain that therein lies the 
fastest bond with the Mother-Country. In the case 
of the Gold Coast, we simply say, " Allow us to make 
use of our own Native Institutions, which we under- 
stand, and which from experience are adapted to- 



128 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP. in. 

us." We shall ask once, twice, and ask again, and, 
if this generation is not listened to, we shall hand 
on the legacy of legitimate and constitutional request 
to the next generation. 

But where are your facts, you will rightly ask, 
making it logically proper to ask for the revival of 
representative government, on native lines, on the 
Gold Coast ? To a fair question allow me to return 
a fair answer. I have endeavoured to show that, on 
the Gold Coast, you are not dealing with a savage 
people without a past, who are merely striving to 
copy or imitate foreign Institutions. I can under- 
stand why, for example, you will rightly or wrongly 
refuse full representative government, say, to Jamaica 
or Trinidad. There you are not dealing with an 
indigenous people. You are face to face with the 
problem of trying to train up a people who have 
lost touch with their past, and whose immediate 
past dates from the time when Europe went into 
sackcloth and ashes over her grievous sin against 
the African race. You may seriously or not assume 
that they are not ripe for self-government, and post- 
pone the time till the Greek calends. But here you 
are confronted with no such difficulty. On the con- 
trary, you are stimulated by the circumstances of 
the case. If you are free to admit it, you will see 
that you find here already a system of self-govern- 
ment as perfect and efficient as the most forward 



CHAP. in. THE CONFLICT OF SYSTEMS. 129 

nations of the earth to-day can possibly conceive. A 
people who could, indigenously, and without a litera- 
ture, evolve the orderly representative government 
which obtained in Ashanti and the Gold Coast before 
the advent of the foreign interloper, are a people 
to be respected and shown consideration when they 
proceed to discuss questions of self-government. 

Nor in discussing this matter must we lose sight 
of the fact that the position of the Gold Coast is 
perfectly unique among all the other so-called 
Dependencies of Great Britain. Without anticipat- 
ing the discussion in the next chapter, I may broadly 
state that the relations between Great Britain and 
the Gold Coast originated in friendship, mutual trust, 
and commercial alliance. It will be seen, therefore, 
that the people have a right to mould their institu- 
tions upon their own lines, Great Britain being 
merely a Protecting Power, and only properly con- 
cerned with their relations with the outside world. 
It will be also seen that at no time have the people 
divested themselves of their right to legislate for 
themselves. Before the spread of education in 
the land, they did these things for themselves, 
sometimes in co-operation with their Friends and 
Protectors. Why not now ? 

It is sad to reflect in this connection that the 
policy of the British Government has been retro- 
gressive rather than progressive. It is as if the 

G.C. 9 



130 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP. in. 

Colonial Office had resolutely set to work to discourage 
national spirit, and to destroy every vestige of it, in 
the breasts of the people. But this kind of thing will 
not do. Hence the humble appeal to-day that Great 
Britain should fully and seriously consider this ques- 
tion of free institutions for the Gold Coast, upon 
which so much of the future progress of the country 
depends. 

It is conceded, I believe, on all sides that the 
Crown Colony System of administering the affairs of 
the Gold Coast has failed, hopelessly failed. What 
then ? Is the country to be left to go to rack and 
ruin ? It may mean nothing to the Colonists, but 
to the Aborigines it means everything that is dear to- 
them of country, home, and fatherland. 

If the Gold Coast were a country with free 
institutions, free from the trammels of Downing 
Street red-tapism, we should soon have good wharves 
and harbours, gas works, water works, and railway 
communication all over the country. Prosperous 
cities would grow up, and knowledge would spread 
among all classes of the people, producing a willing 
and an efficient body of workmen for the material 
development of the vast wealth and resources of 
the country. 

In a well-regulated system the whites would find 
they could not do without the blacks, and vice versa, 
and soon would grow up a spirit of forbearance, 



CHAP. in. THE CONFLICT OF SYSTEMS. 131 

tolerance, and mutual respect, each race doing its 
allotted work upon natural lines in a prosperous and 
contented federal Gold Coast and Ashanti. 

All this may be a dream. At least, so you may 
think. But if a dream, it is one worth attempting 
to realise, instead of sitting bound hand and foot in 
the face of ugly facts. 



92 



CHAPTER IF. 

THE STATUS OF THE GOLD COAST, 



It is difficult for a civilised Government to deal justly with 
primitive communities, because they have not the courage to 
restrain their subjects frpm taking those unfair advantages 
which even the commonest and dullest of civilised men have 
over the shrewdest of savages. There are not wanting those 
who look on the extermination of savage races, as a benefit. 
But experience, scientific research, and history all prove, every 
day more and more, that such conclusions are mistaken. 
Civilised people know something, but not much, about their 
own intelligence, and they know something of their own 
history, but they know nothing whatever about those people 
they condemn to extinction simply because they do not 
understand them. 

* * * * * 

It is to be hoped many races will survive in the world, 
were it only to avoid too much monotony. C. S. SALMON, 
Ex-Administrator of the Gold Coast, in " The Crown Colonies of 
Great Britain," p. 85. 



CHAP. iv. THE STATUS OF THE GOLD COAST. 135 



CHAPTER IV. 
THE STATUS OF THE GOLD COAST. 

1. THE GOLD COAST SETTLEMENTS DEFINED: 
THEIR NATURE AND EXTENT. 

ALL writers are agreed that the British Settlements 
on the Gold Coast consist of a number of forts, 
studded along the coast, which, in one way or another, 
have fallen into the hands of Great Britain since the 
seventeenth century, with the exception of three or 
four, which were actually built by the English. 

In the " Gold Coast Guide," 18951896, the Rev. 
Jacob B. Anaman, F.R.G.S., gives the forts in the 
following order : 

French fort at Elmina, built in 1383. 

Fort St. George del Mina (Portuguese), built in 
1481. 

Fort Fredensborg, or Ningo Fort (Danes), built in 
1620. 

Fort Cabo Corsa, or Cape Coast Castle (Portuguese), 
built in 1624. 

Fort Nassau, or Mori Fort (Dutch), built in 1637. 

Fort Conradsburg, or Fort St. Jago, at Elmina 
(Dutch), built in 1640. 



136 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP. iv. 

Kramantine Fort (English), built in 1640. 

James Fort, at Accra (English), built in 1662. 

Fort Vanderpurgh, at Commenda, built in 1688. 

Dixcove Fort (English), built in 1691. 

Anamaboe Fort (English), built in 1753. 

For further particulars, and an account of a few 
unimportant forts not included in the list above given, 
the reader is referred to the pages of Bosnian. 

Now, the objects for which the several forts were 
built are obvious. They were mostly built in the 
seventeenth century, when the Portuguese, the 
French, the English, the Dutch, and the Danes were 
alike engaged in the abominable slave trade, and 
they were, of course, intended to serve as barracoons, 
or temporary depots, for the human cargo before 
it was shipped to the plantations in the New 
World. The different companies, incorporated by 
the Governments of the several European nations, 
were keen competitors in the slave market, and 
jealous of one another; while the Aborigines, slowly 
awakening to the horrors of the traffic in human 
flesh, hated them all equally. Hence arose the 
necessity of building these forts for protection. 

It is also clear that ground-rents were paid to the 
local Magnates, or Chiefs, for the grounds upon which 
these forts stood and still stand, and for them only, 
since the state of unrest in which was the country 
in those unhappy times rendered it unsafe for the 



CHAP. iv. THE STATUS OF THE GOLD COAST. 137 

European traders to acquire holdings outside their 
forts, which were never free from the dangers of 
outside attack. 

Accordingly, when in later times we read in official 
reports, despatches, and Blue Books of " Her 
Majesty's Settlements on the Gold Coast," and " Her 
Majesty's Forts and Possessions on the Gold Coast," 
it must be understood that these self-same forts are 
meant which served as temporary resting-places for 
the kidnapped Aborigines, groaning in chains, and 
subsequently exiled to foreign labour. 

But by-and-by slavery was abolished, the day of 
legitimate trade dawned upon the Gold Coast, and 
the Aborigines began to have confidence in the white 
man, and to recognise and appreciate the advantages 
of having him in their country. Thenceforth, the 
Englishman was the honoured guest, who must be 
entertained and humoured ; and, so long as he knew 
his place and did not assume airs or bully the people, 
he was welcome to have his full share in the good 
things of the land for all time, the Aborigines being 
conciliatory above all things. 

These are the main fundamental propositions of 
British tenure on the Gold Coast: and it will be 
interesting to mark the march of events in the course 
of this work how the honoured guest gradually 
worked his way into importance and influence, a 
logical result scarcely contemplated by the Aborigines, 



138 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP. iv. 

when they offered their white visitor a place at their 
hearth. 

We have the propositions. Where are the proofs ? 
We find them scattered here and there. Let us hasten 
to collect and preserve them. 

The first work I shall refer to is the work of Mr. 
Lucas, of Balliol College, Oxford, and of the Colonial 
Office, being the third volume of his "Historical 
Geography of the British Colonies." I may premise 
that Mr. Lucas, in his Preface, mentions the name 
of the late Sir William Brandford Griffith, K.C.M.G., 
then Governor of the Gold Coast, as having been 
among many others who had given him assistance 
in the preparation of his work. The information 
we derive from him, therefore, may be taken as 
distinctly bearing the official hall-mark. ' 

On page 3 of his work Mr. Lucas refers to the 
Gold Coast as a Settlement, dating from the year 
1618 ; and when we come to page 199 he refers to it 
in these words : 

" To judge from the old maps a row of isolated forts and 
factories lined the water's edge, but they had no territory or 
territorial rights attached to them." 

Referring to this same matter, Captains Bracken- 
bury and Huyshe say, on page 3 of their work 1 : 

" It appears that all the European companies on the Coast, 
Dutch and Danish as well as English, had paid ground rent 
to the Coast tribes for the land on which their forts were 
built." 

1 " Fanti and Ashanti." 



CHAP. iv. THE STATUS OF THE GOLD COAST. 139 

Now, these writers must have gathered their 
information from official documents extant, and it 
will, therefore, be satisfactory to confirm them from 
those official sources. 

It appears that in the sixties Her Majesty's 
Government was desirous of ascertaining the true 
relation of the Gold Coast to Great Britain. For 
this purpose a Select Committee was appointed, and 
a deal of valuable evidence was taken. 

On page 287 of the Eeport of the Committee 1 we 
find that Richard Pine, Esquire, Governor of the 
Gold Coast, was called in and examined. He was 
asked : 

" What did you consider your Governorship to be at the Gold 
Coast ? Was it simply a number of military posts or forts without 
any territory round each of them? " 

To which he replied : 

" I consider that I was technically the Governor of the forts 
and settlements, but I also supposed myself to have jurisdiction 
to a certain extent over what is called the Protectorate." 

Colonel Orel, R.E., was also called and examined. 
He was asked the specific question : - 

" You are not prepared, are you, to recommend any exact 
area of land whi&h ought to be declared British territory around 
the forts at the Gold Coast? " 

To which he replied : 

" With regard to the Gold Coast, I would declare nothing 
1 See preliminary chapter, p. x. 



140 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP. iv. 

British territory but the land on which the forts or buildings 
which were occupied by our civil officers were situated." 

Please note carefully the next question, which 
follows, and the answer to the same : 

" We have had evidence that there was some disadvantage 
there (Gold Coast) from the uncertainty : one or two witnesses 
seem to suppose that it was British land within a gun shot ; 
do you not think that there is a disadvantage in the actual 
British territory not being denned? " 

"It is thought by some a disadvantage in the present state 
of our relations with the people at the Gold Coast, but I think 
it is somewhat advantageous that our exact position cannot be 
too closely denned." 

In the year 1865, William Hackett, Esq., was 
Her Britannic Majesty's Lieutenant-Governor at 
the Gold Coast. The indefinite position of Her 
Majesty's Government in the country troubled him, 
and he wished to give concessions of land in Cape 
Coast in the name of the Queen, to be probably 
followed by acquisitions in other parts of the 
country. I have published the whole palaver, held 
at Government House, Cape Coast, on the 10th of 
May, 1865, in the Appendix. It is interesting 
reading, but the substance is this : 

The Governor wanted the illiterate Aborigines to 
sign a paper, making the Queen a grant of land. 
They respectfully declined to do so, remarking that 
the signing of a paper was doubtful to them. 

Eight long years passed away, and then followed 
the Ashanti Expedition of 18731874. It is well 



CHAP. iv. THE STATUS OF THE GOLD COAST. 141 

known that Lord Wolseley, then Sir Garnet, was 
given the military command of the expedition, while 
at the same time he acted as Civil Administrator of 
the Gold Coast Settlements. Let us see how he 
describes himself in his letter written at the camp 
at Prahstie, on the 2nd of January, 1874, to His 
Majesty Koffee Kalkalli, King of Ashanti. He 
describes himself as "Administrator of Her Majesty's 
Forts and Possessions on the Gold Coast, and Com- 
mander of Her Majesty's Forces in the West African 
Settlements." 

Nor have the facts altered since 1874. In the 
speech of His Excellency Governor Hodgson, in 
introducing the estimates of revenue and expendi- 
ture for the year 1899, reported in the Gold Coast 
Government Gazette for October, 1898, at page 409, 
occur these words : 

" I do not, I may state, regard Ashanti as being in the same 
position to the Government as other districts which together 
form the colony and protected territories of the Gold Coast. 
Ashanti is a conquered country a country upon which blood 
and treasure have been spent and the kings and chiefs know 
that in accordance with native custom they must pay tribute to 
the paramount authority." 

Sir F. M. Hodgson in these two sentences throws 
the whole question of British relations with the 
Aborigines of the Gold Coast into a nutshell, and 
shows greater appreciation of historical facts than 
did his late lamented predecessor, the brilliant 



142 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP. iv. 

and versatile Sir William Edward Maxwell, 
K.C.M.G. 

And we have already seen how these "Forts," 
"Possessions," or "Settlements" were acquired, 
and the local limits of them. 



CHAP. iv. THE STATUS OF THE GOLD COAST. 143 



THE STATUS OF THE GOLD. COAST. 

2. EARLY JURISDICTION OF THE KING: ITS NATURE 
AND EXTENT. 

We may now usefully direct our attention to the 
enquiry as to the nature and extent of the early 
jurisdiction of the King of England, consequent upon 
the acquisition of certain Forts or Settlements on 
the Gold Coast by Great Britain. 

It is a matter of general history that, before the 
close of the eighteenth century, the public con- 
science of Great Britain had been fully aroused by 
the efforts of the Abolitionists to the evils of the 
slave trade. The philanthropic movement, which 
began in much feebleness, had, as time went 
on, increased in importance and influence, and 
had, moreover, created in its favour a public senti- 
ment of a highly moral character, destined not 
merely to influence British policy for all time, but 
likewise to form a bulwark for the liberties of the 
race whom civilised Europe had so long wronged. 

But how did this result come about ? It happened 
this way. The reaction in public opinion against the 
slave trade made the British conscience for a long 



144 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP, iv 

time afterwards tender in pursuing any policy which 
might happen to work injustice to the Aborigines of 
this country. The Colonial Ministers kept a firm 
hold on the Lieutenant-Governors of the Forts and 
Settlements in those earlier times, and would not 
countenance any unlawful extension of jurisdiction, 
however convenient to the local government. 

On the other hand, the Aborigines of the Gold 
Coast were for ever wary. They knew fully well 
that they had come in contact with powerful neigh- 
bours, who might, at any moment, show themselves 
inconveniently aggressive; and so, with remarkable 
tact, they gave in where they could do so without 
injury to the fundamental basis of the relationship 
between them and their white visitors, mildly 
remonstrating, but always with effect, where they 
felt firmness was necessary. 

There were, besides, operating in the country 
other influences at the same time which had the 
effect of bringing about a good understanding between 
the Aborigines and the British Government. In 
the year 1818, the principle of abolition had been 
accepted by all the European Powers ; but it left 
undisturbed the internal labour system of the 
Aborigines, and the active trade which depended 
upon it. It would not have been wise to attempt 
any interference with domestic slavery as it then 
existed, and, besides, Great Britain had only so 



CHAP. iv. THE STATUS OP THE GOLD COAST. 145 

recently turned convert that she could not with any 
grace preach at the very tribes some thousands 
of whom she had kidnapped in the days of her 
unregeneration. 

It happened, therefore, that when the day of 
legitimate trade dawned in these parts, the transport 
service was in the hands of well-to-do Aborigines, 
who kept slaves for the purpose. There was, thus, 
immediate gain to the Aborigines, and gain indirectly 
to the European trader in the new order of things. 
And it is not possible to see how otherwise the 
country could have been opened up to trade and 
civilisation in those earlier times. 

Trade, then, it is to be distinctly understood, was 
the primary, though not the only object of Great 
Britain in settling in the country, and whether in the 
hands of the Directors of the African Company of 
Merchants, or the Administrators of the United West 
Africa Settlements, the primary purpose of the 
Administration was the same, namely, the encourage- 
ment and protection of trade. But, pray, remember 
that it was only the primary purpose. For, as we 
shall see in the course of this work, now and again 
an aggressive policy asserted itself, giving way 
almost immediately afterwards to the main and 
primary policy. The intelligent reader, who gets a 
nrm grasp of this central idea, has a key to the 
whole political history of the Gold Coast people. 

G.C. 10 



146 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP. iv. 

From this starting point, it becomes easy to form a 
clear idea of the nature of British tenure, and the 
extent of the jurisdiction in those earlier times. 

On pa'ge 287 of the Eeport of the Select Committee, 
the opinion of Governor Pine was asked upon this 
question of British jurisdiction on the Gold Coast. 
His reply was this : " I had heard so long that I can 
recollect Africa that the question of jurisdiction was 
a doubtful point." 

The opinion of Colonel Orel, R.E., is given on 
page 337. To the question, "You are not prepared, 
are you, to recommend any exact area of land which 
ought to be declared British territory around the 
forts at the Gold Coast?" he replied: "With 
regard to the Gold Coast, I would declare nothing 
British territory but the land on which the forts or 
buildings which were occupied by our civil officers 
were situated." 

In the year 1836, as Mr. Sarbah tells us on page 15 
of the " Fanti Customary Laws," the President in 
Cape Coast Castle assumed power and tried Adoasi 
and Amman for wilful murder. Upon the report of 
the trial reaching England, the Committee of the 
African Merchants, then administering the Forts and 
Settlements under the Crown, in a letter bearing 
date the 20th of October, 1836, observed : 

" Your proceedings in Council, April 6th, in reference to the 
trials of Adoasi and Amman for wilful murder, we observe, were 



CHAP. iv. THE STATUS OF THE GOLD COAST. 147 

conducted in the Public Hall of Cape Coast Castle in your 
presence and that of Cabboceers and Peynins, and, found guilty 
upon their own confession, these men were executed. It seems 
from your information to us, that there has been a very 
important departure from the proceedings of our Criminal 
Courts, inasmuch as the confession of the prisoners was the 
chief evidence against them, but of the justice of the sentence 
there can be no doubt. These remarks lead us to remark to 
you, which we feel bound to do, that we have been instructed 
expressly by Lord Gleneg ' that the British Government pretends 
neither to territorial possession, nor to jurisdiction over any 
portion of the Gold Coast, excepting the actual site of the 
several forts and castles.' It is, therefore, necessary that your 
authority should be exercised with very great caution." 

In the year 1865, Colonel Conran was the Lieu- 
tenant-Governor of the Gold Coast. He believed in 
an aggressive policy, as did his illustrious but ill- 
starred predecessor, Sir Charles Macarthy. He 
sought to prevail upon Her Majesty's then principal 
Secretary of State, namely, the Eight Honourable 
Edward Cardwell, to sanction the extension of the 
Queen's jurisdiction on the Gold Coast. The Secre- 
tary of State wrote from Downing Street, under 
date the 23rd of November, 1865, as follows : 

" SIB, I have to acknowledge your despatch No. 144 of 
17th October, enclosing the copy of a notice which you have 
issued, in which you define the limits of Her Majesty's posses- 
sions on the Gold Coast. I am unable to approve the step 
which you have taken in declaring the territory within five 
miles of eight separate British forts to be British territory, and 
I have to instruct you to recall the notices in which this is done. 
Whatever influence you may be able to exert in discouraging or 
repressing barbarous customs leading to loss of life will be very 

102 



148 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP. iv. 

proper, and I shall be happy to approve your exercise of it, but 
the extension of British territory is a different matter and 
cannot receive my sanction." 

Again -on the 22nd of December of the same year, 
the Secretary writes to the Lieutenant-Governor 
" to avoid introducing any expressions which bear 
the appearance of extending jurisdiction over terri- 
tory at the Gold Coast"; and on the 23rd of 
December he once more urges upon him ' * to avoid 
any new step which may have that appearance." 

One can easily discover the underlying reason 
which prompted the emphatic disavowal of the 
Lieutenant-Governor's aggressive policy by the 
Colonial Secretary. There was clearly no ground for 
the assumption that Her Majesty owned any territory 
in the country outside the forts, and the Colonial 
Minister had the courage to tell Colonel Conran so. 

Again, if we turn to " Fanti and Ashanti," page 
17, we have it there stated that a Select Committee 
of the House of Commons was appointed to consider 
the state of the British possessions on the West 
Coast of Africa. It reported in the year 1842, inter 
alia, " that all jurisdiction over the native tribes 
beyond the immediate radius of the forts should be 
the subject of distinct agreement with them; not 
the allegiance of subjects, but the deference of 
weaker powers to a stronger and more enlightened 
neighbour." 



CHAP. iv. THE STATUS OF THE GOLD COAST. 149 

Another Select Committee sat, as we know, in the 
sixties, and this question of jurisdiction was then 
left indefinite. Colonel Ord in his report, quoted on 
page 356, refers to this matter in the following terms : 

" After enquiry it was admitted that although we 
possess no legal jurisdiction in the country, it was 
possible that we might exercise with a great 
advantage to the people a species of irregular autho- 
rity, partly tolerated from a conviction of its useful- 
ness and partly compulsory from the nature of our 
position." 

As showing that there was no mistake at all 
about the merely friendly relations between Great 
Britain and this country in the minds of the Natives, 
we find that, early in the seventies of the last 
century, there was an attempt made by the people 
to form a confederation of the various Fanti tribes, 
and a constitution was actually drawn up, known 
as the Mankessim Constitution. 

To clinch the matter, once more, in 1887, 
Mr. R. H. Meade, writing for Lord Knutsford, then 
Sir H. Holland, to Mr. A. McArthy, M.P., respecting 
the question of jurisdiction, said : " The term 
annexation used by Mr. S. is also incorrect, inas- 
much as the greater portion of the Gold Coast 
Colony still remains a protectorate, the soil being in 
the hands of the natives and under. the jurisdiction 
of the chiefs." 



150 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP. iv. 

The intelligent reader, with these facts before 
him, will rise from a perusal of the article, " Colony 
or Protectorate," reproduced in the Appendix, 
strengthened with the conviction that the position 
therein taken is in every way warranted. 



CHAP. iv. THE STATUS OF THE GOLD COAST. 151 



THE STATUS OF THE GOLD COAST. 

3. BEARING OF ASHANTI AFFAIRS UPON THE BRITISH 
POSITION ON THE GOLD COAST. 

It is of importance to the student of history, 
seeking to know the truth as to the status of the 
Gold Coast in her relation to Great Britain, to have 
clear ideas as to the bearing of Ashanti affairs with 
respect to British position on the Gold Coast. 

The impression seems to prevail in the minds of 
those unacquainted with the facts that Great Britain, 
having in the course of her intercourse with the 
Gold Coast, come into conflict with Ashanti on 
certain occasions, she has thereby acquired certain 
prerogatives, rights, and jurisdiction in the Gold 
Coast which she otherwise would not have. The 
following passage in the late Governor Maxwell's 
message to the Legislative Council on March 10th, 
1897, shows how widespread is the misconception. 
Said he : " The occupation of Kumasi, and the con- 
clusion of treaties of protection with all the Ashanti 
States, has enlarged the field within which traders 
and miners may safely and profitably carry on 
commerce and industry. These events have also 



152 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP. iv. 

contributed to the urgency which now exists for 
some settled understanding in regard to rights 
arising out of land, the manner in which rights of 
various kinds may be created, the authority which is 
necessary, and the terms and conditions upon which 
such rights may be enjoyed. In the House of 
Commons, on July, 1896, the Secretary of State 
for the Colonies stated that he had sanctioned the 
policy under which it would be made impossible for 
native chiefs to make any concession of land without 
the sanction of the Governor." It is worth noting 
that in this message the Governor justifies the adop- 
tion of the drastic policy proposed by events which 
took place outside the Gold Coast. There is thus an 
ever-present danger of the affairs of Ashanti being 
confused with those of the Gold Coast even by those 
who may be supposed to be able to differentiate them. 
Hence arises the need for the examination of what 
evidence there is in the matter, and for a clear state- 
ment of the exact part which Ashanti affairs have 
played in the political history of the Gold Coast. 

I propose, therefore, briefly to refer to the causes 
which brought about troubles with Ashanti, and the 
exact part, if any, that the people of the Gold Coast 
took in such troubles. For this purpose I must go 
back to the work of Captains Brackenbury and 
Huyshe, who, as military writers, were seeking to 
instruct the troops engaged in the Ashanti campaign 



CHAP. iv. THE STATUS OF THE GOLD COAST. 153 

of 1873 and 1874 on the real causes of the war. It 
will be enough for my purpose to take the authors 
from the year 1852. 

Now, on page 20 of the book before us, it is made 
clear that as far back as 1852 a certain Assin chief, to 
wit, Cud joe Chibbo, had received bribes from the 
King of Ashanti to bring his people under the 
authority of that monarch, and, having defied the 
authority of the Governor, he had been apprehended, 
tried, convicted, and sentenced to imprisonment for 
life. The gallant writers add immediately : " We 
gain here from the Governor's despatch an insight 
into the spring moving the Ashantees at this time 
towards war." Accordingly we are told on page 22 
of this work that on March 22nd, 1853, the Ashantis 
crossed the frontier in force to take away Chibbo. 

Now note, please, that from 1853 to 1863 there 
was peace; but in December of 1862 the restoration 
of a runaway slave boy was demanded by the King 
of Ashanti, and rightly refused by Governor Pine. 
There was at the same time a demand for the return 
to Ashanti of an old chief who was charged with 
appropriating gold belonging to the King. This 
demand was also refused. 1 Accordingly, when our 
authors came to summarise the causes of the war of 
1873 and 1874, they warn us on page 45 that there 
had been no peace with the Ashantis since 1863. 

1 " Fauti and Ashanti," p. 26. 



154 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP. iv. 

Let us now study carefully some of the most direct 
causes of the war of 1873 and 1874. 

Early in the seventies of the old century, negotia- 
tions were in progress between Her Majesty's 
Government and the King of the Netherlands for the 
transfer of certain forts on the Gold Coast. According 
to the arrangement, "the boundary between the 
possessions of Her Britannic Majesty and those of 
His Majesty the King of the Netherlands was to 
be a line drawn true north from the centre of the 
mouth of the Sweet River as far as the boundary of 
the present Ashanti kingdom." By this treaty Appo- 
lonia, Dixcove, Sekondi, and Commenda were handed 
to the Dutch, and there were many circumstances, 
in the view of Captains Brackenbury and Huyshe, 
leading them to the belief that it was effected with- 
out any consultation with the tribes affected by the 
treaty. As it was, the Commendas refused to accept 
the Dutch protectorate, and were punished by the 
Dutch. The Commendas being Fantis, the Fantis 
retaliated upon Elmina, which was Dutch. 1 

Now, the Elminas were friendly with the Ashantis, 
and about this time there was an Ashanti force, 
under Akempon, actually in Elmina, who claimed 
a right to an annual tribute from the Dutch, 



1 If the authorities took the trouble to study Gold Coast history, 
they would see the incongruity of any attempt on the part of the 
Commendas to throw off their allegiance to the King of Inkusukum. 



CHAP. iv. THE STATUS OF THE GOLD COAST. 155 

and therefore objected to the transfer. The claim 
was, of course, denied by the Dutch. In the result 
the transfer took place, and it formed a standing 
grievance on the part of His Majesty the King of 
Ashanti, which is couched in these words in a letter 
by the King to the Governor 1 : 

" I beg to bring before your Excellency's kind consideration 
regarding the Elmina, if it is included in the change. The fort 
of that place have from time immemorial paid annual tribute to 
my ancestors to the present time by right of arms, when we 
conquered Tutim Gackidi, King of Denkara. Tutim Gackidi 
having purchased goods to the amount of nine thousand pounds 
(9,000) from the Dutch, and not paying for them before we 
conquered Tutim Gackidi, the Dutch demanded of my father, 
Osai Tutu I., for the payment, who (Osai Tutu) paid it full the 
nine thousand pounds (9,000), and the Dutch delivered 
Elmina to him as his own, and from that time tribute has 
been paid to us to this present time. I hope, therefore, your 
Excellency will not include Elmina in the change, for it is 
mine by right." 

Subsequently, the Dutch Government opened 
negotiations with the King of Ashanti through an 
agent, who succeeded in eliciting a letter of with- 
drawal from the King from his former position. 

Accordingly, we read on page 59 of this work : " On 
the 1st of September, 1871, only a few days after 
his positive renunciation of the claim to rights over 
Elmina, as already stated, the King of Ashanti had 
written making several complaints to Mr. Salmon, who 
was now administering the Gold Coast Government." 

1 " Fanti and Ashanti," p. 48. 



156 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP. iv. 

The King was informed that the affair as regards 
the Elminas was a Dutch affair, and that until peace 
was made, the King could not be allowed access to 
Elmina 'through the Protectorate. Mr. Salmon then 
proposed peace and arbitration, the preliminary 
condition being that certain German and French 
captives were to be sent back. 

After some delay on the part of the King of 
Ashanti, Mr. Salmon decided to close the road to 
Ashanti traders. On this point the following obser- 
vation occurs on page 62 : "I fear it cannot be 
doubted that this step, however righteous the motive 
which prompted it, would scarcely be viewed by the 
King of Ashanti as another proof of friendship.'* 
And on page 70 a letter written by the captive mis- 
sionaries is quoted in which they state : " The 
shutting of the roads they consider, as we yesterday 
could understand, as a declaration of war." 

In an official despatch, quoted on page 73, the 
then Fanti King of Abra, in the Gold Coast, reported 
on the causes of the invasion as follows : 

" I respectfully beg leave to bring to your notice that the causes 
and purposes of these inroads of the Ashantis are the cession of 
the Elmina Fort, and the Elminas having become British 
subjects ; because (from what we have repeatedly heard) the 
King of Ashanti says, that from the time immemorial his 
ancestors ate and drank at Elmina, i.e., he gets all his wants 
from there, and that the fort is theirs ; therefore he will come 
and take it by force of arms. The chief of Anamaboe also 
agreed with me in this statement." 



CHAP. iv. THE STATUS OF THE GOLD COAST. 157 

Now, it will have become abundantly clear that 
from the year 1853 to 1873 the people of the Gold 
Coast Protectorate, as snch, had in no way been 
concerned in the transactions which brought about 
friction with the Ashantis ; and that the immediate 
cause of the war of 1873 and 1874 was the transfer 
of territories between the English and the Dutch. 
The expeditions of Sir Francis Scott and Sir James 
Wilcocks are within recent memory, and require no 
explanation as to their being entirely Government 
affairs in pursuance of a given Government policy. 
When we come, therefore, to determine the status of 
the Gold Coast and the true nature of her relations 
with Great Britain, it will be with the conviction 
that, whatever the motives be which have prompted 
British policy with respect to Ashanti in the past, 
such policy can possibly have no bearing upon the 
legal status of the Gold Coast. 



158 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP. iv. 



THE STATUS or THE GOLD COAST. 

4. BEARING OF TREATY RELATIONS AND ACTS OF 
PARLIAMENT UPON THE BRITISH POSITION ON THE 
GOLD COAST. 

The nature and limits of the King of England's 
jurisdiction in the Gold Coast having been seen in the 
foregoing examination of evidence, it may be asked 
whether there are not in existence any treaties be- 
tween His Majesty's Government and the Gold Coast, 
denning the position of His Majesty's Government. 

Captains Brackenbury and Huyshe in their able 
work assure us that "the Treaty of 1831, con- 
strued together with the unsigned treaty of 1827 
and the Bond of 1844, formed, up to 1852, the only 
documents which denned the position of the British 
Government, Ashanti and the Fanti tribes." 1 Let 
me, therefore, for a moment, collect together what 
evidence there is regarding this treaty of 1831. 

On page 42 of the Report of the Select Committee, 
Colonel Ord is asked the question : " Can you state 
to the Committee summarily the main points in the 
Treaty of 1831, which is now the ruling treaty 

1 " Fanti and Ashanti," p. 19. 



CHAP. iv. THE STATUS OF THE GOLD COAST. 159 

between the British Government and the King of 
Ashanti?" To which he replies: "It was agreed 
between the King of England and the King of 
Ashanti and the chiefs of what is now the protected 
territory, that in order to prevent quarrels in future 
and for the protection of lawful commerce, the ports 
should be open to all persons engaged in lawful 
traffic, and any person molesting them in any way 
should be liable to punishment." 

It will be seen, therefore, that this was a tripartite 
agreement in which the main object was the en- 
couragement of lawful trade, and the protection of 
traders. Later on Colonel Ord tells us that the 
Treaty of 1831 and the " Terms " of 1827, being the 
unsigned treaty before referred to, must be con- 
strued as one document. I am, therefore, saved 
the task of examining intimately the " Terms " 
of 1827. 

I must now deal with the Bond of 1844, which, 
for convenience of reference, I have had printed in 
the Appendix to this work. It refers to power and 
jurisdiction having been exercised within divers 
places and countries adjacent to Her Majesty's Forts 
and Settlements, and acknowledges the same on the 
part of the signatories ; declares human sacrifices 
and other barbarous customs contrary to law ; and 
provides for the trial of offences by the Queen's 
judicial officers and the chiefs of the districts, 



160 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP. iv. 

" moulding the customs of the country to the general 
principles of the English law." 

Now, a careful reading of this Bond makes it 
clearly evident that its main object was to enable 
Her Majesty to exercise jurisdiction in suppressing 
heinous offences committed within districts adjacent 
to the forts. In the exercise of such jurisdiction, 
the Queen's judicial officers were to act conjointly 
with the Chiefs of the districts. 

The Bond had no reference to territorial acquisi- 
tion ; it did not extend the Queen's Possessions 
beyond their former limits. In brief, such juris- 
diction as it conferred was restricted to criminal 
matters. 

But Colonel Orel refers to a fresh engagement that 
was entered into in 1852. I will quote his own 
words. Says he: "In the year 1852 a fresh engage- 
ment was entered into by the Governor of the Gold 
Coast at a general meeting of the chiefs and headmen 
of the towns and districts in the Gold Coast under 
British protection ; and it was resolved that this 
meeting constituted itself into a legislative assembly 
with power to enact laws for the better government 
of those countries. And in the third paragraph of 
this document (the Poll Tax Ordnance) it is stated : 
* The legislative assembly, having taken into con- 
sideration the advantages which the chiefs and 
natives derive from the protection afforded them by 



CHAP. iv. THE STATUS OF THE GOLD COAST. 161 

Her Majesty's Government, consider it reasonable 
that the natives should contribute to the support of 
the Government.' "* 

In the next paragraph he is asked the pregnant 
question, " In what sense is this agreement a legal 
Ordinance ? " To which he replies : "It was made 
so probably to give it additional validity." 

We have an idea as to how the Natives regarded 
these several transactions in the answer of Colonel 
Orel on page 43, where he says : " The support which 
the tribes may be disposed to give to the British 
Government will generally be found to depend on 
the feelings they entertain for the local administra- 
tion at the time." Further on, he is asked: "Is 
the general understanding of the native tribes the 
same now as that which I see was given in evidence 
in 1842, namely, that they understand the forts to 
belong to the English and the country to belong to 
them?" To which he replies : " That is the general 
understanding, although it appears at Cape Coast the 
local government has exercised from time to time 
within the last forty-five years a power of granting to 
persons portions of unappropriated lands in the 
town of Cape Coast, and this right is now acknow- 
ledged by the chiefs ; but they object to its being 
understood to carry with it any right to exercise 
jurisdiction." As to this, on the authority of 

1 See p. 52 of the Report. 
G.C. 11 



162 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP. iv. 

Captains Brackenbury and Huyshe, we learn that in 
1865 Aggery, the King of Cape Coast, claimed juris- 
diction upon ground actually within a few yards of 
the forts, and, upon Governor Pine resisting the 
claim, the King became insolent and offensive, and 
the Governor refused to recognise him as King. 1 
Thus, the student of history will see that the practice 
of refusing to recognise native Kings as Kings by an 
authority practically deriving its existence from such 
Kings is nothing new. The only question is what 
effect such brutum fnlmen has upon the position of the 
King not so recognised. 

Next follows the pregnant questions : " Are there 
towns around the forts?" Answer: " There are." 
" And is the same right claimed by the British 
Government over these towns?" Ansiver : "No! 
nor has it been exercised." 

On page 53 Colonel Ord is again asked: "You 
have said that there is no definition of our boundaries 
at all on the Gold Coast. I suppose that all those 
protected states know perfectly well their own 
boundaries ? " "I imagine," he replied, " that the 
natives know their own boundaries perfectly, but we 
have so little acquaintance with the interior that we 
are in ignorance on these points." Again he is 
asked : " But still the native tribes know distinctly 
their own boundaries?" "No doubt they do, as 

1 " Fanti and Ashanti," p. 34. 



CHAP. iv. THE STATUS OF THE GOLD COAST. 168 

they attach considerable importance to that point." 
He is then asked : " Is it not a fact that by certain 
Colonial Office instructions it is understood that the 
British territory reaches to the extent of a gun 
range round all the forts?" Answer: " It has 
been so said, but those instructions have not been 
acted upon." Of course, it takes two to make a 
bargain. 

A reference has been made in the foregoing 
examination of evidence on the question of treaty 
relations between His Majesty's Government and 
this country to the imposition of a poll tax, and it 
may be said to carry with it an acknowledgment on 
the part of this country of a distinct jurisdiction. 
I will, therefore, go a little into the evidence on 
this point. 

The question is asked on page 44 : " The poll tax 
which was the first attempt at direct taxation by 
Lord Grey appears to have rapidly fallen off, and 
I believe has finally ceased ? " " Yes, since 1861." 
" Has not Governor Pine recently attempted the 
imposition of a similar tax, though not a poll tax ? " 
Answer: "An Ordinance has been recently passed 
by the local government, which has not yet been 
confirmed by the Government at home, prohibiting 
the sale of wines or spirits, wholesale or retail, until 
a license has been taken out." " Was the oppo- 
sition to this license on the ground that the natives 

112 



164 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP. iv. 

considered themselves, as not being subjects, free 
from taxation?" Answer: "The natives at first 
made great objections on the plea that its operation 
extended to a distance of two miles inland from the 
sea-board in fact, over a country in which we had 
no right to impose taxation." The earnest student 
will seek in vain for evidence that the right to tax 
the people of the Protectorate has since been acquired 
by His Majesty's Government. 

On page 47 we have a further light thrown upon 
the engagement of 1852. Colonel Ord is asked : 
"Of course the imposition of such a tax tends, as far 
as it goes, to convert our protectorate into a direct 
dominion ? ' ' Answer : "As originally devised, it does 
not appear that this was intended ; he [the Governor] 
called the chiefs together, and constituted with them 
a Legislative Assembly which should enact laws for 
the government of the country. This was the origin 
of the poll tax, and if any tax on the people be ever 
carried out, I conceive that it can only be effected 
in that manner, namely, with the consent and the 
direct co-operation of the chiefs themselves." 

You have the solution of the problem of the difficulty 
of Gold Coast Administration indirectly in this important 
answer. Legislation, to be effectual, must be with the 
Chiefs in a representative legislative assembly. Any 
important measure affecting the people must be jw.s.svv/ 
with " the consent and the direct co-operation of the 



CHAP. iv. THE STATUS OF THE GOLD COAST. 165 

Chiefs themselves." If the policy of the Government 
had been based upon this sound principle, there ivould be 
no need to-day for this ivork. What the country requires^ 
and requires most urgently, to-day, is a national assembly 
wherein all sections of the community will be adequately 
represented. 'Hint is the fundamental element of progress 
the reform at which all right-thinking men must 
directly aim. 

This important principle is fully recognised by 
Lord Stanley, Colonial Secretary, in his letter to 
Lieutenant-Governor Hill on the "Assessor's Juris- 
diction," dated at Downing Street, November 22nd, 
1844, which is published by Mr. Sarbah, with 
other official documents, in the appendix to " Fanti 
Customary Laws," and which, for convenience sake, 
with his kind permission, I have reproduced in this 
work. The particular letter runs thus : 

" You will bear in mind that the power of the assessor in his 
judicial capacity is not derived from either the Acts of Parlia- 
ment above referred to or from the order in Council. ... It 
must be founded on the assent and concurrence of the sovereign 
power of the state within which it is exercised, either expressed, 
as in the case of the Treaty transmitted by you in your private 
and confidential despatch of the 6th of March last, or implied 
from long usage, as in the case of the long and general acquies- 
cence, which can be shown in many districts, in the authority 
hitherto exercised by Mr. Maclean." 

His lordship here fully recognises the sovereign 
power inherent in each of the Native States which 
must be invoked in sanction of the exercise of 



166 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP. iv. 

the power of the Judicial Assessor. It is interesting 
to note how, in the course of years, the admitted 
"sovereign power of the state" comes to dwindle 
in the "eyes of the British Government. Con- 
veniently, it is forgotten the necessity of " assent 
and concurrence " on the part of the " sovereign 
power of the state" even in legislative acts, affect- 
ing such " sovereign power." Gradually, the 
native Authorities come to be regarded as having 
no recognised jurisdiction save such as is guaranteed 
them by the British Government ; and you have 
introduced a "Native Jurisdiction Ordinance" with 
ambiguous clauses, which make it possible for the 
British Authorities to remove a native sovereign 
from his stool. Such are the sweets of British 
protection ! Where this kind of thing will end, 
surely, the Native can see for himself. He does not 
require his " credulity to be played upon " ; for he 
has long ago discovered that when the white man 
puts in the thin end of the wedge, you never know 
how far it may go " Brofn woijc amangaydua" 

But, after all, what are the odds ? We have no 
quarrel with the goal of British policy, but with 
the methods adopted in attaining that goal. For 
I take it that no British Minister would willingly 
go against the spirit of fair play shown in much of 
the evidence I have examined in this chapter. We 
quarrel with the methods of British policy, because, 



CHAP. iv. THE STATUS OF THE GOLD COAST. 167 

we know, they are conceived in feebleness, and 
without reference to the facts. 

From my long experience of the people of this 
country, from my intimate acquaintance with their 
grievances and wants, I can conscientiously say that 
there is no Native of the country who would not 
vote for the supremacy of British authority on the 
Gold Coast, if put to the choice between Great 
Britain and any other European power. But though 
he would gladly see the consolidation of British 
power in the country, he must emphatically protest 
against the ignoring of his well-tried institutions, 
and any attempt to deal with him as belonging to 
a people of no past. 

Whatever authority, by usage, Great Britain may 
be able to exercise in these parts, we naturally 
expect will be exercised with fairness, and in full 
recognition of the historical facts relating to British 
relations with the Gold Coast. Having come to 
the people as Friends and Protectors, is it too much 
to ask that they might be protected, not so much 
from outside attack, as from those internal, insidious 
assaults which leave their ramparts bare and their 
institutions crumbling in the dust ? 



CHAPTER V. 

LANDMAKKS. 



" And it is our further will and pleasure that you do to the 
utmost of your power promote religion and education among 
the native inhabitants of our said forts and settlements and 
their dependencies, and of the lands thereto adjoining, and 
that you do especially take care to protect them in their 
persons, and in the free enjoyment of their possessions, and 
that you do by all lawful means prevent and restrain all 
violence and injustice, which may in any manner be practised 
or attempted against them, and that you take such measures 
as may appear to you to be necessary for their conversion to 
the Christian Faith, and for their advancement in civilisa- 
tion." The Queen's Instructions to Governor Stephen John 
Hill, 1857. 



CHAP. v. LANDMARKS. 171 



CHAPTER V. 

LANDMARKS. 

1. EARLY POLITICAL MOVEMENTS AND THE RISE AND 
PROGRESS OF JOURNALISM. 

A MORE splendid victory in the annals of Gold 
Coast Constitutional History could not have been 
scored than that which marked the labours of the 
Gold Coast Aborigines' Rights Protection Society 
in the fall of 1898. Early in that year, the Society 
had despatched to England a deputation consisting 
of the President, the late Mr. Jacob Wilson Sey, and 
Messrs. T. F. E. Jones and George Hughes, two other 
prominent members of the executive committee of 
the Society. The members of the Deputation were 
received at Downing Street on Friday, the 5th day 
of August, 1898, by the Right Hon. Joseph 
Chamberlain, Colonial Secretary, when they were 
introduced by Mr. E. F. Hunt (Messrs. Ashurst, 
Morris, Crisp & Co.), Mr. Corrie Grant, barrister-at- 
law, also being present to represent the Deputation. 
Mr. Chamberlain was supported by Lord Selborne, 
Mr. Wingfield, Mr. Atrobus, and the Hon. J. 
Cochrane, M.P. 



172 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP. v. 

At this historic meeting the discussion had par- 
ticular reference to the land legislation of 1897. 
In the "Lands Bill" of that year, the Gold Coast 
legislature had practically enunciated the proposition 
that Her Majesty's Government had the right to 
administer the lands of the country as public lands. 
The principle involved in the proposition, as might 
naturally have been expected, was stoutly opposed 
by the whole country, but particularly so by the 
Kings and Chiefs of the Western Province thereof, 
who sent their representatives to London to enter 
a protest against it. In the result, the Colonial 
Office withdrew from the position of having the 
right to administer the lands of the Gold Coast as 
public lands. As I have said elsewhere, the logic 
of facts was too strong for the Colonial Office. 

But how came this sudden outburst of patriotism 
and political spirit on the part of the people of 
the Western Province at a critical juncture in the 
history of the country ? If you wish to understand 
the political movement of 1897 and 1898, you must 
at the least go back twenty-seven years in the 
political history of the Gold Coast. 

In the early seventies of the last century, and 
before the expedition under Lord Wolseley (then Sir 
Garnet Wolseley) against Calicali, King of Ashanti, 
the policy of the Government in native affairs 
was at times of a most vacillating nature. The 



CHAP. v. LANDMARKS. 173 

"solvent influence" of British administration was 
already fast disorganising native rule and authority, 
and making the people of the Gold Coast less able 
to cope with external foes. The native Kings and 
Chiefs were alive to what the dog-in-the-manger 
policy pursued by the British Government would 
mean to their institutions in the near future ; and, 
stirred by a patriotic impulse, they formed them- 
selves into a confederation, historically known as 
the " Fanti Confederation," and drew up the 
" Mankessim Constitution," which was intended to 
form the basis of one general government for all 
Fantiland in a States Union. King Ghartey of 
Winnebah was chosen as the first President of the 
Confederation ; but when His Excellency Charles 
Spencer Salmon, the acting Administrator, had 
knowledge of this movement, he promptly had some 
of the prominent members arrested, among whom 
were Prince Brew, J. D. Hayford, and the late 
James F. Amissah, on a charge of " conspiracy to 
subvert the rule of Her Majesty on the Gold Coast." 
Considering the evidence given before the Parlia- 
mentary Committee before referred to, it is difficult 
to see the exact nature of the rule that Prince Brew, 
and Messrs. Hayford, Amissah, and others were 
charged with conspiring to subvert. However that 
may be, it does not appear that these worthy sons 
of the soil were ever put on their trial. They were 



174 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP. v. 

soon released ; but the movement had received a 
severe check. 

Considering the well-known views of Mr. Charles 
Spencer Salmon expressed in his able work, " The 
Crown Colonies of Great Britain," a curious psycho- 
logical question here arises. Did Mr. Salmon at the 
time that he, in his official capacity, put a damper 
upon the Confederation movement, feel in his 
heart of hearts that British administration on the 
Gold Coast was exercising a " solvent influence " 
over native rule (which circumstance he reprobated), 
and did he, nevertheless, because he was an official, 
restrain the movement intended to counteract such 
influence ? I prefer to believe that at the time of 
the Confederation movement the matter had not 
struck him as it did when he was penning " The 
Crown Colonies of Great Britain." 1 If the reader 
differs from me, then, he has a fair example of the 
strange, and yet not strange, conflict of sentiments 
in official circles in West Africa. 

The late Mr. Fitzgerald of the African Times fame 
warmly took up the matter of the policy of the 
Government in suppressing the movement in the 
able columns of his paper ; and the good seed sown 
germinated in the following years in the free discus- 
sion of Gold Coast political matters in local journals. 

1 See " The Crown Colonies of Great Britain " (Cassell & Co., Ltd., 
London), pp. 8992. 



CHAP. v. LANDMABKS. 175 

One of the first newspapers of the country to 
attract attention was the West African Herald, which 
was edited by the gifted and lamented Charles 
Bannerman, of Accra, lawyer, wit, and publicist. 
It appears this remarkable man had no press, and 
he took the extraordinary pains of first composing 
his articles, and then making out several copies of 
a given issue in his own handwriting. There are 
some copies of the West African Herald in the 
editor's handwriting extant. Other able writers, 
hailing from the Eastern Province, of the period 
and after, were Edmund Bannerman, younger 
brother of Charles, and the late Kobert Hansen, 
known among his friends in his day as the 
" Hermit." I had the pleasure of meeting this 
gentleman in 1893 when I was sub-editing the Gold 
Coast Chronicle at Accra ; and seldom had I come 
across a man with such ardent love for the welfare 
of his fatherland. He was true as steel, and knew 
no fear or favour when espousing the public cause. 

To come back to the Western Province, young 
Brew's political ardour was not quenched by the 
hard knocks he had received in connection with the 
Confederation movement. Receiving a liberal educa- 
tion in early youth, and associating afterwards with 
such brilliant men as George Blankson of Anamaboe, 
(by far the cleverest man of his day from all accounts), 
Charles Bannerman, Edmund Bannerman, and others, 



176 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP. v. 

not to speak of a successful career at the Gold Coast 
Bar, he developed, in the eighties of the last century, 
into the most brilliant journalist the Gold Coast has 
ever known. The columns of the Western Echo, 
which he edited, were for a number of years a source 
of inspiration to the rising youth of the country in 
matters relating to the political enfranchisement 
of the fatherland. I had just left school, and but 
a youth, when I was offered the post of assistant- 
editor on the Western Echo, with Mr. T. Laing 
subsequently Town Clerk to the Town Council, Accra 
as manager. They were glorious days, those days 
of early inspiration in the offices of the Western Echo. 
With all his ability, I never knew a humbler man 
than Prince Brew. Never did he pass an article to 
the head printer without first reading it aloud to us, 
and inviting our free criticism. The "Owl" column 
of the Western Echo is spoken of to this day. 
Officials in high places dreaded from week to week 
the literal vivisection carried on by the "Owl," 
spectacled and sapient ; so cleverly and so neatly was 
it done. Moreover, it was the Western Echo which 
first mooted a Deputation to England to lay before 
the British public the political evils from which the 
Gold Coast was suffering. Under its auspices, the 
seven companies of Cape Coast appointed educated 
gentlemen of the community to represent them in 
U matters between them and the Government, which 



CHAP. v. LANDMARKS. 177 

became the prototype of the Gold Coast Aborigines' )) 
Eights Protection Society. 

In 1888 the brilliant editor of the Western Echo left 
for England, and the writer was charged with the 
production of a new paper, the Gold Coast Echo, which 
he edited for two years. It fell to the lot of the 
Gold Coast Echo to expose the atrocities which were 
perpetrated upon the Tavievies, a small tribe in the 
Krepi district, in 1888, by the Colonial troops. 
"No like instance," writes Mr. Fox Bourne, in 
"Blacks and Whites in West Africa," on page 36, 
"has since been recorded of what in a local news- 
paper were spoken of as the ' beauties of English 
civilisation as reflected in the Gold Coast,' " quoting 
from the Gold Coast Echo of November 5th, 1888. 
It was the privilege of the Gold Coast Echo to have ^ 
espoused the right of the community of Cape Coast 
to elect and enstool Cud jo Irnbrah as their King, with 
or without official recognition, and to advocate a 
scheme of municipal government for Cape Coast on 
native lines. 

The next paper which attracted public attention 
was the Gold Coast People, which was owned and 
edited by a native gentleman of sterling qualities, 
who kept his identity unknown to the public, and 
whose silence upon the matter I am bound to 
respect. The quaint pages of Bosnian's great work 
on the Gold Coast were reproduced in the pages of 

G.C. 12 



178 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP. v. 

the People; and it formed the medium of instruction 
to the people in matters political for a considerable 
length of time. 

The efforts of the Eastern Province in the line 
of journalism, meanwhile, had led to the produc- 
C tion of the Gold Coast Chronicle and the Gold Coast 
Independent, papers which, according to their light, 
sought to excite interest, though in a spasmodic 
way, in matters political in that part of the country. 

I now come to the greatest effort in journalism 
on the Gold Coast in recent times during the 
closing years, that is to say, of the last decade of 
the last century. I refer, of course, to the Gold 
Coast Methodist Times, which was organised, edited, 
and managed by that able young man, the Rev. 
Attoh Ahuma, then in the active ministry of the 
Wesleyan body on the Gold Coast. The paper was 
the property of that body, and Attoh Ahuma was 
but their servant. But the intrepid editor did not 
think it right to confine the columns of the paper 
to church news and religious controversy. He saw 
no reason why the grievances of the people should 
not be ventilated, and their temporal amelioration 
enhanced in as far as it lay within the power of that 
spiritual organ. 

At the time the young editor thus made up his 
mind, Governor Maxwell was preparing to bring 
before the Legislative Council the now famous 



CHAP. v. LANDMARKS. 179 

"Lands Bill." The Gold Coast Methodist at once took 
up the gauntlet, and fought like a veritable Achilles ; 
and right loyally was it supported by the best intellect 
of the land. It fought and won. It lived to report 
the very able speeches of counsel in the Legislative 
Council upon the second reading of the Bill. It 
barely saw the despatch of the Deputation to Eng- 
land ; for the Wesleyan Synod had suddenly 
awakened to a sense of an alleged incongruity in c 
the discussion of political issues in a spiritual 
organ, and with the awakening Ahuma gave up 
the editorship, and the paper died from sheer 
inanition. 

Closely connected, but in another way, with the 
political movement from 1886 to 1898 were Messrs. 
J. P. Brown and J. W. de Graft Johnson of Cape 
Coast. In every upward movement in a given 
community there are always one or two ardent 
souls to whom it is given to lead or to inspire. It 
was pre-eminently the work of these two gentlemen 
to infuse life and vigour into the clustering units 
of patriotic sons of the soil. Honour to whom 
honour is due. It is only fair that I should hand 
the names of Messrs. Brown and Johnson down 
to posterity. Mr. Brown, as I write, has attained " 
the proud position of President of the Gold Coast 
Aborigines' Rights Protection Society, a mark of the 
confidence reposed in him by his countrymen. 

122 



180 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP. v. 

I have given the above recital with the view of 
placing down in a connected form for the benefit of 
the rising generation a record of the political move- 
ments of the most pregnant period of our national 
history, and to impress upon our young men the 
important part good, fearless journalism has played 
in the political history of the country in the past, 
and is yet likely to play in the future. 

If I had not gone to the Bar, and were editing 
a paper on the Gold Coast, I would strive to make 
it as perfect as it could be as to literary matter, 
get up, and finish. I would adopt a firm, bold, and 
unswerving policy, courteous in tone and fearless in 
criticism. In other words, that is, I should set before 
myself a worthy objective, some material good of the 
fatherland, and work steadily up to it. I would not 
for support depend upon public contributions ; for 
that would not be business. I would promote a 
small syndicate of independent men of means with 
i patriotic fire in their hearts, and would endeavour 
to deserve the confidence and support of the com- 
munity. I would assiduously inculcate the study 
among Aborigines of vernacular literature with a 
view to instructing them in matters political in their 
mother tongue. I would, then, once a month, 
] bring out a vernacular edition of my paper in which 
II would summarise for the bulk of the people the 
leading thoughts in the weekly editions of the paper. 



CHAP. v. LANDMARKS. 181 

Above all things, I would study to make the people 
feel that they had in the columns of the journal a 
mouth-piece, and in the editor a ready friend, one 
who sympathised with them in all their troubles and 
who would give his very life's blood to ameliorate 
their condition. In brief, I would say with that 
distinguished journalist, Mr. W. T. Stead: "-Then 
people are silent. I will be the advocate of this 
silence. I will speak for the dumb. I will speak 
of the small to the great, and of the feeble to the 
strong. I will speak for all the despairing silent 
ones. I will interpret the stammering, I will 
interpret the grumbling, the mourning, the tumults 
of crowds, the complaints ill-pronounced and these 
cries of beasts that through ignorance and other -. . 
suffering man is forced to utter. I will be the word 
of the people. I will be the bleeding mouth whence ' 
the gag is snatched out. I will say everything." 

I venture to make a present of these thoughts to 
enterprising journalists of the present day. 



182 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP. v. 



LANDMARKS. 
2. THE CONSTITUTION OF THE FANTI CONFEDERATION. 

The Constitution of the Fanti Confederation, 
otherwise known as the "Mankessim Constitution," 
deserves more than a passing notice in the political 
annals of the Gold Coast. A careful study of the 
provisions thereof leaves the impression upon the 
mind how harmful, and yet how useless, it is at any 
time for a Government to attempt to set back the 
onward tide in the progress of a nation under its 
protection. It is harmful, because it entails waste 
of national energy ; it is useless, because you may 
as well expect the spider not to weave anew its web 
after a wanton child has destroyed it once, twice, 
and yet again. 

The preamble of the remarkable document before 
us states that the signatory Kings and Chiefs, having 
taken into consideration the deplorable state of 
their peoples and subjects in the interior, and they 
being of opinion that unity and concord among 
themselves would conduce to their mutual well- 
being, and promote and advance the social and 
political condition of their peoples and subjects, 



CHAP. v. LANDMARKS. 183 

who were in a state of degradation, and without 
the means of education and of carrying on proper 
industry, they, the said kings and chiefs, had 
unanimously resolved upon certain Articles following, 
the same having been previously discussed and con- 
sidered at meetings held at Mankessim on the 16th 
day of October, 1871, and following days. 

It will be only necessary for the purposes of this 
sketch to deal with the leading Articles of importance 
in the Constitution. 

Articles 1, 2, and 3 deal with the due constitution 
of the Confederation, stating that the " compact 
body" thus formed shall be recognised under the 
title and designation of the " Fanti Confederation." 

Articles 4 7 merely deal with the election of 
officers, and it is when we come to Article 8 that 
we find the object of the Confederation to be : 

FIRST OBJECT. " To promote friendly intercourse between 
all the kings and chiefs of Fanti, and to unite them for offensive 
and defensive purposes against their common enemy." 

The history of this section is interesting. It 
appears that in the Ashanti War of 1863 Her 
Majesty's Government had suffered the full brunt 
of the struggle to fall upon the Fantis, and Mr. 
Richard Pine, the then Administrator, had let out 
that he had received instructions from Her Majesty's 
Government not to interfere with any disturbances 
in the interior, nor in the quarrels of the King of 



184 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP. v. 

Ashanti and the natives of the Protectorate. Subse- 
quently Governor Ussher had also practically endorsed 
Mr. Pine's statement. 

As to this, Mr. Ussher, in a letter to the Adminis- 
trator-in-chief on the situation, under date the 4th of 
May, 1872, states, in paragraph 4 thereof : l 

" There can be no doubt that since the termination of that 
war, Her Majesty's Government has given the Fantis to under- 
stand that they must in future in a great measure protect them- 
selves under certain modifications. Doubtless Governor Pine 
appreciated the difficulties of the future for the native tribes, 
and was wishful to consolidate them, and put them in some kind 
of united attitude for purposes of self-defence." 

The allusion to Governor Pine in the above quota- 
tion was intended for a commentary on a statement 
appearing in an interesting document, being a 
scheme 2 anent the Fanti Confederation, submitted 
to His Excellency Mr. J. Pope Hennessy for the 
approval of the home Government, which is in these 
words: "Mr. Pine further informed them (the 
kings and chiefs) that he had received instructions 
to return to Europe, but that he was determined 
to wait until he had formed a compact between 
them (the kings and chiefs) before he would leave 
Cape Coast." 

It appears that, subsequently, such a compact 
body, even before the so-called promulgation of the 

1 Parliamentary Papers, 1873 (49), p. 59. 
' Idem, p. 5] . 



CHAP. v. LANDMARKS. 185 

famous Constitution, had come into existence, and 
Governor Simpson had met the members thereof at 
Mankessini, in 1869, and there recognised the Fanti 
Confederation, the same being then designated the 
" Fanti Confederacy." Moreover, Her Majesty's 
Government had gone so far as to seek the assist- 
ance of the Confederacy in the matter of the ransom 
of certain Dutch naval officers captured by the 
Commendas ; and King Ghartey, of Winnebah, 
then Prince Ghartey, as President of the Confedera- 
tion, had joined in ratifying the treaty or convention 
entered into, by signing the same on behalf of the 
Confederation, Governor Simpson signing for Her 
Majesty's Government, and Governor Natglass 
signing for the Netherlands Government. Yet 
again, Governor Simpson had himself invited 
Prince Ghartey and Mr. George Blank son, the 
secretary of the Confederation, to Cape Coast, for 
the purpose of deliberating "as to the form best 
suited to the Confederation." 

When, therefore, we come to examine the attitude 
of the local administration upon the presentation 
of the Constitution, it will be quite obvious that 
section 1 of Article 8 thereof could form no ground 
of objection. 

SECOND OBJECT. " To direct the labours of the Confederation 
towards the improvement of the country at large." 

This section requires no comment. 



186 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP. v. 

THIRD OBJECT. "To make good and substantial roads 
throughout all the interior districts included in the Con- 
federation." 

Article 26, which, really, should be construed with 
section 3 of Article 8, directs that the said roads 
should be made " fifteen feet broad, with good 
deep gutters on either side, and that the attention 
of the Confederation be first directed to the main 
road connecting Edgimacoe, Ayan, Ay an main, and 
Mankessim, with the coast." 

Fancy the Aborigines of the Gold Coast, thirty- 
two years ago, thinking of the necessity of good 
roads, fifteen feet wide, connecting the principal 
producing districts with the sea coast ! But they 
were not suffered by the local Administration to try 
to open up their own country, and it so happens 
that it is only now that, under an energetic Admini- 
stration, there is anything like a serious attempt to 
grapple with the question of good roads. Thus, waste, 
absolute waste, of golden opportunity is the record of 
a whole thirty-two years in the country's history. 
One is inclined, therefore, to agree with Mr. Salmon, 
speaking as a private British citizen, and not as the 
Administrator of the Gold Coast, that progress is 
not the keynote of the Crown Colony system. 1 

FOURTH OBJECT. " To erect school-houses and establish 
schools for the education of all children within the Confederation, 
and to obtain the services of efficient schoolmasters." 
1 Crown Colonies of Great Britain, p. 90. 



CHAP. v. LANDMARKS. 187 

Articles 21 to 25 must be read with section 4 of 
Article 8, which directs the establishment of national 
schools in Brofoo country, Abrah, Ayan, Goomowah, 
Eckumfi, Edgimacoe, Denkira, and Assin ; the attach- 
ment of normal schools to each national school for 
technical instruction in carpentry, masonry, agri- 
culture, architecture, etc. ; special provision for 
female education, and provision for meeting the 
expense of school building, and ensuring the 
attendance at school of all children between the 
ages of eight and fourteen. 

What a far-reaching policy is foreshadowed in 
the "object" under discussion! Why, it meant 
the emergence of the country in two or three genera- 
tions from a lower to a higher order of civilisation. It 
meant providing the country with that incalculable 
boon, good, intelligent mothers, to guide the growing 
minds of their offspring. It meant well laid out towns 
and sanitary arrangements, commensurate with an 
advanced stage of society. It meant lastly, and most 
important of all, the flooding of the country with 
contented men, each sitting under his own vine and 
fig-tree, close to Mother Earth, instead of a certain 
class of concessionmongers and breathless specu- 
lators on the Exchange. What a dream to be 
frustrated by stupid officialism and red tape ! 

Surely, whatever may be said against the 
Constitution now before us, it will be admitted by all 



188 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP. v. 

fair-minded men that its policy was an enlightened 
one, and that it sought to do for the country what 
His Majesty's Government have not yet showed any 
visible signs of accomplishing. 

Why, it looks like beginning afresh, does it not, 
for the Aborigines of the Gold Coast, thirty-two 
years after the Constitution, to inaugurate a scheme 
of national education, somewhat after the model 
foreshadowed in the said Constitution, which has 
received the hearty support of the present enlightened 
Administration ? Yes, we have to weave it all over 
again, you see. What a waste of time, and the 
energy of a past generation ! 

FIFTH OBJECT. " To promote agricultural and industrial 
pursuits, and to endeavour to introduce such new plants as 
may hereafter become sources of profitable commerce to the 
country." 

It is conceivable that the Gold Coast might be a 
cotton-producing country to-day if the Confederation 
had been allowed to work out its constitution. 

SIXTH OBJECT. " To develop and facilitate the working of 
the mineral and other resources of the country." 

The above are the modest objects of the Con- 
federation. The remaining Articles, which the 
reader can examine for himself in the Appendix, 
deal mostly with the executive functions of the 
office-bearers of the Confederation. Throughout 
the Articles you trace in vain what could have been 



CHAP. v. LANDMARKS. 189 

the cause of offence to the local Administration 
until you come to Article 44, where provision is 
made for the purpose of carrying on the administra- 
tion of the Federal Government, to pass laws, etc., 
for the levying of such taxes as may be necessary. 
In other words, the question as to whether any 
native authority should be suffered to levy taxes in 
the country was the crux of the contention between 
the local Administration and the Confederators. 
Innocently asked the leaders of the movement, 
" How possibly are we to go to work at all without 
money ? " They did not know then, as events proved 
subsequently, that, notwithstanding all protestations 
to the contrary, the intention of the British Govern- 
ment was not to allow the people self-government 
at all, but to govern the country as a Crown Colony. 
And, of course, the Constitution went diametrically 
against that policy. 

Now, while Mr. Salmon disapproved of the move- 
ment in toto, and cast the leaders thereof into prison, 
it appears that his superior officers did not approve 
of his attitude towards the Confederators. 

The Administrator-in-Chief of the West African 
Settlements, His Excellency J. Pope Hennessy, 
under date the 15th of March, 1872, wrote to the 
then Administrator of the Gold Coast thus : 

" No doubt you will observe that Mr. Salmon's proclamation 
disapproving, without any reservation, of the Confederacy, is 



190 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP. v. 

in some passages at variance with the Secretary of State's 
instructions. 

" Should you find on your arrival at Cape Coast that the 
Confederation is practically at an end, there will be no necessity 
for doing anything further in the matter. If, however, the 
agitation is still going on, it would be well to explain to any of 
the leaders of the movement that you may meet, that as long 
as they live under protection of Great Britain, the protecting 
Government should be consulted about any new institutions 
that may be proposed ; but, at the same time, that Her 
Majesty's Government have no desire whatever to discourage 
any legitimate efforts of the Fantees to establish for themselves 
an improved form of government." 1 

The instructions were based upon the directions of 
the then Secretary of State for the Colonies, to wit, 
Lord Kimberley, expressed in these words, in a 
letter addressed to the Governor, Mr. Pope Hennessy r 
bearing date the 16th of June, 1872 : 

" Her Majesty's Government have no wish to discourage any 
legitimate efforts on the part of the Fantee kings and chiefs 
to establish for themselves an improved form of government 
which, indeed, it is much to be desired that they should succeed 
in doing ; but it is necessary that all parties concerned should 
understand that as long as they live under the protection of 
Great Britain, the protecting Government must be consulted as 
to any new institutions which may be proposed." 2 

A feature of the official correspondence herein 
was an attempt on the part of the local Administra- 
tion to throw suspicion on the leaders of the move- 
ment, and to treat them more as conspirators than 
as the natural representatives of the people. 

1 Parliamentary Papers, 1873 (49), p. 43. 
a Idem, p. 14. 



CHAP. v. LANDMARKS. 191 

His Excellency Mr. Pope Hennessy had to 
examine matters for himself on the spot, and in his 
despatch to the Secretary of State he remarked, 
under date the 29th of October, 1872, as follows : 

" As far as I could observe, every educated native at Cape 
Coast sympathised with the Confederation. Mr. F. C. Grant, 
a native gentleman, who is certainly not the inferior of any 
European on the Gold Coast in character, ability, or mercantile 
position, is a strong supporter of the Confederation. If Mr. 
Ussher's judgment on their moral conduct and character were 
sound, it would be a painful commentary on the so-called 
Christianising and civilising effect of the Gold Coast Adminis- 
tration. But on the contrary, my inquiries on the spot, and an 
examination of the archives of the Local Government, convinced 
me that the educated natives have contrasted favourably as a 
body with the European residents. I was certainly impressed 
favourably by their tone and manner in their several interviews 
with me." * 

There is a touch of humour in Mr. Hennessy's 
commentary on Mr. Ussher's censure upon Mr. 
Salmon, which reveals, in a striking manner, the 
want of consistency in official conduct which some- 
times prevails in local Administrations. 2 

You see, Mr. Salmon had been acting as Adminis- 
trator during Mr. Ussher's absence, and when the 
latter gentleman returned, he had, to a certain 
extent, followed the policy mapped out by his locum 
tenens ; but when it subsequently transpired that 
the Colonial Secretary disapproved of the said policy, 

1 Parliamentary Papers, 1873 (49), p. 47. 

2 Idem, p. 47. 



192 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHIP, v 

he then proceeded to find fault with the same in his 
report to Governor Pope Hennessy. Commenting 
upon the arrest of the leaders of the Confederate's, 
Mr. Ussher says : 

" Here, however, Mr. Salmon committed errors, and grave 
ones. He caused the messengers of the Confederation (who 
should have been sacred) to be arrested, as well as others, on a 
charge of treason and conspiracy. The legality of this course 
was more than doubtful ; it was imprudent, and calculated to 
give greater impetus to the movement. His further action in 
the matter of the search warrants was unjustifiable and irritating ; 
the prosecution of Fynn took a political colouring and added 
fuel to the flame." 1 

Mr. Hennessy remarks with calm judicial impar- 
tiality upon this portion of Mr. Ussher's report 
thus : 

" As to Mr. Ussher's censure on Mr. Salmon, it is at variance 
with the opinions he had expressed before he knew my views 
on the subject, and it seems to be inconsistent with his own 
proclamation and circular." 3 

The reader gets here an inkling into how things 
work sometimes in the inner circle of officialism in 
the Crown Colony System. The man on the spot, 
as I have shown elsewhere, often has merely to feel 
his way in the dark, the chances being that he may 
be censured or applauded in so far as his line of 
conduct is successful or otherwise. 

And herein lies the greatest danger of the Crown 

1 Parliamentary Papers, 1873 (49), p. 59. 

2 Idem, p. 47. 



CHAP. v. LANDMARKS. 198 

Colony System this groping in the dark and seeking 
after effects inconsistent with political causes and 
facts in the past. For ourselves, we never blame a 
given official, or a given administration. How can 
we ? It is the system that is at fault it is the 
system that must be righted. But how ? Simply 
by giving the merchants and the Aborigines of the 
Gold Coast a voice, an effective voice, in the adminis- 
tration of the Gold Coast and Ashanti. 



G.C. 13 



194 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP. v. 



LANDMAKKS. 

3. THE DEBATE ON THE SECOND READING OF THE 
LANDS BILL. 

The "Lands Bill, 1897," was intituled "an 
Ordinance to regulate the administration of public 
land, and to define certain interests therein, and to 
constitute a Concessions Court." 

The able speeches delivered by counsel 1 in the 
Legislative Council against the principle of the Bill 
amounted to a negation of the proposition that there 
were any public lands so-called on the Gold Coast, 
whose administration awaited governmental regula- 
tion. The point was emphasised, and that with 
great clearness, that every inch of soil in the country 
is owned by some person or other to whose stool it 
is attached. The authorities on the matter are 
simply overwhelming. Let me hasten to collect 
together a few of leading importance, among others, 
that were relied upon by learned counsel, for the 
benefit of posterity : 

His HONOUR MR. JUSTICE SMITH (acting Chief 
Justice) : 

" Land in tlie colony is distinguished under the following 
heads stool land, private land, and family land. Under 
1 Government Gazette, August 13th, 1897, pp. 296312. 



CHAP. v. LANDMARKS. 195 

these designations, all the land in the colony, save ivhat the 
Government have from time to time taken for public purposes, 
has, according to native law, an owner. 

" Most carefully do the natives preserve and hand doivn all 
traditions connected ivith the ownership of such lands, and no 
matter hoiv small may be the plot of land, they are ahvays 
keen in preventing any encroachment on their rights in respect 
thereof." 

THE HON. BRUCE HINDLE (Attorney-General, and 
afterwards Chief Justice of Sierra Leone) : 

"It is considered by the natives that all lands, ivhether 
reclaimed or not, are attached to the Stools of the different Kings 
and Chiefs, with the exception of the comparatively small por- 
tions attached in manner hereinafter mentioned. There is no 
land which is not or ivhich has not been so attached. In the 
bush the boundaries are generally fixed by particular trees, by 
natural features, such as rivers or streams." 

MAJOR-GENERAL SIR FRANCIS SCOTT (Inspector- 
General of the Gold Coast Constabulary) : 

" As a general rule among the real natives of the Gold Coast, 
the tenure of land is perpetual, whether cultivated or other- 
wise. All land on the Gold Coast is either the property of a 
(1) tribe, (2) country, (3) town, (4) company, (5) family, or 
(6) an individual." 

W. H. ADAMS, B.A., Barrister-at-Law (District 
Commissioner) : 

" Every acre of land on the Gold Coast has an owner. 
There is no unoccupied land. Though no boundaries may be 

13-2 



196 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP. v. 

visible to the European, they are perfectly clear to the eyes of 
the various owners. It ivould seem as if in the remote past 
the whole land had been vested in the various Kings each 
stool, ivith its boundaries, forming a commomvealth." 

See Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated 
August 13, 1897, pages 298 and 299. 

Other authorities are : 

THE HON. J. MENSAH SARBAH, Barrister-at-Law, 
(Member of the Legislative Council), in " Fanti 
Customary Laws," pages 55 and 56 : 

" The King, by the law of England, is the supreme lord of 
the whole soil. Whoever, therefore, holds lands must hold 
them mediately or immediately of him ; and while the subject 
enjoys the usufructuary possession, the absolute and ultimate 
dominion remains in the King (Co. Lit. 1 a). 

" As far as the Gold Coast is concerned, this portion of the 
English law does not apply, for it is a group of territories 
under native rulers taken under British protection. It is 
British territory, but not so by conquest or cession ; as a 
matter of fact, the Colonial Office stated on the ll//i day of 
March, 1887, as published in Parliamentary Blue Book of 
that year, that it is inaccurate to state that after the successful 
Ashanti expedition of 1874 the Protectorate ivas annexed by 
Great Britain and became a colony, inasmuch as the greater 
2)ortion of the Gold Coast Colony still remains a Protectorate, 
the soil being in the hands of the natives, and under the 
jurisdiction of the native chiefs. 

" According to native ideas, there is no land without owners. 
What is now a forest or unused land will, as years go 
on, come under cultivation by the subjects of the stool or 
members of the village community, or other members of the- 
community." 



CHAP. v. LANDMARKS. 197 

His EXCELLENCY SIR WILLIAM MACGREGOR, M.D., 
C.B., K.C.M.G. (Governor of Lagos) : 

" In dealing with the natives one must never touch their 
rights in lands, or compromise the authority of the chiefs. If 
one wished to stir up trouble in West Africa, all one would 
have to do would be to suggest that the land of the natives is 
about to be taken away from them. Unfortunately, their 
credulity in this respect is sometimes practised on." 

I record the above pregnant paragraphs without 
comment. 



198 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP. v. 



LANDMARKS. 
4. THE CONCESSIONS ORDINANCE. 

From the foregoing authorities, and from the 
evidence discussed, equally emphatic in law as in 
fact, it was a foregone conclusion that the Colonial 
Office could not upon any show of reason declare 
the lands of the country public lands. A fortiori, 
there could be no governmental administration of 
the said lands. Accordingly, the mountain in labour 
produced but the " Concessions Ordinance " of 1900. 

The " Concessions Ordinance " of 1900 is the best 
abused piece of legislation I have ever come across. 
Capitalists and speculators alike join forces in heaping 
invective upon it ; and some have even gone so far 
as to charge those engaged in the arduous task of 
dispensing the law as it stands with obstruction. 

The fact of the case is, that the average European 
knows nothing of the history of the law, and cannot 
comprehend its underlying principles. But that the 
facts are clear and just, and the principles in every 
way scientific, there can be no doubt. It is idle, 
therefore, to compare the mining laws of the Rand, 
or the land laws of Australia, with those of the Gold 



CHAP. v. LANDMARKS. 199 

Coast. The conditions are not the same, and, there- 
fore, yon cannot logically compare them. Gold, truly, 
there is in the country, and plenty of it. If you 
want to get it out, yon must accommodate yourself 
to the situation, and go philosophically to work. 

And, after all, it is not an impossible situation. 
To get a ninety-nine years' lease, with your measure- 
ments taken from a banket formation, is worth all the 
trouble to which you may be put. Let us consider the 
steps you have to take, and you will see that, after 
all, you have been making mountains of mole-hills. 

Let us assume you have dependable agents in the 
country, who have made a proper selection of mining 
areas for you, and you have had the same carefully 
located, and favourably reported upon by a depend- 
able mining expert, always remembering that 
there are experts and experts. You ought in that 
case, all things being equal, to be before the Con- 
cessions Court within four months from the time 
of obtaining execution of your leases. In taking 
leases, you will have taken the precaution to consult 
an experienced legal practitioner with a knowledge 
of the country, and taken care to obtain the sanction 
of the paramount King of the district. You may 
note that this is strictly and technically not always 
necessary ; for there is a difference between a sub- 
chief having to report to his paramount King that 
he has leased his lands, tendering the latter a portion 



200 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP. v. 

of the proceeds as a token of his allegiance to him, 
and the case where he must previously get the paia- 
mount King's consent to make the transaction valid. 
I have indicated elsewhere 1 the distinction between 
Ownership and Pararnountcy in this connection. 
The fine legal distinction is gradually becoming 
accentuated, and soon the law upon the matter will 
be settled ; but, as a working hypothesis, you may 
take it that, for the present, it will be safe to have 
had your leases confirmed by the paramount King. 

Now you are before the Concessions Court. Pray 
remember that it is a division of the Supreme Court, 
and as regularly constituted as any division of the 
High Court of Justice in England. As such, the 
Court has rules and precedents to guide it. It does 
not go to work haphazardly. You must not expect, 
for example, that if in previous enquiries A. B. 
and C. have had to pay, as a fair rent for 1,000 
fathoms square of leasehold premises, 200 a year, 
when you come before the Court, claiming property 
one half larger than the last, you will escape with 
the same rent. That will, of course, be absurd. 
Yet, I have heard sensible men grumble at their 
rents being raised in accordance with precedent. 

Nor does it take long to get through a concession. 
I have known able counsel get through four unopposed 
concessions before lunch. But, remember, it is 

1 See pp. 4462. 



CHAP. v. LANDMARKS. 201 

purely a matter of skill, gained by experience. It 
is perfectly possible for an inexperienced man to 
wreck the fortunes of a company before a morning 
sitting is over by ill-advised questioning of witnesses. 

Assuming your concession has been carefully 
piloted through the Court, and you have a surveyor 
ready at once to take the Court's instructions, and 
the latter proceeds soon after to lay out the property, 
whose area is, say, 1,000 fathoms square, you ought, 
at the very outside, to get a certificate of validity 
well within six months from the time of the execu- 
tion of your lease. 

But what are the leading principles of the " Con- 
cessions Ordinance ? " In order that we may under- 
stand one another clearly, please remember that I am 
not writing a treatise upon the land laws of the Gold 
Coast, or upon the " Concessions Ordinance." I am 
only taking a flying survey of the principal parts of 
the Ordinance, which, in my opinion, forms an 
important landmark in the history of the institutions 
of the country. 

If you ask me, then, who may grant a concession 
in the country, I will beg of you to remember the 
following proposition: "All Natives, who are en- 
titled by the Customary Law to rights in land, may 
make valid grants." 

But who are "Natives"? To answer this with 
safety, you must go to Chief Justice Sir Brandford 



202 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP. v. 

Griffith's criticism of the definition of the term 
" native " upon the second reading of the Lands Bill. 1 

Chief Justice: "Your Excellency, 'native' in 
this definition does not include Mulattoes. I beg to 
point out that many Mulattoes have equal rights 
with the pure natives of this country, because they 
intermarry, and their children have rights through 
their mothers'." 

In this criticism you have the whole matter in a 
nutshell. Descent being traced through females by 
the Customary Law, where once a person can trace 
his or her line from a "pure native" materfamilia*, 
he or she, no matter what his or her colour is, is a 
native, who may make grants in land in the country. 
In other words, that is to say, " Native " means all 
persons of African birth who can by the Customary 
Law make valid grants of land in the country. 

What may be granted in a concession is " a right, 
interest, or property in or over land with respect to 
minerals, precious stones, timber, rubber or other 
products of the soil." 

Now, please remember that by a " concession " is 
not meant the piece of ground in which you have an 
interest : it means merely the paper writing by 
which you acquire such right. 

1 Government Gazette Extraordinary, August 18th, 1897, p. 313. 
Compare the case of Hutton v. Kuta : " Fanti Customary Laws," 
pp. 183 and 184. 

* Concessions Ordinance, sect. 2. 



CHAP. v. LANDMARKS. 20S 

The Ordinance would seem not to be very par- 
ticular as to the form of the concession, for the 
interpretation clause says " any writing." Accord- 
ingly, it was argued by counsel in the Chidda 
Enquiry (the leading case in the Concessions Divi- 
sion, which I reported, and which is reproduced in 
this book by the kind courtesy of the editor of 
West Africa l ) that it did not matter how informal 
a document was, so long as the intention of 
parties to grant and accept a leasehold tenure 
appeared clearly on the face of the paper writing, it 
would be a concession within the meaning of the 
Ordinance. The point was not covered by the 
judgment; but there is no doubt of an "option" 
agreement being a concession since the law ex- 
pressly makes it such ! ~ 

However this may be, unless you are particularly 
desirous of having the point settled at your ex- 
pense for the benefit of posterity, you would be well 
advised, in taking a concession, to have the same 
drawn by an experienced man, who would be sure 
to follow well-tested precedents. 

The paper writing, whatever form it takes, must 
be signed by the " grantor or some person duly 
authorised bv him." 3 



1 See Appendix, pp. 289310. 

a Concession Ordinance, sect. 2. 

3 Concession Ordinance, sect. 11, sub-sect. 1. 



204 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP. v. 

Now, what amounts to signing under the Ordin- 
ance ? If the grantor is an illiterate man, the 
ordinary mark in the shape of a St. Andrew's cross 
will do. . The name of the grantor must be written 
by a person duly authorised thereunto in the 
presence of the grantor, who must touch the pen 
after his name has been written, whereupon the 
writer makes his mark. The writer then, usually, 
signs his name as a witness, and, as a guarantee of 
good faith, states his address and the date of the 
execution. 

In case the grantor is unable to be present, what 
is to be done ? He can in such a case be repre- 
sented by some proper person, duly authorised by 
him. The Chief will, generally, when he cannot 
come to town for the execution of the deed, send 
his Linguist, or Cane-bearer, with some relative or 
other to represent him. 

The next ground upon which your concession 
may be lost is whether or not the proper persons 
were parties to it. To find out who such proper 
persons are requires an accurate knowledge of native 
law. I have seen a good many concessions thrown 
out on this score. To state the law with any clear- 
ness would require a little book to itself. To avoid 
confusion of ideas, the concessionaire would do well, 
when the occasion arises, to consult an experienced 
native practitioner. 



CHAP. v. LANDMARKS. 205 

You must see, in the next place, of course, that 
every step taken by you in obtaining the concession 
is above board, if you will allow me to suggest such 
a thing. Kespectable men have before now had 
doubts thrown upon their negotiations for leasehold 
properties. Whatever you do, never "jump" a 
property, whatever that means, for the chances are 
that you will break your neck in the attempt. Pray 
remember that in buying a concession, as in buying 
a flock of sheep, honesty is the best policy. 

Your next difficulty will be to find out what is 
an " adequate valuable consideration." Here I can 
enlighten you a little. You know it is a general 
principle of the Common Law of England, as also of 
the Customary Law of the Gold Coast, that parties to 
a contract shall be free to settle inter se what is a 
fair consideration, its adequacy being " for the 
parties to consider at the time of making the agree- 
ment, not for the Courts when it is sought to be 
enforced." l So says the Customary Law. But the 
" Concessions Ordinance/' says no : " There must be 
adequate valuable consideration, regard being had to 
the circumstances existing at the time of the conces- 
sion." How is that ? you will ask. You will find 
the why and the wherefore in that valuable reply 
made to Mr. Grant in the memorable interview 
anent the "Lands Bill" at Downing Street, when 

1 Per Blackburn, J. : Bolton v. Madden, L. E. 9 Q. B. 55. 



206 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP. v. 

the Colonial Secretary solemnly impressed the fact 
that the Bill was an " entirely benevolent " one. 1 

Yon see, in the good old days, when far-seeing 
men were beginning to see, looming in the distance, 
the rich mineral possibilities of the country, it was 
nothing unusual for men having the fear of God in 
their hearts to give as consideration to a chief for a 
lease of a large tract of country a top hat. Now, as 
only one man could wear this head gear, usually the 
Chief, who kept it jealously to himself, sporting it 
on high days and holidays, the rest of the " tribe " 
went empty away. But the native law regards the 
" tribe " ; and, so, a wise Government stepped in 
and said, Henceforth there shall be " adequate valu- 
able consideration." Therefore, you and I need not 
chafe over the matter, or worry our heads over the 
law's inconsistencies. 

You will, of course, having taken the land, pay 
the rents when due. Not to have done so before 
appearing in the Concessions Court would, probably, 
have the effect of throwing out your concession. 

Then next the customary rights of the grantors to 
the use of the demised premises as to shifting 
cultivation, collection of firewood, etc., must have 
been duly protected in the concession. 

Lastly, you will do well to bear in mind the fact 
that the Ordinance deals in "square miles" rather 

1 See p. 224. 



CHAP. v. LANDMARKS. 207 

than in "miles square," and if yon would avoid 
shoals and quick-sands, it would be as well if you 
worked out the difference clearly in your own mind.. 
I have seen deeds in which a good many intelligent 
men have not shown an appreciation of the difference 
here indicated. 

The rest of the Ordinance deals with such matters 
as " duties on profits," and other revenue considera- 
tions, which are, of course, part of an " entirely 
benevolent" paternal scheme. The scheme may or 
may not be suggestive of the policy of killing the 
goose which lays the golden egg. But that is not 
my business : it may be yours, if you happen to be 
the goose in the parable. 



208 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP. v. 



LANDMARKS. 
5. NATIVE JURISDICTION. 

The decision in Oppon v. Ackinie forms an im- 
portant landmark in Native Institutions. The facts 
of the case may be briefly summarised here. 1 

Ackinie, King of Akumfie, in Fanti country, had 
brought before his Court one David Otchafoo, charged 
with receiving bribes, the complainant being one 
Ghartey. In accordance with custom, the accused 
had to find a surety to guarantee his meeting the 
award of the Court, and Oppon became the surety. 
The accused was mulcted in costs, and his surety 
called upon to pay. The surety refused, and the 
King promptly had him arrested. Oppon then sued 
the King in the District Commissioner's Court for 
damages, judgment going against the King, with 
costs. The King appealed from this judgment to 
the Divisional Court, which confirmed the judgment 
of the Court below. On the 24th of October, 1887, 
the decision of the Divisional Court came before 
the Full Court, consisting of their Honours Hector 

1 See pp. 273 281 for a full report of the case, reproduced from 
" Fanti Customary Laws " by the kind permission of the author. 



CHAP. v. LANDMAKKS. 209 

Macleod, C.J., Smallman Smith, J., and Francis 
Smith, J., when the memorable decision was given 
affirming the judicial authority of the native Kings 
and Chiefs. It is a judgment which will repay careful 
perusal. It is remarkable for its breadth of view, 
'its irresistible logic, and its freedom from outside 
influence. 

One or two paragraphs from the judgment will 
show its scope. After discussing the bearing of 
Quamin Fori's case upon the case before the Court, 
the judgment proceeds : 

" Without discussing whether a Governor has power to take 
away inherent jurisdiction, and without pretending to under- 
stand what the Full Court meant by the words ' unless those 
powers are taken away by the Governor,' we cannot help 
regarding the suggested line of criticism as unworthy of 
comment. 

"Had it not been for the opinion of Bailey, C.J., we would 
have entertained no doubt upon the question which we have 
discussed. Now that we have considered it from every possible 
point of view, we are clear that the Supreme Court Ordinance, 
1876, has in no way impaired the judicial powers of native 
kings and chiefs, and, so far as we know, it has not been 
suggested that any other Ordinance has taken them away." 

Now, in the face of this important judgment of 
the Full Court, it becomes interesting to consider 
the effect of sect. 29 of Ordinance No. 5 of 1883, 
being the "Native Jurisdiction Ordinance." It is 
noteworthy that, whereas the Ordinance in ques- 
tion merely claims "to facilitate and regulate the 

G.C. 14 



210 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP. v. 

exercise of certain powers and jurisdiction by native 
authorities," yet, in sect. 29, it reserves to the 
Governor in Council power to suspend or dismiss 
Chiefs. The very words of the section are : 

" The Governor in Council may suspend for a stated time, or 
may dismiss, any chief who shall appear to him to have abused 
his power, or be unworthy or incapable of exercising the same 
justly, or for other sufficient reason, and thereupon such chief 
shall be disqualified to exercise any power or jurisdiction, 
unless and until he be expressly restored by the Governor in 
Council." 

If sect. 29 means merely that the Governor in 
Council may suspend or dismiss a chief from 
exercising the power "facilitated and regulated'* 
by the Ordinance, and that upon such suspension or 
dismissal he retains his " inherent jurisdiction,' * 
there is no ground for controversy. But if the 
words of the section, " shall be disqualified to 
exercise any power or jurisdiction," can by any 
possibility be construed to mean that upon the 
suspension or dismissal of the chief by the Governor 
in Council, he ceases, to all intents and purposes, to 
be a chief, incapable of discharging the functions 
of his stool, and practically destooled, then, indeed, 
there is grave cause for apprehension. 

This matter is so vital to Native Institutions that 
I must ask the reader's indulgence to examine it 
fully. For, you see, once it is conceded that the 



CHAP. v. LANDMARKS. 211 

Legislature, under the guise of " facilitating and 
regulating" native jurisdiction not conferring it, 
be it noted may strike at the "inherent jurisdic- 
tion " of the native Chief, the whole fabric of native 
government falls to pieces. 

The intelligent reader who has mastered the 
contents of the chapter on " The Status of the Gold 
Coast" will have no difficulty in seeing that, from the 
earliest times, the British Government have fully 
understood that the native Chief, in his own country 
and among his own people, has the undisputed 
right of exercising his functions administratively 
as well as judicially in accordance with the 
Customary Law. 

But let us see how sect. 29, construed adversely, 
strikes at the root of this understanding. Let us 
say the King of Akumfie has been brought under 
the provisions of the Ordinance, and he has been 
provided with a pair of handcuffs as a symbol of 
authority under the Ordinance. Somehow the King 
comes under administrative displeasure, and he is 
adjudged to be unworthy of exercising his power, 
" or for other sufficient reason," he is dismissed by 
the Governor in Council, whereupon not merely does 
he cease to be a judicial officer of Akumfie wider the 
Ordinance, but he ceases, to all intents and purposes, 
to be the King of Akumfie. The Administration 
directs a new man to be enstooled. The people kick, 

142 



212 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP. v. 

alleging that by the Customary Law they find no 
fault in the King. Direction becomes insistence. 
Through fear, the helpless people yield, and a new 
King is enstooled. Important query : Does the dejnre 
King lose his "inherent jurisdiction," affirmed by 
the Full Court's decision of October 24th, 1887, and 
does the Government nominee succeed to any juris- 
diction other than such as is embodied in the " Native 
Jurisdiction Ordinance " ? For, mark you, the said 
Ordinance leaves untouched all other customary 
rights of the native Chief. 

Surely, the people of the country have the right, 
in the election and destoolment of their Kings and 
Chiefs, to be governed by their own Customary Laws. 
So that, where the people see no infraction of the 
Customary Law thereto appertaining, it would be 
strange to say that a king ceases to be a king, if 
"for other sufficient reason" the Governor chooses 
to say he does not recognise him ; and stranger still 
if the Government may obtrude upon an unwilling 
. people its own nominee, and violate the sanctity of 
the kingly office. 

If you construe the section favourably to the 
"inherent jurisdiction" of the native Kings and 
Chiefs, then, of course, you remove the necessity 
of urging upon the Legislature the importance 
of removing from the statute-book an ambiguity 
which is a danger and a snare to the "inherent 



CHAP. v. LANDMARKS. 213 

jurisdiction " of the native Kings and Chiefs. 
For, as the law now stands, a native king or chief 
may unwarily bring himself under the Ordinance, 
only to find afterwards that his ancient freedom and 
"inherent jurisdiction " have been compromised. 



CHAPTER VI. 

THE CONFLICT OF SENTIMENTS. 



" The object of our policy should be to encourage in the natives the 
exertion of those qualities which may render it possible for us more and 
more to transfer to them the administration of all the Governments." 
Parliamentary Committee, 1865. 

" If you will not allow a nation to govern itself through its best passions,, 
you can only govern it yourself through its worst passions." Speaker. 

Of all the colonial possessions of the British Crown, the most disappointing 
have undoubtedly been the territories and protectorates in West Africa- 
Time out of mind great expectations have been formed of them, expeditions 
after expeditions have been undertaken, numerous wars have been fought, 
and all of them have been gloriously concluded, treaties have been made of 
the most satisfactory and binding character, the despatches of Governors 
have shown the most splendid results of an astute and far-seeing diplomacy, 
territories have been annexed and settlements founded, and large sums have 
been spent by the British Government in various ways ; and in the latter 
half of the year 1885 the actual position, on the whole, looks wonderfully 
like what it was at any previous time during the last twenty or fifty years, 
or before. British administration in Western Africa has not been a 'success. 

It must have been a failure ; the elements necessary for the most tem- 
porary success have always been wanting. It is difficult at any time to rule 
a country against the wish of its inhabitants ; but the West African system 
has been, as much as possible, to rule the country as if there were no 
inhabitants in it. They have been acknowledged to exist, it is true, in 
treaties, in wars, and in expeditions, and they must have been supposed to 
exist for taxing purposes ; for few, if any, other reasons have been given for 
recent annexations except the necessities of the Custom-houses, or fear of 
other nations placing rival Custom-houses too near them. 

******* 

If British dominion in Africa should ever be of any real good to the people, 
or of any lasting benefit to British commerce, it will only be by an entire 
reversal of the policy so long pursued. The various settlements should be looked 
upon only as stations or convenient outposts for opening np the interior por- 
tions of the vast continent to the advantages of commerce and industry, 
without which neither civilisation nor Christianity itself can make any head- 
way in these lands. No attempt even should be made to govern the country 
anywhere except through the selected chiefs of the people, who are open to the 
best influences, and whom the people will implicitly obey. A noble career 
lies before any European people whose Executive adopts this simple method of 
dealing with a great and much-wronged race. British dominion in various 
forms has been established in portions of this Western Coast for two centuries 
and upwards, and there is more than enough experience to prove that white men. 
can never inhabit it except in small numbers and at perpetual risk of life. 
In fact the country must be ruled and governed by a native element, and 
Great Britain can easily assist and guide it by laws and regulations the 
fruit of ages of experience engrafted on to and merged with such existing 
native systems and methods the people may desire to keep and to follow. 
C. S. SALMON, Ex- Administrator of the Gold Coast, in the " Crown Colonies 
of Great Britain," pp. 8992. 



CHAP. vi. THE CONFLICT OF SENTIMENTS. 217 



CHAPTER VI. 

THE CONFLICT OF SENTIMENTS. 

IT must strike the careful observer that the posi- 
tion of a man in the public service of the Gold Coast 
is often a difficult one. If such a man is honest 
and intelligent, he cannot fail soon to discover the 
peculiar conditions under which he is called upon to 
discharge his duties. 

The first thing that will occur to him will be the 
dog-in-the-manger policy of the Administration, 
whose servant he is. He will find that, theoretically, 
the people are free, having their own laws and institu- 
tions. He will see that the Government, apparently, 
recognise this fact ; but that in practice he, the 
public servant, is expected to interfere with the 
institutions of the people as far as he dares. Neither 
is he told to allow the natural development of the 
institutions of the people, nor is he directed, in so 
many words, to attempt to mould them. What he 
does to-day, which is considered wrong by his 
superiors, may be done to-morrow by another and 
applauded. 

It is as if the Government were not sure of their own 



218 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP. vi. 

position, if the truth may be spoken. They feel the 
force of the logic of facts against an aggressive policy, 
and they are content to feel their way gradually, until 
such time as such aggressive policy might boldly 
be asserted. Hence the difficulty in which a public 
servant finds himself. Being an honest man, if he 
were free to follow the dictates of his conscience, he 
would do so in the light of truth. Not being free, 
expediency must be his guide. He must bend or break. 

And the climate and the conditions of life and the 
public service are largely responsible for this unsatis- 
factory state of things. 

In the first place, entrance into the West African 
official life is not by competitive examination, as 
is the case in the Indian Civil Service. Patronage 
rules the day at Downing Street in official appoint- 
ments to the West African Civil Service. You may 
be a very capable man; indeed, the best qualified by 
experience and natural ability for a particular 
appointment. But, unless you have influence with 
some one who has influence with the Colonial Office, 
you are sure to be left out in the cold. That being 
so, you naturally get a class of men who, as human 
nature goes, would be the most obedient, humble 
servants of the Colonial Office. That is clear. 

Occasionally the service may, and does, show up 
a strong man, who stands up for truth, regardless of 
consequences ; but such occasions are rare, and far 



CHAP. vi. THE CONFLICT OF SENTIMENTS. 219 

between. You may sometimes observe the phenome- 
non of an independent man going to work on indepen- 
dent lines. But he does so only so long as his work 
has not attracted notice at head-quarters. It is sure 
to do so before long, and then he must either break 
of bend. The majority bend. The few very few 
to their eternal honour, elect to break. And why ? 

You see, when the average civil servant has suc- 
cessfully made his way to West Africa, it does not 
matter in what department, the present appointment 
is regarded by him as a stepping-stone to another in 
some better clime. It is not his fault. It is that 
of the climate. He cannot keep a family here, and 
so he takes the first opportunity of going away. To 
get away to a congenial clime with a promotion, 
or a C.M.G., is again a question of patronage. The 
Governor has the last say in the matter. Therefore, 
naturally, even strong men do bend in the end. It 
is only policy a way, that is to say, to get on in life, 
no matter whether the better part of man approves 
or not. 

If this is the case with the strong, what must it be 
with the weak members of the West African Civil 
Service ? They are, of course, like chaff before the 
wind. Strangely enough, there are some Europeans 
who regard men of the other races as necessarily 
inferior to the European. Indeed, so weak-minded 
are they, that they cannot, even under circumstances 



220 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP. vi. 

where Nature proclaims the other man the master 
of the situation, divest themselves of the idea of 
superiority. On every possible occasion they try to 
inspire a sense of this so-called superiority over their 
coloured friends, the result being that they become 
the freest tools in the hands of the powers that be, 
in a policy which, in every way, conflicts with the 
written code of official sentiment. 

Are the weak in their weakness a source of strength 
to the Government ? Indeed not. It would be revers- 
ing the order of Nature, which makes for truth in 
every direction, were it so. Strange as it may seem, 
they serve Great Britain best who serve her in truth 
and godly fear. Men like Sir David Chalmers, 
Chief Justice Macleod, and others of like grit, who 
looked not to promotion or official applause in the 
manly discharge of their simple duty, are the ones 
who dig deep the foundations of British supremacy 
in West Africa. For, believe me, the Native of West 
Africa has profound respect for the qualities of 
justice and fair play. The careless observer may 
think that the fear of British guns and Maxims has 
hitherto kept the Gold Coast proper free from dis- 
turbances. A greater mistake could not be made. 
If you want to know what has hitherto been a tower 
of strength to the British Government on the Gold 
Coast, you will find it in the confidence which has 
been inspired in the native mind by the Judges of the 



CHAP. vi. THE CONFLICT OF SENTIMENTS. 221 

Supreme Court, who have been, taking them gene- 
rally, men of singular uprightness, fairness and 
ability, independent of bureaucratic influence. But 
they have not worked alone. They have been sup- 
ported by a strong and loyal Bar, a band of men in 
whom the clients have the most implicit confidence, 
and who generally succeed in throwing the oil of 
peace upon the troubled waters of popular passion 
and ferment. They help to make the administra- 
tion of the country possible; "but the figure-heads 
generally receive all the praise, and the lawyers all 
the opprobrium . ' ' 

You have only to suggest to a native chief, smart- 
ing under a sense of wrong, real or imaginary, 
that the Court will look into his case, and he will 
patiently bide his time for months till the whole 
matter has been thrashed out. If he is defeated, he 
will retire with good grace from the scene of conflict, 
and all because he has implicit confidence in both 
Bench and Bar. What honest man is there, I ask 
with all seriousness, who will dare to shake such 
confidence ? It will be an evil day for the Gold 
Coast when the native client begins to lose confi- 
dence in either Bench or Bar. It will be but the 
beginning of the end, with chaos and black ruin 
attending it, of which, happily, I see no signs at 
present. 

But to consider the bane of the conflict of senti- 



222 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP. vi. 

ments in West African administration in another 
light, let me record the views of an experienced West 
African civil servant, an ex-Colonial Secretary and 
Administrator of the Gold Coast. He is none other 
than Mr. Charles Spencer Salmon, who writes in 
his able work, the "Crown Colonies of Great 
Britain," thus : 

" British intervention in Western Africa should be an unmixed 
benefit to the people, and of immense value to British commerce ; 
but in order to accomplish any good the presence of the people 
must be acknowledged, and their co-operation enlisted in the work. 
It is possible that the various settlements within the strict 
limits of their legal boundaries may have been managed, on the 
whole, as well as circumstances admitted, from the usual point 
of view of Crown Colonies ; but British power and political 
influence have never been confined to these limits in Western 
Africa, nor have they ever pretended to be so. When a long 
line of coast has been declared British territory by the usual 
methods employed on such occasions, and Custom-houses and 
revenue officials hold sway over it, all native rule is destroyed 
for a considerable distance inland. Now it so happens that in 
such cases a reign of murder, plunder, and general disorganisa- 
tion ensues in these hapless lands, and no one is held respon- 
sible. The British Administration adheres to its strict limits, or 
to its supposed limits, under shelter of its forts and fleets, and 
takes no heed of its solvent influence over native rule, which falls 
to pieces by mere proximity. It is curious to note how little 
heed is taken of the rights and claims of other and contiguous 
people by local administrations ; and it is not too much to say 
that almost all wars, disputes, heart-burnings and troubles on 
the coast adjacent to the British settlements are entirely and 
solely due to this selfish and unpardonable oversight and 
deliberate in j ustice . " J 

1 Pp. 90 and 91. 



CHAP. vi. THE CONFLICT OF SENTIMENTS. 223 

I am responsible for the italics, but the sentiments 
expressed in the above weighty words are wholly 
those of ex-Administrator Mr. Charles Spencer 
Salmon. He does not beat about the bush. The 
meaning will be clear to all. From the list of 
Governors supplied in Anaman's "Gold Coast Guide " 
for 1892, it does not appear that this independent- 
minded public servant retired from the Gold Coast 
Civil Service with a K.C.M.G., or even a C.M.G.. 
But that is neither here nor there. 

There is only one point in the above abstract calling 
for observation, and that is where Mr. Salmon says : 
"But British power and political influence have 
never been confined to these limits in Western Africa, 
nor have they ever pretended to be so." It is just 
possible that there has never been any doubt in the 
mind of the British Government what the final aim 
is in dealing with the native tribes ; but it is alto- 
gether another question whether or no the British 
Government have not " pretended " to the protected 
tribes that they have no intention of interfering in 
any way with their institutions, which, according to 
Mr. Salmon, " fall to pieces by mere proximity" to 
the " solvent influence " of British administration. 

A typical instance of official disclaimer we find 
in Mr. Chamberlain's reply to the "Lands Bill" 
Deputation at Downing Street on the 5th of August, 
1898. 



224 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP. vi. 

Mr. Chamberlain said : 

" Now, Mr. Grant, I should like the chiefs to know what the 
object of the Government at any rate has been in proposing any 
legislation. The main object, almost the sole object, is to protect 
the chiefs against the action of speculators, who in many cases 
get hold of the land for insufficient consideration, and without 
regard to the various interests in the land. For instance, a 
chief sells his land for a perfectly insufficient consideration ; 
the interests of the tribe are not considered at all in that case, 
and the Government desires that the interests of the whole 
population the whole of the tribe as well as of the chief and of 
the Government should be taken into account ; that a specu- 
lator from this country should not be able, trading upon the 
weakness of a chief, to get his land for a mere nothing and to 
oust from it those to whom really it in right belongs. So far, 
therefore, the object is one entirely benevolent to the chiefs and 
their people, and I hope that there will be no difficulty what- 
ever in coming to an agreement as to the method by which this 
object shall be secured." 

The "Concessions Ordinance" has since been 
passed, and the Supreme Court is busily engaged 
casting the underlying principles thereof into 
imperishable moulds in the way of decided cases. 

But it is interesting to notice the way the " solvent 
influence ' ' of the local Administration is operating, 
or likely to operate, upon the revenues derived by the 
Chiefs under the very provisions of this " entirely 
benevolent" enactment. Section 23 of the Conces- 
sions Ordinance (1900) as amended stands thus : 

" Any rent or other periodical sum payable under any cer- 
tified concession to any native shall be paid in the prescribed 



CHAP. vi. THE CONFLICT OF SENTIMENTS. 225 

manner by the holder of such concession to the treasurer and 
by the treasurer to such native, and such payment to the 
treasurer shall be complete discharge to the person making 
the same. Any such rent or periodical sum not paid within 
the prescribed time may be sued for by the person entitled to 
receive the same. In any such suit a certificate signed by the 
treasurer as to the amount due and as to the non-payment of 
any amount due shall be admitted without proof and shall be 
primd facie evidence as to the amount due and as to such non- 
payment. Any money recovered or paid in any such suit shall 
be paid into Court and any receipt by the plaintiff shall not 
discharge the defendant. The Court after refunding the plaintiff 
any costs he may have been allowed shall order the residue to 
be paid to the treasurer." 

Pray, mark the last two sentences of section 23. 
Why, in the name of all that is " entirely benevo- 
lent," should not the native landlord under the 
Ordinance, having recovered judgment for rents due 
to him, be able to give a good discharge for the same ? 
Why should he be made use of merely to pluck the 
chestnuts out of the fire for the Colonial Treasurer ? 
The truth is, the whole thing looks like the introduc- 
tion of the thin end of the wedge. How far it may 
go it is difficult to divine. 

Even now it is making steady progress. Mark the 
following winding up of a letter to the Gold Coast 
Aborigines' Eights Protection Society, dated 18th 
January, 1902, by the Colonial Secretary of the Gold 
Coast : 

" His Excellency considers that if the Aborigines' Bights 
Protection Society could impress on chiefs that more profitable 
G.C 15 



226 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP. vi. 

ways of spending their money would be by the establishment 
of schools, the promotion of agriculture, and the proper main- 
tenance of their roads and bridges, they would be doing good 
work for the colony and obviate the necessity for Government 
action." 

Sound advice, surely, this, if only you could calm 
the fears of the people. You see, it might come to 
this in plain English. The Government Treasurer 
in an "entirely benevolent" way acts as treasurer 
for the Chiefs of the country. The Treasurer alone 
can give valid discharges for all revenue coming to 
the Chiefs. The Government in an " entirely bene- 
volent " way take " Government action," deciding 
that in future the Chiefs shall maintain the roads 
and bridges of the country, and, being trustees for 
the Chiefs whose duty as wards is to obey, they 
perforce will obey, and obey they must. It is simple 
enough. It becomes simpler still when once you 
emphasise the suggestion, in a plausible way, that 
the Government have the right to depose any recal- 
citrant Chief. It is but a specimen of the " solvent 
influence " of British administration over native 
rights. Unhappy Gold Coast, unless thy sons are 
true to thee, the days of thy freedom are numbered ! 

Eeally, it is time all sentiment were done away 
with in such a practical matter as the moulding 
of a people's destiny. It would be better for all 
concerned to call a spade a spade, instead of this 
nauseous play with fine words. But whether you 



CHAP. vi. THE CONFLICT OF SENTIMENTS. 227 

openly go to work in breaking clown native Authority, 
or you prefer to arrive at the same result by a back 
door, mark this, that it is but an attempt to fight 
against Nature, which has decreed that the Gold 
Coast and Ashanti shall be only successfully adminis- 
tered, fairly and righteously, through the sons of 
the soil. 



152 



CHAPTER VII. 
IMPERIAL GOLD COAST AND ASHANTI, 



When politicians propose measures, the reasons they publicly 
give for them are those only which are intended to meet 
apprehended opposition ; the objects really aimed at are often 
carefully hidden ; but there is no doubt it is intended that 
Mauritius should enter the path of self-government. . . . The 
new Constitution granted to the Mauritians is, however, evidently 
inadequate, the bureaucratic Administration having complete 
and practical control in all matters the very thing not 
wanted. What the people in the Crown Colonies really want 
is to be governed as little as possible by outsiders, to be able to 
live on their own land without being too much worried and 
meddled with by regulations and laws, to impose their own 
taxes, to have good cheap food, and above all, to enjoy their 
earnings themselves. C. S. SALMON, Ex-Administrator of the 
Gold Coast in the Crown Colonies of Great Britain, p. 82. 

Those who knew him best during his life and those who 
have most carefully studied the voluminous records of that 
life, one and all honestly declare themselves unable to detect 
any flaws in a most beautiful, most noble nature. He never 
could see that what was wrong for an individual to do was 
right for a nation or a Government. SIB GEORGE ARTHUR 
on " The Personality of Sir Bartle Frere " (Public Opinion, 
October 10th, 1902). 

The truth which needs recognition is that, while in Christian 
countries the value of a private conscience is recognised as an 
essential to individual honour, no high standard of public con- 
science has ever yet been set up. The Christian Commonwealth, 
April 2, 1903. 



CHAP. vii. IMPERIAL GOLD COAST AND ASHAXTI. 231 



CHAPTER VII. 

IMPERIAL GOLD COAST AND ASHANTI. 
BUILDING THE EMPIRE. 



WERE there such a thing as Political Ethics, or 
a pretence or semblance thereof among Christian 
nations, as there is a semblance of some sort of 
Christianity in so-called Christian countries, it might 
be permissible to enquire how far the conduct of 
Christian nations in relation to aboriginal races, 
sometimes charitably called subject races, conformed 
to the Christian standard of morality. 

That different principles prevail in the life of 
nations is evident from the trend of modern history. 
Men ask, with apparent seriousness, " Who is my 
neighbour? " and when they receive the answer in 
the words of the Gospel, they immediately retort, 
" Am I my brother's keeper ? " 

But since, in the nature of things, there should 
be, if there is not, such a thing as Political Ethics, 
let me examine some of the fundamental ideas 



232 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP. vn. 

in this connection as they appear to an aboriginal 
mind in the first instance. 

Let me premise that almost the first elemeni 
which confronts the aboriginal mind, as it emerges 
from its primitive conceptions of things, and stands 
face to face with the forces of European civilisation, 
is the Christian propaganda. It is a favourite prac- 
tice with European nations to precede the Flag with 
the Gospel of Jesus Christ. The missionary points 
to the present influence of the Christ life in mould- 
ing the life and character of the individual. He 
points to the cardinal lessons of truth, love, and 
brotherhood as proclaimed by that Gospel, which 
accord with the higher impulses of the Native, and 
command his ready respect and obedience. More- 
over, the missionary hopes to prepare the way for 
civic life by specifically teaching the doctrines of 
the Ten Commandments. He particularly lays stress 
on the sixth, "Thou shalt not steal," which, in his 
view, becomes the groundwork of after respect for pro- 
perty rights on the part of the Native. What a deal 
of trouble, he fancies, the Flag would have afterwards, 
if this particular doctrine was not well rubbed in ! 

And so, in course of time, the Flag makes its 
appearance, and with it boldly the merchant and 
the tradesman, who before were merely sneaking 
round the corner. 

Presently, the standard of truth held up to the 



CHAP. vii. IMPERIAL GOLD COAST AND ASHANTI. 233 

aboriginal mind receives a rude shock. The 
methods of the merchant and the tradesman are 
not always above board ; and when the Native begins 
to adulterate his oil in retaliation for adulterated 
spirits, the Flag promptly legislates against the 
Native's dishonesty, which thing is not fair. Cun- 
ning for cunning, dishonesty for dishonesty surely 
that is fair play. But it sounds like striking below the 
belt, where I may endure my neighbour's dishonesty, 
but he not mine, which thing is not an allegory. 

The early stage of the acquaintanceship between 
the Flag and the Aborigines is in the nature of what 
is euphemistically called a protectorate. Now, the 
term "protectorate" connotes the dependence of a 
weaker upon a stronger. And as the Gospel of 
Jesus Christ, which, we shall say, in the first instance, 
was in good faith taught the Aborigines, insists upon 
the full brotherhood of the human race and the 
Native, you must grant, whether you like it or not, 
is a member of that race a protectorate, surely, 
must mean the dependence of a weaker upon a 
stronger brother. But here, again, facts falsify 
first impressions. The very missionary who preaches 
the gospel of universal brotherhood seems to scout 
the idea of the black man, cultured or uncultured, 
being on the same plane of life as himself. He 
beholds the Aborigines afar off, and believes in the 
Native being kept in his place. He merely intends 



234 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP. vn. 

to raise him a wee bit higher in order that he may 
be useful to his white brother by more intelligently 
hewing his wood and drawing his water, which the 
latter is too good to do for himself. This is the 
black man's burden. In all honesty, let the reader 
ask himself the plain question, When, in history, 
has the Caucasian approached the Negro, or the 
Mongolian the black, the yellow, or the brown man 
in the spirit of full brotherhood, in the spirit in 
which the Gospel of Jesus Christ teaches us one race 
should approach another not because of its markets 
and rich natural products, but simply to raise up 
the race to the measure of true manhood and true 
freedom enjoyed by the Caucasian ? 

Talking of markets and rich natural products, 
there is hardly a European Power which will not 
fight its way to the possession of spheres of influ- 
ence which are reputed rich in gold and diamonds, 
particularly if the country belongs to an aboriginal 
race that cannot work the maxim or the Long Tom. 
The cry of gold calls up the spirit of strife. The 
love of gold dissipates the love of man ; for is not 
the love of gold the root of all evil ? Ah ! if it were 
not for the something which the Aborigines have 
which the white man wants, but cannot get other- 
wise than, if need be, by breaking the sixth and 
eighth Commandments at one spell, how dearly 
would the white man love his brethren the Aborigines 



CHAP. vn. IMPEEIAL GOLD COAST AND ASHANTI. 235 

of the waste places of the earth ? Such surely 
is a wrong feeling ! But Jesus Christ sought to 
change all that, and you say you are His followers, 
you Christian nations of the earth. 

Really, it is about time in the earth's history 
that the swords were heaten into ploughshares. 
But, if strife there must he, then we beg of you, the 
mighty ones of the earth, to turn your armaments 
upon yourselves. Pray, give us peace ; save us from 
internal dissensions and turmoil ; grant that we 
may live under our own vine and fig trees in the 
portion of the earth where Providence has placed us. 

2. 

Surely, we can look to England for a certain 
amount of fair play. The history of your relations 
with weaker races is not altogether such as to fill us 
with despair, or to make us think that you will go 
the way of all flesh. We believe and hope that 
when the crooked has been made straight to your 
moral line of vision, you will stand corrected. We 
see and appreciate the huge efforts that you are 
making to reconcile the forces which make for 
national gain, as against the forces that make for the 
pure advancement and progress of the Aborigines; 
but we do not fail to notice at the same time your 
shortcomings so far. We notice, with aching 
hearts, for example, that, in your haste to fill the 



236 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP. vn. 

colonial exchequer, little regard is paid to what will 
work for the material advancement of the Aborigines, 
whose mites help mostly to fill those coffers, forgetful 
that the greatest good of the greatest number is the 
keynote of a healthy administration. 

Again, we see what efforts you are making in 
constituting the country into districts, and consoli- 
dating your authority and rule ; but we also see that 
you must fail in the end ; for you have gone the 
wrong way to work. We see, for instance, that in 
Ashanti and elsewhere you are building upon the 
sand and not upon the rock, and presently the rains 
will descend and sweep the entire structure away. It 
is bound to come, if I am right in thinking that the 
destinies of nations are regulated with mathematical 
exactitude by a Power unseen. 

If you earnestly sought the material advancement 
of the people, you would remove obstacles from their 
line of progress. What part have they in the govern- 
ment of their own country ? To whom do the big 
appointments and the big salaries go ? To their 
white brethren, of course. Why ? Because they 
are competent, and the Natives are not ? Time 
and again the Native does the hard work, and the 
European draws the hard cash. When the European 
does the work, it happens sometimes that he gains 
experience from the Native. He comes to know the 
work after a bit, and then there comes the rub. Of 



CHAP. vii. IMPEEIAL GOLD COAST AND ASHANTI. 237 

course, clown goes the ladder by which he had 
climbed. This is brotherly love with a vengeance ! 
We know we have only to point out these things 
and England will remedy them. 

Again, take the labour question. It is dear to the 
heart of the European. Herein he shows his love 
for his black brother beyond all question. The 
black man fully understands that he has been 
expressly created by kind Providence to provide 
labour in the black man's country for the European. 
And do it he must. There are no two ways about 
it. If he does not obey the instincts of nature, he 
will be driven, if needs be, into labour compounds, 
and made to work, as the Israelites of old were 
made to work for their masters. He understands 
this so thoroughly, and it does not matter to the 
task-master if, in the process, he, the Native, loses 
all touch with the former habits of his ancestors, 
which made them contented men and women, when 
they stuck to the soil and caressingly coaxed from 
it what Mother Earth gave up liberally in response. 
It does not matter if, in the process, he exchanges 
all the finer manly qualities, which agriculture 
fosters, for the common-place dram-drinking, the 
cursing and the devilment of the mining camp. 
It does not matter to some that the best manhood 
of the country is being drained for this sort of work, 
while the ancient farms lie neglected and unattended 



238 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP. vn. 

to, and food gets scarce, and yet more scarce, in some 
districts. Gold ! gold ! gold! that is what the white 
man wants ; and gold he must have at any price. 

Then there are some charitable people who suggest 
that if you cannot get the black man to work, and 
if you may not drive him into labour compounds, 
you must import the Chinaman. John Chinaman 
is John Bull's last hope. But have you never heard 
of the late Governor Maxwell's Chinaman, who 
declared that the Gold Coast was neither " fit " for 
a white man, nor a black man, nor a Chinaman, 
nor yet for a dog ? He was a bit wrong though. 
The Gold Coast is, and will always be, "fit" for the 
Gold Coast man. So has God ordained it. Long 
after the members of your mining companies, with 
their huge speculations on the Stock Exchange, will 
have ceased to speculate in things temporal, and 
the cedar and the odum, the cotton and the didx'u 
trees will have reared their majestic heights to 
heaven where now stands the noisy mining camp, 
the Gold Coast Native will still be quietly toiling 
in the yam and corn-fields of his ancestors, grateful 
at last to have the opportunity of working out his 
own salvation. It may be that your very Govern- 
ment may grow sick and weary of bearing the white 
man's burden, when a just Providence indicates 
what that burden really means, and may give up 
the business in disgust. 



CHAP. vii. IMPEKIAL GOLD COAST AND ASHANTI. 239 

History may here, indeed, repeat itself. Have 
you not heard of Roman Catholic monasteries, with 
beautiful frescoes and paintings, crumbling to dust 
in the heart of Africa ? Go along the coast, from 
Assinee to the Volta River, and mark how many 
are the castles and fortresses, emblems of European 
greed, that are now the habitations of owls and bats, 
as a native wit once put it. Instead of castles 
to-day, you build bungalows, those structures which 
take a few weeks to put up, and which, again, you 
can pull down, take, and carry away at will. Yes, 
we know fully well, our good Friends and Protectors, 
that if, on the morrow, you found the game was not 
worth the candle, you would close up business 
altogether, no matter what became of the black man 
or the black man's country. To you it may be a 
light thing. To us it will be incalculable loss loss 
in the sense that we shall have to begin it all over 
again with, or without, your distorted version of the 
Gospel of love, truth, and universal brotherhood. 

3. 

Therefore, we say to you, we have a right to be 
heard in this matter, and we beg of you calmly to 
hear us. We ask you to apply a little common 
sense and practical statesmanship to the situation. 
Take the case of your own national evolution. It is 
a matter of history that, at the beginning of the 



240 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP. vn. 

Christian era, you were worse, off than we are 
to-day ; greater darkness brooded over your in- 
tellectual horizon. By the absorption of Grecian 
and Roman culture and the science of Eastern 
worlds, you gradually emerged from darkness into 
light, and were able to develop what was natural 
and innate in you, and to, in time, contribute your 
quota to the world's work. In a word, given the 
conditions of development, you developed on your 
own lines, until you became the great nation you 
are to-day. 

Surely, then, the first condition of the proper 
development of the peoples of the Gold Coast and 
Ashanti is the possession of knowledge in its fullest 
sense, that educational element which will draw out 
all the best qualities innate in the Gold Coast and 
Ashanti Native, preparing and making him ready to 
contribute to life's work. Remember, after all, that 
the Aborigines of the Gold Coast and of Ashanti, as 
Tennyson has it, are "the heirs of all the ages"; 
and who knows but that there may be higher things 
destined for their achievement than you can conceive 
of ? But the responsibility rests primarily with you, 
and if you do not discharge it, Providence will raise 
others up to do the work. Assuming, then, that 
you have stretched out your hands in true brotherly 
fashion to the Native of the Gold Coast and Ashanti, 
not over a palm-oil cask, or a piece of elephant's 



CHAP. vii. IMPERIAL GOLD COAST AND ASHANTI. 241 

tusk, but over the heart of Jesus Christ, thrilling 
your very being with true brotherly love and 
sympathy, and filled the land with schools and 
colleges, seminaries and seats of learning and 
culture, what is your next duty in the building up of 
the Empire ? 

It is plain and simple ; but before grappling with 
it, you will take care that the spirit of pettiness 
does not creep in. You are now going to allow the 
free development of Native Institutions in a healthy 
atmosphere. You have before you the task of 
building up Imperial Gold Coast and Ashanti, as a 
basis for Imperial West Africa. 

Your first stumbling-block will be the treatment 
of Ashanti. Shall the Ashantis be treated as a 
conquered people, or as friends and allies ? This 
will be the question of questions, the test of true 
statesmanship. To answer this question, you must 
find out what you want to do. Now, you aim at 
nothing less than the fusion of the Fantis and 
the Ashantis into one people. Remember that by 
language, traditions, customs, and laws, they are 
practically one people. Remember that they are 
cousins, and that in remote times they lived together 
in brotherly unity and concord at Takiman, until one 
day they quarrelled and split. Remember, too, that 
the present difference in the characters of the two 
peoples, really one, is due to your own unwholesome 

G.C. 16 



242 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP. vn. 

influence over the Fantis. Therefore, it is the most 
natural suggestion that the two peoples should be 
merged into one ; and it will be easier for you to 
entertain this suggestion, when you consider that 
the chastisement of Ashanti was really due to a 
mistake. 

Surely, this is a sound proposition. You will find 
it so if you turn to history. For a century and 
a quarter, at the least, Nature has been preparing 
the way for this very consummation. The Fantis 
having settled on the littoral and established trade 
relations with the Europeans, the Ashantis did not 
see why they should be precluded from participating 
in the gains. Gradually the Ashantis worked their 
way to the coast, and diplomatic quarrels ensued, 
with the result that the King of Ashanti was, in 
the end, able to claim a right to the "notes" for 
rents in respect of some of the forts on the coast, 
thus establishing direct trade relations with Europe. 
That was his only ambition, his only sin. Said he 
in substance : " Elmina is my factory ; I acquired it 
by force of arms, and established trade relations with 
the Dutch. Now, the Dutch are going to give up my 
factory to the English, and my people must hence- 
forth deal through Fanti middlemen, which thing 
must not be." Hence the Calcalli war of 1873 and 
1874, and the sequence of events culminating in the 
ruining of Ashanti trade with the Gold Coast. Soon 



CHAP. viz. IMPERIAL GOLD COAST AND ASHANTI. 243 

after the war, the Ashantis began to trade directly 
with Assinee ; and it is a question of time whether 
the English, or the French and German, will 
ultimately capture the hinterland trade. 

The obtuseness in certain respects of the British 
Administration, since Governor Maclean's death, has 
been something amazing. That far-seeing man saw 
through it all, and framed his policy accordingly. 
He understood that the business of the Administra- 
tion was not that of unduly interfering with the 
internal affairs of the protected people, and, there- 
fore, sought to consolidate and strengthen Native 
Authority. What is more, he perceived that Eng- 
land's true interest in the Gold Coast was to make 
it an open market through which the trade of the 
hinterland might pass freely. Therefore, without over- 
estimating his authority or his strength, by concilia- 
tion and moral persuasion he encouraged the Ashantis 
to come down freely to the open market of the Gold 
Coast, guaranteeing them safety by prevailing on 
the Fantis to be on their good behaviour. 

In his mental vista, he beheld a prosperous Gold 
Coast, with Ashanti, as a great emporium of trade, 
interchanging with and pouring into the lap of the 
Gold Coast the rich resources and products of that 
now blasted land. He encouraged and was in- 
strumental in the training in England of the Princes 
Quantamissa and Osoo Ansah to be the medium of 

162 



244 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP. vir. 

intelligent influence in the hinterland ; and who, 
having the slightest acquaintance with Gold Coast 
history, can say that the late Prince Osoo Ansah did 
not do -his best to bring about a permanent friendly 
understanding, in his day, between Ashanti and the 
Gold Coast ? It was a policy full of common sense 
and practical statesmanship. It was the work of 
the Colonial Office, in recent years, to have struck 
at Governor Maclean's work, root and branch, by 
attempting to discredit, but without success, the 
sons of the late Prince Ansah in the eyes of their 
countrymen and the British public, 

A different policy was that of Sir Charles Macarthy, 
another British Governor, who flourished, as far as 
the Gold Coast is concerned, in the first quarter of 
the nineteenth century. He also saw in the distance, 
but saw differently. He was deeply conscious of the 
power of England a power which, he considered, 
no subject race could withstand ; and he was im- 
patient of what seemed an impediment in the way 
of England's aggrandisement in these parts. If he 
/ could only pierce into the interior, what untold 
treasures would not be open to England to gather 
in ? In this spirit, he, the faithful servant of the 
Crown, went forth with the drawn sword breaking 
down the power of the Chiefs, and subduing all 
before it. Impatient of obstacles, he was also im- 
patient of counsel as to the best way to overcome 



CHAP. vii. IMPERIAL GOLD COAST AND ASHANTI. 245 

such obstacles. Accordingly, he went forth in the 
faith and in the strength of the conqueror, seeking 
new territories which should own allegiance to Great 
Britain through his prowess. He considered the 
kingdom of Ashanti a barrier to British commerce 
and enterprise piercing the interior, and he fondly 
wished to see that barrier down. He tried to break 
through, and died in the attempt. To-day, a first- 
rate Colonial Minister, persistently pursuing that 
policy, has brought down that barrier, only to behold 
beyond, if the truth may be told, a land of dreams 
and disappointments. 

4. 

It is about time to pause and think. And the 
thinking must be done by the British nation. The 
matter must be reasoned out calmly and deliberately ; 
and if there be fifty men in Israel who have the 
interest of the Aborigines at heart, the right course 
will certainly be taken, and the right thing done. 
Which is it to be ? Will the British nation sanction 
a policy which will tend more and more to alienate 
the Ashantis, and drive them into the bosom of the 
French or German, or will it pursue a conciliatory 
policy ? Will the nation consent to the utter 
destruction of all national spirit from the life of the 
Ashantis, or will it foster the spirit of self-respect 
and national development on natural lines ? Will 



246 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP. vn. 

Great Britain forget that Ashanti is a conquered 
country, and will the conqueror be benevolent and 
reckon the Ashantis, as their cousins the Fantis 
are reckoned, as the friends and allies of His Majesty 
King Edward VII. ? 

Will the nation quietly look on while an agrarian 
grievance is engendered in the breast of the Ashantis, 
or will the lands be restored to their legitimate 
owners, gradually assimilating the land laws of the 
Gold Coast and of Ashanti ? Please note that you 
are deciding the fate of a nation, a people with grit 
and backbone, of men and women richly endowed 
by nature with intellects and instincts which make 
for organised government of a high order. You are 
deciding also, let me entreat you to remember, the fate 
of Imperial West Africa. Yes, Imperial West Africa 
that shall be. Nature has decreed that it shall be, 
but not in your way not with the sword, or the 
Maxim, or by coercion in any shape or form. The 
thing will be done with the free will and consent of 
all the peoples of West Africa upon native lines ; 
and in all this the Gold Coast and Ashanti will 
lead the way, because their sons are richly endowed by 
Nature with the qualities for leadership and guidance. 

If you believe me that the Gold Coast and Ashanti 
will lead the way in what will prove the grandest 
conception of the twentieth century grandest 
because Ethiopia will have at length raised up her 



CHAP. vii. IMPERIAL GOLD COAST AND ASHANTI. 247 

hand unto God, allow me to indicate what sort of 
an empire this shall be, and on what lines it shall 
work. You will allow, as a working hypothesis, 
that all the other races of mankind have had their 
day, and that the black man is about to have his 
day. The common Father of the human race is 
bringing it about that the white man shall warmly 
shake the hand of his fellow black man in true 
brotherly grip. There will be fraternity without 
hypocrisy, intercourse without compunction, and the 
question of colour will be a trifle, because there will be 
equality of intellect and oneness in aim and purpose. 

The black man, you know, has had no chance in 
America. How could he ? The environment has 
been dead against him, and, though emancipated, 
he remains in many respects a bondman. The 
American white would like to get rid of the American 
black, but he cannot. It is the law of compensation. 
It is like the law-breaker trying to shake off from 
his memory the image of his victim, and the circum- 
stances attending his wrong act. How can he ? 
No more can white America. This is Nemesis 
indeed the sins of the fathers upon the third and 
fourth generation. Nor is it much different in the 
case of Hayti, or Liberia, or even Sierra Leone. 
The nightmare lingers, only in a different form. 

But out here, in the primeval forests of the Gold 
Coast and of Ashanti, with a simple faith in God, the 



248 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP. vn. 

Aborigines may be trusted to work out for them- 
selves a civilisation whose fruits shall abide and 
influence sister communities, because they will be 
the fruite of peace and good- will among men. 

How do I know that ? I know this, that out here 
we shall not have the cry of the working-man for 
the comforts of life which his next-door neighbour 
enjoys. We shall have no question of the housing 
of the poor, or an eight hours a day labour trouble. 
Whoever heard on the Gold Coast or in Ashanti of 
a native who had no home, or not enough to eat, or 
more work to do than was physically good for him ? 
Why, such cannot happen in the nature of things 
out there. The founders of the African State System 
were men of wisdom and forethought. They cut 
the Gordian knot of social unrest in the distant 
future at a stroke. They ordained that the interests 
of the members of a family should be identical. 
They evenly balanced the interests of the peoples of 
a given community, so that, when swords should 
have been beaten into plough-shares in the new 
civilisation, there would be truly peace and good- 
will among men. 

Therefore do I hold that, while the social systems 
of the old civilisation will be torn asunder by com- 
munism and socialism, the new civilisation will 
enjoy rest and quietness, for the foundations of 
society are here based upon a rock, and that rock 



CHAP. vn. IMPERIAL GOLD COAST AND ASHANTI. 249 

is the native law of Inheritance. We have no poor 
laws out here. Every man or woman you meet 
claims connection with some family or other. And 
the members of a family share the fortunes or mis- 
fortunes of each other. Hence it is that we have 
no excessively rich men or the excessively poor. Talk 
of the dead upheaval of the lower classes ! Here all 
members of a family are equal, and yet there is 
one above all, namely, the head of the family. To 
him the members of the family pay patriarchal 
honours. While there prevails this equality, there 
is yet scope for individual effort, success, and dis- 
tinction. We have, in the family system of the 
Fantis and Ashantis, the panacea for all the ills of 
the socialism of the present day. 

5. 

To return to the argument : when you have two 
peoples so nearly related as to be, in fact, one 
people, welded together by a common language, 
by common customs, common laws, common aims, 
hopes, and aspirations, it is madness to try and 
keep them separate. It is like trying to keep away 
the sun from kissing the sea on an African summer 
day. The only question is, who will work this 
fusion and bring about this long-wished-for union ? 
It is obvious that the foreign intermeddler is an 
utterly hopeless individual for this task. He has 



250 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP. vn. 

neither the requisite knowledge, nor the patience 
and coolness necessary for the great consummation. 
It must be the work of the educated Native, if the 
British Government will trust him to do it. On 
what lines will he proceed ? He will take the 
Native State System as he finds it, and develop and 
improve it on aboriginal lines, and on scientific 
principles. 

Let me indicate how harmoniously this System 
works, how free from internal strifes and heart- 
burnings. We have seen, in the earlier chapters of 
this book, that every individual of a given community 
is, by distinct stages in the working of the body 
politic, connected with the central State, and, in a 
measure, shares in the government thereof. To 
accentuate the proposition, let me summarise here 
briefly how the System works. 

Every Native of the Gold Coast or Ashanti is a 
member of a family. He sinks or swims by the 
fortunes of the family. There is a community of 
interest among the members of such family, who, 
as a rule, trace their ancestry from a common mater - 
familias. The male members of such family regard 
the children of their sisters with peculiar feelings 
of kinship. In former times, in a case of pecuniary 
difficulties, the nephew or niece would willingly go 
into servitude to relieve the uncle, who invariably 
redeemed his kith and kin at the first opportunity. 



CHAP. vii. IMPEEIAL GOLD COAST AND ASHANTI. 251 

The relationship existing between an uncle and a 
nephew or a niece is tersely expressed by the phrase, 
na dzi yinati, meaning, "he is his all in all." You 
have here the bed rock basis of the Native State 
System. Let us proceed a step higher in the order 
of development. 

Now, a given community, it may be a village 
community or a township, consists of individual 
families, whose heads represent such individual 
families in the Village or Town Council. So that 
you have here an elective system which is at once 
natural, and commands the confidence of the 
electors. In large townships you will have the 
different wards (being, for convenience sake, the 
different sections into which the community is 
divided), consisting of a given number of families, 
such wards having the right to elect their most 
intelligent and influential members into the Town 
Council. The heads of the families are known as 
Panins, or Elders, and the head of the ward is the 
Head Panin, or Chief Elder. To him all the members 
of the ward pay the greatest homage and respect. 

But how came families to be congregated together 
thus into wards, or into given sections, of the town- 
ship ? If you examine the matter carefully, you 
will find that the original members of the ward are 
members of the same tribe ; for it is a thing 
practised to this day that when a stranger enters a 



252 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP. vii. 

village or a township, and desires to become a 
member of the community, he finds out where the 
members of his tribe live, and would invariably live 
among them, rather than dwell with a different tribe. 

Now, since a man belongs to his father's Com- 
pany, and his father generally lives with the mem- 
bers of his family, it does, indeed, happen that the 
sons of the male members of a given ward join 
themselves to such ward. We have thus the 
beginnings of the Arsafu, or Company System, the 
word Arsafu being a corruption of Insefu, meaning 
friends, and by extension friends in arms. A son, 
in early life, lives with his father, and, naturally, 
the friends of his youth would be the youth of 
his father's ward, and he would, therefore, as he 
grew to manhood, associate himself in arms with 
the friends of his father's ward, who together would 
form an Arsafu, or Company. The principal Pan ins 
of the ward and the principal Captains of the Arsafu 
would be entitled to represent the ward at the 
Council meetings of the township. 

We come next to the Civil Chiefs who form part of 
the Town Council. These generally represent the 
aristocracy of the township, in most cases their 
ancestors having first settled in the country with 
the ancestor of the King or Head-Chief. Then 
comes the Linguist, who, as I have shown in an 
earlier chapter, is the Spokesman of the King. 



CHAP. vii. IMPERIAL GOLD COAST AND ASHANTI. 253 

We have thus in the Council of an aboriginal 
township, analytically, first the King, then the 
Tufuhin, then the Civil Chiefs in their order of 
importance, then the Captains according to their 
rank, then the Linguists, then the Panins of the 
several wards. 

We have seen that a Village Council is . only a 
miniature Town Council. Even so is the Town 
Council but a miniature District Council, the latter 
being but a miniature of a Provincial Council, which 
again is a miniature of a State Council, the great 
Parliament of the people. 

Now, to elucidate the foregoing, take for example 
the township of Agambra, whose stool is under that 
of the district of Princes, whose stool is under that 
of the province of Axim, whose stool is under that 
of the State of Ahanta. Imagine for a moment, 
then, that there is a big political issue affecting the 
whole State of Ahanta to be discussed. Notice by 
gong-gong would be given in every village community 
and township throughout the entire State. The 
Panins and Captains of the wards of a township, who 
would be joined by the Panins of the village com- 
munities, would discuss the matter and arrive at a 
conclusion among themselves. They would next 
appoint the most intelligent of their number with 
a Linguist to represent them at the Council of the 
district, where also the matter would be discussed a 



254 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP. vn. 

second time, and a decision come to. Next, each 
district would send its representatives with the Head 
Linguists to the Provincial Council. Lastly, the 
several Head-Chiefs of the provinces would attend 
the State Council in great state, with their several 
principal Councillors and Linguists, where the King 
paramount would sit in solemn conclave with his 
vassals, and finally dispose of the matter, such 
plebiscite, of course, binding the entire State. It is 
a beautiful system, this wheel within wheel, which 
brings satisfaction to the minds of the adult 
members of the entire State, when any matter 
affecting their vital interests happens to be under 
discussion. When you add to this the further 
consideration of the almost communistic method of 
holding property, you have a perfect system, which, 
properly developed and worked, would usher in a 
new civilisation, the like of which the world has 
probably never seen. 

Now imagine, if you can, the Gold Coast and 
Ashanti flooded with knowledge and culture of the 
best order, and the several States of the two 
countries federated together in one Union with the 
same laws, the same customs, the same hopes, and 
the same aspirations; working under conditions 
and amid environments peculiar to themselves as 
unto a peculiar people. Imagine, if you can, all 
flying the Union Jack, not by coercion in any shape 



CHAP. vii. IMPERIAL GOLD COAST AND ASHANTI. 255 

or form, but by free choice, as becomes a free 
people. Think of them developing the natural 
resources of the land a rich legacy bequeathed 
unto them by kind Providence and pouring into 
the lap of Britannia gold, myrrh, and frankincense, 
the swords for ever beaten into plough -shares as 
far as the Gold Coast and Ashanti are concerned. 
Imagine what all this would mean ! You may call 
it a picture of Utopia. I call it a picture of the 
new civilisation that is to be, when a portion of 
down-trodden Ethiopia will have at length raised 
up her hand unto God. 

It is bound to come. The world is moving fast, 
and the Gold Coast and Ashanti with it. Will 
British capital, energy, and intelligence do it, or 
will the millionaire from the other side of the 
Atlantic, in these days of combines, come along 
and sweep the stakes ? In any event, the country 
must move with the times, and we do not intend 
to stand still. 



CHAPTER VIII. 

WRECKING THE EMPIRE. 



G.C. 



17 



... In one breath Europe declares that African customs, all 
based on the assumption of slavery, are so wicked as to justify 
all wars of aggression upon the natives. In another, Europe 
declares that the African cannot be left free. ... It is hard to 
resist the conclusion that in Sierra Leone, in Ashanti, and now 
in Hausaland, war has been brought on by pursuing a high- 
handed policy of very doubtful justice, and the result of these 
wars is not merely to confiscate the independence of a people, 
but to abolish the institutions, the customs, the laws and the 
rights which the people has created for itself. What is common 
to our notions and to theirs, the principle that a bargain must 
be adhered to, that a friend should not hurt a friend, we dis- 
regard. What we do not understand in their rules of life we 
abolish, and we lay upon them rules of life that they do not 
understand. STEPHEN GWYNN, Fortnightly Eevieiv, March, 
1903, p. 457. 



CHAP. viii. WRECKING THE EMPIRE. 259 



CHAPTER VIII. 

WRECKING THE EMPIRE. 
1. 

WE have seen the true way in which it is sug- 
gested Imperial West Africa, with federal Fanti and 
Ashanti as a basis, may be solidly built up. Let us 
now see how the powers that be set to work steadily 
to make this ideal impossible of realisation. 

We have seen also that at the Head of the Native 
State stands prominently the King, who represents 
to his people what a civilised monarch does to his 
subjects. His person is sacred to them, and so is 
his stool. Any affront to the majesty of the King 
is an affront to the sovereignty of the people. Any 
attempt to break up the kingly office and the tradi- 
tions surrounding it, is an attempt to destroy the 
nationality of the people. Any restraint upon the 
liberty of the King is a restraint, for the time being, 
upon the freedom of the nation. The King means 
this and much more to the State System of Fanti 
and Ashanti. Moreover, every successful attempt 
on the part of the Authorities, in ignorance possibly, 
to set a minor chief against the authority of his 

172 



260 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP. vm. 

paramount King, or, again, to partition a native 
state, is a deadly blow struck at the very root of 
the fundamental idea of the Native State System. 

But our rulers do not appear to trouble much, if 
at all, to study Native Institutions ; and so we find 
that in the year 1896 Cudjoe Imbrah, King of Cape 
Coast, was actually put in prison, his hair clipped, 
and made to don prison clothes, in connection with 
the " Compulsory Labour Ordinance, 1895." This 
imprisonment and the gross indignity consequent 
thereupon were preliminary to his paying a fine of 
one hundred pounds. I appeared subsequently for 
the King in the Appeal Court, and succeeded in 
getting the conviction quashed and the fine re- 
mitted. 1 But what of the indignity ? I am not 
aware that Her Majesty's Government even offered 
the King an apology upon the reversal of the 
judgment of the Court below. 

Now, who is Cudjoe Imbrah, and what sort of a 
community is that of Cape Coast ? By common 
consent, Cape Coast is the leading town of the Gold 
Coast. It contains within its walls the best intelli- 
gence of the country. It is the political centre of 
all the interior provinces. Thither the native Kings 
are wont to send their big Linguists on important 
occasions to consult with their intelligent "sons" and 



1 Begina on the prosecution of D. A. Donovan v. Cudjoe 
on appeal. Coram Eedwar, J. 17th Feb., 1897. See pp. 281288. 



CHAP. vin. WRECKING THE EMPIRE. 261 

chosen representatives, to wit, the members of the 
Gold Coast Aborigines' Rights Protection Society. 
It is, moreover, a commercial centre of no mean 
order. Before the Ashanti trade was practically 
ruined by unnecessary expeditions, Cape Coast was 
the great port for all the interior trade. Here 
stands Gothic House, as representing the glory of 
private mercantile enterprise, and here stands Cape 
Coast Castle, the harbour of the foreign kidnapper 
in pre-abolition days. As such, the King of Cape 
Coast must be a comparatively important person. 

See, for a moment, how Cudjoe Irnbrah was chosen 
King of Cape Coast. At the time I was editing the 
Gold Coast Echo, and I remember the facts so clearly. 
Kweku Atta, the immediate predecessor of Cudjoe 
Imbrah, had died, and for some time there had been 
no King of Cape Coast. When a Deputation of 
the representatives of the Companies and the com- 
munity generally, including the educated people, 
waited upon the future King, he said : "I am not 
anxious to be your King. I am satisfied with my 
present position of a ' gold taker.' Leave me alone 
in peace." But the Deputation insisted upon his 
accepting the office. They said, " We must have 
a King, and you being the rightful heir, you cannot 
well refuse." They pressed him and gave him no 
rest until he consented to be their King. The 
Administration of the late Governor Griffith 



262 GOLD -COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP. vnr. 

attempted to interfere in -his election, but the 
people simply ignored Governmental interference, 
and Cudjoe Imbrah was put upon the stool of his 
ancestors, to reign King of Cape Coast. 

It may seem to you, decent civilised reader, that 
this was a retrograde step. You may even have 
on your lips the enquiry : " Can the leopard change 
its spots?" Here was a set of educated Natives 
clamouring with their illiterate brethren for an 
illiterate King, when they had the good White Queen 
for their Queen, and the good Governor as her 
representative ! Can anything be done with such a 
people ? No, I grant you nothing can be done with 
these people, unless and until you condescend to 
study Nature. The people yearned for a King as an 
orphan child yearns for a lost parent. It was the 
sentiment of nationality which prevailed. They are 
a people yet. They could breathe freely when once 
they had Cudjoe Imbrah upon his ancestral stool. 

But the wreckers of empire come along, and this 
self-same Cudjoe Imbrah, over whose enstoolment 
sensible men had shown such enthusiasm and such 
national spirit, and they coolly clap him in gaol. 
Nay, worse, the King is treated as a common felon ! 
Heavens ! What was there to have prevented the 
people rising up as one man to avenge the insult to 
a crowned head ? But this that wise counsel 
prevailed, the same wise counsel which is steadily 



CHAP. vin. WRECKING THE EMPIRE. 263 

carving the happy destiny of the Fanti as the 
predominant partner in the coming Imperial West 
Africa. 

But what had Cud joe Imbrah to do with the 
" Compulsory Labour Ordinance " ? Nothing at all, 
if you please. The Government having objected to 
his enstoolment, and having done all they could 
to place obstacles in the way, and to weaken his 
influence, suddenly woke up to the fact, after his 
enstoolment, that there was a King in Cape Coast, 
who could find labour for the Government, while 
the Government could not find labour for them- 
selves. And, so, they approached him. Said he, 
in substance, "By your own act, I have not that 
control over my people now that my ancestors had ; 
give me time, and I will try and find you the 
labourers that you want." But, no, the Authorities 
must have the men on a certain day, and by a 
certain hour. He fails ; a writ issues ; he is 
tried, convicted, and imprisoned. Worse still, he 
suffers ignominy unparalleled in the history of the 
country, and he is saved from a heavy pecuniary 
loss by technical points raised by his counsel. Such 
is British statesmanship. Such is British common- 
sense. This is the way Great Britain wrecks the 
chances of Imperialism in West Africa. 



264 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP. vm. 

2. 

Or, again, take the case of King Prempeh of 
Ashanti, now pining away his days in exile. I will 
take tKe Times for my guidance as to what policy 
should have guided Downing Street in the matter of 
war with Ashanti. It is true that policy is some 
thirty-nine years old. But still it was the policy of 
the Times all the same, and the Times is a very great 
authority as you know. I will indulge in a quota- 
tion. Mr. Fox Bourne, of the Aborigines' Protection 
Society, has made the matter easy by placing that 
policy on record on page 22 of his pamphlet, Blacks 
and Whites in West Africa. Referring to Governor 
Pine's threatened war with Ashanti in 1864, which 
did not come off, the Times asked, "What good can 
come out of that ? If we capture Kumasi, a couple 
of English regiments will be needed to hold it. If 
we destroy it, we destroy at once the commercial 
value of Cape Coast. It would likewise be the 
grossest political blunder to undermine the power 
and authority of the King of Ashanti. . . . Instead 
of harbouring culprits against his Crown, instead 
of disregarding the treaties between himself and 
us, instead of trying to sap the foundations of his 
throne, we should strive to cultivate acquaintance 
with him by the tranquil arts of peace." Wiser 
words were never penned. I wonder if the Editor 



CHAP. vm. WRECKING THE EMPIRE. 265 

of the Times ever looks up his back files ? Perhaps 
he does. But I am not sure whether there was the 
same statesmanlike appeal to British common-sense 
in subsequent mischievous expeditions as was the 
case in 1864. 

Now, I have pointed out before that the war 
of 1873 1874 was mainly due to the transfer of 
Elmina by the Dutch to the English, and the 
latter failing to treat with respect and consideration 
the claims of the King of Ashanti to suzerainty. 
In the result, Lord Wolseley succeeded in capturing 
Kumasi,whereupon the Authorities promptly inflicted 
an indemnity of 50,000 ounces of gold upon the 
Ashantis. Then Mensa succeeded to the stool; and 
when he was followed by Prempeh, the Authorities 
stoutly maintained that he was only King of Kumasi, 
and not of all Ashanti. That was true only in so 
far as there were at the time internal disturbances 
in the kingdom. But mark official perversity. In 
the expedition of Major-General Scott, the non- 
payment of the war indemnity was made a cause 
of Prempeh 's degradation and transportation. The 
Authorities, that is to say, saddled the sins of 
omission of all Ashanti upon Prempeh, whose claim 
to the sovereignty of all Ashanti they had previously 
denied. It may be British justice ; but it certainly 
does not appeal to the sense of justice of the 
untutored Ashanti now roaming in the wilds of the 



266 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP. vm. 

back country, an outcast from his former home. 
This is, again, another way in which is wrecked the 
hope of empire in West Africa. 

Let us take up another theme altogether. Now 
it is not a matter of policy, but the way in which is 
carried on the business of government. You know 
when Governor Hodgson was unfortunately locked 
up with Lady Hodgson in Kumasi fort, and popular 
imagination was active in that, if the good lady 
came out, the Governor never would alive, both 
civilians and officials were loud in their condem- 
nation of the good Governor. He was freely charged 
with folly, and a member of Council eased his 
conscience by the simple remark: " You know he 
never asked any of us if it was safe to go." The 
circumstance revealed in the clearest light how 
very badly the Gold Coast is governed. 

We have seen how beautifully arranged is the 
system of aboriginal representative government, 
which practically gives the franchise to every adult 
member of the community in the National Assembly, 
presided over by the paramount King. When the 
Native recalls to mind his own System, the way he 
is at present governed, and the suggestion on the 
part of the British Government that they are train- 
ing him up for self-government, he knows that such 
a suggestion is not sincere, and that his national 
spirit and independence are being dwarfed the 



CHAP. vni. WRECKING THE EMPIEE. 267 

whole time, which, surely, is another way of 
wrecking the empire. 

But the Native is sure of his destiny, and, there- 
fore, calls loudly for reform. He did so in 1898 in 
the humble petition of the Kings and Chiefs of the 
Western Province of the Gold Coast Protectorate to 
Her Most Gracious Majesty the Queen in Council, 
and will do so again and again, until his prayer is 
heard. Thus ran the prayer : 

" Your petitioners respectfully suggest as a first step that 
the Letters Patent whereby the Executive and Legislative 
Council was created should be altered so as to enable the 
Kings and Chiefs of the colony and the protectorate to 
elect to the Legislative Council eight additional members, 
of whom three shall also be members of the Executive 
Council. 

"Your petitioners respectfully suggest that for the purpose of 
the election of such members of the Legislative and Executive 
Councils, the Gold Coast Colony and Protectorate be divided 
into four provinces, viz. : 

" A. From the Eiver Volta to the Eiver Secum. 

" B. From the Secum to the Sweet Eiver. 

" C. From the Sweet Eiver to Dixcove. 

" D. From Dixcove to Half Assinee. 

" And that each province have the right of electing two 
members of the Legislative Council, the members thus elected 
themselves electing from amongst themselves the three members 
of the Executive Council. 

" Your petitioners, therefore, humbly pray your Majesty to 
grant an amendment of the existing Letters Patent for the 
Gold Coast Colony and the Protectorate whereby the present 
system of government and protection may be altered so as 
to provide that the natives of the colony and the protectorate 



268 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP. vm. 

may elect members to the Legislative Council and Executive 
Council and thus take part in the work of legislation for their 
native land. 

" And your petitioners will ever pray." ] 

This was a modest prayer. Why it was not 
granted one is at a loss to know. The petition was 
in 1898. The ill-advised hunt for the golden stool 
by Governor Hodgson was in 1900. A member of 
Council then said the Legislative Council had not 
been consulted. See what a waste of money and 
blood would have been saved if this simple prayer 
had been granted. Had the representatives of the 
people from the Volta to the Assinee Eiver been 
sitting at Victoriaburg, with eight votes in the 
Legislative Council and a controlling voice in the 
Executive Council of three votes, the greatest 
blunder of the last decade in Gold Coast and 
Ashanti affairs could never have been committed. 
For every Native knows, as a fundamental prin- 
ciple, that to ask for a king's stool is to ask for 
the surrender of the national integrity, which is the 
one thing, as an abstract idea, that a native will 
keep hold on to after he has lost all. 

Moreover, an honourable member could have 
urged that the policy of the Gold Coast Govern- 
ment should be the gradual healing up of the 
wounds so grievously inflicted upon the sense of 

1 " The Keport of the Proceedings of the Deputation from the Kings 
and Chiefs of the Western Provinces of the Gold Coast (1898)," page 2. 



CHAP. vin. WRECKING THE EMPIRE. 269 

justice and fair-play of the people of Ashanti, rather 
than to keep them open. For, mark you, the talk 
about human sacrifices and barbarous customs and 
slave-raiding is all cant. What lies behind it all is 
the desire for the good things of Ashanti that would 
come into the pockets of the British capitalist. 
How many thousands are mowed down by the 
Maxim in a single expedition ? And in times of 
peace are not " rebel chiefs" freely hanged ? The 
Ashanti loathes the hangman's noose, but gladly 
lays his neck upon the execution block. The latter 
he accounts honourable death, if death he has 
deserved ; the former he regards as a disgraceful 
exit which his soul abhors. I do not personally ap- 
prove of executions and slave-raiding, or of slavery 
in any shape or form. But what calls for loud pro- 
test is, that these should be made a cloak for cant 
an apology for the use of the Maxim gun when 
all the time all the world knows that you are simply 
taking part in the scramble for the black man's 
country. It is unpalatable, I know; but it is true 
all the same. 

I dearly love this ideal of Imperial West Africa, 
and I sincerely desire that the golden hope may not 
be wrecked. The country is flooded even now with 
intelligence. With hardly sixty years' educational 
advantages, we have a remarkable band of able men 
in all walks of life, a sign of the coming greatness 



270 GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS. CHAP. vm. 

of the people in the new century and in the new 
civilisation. We only ask for opportunity, that 
opportunity being fundamentally the prayer that 
the Aborigines may now be allowed to take part in 
the work of legislation for their native land. 

Will Great Britain do her duty to the Gold Coast 
and to Ashanti, or will she turn away from the prayer 
in scorn ? 



APPENDICES. 



273 



APPENDIX A. 

DECIDED CASES. 

OPPON r. ACKINIE. 
October 24th, 1887. 

''Before HECTOR MACLEOD, C.J., SMALMAN SMITH, J., 
FRANCIS SMITH, J. 

THIS is an appeal against a judgment of the 
Divisional Court of Cape Coast, dated February 
14th, 1887, confirming a judgment of the District 
Commissioner, Saltpond, ordering defendant Ackinie 
to pay damages to Oppon in the amount of 5, with 
11s. costs. 

Mr. Eminsang, Mr. Williams, and Mr. Eenner for 
appellant (Ackinie). 

Oppon in person. 

Judgment, October 24th, 1887 :- 

This is an appeal by the defendant Ackinie against 
a judgment of the Divisional Court of the Western 
Province, dated February 14th, 1887, affirming a 
judgment of the District Commissioner of Salt- 
pond, dated February 25th, 1886, by which the 
o.c. 18 



274 APPENDIX A. 

defendant was ordered to pay to the plaintiff the 
sum of 5 as damages, with 11s. costs. 

The facts of the case are practically not in dis- 
pute. -A person named Ghartey (formerly one of the 
defendants in this action) charged another person, 
named David Otchafoo, before the defendant Ackinie, 
who is the King of Aikunfie, with receiving bribes. 
According to the custom in such matters a surety 
had to be found, and the plaintiff Oppon, one of 
Ackinie 's own subjects, became surety for the pay- 
ment of any costs to be found due by Otchafoo, in 
the matter of that complaint. Otchafoo was found 
liable to costs. 

If Oppon was dissatisfied with the decision, his 
remedy, according to one of the witnesses called on 
February 14th last, was to pay the costs and cause 
an appeal to be brought to the British Courts ; but 
Oppon refused to pay the costs, alleging that he was 
not satisfied with the decision of King Ackinie. 
Thereupon Ackinie caused Oppon to be arrested 
and imprisoned in respect of the refusal to pay the 
costs. 

The power of arrest and imprisonment under such 
circumstances has been exercised by the defendant 
and his predecessors as far back as the memory of 
living witnesses can carry us, as one of the royal 
prerogatives. 

Upon these facts there arises a short but very 



APPENDIX A. 275 

important point in law important, because it 
affects the whole judicial powers of kings and 
chiefs throughout the Protected Territories. Short, 
because it is all summed up in this question : 'Has 
the Supreme Court Ordinance, 1876, swept away the 
previously existing judicial powers of native kings 
and chiefs I ' 

Before we proceed to discuss this question, we 
desire to make one preliminary observation, and it 
is so important that we shall direct it to be recorded 
in red ink. 

We are not here engaged in any inquiry as to the 
extent of Her Majesty's power and jurisdiction in 
and over the Protected Territories. We are only 
inquiring whether, through the medium of the 
Colonial Legislature, she has, in virtue of the 
power and jurisdiction vested in her, yet chosen to 
say that the judicial powers of native kings and 
chiefs shall no longer exist. 

King Ackinie has, in the course of this case, had 
the benefit of nearly all the local legal talent. Oppon 
has had no such aid. Nevertheless, had Bailey, C.J., 
still been alive, he would doubtless have given judg- 
ment in Oppon's favour. That is evident, from 
several cases decided by him in the Divisional 
Court of the Central Province. In none of these 
cases did the learned Chief Justice enter into 
any discussion upon the point, which one must 

182 



276 APPENDIX A. 

suppose appeared to him so clear as to require 
no consideration. 

We know, however, the reasons upon which he 
founded his judgments, and we think it only right 
that we should state them. He founded his opinion 
upon sects. 11 and 12 of the Supreme Court 
Ordinance, 1876. Regarding sect. 11, he would 
in substance say, if he were here to-day, ' The 
Supreme Court Ordinance, sect. 11, vests all the 
jurisdiction of the High Court of Justice in England 
(Admiralty excepted) in the Supreme Court of the 
colony. That being so, whatever jurisdiction the 
native chiefs formerly possessed was from the date 
of the passing of that Ordinance extinguished.' 

Regarding sect. 12 he would doubtless say, ' What 
jurisdiction, civil or criminal, was, or is not, exer- 
cisable by Her Majesty in these territories ? Abso- 
lutely none. All, then, is vested in the Supreme 
Court, and, according to the concluding words of 
the section, shall be exercised under and according 
to the provisions of the Ordinance and not otherwise.' 
If Oppon had all the legal talent in the world to 
plead for him, we do not see how his case could be 
more powerfully stated. 

But we think Bailey, C.J., failed to apprehend 
the object and scope of this Ordinance. First, how- 
ever, let us consider sects. 11 and 12 by themselves. 
While these sections contain words affirmative of the 



APPENDIX A. 277 

Supreme Court, we find in them no negative words, 
no words of conclusion, nothing to indicate that 
jurisdiction, other than Her Majesty's, is to cease. 
We see no words that lead us to think it would 
be inconsistent with the object of the Legislature 
that Her Majesty's jurisdiction and the jurisdiction 
of the kings and chiefs should be co-existent. The 
civil and criminal jurisdiction of Her Majesty exer- 
cisable in the Protected Territories at the commence- 
ment of the Ordinance was one, to a great extent, 
occurrent [concurrent ?] with the jurisdiction exer- 
cisable by the native kings and chiefs ; and that is, 
to our minds, a conclusive answer to the arguments 
which we have put into the mouth of Bailey, C.J. 

But we must not confine our attention to sects. 
11 and 12 of this Ordinance. It is not by any 
means the only Ordinance that created a Supreme 
Court of the Gold Coast, and regulated its procedure. 
Various such Ordinances were passed from 1853 
downwards, and we think we are right when we 
say that not one of such previous Ordinances 
referred to the Local Native Courts, yet these 
Native Courts exercised jurisdiction side by side 
with the Supreme Court so created. 

The key to the successful interpretation of sects. 
11 and 12 already mentioned is, we think, to be 
found in sect. 20 of the same Ordinance ; from 
.which it appears that, prior to this Ordinance of 



278 APPENDIX A. 

1876, Her Majesty had been exercising her jurisdic- 
tion by the help of a very confusing arrangement of 
Courts and magistrates. All these were to cease, 
and the one Supreme Court, whose powers and 
jurisdiction are described in sects. 11 and 12, took 
their place. 

Two years later the Colonial Legislature passed an 
Ordinance (No. 8 of 1878) ' to facilitate and regulate 
the exercise, in the protected territories, of certain 
powers and jurisdiction by native authorities.' Can 
anyone read that Ordinance, and particularly sects. 
3, 4, 10, and 30 thereof, without coming to the con- 
clusion that the jurisdiction of the kings and chiefs 
is there treated as existing, but requiring regulation ? 
That Ordinance was confirmed by Her Majesty, 
though it was not thought expedient to proclaim any 
head chief's division under it. 

In 1888 it was repealed, not because it did not 
speak the truth, but that an Ordinance more in 
harmony with the views of the Legislature for the 
time being might take its place ; and that successor 
is No. 5 of 1883. It also treats native tribunals as 
existing, but requiring regulation. 

It might be observed of these two native jurisdic- 
tion Ordinances that, by mere recital, they could not 
restore what was taken away by the Supreme Court 
Ordinance of 1876. Perfectly true ; but, when con- 
sidering whether the Supreme Court Ordinance of 



APPENDIX A. 279 

1876 did or did not take away jurisdiction from 
native tribunals, do not these native jurisdiction 
Ordinances give us considerable light ? 

Again, the point seems covered by authority. In 
the end of 1880, or beginning of 1881, the Divisional 
Court of the Central Province ordered Quamin Fori, 
King of Aquapim, to pay damages to one Bruce, as 
compensation for illegal arrest. 

Bruce was charged with violating a girl in the 
bush, and Quamin Fori ordered his arrest. The Divi- 
sional Court was of opinion that Quamin Fori had 
used such violence in having Bruce brought before 
him that he must pay ,30 damages and costs. 

Upon the 1st of April, 1881, this judgment was 
reversed by the Full Court (Marshall, C.J., and 
J. W. Smith, Ag. Judge), whose judgment says: 
' We are of opinion that the king, in all that was 
done, acted within the powers which have always 
been recognised and allowed to the Native Courts 
unless those powers are taken away by the Governor ; 
and that if he was in fault, it was in not proceeding 
further with the case, and inquiring more fully into 
the charge against Bruce.' 

As a criticism upon that judgment, it might be 
observed that it only recognised powers in kings and 
chiefs which can be taken away by the Governor ; 
and that, as the Governor has no power to take away 
inherent jurisdiction from a king, that cannot have 



280 APPENDIX A. 

been the jurisdiction recognised in Quamin Fori's 
case, and therefore his case cannot apply to the 
present one. 

Without discussing whether a Governor has power 
to take away inherent jurisdiction, and without pre- 
tending to understand what the Full Court meant by 
the words ' unless those powers are taken away by 
the Governor,' we cannot help regarding the sug- 
gested line of criticism as unworthy of comment. 

Had it not been for the opinion of Bailey, C.J., 
we would have entertained no doubt upon the ques- 
tion which we have discussed. Now that we have 
considered it from every possible point of view, we 
are clear that the Supreme Court Ordinance, 1876, 
has in no way impaired the judicial powers of native 
kings and chiefs, and, so far as we know, it has 
not been suggested that any other Ordinance has 
taken them away. 

The defendant (appellant) in the present case has 
exercised a very ordinary judicial power, and there- 
fore we think the judgment of the Court below ought 
to be reversed and judgment entered for the defendant 
Ackinie. 

We are not inclined to give him costs, for the 
impression made upon our minds is that he has 
brought this action upon himself. It must be dis- 
tinctly understood that there is to be no imprison- 
ment without an adequate and regular supply of food, 



APPENDIX A. 281 

means of washing daily, and ample opportunities 
for obeying the calls of nature, being given to every 
prisoner." 

IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE GOLD COAST 
COLONY, WESTERN PROVINCE. 

17th February, 1897. 
Before His HONOUR HAYES REDWAR, Puisne Judge. 

EEGINA, ON THE PROSECUTION OF D. A. DONOVAN v. 
KUDJOE IMBRA. 

Case stated by the District Commissioner of Cape 
Coast, Mr. J. A. McCarthy, under sect. 157 of the 
Criminal Procedure Ordinance, 1876, upon a con- 
viction by the District Commissioner of Cape Coast, 
Dr. D. K. McDowell, under the Compulsory Labour 
Ordinance, 1895, on the 30th November, 1896. 

The case, dated llth February, 1897, upon an 
application made on the date of the conviction by 
defendant's counsel to the District Commissioner, 
who heard and determined the charge, was laid 
before the Court by the Registrar, as also the notes 
of evidence taken before the District Commissioner 
and accompanying the case. 

Hayford, for appellant, states that he is holding 
Mill's brief in this case, and is instructed to press on 
this appeal. 



282 APPENDIX A. 

The officer on whose prosecution the conviction was 
made (sub-Assistant Commissioner D. A. Donovan, of 
the police) does not appear, but the Eegistrar reports 
that in the absence of Mr. Donovan notice had been 
served on the present Senior Officer of Police at Cape 
Coast. Superintendent Penny now appears and states 
that he has been served with notice to attend on the 
argument upon this case, but has received no instruc- 
tions in the matter from Mr. Donovan, who is absent 
at Accra ; he further states that in the absence of Mr. 
Donovan, the District Commissioner, Cape Coast, is 
the officer in command of the police in the district. 

The Court refers to the Police Ordinance, 1894, 
and discovers that by sect. 6 the Superintendent is in 
command of the police in any district where there is 
no police officer of higher grade. The Court then 
directs the argument to proceed. 

Mr. Penny states that he has not been instructed 
and has no argument to offer. 

Hayford, for appellant, is heard against the con- 
viction. He refers to the Ordinance under which 
this conviction was made and to the evidence upon 
which it was founded. 

He contends. 

* * * * 

By the Court : 

It is to be regretted that no steps have been taken 
to ensure the prosecution being represented on this 



APPENDIX A. 283 

appeal. There can, however, be no difficulty in deal- 
ing with it, as the facts of the case are as simple as 
the law governing them, and argument is scarcely 
necessary upon so obviously simple a matter, and, 
indeed, in the view which I have taken of the law, 
the case is not arguable, as it depends upon the 
meaning to be placed upon a clearly expressed 
enactment of the Legislature of a penal character, 
which must, of course, be construed strictly, accord- 
ing to the established principle of interpreting Statutes 
which operate in restriction of common right and 
the liberty of the subject. 

The case shortly stated is this : the charge in 
the summons stated verbatim is, " Being a head 
chief, neglecting to call out carriers for public 
purpose, when ordered to do so by District Com- 
missioner, Cape Coast, on the 19th November, 1896, 
contrary to sects. 2 and 4 of Ordinance No. 9 of 
1895." 

In the first place it is necessary to consider the 
question whether a District Commissioner other 
than the District Commissioner who made the 
conviction has power to state a case of this kind 
under sect. 157 of the Criminal Procedure Ordi- 
nance, 1876. As to this I hold that the Court 
referred to in that section must for necessary 
reasons of convenience in a colony so subject to 
changes of officials as this be extended so as to 



284 APPENDIX A. 

include a District Commissioner other than the one 
convicting, if application be made for a case within 
the four clays limited in the section. 

I am of opinion that the word " Court " wherever 
it appears in the Criminal Procedure Ordinance must, 
unless the context contains something repugnant to 
the definition, be deemed to be the " Court " as 
denned in the Interpretation clause (sect. 2) of the 
Supreme Court Ordinance, 1876, and must there- 
fore include a "District Commissioner" engaged 
in any judicial act or proceeding. There being 
nothing repugnant to this definition in the context, 
I hold that the District Commissioner according to 
sect. 157 of the Criminal Procedure Ordinance, even 
although not the District Commissioner convicting 
the defendant, may state a case, especially when, as 
here, application was made on the day of the con- 
viction to the District Commissioner who heard and 
determined the charge. The present District Com- 
missioner of Cape Coast has, therefore, acted correctly 
in stating this case. 

It is matter for surprise, however, that the District 
Commissioner convicting this defendant did not adopt 
the course indicated by sect. 159 of the Criminal 
Procedure Ordinance, 1876, and respite execution of 
the judgment, when application was made to him 
for stay of execution pending this appeal according 
to the notes of the case taken by himself. 



APPENDIX A. 285 

Evidence was given for the prosecution, and upon 
this evidence the District Commissioner convicted 
the defendant, and the two questions for this Court 
to decide are : 

First, whether the conviction was or was not 
wrong on the ground of misreception of 
evidence. 

Secondly, whether the facts proved did or did 
not warrant a conviction. 

First. As regards the question whether the con- 
viction was or was not wrong on the ground of misre- 
ception of evidence, I am of opinion that if it were 
deemed necessary to give in evidence the document 
referred to in the proceedings as a " notice to supply 
carriers," the original should have been produced, 
or upon proof of service of notice to produce it on 
defendant, then, and then only, should a copy have 
been received in evidence. 

The document was not a step to initiate proceed- 
ings, like a summons, and should have been proved 
as all documents are proved before reception in 
evidence. If, however, the original notice had been 
produced, it would not have been evidence of such 
an order or requisition for carriers as the Ordinance 
requires. As regards the telegram referred to in 
the proceedings, it is extremely doubtful from the 
District Commissioner's notes of evidence whether 
it was ever formally put in, nor does it appear that 



286 APPENDIX A 

sufficient foundation was laid for its admission in 
evidence. There is only one " exhibit " accompany- 
ing the notes, and that is the copy of the " notice 
to supply carriers," and this exhibit bears no dis- 
tinguishing letter or serial number indicating that 
it is one of a series of exhibits. 

Second. As regards the question whether the facts 
proved did or did not warrant a conviction, I am 
of opinion that no satisfactory evidence was given 
of the status of the defendant, whether as head 
chief, or inferior chief, Mr. Donovan's evidence 
amounting in reality to a mere expression of his 
opinion on this point. Beet. 2 of the Compulsory 
Labour Ordinance, 1895, provides (in its latter 
portion, upon which these proceedings must be 
founded) that " it shall be lawful for any head chief, 
captain, or headman to order any inferior chief, 
officer, captain, or headman, subject to his authority, 
to co-operate in calling out the labourers of his 
towns or villages for service as carriers for any 
public purpose, and such inferior chief, officer, 
captain, or headman shall be legally bound to 
comply with such order." Now, the only punish- 
ment in connection with chiefs under this Ordinance 
is provided for by sect. 4, which says that "who- 
ever being legally bound under sect. 2 to comply 
with any order refuses or neglects to comply there- 
with, shall be liable on conviction to fine or imprison- 



APPENDIX A. 287 

ment." It is to be observed that this punishment 
can only be inflicted on an inferior chief ordered to 
co-operate with a superior chief, and refusing or 
neglecting to comply with such order. What 
evidence is there that defendant was ever ordered 
by a superior chief to co-operate with him in calling 
out carriers ? There is absolutely no such evidence 
on the Commissioner's "Notes." Assuming the 
most in favour of the District Commissioner's 
" Notice," he is not a head chief within the 
meaning of this Ordinance, and only refusal or 
neglect to comply with a head chief's order by an 
inferior chief is made an offence under sects. 2 and 4 
of the Ordinance, the sections under which this 
summons is expressed on its face to have been 
issued. Nor is there on the record the evidence 
required by sect. 9, viz., a certificate under the 
hand of the Colonial Secretary that any head chief, 
chief, headman, or captain has been required by the 
Government to call out carriers for service under 
the Ordinance. Neither was any evidence given for 
a general or special order being issued under sect. 7, 
nor that defendant or anybody else had prior to 
the passing of the Ordinance been required by the 
Governor to furnish carriers, so as to bring the case 
within the provisions of sect. 8. 

Under these circumstances I am of opinion that 
the facts proved did not warrant a conviction. The 



288 APPENDIX A. 

conviction must therefore be set aside, and I order 
that an entry be made in the minutes of the Court 
below that, in the judgment of this Court, the defen- 
dant in this case ought not to have been convicted, 
and that the fine be repaid to the defendant. 

Hayford asked for the costs of the appeal, and 
urged that, as the proceedings against defendant 
had been most negligently conducted, and he had 
been put to much inconvenience and expense, he 
was entitled to costs as a sort of compensation for 
the inconvenience and expense entailed upon him 
by this prosecution. 

The Court refused to allow costs on the ground 
that most probably the police officer who conducted 
the prosecution deemed it to be his duty to take the 
proceedings, although he had acted erroneously. 

(Signed) HAYES EEDWAR, J. 

Certified true copy. 

(Signed] P. W. BERNASKO, Registrar, 
Cape Coast, 

20 . 2 . 97. 



APPENDIX A. 289 

THE CHIDDA CONCESSION. l 

Enquiry No. 5 (Cape Coast), March 1st, 1901. 

Before His HONOUR MR. JUSTICE NICOLL. 

The claimants were the Gold Coast Amalgamated 
Mines, Limited. The opposers were (1) Chiefs 
Cudjoe Buaful, guardian to the King Quamina 
Enimil, Cudjoe Enimil Koomah II., Quasie Ankuma, 
Cudjoe Ammoo, and Quamina Innuama ; (2) the 
Sekondi and Tarkwa Company, Limited. The 
grounds of opposition for the first opposers were 
(1) fraud, (2) misrepresentation ; for second op- 
posers (1) deceit, (2) fraud, (3) misrepresentation, 
(4) prior lease. This was the first enquiry under the 
Concessions Ordinance, 1900. In the course of the 
enquiry so many important points as to the con- 
struction and the working of the substantive law 
and the rules thereunder were raised and discussed, 
as to make this enquiry the leading case of the 
Concessions Division of the Supreme Court. The 
enquiry had been transferred from the Concessions 
Division, Cape Coast, to the Concessions Division, 
Axim, on February llth, 1901 ; and the latter Divi- 
sion had fixed it for hearing on March 1st. On 
that day there appeared for the claimants Mr. J. 
Mensah Sarbah, barrister-at-law, leading counsel, 

1 Eeproduced from West Africa of May 25, 1901, pp. 665667. 
G.C. 19 



290 APPENDIX A. 

supported by Mr. Casely Hayford, barrister-at-law, 
and Mr. A. W. Osborne, solicitor, Mr. P. A. Renner, 
barrister-at-law, who was leading for the claimants 
when the enquiry was first called at Cape Coast, 
subsequently joining the counsel for the claimants. 
The counsel for the opposers were Mr. J. Renner 
Maxwell, barrister-at-law, leader ; with him Mr. G. 
H. Savage, barrister-at-law, Mr. Charles J. Banner- 
man, barrister-at-law, and Mr. R. Alade, barrister- 
at-law. The actual hearing of the enquiry up to 
the date of judgment occupied twenty-two days. 

The Case for the First Opposers. 

The first opposers, in their statement of particulars 
of grounds of opposition, filed on March 2nd, alleged, 
inter alia : 

1. That on August 28th, 1896, an indenture of lease 
had been executed by Enimil Koomah II. and Quasie 
Ankuma, chiefs of Busumchie Abosso, granting to 
William Edward Sam, acting for Messrs. F. and A. 
Swanzy, of No. 147, Cannon Street, London, the 
concession of all that piece or parcel of land known 
as Cinnamon Bippo Range, bounded on the north by 
the village of Chidda, on the south by the northern 
boundary of Swanzy Estate and Gold Mining 
Company's Cinnamon Bippo Concession, and ex- 
tending half a mile beyond the western bank of 
Huni River, as it runs on the east by a line one 



APPENDIX A. 291 

mile from the centre line of the range, and running 
parallel with the said range, on the west by a line half a 
mile distant from the western bank of the Huni River. 

2. That upon the said concession of August 28th, 
1896, being repudiated by Chief Cud joe Buaful, 
guardian to the King Quamina Enimil, on the 
ground that he had not been made a party thereto, 
it was agreed in or about the month of September, 
1896, between Sam, Buaful, and the Chiefs of 
Busumchie that a new concession of the same land 
should be granted to Sam for his principals, which 
should include Buaful' s name for the King as one of 
the grantors. 

3. That upon April 24th, 1897, Sam invited Buaful 
and the Chiefs of Busumchie to Tarkwa, to execute 
the new lease before mentioned. 

4. That when the chiefs were assembled at Sam's 
house at Tarkwa, the interpreter, Aggrey, Sam's 
clerk, interpreted to them that the land leased ex- 
tended from the end of Cinnamon Bippo Concession 
of Swanzy's Concession to the Chidda Creek; whereas, 
in truth and in fact, the lease, then executed, 
granted that piece or parcel of land in the district of 
Busumchie Abosso, and situate on the range of hills 
commencing from the village of Chidda to the village 
of Busumchie, known as Busumchie Cinnamon Bippo 
Range, divided into six concessions of 1,000 fathoms 
square. 

192 



292 APPENDIX A. 

5. That, relying upon the truthfulness of the said 
interpretation, they had executed the lease of April 
24th, 1896 (thereby hanging the allegations of fraud 
and misrepresentation). 

6. That upon discovering the fraud, they had 
repudiated the said lease. 

Ansivers by the Claimants. 

The reply of the claimants was substantially 
this : 

1. Denial that the lease of April 24th, 1897, was 
a substitution for that of August 28th, 1896, or that 
it was in any way connected with or had reference 
to the six Chidda concessions, the subject-matter of 
the present enquiry. 

2. That before the execution of the lease of April 
24th, 1897, samples had been sent for by Buaful and 
EnimilKoomah II., the Chief of Busumchie, for Sam 
from the land in dispute ; and, upon notice by Sam, 
Buaful, and other grantors of the lease of April 24th, 
1897, had come to Tarkwa and executed the same 
after it had been correctly interpreted to them by 
Villars, the King's Secretary, in the presence of 
Lemaire, the clerk of the Chief of Busumchie, and 
others. 

3. That after such correct interpretation, and 
with full knowledge that the concession referred to 
the land mentioned by Sam in his letter of April 



APPENDIX A. 293 

16th, 1897, which was acknowledged on April 19th, 
the chiefs executed the lease of April 24th, 1897. 

4. That in August, 1897, after the grant of the 
concession under enquiry, Sam, with Go wans, a 
mining engineer, had surveyed and measured the 
land granted by the concession, and that the work 
and movements of Sam and Gowans were not 
unknown to the chiefs. 

5. That previously to the execution of the lease 
in dispute, the Chiefs had received in advance the 
sum of J250 towards rents. 

6. That the Chiefs had received rents under the 
said concession, and that, as recently as February 
15th last, Quasie Ankuma, the present Busumchie 
Chief, had applied to Sam for his share of the rents. 

The con'cessiori under enquiry had been duly 
registered under Ordinance No. 1 of 1895. 

Upon application by counsel, the names of Cudjoe 
Enimil Koomah II., and Cudjoe Ammoo were struck 
out from the names of the opposing chiefs. 

The Court upon hearing counsel for the claimants 
and the opposers respectively, ruled that the onus 
was with the claimants. 

Correspondence with the Chiefs. 

Mr. Sarbah opened for the claimants, accentuat- 
ing the allegation that the concession of August 
28th, 1896, related to land to the south-west of 



294 APPENDIX A. 

Chidda village, whereas the concession under enquiry 
related to land to the north-east of Chidda. 

For the claimants Sam affirmed that Villars read 
and interpreted the lease to the chiefs, and that he 
did so correctly, specifying the land given by the con- 
cession, namely, from Chidda village to Busumchie 
village. Before the execution of the deed in ques- 
tion, he had, on December 16th, 1896, paid to the 
chiefs the sum of ,250 for six concessions on the 
Cinnamon Bippo Range, and produced correspondence 
relating to the transaction. In a letter dated March 
'25th, 1897, he wrote to Buaful, inter alia, the 
following : 

" I beg also to inform you that, if you do not come and give 
me the six concessions or mines, for which you have received 
250 on account, within one week from now, I shall call upon 
you to return the money, with interest agreed upon." 

Buaful and Enimil Koomah having ordered samples 
for him (Sam) from the land in dispute, Buaful wrote 
to him (Sam) on the 13th of April, 1897, thus : 

" Please kindly let me know, per the return of this bearer, if 
Chief Enimil Koomah has presented to you the samples of 
quartz as we arranged, and, if so, are they good or what ? You 
will inform me if the documents have arrived from Cape Coast. 
" I am always ready to go over when you send for me. 
" I am, dearly yours, 

" KING KWAMINA ENIMIL, 

" Writer, his 

" JACOB PA VILLARS, " Per Kudjoe x Buaful. 

"Bensu." mark. 



APPENDIX A. 295 

On April 16th, 1897, he (Sam) wrote to Buaful: 

" Being very busy yesterday, and your messenger, like a 
madman, hurrying me on to send him away, I forgot to reply 
to your other letter of the 13th, asking if the samples from the 
new property (concession) have been sent to me, and if so, 
they are good. 

"In reply, I beg to inform you that conglomerate samples 
have been sent to me from a range of hills between Chidda and 
Busumchie. I have made a deed to take the whole of the six 
concessions on this range that is, if we get more than six 
concessions I will pay extra retaining fee for the odd piece. If, 
on the other hand, I find less than the six concessions you 
offered to me on the aforesaid range, I can take the balance any- 
where you and your chiefs may direct me, provided always that 
I have the option of selecting what land within your district. 

"I shall go to Tarkwa on Monday next to sign the deed, and 
I ask you particularly to be present in order that you may make 
your mark with your chiefs, and at the same time to settle 
other matters. I send this letter by special messenger, and 
expect to meet you in Tarkwa on the day above mentioned. 

" Trusting you are well, and with kind regards, 

" Yours faithfully, 

" W. E. SAK, 

"Manager." 

On April 19th Buaful replied to him as follows : 

"Your favour of the 16th instant received. I am going to 
Amantsin to leave the King there and come over to Tarkwa. 
I have been ill these few days, and as you want me I shall go 
to Tarkwa as requested. With due regards Villars joins, 
" I am, your, 

" KING KWAMINA ENIMIL, 
his 

" Writer, " Per Kudjoe x Buaful. 

"JACOB PA VILLARS, mark. 

" Bensu." 



296 APPENDIX A. 

After this correspondence the chiefs met him at 
Tarkwa, and executed the lease of April 24th, 1897. 
Surveys were subsequently made of the land in 
dispute, and the chiefs, or some of them, knew of 
same. 

Aggrey corroborated Sam as to what transpired 
upon the execution of the lease of April 24th, 1897, 
and witnesses were called who supported the fact 
of samples having been sent for by the chiefs for 
Sam from the land in dispute, and as to the survey 
of the land. 

The Custom of Giving Earnest Money. 

At the close of the claimants' case, Mr. Savage, 
for the opposers, submitted that there was no case to 
answer, having regard to sect. 11 of the Ordinance. 
His grounds were : 

1. That the receipts of claimants for rents had not 
been put in evidence. 

2. Sam did not give chiefs copy of lease until 
February 1st, 1900. 

3. That there was no consideration for the lease 
in dispute, consideration being synonymous with 
earnest money. 

By the Court : Do you argue that the consideration 
under sect. 11 must be earnest money ? 

Mr. Savage : The consideration must be earnest 
money, plus rent. 



APPENDIX A. 297 

By the Court : Is the native practice of giving 
earnest money binding where the bargain is between 
a European and a native ? 

(Refers counsel to sect. 19 of Ordinance No. 4 of 
1876.) 

Mr. Savage, proceeding, urged : 

4. That the rents had not been paid. 

The Court pointed out that there was oral evidence 
that the rents had partly been paid. 

Mr. Savage opened the case for the opposers, 
dwelling upon the main issues raised by the 
pleadings. 

For the opposers Buaful flatly denied the correct 
interpretation of the lease in dispute, and stated that 
the interpretation by Aggrey as to the land granted 
did not correspond with the land covered by the 
lease in dispute. He denied that he had ever sent 
for samples for Sam, or that he had ever caused the 
letter of April 13th to Sam to be written. He 
affirmed that Sam had steadily avoided supplying 
him with a copy of the lease in dispute, and that, 
upon the same being supplied, he at once repudiated 
the lease. Previously to the execution of the lease in 
dispute there had been a meeting with Sam relative 
to the lease agreed to be substituted for that of 
August 28th, 1896. 

Villars generally supported the evidence of Buaful. 
He admitted, in cross-examination by Mr. Hayford, 



298 APPENDIX A. 

that all letters written for Buaful by him were 
first read over to him before he touched the pen, 
his mark thereto made, and forwarded ; and that 
letters read to the chief were correctly read by him 
to the chief, and his instructions taken before reply- 
ing thereto. In answer to the Court, after being 
severely pressed, he said he remembered the corre- 
spondence above quoted. He affirmed that Sam 
knew before the 24th day of April, 1897, that 
the land in dispute had previously been given to 
Bridges. 

The other chiefs and some of their headmen also 
supported Buaful generally in his evidence. 

The Case for the Second Opposers. 

The particulars of the grounds of opposition of 
the second opposers were as follows : 

1. That on January 7th, 1897, Cud joe Buaful, for 
and on behalf of Quamina Enimil, King of Tarkwa 
and Lower Wassaw, granted to George John Bridges 
an option to select and acquire twenty gold con- 
cessions of not less than 1,000 fathoms square each, 
five of which said concessions were to be situated on 
the north of the village of Chidda, in consideration 
of the advance of a loan of ,2,000 by the said George 
John Bridges to the said Quamina Enimil. 

2. Eenewal of the said option, firstly on March 
31st, 1898, secondly on November 29th, 1898. 



APPENDIX A. 299 

3. Fraud and misrepresentation in connection 
with lease of April 24th, 1897. 

It may be noted that the option agreement had 
not been registered under Ordinance No. 1 of 1895. 

The Claimants' Refill/. 

The claimants replied : 

1. That they had no notice of the said option of 
Bridges until Bridges entered upon the land in dispute 
in June, 1900, whereupon an action of ejectment had 
been brought against the second opposers. 

2. Denial of allegation of fraud and misrepre- 
sentation. 

Upon Mr. Savage opening on above allegation 

The Court to Counsel : Assuming the chief had 
given the lease to Sam, can Bridges' option stand ? 

The Court said this question went to the root of 
the matter, and suggested Counsel considering it. 

On resumption, the Court, addressing Counsel, 
said : Supposing Bridges filed his option and the 
Amalgamated Mines filed their lease subsequently, 
do you contend that the option will stand in the 
face of the lease, or will Bridges merely have a right 
to an action for damages ? A. sells to B. and gets 
purchase-money, but does not get title-deeds exe- 
cuted and delivered. Meanwhile, A. sells to C., who 
pays purchase-money, and gets title-deeds executed 
and delivered ; will C. or B.'s title stand ? 



300 APPENDIX A. 

Counsel replied that his strongest point was the 
definition of a concession sect. 2 of No. 14, of 
1900. 

The - Court : What would be the position if a 
certificate of validity were granted for an option, 
and a lease subsequently granted for the same 
premises ? (The Court drew attention to sect. 21 
of the Ordinance.) 

Counsel : The Ordinance overrides the common- 
law principles herein, and a certificate of validity by 
sect. 21 will be good against all adversaries. 

Bridges gave evidence in support of the option as 
to execution and the agreements renewing them. 

Counsel informed the Court that there had been 
an assignment of the option to the Sekondi and 
Tarkwa Company, Limited. 

The witness stated the deed was in his despatch- 
box in his house, but it was not subsequently 
produced. 

Villars supported the evidence of Bridges. 

Mr. Bridges, on application of Counsel, was made 
a party to the suit. 

Priority Claimed for the Option. 

Mr. Bannerman, in closing for second opposers, 
submitted : 

1. That the option of January 7th, 1897, took 
priority over the lease of April 24th, 1897. He 



APPENDIX A. 301 

discussed sect. 2 of the Ordinance to show that an 
option was of equal degree with a lease. 

2. That registration did not give priority in this 
case, sects. 19 and 20 of No. 1 of 1895 not affecting 
agreements. 

3. That Sam had notice of Bridges' option. He 
quoted the case of Le Neve v. Le Neve, White & 
Tudor 's Leading Cases; Punchard v. Tomkins, 31 
Weekly Eeports, 286 ; Yates Brothers and Shattuck 
v. Garshong, Gold Coast Appeal Cases. 

The Court : Section 11, sub-sect. 1, of the Con- 
cessions Ordinance merely says, before a concession 
can be entertained there must at least be a writing, 
but it does not say one kind of writing or instrument 
shall be necessarily as good as another ; that is a 
matter of general law. 

Mr. Sarbah, in reply, submitted : 

1. That the so-called option of Bridges was not 
really an option. Before the payment of the <2,000 
mentioned therein as consideration for the option 
Bridges could not go upon the land. He had no 
choice of exercising option at all until he had paid 
the X'2,000 within twelve months. 

2. That the area of the lands comprised in the 
option was not denned. 

3. Non-registration of the option. 

4. That a lease is of a higher nature than an 
option. 



302 APPENDIX A. 

5. The lease made during subsistence of option 
comes into operation upon the expiration of the 
option, but it is not void during subsistence of 
option. 

6. Application of Eegistration Ordinance to 
Options. Assuming there was notice to Sam, what 
effect would it have upon the claimants ? None, 
there being no evidence of fraud on their part. A 
bond fide purchaser for value is not affected by the 
fraud of his assignor. 

The Court : Does sub-sect. 3 of sect. 11 not apply 
to third parties claiming under fraudulent leases ? 
It goes to the root of the whole Ordinance. 

Counsel, resuming, urged : 

7. Laches on the part of the chiefs. 

8. Knowledge of second opposers as to possession 
of Sam. 

The Judgment. 

The Court reviewed in the clearest manner the 
voluminous evidence adduced for and against the 
case for the claimants. Referring to the incident of 
sending for the samples, the Court pointed out that 
Sam's evidence therein was corroborated by several 
witnesses. Buaful denied the incident absolutely. 
But letter of April 13th showed that Buaful knew of 
the sample being given to Sam, and Sam's reply 
thereto, dated April 16th, 1897, was of the greatest 



APPENDIX A. 303 

importance. His Honour, continuing, said : " The 
letter clearly brings home to Buaf ill's mind that 
Sam had made a paper to take six concessions from 
Chidda to Busumchie, and that he and his chiefs 
were to go to Tarkwa to execute the same. Buaful 
replied on April 19th. Buaf id's evidence respect- 
ing the letters of April 13th, 16th, and 19th is 
most unsatisfactory. He admits getting letter of 
April 16th, but did not go to Tarkwa for a year 
after." The Court, having considered the whole 
evidence re the execution of the concession under 
inquiry and the subsequent conduct of the parties, 
had no hesitation in coming to the following con- 
clusions : 

1. That the evidence of the first opposers was 
untrustworthy. 

2. That the grantors of the concession knew they 
had been summoned to execute a document re land 
from Chidda to Busumchie. 

3. That they went there to execute such a 
document. 

4. That the interpreter accurately interpreted to 
them the contents of the lease. 

5. That the chief signed the lease, knowing they 
were giving land from Chidda to Busumchie. 

6. That they knew the terms of the lease before 
signing it, and that they were not induced by 
fraud. 



304 APPENDIX A. 

The Court, therefore, declared the first opposition 
bad. 

The Court next dealt with the case for the second 
opposers, observing that Bridges, on or about Sep- 
tember 28th, 1897, had not deposited the 2,000 
under the option agreement, and that it was clearly 
of opinion that Bridges had no right to Sam's con- 
cession by the agreement of January 7th, 1897. That 
the concession of April 24th, 1897, having been 
registered, and the option of January 7th not having 
been registered, even though Bridges had the right 
under his option, Sam's lease would have priority. 
His Honour continued : "It has been argued for 
second opposers that the Eegistration Ordinance 
does not apply to the Concessions Ordinance. I am 
not aware of any grounds for such an argument. 
The Kegistration Ordinance should be looked upon 
as having special reference to concessions. It 
has great bearing on the Concessions Ordinance." 
Eeferring to the question of notice to Sam of 
Bridges' option, the Court said it did not believe the 
evidence of Villars, and observed that whether an 
option of a concession took precedence of a lease 
subsequently granted did not arise for discussion in 
the present case. 

The Court declared the second opposition also to 
have failed, and found as follows : 

That the claimants were entitled to the benefit of 



APPENDIX A. 805 

the concession of April 24th, 1897, and that the 
conditions laid down in section 11 of the Ordinance 
had been fulfilled. That- 

1. Concession was in writing, duly signed by 
grantors. 

2. Proper persons, parties to it, who understood 
the nature and terms thereof. 

3. Concessions not obtained by fraudulent or other 
improper means. 

4. Adequate valuable consideration paid therefor. 

5. All the terms and conditions thereof reasonably 
and satisfactorily performed. 

6. Customary rights of natives reasonably pro- 
tected. 

Declared, however: 

(a) That so much of the concession as exceeds 
five square miles was invalid. 

(&) Limit of concession ninety-nine years. 

Mr. Sam having delayed in giving the chiefs copy 
of the concession under enquiry, which circumstance 
probably led to the opposition, the Court ordered 
the several parties to pay their own costs. 

COLONIAL SECRETARY'S OFFICE, 
ACCRA, 

16th November, 1901. 

The following Certificate of Validity issued at 
Axim by His Honour Mr. Justice William Nicoll 
G.C. 20 



306 APPENDIX A. 

for No. 5 (Cape Coast) Chidda Concession, is 
published for general information. 

By His Excellency's Command, 
C. H. HUNTEE, 

Acting Colonial Secretary. 



Wednesday the 16th October, 1901. 

Before His HONOUR WILLIAM NICOLL, JUDGE. 

Certificate of Validity. 

In the Supreme Court of the Gold Coast Colony, 
Western Province. (Concessions Division.) 

No. 5 (Cape Coast). Chidda. 

Subject as below the Concession of Chief Cud joe 
Buaful, guardian to the King Quamina Enimil, 
Chief Cudjoe Enimil Koomah II., Quasie Ankuma, 
Cud joe Ammoo and Quamina Innuama, Chiefs of 
Busumchie Abosso, Wassaw, to William Edward 
Sam of Adja Bippo, acting for Messrs. F. & A. 
Swanzy of 147, Cannon Street, London, dated the 
24th day of April, 1897, registered at Cape Coast 
Registry Office to which this Certificate is attached, 
is hereby declared to be valid. 



APPENDIX A. 807 

Boundaries, Extent, and Situation of Land in respect 
of which this Certificate is given. 

The lands are situate between the village of 
Chidda and the village of Busumchie. The boun- 
daries thereof are shown on the plan attached hereto 
and signed as relative hereto. The said lands 
measure two thousand seven hundred and eighteen 
(2,718) fathoms in length, extending from the village 
of Chidda to the village of Busumchie, and one 
thousand (1,000) fathoms in breath, and the extent 
or area of these said lands is 3' 5098140 square miles. 

Nature of Concession. 
Mining with timber rights. 

Limitations imposed by the Court. 

1. The Concession shall no't be construed so as 
to deprive any native of his customary rights as to 
shifting cultivation, the collection of firewood, and 
hunting and snaring game on the land. 

2. The Concession shall be construed to include 
only such timber as is necessary in connection with 
mining operations. 

3. The Concession shall extend for a period of 
ninety-nine years only from the 24th day of April, 
1897, and no longer. 

4. The Concession shall not be construed to 
confer any right to have it renewed. 

202 



808 APPENDIX A. 

5. The Concession shall be read and construed as 
if the following clause were omitted from the 
Concession : " It is mutually agreed and understood 
between the lessors and the lessees, their heirs, 
successors, executors, administrators, and assigns 
that in the event of cessation of crushing operations 
through want of funds or other lawful causes, the 
yearly rent of two hundred pounds for that particular 
mine shall be reduced to one hundred pounds 
per annum during such cessation provided it 
does not exceed three years from the date of such 
cessation." 

6. The Concession shall be read and construed as 
if the word " three " in the clause " This lease may 
be determined at any time by the lessees, their 
heirs, executors, administrators, and assigns on their 
giving three months' notice in writing to the lessors, 
their heirs, successors, and assigns" were deleted 
therefrom, and the word "twelve" inserted in lieu 
thereof. 

7. The Concession shall be read and construed 
as if the following clause were inserted therein : 
"Provided always that if the lessees or their successors 
in title shall make default in payment of any rent 
reserved under the Concession for three calendar 
months after the same shall become due, it shall be 
lawful for the lessors, their successors, or assigns by 
writing under their hand to give three months' notice 



APPENDIX A. 309 

to the lessees or their successors in title of their 
intention to determine the Concession, and in the 
event of the rent in arrears at the time of giving 
such notice not being paid before expiration of three 
months, the rights, privileges, and powers granted 
by the Concession shall cease and be at an end, and 
the lessors, their successors, and assigns, shall be 
at liberty to re-enter upon the said lands and take 
possession of the same. 

8. Notice of intention to terminate the Concession 
shall be given on a rent day only. 

Rent. 

(i.) The retaining rent payable in respect of the 
Concession shall be sixty pounds per annum, and 
shall continue to be payable until the working rent, 
as hereinafter mentioned, becomes payable. 

(ii.) The working rent shall be seven hundred 
pounds per annum. 

(iii.) The working rent of seven hundred pounds 
per annum shall be payable as from the 15th day of 
October, 1904, whether mining operations have then 
been commenced or not. In the event of mining 
operations being commenced before the aforesaid 
date, the said rent of seven hundred pounds per 
annum shall be payable as from the date of the 
commencement of such mining operations. 

(iv.) The rents under the Concession shall be 



310 APPENDIX A. 

paid quarterly on first January, first April, first 
July, and first October in each year. 

Maintenance of Boundaries. 

The holders of the Concession having under- 
taken : 

(a) To keep the boundary road clean ; 

(b) To keep the pillars marking the boundaries in 
good condition and repair ; 

(c) To keep the name of the Concession (Chidda) 
legible on each pillar ; 

(d) To lay down the said lands with reference to 
the Government Datum point when such Govern- 
ment Datum point has been fixed in the district of 
Tarkwa ; 

The Concession shall be read and construed as if 
the lessees had bound themselves accordingly. 

Date of Final Order for issue of Certificate of Validity. 
15th October, 1901. 

Given under my hand and the seal of the Court 
at Axim this 16th day of October, 1901. 

(L.S.) W. NICOLL, Judge. 



311 



APPENDIX B. 



THE following extract appeared in an article in 
the Gold Coast Methodist Times of April 30th, 1897, 
the contributor being the Rev. Attoh Ahuma, who 
was then editing that paper : 

THOUGHTS ON THE PRESENT DISCONTENT. 

Addressed to the Gold Coast Aborigines' Eights 
Protection Society, Cape Coast Castle. 

COLONY OR PROTECTORATE ? 

Colony or Protectorate which ? 

Some one may say this is a purely technical 
point, and that it is solely for purposes of con- 
venience that the Gold Coast is called a colony at 
all. But it must never be forgotten that technical 
points have before to-day been the means of saving 
many a wretch from the hangman's noose, and 
technical points have consigned an innocent victim 
to perdition. We cannot, in these circumstances, 
afford to minimise the importance and effect of 
such points. If by doing away with them, once 



312 APPENDIX B. 

and for all, there is shown a possibility of ensuring 
the safety, honour, and welfare of the body politic, 
we shall have accomplished more than enough. 
The comparative study of Her Majesty's foreign 
possessions accentuates the fact that our country 
holds a unique position upon the world-wide map 
of the British Empire. We know of no other 
place similarly situated. We labour in vain to find 
one spot where the people possess in their own 
right such a rich and unhampered legacy of liberty, 
freedom, and enfranchisement as we should enjoy 
on the Gold Coast. If the sovereignty of the 
people is entitled to recognition and respect, we, 
also, have undisputed claim to such political dis- 
tinction. This undeniable status is not unknown 
at the Colonial Office, Downing Street, London ; 
and, therefore, from facts which are happily 
historic, he wins golden opinions whoever man- 
fully strives to bring the country in line with 
others ; and it is just here that, as a society, we 
must, at all costs, maintain our individuality, come 
what may. 

There is nothing new under the sun ; but the old, 
old story must be rehearsed. 

From Stormouth's English Dictionary a book 
that has found its way to the Gold Coast through 
the Government we learn that a " colony means a 
body of persons sent out from their native country 



APPENDIX B. 313 

to a distant district or a new country, in order to 
settle and cultivate it ; the country thus settled or 
planted." 

From Webster's International Dictionary we 
read : 

"Colony: (1) A company of people transplanted 
from their Mother-Country to a remote province 
or country, and remaining subject to the jurisdic- 
tion of the parent State, as the British Colonies in 
America. 

(2) " The district or colony colonised; a settlement. 

(3) "A company of persons from the same country 
sojourning in a foreign city or land; as the American 
Colony in Paris. 

(4) " (Natural history) a number of animals or 
plants living or growing together beyond their usual 
range." 

Settlement: "The act of peopling or state of being 
peopled ; act of planting as a colony ; colonization ; 
occupation by settlers, as the settlement of a new 
country." 

Settler : (1) " One who settles, becomes fixed, 
established ; (2) especially, one who establishes 
himself in a new region or a colony." 

Our contention is this : If, as Aboriginals of the 
country, we have allowed and still do allow ourselves 
to be described as a colony, without transplantation 
or emigration, we should not resent, we cannot 



814 APPENDIX B. 

legitimately and reasonably resent, when we are 
called settlers, and the only rights sought to be 
conceded to us settlers' rights ! 

But a colony, as you are aware, is not only so 
called by transplantation from the Mother-Country 
or by emigration alone ; it is often so by treaty cession, 
or conquest, or transfer, or by annexation. In the 
archives of the Government we are supposed to 
be a colony by treaty cession. But there are 
treaty cessions and treaty cessions. Gibraltar, for 
example, was acquired by treaty cession in 1713 ; 
but the student of English history knows this much, 
that that rocky promontory was captured by the 
combined forces of England and Holland during the 
war of the Spanish Succession in 1704, under Sir 
George Rooke, and that it was after that insan- 
guinary war that Gibraltar was ceded by the Treaty 
of Utrecht in 1713. It cannot, therefore, be urged 
that we should be treated in every respect as all 
countries obtained by the British Government by 
treaty cession. It is the incumbent duty of the 
members of the " Gold Coast Aborigines' Eights 
Protection Society " to inwardly digest the precise 
terms of the treaty by which the Gold Coast became 
part and parcel of the British Empire. 

These necessary informations are set forth in the 
plainest possible language, as shall be seen in the 
Bond of Fantee Chiefs, dated March 6th, 1844; 



APPENDIX B. 315 

Lord Stanley's letter to Governor Hill (November 
22nd, 1844) ; draft of an order of the Queen in 
Council determining the mode of exerting her 
acquired power and jurisdiction within the Gold 
Coast Colony (Osborne House, 6th day of August, 
1874) ; the Earl of Carnarvon's letter to Governor 
Strahan (August 20th, 1874) ; " the proclamation 
denning the nature and extent of the Queen's juris- 
diction on the Gold Coast;" British Letters Patent 
constituting the office of Governor and Commander- 
in-Chief of the Gold Coast Colony, and providing for 
the government thereof (January 13th, 1886) a 
welcome collection of which Mr. Mensah Sarbah, 
Barrister-at-law, has most timeously embodied in his 
invaluable work "Fanti Customary Laws." A careful, 
diligent, and intelligent perusal of these highly 
important documents, which form the exclusive bases 
of whatever powers, authority, and jurisdiction Her 
Majesty exercises in the Gold Coast, will not only 
disclose the extent and limit of such powers, authority, 
and jurisdiction, but will likewise incidentally bring 
to the light of day in how many instances the local 
Government have, from time to time, infringed the 
law, and trespassed upon our sacred rights and privi- 
leges, thereby breaking with impunity the contract or 
bond betwixt us, made and provided before our 
alliance with the Queen, and to which Her Most 
Gracious Majesty most solemnly plighted her troth. 



316 APPENDIX B. 

The very names or titles of King 1 Tackie of Accra, 
King Ghartey IV. of Winnebah, King Amonoo IV. of 
Anamabu, and King Dawuna of Christiansborg are 
proofs, positive, irrefragable and final, if proofs were 
needed, that the Gold Coast could not be thought or 
spoken of in the same sense as Australia, the Straits 
Settlements, Jamaica, or, to come nearer home, 
Sierra Leone. The natural concession of kingship 
to us while Her Majesty remains the Queen of England 
and the Colonies is in itself significant of much. 
Mention anywhere else but in West Africa where 
kings reign concurrently with Victoria Alexandrina ; 
and the logical inference is that Her Majesty's 
Government simply exists " by usage, and by the 
sufferance and tacit assent " of the natives of the soil. 

Our rulers are our friends and nothing more- 
valuable acquisitions, friends in need and in deed, 
true friends, good friends to use Governor Griffith's 
time-honoured formula, but still friends ; and being 
friends, and nothing but friends, to seek insidiously to 
enslave us, to brand us with the hall-mark of conquered 
subjects, is to outrage good faith and commit a breach 
of confidence. But Punic faith is impossible to the 
genius of the British Constitution, and our budding 
ideas of British jurisprudence are fraught with peace, 

1 There has been of late years a curious tendency of describing our 
provincial or district Kings as Chiefs or Recognised Chiefs. This is 
very much to be regretted. The erroneous appellation is obviously a 
disturbing element in the native economy of concentric government. 



APPENDIX B. 317 

fair play, and justice especially justice. From 
sources of information available, we learn that 
Elmina is the only place that may be rightly called 
a settlement or colony, having been founded by the 
Portuguese in 1481, l under the auspices of King 
John II. We can have no objection to this statement 
so far as Elmina is concerned. The Portuguese may 
have founded St. George delta Mina, but certainly not 
Dina, so that even this point can only be conceded 
with a very large grain of salt. 

How then did we come into contact with Her 
Majesty's Government ? 

Three hundred and sixty-one years ago, in the 
reign of Edward IV., certain English adventurers 
made their first appearance on the coast in competi- 
tion with the Portuguese traders already in posses- 
sion. It was not until eighty-eight years after, 
however, when James I. was King of England, that 
the successors of those English enterprising mer- 
chants obtained a firm footing in the country. 
They found their way to Grand Cormantine, where in 
course of time they established friendly relations 
with the people and built a fort, in 1624. Not being 
molested by the natives, they extended their borders. 
In process of time Europe scrambled for places on 
the coast where she might be permitted to trade, 

1 Some writers make out that Elmina was founded by a French 
Company of Dieppe and Rouen, who built the first Gold Coast fort 
in 1383. 



318 APPENDIX B. 

and so it came to pass that not only Portuguese 
and English, but Dutch, Danish, Swedish, French, 
and German merchants arrived in our midst and 
established forts and factories. But they proved to 
be treacherous specimens of European civilisation. 
These colonists, or settlers, who will ever merit the 
severest censure and the utmost reprobation, repaid 
the kindness and hospitality of our ancestors by 
making human traffic a most lucrative industry, and 
by deporting thousands of the people as slaves for 
their cotton-fields in the West Indies and America. 
In 1662 a charter was granted to an English company 
for the purpose of trading with the Gold Coast. 
Ten years subsequently the Royal African Company 
appeared on the scene, and after making some 
extensions and improvements on the Castle at Cape 
Coast Castle, proceeded to build other fortifications, 
such as Fort James (Accra, 1662), Commenda (1681), 
Sekundi (1685), Dixcove (1691), Winnebah (1694), 
and Anamabu (1753). Seventy-eight years after- 
wards "the African Company of Merchants" was 
constituted by Act of Parliament, " with liberty to 
trade and form establishments on the West Coast of 
Africa, between 20 degrees N. and 20 degrees S. Lat." 
These places, known as settlements from the point 
of view of the natives, by reason of the Europeans 
who had settled in the country, were transferred 
seventy-one years afterwards, rightly or wrongly, to 



APPENDIX B. 319 

the Crown and placed under the Government of Sierra 
Leone, from which they were finally separated in 1874 
under the ill-starred title of the Gold Coast Colony. 

In 1872 the Dutch Government exchanged their 
forts (fifteen in number), and only their forts, with 
Great Britain (which had prior to that taken over by 
purchase all the Danish forts) , an action the clumsi- 
ness of which brought about the Ashanti War of 
187374. 

So, then, history establishes the fact that the term 
Gold Coast Colony, or Settlement, has no reference to 
us whatsoever as natives of the soil, but is exclusively 
applicable to those European merchants and followers 
who came to settle in the country for the purposes 
of trade, in years gone by. British possessions on 
the Gold Coast, therefore, are the actual forts dotted 
here and there on the littoral, many of which arc to- 
day inhabited by colonies or settlements of bats and moles. 
We somehow, either through lack of intelligent 
appreciation of the fact, or through the peculiar 
conditions of scattered interests in political matters 
in the country, acquiesced in a sense to be called a 
colony, where we should have made a firm stand 
against the applicability of the misnomer; and 
thereby hangs our tale of woe. But if not a colony 
or settlement as natives, what then is our relation- 
ship to the British Empire ? How should we be 
designated ? There is happily another word with 



320 APPENDIX B. 

which we are all familiar, and which accurately 
explains on the face of it the position of affairs, 
and that is the term ''protectorate." Up to the time 
of His Excellency Sir William Brandford Griffith, 
K.C.M.G., and until quite recently, the country 
was officially known as the " Gold Coast Colony 
and Protectorate," to distinguish, let us suppose, 
the people inhabiting the littoral and those in the 
far interior. And what is a Protectorate ? We refer 
to Webster's International Dictionary again : " The 
authority assumed by a superior power over an inferior 
or a dependent one, whereby the former protects the 
latter from invasion and shares in the management 
of its affairs." 

The description portrayed in this definition suits 
the country and its inhabitants most admirably, and 
the Government should, therefore, be known as the 
Gold Coast Protectorate and not a colonial Govern- 
ment pure and simple. If we had insisted on this 
ancient but correct title, such anomalous Ordinances 
as the Native Jurisdiction Bill, the Land Bill, 1897, 
the Compulsory Labour Ordinance, and others after 
their kind, could never have had in this country a 
local habitation and a name. 

Hitherto our successive Governors have been lead- 
ing us on a down-grade tendency in respect of our 
inalienable aboriginal rights ; it was left, however, 
for the present Administration to give the stroke of 



APPENDIX B. 321 

policy, hence the vigorous attack of the Legislative 
Council to make null and void the immemorial titles 
of the natives to the land of their ancestors. Yet in 
our heart of hearts we cannot in strict justice or in 
reason blame our present Governor. 

Sir William Maxwell hails from the Straits Settle- 
ments, or Colony for the terms are interchangeable 
on the West Coast of the Malay Peninsula to the 
Gold Coast Settlements, or Colony, on the West Coast 
of Africa. He arrives with preconceived notions 
and ideas. He conies fully au courant of those ele- 
ments that constitute a colony. If he leaves one 
colony to administer the affairs of another colony 
under the same authority and power, he cannot be 
held as having committed an unpardonable offence 
if he proceeds to carry out conscientiously and faith- 
fully the regime that obtains in the colony from 
whence he comes. He shows himself more con- 
sistent than most of his predecessors, and for taking 
such a bold attitude he should be worthy of our 
admiration and respect ; for until he learns more 
of the peculiar history of the Gold Coast, until 
he is forced to admit that there must have been a 
reason, an irrefutable reason, why those he succeeds 
could not promulgate such a law as the Land Bill 
without detriment to the ethical code of civilised 
Governments, we should be charitable enough to 
put the very best possible construction upon all 

G.C. 21 



322 APPENDIX B. 

measures he may innocently introduce against our 
interests. 

Just a word or two touching the locus standiot the 
Straits Settlements from a political standpoint. We 
have all the more reason to do this since His Excel- 
lency the Governor appears to be fond of making, 
in season and out of season, invidious comparisons 
between West Africans and Asiatics without any appre- 
ciable regard being paid to the number of years the 
formative and civilised influences that raise up one 
nation above another had been in active operation 
in the Orient before the tide broke its maiden spray 
over this part of the world. Our usual catalogue of 
sins of omission as they appear to Europeans with 
centuries of schooling, discipline, and advantages of 
time behind them might indeed be tolerable if due 
consideration were given to such indispensable factors 
as time and tide. But enough of this, and perhaps 
more than enough. The Straits Settlements are 

(1) Singapore first occupied in 1819, and finally 
ceded to the British Government by the Sultan of 
Jahore in 1824. 

(2) Penang ceded to H.M. Government of India 
in 1786 by the Eajah of Kedah. 

(3) The Province of Wellesley also ceded by 
the Rajah of Kedah, in 1800. 

(4) The Bindings included in the Settlements for 
administrative purposes under a Resident Councillor. 



APPENDIX B. 828 

(5) Malacca captured by the English in 1795 
and retained until 1818, when it was given back 
to the Dutch ; but in pursuance of the treaty in 
Holland in 1824, it became a British possession, 
the place having been exchanged for British settle- 
ments in Sumatra. We need hardly point out 
that there are other States, such as Perak, Selangor, 
Nigri Semblia, and Pahang, which by reason of 
the fact that they have never been conquered or 
ceded, are called the Protected Malay States, 
administered under the advice of the British Kesi- 
dent-General, and subject to the paramount autho- 
rity of the Governor of the Straits Colony ; and 
we take leave to submit that the case of the Gold 
Coast is analogous to that of the Protected Malay 
States, governed by native rulers as chiefs under 
British control. 

The Legislative Court, therefore, fails to under- 
stand the pertinence of our claims to respect, and 
the reasons which compel a hostile attitude against 
any drastic Bill wherein the liberty, property, and 
other rights of the subject are seriously threatened. 

We urge then that the Gold Coast Aborigines' 
Eights Protection Society, with or without the 
co-operation of other organisations for the protection 
of aboriginal races in the British Empire, must begin 
by claiming the rightful name of " Protectorate " for 
this country, and all other things will follow in time 

212 



824 APPENDIX B. 

as a matter of course. Sublata causa, tollitur effectus 
" Remove the cause and the effect is destroyed." 

Such a change of front might at once secure 
authority for our kings and chiefs, and all coercive 
measures be done away with for ever. Once get 
England to acknowledge and baptise the colony 
with the old name, and their sense of the moral 
fitness of things would naturally induce Englishmen 
to afford us such protection as is consistent with 
our dignity and place in the Empire. 

If the society omits to regard and labour this 
initial step, and we still continue to vegetate under 
the blighting name of Colony or Settlement, we may 
clamour, clamouring never so loudly, but nothing 
good will come out of the effort ; the society will 
be, in that case, but another mountain in labour, 
and then this splendid organisation, which we feel 
sure is divinely inspired, will only exist to make 
confusion worse confounded ; but the consummation 
devoutly to be wished will still elude our grasp when 
so near to it. 

We implore the society first and foremost to clear 
the ground by casting away the rock of offence to 
which we allude, lest, with mighty protestations in 
other directions and a loud fanfare of trumpets, the 
Gold Coast Aborigines' Rights Protection Society 
parades a great name and pretensions which, on 
being subjected to the test of exact logical deductions, 



APPENDIX B. 825 

may be found wanting ; lest its precious promises 
of something exceedingly great may be inevitably 
accompanied by a performance ridiculously dispro- 
portionate. 

One word of assurance. The patriotic members 
of the society have no need to furnish or secure 
arguments in justification of their name and title. 
We are the lineal descendants of the Aborigines of 
the land known as the Gold Coast. We scorn to 
descend into puerilities in refutation of those ill- 
advised deliverances which regard the natives of 
this country as foreigners because forsooth our for- 
bears were immigrants from Timbuctoo or Takieman, 
through Mohammedan aggressions and consequent 
expatriation. First principles should teach us all 
that the Garden of Eden is the only battle-ground 
for rival claimants to acres of land in their absolute 
right. Such are the consolations of the exhaustive 
process on the last analysis. As human beings we 
are not sufficiently developed to create by successive 
fiats islands and capes, mountains and plains, &c. 
But the English law provides sufficient data in 
support of those who by long possession lay claim 
to any portion or portions of our planet as their very 
own. We do not base our indefeasible rights on the 
fact that as natives we originally sprang from the 
soil like the products of the teeth of the dragon 
Cadmus slew in Bceotia. We do maintain with the 



326 APPENDIX B. 

emphasis of simplicity that we are cib oriyines, and 
that, therefore, every inch of ground is ours and 
ours irrevocably, to have and to hold and to 
administer, and all because our ancestors were the 
first and earliest inhabitants of the protectorate, 
thousands of years ago, even before the traditional 
voyage of Hanno the Carthaginian to the Gold 
Coast. The Latins, first settling in the Apennines 
and afterwards in the Lower Tiber, have always 
been acknowledged in the history of pre-Roman 
Italy as Aborigines, and we might go on ad infinitum 
and show in what respects England, France, 
Germany, and other European countries could be 
said to be the bona Jitle possessions of the English, 
the French, the Germans, &c. But to what end ? 
We are the undisputed masters of the soil, and that 
should suffice. Stand then, my countrymen, shoulder 
to shoulder. Let unity of thought and unanimity 
of purpose prevail, and your love for the Motherland, 
its institutions and traditions, be without dissimula- 
tion. Above all, strain every nerve to remain loyal 
to the Queen, our Protector. Quit you like men, 
standing square to the great work before you, and 
with a pull, a long pull, and a pull altogether, 
depend upon it there is nothing that will ever be 
impossible to our beloved country, the Gold Coast 
Protectorate. 



327 



APPENDIX C. 
l. 

CONSTITUTION OF THE NEW FANTEE CONFEDERACY. 

To all whom it may concern. 

Whereas we, the undersigned kings and chiefs of 
Fanti, have taken into consideration the deplorable 
state of our peoples and subjects in the interior of 
the Gold Coast, and whereas we are of opinion that 
unity and concord among ourselves would conduce 
to our mutual well-being, and promote and advance 
the social and political condition of our peoples and 
subjects, who are in a state of degradation, without 
the means of education and of carrying on proper 
industry, we, the said kings and chiefs, after having 
duly discussed and considered the subject at meetings 
held at Mankessim on the 16th day of October last 
and following days, have unanimously resolved and 
agreed upon the articles hereinafter named. 

ARTICLE 1. That we, the kings and chiefs of 
Fanti here present, form ourselves into a committee 



828 APPENDIX C. 

with the view of effecting unity of purpose and of 
action between the kings and chiefs of the Fanti 
territory. 

ARTICLE 2. That we, the kings and chiefs here 
assembled, now form ourselves into a compact body 
for the purpose of more effectually bringing about 
certain improvements (hereafter to be considered) in 
the country. 

ARTICLE 8. That this compact body shall be 
recognised under the title and designation of the 
" Fanti Confederation." 

ARTICLE 4. That there shall be elected a president, 
vice-president, secretary, under-secretary, treasurer, 
and assistant treasurer. 

ARTICLE 5. That the president be elected from 
the body of kings, arid be proclaimed king-president 
of the Fanti Confederation. 

ARTICLE 6. That the vice-president, secretary and 
under-secretary, treasurer, and assistant treasurer, 
who shall constitute the ministry, be men of educa- 
tion and position. 

ARTICLE 7. That it be competent to the Fanti 
Confederation thus constituted to receive into its 
body politic any other king or kings, chief or chiefs, 
who may not now be present. 

ARTICLE 8. That it be the object of the Con- 
federation 

Section 1 . To promote friendly intercourse between 



APPENDIX C. 829 

all the kings and chiefs of Fanti, and to unite them 
for offensive and defensive purposes against their 
common enemy. 

Section 2. To direct the labours of the Con- 
federation towards the improvement of the country 
at large. 

Section 3. To make good and substantial roads 
throughout all the interior districts included in the 
Confederation. 

Section 4. To erect school-houses and establish 
schools for the education of all children within the 
Confederation, and to obtain the service of efficient 
schoolmasters. 

Section 5. To promote agricultural and industrial 
pursuits, and to endeavour to introduce such new 
plants as may hereafter become sources of profitable 
commerce to the country. 

Section 6. To develop and facilitate the working 
of the mineral and other resources of the country. 

ARTICLE 9. That an executive council be formed, 
composed of the vice-president, secretary, under- 
secretary, treasurer, and assistant treasurer, who 
shall be ex-ojficio members thereof, together with 
such others as may be hereafter from time to time 
appointed. 

ARTICLE 10. That in order that the business of 
the Confederation be properly carried on during the 
course of the year, each king and principal chief 



330 APPENDIX C. 

shall appoint two representatives, one educated, the 
other a chief or headman of the district of such king 
and principal chief, who shall attend the meetings 
which the secretary may deem necessary to convene 
for the deliberation of State matters. 

ARTICLE 11. That the representatives of the kings 
and chiefs assembled in council shall be known 
under the designation of the " Kepresentative 
Assembly of the Fanti Confederation," and that this 
assembly be called together by the secretary as State 
exigency may require. 

ARTICLE 12. That this representative assembly 
shall have the power of preparing laws, ordinances, 
bills, &c , of using proper means for effectually 
carrying out the resolutions, &c., of the Government, 
of examining any questions laid before it by the 
ministry and by any of the kings and chiefs, and, 
in fact, of exercising all the functions of a legis- 
lative body. 

ARTICLE 13. That the representative of each king 
and chief be responsible to the nation for the 
effectual carrying out of the bills, resolutions, &c., 
passed at such meetings, and approved of by the 
king-president. 

ARTICLE 14. That the appointment of the repre- 
sentatives nominated by the kings and principal chiefs 
be notified to the secretary, who shall make it known 
to all the members of the national Government. 



APPENDIX C. 331 

ARTICLE 15. That the National Assembly shall 
appoint an educated man to represent the king- 
president, and act as vice-president of the Confedera- 
tion ; and that the vice-president shall preside over 
all meetings convened by the secretary. 

ARTICLE 16. That there shall be in the month of 
October of each year a gathering of the kings, 
principal chiefs, and others within the Confederation, 
when a recapitulation of the business done by the 
Representative Assembly shall be read, and the 
programme of the ensuing year discussed. 

ARTICLE 17. That at such meetings the king- 
president shall preside, and that it be the duty of 
the king-president to sanction all laws, ordinances, 
&c., passed by the Representative Assembly, so far 
as they are compatible with the interests of the 
country. 

ARTICLE 18. That the king-president shall not 
have the power to pass any, or originate any, laws, 
resolutions, ordinances, bills, &c., nor create any 
office or appointment, excepting by, and under the 
advice of, the ministry. 

ARTICLE 19. That the representatives of the 
kings and principal chiefs hold office as members of 
the Representative Assembly for three years, at the 
expiration of which it shall be competent for the 
kings and chiefs to re-elect the same or appoint 
other representatives. 



332 APPENDIX C. 

ARTICLE 20. That the members of the ministry 
and Executive Council hold office for three years, 
and that it is competent to the National Assembly 
to re-elect all or any of them and appoint 
others. 

ARTICLE 21. That national schools be established 
at as early a period as possible in the following 
districts : Braffoo Country, Abrah, Ayan, Gomowah, 
Eckunifi, Edgimacoe, Denhia and Assin. 

ARTICLE 22. That normal schools be attached to 
each national school for the express purpose of 
educating and instructing the scholars as carpenters, 
masons, sawyers, joiners, agriculturists, smiths, 
architects, builders, &c. 

ARTICLE 23. That schools be also established, 
and schoolmistresses procured to train and teach 
the female sex, and to instruct them in the necessary 
requisites. 

ARTICLE 24. That the expense of erecting each 
school be defrayed from the national purse, but that 
each king and chief be requested to render all possible 
aid to facilitate the movement by supplying men 
and materials. 

ARTICLE 25. That in districts where there are 
Wesleyan Schools at present established the kings 
and chiefs be requested to insist on the daily attend- 
ance of all children between the ages of eight and 
fourteen. 



APPENDIX C. 333 

ARTICLE 26. That main roads be made, con- 
necting various provinces or districts with one 
another, and with the sea coast ; that the roads be 
made after the following standard, viz., fifteen feet 
broad, with good deep gutters on either side, and 
that the attention of the Confederation be first 
directed to the main road connecting Edgimacoe, 
Ayan, Ayanmain, and Mankessim, with the sea coast. 

ARTICLE 27. That the kings and principal chiefs 
be allowed a stipulated sum for the express purpose 
of maintaining the roads in proper order. 

ARTICLE 28. That a site or town, unanimously 
agreed upon, be chosen as the nominal capital of the 
Confederation, where the principal business of the 
State should be conducted. 

ARTICLE 29. That provincial assessors be 
appointed in each province or district, who shall 
perform certain judicial functions, and attend to 
the internal management thereof. 

ARTICLE 30. That it shall be the duty of the 
secretary of the Confederation 

Section 1. To convene meetings of the Represen- 
tative Assembly, for the purpose of considering 
State matters, as may appear to the ministry 
necessary. 

Section 2. To forward the decision of the Execu- 
tive Council to the representatives of the various 
provinces or districts, with instructions thereon. 



334 APPENDIX C. 

Section 3. To be the medium through which all 
important State matters be conducted. 

Section 4. To inform the king-president of the 
decision of the Representative Assembly on any reso- 
lutions, &c., and to explain to him the nature of 
whatever resolutions, &c., are passed, as well as to 
carry to the Representative Assembly his sanction 
thereof. 

Section 5. To promulgate in each province, either 
through the provincial representatives or otherwise, 
whatever resolutions, laws, &c., have been passed 
and have received the sanction of the king-president. 

Section 6. To appoint, under the advice of the 
Executive Council, subject to the sanction of the 
king-president, but countersigned by the vice-presi- 
dent, all subordinate officers in the provinces. 

Section 7. To receive the revenue of the country, 
keeping a strict account thereof, and to transmit 
monthly to the treasurer all moneys in his posses- 
sion, stating the sums obtained from the different 
sources of revenue. 

Section 8. To sign all vouchers for the treasurer's 
guidance in the payment of moneys. 

ARTICLE 31. That it be the duty of the trea- 
surer 

Section 1. To receive monthly from the secretary 
all moneys in his possession, keeping accounts 
thereof and giving him a receipt for the same. 



APPENDIX C. 335 

Section 2. To make no disbursements excepting 
under instructions, accompanied with approved 
vouchers from the secretary authorising the pay- 
ments. 

Section 3. To furnish quarterly to the secretary, 
for the information of the Representative Assembly, 
an account showing the receipts during the quarter 
and the disbursements. 

ARTICLE 32. That at the end of each quarter a 
board of officers, consisting of the vice-president, 
secretary, treasurer, and one of the kings, to 
be held for the purpose of verifying the cash in 
hand. 

ARTICLE 33. That in case the cash in hand in the 
possession of the treasurer should exceed a sum 
hereafter to be considered, the surplus should be 
placed in a depot chest, furnished with three keys, 
one of which shall be in the possession of the vice- 
president, another in that of the treasurer, and the 
third shall be retained by one of the kings. 

ARTICLE 34. That it be the duty of the under- 
secretary 

Section 1. To aid the secretary generally. 

Section 2. To hear and determine, with an assis- 
tant appointed by the secretary, cases which may be 
brought from the provincial courts. 

Section 3. To arrange important appeal cases for 
the hearing of the Executive Council, which shall 



836 APPENDIX C. 

constitute the final court of appeal of the Con- 
federation. 

Section 4. To draw up a report from accounts 
received from the provinces of the state of the roads, 
schools, &c., for the guidance of the Executive 
Council. 

ARTICLE 35. That it be the duty of the assistant 
treasurer 

Section 1. To receive all moneys from the pro- 
vincial courts, receipt the vouchers thereof, and hand 
sa'me to the secretary. 

Section 2. To keep an account of the various 
sources of revenue, and to receive the moneys 
accruing therefrom, and pay the same over to the 
secretary every fortnight. 

ARTICLE 36. That it be the duty of the provincial 
assessors 

Section 1. To hold courts in the districts to which 
they are appointed, with the assistance of the king 
or principal chief. 

Section 2. To transmit to the secretary a state- 
ment of all cases tried during each month, showing 
the decisions arrived at thereon according to a form 
hereafter to be prescribed by the Executive Council. 

Section 3. To keep an account of the summonses, 
writs, &c., issued during the month, showing the 
costs and fees thereon, as well as all fines imposed 
by them. 



APPENDIX C. 337 

Section 4. To transmit weekly to the assistant 
treasurer all moneys received by them as court fees 
or fines, with an accompanying voucher. 

Section 5. To see that the roads are made accord- 
ing to the approved standard, and that they are 
kept in proper condition. 

Section 6. To see that the national schools are 
attended by all children between the ages of eight 
and fourteen, and report thereon to the secretary. 

Section 7. To see that summonses, writs, &c., 
issuing from the British courts on the sea coast 
to any of the provincial towns are carried into effect 
with as little delay as possible, and to aid in the 
apprehension of criminals. 

AKTICLE 37. That in each province or district 
provincial courts be established, to be presided over 
by the provincial assessors. 

ARTICLE 38. That it be the duty of the Ministry 
and Executive Council 

Section 1. TO advise the king-president in all 
State matters. 

Section 2. To see that all laws, bills, ordinances, 
resolutions, &c., passed by the Kepresentative 
Assembly, after receiving the sanction of the king- 
president, are carried into effect with as little delay 
as possible. 

Section 3. To examine carefully the financial 
condition of the Confederation. 
G.C. 22 



338 APPENDIX C. 

Section 4. To hear, try, and determine all impor- 
tant appeal cases brought before it by the under- 
secretary, option being allowed any party or parties 
dissatisfied with the decision thereof to appeal to 
the British Courts, on application from which the 
minutes of the proceedings therewith will be 
forwarded. 

Section 5. To hear, presided over by the king- 
president, and assisted by any king or chief whom 
it may deem necessary to summon for that pur- 
pose, all disputes between any of the kings and 
chiefs or their peoples. 

Section 6. To determine, according to the 
majority of votes of the people, the succession to 
the stool of any king or chief. 

Section 1. To prepare laws, bills, ordinances, &c., 
for the consideration of the representative body. 

Section 8. To issue notices to the kings and 
chiefs appointing time for their annual meeting, 
and frame out the programme of such meeting. 

Section 9. To consider all applications of alli- 
ances from surrounding tribes, to present them for 
the consideration of the Representative Assembly, 
and to frame a reply thereto. 

ARTICLE 39. That three of the ex officio members 
of the Executive Council, or two ex officio and two 
non-official members, shall form a quorum of said 
council, and be competent to deliberate on all matters 



APPENDIX C. 339 

laid before it for the consideration by the secretary 
or nnder-secretary, or any other member thereof. 

ARTICLE 40. That one-third of the members com- 
posing the Representative Assembly shall form a 
quorum to discuss and deliberate on all questions 
brought before said Assembly. 

ARTICLE 41. That all laws, bills, regulations, 
ordinances, &c., be carried by the majority of votes 
in the Representative Assembly or Executive 
Council, in the latter the vice-president possessing 
a casting vote. 

ARTICLE 42. That it be the duty of the National 
Assembly, held in October of each year 

Section 1. To elect from the body of kings the 
president for the ensuing year, and to re-elect, as 
often as may appear to it fit and proper, the outgoing 
president. 

Section 2. To consider all programmes laid before 
it by the executive council. 

Section 3. To place on the stool, in cases of 
disputed succession thereto, the person elected by 
the executive council, with the concurrence of the 
principal inhabitants of the town, croom, or district. 

ARTICLE 43. That the officers of the Confedera- 
tion shall render assistance as directed by the 
executive in carrying out the wishes of the British 
Government. 

ARTICLE 44. That it be competent to the 

22-2 



340 APPENDIX C. 

Kepresentative Assembly, for the purpose of carry- 
ing on the administration of the Government, to 
pass laws, &c., for the levying of such taxes as it 
may s.eem necessary. 

ARTICLE 45. That all the articles herein above 
passed be designated " The Constitution of the 
Fanti Confederation." 

ARTICLE 46. That oaths of allegiance to the Fanti 
Confederation be taken by the kings and principal 
chiefs, which shall be held binding on their subjects 
and peoples, as well as by the principal officers of 
the Confederation and others joining it. 

ARTICLE 47. That the following oaths, in con- 
junction with that peculiar to each province, be 
administered as soon as the " Constitution " becomes 
law, to all the kings and chiefs present, to their 
captains and headmen, to the educated persons who 
express a wish to join the Confederation, and to all 
the office-bearers. 1 



2. 
THE FANTI NATIONAL EDUCATION SCHEME. 

To all to whom these presents shall come Kobena 
Entiree, Chief of Bamianko, and the undersigned 
headmen, elders and councillors, hereinafter called 
the grantors, we send greeting. 

1 Parliamentary Papers, 1873 (49), p. 3 7. 



APPENDIX C. 341 

Whereas we desire to provide for the proper educa- 
tion and technical training of the people still under 
our stool, and to aid and promote sound learning 
and religious education in the Gold Coast by raising 
a fund hereinafter to be called Mfantsi National 
Education Fund, and to appoint trustees to administer 
such fund. Now these presents witness : 

1. That the said grantors do hereby of our own 
free will authorise and fully empower the treasurer 
of the Gold Coast Colony, or other officer or person 
empowered by the Concessions Ordinance, 1900, to 
receive the rents due to us or any of us for any 
concessions granted by ourselves individually or 
collectively or our predecessors in title, to deduct 
10 per cent, out of and from all rents and monies 
so received from time to time, which shall be a first 
charge on such rents, and the same to set aside and 
pay into the Bank of British West Africa, Limited, 
at Cape Coast* Castle, or some other bank, to the 
credit of the trustees of the said Mfantsi National 
Education Fund ; and we declare that the receipt 
of the said sum by the Bank of British West Africa, 
Limited, or any person duly authorised by the said 
trustees to receive the same, shall discharge the said 
treasurer or other officer or person from seeing to 
the application thereof. 

2. We do hereby appoint His Excellency the 
Governor of the Gold Coast Colony, the senior 



342 APPENDIX C. 

native unofficial member of the Legislative Council 
of the Gold Coast, the President of the Gold Coast 
Aborigines' Eights Protection Society, the Rev. 
Andrew William Parker, of Cape Coast Castle 
(Wesleyan Minister), William Edward Sam, of Adja 
Bippo in Tarkwa, and Joseph Ephraim Casely Hay- 
ford, of Axim, barrister-at-law, to be the trustees of 
this fund. 

3. The said trustees shall have full power to 
nominate and add to their number not more than 
four persons, and on any of them ceasing to be a 
trustee the remaining trustees shall by vote fill up 
such vacancy. 

4. The said trustees shall stand possessed of and 
interested in the said money hereinbefore charged 
and made payable upon trust 

(i.) To establish and maintain a school or schools 
in the district of or other parts of the Gold 

Coast, in which children shall receive religious 
training, and be taught 

(a) To read and write the Fanti language ; 

(b) The history and geography of the Gold Coast, 

having special reference to the local institu- 
tions, customs, and usages; 

(e) Industrial and technical training ; 

(d) English 'education. 

(ii.) To establish secondary or higher-grade 
schools. 



APPENDIX C. 343 

(iii.) To found scholarships, to be called Queen 
Victoria scholarships, in aid of a liberal and pro- 
fessional education, and to encourage local literature. 

5. In the event of other chiefs, headmen, and 
persons in like manner contributing or providing to 
the aforesaid objects, power is given to the said 
trustees to add the monies hereby granted, and the 
same to administer together. 

6. Power is given to the said trustees and their 
successors to make such rules and regulations and 
to apply to the legislature of the Gold Coast Colony 
for such further powers and authorities as they may 
consider fit and proper for more perfectly and com- 
pletely carrying out the objects of these presents, 
and it is hereby declared that in every case of 
difference the decision of the majority shall prevail, 
subject to any rules and regulations then in force. 

7. And each and every one of us for himself and 
his successors in title, doth and do hereby covenant 
with each of the said trustees and their respective 
successors, that the aforesaid authority to deduct, 
set aside and pay the said ten per cent, shall not at 
any time hereafter be cancelled or recalled, and it 
is hereby declared to be irrevocable, and that each 
and all of us will from time to time and at any time 
hereinafter at the request of any of the trustees or 
their successors, do, execute and perform or cause to 
be done, executed and performed all things that may 



344 APPENDIX C. 

be requisite and necessary for fully and effectually 
vesting the said money in the said trustees and their 
successors, so as to secure and promote among the 
aboriginal inhabitants of the Gold Coast from hence- 
forth for all future generations, sound learning and 
religious education. 

As witness our hands, marks and seals, this 
day of 

The contents of this document were fully explained 
and interpreted to the said grantors in their own 
language, and it was executed after each of them 
had stated he perfectly understood the same, in the 
presence of 



345 



APPENDIX D. 

OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE AND OTHER INFORMATION. 

1. 

DRAFT of an order of the Queen in Council for 
determining the mode of exercising the power and 
jurisdiction acquired by Her Majesty within divers 
countries on the West Coast of Africa, near or 
adjacent to Her Majesty's Gold Coast Colony. 
, At the Court at Osborne House, Isle of Wight, 
the 6th day of August, 1874. 

Present : The Queen's Most Excellent Majesty, 
Lord President, Mr. Secretary Cross, Mr. Disraeli. 

Whereas, . by an Act made and passed in the 
session of Parliament, holden in the sixth and 
seventh years of Her Majesty's reign, intituled " An 
Act to remove doubts as to the exercise of power 
and jurisdiction by Her Majesty within divers 
countries and places out of Her Majesty's dominions, 
and to render the same more effectual," it was, 
amongst other things, enacted that it should be 



346 APPENDIX D. 

lawful for Her Majesty to hold, exercise, and enjoy 
any power or jurisdiction which Her Majesty then 
had, or might at any time thereafter have, within 
any country or place out of Her Majesty's dominions 
in the same and as ample a manner as if Her 
Majesty had acquired such power or jurisdiction by 
the cession or conquest of territory. And whereas 
by certain letters patent, under the great seal of the 
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, 
bearing date at Westminster the 24th day of July, 
1874, in the thirty-eighth year of Her Majesty's 
reign, Her Majesty's settlements on the Gold Coast 
and of Lagos were constituted and erected into one 
colony, under the title of the Gold Coast Colony, 
and a Legislative Council was appointed for the 
same colony, with certain powers and authority to 
legislate for the said colony, as by the said Letters 
Patent, reference being had thereto will more fully 
appear. And whereas Her Majesty hath acquired 
power and jurisdiction within divers countries on 
the West Coast of Africa, near or adjacent to Her 
Majesty's said Gold Coast Colony, and it is expedient 
to determine the mode of exercising such power and 
jurisdiction. Now, therefore, it is hereby ordered, 
with the advice and consent of her Privy Council, 
as follows : 

1. It shall be lawful for the Legislative Council 
for the time being of the said Gold Coast Colony, 



APPENDIX D. 347 

by ordinance or ordinances, to exercise and provide 
for giving effect to all such powers and jurisdiction 
as Her Majesty may at any time, before or after the 
passing of this order in council, have acquired in 
the said territories adjacent to the Gold Coast 
Colony. 

2. The Governor for the time being of the said 
colony has a negative voice in the passing of all 
such ordinances as aforesaid. And the right is 
hereby reserved to Her Majesty, her heirs and 
successors, to disallow any such ordinances as afore- 
said, in whole or in part, such disallowance being 
signified to the Governor through one of Her 
Majesty's principal Secretaries of State, and also to 
make and establish from time to time, with the 
advice and consent of Parliament, or with the advice 
of her or their Privy Council, all such laws or 
ordinances as may to her or them appear necessary 
for the exercise of such powers and jurisdiction as 
aforesaid, as fully as if this order in council had not 
been made. 

3. In the making and establishing all such 
ordinances, the said Legislative Council shall con- 
form to and observe all such rules and regulations 
as may from time to time be appointed by any 
instruction or instructions issued by Her Majesty 
with the advice of her Privy Council, and, until 
further directed, the instructions in force for the time 



348 APPENDIX D. 

being as to ordinances passed by the said Legislative 
Council for the peace, order, and good government 
of the said Gold Coast Colony shall, so far as they 
may be applicable, be taken and deemed to be in 
force in respect of ordinances passed by the said 
council by virtue of this order in council. 

4. In the construction of this order in council, 
the term "Governor" shall include the officer for 
the time being administering the Government of 
the Gold Coast Colony. 

And the Eight Honourable the Earl of Carnarvon, 
one of Her Majesty's principal Secretaries of State, 
is to give the necessary directions herein accordingly. 

(Signed) AKTHUE HELPS. 



2. 

LORD STANLEY TO LIEUTENANT-GOVERNOR HILL. 
Assessors ' Jurisdiction. 

DOWNING STREET, 

November 22nd, 1844, 

SIR, I have had under my consideration the 
correspondence noted in the accompanying schedule 
and of which papers and copies are herewith enclosed, 
and I have to acquaint you that upon the report of 
the law officers of the Crown, Her Majesty has been 



APPENDIX D. 349 

pleased to pass an order in council, herewith enclosed, 
under the Acts 6 & 7 Viet., cc. 13 and 94, appointing 
Her Majesty's settlement of Cape Coast Castle as a 
place to which persons coming within the operation 
of the last mentioned of those Acts may be sent for 
trial or punishment. 

The order, you will perceive, provides for two 
distinct classes of cases. The one, that of persons 
whom it may be deemed expedient to send from 
the neighbouring countries to be tried within Her 
Majesty's settlement; the other, that of persons 
who may have been tried in the neighbouring 
countries, but whom it is considered advisable to send 
into Her Majesty's settlement for the purpose of 
undergoing their sentences. 

As regards the first class of cases, you will of 
course bear in mind that in any trial which takes 
place the provisions of the 6 & 7 Viet., c. 94 applic- 
able to that event must be strictly observed ; and 
also, that as the jurisdiction for the trial of offenders 
sent under the provisions of the Act is given to the 
Supreme Court of the Colony only to which they are 
sent, that in the present state of the judicial insti- 
tutions on the Gold Coast, such offenders would 
require to be forwarded thence to Sierra Leone for 
trial. 

For practical purposes, therefore, as yet at all 
events, his power is not likely to be of any general 



350 APPENDIX D. 

utility. The powers, however, given under the 
second head will, I apprehend, greatly facilitate the 
working of the system which has grown up in our 
relations with the tribes surrounding the forts under 
your government. 

It being necessary to provide for the appointment 
of persons to be specially empowered to exercise the 
powers conferred by the different sections of the 
6 & 7 Viet., c. 94, 1 send you additional instructions, 
under the sign manual, giving you the requisite 
authority, both to act yourself and to nominate 
others for the same purpose ; and I have, as you 
will perceive, taken the opportunity of providing for 
Mr. Maclean's absence or inability to discharge the 
duties of assessor to the sovereigns and chiefs of the 
neighbouring tribes by making a fresh appointment 
to the office, including yourself and others with him, 
as such assessors having power to act either jointly 
or severally. 

Should Mr. Cloustun, the gentleman whom you 
have appointed as reported in your despatch, No. 27 
of June 16th last, to officiate for Mr. Maclean, not 
be already in the commission of the peace, or his 
name not stand first or second upon it, it will of 
course be necessary that a new commission should 
be issued. 

I presume that the magistrates and gaoler at the 
gaol at Cape Coast Castle are already the persons to 



APPENDIX D. 351 

whom it appertains to carry into effect there any 
sentences which may have been passed by the 
Supreme Court at Sierra Leone. 

Should that, however, be not the case, appoint- 
ments to that effect ought forthwith to be made, 
and I have instructed the Governor of Sierra Leone 
accordingly, it being necessary, under the 5th 
section of the 6 & 7 Viet., c. 94, that the persons 
to give effect within any colony to sentences passed 
out of it should be " magistrates, gaolers, or other 
officers to whom it may appertain to give effect 
to any sentence passed by the Supreme Court 
exercising criminal jurisdiction within such colony." 

The royal instructions, you will perceive, also 
provide for the appointment of persons having the 
authority to exercise the powers given by the 6th 
section of the 6 & 7 Viet., c. 94, relative to the 
transportation of convicts ; but you will clearly 
understand that, although it has been considered 
expedient to provide by the instrument the machinery 
necessary for bringing into operation all the powers 
conferred by the Act, yet that you are not to con- 
sider yourself at liberty, in any case, to exercise or 
permit the exercise of that relative to transportation 
without special instructions from the Secretary of 
State. 

Although likewise the instructions, as before 
observed, provide for the exercise of the office of 



352 APPENDIX D. 

assessor by several persons jointly, as well as by one 
person, you will not on that account make any altera- 
tion in the practice which has hitherto prevailed of 
leaving the duties to be executed by one person. 

You will bear in mind that the power of the 
assessor, in his judicial capacity, is not derived 
from either the Acts of Parliament above referred 
to, or from the order in council ; and further, that 
it cannot be exercised by him as such within Her 
Majesty's dominions. It must be founded on the 
assent and concurrence of the sovereign power of 
the State within which it is exercised, either express, 
as in the case of the treaty transmitted by you in 
your private and confidential despatch of the 6th of 
March last, or implied from long usage, as in the 
case of the long and general acquiescence, which 
can be shown in many districts, in the authority 
hitherto exercised by Mr. Maclean. 

You will understand that the system upon which 
Mr. Maclean has proceeded, in the exercise of 
judicial powers over the natives, is to be taken as 
the guide for the exercise of the powers of assessor 
for the future. 

It consists, in fact, in combining with an 
impartial investigation of the cases brought before 
him, a mitigation of the severity of the sentences 
which in such cases would be awarded by native 
judges in the event of conviction. I need not 



APPENDIX D. 353 

therefore instruct you to caution the asaessor of 
the necessity for a lenient exercise of the discretion 
entrusted to him ; but in the event of his deeming 
capital punishment in any case inevitable, you will 
instruct him that the execution must be carried into 
effect by the native authorities, and take place in 
the country in which the offender is tried. 

Having thus, as far as possible, brought the very' 
peculiar case of the jurisdiction exercised among 
the tribes in the neighbourhood of the forts on the 
Gold Coast within the operation of the Acts of 
Parliament referred to in the commencement of 
this despatch, it only remains for me further to 
observe that I am not to be understood as affirming 
that the exercise of that jurisdiction is not capable 
of being justified and maintained independently of 
any such express sanction of the Legislature. 

It is a jurisdiction which had its origin in a 
desire to mitigate, by the influence of Christianity 
and civilisation, the effect of cruel and barbarous 
customs ; it has been brought into operation upon 
a state of society, and under relation to savage 
tribes, necessitating a neglect of all technical rules 
and observances. In its effects, it has undeniably 
been the means of insuring justice, preventing 
cruelty, and promoting civilisation ; and I must 
guard myself against being supposed, because I 
endeavour to give it the aid of the forms I have 

G.C. 23 



354 APPENDIX D. 

averted to, to assume that the general principles 
of the law of England are not comprehensive enough 
to allow for the necessities which such a state of 
circumstances as exist on the Gold Coast unavoid- 
ably "creates, and to justify those measures by 
which such necessities, when created, can alone be 
adequately provided for. 

I have, &c., 

(Signed) STANLEY. 
Lieut. -Governor Hill, &c. 



3. 

THE EARL OF CARNARVON TO GOVERNOR STRAHAN. 

DOWNING STREET, 

August 10th, 1874. 

SIR, In my despatch of the 20th instant, I had 
the honour to forward to you an order made by 
Her Majesty in Council, which delegates to the 
Legislature of the Gold Coast the exercise by 
ordinance or ordinances of such power and juris- 
diction as Her Majesty has or may at any time have 
acquired in the territories adjacent to the Gold 
Coast Colony. 

2. The Legislature of the Gold Coast settlements 
has from time to time enacted ordinances which 
were intended to take effect beyond the local limits 



APPENDIX D. 355 

of the British settlements of the Gold Coast. 
Doubts, however, have been entertained as to the 
validity and force of such legislation, and in 1855 
the law officers reported that such assumption of 
authority was not justified. 

3. Her Majesty's Government having decided to 
establish a new colony and legislative council for 
the settlements of the Gold Coast and Lagos, 
vesting in that council the power to legislate for the 
protected territories on the Gold Coast, the law 
officers were requested to report upon the subject ; 
and in accordance with their opinion, of which I 
annex a copy for your private information, the order 
in council already transmitted to you was passed. 
By this order the local Legislature is (subject to 
the conditions and reservations therein specified) 
clothed with whatever legislative authority Her 
Majesty has or may hereafter claim to exercise on 
the Gold Coast. 

4. This having been done, it becomes advisable 
to define as clearly as may be the extent of Her 
Majesty's power and jurisdiction, so as to prevent 
misunderstandings in future, and to enable the 
colonial Legislature to know on what subjects it 
may properly legislate. 

5. I need not here examine in detail the origin 
and history of the peculiar jurisdiction exercised 
by this country in the protected territories of the 

232 



356 APPENDIX D. 

Gold Coast. Carried to its highest development 
under Governor Maclean, its existence is first 
authoritatively recorded and recognised in the 
report of the House of Commons committee of 
1842,- which, in recommending the continuance of 
the system, suggested that it should be made the 
subject of distinct agreement with the native chiefs. 
That recommendation resulted in the negotiation 
with the native chiefs of the document called the 
" Bond " of the 6th of March, 1844, which is the only 
document purporting to define the extent of the 
Queen's jurisdiction on the Gold Coast in other 
than strictly political matters. But that definition, 
either from being an inadequate representation of 
the facts as they then existed, or from change of 
circumstances, no longer truly expresses what Her 
Majesty's Government believe to be the extent and 
scope of Her Majesty's power. 

6. The Bond grants to Her Majesty's officers the 
right to try and punish crimes and offences and to 
repress human sacrifices, panyarring, and other 
unlawful acts and barbarous customs. It is silent 
as to the Queen's right by her officers and delegates, 
to collect customs, to administer civil justice, to 
legislate for the public health, or erect municipalities, 
to provide for education, to construct roads and 
regulate the industrial and social economy of the 
protectorate. On all these matters the Legislature 



APPENDIX D. 357 

or Government of the settlement has, with or without 
the co-operation of the native rulers, exercised 
authority to an extent which, strictly speaking, 
could only be justified on the assumption (the 
justice of which I am satisfied is not open to 
question) that these matters have by usage and 
by the sufferance and tacit assent of the natives 
fallen within the province of the Queen's authority. 

7. The necessity of some more adequate defini- 
tion of the Queen's authority than the obsolete 
Bond of 1844 being thus apparent, it remains to be 
considered whether that definition should take the 
form of a bond to be negotiated with the chiefs, as 
in 1844, or a proclamation emanating from the sole 
authority of the Queen. 

8. In 1844 the method of proceeding by negotia- 
tion was recommended by obvious considerations of 
prudence. But in the thirty years which have since 
elapsed the power and resources of the British 
Government have been gradually increasing, until, 
by the recent victories of the British forces, they 
have been so strengthened and consolidated as to 
render an act of sovereign power, such as a 
proclamation of the Queen, the only appropriate 
mode of proceeding for the attainment of the desired 
object. It may be added that there are many 
objections of policy to proceeding by way of negotia- 
tion. It is not for Her Majesty to take as a grant 



358 APPENDIX D. 

what is already claimed and held as a right ; whilst, 
looking to the number of petty chiefs on the coast, 
and the obscurity in which their relations with one 
another are involved, there would be some danger 
of not inviting the concurrence of chiefs who might 
afterwards allege; and with a certain show of reason, 
that their consent was as requisite as that of others 
whose co-operation had been asked and given. 
Besides this, the Government would be placed in a 
position of much embarrassment if any considerable 
body of chiefs refused their consent in part or in 
whole to the proposed treaty. 

9. On the other hand, I should be anxious to 
avoid the risk, if any, attendant upon this manner 
of proceeding of alienating the feelings of the 
natives ; and I am fully alive to the importance of 
their willing co-operation in the work of promoting 
the civilisation and prosperity of the protectorate. 
The nature of the proposed terms are such as, if not 
fully and clearly explained, might excite the alarm 
and aversion of the less intelligent rulers, whilst a 
too hasty assumption of authority might create a 
feeling of discontent, and possibly lead them to seek 
alliances beyond the protectorate with tribes hostile 
to our power. 

10. Before coming to any conclusion as to the 
best mode of procedure, I desire to know your 
opinion on a question which is, perhaps, as difficult 



.APPENDIX D. 359 

as any that you may be called on to deal with, and 
one that demands the exercise of the most delicate 
tact and judgment. I enclose a draft of a pro- 
clamation which I have caused to be prepared for 
consideration. 

11. In denning the nature of the Queen's pro- 
tectorate on the Gold Coast, it may be well also to 
define and limit the local extent of that protectorate. 

12. What may be termed the natural boundaries 
of the protectorate to the north and east are to a 
great extent marked out by a course of the Prah and 
the Volta, and the lagoon dividing Quittah from the 
sea ; but considerations connected with the protec- 
tion of trade and the collection of revenue may 
compel your Government to plant establishments or 
exercise jurisdiction in parts of the Ahoonah country 
lying to the east of the Volta and behind the lagoon. 
The question of the northern limit of the protec- 
torate towards the Croboe and Aquamoo country will 
also call for careful examination in connection with 
the request of the Aquamoo people to be included in 
the protectorate, recently reported by Dr. Goulds- 
bury ; and it may be worthy of consideration whether 
some limitation should not be put on what are 
usually regarded as the boundaries of British juris- 
diction in the little known regions of the north-west. 

13. Up to this point I have confined my obser- 
vations to the protectorate adjacent to the Gold 



360 APPENDIX D. 

Coast settlement ; but a further question of grave 
importance presses for consideration, with reference 
to the boundaries of British territory and the British 
protectorate at Lagos, for it will not have escaped 
your notice that the language of the order in council 
in effect delegates to the local Legislature Her 
Majesty's rights over the protectorates. As bearing 
upon this point, I may refer you to Lord Kimberley's 
despatch of April 5th, 1873, to Governor Keate. 

14. You are well aware that the effect of including, 
under the same provisions and procedure, the area 
of country which has been called the Protectorate of 
Lagos, would have to be seriously considered as 
possibly involving us in difficulties with the neigh- 
bouring nations, which might prove deeply injurious 
to the prosperity of that settlement. The history of 
our relations with the protected territories of Lagos 
differs entirely from that of our relations with the 
protected territories on the Gold Coast. Her 
Majesty's Government have not assumed to so great 
an extent at Lagos as at the Gold Coast the direction 
of political and other affairs, and the Queen's forces 
have not at Lagos, as on the Gold Coast, been 
associated with the native powers in hostile alliances 
against a powerful common foe. For these reasons 
I am inclined to think that the Queen's authority as 
a protecting power need not, under present circum- 
stances, be declared to extend to the Protectorate of 



APPENDIX D. 361 

Lagos, as proposed to be defined in the draft pro- 
clamation ; although, of course, under our treaty 
engagements, we must continue to exercise a control 
over the affairs of that part of the coast, and in some 
sense to discharge the functions of a protecting 
power. 

15. I have to request your opinion and criticisms, 
together with those of Mr. Chalmers, on the draft 
proclamation, as well as on the form it should 
assume, and the territories to which it should be 
declared to extend. I shall be glad to receive your 
answer as soon as you feel yourself able to come to 
a conclusion on the various questions contained in 
this despatch. 

16. If, contrary to my expectations, it should 
seem desirable to proceed by treaty engagements 
with the native chiefs, the draft proclamation, with 
due alterations of phrase, will probably suffice as a 
draft of the bond which those chiefs would be required 
to sign. But I have to request that you will apply 
to me confidentially for further instructions before 
taking any open action in the matter. 

17. I need hardly add that, in the meantime, it 
will not be desirable for the Legislative Council, 
unless some very special emergency should arise, to 
attempt to exercise the powers vested in them by the 
recent order in council. 

18. There remains the question of the existence 



362 APPENDIX D. 

of slavery within the range of the Queen's influence 
and authority. It is one surrounded by many and 
serious difficulties, but it is also one which affects, 
by its existence, not only the honour and traditional 
policy of this country, but the welfare and good 
government of the Gold Coast. It has ever since I 
received the seals of this office engaged my anxious 
attention ; and though Her Majesty's Government 
could not consent to have the decision of it forced 
upon them and to be pledged to some precipitate 
and probably ill-considered course of action, they 
have at no time abandoned the hope and intention 
of extinguishing an evil which they have been 
compelled to tolerate, but in which they have never 
acquiesced. The time has now, in my opinion, 
arrived when at least the possibility of dealing with 
this important question may receive a careful and 
dispassionate consideration ; and I propose to address 
you in another despatch on this subject. 
I have, etc., 

(Signed) CARNARVON. 



APPENDIX D. 363 

4. 

DRAFT OF A PROCLAMATION DEFINING THE NATURE AND 
EXTENT OF THE QUEEN'S JURISDICTION ON THE 
GOLD COAST. 

Victoria, by the Grace of God, of the United 
Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, Queen, 
Defender of the Faith, to all to whom these presents 
shall come, greeting : 

Whereas, by an Act of Parliament made and 
passed in the session of Parliament holden in the 
sixth and seventh years of our reign, intituled, 
" An Act to remove Doubts as to the Exercise of 
Power and Jurisdiction by Her Majesty within 
divers Countries and Places out of Her Majesty's 
Dominions, and to render the same more effectual," 
it is, amongst other things, enacted that it is 
and shall be lawful for us to hold, exercise, and 
enjoy any power or jurisdiction which we now 
have, or may at any time hereafter have, within 
any country or place out of our dominions, in the 
same and as ample a manner as if we had acquired 
such power or jurisdiction by the cession or conquest 
of territory : 

And whereas we have by grant, treaty, usage, 
sufferance, and other lawful means acquired, and do 
hold, exercise, and enjoy power and jurisdiction in 



364 APPENDIX D. 

divers countries on the West Coast of Africa, near or 
adjacent to our Gold Coast Colony : 

And whereas by an Order made by us in Council, 
bearing date at Osborne House, on the 6th day of 
August, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight 
hundred and seventy-four, it was, amongst other 
things, ordered that it should be lawful for the 
Legislative Council of our said Gold Coast Colony 
for the time being, by ordinance or ordinances, to 
exercise and provide for giving effect to all such 
power and jurisdiction as we might at any time, 
either before or after the passing of the said Order 
in Council, have acquired in the said territories 
adjacent to the Gold Coast Colony : 

And whereas the extent and nature of our power 
and jurisdiction, as now actually holden, exercised 
and employed by us in the said territories, have not 
been anywhere by us fully declared : 

And whereas it is expedient, for the guidance 
and information, as well as of the Legislature of 
our said Gold Coast Colony as for that of the 
native chiefs and rulers living under our protec- 
tion in the said territories, that the nature of em- 
power and jurisdiction, as well as their local limits, 
be declared by us. Therefore we do declare as 
follows : 

Our power and jurisdiction which we have acquired 
as aforesaid extend, amongst other things, to 



APPENDIX D. 365 

I. The preservation of the public peace and the 
protection of individuals and property. 

II. The administration of civil and criminal 
justice, including : 

(1) The constitution and regulation of a superior 
court of justice, such as that which has been 
hitherto known as the Judicial Assessor's Court, 
of district magistrates' courts, native courts, and 
such other courts as it may from time to time 
be deemed expedient to create. 

(2) The enactment of laws relating to crimes, 
wrongs, personal rights, contracts, property 
rights, and fiduciary relations similar to those 
prevailing in our Gold Coast Colony, but framed 
with due regard to native law and customs where 
they are not repugnant to justice, equity, and 
good conscience. 

(3) The determination of appeals from native 
tribunals to magistrates or to some superior 
Court. 

(4) The apprehension and trial of criminals and 
offenders of all kinds in any part of the said 
territories. 

(5) The supervision and regulation of native 
prisons. 

III. The extinction of human sacrifices, panyar- 
ring, judicial torture, and other immoral, barbarous, 
and cruel customs. 



366 APPENDIX D. 

IV. The abolition of slave trading. 

V. Measures with regard to domestic slavery and 
pawning. 

VI. The protection and encouragement of trade 
and traders, including the construction, maintenance, 
and improvement of roads, paths, bridges, harbour 
works, waterways, telegraphs, and other public works 
which benefit trade and promote civilisation. 

VII. The maintenance of an armed police force 
for the preservation of internal order and the pre- 
vention of foreign aggression, and the organisation 
of the military forces of the native rulers in alliance 
with her Majesty. 

VIII. The settling by the authority of the 
Governor of our Gold Coast Colony of disputes 
arising between different chiefs and rulers in the 
said territories. 

IX. The promotion of the public health, including 
the imposition, with the assent of the native chiefs, 
of sanitary rates in towns and villages. 

X. The establishment of municipalities. 

XI. Public education, including industrial and 
religious training. 

XII. The raising of a revenue by licences and 
customs, and by such direct imposts as the native 
chiefs and rulers, or a major part of them, may 
agree to. 

And further, we declare that the undermentioned 



APPENDIX D. 367 

territories are those within which at the present time 
we have power and jurisdiction as aforesaid. 

(List of territories to be inserted by the local 
authorities in the first instance.) 



5. 

FANTEE CHIEFS. 
(Bond, 6th March, 1844.) 

1. Whereas power and jurisdiction have been 
exercised for and on behalf of Her Majesty the Queen 
of Great Britain and Ireland, within divers countries 
and places adjacent to Her Majesty's forts and settle- 
ments on the Gold Coast, we, chiefs of countries and 
places so referred to, adjacent to the said forts and 
settlements, do hereby acknowledge that power and 
jurisdiction, and declare that the first objects of law 
are the protection of individuals and of property. 

2. Human sacrifices and other barbarous customs, 
such as panyarring, are abominations, and contrary 
to law. 

3. Murders, robberies, and other crimes and 
offences, will be tried and inquired of before the 
Queen's judicial officers and the chiefs of the district, 
moulding the customs of the country to the general 
principles of British law. 

Done at Cape Coast Castle, before His Excellency 



368 APPENDIX D. 

the Lieutenant-Governor, on this 6th day of March, 
in the year of our Lord 1844. 
Their 

x CUDJOE CHIBBOE, King of Denkera. 

x QUASHIE OTTOO, Chief of Abrah. 

x CHIBBOE COOMAH, Chief of Assin. 

x GEBRE, Second Chief of Assin. 

x QUASHIE ANKAH, Chief of Donadie. 

x AWOOSSIE, Chief of Dominassie. 
(Signed) QUASHIE ANKAH. 

x AMONOO, Chief of Annamaboe. 

x JOE AGGREY, Chief of Cape Coast. 

Witness my seal on the 6th day of March, 1844, 
and the 7th year of Her Majesty's reign. 
(Signed) H. W. HILL, 

Lieutenant-Governor (L.S.) 

Witnesses, and done in the presence of 

(Signed) GEORGE MACLEAN, J.P. and Assessor (s.) . 
F. POGSON, 1st W.I. Eegiment (s.), 

Commanding H.M. Troops. 
S. BANNERMAN, Adjutant of Militia and 

Police (s.). 

Blue Book: "Africa, Western Coast," p. 419. 



APPENDIX D. 869 

6. 

BRITISH CHARTER, PROVIDING FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF 
HER MAJESTY'S SETTLEMENTS ON THE GOLD COAST 
AND OF LAGOS, AND CONSTITUTING THOSE SETTLE- 
MENTS INTO A SEPARATE COLONY TO BE CALLED THE 
GOLD COAST COLONY, AND PROVIDING FOR THE 
GOVERNMENT THEREOF. Westminster, July 24//J, 
1874. 

Victoria, by the Grace of God of the United King- 
dom of Great Britain and Ireland, Queen, Defender of 
the Faith, to all to whom these presents shall come, 
greeting. 

1. Whereas, by certain Letters Patent under the 
Great Seal of our United Kingdom of Great Britain 
and Ireland, bearing date at Westminster the 19th 
day of February, 1866, in the 29th year of our reign, 
provision was made for the government of our 
settlements on the West Coast of Africa, as therein 
is more particularly described ; 

And whereas, by a supplementary commission 
under the Great Seal aforesaid, and bearing date at 
Westminster the 8th day of November, 1872, in the 
36th year of our reign, we did empower our Governor 
and Commander-in-Chief of our West Africa settle- 
ments to grant pardons to offenders in the manner 
and upon the terms therein mentioned ; 

And whereas, by our commission under the Great 

G.C. 24 



370 APPENDIX D. 

Seal aforesaid, bearing date the 25th day of July, 
1873, in the 37th year of our reign, we did constitute 
and appoint our trusty and well-beloved George 
Berkeley, Esquire (now Companion of our Most 
Distinguished Order of St. Michael and St. George), 
to be, during our will and pleasure, our Governor 
and Commander-in-Chief in and over our said West 
Africa settlements ; and whereas it is expedient that 
provision should be made for the government of our 
settlements on the Gold Coast and of Lagos, apart 
and separate from the government of our other 
settlements in the West Coast of Africa ; 

And whereas, by an Act made and passed in the 
sixth year of our reign (cap. 13), intituled " An 
Act to enable Her Majesty to provide for the Govern- 
ment of her Settlements upon the Coast of Africa 
and in the Falkland Islands," it was enacted that 
it should be lawful for us, by any commission 
under the Great Seal of our United Kingdom, or by 
any instructions under our sign-manual and signet 
accompanying and referred to in any such com- 
mission to delegate to any three or more persons 
within any of the settlements aforesaid, either in 
whole or in part, and subject to all such conditions, 
provisions, and limitations, as might be prescribed 
by any such commission or instructions, the power 
and authority to make and establish all such laws, 
institutions, and ordinances, and to constitute such 



APPENDIX D. 371 

courts and officers, and to make such provisions and 
regulations for the proceedings in such courts, and 
for the administration of justice as might be 
necessary for the peace, order, and good government 
of our subjects and others within our then present 
or future settlements on the said coast 

Now know ye that we do by these, our Letters 
Patent, under the Gre'at Seal aforesaid, declare our 
pleasure to be that our said Letters Patent of the 
19th day of February, 1866, our said supplementary 
commission of the 8th of November, 1872, and our 
said commission of the 25th day of July, 1873, 
shall be, and they are hereby revoked so far as 
regards our said settlements on the Gold Coast and 
of Lagos, or any part or parts thereof; and we do 
further declare our pleasure to be that those settle- 
ments shall constitute, and they are hereby erected 
into a separate colony under the title of the Gold 
Coast Colony. 

2. And we do further declare our pleasure to be 
that our settlements on the Gold Coast shall, as 
heretofore, and until otherwise provided by us, com- 
prise all places, settlements, and territories which 
may at any time belong to us in Western Africa, 
between the 5th degree of west longitude and the 
2nd degree of east longitude. And our settlement 
of Lagos shall, as heretofore and until otherwise 
provided by us, comprise all places, settlements, 

242 



372 APPENDIX D. 

and territories, which may at any time belong to 
us in Western Africa between the 2nd and 5th 
degrees of east longitude. 

3. And we do further declare and appoint that the 
government of the said colony shall be administered by 
a Governor duly commissioned by us on that behalf. 

4. And we do further declare our pleasure to be 
that there shall be within our* said colony a Legis- 
lative Council, which shall consist of our said 
Governor for the time being, and of such other 
persons or officers, not being less than two in 
number, from each of our said settlements, as shall 
be named or designated by or by virtue of any 
instruction or instructions or by any warrant or 
warrants to be by us for that purpose issued under 
our sign-manual and signet, and with the advice of 
our Privy Council, all of which persons or officers 
shall hold their places in the said council during our 
pleasure. 

5. And we do further, by this our commission 
under the Great Seal of our United Kingdom afore- 
said, delegate to the persons who within our said 
colony shall compose the Legislative Council thereof, 
full power and authority, subject always to such 
conditions, provisions, and limitations as may be 
presented by any commission or instructions, to 
establish such ordinances not being repugnant to 
the law of England, or to any order made or to be 



APPENDIX D. 373 

made by us with the advice of our Privy Council, 
and to establish such courts and officers, and to 
make such provisions and regulations for the pro- 
ceedings in such courts, and for the administration 
of justice, as may be necessary for the peace, order, 
' and good government of such colony. 

6. And we do further declare our pleasure to be 
that our said Governor shall have a negative voice in 
the passing of all such ordinances aforesaid : and 
we do also hereby reserve to ourselves, our heirs 
and successors, our and their right and authority to 
disallow any such ordinances as aforesaid, in the 
whole or in part, such allowance being from time to 
time signified to him through one of our principal 
Secretaries of State, and also to make and establish 
from time to time, with the advice and consent of 
Parliament, or with the advice of our and their 
Privy Council, all such laws or ordinances as may 
to us or them appear necessary for the order, peace, 
and good government of our said colony as fully as 
if these presents had not been made. 

And we do further declare our pleasure to be that 
in the making and establishing of all such ordin- 
ances, the said Legislative Council shall conform to 
and observe all such rules as may from time to time 
be directed or appointed by any instruction or 
instructions issued by us with the advice of our 
Privy Council. 



374 APPENDIX D. 

7. And we do further declare and establish that 
the laws now in force in our said colony shall con- 
tinue in force as long and as far only as they are 
not repugnant to or repealed by any ordinance 
passed by the Legislature of our said colony. 

8. And we do further declare our pleasure to be 
that, for the purpose of advising our said Governor, 
there shall be for our said colony an Executive 
Council, which shall be composed of such persons 
and constituted in such manner as may be directed 
by any instructions which may from time to time 
be addressed to our said Governor by us under our 
sign-manual and signet, and all such persons shall 
hold their places in the said council at our pleasure. 

9. And we do further authorise and empower our 
said Governor to keep and use the public seal of our 
said colony for sealing all things whatsoever that 
shall pass the said seal, and we do direct that until 
a public seal shall be provided for our said colony 
the public seal of our settlement on the Gold Coast 
shall be used as the public seal of our said colony 
for sealing all things whatsoever that shall pass the 
said seal. 

10. And we do authorise and empower our said 
Governor to make and execute in our name and on 
our behalf, under the said public seal, grants and 
dispositions of any lands which may be lawfully 
granted or disposed of by us within our said colony 



APPENDIX D. 375 

either in conformity with instructions under our 
sign-manual and signet, or in conformity with such 
regulations as are now in force, or may be made by 
him in that behalf, with the advice of our said 
Executive Council, and duly published in our said 
colony. 

11. And we do further authorise and empower 
our said Governor to constitute and appoint all such 
Judges, Commissioners of Oyer and Terminer, 
Judges of the Peace, and other necessary officers 
and ministers as may lawfully be appointed by us, 
all of whom shall hold their offices during our 
pleasure. 

12. And we do further authorise and empower our 
said Governor as he shall see occasion, in our name 
and on our behalf, when any crime has been com- 
mitted within our said colony, or for which the 
offender may be tried therein, to grant a pardon to 
any accomplice, not being the actual perpetrator of 
such crime, who shall give such information and 
evidence as shall lead to the apprehension and con- 
viction of the principal offender, and further to 
grant to any offender convicted of any crime in any 
court, or before any judge, justice, or magistrate 
within our said colony, a pardon either full or subject 
to lawful conditions or any respite of the execution 
of the sentence of any such offender, of such period 
as to him may seem fit, and to remit any fines, 



376 APPENDIX D. 

penalties, or forfeitures which may become clue and 
payable to us. 

13. And we do further authorise and empower 
our said Governor, upon sufficient cause to him 
appearing, to suspend from the exercise of his office 
within our said colony any person exercising the 
same under or by virtue of any commission or 
warrant, granted or to be granted by us in our name 
or under our authority, which suspension shall con- 
tinue and have effect only until our pleasure therein 
shall be known and signified to him. And we do 
hereby strictly require and enjoin him, in proceeding 
to any such suspension, to observe the directions in 
that behalf given to him by any instructions under 
our sign-manual and signet as may be hereafter 
addressed to our said Governor for the time being. 

14. Our will and pleasure is, and we do hereby 
direct that, in the execution of this our commission, 
and in the exercise of the command hereby vested 
in our Governor for the time being, he be resident in 
our settlement on the Gold Coast, or at such place 
or places in the territories adjacent thereto as may 
from time to time be appointed for the residence of 
our said Governor, except when the interests of our 
service may render his presence desirable in our 
settlement of Lagos. 

15. And whereas it is necessary that provision be 
made for the execution of this our commission in 



APPENDIX D. 377 

the event of the death or incapacity of our said 
Governor, or of his removal from his command, or 
of his absence from the limits of his said govern- 
ment : Now, therefore, we do further declare our 
pleasure to be that, in any such event as aforesaid, 
all and every the powers and authorities hereby 
vested in him shall be, and the same are hereby 
vested in such person as may be appointed by us 
and our sign-manual and signet, to be our Lieutenant- 
Governor of our said colony, or if there be no such 
Lieutenant-Governor therein, such person or persons 
as may be appointed by us under our sign -manual 
and signet to administer the government of our said 
colony, and in case there shall be no such person or 
persons within our said colony so appointed by us, 
then is the person for the time being administering 
the government of our said settlement of Lagos, 
who shall for such time as he administers the 
government of our said colony, be called the adminis- 
trator of the Gold Coast Colony. Provided always, 
and we do further declare our pleasure to be, that 
our Governor for the time being during the period of 
his passage by sea from either of the settlements 
aforesaid to the other of the said settlements, or 
while visiting or residing at any place in any of the 
territories adjacent thereto, shall not, for any of the 
purposes aforesaid, be considered as being absent 
from the limits of his said command. 



378 APPENDIX D. 

16. And we do further declare and direct that, 
during his absence from our said settlement on the 
Gold Coast, but while he is within the limits of his 
said command as aforesaid, our Governor may, if he 
think 'fit, appoint some person to act as his deputy 
in administering the government of our said Gold 
Coast settlement, upon such terms and conditions, 
and for such time, as he may think desirable for the 
good government of our said settlement ; and all or 
such of the powers and authorities aforesaid as our 
said Governor in his discretion shall from time to 
time think it necessary or expedient to assign to such 
deputy shall, as far as the same shall be exercisable 
within such settlement, be vested in such deputy. 

17. And we do further declare that so long as our 
said Governor, or (as the case may be) Lieutenant- 
Governor, or administrator of the Gold Coast Colony, 
shall be absent from our settlement of Lagos, all 
and every the powers and authorities, except the 
powers of suspension and pardon, hereby vested in 
our said Governor, and so far as the same shall be 
exercisable within such settlement, shall be vested in 
such person within the same as may be appointed by 
us by warrant under our sign-manual and signet to 
administer the government thereof ; and in case 
there shall not be within such settlement any such 
administrator, then we declare that the said powers 
and authorities shall, in our said settlement of 



APPENDIX D. 379 

Lagos, be vested in such person, and upon such 
terms and conditions, and for such time, as our said 
Governor, Lieutenant-Governor, or administrator of 
our Gold Coast Colony, as the case may be, shall 
provisionally from time to time appoint, subject to 
our approval. And we do further declare and provide 
that the officer for the time being administering the 
government of our said settlement of Lagos shall, in 
the discharge of such his office, conform to and 
observe such instructions as shall, for that purpose, 
be addressed to him by our said Governor in the 
execution of this our commission ; subject, never- 
theless, to all such rules and regulations in that 
behalf as may from time to time be contained in any 
instructions under our sign-manual and signet, 
addressed to our Governor for the time being of our 
said Gold Coast Colony. 

18. And we do further direct and enjoin that this 
our commission shall be read and proclaimed within 
our said respective settlements on the Gold Coast 
and of Lagos, and that a transcript thereof shall be 
deposited and duly recorded in our said settlements, 
this our original commission being preserved within 
our settlement on the Gold Coast. 

19. And we do hereby require and command all 
officers, civil and military, and all others the 
inhabitants of our said colony, to be obedient, aiding 
and assisting unto our said Governor for the time 



380 APPENDIX D. 

being, and to the officer appointed to administer the 
government of our settlement of Lagos, in the 
execution of this our commission, and of the powers 
and authorities herein contained. 

20. And we do hereby reserve to ourselves, our 
heirs and successors, full power and authority from 
time to time to revoke, alter, or amend this our 
commission as to us or them shall seem meet. 

In witness whereof we have caused these our letters 
to be made patent. 



7. 

AT A PALAVER HELD AT GOVERNMENT HOUSE, CAPE 
COAST, MAY 10th, 1865. 1 

Present : 

His Excellency^Wm. Hackett, Lieutenant-Governor ; 
the Hon. M. K. Barry, Acting Chief Justice. 

Chiefs of Cape Coast : J. K. Thompson, Isaac 
Robertson, Quamina Mayan, Quamina Acquah, 
Quacoe Gapee. 

Quamina Acquah states, on behalf of himself and 
chiefs, that, with reference to the request of the 
Lieutenant-Governor that they should sign a paper 
ceding a portion of the town of Cape Coast to the 

1 Parliamentary Papers, 1867 (198), xlix. 45. 



APPENDIX D. 881 

Government, after consultation they had arrived at 
the following decision, which they desired should be 
interpreted to His Excellency : 

That they, the chiefs and people, knew that the 
lands in Cape Coast belong to the Queen ; that they 
themselves are under the Queen, and are protected 
by her ; that wherever the Governor resides in Cape 
Coast they considered as the Castle. That, knowing 
these things, the people think it unnecessary for the 
Governor to make such a request, viz., that they 
should sign a document giving land to the Queen, 
when the Queen had for a series of years given and 
granted the said lands without any question on their 
part. The Governor having previously explained to 
them that he had discovered in the records of the 
Government that lands were granted by the Govern- 
ment during fifty years past, the chiefs replied that 
the signing of a paper is what is doubtful to them 
and people, but they wished to remain under the 
Queen, as they were under the late King, and that 
the signing of a paper had never been required by 
any of the Lieutenant-Governor's predecessors ; that 
every one knew the land to be the Queen's, and that 
therefore they begged the Governor to let them 
remain in the same position. 

(Signed) W. THOMPSON, 

Interpreter. 



382 



APPENDIX E. 

OTHER MATTEE. 

1. 
THE SALE OF LAND AT SEKONDI. 

The Aborigines' Rights Protection Society Petition 
the Governor. 

Important Corresponded ce . l 

AXIM, 

September 23rd, 1901. 

MAY it please your Excellency and the members 
of the Legislative Council, 

The humble petition of the Axim Branch of the 
Aborigines' Rights Protection Society showeth : 

1. That the attention of your Excellency's peti- 
tioners, has been drawn to Government Notification 
No. 355, published in the Government Gazette for 
July 27th, 1901, in regard to the sale of land by 
public auction at Sekondi, in the Gold Coast. 

1 Reproduced from West Africa of July 5th, 1902, p. 702. 



APPENDIX E. 383 

2. Your Excellency's petitioners take it that the 
said sale of land by public auction at Sekondi by the 
Colonial Government is authorised by the Towns 
(Amendment) Ordinance of 1901, under which the 
Colonial Secretary may acquire any land within the 
area of a town under the Public Lands Ordinance, 
1876, as though it were land required for the service 
of the Colony. The said Ordinance incorporates sec- 
tions 1 and 2 of clause 16 of the Towns Ordinance 
of 1892, which relates, among other things, to the 
declaring of open spaces by the Government with a 
view to the promotion of the public health. 

3. The Towns (Amendment) Ordinance of 1901, 
therefore, would seem merely to contemplate the 
acquisition of land for the public service and the 
regulation of open spaces. 

4. While your Excellency's petitioners are in full 
sympathy with the Colonial Government as regards 
the proper laying out of the several towns of the 
Gold Coast, and the promotion of the public health in 
general, they cannot shut their eyes to the course 
taken by the Government in disposing of lands so 
acquired for the use of the public at a profit to per- 
sons who may simply happen to have more means 
than the original owners. 

5. It is obvious, your Excellency's petitioners 
would humbly point out, that if the intention of the 
Government be merely the promotion of the public 



384 APPENDIX E. 

health, the same end might be secured by either 
directing the owners of the freehold areas in a given 
town to build substantial houses thereupon under 
proper regulations, failing which they might be 
directed to grant the same on lease to others able to 
raise such substantial buildings on suitable terms as 
to consideration and annual rental. Thus, the original 
owners would, as they are entitled to, be allowed 
to reap the benefit of their ancient heritage, which, 
under the working of the present Ordinance, they 
cannot do. As it is, the public, under the impres- 
sion that they are giving up their lands for the public 
service, simply alienate them to third persons at 
nominal rates, the whole advantage or profit of the 
bargain going to the Government. 

6. It may also be respectfully submitted that 
your Excellency's humble petitioners have always 
understood that one of the main principles guiding 
the administration of the Gold Coast is the protection 
of the rights of the people to their ancestral lands. 
It is clear that the operation of the Ordinance under 
discussion absolutely violates that principle. 

7. In support of the foregoing submission, your 
Excellency may be respectfully referred to the 
Keport of the Proceedings of the Deputation of the 
Kings and Chiefs of the Western Province to the 
Colonial Secretary re the Lands Bill of 1897. At 
page 3 of the report of the interview, Mr. Chamberlain 



APPENDIX E. 385 

is reported to have said, in answer to Mr. Grant : 
" I should like the chiefs to know what the object 
of the Government at any rate has been in pro- 
posing any legislation. The main object, almost 
the sole object, is to protect the chiefs against the 
action of speculators, who, in many cases, get hold 
of their land for insufficient consideration and with- 
out regard to the various interests in the land. For 
instance, a chief sells his land for a perfectly insuffi- 
cient consideration : the interests of the tribe are 
not considered at all in that case, and the Govern- 
ment desires that the interests of the. whole population 
the whole of the tribe as well as of the chief and 
of the Government should be taken into account 
whenever a concession is arranged ; that a speculator 
from this country should not be able, trading upon 
the weakness of a chief, to get his land for a mere 
nothing, and to oust from it those to whom really it 
in right belongs." 

8. TW T O or three reflections occur to your 
Excellency's humble petitioners upon reading the 
above extracts from Mr. Chamberlain's reply to Mr. 
Grant : 

(a) It is obvious that in the acquisition of land by 
the Government under any Ordinances, past 
or present, the native chief or, for that matter, 
any other native from whom land is sought 
to be acquired, deals with the Government 
G.C. 25 



386 APPENDIX E. 

at a disadvantage. As a matter of general 
experience, under the Public Lands Ordinance, 
the Government has practically the right of 
saying how much it would give as consideration 
for the land in question. Therefore, it is clear 
that the Government, consciously or uncon- 
sciously, takes advantage of the weakness of 
the native with whom it deals, thus going 
diametrically against the principle enunciated 
by Mr. Chamberlain in his answer just 
quoted. 

(b) It is equally obvious that the native who 
thus deals with the Government sells his lands 
for a perfectly insufficient consideration, and it 
is a well-known fact that few natives would ever 
part with their lands to the Government were 
it not for the fear that the same might be 
forfeited if they held out. Thus, again, it is 
clear that the interests of the natives are not at 
all considered in such a case, and, therefore, 
the colonial Government directly goes against 
the desire of Mr. Chamberlain expressed in the 
foregoing answer. 

9.- Your Excellency's petitioners may be per- 
mitted humbly to enquire in what way the native is 
supposed to be protected in his rights under the 
Ordinance, when it is quite clear that, if he were 
allowed to make a fair bargain in granting leaseholds 



APPENDIX E. 387 

of lands he may hold in a town area, the "tribe," 
or the successors of such grantor, would draw sub- 
stantial rents for, say, a period of fifty years, the 
tenement raised upon his land falling to the reversion 
after the lapse of the lease. 

10. It occurs, therefore, to the Aborigines of the 
country, whom we have the honour of representing, 
that while they in good faith, and with all due 
loyalty to the Government, freely give up their land 
for a nominal consideration for the use of the public, 
the protectors of the Aborigines directly turn such 
lands to uses which were not contemplated by the 
Aborigines in so parting with their lands. This, 
your Excellency's humble petitioners would point 
out, is a great hardship. 

11. Your Excellency's attention may respectfully 
be drawn to the fact that the operation of the Towns 
(Amendment) Ordinance of 1901 practically intro- 
duces the principle of vesting the lands of the country 
in the Crown, which your Excellency's petitioners 
were made to understand in the case of the pro- 
posed Lands Bill was not the intention of the 
Government. As such, your Excellency's peti- 
tioners view with grave apprehension the existence 
of the said Ordinance upon the Statute Book of the 
country. 

12. Therefore, your Excellency's petitioners pray 
that the Governor in Council may be pleased to 

252 



388 APPENDIX E. 

repeal the Towns (Amendment) Ordinance of 1901, 
or amend it in such a way as to give the native 
landowner the opportunity and the right of granting 
leaseholds for the purpose of erecting houses or 
buildings thereupon, and, as in duty bound, your 
Excellency's humble petitioners will ever pray. 

We have the honour to be, 
Your Excellency's most obedient humble Servants, 

(Signed] S. SACOOM, President. 
,, A. BISSOE, Secretary. 

To His EXCELLENCY, 

THE GOVERNOR IN COUNCIL, ACCRA. 



SEKONDI, 

October 9th, 1901. 

SIR, The communication dated September 23rd, 
signed by yourself and Mr. Bissoe, purporting to be 
a petition on behalf of the Axim branch of the 
Aborigines' Rights Protection Society in connection 
with the acquisition of certain lands at Sekondi by 
the Government of the Gold Coast, was received by 
the Governor at Tarkwa this morning. Before 
replying to it, His Excellency would be obliged by 
your informing him as to when this body you state 
that you represent was formed, who are its members, 
the dates on which they joined the body, and the 



APPENDIX E. 389 

authority under which they claim to represent the 
Aborigines of this country. 

I have the honour to be, Sir, 

Your most obedient Servant, 
STUART M. VINES, 

Private Secretary. 
S. SACOOM, ESQ., 
AXIM. 



AXIM, 

October Utli, 1901. 

May it please your Excellency, We beg leave 
respectfully to acknowledge the receipt of your 
Excellency's letter, bearing date October 9th, 1901, 
written at Sekondi, and signed by Stuart M. Vines, 
Private Secretary, and addressed to S. Sacoom, Esq., 
in reply to the communication dated September 23rd, 
1901, signed by us on behalf of the Executive Com- 
mittee of the Axim Branch of the Gold Coast 
Aborigines' Rights Protection Society, which said 
communication was humbly addressed to your 
Excellency and the honourable members of the 
Legislative Council. We unfortunately omitted to 
send a copy of the letter of September 23rd, 1901, to 
the Clerk of the Legislative Council. We have 
supplied that omission by transmitting to that 
officer a duplicate original of the said letter, with 
copies of the present correspondence. 



390 APPENDIX E. 

2. We note that your Excellency, before consider- 
ing the various vital questions raised in our said 
communication of September 23rd last, with the 
honourable members of the Legislative Council, is- 
desirous of being informed upon the following 
points : 

1. When the body we represent was formed. 

2. Who are its members. 

3. The dates on which they joined the body. 

4. The authority under which they claim to 

represent the Aborigines of the country. 

3. Dealing first with the last matter upon which 
your Excellency seeks information, we may state 
that the Aborigines' Eights Protection Society of the 
Gold Coast had its birth in the stirring events of 
the year 1897, in connection with, the Lands Bill of 
the late Governor Maxwell, which resulted in the 
Concessions Bill, now in force in the country. 

4. In the constitution of the body all the native 
kings and chiefs had a voice, in accordance with 
native custom, in the election of the different mem- 
bers of which it is composed.- 

5. It was the Aborigines' Eights Protection Society 
whose senior President, Mr. J. W. Sey, of Cape 
Coast, with other two prominent members, formed 
the deputation which waited upon the Secretary of 
State for the Colonies in the year 1898. 

6. Your Excellency cannot be unaware of the 



APPENDIX E. 391 

fact that Mr. Chamberlain, the present Secretary 
for the Colonies, fully recognised the deputation, 
discussing matters with it through counsel, with the 
happy result referred to in paragraph three of this 
communication. 

7. Since the return of the deputation from England, 
your Excellency's predecessor, Sir F. M. Hodgson, 
over and over again granted members of the 
Executive Committee of the Society interviews, 
whereat important issues affecting the welfare of the 
country were discussed. Your Excellency will no 
doubt find the minutes of the proceedings at such 
interviews in the Government archives at Accra. 

8. Moreover, on various occasions correspondence 
has passed between the Society and the colonial 
Government upon different matters of public 
importance. 

9. These things being so, we have only now to 
inform your Excellency that the Axim branch of 
the Aborigines' Rights Protection Society of the 
Gold Coast is a duly recognised section of the parent 
Society, which has its headquarters at Cape Coast, 
the said section being duly constituted in accordance 
with native custom, and we would respectfully ask 
that paragraph ten of our letter of September 23rd, 
1901, be read with that qualification. 

10. This section has, since the year 1897, regu- 
larly corresponded with the Colonial Government 



392 APPENDIX E. 

upon matters of public importance. To illustrate 
this we may refer your Excellency to a communica- 
tion of Acting Colonial Secretary the Honourable 
G. B. Hadding-Smith, dated June 10th, 1897, 
numbered Conf. 135/97, and addressed to A. Bissoe, 
Axim, which ran thus : " Mr. A. Bissoe is informed 
by the direction of the Secretary of State for the 
Colonies, with reference to the telegrams transmitted 
to England by him on behalf of the kings, chiefs, and 
people of Axim and Appolonia, that all representations 
of this kind must be forwarded through the Governor 
of the Gold Coast Colony, and not otherwise." 

11. The foregoing returns an answer to the first 
point upon which your Excellency asks to be 
informed ; and as to who are the members com- 
prising this section, and the dates upon which they 
joined the body, these are matters regulated entirely 
by native custom. 

12. At the same time we hope that your Excel- 
lency does not lose sight of the fact that, apart from 
the Gold Coast Aborigines' Rights Protection Society 
having the right to address your Excellency in 
Council upon matters of public importance, and of 
criticising any Government measure calculated to 
be detrimental to the interests of the community or 
any portion of it, or any member or members thereof, 
that same right is inherent in every individual 
member of the community being an Aborigine. 



APPENDIX E. 393 

13. While dealing with the various points raised 
in your Excellency's communication, we may be 
allowed, on behalf of the Aborigines of the Gold 
Coast, to point out respectfully that there is, as the 
Colonial Government is at present constituted, no 
means for the people to express their sentiments 
and opinions in relation to any course pursued by 
the Government that may be detrimental to their 
inherent rights ; and to express the hope that during 
your Excellency's administration the ventilation of 
native opinion through recognised channels will be 
encouraged than otherwise. 

14. To return to the subject-matter of our letter 
of September 23rd last, we need hardly urge that 
it is a matter affecting the vital interest of the 
Aborigines of this country, and that your Excellency 
in Council may be pleased to give it full and careful 
consideration, and thereby restore the confidence of 
the people in the intention of the Government in 
this connection. 

We have the honour to be, 

Your Excellency's humble Servants, 
S. S ACCOM, President. 
A. BISSOE, Secretary. 
On behalf of the Executive 

Committee of the Axim Branch. 

To His EXCELLENCY, THE GOVERNOR. 



394 APPENDIX E. 

GOVERNMENT HOUSE, 

ACCRA, 

November 15th, 1901. 
No. 230. 

SIR, I have the honour to acknowledge the 
receipt of the letter dated Octoher 15th, 1901, 
signed by Mr. A. Bissoe and yourself, enclosing a 
petition which you desire should be placed before 
the Legislative Council at their next meeting, and 
to suggest that you should take the steps for its 
presentation laid down in No. 8 of the Standing 
Rules and Orders of the Legislative Council, which 
is as follows : 

"Petitions shall be presented and laid on the 
table by some member of the Council, whose 
duty it will be to inform the Council, if required, 
that in his opinion the petition is properly and 
respectfully worded." 

2. I return the petition in order to enable you to 
act on the above suggestion. 

I have the honour to be, Sir, 

Your most obedient Servant, 

STUART M. VINES. 
Clerk of tl\e Legislative C 01111 ciL 

S. SACOOM, ESQ., 
AXIM. 



APPENDIX E. 395 

AXIM, 

October 15th, 1901. 

DEAR SIR, We have the honour to transmit 
herewith, to be placed before His Excellency 
the Governor and the Honourable Members of 
the Legislative Council, at the next meeting 
of the Legislative Council, the following docu- 
ments : 

1. Duplicate original petition of the Axim Branch 
of the Gold Coast Aborigines' Eights Protection 
Society, dated September 23rd, 1901, signed by 
S. Sacoom, as President and A. Bissoe, as Secretary, 
relating to the sale of lands by the Government at 
Sekondi, addressed to His Excellency the Governor 
in Council. 

2. His Excellency's letter acknowledging the 
receipt of such petition, dated October 9th, 1901, 
signed by Stuart M. Vines, Private Secretary, and 
addressed to S. Sacoom, Esq., Axim. 

3. The reply of the Axim branch of the Gold 
Coast Aborigines' Eights Protection Society to His 
Excellency's letter above referred to, dated October 
14th, 1901, and signed by S. Sacoom, as President, 
and A. Bissoe, as Secretary, on behalf of the 
Executive Committee. 

In transmitting the original petition we omitted 
to forward the same through you. We now supply 



396 APPENDIX E. 

that omission by transmitting the duplicate original 
of the petition referred to above. 

We have the honour to be, Sir, 

Your obedient, humble Servants, 
S. SACOOM, President. 
A. BISSOE, Secretary. 

To the Clerk of the Legislative Council, Accra. 



GOVERNMENT HOUSE, 
ACCRA, 

November 15tli, 1901. 
No. 229. 

SIR, I am directed by the Governor to acknow- 
ledge the receipt of your letter dated October 14th, 
1901, signed by Mr. A. Bissoe and yourself, and 
written in reply to mine dated at Sekondi on 
October 9th. 

I have the honour to be, Sir, 

Your most obedient Servant, 
STUART M. VINES, 

Private Secretary. 
S. SACOOM, ESQ., 
AXIM. 



APPENDIX E. 397 

2. 

SOME PRINCIPAL NATIVE STATES OF THE GOLD COAST, 
WITH THE NAMES OF THE PARAMOUNT KINGS. 

State. Paramount King. 

Mankessim .... .... Okra Kwa (Regent). 

Gromua .... .... .... Kojo Inkum. 

Egimaku .... .... .... Kwamin Hama. 

Ekumfi Kofi Akini. 

Anamaboe.... .... .... Amonoo V. 

Abura Otu V. 

Cape Coast .... .... Kojo Imbra. 

Denkera .... .... .... Inkwantabisa. 

Western Akim .... '.... Kofi Ahinkura. 

Eastern Akim Akwasi Duma. 

Aknapim .... .... .... Kwami Fori. 

Lower Wassaw .... .... Kwamina Enimil. 

Upper Wassaw .... .... Kwesi Wereku. 1 

1 The above list is based upon information principally to be found 
in Anaman's " Gold Coast Guide " for 1902, pp. 29-31. 



INDEX. 



A 



BONU, 57. 



Aborigines, query, whether benefited 
by the presence of the British, 4. 

Abrah, 187. 

Abura, Fanti King of, 156. Native 
state of Gold Coast, 397. King 
of, = 0tu V., 397. 

Abusa = a one-third share, 48. When 
and in respect of what payable, 
48, 49. 

Accra, ordinance applied, 111. Fort 
James at, 136. English fort at, 
136. 

Ackinie, King of Akurnfie, 208, 273. 
Arrested Oppon, for default in 
payment of award, 208. Sued by 
Oppon, 208. Judgment against, 
208. Appealed, successfully, 209. 

Acquah, Quarnina, present at 
palaver, 380. 

Adai, a custom, 96. 

Adankum, 105. 

Adansi, federal state of Kuraasi, 31. 

Adansis,the, subordinate community 
of Ashanti, 19. 

Adayi, a custom occurring every 
fortieth day, 28. National festi- 
val, 28. When king distributed 
money to chiefs, etc., in trust for 
trading, 28. 

Administrator, appointment of, 377. 

Aduasi tried for wilful murder, 146. 



Adziwa, 105. 

" African Company of Merchants," 

318. 
African (West) Exploitation and 

Development Syndicate, Ltd. v. 

Sir Alfred Kirby and others cittd, 

41. 
Agambra, township of, referred to, 

253. 
Aggery, King of Cape Coast, 162. 

Claimed jurisdiction over ground 

within a few yards of British 

forts, 162. Resisted by Governor ; 

Governor refused to recognise 

him, 162. 

Aggrey, an interpreter, 291. 
Aggrey, Joe, signed Bond, 1844, 

368. 

Agimaku, King of, 57. 
Akuapim, King of, = Quamin Fori, 

279. 
Ahanta, a native state of Gold 

Coast, 21, 253. King of, = Baidoe 

Bonso, 32. 
Ahuba = y&w. festival in Fanti States, 

85. 

Aliuba Kakraba, 85. 
A huba Kesi = great festival, 90. Real 

harvest festival, 90. Celebrated 

separately by each province, 90. 
Ahuma, Rev. Attoh, 178. Editor of 

Gold Coast Methodist Times, 178, 

311. 



400 



INDEX. 



Aikunfie, King of, = Ackinie, 274. 
Ajiman, King of Jaman, 13. Desire 

to recover gold stool, 13. 
Akataki people = the Commendas, 52. 
Originally came from Akatakiwa, 
52. A kataki= masculine form, 52. 
Akatakiwa = feminine form, 52. 
Query exact order of descent, 52. 
Branches of Inkusukum people, 52. 
Own allegiance to Essandor, 53. 
Akem country, 57. 
Akempims. See Inkidoms. 
Akempon, 154. 

Akim, Eastern. See Eastern Akim. 
Akim, Western. See Western 

Akim. 
Akropong Manasu, federal state of 

Kumasi, 31. 

Akuapim, native state of Gold 
Coast, 397. King of, = K \vami 
Fori, 397. 
Akwasi Duma, King of Eastern 

Akim, 397. 

Akwuamus = the aristocrats of Ku- 
masi, 27. Furnished the king, 
27. Consulted in all internal 
matters, 27. Assafubuaki, their 
head, 27. 

Allegiance, shown by payment of 
occasional contribution by sub- 
ordinate chief to a paramount 
chief, 48. Fee, 49. An incident 
of paramountcy, 49. = Personal 
relationship between occupants of 
stools, 51, 52. Acknowledged by 
military or other service, or fee, 
52. Has nothing to do with 
lands, 52. Essential features of, 
55. Penalty and result of transfer 
of, 55. Received at stool celebra- 
tions, 87. 

Amankwatsia, General, referred to, 
26. Chief of the Kwaintsirs, 26. 



ASH 

Amba Danquah, Regent of Southern 

Assin, 53. 

Amissah, Mr. J. F., 173. 
Ammah tried for wilful murder, 

146. 
Amonoo IV., King Anamabu, 316 r 

397. Signed Bond, 1844... 368. 
Amonoo Ekroful, 57. 
Anamaboe, referred to, 56, 57, 156. 
Native state of Gold Coast, 397. 
King of, = Amonoo V., 397. 
Anaman, " Gold Coast Guide," re- 
ferred to, 223, 397. 
Anansu Mensah, 34. 
Ankraku, a village, 22. Chief 

town of, = Ayenasi, 23. 
Ansah. See Osoo Ansah. 
Antrobm, Mr., 171. 
Apafram, festival of stool celebra- 
tion in Ashanti, 90. 
Apenquah, his case cited, 53. Sub- 
ject of the stool of King Chibbo, 
53. 

Appeals, provided for by draft pro- 
clamation, 365. 
Appolonia, State of, referred to, 23. 

Handed to Dutch, 154. 
Aquamoo country, referred to, 359. 
Arrest, power of, exerciseable by 
native kings, 274. Illegal, dam- 
ages as compensation for, 279. 
Arsafu, or Company System, 252. 
A corruption of Insefu, = friends, 
i.e., friends in arms, 252. 
Arthur, Sir Geo., 230. 
Asanti Akim, federal state of 

Kumasi, 31. 

Ashanti, rising in, referred to, 11. 
Communities owned allegiance to 
the paramount stool of, 19. Sub- 
ordinate communities of, were 
Manpons, Juabins, Kokofus, 
Beck was, Adansis, etc., 19. Stool 



INDEX. 



401 



ASH 

of Kumasi paramount stool of, 
19. Attained zenith of power 
rirst quarter of 19th century, 20. 
Occupation of, 21. War and ex- 
pedition, 21, 140 ; burden of, 
placed on the Fantis, 183. Union, 
premier state of, was Kumasi, 
26. 

Ashantis, speak same language as 
Fantis, 24. Probably the original 
type, 25. Not a barbarous, blood- 
thirsty people, 25. Fought with 
Fantis over coast-trading, 29. To 
sell real-born Ashantis, punished 
by death, 30. Did not war in 
order to immolate captives, 30. 
Desired to act as middlemen for 
distributing goods to hinterland, 
98. Query, should they be treated 
as a conquered people, or as allies ? 
241. Fusion of, with Fantis 
desirable, 241. King of, claimed 
right to direct trade relations witli 
Europe, 242. Began to trade 
directly with Assinee after the 
war, 243. 

A*sankra Breman, 41. 

Assembly, representative legislative, 
advocated, 164. And greatly re- 
quired, 165. 

Assessors, judicial. See also Jurisdic- 
tion. Kings and chiefs sat with, 
71. Their jurisdiction explained, 
etc., 165, 349. How powers to be 
exercised when assessors away, 
350. Powers not derived from 
statute, 352. Founded on assent 
and concurrence of sovereign 
power of state, and long and 
general acquiescence, and treaty, 
352. 

Assikamla = picked men of com- 
pany to guard its flag, 91. 

G.C. 



BLA 

Assin, referred to, 98, 187, 239. 
Chief of, referred to, 153. 

Ateni chief = chief of the lamp- 
lighters, 26. 

Atta, head of Province of Axim, 32. 

Attuabu, capital of a province, 23. 

Awiku, federal state of Kumasi, 31. 

Awoossie, signed the Bond, 1844, 
368. 

Axim, province of, in State of 
Ahanta, 32, 253. Head of, is 
Atta, 32. 

Ayan, 186, 187. 

Ayanmain, 186. 

Ayenasi, district of, referred to, 23. 



BAIDOE BONSO, King of 
Ahanta, 32. 

Bailey, Chief Justice, 275. 

Bannerman, Mr. Ch., of Accra, 
lawyer, wit, and publicist, 175. 

Bannerman, Mr. Edmund, 17"). 

Baunerman, Hon. Jas., 95. 

Bannerman, Mr. S., signed Bond 
1844... 368 

Bantuma Chief = chief of the Royal 
Burial Grove, 26. 

Barracoons, formerly forts served 
as, 136. 

Bat, mauuuiferous, representative of 
the departed spirit, 102. 

Beckwa, federal state of Kumasi, 31. 

Beckwas, the, subordinate com- 
munity of Ashanti, 19. 

Beyin, King of, referred to, 59. 

Bingham, Hon. Major, 121. 

Bissoe, Mr. A., secretary of Abori- 
gines' Society, 388. 

Blacks, the, have had no chance in 
America Hayti, Liberia, or 
Sierra Leone, 247. But may and 
can have in Gold Coast, 248, 
26 



402 



INDEX 



"Blacks and Whites" quoted, 21, 
177, 264. 

Blankson, Hon. G., mentioned, 
95. 

Blankson, George, 175, 185. 

Blyden, Dr., -quoted, 3. 

Boatsin, linguist of King of Ashanti, 
70. 

Bond, the, 1844, referred to, 159, 
314, 356. No longer truly 
expresses extent, etc., of Great 
Britain's power, 356. The only 
document purporting to define 
extent of Queen's jurisdiction, 
356. Grants rights to try and 
punish crimes, 356 ; to repress 
human sacrifices, 356 ; to repress 
panyarring, etc., 356. Silent as 
to collection of customs, 356 ; 
administration of civil justice, 
356 ; legislation for public 
health, 356 ; provision for edu- 
cation, 356 ; construction of 
roads, etc., 356 : which matters 
are only justified on assump- 
tion of usage, sufferance, and 
tacit assent, 357. Eeferred to 
as obsolete, 357. Printed in full, 
367. 

Bonso. See Sai Bonso. 

Bosnian, referred to, 136. His 
great work reproduced in modern 
journals, 177. 

Boundaries. British, in Gold Coast, 
none, 162. Of land, naturally 
fixed by trees, rivers Prah 
and Volta, lagoon at Quittah, 
etc., 195, 359. Maintenance of, 
310. 

Bourne, Mr. Fox : his book, " Blacks 
and Whites," referred to, 20, 21, 
177, etc. 

Brackenbury, Capt., 138. " Fanti 



CAP 

and Ashanti" quoted, 138, 158, 
etc. 

Hrempon = civil chief, 64. 

Brew, Prince, arrested, 173. 

Brew, Hon. S. C., mentioned, 
95. 

British Charter, constituting Gold 
Coast and Lagos Settlements into 
a separate colony, 369. Constitu- 
tion of Legislative Council, its 
powers and jurisdiction, 372. 
Establishment of courts and 
officers, 373. 

| British possessions on Gold Coast 
= actually only forts, 319. 

Brofoo, 187. 

Brown, Mr. J. P., 179. 

Bruce, query, illegally arrested, 279. 

Burnett, Hon. Ch. W., 121. His 
question, 123. 

Busua (near Dixcove), capital of 
Ahanta, 32. 

Busumchie Abosso, Enimil 
Koomah II. and Quasie Ankuma, 
chiefs of, 290. 

Butlers. See Royal Butlers. 



"/^ABBOCEER," term once used 
\J to distinguish chiefs of first 
importance, 33, 147. 

Calicali, King of Ashanti, 172. 

Cane-bearer of King, 204. 

Cape Coast, native state of Gold 
Coast, 397. King of, = Kojo 
Imbra, 397. Leading town of 
Gold Coast, 260. Castle, formerly 
harbour of foreign kidnappers, 
261. 

Capital Punishment, how to be 
carried out, 353. 

Captains in King's household of 
the swordbearers, stoolbearer*, 



INDEX. 



403 



CAR 

elephant's tail bearers, court- 
criers ; of the Royal butlers, 
huntsmen, farmers, physicians, 
26, etc. 

Cardwell, Rt. Hon. Edw., 147. 

Carnarvon, Earl of, letter to Gover- 
nor Strahan, 315, 354. 

Carnegie, Mr. Andrew, quoted, 4. 

Cases cited African (IVest) Ex- 
ploitation and Development Syndi- 
cate, Ltd. v. Sir Alfred Kirby and 
others, 41. Chidda Concession, 
289. Le Neve v. Le Neve, 301. 
Puncliardv. Tomkins, 301. Yates 
and Shattuck v. Garshong, 301. 
Oppon v. Ackinie, 208, 273. Re- 
gina, on the prosecution of Donovan, 
v. Kudjoe Imbrah, 281. Donovan 
v. Cudjoe Imbrah, 260. Enima v. 
Pai, 41. Hima Diki \. Agiman 
and others, 34. Homia v. Huma, 
22. Hutton v. Kuta, 202. Im- 
patassi, 49. Quamina Furi's Case, 
209. 

Cedar, 238. 

Certificate of validity, 305. Form 
and substance of, 306 et seq. 

Chalmers, Mr., opinion etc. on 
proclamation, to be obtained, 361. 

Chalmers, Sir David, Chief Magis- 
trate of Gold Coast, 71. 

Chamberlain, Mr., 171. Speech of, 
11. Reply to Aborigines' Society, 
385. 

Charter. See British Charter. 

Chibbo, King of Assin, 53. 

Chibboe Coomah, signed Bond, 1844, 
368. 

Chidda, village of, 290. 

Chidda Concession, 289, etc. 

Chief = strictly, subordinate ruler 
under the paramount king, 32. 
Used indiscriminately for king, j 



COM 

chief, or headman, 63. Ten- 
dency to describe kings as, 316. 
Properly so-called is person next 
to a king in a native state, 63. 
Head chief = principal chief of a 
king, 63. Vary in rank according 
to local importance, 63. Origi- 
nally selected by king for valour, 
intelligence, etc., 63. War chief 
= sarfuhim, 64. Civil chief = 
brepmon, 64. Generally captain 
of a company, 64. Duty to hold 
judicial Court and decide dis- 
putes, 66. Tufu Hin (which see). 
Minor chiefs accompany their 
head chiefs to palaver, 66. Shares 
in palaver, 66. Deliberates with 
king in time of war, 66. Takes 
oath of allegiance to king on king's 
enstoolment, 67. Succession to 
his stool regulated by same prin- 
ciples as those governing succes- 
sion to king's stool, 67. Judicial 
power of, 274. 

Christian Commonwealth, The, quoted, 
230. 

Cinnamon Bippo Range, 290. 

Classes, 81. Freemen, 81. Slaves, 
81. Pawns, 81. 

Cochrane, Hon. J., 171. 

Colonial Minister, course of con- 
duct, 10. 

Colonial Office, its policy, 9. Dis- 
courages national spirit, 130. 
Effect of influence with, 218. 

Colonial Secretary of Gold Coast, 225. 

Colonial Treasurer, 225. 

Colony or Protectorate ? 311. 
Definitions of, 312. 

Commenda, handed to the Dutch, 
154. 

Committee, Select, 139. To ascer- 
tain relation between Gold Coast 
262 



404 



INDEX. 



COM 

and Great Britain, 139. Report 
of, 139. 

Community. See Native Com- 
munity. 

Company, system = arsafu or in- 
sefu (which see), constituted in 
ward, 85. With captains and 
subordinate officers, 85. Captain- 
general = Tufii Hin, 85. Had 
its own flags and banners, 85. 
Annual review before king, 85. 
Its system described, 85 et seq. 

Compulsory Labour Ordinance, 260. 
See also Ordinance. 

Concessions Ordinance, 198 et seq. 
Greatly abused by those ignorant 
of facts, 198. Analysed and ex- 
plained, 199 et seq. Concessions 
Court, 200. Has its rules and 
precedents, 200. Who may grant 
a concession? 201. All natives 
legally entitled by customary 
law to make valid grants, 201. 
Concession means not land, but 
the " writing " by which the right 
is acquired, 202. Must be signed 
by " grantor, or some person duly 
authorised by him," 203. Pro- 
cedure of, described, 203 et seq. 
Customary rights of grantors to 
be considered, 206. See also 
Ordinance. 

Confederation of Fanti tribes,149,173 

Conran, Col., 147. 

Consideration, must be earnest 
money plus rent (I), 296. Must be 
adequate and valuable, 305. 

Conspiracy, charge of, against 
members of Mankessim Constitu- 
tion, 173. 

Constitution of Fantee Confederacy, 
327 to 344. Objects of to pro- 
mote friendly intercourse between 



cox 

kings, chiefs, etc., 328 ; to 
improve the country, 329 ; to 
make good roads, 329 ; to erect 
school-houses, etc., 329 ; to pro- 
mote agricultural and industrial 
pursuits, 329 ; to develop, etc.,' 
working of minerals, etc., 329. 
Formation of executive council, 
329. Conduct of its business, 329. 
Exercise by, of all legislative 
functions, 330. Its national 
assembly, 331. Its annual 
gatherings, 331. Establishment 
of national and normal schools, 
332. Training of female students, 
332. How expenses to be borne, 
332, 333. Provincial assessors, 
how appointed, their judicial 
functions, 333. Management of 
provinces, 333. Secretary, his 
duties denned, 333, 334. 
Treasurer, his duties defined, 334, 
335. Under-Secretary, his duties 
defined, 335, 336. Assistant 
treasurer, his duties defined, 336. 
Provincial assessors, their duties 
denned, 336, 337. Executive 
Council and Ministry, duties of, 

337 ; to advise king-president, 
to see laws, etc., carried out ; to 
examine financial condition of 
confederacy, 337 ; to try appeals, 

338 ; to try all disputes between 
native kings, chiefs, etc., 338 ; to- 
determine by votes the succession 
to stools, 338 ; to consider all 
applications for alliances by 
tribes, 338. National Assembly, 
duties of to elect president 
for year, to consider all pro- 
grammes, to place on stool 
elected person, 339. Its educa- 
tion scheme set forth, 340 344 ; 



INDEX. 



405 



CON 

subjects to be taught, 342 ; 
kinds of schools, 342 ; scholar- 
ships, 343. 

Contribution, an occasional when, 
and in respect of what, payable, 
48 et seq. 

Correspondence. See Official Corre- 
spondence. 

Cotton Trees, 238. 

Council, the, is ruling voice in all 
matters political and judicial, 74. 
Right to approve or disapprove 
all acts done by a chief or head- 
man affecting interests of com- 
munity, 74. 

Councillors, introduce legislation, 
42. = Intelligent men selected by 
head of community to assist in 
affairs of community, 73. Chiefs 
are ex-qfficio, 73. Hold office for 
life, 73 ; or during good behaviour, 

73. Succeeded by heir of mature 
age and experience, 73 ; or by 
heir's guardian during immaturity 
and inexperience, 73. Represent 
sovereignty of the people, 74. 
Pay homage to king as their head, 

74. Must legalise every step by 
tradition and custom, 74. En- 
titled to a portion of public 
revenues, 75 ; which they in turn 
sub-divide among their depen- 
dents, 75. Cannot exercise rights 
capriciously, 74. 

Court-criers, captain of, 26. 

Court, full, 279, Judgment of, 279. 

Crimes, etc., to be tried by British 

Government, 367. 
Croboe country, referred to, 359. 
" Crown Colonies of Great Britain " 

quoted, 118, etc. 
Cudjoe Ammoo, opposed Chidda 

Concession, 289. 



DIX 

Cudjoe Buaful, 289. Opposed 
Chidda Concession, 289. 

Cudjoe Chibboe, signed the Bond 
1844.. .368 

Cudjoe Chibbo, an Assin chief, 153. 

Cudjoe Imbrah, 260. His people 
desired to enstool him as king, 
177. Had nothing to do with 
Compulsory Labour Ordinance, 
260. Treated as felon, 262. 

Cultivation, shifting, 307. 

Customary rights, 307. Shifting 
cultivation, 307. Collecting fire- 
wood, 307. Hunting, snaring 
game, 307. 



AMAGES, action for, 299. 



Datum point to be observed, 310. 
Dawuna, King of Christiansborg, 

316. 

Death, offences punished by, in- 
cluded murder, stealing, rape, 

treason, kidnapping, etc., 29, 30. 
Decided Cases. See Cases Cited. 
Denkara, King of, = Tutim Gackidi, 

' 155. Referred to, 187. 
Denkera, native state of Gold Coast, 

397. King of, Inkwantabisa, 

397. 
Department of War, formed at 

Kumasi, of Kwaintsirs, 26. To. 

command respect of federal 

states, 28. 
Deportation of natives as slaves to 

West Indies and America, 318. 
District Commissioner, 273. 
District Commissioner of Cape 

Coast, 281. Case stated by, 281. 
Divisional Court, Cape Coast, 273. 
Dixcove (near Busua), 32. King of, 
. was Hima Diki, 34. English fort 



406 



INDEX. 



DON 

at, 136. Handed over to Dutch, 

154. 

Donovan Regina v., 281. 
Donovan v. Cudjoe Imbrah, referred 

to, 260. - 

Downing Street patronage, 218. 
Duben trees, 238. 
Dutch naval officers captured by 

Coramendas, 185. 



T71ARNEST MONEY, custom of 
J_J giving, 296. Query, synony- 
mous with consideration, 296. 
Eastern Akim, native state of Gold 

Coast, 397. King of, = Akwasi 

Duma, 397. 
Eckumfi, 187. 
Edgimacoe, 186, 187. 
Education, Governor to promote, 

170. Of all children, 186. Of 

females, 187. To be provided 

for, 366. 
Edum, a herbal preparation, drunk 

in ordeal, 94. 
Egimaku, native state of Gold 

Coast, 397. King of, = Kwamin 

Kama, 397. 

Ejectment, action of, 299. 
Ekumfi, native state of Gold Coast. 

King of, = Koa Akini, 397. 
" Elements of Law," 118. 
Elephant's tail-bearers, captain of, 

26. 
Elmina, French fort at, 135. Dutch 

fort at, 135. Founded by French 

Company at Dieppe and Rouen, 

317. 

Emancipation Ordinance, 81. 
Enima v. Pai cited, 41. 
Enimil. See Kwamina. 
Eshroa, 57. 
Esiama, referred to, 56. In the 



FLA 

State of Elmina, 56. Own alle- 
giance to State of Anamaboe, 56. 

Essandor, King of the Inkusukums, 
56. 

EsubanJoassa, 58. 

Evidence, mis-reception of, 285. 
Satisfactory, as to status of a party, 
286. 

Execution, stay of, pending appeal, 
284. 

FAMILY, the : the unit for the 
purpose of ownership, 47. =The 
entire lineal descendants of a head 
materfamilias, 76. 

Fanti, natives of native states of 
Gold Coast, 21. Petty traders, 
96. Probably an offshoot from 
Ashantis, 25. Fought with Ash- 
antis over coast - trading, 29. 
Pioneers and developers of the 
mahogany, gold, and nibber in- 
dustries of Gold Coast, 75. Con- 
federation of, 149, 182 ; its 
constitution, 327 ; meetings at 
Mankessirn, 327. 

"Fanti Customary Laws" quoted, 
60, 165, 315. 

"Fanti and Ashanti" quoted, 138, 
148, 158, 162. 

Farmers. See Royal Farmers. 

Farms, ancient, lie neglected and 
unattended, 237. 

Fetishism, system of faith and wor- 
ship described, 101 et seq. 

Firewood, collection of, a customary 
right, 307. 

Fitzgerald, Mr., of African Times, 
174. Supported the "Confedera- 
tion" movement, 174. 

Flags of a company held as sacred 
trust, 91. Guard of honour at- 
tached to each company to guard 



INDEX. 



407 



FOM 

its flag, 91. This guard called 
Assikamba, 91 ; and are picked 
men of the company, 91. 

Foinina, 57. 

Fortnightly Revieiv quoted, 258. 

Forts, = British settlements, 135 ; 
governed by Governor, 350. 
French, at Elmina, 135. English, 
at Elmina, cession of, 156. St. 
George del Mina, 135. Fredens- 
berg, or Ningo, 135. Cabo Corsa, 
or Cape Coast Castle, 135. Nas- 
sau, or Mori, 135. Conradsburg, 
or St. Jago, at Elmina, 135. 
Kramantine, 136. James at Accra, 
136. Vanderpurgh at Commenda, 
136. Dixcove, 136. Anamaboe, 
136. Formerly served as barra- 
coons for human cargo, 136. 
Practically the sole British pos- 
sessions in Gold Coast, 137 et seq. 

Fraud, charge of, against claimants 
of Chidda Concession, 289. 

Freeman, Dr., " Travels and Life in 
Ashanti and Jaman " quoted, 13, 
14. 

Freemen = dihi, 81. Long an- 
cestry, 82. Eligible for office, 82. 

Freetown, 97. 

Fynn, prosecution of, 192. 



GA, native state of Gold Coast, 
21. 
Gapee, Quacoe, present at palaver, 

380. 

Gebre, signed Bond, 1844... 368. 
Ghartey, King of Winnebah, 173, 

185, 316. Ratified treaty with 

British Government, 185. 
Ghartey, charged Otchafoo with 

bribery, 274. 
Gibraltar, referred to, 314. 



GON 

Gold Coast, contains native states 
of Fauti, Ahanta, Insima, Ga, 
"Wassa, etc., 21. Legislated for 
by Governor in Council, 119. 

Gold Coast Aborigines' Rights Pro- 
tection Society, 171. Deputation 
of, received by Mr. Chamber- 
lain, 171. Correspondence with 
Governor, 382396. 

Gold Coast Amalgamated Mines, 
Ltd., 289. 

Gold Coast Chronicle, 175, 178. 

Gold Coast Colony, or Settlement : 
history establishes that this has 
no reference to natives of soil, but 
exclusively to European mer- 
chants, 319. British possessions 
in = forts only, 319. Proposal and 
petition to divide into four pro- 
vinces, 267. 

Gold Coast Echo, 121, 177. Advo- 
cated cause of Cudjo Imbrah, 177, 
and a scheme of municipal govern- 
ment on native lines, 177. 

Gold Coast Government Gazette quoted, 
141. 

"Gold Coast Guide" quoted, 135, 
223, 397. 

Gold Coast Independent, 178. 

Gold Coast Methodist Times, 178, 311. 

Gold Coast People, 177. 

Golden stool, debate on, in House of 
Common- , 11. "Moral and in- 
tellectual value," 11. "Gives 
supremacy," 12. "Emblem of 
possession," 13. Ill-advised hunt 
for, 268. 

Gomey, 105. 

Gomua, native state of Gold Coast, 
397, King of, = Kojo Inkum, 
397. 

Goomowah, 187. 

Gong-gong, for what used, 42, 253. 



408 



INDEX. 



GOT 

Gothic House at Cape Coast, 261. 

Gowans, a mining engineer, 293. 

Government, support of British, 
dependent on feelings entertained 
for local" administration, 161. 
Municipal, 109 et seq. Represent- 
ative, idea of, among the people, 
126 ; perfect and efficient, 128. 

Governor to have a negative voice 
in passing of all ordinances, 373 ; 
power to suspend any person from 
exercising powers, 376. To be 
resident in Settlement, 376. Ap- 
pointment of Lieutenant-Gover- 
nor, 377. May appoint a deputy, 
378. Tenure of office uncertain, 
11. Not generally well acquainted 
with Native Institutions, 11 

Grant, Mr. Corrie, represented 
Aborigines' Society before Colonial 
Secretary, 171, 385. 

Grant, Mr. F. C., 191. 

Grey, Lord, first attempted to im- 
pose poll tax, 163. 

Griffith, Sir W. B., Governor of 
Gold Coast, 115, 120, 138, 258, 
261, 320. 



H 



ACKETT, Mr. Wm., 140. 



Hanno, the Carthaginian, of the 
Gold Coast, 326. 

Hansen, Mr. Robert, 175. 

Hansens, the, 95. 

Hayford, Mr. J. D., arrested, 173. 

Headman = head of a village com- 
munity, or ward in a township, or 
of a family, 76. Must properly 
train members of family, 76 ; in 
matters political and traditional, 
76. Responsible for general con- 
duct of those in his charge, 76. 



HUY 

Must insist on their conforming 
with customs, laws, etc., 76. 
Formerly could exile by sale a 
troublesome relative, 76. Assisted 
by female members, 77. Judge 
of family or ward, 77. Entitled 
to hearing fee, 77. Important 
member of his " company," 77 ; 
often its captain, 77. Always suc- 
ceeded by uterine brother, cousin, 
or nephew, 78. 

Head Panin, or Chief Elder, = head 
of the ward, 251. 

Hennessy, Mr Pope, 184, 189, 191. 

Hill, H. \V., Lieut -Governor, signed 
Bond, 1844... 368. 

Hill, S. J., Governor, 170. 

Hima Diki, King of Dixcove, 34. 
Deposed by the people, 34. Re- 
placed by Anansu Mensah, his 
uncle, 34. Sought to recover 
stool, etc., 34. Brought action to 
test legality of his destoolment, 
34. 

Hima Diki v. Ayiman and others 
cited, 34. 

Hindle, Hon. E. Bruce, Queen's 
Advocate, 120. 

Hodgson, Sir F. M., despatches of, 
etc., 12, 120, 141. 

Holmes, Mr. J. K, 112. 

Homia v. Huma cited, 22, 23. 

Hughes, Mr. Geo., 171. 

Human sacrifices to be abolished, 
365. 

Huni River, 290. 

Hunt, Mr. E. F., 171. 

Huntsmen. Sec Royal Huntsmen. 

Hutchinson, J. T., Chief Justice, 
120. 

Hutton v. Kuta quoted, 202. 

Huyshe, Captain, 138. " Fanti and 
Ashanti" quoted, 138, 158. 



INDEX. 



409 



IMM 

IMMORALITY punished by 
death, 30. 

Impatassi case cited, 49, 50. 

Imperegus, 57. Of Abura, 57. Ack- 
nowledge stool of Anamaboe, 57. 

Imperial West Africa, how to be 
achieved, and built up, 259. 

Imprisonment, power of, exercise- 
able by native kings, 274. 

Indemnity, war, 50,000 ozs. of gold, 
265. 

Indumsuasu, 58. 

Inheritance, native law of, 249. 

Inkee, referred to, 54. 

Inkertsia, a huntsman, 22. Founded 
Inkertsia Krom, 22. 

Inkidoms, or Akempins, were king's 
bodyguard, 28, 87. Chief of, = 
Subir, 28. 

Inkwanlabisa, King of Denkera, 397. 

I nsima,' native state of Gold Coast, 
21. 

Insuta, federal state of Kumasi, 31. 



TAMAN, Ajiinan, King of, 13. 

Johnson, Mr. J. W. de, 179. 

Jones, Mr. T. F. E., 171. 

Juabins, the, subordinate community 
of Ashanti, 19. Federal state of 
Ashanti, 31. 

Judges, power to constitute and 
appoint, 375. 

Judicial powers of, native chiefs, etc., 
275 ; in no way impaired, 209. 
Of assessors. See Assessors 'and 
Jurisdiction. 

Jurisdiction of Great Britain : origi- 
nated in a desire to mitigate the 
effect of cruel and barbarous cus- 
toms by influence of Christianity 
and civilisation, 353 ; attempt 



KIN 

to define, 355 et seq.; should be 
made subject to distinct agree- 
ment with native chiefs, 356 ; 
fully defined by draft proclama- 
tion, 364 367 ; acknowledged 
by the Bond, 1844... 367. Query 
extent of British, in Gold Coast, 
149. Assessors', 165, 166. Na- 
tives', 166. Civil and criminal, 
exerciseable by Great Britain, 
concurrent with that of native 
kings and chiefs, 277. " In- 
herent," query meaning, and 
whether Governor has power to 
take away, 280. 



TT^IDNAPPIXG punished by 

JL\_ death, 30. 

Kimberley, Lord, 190. Despatch 
to Governor Keate, 360. 

King, the, is paramount, 19. Arbi- 
ter in disputes between provinces 
within his state, 23. Does not 
interfere in internal government 
of a province, 23. Is chief magis- 
trate, 32. Is chief military leader, 
32. Is first executive officer of 
the state, 32 ; but not of the 
executive council of the state, 41. 
Influence measured by character, 
32. Office of, elective, 33. Does 
not accpiire indefeasible title to 
the stool, 33. May be removed 
for just cause, 33. Generally 
holds position for life, 33. Gene- 
rally succeeded by uterine brother, 
cousin, or nephew, 33. Often 
indicates his own successor, 33. 
Fountain of justice, 37. His 
linguist opens all proceedings, 38. 
Probably chosen originally for 
personal valour, intelligence, and 



410 



INDEX. 



KLA 

warlike capability, 38. Mode of 
choosing, 40, 41. Acts done by, 
without concurrence of executive 
council of state, liable to be set 
aside, 41: Is President of Legis- 
lative Board, 42. Seldom initiates 
legislation, 42. Presides over 
judicial proceedings, 43. Qua 
King, does not own land, 44. 
Owns ancestral lands, 44. Ratines 
subjects' grant of land, 45. Spiri- 
tual Head of his people, 106. 
Early jurisdiction of, 143 et seq. 
His person and stool are sacred, 
259. Judicial powers of, 275. 
Of Ashanti, his household con- 
trolled by captains, e.g., of the 
sword-bearers, etc., 26 ; his sons 
have distinct rank in the nobility, 
and known by title of " Sai " or 
" Osoo," 27 ; his bodyguard were 
Inkidoms, 28 ; minor bodies, 
e.g., scouts, and keepers of royal 
arsenals, 28. 

Klanamonoos, the, referred to, 57. 

Knowledge, pleaded, as to possession 
of another, 302. 

Knutsford, Lord, 149. 

Koffee Kalkalli, King of Ashanti, 
141. 

Kofi Ainibah, referred to, 41. 

Kofi Ahinkura, King of Western 
Akim, 397. 

Kofi Akini, King of Ekumfi, 397. 

Kofi Nyam, 57. 

Kojo Buaful, guardian of King 
Kwatnina Enimil of Eastern 
Wassaw, 25. An Ashanti, 25. 

Kojo Inkum, King of Gomua, 397. 

Kokofu, federal state of Kuinasi, 
31. 

Kokofus, the, subordinate com- 
munity of Ashanti, 19. 



KWE 

Kong Mountains, former habitat of 
Ashantis and Fantis, 24. 

Kudjoe Enimil Kooma II. opposed 
Chidda Concession, 289. 

Kumasi, stool of, paramount stool 
of Ashanti, 19. Seat of golden 
stool, 20. State of, was premier 
state of Ashanti, 26. Seventy- 
seven stools in, 26. Local govern- 
ment of, in hands of Kwaintsirs, 
keepers of the golden stool, 26. 
Centre of state system of trade 
between the coast and hinterland, 
28. Centre of convict establish- 
ment, 29. Federal states of, 
were Mampon, Beckwa, etc., 31. 
Occupation of, 151 ; alleged to 
have enlarged the field of com- 
merce and industry, 151. 

Kuntum = yam festival in Wassaw 
and Ahanta, 85. 

Kwaintsirs, controlled local govern- 
ment of Kumasi, 26. Keepers of 
the golden stool, 26. 

Kwami Fori, King of Akuapim, 
397. 

Kwamina Enimil, King of Eastern 
Wassaw, 25, 397. Guardian of, is 
Kojo Buaful, 25. Charge against 
Kweku Inkruma, with acts un- 
becoming kingly oifice, brought 
before him, 35. Opposed Chidda 
Concession, 289. 

Kwamin Hauia, King of Egimaku, 
397. 

Kwantabissa, King of Denkira, 39. 
Claimed right to lease certain 
land, 39. 

Kweku Atta, 261. King of Axim, 
34. Called as expert witness, 
34, 5U. 

Kweku Dua, King, father of Sai 
Bonso, 27. 



INDEX. 



411 



KWE 

Kweku Iiikruma, ex- King of Pep- 
pissa district, 35. Destooled by 
King Kwamina Enimil's Court, 
35. 

K \vesi Wereku, King of Upper 
Wassaw, 397. 

Kwinbontu, 41. 

Kwofi Kara Kari, King, dominion 
of, broken down, 21. 



T ACHES, pleaded, 302. 
lj 

Lagos. See Protectorate of. 

Land, king's ancestral, 44. General, 
over which king exercises para- 
mountcy, 45. Nature of king's 
parainountcy over, 45. How 
originally acquired and appor- 
tioned, 45. Acquired by in- 
dividual becomes practically 
ancestral, 47. Natives asked to 
make grant of, to Great Britain, 
140. Legislation, 172. No right 
by British to administer, 172. 
Public no such thing in Gold 
Coast, 194. All either stool 
land, private land, or family land, 

194. Tribe, country, town, 
company, family or individual, 

195. Ownership of, carefully 
preserved by natives, 195. 
Boundaries of, fixed by natural 
features, 195. None " un- 
occupied," 195. Of Cape Coast 
apparently acknowledged by some 
native chiefs and people to belong 
to Great Britain, 381. Power to 
dispose of, 374. 

"Lands Bill," 112, 194, 223, 320. 
Law, how promulgated, 42. To be 

enacted with due regard to native 

law and custom, 365. 



MAC 

Legislation, to be effectual must be 
result of native representation, 
164. 

Legislative Council, laws passed 
by, 125. Not consulted when 
Governor Hodgson went to 
Kumasi for the golden stool, 268. 

Lemaire, clerk of Chief of Busum- 
chie, 292. 

Libations offered to departed spirits, 
86. 

Linguist, king's, 38. Opens all 
proceedings, 38. Announces 
decision of Council to the people, 
38. Promulgates laws, 42. Not 
a person skilled in tongues, 68. 
= "Spokesman," 68. Allsuperiors 
have their linguist, 68. Is a 
confidential officer, 68. = King's 
or chiefs moiithpiece in every 
public function, 69. His place 
not filled by the successor to his 
ancestral stool, 69. But probably 
by his son, 69. Generally a 
walking encyclopaedia, 69. 
Acquainted with court etiquette, 
69 ; functions, history, and tradi- 
tions, 69 70. When speaking 
leans on king's gold cane, 70. 
Represents master where latter 
cannot be present, 71. Re- 
presents master at public en- 
quiries, 71. 

Lucas, Mr., 138. " Historical 
Geography of British Colonies," 
quoted, 138. 



MACARTHY, Sir Ch., 147. His 
aggressive policy, 244. 
MacGregor, Sir Win., 197. 
Maclean, Governor, referred to, 24. 
His policy of " open market," etc., 



412 



.INDEX. 



MAC 

between coast and hinterland, 

243. 
Maclean, Mr. Geo., 165. Signed 

Bond, 1844... 368. 
Macleod, Mr. Justice, 94, 209. 
Manpon, federal state of Kumasi, 

31. 

Manpons, the, subordinate com- 
munity of Ashanti, 19. 
Mamponsu, federal state of Kumasi, 

31. 
Mankessim, 186. Native state of 

Gold Coast, 397. King of, = Okra 

Kwa, 23, 397. 
Mankessim Constitution, 149 ; its 

members arrested, 173 ; its pro- 
visions studied, 182 et seq. 

Objects of, set out in Article 8, 

185 et seq. 
Markby's " Elements of Law " 

quoted, 118. 
Maxwell, Sir Win. E., 142, 151, 178. 

His preconceived notions, etc., 321. 
Mayan, Quumina, present at palaver, 

380. 

McCarthy, M.P., Mr. A., 149. 
McDowell, Dr. D. K., District 

Commissioner of Cape Coast, 281. 
Meade, Mr. R. H., 149. 
Members of Council, non-official, 

not to criticise but advise, 123. 
Mensa, King, succeeded to stool, 

265. 
Military forces of native rulers in 

alliance with Queen, to be 

organised, 366. 
Minstrels proclaim glory of king 

and his house, 87. 
Misrepresentation, charge of, against 

Chidda Concession, 289. 
Missionary, his mistakes, 104 et seq. 

Ignorance of local customs, beliefs, 

worship, etc., 105. 



NAT 

Monasteries, Roman Catholic, in 
Africa, have crumbled to dust, 
239. 

Mpredwi, 57. 

Mulattoes, included in " natives," 
202. If able to trace a clear 
descent through or from a pure 
native mater familias, 202. 

Municipal government, 109. Each 
township has Sanitary Board 
arrangements for public works, 
and other necessary provisions for 
local government, 109. Super- 
vised by headman, 110. 

Municipalities, to be established, 
366. 

Murder, punished by death, 29. 



NATGLASS, Governor, 185. 
Represented Netherlands 
Government, 185. 

Native, the, consent and co-opera- 
tion necessary for progress and 
development in right direction, 
222. His confidence in Bench 
and Bar, 221. Of Gold Coast, 
may have been immigrant from 
Timbuctoo, 325. 

Native Community, is a composite 
whole, 32. Each lias form and 
method of government the same 
in all essentials, 33. 

Native Courts, full powers and 
authority of, always been fully 
recognised by Great Britain, 
274 280. Recognised and pro- 
vided for, by draft proclamation, 
365. 

Native Jurisdiction Bill, 320. 

Native Jurisdiction Ordinance, 166. 
Making it possible for British 
authorities to remove a native 



INDEX. 



413 







BUM, the, 238. 



NAT 

sovereign from his stool, cited 
and explained, 209 et seq. 

Native prisons to be super vised, 365. 

Native State found where many 
communities combine and own 
allegiance to paramount authority, 
19. Federated under same laws, 
customs, faith and worship, and 
language, 19. Disorganised by 
British aggression, 27. Ito system 
summarised, 250 et seq. Principal 
states of Gold Coast enumerated, 
together with their kings, 397. 

Nephew, succession of king's nephew 
gradually became an institution, 
39. 

Netherlands, King of, 154. 

Nineteenth Century Magazine re- 
ferred to, 4. 



Offerings of food and drink to 
departed spirits, 102. 

Office, of Governor, 315. Of Com- 
mander-in-chief, 315 ; constituted 
by letters patent, 315. 

Official Correspondence, 345 et seq. 
Lord Stanley to Lieut.-Governor 
Hill on Assessors' Jurisdiction, 
348 et seq. Earl of Carnarvon to 
Governor Strahan on Great 
Britain's power and jurisdiction 
in Gold Coast, 354 et seq. Abori- 
gines' Rights Protection Society 
to the Governor, 382 et seq. The 
Governor to Aborigines, etc., 
Society, 388. The Society to the 
Governor, 389 et seq. The Governor 
to the Society, 394. The Society 
to the Governor, 395. The 
Governor to the Society, 396. 



ORD 

Offin River, 39. 

Ohin = the king, 32. = Head of 
any considerable community of 
aborigines, 32. 

Okra Kwa, King of Mankessim, 23, 
397. 

Oppon, became surety, 208. Refused 
to meet award, 208. Arrested by 
King of Akumfie, 208. Sued king 
for damages, succeeded, 208. Lest 
upon appeal to full court, 209. 
Referred to, 273. 

Oppon v. Ackinie cited, 208. 

Option, 298. Granted to Bridges, 
298. Assignment of, 300. Priority 
of, 300, 301, 304. Registration 
of, 301. Lease higher than, 
301. 

Ord, Colonel, 139, 146, 149. 

Ordeal, practised and described, 94. 
Consists of drinking edum, a 
herbal preparation, 94 ; practice 
of eating a handful of rice in 
other parts of West Africa, 94. 

Order of Queen in Council, 1874, 
set forth, 345. 

Ordinance : Supreme Court, 1876, 
276 ; how to be construed, 276 
et seq. ; does not say that jurisdic- 
tion other than Her Majesty's is 
to cease, 277 ; on contrary, im- 
plies jurisdiction of native kings, 
etc., to be co-existent, 277 ; has 
in no way impaired the judicial 
powers of native kings, etc., 280. 
Compulsory Labour, 1895. ..281, 
283, 286, 320 ; case stated under, 
281 ; effect and construction of 
explained, 283 et seq., 287 et seq. 
Criminal Procedure, 1876, re- 
ferred to, 283. Emancipation, 81 ; 
recognises jurisdiction of kings and 
chiefs in judicial rites, 94 ; and 



414 



INDEX. 



OSA 

treats native tribunals as existing, 

276. Native Jurisdiction Ordi- 
nance cited, 166 ; and explained, 
209 ; made it possible for British 
authorities to remove native 
sovereigns- from their stools, 166. 
Assessors, 165, 166. Public Lands, 
1876... 383. Towns (Amendment), 
1901. ..383; introduces principle 
of vesting lands of the country in 
the Crown, 387. Poll Tax, 160, 
163. Local Native Courts, 

277. " To facilitate and regulate 
exercise of powers, etc., by native 
authorities," 1878. ..278. 

Osai Tutu I., 155. 

Osoo Ansab, 27, 243. Father of 

Prince John Osoo Ansah, and 

Prince Albert Osoo Ansah, 27. 
Otchafoo, David, charged with 

bribery, 274. 
" Owl " column in Western Echo, 

176. 



PALAVER " = a suit before 
the court in which king 
and councillors sit, 93. Described, 
93 et seq. Record of, 380. Some 
chiefs and people assembled at, 
apparently acknowledge lands in 
Cape Coast belong to the Queen, 
381. 

Panins, or Elders, = heads of the 
families, 251. 

Panyarring to be abolished, 365. 

Paramountcy of king, 46. Dis- 
tinguished from ownership, 47 
62. 

Paramount Kings of Gold Coast, 
names and states of, enumerated, 
397. 



PHI 

PAR HI, 42. 

Pawns, 81. =-- A human pledge as 
security for an advance, 83. Pro- 
viso for redemption, 83. Disgrace 
of not redeeming, 83. Uncle 
pledged nephew, 83. Generally 
to persons well known, 83. 
Pledgee trained the pawn, 83. 

People, the, take interest in politics, 
79. Mothers educate their sons 
in traditional history, 79. Their 
characteristics, 80. 

Peregwans, 28. 

Peynins, 147. 

Physicians. See Royal Physicians. 

Pike, Mr. Chas., 120. 

Pine, Governor, 139, 146, 153. Re- 
fused to restore runaway slave 
boy, 153. 

Plebiscite, how obtained, 254. Bind- 
ing on all the people, 254. 

Pogson, Mr. R, signed Bond, 1844, 
368. 

Police force, armed, to be organised 
for internal order, etc., 366. 

Political ethics animadverted upon, 
231 et seq. 

Poll Tax Ordinance, 160. Imposi- 
tion of, 163. Rapidly fell off, 
163. 

Poor Law, none in Gold Coast, 
249. 

Ports, French and German, 98. 

Prah, river = natural boundary, 
359. 

Prempeh, King, 265. His degrada- 
tion, 265. 

Priests work the spiritual system, 
106. Cure disease, 106. Are good 
doctors, skilled in herb remedies, 
106. Invest their practice with 
secrecy, 106. Training begins in 
early life, 107. Sent to seminary 



INDEX. 



415 



PRO 

in another district, 107. Appren- 
ticeship for three years, 107. 
Clever-in dancing, 107. In frenzy 
of excitement the " fetish " conies 
upon them, 107. In time of war 
go forth with army, 107. Sup- 
posed to be bullet proof, 108. 
Give aid in dressing the wounded, 
108. 

Proclamation, draft of, 363. De- 
fining nature and extent of Queen's 
jurisdiction on Gold Coast, 363. 

Province, is the district of a head 
chief, 22. Consists of a number 
of towns and villages, 22. Con- 
stitution of, same as that of federal 
state, 22. 

Protected Malay States analogous 
to Gold Coast, 323. 

Protectorate, definitions of, 320. 
Rightful name for Gold Coast, 
323. Of Lagos, 360. 

Public, Health, to be promoted with 
assent of natives, 366. 



QUAMINA ANNOBIL, prin- 
cipal linguist of King of 

Lower Wassaw, 58. 
Quamin Fori, 279. King of Agna- 

pim, 279. His case cited, 209. 
Quamina Imnuama opposed Chidda 

Concession, 289. 
Quamina Mayan present at palaver, 

380. 

Quantamissa, Prince, 243. 
Quashie Ankah signed Bond, 1844, 

368. 
Quashie Ottoo signed Bond 1844, 

368. 
Quasie Ankuma opposed Chidda 

Concession, 289. 



SAL 
~D APE punished by death, 29. 

Eailways, doubtful whether they 

affect the position of native trade, 

98. 

Reyina v. Kudjoe Imbra, 281. 
Religion, Governor to promote, 1 70. 
Rents, importance of paying, in 

respect of, and before applying 

for, concession, 297. Kinds of 

retaining, 309 ; working, 309. 
Revenue to be raised by licences 

and customs, with assent of native 

rulers, etc., 366. 

Rice, eaten in trial by ordeal, 94. 
Rights, of aborigines, inalienable, 

320. Customary, 307. 
Roads, width of, to be fifteen feet, 

186. 
Robertson, Mr. Isaac, present at 

palaver, 380. 
Rooke, Sir G., 314. 
Royal African Company, 318. 
Royal Butlers, captain of, 26. 
Royal Farmers, captain of, 26. 
Royal Huntsmen, captain of, 26. 
Royal Physicians, captain of, 26. 



S ACCOM, Mr. S., President of 
Aborigines' Society, 388. 

Sacrifice offered, 88. 

Sacrifices, human, contrary to law 
159. 

" Sai " = " Osoo " = prince, 27. 

Sai Bonso, son of King Kweku Dua, 
27. Father of Osoo Ansah, 27. 

Salmon, C. S., ex-Administrator of 
the Gold Coast, wrote " Crown 
Colonies of Great Britain," 118, 
134, 155, 216, 230. Quoted, 2 et 
passim. Disapproved of Fauti 
Confederation, 189. Arrested its 



416 



INDEX. 



members, 173. His inconsistent 
attitude criticised, 174. 

Saltpond, 273. 

Sam, Mr. W. E., 290. 

Sarbah, Hon. John M., 121. Wrote 
" Fanti Customary Laws," quoted, 
146, 165, 196, etc. 

Sarfuhim = war chief, 64. 

School, High, 81. 

School-houses, to be erected, 186. 

Scott, Sir Francis, expedition of, 
26. 

Seal, public, to be provided, 374. 

Sekondi, lands at, 125 ; sale of, 382. 
Handed to Dutch, 154. 

Sekondi and Tarkwa Company 
opposed Chidda Concession, 289. 

Selborne, Lord, 171. 

Selling real-born Ashanti punished 
by death, 30. 

Service of notice, 282. 

Settlement, definitions of, 313 et seq. 

Settlements, British, comprise num- 
ber of forts, enumerated and 
located, 135 et seq. 

Settler, definition of, 312. 

Sey, Mr. J. W., 171. 

Shifting cultivation, 307. A cus- 
tomary right, 307. 

Simpson, Governor, 185. 

Slaves, 81. Masters of, humane, 82. 
Members of master's family, 82. 
Adopted by masters, 82. Some- 
times named heir, 82. Never 
forgot position, 82. Trading in, 
to be abolished, 366. 

Slavery, 362. Existence of, 362. 
Domestic, 366. Pawning, 366. 

Smith, Mr. Justice Francis, 94, 
209. 

Smith, Mr. Justice Smallman, 94, 
209. 

Smiths, the, 95. 



sue 

Society, Aborigines' Rights Protec- 
tion, etc. See Gold Coast Abori- 
gines, etc. 

Spanish Succession War, 314. 

"Solvent influence" of British Ad- 
ministration, is curtailing the 
freedom of the natives, 226. 

Spirits, sale of, prohibited without 
licence, 163. Departed, 86. Liba- 
tions offered to, 86. 

St. Andrew's cross, 204. 

Stanley, Lord, letter to Governor 
Hill, 315. 

State, native,, See Native State. 
Principal, or premier, 22. Federal 
takes rank in order of import- 
ance, 22. 

Stead, Mr. W. T., 181. 

Stealing, punished by death, 29. 

Stool. See also Golden Stool. 
Sprinkled with sacred water, 88. 
Celebration described, 86. Bearers, 
captain of, 26. Procedure of 
destoolment, 34 36. Bringing 
together of stools at a "palaver," 
37. Represents an ancient house 
in the community, 37. Lands 
attached to, 44. Whether a sub- 
ject chief can rid himself of 
allegiance to a superior stool, 53, 
54. Is sacred, 259. 

Stormonth's English Dictionary 
quoted, 312. 

Straits Settlements, comprise Singa- 
pore, Penang, Province of Welles- 
ley, the Dindings, Malacca, Malay, 
etc., 322 et seq. 

Stream, sacred, 88. Waters of, 
sprinkled on stools, 88. 

Subir, Chief of Inkidoms, 28. 

Succession, to kingly office, 40 ; 
sought through female line, 40. 
To land, 47, 48. 



INDEX. 



417 



SUR 

Surety, custom of finding in certain 

suits, 274. 
Swanzy, Messrs., 290. Estate and 

Company, 290. 
Swearing an oath on king's life 

punished by death, 29. 
Swordbearers, captain of, 26. 
System of administration, at fault, 

193. How to be righted, 193. 



m ACKIE, King of Accra, 113, 316. 

Takieman, immigrants from, 241, 
325. 

Tarkwa, where Chidda lease signed, 
291. 

Tarkwa and Sekondi Company 
opposed Chidda Concession, 289. 

Tavievies, small tribe in Krepi 
district, 177. Atrocities upon, 
177. 

Tax, poll, 160. Right to, never 
been acquired by British Govern- 
ment, 164. Right to, can only be 
by consent and co-operation of 
the people, 164. Query, whether 
native authority to be allowed to 
levy, = crux of contention be- 
tween " confederators " and local 
administration, 189. 

Technical instruction, 187. To be 
given in schools, 187. 

Territory, British, whether forts are, 
147. Protected, 275. 

Thompson, Mr. J. R., present at 
palaver, 380. 

Timber, rights as to, in connection 
with mining, 307. 

Timbuctoo, immigrants from, 325. 

Times newspaper quoted, 12, 13, 
264. 
G.C. 



TUT 

Tolstoy, Count, quoted, 18. 

Trade encouraged by state system 
of Ashanti, 96. King took active 
part in promotion of, 96. Dis- 
organised by British diplomacy 
and aggrandisement, 98. Primary 
object of Great Britain in settling 
in the country, 145. 

Traditions, natives carefully preserve 
and hand down, 195. 

Transportation of convicts, 351. Not 
without special instructions of 
Secretary of State, 351. 

Treason, transferring allegiance 
from one chief, prince, or king to 
another is, 54. 

Treaty, relations between Great 
Britain and Gold Coast, 163. 

Treaty of Utrecht, 314. 

Tribute, payment of, made to a 
superior chief, 47. Payable to 
the licensor of land, 47. Dis- 
tinguished from " allegiance fee," 
49. An incident of ownership, 
49. 

Tuafus, referred to, 87. 

Tufu Hin = captain-general of 
forces, 43. An officer of the king, 
43. Exercises judicial functions, 
65. Next in rank to the king, 65. 
Holds regular courts, 65. Re- 
ceives court fees and fines, 65. 
Hears appeals from minor chiefs 
court, 65. Head of military 
system of the community, 65. 
Regulates the seven companies of 
the community, 65. Present at 
annual general drill, 65. Leads 
van of army in time of war, 65. 
Is ex officio principal civil coun- 
cillor of the king, 66. 

Tutim Gackidi, King of Denkara, 
155. 

27 



418 



INDEX. 



uss 






TTSSHER, Governor, 184, 191. 
Utrecht, Treaty of, 314. 



VASSAL, obligation of, to render 
allegiance fee, 51. 
Victoriaburg, 268. 
Villars, a native king's secretary, 

292. 
Vines, Mr. S. M., secretary to 

Governor, 389. 
Volta, river, 239, 359. 



WARD : every adult = member 
of ward, 85. Ward consti- 
tutes a company, 85. 
Wassaw, Eastern, or Lower : Kwa- 

mina Enimil = King of, 25, 397. 

Native state of Gold Coast, 21, 
* 397. 
Wassaw, Upper, native state of 

Gold Coast, 397. King of, 

= Kwesi Wereku, 397. 
Webster's International Dictionary 

quoted, 313, 320. 
Werempims = councillors, 41. Right 

of selecting king, 41. 
West Africa quoted, 125, 203. 
Western Akiiu, native state of Gold 



YAM 

Coast, 397. King of, = Kofi 
Ahinkura, 397. 

Western Echo, 176. Edited by 
Prince Brew, 176. 

West African 'Herald, 175. Edited 
by C. Bannerman, 175. 

Willcocks, Sir James, expedition 
of, 24. 

Wines, sale of, prohibited, without 
licence, 163. 

Wingfield, Mr., 171. 

Women, as mothers, teach children 
traditions and customs of the 
district, etc., 77. Dance before 
king at " stool celebrations," 89. 
Propitiate the gods in time of 
war, 92 ; and act as commissariat 
department to their own company, 
92. Chant war-songs, 92. Are 
bedaubed with white clay and 
dressed in white calico in time of 
war, singing dirges, 92. Sweep 
out whole ward in townships, 110. 
Brush up and burn all waste 
vegetable matter, 110. 

Wolseley, Lord, 141. At Prahsue, 
141, 172. 

" Wontsey, wontsey " = " hear hear," 
94. 



AM, its festival, 85, 238. 



BRADBURY, AGNEW, & CO LD., TOINTERS, LONDON AND TONBBlDOE. 
