About This File

This file is part of a corpus compiled by Caitlin Matheis (University of Nebraska-Lincoln) for a 2021 computational text analysis project for the One More Voice recovery project (onemorevoice.org). This corpus encompasses a wide range of plain text (TXT) files containing nineteenth- and early twentieth-century literary works centered on Africa by several dozen different British and African writers. Questions about the corpus and project can be directed to Caitlin Matheis (cmatheis2@huskers.unl.edu), the creator of the corpus, and Adrian S. Wisnicki (awisnicki@unl.edu), lead developer for One More Voice.

File Source: Internet Archive, http://archive.org/details/travelsinwestafr00kinguoft

--------------------------------------

TRAVELS 
IN WEST AFRICA 

Congo Français, Corisco and Cameroons 


BY

MARY H. KINGSLEY 



WITH ILLUSTRATIONS 



FOURTH THOUSAND 




London: 
MACMILLAN AND CO., LIMITED

NEW YORK: THE MACMILLAN COMPANY 

1897 

All rights reserved 





RICHARD CLAY AND SONS, LIMITED,
LONDON and BUNGAY. 



2>T 




I 



2V 



TO MY BROTHER, C. G. KINGSLEY 

THIS BOOK IS DEDICATED 



^n OEPA- 



LIBRA^' 




V 



V)l 



PREFACE 

To THE Reader. — What this book wants is not a 
simple Preface but an apology, and a very brilliant 
and convincing one at that. Recognising this fully, 
and feeling quite incompetent to write such a master- 
piece, I have asked several literary friends to write 
one for me, but they have kindly but firmly declined, 
stating that it is impossible satisfactorily to apologise 
for my liberties with Lindley Murray and the Queen's 
English. I am therefore left to make a feeble 
apology for this book myself, and all I can personally 
say is that it would have been much worse than it is 
had it not been for Dr. Henr\^ Guillemard, who has not 
edited it, or of course the whole affair would have 
been better, but who has most kindly gone through 
the proof sheets, lassoing prepositions which were 
straying outside their sentence stockade, taking my 



viii PREFACE 

eye off the water cask and fixing it on the scenery 
where I meant it to be, saying firmly in pencil on 
margins "No you don't," when I was committing 
some more than usually heinous literary crime, and so 
on. In cases where his activities in these things may 
seem to the reader to have been wanting, I beg to 
state that they really were not. It is I who have 
declined to ascend to a higher level of lucidity and 
correctness of diction than I am fitted for. I cannot 
forbear from mentioning my gratitude to Mr. George 
Macmillan for his patience and kindness with me, — a 
mere jungle of information on West Africa. Whether 
you my reader will share my gratitude is, I fear, doubt- 
ful, for if it had not been for him I should never have 
attempted to write a book at all, and in order to 
excuse his having induced me to try I beg to state 
that I have written only on things that I know from 
personal experience and very careful observation. I 
have never accepted an explanation of a native custom 
from one person alone, nor have I set down things as 
being prevalent customs from having seen a single 
instance. I have endeavoured to give you an honest 
account of the general state and manner of life in 
Lower Guinea and some description of the various 
types of country there. In reading this section you 



PREFACE L\ 

must make allowances for my love of this sort 
of country, with its great forests and rivers and its 
animistic-minded inhabitants, and for my ability to 
be more comfortable there than in England. Your 
superior culture-instincts may militate against your 
enjoying West Africa, but if you go there you will 
find things as I have said. 




FEB 



CONTENTS 



PAGE 

Introduction i 

CHAPTER I 

LIVERPOOL TO SIERRA LEONE II 



CHAITER II 

THE GOLD COAST 26 

CHAPTER III 

FERNANDO PO AND THE BUBIS 42 

CHAPTER IV 

LAGOS BAR 73 

CHAPTER V 

VOYAGE DOWN COAST 84 

CHAPTER VI 

LIBREVILLE AND GLASS lOO 

CHAPTER VII 

THE OGOWE 123 

CHAPTER VIII 

TALAGOUGA I52 

CHAPTER IX 

THE RAPIDS OF THE OGOWE 166 



CONTENTS 



CHAPTER X 

PAGE 

LEMBARENE 192 



CHAPTER XI 

FROM KANGWE TO LAKE NCOVI 23I 

CHAPTER XII 

FROM NCOVI TO ESOON 257 

CHAPTER XIII 

FROM ESOON TO AGONJO 294 

CHAPTER XIV 

BUSH TRADE AND FAN CUSTOMS 308 

CHAPTER XV 

DOWN THE REMBWfe 333 

CHAPTER XVI 

CONGO FRANCAIS • ¦ 353 

CHAPTER XVII 
THE LOG OF THE Lafayette 3^2 

CHAPTER XVIII 

FROM CORISCO TO GABOON 4IO 

CHAPTER XIX 

FETISH 429 

CHAPTER XX 

FETISH — [Continued) 45^ 

CHAPTER XXI 

FETISH— (C<7«/»«M^rf) 483 



CONTENTS 



CHAPTER XXII 

PACE 

FETISH — (Continued) 50^ 



CHAPTER XXII 
jun— (Concluded) 521 

CHAPTER XXIV 

ACCENT OF THE GREAT PEAK OF CAMEROONS 548 

CHAPTER XXV 

ASCENT OF THE GREAT PEAK OF CAMEROONS — (Continued) 567 

CHAPTER XXVI 

THE GREAT PEAK OF CAMEROONS — (Cotltinued) 5S1 

CHAPTER XXVII 
THE GREAT PEAK OF CAMEROONS — (Concluded) 592 

CHAPTER XXVIII 

THE ISLANDS IN THE BAY OF AMBOISES 609 

APPENDIX 

I. TRADE AND LABOUR IN WEST AFRICA 63I 

II. DISEASE IN WEST AFRICA 681 

III. DR. A. GUNTHER ON REPTILES AND FISHES 692 

IV. ORTHOPTERA, HYMENOPTERA, AND HEMIPTERA 718 

V. THE INVENTION OF THE CLOTH LOOM 734 

INDEX 737 



LIBR/. 
.0 




^^ 



^iV 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS 

The illustrations to which asterisks are attached are published by kind permission 
of the Mission Evangelique of Paris 



PLATES 

TO FACE PAGE 
I.— A. CTENOPOMA KINGSLEY/E. B. CT. NANUM. C. CT. GABONENSE . 692 

II.— A. MORMVRUS KINGSLEYiC B. ALESTES KINGSLEY^E. C. BARILIUS 

BIBIE 694 



FULL-PAGE ILLUSTRATIONS 
AN ANGOLA FISHERMAN AT HOME Frontispiece 

TO FACE PAGE 

CAPE COAST 26 

FERNANDO PO AND AMBAO ISLAND FROM THE N.E 42 

CALLE DE LA MARINA, CLARENCE, FERNANDO PO 50 

CALLE DE SACRAMENTO, CLARENCE, FERNANDO PO 7I 

A TYPICAL WEST AFRICAN RIVER BANK I23 

"KAN CHIEF AND FAMILY 166 

FANS 257 

M. DE BRAZZA 353 

CARAVAN FOR STANLEY POOL, PALLABALLA MOUNTAINS, CONGO ... 358 

THE FALLS OF THE NGUNIE AT SAMBA 369 

DEATH DANCE COSTUMES, OLD CALABAR 483 

TRADE BOYS OF A CHIEF AT EQUETTA, OPOBO 492 

CAMEROONS RIVER, FROM ABOVE AKWA TOWN 567 

A MAHOGANY TREE, GOLD COAST . .' ... 63I 

SHIPPING MAHOGANY, AXIM 635 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS 



ILLUSTRATIONS IN TEXT 

PAGE 

ON A GOLD COAST BEACH 37 

KING DUKE OF CALABAR IN FULL DRESS 43 

THE MANGO AVENUE, FERNANDO PO 47 

governor's PALACE, FERNANDO PO 55 

HATTON AND COOKSON's FACTORY AT GLASS Io6 

*VIEW OF ONE BRANCH OF THE OGOWE FROM KANGWE 135 

CAFFEA LIBIRICA — LIBERIAN COFFEE I44 

STATION OF IHE MISSION £VANGELIQUE, TALAGOUGA 153 

SOUTH BANK OF THE OGOWE RIVER NEAR SENGELADE ISLANDS .... 181 

BOKO BOKO RAPIDS, OGOW^E RIVER 183 

SOUTH BANK OF THE OGOWE ABOVE BOKO BOKO 1 89 

*IGALWA WOMEN 222 

*FANS WITH IVORY AND RUBBER 29O 

AN AKKA DWARF OF CONGO FRAN9AIS 3 19 

ANGOLA BLACKSMITHS 324 

*IN A FAN VILLAGE 331 

*AN UPPER OGOWE VILLAGE 356 

•bATEKE PORTERS, OGOWE 357 

*ADOOMAS, UPPER OGOWE 362 

*AK0NGAS, THE CHIEF GONIONE, AND HIS TWO WIVES 365 

*MOUNT LOPE, OGOWE 370 

*A GIANTESS OF THE UPPER OGOWK 377 

*UPPER OGOWE NATIVES 379 

*MAKING A CHARM IN THE UPPER OGOWE REGION 446 

VIEW ON THE MIDDLE VOLTA 489 

*LADY OF OBAMBO, OGOWE, SHOWING CICATRISATION 53O 

PEAK OF CAMEROONS FROM THE NORTH-WEST 55 1 

BRINGING IN RUBBER— CONGO 658 

LOOM AT EQUETTA. (By permission of Alexander Cowen, Esq.) .... 735 



TRAVELS IN WEST AFRICA 



INTRODUCTION 

Relateth the various causes which impelled the author to embark upon 

the voyage. 

It was in 1893 that, for the first time in my life, I found 
m}self in possession of five or six months which were not 
heavily forestalled, and feeling like a boy with a new half- 
crown, I lay about in my mind, as Mr, Bunyan would say, as 
:o what to do with them. " Go and learn your tropics," said 
Science. Where on earth am I to go, I wondered, for tropics 
are tropics wherever found, so I got down an atlas and saw 
that either South America or West Africa must be my 
destination, for the Malayan region was too far off and too 
expensive. Then I got Wallace's Geographical Distribu- 
tion and after reading that master's article on the Ethiopian 
region I hardened my heart and closed with West Africa. I 
did this the more readily because while I knew nothing of the 
practical condition of it, I knew a good deal both b}- tradition 
and report of South East America, and remembered that 
Yellow Jack was endemic, and that a certain naturalist, my 
superior physically and mentally, had come very near getting 
starved to death in the depressing societ}- of an expedition 
slowly perishing of want and miscellaneous fevers up the 
Parana. 

My ignorance regarding West Africa was soon removed. 
And although the vast cavity in my mind that it occupied 



\ 



INTRODUCTION 



is not even yet half filled up, there is a great deal of very 
curious information in its place. I use the word curious 
advisedly, for I think many seemed to translate my request 
for practical hints and advice into an advertisement that 
" Rubbish may be shot here." This same information is in a 
state of great confusion still, although I have made heroic 
efforts to codify it. I find, however, that it can almost all be 
got in under the following different headings, namely and to 
wit : — 

The dangers of West Africa. 

The disagreeables of West Africa. 

The diseases of West Africa. 

The things you must take to West Africa. 

The things you find most handy in West Africa. 

The worst possible things you can do in West Africa. 

I inquired of all my friends as a beginning what they knew 
of West Africa. The majority knew nothing. A percentage 
said, " Oh, you can't possibly go there ; that's where Sierra 
Leone is, the white man's grave, you know." If these were 
pressed further, one occasionally found that they had had 
relations who had gone out there after having been " sad 
trials," but, on consideration of their having left not only 
West Africa, but this world, were now forgiven and for- 
gotten. One lady however kindly remembered a case of a 
gentleman who had resided some few years at Fernando Po, 
but when he returned an aged wreck of forty he shook so 
violently with ague as to dislodge a chandelier, thereby 
destroying a valuable tea-service and flattening the silver 
teapot in its midst. 

No ; there was no doubt about it, the place was not 
healthy, and although I had not been "a sad trial," yet 
neither had the chandelier-dislodging Fernando Po gentle- 
man. So I next turned my attention to cross-examining 
the doctors. " Deadliest spot on earth," they said cheerful!}-, 
and showed me maps of the geographical distribution of 
disease. Now I do not say that a country looks inviting 
when it is coloured in Scheele's green or a bilious yellow, but 



MISSIONARIES AND TRADERS 



these colours ma\' arise from lack of artistic gift in the 
cartographer. There is no mistaking what he means by 
black, however, and black you'll find they colour West Africa 
from above Sierra Leone to below the Congo. " I wouldn't 
go there if I were you," said m\' medical friends, " you'll catch 
something ; but if you must go, and you're as obstinate as a 
mule, just bring me " and then followed a li.st of commis- 
sions from here to New York, any one of which but I 

only found that out afterwards. 

All my informants referred me to the missionaries. " There 
were," they said, in an airy way, " lots of them down there, 
and had been for years." So to missionary"- literature I 
addressed myself with great ardour ; alas ! only to find that 
these good people wrote their reports not to tell you how the 
country they resided in was, but how it was getting on 
towards being what it ought to be, and how necessary it was 
that their readers should subscribe more freely, and not get 
any foolishness into their heads about obtaining an inadequate 
supply of souls for their money. I also found fearful con- 
firmation of my medical friends' statements about its 
unhealthiness, and various details of the distribution of cotton 
shii-ts over which I did not linger. 

From the missionaries it was, however, that I got my first 
idea about the social condition of West Africa. I gathered 
that there existed there, firstly the native human beings — the 
raw material, as it were — and that these were led either to 
good or bad respectively by the missionary- and the trader. 
There were also the Government representatives, whose chief 
business it was to strengthen and consolidate the missionary^'s 
work, a function they carried on but indifferently well. But 
as for those traders ! well, I put them down under the dangers 
of West Africa at once. Subsequently I came across the 
-cod old coast yarn of how, when a trader from that region 
went thence, it goes without saying where, the Fallen Angel 
without a moment's hesitation vacated the infernal throne 
Milton) in his favour. This, I beg to note, is the marine 
form of the legend. When it occurs terrestrially the trader 
becomes a Liverpool mate. But of course no one need 
believe it either way- — it is not a missionary's story. 

B 2 



INTRODUCTION 



Naturally, while my higher intelligence was taken up with 
attending to these statements, my mind got set on going, and 
I had to go. Fortunately I could number among my 
acquaintances one individual who had lived on the Coast 
for seven years. Not, it is true, on that part of it which 
I was bound for. Still his advice was pre-eminently worth 
attention, because, in spite of his long residence in the 
deadliest spot of the region, he was still in fair going order. 
I told him I intended going to West Africa, and he said, 
" When you have made up your mind to go to West Africa 
the very best thing you can do is to get it unmade again and 
go to Scotland instead ; but if your intelligence is not strong 
enough to do so, abstain from exposing yourself to the direct 
rays of the sun, take 4 grains of quinine every day for a fort- 
night before you reach the Rivers, and get some introductions 
to the Wesleyans ; they are the only people on the Coast who 
have got a hearse with feathers." 

My attention was next turned to getting ready things to 
take with me. Having opened upon myself the sluice gates 
of advice, I rapidly became distracted. My friends and their 
friends alike seemed to labour under the delusion that I 
intended to charter a steamer and was a person of wealth 
beyond the dreams of avarice. The only thing to do in this 
state of affairs was to gratefully listen and let things drift. 
They showered on me various preparations of quinine and 
other so-called medical comforts, mustard leaves, a patent filter, 
a hot-water bottle, and last but not least a large square bottle 
purporting to be malt and cod-liver oil, which, rebelling against 
an African temperature, arose in its wrath, ejected its cork, 
and proclaimed itself an efficient but not too savoury glue. 

Not only do the things you have got to take, but the 
things you have got to take them in, present a fine series of 
problems to the young traveller. Crowds of witnesses testi- 
fied to the forms of baggage holders they had found invalu- 
able, and these, it is unnecessary to say, were all different in 
form and material. 

With all this enibarras de choix I was too distracted to 
buy anything new in the way of baggage except a long 
waterproof sack neatly closed at the top with a bar and 



THE VOYAGE OUT 



handle. Into this I put blankets, boots, books, in fact any- 
thing that would not go into my portmanteau or black bag. 
From the first I was haunted by a conviction that its bottom 
would come out, but it never did, and in spite of the fact 
that it had ideas of its own about the arrangement of its 
contents, it ser\'ed me well throughout my voyage. 

It was the beginning of August '93 when I first left 
England for " the Coast." Preparations of quinine with post- 
age partially paid arrived up to the last moment, and a friend 
hastily sent two newspaper clippings, one entitled " A Week 
in a Palm-oil Tub," which was supposed to describe the sort 
of accommodation, companions, and fauna likely to be met 
with on a steamer going to West Africa, and on which I was 
to spend seven to The Graphic contributor's one ; the other 
from The Daily Telegraph, reviewing a French book of 
" Phrases in common use " in Dahomey. The opening 
sentence in the latter was, " Help, I am drowning." Then 
came the inquiry, " If a man is not a thief? " and then another 
cry, " The boat is upset." " Get up, you lazy scamps," is the 
next exclamation, followed almost immediately by the question, 
¦ Why has not this man been buried? " " It is fetish that has 
killed him, and he must lie here exposed with nothing on him 
until only the bones remain," is the cheerful answer. This 
sounded discouraging to a person whose occupation would 
necessitate going about considerably in boats, and whose fixed 
desire was to study fetish. So with a feeling of foreboding 
gloom I left London for Liverpool — none the more cheerful for 
the matter-of-fact manner in which the steamboat agents had 
informed me that they did not issue return tickets by the 
West African lines of steamers. 

I will not go into the details of that voyage here, much as 
I am given to discursiveness. They are more amusing than 
instructive, for on my first voyage out I did not know the 
Coast, and the Coast did not know me, and we mutually 
terrified each other. I fully expected to get killed b}- the 
local nobility and gentry ; they thought I was connected 
with the World's Women's Temperance Association, and 
collecting shocking details for subsequent magic-lantern 
lectures on the liquor traffic ; so fearful misunderstandings 



INTRODUCTION 



arose, but we gradually educated each other, and I had the 
best of the affair ; for all I had got to teach them was that I 
was only a beetle and fetish hunter, and so forth, while they 
had to teach me a new world, and a very fascinating course of 
study I found it. And whatever the Coast may have to say 
against me — for my continual desire for hair-pins, and other 
pins, my intolerable habit of getting into water, the abomina- 
tions full of ants, that I brought into their houses, or things 
emitting at unexpectedly short notice vivid and awful stenches 
— they cannot but say that I was a diligent pupil, who honestly 
tried to learn the lessons they taught me so kindly, though 
some of those lessons were hard to a person who had never 
previously been even in a tame bit of tropics, and whose life 
for many years had been an entirely domestic one in a 
University town. 

One by one I took my old ideas derived from books and 
thoughts based on imperfect knowledge and weighed them 
against the real life around me, and found them either worth- 
less or wanting. The greatest recantation I had to make 
I made humbly before I had been three months on the Coast 
in 1 893. It was of my idea of the traders. What I had expected 
to find them was a very different thing to what I did find 
them ; and of their kindness to me I can never sufficiently 
speak, for on that voyage I was utterly out of touch with the 
governmental circles, and utterly dependent on the traders,^ 
and the most useful lesson of all the lessons I learnt on the 
West Coast in 1893 was that I could trust them. Had I not 
learnt this very thoroughly I could never have gone out again 
and carried out the voyage I give you a sketch of in this book. 

Thanks to " the Agent," I have visited places I could never 
otherwise have seen ; and to the respect and affection in which 
he is held by the native, I owe it that I have done so in safet}-. 
When I have arrived off his factory in a steamer or canoe, 
unexpected, unintroduced, or turned up equally unheralded 
out of the bush in a dilapidated state, he has alwa}'s received 
me with that gracious hospitality which must have given him, 
under Coast conditions, very real trouble and inconvenieiTce — 
things he could have so readily found logical excuses against 
entailing upon him.self for the sake of an individual whom he 



OBLIGATIONS ACKNOWLEDGED 



had never seen before — w horn he most Hkely would never see 
again — and whom it was no earthly profit to him to see then. 
He has bestowed himself — Allah only knows where — on his 

nail trading vessels so that I might have his one cabin. 
1 le has fished me out of sea and fresh water with boat-hooks ; 
he has continually given me good advice, which if I had only 
followed would have enabled me to keep out of water and 
any other sort of affliction ; and although he holds the 
meanest opinion of my intellect for going to such a place as 
West Africa for beetles, fishes and fetish, he has given me the 
greatest assistance in my work. The value of that work I 
pray you withhold judgment on, until I lay it before you in 
some ten volumes or so mostly in Latin. All I know that is 
true regarding West African facts, I owe to the traders ; the 
errors are my own. 

To Dr. Gunther, of the British Museum, I am deeply 
grateful for the kindness and interest he has always shown 
regarding all the specimens of natural history that I have 
been able to lay before him ; the majority of which must have 
had very old tales to tell him. Yet his courtesy and atten- 
tion gave me the thing a worker in any work most wants — 
the sense that the work was worth doing — and sent me back 
to work again with the knowledge that if these things in- 
terested a man like him, it was a more than suflficient reason 
for me to go on collecting them. To Mr. W. H. F. Kirby 
I am much indebted for his working out my small collection 
of certain Orders of insects ; and to Mr. Thomas S. Forshaw, 
for the great help he has afforded me in revising my notes. 

It is impossible for me even to catalogue my debts of grati- 
tude still outstanding to the West Coast. Chiefly am I indebted 

' Mr. C. G. Hudson, whose kindness and influence enabled me 
lu go up the Ogowe and to see as much of Congo Fran^ais 
as I have seen, and his efforts to take care of me were most 
ably seconded by Mr. Fildes. The French officials in " Congo 
Francais " never hindered me, and always treated me with the 
greatest kindness. You may say there was no reason why 
they should not, for there is nothing in this fine colony of 
France that they need be ashamed of any one seeing ; but 
I find it is customary for travellers to say the French officials 



INTRODUCTION 



throw obstacles in the way of any one visiting their posses- 
sions, so I merely beg to state this was decidedly not my 
experience ; although my deplorable ignorance of French 
prevented me from explaining my humble intentions to them. 
The Rev. Dr. Nassau and Mr. R. E. Dennett have enabled 
me, by placing at my disposal the rich funds of their know- 
ledge of native life and idea, to amplify any deductions from 
my own observation. Mr. Dennett's work I have not dealt 
with in this work because it refers to tribes I was not 
amongst on this journey, but to a tribe I made the acquaintance 
with in my '93 voyage — the Fjort. Dr. Nassau's observations 
I have referred to. Herr von Lucke, Vice-governor of 
Cameroon, I am indebted to for not only allowing me, but 
for assisting me by every means in his power, to go up 
Cameroons Peak, and to the Governor of Cameroon, Herr 
von Puttkamer, for his constant help and kindness. Indeed 
so great has been the willingness to help me of all these 
gentlemen, that it is a wonder to me, when I think of it, that 
their efforts did not project me right across the continent and 
out at Zanzibar. That this brilliant affair did not come off 
is owing to my own lack of enterprise ; for I did not want 
to go across the continent, and I do not hanker after Zanzibar, 
but only to go puddling about obscure districts in West 
Africa after raw fetish and fresh-water fishes. 

I owe my ability to have profited by the kindness of these 
gentlemen on land, to a gentleman of the sea — Captain 
Murray. He was captain of the vessel I went out on in 1893, 
and he saw then that my mind was full of errors that must 
be eradicated if I was going to deal with the Coast success- 
fully ; and so he eradicated those errors and replaced them 
with sound knowledge from his own stores collected during 
an acquaintance with the West Coast of over thirty years. 
The education he has given me has been of the greatest value 
to me, and I sincerely hope to make many more voyages 
under him, for I well know he has still much to teach and 
I to learn. 

Last, but not least, I must chronicle my debts to the ladies. 
First to those two courteous Portuguese ladies, DonnaShna 
de Sousa Coutinho e Chichorro and her sister Donna Maria 



OTHER BENEFACTORS 



le Sousa Coutinho, who did so much for me in Kacongo in 1893, 
iiid have remained, I am proud to sa}-, my firm friends ever 
-ince. Lady MacDonald and Miss Mary Slessor I speak of 
in this book, but only faintly sketch the pleasure and help 
they have afforded me ; nor have I fully expressed my 
gratitude for the kindness of Madame Jacot of Lembarene, or 
Madame Forget of Talagouga. Then there are a whole list of 
nuns belonging to the Roman Catholic Missions on the South- 
West Coast, ever cheery and charming companions ; and 
Frau Plehn, whom it was ever a pleasure to see in Cameroons, 
and discourse with once again on things that seemed so far 
off then — art, science, and literature ; and Mrs. H. Duggan, 
of Cameroons too, who used, whenever I came into that port 
to rescue me from fearful states of star\ation for toilet 
necessaries, and lend a sympathetic and intelligent ear to the 
" awful sufferings" I had gone through, until Cameroons became 
to me a thing to look forward to. 

When in the Canaries in 1892, I used to smile, I regretfully 
own, at the conversation of a gentleman from the Gold Coast 
who was up there recruiting after a bad fever. His conversa- 
tion consisted largely of anecdotes of friends of his, and nine 
times in ten he used to say, " He's dead now." Alas ! my 
own conversation may be smiled at now for the same cause. 
p Many of my friends mentioned even in this very recent account 
of the Coast " are dead now." Most of those I learnt to know 

Ki 1893 ; chief among these is my old friend Captain Boler, of 
onny, from whom I first learnt a certain power of com- 
prehending the African and his form of thought. 

I have great reason to be grateful to the Africans them- 
selves — to cultured men and women among them like Charles 
Owoo, Mbo, Sanga Glass, Jane Harrington and her sister at 
Gaboon, and to the bush nativ-es ; but of my experience with 
them I give further details, so I need not dwell on them here. 
I apologise to the general reader for giving so much detail 
n matters that really only affect myself, and I know that the 
debtedness which all African travellers have to the white 
residents in Africa is a matter usuall}- ver\- lightly touched 
n. No doubt my voyage would seem a grander thing if I 
itted mention of the help I received, but — well, there was 



INTRODUCTION 



a German gentleman once who evolved a camel out of his 
inner consciousness. It was a wonderful thing ; still, you 
know, it was not a good camel, only a thing which people 
personally unacquainted with camels could believe in. Now 
I am ambitious to make a picture, if I make one at all, that 
people who do know the original can believe in- — even if 
they criticise its points — and so I give you details a more 
showy artist would omit. 




CHAPTER I 

LIVERPOOL TO SIERRA LEONE 

Setting forth how the voyager departs from England in a stout vessel and 
in good company, and reaches in due course the Island of the Grand 
Canaiy, and then the Port of Sierra Leone : to which is added some 
account of this latter place and the comeliness of its .women. 

The West Coast of Africa is like the Arctic regions in one 
particular, and that is that when you have once visited it you 
want to go back there again ; and, now I come to think of it, 
there is another particular in which it is like them, and that 
is that the chances you have of returning from it at all are 
small, for it is a Belle Dauie sans merci. 

I know that from many who know the Coast, there will be a 
chorus of dissent from the first part of my sentence, and a 
chorus of assent to the second. But if you were to take 
many of the men who most energetically assert that they 
wish they were home in England, " and see if they would 
ever come to the etc., etc., place again," and if you were to 
bring them home, and let them stay there a little while, I am 
pretty sure that — in the absence of attractions other than 
those of merely being home in England, notwithstanding its 
glorious joys of omnibuses, underground railwa}s, and 
e\ ening newspapers — these same men, in terms varjing with 
individual cases, will be found sneaking back apologetically 
to the Coast. 

I succumbed to the charm of the Coast as soon as I left 
Sierra Leone on my first voyage out, and I saw more than 
enough during that voyage to make me recognise that there 
was any amount of work for me worth doing down there. 
So I warned the Coast I was coming back again and the Coast 
did not believe me ; and on my return to it a second time 



12 LIVERPOOL TO SIERRA LEONE chap. 

displayed a genuine surprise, and formed an even higher 
opinion of my folly than it had formed on our first acquaint- 
ance, which is saying a good deal. 

During this voyage in 1893, I had been to Old Calabar, 
and its Governor, Sir Claude MacDonald, had heard me 
expatiating on the absorbing interest of the Antarctic drift, 
and the importance of the collection of fresh-water fishes and 
so on. So when Lady MacDonald heroically decided to go 
out to him in Calabar, they most kindly asked me if I would 
join her, and make my time fit hers for starting on m}^ second 
journey. This I most willingly did, but I fear that very 
sweet and gracious lady suffered a great deal of apprehension 
at the prospect of spending a month on board ship with 
a person so devoted to science as to go down the West 
Coast in its pursuit. During the earlier days of our voyage 
she would attract my attention to all sorts of marine objects 
overboard, so as to amuse me. I used to look at them, and 
think it would be the death of me if I had to work like this, 
explaining meanwhile aloud that " they were very interesting, 
but Haeckel had done them, and I was out after fresh-water 
fishes from a river north of the Congo this time," fearing all 
the while that she felt me unenthusiastic for not flying over 
into the ocean to secure the specimens. 

However, my scientific qualities, whatever they may amount 
to, did not blind this lady long to the fact of my being 
after all a very ordinar}^ individual, and she told me so — 
not in these crude words, indeed, but nicel}^ and kindly — 
whereupon, in a burst of gratitude to her for understanding 
me, I appointed myself her honorary aide-de-camp on the 
spot, and her sincere admirer I shall remain for ever, fully 1 
recognising that her courage in going to the Coast was far^ 
greater than my own, for she had more to lose had fever 
claimed her, and -she was in those days by no means under the 
spell of Africa. But this is anticipating. 

It was on the 23rd of December, 1894, that we left Liver- 
pool in the Batanga, commanded by my old friend Captain 
Murray, under whose care I had made my first vo}-agc. 
We ought to have left on the 22nd, but this we could 
not do, for it came on to blow a bit, such a considerable bit 



I TENERIFFE AND GRAND CANARY 13 

indeed, that even the mighty Cunard liner Lucania could not 
leave the Mersey ; moreover the Batanga could not have 
left even if she had wanted to, for the dock gates that shut 
her in could not be opened, so fierce was the gale. So it was 
Sunday the 23rd then, as I have said, that we got off, with no 
further misadventure save that, owing to the weather, the 
Batanga could not take her powder on board, a loss that 
nearly broke the carpenter's heart, as it robbed him of the 
pleasure of making that terrific bang with which a West 
Coaster salutes her ports of call. 

On the 30th we sighted the Peak of Teneriffe earl}- in the 
afternoon. It displayed itself, as usual, as an entirely celestial 
phenomenon. A great many people miss seeing it. Suffering 
under the delusion that El Pico is a terrestrial affair, they 
look in vain somewhere about the level of their own eyes, 
which are striving to penetrate the dense masses of mist that 
usually enshroud its slopes by day, and then a friend comes 
along, and gaily points out to the newcomer the glittering 
white triangle somewhere near the zenith. On some days 
the Peak stands out clear from ocean to summit, looking 
every inch and more of its 12,080 ft. ; and this is said by the 
Canary fishermen to be a certain sign of rain, or fine weather, 
or a gale of wind ; but whenever and however it may be seen,. 
soft and dream-like in the sunshine, or melodramatic and 
bizarre in the moonlight, it is one of the most beautiful 
things the eye of man may see. 

Soon after sighting Teneriffe, Lanzarote showed, and then 
the Grand Canary. Teneriffe is perhaps the most beautiful, 
but it is hard to judge between it and Grand Canary as seen 
from the sea. The superb cone this afternoon stood out a 
deep purple against a serpent-green sky, separated from the 
brilliant blue ocean by a girdle of pink and gold cumulus, 
while Grand Canarj' and Lanzarote looked as if they were 
formed from fantastic-shaped sunset cloud-banks that by some 
spell had been solidified. The general colour of the moun- 
tains of Grand Canary, which rise peak after peak until they 
culminate in the Pico de las Nieves, some 6,000 feet high, is a 
yellowish red. and the air which lies among their rocky 
crevices and swathes their softer sides is a lovely lustrous 



i 



14 LIVERPOOL TO SIERRA LEONE chap. 

blue. I used to fancy that if I could only have collected 
some of it in a bottle, and taken it home to show my friends, 
it would have come out as a fair blue-violet cloud in the gray 
air of Cambridge. 

Just before the sudden dark came down, and when the sun 
was taking a curve out of the horizon of sea, all the clouds 
gathered round the three islands, leaving the sky a pure 
amethyst pink, and as a good-night to them the sun outlined 
them with rims of shining gold, and made the snow-clad 
Peak of Teneriffe blaze with star-white light. In a few 
minutes came the dusk, and as we neared Grand Canary, out 
of its cloud-bank gleamed the red flash of the lighthouse on 
the Isleta, and in a few more minutes, along the sea lev'el, 
sparkled the five miles of irregularly distributed lights of 
Puerto de la Luz and the city of Las Palmas. 

I will not here go into the subject of the Canary Islands, 
because it is one upon which I foresee a liability to become 
diffuse. I have visited them now five times ; four times 
merely calling there on my way up and down to the Coast, 
but on the other occasion spending many weeks on them ; 
and if I once start on the subject of their beauties, their 
trade, and their industries, why, who knows to what size this 
volume may not grow ? 

We reached Sierra Leone at 9 A.M. on the 7th of January, 
and as the place is hardly so much in touch with the general 
public as the Canaries are ^ I may perhaps venture to go more 
into details regarding it. The harbour is formed by the long 
low strip of land to the north called the Bullam shore, and 
to the south by the peninsula terminating in Cape Sierra 
Leone, a sandy promontory at the end of which is situated 
a lighthouse of irregular habits. Low hills covered with 
tropical forest growth rise from the sandy shores of the Cape, 
and along its face are three creeks or bays, deep inlets showing 

^ Sierra Leone has been known since the voyage of Hanno of Carthage 
in the sixth century B.C., but it has not got into general literature to any 
great extent since Pliny. The only later classic who has noticed it is 
Milton, who in a very suitable portion of Paradise Lost says of Notus 
and Afer, " black with thunderous clouds from Sierra Lona." Our occupa- 
tion of it dates from 1787. 



FREE TOWN 



hrough their narrow entrances smooth beaches of yellow 
sand, fenced inland by the forest of cotton-woods and palms, 
with here and there an elephantine baobab. 

The first of these bays is called Pirate Bay, the next 
English Bay, and the third Kru Bay. The wooded hills of 
the Cape rise after passing Kru Bay, and become spurs of 
the mountain, 2,500 feet in height, which is the Sierra Leone 
itself There are, however, several mountains here besides 
the Sierra Leone, the most conspicuous of them being the 
peak known as Sugar Loaf, and when seen from the sea 
they are very lovely, for their form is noble, and a wealth of 
tropical vegetation covers them, which, unbroken in its con- 
tinuity, but endless in its variet>', seems to sweep over their 
sides down to the shore like a sea, breaking here and there 
into a surf of flowers. 

It is the general opinion, indeed, of those who ought to know 
that Sierra Leone appears at its best when seen from the sea, 
particularly when you are leaving the harbour homeward 
bound ; 'and that here its charms, artistic, moral, and residential, 
end. But, from the experience I have gained of it, I have no 
hesitation in saying that it is one of the best places for getting 
luncheon in that I have ever happened on, and that a more 
pleasant and varied way of spending an afternoon than going 
about its capital. Free Town, with a certain Irish purser, who is 
as well known as he is respected among the leviathan old 
negro ladies, it would be hard to find. Still it must be 
admitted it is rather hot. 

Free Town is situated on the northern base of the mountain, 
nd extends along the sea-front with most business-like 
harves, quays, and warehouses. Viewed from the harbour. 
The Liverpool of West Africa,"^ as it is called, looks as if it 
were built of gray stone, which it is not. When you get ashore, 
you will find that most of the stores and houses — the majorit}- 
of which, it may be remarked, are in a state of acute dilapida- 
tion — are of painted wood, with corrugated iron roofs. Here 
and there, though, you will see a thatched house, its thatch 

^ Lagos also likes to bear this flattering appellation, and has no\v-a- 
davs more risfht to the title. 



i6 LIVERPOOL TO SIERRA LEONE chap. 

covered with creeping plants, and inhabited by colonies of 
creeping insects. 

Some of the stores and churches are, it is true, built of stone, 
but this does not look like stone at a distance, being red in 
colour — unhewn blocks of the red stone of the locality. 
In the crannies of these buildings trailing plants covered 
with pretty mauve or yellow flowers take root, and every- 
where, along the tops of the walls, and in the cracks of 
the houses, are ferns and flowering plants. They must 
get a good deal of their nourishment from the rich, thick air, 
which seems composed of 85 per cent, of warm water, and 
the remainder of the odours of Frangipani, orange flowers, 
magnolias, oleanders, and roses, combined with others that 
demonstrate that the inhabitants do not regard sanitary 
matters with the smallest degree of interest. 

There is one central street, and the others are neatly planned 
out at right angles to it. None of them are in any way 
paved or metalled. They are covered in much prettier 
fashion, and in a way more suitable for naked feet, by green 
Bahama grass, save and except those which are so nearly 
perpendicular that they have got every bit of earth and grass 
cleared off them down to the red bed-rock, by the heavy 
rain of the wet season. 

The shops, which fringe these streets in an uneven line, are 
like rooms with one side taken out, for shop-fronts, as we 
call them, are here unknown. Their floors are generally 
raised on a bed of stone a little above street level, but 
except when newly laid, these stones do not show, for the grass 
grows over them, making them into green banks. Inside, the 
shops are lined with shelves, on which are placed bundles 
of gay-coloured Manchester cottons and shawls, Swiss 
clocks, and rough but vividly coloured china ; or — what I 
makes a brave show — brass, copper, and iron cooking-pots. 
Here and there you come across a baker's, with trays of 
banana fritters of tempting odour ; and there is no lack 
of barbers and chemists. Within all the shops are usually 
to be seen the proprietor and his family with a few friends, 
all exceedingly plump and happy, having a social shout 
together : a chat I cannot call it. 



THE nativ:es 17 



There is usually a counter across the middle, over which 
customers and casual callers alike love to loll. Some brutal 
tradesmen, notably chemists, who presumably regard this as 
unprofessional, affix, tremendous nails, with their points out- 
wards, to the fronts of their counter tops, in order to keep 
their visitors at a respectful distance. 

In every direction natives are walking at a brisk pace, their 
naked feet making no sound on the springy turf of the 
streets, canying on their heads huge burdens which are 
usually crowned by the hat of the bearer, a large limpet- 
shaped affair made of palm leaves. While some carr>' these 
enormous bundles, others bear logs or planks of wood, blocks 
of building stone, vessels containing palm-oil, baskets of 
\ egetables, or tin tea-trajs on which are folded shawls. As 
he great majority of the native inhabitants of Sierra Leone 
ay no attention whatever to where they are going, either 
in this world or the next, the confusion and noise are out 
r>f all proportion to the size of the town ; and when, as 
equently happens, a section of actively perambulating 
irden-bearers charge recklessly into a sedentary' section, the 
embers of which have dismounted their loads and squatted 
.emselves down beside them, right in the middle of the fair 
way, to have a friendly yell with some acquaintances, the row- 
becomes terrific. 

In among these crowds of country people walk stately 
Mohammedans, Mandingoes, Akers,. and Fulahs of the 
Arabised tribes of the Western Soudan. These are lithe, 
well-made men, and walk with a peculiarly fine, elastic 
carriage. Their graceful garb consists of a long white loose- 
sleeved shirt, over which they wear either a long black 
mohair or silk gown, or a deep bright blue affair, not 
altogether unlike a University gown, only with more stuff in 
it and more folds. They are undoubtedly the gentlemen of 
the Sierra Leone native population, and they are becoming an 
increasing faction in the town, by no means to the pleasure 
of the Christians. For, although Bishop Ingram admits that 
they are always ready to side with the missionaries against 
he drink traffic, here their co-operation ceases, and he 
omplains that they exercise a great influence over the native 

C 



i8 LIVERPOOL TO SIERRA LEONE chap. 

Christian flock. He says, " We are disposed to believe that 
the words of their Koran are only a fetish and a charm to 
the rank and file of their adherents, and that great supersti- 
tion prevails among them, and is propagated by them," ^ but 
how the Bishop can see a difference in this matter between 
the use of the Koran and the Bible by the negro of Sierra 
Leone, it is difficult to understand ; and judged by the 
criterion of every-day conduct, the Mohammedan is in nine 
cases in ten, the best man in West Africa. But he is, I grieve 
say, not thoroughly orthodox. The Koran I have seen 
many of them using consists merely of extracts and prayers 
written in Maghribi characters ; and I have grave doubts 
whether they could read this any better than I could without 
a dictionary. I have also frequently seen them playing 
warry, and another game, the name whereof I know not, but 
it is played with little sticks of wood stuck in the ground, and 
" something on the rub," or what corresponds to it ; although 
they must be aware that, by this indulgence in the pleasures 
of gambling, they will undoubtedly incur the penalty of 
having donkeys graze upon their graves — yea, even on 
the graves of their parents. They should think of this, for 
warry, when all's said and done, is a desperately dull game. 

They are, moreover, by no means strict teetotallers, and 
some individuals from Accra, whom I once met, shocked me 
deeply by saying Mohammedans were divided into two 
classes, Marabuts who do not drink, and Sonniki who do. I 
do not know where they can have picked up this idea ; but I 
observed my acquaintances were " hard-shelled " Sonniki. 
Again, the Sierra Leone and Lagos Mohammedans regard 
working in leather and iron as quite respectable occupations, 
which is not in accordance with views held in high 
Mohammedan circles. Very good leather-work they cer- 
tainly turn out — bags, sheaths for daggers, and such like, to 
say nothing of the quaint hats, made of the most brilliant 
yellow, blue, and red leather strips plaited together : ver\- 
heavy, and very ugly, but useful. Quite ." rational dress 
hats in fact, for their broad brims hang down and shade the 
neck, and they also shelter the eyes to such an extent that 
^ Sierra Leone after a Hundred Years. 



TALISMANS 19 



the wearer can't see without bending up the front brim pretty 
frequent!}' ; — but then I notice there always is something 
wrong with a rational article of dress. Then the bulbous 
dome top keeps off the sun from the head, rain runs off the 
whole affair easily, and bush does not catch in it. If I had 
sufficient strength of mind I would wear one myself, but 
even if I decorated it with cat-tails, or antelope hair, as is 
usually done, I do not feel 1 could face Piccadilly in one ; 
and you have no right to go about Africa in things you 
would be ashamed to be seen in at home. 

The leather-work that meets with the severest criticism 
from the Christian party is the talisman or gri-gri bags, 
and it must be admitted that an immense number of them are 
sold. I have, however, opened at hazard some eighty-seven 
of these, and always found in them that which can do no man 
harm, be he black, white, or yellow, to wear over his heart ; 
namely, the beautiful 113th Sura of the Koran, the "Sura 
of the Da\-break," which says : — " I fly for refuge unto the 
Lord of the Day-break, that He may deliver me from the evil 
f those things which He has created ; from the evil of the 
iight when it cometh on ; and from the evil of blowers upon 
knots, and from the evil of the envious when he envieth." 
This is written on a piece of paper, rolled or folded up tightly, 
and enclosed in a leathern case which is suspended round the 
neck. The talismans the Mohammedans make do not, how- 
ever, amount to a tenth part of those worn, the number 
whereof is enormous. I have never seen a negro in national 
costume without some, both round his neck, and round his 
leg, just under the knee ; and I dare say if the subject were 
gone into, and the clothes taken off the mpre full}-draped 
coloured gentlemen, you would hardly find one without an 
amulet of some kind. The great majority of these other 
charms are supplied by the ju-ju priests, or some enter- 
prising heathen who has a Suhman, or private devil, of his 
own. 

But to the casual visitor at Sierra Leone the Mohammedan 
is a mere passing sensation. You neither feel a burning 
desire to laugh with, or at him, as in the case of the country 
^ folks, nor do you wish to punch his head, and split his coat 

C 2 



>\ 



20 LIVERPOOL TO SIERRA LEONE chap. 

up his back — things you yearn to do to that perfect flower of 
Sierra Leone culture, who yells your bald name across the 
street at you, condescendingly informs you that you can go 
and get letters that are waiting for you, while he smokes 
his cigar and lolls in the shade, or in some similar way 
displays his second-hand rubbishy white culture — a culture 
far lower and less dignified than that of either the stately 
Mandingo or the bush chief I do not think that the Sierra 
Leone dandy really means half as much insolence as he 
shows ; but the truth is he feels too insecure of his own real 
position, in spite of all the " side " he puts on, and so he dare 
not be courteous like the Mandingo or the bush Fan. 

It is the costume of the people in Free Town and its harbour 
that will first attract the attention of the new-comer, notwith- 
standing the fact that the noise, the smell, and the heat are 
simultaneously making desperate bids for that favour. The 
ordinary man in the street wears anything he may have been 
able to acquire, anyhow, and he does not fasten it on securely. 
I fancy it must be capillary attraction, or some other par- 
tially-understood force, that takes part in the matter. It is 
certainly neither braces nor buttons. There are, of course, 
some articles which from their very structure are fairly secure, 
such as an umbrella with the stick and ribs removed, or a 
shirt. This last-mentioned treasure, which usually becomes 
the property of the ordinary man from a female relative or 
admirer taking in white men's washing, is always worn flow- 
ing free, and has such a charm in itself that the happy pos- 
sessor cares little what he continues his costume with — 
trousers, loin cloth, red flannel petticoat, or rice-bag drawers, 
being, as he would put it, " all same for one " to him. 

I remember one day, when in the outskirts of the town, seeing 
some country people coming in to market. It was during 
the wet season, and when they hove in sight, they were, so to 
speak, under bare poles, having nothing on worth mentioning. 
But each carried a bundle done up in American cloth, with a 
closed umbrella tucked into it. They pulled up as soon as 
they thought it dangerous to proceed further, for fear of 
meeting some of their town friends, and solemnly dressed, 
holding umbrellas over each other the while. Then, dignified 



THE LADIES 



and decorated, and each sporting his gingham, they marched 
into the town. Here and there in the street you come across 
a black man done up in a tweed suit, or in a black coat and tall 
hat ; and here and there a soldier of the West India regiment, 
mart and tidy-looking in his Zouave costume. These sol- 

iers are said to be the cause of the many barbers' shops 
-prinkled about the town, as they are not allowed razors of 
their own, owing to their tendency to employ them too 
frequently in argument. 

The ladies are divided into three classes ; the young girl 
you address as " tee-tee ; " the young person as " seester ; " 
the more mature charmer as " mammy ; " but I do not advise 
you to employ these terms when you are on your first visit, 
because you might get misunderstood. For, you see, by 
addressing a mammy as seester, she might think either that 
you were unconscious of her dignity as a married lady — a 
matter she would soon put you right on — or that you were 
flirting, which of course was totally foreign to your intention, 
and would make you uncomfortable. My advice is that you 
rigidly stick to missus or mammy. I have seen this done 
most successfull}'. 

The ladies are almost as varied in their costume as the 
gentlemen, but always neater and cleaner ; and mighty 
picturesque they are too, and occasionally very pretty. A 
market-woman with her jolly brown face and laughing brown 
eyes — eyes all the softer for a touch of antimony — her ample 
form clothed in a lively print overall, made with a yoke at 
the shoulders, and a full long flounce which is gathered on 
to the yoke under the arms and falls fully to the feet ; with 
her head done up in a yellow or red handkerchief, and her 
snowy white teeth gleaming through her vast smiles, is a 
mighty pleasant thing to see, and to talk to. But, Allah ! the 
circumference of them ! 

The stone-built, whitewashed market buildings of Free 
Town have a creditably clean and tidy appearance con- 
sidering the climate, and the quantity and variety of things 
exposed for sale — things one wants the pen of a Rabelais to 
catalogue. Here are all manner of fruits, some which are 
familiar to you in England ; others that soon become so to you 



22 LIVERPOOL TO SIERRA LEONE chap. 

in Africa. You take them as a matter of course if you are 
outward bound, but on your call homeward (if you make it) 
you will look on them as a blessing and a curiosity. For 
lower down, particularly in " the Rivers," these things are rarely 
to be had, and never in such perfection as here ; and to see 
again lettuces, yellow oranges, and tomatoes bigger than 
marbles is a sensation and a joy. Onions also there are, and 
if you are wise you will buy them when outward bound. If 
you are speculative in the bargain you will take as many 
as you can get, for here you may buy them from four to five 
shillings the box, and you can sell them below for any sum 
between twelve shillings and a sovereign. 

Here, too, are beads, but for the most part of dull colour 
and cheap quality. Beans, too, are more than well represented. 
Horse-eye beans, used for playing warry ; vast, pantomime- 
sized beans, the insides of which being removed, and a few 
shot put in, make a pleasant rattle to hang at the wrist ; and 
evil Calabar beans, which can serve no good end at all here^ 
and which it seems insolent to sell in open market, in a town 
where poisoning is said to be so prevalent that its own Bishop 
declares " small social gatherings are almost unknown from 
the fear of it." ^ 

The piles of capsicums and chillies, the little heaps of 
Reckitt's Blue, vivid-coloured Berlin wools, pumpkins, pine- 
apples, and alligator pears, give rich and brilliant touches of 
colour, and relieve the more sombre tones of kola nuts, old 
iron, antelope horns, monkey skins, porcupine quills, and snails. 
These snails are a prominent feature in the market in a quiet 
way : they are used beaten up to help to make the sauce for palm 
oil chop ; and they are shot alive on to the floor in heaps, 
and are active and nomadic : whereby it falls out that people 
who buy other things such as vegetables, Berlin wool, or meat, 
are liable to find one of these massive gastropods mixed up in 
the affair. Treading on one of them is, for a nervous person, 
as alarming as the catastrophe of treading on one of the native | 
black babies with which the market floor abounds. There are 
half a hundred other indescribabilia, and above all hovers the 
peculiar Sierra Leone smell and the peculiar Sierra Leone noise. | 
^ Sierra Leone after a Hundred Years. 



JACK CROWS 23 

One of the chief features of Free Town are the jack crows. 
Some writers say they are peculiar to Sierra Leone, others 
that they are not, but both unite in calHng them Picathartes 
gyinnocephalus. To the white people who live in daily contact 

ith them they are turkey-buzzards ; to the natives, Yubu. 
\nyhow they are evil-looking fowl, and no ornament to the 

»of-ridges they choose to sit on. The native Christians 
ought to put a row of spikes along the top of their cathedral to 
keep them off; the beauty of that edifice is very far from great, 
and it cannot carry off the effect produced by the rov/ of these 
noisome birds as they sit along its summit, with their wings 
arranged at all manner of different angles in an " all gone " 
way. One bird perhaps will have one straight out in front, 
and the other casually disposed at right-angles, another both 
straight out in front, and others again with both hanging 
hopelessly down, but none with them neatly and tidily folded 
up, as decent birds' wings should be. They all give the im- 
pression of having been extremely drunk the previous evening, 
and of having subsequently fallen into some sticky abomina- 
tion — into blood for choice. Being the scavengers of Free 
Town, however, they are respected by the local authorities 
and preserved ; and the natives tell me you never see either a 
young or a dead one. The latter is a thing you would not 
expect, for half of them look as if they could not live through 
the afternoon. They also told me that when you got close to 
them, they had a " 'trong, 'trong 'niff ; 'niff too much." I 
did not try, but I am quite willing to believe this statement. 

The other animals most in evidence in the streets are, first 
and foremost, goats and sheep. I have to lump them together, 
for it is exceedingly difficult to tell one from the other. All 
along the Coast the empirical rule is that sheep carry their 
tails down, and goats carry their tails up ; fortunately you 
need not worry much anyway, for they both "taste rather 
like the nothing that the world was made of," as Frau Buch- 
holtz says, and own in addition a fibrous texture, and a cer- 
tain twang. Small cinnamon-coloured cattle are to be got 
here, but horses there are practically none. Now and again 
some one who does not see why a horse should not live here 
as well as at Accra or Lagos imports one, but it alwajs 



24 LIVERPOOL TO SIERRA LEONE chap. 



shortly dies. Some say it is because the natives who get 
their living by hammock-carrying poison them, others say 
the tsetse fly finishes them off; and others, and these I 
believe are right, say that entozoa are the cause. Small, 
lean, lank, yellow dogs with very erect ears lead an awful 
existence, afflicted by many things, but beyond all others by 
the goats, who, rearing their families in the grassy streets, 
choose to think the dogs intend attacking them. Last, but 
not least, there is the pig — a rich source of practice to the 
local lawyer. 

The lawyer in Sierra Leone flourishes like the green bay- 
tree. All the West Coast natives, when the fear of the 
dangers of their own country-fashion law is off them, and 
they are under European institutions — I very nearly said 
control, but that would have been going too far — become 
exceedingly litigious, more litigious naturally in Sierra Leone 
because they have more European institutions there, among 
others trial by jury. Any law case, whether he wins it or 
not, is a pleasure to the African, because it gives him an oppor- 
tunity of showing off his undoubted powers of rhetoric, and 
generally displaying himself But there is no law case that 
gives the Sierra Leonean that joy that he gets out of summon- 
ing a white man, for he can get the white man before a jury of 
his fellow Sierra Leoneans — what they please to call in that 
benighted place a jury of his peers — and bully and insult 
him. 

There is usually a summons or so awaiting a West Coast 
boat, and many a proud vessel has dropped anchor in Free 
Town harbour with one of her officers in a ventilator and 
another in a coal bunker. On one vessel by which I was a 
passenger, it was the second officer who was " wanted." Re- 
gaining the ship after a time on shore, we found the deck in 
an uproar. The centre of affairs was an enormous black lady, 
bearing a name honoured in English literature, and by pro- 
fession a laundress, demanding that the body of the second mate 
in any condition should be rendered over to the hand of the law 
(represented by four Haussa policemen) on a warrant she held 
against him for not having discharged his washing-bill last 
time the steamer was in Sierra Leone. Now this worthy 



"MY BRUDAH, SAH " 25 

man, tired by his morning labour, working cargo in the stew- 
ig heat, and strong in the virtue of an unblemished life here, 
ad gone to sleep in his cabin, out of which he was routed 
i'.id confronted with his accusatrix and the small frightened 
man she had got with her, whom she kept on introducing as 
my brudah, sah." Unfortunately for the lady, it was not the 
ime gallant officer who held the post of second mate, but 
another, and our injured innocent, joining in the chorus, re- 
turned thanks for his disturbance in language of singular 
lency. He is the only man I have ever met whose powers 
of expression were equal to his feelings, and it is a merciful 
providence for him it is so, for what that man feels sometimes 
I think would burst a rock. 

The lady and her brother went crestfallen ashore, but the 
policemen stayed on board until we left, getting exceedingly 
drunk the while. Looking over the side, I saw one of them 
I fold himself over the gunwale of the boat in which the}' were 
going ashore with his head close to the water. His companions 
heeded not, and I insisted on my friend the quartermaster 
rescuing the sufferer, and arranging him in the bottom of the 
boat, for not only was he in danger of drowning, but of acting 
as an all too tempting live-bait for the sharks, which swarm 
in the harbour. The quartermaster evidently thought this 
was foolish weakness on my part, for it " was only a police- 
!nan, and what are policemen but a kind of a sort of a custom 
house officer, and what are custom house officers but the very 
deuce ? " 

This, however, was not on the Batanga, but in the days 
before I was an honorary aide-de-camp, remember. This 
voyage out on the Batanga not even Sierra Leone could find 
anything to summon us for. 



CHAPTER II 

THE GOLD COAST 

Wherein some description of Cape Coast and Accra is given, to which 
are added divers observations on supphes to be obtained there. 

Cape Coast Castle and then Accra were the next places of 
general interest at which we stopped. The former looks well 
from the roadstead, and as if it had very recently been white- 
washed. It is surrounded by low, heavily-forested hills, whiich 
rise almost from the seashore, and the fine mass of its old 
castle does not display its dilapidation at a distance. More- 
over, the three stone forts of Victoria, William, and Macarthy, 
situated on separate hills commanding the town, add to 
the general appearance of permanent substantialness so 
different from the usual ramshackledom of West Coast 
settlements. Even when you go ashore and have had time 
to recover your senses, scattered by the surf experience, 
you find this substantialness a true one, not a mere visual 
delusion produced by painted wood as the seeming sub- 
stantialness of Sierra Leone turns out to be when you 
get to close quarters with it. It causes one some mental 
effort to grasp the fact that Cape Coast has been in 
European hands for centuries, but it requires a most un- 
modern power of credence to realise this of any other settle- 
ment on the whole western seaboard until you have the 
pleasure of seeing the beautiful city of San. Paul de Loanda, 
far away down south, past the Congo. 

My experience of Cape Coast on this occasion was one 
of the hottest, but one of the pleasantest I have ever been 
throucrh on the Gold Coast. The former attribute was due 



CH. II VIEW FROM FORT WILLIAM 27 

to the climate, the latter to my kind friends, Mr. Batty, and 
Mr. and Mrs. Dennis Kemp. I was taken round the grand 
stone-built houses with their high stone-walled yards and 
sculpture-decorated gateways, built by the merchants of the 
last century and of the centur}'^ before, and through the great 
rambling stone castle with its water-tanks cut in the solid 
rock beneath it, and its commodious accommodation for 
slaves awaiting shipment, now almost as obsolete as the guns 
it mounts, but not quite so, for these cool and roomy chambers 
serve to house the native constabulary and their extensive 
families. 

This being done, I was taken up an unmitigated hill, on 
whose summit stands Fort William, a pepper-pot-like structure 
now used as a lighthouse. Our peregrinations having been 
carried on under a fancy temperature, I was inclined to drink 
in the beauty of this building from a position at its base, and 
was looking round for a shady spot to sit down in, when my 
intentions were ruthlessly frustrated by my companions, who 
would stop at nothing short of its summit, where I eventually 
found m}self The view was exceedingly lovely and ex- 
tensive. Beneath, and between us and the sea, lay the 
town in the blazing sun. In among its solid stone build- 
ings patches of native mud-built huts huddled together 
as though they had been shaken down out of a sack into the 
town to serve as dunnage. Then came the snow-white 
irf wall, and across it the blue sea with our steamer rolling 
- J and fro on the long, regular swell, impatiently waiting until 
Sunday should be over and she could work cargo. Round 
us on all the other sides were wooded hills and valleys, and 
away in the distance to the west showed the white town and 
castle of Elmina and the nine-mile road thither, skirting 
the surf-bound seashore, only broken on its level way by 
the mouth of the Sweet River. Over all was the brooding 
silence of the noonday heat, broken only by the dulled 
thunder of the surf 

After seeing these things we started down stairs, and on 
reaching ground descended yet lower into a sort of stone- 
walled dry moat, out of which opened clean, cool, cellar-like 
chambers tunnelled into the earth. These, I was informed, 



28 THE GOLD COAST chap. 

had also been constructed to keep slaves in when they were 
the staple export of the Gold Coast. They were so refresh- 
ingly cool that I lingered looking at them and their massive 
doors, ere being marched up to ground level again, and down 
the hill through some singularly awful stenches, mostly arising 
from rubber, into the big Wesleyan church in the middle of 
the town. It is a building in the terrible Africo-Gothic 
style, but it compares most favourably with the cathedral at 
Sierra Leone, particularly internally, wherein, indeed, it far 
surpasses that structure. And then we returned to the 
Mission House and spent a very pleasant evening, save for 
the knowledge (which amounted in me to remorse) that, had 
it not been for my edification, not one of my friends would 
have spent the day toiling about the tow n they know only 
too well. Mr. Dennis Kemp was chairman and superinten- 
dent of the Wesleyan Mission on the Gold Coast when I was 
last there, and he had filled this important position for some 
time. This is the largest and most influential Protestant 
mission on the West Coast of Africa, and it is now, I am 
glad to say, adding a technical department to its scholastic 
and religious one. The Basel Mission has done a great deal 
of good work in giving technical instruction to the natives, 
and practically started this most important branch of their 
education. There is still an almost infinite amount of this 
work to be done, the African being so strangely deficient 
in mechanical culture ; infinitely more so, indeed, in this 
than in any other particular. All the other Protestant 
missions are following the Basel Mission's lead, and, recog- 
nising that a good deal of their failure arises from a want of 
this practical side in their instruction, are now starting tech- 
nical schools : — the Church of England in Sierra Leone, the 
Wesleyans on the Gold Coast, and the Presbyterians in 
Calabar. 

In some of these technical schools the sort of instruction 
given is, to my way of thinking, ill-advised ; arts of no 
immediate or great use in the present culture-condition of 
West Africa — such as printing, book-binding, and tailoring- 
being taught. But this is not the case under the Wesleyans, who 
also teach smith's work, carpentering, brickla\-ing, waggon- 



MISSIONS 29 

building, Sec. Alas ! none of the missions save the Roman 

Catholic teach the thing that it is most important the natives 

should learn, in the face of the conditions that European 

jvemment of the Coast has induced, namely, improved 

ethods of agriculture, and plantation work. 

The Wesle}an Mission has only four white ministers here. 
Native ministers there are seventeen, and the rest of the 
staff is entirely native, consisting of 70 Catechists, 144 day 
school teachers, 386 Sunday-school teachers, and 405 local 
preachers. The total number of fully accredited members of 
this sect in 1893 was stated in the Gold Coast Annual to be 
7.066. 

The total amount of money raised by this mission on the 
Gold Coast in 1893 was ;^5,338 14s. gd. This is a ver>- 
remarkable sum and most creditable to the native members 
of the sect, for almost all the other native Christian bodies 
are content to be in a state of pauperised dependency on 
British subscriptions. The headquarters of the Wesleyan 
Mission were, up to last year, at Cape Coast, but now they 
have been removed to Aburi on the hills some twenty-six 
miles behind Accra, and Cape Coast is no longer the head- 
quarters of any governmental or religious affair. The 
Government removed to Accra from Cape Coast several 
years ago, on account of the great unhealthiness of the 
latter place and in the hope that Accra would prove less 
^atal. Unfortunately this hope has not been realised ; 

)reover the landing at Accra is worse than at Cape Coast, 
id the supply of fresh water very poor. 

Accra is one of the five West Coast towns that look well 

•m the sea. The others don't look well from anywhere. First 
I .in order of beauty comes San. Paul de Loanda ; then Cape 
Coast with its satellite Elmina, then Gaboon, then Accra with 
- satellite Christiansborg, and lastly. Sierra Leone. 

What there is of beauty in Accra is oriental in type. Seen 

jm the sea, Fort St. James on the left and Christiansborg 

Castle on the right, both almost on shore level, give, with an 

j outcrop of sandy dwarf cliffs, a certain air of balance and 

I strength to the town, though but for these and the two old 

ca-tlc--, Accra would be but a poor place and a flimsy, for the 



30 THE GOLD COAST chap. 



rest of it is a mass of rubbishy mud and palm-leaf huts, and 
corrugated-iron dwellings for the Europeans. 

Corrugated iron is my abomination. I quite understand it 
has points, and I do not attack from an aesthetic standpoint. 
It really looks well enough when it is painted white. There 
is, close to Christiansborg Castle, a patch of bungalows and 
offices for officialdom and wife that from a distance in the 
hard bright sunshine looks like an encampment of snow-white 
tents among the coco palms, and pretty enough withal, I am 
also aware that the corrugated-iron roof is an advantage in 
enabling you to collect and store rain-water, which is the 
safest kind of water you can get on the Coast, always 
supposing you have not painted the aforesaid roof with red 
oxide an hour or two before so collecting, as a friend of mine 
did once. But the heat inside those iron houses is far greater 
than inside mud-walled, brick, or wooden ones, and the alterna- 
tions of temperature more sudden : mornings and evenings 
they are cold and clammy ; draughty they are always, thereb}' 
giving you chill which means fever, and fever in West Africa 
means more than it does in most places. 

Going on shore at Accra with Lady MacDonald gave me 
opportunities and advantages I should not otherwise have 
enjoyed, such as the hospitality of the Governor, luxurious 
transport from the landing place to Christiansborg Castle, a 
thorough inspection of the cathedral in course of erection, 
and the strange and highly interesting function of going to a 
tea-party at a police station to meet a king, — a real reigning 
king — who kindly attended with his suite and displayed an 
intelligent interest in photographs. Tackie (that is His 
Majesty's name) is an old, spare man, with a subdued 
manner. His sovereign rights are acknowledged by the 
Government so far as to hold him more or less responsible for 
any iniquity committed by his people ; and as the Government 
do not allow him to execute or flagellate the said people, 
earthly pomp is rather a hollow thing to Tackie. 

On landing I was taken in charge b}' an Assistant 
Inspector of Police, and after a scrimmage for my chiefs 
baggage and my own, which reminded me of a long ago 
landing on the distant island of Guernsey, the inspector and 



ACCRA 31 

I got into a 'rickshaw, locally called a go-cart. It was pulled 
in front by two government negroes and pushed behind b\- 
another pair, all neatly attired in white jackets and knee 
breeches, and crimson cummerbunds yards long, bound round 
their middles. Now it is an ingrained characteristic of the 
uneducated negro, that he cannot keep on a neat and 
complete garment of any kind. It does not matter what 
that garment may be ; so long as it is whole, oflf it comes. 
But as soon as that garment becomes a series of holes, held 
together by filaments of rag, he keeps it upon him in a 
manner that is marvellous, and you need have no further 
anxiety on its behalf Therefore it was but natural that the 
governmental cummerbunds, being new, should come off their 
wearers several times in the course of our two mile trip, and 
as they wound riskily round the legs of their running wearers, 
we had to make halts while one end of the cummerbund was 
affixed to a tree-trunk and the other end to the man, who 
rapidly wound himself up in it again with a skill that spoke of 
constant practice. 

The road to Christiansborg from Accra, which runs parallel 
to the sea and is broad and well-kept, is in places pleasantly 
shaded with pepper trees, eucalyptus, and palms. The first 
part of it, which forms the main street of Accra, is remarkable. 
The untidy, poverty-stricken native houses or huts are no 
credit to their owners, and a constant source of anxiety to a 
conscientious sanitary inspector. Almost everj- one of them 
j is a shop, but this does not give rise to the animated com- 
j mercial life one might imagine, owing, I presume, to the fact 
I that every native inhabitant of Accra who has anj^ mone}- to 
get rid of is able recklessly to spend it in his own emporium. 
For these shops are of the store nature, each after his kind, 
and seem homogeneously stocked with tin pans, loud- 
patterned basins, iron pots, a few rolls of cloth and bottles of 
American rum. After passing these there are the Haussa 
lines, a few European houses, and the cathedral ; and when 
nearly into Christiansborg, a cemetery on either side of the 
road. That to the right is the old cemeterj-, now closed, and 
when I was there, in a disgracefully neglected state : a mere 
jungle of grass infested with snakes. Opposite to it is the 



32 THE GOLD COAST chap. 

cemetery now in use, and I remember well my first visit to it 
under the guidance of a gloomy Government official, who 
said he always walked there every afternoon, " so as to get 
used to the place before staying permanently in it," — a rank 
waste of time and energy, by the way, as subsequent events 
proved, for he is now safe off the Gold Coast for good and 
all. 

He took me across the well-kept grass to two newly dug 
graves, each covered with wooden hoods in a most business-like 
way. Evidently those hoods were regular parts of the ceme- 
tery's outfit. He said nothing, but waved his hand with a 
"take-your-choice,-they-are-both-quite-ready" style. "Why?" 
I queried laconically. " Oh ! we always keep two graves 
ready dug for Europeans. We have to bury very quickly 
here, you know," he answered. I turned at bay. I had had 
already a very heavy dose of details of this sort that afternoon 
and was disinclined to believe another thing. So I said, " Its 
exceedingly wrong to do a thing like that, you only frighten 
people to death. You can't want new-dug graves daily. 
There are not enough white men in the whole place to keep 
the institution up." " We do," he replied, " at any rate at this 
season. Why, the other day we had two white men to bury 
before twelve o'clock, and at four, another dropped -in on a 
steamer." 

" At 4.30," said a companion, an exceedingly accurate 
member of the staff, " How you fellows do exaggerate ! " 
Subsequent knowledge of the Gold Coast has convinced me 
fully that the extra funeral being placed half-an-hour sooner 
than it occurred is the usual percentage of exaggeration you 
will be able to find in stories relating to the local mortality. 
And at Accra, after I left it, and all along the Gold Coast, 
came one of those dreadful epidemic outbursts sweeping away 
more than half the white population in a few weeks. It is 
customary for the Government authorities to pooh-pooh the 
mortality, or to allege that it is owing to the bad habits of the 
white men ; but this latter statement is far more untrue than 
any fever story an old coaster will tell you. The authorities 
at home, both of merchant firms and mission societies, 
follow suit and make the same statements. The true statistics- 



CHRISTIANSBORG 



are difficult to get at in English colonies, because the Govern- 
ment reports are as a general rule very badly prepared, and 
dodge giving important details like this with an almost 
diabolical ingenuity. And, added to this, they come out so 
long after the incidents referred to in them have taken place, 
that they are only fit for the early literature shelves of the 
British Museum. 

But to return to our state journey along the Christiansborg 
road. We soon reached the castle, an exceedingly roomy 
and solid edifice built by the Danes, and far better fitted for 
the climate than our modern dwellings, in spite of our sup- 
posed advance in tropical hygiene. We entered by the 
sentry-guarded great gate into the courtyard ; on the right 
hand were the rest of the guard ; most of them asleep 
on their mats, but a few busy saying Dhikr, etc. towards 
Mecca, like the good Mohammedans these Haussas are, 
others winding themselves into their cummerbunds. On the 
left hand was Sir Brandford Griffiths' hobby — a choice and 
select little garden, of lovely eucharis lilies mostly in tubs, 
and rare and beautiful flowers brought by him from his 
Barbadian home ; while shading it and the courtyard was a 
fine specimen of that superb thing of beauty — a flamboyant 
tree — glorious with its delicate-green acacia-like leaves and 
vermilion and yellow flowers, and astonishing with its vast 
beans. A flight of stone stairs leads from the courtyard to 
the upper part of the castle where the living rooms are, over 
the extensive series of cool tunnel-like slave barracoons, now 
used as store chambers. The upper rooms are high and 
large, and full of a soft pleasant light and the thunder of the 
everlasting surf breaking on the rocky spit on which the castle 
is built. 

From the day the castle was built, now more than a 
hundred years ago, the surf spray has been swept by the 
on-shore evening breeze into every chink and cranny of 
the whole building, and hence the place is mouldy — mouldy 
to an extent I, with all my experience in that paradise for 
mould, West Africa, have never elsewhere seen. The mat- 
ting on the floors took an impression of your foot as a light 
snowfall would. Beneath articles of furniture the crj'ptogams 

D 



34 ' THE GOLD COAST chap. 



attained a size more in keeping with the coal period than 
with the nineteenth century. That unhappy furniture t 
How it suffers ! From everything save one noble old gilt 
chair with the arms of Denmark embroidered on its throne- 
like form which is apparently acclimatised, the veneer hung 
in strips, as if each article had been trying to throw its 
clothes off to get cooler. 

The looking-glasses, too, were in a sorry plight. You only 
saw yourself in sections in them. A dangerous thing, I should 
imagine, for .shaving operations, just to be able to dimly catch 
sight of the top of your head, one eye, a portion of your nose,, 
and a bit of shirt front. One member of the Government, I 
observed, was considerably done up with sticking-plaster round 
the jaw, which I mentally put down to a shaky hand, until 
I had trouble with my back hair with those governmental 
mirrors. One must never judge a fellow creature unkindly,, 
especially on the Gold Coast. 

Along the front of the living-rooms facing the sea is a single 
immense verandah. This is the place for social gatherings, and 
after dinner the ladies arrange themselves in a hard and fast 
row on chairs, while the gentlemen hang round about and talk. 
Conversation is carried on under difficulties, because of the 
ceaseless roar of the surf In the middle of January I found 
conversation with a new-comer consisted of ** You should 
have been here last week." " Eh ? " " You should have 
been here last week when we had the races (/)." " Oh ! 
you have a race-meeting? (m./y'' " Yes, we have a regular 
race-course, you know (J^." Then details regarding the races 
\vhich you don't quite catch, but you say " Indeed," " Really 
though ! " " That must have been very nice," at random, and get 
regarded as being sympathetic, and are rewarded with more i\ 
details. Another individual, whose name you do not catch, is 
introduced. He .says something. You say " Eh? " He says,. 
" You should have been here last week when we had our 
races (^." Then come the details as before, and so on, da ca/fo, 
throughout the evening. The other subjects of conversation 
with which one had to deal during meals relate to the new 
cathedral and Ashanti affairs. You of course know about the 
cathedral, and you ought to know about Ashanti affairs, and 



II A CONSIDERATE GOVERNOR 35 

the real reason why King Kwoffe Karri Karri crossed the 
Prah in '74. But >-ou usually don't, for both these subjects 
require sound previous education ; superficial dealings with 
them are quite impossible, for the names of places and people 
in Ashanti are strange and choppy, and you will get mixed 
as to which is which if you don't take care. 

Superficial things may have changed now Sir Brandford 
Griffiths has left the Gold Coast after his long term of 
service — the longest term, I think, ever served on the whole 
West Coast by a Governor. But they cannot have improved 
either in the way of courteous hospitalit>^ or in the thoughtful 
[personal kindness which the late Governor gave his visitors. 

For example, when we left the castle after receiving from 
him all manner of kind wishes, to say nothing of pipes and 
walking-sticks, he energetically went out of his way to save 
the life and reason of a young member of our party, a mere 
new-comer, who wore a light felt hat in the blazing mid- 
day sun. My chief and I went off respectively in go-carts to 
the landing-place at James Town, and the young man, who 
had also to return to the Batatiga, followed not for some 
minutes. When he rejoined us we obser\ed beautiful cool 
green leaves sticking out from under his hat in a wreath. 
The Governor had not done what man)' an old coaster would 
have done, namely, said : " There ! that fellow will certainly 
peg out with that fool of a hat," and preserved a masterly 
inactivity. No, he had gathered with his own hands certain 
suitable herbs from his own garden, and filled the inadequate 
hat with them. 

While we were waiting for the surf-boat, we had an object 
lesson in the surf trouble. Several stalwart negroes strolled 
to and fro along the sand in front of us, poking down iron 
bars into it ever and anon. Ever and anon they left these 
sticking in and strolled off, not as one might hastily have 
thought because they had had enough of the job, but 
to go and fetch a spade. What they were sounding for 
in the sand were the iron rails which had been capsized in 
coming ashore and which belong to a tramway in course 
of construction for running goods from the beach to 
the sheds. When we got on board the Batatiga, we saw 

D 2 



36 THE GOLD COAST chap. 



more of this tramway. A large surf-boat was being laden 
with its rails, and as it persisted, owing to the long heavy 
swell, in playing bob cherry with every bundle of them, the 
time came when the man at the winch " came back a bit " 
suddenly instead of " softly, softly " as he had been care- 
fully ordered to do. This happened when the boat was 
nearly laden, and one of the bundles of rails hanging on the 
chain swung round and speared that lively surf-boat right 
through. 

A scene of some excitement followed, accompanied by a 
perfect word-fog of directions and advice. The chain was 
hastily lowered into the boat and put round bundles of rails 
which were as hastily hauled back on to the Batangas deck, 
but still the boat with the balance of the rails continued sink- 
ing, and her black crew when they realised this went " for 
water one time " and swam round at a respectful distance so 
as to avoid the coming down suck, in spite of being most 
distinctly requested to return to the boat and sling rails like 
fury. Then Captain Murray came upon the scene and rose 
to the occasion, ordering ropes to be passed bodily under 
the boat and round her in such a manner that she was held 
up, whether she would or no, until she was unloaded. Then 
she was hauled on deck and repaired during the rest of the 
voyage by my old friend the Portuguese carpenter, although 
he announced himself as " suffering from rheumatism under 
the influence of the doctor." 

The Gold Coast is one of the few places in West Africa 
that I have never felt it my solemn duty to go and fish in. 
I really cannot say why. Seen from the sea it is a pleasant- 
looking land. The long lines of yellow, sandy beach 
backed by an almost continuous line of blue hills, which in 
some places come close to the beach, in other places show 
in the dim distance. It is hard to think that it is so unhealthy 
as it is, from just seeing it as you pass by. It has high land 
and has not those great masses of mangrove-swamp one 
usually, at first, associates with a bad fever district, but 
which prove on acquaintance to be at any rate no worse than 
this well-elevated open-forested Gold Coast land. There are 
many things to be had here and in Lagos which tend to make 



THE FOOD SUPPLY 



37 



life more tolerable, that you cannot have elsewhere until you 
are south of the Congo. Horses, for example, do fairly 
well at Accra, though some twelve miles or so behind the 
town there is a belt of tsetse fly, specimens of which I 
have procured and had identified at the British Museum, 
and it is certain death to a horse, I am told, to take it to 
Aburi. 




ON A GOLD COAST BEACH. 



The food-supply, although bad and dear, is superior 
to that you get down south. Goats and sheep are fairly 
plentiful. In addition to fresh meat and tinned you are 
able to get a quantity of good sea fish, for the great West 
African Bank, which fringes the coast in the Bight of Benin, 
abounds in fish, although the native cook very rarely knows 
how to cook them. Then, too, you can get more fruit and 



38 THE GOLD COAST chap. 

vegetables on the Gold Coast than at most places lower 
down : the plantain/ not least among them — very good when 
allowed to become ripe, and then cut into longitudinal strips, 
and properly fried ; the banana, which surpasses it when 
served in the same manner, or beaten up and mixed with rice, 
butter, and eggs, and baked. Eggs, by the way, according to 
the great mass of native testimony, are laid in this country 
in a state that makes them more fit for electioneering than 
culinary purposes, and I shall never forget one tribe I was 
once among, who, whenever I sat down on one of their 
benches, used to smash eggs round me for ju-ju. They 
meant well. But I will nobly resist the temptation to tell 
egg stories and industriously catalogue the sour-sop, guava, 
grenadilla, aubergine or garden-egg, yam, and sweet potato. 

The sweet potato should be boiled, and then buttered and 
browned in an oven, or fried. When cooked in either way 
I am devoted to them, but in the way I most frequently 
come across them I abominate them, for they jeopardise 
my existence both in this world and the next. It is this 
way : you are coming home from a long and dangerous 
beetle-hunt in the forest ; you have battled with mighty 
beetles the size of pie dishes, they have flown at your head, 
got into your hair and then nipped you smartly. You have 
been also considerably stung and bitten by flies, ants, &c., 
and are most likely sopping wet with rain, or with the 
wading of streams, and you are tired and your feet go low 
along the ground, and it is getting, or has got, dark with 
that ever-deluding tropical rapidity, and then you for your 
sins get into a piece of ground which last year was a native's 
farm, and, placing one foot under the tough vine of a sur- 
viving sweet potato, concealed by rank herbage, you plant 
your other foot on another portion of the same vine. Your 
head you then deposit promptly in some prickly ground 
crop, or against a tree stump, and then, if there is human 
blood in you, you say d — n ! 

Then there are also alligator-pears, limes, and oranges. 

^ Alonjj;^ the Coast, and in other parts of Africa, the coarser, flat-sided 
kinds of banana are usually called plantains, the name banana being | 
reserved for the finer sorts, such as the little " silver banana." 



THE PAW-PAW 39 



There is something about those oranges I should like to have 
¦explained. They are usually green and sweetish in taste, nor 
have they much white pith, but now and again you get a big 
bright yellow one from those trees that have been imported, 
and these are very pithy and in full possession of the flavour 
of verjuice. They have also got the papaw on the Coast, the 
Carica papaya of botanists. It is an insipid fruit. To the 
newcomer it is a dreadful nuisance, for no sooner does an old 
¦coaster set eyes on it than he straightway says, " Paw-paws 
are awfully good for the digestion, and even if you just hang 
a tough fowl or a bit of goat in the tree among the leaves, it 
gets tender in no time, for there is an awful lot of pepsine 
in a paw-paw," — which there is not, papaine being its active 
principle. After hearing this hymn of praise to the papaw 
some hundreds of times, it palls, and you usually arrive at 
this tired feeling about the thing by the time you reach the 
Gold Coast, for it is a most common object, and the same 
man will say the same thing about it a dozen times a day if 
he gets the chance. I got heartily sick of it on my first 
voyage out, and rashly determined to check the old coaster in 
this habit of his, preparatory- to stamping the practice out. 
It was one of my many failures. I soon met an old coaster 
with a papaw fruit in sight, and before he had time to start, 
I boldly got away with — " The paw-paw is awfull>- good for 
the digestion," hoping that this display of knowledge would 
impress him and exempt me from hearing the rest of the 
formula. But no. " Right you are," said he solemnly. " It's 
a powerful thing is the paw-paw. Why, the other day we had 
a sad case along here. You know what a nuisance young 
assistants are, bothering about their chop, and scorpions in 
their beds and boots, and what not and a half, and then, 
.when you have pulled them through these, and often enough 
before, pegging out with fever, or going on the fly in the 
native town. Did you know poor B — ? Well ! he's dead 
now, had fever and went off like a babe in eight hours though 
he'd been out fourteen years for A — and D — . They sent 
him out a new book-keeper, a tender joung thing \\\\\\ a 
dairymaid complexion and the notion that he'd got the 
indigestion. He fidgeted about it somethingf awful. One 



40 THE GOLD COAST chap. 



night there was a big paw-paw on the table for evening 
chop, and so B — , who was an awfully good chap, told him 
about how good it was for the digestion. The book-keeper 
said his trouble always came on two hours after eating, and 
asked if he might take a bit of the thing to his room. 
' Certainly,' says B — , and as the paw-paw wasn't cut at that 
meal the book-keeper quietly took it off whole with him. 

" In the morning time he did not turn up. B — , just 
before breakfast, went to his room and he wasn't • there, but 
he noticed the paw-paw was on the bed and that was all, 
so he thought the book-keeper must have gone for a walk, 
being, as it were, a bit too tender to have gone on the fly as 
yet. So he just told the store clerk to tell the people to 
return him to the firm when they found him straying around 
lost, and thought no more about it, being, as it was, mail-day, 
and him busy. 

" Well ! Fortunately the steward boy put that paw-paw on 
the table again for twelve o'clock chop. If it hadn't been for 
that, not a living soul would have known the going of the book- 
keeper. For when B — cut it open, there, right inside it, were 
nine steel trouser-buttons, a Waterbury watch, and the poor 
young fellow's keys. For you see, instead of his digesting his 
dinner with that paw-paw, the paw-paw took charge and 
digested him, dinner and all, and when B. interrupted it, it 
was just getting a grip on the steel things. There's an awful 
lot of pepsine in a paw-paw, and if you hang, &c., &c." 

I collapsed, feebly murmuring that it was very interesting, 
but sad for the poor young fellow's friends. 

" Not necessarily," said the old coaster. So he had the 
last word, and never again will I attempt to alter the 
ways of the genuine old coaster. What you have got to do 
with him is to be very thankful you have had the honour of 
knowing him. 

Still I think wc do over-estimate the value of the papaw>; 
although I certainly did once myself hang the leg of a goat na 
mortal man could have got tooth into, on to a papaw tree 
with a bit of string for the night. In the morning it was 
clean gone, string and all ; but whether it was the pepsine, 
the papaine, or a purloining pagan that was the cause of its 



I 



GOLD COAST STORIES 41 



departure there was no evidence to show. Yet I am mj'self, 
as Hans Breitmann says, " still skebdigal " as to the papaw, 
and I dare say you are too. 

But I must forthwith stop writing about the Gold Coast, or 
I shall go on telling you stories and wasting your time, not to 
mention the danger of letting out those which would damage 
the nerves of the cultured of temperate climes, such as those 
relating to the youth who taught himself French from a six 
months' method book ; of the man who wore brass buttons ; 
the moving storj- of three leeches and two gentlemen ; the 
doctor up a creek ; and the reason why you should not eat 
pork along here because all the natives have either got the 
guinea- worm, or kraw-kraw or ulcers ; and then the pigs go 
and — dear me ! it was a near thing that time. I'll leave off 
at once. 



CHAPTER III 

FERNANDO PO AND THE BUBIS 

Giving some account of the occupation of this island by the whites and 
the manners and customs of the blacks peculiar to it. 

Our outward voyage really terminated at Calabar, and it 
terminated gorgeously in fireworks and what not in honour 
of the coming of Lady MacDonald, the whole settlement, 
white and black, turning out to do her honour to the best of 
its ability ; and its ability in this direction was far greater 
than, from my previous knowledge of coast conditions, I could 
have imagined possible. 

Before Sir Claude MacDonald settled down again to local 
work, he and Lady MacDonald crossed to Fernando Po, still 
in the Batanga, and I accompanied them, thus getting an 
opportunity of seeing something of Spanish official circles. 
I have always been fascinated with the island, on account of 
its intense beauty and the high ethnological interest of 
its native inhabitants, and I have had during my previous 
voyage, and while staying in Cameroon, rather exceptional 
opportunities of studying both these subjects. I will therefore 
sketch the result of my observations here, doing so all 
the more readily, because this has no pretension to being a 
connected work, — a thing you possibly have already 
remarked. 

I had heard sundry noble legends of Fernando Po, and 
seen the coast and a good deal of the island before, but 
although I had heard much of the Governor, I had never met 
him until I went up to his residence with Lady MacDonald 
and the Consul-General. He was a delightful person,. 



CH. Ill 



UN HEALTH I NESS OF CLIMATE 



who, as a Spanish naval officer, some time resident in Cuba, 
had picked up a lot of English, with a strong American 
accent clinging to it He gave a most moving account of 
how, as soon as his appointment as Governor was announced, 
all his friends and acquaintances carefully explained to him 
that this appointment was equivalent to execution, only more 




KING DUKE OF CALABAR IX FULL DRESS. 



incomfortable in the wa}- it worked out. During the out- 

mrd voyage this was daily confirmed by the stories told by 

the sailors and merchants personall}' acquainted with the 

place, who were able to support their information with dates 

and details of the decease of the victims to the climate. 



44 FERNANDO PO AND THE BUBIS chap. 



Still he kept up a good heart, but when he arrived at the 
island he found his predecessor had died of fever ; and 
he himself, the day after landing, went down with a bad 
attack and he was placed in a bed — the same bed, he 
was mournfully informed, in which the last Governor had 
expired. Then he did believe, all in one awful lump, all the 
stories he had been told, and added to their horrors a few 
original conceptions of death and purgatory, and a lot of 
transparent semi-formed images of his own delirium. 
Fortunately both prophecy and personal conviction alike 
miscarried, and the Governor returned from the jaws of 
death. But without a moment's delay he withdrew from the 
Port of Clarence and went up the mountain to Basile, which 
is in the neighbourhood of the highest native village, where 
he built himself a house, and around it a little village of 
homes for the most unfortunate set of human beings I have 
ever laid eye on. They are the remnant of a set of Spanish 
colonists, who had been located at some spot in the Spanish 
possessions in Morocco, and finding that place unfit to support 
human life, petitioned the Government to remove them and 
let them try colonising elsewhere. 

The Spanish Government just then had one of its occa- 
sional fits of interest in Fernando Po, and so shipped them 
here, and the Governor, a most kindly and generous man, who 
would have been a credit to any country, established them 
and their families around him at Basile, to share with him 
the advantages of the superior elevation ; advantages he 
profoundly believed in, and which he has always placed at the 
disposal of any sick white man on the island, of whatsoever 
nationality or religion. Undoubtedly the fever is not so 
severe at Basile as in the lowlands, but there are here the 
usual drawbacks to West African high land, namely an over 
supply of rain, and equally saturating mists, to say nothing 
of sudden and extreme alternations of temperature, and so 
the colonists still fall off, and their children die continuously j 
from the various entozoa which abound upon the island. 

When the Governor first settled upon the mountain he was | 
very difficult to get at for business purposes, and a telephone 
was therefore run up to him from Clarence through the forest. ' 



TELEPHONE UNDER DIFFICULTIES 



and Spain at large felt proud at this dashing bit of enterprise 
in modern appliance. Alas ! the primeval forests of Fernando 
Po were also charmed with the new toy, and they talked to each 
jother on it with their leaves and branches to such an extent 
that a human being could not get a word in edgeways. So 
the Governor had to order the construction of a road along 
the course of the wire to keep the trees off it, but unfortun- 
ately the telephone is still an uncertain means of communica- 
tion, because another interruption in its usefulness still afflicts 
it, namely the indigenous natives' habit of stealing bits out of 
its wire, for they are fully persuaded that they cannot be 
found out in their depredations provided they take sufficient 
care that the\' are not caught in the act. The Governor is 
thus liable to be cut off at any moment in the middle of a 
conversation with Clarence, and the amount of " Helios " 
"Are you theres?" and "Speak louder, pleases" in Spanish 
that must at such times be poured out and wasted in the 
lonely forests before the break is realised and an unfortunate 
man sent off as a messenger, is terrible to think of 

But nothing would persuade the Governor to come a mile 
down towards Clarence until the day he should go there to 
join the vessel that was to take him home, and I am bound 
to say he looked as if the method was a sound one, for he 
was an exceedingly healthy, cheery-looking man. Possibly his 
abstinence from Fernando Po water — a dangerous beverage — 
and an adherence to a form of light sherry, had something 
to do with his immunity from fever, for his neighbours, the 
colonists and priests who are stationed near him, are by no 
means good advertisements for Basile as a health-resort. 

Fernando Po is said to be a comparatively modern island, 
and not so ver\' long ago to have been connected with the 
mainland, the strait between them being only nineteen miles 
across, and not having any deep soundings.^ I fail to see 
what grounds there are for these ideas, for though Fernando 
Po's volcanoes are not yet extinct, but merely have their fires 

^ From Point Limbok, the seaward extremity of Cameroons mountain. 
to Caf>e Horatio, the most eastern extremity of Fernando Po, the sound- 
ings are, from the contment, 13, 17, 20, 23, 27, 29, 30, 34 fathoms ; close 
i on to the island, 35 and 29 fathoms. 



46 FERNANDO PO AND THE BUBIS chap. 



banked, yet, on the other hand, the island has been in exist- 
ence sufficiently long to get itself several peculiar species of 
animals and plants, and that is a thing which takes time. I 
myself do not believe that this island was ever connected with 
the continent, but arose from the ocean as the result of a 
terrific upheaval in the chain of volcanic activity which runs 
across the Atlantic from the Cameroon Mountains in a SSW. 
direction to Anno Bom island, and possibly even to the 
Tristan da Cunha group midway between the Cape and South 
America. 

These volcanic islands are all of extreme beauty and 
fertility. They consist of Fernando Po (10,190 ft.) ; Principe, 
(3000 ft.) ; San Thome (6,913 ft.) ; and Anno Bom, (1,350 ft). 
San Thome and Principe are Portuguese possessions, Fernando 
Po and Anno Bom Spanish, and they are all exceedingly 
unhealthy. San Thome is still called " The Dutchman's 
Church-yard," on account of the devastation its climate 
wrought among the Hollanders when they once occupied it ; 
as they seem, at one time or another, to have occupied all 
Portuguese possessions out here, during the long war these 
two powers waged with each other for supremac}' in the 
Bights, a supremacy that neither of them attained to. Prin- 
cipe is said to be the most unhealthy, and the reason of the 
difference in this particular between Principe and Anno Bom 
is said to arise from the fact that the former is on the Guinea 
Current — a hot current — and Anno Bom on the Equatorial, 
which averages 10° cooler than its neighbour. 

The shores of San Thome are washed by both currents, 
and the currents round Fernando Po are in a mixed and 
uncertain state. It is difficult, unless you have haunted 
these seas, to realise the interest we take down there in 
currents, particularly when you are navigating small sailing 
boats, a pursuit I indulge in necessarily from my fishing 
practices. Their effect on the climate too is very marked. 
If we could only arrange for some terrific affair to take 
place in the bed of the Atlantic, that would .send that 
precious Guinea current to the place it evidently comes 
from, and get the cool Equatorial alongside the mainland 
.shore, West Africa would be quite another place. 



CLARENCE PEAK 



47 



Fernando Po is the most important island as regards size 
on the \\'est African coast, and at the same time one of the 
most beautiful in the world. It is a g-reat volcanic mass 




THE MANGO AVEXUE, FERNANDO Pa 



with many craters, and culminates in the magnificent cone^ 
Clarence Peak, called by the Spaniards, Pico de Santa Isabel, 
bv the natives of the island O Wassa. Seen from the sea or 



48 FERNANDO PO AND THE BUBIS chap. 

from the continent it looks like an immense single mountain 
that has floated out to sea. It is visible during clear weather 
(and particularly sharply visible in the strange clearness you 
get after a tornado) from a hundred miles to seawards, and 
anything more perfect than Fernando Po when you sight it, as 
you occasionally do from far-away Bonny Bar, in the sunset, 
floating like a fairy island made of gold or of amethyst, I 
cannot conceive. It is almost equally lovely at close quarters, 
namely from the mainland at Victoria, nineteen miles distant. 
Its moods of beauty are infinite ; for the most part gentle 
and gorgeous, but I have seen it silhouetted hard against 
tornado-clouds, and grandly grim from the upper regions of 
its great brother Mungo. And as for Fernando Po in full 
moonlight — well there ! you had better go and see it yourself. 

The whole island is, or rather I should say was, heavily 
forested almost to its peak, with a grand and varied type of 
forest, very rich in oil palms and tree-ferns, and having an 
undergrowth containing an immense variety and quantity of 
ferns and mosses. Sugar-cane also grows wild here, an un- 
common thing in West Africa. The last botanical collection 
of any importance made from these forests was that of Herr 
Mann, and its examination showed that Abyssinian genera and 
species predominated, and that many species similar to those 
found in the mountains of Mauritius, the Isle de Bourbon, 
and Madagascar, were present. The number of European 
plants (forty-three genera, twenty-seven species) is strikingly 
large, most of the British forms being represented chiefly at 
the higher elevations. What was more striking was that 
it showed that South African forms were extremely rare, and 
not one of the characteristic types of St. Helena occurred. 

Cocoa, coffee, and cinchona, alas ! flourish in Fernando Po, 
as the coffee suffers but little from the disease that harasses it 
on the mainland at Victoria, and this is the cause of the great 
destruction c»f the forest that is at present taking place. San 
Thome, a few years ago, was discovered by its surprised 
neighbours to be amassing great wealth by growing coffee, 
and so Fernando Po and Principe immediately started to 
amass great wealth too, and are now hard at work with gangs 
of miscellaneous natives got from all parts of the Coast save tho 



KRUBOY AND PORTUGUEE 49 



Kru. For to the Krubo}', " Panier," as he calls " Spaniard," is a 
name of horror worse even than Portuguee, although he holds 
" God made white man and God made black man, but dem 
debil make Portuguee," and he also remembers an unfortunate 
affair that occurred some years ago now, in connection with 
coffee-growing. 

A number of Krumen engaged themselves for a two years' 
term of labour on the Island of San Thome, and when they 
arrived there, were set to work on coffee plantations by the 
Portuguese. Now agricultural work is "woman's palaver," 
but nevertheless the Krumen made shift to get through with 
it, vowing the while no doubt, as the}- hopefully notched away 
the moons on their tally-sticks, that they would never let the 
girls at home know that they had been hoeing. But when 
their moons were all complete, instead of being sent home 
with their pay to " we country," they were put off from time 
to time ; and month after month went by and they were still 
on San Thome, and still hoeing. At last the home-sick men, 
in despair of ever getting free, started off secretly in ones and 
twos to try and get to " we country " across hundreds of miles 
of the storm-haunted Atlarytic in small canoes, and with next 
to no provisions. The result was a tragedy, but it might easily 
have been worse ; for a few, a very few, were picked up alive 
b}- English vessels and taken back to their beloved " we 
country " to tell the tale. But many a canoe was found with 
a dead Kruboy or so in it ; and many a one which, floating 
bottom upwards, graphically spoke of madness caused b}- 
hunger, thirst, and despair having driven its occupants over- 
board to the sharks. 

My Portuguese friends assure me that there was never a 
thought of permanently detaining the boys, and that they 
were only just keeping them until other labourers arrived to 
take their place on the plantations. I quite believe them, for I 
have seen too much of the Portuguese in Africa to believe 
that they would, in a wholesale way, be cruel to natives. But 
I am not in the least surprised that the poor Krumen took 
the Portuguese /o^o and amanhd for eternity itself, for I have 
frequent!}- done so. 

The greatest length of the island lies X.E. and S.W., and 

E 



50 FERNANDO PO AND THE BUBIS chap. 



amounts to thirty-three miles ; the mean breadth is seventeen 
miles. The port, Clarence Cove, now called Santa Isabel by 
the Spaniards— who have been giving Spanish names to all 
the English-named places without any one taking much notice 
of them — is a very remarkable place, and except perhaps 
Gaboon the finest harbour on the West Coast. The point 
that brings Gaboon, anchorage up in line with Clarence Cove 
is its superior healthiness ; for Clarence is a .section of a circle, 
and its shores are steep rocky cliffs from loo to 200 feet high, 
and the place, to put it very mildly, exceedingly hot and 
stuffy. The cove is evidently a partly submerged crater, the 
submerged rim of the crater is almost a perfect semi-circle 
seawards — having on it 4, 5, 7, 8, and 10 fathoms of water 
save almost in the centre of the arc where there is a passage 
with 12 to 14 fathoms. Inside, in the crater, there is deeper 
water, running in places from 30 to 45 fathoms, and outside 
the submerged rim there is deeper water again, but rocky shoals 
abound. On the top of the shore cliffs stands the dilapidated 
little town of Clarence, on a plateau that falls away slightly 
towards the mountain for about a mile, when the ground com- 
mences to rise into the slopes of the Cordillera. On the 
narrow beach, tucked close against the cliffs, are a few stores 
belonging to the merchants, where goods are placed on land- 
ing, and there is a little pier too, but as it is usually having 
something done to its head, or else is closed by the authorities 
because they intend doing something by and by, the chances 
are against its being available for u.se. Hence it usually comes 
about that you have to land on the beach, and when you 
have done this you make your way up a very steep path, cut in 
the cliff-side, to the town. When you get there you find your- 
self in the very dullest town I know on the Coast. I remember 
when I first landed in Clarence I found its society in a flutter 
of expectation and alarm not untinged with horror. Clarence, 
nay, the whole of Fernando Po, was about to become so 
rackety and dissipated as to put Paris and Monte Carlo to 
the blush. Clarence was going to have a caf(6 ; and what 
I was going to go on in that cafe I shrink from reciting. 

I have little hesitation now in saying this alarm was a false- 
one. When I next arrived in Clarence it was just as soundii 




s 



Ill "GO AND SEE THE COALS" 51 

asleep and its streets as weed-grown as ever, although the cafe 
was open. M)- idea is the sleepiness of the place infected the 
cafe and took all the go out of it. But again it may have 
been that the inhabitants were too well guarded against its 
evil influence, for there are on the island fifty-two white lay- 
men, and fift}-four priests to take charge of them ^ — the extra 
two being, I presume, to look after the Governor's conduct, 
although this worthy man made a most spirited protest 
against this view when I suggested it to him ; and in addition 
to the priests there are several missionaries of the Methodist 
mission, and also a white gentleman who has invented 
a new religion. Anjhow, the cafe smoulders like a damp 
squib. 

When you spend the day on shore and when, having ex- 
hausted the charms of the town, — a thing that usually takes 
from between ten minutes to a quarter of an hour, — you apply 
to an inhabitant for advice as to the disposal of the rest of 
your shore leave, you are told to "go and see the coals." 
You sa\- \ou have not come to tropical islands to see a coal 
heap, and applying elsewhere for advice you probably get the 
same. So, as you were told to " go and see the coals " when 
you left \our ship, you do as you are bid. These coals, the 
remnant of the store that was kept here for the English 
men-of-war, were left here when the naval station was 
removed. The Spaniards at first thought of using them, and 
ran a tram-way from Clarence to them. But when the tram- 
way was finished, their activity had run out too, and to this 
day there the coals remain. Now and again some one has 
the idea that they are quite good, and can be used for a steamer, 
and some people who have tried them say they are all right, 
and others say they are all wrong. And so the end of it will 
be that some few thousand years hence there will be a serious 
quarrel among geologists on the strange pocket of coal on 
Fernando Po, and they will run up coqtinents, and raise and 
lower oceans to explain them, and they will doubtless get 

^ I am informed that the allowance made to these priests exceeds by 
some pounds the revenues Spain obtains from the Island. In Spanish 
possessions alone is a supporting allowance made to missionaries though 
in all the other colonies they obtain a government grant. 

E 2 



52 FERNANDO PO AND THE BUBIS chap. 



more excitement and pleasure out of them than you can 
nowadays. 

I am by no means a person who hungers for amusement — 
far from it ; but when I had been to see the coals I certainly 
felt as if I could cram another excitement into that afternoon 
without any great effort, and I cite this experience as a 
warning to others of the dangers of being unsatisfied ; for 
although I did discover a far superior and more thrilling 
thing, high up among the beautiful, blossoming shrubs that 
make a narrow fringe between the sea and the forest, namely, 
a large man-o'-war's pinnace, 1 could not find out how she 
got there, or why she stayed there. Flushed, however, with 
this discovery I must needs go on, still along the southern 
shore, with the grand, densely-forested mountains rising on 
my left, and the lovely Atlantic on my right, — now and then 
climbing over rocks, and then paddling across the bar of 
a tiny river (Munguba) which came creeping out from among 
the trees, smelling certainly unpleasant, but a joy to the eye. 
Then I struck a farm, where operations connected with 
preparing cocoa were proceeding, and the genial nativ^es 
discoursed with me on the subject for a short time. Going 
on further I came to another farm, and had more discourse, 
and a lot of information about Liberia from a native of that 
country, and then on across other small rivers, the Burapulopu 
and the Bulabopi, up to a swampy forest, when I turned 
back at last well satisfied with my afternoon. Just as I 
passed my first farm I found that what I had regarded as a 
dry land shrub-belt was nothing of the kind. The tide had 
come in and taken full possession of it, running up to the forest 
wall. The forest was far too thick to get through, so there 
was nothing for it but a hurried waist-high wade. I went in 
for this remembering that I had been informed that there 
were very nasty crocodiles on the island, and that I had got 
to get past the mouth of that largest river — as crocodile} - 
looking a spot as you could wish for, if you had a gun. 1 
saw none however, and so presume there are none there, for 
it is the habit of these animals, when they are handy to the 
sea, to lounge down and meet the in-coming tide. The worst 
part of the affair was getting round the projecting bits ot 



i: 



ENGLISH OCCUPATION 



cky cliff where the sea was breaking ; not roughly, or I 
should not be writing this now. 

The history of the English occupation of Fernando Po 

ems often misunderstood, and now and then one hears our 
Government reviled for handing it over to the Spaniards. 
But this was unavoidable, for we had it as a loan from Spain 
in 1827 as a naval station for our ships, at that time energeti- 
cally commencing to suppress the slave trade in the Bights ; 
the idea being that this island would afford a more healthy and 
convenient spot for a naval depot than any port on the coast 
itself 

More convenient Fernando Po certainly was, but not more 
healthy, and ever since 1827 it has been accumulating for 
itself an evil reputation for unhealthiness which is only lan- 
guishing just at present because there is an interval between 
its epidemics — fever in Fernando Po, even more than on the 
mainland, having periodic outbursts of a more serious type 
than the normal intermittent and remittent of the Coast. 
Moreover, Fernando Po shares with Senegal the undoubted 
yet doubtful honour of having had regular yellow fever. In 
1862 and 1866 this disease was imported by a ship that had 
come from Havana. Since then it has not appeared in the 
definite South American form, and therefore does not seem 
to ha\e obtained the foothold it has in Senegal, where a few 
} ears ago all the money voted for the keeping of the File 
Nationale\\z.s in one district devoted by public consent to the 
purchase of coffins, required by an overwhelming outbreak of 
Yellow Jack. 

In 1858 the Spanish Government thinking, presumably, 
that the slave trade was suppressed enough, or at any rate 
to a sufficiently inconvenient extent, re-claimed Fernando Po, 
to the horror of the Baptist missionaries who had settled in 
Clarence apparently under the erroneous idea that the island 
had been definitely taken over by the English. This mission 
had received from the West African Company a large grant 
of land, and had collected round it a gathering of Sierra 
Leonians and other artisan and trading Africans who were 
attracted to Clarence bj- the work made by the naval station ; 
and these people, with the English traders who also settled 



54 FERNANDO PO AND THE BUBIS chap. 

here for a like reason, were the founders of Clarence Town. 
The declaration of the Spanish Government stating that 
only Roman Catholic missions would be countenanced caused 
the Baptists to abandon their possessions and withdraw to 
the mainland in Ambas Bay, where they have since remained, 
and nowadays Protestantism is represented by a Methodist 
Mission which has a sub-branch on the mainland on the 
Akwayafe River and one on the Qua I bo. 

The Spaniards, on resuming possession of the island, had 
one of their attacks of activity regarding it, and sent out 
with Don Carlos Chacon, who was to take over the command, 
four Jesuit priests, a secretary, a commissariat officer, a 
custom-house clerk, and a transport, the Santa Maria, with 
a number of emigrant families. This attempt to colonise 
Fernando Po should have at least done the good of 
preventing such experiments ever being tried again with 
women and children, for of these unfortunate creatures — for 
whom, in spite of its being the wet season, no houses had 
been provided — more than 20 per cent, died in the space 
of five months. Mr. Hutchinson, who was English Consul 
at the time, tells us that " In a very short time gaunt figures 
of men, women, and children might be seen crawling through 
the streets, with scarcel}' an evidence of life in their faces, 
save the expression of a sort of torpid carelessness as to 
how soon it might be their turn to drop off and die. The 
Portino, a steamer, carried back fifty of them to Cadiz, who 
looked when they embarked more like living skeletons of 
skin and bone than animated human beings." ^ I quote this 
not to cast reproach on the Spanish Government, but merely 
to give a fact, a case in point, of the deadly failure of 
endeavours to colonise on the West Coast, a thing which is 
even now occasionally attempted, always with the same sad 
results, though in most cases these attempts are now made 
by religious and misinformed people under Bishop Taylor's 
mission. 

The Spaniards did not entirely confine their attention to 
planting colonists in a ready-made state on the island. As 
soon as they had settled themselves and built their barracks 

^ Ten Years' Wanderings among the Ethiopians^ T. J. Hutchinson. 



SPANISH OCCUPATION 



and Government House, they set to work and cleared awa}- 
the bush for an area of from four to six miles round the 
town. The ground soon became overgrown again, but this 
clearing is still perceptible in the different type of forest on 
it, and has enabled the gardens and little plantations round 
Clarence to be made more easily. My Spanish friends 
assure me that the Portuguese, who discovered the island in 
1471,^ and who exchanged it and Anno Bom in 1778 
to the Spaniards for the little island of Catalina and the 




GOVERNOR S PALACE, FERNANDO l-O. 



colony of Sacramento in South America, did not do any- 
thing to develop it. When the}*, the Spaniards, first entered 
into possession they at once set to work to colonise and clear. 
Then the colonisation scheme went to the bad, the natives 
poisoned the wells, it is said, and the attention of the 
Spaniards was in those days turned, for some inscrutable 
reason, to the eastern shores of the island — a district now 
quite abandoned by whites, on account of its unhealthiness 

^ There is difference of opinion among authorities as to whether 
Fernando Po was discovered by Fernando Po or by Lopez Gon 
salves. 



56 FERNANDO PO AND THE BUBIS chap. 



— and they lost in addition to the colonists a terrible 
quantity of their sailors, in Concepcion Bay.^ A lull then 
followed, and the Spaniards willingly lent the place to the 
English as aforesaid. They say we did nothing except 
establish Clarence as a headquarters, which they consider to 
have been a most excellent enterprise, and import the Baptist 
Mission, which they hold as a less estimable undertaking ; 
but there ! that's nothing to what the Baptist Mission hold 
regarding the Spaniards. For my own part, I wish the 
Spaniards better luck this time in their activity, for in direct- 
ing it to plantations they are on a truer and safer road to 
wealth 'than they have been with their previous importations 
of Cuban political prisoners and ready-made families of 
colonists, and I hope they will send home those un- 
fortunate wretches they have there now, and commence, 
in their expected two years, to reap the profits of the 
coffee and cocoa. Certainly the chances are .that they may, 
for the soil of Fernando Po is of exceeding fertility ; 
Mr. Hutchinson says he has known Indian corn planted 
here on a Monday evening make its appearance four inches 
above ground on the following Wednesday morning, within 
a period, he carefully says, of thirty-six hours. I have seen 
this sort of thing over in Victoria, but I like to get a grown 
strong man, and a Consul of Her Britannic Majesty, to say it 
for me. 

Having discoursed at large on the various incomers to 
Fernando Po we may next turn to the natives, properly 
so-called, the Bubis. These people, although presenting a 
series of interesting problems to the ethnologist, both from 
their insular position, and their differentiation from any of the 
mainland peoples, are still but little known. To a great 
extent this has ari.sen from their exclusiveness, and their total 
lack of enthusiasm in trade matters, a thing that differentiates 
them more than any other characteristic from the mainlanders, 
who, young and old, men and women, regard trade as the great 
affair of life, take to it as soon as they can toddle, and don't 
even leave it off at death, according to their own accounts of 

1 From April 1777 till the end of 1782, 370 men out of the 547 died of 
fever. 



CLOTHES AND NO CLOTHES 57 



tlie way the spirits of distinguished traders still dabble and 
interfere in market matters. But it is otherwise with the Bubi. 
A little rum, a few beads, and finish — then he will turn the 
rest of his attention to catching porcupines, or the beautiful 
little gazelles, gray on the back and white underneath, with 
which the island abounds. And what time he may have on 
hand after this, he .spends in building houses and making him- 
self hats. It is only his utterly spare moments that he 
employs in making just sufificient palm oil from the rich supply 
of nuts at his command to get that rum and those beads of 
his. Cloth he does not want ; he utterly fails to see what good 
the stuff is, for he abhors clothes, and as a friend of mine 
observed : — " Senora, you'll see more bare skin on this island 
than in a regiment of grenadiers." He said this in Spanish, 
and I had to look it up in a dictionary and then think about 
it afterwards, so the statement irritated me, for I felt that the 
man knew enough English to be aware that it must work out 
as a bad pun. But nevertheless the truth was in it, for when 
you go outside Clarence you come across the Bubi osten- 
tatiously unclothed — I say ostentatiously for the benefit of 
ethnologists — and this I have never elsewhere seen in West 
Africa. The Spanish authorities insist that the natives who 
come into the town should have something on, and so they 
array themselves in a bit of cotton cloth, which before they are 
out of sight of the town on their homeward way, they strip off 
and stuff into their baskets, showing in this, as well as in all 
other particulars, how uninfluencible by white culture they are. 
For the Spaniards, like the Portuguese, are great sticklers for 
clothes, and insist on their natives wearing them — usually with 
only too much success. I shall never forget the yards and 
yards of cotton the ladies of Loanda wore ; and not content 
with making cocoons of their bodies, they wore over their 
heads, as a mantilla, some dozen yards or so of black cloth 
into the bargain. Moreover this insistence on drapery for the 
figure is not merely for towns ; a German officer told me the 
other day that when, a week or so before, his ship had called 
at Anno Bom, they were simply besieged for " clo', clo', clo' ; " 
the Anno Bomians explaining that they were all anxious to 
i go across to Principe and get employment on coffee planta- 



58 FERNANDO PO AND THE BUBIS chap. 



tions, but that the Portuguese planters would not engage them 
in an unclothed state. 

You must not, however, imaghie that the Bubi is neglectful 
of his personal appearance. In his way he is quite a dandy. 
But his idea of decoration goes in the direction of a plaster of 
" tola " pomatum over his body, and above all a hat. This hat 
may be an antique European one, or a bound-round handker- 
chief, but it is more frequently a confection of native manu- 
facture, and great taste and variety is displayed in its make. 
They are of plaited palm leaf — that's all you can safely 
generalise regarding them — for sometimes they have broad 
brims, sometimes narrow, sometimes no brims at all. So, too, 
with the crown. Sometimes it is thick and domed, .sometimes 
non-existent, the wearer's hair aglow with red-tail parrots* 
feathers sticking up where the crown should be. As a general 
rule these hats are much adorned with oddments of birds' 
plumes, and one chief I knew had quite a Regent-street Dolly 
Varden creation which he used to affix to his wool in a most 
intelligent way with bonnet-pins made of wood. These hats 
are also a peculiarity of the Bubi, for none of the main- 
landers care a row of pins for hats, except " for dandy," 
to wear occasionally, whereas the Bubi wears his perpetually, 
although he has by no means the same amount of sun to 
guard against owing to the glorious forests of his island. I 
am told there is a certain sound reason in his devotion 
for his hat, and that is that it acts as a protection against a 
beautiful but poisonous green tree snake that abounds on 
P^ernando Po, whose habit it is to hang, upside down, from 
the trees. If the snake strikes the hat instead of the head 
when the wearer is out hunting, why so much the better for 
the wearer. 

For earrings the Bubi wears pieces of wood stuck through 
the lobe of the ear, and although this is not a decorative habit 
still it is less undecorative than that of certain mainland 
friends of mine in this region, who wear large and necessarily 
dripping lumps of fat in their ears and in their hair. His 
neck is hung round with jujus on strings — bits of the back 
bones of pythons, teeth, feathers, and antelope horns — an 
round his upper arm arc bracelets, preferably made of ivor 



$ 



i 



III ORNAMENTS AND COINAGE 59 



got from the mainland, for celluloid bracelets carefully imported 
for his benefit he refuses to look at. Often also these brace- 
lets are made of beads, or a circlet of leaves, and when on 
the war-path an armlet of twisted grass is always worn by the 
men. Men and women alike wear armlets, and in the case of 
the women they seem to be put on when )'oung, for you see 
puffs of flesh growing out from between them. The}' are also 
not entirely for decoration, serving commonly as pockets, for 
under them in the case of men is stuck a knife, and in the 
case of women a tobacco pipe, a well -coloured clay. Leglets 
of similar construction are worn just under the knee on the 
right leg, while around the body you see belts of ts/tibbu, small 
pieces cut from Achatectonia shells, which form the native 
currency of the island. These shells are also made into veils 
worn by the women at their ^^•edding. 

This native coinage-equivalent is very interesting, for such 
things are exceedingly rare in West Africa. The only other 
instance I personally know of a tribe in this part of the world 
using a native-made coin is that of the Fans, who use little 
bundles of imitation axe-heads. Dr. Cscar Baumann, who 
knows more than any one else about these Bubis, thinks, I 
believe, that these bits of Achatectonia shells may have been 
introduced by the runaway Angola slaves in the old days, who 
used to fly from their Portuguese owners on San Thome to the 
Spaniards on Fernando Po. The villages of the Bubis are in 
the forest in the interior of the island, and the}' are fairly wide 
apart. They are not a .sea-beach folk, although each village 
has its beach, which merely means the place to which it brings 
its trade, these beaches being usually the dwelling places of 
the so-called Portos,^ negroes, who act as middle-men between 
the Bubis and the whites. 

You will often be told that the Bubis are singularl}' bad 
house-builders, indeed that they make no definite houses at 

^ Porto is the Bubi name for black men who are not Bubis, these were 
in old days Portuguese slaves, "Porto" being evidently a corruption of 
"Portuguese," but it is used alike by the Bubi to designate Sierra 
Leonian Accras, in fact, all the outer barbarian blacks. The name for 
white men, Mandara, used by the Bubis, has a sort of resemblance to the 
Eflfik name for whites, Makara, i.e., the ruling one, but I do not know 
whether these two words have anv connection. 



6o FERNANDO PO AND THE BUBIS chap. 



all, but only rough shelters of branches. This is, however, a 
mistake. Shelters of this kind that you come across are 
merely the rough huts put up by hunters, not true houses. The 
village is usually fairly well built, and surrounded with a living 
hedge of stakes. The houses inside this are four-cornered, the 
walls made of logs of wood stuck in edgeways, and surmounted 
by a roof of thatch pitched at an extremely stiff angle, and the 
whole is usually surrounded with a dug-out drain to carry off 
surface water. These houses, as usual on the West Coast, are 
divisible into two classes — houses of assembly, and private 
living houses. The first are much the larger. The latter are 
very low, and sometimes ridiculously small, but still they are 
houses and better than those awful Loango grass affairs you 
get on the Congo. 

Herr Baumann says that the houses high up on the mountain 
have double walls between which there is a free space ; an 
arrangement which may serve to minimise the extreme 
draughtiness of an ordinary Bubi house — a very necessary thing 
in these relatively chilly upper regions. I may remark on my 
own account that the Bubi villages do not often lie right on 
the path, but, like those you have to deal with up the Calabar, 
some little way off it. This is no doubt for the purpose of 
concealing their whereabouts from strangers, and it does it suc- 
cessfully too, for many a merry hour have I spent dodging 
up and down a path trying to make out at what particular 
point it was advisable to dive into the forest thicket to reach a 
village. But this cultivates habits of observation, and a short 
course of this work makes you recognise which tree is which 
along miles of a bush path as easily as you would shops in 
your own street at home. 

The main interest of the Bubi's life lies in hunting, for 
he is more of a sportsman than the majority of mainlanders. 
He has not any big game to deal with, unless we except 
pythons — which attain a great size on the island — and croco- 
diles. Elephants, though plentiful on the adjacent mainland, 
are quite absent from Fernando Po, as are also hippos and the 
great anthropoid apes ; but of the little gazelles, small ^ 
monkeys, porcupines, and squirrels he has a large supply, andj 
in the rivers a very pretty otter {Lutra poensis) with yellowj 



J. 



Ill TRAPS VERSUS GUNS 6i 

brown fur often quite golden underneath ; a creature which is, 
I believe, identical with the Angola otter. 

The Bubis use in their hunting flint-lock guns, but chiefly 
traps and nets, and, I am told, slings. The advantage of these 
latter methods are, I e.xpect, the same as on the mainland, 
where a distinguished sportsman once told me : " You go shoot 
thing with gun. Berrah well — but you no get him thing for 
sure. Xo sah. Dem gun make nize. Berrah well. You fren 
hear dem nize and come look him, and you hab to go share 
what you done kill. Or bad man hear him nize, and he come 
look him, and you no fit to get share — you fit to get kill 
yusself Chii ! chii ! traps be best" I urged that the traps 
might also be robbed. " Xo, sah," says he, " them bian (charm) 
he look after them traps, he fit to make man who go tief swell 
up and bust." 

The Bubis also fish, mostly by basket traps, but the}- are 
not experts either in this or in canoe management. Their 
chief sea-shore sport is hunting for the eggs of the turtles who 
lay in the sand from August to October. These eggs — about 
200 in each nest — are about the size of a billiard-ball, with a 
leather)' envelope, and are much valued for food, as are also 
the grubs of certain beetles got from the stems of the palm- 
trees, and the honey of the wild bees which abound here. 

Their domestic animals are the usual African list ; cats, 
dogs, sheep, goats, and poultr>'. Pigs there are too, very 
domestic in Clarence and in a wild state in the forest. 
These pigs are the descendants of those imported by the 
Spaniards, and not long ago became such an awful nuis- 
ance in Clarence that the Government issued instructions 
that all pigs without rings in their noses — i.e. all in a con- 
dition to grub up back gardens — should be forthwith shot 
if found abroad. This proclamation was issued by the 
governmental bellman thus : — " I saj- — I say — I say — I sa}-. 
Suppose pig walk — iron no live for him nose ! Gun shoot. 
Kill him one time. Hear re ! hear re ! " 

However a good man}- pigs with no iron living in their 
noses got adrift and escaped into the interior, and have 
flourished like the green bay-tree, destro}-ing the Bubi's 
plantation and eating his yams, while the Bubi retaliating 



62 FERNANDO PO AND THE BUBIS chap. 



kills and eats them. So it's a drawn battle, for the Bubi 
enjoys the pig and the pig enjoys the yams, which are of 
singular excellence in this island and celebrated throughout 
the Bight. Now, I am told, the Government are firmly dis- 
couraging the export of these yams, which used to be quite a 
little branch of Fernando Po trade, in the hope that this will 
induce the native to turn his attention to working in the coffee 
and cacao plantations. Hope springs eternal in the 
human breast, for the Bubi has shown continually 
since the i6th century that he takes no interest in these 
things whatsoever. Now and again a man or woman will 
come volunLarily and take service in Clarence, submit 
to clothes, and rapidly pick up the ways of a house or 
store. And just when their ow^ner thinks he owns a treasure, 
and begins to boast that he has got an exception to all 
Bubidom, or else that he knows how to manage them better 
than other men, then a hole in that man's- domestic 
arrangements suddenly appears. The Bubi has gone, w ithout 
giving a moment's warning, and without stealing his master's 
property, but just softly and silently vanished away. And if 
hunted up the treasure will be found in his or her particular 
village — clothesless, comfortable, utterly unconcerned, and 
unaware that he or she has lost anything by leaving 
Clarence and civilisation. It is this conduct that gains 
for the Bubi the reputation of being a bigger idiot than he 
really is. 

For West Africans their agriculture is of a fairly high descrip- 
tion — the noteworthy point about it, however, is the absence 
of manioc. Manioc is grown on Fernando Po, but only by 
the Portos. The Bubi cultivated plants are yams {Dioscorca 
alatii), koko {Colocasia esculentd) — the taro of the South Seas, 
and plantains. Their farms are well kept, particularly tho.se 
in the grass districts by San Carlos Bay. The yams of 
the Cordillera districts are the best flavoured, but those of 
the east coast the largest. Palm-oil is used for domestic 
purposes in the usual ways, and palm wine both fresh and 
fermented is the ordinary native drink. Rum is held in 
high esteem, but used in a general way in moderation as a 
cordial and a treat, for the Bubi is, like the rest of the West 



Ill THE DRINK QUESTION 63 



African natives, by no means an habitual drunkard. Gin 
he dislikes.^ 

And I may remark you will find the same opinion in regard 
to the Dualla in Cameroons river — on the undeniable authority 
of Dr. Buchner, and my own extensive experience of the West 
Coast bears it out. 

Physically the Bubis are a fairly well-formed race of medium 
height ; they are decidedly inferior to the Benga or the 
Krus, but quite on a level with the Effiks. The women in- 
deed are very comely : their colour is bronze and their skin 
the skin of the Bantu. Beards are not uncommon among the 
men, and these give their faces possibly more than anjthing else, 
a different look to the faces of the Effiks or the Duallas. In- 
deed the people physically most like the Bubis that I have 

1 1 am glad to find that my own observations on the drink question 
entirely agree with those of Dr. Oscar Baumann, because he is an un- 
prejudiced scientific observer, who has had great experience both in the 
Congo and Cameroon regions before he came to Fernando Po. In the 
support of my statement I may quote his own words : — " Die Bube 
trinken namhch sehr gerne Rum ; Gin verschmahen sie vollstandig, aber 
ausser Tabak und Salz gehort Rum zu den gesuchtesten europaischen 
Artikeln fiir sie. Wie bekannt hat sich in Europa ein heftiges Geschrei 
gegen die \'ergiftung der Neger durch Alcohol erhoben. Wenn das- 
selbe schon fiir die meisten Stiimme Westafrikas der Berechtigung fast 
vollstandig entbehrt und in die Categoric verweisen worden muss die 
man mit dem nicht sehr schonen aber treffenden Ausdriicke " Humani- 
tatsduselei " bezeichnet, so ist es den Bube gegeniiber wohl mehr als 
zwecklos. Es mag ja vorkommen dass ein Bube wenn er sein Palmol 
verkauft hat, sich ein oder zweimal im Jahre mit Rum ein Rauschlein 
antrinkt. Deshalb aber gleich von Alkohol-Vergiftung zu sprechen ware 
mindestens lacherlich. Ich bin iiberzeugt dass mancher jener Herren 
die in Wort und Schrift so heftig gegen die Alkolismus der Neger zetem 
in ihren Studentenjahren allein mehr geistige Getranke genossen haben 
als zehn Bube wahrend ihres ganzen Lebens. Der Handelsrum welcher 
wie ich mich ofters iiberzeugt zwar recht verwassert aber keineswegs 
abstossend schlecht schmeckt, ist den Bube gewohnlich nur eine 
Delikatesse welche mit Andacht schluckweise genossen wird. Wenn 
ein Arbeiter bei uns einen Schluck Branntwein oder ein Glas Bier 
geniesst um sich zu starken, so findet das Jeder in der Ordnung ; der 
Bube jedoch, welcher splittemackt tagelang in feuchten BergAvaldem 
umher klettem muss, soil beliebe nichts als Wasser trinken I" Eine 
Africanische Tropen. inscl Fernando Pdo^ Dr. Oscar Baumann, Edward 
Holzer, Wien, 1888. 



64 FERNANDO PO AND THE BUBIS CHAP. 

ever seen, are undoubtedly the Bakwiri of Cameroons Moun- 
tain, who are also liable to be bearded, or possibly I should 
say more liable to wear beards, for a good deal of the African 
hairlessness you hear commented on — in the West African at 
any rate —arises from his deliberately pulling his hair out — 
his beard, moustache, whiskers, and occasionally, as among the 
Fans, his eyebrows. ' 

Dr. Baumann, the great authority on the Bubi language ; 
says it is a Bantu stock.^ I know nothing of it myself save ¦ 
that it is harsh in sound. Their method of counting is 
usually by fives but they are notably weak in arithmetical 
ability, differing in this particular from the mainlanders, and 
especially from their Negro neighbours, who are very good at 
figures, surpassing the Bantu in this, as indeed they do in 
most branches of intellectual activity. 

But the most remarkable instance of inferiority the Bubis 
T~ display is their ignorance regarding methods of working iron. 
I do not know that iron in a native state is found on Fernando 
Po, but scrap-iron they have been in touch with for some 
hundreds of years. The mainlanders are all cognisant of 
native methods of working iron, although many tribes of them 
now depend entirely on European trade for their supply of 
knives, &c., and this difference between them and the Bubis 
would seem to indicate that the migration of the latter to the 
island must have taken place at a fairly remote period, a period 
before the iron-working tribes came down to the coast. 
Of course, if you take the Bubi's usual explanation 
of his origin, namely that he came out of the crater 
on the top of Clarence Peak, this argument falls through ; 
but he has also another legend, one moreover which is 
likewise to be found upon the mainland, which says he was 
driven from the district north of the Gaboon estuary by the 
coming of the M'pongwe to the coast, and as this legend is 
the more likely of the two I think we may accept it as true, 
or nearly so. But what adds another difficulty to the matter 
is that the Bubi is not only unlearned in iron lore, but he 
was learned in stone, and up to the time of the youth of many 

1 " Beitrage zur Kenntniss der Bubisprache auf Fernando Pdo,'" O. 
Baumann, Zeitsclu-ift fiir afrikanischc Sprachen. Berlin, 1888. 



Ill 



SOLVITUR AMBULANDO 65 



Porto-negroes on Fernando Po, he was making and using stone 
implements, and none of the tribes within the memory of 
man have done this on the mainland. It is true that up the 
Niger and about Benin and Axim you get polished stone 
celts, but these are regarded as weird affairs, — thunderbolts — 
and suitable only for grinding up and making into medicine. 
There is no trace in the traditions, as far as I have been able 
to find, of any time at which stone implements were in common 
use, and certainly the ^Nl'pongwe have not been a very long 
time on the coast, for their coming is still remembered in their 
traditions. The Bubi stone implements I have seen twice, 
but on neither occasion could I secure one, and although 
I have been long promised specimens from Fernando Po, I 
have not yet received them. They are difficult to procure, 
because none of the present towns are on really old sites, the 
Bubi, like most Bantus, moving pretty frequently, either be- 
cause the ground is witched, demonstrated by outbreaks of sick- 
ness, or because another village-full of his fellow creatures, or 
a horrid white man plantation-making, has come too close to 
him. A Roman Catholic priest in Ka Congo once told me a 
legend he laughed much over, of how a fellow priest had 
enterprisingly settled himself one night in the middle of a 
Bubi village with intent to devote the remainder of his life to 
quietly but thoroughly converting it Next morning, when he 
rose up, he found himself alone, the people having taken all 
their portable possessions and vanished to build another 
village elsewhere. The worthy Father spent some time chivy- 
ing his flock about the forest, but in vain, and he returned 
home disgusted, deciding that the Creator, for some wise 
purpose, had dedicated the Bubis to the Devil. 

The spears used by this interesting people are even to this 
day made entirely of wood, and have such a Polynesian look 
about them that I intend some time or other to bring some 
home and experiment on that learned Polynesian-culture -ex- 
pert, Baron von Hiigel, with them: — intellectually experiment, 
not physically, pray understand. 

The pottery has a very early-man look about it, but in this 
it does not differ much from that of the mainland, which is 
quite as poor, and similarly made without a wheel, and sun- 

F 



66 FERxNANDO PO AND THE BURIS chap. 



baked. Those pots of the Bubis I have seen have, however, 
not had the pattern (any sort of pattern does, and it need not 
be carefully done) that runs round mainland pots to " keep 
their souls in " — i.e. to prevent their breaking up on their 
own account. 

Their basket-work is of a superior order : the baskets they 
make to hold the semi-fluid palm oil are excellent, and will 
hold water like a basin, but I am in doubt whether this art is 
original, or imported by the Portuguese runaway slaves, for 
they put me very much in mind of those made by my old 
friends the Kabinders, from whom a good many of those 
slaves were recruited. I think there is little doubt that several 
of the musical instruments own this origin, particularly their 
best beloved one, the elibo. This may be described as a 
wooden bell having inside it for clappers several (usually five) 
pieces of stick threaded on a bit of wood jammed into the 
dome of the bell and striking the rim, beyond which the 
clappers just protrude. These bells are very like those you 
meet with in Angola, but I have not seen on the island, nor 
does Dr. Baumann cite having seen, the peculiar double bell 
of Angola — the engongui. The Bubi bell is made out of one 
piece of wood and worked — or played — with both hands. Dn 
Baumann says it is customary on bright moonlight nights for 
two lines of men to sit facing each other and to clap — one can 
hardly call it ring — these bells vigorously, but in good time, 
accompanying this performance with a monotonous song, while 
the delighted women and children dance round. The learned 
doctor evidently sees the picturesqueness of this practice, but 
notes that the words of the songs are not " tiefsinnige " (pro- 
found), as he has heard men for hours singing " The shark 
bites the Bubi's hand," only that over and over again and 
nothing more. This agrees with my own observations of all 
Bantu native songs. I have always found that the words of 
these songs were either the repetition of some such phrase as 
this, or a set of words referring to the recent adventures or ex- 
periences of the singer or the present company's little pecu- 
liarities ; with a very frequent chorus, old and conventional 
I shall never forget a white man coming alongside a ship 
whereon I was once a passenger, quite unconscious that his. 



in 



MUSIC AND DAN'CIXG 67 



boatswain was singing as a solo : " Here we bring this wretched 
creature : he's a very bad man : he does not give us any food, 

or any money : he goes and gets drunk and " but I forbear 

repeating the text of the Hbel. But after each statement the 
rest of the crew joined in a chorus which was the native 
equivalent of — " and so say all of us." 

The native tunes used with these songs are far superior, and 
I expect many of them are very old. They are often full of 
variety and beauty, particularly those of the M'pong^ve and 
Galwa, of which I will speak later. 

The dances I have no personal knowledge of, but there is 
nothing in Baumann's description to make one think they are 
distinct in themselves from the mainland dances. I once saw 
a dance at Fernando Po, but that was among Portos, and it 
was m>- old friend the Batuco in all its beauty. But there is 
a distinct peculiarity about the places the dances are held on, 
ever\- village having a kept piece of ground outside it 
which is the dancing place for the village — the ball-room as 
it were ; and exceedingly picturesque these dances must be, 
for the\- are mostly held during the nights of full moon. 
These kept grounds remind one ver>' much of the similar 
looking patches of kept grass one sees in villages in Ka 
Congo, but there is no similarity in their use, for the Ka Congo 
lawns are of fetish, not frivolous, import. 

The Bubis have an instrument I have never seen in an 
identical form on the mainland. It is made like a bow, with 
a tense string of fibre. One end of the bow is placed against 
the mouth, and the string is then struck by the right hand 
with a small round stick, while with the left it is scraped with 
a piece of shell or a knife-blade. This excruciating instru- 
ment, I warn any one who ma)- think of living among the 
Bubis, is ver>' popular. The drums used are both the Dualla 
form — all wood — and the ordinar>- skin-covered drum, and I 
think if I catalogue fifes made of wood, I shall have nearly 
finished the Bubi orchestra. I have doubts on this point be- 
cause I rather question whether I ma\' be allowed to refer to 
averj'old bullock hide — unmounted — as a musical instrument 
without bringing down the wrath of musicians on my head. 
These stiff, dry pelts are much thought of, and played by the 

F 2 



68 FERNANDO PO AND THE BUBIS chap. 



artistes by being shaken as accompaniments to other instru- 
ments — they make a noise, and that is after all the soul of 
most African instrumental music. These instruments are all 
that is left of certain bullocks which many years ago the 
Spaniards introduced, hoping to improve the food supply. 
They seemed as if they would have flourished well on the 
island, on the stretches of grass land in the Cordillera and 
the East, but the Bubis, being great sportsmen, killed them 
all off. 

The festivities of the Bubis — dances, weddings, feasts, &c., 
— at which this miscellaneous collection of instruments are 
used in concert, usually take place in November, the dry 
season ; but the Bubi is liable to pour forth his soul in the 
bosom of his family at any time of the day or night, from 
June to January, and when he pours it forth on that bow affair 
it makes the lonely European long for home. 

Divisions of time the Bubi can hardly be said to have, but 
this is a point upon which all West Africans are rather weak, 
particularly the Bantu. He has, however, a definite name for 
November, December, and January — the dry season months 
— calling them Lobos. 

The fetish of these people, although agreeing on broad lines 
with the Bantu fetish, has many interesting points, as even my 
small knowledge of it showed me, and it is a subject that 
would repay further investigation ; and as by fetish I always 
/ mean the governing but underlying ideas of a man's life, we 
will commence with the child. Nothing, as far as I have been 
able to make out, happens to him, for fetish reasons, when he 
first appears on the scene. He receives at birth, as is usual, a 
name which is changed for another on his initiation into the 
secret society, this secret society having also, as usual, a 
secret language. About the age of three or five years the boy 
is decorated, under the auspices of the witch doctor, with 
certain scars on the face. These scars run from the root of 
the nose across the cheeks, and are sometimes carried up in a 
curve on to the forehead. Tattooing, in the true sense of the 
word, they do not use, but they paint themselves, as the main- 
landers do, with a red paint made by burning some herb and 
mixing the ash with clay or oil, and they occasionally — 



SPIRITS AND CHARMS 69 



whether for ju-ju reasons or for mere decoration I do not 
know — paint a band of yellow clay round the chest ; but of 
the Bubi secret society I know little, nor have I been able 
to find any one who knows much more. Hutchinson,^ in his 
exceeding!}' amusing description of a wedding he was once 
present at among these people, would lead one to think the 
period of seclusion of the women's society was twelve months. 

The chief god or spirit, O. Wassa, resides in the crater of the 
highest peak, and by his name the peak is known to the native. 
Another verj- important spirit, to whom goats and sheep are 
offered, is Lobe, resident in a crater lake on the northern slope 
of the Cordilleras, and the grass you sometimes see a Bubi 
wearing is said to come from this lake and be a ju-ju of Lobe's. 
Dr. Baumann says that the lake at Riabba from which the 
spirit Uapa rises is more holy, and that he is small, and resides 
in a chasm in a rock whose declivit}- can only be passed by 
means of bush ropes, and in the wet season he is not get-at-able 
at all. He will, if given suitable offerings, reveal the future to 
Bubis, but Bubis only. His priest is the King of all the 
Bubis, upon whom it is never permitted to a white man, or a 
Porto, to gaze. Baumann also gives the residence of another 
important spirit as being the grotto at Banni. This is a sea- 
cave, only accessible at low water in calm weather. I have 
heard many legends of this cave, but have never had an 
opportunity of seeing it, or any one who has seen it first hand. 

The charms used by these people are similar in form to 
those of the mainland Bantu, but the methods of treating 
paths and gateways are somewhat peculiar. The gateways to 
the towns are sometimes covered by freshly cut banana leaves^ 
and during the religious feast in November, the paths to the 
villages are barred across with a hedge of grass which no 
stranger must pass through. 

The government is a peculiar one for West Africa, Every 
village has its chief, but the whole tribe obey one great chief 
or king who lives in the crater-ravine at Riabba. This in- 
dividual is called Moka, but whether he is now the same man 
referred to by Rogoszinsky, Mr. Holland, and the Rev. Hugh 

^ Ten Years' Wanderings among the Ethiopians. T. J. Hutchinson. 



70 FERNANDO PO AND THE BUBIS chap. 



Brown, who attempted to interview him in the seventies, I do 
not feel sure, for the Bubis are just the sort of people to keep 
a big king going with a variety of individuals. Even the in- 
defatigable Dr. Baumann failed to see Moka, though he 
evidently found out a great deal about the methods of his ad- 
ministration and formed a very high opinion of his ability, for 
he says that to this one chief the people owe their present 
unity and orderliness ; that before his time the whole island 
was in a state of internecine war : murder was frequent, and 
property unsafe. Now their social condition, according to 
the Doctor's account, is a model to Europe, let alone Africa. 
Civil wars have been abolished, disputes between villages being 
referred to arbitration, and murder is swiftly and surely 
punished. If the criminal has bolted into the forest and can- 
not be found, his village is made responsible, and has to pay 
a fine in goats, sheep and tobacco to the value of i^i6. Theft 
is extremely rare and offences against the moral code also, the 
Bubis having an extremely high standard in this matter, even 
the little children having each a separate sleeping hut. In 
old days adultery was punished by cutting off the offender's 
hand. I have myself seen women in Fernando Po who have 
had a hand cut off at th§ wrist, but I believe those were slave 
women who had suffered for theft. Slaves the Bubis do have, 
but their condition is the mild, poor relation or retainer form of 
slavery you find in Calabar, and differs from the Dualla form, 
for the slaves live in the same villages as their masters, while 
among the Duallas, as among most Bantu slave-holding tribes, 
the slaves are excluded from the master's village and have 
separate villages of their own. For marriage ceremonies I 
refer you to Mr. Hutchinson. Burial customs are exceedingly 
quaint in the southern and eastern districts, where the bodies 
are buried in the forest with their heads just sticking out of 
the ground. In other districts the body is also buried in the 
forest, but is completely covered and an erection of stones 
put up to mark the place. 

Little is known of all West African fetish, still less of that 
of these strange people. Dr. Oscar Baumann brought to bear 
on them his careful unemotional German methods of observa- 
tion, thereby giving us more valuable information about them 



THE PORTOS 71 



and their island than we otherwise should possess. Mr. 
Hutchinson resided many years on Fernando Po, in the 
capacit>'' of H. B. M.'s Consul, with his hands full of the affairs 
of the Oil Rivers and in touch with the Portos of Clarence, 
but he nevertheless made very interesting observations on the 
natives and their customs. The Polish exile and his courageous 
wife who ascended Clarence Peak, Mr. Rogoszinsky, and 
another Polish exile, Mr. Janikowski, about complete our series 
of authorities on the island. Dr. Baumann thinks they got 
their information from Porto sources — sources the learned 
Doctor evidently regards as more full of imagination than 
solid fact, but, as you know, all African travellers are oc- 
casionally in the habit of pooh-poohing each other, and I own 
that I myself have been chiefly in touch with Portos, and that 
my knowledge of the Bubi language runs to the conventional 
greeting form :— " Ipori ? " " Porto." " Ke Soko ? " " Hatsi 
soko " :— " Who are you ? " — '' Porto." " What's the news ? " 
" Xo news." 

Although these Portos are less interesting to the ethno- 
logist than the philanthropist, they being by-products of his 
efforts, I must not leave Fernando Po without mentioning 
them, for on them the trade of the island depends. They are 
the middlemen between the Bubi and the white trader. The 
former regards them with little, if any, more trust than he 
regards the white men, and his view of the position of the 
Spanish Governor is that he is chief over the Portos. That 
he has any headship over Bubis or over the Bubi land — 
Itschulla as he calls Fernando Po — he does not imagine 
possible. Baumann says he was once told by a Bubi : " White 
men are fish, not men. They are able to stay a little while on 
land, but at last they mount their ships again and vanish over 
the horizon into the ocean. How can a fish possess land ? " 
If the coffee and cacao thrive on Fernando Po to the same 
extent that they have already thriven on San Thome there is 
but little doubt that the Bubis will become extinct ; for work 
on plantations, either for other people, or themselves, they will 
not, and then the Portos will become the most important class, 
for they will go in for plantations. Their little factories are 
studded all round the shores of the coast in suitable coves and 



72 FERNANDO PO AND THE BUBIS CH. in 



bays, and here in fairly neat houses they hve, collecting palm- 
oil from the Bubis, and making themselves little cacao planta- 
tions, and bringing these products into Clarence every now 
and then to the white trader's factory. Then, after spending 
some time and most of their money in the giddy whirl of that 
capital, they return to their homes and recover. There is a 
class of them permanently resident in Clarence, the city 
men of Fernando Po, and these are very like the Sierra 
Leonians of Free Town, but preferable. Their origin is prac- 
tically the same as that of the Free Towners. They are the 
descendants of liberated slaves set free during the time of 
our occupation of the island as a naval depot for suppressing 
the slave trade, and of Sierra Leonians and Accras who 
have arrived and settled since then. They have some of the 
same " Black gennellum, Sar " style about them, but not 
developed to the same ridiculous extent as in the Sierra 
Leonians, for they have not been under our institutions. 
The " Fanny Po " ladies are celebrated for their beauty all 
along the West Coast, and very justly. They are not how- 
ever, as they themselves think, the most beautiful women in 
this part of the world. Not at least to my way of thinking. 
I prefer an Elmina, or an Igalwa, or a M'pongwe, or — but I had 
better stop and own that my affections have got very scattered 
among the black ladies on the West Coast, and I no sooner 
remember one lovely creature whose soft eyes, perfect form 
and winning, pretty ways have captivated me than I think of 
another. The Fanny Po ladies have often a certain amount 
of Spanish blood in them, which gives a decidedly greater 
delicacy to their features : — delicate little nostrils, mouths not 
too heavily lipped, a certain gloss on the hair, and a light in 
the eye. But it does not improve their colour, and I am 
assured that it has an awful effect on their tempers, so I think 
I will remain, for the present, the faithful admirer of my sable 
Ingrimma, the Igalwa, with the little red blossoms stuck in her 
night-black hair, and a sweet soft look and word for every one, 
but particularly for her ugly husband Isaac the "Jack Wash." 



CHAPTER IV 

LAGOS BAR 

Which the general reader may omit as the voyager gives herein no details 
of Old Calabar or of other things of general interest, but discourses 
diffusely on the local geography and the stor)' of the man who wasted 
coal. 

I WILL not detain you with any account of the Oil Rivers 
here. They are too big a subject to compress for one thing ; 
for another I do not feel that I yet know enough to have the 
right to speak regarding them, unless I were going to do so 
along accepted, well-trodden lines, and what I have seen and 
personally know of the region does not make me feel at all 
inclined to do this. So I will wait until I have had further 
opportunities of observing them. 

The natives I have worked at, but as their fetish is of ex- 
ceeding interest, I have relegated it to a separate chapter, 
owing to its unfitness to be allowed to stray about in the rest 
of the text, in order to make things generally tidier. The 
state of confusion the mind of a collector like myself gets into 
on the West Coast is something simply awful, and my notes 
for a day will contain facts relating to the kraw-kraw, price 
of onions, size and number of fish caught, cooking recipes, 
genealogies, oaths (native form of), law cases, and market 
prices, &c., &c. And the undertaking of tidying these things 
up is no small one. As for one's personal memory it becomes 
a rag-bag into w hich you dip frantically when some one asks 
you a question, and you almost alwa}'s fail to secure your 
particular fact rag for some minutes. 

After returning from the short visit to Fernando 
Po made in their company, owing to the great kind- 



74 LAGOS BAR chap. 



ness of Sir Claude and Lady MacDonald I remained 
in Calabar River from January until May, collecting 
fish mainly through the kindness of Dr Whitindale, 
and insects through the kindness of Mr. Cooper, then in 
charge of the botanical station. Most of my time was spent 
puddling about the river and the forest round Duke Town 
and Creek Town, but I made a point on this visit to Calabar 
of going up river to see Miss Slessor at Okyon, and she 
allowed me to stay with her, giving me invaluable help in the 
matter of fetish and some of the pleasantest days in my life. 
This very wonderful lady has been eighteen years in Calabar ; 
for the last six or seven living entirely alone, as far as white 
folks go, in a clearing in the forest near to one of the principal 
villages of the Okyon district, and ruling as a veritable white 
chief over the entire Okyon district. Her great abilities, 
both physical and intellectual, have given her among the 
savage tribe an unique position, and won her, from white and 
black who know her, a profound esteem. Her knowledge of 
the native, his language, his ways of thought, his diseases, 
his difficulties, and all that is his, is extraordinary, and the 
amount of good she has done, no man can fully estimate. 
Okyon, when she went there alone — living in the native 
houses while she built, with the assistance of the natives, her 
present house — was a district regarded with fear by the 
Duke and Creek Town natives, and practically unknown to 
Europeans. It was given, as most of the surrounding dis- 
tricts still are, to killing at funerals, ordeal by poison, and 
perpetual internecine wars. Many of these evil customs she 
has stamped out, and Okyon rarely gives trouble to its 
nominal rulers, the Consuls in Old Calabar, and trade passes 
freely through it down to the sea-ports. 

This instance of what one white can do would give 
many important lessons in West Coast administration and 
development. Only the sort of man Miss Slessor represents 
is rare. There are but few who have the same power of resist- 
ing the malarial climate, and of acquiring the language, and 
an insight into the negro mind, so perhaps after all it is no 
great wonder that Miss Slessor stands alone, as she certainly 
does. 



IV PERPLEXING GEOGRAPHY 75 

After returning down river, I just waited until the Batatiga, 
n y old friend, came into the river again, and then started for 
my beloved Soiith West Coast. The various divisions of the 
West Coast of Africa are very perplexing to a new comer. 
Starting from Sierra Leone coming south you first pass the 
Grain Coast, which is also called the Pepper or Kru Coast, or 
the Liberian Coast. Next comes the Ivor}' Coast, also known 
as the Half Jack Coast, or the Bristol Coast. Then comes 
the Gold Coast ; then the old Slave Coast, now called the 
Popos ; then Lagos, and then the Rivers, and below the Rivers 
the South West Coast In addition to these names you will 
hear the Timber Ports, and the Win'ard and Leeward Ports 
referred to, and it perplexes one when one finds a port, say 
Axim, referred to by one competent authority', i.e. a sea- 
aptain, as a Win'ard port, by the next as a Timber, by the 
next as a Gold Coast port. It is just as well to get the matter 
up if you intend frequenting the Bights of Biafra and Benin. 
I will just give you, as a hint to facilitate your researches, the 
information that the Bight of Benin commences at Cape St. 
Paul and ends at Cape Formosa ; and the Bight of Biafra 
commences at Cape Formosa and ends at Cape Lopez. 
The Windward Coast is that portion between Cape Apollonia 
and the Secum River, just west of Accra, At this river the 
Leeward Coast begins, and terminates at the Volta. 

When I was on the coast in 1 893, Cameroons River was 
regarded in nautical circles as a River. Now, alas for me ! it is 
not, and getting from Calabar to Cameroons is a thing you 
ought to get a medal for, for the line of vessels that run 
from Liverpool to Calabar goes no further than the latter 
place. In former days they used to call in at Calabar, 
then go across to Fernando Po and into Cameroons, calling 
steadily at ports right down to Sant. Paul de Loanda, which 
was a highly convenient and beautiful arrangement, but I 
presume did not pay ; so the South West Coast boats, that is 
to say boats calling below Calabar, now call at Lagos, and 
thus ignore the Rivers, going straight on into Cameroons River. 
So you see, if you have providentially kept your head clear 
during this disquisition, I had to go on a homeward bound 
boat up as far as Lagos Bar and then catch a South Wester 



76 LAGOS BAR CHAP. 

outward bound, and I assure }'ou changing at Lagos Bar 
throws changing at Clapham Junction into the shade. Now 
in order to make this latter point clear to that unfortunate 
victim the general reader, he, or she, must be dragged through 
a disquisition on Lagos and its bar. 

Lagos is a marvellous manifestation of the perversity of 
man coupled with the perversity of nature, being at one and 
the same time one of the most important exporting 
ports on the West African seaboard, and one of the 
most difficult to get at. The town of Lagos is situated 
on an island in the Lagos River, a river which is much 
given to going into lagoons and mud, and which has its 
bar about two miles out. The entire breadth of the channel 
through this bar is half a mile, at least on paper. On each side 
of this channel are the worst set of breakers in West Africa, and 
its resident population consists of sharks, whose annual toll of 
human life is said by some authorities to be fourteen, by others 
forty, but like everything else connected with Lagos Bar, it is 
uncertain, but bad. This entrance channel, however, at the 
best of times has not more than thirteen feet of water on 
it, and so although the British African and Royal African 
lines of steamers are noble pedestrians, thinking nothing of 
walking a mile or so when occasion requires, and as capable 
of going over a grass-plot with the dew on it as any ocean 
vessels ever built, I am bound to own they do require a 
certain amount of water to get on with. They can sit high 
and dry on a sand or mud-bank — they prefer mud I may re- 
mark — \\ith any vessel. I have often been on them when 
engaged in this pastime, but it does undoubtedly cause delay, 
and this being the case they do not go alongside at Lagos, 
but lie outside the bar. Now such is the pestilential nature of 
Lagos Bar that even the carefully built branch boats, the 
noble Dodo and Qwarra, to say nothing of the Forcados and 
others, although drawing only ten feet, are liable to stick. For 
the channel, instead of sticking to its governmentally reported 
thirteen feet, is prone to be nine feet, and exceeding prone also 
to change its position ; and moreover, even supposing the branch 
boat to get across all right, the heavy swell outside with its 
great rollers lounging along, intent on breaking on the bar. 



MRS. S. AND HER CRATES 77 



looking like coiling snakes under a blanket, make the vessels 
lying broadside on to them play pendulum to an extent that 
precludes the discharging or taking on of heavy cargo ; and 
hea\y cargo has to come on and off for Lagos to the value of 
;if 1,566,243 a year. So as the West African trading vessels 
are enterprising and determined, particularly where palm 
oil is concerned, they arrange the matter by going and 
lying up Forcados River. This river, which is 120 miles 
below Lagos, is a mouth of the Niger, and has a bar you 
can cross (if you don't mind a little walking), drawing seven- 
teen feet nine inches. This being the case they run just 
inside Forcados River and then wait for the branch boat 
from Lagos to come and bring them their heavy cargo. 
When they have got this on board, they proceed up coast 
and call off Lagos Bar, and another unfortunate branch boat 
brings off mails and passengers to them. 

Well, the Batanga after leaving Calabar and calling at Bonny 
had duly waited for the branch boat in Forcados and ultimately 
got her and her cargo, with its attendant uproar; and an account 
of the latest iniquities of Lagos Bar which had one of its bad 
fits on just then and was capturing and wrecking branch boats 
galore ; and we had the usual scene with Mrs. S. Mrs. S., I may 
remark, is a comely and large black lady, an old acquaintance 
of mine, hailing from Opobo and frequently going up and 
down to Lagos, in connection with trading affairs of her own, 
and another lady with whom Mrs. S. is in a sort of partnership. 
This trade usually consists of extensive operations in chickens. 
She goes up to Lagos and buys chickens, brings them on 
board in crates, and takes them to Opobo and there sells them. 
It is not for me as a fellow woman to say what Mrs. S. makes 
on the transaction, nor does it interest the general public, but 
what does interest the general public (at least that portion of 
it that goes down to the sea in ships and for its sins wanders 
into Forcados River) is Mrs. S.'s return trip to Lagos with 
those empty crates and the determination in her heart not to 
pay freight for them. Wise and experienced chief officers 
never see ^Irs. S.'s crates, but young and truculent ones do, 
and determine, in their hearts, she shall pay for them, ad- 
vertising this resolve of theirs openly all the way from Opobo, 



78 LAGOS BAR chap. 

which is foolish. When it comes to sending heavy goods 
overside into the branch boat at Forcados, the wise chief 
officer lets those crates go, but the truculent one says, 
" Here, Mrs. S., 7tozv you have got to pay for these crates." 
" Lor' mussy me, sar," says Mrs. S., " what you talk about ? " 
" These here chicken crates of yours, Mrs. S." 
" Lor' mussy me," says Mrs. S., " those crates no 'long to me, 
sar." 

" Then," says the truculent one, " heave 'em over side ! We 
don't want that stuff lumbering up our deck." 

Mrs. S. then expostulates and explains they are the property 
of a lone lorn lady in Lagos to whom Mrs. S. is taking them 
from the highest motives ; motives " such a nice gentleman " as 
the first officer must understand, and which it will be a pleasure 
to him to share in, and she cites instances of other chief officers 
who according to her have felt, as it were, a ray of sunlight 
come into their lives when they saw those chicken crates and 
felt it was in their power to share in the noble work of return- 
ing them to Lagos freight free. The truculent one then loses 
his head and some of his temper and avows himself a heart- 
less villain, totally indifferent to the sex, and says all 
sorts of things, but my faith in the ultimate victory of Mrs. 
S. never weavers. My money is on her all the time, and she 
has never disappointed me, and when I am quite rich some 
day, I will give Mrs. S. purses of gold in the eastern manner 
for the many delicious scenes she has played before me with 
those crates in dreary Forcados. 

These affairs being duly disposed of, the Batanga left 
Forcados and duly proceeded up coast to call off Lagos for 
mails and passengers ; my fate being to go on to the branch 
boat which brought these out, and which I then expected would 
take me in to Lagos, to await the arrival of the south-west 
outward bound boat. 

I had been treated, as passengers landing at Lagos are 
properly and customarily treated, to a course of instruction on 
the dangers of going on and off branch boats on the bar, with 
special mention of the case of a gentleman who came down 
the Coast for pleasure and lost a leg to a shark while so en- 
gaged, and of the amount of fever of a bad type just then 



CROSSING THE BAR 79 



raging in Lagos ; and then when we saw the branch boat that 
was coming out to us get stuck on the bar in the middle of 
what a German would call a Wirrwarr of breakers, I own it 
took all the fascination of my memories of the South West 
Coast to prevent my giving up the journey, and going home to 
England comfortably on the Batanga, as my best friends 
strongly advised my doing. 

However presently the branch boat stamped her way over 
the bar, and came panting up, and anchored near us, and from 
her on to the Batanga came a Lagos Government official in a 
saturated state. He said he had just come out to see how a 
branch boat could get across the bar at low water — a noble 
and enterprising thing which places him in line with the Elder 
Plin\'. He entertained us with a calm, utterly dispassionate 
account of how the water had washed right over them, gone 
down the funnel and all that sort of thing — evidently a horribly 
commonplace experience here ; and he said the Eko (that was 
our branch boat's name) was not going back into Lagos until 
she had put the down coast mail and over a hundred deck- 
passengers who were going to the Congo, on to the South West 
Coast boat, which was hourly expected in the roads, as she had 
been telegraphed from Accra. He casually obser\ed he hoped 
she would not be late in the afternoon as he had to go up 
countrj' in the morning on the Government steamer. Well, 
things seeming safe and pleasant, I went off to the branch boat, 
being most carefully lowered over the side in a chair by the 
winch. 

" Take care of yourself," said the Batanga. 

" I will," said I, which shows the futility and vanity of such 
resolves, for had not other people taken care of me, goodness 
only knows what would have become of me. ^Arrived along- 
side of the Eko, I proceeded up her rope-ladder on deck, and 
that deck I shall not soon forget. The Government official 
had understated the case ; things were in a spring-cleaning 
confusion : the waves had not made a clean sweep of 
her but an uncommonly dirty one, and it would have been 
better if she had stuck among the breakers another half hour 
and given the sea-nymphs time to tidy up. They had made 
especial hay of the gallant captain's cabin, flinging out on to 



8o LAGOS BAR chap. 



the deck his socks and hats and boots just anyhow, and over 
all and everything was a coating of wet coal-dust. On the 
little lower deck were the unfortunate native passengers. They 
were silent, which with native passengers means sick, and every 
rag they possessed was wringing wet. Rats ran freely about 
everywhere, and from out of the black patch of silence on the 
main deck rose no sound save Mrs. S.'s Chei ! Chei ! Chei ! 
of disgust and disapproval of her surroundings. The 
kindly German captain (for the Eko belonged to a great 
German trading firm in Lagos, and not to the steamboat 
companies) did all he could to make me comfortable, and the 
Government official pointed out to me objects of interest on 
the distant shore : the lighthouse, the Government House, the 
Wilberforce Hall, and so on, but particularly the little Govern- 
ment steamer which, he observed, was getting up steam to be 
ready to take him up river early in the morning. He seemed 
to think they were beginning rather too early, as the Govern- 
ment are vigilant about the sin of wasting coal. As the after- 
noon wore away, our interest in the coming of the Benguella 
grew until it surpassed all other interests, and the Benguella 
became the one thing we really cared about in life, and yet she 
came not. The little Eko rolled to and fro, to and fro, all the 
loose gear going slipperty, slop, crash ; slipperty, slop, crash : 
coal-dust, smuts, and a broiling sun poured down on us quietly, 
and the only thing or motion that gave us any variety was 
every three or four minutes the Eko making a vicious jerk 
at her anchor. About six o'clock a steamer was seen coming 
up into the roads. The experienced captain said she was not 
the Benguella, and she was not, but i\\Qjaneite IVoennann, and 
as soon as she got settled, her captain came on board the Eko, 
of course to ask what prospect there was of cargo on shore. 
He appeared as a gigantic, lithe, powerful Dane clad in a 
uniform of great splendour and exceeding tightness, terminat- 
ing in a pair of Blucher boots and every inch of his six feet 
four spick and span, but that was only the visible form — his 
external seeming. What that man really was, was our two 
guardian cherubs rolled into one, for no sooner did he lay eye 
on us — the depressed and distracted official and the dilapi- 
dated lady — than he claimed us as his own, and in a few more 



IV 



A FRIEND IX NEED 8i 



minutes we were playing bob cherry again with Lagos Bar 
sharks, going down into his boat by the Eko's rope-ladder. 

Were I but Khalif of Bagdad, I would have that captain's 
name — which is Heldt — written in letters of gold on ivory 
tablets with a full and particular account of all he did for us. 
No sooner did he successfully get us on board his comfort- 
able vessel, than he gave me his own cabin on the upper deck 
and stowed himself in some sort of outhouse alongside it, which I 
observed, when going out on deck during the night to see if that 
Benguella had come in to the roads, was far too short for him. 
He gave us dinner with great promptitude — an excellent 
dinner commencing with what I thought was a plateful of hot 
jam, but which anyhow was nice. Indeed so reconciled did I 
become to my environment that my interest in the coming of 
the Benguella hourly waned, and had it not been for my having 
caught a sense of worry about " the way coals were being 
wasted " on the Government boat inside the bar, I .should have 
forgotten the South-Wester. Not so my companion. You 
cannot distract a man from the higher duties and responsi- 
bilities of life so easily. His mind was a prey to the most 
dismal thoughts and conjectures. He regretted having come 
out on the Eko, although his motive to see how she would get 
across the bar at low water was a noble one and arose from 
the nature of his particular appointment, and not only did he 
regret that, but remembered, with remorse, all the other things 
he had done which he should not have done. Captain Heldt 
did his best to cheer him and distract him from the 
contemplation of these things and the way coal was being 
wasted on his account inside the bar. The captain offered 
him .suits of his own clothes to change his sopped ones for ; 
but no, he said he was lost enough already without getting 
into clothes of that size. Lager beer, cigars, and stories were 
then tried on him, but with little effect. He took a certain 
amount of interest in the captain's account of how he had 
had his back severely injured and had had to navigate his 
vessel among the shoals of Saint Ann while lying in great 
agony for weeks owing to an accident in the Grain Coast surf, 
and also in the various accounts of the many ribs the captain 
had had broken in various ways on the high seas, but anj' 

G 



82 LAGOS -BAR chap. 



legend of a more cheerful character than these he evidently 
felt was unfitted to our situation, and flippant, considering the 
way those coals were being wasted. Still the Beiiguella came 
not, though we sat up very late looking for her, and at last we 
turned in. 

The next morning we were up early. There was no 
Benguella. The Eko was still rolling about near us waiting 
for her, and the Ekds passengers having had, as I heard, in vivid 
account some months after from Mrs. S. with many^^^z.' 
cheis ! a wretched, ratful, foodless night, the Eko naturally 
not laying herself out for water pic-nic parties. We fared well 
on the Janette, our guardian angel providing us with an 
excellent breakfast. My fellow countryman's anxiety had 
now passed into a dark despair. He no longer looked for the 
South-Wester. It was past that ; but he borrowed Captain 
Heldt's best telescope and watched the Government steamer, 
which lay smoking away like a Turkish man-of-war, waiting for 
him. Captain Heldt tried to cheer him with more stories, 
lager beer, and cigars, and at last produced an auto-harp, an 
instrument upon which he was himself proficient and capable 
of playing not only the march from " Ajax," but " Der 
Wacht am Rhein " and " Annie Laurie." This temporarily 
took my fellow countryman's mind off coals, and he set about 
to acquire the management of the auto-harp and rapidly did 
so, but then he only picked out with infinite feeling and pathos 
" Home, Sweet Home," so it was taken from him. Then we 
had long accounts of the region round the Swakop river, 
from which the Janette had just come, and at last, about two 
o'clock, my fellow countryman sadly said : " Here she comes ! " 
and there she did come, and in a short time the graceful old 
Benguella was duly anchored in the roads and I was taken on 
board by my two friends. 

We none of us felt very enthusiastic, I fear. I had never 
been on her before, so regarded her as an utter stranger. My 
fellow countryman felt it was a hanging matter by now for 
him on shore, because of those coals, and so did not feel in 
such a hurry to get there. And to Captain Heldt she was a 
rival. But often those things which you expect least of 
ultimately give you the most pleasure, as the moralist would 



GOODBYE TO THE BAR 83 



say, and moreover when you are on the Coast you never know 
whom you may meet ; and as I, after a good deal of trouble in 
the Janettes boat to get my companions to go on deck before 
me up the rope ladder, elaborately climbed that thrilling 
nautical institution myself and had got my head over the top 
of the bulwark, I saw a yard off me, dead ahead, still super- 
intending the hatch — my first tutor in Km English. It 
was in '93 that he had last seen me, a very new comer, going 
ashore at San Paul de Loanda from the Lagos, on which 
vessel he was then officer, and vowing I meant to go home 
by the next boat ; now seeing me coming on board, in a way 
I am sure would have done credit to a Half Jack captain, 
he naturally asked for an explanation, which, being quite 
busy with the rope-ladder palav-er, I did not then and there 
;^nve him. 

In a short time I had said farewell, with many thanks to my 
two friends who had taken such care of me on Lagos Bar, and my 
fellow countryman returned in the Eko, which, having got her 
mails and passengers safe and sound on to the Benguella, was 
at last going in to Lagos again, and I am sure it will be a 
relief to you to know that none of those expected troubles on 
shore befell the official, but he lived to earn the gratitude and 
esteem of Lagos and its Government for his noble and deter- 
mined serxices in working and sur\eying that awful bar. When, 
a few months after our amusing experiences on it, it went on 
worse than ever, and vessel after vessel was wrecked, he 
rescued their passengers and crews at the great risk of his own 
\\{q^ ; for going alongside a vessel that is breaking up in the 
breakers, and in an open boat with a native crew, and getting 
off panic-stricken Africans and their belongings, surrounded by- 
such a sea, with its crowd of e.xpectant sharks, in the West 
African climate, is good work for a good man, and my fellow- 
countrvman did it and did it well. 



G 2 



CHAPTER V 

VOYAGE DOWN COAST 

Wherein the voyager before leaving the Rivers discourses on dangers, to 
which is added some account of Mangrove swamps and the creatures 
that abide therein, including the devil of an uncle. 

My voyage down coast in the Benguella was a very 
pleasant one and full of instruction, for Mr. Fothergill, who 
was her purser, had in former years resided in Congo Fran- 
gais as a merchant, and to Congo Francais I was bound 
with an empty hold as regards local knowledge of the dis- 
trict. He was one of that class of men, of which you most 
frequently find representatives among the merchants, who do 
not possess the power so many men along here do possess (a 
power that always amazes me), of living for a considerable 
time in a district without taking any interest in it, keeping 
their whole attention concentrated on the point of how 
long it will be before their time comes to get out of it. 
Mr. Fothergill evidently had much knowledge and experience 
of the Fernan Vaz district and its natives. He had, I should 
say, overdone his experiences with the natives, as far as 
personal comfort and pleasure at the time went, having been 
nearly killed and considerably chivied by them. Now I do 
not wish a man, however much I may deplore his total lack 
of local knowledge, to go so far as this. Mr. Fothergill 
gave his accounts of these incidents calmly, and in an un- 
decorated way that gave them a power and convincingness 
verging on being unpleasant, although useful, to a person 
who was going into the district where they had occurred, for 
one felt there was no mortal reason why one should not person- 



i 



CHAP. V GRIM REALITIES ' 85 



ally get involved in similar affairs. And 1 must here acknow- 
ledge the great subsequent service Mr. Fothergill's wonderfully 
accurate descriptions of the peculiar characteristics of the 
Ogowe forests were to me when I subsequently came to deal 
with these forests on my own account, as every district of forest 
has peculiar characteristics of its own which you require to 
know. I should like here to speak of West Coast 
dangers because I fear you may think that I am careless of, 
r do not believe in them, neither of which is the case. 
i he more you know of the West Coast of Africa, the more 
\ ou realise its dangers. For example, on your first voyage 
out you hardl)' believe the stories of fever told by the old 
Coasters. That is because you do not then understand the type 
of man who is telling them, a man who goes to his death with 
a joke in his teeth. But a short experience of your own, 
particularly if you happen on a place having one of its 
periodic epidemics, soon demonstrates that the underlying 
horror of the thing is there, a rotting corpse which the old 
Coaster has dusted over with jokes to cover it so that it hardly 
shows at a distance, but which, when you come yourself to 
live alongside, you soon become cognisant of Many men, 
when the}' have got ashore and settled, realise this, and let the 
horror get a grip on them ; a state briefly and locally de- 
scribed as funk, and a state that usually ends fatally ; and you 
can hardly blame them. Why, I know of a case myself A 
young man who had never been outside an English countr}- 
town before in his life, from family reverses had to take 
a situation as book-keeper down in the Bights. The factor)- 
he was going to was in an isolated out-of-the-way place and 
not in a settlement, and when the ship called off it, he was 
put ashore in one of the ship's boats with ^is belongings, and 
a case or so of goods. There were only the firm's beach-boys 
down at the surf, and as the steamer was in a hurr)^ the officer 
from the ship did not go up to the factory with him, but said 
good-b>-e and left him alone with a set of naked savages as 
he thought, but really of good kindly Kru boys on the beach. 
He could not understand what the}- said, nor the}- what he 
said, and so he walked up to the house and on to the 
verandah and tried to find the Agent he had come out to 



86 VOYAGE DOWN COAST chap. 



serve under. He looked into the open-ended dining-room 
and shyly round the verandah, and then sat down and waited 
for some one to turn up. Sundry natives turned up, and said 
a good deal, but no one white or comprehensible, so in des- 
peration he made another and a bolder tour completely round 
the verandah and noticed a most peculiar noise in one of the 
rooms and an infinity of flies going into the Venetian shuttered 
window. Plucking up courage he went in and found what 
was left of the white Agent, a considerable quantity of rats, 
and most of the flies in West Africa. He then presumably 
had fever, and he was taken off", a fortnight afterwards, by a 
French boat, to whom the natives signalled, and he is not com- 
ing down the Coast again. Some men would have died right 
out from a shock like this. 

But most of the new-comers do not get a shock of this 
order. They either die themselves or get more gradually 
accustomed to this sort of thing, when they come to regard 
death and fever as soldiers, who on a battle-field sit down, 
and laugh and talk round a camp fire after a day's hard 
battle, in which they have seen their friends and companions 
falling round them ; all the time knowing that to-morrow the 
battle comes again and that to-morrow night they themselves 
may never see. It is not hard-hearted callousness, it is 
only their way. Michael Scott put this well in Tom 
Cringle^s Log, in his account of the yellow fever during 
the war in the West Indies. Fever, though the chief danger, 
particularly to people who go out to settlements, is not 
the only one ; but as the other dangers, except perhaps 
domestic poisoning, are incidental to pottering about in the 
forests, or on the rivers, among the unsophisticated tribes, 
I will not dwell on them. They can all be avoided by 
any one with common sense, by keeping well out of the dis- 
tricts in which they occur ; and so I warn the general reader 
that if he goes out to West Africa, it is not because I said the 
place was safe, or its dangers overrated. The cemeteries of 
the West Coast are full of the victims of those people who 
have said that Coast fever is " Cork fever," and a man's own 
fault, which it is not ; and that natives will never attack you 
unless you attack them : which they will — on occasions. 



WEST COAST RIVERS 87 



My main aim in going to Congo Francais was to get up 
above the tide line of the Ogowe River and there collect 
fishes ; for my object on this voyage was to collect fish from 
a river north of the Congo. I had hoped this river would 
have been the Niger, for Sir George Goldie had placed at my 
disposal great facilities for carrying on work there in comfort ; 
but for certain private reasons I was disinclined to go from 
the Royal Niger Protectorate into the Royal Niger Company's 
territory ; and the Calabar, where Sir Claude MacDonald did 
everything he possibly could to assist me, I did not find a 
good river for me to collect fishes in. These t%vo rivers fail- 
ing me, from no fault of either of their own presiding genii, 
my only hope of doing anything now lay on the South West 
Coast river, the Ogowe, and everything there depended on Mr. 
Hudson's attitude towards scientific research in the domain of 
ichthyology. Fortunately for me that . gentleman elected to 
e a favourable view of this aflfair, and in every way in his 
, AVer assisted me during my entire stay in Congo Francais. 
])Ut before I enter into a detailed description of this wonder- 
ful bit of West Africa, I must give you a brief notice of the 
manners, habits and customs of West Coast rivers in general, 
to make the thing more intellegible. 

There is an uniformity in the habits of West Coast rivers, 
from the Volta to the Coanza, which is, when you get used to 
it, very taking. Excepting the Congo, the really great river 
comes out to sea with as much mjstery as possible ; lounging 
I lazily along among its mangrove swamps in a what's-it-matter 
I when-one-comes-out and where's-the-hurry style, through 
[ quantities of channels inter-communicating with each other. 
I Each channel, at first sight as like the other as peas in a pod, 
j is bordered on either side by green-black walls of mangroves, 
which Captain Lugard graphically described as seeming " as 
if they had lost all count of the vegetable proprieties, and 
were standing on stilts with their branches tucked up out of 
the wet, leaving their gaunt roots exposed in mid-air." High- 
tide or low-tide, there is little difference in the water ; the 
river, be it broad or narrow, deep or shallow, looks like a 
pathway of polished metal ; for it is as heavy weighted with 
stinking mud as water e'er can be, ebb or flow, year out and 



88 VOYAGE DOWN COAST chap. 



year in. But the difference in the banks, though an unending 
alternation between two appearances, is weird. 

At high-water you do not see the mangroves displaying 
their ankles in the way that shocked Captain Lugard. They 
look most respectable, their foliage rising densely in a wall 
irregularly striped here and there by the white line of an 
aerial root, coming straight down into the water from some upper 
branch as straight as a plummet, in the strange, knowing way 
an aerial root of a mangrove does, keeping the hard straight line 
until it gets some two feet above water-level, and then spread- 
ing out into blunt fingers with which to dip into the water and 
grasp the mud. Banks indeed at high water can hardly be said 
to exist, the water stretching away into the mangrove swamps 
for miles and miles, and you can then go, in a suitable 
small canoe, away among these swamps as far as you 
please. 

This is a fascinating pursuit. For people who like that sort of 
thing it is just the sort of thing they like, as the art critic of 
a provincial town wisely observed anent an impressionist 
picture recently acquired for the municipal gallery. But it is a 
pleasure to be indulged in with caution ; for one thing, you are 
certain to come across crocodiles. Now a crocodile drifting 
down in deep water, or lying asleep with its jaws open on a 
sand-bank in the sun, is a picturesque adornment to the land- 
scape when you are on the deck of a steamer, and you can write 
home about it and frighten your relations on your behalf; but 
when you are away among the swamps in a small dug-out 
canoe, and that crocodile and his relations are awake — a thing 
he makes a point of being at flood tide because of fish coming 
along — and when he has got his foot upon his native heath — 
that is to say, his tail within holding reach of his native mud — 
he is highly interesting, and you may not be able to write home 
about him — and you get frightened on your own behalf For 
crocodiles can, and often do, in such places, grab at people in 
small canoes. I have known of several natives losing their 
lives in this way ; some native villages are approachable 
from the main river by a short cut, as it were, through the 
mangrove swamps, and the inhabitants of such villages will 
now and then go across this way with small canoes instead of 



A SAFE INVESTMENT 89 



by the constant channel to the village, which is almost always 
winding. In addition to this unpleasantness you are liable — 
until you realise the danger from experience, or have native 
advice on the point — to get tide-trapped away in the 

' swamps, the water falling round you when you are away in 
some deep pool or lagoon, and you find you cannot get back to 
the main river. For you cannot get out and drag }-our canoe 
across the stretches of mud that separate you from it, because 
the mud is of too unstable a nature and too deep, and sinking 
into it means staying in it, at any rate until some geologist of 

' the remote future may come across you, in a fossilised state, 
".hen that mangrove swamp shall have become dry land. Of 
jurse if }'ou really want a truly safe investment in Fame, and 
really care about Posterity', and Posterity's Science, you will 
jump over into the black batter-like, stinking slime, cheered 
by the thought of the terrific sensation you will produce 
20,000 years hence, and the care you will be taken of then b)- 
your fellow-creatures, in a museum. But if you are a mere 
ordinary person of a retiring nature, like me, you stop in yout 
lagoon until the tide rises again ; most of your attention is 
directed to dealing with an " at home " to crocodiles and man- 
grove flies, and with the fearful stench of the slime round }'ou. 
What little time you have over you will employ in wondering 
why you came to West Africa, and why, after having 
reached this point of absurdity, you need have gone and 
painted the lily and adorned the rose, by being such a 
colossal ass as to come fooling about in mangrove swamps. 
Twice this chatty little incident, as Lady MacDonald would 
call it, has happened to me, but never again if I can help it. 
On one occasion, the last, a mighty Silurian, as The Daily 
Telegraph would call him, chose to get his front paws over the 
stern of my canoe, and endeavoured to improve our acquaint- 
ance. I had to retire to the bows, to keep the balance 
right,^ and fetch him a clip on the snout with a paddle, when 
he withdrew, and I paddled into the ver>' middle of the lagoon, 
hoping the water there was too deep for him or any of his 
friends to repeat the performance. Presumably it was, for no 

^ It is no use saying because I was frightened, for this miserably 
understates the case. 



90 VOYAGE DOWN COAST chap. 



one did it again. I should think that crocodile was eight feet 
long ; but don't go and say I measured him, or that this is my 
outside measurement for crocodiles. I have measured them 
when they have been killed by other people, fifteen, eighteen, 
and twenty-one feet odd. This was only a pushing young 
creature who had not learnt manners. 

Still, even if your own peculiar tastes and avocations do 
not take you in small dug-out canoes into the heart of the 
swamps, you can observe the difference in the local scenery 
made by the flowing of the tide when you are on a vessel 
stuck on a sand-bank, in the Rio del Rey for example. 
Moreover, as you will have little else to attend to, save 
mosquitoes and mangrove flies, when in such a situation, you 
may as well pursue the study. At the ebb gradually the 
foliage of the lower branches of the mangroves grows wet 
and muddy, until there is a great black band about three feet 
deep above the surface of the water in all directions ; gradually 
a network of gray- white roots rises up, and below this again, 
gradually, a slope of smooth and lead-brown slime. The 
effect is not in the least as if the water had fallen, but as if 
the mangroves had, with one accord, risen up out of it, and 
into it again they seem silently to sink when the flood comes. 
But by this more safe, if still unpleasant, method of observing 
mangrove-swamps, you miss seeing in full the make of them, 
for away in their fastnesses the mangroves raise their branches 
far above the reach of tide line, and the great gray roots of 
the older trees are always sticking up in mid-air. But, fringing 
the rivers, there is always a hedge of younger mangroves 
whose lower branches get immersed. 

At corners here and there from the river face you can see 
the land being made from the waters. A mud-bank forms 
off it, a mangrove seed lights on it, and the thing's done. 
Well ! not done, perhaps, but begun ; for if the bank is 
high enough to get exposed at low water, this pioneer man- 
grove grows. He has a wretched existence though. You have 
only got to look at his dwarfed attenuated form to see this. 
He gets joined by a few more bold spirits and they struggle 
on together, their network of roots stopping abundance of 
mud, and by good chance now and then a consignment of 



V MANGROVES AS ISLAND MAKERS 91 

iiiiscellaneous debris of palm leaves, or a floating tree-trunk, 
but they always die before they attain any considerable height. 
Still even in death they collect. Their bare white sticks re- 
maining like a net gripped in the mud, so that these pioneer 
mangrove heroes ma}- be said to have laid down their lives to 
make that mud-bank fit for colonisation, for the time gradually 
comes when other mangroves can and do colonise on it, and 
flourish, extending their territorj' steadily ; and the mud-bank 
joins up with, and becomes a part of, Africa. 

Right away on the inland fringe of the swamp — you may 
go some hundreds of miles before you get there — you can see 
the rest of the process. The mangroves there have risen up, 
and dried the mud to an extent that is more than good for 
themselves, have over civilised that mud in fact, and so the 
brackish waters of the tide — which, although their enemy when 
too deep or too strong in salt, is essential to their existence — 
cannot get to their roots. They have done this gradually, as 
a mangrove does all things, but they have done it, and down 
on to that mud come a whole set of palms from the old 
mainland, who in their early colonisation days go through 
similarly tr^'ing experiences. First the screw-pines come and 
live among them ; then the wine-palm and various creepers, 
and then the oil-palm ; and the debris of these plants being 
greater and making better soil than dead mangroves, the\- 
work quicker and the mangrove is doomed. Soon the salt 
waters are shut right out, the mangrove dies, and that bit of 
Africa is made. It is ver\- interesting to get into these regions ; 
you see along the river-bank a rich, thick, lovely wall of soft- 
wooded plants, and behind this you find great stretches of 
death ; — miles and miles sometimes of gaunt white mangrove 
skeletons standing on gray stuff that is not yet earth and is no 
longer slime, and through the crust of which you can sink into 
rotting putrefaction. Yet, long after you are dead, buried, and 
forgotten, this will become a forest of soft-wooded plants and 
palms ; and finally of hard-wooded trees. Districts of this 
description you will find in great sweeps of Kama country for 
example, and in the rich low regions up to the base of the Sierra 
del Cristal and the Rumby range. 

You often hear the utter lifelessness of mangrove-swamps 



92 VOYAGE DOWN COAST CHAP. 



commented on" ; why I do not know, for they are fairl}' 
heavily stocked with fauna, though the species are compara- 
tively few. There are the crocodiles, more of them than any 
one wants ; there are quantities of flies, particularly the big 
silent mangrove-fly which lays an egg in you under the skin ; 
the egg becomes a maggot and stays there until it feels fit to 
enter into external life. Then there are " slimy things that 
crawl with legs upon a slimy sea," and any quantity of hop- 
ping mud-fish, and crabs, and a certain mollusc, and in the 
water various kinds of cat-fish. Birdless they are save for 
the flocks of gray parrots that pass over them at evening, 
hoarsely squarking ; and save for this squarking of the 
parrots the swamps are silent all the day, at least during the 
dry season ; in the wet season there is no silence night or 
day in West Africa, but that roar of the descending deluge of 
rain that is more monotonous and more gloomy than any 
silence can be. In the morning you do not hear the long, low, 
mellow whistle of the plantain-eaters calling up the dawn, nor 
in the evening the clock-bird nor the Handel-Festival-sized 
choruses of frogs, or the crickets, that carry on their vesper 
controversy of " she did " — " she didn't " so fiercely on hard 
land. 

But the mangrove-swamp follows the general rule for West 
Africa, and night in it is noisier than the day. After dark 
it is full of noises ; grunts from I know not what, splashes 
from jumping fish, the peculiar whirr of rushing crabs, and 
quaint creaking and groaning sounds from the trees ; and 
— above all in eeriness — the strange whine and sighing cough 
of crocodiles. I shall never forget one moonlight night I 
spent in a mangrove-swamp. I was not lost, but we had gone 
away into the swamp from the main river, so that the natives 
of a village with an evil reputation should not come across us 
when they were out fishing. We got well in, on to a long 
pool or lagoon ; and dozed off and woke, and saw the same 
scene around us twenty times in the night, which thereby 
grew into an aeon, until I dreamily felt that I had somehow 
got into a world that was all like this, and always had been, 
and was always going to be so. Now and again the strong 
musky smell came that meant a crocodile close by, and one 



REGIONS OF MANGROVE SWAMPS 93 



had to rouse up and see if all the crews' legs were on board, 
for Africans are reckless, and regardless of their legs during 

I" sleep. On one examination I found the leg of one of my 
u most precious men ostentatiously sticking out over the side of 
the canoe. I woke him with a paddle, and said a few words 
regarding the inadvisability of wearing his leg like this in our 
situation ; and he agreed with me, saying he had lost a valued 
uncle, who had been taken out of a canoe in this same swamp 
by a crocodile. His uncle's ghost had become, he said, a sort 
of devil which had been a trial to the family ever since ; and he 
thought it must have pulled his leg out in the way I com- 
plained of, in order to get him to join him by means of 
another crocodile. I thanked him for the information and said 
it quite explained the affair, and I should do my best to pre- 
vent another member of the family from entering the state of 
devildom by aiming blows in the direction of any leg or arm 
I saw that uncle devil pulling out to place within reach of the 
crocodiles. 

Great regions of mangrove-swamps are a characteristic 
feature of the West African Coast. The first of these lies 
north of Sierra Leone ; then they occur, but of smaller 
dimensions — ^just fringes of river-outfalls — until you get to 
Lagos, when you strike the greatest of them all : — the swamps 
of the Niger outfalls (about twenty-three rivers in all) and of 
the Sombreiro, New Calabar, Bonny, San Antonio, Opobo (false 
and true), Kwoibo, Old Calabar (with the Cross Akwayafe 
Qwa Rivers) and Rio del Rey Rivers. The whole of this great 
stretch of coast is a mangrove-swamp, each river silentl}- 
rolling down its great mass of mud-laden waters and 
constituting each in itself a very prett>- problem to the 
navigator by its network of intercommunicating creeks, and 
the sand and mud bar which it forms off its entrance b\' 
dropping its heaviest mud ; its lighter mud is carried out 
beyond its bar and makes the nasty-smelling brown soup of 
the South Atlantic Ocean, with froth floating in lines and 
patches on it, for miles to seaward. 

In this great region of swamps every mile appears like every 
other mile until you get well used to it, and are able to 
distinguish the little local peculiarities at the entrance of the 



94 VOYAGE DOWN COAST chap. 



rivers and in the winding of the creeks, a thing difficult even 
for the most experienced navigator to do during those thick 
wool-hke mists called smokes, which hang about the whole 
Bight from November till May (the dry season), sometimes 
lasting all day, sometimes clearing off three hours' after 
sunrise. 

The upper or north-westerly part of the swamp is round the : 
mouths of the Niger, and it successfully concealed this fact 
from geographers down to 1830, when the series of heroic 
journeys made by Mungo Park, Clapperton, and the two 
Landers finally solved the problem— a problem that was as 
great and which cost more men's lives than even the discover}' 
of the sources of the Nile. 

That this should have been so may seem very strange 
to us who now have been told the answer to the riddle ; for 
the upper waters of this great river were known of before 
Christ and spoken of by Herodotus, Pliny and Ptolemy, and its 
mouths navigated continuously along by the seaboard by 
trading vessels since the fifteenth century, but they were not 
recognised as belonging to the Niger. Some geographers 
held that the Senegal or the Gambia was its outfall ; others 
that it was the Zaire (Congo) ; others that it did not come 
out on the West Coast at all, but got mixed up with the Nile 
in the middle of the continent, and so on. Yet when }-ou 
come to know the swamps this is not so strange. You find on 
going up what looks like a big river — say Forcados, two and a 
half miles wide at the entrance and a real bit of the Niger. 
Before you are up it far great, broad, business-like-looking 
river entrances open on either side, showing wide rivers, 
mangrove-walled, but two-thirds of them are utter frauds 
which will ground you within half an hour of your entering 
them. Some few of them do communicate with other 
main channels to the great upper river, and others are main 
channels themselves ; but most of them intercommuni- 
cate with each other and lead nowhere in particular, and you 
can't even get there because of their shallowness. It is small 
wonder that the earlier navigators did not get far up them in 
sailing ships, and that the problem had to be solved b}' men 
descending the main stream of the Niger before it commences 



V RIVERS OF THE SWAMP 95 

to what we in Devonshire should call " squander itself about " 
in all these channels. And in addition it must be remembered 
that the natives with whom these trading vessels dealt, first 
for sla\es, afterwards for palm-oil, were not, and are not now, 
members of the Lo famil}^ of savages. Far from it : they do 
not go in for " gentle smiles," but for murdering any unpro- 
tected boat's crew the}- happen to come across, not only for a 
love of sport but to keep white traders from penetrating 
to the trade-producing interior, and spoiling prices. And the 
region is practically foodless. But I need not here go into 
further particulars regarding the discover}' of the connection 
between the Niger and its delta. It is just the usual bad ju-ju of 
all big African rivers. If you first find the mouth, as in the 
case of the Nile, you have awful times finding the source. If 
you find the upper waters, you have awful times in discovering 
the mouth. If you find a bit of its middle, like the Congo, 
you have awful times in both directions, but fortunately the 
Congo does pla}- fair and does not go and split itself up and 
dive into a mass of mangrove-swamps like the Niger ; so that 
bit of ri\er work at least was easier. 

The rivers of the great mangrove-swamp from the Sombreiro 
to the Rio del Re}- are now known pretty surely not to be 
branches of the Niger, but the upper regions of this part of 
the Bight are much neglected by English explorers. I believe 
the great swamp region of the Bight of Biafra is the greatest 
in the world, and that in its immensity and gloom it has a 
grandeur equal to that of the Himalayas. I am not saying a 
beaut}- ; I own I see a great beaut}- in it sometimes, but it is 
evidently not of a popular tyj^e, for I can never persuade my 
companions down in the Rivers to recognise it ; still it produces 
an emotion in the stoutest-hearted among them ; yea, even 
in those who have sailed the world round ; who have cruised 
for years in the Southern seas, know their West Indies b}- 
heart, have run regularly for years to Rio de Janeiro, and have 
times and again been to where " th}- towers, they say, gleam 
fair, Bomba}-, across the deep blue sea." 

Take any such a man, educated or not, and place him on 
Bonn}- or Forcados River in the wet season on a Sunda}* — 
Bonn}- for choice. Forcados is good. You'll keep Forcados 



96 VOYAGE DOWN COAST chap. 



scenery " indelibly limned on the tablets of your mind when a 
yesterday has faded from its page," after you have spent even 
a week waiting for the Lagos branch-boat on its inky waters. 
But Bonny ! Well, come inside the bar and anchor off the 
factories : seaward there is the foam of the bar gleaming and 
wicked — white against a leaden sky and what there is left of 
Breaker Island. In every other direction you will see the 
apparently endless walls of mangrove, unvarying in colour, 
unvarying in form, unvarying in height, save from perspective. 
Beneath and between you and them lie the rotting mud waters 
of Bonny River, and away up and down river, miles of rotting 
mud waters fringed with walls of rotting mud mangrove- 
swamp. The only break in them — -one can hardly call it a 
relief to the scenery — are the gaunt black ribs of the old hulks, 
once used as trading stations, which lie exposed at low water 
near the shore, protruding like the skeletons of great unclean 
beasts who have died because Bonny water was too strong 
even for them. 

Raised on piles from the mud shore you will see the white- 
painted factories and their great store-houses for oil ; each 
factory likely enough with its flag at half-mast, which does not 
enliven the scenery either, for you know it is because somebody 
is " dead again." Throughout and over all is the torrential 
downpour of the wet-season rain, coming down night and day 
with its dull roar. I have known it rain six mortal weeks in 
Bonny River, just for all the world as if it were done by 
machinery, and the interval that came then was only a few 
wet days, whereafter it settled itself down to work again in 
the good West Coast waterspout pour for more weeks. I 
fancy junior clerks of the weather-department must be en- 
trusted with the Bight of Biafra's weather, on account of its 
extreme simplicity ; their duty is just to turn on so many 
months' wet, and then a tornado season — one tornado ad- 
ministered every forty-eight hours ; then stop all water supply 
and turn on sun ; then a tornado season as before, and back 
again to the water tap. But I cannot say I think the weather 
does them any credit. Tornados frequently come twice 
a day, and they frequently leave the water tap running a 
month more than they ought to. The senior clerks should 



V CHARMS OF BONNY RIVER 97 

attend to the matter, but presumably their time is taken up 
with compHcated climates like England's. 

While your eyes are drinking in the characteristics of 
Bonny scenerj^ you notice a peculiar smell — an intensification 
of that smell you noticed when nearing Bonny, in the even- 
ing, out at sea. That's the breath of the malarial mud, laden 
with fever, and the chances are you will be down to-morrow. 
If it is near evening time now, you can watch it becoming 
incarnate, creeping and crawling and gliding out from the 
side creeks and between the mangrove-roots, laying itself 
upon the river, stretching and rolling in a kind of grim play, 
and finally crawling up the side of the ship to come on board 
and leave its cloak of moisture that grows green mildew in a 
few hours over all. Noise you will not be much troubled 
with : there is only that rain, a sound I have known make 
men who are sick with fever well-nigh mad, and now and 
again the depressing cry of the curlews which abound here. 
This combination is such that after six or eight hours of it 
you will be thankful to hear your shipmates start to work the 
winch. I take it you are hard up when you relish a winch. 
And you will say — let your previous experience of the world 
be what it may — Good Heavens, what a place ! 

Five times have I been now in Bonny River and I like it. 
You always do get to like it if you live long enough to allow 
the strange fascination of the place to get a hold on you ; but 
when I first entered it, on a ship commanded by Captain 
Murray in '93, in the wet season, i.e. in August, in spite of 
the confidence I had by this time acquired in his skill and 
knowledge of the West Coast, a sense of horror seized on me 
as I gazed upon the scene, and I said to the old coaster who 
then had charge of my education, " Good Heavens ! what an 
awful accident. We've gone and picked up the Styx." He 
was evidently hurt and said, " Bonny was a nice place when 
you got used to it," and went on to discourse on the last 
epidemic here, when nine men out of the resident eleven died 
in about ten days from yellow fever. I went ashore that 
evening to have tea with Captain Boler, and was told many 
more details about this particular epidemic, to say nothing of 
other epidemics. In one which the captain experienced, at the 

H 



98 VOYAGE DOWN COAST chap. 

fourth funeral, two youngsters (junior clerks of the deceased) 
from drink brought on by fright, fell into the grave before 
the coffin, which got lowered on to them, and all three 
had to be hauled out again. " Barely necessary though, was 
it ? " said another member of the party, " for those two had to 
have a grave of their own before next sundown." And the 
general consensus of opinion was that one of these periodic 
epidemics was "just about due now." Next to the scenery of 
" a River," commend me for cheerfulness to the local conver- 
sation of its mangrove-swamp region ; and .every truly im- 
portant West African river has its mangrove-swamp belt, 
which extends inland as far as the tide waters make it brack- 
ish, and which has a depth and extent from the banks 
depending on the configuration of the country. Above this 
belt comes uniformly a region of high forest, having towards 
the river frontage clay cliffs, sometimes high, as in the case of 
the Old Calabar at Adiabo, more frequently dwarf cliffs, as 
in the Forcados up at Warree, and in the Ogowe, — for a long 
stretch through Kama country. After the clay cliffs region you 
come to a region of rapids, caused by the river cutting its way 
through a mountain range ; such ranges are the Pallaballa, 
causing the Livingstone rapids of the Congo ; the Sierra del 
Cristal, those of the Ogowe, and many lesser rivers ; the 
Rumby and Omon ranges, those of the Old Calabar and 
Cross Rivers. 

Naturally in different parts these separate regions vary in 
size. The mangrove-swamp may be only a fringe at the 
mouth of the river, or it may cover hundreds of square miles. 
The clay cliffs may extend for only a mile or so along the 
bank, or they may, as on the Ogowe, extend for 1 30. And so it 
is also with the rapids : in some rivers, for instance the 
Cameroons, there are only a few miles of them, in others 
there are many miles ; in the Ogowe there are as many as 
500 ; and these rapids may be close to the river mouth, as in 
most of the Gold Coast rivers, save the Ancobra and the 
Volta ; or they may be far in the interior, as in the Cross 
River, where they commence at about 200 miles ; and on the 
Ogowe, where they commence at about 208 miles from the sea 
coast ; this depends on the nearness or remoteness from the 



I 



THE OGOWE 99 



coast line of the mountain ranges which run down the west 
side of the continent ; ranges (apparently of very different 
geological formations), which have no end of different names, 
but about which little is known in detail.^ 

And now we will leave generalisations on West African 
rivers and go into particulars regarding one little known in 
England, and called by its owners, the French, the greatest 
strictly equatorial river in the world — the Ogowe. 

^ The Sierra del Cristal and the Pallaballa range are, by some 
geographers, held to be identical ; but I have reason to doubt this, for 
the specimens of rock brought home by me have been identified by the 
Geological Suney, those of the Pallaballa range as mica schist and 
quartz ; those of the Sierra del Cristal as " probably schistose grit, but not 
definitely determinable by inspection," and " quartz rock.'"' The quantity 
of mica in the sands of the Ogowe, I think, come into it from its affluents 
from the Congo region, because you do not get these mica sands in 
rivers which are entirely from the Sierra del Cristal, such as the Muni. 
The Remby and Omon ranges are probably identical with the Sierra del 
Cristal, for in them as in the Sierra you do not get the glistening dove- 
coloured rock with a sparse vegetation growing on it, as you do in the 
Pallaballa region. 



H 3 



CHAPTER VI 

LIBREVILLE AND GLASS 

In which the voyager pauses to explain divers things and then gives 
some account of the country round Libreville and Glass. 

I MUST pause here to explain my reasons for giving extracts 
from my diary, being informed on excellent authority that 
publishing a diary is a form of literary crime. Such being 
the case I have to urge in extenuation of my committing it 
that — Firstly, I have not done it before, for so far I have 
given a sketchy rhunie of many diaries kept by me while 
visiting the regions I have attempted to describe. Secondly, 
no one expects literature in a book of travel. Thirdly, 
there are things to be said in favour of the diary form, 
particularly when it is kept in a little known and wild region, 
for the reader gets therein notice of things that, although un- 
important in themselves, yet go to make up the conditions of 
life under which men and things exist. The worst of it is 
these things are not often presented in their due and proper 
proportion in diaries. Many pages in my journals that I will 
spare you display this crime to perfection. For example : 
" Awful turn up with crocodile about ten — Paraffin good for 
over-oiled boots — Evil spirits crawl on ground, hence high 
lintel — Odeaka cheese is made thus : — " Then comes half a 
yard on Odeaka cheese making. 

When a person is out travelling, intent mainly on geography, 
it is necessary, if he publishes his journals, that he should pub- 
lish them in sequence. But I am not a geographer. I have 
to learn the geography of a region I go into in great detail, 
so as to get about ; but my means of learning it are not the 



CH. VI LIFE IX THE FOREST loi 

scientific ones — Taking observations, Surveying, Fixing 
points, &.C., &c. These things I know not how to do. I 
do not " take lunars " ; and I ahvays sympathise with a young 
friend of mine, who, on hearing that an official had got dread- 
fully ill from taking them, said, " What do those government 
men do it for? It kills them all off. I don't hold with knock- 
ing yourself to pieces with a lot of doctor's stuff." I certainly 
have a dim idea that lunars are not a sort of pill ; but I quite 
agree that they were unwholesome things for a man to take 
in West Africa. This being my point of view regarding 
geography, I have relegated it to a separate chapter and have 
dealt similarly with trade and Fetish. 

I have omitted all my bush journal. It is a journal of 
researches in Fetish and of life in the forest and in native 
villages, and I think I have a better chance of making this in- 
formation understood by collecting it together ; for the African 
forest is not a place you can, within reasonable limits, give an 
idea of by chronicling your own experience in it day by day. y' 

As a psychological study the carefully kept journal of a white 
man, from the first day he went away from his fellow whites 
and lived in the Great Forest Belt of Africa, among natives, 
who had not been in touch with white culture, would be an 
exceedingly interesting thing, provided it covered a consider- 
able space of time ; but to the general reader it would be 
hopelessly wearisome, and as for myself, I am not bent on 
discoursing on my psychological state, but on the state of 
things in general in W^est Africa. 

On first entering the great grim twilight regions of the 
forest you hardly see anything but the vast column-like grey 
tree stems in their countless thousands around you, and the 
sparsely vegetated ground beneath. But day by day, as you 
get trained to your surroundings, you see more and more, and a 
whole world grows up gradually out of the gloom before your 
eyes. Snakes, beetles, bats and beasts, people the region 
that at first seemed lifeless. 

It is the same with the better lit regions, where vegetation 
is many-formed and luxuriant. As you get used to it, what 
seemed at first to be an inextricable tangle ceases to be so. The 
separate sorts of plants stand out before your eyes with ever 



I02 LIBREVILLE AND GLASS chap. 

increasing clearness, until you can pick out the one particular 
one you may want ; and daily you find it easier to make your 
way through what looked at first an impenetrable wall, for 
you have learnt that it is in the end easier to worm your way 
in among networks of creepers, than to shirk these, and go for 
the softer walls of climbing grasses and curtains of lycopodium; 
and not only is it easier, but safer, for in the grass and lycopo- 
dium there are nearly certain to be snakes galore, and the 
chances are you may force yourself into the privacy of a 
gigantic python's sleeping place. 

There is the same difference also between night and day in 
the forest. You may have got fairly used to it by day, and 
then some catastrophe keeps you out in it all night, and again 
you see another world. To my taste there is nothing so fascin- 
ating as spending a night out in an African forest, or planta- 
tion ; but I beg you to note I do not advise any one to follow 
the practice. Nor indeed do I recommend African forest 
life to any one. Unless you are interested in it and fall 
under its charm, it is the most awful life in death imagin- 
able. It is like being shut up in a library whose books 
you cannot read, all the while tormented, terrified, and 
bored. And if you do fall under its spell, it takes all the 
colour out of other kinds of living. Still, it is good for a 
man to have an experience of it, whether he likes it or not, 
for it teaches you how very dependent you have been, during 
your previous life, on the familiarity of those conditions you 
have been brought up among, and on your fellow citizens ; 
moreover it takes the conceit out of you pretty thoroughly 
during the days you spend stupidly stumbling about among 
your new surroundings. 

When this first period passes there comes a sense of growing 
power. The proudest day in my life was the day on which an 
old Fan hunter said to me — " Ah ! you see." Now he did not 
say this, I may remark, as a tribute to the hard work I had been 
doing in order to see, but regarded it as the consequence of 
a chief having given me a little ivory half-moon, whose special 
mission was " to make man see Bush," and when you have 
attained to that power in full, a state I do not pretend to have 
yet attained to, you can say, " Put me where you like in an 



VI WHY I WENT TO CONGO FRANCAIS 103 

African forest, and as far as the forest goes, starve me or kill 
me if you can." 

As it is with the forest, so it is with the minds of the natives. 
Unless you live alone among the natives, you never get to 
know them ; if you do this you gradually get a light into the 
true state of their mind-forest. At first you see nothing but a 
confused stupidity and crime; but when you get to see — well! 
as in the other forest, — you see things worth seeing. But it 
is beyond me to describe the process, so we will pass on to 
Congo Fran^ais. 

My reasons for going to this wildest and most dangerous 
part of the West African regions were perfectly simple and 
reasonable. I had not found many fish in the Oii Rivers, 
and, as I have said, my one chance of getting a collec- 
tion of fishes from a river north of the Congo lay in the 
attitude Mr. C. G. Hudson might see fit to assume towards 
ichthyology. Mr. Hudson I had met in 1893 ^^ Kabinda, 
when he rescued me from dire dilemmas, and proved himself 
so reliable, that I had no hesitation in depending on his advice. 
Since those Kabinda days he had become a sort of commercial 
Bishop, i.e., an Agent-General for Messrs. Hatton and Cookson 
in Congo Fran^ais, and in this capacity had the power to let 
me get up the Ogowe river, the greatest river between the 
Niger and the Congo. This river is mainly known in England 
from the works of Mr. Du Chaillu, who, however, had the 
misfortune on both his expeditions to miss actually discovering 
it. Still, he knew it was there, and said so ; and from his 
reports other explorers went out to look for it and duly 
found it ; but of them hereafter. It has been in the possession 
of France nearly forty years now, and the French authorities 
keep quite as much order as one can expect along its navigable 
water way, considering that the density of the forest around 
it harbours and protects a set of notoriously savage tribes, 
chief among which are the Fans. These Fans are a great 
tribe that have, in the memory of living men, made their 
appearance in the regions known to white men, in a state of 
migration seawards, and are a bright, active, energetic sort of 
African, who by their pugnacious and predatory conduct do 
much to make one cease to regret and deplore the sloth and 



I04 LIBREVILLE AND GLASS chap. 

lethargy of the rest of the West Coast tribes ; but of Fans I 
will speak by and by ; and merely preface my diary by stating 
that Congo Frangais has a coast line of about 900 miles, 
extending from the Campo River to a point a few miles north 
of Landana, with the exception of the small Corisco region 
claimed by Spain. The Hinterland is not yet delimitated, 
except as regards the Middle Congo. The F'rench possession 
runs from Brazzaville on Stanley Pool up to the confluence of the 
M'Ubanji with the Congo, then following the western bank of 
the M'Ubanji. Away to the N.N.E. it is not yet delimitated, 
and although the French have displayed great courage and 
enterprise, there are still great stretches of country in Congo 
Frangais that have never been visited by a white man ; but 
the same may be said to as great an extent of the West Coast 
possessions of England and Germany. 

The whole of the territory that is at present roughly de- 
limitated, may have an area of 220,000 square miles, with a 
population variously estimated at from two to five millions. 

The two main outlets of its trade are Gaboon and Fernan 
Vaz. Gaboon is the finest harbour on the western side of the 
continent, and was thought for many years to be what it looks 
like, namely, the mouth of a great river. Of late years, how- 
ever, it has been found to be merely one of those great tidal 
estuaries like Bonny — that go thirty or forty miles inland 
and then end in a series of small rivers. While under the 
impression that Gaboon was one of the great water ways of 
Africa, France made it a head station for her West African 
Squadron, and the point of development from which to 
start on exploring the surrounding country. Her attention, 
it is said, was first attracted to the importance of Gaboon by 
the reports brought home by the expedition under Prince de 
Joinville in the Belle Poule — who, in 1840, brought the bod)^ 
of Napoleon from St. Helena for interment in Paris — and after 
de Joinville the northern termination of the Gaboon estuary 
is officially known, although it is locally called Cape Santa 
Clara, which is possibly the name given it by the Portuguese 
navigator, Lopez Gonsalves, who, in 1469, made his great 
voyage of discovery on this coast, and whose name Cape Lopez 
— at the mouth of one of the Ogowe streams — still bears. 



VI GABOON AND LOANGO - 105 

Fernan Vaz and Cape Lopez are nowadays more important 
itlets for trade than Gaboon. To the former comes the 
trade of the Rembo river, and a certain amount of the Ogowe 
main trade, since the disco%erj' of the Ogolole creek — a sort 
of natural canal about twelve miles long and of a fairly 
uniform breadth of fifty-five feet. Its course is twisted to 
and fro through the dense forest, and during the rains it is 
possible to take a small stern wheel steam-boat up and down 
it. Cape Lopez is the outlet of the Yombas arm of the lower 
Ogowe, which is also navigable by a small steam-boat. The 
Chargeur Reunis Company, subsidised by the Government, 
supply this vessel, the Eclaireur, to run from Cape Lopez to 
Njole, the highest navigable point for vessels on the Ogowe. 
Messrs. Hatton and Cookson used to have another small 
steamer, which went straight to and fro from Gaboon to Xjole, 
but alas ! she is no more. Nowadays Gaboon is merely a 
depot, and were it not for her magnificent harbour and the 
fact that the government is already established there in firm 
solid buildings, Gaboon would be abandoned, for not only has 
the trade coming out at Cape Lopez and Fernan Vaz in- 
creased, but the trade coming down the Gaboon itself 
decreased. This is possibly on account of French enter- 
prise having made the route for trade by the Ogow6 main 
stream the safer and easier. 

There is now another rival to Gaboon in Congo Frangais, 
Loango. Loango owes its importance to the clear-sightedness 
and daring of M. de Brazza who, when he reached Brazzaville, 
as it is now rightly called, on Stanley Pool, saw that there 
was a possibility of a practicable route via the Niari Valley 
from the Middle Congo regions to the sea. For M. de Brazza 
to see the possibility of the practicability of a thing means 
that he makes it so, and Loango will gradually become the 
outlet for a very- large portion of the Congo trade, when the 
railway along the Niari Valley is completed. It has also been 
suggested that the head station of the government should be 
moved from Gaboon to Loango, but against this being done 
is the initial expense and the inferiority of the Loango 
anchorage. Still, things tend to gravitate towards Loango, 
as it is the more important position from a local political 



io6 



LIBREVILLE AND GLASS 



CHAP. 



point And now, feeling a strong inclination to discourse 
of M. de Brazza instead of getting on with my own work, I 
descend to diary. 

May 20th, 1895. — Landed at Gaboon from the Benguella 
amidst showers of good advice and wishes from Captain 
Eversfield and Mr. Fothergill, to which an unknown but 
amiable French official, who came aboard at Batta, adds a 
lovely Goliath beetle. 




HATTON AND COOKSON's FACTORY AT GLASS. 

The captain winds up with the advice to run the gig on to 
the beach, and not attempt the steps of Hatton and Cookson's 
wharf, for he asserts '^they are only fit for a hen." However, 
having had for the present enough of running ashore, I go for 
the steps, and they are a little sketchy, but quite practicable. 

Mr. Fildes, in the absence of the Agent-General, Mr. 
Hudson, receives me most kindly, and in the afternoon I and 
Mr. Huyghens, the new clerk out for the firm, are sent off to the 
Custom House under the guardian care of a French gentle- 
man, who is an agent of Hatton and Cookson's, and who 



I 



VIVE LA FRANCE 107 



speaks English perfectly, while retaining his French embellish- 
ments and decorations to conversation. 

The Post, i.e. Custom House, is situated a hundred yards 
or so from the factor}-, like it, facing the strand ; and we make 
our way thither over and among the usual debris of a south-west 
coast beach, logs of waterworn trees, great hard seeds, old tins, 
and the canoes, which are drawn up out of the reach of the 
ever-mischievous, thieving sea. 

The Custom House is far more remarkable for quaintness 
than beauty ; it is two stories high, the ground floor being the 
local lock-up. The officer in charge lives on the topmost floor 
and has a long skeleton wooden staircase whereby to com- 
municate with the lower world. This staircase is a veritable 
" hen-roost " one. It is evidently made to kill people, but why ? 
Individuals desirous of defrauding customs would not be likely 
to haunt this Custom House staircase, and good people, like me, 
who want to pay dues, should be encouraged and not killed. 

The officer is having his siesta; but when aroused is courteous 
and kindly, but he incarcerates my revolver, giving me a feel- 
ing of iniquity for having had the thing. I am informed if I 
pay 1 5^. for a licence I may have it — if I fire French ammunition 
out of it. This seems a heavy sum, so I ask M. Pichault, our 
mentor, what I may be allowed to shoot if I pay this ? Will it 
make me free, as it were, of all the local shooting? May I 
daily shoot governors, heads of departments, and sous officiers ? 
M. Pichault says " Decidedly not " ; — I may shoot " hippo, or 
elephants, or crocodiles." Now I have never tried shooting 
big game in Africa with a revolver, and as I don't intend to, I 
leave the thing in pawn. My collecting-cases and spirit, the 
things which I expected to reduce me to a financial wreck by 
custom dues, are passed entirely free, because they are for 
science. Vive la France ! 

2ist. — Puddle about seashore. Dr. Nassau comes down 
from Baraka to see if Messrs. Hatton and Cookson have not 
appropriated a lady intended for the mission station. One 
was coming from Batanga by the Benguella, he knew, and he 
is told one has been seen on Hatton and Cookson's quay. 
Mr. Fildes assures him that the lady they have has been 
invoiced to the firm, and I am summoned to bear out the 



io8 LIBREVILLE AND GLASS . chap. 

statement which gives me the opportunity I have long desired 
of meeting Dr. Nassau, the great pioneer explorer of these 
regions and one of the greatest authorities on native subjects 
in all their bearings. 

Although he has been out here, engaged in mission work, 
since 185 1 he is an exceedingly active man, and has a 
strangely gracious, refined, courteous manner. 

'22nd. — Uninterrupted sea-shore investigations. 

2'i^rd. — M. Pichault conducts Mr. Huyghens and me into 
the town of Libreville ta be registered. 

The road from Glass to Libreville is, at moments, very 
lovely, and a fine piece of work for the country and the climate. 
Round Glass the land is swampy, a thing that probably in- 
duced the English to settle here when they came to Gaboon, 
for the English love, above all things, settling in, or as near 
as possible to, a good reeking, stinking swamp. We pass 
first along a made piece of road with the swamp on the left 
hand, and on the other, a sandy bush-grown piece of land with 
native houses on it, beyond which lies the sea-shore, and when- 
ever the swamp chooses to go down to the edge of the shore 
there is an iron viaduct thrown across it. The making of this 
road cost the lives of seventy out of one hundred of the 
Tonkinese convicts engaged in its construction. After this 
swampy piece the road runs through sandy land, virtually 
the shore, with low hills on the one hand and the beach on 
the other. 

A line of cocoanut palms has been planted along either 
side of the road for most of the way, looking beautiful but 
behaving badly, for there is a telephone wire running along it 
from Libreville to Glass, and these gossiping palms — the most 
inveterate chatterer in the vegetable kingdom is a cocoanut 
palm — talk to each other with their hard leaves on 
the wire, just as they did at Fernando Po, so that 
mere human beings can hardly get a word in edge- 
ways. This irritates the human atom, and of course it uses bad 
words to the wire, and I fancy these are seventy-five per cent, 
of all the words that get through the palm leaves' patter. 

Two and a half miles' walk brings us to the office of the 
Directeur del' Administration de I'lnterieur, and we hang about 



I "NOW FOR THE POLICE'' 109 

a fine stone-built verandah. We wait so long that the feeling 
rows on us that elaborate preparations for incarcerating us 
\>r life must be going on, but just as Mr. H. and I have 
lade up our minds to make a dash for it and escape, we are 
-hered into a cool, whitewashed office, and find a French 
official, clean, tidy, dark-haired, and melancholy, seated before 
his writing-table. Courteously bidding us be seated, he 
asks our names, ages, and avocations, enters them in a book 
for future reference, and then writes out a permit for each of 
us to reside in the colony, as long as we behave ourselves, and 
conform to the laws thereof These documents are sent 
up stairs to be signed b\' the acting Governor, and while we 
are waiting for their return, he converses with M. Pichault on 
death, fever, &c. Presently a black man is shown in ; he is 
clad in a blue serge coat, from underneath which float over a 
pair of blue canvas trousers the tails of a flannel shirt, and on 
his feet are a pair of ammunition boots that fairly hobble him. 
His name, the interpreter says, is Joseph. " Who is your 
father ? " says the official — clerk interprets into trade English, 
*' Fader ? " says Joseph. " Yes, fader," says the interpreter. 
" My fader ? " says Joseph. " Yes," says the interpreter ; " who's 
your fader ? " " Who my fader ? " says Joseph. " Take him 
away and let him think about it," says the officer with a sad, 
sardonic smile. Joseph is alarmed and volunteers name of 
mother ; this is no good ; this sort of information any fool can 
give ; Government is collecting information of a more recondite 
and interesting character. Joseph is removed by Senegal 
soldiers, boots and all. ,As he's going to Boma, in the Congo 
Free State, it can only be for ethnological purposes that the 
French Government are taking this trouble to get up his 
genealogy. 

Our stamped papers having arrived now we feel happier 
and free, and then M. Pichault alarms us b\' saying, " Now 
for the Police " ; and off we trail, subdued, to the Palais de 
Justice, where we are promptly ushered into a room containing 
a vivacious, gesticulator>' old gentleman, kindly civil beyond 
words, and a powerful, ealm young man, with a reassuring 
*' He's-all-right ; it's-only-his-way " manner regarding his chief 
The chief is clad in a white shirt and white pantaloons cut 



no LIBREVILLE AND GLASS chap. 

a la Turque, but unfortunately these garments have a band 
that consists of a run-in string, and that string is out of repair. 
He writes furiously — blotting paper mislaid — frantic flurry 
round — pantaloons won't stand it — grab just saves them — 
something wanted the other side of the room — headlong 
flight towards it — " now's our chance," think the pantaloons, 
and make off — recaptured. 

Formalities being concluded regarding us, the chief makes a 
dash out from behind his writing-table, claps his heels together, 
and bows with a jerk that causes the pantaloons to faint in 
coils, like the White Knight in " Alice in Wonderland," and 
my last view was of a combat with them, I hope a successful 
one, and that their owner, who was leaving for home the next 
day, is now enjoying a well-earned, honourable repose after 
his long years of service to his country in Congo Frangais. 

26fth. — Pouring wet day. 

2^th. — Called on the Mother Superior, and collected shells 
from the bay beyond Libreville. In the afternoon called on 
the missionary lady, who has now arrived with her young son, 
per German boat from Batanga, and talked on fetish ; Dr. 
Nassau telling a very pathetic and beautiful story of an old 
chief at Eloby praying to the spirit of the new moon, which he 
regarded as a representative of the higher elemental power, to 
prevent the evil lower spirits from entering his town. 

Sunday, 26th. — Mr. Fildes evidently regards it as his duty 
to devote his Sunday mornings to ladies " invoiced to the firm," 
and takes me in the gig to go up the little river to the east, 
ostentatiously only the drainage of the surrounding swamp. 
The tide just allows us to go over the miniature sand-bar, and 
then we row up the river, which is about forty feet across, and 
runs through a perfect gem of a mangrove-swamp, and the 
stench is quite the right thing — real Odeur de Niger Delta. 

As we go higher up, the river channel winds to and fro 
between walls and slopes of ink-black slime, more sparsely 
covered with mangrove bushes than near the entrance. 
This stinking, stoneless slime is honey-combed with crab 
holes, and the owners of these — green, blue, red, and black 
— are walking about on the tips of their toes sideways, with 
that comic pomp peculiar to the crab family. I expected 



VI CATCHING CRABS 



only to have to sit in the boat and say " Horrible " at intervals, 
but no such thing ; my companion, selecting a peculiarly 
awful-looking spot, says he " thinks that will do," steers the 
boat up to it, and jumps out with a squidge into the black 
slime. For one awful moment I thought it was suicide, and 
that before I could even get the address of his relations to 
break the news to them there would be nothing but a Panama 
hat lying on the slime before me. But he only sinks in a matter 
of a foot or so, and then starts off, to my horror, calling the 
boys after him, to hunt crabs for me. Xow I have mentioned no 
desire for crabs, and was merely looking at them, as I always do 
when out with other white folk, noting where they were 
so as to come back alone next day and get them ; for I don't 
want any one's blood, black or white, on my head. As soon 
as I recovered speech, I besought him to come back into the 
boat and leave them : but no, " tears, prayers, entreaties, all in 
vain," as Koko says ; he would not, and dashed about in the 
stinking mud, regardless, with his four Kruboys far more 
cautiously paddling after him. 

The affrighted crabs were in a great taking. It seems to be 
crab etiquette that, even when a powerfully built, lithe, six 
foot high young man is coming at you hard all with a paddle, 
you must not go rushing into anybody's house save your 
own, whereby it fell out many crabs were captured ; but the 
thing did not end there. I had never suspected we should 
catch anything but our deaths of fever, and so had brought 
with me no collecting-box, and before I could remonstrate Mr. 
Fildes' handkerchief was full of crabs, and of course mine too. It 
was a fine sunny morning on the Equator, and therefore it was 
hot, and we had nothing to wipe our perspiring brows with. 

All the crabs being caught or scared home on this mud 
bank, we proceed higher up river, and after some more crab 
hunts we got to a place where I noticed you did not sink ver>' far 
in if you kept moving ; so I got ashore, and we went towards a 
break in the mangroves, where some high trees were growing, 
where we fell in with some exceedingly lovely mayflies and had 
a great hunt. They have legs two to three inches long, white 
at the joints and black between ; a very small bod}- with 
purple wings belongs to the legs, but you do not suspect this 



112 LIBREVILLE AND GLASS chap. 

until you have caught the legs, as they hover and swing to 
and fro over some mass of decaying wood stuff. At first I 
thought they were spiders hanging from some invisible thread, 
so strangely did they move in circumscribed spaces : but 
we swept our hands over them and found no thread, and 
then we went for the legs in sheer desperation, and found a 
tiny fly body belonging to them and not a tiny spider body. 

We then made our way on to the slightly higher land fringing 
the swamp. There was at the river end of the swamp a belt 
of palms, and beyond this a belt of red-woods, acacias, and 
other trees, and passing through these, we were out on an open 
grass-covered country, with low, rolling hills, looking strangely 
English, with clumps of trees here and there, and running 
between the hills, in all directions, densely-wooded valleys — a 
pleasant, homely-looking country. 

We wandered through a considerable lot of grass, wherein 
I silently observed there were millions of ticks, and we made 
for a group of hut-homesteads and chatted with the inhabit- 
ants, until Mr. Fildes' conscience smote him with the fact that 
he had not given out cook's stores for the mid-day meal. 
Then we made a short cut to the boat, which involved us in a 
lot of mud-hopping, and so home to 1 2 o'clock breakfast. 

At breakfast I find Mr. Fildes regards it as his duty to do 
more scientific work, for he asks me to go to Woermann's 
farm, and I, not knowing where it is, say yes ; inwardly 
trusting that the place may not be far away, and situated in aj 
reasonably dry country, for I have lost all sense of reliance inj 
Mr. Fildes' instinct of self-preservation — an instinct usuallyj 
strong enough to keep a West Coaster from walking a mile. 
Along the windward coast, and in the Rivers, I have always] 
been accustomed to be regarded as insane for my walking 
ways, but this gentleman is worth six of me any day, and] 
worth sixty for Sundays, it's clear. 

At 3 o'clock off we go, turning down the " Boulevard " 
towards Libreville, and then up a road to the right opposite 
Woermann's beach, and follow it through miles of grass over 
low hills. Here and there are huts new to me, and quite 
unlike the mud ones of the West Coast, or the grass ones of the 
Congo and Angola districts. They are far inferior to the 



BAMBOO HOUSES 113 



swish huts of the Eflfiks, or the Moorish-looking mud ones 

u see round Cape Coast Castle, &c., and notably inferior to 
LiiC exceedingly neat Dualla huts of Cameroons ; but they are 
better than any other type of African house I have seen. 

They are made of split bamboo with roofs of mats like the 
Effik roofs, but again inferior. I notice sometimes the 
sections of the walls are made on the ground and then erected. 
The builder drives in a row of strong wooden poles, and then 
ties the sections on to them very neatly with " tie-tie." The 
door and window-frames and shutters are made of plank 
painted a bright cobalt blue as a rule, but now and then red 
— a red I beHeve that had no business there, as it looks like 
some white gentleman's red oxide he has had out for painting 
the boats with. 

Sometimes, however, instead of the sections being m<tde on 
the ground of closely set split bamboos, the poles of unsplit 
bamboo are driven in, and the split bamboos are lashed on to 
them, alternately inside and outside, and between these are fixed 
palm-leaf mats. I suspect this style of architecture of being 
cheajDer. Although there are a good many houses of both 
these types being erected on the hills round Glass and Libreville, 
I cannot say building operations are carried on with much 
vigour, for there are plenty of skeletons up, with just one or 
two sections tied in place, and then left as if the builder had 
gone on strike or got sick of the job somehow. 

The stretch of broiling hot grass is tr\'ing, but interesting ; 
some of it is intensely fine and a beautiful yellow-green, which 
I am told is gathered and dried and made into pillows. 
Some again is long lank stuff", carrying a maroon-coloured 
ear, which when ripe turns gold colour, and in either state is 
ver>' lovely when one comes across stretches of it down a 
hillside. 

On either side of us show wooded valleys like those we saw 
this morning ; and away to the east the line of mangrove 
swamp fringing the little river we rowed up. Away to the 
west are the groves of mango trees round Libreville ; mango 
trees are only pretty when you are close to them, prettiest 
of all when )ou are walking through an avenue of them, and 
you can see their richness of colour ; the deep m\rtle-green 

I 



114 LIBREVILLE AND GLASS chap. 

leaves, with the young shoots a dull crimson, and the soft 
gray-brown stem, and the luscious-looking but turpentiny- 
tasting fruit, a glory of gold and crimson, like an immense 
nectarine. 

We gradually get into a more beautiful type of country, 
and down into a forest. The high trees are the usual 
high forest series with a preponderance of acacias. It 
is a forest of varied forms, but flowerless now in the 
dry season. There are quantities of ferns ; hart's-tongues 
and the sort that grows on the oil-palms, and elks- 
horn growing out of its great brown shields on the trees 
above, and bracken, and pretty trailing lycopodium climbing 
over things, but mostly over the cardamoms which abound 
in the under-bush, and here and there great banks of the 
most lovely ferns I have ever seen save the tree-fern, an am- 
bitious climber, called, I believe, by the botanists Nephrodiuni 
circutarium, and walls of that strange climbing grass, and all 
sorts of other lovely things by thousands in all directions. 

Butterflies and dragon-flies were scarce here compared to 
Okijon, but of other flies there were more than plenty. 

The roadway is exceedingly good ; certainly in the grass 
country you are rather liable to what Captain Eversfield 
graphically describes as " stub your toe " against lava-like 
rock, for the grass has overgrown the road, leaving only a 
single-file path open. In the forest you come across isolated 
masses of stratified rock, sometimes eight and ten feet high, 
most prettily overgrown with moss and fern. 

We pass through several villages which Mr. Fildes tells me 
are Fan villages, and are highly interesting after all one has 
already heard of this tribe of evil repute. Their houses are 
quite different to the M'pongwe ones we have left behind, and 
are built of sheets of bark, tied on to sticks. 

Frequently in the street one sees the characteristic standing 
drum painted white in patterns with black or red-brown, and a 
piece of raw hide stretched across the top, and one or two 
talking-drums besides. 

We cross several pretty streams in the forest carefully 
bridged with plank. This Woermann's road, I hear,] 
is between six and seven miles long, and its breadth] 



A DESERTED PLANTATION 



uniformly nine feet, and it must have cost a lot of money to 
make. It was made with the intention of being used for 
waggons drawn by oxen, which were to bring down all the 
produce of the coffee plantation, and the timber that might be 
cut down in the clearing for it, to Gaboon for shipment. A 
large house was erected and a quantity of coffee planted, and 
then the enterprise was abandoned by Messrs. Woermann, and 
the whole affair, coffee, road, and all is rapidly sinking back 
into the bush. 

There is a considerable-sized Fan village just at the en- 
trance to the farm in which is a big silk-cotton tree. It struck 
me as strange, after coming from Calabar where these trees 
are frequently smothered round the roots with fetish objects, 
to see nothing on this one save a framed and glazed image of 
the Virgin and Child. Just beyond the Fan town there is a 
little river. 

When we get so far it is too late to proceed further, and 
nothing but this consideration, backed by the memor)- of 
one night when he was compelled to walk to Glass from the 
farm, prevents Mr. Fildes, I believe, from crossing to Corisco 
Bay. 

So round we turn, and return in the same order we came in, 
Mr. Fildes lashing along first, I behind him, going like a clock, 
which was my one chance. When at last we reached the 
¦" Boulevard " he wanted to reverse this order, but remember- 
ing the awful state that the back of my blouse got in at 
Fernando Po from a black boot-lace I was reduced to employ 
as a stay-lace, I refuse to go in front, without explaining 
why. 

27///. — Went up among the grass to see if there was anj- 
thing to be got ; ticks were, and there were any quantity 
of ants and flocks of ver}'^ small birds, little finch-like people, 
with a soft, dull, gray-brown plumage, relieved b}- a shading 
of dark green on the back, and little crimson bills ; they have 
a pretty twittering note, and are little bigger than butterflies ; 
butterflies themselves are rare now. I see the small bo}s 
catch these birds with flake rubber as with birdlime. Down 
in the wooded hollows there are numbers of other birds, 
plantain-eaters, and the bird with the long, soft, rich thrush- 

I 2 



ii6 LIBREVILLE AND GLASS chap. 



like note, and the ubiquitous Wu-tu-tu, the clock bird, so 
called from^ its regular habit of giving the cry, from which its 
native name comes, every two hours during the night, 
commencing at 4 P.M. and going off duty at 6 A.M. 

On my return home, I find Mr. Hudson is back from the 
Ogowe on the Move, unaltered since '93, I am glad to say. 
He tells me good Dom Joachim de Sousa Coutinho e 
Chichorro is dead, and his wife Donna Anna, and her sister 
Donna Maria de Sousa Coutinho, my valued friends, have 
returned from Kabinda to Lisbon. 

2'^th. — Go to west side of Libreville shell-hunting; after 
passing through the town, and in front of the mango-tree 
embowered mission station of the Espiritu Santo, the road 
runs along close to the sea, through a beautiful avenue of cocoa- 
palms. Then there is a bridge, and a little beyond this the 
road ends, and so I take to the sandy sea-shore for a mile 
or so. 

The forest fringes the sand, rising in a wall of high 
trees, not mangroves ; and here and there a stinking stream 
comes out from under them, and here and there are masses 
of shingle-formed conglomerate and stratified green-gray rock. 

Beyond Libreville there are several little clearings in the 
forest with a native town tucked into them, the inhabitants 
of which seem a happy and contented generation mainly 
devoted to fishing, and very civil. On my walk back I notice 
the people getting water from the stinking streams ; small 
wonder the mortality is high in Libreville : this is usually 
attributed to the inhabitants " going it," but they might " go 
it " more than they do, without killing themselves if they left 
off drinking this essence of stinking slime. 

2<^th. — Went to see Mrs. Gault and Dr. Nassau, who 
says the natives have a legend of a volcano about six| 
miles from here. 

30//?. — Mrs. Gault asks me to go with her to a Bible meet- 
ing, held by a native woman. I assent, I go ; Mrs. Sarah, the 
Biblewoman, is a very handsome, portly lady who speaks 
English very well. There are besides her, Mrs. Gault and 
myself, eight or nine native women, and two men. Hymns 
are sung in M'pongwe, one with a rousing chorus of " Gory 



AN UNPREMEDITATED DESCENT 117 



/ 



\vc. ^ory we, pro pa rear>' gory we." This M'pong^ve does 
not sound so musical as the Effik. Sarah gives an extempore 
prayer however, which is very beautiful in sound, and she in- 
tones it most tastefully. But I confess my mind is distracted 
by a malignant-looking pig which hovers round us as we 

kneel upon the sand. I well remember Captain being 

chivied by a pig in the confines of Die Grosse Colonic, and 
then there is the chance of ants and so on up one's 
ankles. Mrs. Gault gives an address which Sarah translates 
into M'pongwe, and then come more hymns, and the meeting 
closes, and the ladies settle down and have a quiet pipe and a 
chat. We then saunter off and visit native Christians' houses. 
Many houses here are built in clumps round a square, but 
this form of arrangement seems only a sur\-ival, for I find 
there is no necessary relationship among the people living in 
the square as there is in Calabar : and so home. 

3ij-/. — Start out at 2.30 and walk through the grass 
country behind Baraka, and suddenly fall down into a strange 
place. 

On sitting up after the shock consequent on an unpremedi- 
tated descent of some thirteen feet or so, I find myself in 
a wild place.; before me are two cave-like cavities, with 
a rough wood seat in each ; behind me another similar cavity 
or chamber ; the space I am in is about three feet wide ; to 
the left this is terminated by an earth wall ; to the right it 
goes, as a path, down a cutting or trench which ends in dry 
grass. 

Xa sign of human habitation. Are these sacrifice places, I 
wonder, or are they places where those Fans one hears so 
much about, come and secretly eat human flesh ? Clearly they 
are not vestiges of an older civilisation. In fact, what in the 
world are they ? I investigate and find they are nothing in 
the world more than markers' pits for a rifle range. 

Disgust, followed by alarm, seizes me ; those French authori- 
ties may take it into their heads to think I am making plans 
of their military works ! Visions of incarceration flash before my 
eyes, and I fly into more grass and ticks, going westwards 
until I pick up a path, and following this, find myself in a little 
village. In the centre of the street, see the strange arrow- 



ii8 LIBREVILLE AND GLASS CHAP., 

head-shaped board mounted on a rough easel and alongside it 
a bundle of stakes, the whole affair clearly connected with 
making palm oil, and identical with the contrivance I saw in 
the far-away Fan village on Sunday morning. 

Investigate, find the boiled palm nuts are put into a pine- 
apple fibre bag, which is hung on the board, then stakes are 
wedged in between the uprights of the easel, so as to squeeze 
the bag, one stake after another being put in to increase the 
pressure. The oil runs out, and off the point of the arrow- 
shaped board into a receptacle placed to receive it. 

The next object of interest is a piece of paper stuck on a 
stick at the further end of the villages. The inscription is of 
interest though evidently recent. Find it is " No thoroughfare." 
There is a bamboo gateway at this end, and so I go through 
it and find myself to my surprise on the Woermann farm 
road, and down this I go, butterfly hunting. Presently I 
observe an old gentleman with a bundle of bamboos watching 
me intently. Not knowing the natives of this country yet, I 
feel anxious, and he, in a few minutes without taking his eyes 
off me, crouches in the grass. I remember my great tutor 
Captain Boler of Bonny's maxim : " Be afraid of an African if 
you can't help it, but never show it anyhow," so I walk on 
intending to pass him with a propitiatory M'bdlo.^ As I get 
abreast of him he hisses out " Look him ; " he's evidently got 
something in the grass ; Heaven send it's not a snake, but I 
" look him," — a lizard ! The good soul understood collecting, 
and meant well from the first. I give him tobacco and a selec- 
tion of amiable observations, and he beams and we go on down 
the road together, discussing the proper time to burn grass,, 
and the differences in the practical value, for building purposes, 
of the two kinds of bamboo. Then coming to a path that 
runs evidently in the direction of the Plateau at Libreville, 
and thinking it's time I was tacking homewards, I say " good 
bye " to my companion, and turn down the path. " You sabe 
'em road?" says he in a very questioning voice: I say "yes" 
airily, and keep on down it. 

The path goes on through grass, and then makes for a 
hollow — wish it didn't, for hollows are horrid at times, and 
1 The M'pongwe greeting ; meaning, " May you live long " 



I 



i A WAYWARD PATH 1 19 

evidently this road has got something against it somewhere, 
and is not popular, for the grass falls across it like unkempt 
hair. Road becomes damp and goes into a belt of trees, in 
the middle of which runs a broad stream with a log laid across 
it. Congratulating myself on absence of companions, ignomini- 
ously crawl across on to the road, which then and there turns 
round and goes back to the stream again higher up — evidently 
.. joke, " thought-you-were-going-to-get-home-dr>^-did-you " 
. t of thing. Wade the stream, rejoin the road on the hither 
side. Then the precious thing makes a deliberate bolt for the 
interior of Africa, instead of keeping on going to Libreville. 
I lose confidence in it. The Wu-tu-tu says it's four o'clock. 
It's dark at 6. 1 5 down here, and I am miles from home, so I 
begin to wish I had got an intelligent companion to guide me, 
as I walk on through the now shoulder-high grass. Suddenly 
another road branches off to the left. " Saved ! " Down 
it I go, and then it ends in a manioc patch, with no path 
out the other end, and surrounded by impenetrable bush. 
Crestfallen, I retrace my steps and continue along my old tor- 
mentor, which now attempts to reassure me by doubling round 
to the left and setting off again for Libreville. I am not 
deceived, I have had my trust in it too seriously tampered with 
— Yes, it's up to mischief again, and it turns itself into a stream. 
Nothing for it but wading, so wade ; but what will be its next 
manifestation, I wonder? for I begin to doubt whether it is a road 
at all, and suspect it of being only a local devil, one of the sort 
that sometimes appears as a road, sometimes as a tree or a 
stream, &c. I wonder what they will do if they find I don't 
get in to-night? — wish me — at Liverpool, at least. After 
a quarter of an hour's knee-deep wading, I suddenly meet 
a native lady who was at the Bible meeting. She has a grand 
knowledge of English, and she stands with her skirt tucked 
up round her, evidently in no hurry, and determined to definitely 
find out who I am. Recognising this, I attempt to take 
charge of the conversation, and divert its course. " Nice 
road this," I say, " but it's a little damp." " Washey, ma," 

she says, " but " " Is this road here to go anywhere," I 

interposed, " or is it only a kind of joke ? " " It no go 
nowhere 'ticular, ma," she says ; " but " " In a civilise 



I20 LIBREV^ILLE AND GLASS chap. 

community like this of Gaboon," I say, " it's scandalous 
that roads should be allowed to wander about in this loose 

way." " That's so for true," she assents ; " but, ma, " 

./' You must excuse me," I answer, " I am in a great hurry 
to get in, hope to meet you again. Where do you live ? 
I'll call." She gives me her address, but does not move, 
and the grass walls either side of the stream road are 
high and dense. " My husband," she says, " was in H, 
and C.'s ; he die now." " Dear me, that's very sad ; you 
must have been very sorry," I answer, sympathetically, think- 
ing I have turned the conversation. " We all were ; he had 

ten wives." " But, ma, " I am damp and desperate, 

and so pushing into the grass at the side, circum- 
navigate her portly form successfully, and saying a cheery 
" good-bye," bolt, and down wind after me comes the un- 
interrupted question at last ; but I do not return to discuss 
the matter, and soon getting on to drier ground, and seeing a 
path that goes towards the boulevard, down I go, as quickly 
as my feet can carry me, and then before I know where I am 
I find myself in a network of little irrigating canals, running 
between neatly kept beds of tomatoes, salad, &c., whereon 
there are working busily a lot of Anamese convicts. The 
convicts are deported from the French Cochin China posses- 
sions and employed by the Public Works Department in 
various ways. Those who conduct themselves well, and sur- 
vive, have grants of garden ground given them, which they 
cultivate in this tidy, carefully minute way, so entirely 
different from the slummacky African methods of doing 
things. The produce they sell to the residents in the 
town, and live very prosperously in this way : but the 
climate of Western Africa is almost, if not quite, as 
deadly to the Chinese races as to the white — a fact that has 
been amply demonstrated not only here ; but in Congo Beige, 
where the railway company carried on a series of experiments 
with imported labour — a series of experiments that entailed 
an awful waste of human life — for none of the imported people 
stood the climate any better than the whites, and you know 
what that means. This labour question out here, a question 
that increases daily with the development of plantation enter- 



ANOTHER WALK IX THE FOREST 



prise, I do not think will ever be solved by importing foreign 
labour. Xor is it advisable that it should be, for our European 
Government puts a stop to the action of those causes which 
used to keep the native population down, intertribal wars, 
sacrifices, &c., &c.; and to the deportation of surplus population 
in the form of slaves, and so unless means of support are devised 
for " the indigenous ones," as Mrs. Gault calls them, Africa 
will have us to thank for some smart attacks of famine, for 
the natives, left to their own devices, will never cultivate the 
soil sufficiently to support a large population, and more- 
over a vast percentage of the W^est African soil is very poor, 
sour stuff, that will grow nothing but equally valueless 
vegetation. From this discourse you will argue I did get 
home at last. 

June 2nd. — Nubia in, but she will not call at Batanga, so Mrs. 
Gault is stranded until some other steamer calls. Nubia has 
lost all her heavy anchors down south, where she reports the 
Calemma extra bad this year. 

ird. — Went alone for a long walk to the bend of the man- 
grove-swamp river to the east. It stank severely, but was 
most interesting, giving one the conditions of life in a man- 
grove-swamp in what you might call a pocket edition. Leav- 
ing this, I made my way north-west along native paths across 
stretches of grass growing on rolling hills and down through 
wooded valleys, each of which had a little stream in it, or a patch 
of swamp, with enormous arums and other water plants grow- 
ing, and along through Fan villages, each with just one straight 
street, having a club-house at the alternate ends. I met in 
the forest a hunter, carrying home a deer he had shot ; in 
addition to his musket, he carried a couple of long tufted 
spears, archaic in t}'pe. He was very chatty, and I gave him 
tobacco, and we talked sport, and on parting I gave him some 
more tobacco, because he kindly gave me a charm to enable 
me to see things in the forest. He was gratified, and said, 
"You ver nice," " Good-bye," " Good-day," " So long," " Good- 
night," which was ver>' nice of him, as these phrases were 
evidently all the amiable greetings in English that he knew. 
The " So long " you often hear the natives in Gaboon say : it 
always sounds exceeding!)- quaint. The}- have of course 



LIBREVILLE AND GLASS 



CHAP. VI 



picked it up from the American missionaries, who have been 
here upwards of thirty years. 

i\th. — Mr. Hudson announces that the Move will leave at 
5.30 on the morning after next. Later in the day he expects 
to get her off by 5.30 to-morrow — towards evening he thinks 
to-morrow at 8.30 is more likely still. Mrs. Gault called with her 
boy Harry ; she says, " John Holt has got a lovely waist at only 
two dollars." I don't want a waist — I am too thin any- 
how — so I don't investigate the matter. We go up to Dr. 
Nassau and talk ju-ju. He agrees with me that dead black 
men sfo white when soaked in water. 



CHAPTER VII 

THE OGOWE 

erein the voyager gives extracts from the Log of the Move and of the 
Eclaireur, and an account of the voyagers first meeting with " those 
fearful Fans," also an awful warning to all young persons who neglect 
the study of the French language. 

Juue ^th, 1895. — Off on Move at 9.30. Passengers, Mr. 
Hudson, Mr. Woods, Mr. Huyghens, Pere Steinitz, and I. 
There are black deck-passengers galore ; I do not know their 
honourable names, but they are evidently verj' much married 
men, for there is quite a gorgeously coloured little crowd of 
ladies to see them off. They salute me as I pass down 
the pier, and start inquiries. I say hastily to them : " Fare- 
well, I'm off up river," for I notice Mr. Fildes bearing 
down on me, and I don't want him to drop in on the 
subject of society interest. I expect it is settled now, 
or prett)' nearly. There is a considerable amount of 
mild uproar among the black contingent, and the JMov^ 
firmly clears off before half the good advice and good 
wishes for the black husbands are aboard. She is a fine little 
vessel ; far finer than I expected. The accommodation I am 
getting is excellent. A long, narrow cabin, with one bunk in it 
and prett}' nearly everjthing one can wish for, and a cop\'ing 
press thrown in. Food is excellent, society charming, captain 
and engineer quite acquisitions. The saloon is square and 
roomy for the size of the vessel, and most things, from row- 
locks to teapots, are kept under the seats in good nautical 
st}le. We call at the guard-ship to pass our papers, and then 
steam ahead out of the Gaboon estuarj^ to the south, round 
Pongara Point, keeping close into the land. About fort}- feet 
from shore there is a good free channel for vessels with a 
light draught which if you do not take, you have to make a big 
sweep seaward to avoid a reef Between four and five miles 



124 THE OGOWE CHAP. 

below Pongara, we pass Point Gombi, which is fitted witli a 
lighthouse, a lively and conspicuous structure by day as well 
as night. It is perched on a knoll, close to the extremit}- of 
the long arm of low, sandy ground, and is painted black and i 
white, in horizontal bands, which, in conjunction with its] 
general figure, give it a pagoda-like appearance. 

Alongside it are a white-painted, red-roofed house for the 
light-house keeper, and a store for its oil. The light is either 
a flashing or a revolving or a stationary one, when it is alight. 
One must be accurate about these things, and my knowledge 
regarding it is from information received, and amounts to the 
above. I cannot throw in any personal experience, because 
have never passed it at night-time, and seen from Glass it 
seems just steady. Most lighthouses on this Coast give up 
fancy tricks, like flashing or revolving, pretty soon after the}' are 
established. Seventy-five per cent, of them are not alight hall 
the time at all. " It's the climate." Gombi, however, you may 
depend on for being alight at night, and I have no hesitation 
in saying you can see it, when it is visible, seventeen miles out 
to sea, and that the knoll on which the lighthouse stands 
is a grass-covered sand cliff", about forty or fifty feet above sea- 
level. As we pass round Gombi point, the weather becomej 
distinctly rough, particularly at lunch-time. The Move mindi 
it less than her passengers, and stamps steadily along past the 
wooded shore, behind which shows a distant range of blue hills. 
Silence falls upon the black passengers, who assume recumbent 
positions on the deck, and suffer. All the things from under the 
saloon seats come out and dance together, and play puss-in-the-^ 
corner, after the fashion of loose gear when there is any sea or 

As the night comes down, the scene becomes more and mord 
picturesque. The moonlit sea, shimmering and breaking 
on the darkened shore, the black forest and the hilla 
silhouetted against the star-powdered purple sky, and, al 
my feet, the engine-room stoke-hole, lit with the rcse^ 
coloured glow from its furnace, showing by the great 
wood fire the two nearly naked Krumen stokers, shining like 
polished bronze in their perspiration, as they throw in on to| 
the fire the billets of red wood that look like freshly-cut chunks 
of flesh. The white engineer hovers round the mouth of the 



ivii UNSPOKEN APPEALS I2! 



pit. shouting down directions and ever and anon plunging 
down the little iron ladder to carrj- them out himself. At 
inter\als he stands on the rail with his head craned round the 
edge of the sun deck to listen to the captain, who is up on 
the little deck above, for there is no telegraph to the engines, 
and our gallant commander's voice is not strong. While the 
white engineer is roosting on the rail, the black engineer comes 
partialh' up the ladder and gazes hard at me ; so I give him a 
wad of tobacco, and he plainly regards me as inspired, for of 
course that was what he wanted. Remember that whenever 
lyou see a man, black or white, filled with a nameless longing, 
it is tobacco he requires. Grim despair accompanied by a 
gusty temper indicates something wrong with his pipe, in 
which case offer him a straightened-out hairpin. The black 
engineer having got his tobacco, goes below to the stoke- 
hole again and smokes a short clay as black and as strong as 
himself The captain affects an immense churchwarden. 
How he gets through life, waving it about as he does, without 
smashing it every two minutes, I cannot make out 

At last we anchor for the night just inside Nazareth Bay, for 
Nazareth Ba}- wants daylight to deal with, being rich in low- 
islands and sand shoals. We crossed the Equator this after- 
noon. 

June 6th. — Off at daybreak into Nazareth Bay. Anxiety 
displayed by navigators, sounding taken on both sides of the 
bows with long bamboo poles painted in stripes, and we go 
"slow ahead" and "hard astern" successfully, until we get round 
a good-sized island, and there we stick until four o'clock, high 
water, when we come off all right, and steam triumphanth' but 
cautiously into the Ogowe. The shores of Nazareth Ba\' are 
fringed with mangroves, but once in the river the scenery 
soon changes, and the waters are walled on either side with a 
forest rich in bamboo, oil and wine palms. These forest 
cliffs seem to rise right up out of the mirror-like brown water. 
Many of the highest trees are covered with clusters of brown- 
pink young shoots that look like flowers, and others are 
decorated by m}- old enemy the climbing palm, now bearing 
clusters of bright crimson berries. Climbing plants of other 
kinds are wreathing ever>'thing, some blossoming with mauve. 



126 THE OCxOWE chap. 



some with yellow, some with white flowers, and every now and 
then a soft sweet heavy breath of fragrance comes out to us as 
we pass by. There is a native village on the north bank, 
embowered along its plantations with some very tall cocoa- 
palms rising high above them. 

The river winds so that it seems to close in behind us, 
opening out in front fresh vistas of superb forest beauty, w ith 
the great brown river stretching away unbroken ahead like 
a broad road of burnished bronze. Astern, it has a streak of 
frosted silver let into it by the Move's screw. Just 
about six o'clock, we run up to the Fallabar, the Move's 
predecessor in working the Ogowe, now a hulk, used as a 
depot by Hatton and Cookson. She is anchored at the 
entrance of a creek that runs through to the Fernan Vaz ; 
some say it is six hours' run, others that it is eight hours for a 
canoe ; all agree that there are plenty of mosquitoes. 

The Fallabar looks grimly picturesque, and about the last 
spot in which a person of a nervous disposition would care to 
spend the night. One half of her deck is dedicated to fuel 
logs, on the other half are plank stores for the goods, and a 
room for the black sub-trader in charge of them. I know that 
there must be scorpions which come out of those logs and 
stroll into the living room, and goodness only knows what 
one might not fancy would come up the creek or rise out of 
the floating grass, or the limitless-looking forest. I am told 
she was a fine steamer in her day, but those who had charge 
of her did not make allowances for the very rapid rotting 
action of the Ogowe water, so her hull rusted through before 
her engines were a quarter worn out ; and there was nothing to 
be done with her then, but put a lot of concrete in, and make her 
a depot, in which state of life she is very useful, for during the 
height of the dry season, the MovJ cannot get through the] 
creek to supply the firm's Fernan Vaz factories. 

Subsequently I heard much of the Fallabar, which seems to] 
have been a celebrated, or rather notorious, vessel. Every 
one declared her engines to have been of immense power, butj 
this I believe to have been a mere local superstition ; because j 
in the same breath, the man who referred to them, as if it 
would have been quite unnecessary for new engines to ha\ 



ivii SHIPS CLIMBING TREES 127 

been made for H.M.S. Victorious if those Fai/adar engines could 
have been sent to Chatham dockyard, would mention that 
*¦ \ou could not get any pace up on her ; " and all who knew 
lier sadly owned " she wouldn't steer," so naturally she spent 
the greater part of her time on the Ogowe on a sand bank, or 
in the bush. All West African steamers have a mania for 
bush, and the delusion that they are required to climb trees. 

le Fallabar had the complaint severely, because of her 

fective steering powers, and the temptation the magnificent 

rest, and the rapid currents, and the sharp turns of the creek 
ciistrict, offered her ; she failed, of course — they all fail — 
' ;t it is not for want of practice. I have seen many West 

ast vessels up trees, but never more than fifteen feet 
or so. 

The trade of this lower part of the Ogowe, from the mouth 
to Lembarene, a matter of 130 miles, is almost nil. Above 
Lembarene, you are in touch with the rubber and ivory 
trade. 

This Fallabar creek is noted for mosquitoes, and the black 
passengers made great and showj- preparations in the evening 
time to receive their onslaught, by tying up their strong 
chintz mosquito bars to the stanchions and the cook-house. 
Their arrangements being constantly interrupted by the 
white engineer making alarums and excursions amongst them ; 
because when too many of them get on one side the Move 
takes a list and burns her boilers. Conversation and atmo- 
sphere aie full of mosquitoes. The decision of widely 
experienced sufferers amongst us is, that next to the lower 
Ogowe, New Orleans is the worst place for them in this 
world. 

The day closed with a magnificent dramatic beaut>-. 
Dead ahead of us, up through a bank of dun-coloured 
mist rose the moon, a great orb of crimson, spreading 
down the oil-like, still river, a streak of blood-red re- 
flection. Right astern, the sun sank down into the mist, a 
vaster orb of crimson, and when he had gone out of view, sent 
up flushes of amethyst, gold, carmine and serpent-green, 
before he left the moon in undisputed possession of the black 
purple sky. 



128 THE OGOWE 



CHAP. 



Forest and river were absolutely silent, but there was a 
pleasant chatter and laughter from the black crew and passen- 
gers away forward, that made the Move seem an island of life 
in a land of death. I retired into my cabin, so as to get under 
the mosquito curtains to write ; and one by one I heard my 
companions come into the saloon adjacent, and say to the 
watchman: "Yousabe six o'clock? When them long arm 
catch them place, and them short arm catch them place, you 
call me in the morning time." Exit from saloon — silence — 
then : " You sabe five o'clock ? When them long arm catch 
them place, and them short arm catch them place, you call me 
in the morning time." Exit — silence — then " You sabe half- 
past five o'clock ? When them long arm — " Oh, if I were a 
watchman ! Anyhow, that five o'clocker will have the whole 
ship's company roused in the morning time. 

June yth. — Every one called in the morning time by the reflex 
row from the rousing of the five o'clocker. Glorious morning. 
The scene the reversal of that of last night. The forest to the 
east shows a deep blue-purple, mounted on a background that 
changes as you watch it from daffodil and amethyst to rose- 
pink, as the sun comes up through the night mists. The 
moon sinks down among them, her pale face flushing crimson 
as she goes ; and the yellow-gold sunshine comes, glorifying 
the forest and gilding the great sweep of tufted papyrus grow- 
ing alongside the bank ; and the mist vanishes, little white 
flecks of it lingering among the water reeds and lying in the 
dark shadows of the forest stems. The air is full of the long 
soft, rich notes of the plaintive warblers, and the uproar conse- 
quent upon the Move taking on fuel wood, which comes along- 
side in canoe loads from the Fallabar. 

Pere Steinitz and Mr. Woods are busy preparing theii 
respective canoes for their run to Fernan Vaz through the 
creek. Their canoes are very fine ones, with a remarkably 
clean run aft. The Pere's is quite the travelling canoe, with 
little stage of bamboo aft, covered with a hood of palm thatchj 
under which you can make yourself quite comfortable, and 
keep yourself and your possessions dry, unless something des- 
perate comes on in the way of rain. 

By 10.25 we have got all our wood aboard, and run off u 



\ 



VII A FOREST OF FLOWERS 129 



rixer full speed. The river seems broader above the Fallabar, 
but this is mainly on account of its being temporarily unen- 

mbered with islands. A good deal of the bank we have 
sed by since leaving Nazareth Bay on the south side has 
n island shore, with a channel between the islands and the 
true south bank. 

The day soon grew dull, and looked threatening, after the 
^elusive manner of the dry season. The climbing plants are 
liner here than I have ever before seen them. They form 
^eat veils and curtains between and over the trees, often 
tanging so straight and flat, in stretches of twenty to forty 
feet or so wide, and thirty to sixty or seventy feet high, that 
it seems incredible that no human hand has trained or clipped 
them into their perfect forms. Sometimes these curtains are 
decorated with large bell-shaped, bright-coloured flowers, some- 
times with delicate sprays of white blossoms. This forest is 
beyond all my expectations of tropical luxuriance and beauty, 
and it is a thing of another world to the forest of the Upper 
Calabar, which, beautiful as it is, is a sad dowdy to this. 
There you certainly get a great sense of grimness and 
vastness ; here }ou have an equal grimness and vastness 
with the addition of superb colour. This forest is a Cleopatra 
to which Calabar is but a Quaker. Not only does this forest 
depend on flowers for its illumination, for there are many 
kinds of trees having their young shoots, crimson, brown- 
pink, and cream)- yellow : added to this there is also 
the relieving aspect of the prevailing fashion among West 
African trees, of wearing the trunk white with here and there 
upon it splashes of pale pink lichen, and vermilion-red fungus, 
which alone is sufficient to prevent the great mass of vegeta- 
tion from being a monotony in green. 

All day long we steam past ever-var\-ing scenes of loveliness 

hose component parts are ever the same, yet the effect ever 
erent. Doubtless it is wrong to call it a symphony, yet I 
tcnow no other word to describe the scenerv- of the Ogowe. 
It is as full of life and beauty and passion as any symphony 
' {Beethoven ever wrote : the parts changing, interweaving, 
ind returning. There are kit motifs here in it, too. See the 
,3apyrus ahead ; and \ou know when you get abreast of it you 

K 



I30 THE OGOWE CHAP. 



will find the great forest sweeping away in a bay-like curve 
behind it against the dull gray sky, the splendid columns of 
its cotton and red woods looking like a fagade of some limit- 
less inchoate temple. Then again there is that stretch of 
sword-grass, looking as if it grew firmly on to the bottom, so 
steady does it stand ; but as the Movi goes by, her wash setj 
it undulating in waves across its broad acres of extent, show- 
ing it is only riding at anchor ; and you know after a grass 
patch you will soon see a red dwarf clay cliff, with a village 
perched on its top, and the inhabitants thereof in their blu€ 
and red cloths standing by to shout and wave to the Movi 
or legging it like lamp-lighters from the back streets and the 
plantation to the river frontage, to be in time to do so, anc 
through all these changing phases there is always the strain of 
the vast wild forest, and the swift, deep, silent river. ' 

At almost every village that we pass — and they are frequent 
after the Fallabar — there is an ostentatious display of firewood 
deposited either on the bank, or on piles driven into the mud 
in front of it, mutely saying in their uncivilised way, " Try 
our noted chunks : best value for money " — (that is to sayi 
tobacco, &c.), to the Move or any other little steamer that may 
happen to come along hungry for fuel. 

Mr. Hudson is immersed in accounts all day. I stare at th^ 
forest, Mr. Huyghens at the engines. The captain is on top of 
the sun deck most of his time : but he and every one, save Mr* 
Hudson and Mr. Huyghens, about every twenty minutes go 
•down into the afterhold. If Mr. Hudson were not on board, 
I'd go down too, just to see what in the world they have got 
•down there. The Krumen on their return have pails of dirty 
water, which Mr. Hudson, kindly fearing it will give me the 
idea that the Mov^ is leaking badly, explains that it corned 
out of something connected with the propeller conditioned by 
the state of the packing. The captain, with his arms full oj 
tinned provisions. The engineer empty-handed but looking 
content. Rosa, Mr. Hudson's devoted servant, with the booti 
-and boot-cleaning stuff. I wish to goodness I could go downj 
maybe I should find hairpins and ammonia there, both of whicJ 
I am bitterly in need of, particularly the ammonia, after thos( 
mosquitoes. 



I 



VII THE SS. ECLAIREUR 131 

We stayed a few minutes this afternoon at Ashchyouka, where 
there came off to us in a canoe an enterprising young French- 
man who has planted and tended a coffee plantation in this 
Dut-of-the-way region, and which is now, I am glad to hear, 
just coming into bearing. After leaving Ashchyouka, high land 
showed to the X.E., and at 5.15, without evident cause to the 
uninitiated, the Move took to whistling like a liner. A few 
minutes later a factory shows up on the hilly north bank, 
jwhich is Woermann's ; then just beyond and behind 
lit we see the Government Post ; then Hatton and Cookson's 
jFactory, all in a line. Opposite Hatton and Cookson's 
jchere was a pretty little stern-wheel steamer nestling against 
the steep clay bank of Lembarene Island when we come 
in sight, but she instantly swept out from it in a perfect 
curve, which lay behind her marked in frosted silver on the 
water as she dropt down river. I hear now she was the 
Edaireur, the stem-wheeler which runs up and down the 
Ogowe in connection with the Chargeurs Reunis Company, 
subsidised by the Government, and when the Mov^ whistled, 
she was just completing taking on 3,000 billets of wood for 
fuel. She comes up from the Cape (Lopez) stoking half wood 
and half coal as far as Njole and back to Lembarene ; from 
Lembarene to the sea downwards she does on wood. In a 
few minutes we have taken her berth close to the bank, and 
tied up to a tree. The white engineer yells to the black engi- 
neer " Tom-Tom : Haul out some of them fire and open them 
drains one time," and the stokers, with hooks, pull out the 
glowing logs on to the iron deck in front of the furnace door, 
and throw water over them, and the Mov^ sends a cloud of oil- 
laden steam against the bank, coming perilously near scalding 
some of her black admirers assembled there. I dare say she 
felt vicious because they had been admiring the Adaireur. 

After a few minutes, I am escorted on to the broad verandah 
of Hatton and Cookson's factory, and I sit down under a 
lamp, prepared to contemplate, until dinner time, the wild 
beauty of the scene. This idea does not get carried out ; in 
the twinkling of an eye I am stung all round the neck, and 
recognise there are lots too many mosquitoes and sandflies in 
the scenery to permit of contemplation of any kind. Never 

K 2 



132 THE OGOWE chap. 



have I seen sandflies and mosquitoes in such appalHng quan- 
tities. With a wild ping of joy the latter made for me, and I 
retired promptly into a dark corner of the verandah, swearing 
horribly, but internally, and fought them. Mr. Hudson, Agent- 
general, and Mr. Cockshut, Agent for the Ogowe, walk up and 
down the beach in front, doubtless talking cargo, apparently 
unconscious of mosquitoes ; but by and by, while we are 
having dinner, they get their share. I behave exquisitely, and 
am quite lost in admiration of my own conduct, and busily 
deciding in my own mind whether I shall wear one of those 
plain ring haloes, or a solid plate one, a la Cimabue, when 
Mr. Hudson says in a voice full of reproach to Mr. Cockshut, 
" You have got mosquitoes here, Mr. Cockshut." Poor Mr. 
Cockshut doesn't deny it ; he has got four on his forehead 
and his hands are sprinkled with them, but he says : " There 
are none at Njole," which we all feel is an absurdly lame 
excuse, for Njole is some ninety miles above Lembarene, 
where we now are. Mr. Hudson says this to him, tersely, and 
feeling he has utterly crushed Mr. Cockshut, turns on me, and 
utterly failing to recognise me as a suffering saint, says point 
blank and savagely, " You don't seem to feel these things. Miss 
Kingsley." Not feel them, indeed ! Why, I could cry over 
them. Well ! that's all the thanks one gets for trying not to be 
a nuisance in this world. 

After dinner I go back on to the Move for the night, for it 
is too late to go round to Kangwe and ask Mme. Jacot, of the 
Mission Evangelique, if she will take me in. The air is stiff 
with mosquitoes, and saying a few suitable words to them, I 
dash under the mosquito bar and sleep, lulled by their shrill 
yells of baffled rage. 

June 2>th. — In the morning, up at fiv^e. Great activity on 
beach. Mov^ synchronously taking on wood fuel and dis- 
charging cargo. A very active young French pastor from 
the Kangwe mission station is round after the mission's cargo. 
Mr. Hudson kindly makes inquiries as to whether I may go 
round to Kangwe and stay with Mme. Jacot. He says : " Oh, 
yes," but as I find he is not M. Jacot, I do not feel justified in 
accepting this statement without its having personal confirma- 
tion from Mme. Jacot, and so, leaving my luggage with the 



VII FIRST STAY IN KANGVVE I33 

Move, I get them to allow me to go round with him and his 
cargo to Kangwe, about three-quarters of an hour's paddle 
round the upper part of Lembarene Island, and down the 
broad channel on the other side of it Kangwe is beautifully 
situated on a hill, as its name denotes, on the mainland and north 
bank of the river. Mme. Jacot most kindly says I may come, 
though I know I shall be a fearful nuisance, for there is no 
room for me save ]M. Jacot 's beautifully neat, clean, tidy study. 
I go back in the canoe and fetch m\- luggage from the Move, 
and say good-bye to Mr. Hudson, who gave me an immense 
amount of valuable advice about things, which was subsequently 
of great use to me, and a lot of equally good warnings which, 
if I had attended to, would have enabled me to avoid many, 
if not all, my misadventures in Congo Fran^ais. 

I camped out that night in M. Jacot's study, wondering 
how he would like it w'hen he came home and found me there ; 
for he was now away on one of his usual evangelising tours. 
Providentially ]\Ime. Jacot let me have the room that the girls 
belonging to the mission school usually slept in, to my great 
relief, before M. Jacot came home. 

I will not weary you with m}^ diary during my first stay 
at Kangwe. It is a catalogue of the collection of fish, &c., 
that I made, and a record of the continuous, never-failing 
kindness and help that I received from M. and Mme. Jacot, 
and of my attempts to learn from them the peculiarities of 
the region, the natives, and their language and customs, which 
they both know so well and manage so admirably. I daily 
saw there what it is possible to do, even in the wildest 
and most remote regions of West Africa, and recognised that 
there is still one heroic form of human being whose praise has 
never adequately been sung, namely, the missionarj's wife. With 
all the drawbacks and difficulties of the enervating climate, and 
the lack of trained domestic help, and with the addition of 
two small children of her own, Edmond the sententious, aged 
five, and Roger the great, aged eighteen months, and busy 
teething with phenomenal rapidity and vigour, and a tribe of 
school children of the Fan and Igalwa tribes, Mme. Jacot 
had that mission house as clean and tidy, and well ordered as 
if it were in Paris. 



134 THE OGOW6 chap. 



One of the main comforts I had at Kangwe was the perfect 
English spoken by both M. and Mme. Jacot ; what that 
amounted to I alone know, for I cannot speak a word of 
French, neither could I give you dates until I left Kangwe on 
the Eclaireur, for it is one of my disastrous habits well known 
to my friends on the Coast that whenever I am happy, comfort- 
able and content, I lose all knowledge of the date, the time of 
day, and my hairpins. " It's the climate." But I kept my 
fetish notes, except during two days when my right elbow 
was out of repair in consequence of my first visit to a Fan ^ 
fireside. It happened this way. Down on the river bank, 
some one-and-a-half miles below Kangwe, lies Fula, a large 
Fan village. Through Fula that ill-starred day I passed 
with all the eclat of Wombwell's menagerie. Having been 
escorted by half the population for a half mile or so beyond 
the town, and being then nervous about Fans, from informa- 
tion received, I decided to return to Kangwe by another road, 
if I could find it. I had not gone far on my quest before I 
saw another village, and having had enough village work for 
one day, I made my way quietly up into the forest on the steep 
hillside overhanging the said village. There was no sort of 
path up there, and going through a clump of shenja, I slipped^ 
slid, and finally fell plump through the roof of an unprotected 
hut. What the unfortunate inhabitants were doing, I don't 
know, but I am pretty sure they were not expecting me to 
drop in, and a scene of great confusion occurred. My know- 
ledge of Fan dialect then consisted of Kor-kor, so I said 
that in as fascinating a tone as I could, and explained 
the rest with three pocket handkerchiefs, a head of tobacco, 
and a knife which providentially I had stowed in what 
my nautical friends would call my afterhold — my pockets. 
I also said I'd pay for the damage, and although this 
important communication had to be made in trade English, 
they seemed to understand, for when I pointed to the roof 
and imitated writing out a book for it, the master of the house 

^ The proper way to spell this tribe's name is P'aung, but as they are 
called by the first writer on them, Du Chaillu, Fans, I keep that name. 
They arc also referred to as the M'pangwe, the Pahouines, the Fam-Fam, 
the Osheba, and the Ba-fann. The latter is a plural form. 



VII 



TAKE PASSAGE OX THE ECLAIREUR 



135 



aid " Urn," and then laid hold of an old lady and pointed to her 
cind then to the roof, meaning clearly I had equally damaged 
both, and that she was equally valuable. I squared the family 
all right, and I returned to Kang\ve via Fula, without delay 
and without the skin on my elbow. Wishing to get higher 
up the Ogowe, I took the opportunity of the river boat of 
the Chargeurs Reunis going up to the Xjole on one of her 
trips, and joined her. 




VIEW OK ONE BRANCH OF THE OGOWE FROM KANGWE. 



June 22nd. — ^claireur, charming little stern wheel steamer, 
exquisitely kept. She has an upper and a lower deck. The 
lower deck for business, the upper deck for white passengers 
only. On the upper deck there is a fine long deck house, 
running almost her whole length. In this are the officers' cabins, 
the saloon and the passengers' cabins (two), both large and 
beautifully fitted up. Captain Verdier exceedingly pleasant 
and constantly saying " N'est-ce pas ? " A quiet and singularly 
clean engineer completes the white staff. The passengers 
consist of Mr. Cockshut, going up river to see after the 



136 THE OGOWE chap. 

sub-factories ; a French official bound for Franceville, which 
it will take him thirty-six days, go as quick as he can, 
in a , canoe after Njole ; a tremendously lively person 
who has had black water fever four times, while away 
in the bush with nothing to live on but manioc, a diet 
it would be far easier to die on under the circumstances. 
He is excellent company ; though I do not know a word he 
says, he is perpetually giving lively and dramatic descriptions 

of things which I cannot but recognise. M. S , with his 

pince-nez, the Doctor, and, above all, the rapids of the Ogowe, 
rolling his hands round and round each other and dashing 
them forward with a descriptive ejaculation of " Whish, flash, 
bum, bum, bump," and then comes what evidently represents 
a terrific fight for life against terrific odds. Wish to goodness 
I knew French, for wishing to see these rapids, I cannot help 
feeling anxious and worried at not fully understanding this 
dramatic entertainment regarding them. There is another 
passenger said to be the engineer's brother, a quiet, gentle- 
manly man. Captain argues violently with every one ; with 
Mr. Cockshut on the subject of the wicked waste of money 
in keeping the Mov^ and not shipping all goods by the 
Eclaireur^ " n'est-ce pas ? " and with the French official on good- 
ness knows what, but I fancy it will be pistols for two and coffee 
for one in the morning time. When the captain feels himself 
being worsted in argument, he shouts for support to the 
engineer and his brother. " N'est-ce pas ? " he says, turning 
furiously to them. " Oui, oui, certainement," they say dutifully 
and calmly, and then he, refreshed by their support, dashes 
back to his controversial fray. He even tries to get up a row 
with me on the subject of the English merchants at Calabar, 
whom he asserts have sworn a kind of blood oath to ship by 
none but British African Company's steamers. I cannot 
stand this, for I know my esteemed and honoured friends the 
Calabar traders would ship by the Flying Dutchman or the 
devil himself if either of them would take the stuff at 15^. 
the ton. We have, however, to leave off this row for want of 
language, to our mutual regret, for it would have been a love 
of a fight. 

Soon after leaving Lembarene Island, we pass the 



VII THE BITER BIT ^37 



mouth of the chief southern affluent of the Ogowe, 
the Xgunie ; it flows in unostentatiously from the E.S.E., 
a broad, quiet river here with low banks and two 
islands (Walker's islands) showing just off its entrance. 
Higher up, it flows through a mountainous country-, and at 
Samba, its furthest navigable point, there is a wonderfully 
beautiful waterfall, the whole river coming down over a low cliff, 
surrounded by an amphitheatre of mountains. It takes the 
Eclaireur two days steaming from the mouth of the Ngunie to 
Samba, when she can get up ; but now, in the height of the 
long dr}' season neither she nor the Move C2ia go because of the 
sand banks ; so Samba is cut off until next October. Hatton 
and Cookson have factories up at Samba, for it is an outlet 
for the trade of Achango land in rubber and ivory, a trade 
worked by the Akele tribe, a powerful, savage and diflftcult 
lot to deal with, and just in the same condition, as far as I 
can learn, as they were when Du Chaillu made his wonderful 
journeys among them. While I was at Lembarene, waiting 
'' >x the Eclaireur, a notorious chief descended on a Ngunie 
ub-factor>', and looted it. The wife of the black trading agent 
made a gallant resistance, her husband was away on a trading 
expedition, but the chief had her seized and beaten, and 
thrown into the river. An appeal was made to the Doctor, then 
Administrator of the Ogowe, a powerful and helpful oflficial, 
and he soon came up with the little cannonier, taking Mr. 
Cockshut with him to vindicate the honour of the French 
flag, under which all factories here are. They, having got to 
the scene of action, sent a message to the chief to come down 
and talk the palaver. The chief being a natural-bom idiot, 
came with two of his head men and some retainers. Only he 
and the head men were allowed into the room, and three or 
four Senegalese soldiers held the door, while the threewhite men, 
the Doctor, the captain of the cannonier and Mr. Cockshut took 
a black man apiece, and after a fine fight, threw them and 
bound them. The injured lady was then admitted, and given 
a Kasanguru with which she returned thanks personally to the 
chief with all her might, accompanying her operations with 
verbal commentar\- on the way he had behaved to her, as any 
lady would. The chief and his two head men were then 



138 THE OGOWE CHAP. 

taken up to Njole, where they are at present engaged in the 
healthy and invigorating pursuit of navvying a stiff clay bank 
in the interest of the government. 

The Samba natives are in no hurry for that job to be com- 
pleted. They are quite tired of that chief themselves, and 
would have had to poison him off on their own account had 
not the Doctor intervened. In fact, every one is satisfied 
except the chief and the two head men, who have not acquired 
a taste for manual labour yet. 

The banks of the Ogowe just above Lembarene Island are 
low ; with the forest only broken by village clearings and 
seeming to press in on those, ready to absorb them should the 
inhabitants cease their war against it. The blue mountains 
of Achango land show away to the E.S.E. in a range. 
Behind us, gradually sinking in the distance, is the high land 
on Lembarene Island. 

Soon we run up alongside a big street of a village with 
four high houses rising a story above the rest, which are 
strictly ground floor ; it has also five or six little low open 
thatched huts along the street in front.^ These may be fetish 
huts, or, as the captain of the Sparrow would say, " again 
they mayn't." For I have seen similar huts in the villages 
round Libreville, which were store places for roof mats, 
of which the natives carefully keep a store dry and ready for 
emergencies in the way of tornadoes, or to sell. We stop 
abreast of this village. Inhabitants in scores rush out and 
form an excited row along the vertical bank edge, several of 
the more excited individuals falling over it into the water. 

Yells from our passengers on the lower deck. Yells from in- 
habitants on shore. Yells of vite, vite from the Captain. 
Dogs bark, horns bray, some exhilarated individual thumps 
the village drum, canoes fly out from the bank tovv-ards us. 
Fearful scrimmage heard going on all the time on the deck 
below. As soon as the canoes are alongside, our passengers 
from the lower deck, with their bundles and their dogs, pour 

^ The villages of the Fans and Bakele are built in the form of a street. 
When in the forest there arc two lines of huts, the one facing the other, 
and each end closed by a guard house. When facing a river there is one 
line of huts facing the river frontage. 



VII A FAREWELL SALUTE 139 

over the side into them. Canoes rock wildly and wobble off 
rapidly towards the bank, frightening the passengers because 
they have got their best clothes on, and fear that the 
Eclaireur will start and upset them altogether with her 
wash. 

On reaching the bank, the new arrivals disappear into brown 
clouds of wives and relations, and the dogs into fighting 
clusters of resident dogs. Happy, happy day ! For those men 
who have gone ashore have been away on hire to the govern- 
ment and factories for a year, and are safe home in the bosoms 
of their families again, and not only they themselves, but all the 
goods they have got in pay. The remaining passengers below 
still yell to their departed friends ; I know not what they say, 
but I expect it's the Fan equivalent for " Mind you write. 
Take care of yourself Yes, I'll come and see you soon," &c., 
&c. While all this is going on, the Eclaireur quietly slides 
down river, with the current, broadside on as if she smelt her 
stable at Lembarene. This I find is her constant habit when- 
ever the captain, the engineer, and the man at the wheel are 
all busy in a row along the rail, shouting overside, which 
occurs whenever we have passengers to land. Her iniquity 
being detected when the last canoe load has left for the shore, 
she is spun round and sent up river again at full speed. Just 
as this is being done, the inhabitants of the country- salute the 
captain with a complimentary' salvo of guns. I am quietly 
leaning against the side of his cabin door at the time, when 
bang comes his answeiing salute from out of it, within three- 
and-a-half inches of my right ear. Sensation of stun for 
minutes. Captain apologetic ; he " did not know I was there." 
I am apologetic too ; I did know he was there, " but I did 
not know he was going to fire off his gun ? " " He is forgiven." 
" N'est-ce pas?" " Oui, oui, certainement," say I, quoting the 
engineer. Peace restored. 

We go on up stream ; now and again stopping at little villages 
to land passengers or at little sub-factories to discharge cargo, 
until evening closes in, when we anchor and tie up at 
O'Saomokita, where there is a sub-factory of Messrs. Woer- 
mann's, in charge of which is a white man, the only white man 
between Lembarene and Xjole. He comes on board and looks 



I40 THE OGOWE chap. 

only a boy, but is really aged twenty. He is a Frenchman, and 
was at Hatton and Cookson's first, then he joined Woermann's, 
who have put him in charge of this place. The isolation for 
a white man must be terrible ; sometimes two months will go 
by without his seeing another white face but that in his look- 
ing-glass, and when he does see another, it is only by a fleeting 
visit such as we now pay him, and to make the niost of this, he 
stays on board to dinner. While waiting for dinner that 
night, as I am sitting at the saloon table, I see an apparition 
on the settee opposite. Is it fever coming on ? Or does it 
arise from having got some brain cells permanently shaken 
out of their place by that gun shock this afternoon ? I don't 
mention it to my fellow passengers, who I notice do not seem 
to see it, for fear of exciting their derision, but watch it 
furtively during dinner. It does not move nor multiply itself, 
nor has it any phosphorescent halo. Good signs, all these, but 
still it cannot be a black silk chimney-pot hat. After all, it 
was, and it belongs to the captain. How or why or when he 
got it, I do not know — neither do I exactly know what he and 
the passengers do with it, now I have gone to my cabin, which 
is next to the saloon. That the French official is the leading 
spirit in proceedings I am quite sure, for I know his voice 
wherein he is now singing tunes I have heard at the Jacots' as 
hymn tunes. I am convinced of this, however, that they are not 
hymn tunes now, because you don't dance a species of High- 
land fling, which from the vibrations communicated to me I 
know is being danced, to hymns ; neither do you greet them 
with shouts of laughter. I wish — no, of course I don't, for it 
comes neither under the head of fetish, nor fishes, and 
moreover in the intervals, filled with violent conversation, I 
hear the French official, I am perfectly sure, trying to convince 
the others that I am an English officer in disguise on the spy ; 
which makes me feel embarrassed, and anything but flattered. 
Wish to goodness I knew French, or how to flirt with that 
French official so as to dispel the illusion. 

June 2ird. — Start off steaming up river early in the 
morning time. Land ahead showing mountainous. Rather 
suddenly the banks grow higher. Here and there in the 
forest are patches which look like regular hand-made plant- 



II UMBRELLA TREES 141 

tions, which they are not, but only patches of engombie-gombie 
rrees, showing that at this place was once a native town. 
Whenever land is clear along here, this tree springs up all over 
the ground. It grows verj' rapidly, and has great leaves some- 
thing like a sjxamore leaf, only much larger. These leaves 
^rowing in a cluster at the top of the straight stem give an 
umbrella-like appearance to the affair ; so the natives call them 
and an umbrella by the same name, but whether they think 
the umbrella is like the tree or the tree is like the umbrella, I 
can't make out. I am always getting myself mixed over 
this kind of thing in my attempts "to contemplate 
phenomena from a scientific standpoint," as Cambridge 

rdered me to do. I'll give the habit up. " You can't do 
tiiat sort of thing out here — It's the climate," and I will 
content myself with stating the fact, that when a native 
comes into a store and wants an umbrella, he asks for an 
engombie-gombie. 

The uniformity of the height of the individual trees in one 
of these patches is striking, and it arises from their all starting 
fair. I cannot make out other things about them to my 

itisfaction, for you very rarely see one of them in the wild 
bush, and then it does not bear a fruit that the natives collect 
and use, and then chuck away the stones round their domicile. 
\nyhow, there they are, all one height, and all one colour, and 
apparently allowing no other vegetation to make an\- headway 
among them. But I found when I carefully investigated 
engombie-gombie patches that there were a few of the great, 
slower-growing forest trees coming up amongst them, and in 
time when these attain a suflficient height, their shade kills off 
the engombie-gombie, and the patch goes back into the great 
forest from which it came. The frequenc}- of these patches 
arises from the nomadic habits of the chief tribe in these 
regions, the Fans. They rarely occupy one site for a 
village for any considerable time on account — firstly, of their 
wasteful method of collecting rubber by cutting down the vine,, 
which soon stamps it out of a district ; and, secondly, from 
their quarrelsome ways. So when a village of Fans has 
cleared all the rubber out of its district, or has made the said 
district too hot to hold it b}' rows with other villages, or has 



42 THE OGOWE CHAP. 



got itself very properly shelled out and burnt for some attack 
on traders or the French flag in any form, its inhabitants clear off 
into another district, and build another village ; for bark and 
palm thatch are cheap, and house removing just nothing ; when 
you are an unsophisticated cannibal Fan you don't require a 
pantechnicon van to stow away your one or two mushroom- 
shaped stools, knives, and cooking-pots, and a calabash or so. 
If you are rich, maybe you will have a box with clothes in as 
well, but as a general rule all your clothes are on your back. 
So your wives just pick up the stools and the knives and the 
cooking-pots, and the box, and the children toddle off with 
the calabashes. You have, of course, the gun to carry, for 
sleeping or waking a Fan never parts with his gun, and 
so there you are " finish," as M. Pichault would say, and 
before your new bark house is up, there grows the engombie- 
gombie, where your house once stood. Now and again, 
for lack of immediate neighbouring villages to quarrel 
with, one end of a village will quarrel with the other 
end. The weaker end then goes off and builds itself another 
village, keeping an eye lifting for any member of the stronger 
end who may come conveniently into its neighbourhood to be 
killed and eaten. Meanwhile, the engombie-gombie grows over 
the houses of the empty end, pretending it's a plantation belong- 
ing to the remaining half I once heard a new-comer hold forth 
eloquently as to how those Fans were maligned. " They say," 
said he, with a fine wave of his arm towards such a patch, 
" that these people do not till the soil — that they are not 
industrious — that the few plantations they do make are ill-kept 
— that they are only a set of wandering hunters and cannibals. 
Look there at those magnificent plantations ! " I did look, 
but I did not alter my opinion of the Fans, for I know my old 
friend engombie-gombie when I see him. 

This morning the French official seems sad and melancholy. 
I fancy he has got a Monday head (Kipling), but he revives as 
the day goes on. As we go on, the banks become hills and 
the broad river, which has been showing sheets of sandbanks 
in all directions, now narrows and shows only neat little 
beaches of white sand in shallow places along the bank. The 
current is terrific. The hclaireur breathes hard, and has all 



ARRIVE AT NJOLE 143 



she can do to fight her way up against it Masses of black 
weathered rock in great boulders show along the exposed parts 
of both banks, left dry by the falling waters. Each bank is 

:eep, and quantities of great trees, naked and bare, are hang- 
ing down from them, held by their roots and bush-rope 
entanglement from being swept away with the rushing current, 
and they make a great white fringe to the banks. The hills 
become higher and higher, and more and more abrupt, and the 
river runs between them in a gloomy ravine, winding to and 
fro ; we catch sight of a patch of white sand ahead, which I 
mistake for a white painted house, but immediately after 
doubling round a bend we see the houses of the Talagouga 
Mission Station. The Eclaireur forthwith has an hysteric fit 
on her whistle, so as to frighten M. Forget and get him to dash 
off in his canoe to her at once. Apparently he knows her, and 
does not hurry, but comes on board quietly. I find there 
¦ ill be no place for me to stay at at \jole, so I decide 

J go on in the Eclaireur and use her as an hotel while there, 
and then return and stay with Mme. Forget if she will have me. 
I consult M. Forget on this point. He says, " Oh, yes," but 
seems to have lost something of great value recently, and not 
to be quite clear where. Only manner, I suppose. When M. 
Forget has got his mails he goes, and the Eclaireur goes on ; 
indeed, she has never really stopped, for the water is too deep 
to anchor in here, and the terrific current would promptly 
whisk the steamer down out of Talagouga gorge were she to 
leave off fighting it. We run on up past Talagouga Island, 
where the river broadens out again a little, but not much, and 
reach Njole by nightfall, and tie up to a tree by Dumas 
factor)^ beach. Usual uproar, but as Mr. Cockshut says, 
no mosquitoes. The mosquito belt ends abruptly at 
O' Soamokita. 

June 24th. — Mr. Cockshut, who went ashore last night, 
kindly comes on board and asks me if I will go ashore 
to his sub-factor>-. Say yes, and go, but when ashore 
decide not to embarrass Hatton and Cookson's domestic 
economy by going into the factor}'. Besides, I see before 
me to the left a real road, the first road I have seen 
for months. I tell Mr. Cockshut I will go for a walk ; he seems 



144 



THE OGOWE 



CHAP. 



relieved, and I start off down the road alone. Lovely road, 
bright yellow clay, as hard as paving stone. On each side it 
is most neatly hedged with pine-apples ; behind these, carefully 
tended, acres of coffee bushes planted in long rows. Certainly 
coffee is one of the most lovely of crops. Its grandly shaped 
leaves are like those of our medlar tree, only darker and richer 
green, the berries set close to the stem, those that are ripe, a 




CAFFEA LIBERICA — LIBERIAN COFFEE. 



rich crimson ; these trees, I think, are about three years old, 
and just coming into bearing ; for they are covered with full- 
sized berries, and there has been a flush of bloom on them this 
morning, and the delicious fragrance of their stephanotis-shaped 
and scented flowers lingers in the air. The country spreads 
before me a lovely valley encompassed by purple-blue moun- 
tains. Mount Talagouga looks splendid in a soft, infinitely 
deep blue, although it is quite close, just the other side of the 



VII A JARDIX D'ACCLIMATATION I45 

river. The road goes on into the valley, as pleasantly as 
ever and more so. How pleasant it would be now, if 
our government along the Coast h^d the enterprise 
and public spirit of the French, and made such roads 
just on the remote chance of stray travellers dropping 
in on a steamer once in ten years or so and wanting a 
walk. Obser\e extremely neatly Igalwa built huts, people 
sitting on the bright clean ground outside them, making mats 
and baskets. " Mboloani," say I. " Ai Mbolo," say they, and 
knock off work to stare. Observe large wired-in enclosures 
on left-hand sideof road — investigate — find they are tenanted by 
animals — goats, sheep, chickens, &c. Clearly this is a jardin 
d acclimatation. No wonder the colony does not pay, if it 
goes in for this sort of thing, 206 miles inland, with simply no 
public to pay gate-money. While contemplating these things, 
hear awful hiss. Serpents ! No, geese. Awful fight. Grand 
things, good, old-fashioned, long skirts are for Africa ! Get 
through geese and advance in good order, but somewhat 
rapidly down road, turn sharply round comer of native 
houses. Turkey cock — terrific turn up. Flight on my part 
forwards down road, which is still going strong, now in a 
northerly direction, apparently indefinitely. Hope to good- 
ness there will be a turning that I can go down and get back 
by, without returning through this ferocious farmyard. Intent 
on picking up such an outlet, I go thirty yards or so down the 
road. Hear shouts coming from a clump of bananas on my 
left. Know they are directed at me, but it does not do 
to attend to shouts always. Expect it is only some native 
with an awful knowledge of English, anxious to get up my 
family historj' — therefore accelerate pace. More shouts, and 
louder, of " Madame Gacon ! Madame Gacon ! " and out of 
the banana clump comes a big, plump, pleasant-looking gen- 
tleman, clad in a singlet and a divided skirt. White people 
must be attended to, so advance carefully towards him through 
a plantation of young coffee, apologising humbly for intruding 
on his domain. He smiles and bows beautifully, but — horror ! 
— he knows no English, I no French. Situation tres inexplic- 
able et tres interessante, as I subsequently heard him remark ; 
and the worst of it is he is evidently bursting to know who I 

L 



146 THE OGOWE CHAP. 

am, and what I am doing in the middle of his coffee plantation, 
for his it clearly is, as appears from his obsequious body-guard 
of blacks, highly interested in me also. We gaze at each other, 
and smile some more, but stiffly, and he stands bareheaded in 
the sun in an awful way. It's murder I'm committing, hard 
all ! He, as is fitting for his superior sex, displays intelli- 
gence first and says, " Interpreter," waving his hand to the 
south. I say " Yes," in my best Fan, an enthusiastic, intel- 
ligent grunt which any one must understand. He leads the 
way back towards those geese — perhaps, by the by, that is why 
he wears those divided skirts — and we enter a beautifully neatly 
built bamboo house, and sit down opposite to each other at a 
table and wait for the interpreter who is being fetched. The 
house is low on the ground and of native construction, but most 
beautifully kept, and arranged with an air of artistic feeling 
quite as unexpected as the rest of my surroundings. I notice 
upon the walls sets of pictures of terrific incidents in Algerian 
campaigns, and a copy of that superb head of M. de Brazza in 
Arab headgear. Soon the black minions who have been sent to 
find one of theplantation hands who is supposed to know French 
and English, return with the " interpreter." That young man 
is a fraud. He does not know English — not even coast English 
— and all he has got under his precious wool is an abysmal 
ignorance darkened by terror ; and so, after one or two futile 
attempts and some frantic scratching at both those regions 
which an African seems to regard as the seats of intellectual 
inspiration, he bolts out of the door. Situation terrible ! 
My host and I smile wildly at each other, and both wonder in 
our respective languages what, in the words of Mr. Squeers as 
mentioned in the classics — we " shall do in this 'ere most awful 
go." We are both going mad with the strain of the situation, 
when in walks the engineer's brother from the Eclaireur. He 
seems intensely surprised to find me sitting in his friend the 
planter's parlour after my grim and retiring conduct on the 
Eclaireur on my voyage up. But the planter tells him all, 
sousing him in torrents of words, full of the violence of an 
outbreak of pent-up emotion. I do not understand what he 
says, but I catch '^ tres inexplicable" and things like that. 
The calm brother of the engineer sits down at the table, and I 



A MODEL PLANTATION 147 



am sure tells the planter something like this : " Calm yourself, 
my friend, we picked up this curiosity at Lembarene. It seems 
quite harmless." And then the planter calmed, and mopped a 
perspiring brow, and so did I, and we smiled more freely, feel- 
ing the mental atmosphere had become less tense and cooler. 
We both simply beamed on our deliverer, and the planter 
gave him lots of things to drink. I had nothing about me 
except a head of tobacco in my pocket, which I did not feel 
was a suitable offering. Now the engineer's brother, although 
he would not own to it, knew English, so I told him how the 
beauty of the road had lured me on, and how I was interested 
in coffee-planting, and how much I admired the magnifi- 
cence of this plantation, and all the enterprise and energy it 
represented. 

" Out, Old, certainevient" said he, and translated. My 
friend the planter seemed charmed ; it was the first sign 

f anything approaching reason he had seen in me. He 

anted me to have eau sucree more kindly than ever, and when 
I rose, intending to bow myself off and go, geese or no geese, 
back to the Eclaireur, he would not let me go. I must see the 
plantation, toute la plantation. So presently all three of us 

J out and thoroughly do the plantation, the most well- 
ordered, well-cultivated plantation I have ever seen, and a 



ver>' noble monument to the knowledge and industr}' of the 
planter. For two hot hours these two perfect gentlemen 
showed me over it. I also behaved well, for petticoats, great 
as they are, do not prevent insects and catawumpuses 
of sorts walking up one's ankles and feeding on one as one 
stands on the long grass which has been most wisely cut and 
laid round the young trees for mulching. This plantation is 
of great extent on the hill-sides and in the valley bottom, 
portions of it are just coming into bearing. The whole is 
kept as perfectly as a garden, amazing as the work of one 
white man with only a staff of unskilled native labourers — at 
present onl}- eighty of them. The coffee planted is of three 
kinds, the Elephant berry, the Arabian, and the San Thome. 
During our inspection, we only had one serious misunder- 
standing, which arose from my seeing for the first time in my 
life tree-ferns growing in the Ogowe. There were three of them 

L 2 



THE OGOWE CHAP. 



evidently carefully taken care of, among some coffee plants. 
It was highly exciting, and I tried to find out about them. It 
seemed, even in this centre of enterprise, unlikely that they 
had been brought just "for dandy" from the Australasian 
region, and I had never yet come across them in my wanderings 
save on Fernando Po. Unfortunately, my friends thought I 
wanted them to keep, and shouted for men to bring things and 
dig them up ; so I had a brisk little engagement with the men, 
driving them from their prey with the point of my umbrella, 
ejaculating Kor Kor, like an agitated crow. When at last 
they understood that my interest in the ferns was scientific, not 
piratical, they called the men off and explained that the ferns 
had been found among the bush, when it was being cleared for 
the plantation. 

Ultimately, with many bows and most sincere thanks from 
me, we parted, providentially beyond the geese, and I returned 
down the road to Njole, where I find Mr. Cockshut waiting 
outside his factory. He insists on taking me to the Post to 
see the Administrator, and from there he says I can go on to 
the Aclaireur from the Post beach, as she will be up there from 
Dumas'. Off we go up the road which skirts the river bank, a 
dwarf clay cliff, overgrown with vegetation, save where it is 
cleared for beaches. The road is short, but exceedingly 
pretty ; on the other side from the river is a steep bank on 
which is growing a plantation of cacao. Lying out in the 
centre of the river you see Njole Island, a low, sandy one, 
timbered not only with bush, but with orange and other fruit 
trees ; for formerly the Post and factories used to be situated 
on the island — now only their trees remain for various reasons, 
one being that in the wet season it is a good deal under water. 
Everything is now situated on the mainland north bank, in a 
straggling but picturesque line ; first comes Woermann's factory, 
then Hatton and Cookson's, and John Plolt's, close together 
with a beach in common, in a sweetly amicable style for 
factories, who as a rule firmly stockade themselves off from 
their next door neighbours. Then Dumas' beach, a little 
native village, the cacao patch and the Post at the up river 
end of things European, an end of things European, I am 
told, for a matter of 500 miles. Immediately beyond the 



II 



VII THE FRENCH ADMINISTRATOR 149 

Post is a little river falling into the Ogowe, and on its further 
bank a small village belonging to a chief, who, hearing of the 
glories of the Government, came down like the Queen of 
Sheba — in intention, I mean, not personal appearance — to see 
it, and so charmed has he been that here he stays to gaze 
on it. 

Although Mr. Cockshut hunted the Administrator of the 
Ogowe out of his bath, that gentleman is exceedingly 
amiable and charming, all the more so to me for speaking 
good English. Personally, he is big, handsome, exuberant, 
and energetic. He shows me round with a gracious enthu- 
.siasm, all manner of things — big gorilla teeth and heads, 
native spears and brass-nail-ornamented guns ; and explains, 
while we are in his study, that the little model canoe full of 
Kola nuts is the supply of Kola to enable him to sit up 
all night and work. Then he takes us outside to see the new 
'lospital which he, in his capacity as Administrator, during the 
absence of the professional Administrator on leave in France, 
has granted to himself in his capacity as Doctor ; and he shows 
us the captive chief and headman from Samba busily quanying 
a clay cliff behind it so as to enlarge the governmental 
jlateau, and the ex-ministers of the ex-King of Dahomey, who 
are deported toXjole,and apparently comfortable and employed 
in various non-menial occupations. Then we go down the 
little avenue of cacao trees in full bearing, and away to the 
left to where there is now an encampment of Adoomas, who 
have come down as a convo\- from Franceville, and are going 
back with another under the command of our vivacious fellow- 
passenger, who, I grieve to see, will have a rough time of it in 
the way of accommodation in those narrow, shallow canoes 
which are King with their noses tied to the bank, and no 
other white man to talk to. What a blessing he will be con- 
versationally to Franceville when he gets in. The Adooma 
encampment is very picturesque, for they have got their bright- 
coloured chintz mosquito-bars erected as tents. 

Dr. Pelessier then insists on banging down monkey 
bread-fruit with a stick, to show me their inside. Of course 
they burst over his beautiful white clothes. I said they would, 
but men will be men. Then we go and stand under the two 



ISO THE OGOWE chap. 

lovely odeaka trees that make a triumphal-arch-like gateway 
to the Post's beach from the river, and the doctor discourses in 
a most interesting way on all sorts of subjects. We go on wait- 
ing for the Eclatreur, who, although it is past four o'clock, is still 
down at Dumas' beach. I feel nearly frantic at detaining the 
Doctor, but neither he nor Mr. Cockshut seem in the least hurry. 
But at last I can stand it no longer. The vision of the Adminis- 
trator of the Ogowe, worn out, but chewing Kola nut to keep 
himself awake all night while he finishes his papers to go down 
on the Eclaireur to-morrow morning, is too painful ; so I say I 
will walk back to Dumas' and go on the Eclaireur there, and 
try to liberate the Administrator from his present engage- 
ments, so that he may go back and work. No good ! He 
will come down to Dumas' with Mr. Cockshut and me. Off 
we go, and just exactly as we are getting on to Dumas' 
beach, off starts the Eclaireur with a shriek for the Post beach. 
So I say good-bye to Mr. Cockshut, and go back to the Post 
with Dr. Pelessier, and he sees me on board, and to my 
immense relief he stays on board a good hour and a half, 
talking to other people, so it is not on my head if he is up all 
night. 

June 2^th. — Eclaireur has to wait for the Administrator until 
ten, because he has not done his mails. At ten he comes on 
board like an amiable tornado, for he himself is going to 
Cape Lopez. I am grieved to see them carrying on board, 
too, a French official very ill with fever. He is the engineer 
of the cannonier, and they are taking him down to Cape 
Lopez, where they hope to get a ship to take him up to 
Gaboon, and to the hospital on the Minerve. I heard sub- 
sequently that the poor fellow died about forty hours after 
leaving Njole at Achyouka in Kama country. 

We get away at last, and run rapidly down river, helped by 
the terrific current. The Eclaireur has to call at Talagouga 
for planks from M. Gacon's sawmill. As soon as we are 
past the tail of Talagouga Island, the Eclaireur ties her whistle 
string to a stanchion, and goes off into a series of screaming 
fits, as only she can. What she wants is to get M. Forget or 
M. Gacon, or better still both, out in their canoes with the wood 
waiting for her, because " she cannot anchor in the depth,' 



,5 

I 



VII THE ECLAIREUR IN A TEMPER 151 

" nor can she turn round," and " backing plays the mischief 
with any ship's engines," and " she can't hold her own against 
the current," and — then Captain Verdier says things I won't 
repeat, and throws his weight passionately on the whistle 
string, for we are in sight of the narrow gorge of Talagouga, 
with the Mission Station apparently slumbering in the sun. 
This puts the Eclaireur in an awful temper. She goes down 
towards it as near as she dare, and then frisks round again, 
and runs up river a little way and drops down again, in 
violent hysterics the whole time. Soon M. Gacon comes 
along among the trees on the bank, and laughs at her. A 
rope is thrown to him, and the panting Eclaireur tied up to a 
tree close in to the bank, for the water is deep enough here to 
moor a liner in, only there are a good many rocks. 
In a few minutes M. Forget and several canoe loads of 
beautiful red-brown mahogany planks are on board, and 
':ings being finished, I say good-bye to the captain, and go 
f with M. Forget in a canoe, to the shore. 



CHAPTER VIII 

TALAGOUGA 

Concerning the district of Talagouga, with observations and admonitions 
on the capture of serpents. 

Mme. Forget received me most kindly and hospitably, she, 
with her husband and her infant daughter, and M. and Mme. 
Gacon represent the Mission Evangelique and the white race 
at Talagouga. Mme. Gacon is the lady the planter took 
me for ; and when I saw her, with her sweet young face and 
masses of pale gold-coloured hair, I felt highly flattered. 
Either that planter must be very short-sighted or the colour 
of my hair must have misled him, not that mine is pale gold, 
but hay-coloured. I don't know how he did it. Mme. Forget 
is a perfectly lovely French girl, with a pale transparent skin 
and the most perfect great dark eyes, with indescribable 
charm, grace of manner, and vivacity in conversation. It 
grieves me to think of her, wasted on this savage wilderness 
surrounded by its deadly fever air. Oranie Forget, otherwise 
the baby, although I am not a general admirer of babies of 
her age — a mere matter of months — is also charming ; I am 
not saying this because she flattered me by taking to me — 
all babies and children do that — but she has great style, and 
I have no doubt she will grow up to be a beauty too, but she 
would have made a dead certainty of it, if she had taken after 
her mother. 

The mission station at Talagouga is hitched on to the rocky 
hillside, which rises so abruptly from the river that there is 
hardly room for the narrow footpath which runs along the 
river frontage of it. And when you are on the Forgets' 
verandah it seems as if you could easily roll right off it into the 
dark, deep, hurrying Ogowe. I suggest this to Mme. Forget as 



I 



CHAP. VIII 



THE MISSION STATION 



»53 



an awful future for Oranie, but she has thought of it and wired 
the verandah up. You go up a steep flight of steps into the 
house, which is raised on poles some fifteen feet above the 
ground in front, and you walk through it against the hillside, 
made up mostly of enormous boulders of quartz, for Talagouga 
mountains are the western termination of the side of the Sierra 
del Cristal range. When you get through the house you come to 
more stairs, cut out now in the hillside rock and leading to the 




STATION OF THE MISSION EVANGEUQUE, TALAGOUGA. 



kitchen to the right, and to the store buildings ; to the left they 
continue up to the church, which is still higher up the hill-face. 
That church is the prettiest I have seen in Africa. I do not 
say I should like to sit in it, because there seems to me no 
proper precautions taken to exclude snakes, lizards, or insects, 
and there would be great difficulty in concentrating one's 
mind on the higher life in the presence of these fearfully 
prevalent lower forms. Talagouga church commences as a 



154 TALAGOUGA chap. 

strong wooden framework on which is hung the bell, and then 
to the right of this structure, is another which is a roof sup- 
ported by bare poles. At its lower end there is a little dais on 
which stands a table and a chair, the yellow clay floor slopes 
abruptly up hill and the pews consist of round, none too thick, 
poles, neatly mounted on stumps, some ten inches from the 
ground. I should have thought those pews were quite perfec- 
tion for an African congregation ; but they tell me I am wrong 
and that even Elders go off sound asleep on them, quite com- 
fortably, I suppose like bats ; I don't mean upside down, you 
understand, but merely by an allied form of muscular action, 
the legs clinching on to the pole-pew during sleep. Beyond the 
church, the hillside is cut by a ravine, and out of the dense 
forest that grows in it runs a beautiful, clear stream. It has 
been dammed back above, for it is harnessed to M. Gacon's 
saw-mill. The building of this dam, the erection of the two 
big water-wheels, the saw, and the shed that covers it, indeed 
all the work connected with the affair, has been done by 
M. Gacon with his own hands, and not only has he dammed 
back the water, and put up his saw-mill, but he still works 
hard at it daily, cutting hundreds of fine red-wood planks 
for the service of the mission, shipping them by the Edaireur, 
in flighty little canoes in this risky bit of river, and keeping a 
big store of them under his house^a bamboo structure, once 
Talagouga church — and all this with no other assistance but 
unskilled native labour. What this means you might under- 
stand a little if I were to write details from June to January, 
and then you were to come out here and take a turn at some 
such job yourself, to finish off your education. Across the 
other side of the ravine and high up, is perched the house 
which Dr. Nassau built, when he first established mission 
work on the Upper Ogowe. The house is now in ruins ; 
but in front of it, as an illustration of the transitory nature 
of European life in West Africa, is the grave of Mrs. Nassau, 
among the great white blocks of quartz rock, its plain stone 
looking the one firm, permanent, human-made-thing about the 
place ; below it, down the hill, are some houses inhabited by the 
native employes on the station : and passing these, still going 
down towards the river, you come to a wooden bridge spanning 



VIII A HANGING GARDEN 



the mill-stream, and crossing this, you find yourself back on the 
path which goes in front of M. Gacon's house ; passing 
this you come to the house inhabited by the girls in the 
mission school, presided over by the comely Imgrimina, wife 
of Isaac, the Jack-Wash, and a few steps more bring you to 
the foot of the Forgets' verandah staircase. The path runs 
on a little be}-ond this to the east, on a slightly broader, level 
bit of ground, behind which rises the hillside, and it ends 
abruptly at another ravine with another, but smaller, stream ; 
beyond this the hills come down right into the river, and on 
the small, flat piece of ground there are a few more native 
houses, belonging to the Bible-readers, and so on ; up on the 
hillside above them hangs a garden, apparently kept in position 
by quantities of stout wooden pegs driven into the ground ; 
these really are to keep the artificially levelled beds of 
mould, and the things in them, from being washed down 
into the river by the torrential wet season's rains. All sorts of 
things are supposed by the gardener to grow in those beds, 
but Mme. Forget declares there is nothing but a sort of salad- 
It is a very nice salad ; I believe it to be dandelion, and there is 
[)lenty of it, and Mme. Forget might be more resigned about it ; 
on the other hand, I agree with her, and quite fail to see why the 
gardener's salar>' should be continually raised, as he desires, 
nor exactly what bearing his abdominal afflictions have on the 
non-productiveness of the tomato plants, nor why, again, he 
should be paid more because of them, for curious abdominal 
symptoms are very common among the whole of the West 
African tribes. My own opinion about that garden is that 
there are too many plantains in it, and too much shade. 
The whole station is surrounded by dense, dark-coloured, 
and forbidding-looking forest ; in front of it runs the 
dark rapid river, profoundh' deep, but not more than 400 
> ards wide here ; on the opposite side of it there is another 
hillside similarly forested, and unbroken by clearing, save in 
one little spot higher up than the mission, where there is 
a little native town and a small sub-factory of Hatton and 
Cookson's. 

Talagouga is grand, but its scenerv' is undoubtedly grim, 
and its name, signifying the gateway of miser>', seems applic- 



156 TALACOUGA chap. 

able.^ It must be a melancholy place to live in, the very air 
lies heavy and silent. I never saw the trees stirred by a 
breeze the whole time I was there, even the broad plantain 
leaves seemed to stand sleeping day out and day in, motion- 
less. This is because the mountains shelter it back and 
front ; and on either side, promontories, running out from 
both banks, make a narrow winding gorge for the river 
channel. The only sign of motion you get is in the Ogowe ; 
if you look at it you see, in spite of its dark quiet face, 
that it is sweeping past at a terrific pace. One great gray 
rock sticks up through it just below the mission beach, and 
from that lies ever a silver streak from the hindrance it gives 
the current. Every now and again you will notice a canoe 
full of wild, naked, or nearly naked savages, silent because 
they are Fans, and don't sing like Igalwas or M'pongwe when in 
canoes. They are either paddling very hard and creeping very 
slowly upwards, against one of the banks, or just keeping her 
head straight and going rapidly down. Now and again you 
will hear the laboured beat of the engines of either the Move or 
Eclairetir, before you see the vessel and hear the warning shriek 
of their whistles ; and you can watch her as she comes up fighting 
her way to Njole, or see her as she comes down, slipping past 
like a dream in a few seconds, and that is all. My first after- 
noon sufficed to allow of my seeing the station. M. Jacot 
reports it to have thirty-two buildings on it, but he is a slave 
to truth, and counts all the cook-houses, &c. Houses deserving 
of the name there are but three — the Gacons', the girls' and 
the Forgets'. 

Mme. Forget took no end of care of me, and I look at my 
clean, tidy, comfortable room with terror, until I find a built 
out bath-room wherein I shall be able to make awful messes 
with fish, &c., without disgracing myself and country ; and joy 
inexpressible ! " no mosquitoes," yet still curtain. I told you 
before I had heard they ended at O Soamokita, but when I see 
people putting up mosquito-curtains over their beds I always 
have doubts ; besides, along here you always find people deny 
having mosquitoes, if they can, without committing violent per- 

^ Mr. R. B. N. Walker, I believe, holds this name is Otalama gouga ; 
A gouga = hardship, privation. 



VIII A GOOD WORD FOR THE FRENCH 157 

jur}^ ; if they cannot deny it, as was the case with Mr. Cockshut 
at Lembarene, they try and turn the conversation or say other 
places are worse. Owing to this bHssful absence of irritation 
I slept profoundly my first night at Talagouga, but roused by 
awful sounds in the morning — time, 5.30 — sit straight up in 
bed " one time." Never noticed mission had donkey yesterda}-, 
but they have, and it's off in an epileptic fit. As the sound 
amplifies and continues a flash of reason succeeds this first 
impression. It's morning service in the church, and the 
natives are just singing hymns. In after days the sound 
always produces the same physical shock, but the mental 
one dies out crushed under the weight of knowledge of the 
.sound's origin. 

I spent my second day talking to Mme. Forget, whose 

1 English is perfectly good, although she tells me she resisted 

education most strenuously in this direction from patriotic 

motives. I must say I bow down and worship the spirit of 

patriotic fire in the French, not that I would imply for one 

moment that I, as an Englishwoman, suffered from it in Congo 

Frangais. They always gave me the greatest help in getting 

jout their territory and every kindness — of course there was 

no reason why they should not do so, for they have no reason 

to be anything but proud of the great things they have done 

here and the admirable way this noble province of theirs is 

, administered. Congo Fran<;ais is a very different thing to 

¦ Congo Beige, a part of the world I shall not wander into again 

ntil it becomes Congo Frangais, and that won't be long. I 

now salve my pride as an Englishwoman with the knowledge 

that were a Frenchwoman to travel in any of our West Coast 

ttlements, she would have as warm and helpful a welcome 

as I get here, and I will be femininely spiteful, and say she 

would do more harm in the English settlements than ever I 

did in the French. Think of Mme. Jacot, Mme. Forget, or 

Mme. Gacon going into Calabar, for example, why there 

wouldn't be a whole heart left in the place in twent}--four 

hours ! 

On the second day I spent at Talagouga I also made the 
acquaintance of Monsieur Pichon, a very stately, homing, 
Antwerp pigeon ; his French feeling was a hopeless barrier to 



158 TALAGOUGA chap. 



a mutual friendship arising between us. I admire him 
sincerely. His personal appearance, his grand manner, the 
regular way in which he orders his life, going down regularly 
on to one particular stone at the river's brink to make 
his toilet ; attending every meal during the day ; and going to 
roost on one particular door-top, commands admiration and 
respect. But to me he behaved cruelly. He bullied me out 
of food at meal times, always winding up with a fight, holding 
on to my finger with his beak like a vice. I know he regards 
me as a defeated slave and took as mere due service my 
many rescues of him from behind a mirror, which hung tilted 
from the wall and behind which he used constantly to fall, 
dazzled by the vision of his own beauty as he flew up in front 
of the glass. There is another low-down pigeon domesticated 
at Talagouga, but he was a nobody, and Monsieur let him 
know it, in spite of several rebellions on his part. And there 
were also two very small, very black kittens which were being 
carefully, but alas unavailingly nursed, for their mother had 
abandoned them. 

M. Forget did not think I should have much chance 
of getting fish for specimens, because he said, although the 
Fans catch plenty, they do not care to sell them, as they are 
the main article of food in this foodless region, still he would 
try and persuade them to bring them to me, and so success- 
ful were his efforts that that afternoon several Fans turned 
up with specimens. For these I gave, as usual when opening 
a trade in a district, fancy prices, a ruse that proved so 
successful here that I was soon at my wits' end for bottles and 
spirit — trade gin I might have got, but there is not sufficient 
alcohol in trade gin to preserve specimens in. Again M. Forget 
came to the rescue and let me have a bottle of alcohol out of 
the dispensary. 

I got a fearful fright during my second night at Talagouga. 
I went to bed quite lulled into a sense of security by the 
mosquitolessness of the previous night. I was aroused be- 
tween 2 and 3 o'clock A.M. by acute pain from punctured 
wounds on the chest and the mosquito curtain completely 
down and smothering me. My first fear was that I had 
brought a mosquito or so of the Lembarene strain up to 



nil A DISTURBED NIGHT 159 

Talagouga with me, who had just recovered from the journey 
and were having their evening meal. I fought my way out of 
the mosquito-curtain and trod on a cold flabby thing which 
kindly said " Croak " — introducing itself as a harmless frog, and 
dispelling fear number two, namely that it was a snake. I then 
had a sporting hunt for matches in the inky dark — upset half the 
room before I found them, but when this was done, and I got the 
candle alight, I found a big black cat sitting smiling on my bed, 
and conjecturing she was the bereaved mother of those afflicted, 
deserted, kittens, I got her off, and tied up the mosquito-bar to 
the ceiling again, and then took her in with me under it to 
finish my night's rest ; for I feared if I left her outside 
she would cause another tender awakening of memories 
of those Lembarene mosquitoes. The frog, having got his 
w ind again, flip-flapped about the floor all night, croak, croak- 
ing to his outdoor relations about the unprovoked outrage that 
had been committed on him. 

I spent the succeeding days in buying fish from the natives, 
jwho brought it in quantities, mostly of two sorts, and of 
course wanted enormous prices for it ; but I confess I rather 
(^ njoy the give-and-take fun of bartering against their extor- 
n, and my trading with them introduced us to each other 
- » that when we met in the course of the long climbing walks 
I used to take beetle-hunting in the bush behind the mission 
station, we knew about each other, and did not get much 
shocked or frightened. 

That forest round Talagouga was one of the most difficult 
bits of country to get about in I ever came across, for it was 
dense and there were no bush paths. No Fan village wants 
to walk to another Fan village for social civilities, and all their 
trade goes up and down the river in canoes. No doubt some 
miles inland there are bush paths, but I never struck one, so 
they must be pretty far away. Neither did I come across any 
\illages in the forest, they seem all to be on the river bank 
'-^und here. 

The views from the summits of the abruptly shaped hills 

und Talagouga are exceedingly grand, and give one a good 

•Jea of the trend of the Sierra del Cristal range in this district ; 

to the east, the higher portions of the ranges showed, just 



i6o TALAGOUGA chap. 

beyond Njole, a closely set series of strangely shaped sum- 
mits beautifully purple-blue, running away indefinitely to the 
N.N.W. and S.E. ; and when the day was clear, one could see 
the mountains of Achangoland away to the S.S.E., from their 
shape evidently the same formation, but not following the 
same direction as the range of the Sierra del Cristal. The 
hills I had personally to deal with were western flanking hills 
of the Sierra — all masses of hard black rock with veins and 
blocks of crystalline quartz. Between the interstices of the 
rocks, was the rich vegetable mould made by hundreds of 
thousands of years of falling leaves and timber. The under- 
growth was very dense and tangled among the great gray- 
white columns of the high trees ; the young shoots of this 
undergrowth were interesting, not so often rose-coloured as 
those round Lembarene, but usually in the denser parts a pale 
creamy- white, or a deep blue. I was fool enough to fancy 
that a soft, delicate-leaved, white-shoot-bearing plant had, on 
its own account, a most fragrant scent, but I soon found the 
scent came from the civet cats, which abound here, and seem 
to affect this shrub particularly. It is very quaint the intense 
aversion the Africans have to this scent, and the grimaces 
and spitting that goes on when they come across it ; their 
aversion is shared by the elephants. I once saw an elephant 
put his trunk against one of these scented bushes, have it up 
in a second, and fly off into the forest with an Oh lor ! burn- 
some-brown-paper ! pocket-handkerchief-please expression all 
over him. The natives, knowing this, use civet in hunting 
elephants, as I will some day describe. The high trees were of 
various kinds — acacias, red-wood, African oak, a little ebony, 
and odeaka, and many other kinds I know not even the native 
names of to this day. One which I know well by sight gives» 
when cut, a vividly yellow wood of great beauty. Now and 
again on exposed parts of the hillside, one comes across great 
falls of timber which have been thrown down by tornadoes 
either flat on to the ground — in which case under and among 
them are snakes and scorpions, and getting over them is 
slippery work ; or thrown sideways and hanging against their 
fellows, all covered with gorgeous drapery of climbing, flower- 
ing plants — in which case they present to the human atom 



MI SNAKES IX A CLEFT STICK i6i 

a wall made up of strong tendrils and climbing grasses, 
through which the said atom has to cut its way with a 
matchette and push into the crack so made, getting, the while 
covered with red driver-ants, and such like, and having sensa- 
tional meetings with blue-green snakes, dirty green snakes with 
triangular horned heads, black cobras, and boa constrictors. I 
never came back to the station without having been frightened 
half out of my wits, and with one or two of my smaller terrifiers 
in cleft sticks to bottle. When you get into the way, catching a 
snake in a cleft stick is perfectly simple. Only mind you 
have the proper kind of stick, split far enough up, and keep 
your attention on the snake's head, that's his business end, 
and the tail which is whisking and winding round your wrist 
does not matter : there was one snake, by the way, of which it 
iwas impossible to tell, in the forest, which was his head. 
The natives swear he has one at each end ; so you had better 
" Lef 'em," even though you know the British Museum would 
love to have him, for he is very venomous, and one of the 

\v cases of death from snake-bite I have seen, was from this 

jccies. 
Several times, when further in the forest, I came across 

trail of flattened undergrowth, for fifty or sixty yards, with 

horrid musky smell that demonstrated it had been the path 
a boa constrictor, and nothing more. 
It gave me more trouble and terror to get to the top of 

Kjse Talagouga hillsides than it gave me to go twenty miles 
in the forests of Old Calabar, and that is saying a good deal, 
but when you got to the summit there was the glorious view 
of the rest of the mountains, stretching away, interrupted only 
by Mount Talagouga to the S.E. by E. and the great, grim, 
dark forest, under the lowering gray sky common during the 
dry season on the Equator. No glimpse or hint did one have 
of the Ogowe up here, so deep down in its ravine does it flow. 
A person coming to the hill tops close to Talagouga from the 
N. or N.N.W. and turning back in his track from here might be 
utterly unconscious that one of the great rivers of the world 
was flowing, full and strong, within some 800 feet of him. 
There is a strange sense of secretiveness about all these West 
African forests ; but I never saw it so marked* as in these that 

M 



i62 TALAGOUGA chap. 



shroud the Sierra del Cristal. I very rarely met any natives 
in this part ; those that I did were hunters, big, lithe men 
with all their toilet attention concentrated on their hair. On 
two occasions I ran some risk from having been stalked in 
mistake for game by these hunters. " Hoots toots, mon, a verra 
pretty thing it would hae been for an Englishwoman to hae 
been shot in mistake for a gorilla by a cannibal Fan of all 
folks," was a Scotch friend's commentary. I escaped, how- 
ever, because these men get as close as they can to their 
prey before firing ; and when they found out their mistake 
they were not such cockney sportsmen as to kill me because I 
was something queer, and we stood and stared at each other, 
said a few words in our respective languages, and parted. 
One thing that struck me very much in these forests was 
the absence of signs of fetish worship which are so much in 
evidence in Calabar, where you constantly come across trees 
worshipped as the residences of spirits, and little huts put up 
over offerings to bush souls. 

Thanks to the kindness of M. Forget, I had an opportunity 
of visiting Talagouga Island — a grant of which has been made 
by the French Government to the Mission Evangelique, who, 
owing to the inconveniences of being hitched precariously on a 
hillside, intend shortly removing from their present situation, 
and settling on the island. 

Talagouga Island is situated in the middle of the river, 
about halfway between the present mission beach and Njole. 
It is a mile long and averages about a quarter of a mile wide ; 
the up-river end of it is a rocky low hill, and it tapers down 
river from this, ending in a pretty little white sandbank. 
At the upper end there is a reef of black rocks against which 
the Ogowe strikes, its brown face turning white with 
agitation at being interrupted, when it is in such a tearin 
hurry to get to the South Atlantic. When going up river to i 
in a canoe, creeping up along by the bank, I had more chanc 
of seeing details than when on the Eclaireur with her amusin 
distractions. The first object of interest was Talagoug; 
rock ; seen at close quarters, it rises a gray, rough, weathere 
head, much water-worn, some twenty feet above the dry 
season level of t4ie water. Goodness knows how far it is dowri 



VIII MAGNIFICENCE OUT OF PLACE 163 

to its bed on the river bottom. Up to a few years ago it was 
regarded as the mark between the regions of Gaboon and 
Congo Fran^ais, but this division is now done away with, 
and there is no Gaboon, but the whole province is Congo 
Francais. So Talagouga rock gets no official position, and 
is left to the veneration it is held in, as the dwelling-place of 
an Ombuiri. On the edge on the top of the bank, adjacent 
to Talagouga rock, is a small swamp, and b}- the side 
of it stands another gigantic monolith which, judging the 
height of Talagouga rock above water to be twenty feet, must 
be between fifty and sixty feet high. It does not get any 
veneration at all ; but if that great Stonehenge-like thing 
were in the Rivers, it would be a great ju-ju, and be covered 
round its base with bits of white calico, and have bottles of 
gin set in front of it, and calabashes of hard-boiled eggs and 
goodness knows what. That rock is thrown away on these 
Bantu ; that comes of being magnificent at the wrong time 
^nd place. Opposite to Talagouga rock, on the other bank, 
Js perched on top of a dwarf clay cliff the village of 
Talagouga (Fan) with Hatton and Cookson's sub-factor}- in 
it, presided over by a Sierra Leonian. On the north bank, 
a little higher up, M. Forget pointed out to me a place in the 
forest where, a year or two ago, the strange dwarf people had 
a \ illage ; there are none of them there now, as they wander 
and fro in the forest, never remaining many months in one 

t. They are diffused, in small communities, all over the 
fi rest of Congo Francais ; but their chief haunt seems to be 
among the Bakele tribe in Achangoland. We crossed the river 
and then landed, clambering up a steep bank on to the lower end 

the island. M. Forget stated that a path ran up to the 
upper end, which had been cut when the island was sur\e\-ed 
before being registered to the mission. I did not think much 
of it as a path, nor did M. Forget, I fancy, after ten minutes' 
experience of it, for it had considerabh- grown up : and 
although this island is not quite so densely timbered as the 
mainland, nor made in such acute angles, still it has these 
attributes to a considerable extent, as it is a real island of 
a rocky nature, and not a glorified sandbank that has grabbed 
its earth and vegetation from shipwrecked pieces of the 

M 2 



i64 TALAGOUGA chai 



main bank and dead trees, like those islands round and 
below Lembarene. However, scratched but safe we got to 
the upper end ; and M. Forget went off to see after the 
orange, lime, banana, and plantain trees that had been 
planted on the upper end of the island where the mission 
houses are to be built. I wandered about seeing things,, 
among others an encampment of Fans who are cutting down 
the timber to make room for the building, which is not yet 
commenced ; and some wonderful tiny bays in the bank, along 
the southern side, where the current is less strong, or rather„ 
I suppose, deflected against the mainland bank by the rock 
reef These bays are filled in the dry season by banks of 
white sand in which sparkle fragments of mica, and when 
you walk on them they give out a musical, soft hum in a 
strange way. " Unfortunately," M. Forget says, so far no 
spring water has been found on the island. I say unfortun- 
ately in notes of quotation as I do not agree with him that 
the absence of spring water is a misfortune, but regard it as 
a blessing in disguise, for, to my way of thinking, the Ogowe 
water, exposed to the air, with its swift current, is safer stuff 
to drink than decoc terrce Africano — spring water, I mean. 

While we are waiting for the return of the canoe which 
has gone to the mainland to deposit an Evangelist in a 
village, M. Forget has a palaver with the Fans, who are 
very slowly shaving the trees from the top of the hill. The)- 
agreed to do this thing for the wood, but it has since occurred 
to them that they would like to be paid wages as welL 
They are sweet unsophisticated children of nature, these 
West African tribes ; little thoughts like these are constantly 
arising in their minds, and on all hands — missionary, govern- 
mental and trading — I am told these Fans are exceedingly 
treacherous and you can never trust them to hold to a 
bargain. I will say this is not the case with other African 
tribes I have come across. In the Rivers, for example, when 
a jam is made, it's made, and they will stick to it all, save the 
time Clause, more honourably than twenty per cent, of white 
men would. Our canoe returns before " palaver done set " ; and 
we go off home, the blue mists rising among the trees and 
reflecting in the Ogowe a deeper and more intense blue, adding 



Ill BOUND FOR THE RAPIDS 165 

.nother element to a wonderfully lovely scene that is well 
accompanied by the elaborate songs of the canoe crew and 
the sound of their paddles. We are down again at Talagouga 
!)each in a far shorter time than it took us to come up. 

All the balance of the time I was at Talagouga I spent in 

? rying to find means to get up into the rapids above Njole, 
)r my heart got more and more set on them now that I saw 

the strange forms of the Talagouga fishes, and the differences 
I between them and the fishes at Lembarene. For some time 
I no one whom I could get hold of regarded it as a feasible 
[scheme, but, at last, M. Gacon thought it might be managed ; 
1 said I would give a reward of 100 francs to any one who 
'would lend me a canoe and a crew, and I would pay the 
working expenses, food, wages, &c. M. Gacon had a good 
canoe and could spare me two English-speaking Igalwas, one 
of whom had been part of the way with MM. Allegret and 
Teisseres, when they made their journey up to Franceville 
and then across to Brazzaville and down the Congo two years 
ago. He also thought we could get six Fans to complete the 
crew. I was delighted, packed my small portmanteau with a 
few things, got some trade goods, wound up my watch, 
ascertained the date of the day of the month, and borrowed 
three hairpins from Mme. Forget, then down came disappoint- 
ment. On my return from the bush that evening, Mme. Forget 
said M. Gacon said "it was impossible," the Fans round 
Talagouga wouldn't go at any price above Njole, because 
the}- were certain they would be killed and eaten by the 
up-river Fans. Internally consigning the entire tribe to 
regions where they will get a rise in temperature, even on this 
climate, I went with Mme. Forget to M. Gacon, and we 
talked it over ; finally, M. Gacon thought he could let me 
have two more Igalwas from Hatton and Cookson's beach 
across the river. Sending across there we found this could 
be done, so I now felt I was in for it, and screwed my courage 

* ) the sticking point — no easy matter after all the information 
i had got into my mind regarding the rapids of the River 
Ogowe. 



CHAPTER IX 

THE RAPIDS OF THE OGOW£ 

The Log of an Adooma canoe during a voyage undertaken to the rapids 
of the River Ogowe, with some account of the divers disasters that 
befell thereon. 

I ESTABLISH myself on my portmanteau comfortably in the 
canoe, my back is against the trade box, and behind that is 
the usual mound of pillows, sleeping mats, and mosquito-bars 
of the Igalwa crew ; the whole surmounted by the French flag 
flying from an indifferent stick. 

M. and Mme. Forget provide me with everything I can 
possibly require, and say, that the blood of half my crew 
is half alcohol ; on the whole it is patent they don't expect 
to see me again, and I forgive them, because they don't 
seem cheerful over it ; but still it is not reassuring — 
nothing is about this affair, and it's going to rain. It does, 
as we go up the river to Njole, where there is another risk 
of the affair collapsing, by the French authorities de- 
clining to allow me to proceed. On we paddled, M'bo the 
head man standing in the bows of the canoe in front of me, to 
steer, then I, then the baggage, then the able-bodied seamen, 
including the cook also standing and paddling ; and at the 
other extremity of the canoe — it grieves me to speak of it in 
this unseamanlike way, but in these canoes both ends are 
alike, and chance alone ordains which is bow and which is 
stern — stands Pierre, the first officer, also steering ; the paddles 
used are all of the long-handled, leaf-shaped Igalwa type. 
We get up just past Talagouga Island and then tie up 
against the bank of M. Gazenget's plantation, and make a 
piratical raid on its bush for poles. A gang of his men 




[To face p. i66. 



FAN CHIEF AND FAMILY. 



( H. IX A WILFUL MAN HAS HIS WAY 167 

come down to us, but only to chat. One of them, I 
notice, has had something happen severely to one side of his 
face. I ask M'bo what's the matter, and he answers, with a 
derisive laugh, " He be fool man, he go for tief plantain and 
done got shot." M'bo does not make it clear where the sin in 
this affair is exactly located ; I expect it is in being " fool man." 
Having got our supply of long stout poles we push off and 
paddle on again. Before we reach Njole I recognise my crew 
have got the grumbles, and at once inquire into the reason. 
M'bo sadly informs me that " they no got chop," having been 
provided only with plantain, and no meat or fish to eat 
with it. I promise to get them plenty at Xjole, and content- 
ment settles on the crew, and they sing. After about three 
hours we reach Njole, and I proceed to inter\iew the authori- 
ties. Dr. Pelessier is away down river, and the two gentlemen in 
charge don't understand English ; but Pierre translates, and the 
letter which M. Forget has kindly written for me explains things, 
and so the palaver ends satisfactorily, after a long talk. First, the 
official says he does not like to take the responsibility of allow- 
ing me to endanger myself in those rapids. I explain I will 
not hold any one responsible but myself, and I urge that a 
lady has been up before, a Mme. Quinee. He says " Yes, 
that is true, but Madame had with her a husband and many 
men, whereas I am alone and have only eight Igalwas and 
not Adoomas, the proper crew for the rapids, and they are 
away up river now with the convo>-." " True, oh King ! " I 
answer, " but Madame Quinee went right up to Lestour\ille, 
whereas I only want to go sufficiently high up the rapids to 
get typical fish. And these Igalwas are great men at canoe 
work, and can go in a canoe anywhere that any mortal man 
can go " — this to cheer up my Igalwa interpreter — " and as for 
the husband, neither the Royal Geographical Society's list, in 
their ' Hints to Travellers,' nor Messrs. Silver, in their elaborate 
lists of articles necessary for a traveller in tropical climates, 
make mention of husbands." If they did, by the by, 
they would say he was to be green, but they don't say 
a word about one. However, the official ultimately says Yes. 
I may go, and parts with me as with one bent on self- 
destruction. This affair being settled I start off, like an 



i68 THE RAPIDS OF THE OGOW^ CHAP. 



old hen with a brood of chickens to provide for, to get 
chop for my men, and go first to Hatton and Cookson's 
factory. I find its white Agent is down river after stores, and 
John Holt's Agent says he has got no beef nor fish, and is 
precious short of provisions for himself ; so I go back to 
Dumas', where I find a most amiable French gentleman, who 
says he will let me have as much fish or beef as I want, and 
to this supply he adds some delightful bread biscuits. 
M'bo and the crew beam with satisfaction ; mine is clouded by 
finding, when they have carried off the booty to the canoe, 
that the Frenchman will not let me pay for it. Therefore 
taking the opportunity of his back being turned for a few 
minutes, I buy and pay for, across the store counter, some trade 
things, knives, cloth, &c. Then I say good-bye to the Agent. 
" Adieu, Mademoiselle," says he in a for-ever tone of voice. 
Indeed I am sure I have caught from these kind people a very 
pretty and becoming mournful manner, and there's not another 
white station for 500 miles where I can show it off Away 
we go, still damp from the rain we have come through, but 
drying nicely with the day, and cheerful about the chop. 

The Ogowe is broad at Njole and its banks not moun- 
tainous, as at Talagouga ; but as we go on it soon narrows, 
the current runs more rapidly than ever, and we are soon 
again surrounded by the mountain range. Great masses 
of black rock show among the trees on the hillsides, and under 
the fringe of fallen trees that hang from the steep banks. 
Two hours after leaving Njole we are facing our first rapid. 
Great gray-black masses of smoothed rock rise up out of the 
whirling water in all directions. These rocks have a peculiar 
appearance which puzzle me at the time, but in subsequently 
getting used to it I accepted it quietly and admired. When 
the sun shines on them they have a soft light blue haze 
round them, like a halo. The -effect produced by this, with 
the forested hillsides and the little beaches of glistening white 
sand was one of the most perfect things I have ever seen. 

We kept along close to the right-hand bank, dodging out of 
the way of the swiftest current as much as possible. Ever and 
again we were unable to force our way round projecting parts 
of the bank, so we then got up just as far as we could to the 



IX COLLAR WORK- 169 

point in question, yelling and shouting at the tops of our voices. 
M'bo said "Jump for bank, sar," and I "up and jumped," followed 
by half the crew. Such banks ! sheets, and walls, and rubbish 
heaps of rock, mixed up with trees fallen and standing. One 
appalling corner I shall not forget, for I had to jump at a rock 
wall, and hang on to it in a manner more befitting an insect 
than an insect-hunter, and then scramble up it into a close-set 
forest, heavily burdened with boulders of all sizes. I wonder 
whether the rocks or the trees were there first ? there is evidence 
both ways, for in one place you will see a rock on the top of 
a tree, the tree creeping out from underneath it, and in another 
place you will see a tree on the top of a rock, clasping it with 
a network of roots and getting its nourishment, goodness 
knows how, for these are by no means tender, digestible sand- 
stones, but uncommon hard gneiss and quartz which has no idea 
of breaking up into friable small stuff, and which only takes 
on a high polish when it is vigorously sanded and canvassed 
by the Ogowe. While I was engaged in climbing across these 
promontories, the crew would be busy shouting and hauling 
the canoe round the point by means of the strong chain pro- 
vided for such emergencies fixed on to the bow. When this was 
done, in we got again and paddled away until we met our next 
affliction. 

M'bo had advised that we should spend our first night at the 
same village that M. A116gret did : but when we reached it, 
a large village on the north bank, we seemed to have a lot of 
daylight still in hand, and thought it would be better to stay 
at one a little higher up, so as to make a shorter day's work 
for to-morrow, when we wanted to reach Kondo Kondo ; so 
we went against the bank just to ask about the situation and 
character of the up-river villages. The row of low, bark huts 
was long, and extended its main frontage close to the edge of 
the river bank. The inhabitants had been watching us as we 
came, and when they saw we intended calling that afternoon, 
they charged down to the river- edge hopeful of excitement. 
They had a great deal to say, and so had we. After compli- 
ments, as they say, in excerpts of diplomatic communications, 
three of their riien took charge of the conversation on their 
side, and M'bo did ours. To M'bo's questions they gave a 



I70 THE RAPIDS OF THE OGOWE CHAR 

dramatic entertainment as answer, after the manner of these 
brisk, excitable Fans. One chief, however, soon settled down 
to definite details, prefacing his remarks with the silence- 
commanding " Azuna ! Azuna ! " and his companions grunted 
approbation of his observations. He took a piece of plantain 
leaf and tore it up into five different-sized bits. These he laid 
along the edge of our canoe at different intervals of space, 
while he told M'bo things, mainly scandalous, about the 
characters of the villages these bits of leaf represented, save 
of course about bit A, which represented his own. The in- 
terval between the bits was proportional to the interval 
between the villages, and the size of the bits was pro- 
portional to the size of the village. Village number four 
was the only one he should recommend our going to. When 
all was said, I gave our kindly informants some heads of 
tobacco and many thanks. Then M'bo sang them a 
hymn, with the assistance of Pierre, half a line behind him 
in a different key, but every bit as flat. The Fans seemed 
impressed, but any crowd would be by the hymn-singing of 
my crew, unless they were inmates of deaf and dumb asylums. 
Then we took our farewell, and thanked the village elaborately 
for its kind invitation to spend the night there on our way 
home, shoved off and paddled away in great style just to 
show those Fans what Igalwas could do. 

We hadn't gone 200 yards before we met a current coming 
round the end of a rock reef that was too strong for us to 
hold our own in, let alone progress. On to the bank I was 
ordered and went ; it was a low slip of rugged confused 
boulders and fragments of rocks, carelessly arranged, and 
evidently under water in the wet season. I scrambled along, 
the men yelled and shouted and hauled the canoe, and the 
inhabitants of the village, seeing we were becoming amus- 
ing again, came, legging it like lamp-lighters, after us, young 
and old, male and female, to say nothing of the dogs. 
Some good souls helped the men haul, while I did my best 
to amuse the others by diving headlong from a large rock on 
to which I had elaborately climbed, into a thick clump of 
willow-leaved shrubs. They applauded my performance 
vociferously, and then assisted my efforts to extricate my- 



IX A LOVELY AFTERGLOW 171 

self, and during the rest of my scramble they kept close to 
me, with keen competition for the front row, in hopes that I 
would do something like it again. But I refused the encore^ 
because, bashful as I am, I could not but feel that my last 
performance was carried out with all the superb reckless 
abandon of a Sarah Bernhardt, and a display of art of this 
order should satisfy any African village for a year at least. 
At last I got across the rocks on to a lovely little beach of 
white sand, and stood there talking, surrounded by my 
audience, until the canoe got over its difficulties and arrived 
almost as scratched as I ; and then we again said farewell 
and paddled aw ay, to the great grief of the natives, for they 
don't get a circus up above Xjole ever\' week, poor dears. 

Xow there is no doubt that that chief's plantain - leaf 
chart was an ingenious idea and a credit to him. There is 
also no doubt that the Fan mile is a bit Irish, a matter of 
nine or so of those of ordinarv- mortals, but I am bound to 
say I don't think, even allowing for this, that he put those 
pieces far enough apart. On we paddled a long way before 
we picked up village number one, mentioned in that chart. On 
again, still longer, till we came to village number two. Village 
number three hove in sight high up on a mountain side soon 
after, but it was getting dark and the water worse, and the hill- 
sides growing higher and higher into nobly shaped mountains, 
forming, with their forest-graced steep sides, a ravine that, 
in the gathering gloom, looked like an alley-way made of iron, 
for the foaming Ogowe. Village number four we anxiously 
looked for ; village number four we never saw; for round us came 
the dark, seeming to come out on to the river from the forests 
and the side ravines, where for some hours we had seen it 
sleeping, like a sailor with his clothes on in bad weather. 
On we paddled, looking for signs of village fires, and seeing 
them not. The Erd-geist knew we wanted something, and 
seeing how we personally lacked it, thought it was beauty ; 
and being in a kindly mood, gave it us, sending the lovely 
lingering flushes of his afterglow across the sky, which, d}-ing, 
left it that divine deep purple velvet which no one has dared to 
paint. Out in it came the great stars blazing high above us, 
and the dark round us was be-gemmed w ith fire-flies : but 



172 THE RAPIDS OF THE OGOWt chap. 



we were not as satisfied with these things as we should have 
been ; what we wanted were fires to cook by and dry our- 
selves by, and all that sort of thing. The Erd-geist did 
not understand, and so left us when the afterglow had died 
away, with only enough starlight to see the flying foam of 
the rapids ahead and around us, and not enough to see the 
great trees that had fallen from the bank into the water. 
These, when the rapids were not too noisy, we could listen 
for, because the black current rushes through their branches 
with an impatient " Hsh, swish " ; but when there was a rapid 
roaring close alongside we ran into those trees, and got our- 
selves mauled, and had ticklish times getting on our course 
again. Now and again we ran up against great rocks sticking 
up in the black water — grim, isolated fellows, who seemed to 
be standing silently watching their fellow rocks noisily fight- 
ing in the arena of the white water. Still on we poled and 
paddled. About 8 P.M. we came to a corner, a bad one ; but 
we were unable to leap on to the bank and haul round, not 
being able to see either the details or the exact position of the 
said bank, and we felt, I think naturally, disinclined to spring 
in the direction of such bits of country as we had had ex- 
perience of during the afternoon, with nothing but the aid 
we might have got from a compass hastily viewed b}- the 
transitory light of a lucifer match, and even this would not 
have informed us how many tens of feet of tree fringe lay be- 
tween us and the land, so we did not attempt it. One must 
be careful at times, or nasty accidents may follow. We fought 
our way round that corner, yelling defiance at the water, and 
dealt with succeeding corners on the vi et armis plan, breaking, 
ever and anon, a pole. About 9.30 we got into a savage rapid. 
We fought it inch by inch. The canoe jammed herself on 
some barely sunken rocks in it. We shoved her off o\'er them. 
She tilted over and chucked us out. The rocks round being 
just awash, we survived and got her straight again, and got 
intc her and drove her unmercifully ; she struck again and 
bucked like a broncho, and we fell in heaps upon each other, 
but stayed inside, that time — the men by the aid of their 
intelligent feet, I by clinching my hands into the bush rope 
lacinij which ran round the rim of the canoe and the meaning of 



I 



IX A RUSH DOWN STREAM 173 

which I did not understand when I left Talagouga. We 
sorted ourselves out hastily and sent her at it again. Smash 
went a sorely tried pole and a paddle. Round and round we 
spun in an exultant whirlpool, which, in a light-hearted, 
maliciously joking way, hurled us tail first out of it into the 
current. Now the grand point in these cano^ of having 
both ends alike declared itself ; for at this juncture all we had 
to do was to revolve on our own axis and commence life 
anew with what had been the bow for the stem. Of course 
we were defeated, we could not go up any further without 
the aid of our lost poles and paddles, so we had to go down 
for shelter somewhere, any^vhere, and down at a terrific pace 
in the white water we went. While hitched among the rocks 
the arrangement of our crew had been altered, Pierre joining 
M'bo in the bows ; this piece of precaution was frustrated by 
our getting turned round ; so our position was what you might 
call precarious, until we got into another whirlpool, when we 
persuaded nature to start us right end on. This was only a 
matterof minutes, whirlpools being plentiful, and then M'bo and 
Pierre, provided with our surviving poles, stood in the bows to 
fend us ofif rocks, as we shot towards them ; while we midship 
paddles sat, helping to steer, and when occasion arose, which 
occasion did with lightning rapidity, to whack the whirlpools 
with the flat of our paddles, to break their force. Cook 
crouched in the stern concentrating his mind on steering 
only. A most excellent arrangement in theory and the safest 
practical one no doubt, but it did not work out what you 
might call brilliantly well ; though each department did its 
best. We dashed full tilt towards high rocks, things twenty to 
fifty feet above water. Midship backed and flapped like fur}- ; 
M'bo and Pierre received the shock on their poles ; sometimes 
we glanced successfully aside and flew on ; sometimes we 
didn't. The shock being too much for M'bo and Pierre they 
were driven back on me, who got flattened on to the cargo of 
bundles which, being now firmly tied in, couldn't spread the 
confusion further aft ; but the shock of the canoe's ndse 
against the rock did so in style, and the rest of the crew fell 
forward on to the bundles, me, and themselves. So shaken up 
together were we several times that night, that it's a wonder 



174 THE RAPIDS OF THE OGOWE chap. 



to me, considering the hurry, that we sorted ourselves out 
correctly with our own particular legs and arms. And 
although we in the middle of the canoe did some very 
spirited flapping, our whirlpool-breaking was no more 
successful than M'bo and Pierre's fending off, and many a 
wild waltz \Ve danced that night with the waters of the River 
Ogowe. 

Unpleasant as going through the rapids was, when circum- 
stances took us into the black current we fared no better. 
For good all-round inconvenience, give me going full tilt in 
the dark into the branches of a fallen tree at the pace we 
were going then — and crash, swish, crackle and there you are, 
hung up, with a bough pressing against your chest, and your 
hair being torn out and your clothes ribboned by others, 
while the wicked river is trying to drag away the canoe from 
under you. I expect we should have been an amusing 
spectacle for hard-hearted onlookers ; but onlookers there 
were none, neither could we form a co-operative society for 
consuming our own ridiculousness as we did when we had 
light to see it by. After a good hour and more of these 
experiences, we went hard on to a large black reef of rocks. 
So firm was the canoe wedged that we in our rather worn-out 
state couldn't move her so we wisely decided to " lef 'em " 
and see what could be done towards getting food and a fire 
for the remainder of the night. Our eyes, now trained to the 
darkness, observed pretty close to us a big lump of land, 
looming up out of the river. This we subsequently found 
out was Kembe Island. The rocks and foam on either side 
stretched away into the darkness, and high above us against 
the star-lit sky stood out clearly the summits of the mountains 
of the Sierra del Crista!, 

The most interesting question to us now was whether this 
rock reef communicated sufficiently with the island for us 
to get to it. Abandoning conjecture ; tying very firmly our 
canoe up to the rocks, a thing that seemed, considering she 
was jammed hard and immovable, a little unnecessary — but 
you can never be sufficiently careful in this matter with any 
kind of boat — off we started among the rock boulders. I 
would climb up on to a rock table, fall off it on the other side 



WE REACH A VILLAGE 175 



i 



>n to rocks again, with more or less water on them — then 
^et a patch of singing sand under my feet, then with var\ing 
--uddenness get into more water, deep or shallow, broad or 
narrow pools among the rocks ; out of that over more rocks, 
«S:c., &c., &c. : my companions, from their noises, evidently 
were going in for the same kind of thing, but we were quite 
cheerful, because the probabilit}- of reaching the land seemed 
increasing. Most of us arrived into deep channels of water 
which here and there cut in between this rock reef and the bank, 
M'bo was the first to find the way into certainty ; he was, and 
I hope still is, a perfect wonder at this sort of work. I 
kept close to M'bo, and when we got to the shore, the rest of 
the wanderers being collected, we said " chances are there's a 
. illage round here " ; and started to find it. After a ga}- time 
in a rock-encumbered forest, growing in a tangled, matted way 
•n a rough hillside, at an angle of 45 degrees, M'bo sighted 
the gleam of fires through the tree stems awaj- to the left, and 
we bore down on it, listening to its drum. Viewed through 
the bars of the tree stems the scene was ver\' picturesque. 
The village was just a collection of palm mat-built huts, 
very low and squalid. In its tiny street, an affair of some 
sixty feet long and twenty wide, were a succession of small 
fires. The villagers themselves, however, were the striking 
features in the picture. They were painted vermilion all over 
their nearly naked bodies, and were dancing enthusiastically 
to the good old rump-a-tump-tump-tump tune, played ener- 
geticalh' by an old gentleman on a long, high-standing, white- 
and-black painted drum. They said that as they had been 
dancing when we arrived they had failed to hear us. M'bo 
secured a — well, I don't exactly know what to call it — for m}- 
use. It was, I fancy, the remains of the village club-house. 
It had a certain amount of palm-thatch roof and some of its 
left-hand side left, the rest of the structure was bare old poles 
with filaments of palm mat hanging from them here and 
there ; and realh- if it hadn't been for the roof one wouldn't 
have known whether one was inside or outside it. The floor 
was trodden earth and in the middle of it a heap of white ash 
and the usual two bush lights, laid down with their burning 
ends propped up off the ground with stones, and emitting, as is 



176 THE RAPIDS OF THE OGOWE chap. 

their wont, a rather mawkish, but not altogether un- 
pleasant smell, and volumes of smoke which finds its way 
out through the thatch, leaving on the inside of it a rich 
oily varnish of a bright warm brown colour. They give 
a very good light, provided some one keeps an eye on 
them and knocks the ash off the end as it burns gray ; the 
bush lights' idea of being snuffed. Against one of the open- 
work sides hung a drum covered with raw hide, and a long 
hollow bit of tree trunk, which served as a cupboard for a few 
small articles. I gathered in all these details as I sat on one 
of the hard wood benches, waiting for my dinner, which Isaac 
was preparing outside in the street. The atmosphere of the 
hut, in spite of its remarkable advantages in the way of venti- 
lation, was oppressive, for the smell of the bush lights, my wet 
clothes, and the natives who crowded into the hut to look at 
me, made anything but a pleasant combination. The people 
were evidently exceedingly poor ; clothes they had very little 
of The two head men had on old French military coats in 
rags ; but they were quite satisfied with their appearance, and 
evidently felt through them in touch with European culture, 
for they lectured to the others on the habits and customs of 
the white man with great self-confidence and superiority. The 
majority of the village had a slight acquaintance already with 
this interesting animal, being, I found, Adoomas. They had 
made a settlement on Kembe Island some two years or so 
ago. Then the Fans came and attacked them, and killed and 
ate several. The Adoomas left and fled to the French 
authority at Njole and remained under its guarding 
shadow until the French came up and chastised the 
Fans and burnt their village ; and the Adoomas — 
when things had quieted down again and the Fans had 
gone off to build themselves a new village for their burnt 
one — came back to Kembe Island and their plantain patch. 
They had only done this a few months before my 
arrival and had not had time to rebuild, hence the dilapidated 
state of the village. They are, I am told, a Congo region 
tribe, whose country lies south-west of Franceville, and, as 
I have already said, are the tribe used by the French 
authorities to take convoys up and down the Ogowe to France- 



IX A NIGHT SCENE I77 

ville, more to keep this route open than for transport purposes ; 
the rapids rendering it impracticable to take heavy stores this 
w ay, and making it a thirty-six days' journey from Njole with 

lod luck. The practical route is via Loango and Brazzaville. 
J. he Adoomas told us the convoy which had gone up with the 
\ ivacious government official had had trouble with the rapids 
and had spent five days on Kondo Kondo, dragging up 
the canoes empty by means of ropes and chains, carrying the 
cargo that was in them along on land until they had passed the 
worst rapid and then repacking. They added the information 
that the rapids were at their worst just now, and entertained us 
w ith reminiscences of a poor young French official who had 
been drowned in them last year — indeed they were just 
as cheering as my white friends. As soon as my dinner 
arrived they politely cleared out, and I heard the devout M'bo 
holding a service for them, with hymns, in the street, and this 
being over the}' returned to their drum and dance, keeping 
things up distinctly late, for it was ii.io P.M., when we first 
entered the village. 

While the men were getting their food I mounted 
guard over our little possessions, and when they turned 
up to make things tidy in my hut, I walked off down to 
the shore by a path, which we had elaborately avoided when 
coming to the village, a very vertically inclined, slippery little 
path, but still the one whereby the natives went up and down 
to their canoes,' which were kept tied up amongst the rocks. 
The moon was rising, illumining the sky, but not yet sending 
down her light on the foaming, flying Ogowe in its deep ravine. 
The scene was divinely lovely ; on every side out of the 
formless gloom rose the peaks of the Sierra del Cristal. 
Tomanjawki, on the further side of the river surrounded by 
his companion peaks, looked his grandest, silhouetted hard 
against the sky. In the higher valleys where the dim light 
shone fainth-, one could see wreaths and clouds of silver-gray 
mist lying, basking lazily or roiling to and fro. Olangi 
seemed to stretch right across the river, blocking with his 
great blunt mass all passage ; while away to the N.E. a cone- 
shaped peak showed conspicuous, which I afterwards knew as 
Kangwe. In the darkness round me flitted thousands of fire- 

N 



178 THE RAPIDS OF THE OGOWE chap. 

flies and out beyond this pool of utter night flew by unceas- 
ingly the white foam of the rapids ; sound there was none 
save their thunder. The majesty and beauty of the scene 
fascinated me, and I stood leaning with my back against a 
rock pinnacle watching it. Do not imagine it gave rise^ 
in what I am pleased to call my mind, to those 
complicated, poetical reflections natural beauty seems to bring 
out in other people's minds. It never works that way with 
me ; I just lose all sense of human individuality, all memory 
of human life, with its grief and worry and doubt, and become 
part of the atmosphere. If I have a heaven, that will be mine, \ 
and I verily believe that if I were left alone long enough with 
such a scene as this or on the deck of an African liner in the 
Bights, watching her funnel and masts swinging to and fro in 
the great long leisurely roll against the sky, I should be found 
soulless and dead ; but I never have a chance of that. This 
night my absent Kras, as my Fanti friends would call them, 
were sent hurrying home badly scared to their attributive 
body by a fearful shriek tearing through the voice of the 
Ogowe up into the silence of the hills. I woke with a shudder 
and found myself sore and stiff, but made hastily in the 
direction of the shriek, fancying some of our hosts had been 
spearing one of the crew — a vain and foolish fancy I apologise 
for. What had happened was that my men, thinking it wiser to 
keep an eye on our canoe, had come down and built a fire 
close to her and put up their mosquito-bars as tents. One of 
the men, tired out by his day's work, had sat down on one of 
the three logs, whose ends, pointed to a common centre where 
the fire is, constitute the universal stove of this region. He 
was taking a last pipe before turning in, but sleep had taken 
him, and the wretch of a fire had sneaked along in the log 
under him and burnt him suddenly. The shriek was 
his way of mentioning the fact. Having got up these facts 
I left the victim seated in a remedial cool pool of water and 
climbed back to the village, whose inhabitants, tired at last, 
were going to sleep. M'bo, I found, had hung up my 
mosquito-bar over one of the hard wood benches, and going 
cautiously under it I lit a night-light and read myself asleep 
with my damp dilapidated old Horace. 



IX UP STREAM AGAIN 179 

Woke at 4 A.M. lying on the ground among the plantain 
stems, having by a reckless movement fallen out of the house. 
Thanks be there are no mosquitoes. I don't know how I 
escaped the rats which swarm here, running about among the 
huts and the inhabitants in the evening, with a tameness 
shocking to see. I turned in again until six o'clock, when we 
started getting things ready to go up river again, carefully 
providing ourselves with a new stock of poles, and subsidising 
a native to come with us and help us to fight the rapids. 

The greatest breadth of the river channel we now saw, in 
the daylight, to be the S.S.\\'. branch ; this was the one we 
had been swept into, and was almost completely barred b}- 
rock. The other one to the X.X.W. was more open, and the 
river rushed through it, a terrific, swirling mass of water. Had 
we got caught in this, we should have got past Kembe Island, 
and gone to glory. Whenever the shelter of the spits of land or 
of the reefs was sufficient to allow the water to lay down its 
sand, strange shaped sandbanks showed, as regular in form as if 
they had been smoothed b}- human hands. They rise above 
the water in a slope, the low end or tail against the current ; 
the down-stream end terminating in an abrupt miniature 
cliff, sornetimes six and seven feet above the water ; that they 
are the same shape when they have not got their heads above 
water you will find by sticking on them in a canoe, which I did 
several times, with a sort of automatic devotion to scientific 
research peculiar to me. Your best way of getting off is to 
push on in the direction of the current, carefully preparing 
for the shock of suddenly coming off the cliff end. 

We left the landing place rocks of Kembe Island about 8, 
and no sooner had we got afloat, than, in the twinkling of 
an eye, we were swept, broadside on, right across the river 
to the north bank, and then engaged in a heavy fight 
with a severe rapid. After passing this, the river is fairly un- 
interrupted by rock for a while, and is silent and swift. When 
you are ascending such a piece the effect is strange ; you see 
the water flying by the side of j'our canoe, as you vigorously 
drive your paddle into it with short rapid strokes, and you 
forthwith fancy \ou are travelling at the rate of a North- 
W^estem express ; biit you just raise your eyes, my friend, and 

N 2 



i8o THE RAPIDS OF THE 0G0W6 CHAP. 

look at that bank, which is standing very nearly still, and you 
will realise that you and your canoe are standing very nearly 
still too ; and that all your exertions are only enabling you to 
creep on at the pace of a crushed snail, and that it's the water 
that is going the pace. It's a most quaint and unpleasant dis- 
illusionment. 

Above the stretch of swift silent water we come to the 
Sengelade Islands, and the river here changes its course 
from N.N.W., S.S.E. to north and south. A bad rapid, 
called by our ally from Kembe Island " Unfanga," being 
surmounted, we seem to be in a mountain-walled lake, and 
keeping along the left bank of this, we get on famously for 
twenty whole restful minutes, which lulls us all into a false 
sense of security, and my crew sing M'pongwe songs, descrip- 
tive of how they go to their homes to see their wives, and 
families, and friends, giving chaffing descriptions of their 
friends' characteristics and of their failings, which cause bursts of 
laughter from those among us who recognise the allusions, 
and how they go to their boxes, and take out their clothes, 
and put them on — a long bragging inventory of these things is 
given by each man as a solo, and then the chorus, taken heartily 
up by his companions, signifies their admiration and astonish- 
ment at his wealth and importance — and then they sing how, 
being dissatisfied with that last dollar's worth of goods they 
got from " Holty's," they have decided to take their next 
trade to Hatton and Cookson, or vice versa ; and then comes the 
chorus, applauding the wisdom of such a decision, and extol- 
ling the excellence of Hatton and Cookson's goods or Holty's. 
These M'pongwe and Igalwa boat songs are all very pretty, 
and have very elaborate tunes in a minor key. I do not believe 
there are any old words to them ; I have tried hard to find out • 
about them, but I believe the tunes, which are of a limited num- 
ber and quite distinct from each other, are very old. The words ; 
are put in by the singer on the spur of the moment, and only I 
restricted in this sense, that there would always be the domestic ' 
catalogue — whatever its component details might be — sung to 
the one fixed tune, the trade information sung to another, 
and so on. A good singer, in these parts, means the man who 
can make up the best song — the most impressive, or the most 



IX 



A MUSICAL ACCOMPANIMENT 



amusing ; I have elsewhere mentioned prett\' much the same 
state of things among the Ga's and Krumen and Bubi, and in 
all cases the tunes are only voice tunes, not for instrumental 
performance. The instrumental music consists of that mar\el- 
lously developed series of drum tunes — the attempt to under- 
stand which has taken up much of my time, and led me into 
queer company — and the many tunes pla}ed on the 'mrimba 
and the orchid-root-stringed harp: they are, I believe, entirely 
distinct from the song tunes. And these peaceful tunes my 




SOUTH BANK OF THE OGOWE RIVER NEAR SENGEIADE ISLANDS. 



men were now singing were, in their florid elaboration ver}- 
different from the one the\' fought the rapids to, of— So Sir — 
So Sur — So Sir — So Sur — Ush ! So Sir, &c. 

On we go singing elaborately, thinking no evil of nature, 
when a current, a quiet devil of a thing, comes round from 
behind a point of the bank and catches the nose of our canoe ; 
wringing it well, it sends us scuttling right across the river in 
spite of our ferocious swoops at the water, upsetting us among 
a lot of rocks with the water boiling over them ; this lot of 



i82 THE RAPIDS OF THE OGOWE chap. 



rocks being however of the table-top kind, and not those 
precious, close-set pinnacles rising up sheer out of profound 
depths, between which you are so likely to get your canoe 
wedged in and split. We, up to our knees in water that 
nearly tears our legs off, push and shove the canoe free, and 
re-embarking return singing " So Sir " across the river, to have 
it out with that current. We do ; and at its head find a rapid, 
and notice on the mountain-side a village clearing, the first 
sign of human habitation we have seen to-day. 

Above this rapid we get a treat of still water, the main 
current of the Ogowe flying along by the south bank. On 
our side there are sandbanks with their graceful sloping backs 
and sudden ends, and there is a very strange and beautiful 
effect produced by the flakes and balls of foam thrown off the 
rushing main current into the quiet water. These whirl 
among the eddies and rush backwards and forwards as though 
they were still mad with wild haste, until, finding no 
current to take them down, they drift away into the land- 
locked bays, where they come to a standstill as if they were 
bewildered and lost and were trying to remember where 
they were going to and whence they had come ; the foam of 
which they are composed is yellowish-white, with a spongy 
sort of solidity about it. In a little bay we pass we see eight 
native women. Fans clearly, by their bright brown faces, and 
their loads of brass bracelets and armlets ; likely enough they 
had anklets too, but we could not see them, as the good ladies 
were pottering about waist-deep in the foam-flecked water, 
intent on breaking up a stockaded fish-trap. We pause 
and chat, and watch them collecting the fish in baskets, 
and I acquire some specimens ; and then, shouting farewells 
when we are well away, in the proper civil way, resume our 
course. 

The middle of the Ogowe here is simply forested with high 
rocks, looking, as they stand with their grim forms above the 
foam, like a regiment of strange strong creatures breasting it, 
with their straight faces up river, and their more*, flowing 
curves down, as though they had on black mantles which 
were swept backwards. Across on the other bank rose the 
black-forested spurs of Tomanjawki. Our channel was 



i 



A STIFF ASCENT 



183 



; ee until we had to fight round the upper end of our bay 
into a long rush of strong current with bad whirlpools curving 
its face ; then the ri\er widens out and quiets down and then 
uddenly contracts — a rocky forested promontory running 
lit from each bank. There is a little village on the north 
jank's promontory, and, at the end of each, huge monoliths rise 
from the water, making what looks like a gateway 
w hich had once been barred and through which the Ogowe 
had burst. 




BOKO BOKO R.\PID5, OGOWE RIVER. 



For the first time on this trip I felt discouraged ; it seemed 
o impossible that we, with our small canoe and scanty crew, 
could force our way up through that gateway, when the whole 
Ogowe was rushing down through it. But we clung to the 
bank and rocks with hands, poles, and paddle, and did it ; 
really the worst part was not in the gateway but just before 
it, for here there is a great whirlpool, its centre hollowed some 
two or three feet below its rim. It is caused, my Kembe 
islander sa\s, by a great cave opening beneath the water. 
Above the gate the river broadens out again and we see 



i84 THE RAPIDS OF THE OGOWE chaP- 

the arched opening to a large cave in the south bank ; 
the mountain -side is one mass of rock covered with the 
unbroken forest ; and the entrance to this cave is just on the 
upper wall of the south bank's promontory ; so, being sheltered 
from the current here, we rest and examine it leisurely. The 
river runs into it, and you can easily pass in at this season, 
but in the height of the wet season, when the river level would 
be some twenty feet or more above its present one, I doubt if 
you could. They told me this place is called Boko Boko, 
and that the cave is a very long one, extending on a level 
some way into the hill, and then ascending and coming out 
near a mass of white rock that showed as a speck high up on 
the mountain. 

If you paddle into it you go " far far," and then " no more 
water live," and you get out and go up the tunnel, which is some- 
times broad, sometimes narrow, sometimes high, sometimes so 
low that you have to crawl, and so get out at the other end. 

One French gentleman has gone through this performance, 
and I am told found " plenty plenty " bats, and hedgehogs, 
and snakes. They could not tell me his name, which I much 
regretted. As we had no store of bush lights we went no 
further than the portals ; indeed, strictly between ourselves, if 
I had had every bush light in Congo Frangais I personally 
should not have relished going further. I am terrified of 
caves ; it sends a creaming down my back to think of them. 

We went across the river to see another cave entrance on the 
other bank, where there is a narrow stretch of low rock-covered 
land at the foot of the mountains, probably under water in the 
wet season. The mouth of this other cave is low, between tum- 
bled blocks of rock. It looked so suspiciously like a short cut to 
the lower regions, that I had less exploring enthusiasm about 
it than even about its opposite neighbour ; although they 
told me no man had gone down " them thing." Probably 
that much-to-be-honoured Frenchman who explored the other 
cave, allowed like myself, that if one did want to go from the 
Equator to Hades, there were pleasanter ways to go than this. 
My Kembe Island man said that just hereabouts were five cave 
openings, the two that we had seen and another one we had 
not, on land, and two under the water, one of the sub-fluvial 



IX PAST THE OKAXA RIVER 185 

ones being responsible for the whirlpool we met outside the 
.,^ateway of Boko Boko. 

The scener>' above Boko Boko was exceedingly lovely, the 
river shut in between its rim of mountains. As you pass up 
it opens out in front of you and closes in behind, the closely- 
set confused mass of mountains altering in form as you view 
them from different angles, save one, Kang\ve — a blunt cone, 
evidently the record of some great volcanic outburst ; and 
the sandbanks show again wherever the current deflects and 
leaves slack water, their bright glistening colour giving a 
relief to the scene. 

For a long period we paddle by the south bank, and pass a 
vertical cleft-like valley, the upper end of which seems blocked 
by a finely shaped mountain, almost as conical as Kang^ve. 
The name of this mountain is Xjoko, and the name of the 
clear small river, that apparently monopolises the valley floor, 
is the Ovata. Our peace was not of long duration, and we 
were soon again in the midst of a bristling forest of rock ; still 
the current running was not dangerously strong, for the 
river-bed comes up in a ridge, too high for much water to 
come over at this season of the j'ear ; but in the wet season 
this must be one of the worst places. This ridge of rock runs 
two-thirds across the Ogowe, leaving a narrow deep channel 
by the north bank. When we had got our canoe over the 
ridge, mostly by standing in the water and lifting her, we 
found the water deep and fairly quiet. 

On the north bank we passed b\- the entrance of the Okana 
River. Its mouth is narrow, but, the natives told me, always 
deep, even in the height of the drj' season. It is a very con- 
siderable river, running inland to the X.X.E. Little is known 
about it, save that it is narrowed into a ravine course 
above which it expands again ; the banks of it are thickly 
populated by Fans, who send down a considerable trade, and 
have an evil reputation. In the main stream of the Ogowe 
below the Okana's entrance, is a long rocky island called 
Shandi. When we were getting over our ridge and paddling 
about the Okana's entrance my ears recognised a new sound. 
The rush and roar of the Ogowe we knew well enough, and 
could locate which particular obstacle to his headlong course 



i86 THE RAPIDS OF THE 0G0W6 chap. 

was making him say things ; it was either those immovable 
rocks, which threw him back in foam, whirHng wildly, or it 
was that fringe of gaunt skeleton trees hanging from the bank 
playing a "pull devil, pull baker" contest that made him hiss 
with vexation. But this was an elemental roar. I said to 
M'bo : " That's a thunderstorm away among the mountains." 
" No, sir," says he, " that's the Alemba." 

We paddled on towards it, hugging the right-hand 
bank again to avoid the mid-river rocks. For a brief space 
the mountain wall ceased, and a lovely scene opened 
before us ; we seemed to be looking into the heart of 
the chain of the Sierra del Cristal, the abruptly .shaped 
mountains encircling a narrow plain or valley before us, each 
one of them steep in slope, every one of them forest-clad ; 
one, whose name I know not unless it be what is sometimes 
put down as Mt. Okana on the French maps, had a conical shape 
which contrasted beautifully with the more irregular curves of 
its companions. The colour down this gap was superb, and 
very Japanese in the evening glow. The more distant peaks 
were soft gray-blues and purple, those nearer, indigo and black. 
We soon passed this lovely scene and entered the walled-in 
channel, creeping up what seemed an interminable hill of 
black water, then through some whirlpools and a rocky channel 
to the sand and rock shore of our desired island Kondo Kondo,. 
along whose northern side tore in thunder the Alemba. We 
made our canoe fast in a little cove among the rocks, and landed, 
pretty stiff and tired and considerably damp. This island, 
when we were on it, must have been about half a mile or so long, 
but during the long wet season a good deal of it is covered, 
and only the higher parts — great heaps of stone, among which 
grows a long branched willow-like shrub — are above or nearly 
above water. The Adooma from Kembe Island especially 
drew my attention to this shrub, telling me his people who 
worked the rapids always regarded it with an affectionate 
veneration ; for he said it was the only thing that helped a man 
when his canoe got thrown over in the dreaded Alemba, for 
its long tough branches swimming in, or close to, the water 
are veritable life lines, and his best chance ; a chance which must 
have failed some poor fellow, whose knife and leopard-skin belt 



i 



IX 



THE ALEMBA RAPID 187 



we found wedged in among the rocks on Kondo Kondo. The 
main part of the island is sand, with slabs and tables of 
polished rock sticking up through it ; and in between the rocks 
grew in thousands most beautiful lilies, their white flowers 
having a ven,' strong scent of vanilla and their bright light-green 
leaves looking ver\' loveh- on the glistening pale sand among 
the black-gray rock. How they stand the long submersion 
they must undergo I do not know ; the natives tell me they 
begin to spring up as soon as ever the water falls and 
leaves the island exposed ; that they very soon grow up and 
flower, and keep on flowering until the Ogowe comes down 
again and rides roughshod over Kondo Kondo for months. 
While the men were making their fire I went across the island 
to see the great Alemba rapid, of which I had heard so much, 
that lay between it and the north bank. Nobler pens than mine 
must sing its glory and its grandeur. Its face was like nothing 
I have seen before. Its voice was like nothing I have heard. 
Those other rapids are not to be compared to it ; they are wild, 
headstrong, and malignant enough, but the Alemba is not as 
they. It does not struggle, and writhe, and brawl among the 
rocks, but comes in a majestic springing dance, a stretch of 
waltzing foam, triumphant. 

The beauty of the night on Kondo Kondo was superb ; 
the sun went down and the afterglow flashed across the 
sky in crimson, purple, and gold, leaving it a deep violet- 
purple, with the great stars hanging in it like moons, until the 
moon herself arose, lighting the sky long before she sent 
her beams down on us in this valley. As she rose, 
the mountains hiding her face grew harder and harder in 
outline, and deeper and deeper black, ^\•hile those opposite 
were just enough illumined to let one see the wefts and 
floating veils of blue-white mist upon them, and when at last, 
and for a short time only, she shone full down on the savage 
foam of the Alemba, she turned it into a soft silver mist. 
Around, on all sides flickered the fire-flies, who had come to 
see if our fire was not a big relation of their own, and they were 
the sole representatives, with ourselves, of animal life. When the 
moon had gone, the sky, still lit by the stars, seeming indeed 
to be in itself lambent, was very lovely, but it shared none of 



THE RAPIDS OF THE OGOWE chap. 



its light with us, and we sat round our fire surrounded by an 
utter darkness. Cold, clammy drifts of almost tangible mist 
encircled us ; ever and again came cold faint puffs of wandering 
wind, weird and grim beyond description. 

The individual names of the mountains round Kondo Kondo 
and above I cannot give you, though I was told them. For 
in my last shipwreck before reaching Kondo Kondo, I had 
lost my pencil ; and my note-book, even if I had had a 
pencil, was unfit to get native names down on, being a pulpy 
mass, because I had kept it in my pocket after leaving the 
Okana river so as to be ready for submergencies. And I also 
had several fish and a good deal of water in my pocket too, 
so that I am thankful I have a note left. 

I will not weary you further with details of our ascent of the 
Ogowe rapids, for I have done so already sufficiently to make 
you understand the sort of work going up them entails, and 
I have no doubt that, could I have given you a more vivid 
picture of them, you would join me in admiration of the fiery 
pluck of those few Frenchmen who traverse them on duty bound. 
I personally deeply regret it was not my good fortune to meet 
again the French official I had had the pleasure of meeting on 
the Eclaireiir. He would have been truly great in his descrip- 
tion of his voyage to Franceville. I wonder how he would 
have " done " his unpacking of canoes and his experiences on 
Kondo Kondo, where, by the by, we came across many of 
the ashes of his expedition's attributive fires. Well ! he must 
have been a pleasure to Franceville, and I hope also to the 
good fathers at Lestourville, for those places must be just 
slightly sombre for Parisians. 

Going down big rapids is always, everywhere, more dan- 
gerous than coming up, because when you are coming up and 
a whirlpool or eddy does jam you on rocks, the current helps 
you off — certainly only with a view to dashing your brains out 
and smashing your canoe on another set of rocks it's got ready 
below ; but for the time being it helps, and when off, you take 
charge and convert its plan into an incompleted fragment ; 
whereas in going down the current is against your backing off. 
M'bo had a series of prophetic visions as to what would happen 
to us on our way down, founded on reminiscence and tradition. 



GLOOMY PROPHECIES 



189 



I tried to comfort him by pointing out that, were any one of his 
prophecies fulfilled, it would spare our friends and relations all 
funeral expenses ; and, unless they went and wasted their money 
on a memorial window, that ought to be a comfort to our well- 
regulated minds. M'bo did not see this, but was too good a 
Christian to be troubled by the disagreeable conviction that was 
in the minds of other members of my crew, namely, that our 
souls, unliberated by funeral rites from this world, would have to 
hover for ever over the Ogowe near the scene of our catastrophe. 




SOL'IH BANK OF THE OGOWh AKOVE BOKO BOKO. 



I own this idea was an unpleasant one — fancy having to pass 
the day in those caves with the bats, and then come out and 
ander all night in the cold mists! However, like a good 
nany likely-looking prophecies, those of M'bo did not quite 
come off, and a miss is as good as a mile. Twice we had a 
near call, by being shot in between two pinnacle rocks, 
within half an inch of being fatally close to each other for us ; 
but after some alarming . scrunching sounds, and creaks from 
the canoe, we were shot ignominiously out down river. Several 
times we got on to partially submerged table rocks, and were 



I90 THE RAPIDS OF THE OGOW6 chap. 

unceremoniously bundled off them by the Ogovve, irritated at 
the hindrance we were occasioning ; but we never met the rocks 
of M'bo's prophetic soul — that lurking, submerged needle, or 
knife-edge of a pinnacle rock which was to rip our canoe from 
stem to stern, neat and clean into two pieces. 

A comic incident happened to us one evening. The canoe] 
jammed among a clump of rocks, and out we went anyhow into!' 
the water. Fortunately, there were lots of rocks about ; unfor- 
tunately, we each chose different ones to perch on ; mine was; 
exceedingly inconvenient, being a smooth pillar affair, to which 
it was all I and the French flag, which always accompanied/] 
me in upsets, could do to hold on. There was considerable 
delay in making up our party again, for the murkiness of 
the night only allowed each of us to see the foam which 
flew round our own particular rock, and the noise of the 
rapids made it difficult for us to interchange information 
regarding our own individual position and plan of action. 
However, owing to that weak-minded canoe swinging round 
broadside on to the rocks, she did not bolt down the river. 
When Pierre got to her she was trying to climb sideways over 
them, " like a crab," he said. We seven of us got into her — 
number eight we could not find and were just beginning to 
think the Ogowe had claimed another victim when we heard 
the strains of that fine hymn " Notre port est au Ciel," — which is 
a great favourite hereabouts owing to its noble tune, — coming 
to us above the rapids' clamour in an agonised howl. We went 
joyfully and picked the singer off his rock, and then dashed 
downwards to further dilemmas and disasters. The course we 
had to take coming down was different to that we took coming 
up. Coming up we kept as closely as might be to the most 
advisable bank, and dodged behind every rock we could, 
to profit by the shelter it afforded us from the current. 
Coming down, fallen-tree-fringed banks and rocks were con- 
verted from friends to foes ; so we kept with all our power 
in the very centre of the swiftest part of the current in order to 
avoid them. The grandest part of the whole time was coming 
down, below the Alemba, where the whole great Ogowe 
takes a tiger-like spring for about half a mile, I should 
think, before it strikes a rock reef below. As you come out 



IX KEEP HER HEAD STRAIGHT 191 

from among the rocks in the upper rapid it gives }-ou — or I 
should perhaps confine myself to saying, it gave me — a pecu- 
liar internal sensation to see that stretch of black water, 
shining like a burnished sheet of metal, sloping down before 
one, at such an angle. All you have got to do is to keep your 
canoe-head straight — quite straight, you understand — for any 
failure so to do will land you the other side of the tomb, in- 
stead of in a cheerful no-end-of-a-row with the lower rapid's 
rocks. This lower rapid is one of the worst in the dry season ; 
maybe it is so in the wet too, for the river's channel here turns 
an elbow-sharp curve which infuriates the Ogowe in a most 
dangerous manner. 

I hope to see the Ogowe next time in the wet season — 
there must be several more of these great sheets of water then 
over what are rocky rapids now. Just think what coming 
down over that ridge above Boko Boko will be like ! I do 
not fancy however it would ever be possible to get up the river 
when it is at its height, with so small a crew as we were when 
we went and played our knock-about farce, before King Death, 
in his amphitheatre in the Sierra del CristaL 



CHAPTER X 

LEMBARENE 

In which is given some account of the episode of the Hippopotame, and 
of the voyager's attempts at controUing an Ogowe canoe ; and also 
of the Igahva tribe. 

On my return to Talagouga, I find both my good friends sick 
with fever — M. Forget very ill indeed. Providentially the 
Edaireiir came up river, with the Doctor Administrator on 
board, and he came ashore and prescribed, and in a few days 
M. Forget was better. I say good-bye to Talagouga with much 
regret, and go on board the Edaireiir, when she returns from 
Njole, with all my bottles and belongings. On board I find no 
other passenger ; the captain's English has widened out con- 
siderably ; and he is as pleasant, cheery, and spoiling for a fight 
as ever ; but he has a preoccupied manner, and a most peculiar 
set of new habits, which I find are shared by the engineer. 
Both of them make rapid dashes to the rail, and nervously 
scan the river for a minute and then return to some occupa- 
tion, only to dash from it to the rail again. During breakfast 
their conduct is nerve-shaking. Hastily taking a few mouth- 
fuls, the captain drops his knife and fork and simply hurls his 
seamanlike form through the nearest door out on to the deck. 
In another minute he is back again, and with just a shake of 
his head to the engineer, continues his meal. The engineer 
shortly afterwards flies from his seat, and being far thinner 
than the captain, goes through his nearest door with even 
greater rapidity ; returns, and shakes his head at the captain, 
and continues his meal. Excitement of this kind is in- 
fectious, and I also wonder whether I ought not to show 
a sympathetic friendliness by flying from my seat and hurl- 
ing myself on to the deck through my nearest door, too. 



CH. X A SMOOTH RUN DOWN 193 

But although there are plenty of doors, as four enter the 
saloon from the deck, I do not see my way to doing this per- 
formance aimlessly, and what in this world they are both after I 
cannot think. So I confine myself to woman's true sphere, and 
assist in a humble way by catching the wine and Vichy water 
bottles, glasses, and plates of food, which at every performance 
are jeopardised by the members of the nobler sex starting 
off with a considerable quantity of the ample table-cloth 
wrapped round their legs. At last I can stand it no longer, 
so ask the captain point-blank what is the matter. " No- 
thing," says he, bounding out of his chair and flying out of his 
doorway ; but on his return he tells me he has got a bet on 
of two bottles of champagne with Woermann's agent for 
Niole, as to who shall reach Lembarene first, and the German 
agent has started off some time before the Eclaireur in his 
little steam launch. 

During the afternoon we run smoothly along ; the free 
pulsations of the engines telling what a very different thing 
coming down theOgowe is to going up against its terrific current. 
Every now and again we stop to pick up cargo, or discharge 
over-carried cargo, and the captain's mind becomes lulled by 
getting no news of the Woermann's launch having passed 
down. He communicates this to the engineer ; it is impossible 
she could have passed the Eclaireur since they started, there- 
fore she must be somewhere behind at a subfactor}-, " N^est-ce 
pas ? " " Out, oui, certainement" says the engineer. The 
engineer is, by these considerations, also lulled, and 
feels he may do something else but scan the river 
a la sister Ann. What that something is puzzles me ; 
it evidently requires secrecy, and he shrinks from detec- 
tion. First he looks down one side of the deck, no one there ; 
then he looks down the other, no one there ; good so far. I 
then see he has put his head through one of the saloon port- 
holes ; no one there ; he hesitates a few seconds until I begin 
to wonder whether his head will suddenly appear through my 
port ; but he regards this as an unnecessary precaution, and I 
hear him enter his cabin which abuts on mine and there is 
silence for some minutes. Writing home to his mother, think 
I, as I go on putting a new braid round the bottom of a worn 

O 



194 LEMBARENE CHAP. 



skirt. Almost immediately after follows the sound of a little 
click from the next cabin, and then apparently one of the 
denizens of the infernal regions has got its tail smashed in a 
door and the heavy hot afternoon air is reft by an inchoate howl 
of agony. I drop my needlework and take to the deck ; but it 
is after all only that shy retiring young man practising secretly 
on his clarionet. fj 

The captain is drowsily looking down the river. 
But repose is not long allowed to that active spirit ; 
he sees something in the water — what ? " Hippopotame" he 
ejaculates. Now both he and the engineer frequently do this 
thing, and then fly off to their guns — bang, bang, finish ; but this 
time he does not dash for his gun, nor does the engineer, who flies 
out of his cabin at the sound of the war shout " Hippopotame!' 
In vain I look across the broad river with its stretches of yellow 
sandbanks, where the " hippopotame " should be, but I can see 
nothing but four black stumps sticking up in the water away to 
the right. Meanwhile the captain and the engineer are flying 
about getting off a crew of blacks into the canoe we are towing 
alongside. This being done the captain explains to me that on 
the voyage up " the engineer had fired at, and hit a hippo- 
potamus, and without doubt this was its body floating." We 
are now close enough even for me to recognise the four stumps 
as the deceased's legs, and soon the canoe is alongside them 
and makes fast to one, and then starts to paddle back, hippo 
and all, to the Eclaireur. But no such thing ; let them paddle 
and shout as hard as they like, the hippo's weight simply anchors 
them. The Eclaireurhy now has dropped down the river past 
them, and has to sweep round and run back. Recognising 
promptly what the trouble is, the energetic captain grabs up a 
broom, ties a light cord belonging to the leadline to it, and 
holding the broom by the end of its handle, swings it round 
his head and hurls it at the canoe. The arm of a merciful 
Providence being interposed, the broom-tomahawk does not 
hit the canoe, wherein, if it had, it must infallibly have killed 
some one, but falls short, and goes tearing off with the current,' 
well out of reach of the canoe. The captain seeing this gross 
dereliction of duty by a Chargeur Reunis broom, hauls it in 
.hand over hand and talks to it. Then he ties the 9ther end of its 



X CAPTURE OF A HIPPOPOTAMUS i95 

line to the mooring rope, and by a better aimed shot sends the 
broom into the water, about ten yards above the canoe, and it 
rifts towards it. Breathless excitement ! surely they will get 
It now. Alas, no ! Just when it is within reach of the canoe, a 
fearful shudder runs through the broom. It throws up its head 
and sinks beneath the tide. A sensation of stun comes overall 
of us. The crew of the canoe, ready and eager to grasp the 
approaching aid, gaze blankly at the circling ripples round 
where it sank. In a second the captain knows what has 
happened. That heavy hawser which has been paid out after 
it has dragged it down, so he hauls it on board again. 

The Eclaireur goes now close enough to the hippo-anchored 
canoe for a rope to be flung to the man in her bows ; he catches 
it and freezes on gallantly. Saved ! No ! Oh horror ! The 
lower deck hums with fear that after all it will not taste that 
toothsome hippo chop, for the man who has caught the rope 
is as nearh' as possible jerked flying out of the canoe when 
the strain of the Eclaireur contending with the hippo's 
inertia flies along it, but his companion behind him grips him 
by the legs and is in his turn grabbed, and the crew holding 
on to each other with their hands, and on to their craft with 
their feet, save the man holding on to the rope and the whole 
situation ; and slowly bobbing towards us comes the hippo- 
potamus, who is shorth- hauled on board by the winners in 
triumph. 

My esteemed friends, the captain and the engineer, who of 
<;ourse have been below during this hauling, now rush on to the 
upper deck, each coatless, and carrying an enormous butcher's 
knife. They dash into the saloon, where a terrific sharpening of 
these instruments takes place on the steel belonging to the 
saloon carving-knife, and down stairs again. By looking down 
the ladder, I can see the pink, pig-like hippo, whose colour 
has been soaked out by the water, lying on the lower deck 
and the captain and engineer slitting down the skin intent 
on gralloching operations. Providentially, my prophetic soul 
induces me to leave the top of the ladder and go forward — 
'' run to win'ard," as Captain Murray would say — for within 
two minutes the captain and engineer are up the ladder as if 
they had been blown up by the boilers bursting, and go cis 

O 2 



196 LEMBARENE chap 



one man for the brandy bottle ; and they wanted it if ever 
man did ; for remember that hippo had been dead and in the 
warm river-water for more than a week. 

The captain had had enough of it, he said, but the engineer 
stuck to the job with a courage I profoundly admire, and he 
saw it through and then retired to his cabin ; sand-and-can- 
vassed himself first, and then soaked and saturated himself in 
Florida water. The flesh gladdened the hearts of the crew 
and lower-deck passengers and also of the inhabitants of 
Lembarene, who got dashes of it on our arrival there. Hippo 
flesh is not to be despised by black man or white ; I have 
enjoyed it far more than the stringy beef or vapid goat's 
flesh one gets down here. 

I stayed on board the Eclairciir all night ; for it was dark 
when we reached Lembarene, too dark to go round to Kangwe ; 
and next morning, after taking a farewell of her — I 
hope not a final one, for she is a most luxurious little vessel 
for the Coast, as the feeding on board is excellent and the 
society varied and charming — I went round to Kangwe. M. 
and Mme. Jacot received me back most kindly, and they 
both looked all the better for my having been away. M. 
Haug and a young missionary from Baraka, who had come up 
to Lembarene for a change after fever, were busy starting 
to go up to Talagouga in a canoe, which I was very glad of, 
because M. Haug, at any rate, would be of immense help 
to Mme. and M. Forget, while they were in such bad health ; 
only during his absence M. Jacot had enough work for any 
five men. 

1 remained some time in the Lembarene district and saw and 
learnt many things ; I owe most of what I learnt to M. 
and Mme. Jacot who knew a great deal about both the 
natives and the district, and I owe much of what I saw to 
having acquired the art of managing by myself a native 
canoe. This " recklessness " of mine I am sure did not merit the 
severe criticism it has been subjected to, for my performances 
gave immense amusement to others (I can hear Lembarene's 
shrieks of laughter now) and to myself they gave great 
pleasure. 

My first attempt was made at Talagouga one very hot 



A TRIAL TRIP I97 



afternoon. M. and Mme. Forget were, I thought, safe 
having their siestas, Oranie was with Mme. Gacon. I 
knew where Mme. Gacon was for certain ; she was with 
M. Gacon ; and I knew he was up in the sawmill shed, 
out of sight of the river, because of the soft thump, thump, 
thump of the big water-wheel. There was therefore no one to 
keep me out of mischief, and I was too frightened to go into 
the forest that afternoon, because on the previous afternoon I 
had been stalked as a wild beast by a cannibal savage, and I am 
nervous. Besides, and above all, it is quite impossible to see 
other people, even if they are only black, naked savages, gliding 
about in canoes, without wishing to go and glide about yourself. 
So I went down to where the canoes were tied by their noses to 
the steep bank, and finding a paddle, a broken one, I unloosed 
the smallest canoe. Unfortunately this was fifteen feet or so 
long, but I did not know the disadvantage of having, as it 
were, a long-tailed canoe then — I did shortly afterwards. 

The promontories running out into the river on each side of 
the mission beach give a little stretch of slack water between 
the bank and the mill-race-like current of the Ogowe, and I 
A\isely decided to keep in the slack water, until I had found 
out how to steer — most important thing steering. I got into 
the bow of the canoe, and shoved off from the bank all right ; 
then I knelt down — learn how to paddle standing up by and 
by — good so far. I rapidly learnt how to steer from the 
bow, but I could not get up any pace. Intent on acquiring 
pace, I got to the edge of the slack water ; and then dis- 
playing more wisdom, I turned round to avoid it, proud as a 
peacock, you understand, at having found out how to turn 
round. At this moment, the current of the greatest equatorial 
river in the world, grabbed my canoe by its tail. We spun 
round and round for a few seconds, like a teetotum, I 
steering the whole time for all I was worth, and then the 
current dragged the canoe ignominiously down river, tail fore- 
most. 

Fortunately a big tree was at that time temporarily hanging 
against the rock in the river, just below the sawmill beach. 
Into that tree the canoe shot with a crash, and I hung on, and 
shipping my paddle, pulled the canoe into the slack water 



LEMBARENE chap. 



again, by the aid of the branches of the tree, which I was in ! 
mortal terror would come off the rock, and insist on accom- 1 
panying me and the canoe, via Kama country, to the Atlantic ' 
Ocean ; but it held, and when I had got safe against the side of 
the pinnacle-rock I wiped a perspiring brow, and searched in 
my mind for a piece of information regarding navigation that 
would be applicable to the management of long-tailed Adooma 
canoes. I could not think of one for some minutes. Captain 
Murray has imparted to me at one time and another an . 
enormous mass of hints as to the management of vessels,.| 
but those vessels were all presupposed to have steam power. 
But he having been the first man to take an ocean-going 
steamer up to Matadi on the Congo, through the terrific 
currents that whirl and fly in Hell's Cauldron, knew 
about currents, and I remembered he had said regarding tak- 
ing vessels through them, " Keep all the headway you can on 
her." Good ! that hint inverted will fit this situation like a 
glove, and I'll keep all the tailway I can off her. Feeling now 
as safe as only a human being can feel who is backed up by a 
sound principle, I was cautiously crawling to the tail-end of 
the canoe, intent on kneeling in it to look after it, when 
I heard a dreadful outcry on the bank. Looking there I 
saw Mme. Forget, Mme. Gacon, M. Gacon, and their attribu- 
tive crowd of mission children all in a state of frenzy. They 
said lots of things in chorus. "What?" said I. They said 
some more and added gesticulations. Seeing I was wasting 
their time as I could not hear, I drove the canoe from 
the rock and made my way, mostly by steering, t(^ 
the bank close by ; and then tying the canoe firml> 
up I walked over the mill stream and divers other 
things towards my anxious friends. " You'll be drowned,' 
they said. " Gracious goodness ! " said I, " I thought that half 
an hour ago, but it's all right now ; I can steer." After much 
conversation I lulled their fears regarding me, and having 
received strict orders to keep in the stern of the canoe, because 
that is the proper place when you are managing a canoe 
single-handed, I returned to my studies. I had not however 
lulled my friends' interest regarding me, and they stayed on 
the bank watching. 



X AMATEUR CANOEING 199 

I found first, that my education in steering from 
the bow was of no avail ; second, that it was all right 
if you reversed it. For instance, when you are in the 
bow, and make an inward stroke with the paddle on the 
right-hand side, the bow goes to the right ; whereas, if you 
make an inward stroke on the right-hand side, when you are 
sitting in the stem, the bow then goes to the left. Under- 
stand ? Having grasped this law, I crept along up river ; and, 
by Allah ! before I had gone twenty jards, if that wretch, the 
current of the greatest, &c., did not grab hold of the nose of 
my canoe, and we teetotummed round again as merrily as ever. 
My audience screamed. I knew what they werq saying, 
" You'll be drowned ! Come back ! Come back ! " but I heard 
them and I heeded not. If you attend to advice in a crisis 
you're lost ; besides, I couldn't " Come back " just then. 
However, I got into the slack water again, by some very 
showy, high-class steering. Still steering, fine as it is, is not 
all you require and hanker after. You want pace as well, and 
pace, except when in the clutches of the current, I had not so 
far attained. Perchance, thought I, the pace region in a canoe 
may be in its centre ; so I got along on my knees into the centre 
to experiment. Bitter failure ; the canoe took to sidling down 
river broadside on, like Mr. Winkle's horse. Shouts of 
laughter from the bank. Both bow and stern education 
utterly inapplicable to centre ; and so, seeing I was utterly 
thrown awaj' there, I crept into the bows, and in a few more 
minutes I steered my canoe, perfectly, in amongits fellows by 
the bank and secured it there. Mme. Forget ran down to 
meet me and assured me she had not laughed so much since 
she had been in Africa, although she was frightened at the 
time lest I should get capsized and drowned. I believe it, for 
she is a sweet and gracious lady ; and I quite see, as she 
demonstrated, that the sight of me, teetotumming about, 
steering in an elaborate and showy way all the time, was 
irresistibly comic. And she gave a most amusing account of 
how, when she started looking for me to give me tea, a 
charming habit of hers, she could not see me in among 
my bottles, and so asked the little black boy where I was. 
' There," said he, pointing to the tree hanging against the rock 



LEMBARENE chap. 



out in the river ; and she, seeing me hitched with a canoe 
against the rock, and knowing the danger and depth of the 
river, got alarmed. 

Well, when I got down to Lembarene I naturally went on 
with my canoeing studies, in pursuit of the attainment of 
pace. Success crowned my efforts, and I can honestly and 
truly say that there are only two things I am proud of — one 
is that Doctor Gunther has approved of my fishes, and the 
other is that I can paddle an Ogowe canoe. Pace, 
style, steering and all, "All same for one" as if* I were an 
Ogowe African. A strange, incongruous pair of things : but 
I often wonder what are the things other people are really 
most proud of ; it would be a quaint and repaying subject for 
investigation. 

Mme. Jacot gave me every help in canoeing, for she is 
a remarkably clear-headed woman, and recognised that, as I 
was always getting soaked, anyhow, I ran no extra danger in 
getting soaked in a canoe ; and then, it being the dry season, 
there was an immense stretch of water opposite Andande 
beach, which was quite shallow. So she saw no need of my 
getting drowned. 

The sandbanks were showing their yellow heads in all direc- 
tions when I came down from Talagouga, and just opposite An- 
dande there was sticking up out of the water a great, graceful, 
palm frond. It had been stuck into the head of the pet sandbank, 
and every day was visited by the boys and girls in canoes to see 
how much longer they would have to wait for the sandbank's 
appearance. A few days after my return it showed, and in 
two days more there it was, acres and acres of it, looking like 
a great, golden carpet spread on the surface of the centre of 
the clear water — clear here, down this side of Lembarene 
Island, because the river runs fairly quietly, and has time to 
deposit its mud. Dark brown the Ogowe flies past the other side 
of the island, the main current being deflected that way by a 
bend, just below the entrance of the Nguni. 

There was great rejoicing. Canoe-load after canoe-load of 
boys and girls went to the sandbank, some doing a little fishing 
round its rim, others bringing the washing there, all sk\-larking 
and singing. Few prettier sights have I ever seen than those 



DEATH OF M. JACOT 



n that sandbank — the merr\' brown forms dancing or lying 

retched on it: the gaudy-coloured patchwork quilts and 

/lintz mosquito-bars that have been washed, spread out 

lying, looking from Kangwe on the hill above, like beds 

of bright flowers. By night when it was moonlight 

there would be bands of dancers on it with bush-light torches, 

gyrating, intermingling and separating till you could think 

you were looking at a dance of stars. 

They commenced affairs very early on that sandbank, and 
they kept them up very late ; and all the time there came from 
it a soft murmur of laughter and song. Ah me ! if the aim of 
life were happiness and pleasure, Africa should send us mis- 
sionaries instead of our sending them to her — but, fortunately 
for the work of the world, happiness is not. One thing I re- 
member which struck me ver>' much regarding the sandbank, 
and this was that Mme. Jacot found such pleasure in taking her 
work on to the verandah, where she could see it. I knew 
^lie did not care for the songs and the dancing. One da)' she 
lid to me, " It is such a relief." *' A relief?" I said. " Yes, 
tio you not see that until it shows there is nothing but forest, 
f' )rest, forest, and that still stretch of river. That bank is the 
nly piece of clear ground I see in the year, and that onl)" 
->ts a few weeks until the wet season comes, and then it goes, 
nd there is nothing but forest, forest, forest, for another year. 
1 1 is two years now since I came to this place ; it may be I know 
not how many more before we go home again." I grieve to 
say, for my poor friend's sake, that her life at KangAve was nearly 
its end. Soon after my return to England I heard of the 
death of her husband from malignant fever. M. Jacot was 
a fine, powerful, energetic man, in the prime of life. He 
was a teetotaler and a \ egetarian ; and although constantly 
travelling to and fro in his district on his evangelising 
work, he had no foolish recklessness in him. No one would 
have thought that he would have been the first to go of 
^ who used to sit round his hospitable table. His delicate 
ife, his two young children or I would have seemed far 
more likely. His loss will be a lasting one to the people he 
risked his life to (what he regarded) save. The natives held 
him in the greatest affection and respect, and his influence 



LEMBARENE chap. 



over them was considerable, far more profound than that of 
any other missionary I have ever seen. His loss is also great 
to those students of Africa who are working on the culture or 
on the languages ; his knowledge of both was extensive, par- 
ticularly of the little known languages of the Ogowe district. 
He was, when I left, busily employed in compiling a dictionary i 
of the Fan tongue, and had many other works on language 
in contemplation. His work in this sphere would have had 
a high value, for he was a man with a university education 
and well grounded in Latin and Greek, and thoroughly 
acquainted with both English and French literature, for 
although born a Frenchman, he had been brought up in 
America. He was also a cultivated musician, and he and 
Mme. Jacot in the evenings would sing old French songs, Swiss 
songs, English songs, in their rich full voices ; and then if 
you stole softly out on to the verandah, you would often find 
it crowded with a silent, black audience, listening intently. 

The amount of work M. and Mme. Jacot used to get through 
was, to me, amazing, and I think the Ogowe Protestant 
mission sadly short-handed — its missionaries not being 
content to follow the usual Protestant plan out in West 
Africa, namely, quietly sitting down and keeping house, with 
just a few native children indoors to do the housework, and 
close by a school and a little church where a service is held 
on Sundays. The representatives of the Mission Evangelique, 
go to and fro throughout the district round each station on 
evangelising work, among some of the most dangerous and 
uncivilised tribes in Africa, frequently spending a fortnight at 
a time away from their homes, on the waterways of a wild and 
dangerous country. In addition to going themselves, they 
send trained natives as evangelists and Bible readers, and 
keep a keen eye on the trained native, which means a con- 
siderable amount of worry and strain too. The work on the 
stations is heavy in Ogowe districts, because when you have 
got a clearing made and all the buildings up, you have by no 
means finished with the affair, for you have to fight the 
Ogowe forest back, as a Dutchman fights the .sea. But the 
main cause of work is the store, which in this exhausting 
climate is more than enough work for one man alone. 



X NATIVE FINANCE 203 

Payments on the Ogowe are made in goods ; the natives do 
not use any coinage-equivalent, save in the strange case of the 
Fans, which does not touch general trade and which I will 

peak of later. They have not even the brass bars and cheetems 
that are in used in Calabar, or cowries as in Lagos. In order 
to expedite and simplify this goods traffic, a written or printed 
piece of paper is employed — practically a cheque, which is 
called a " bon " or " book," and these " bons " are cashed — i.e. 
gooded, at the store. The}^ are for three amounts. Five 
fura = a dollar. One fura = a franc. Desu = fifty centimes = 
half a fura. The value given for these "bons" is the 
same from government, trade, and mission. Although the 
Mission Evangelique does not trade — i.e. buy produce and 
sell it at a profit, its representatives have a great deal of 
business to attend to through the store, which is practically a 
bank. All the native evangelists, black teachers, Bible- 
readers and labourers on the stations are paid off in these bons ; 
and when any representative of the mission is away on a jour- 
ney, food bought for themselves and their canoe crews is 
paid for in bons, which are brought in by the natives at their 
convenience, and changed for goods at the store. Therefore 
for sev^eral hours every weekday the missionary has to devote 
himself to store work, and store work out here is by no means 
^laying at shop. It is very hard, tiring, exasperating work 

\ hen you have to deal with it in full, as a trader, when it is 
necessary^ for you to purchase produce at a price that will give 
}'ou a reasonable margin of profit over storing, customs' duties, 
shipping expenses, &c., &c. But it is quite enough to trj' the 
patience of any saint when you are only keeping store to pay 
on bons, a la missionary ; for each class of article used in trade 
— and there are some hundreds of them — has a definite and 
acknowledged value, but where the trouble comes in is that 
different articles have the same value ; for example, six fish- 
hooks and one pocket-handkerchief have the same value, or 
you can make up that value in lucifer matches, pomatum, a 
mirror, a hair comb, tobacco, or scent in bottles. 

Now, if you are a trader, certain of these articles cost you 
more than others, although they have an identical value to 
the native, and so it is to your advantage to pay what we 



204 LEMBARENE chap. 



should call, in Cameroons, " a Kru, cheap copper," and you have 
a lot of worry to effect this. To the missionary this' does not 
so much matter. It makes absolutely no difference to the 
native, mind you ; so he is by no means done by the trader. 
Take powder for an example. There is no profit on powder 
for the trader in Congo Fran^ais, but the native always wants 
it because he can get a tremendous profit on it from his black 
brethren in the bush ; hence it pays the trader to give him 
his bon out in Boma check, &c., better than in gunpowder. 
This is a fruitful spring of argument and persuasion. How- 
ever, whether the native is passing in a bundle of rubber 
or a tooth of ivory, or merely cashing a bon for a week's 
bush catering, he is in Congo Fran^ais incapable of deciding 
what he will have when it comes to the point. He comes into 
the shop with a bon in his hand, and we will say, for example, 
the idea in his head that he wants fish-hooks — "jupes," he 
calls them — but, confronted with the visible temptation of 
pomatum, he hesitates, and scratches his head violently. 
Surrounding him there are ten or twenty other natives with 
their minds in a similar wavering state, but yet anxious to be 
served forthwith. In consequence of the stimulating scratch, 
he remembers that one of his wives said he was to bring some 
lucifer matches, another wanted cloth for herself, and another 
knew of some rubber she could buy very cheap, in tobacco, of a 
Fan woman who had stolen it. This rubber he knows he can 
take to the trader's store and sell for pocket-handkerchiefs of 
a superior pattern, or gunpowder, or rum, which he cannot get 
at the mission store. He finally gets something and takes it 
home, and likely enough brings it back, in a day or so, 
somewhat damaged, desirous of changing it for some other 
article or articles. Remember also that these Bantu, like 
the Negroes, think externally, in a loud voice ; like Mr. Kip- 
ling's 'oont, " 'e smells most awful vile," and, if he be a 
Fan, he accompanies his observations with violent dramatic 
gestures, and let the customer's tribe or sex be what it ma\-, 
the customer is sadly, sadly liable to pick up any portable 
object within reach, under the shadow of his companions' 
uproar, and stow it away in his armpits, between his legs, or, 
if his cloth be large enough, in that. Picture to }'ourself the 



MISSION SCHOOLS 205 



perplexities of a Christian minister, engaged in such an occu- 
pation as storekeeping under these circumstances, with, Hkely 
enough, a touch of fever on him and jiggers in his feet ; and 
when the store is closed the goods in it requiring constant 
vigilance to keep them free from mildew and white ants. 

Then in addition to the store work, a fruitful source of work 
and worry are the schools, for both boys and girls. It is 
regarded as futile to attempt to get any real hold over 
the children unless they are removed from the influence of 
the country fashions that surround them in their village homes ; 
therefore the schools are boarding ; hence the entire care of 
the children, including feeding and clothing, falls on the 
missionary'. 

The French government has made things harder by decree- 
ing that the children should be taught French. It does not 

quire that evangelistic work should be carried on in French, 

It that if foreign languages are taught, that language shall 

c French first. The general feeling of the missionaries is 

_;ainst this, because of the great difficulty in teaching the 
iative this delicate and highly complex language. English, 
the Africans pick up sooner than any foreign language. 
I do not like to think that my esteemed friend Donna Maria 
de Sousa Coutinho is right in saying " because it is so much 
more like their own savage tongue," but regard this facility in 
acquiring it to the universal use of it in the form of trade 
; nglish in the villages round them. Indeed, I believe that if 
the missionary was left alone he would not teach any Euro- 

ean language, but confine himself to using the native 
mguages in his phonetically written-down form; because the 
Africans learn to read this very quickly, and the missionary 
can confine their reading to those books he thinks suitable for 
perusal by his flock — namely, the Bible, hymn-book, and 
Bunyan's Holy War. 

The native does not see things in this light, and half the 
time comes to the schools only to learn, what he calls "sense" 

., white man's ways and language, which will enable him to 
trade with greater advantage. Still, I think the French 
government is right, from what I have seen in our own posses- 

ms of the disadvantage, expense, and inconvenience of the 



2o6 LEMBARENE chap 



bulk of the governed not knowing the language of their 
governors, both parties having therefore frequently to depend 
on native interpreters ; and native interpreters are " deceitful 
above all things and desperately wicked " occasionally, and the 
just administration of the country under these conditions is 
almost impossible. ¦ 

You may say. Why should not the government official learn' 
the native language like the missionary ? and I think govern- 
ment officials who are settled like missionaries on the Coast 
should do so, but if you enforced this rule in Congo Fran^ais, 
where the government officials fly to and fro, Mezzofantis 
only need apply for appointments. Take the Gaboon district, 
to use the handy, but now obsolete division of the colony. 
This district, being the seaboard one, is where most of the 
dealings with the natives occur. In my small way I have met 
there with representatives of tribes speaking Shekani, Balungi, 
M'benga, M'billo, M'pongwe, Bakele, Ncomi, Igalwa, Adooma, 
Ajumba, and Fan, and there are plenty more. Neither are any 
of these tribes neatly confined to distinct districts, so that you 
might teach-your unfortunate official one language, and then tie 
him down in one place, where he could use it. Certain districts 
have a preponderance of certain tribes, but that is all. The 
Fans are everywhere in the northern districts of the Ogowe : 
but among them, in the districts below Lembarene, you will 
find Igalwa and Ajumba villages, side by side, with likeh' 
enough just across the stream a Bakele one. Above 
Talagouga, until you get to Boue, you could get along with 
Fan alone ; but there is no government rule that requires 
languages fup there because, barring keeping the Ogow6 open 
to the French flag, it is not interfered with ; and then when i 
you get up to Franceville above Boue, there is quite another 
group of languages, Okota, Batoke, Adooma, &c., &c., and 
the Middle Congo languages. To require a knowledge of all 
these languages would be absurd, and necessitate the multipli- 
cation of officials to an enormous extent. 

But to return to the Mission Evangelique schools. This 
mission does not undertake technical instruction. All the 
training the boys get is religious and scholastic. The girls 
fare somewhat better, for they get in addition instruction from 



I 



TECHNICAL INSTRUCTION 207 



the mission ladies in sewing, washing, and ironing, and for the 
rest of it they have an uncommonly pleasant and easy time, 
which they most bitterly regret as past when they go to their 
husbands, for husbands they each of them have. 

It is strange that no technical instruction is given by an}- 
government out here. All of the governments support mission 
schools by grants : but the natives turned out by the 
schools are at the best only fit for clerks, and the rest of 
the world seems to have got a glut of clerks already, and 
Africa does not want clerks yet, it wants planters — I do not 
say only plantation hands, for I am sure from what I have 
seen in Cameroons of the self-taught native planters there, 
that intelligent Africans could do an immense amount to 
develop the resources of the country. The Roman Catholic 
mission at Landana carrieson a great work in giving agricultural 
instruction in improved methods : but most of the other 
technical mission stations confine their attention to teaching 
carpentering, bricklaying, smith's work, tailoring, book-binding 
and printing, trades which, save the two first named, Africa 
'N not yet in urgent need to be taught. 

The teaching even of sewing, washing, and ironing is a 
(ittle previous. Good Mme. Jacot will weary herself for months 
'> teach a Fan girl how to make herself a dress, and the girl 
ill learn eagerly, and so keenly enjoy the dress when it is 
lade that it breaks one's heart when one knows that this 
une girl, when her husband takes her to his village soon, in 
)ite of the two dresses the mission gave her, will be reduced 
tu a bit of filthy rag, which will ser\-e her for dress, sheet, 
• iwel and dish cloth ; for even were her husband willing to 
ct her more cloth to exercise her dressmaking accomplish- 
ments on, he dare not. Men are men, and women are women 
! the world over ; and what would his other wives, and his 
lother and sisters say ? Then the washing and ironing are 
quite parlour accomplishments when your husband does not 
w ear a shirt, and household linen is non-existent as is the case 
:nong the Fans and many other African tribes. There are 
her things that the women might be taught with greater 
i\antage to them and those round them. 
It is strange that all the cooks employed b}- the Europeans 



2o8 LEMBARENE chat. 

should be men, yet all the cooking among the natives them- 
selves is done by women, and done abominably badly in all the 
Bantu tribes I have ever come across ; and the Bantu are in 
this particular, and indeed in most particulars, far inferior to 
the true Negro ; though I must say this is not the orthodox 
view. The Negroes cook uniformly very well, and at moments 
are inspired in the direction of palm-oil chop and fish cooking. 
Not so the Bantu, whose methods cry aloud for improvement, 
they having just the very easiest and laziest way possible of 
dealing with food. The food supply consists of plantain, 
yam, koko, sweet potatoes, maize, pumpkin, pineapple, and 
ochres, fish both wet and smoked, and flesh of many kinds — 
including human in certain districts — snails, snakes, and cray- 
fish, and big maggot-like pupa; of the rhinoceros beetle and the 
Rhyncophorus palinatorum. For sweetmeats the sugar-cane 
abounds, but it is only used chewed au natiirel. For season- 
ing there is that bark that tastes like an onion, an onion dis- 
tinctly pass^, but powerful and permanent, particularly if it 
has been used in one of the native-made, rough earthen pots. 
These pots have a very cave-man look about them ; they arc 
unglazed, unlidded bowls. They stand the fire wonderfulh 
well, and you have got to stand, as well as you can, the taste 
of the aforesaid bark that clings to them, and that of the smoke 
which gets into them during cooking operations over an open 
wood fire, as well as the soot-like colour they impart to even 
your own white rice. Out of all this varied material the 
natives of the Congo Frangais forests produce, dirtil}-, 
carelessly and wastefully, a dull, indigestible diet. Yam, 
.sweet potatoes, ochres, and maize are not so much cultivated 
or used as among the Negroes, and the daily food is practically 
plantain — picked while green and the rind pulled off, and the 
tasteless woolly interior baked or boiled and the widely dis- 
tributed manioc treated in the usual way. The sweet or non- 
poisonous manioc I have rarely seen cultivated, because it 
gives a much smaller yield, and is much longer coming to 
perfection. The poisonous kind is that in general use ; its 
great dahlia-like roots are soaked in water to remove the 
poi.sonous principle, and then dried and grated up, or more 
commonly beaten up into a kind of dough in a wooden trough 



MANIOC MEAL 209 



that looks like a model canoe, with wooden clubs, which I 
have seen the curiosity hunter happily taking home as war 
clubs to alarm his family with. The thump, thump, thump of 
this manioc beating is one of the most familiar sounds in a 
bush village. The meal, when beaten up, is used for thicken- 
ing broths, and rolled up into bolsters about a foot long and 
two inches in diameter, and then wrapped in plantain leaves, 
and tied round with tie-tie and boiled, or more properly speak- 
ing steamed, for a lot of the rolls are arranged in a brass 
skillet — a kettle Mr. Hudson persists in calling it ; but, much 
as I respect his statements, I cannot blindly accept this one, 
for any woman knows a kettle must have a spout, and these 
utensils are spoutless and round, with a handle across the top, 
just for all the world like the skillet I make jam in in England 
— skillet, I repeat. A small quantity of water is poured over 
the rolls of plantain, a plantain leaf is tucked in over the top 
tight!)', so as to prevent the steam from escaping, and the 
whole affair is poised on the three cooking-stones over a wood 
fire, and left there until the contents are done, or more 
properly speaking, until the lady in charge of it has delusions 
on the point, and the bottom rolls are a trifle burnt or the 
whole insufficiently cooked. 

This manioc meal is the staple food, the bread equivalent, 
all along the coast. As you pass along you are perpetually 
meeting with a new named food, fou-fou on the Leeward, 
kank on the Windward, m'vada in Corisco, agooma in the 
Ogowe ; but acquaintance with it demonstrates that it is all 
the same — manioc. If I ever meet a tribe that refers to 
buttered muffins I shall know what to expect and so not 
get excited. 

It is a good food when it is properly prepared ; but 
when a village has soaked its soil-laden manioc tubers in one 
and the same pool of water for years, the water in that pool 
becomes a trifle strong, and both it and the manioc get a smell 
which once smelt is never to be forgotten ; it is something like 
that resulting from bad paste with a dash of vinegar, but fit 
to pass all these things, and has qualities of its own that have 
no civilised equivalent. 

I believe that this way of preparing the staple article of 

P 



LEMBARENE CHAP. 



diet is largely responsible for that dire and frequent disease 
" cut him belly," and several other quaint disorders, possiblj 
even for the sleep disease. The natives themselves say thai 
a diet too exclusively maniocan produces dimness of vision 
ending in blindness if the food is not varied ; the poisonous 
principle cannot be anything like soaked out in the surcharged 
water, and the meal when it is made up and cooked has just 
the same sour, acrid taste you would expect it to have from 
the smell. 

The fish is boiled, or wrapped in leaves and baked. The 
dried fish, very properly known as stink-fish, is much preferred ; 
this is either eaten as it is, or put into stews as seasoning, as 
also are the snails. The meat is eaten either fresh or smoked, 
boiled or baked. By baked I always mean just buried in the 
ground and a fire lighted on top, or wrapped in leaves and 
buried in hot embers. 

The smoked meat is badly prepared, just hung up in the 
smoke of the fires, which hardens it, blackening the outside 
quickly ; but when the lumps are taken out of the smoke, in a 
short time cracks occur in them, and the interior part pro- 
ceeds to go bad, and needless to say maggoty. If it is kept 
in the smoke, as it often is to keep it out of the way of dogs 
and driver ants, it acquires the toothsome taste and texture 
of a piece of old tarpaulin. I have gone into this bush cook- 
ing here in detail, so that you may understand why 
on the Coast, when a man comes in and says he has been 
down on native chop, we say " Good gracious ! " and give out 
the best tins on the spot. 

I may be judging the coast tribes too harshly if I include 
them with the bush tribes in my culinary indictment, so I 
confine my accusations to the Fans and up-river tribes, with 
whose culinary methods I have been more in contact, for when 
on the coast I have been either in European houses, or in those 
of educated natives who have partially, at any rate, adopted 
European ways of cooking, and I must say that among the 
M'pongwe and Igalwas I came across a bright ray of intelli- 
gence — nay, I will say genius, in the matter of Odeaka cheese. 
It is not cheese, but, as the schoolboy said anent the author 
of the Iliad, somebody else of the same name ; but it is good, 



REASONS FOR POLYGAMY 



and I will sing its praises when I talk of the M'pongwe, and 
now ask the surviving reader who has waded through this 
dissertation on cookery- if something should not be done to 
improve the degraded condition of the Bantu cooking culture ? 
Not for his physical delectation only, but because his present 
methods are bad for his morals, and drive the man to drink, 
let alone assisting in riveting him in the practice of polygamy, 
which the missionarj^ party say is an exceedingly bad prac- 
tice for him to follow. The inter-relationship of these two 
subjects may not seem on the face of it very clear, but inter- 
relationships of customs very rarely are ; I well remember 
M. Jacot coming home one day at Kangwe from an evange- 
lising visit to some adjacent Fan towns, and saying he had 
had given to him that afternoon a new reason for polygamy, 
which was that it enabled a man to get enough to eat. This 
sounds sinister from a notoriously cannibal tribe ; but the ex- 
planation is that the Fans are an e.xceedingly hungry tribe, 
and require a great deal of providing for. It is their custom 
to eat about ten times a day when in village, and the men 
spend most of their time in the palaver-houses at each end of 
the street, the women bringing them bowls of food of one kind 
or another all day long. When the men are away in the forest 
rubber or elephant-hunting, and have to cook their own food, 
they cannot get quite so much ; but when I have come across 
them on these expeditions, they halted pretty regularly ever>- 
tuo hours and had a substantial snack, and the gorge they all 
go in for after a successful elephant hunt is a thing to see 
— once. 

There are other reasons which lead to the prevalence of this 
custom, beside the cooking. One is that it is totally impos- 
sible for one woman to do the whole work of a house — look 
after the children, prepare and cook the food, prepare the 
rubber, carr>' the same to the markets, fetch the daily supply 
of water from the stream, cultivate the plantation, &c., &c. 
Perhaps I should say it is impossible for the dilator}' African 
w Oman, for I once had an Irish charwoman, who drank, who 
\\ ould have done the whole week's work of an African village 
in an afternoon, and then been quite fresh enough to knock 

me of the nonsense out of her husband's head with that of 

P 2 



212 LEMBARENE CHAP., 



I 



the broom, and throw a kettle of boiling water or a paraffin 
lamp at him, if she suspected him of flirting with other ladies. 
That woman, who deserves fame in the annals of her country, 
was named Harragan. She has attained immortality some 
years since, by falling down stairs one Saturday night from 
excitement arising from " the Image's " (Mr. Harragan) con- 
duct ; but we have no Mrs. Harragan in Africa. The African 
lady does not care a travelling whitesmith's execration if her 
husband does flirt, so long as he does not go and give to other 
women the cloth, &c., that she should have. The more wives 
the less work, says the African lady ; and I have known men 
who would rather have had one wife and spent the rest of the 
money on themselves, in a civilised way, driven into polygamy 
by the women ; and of course this state of affairs is most 
common in non-slave-holding tribes like the Fan. But then 
there is that custom which, as far as I know, is common to all 
African tribes, and I suspect to Asiatic, which is well known 
to ethnologists, and which once caused a missionary to say to 
me : " A blow must be struck at polygamy, and that blow 
must be dealt with a feeding-bottle." He was a practical 
man, so there are a gross or two of Alexandra feeding-bottles 
at a place on the Coast ; but they don't go off, and the 
missionary has returned to America. 

Now polygamy is, like most other subjects, a difficult thing 
to form an opinion on, if, before forming that opinion, you go 
and make a study of the facts and bearings of the case. It is 
therefore advisable to follow the usual method employed by 
the majority of people. Just take a prejudice of your own, 
and fix it up with the so-called opinions of people who go in 
for that sort of prejudice too. This method is absolutely 
essential to the forming of an opinion on the subject of poly- 
gamy among African tribes, that will be acceptable in 
enlightened circles. Polygamy is the institution which above 
all others governs the daily life of the native ; and it is there- 
fore the one which the missionaries who enter into this daily life, 
and not merely into the mercantile and legal, as do the trader 
and the government official, are constantly confronted with 
and hindered by. All the missionaries have set their faces 
against it and deny Church membership to those men who 



DIFFICULTIES OF MORALITY 213 



[practise it ; whereby it falls out that many men are excluded 
from the fold who would make quite as good Christians as 
those within it. They hesitate about turning off from their 
homes women who have lived and worked for them for years, 
and not only for them, but often for their fathers before them. 
One case in the Rivers I know of is almost tragic if you 
put yourself in his place. An old chief, who had three wives, 
profoundly and vividly believed that exclusion from the Holy 
Communion meant an eternal damnation. The missionary 
had instructed him in the details of this damnation thoroughly, 
and the chief did not like the prospect at all ; but on the other 
hand he did not like to turn off the three wives he had lived 
w ith for years. He found the matter was not even to be 
compromised, by turning off two and going to church to be 
married with accompanying hymns and orange-blossoms with 

' number three, for the ladies held together ; not one of them 
w ould marry him and let the other two go, so the poor old 
chief worried himself to a shammock and anybody else he 
could get to listen to him. His white trader friends told him 
not to be such an infernal ass. Some of his black fellow 
chiefs said the missionary was quite right, and the best thing 
for him to do would be to hand over to them the three old 
wives, and go and marr}- a young girl from the mission school. 
Personally they were not yet afflicted with scruples on the 
subject of polygamy, and of course (being " missionary'- man " 

, now) he would not think of taking anything for his wives, so 
they would do their best, as friends, to help him out of the 
difficulty. Others of his black fellow chiefs, less advanced in 
culture, just said : " What sort of fool palaver you make ; " 
and spat profusely. The poor old man smelt hell fire, and 
cried " Yo, yo, yo," and beat his hands upon the ground. It 
was a moral mess of the first water all round. Still do not 
imagine the mission-field is full of yo yo-ing old chiefs ; for 
although the African is undecided, he is also very ingenious, 
particularly in dodging inconvenient moral principles. 

Many a keen old chief turns on his pastor and asks driving 
questions regarding the patriarchs, until I have heard a sorely 
tried pastor question the wisdom of introducing the Old 
Testament to the heathen. Many a young man hesitates 



214 LEMBARENE chap 



about joining the Church that will require his entering intc 
the married state with only one woman, whom he knows hi 
may not whack, and who, he knows, will also know this anc 
carry on in all directions, and go and report all hi; 
little failings up at the mission, and get him into hot watei 
with the missionary whose good opinion he values highly. And 
he is artful enough to know he enjoys this good opinion more 
as an interesting possible convert, than he would as a Church 
member requiring " discipline." j 

The worst classes of cases wherein polygamy troubles th^ 
missionary are those of boys trained in the mission school and 
married to school-trained girls. For a time they live according 
to Church ordinance ; and then they keep it to the eye, and 
break it to the heart ; and during this period of transition, 
during which the missionary fights a hard and losing fight 
for these souls against their inherited sensualism and sloth, 
they sink into a state that to my mind, seems worse than 
they would have been in had they never seen a missionary. 
But I will not go into the disintegrating effects of mission 
training here, because my opinions on them have no reference 
to the work done by the Mission Evangelique whose influence 
upon the natives has been, and is, all for good ; and the amount 
of work they have done, considering the small financial re- 
sources behind them, is to a person who has seen other missions 
most remarkable, and is not open to the criticism lavished on 
missions in general. 

Mission work was first opened upon the Ogowe by Dr. 
Nassau, the great pioneer and explorer of these regions. He 
was acting for the American Presbyterian Society ; but when 
the French Government demanded education in French in 
the schools, the stations on the Ogowe, Lembarene (Kangwe), 
and Talagouga were handed over to the Mission Evangelique 
of Paris, and have been carried on by its representatives with 
great devotion and energy. I am unsympathetic, for reasons 
of my own, with Christian missions, so my admiration for 
this one does not arise from the usual ground of admiration 
for missions, namely, that however they may be carried on, 
they are engaged in a great and holy work ; but I regard the 
Mission Evangelique, judging from the results I have seen. 



X LEMBARENE ISLAND 215 

as the perfection of what one may call a purely spiritual 
mission. 

Lembarene is strictly speaking a district which includes 
Adanlinan langa and the Island, but the name is locally used 
to denote the great island in the Ogowe, whose native name 
is Nenge Ezangy ; but for the sake of the general reader I will 
keep to the everyday term of Lembarene Island. 

Lembarene Island is the largest of the islands on the 
Ogowe. It is some fifteen miles long, east and west, and a 
mile to a mile and a half wide. It is hilly and rocky, 
uniformly clad with forest, and several little permanent 
streams run from it on both sides into the Ogowe. It is 
situated 1 30 miles from the sea, at the point, just below the 

(entrance of the N'guni, where the Ogowe commences to 
divide up into that network of channels by which, like all 
great West African rivers save the Congo, it chooses to enter 
the ocean. The island, as we mainlanders at Kangwe used 
to call it, was a great haunt of mine, particularly after I came 
down from Talagouga and saw fit to regard myself as com- 
petent to control a canoe. I do not mean that I was cut off 
from it before ; for M. Jacot and M. Haug were always willing 
to send me across in a big canoe, with the mission boys to 
paddle, and the boys were always ready to come because it 
meant " dash," and the dissipation of going to what was the 

I local equivalent of Paris ; but there was always plenty of 
work for them on the station, and so I did not like taking them 

j away. Therefore when I could get there alone I went more 

* frequently. 

From Andande, the beach of Kang\ve, the breadth of the 
arm of the Ogowe to the nearest village on the island, 
was about that of the Thames at Blackwall. One half of 
the way was slack water, the other half was broadside 
on to a stiff current. Now my pet canoe at Andande was 
about six feet long, pointed at both ends, flat bottomed, so 
that it floated on the top of the water ; its freeboard was, 
w hen nothing was in it, some three inches, and the poor thing 

^ had seen trouble in its time, for it had a hole you could 
put your hand in at one end ; so in order to navigate it 
successfully, you had to squat in the other, which immersed 



2i6 LEMBARENE chap. 

that to the\vater level but safely elevated the damaged end in 
the air. Of course you had to stop in your end firmly, because 
if you went forward the hole went down into the water, and 
the water went into the hole, and forthwith you foundered 
with all hands — i.e., you and the paddle and the calabash baler. ; 
This craft also had a strong weather helm, owing to a warp in ' 
the tree of which it had been made. I learnt all these things one 
afternoon, paddling round the sandbank ; and the next after- 
noon, feeling confident in the merits of my vessel, I started 
for the island, and I actually got there, and associated with 
the natives, but feeling my arms were permanently worn out 
by paddling against the current, I availed myself of the 
offer of a gentleman to paddle me back in his canoe. He 
introduced himself as Samuel, and volunteered the state- 
ment that he was " a very good man." We duly settled 
ourselves in the canoe, he occupying the bow, I sitting in 
the middle, and a Mrs. Samuel sitting in the stern. Mrs. 
Samuel was a powerful, pretty lady, and a conscientious and 
continuous paddler. Mr. S. was none of these things, but an 
ex-Bible reader, with an amazing knowledge of English, 
which he spoke in a quaint, falsetto, far-away sort of voice, 
and that man's besetting sin was curiosity. " You be Christian, 
ma ? " said he. I asked him if he had ever met a white man who 
was not ? " Yes, ma," says Samuel. I said " You must have 
been associating with people whom you ought not to know." 
Samuel fortunately not having a repartee for this, paddled on 
with his long paddle for a few seconds. " Where be your 
husband, ma ? " was the next conversational bomb he hurled 
at me. " I no got one," I answer. " No got," says Samuel, 
paralysed with astonishment ; and as Mrs. S., who did not 
know English, gave one of her vigorous drives with her 
paddle at this moment, Samuel as near as possible got 
jerked head first into the Ogowe, and we took on board 
about two bucketfuls of water. He recovered himself, 
however and returned to his charge. " No got one, ma ? " 
" No," say I furiously. " Do you get much rubber round 
here ? " "I no be trade man," says Samuel, refusing to 
fall into my trap for changing conversation. " Why you 
no got one ? " The remainder of the conversation is unre- 



A SAD CASE 217 



[portable, but he landed me at Andande all right, and got his 
dollar. 

The next voyage I made, which was on the next day, I 
decided to go by myself to the factor}', which is on the 
other side of the island, and did so. I got some goods to 
buy fish with, and heard from Mr. Cockshut that the poor 
hoy-agent at Osoamokita, had committed suicide. It was a 
c,frievous thing. He was, as I have said, a bright, intelligent 
\oung Frenchman ; but living in the isolation, surrounded by 
savage, tiresome tribes, the strain of his responsibility had been 
too much for him. He had had a good deal of fever, and the 
vet}- kindly head agent for Woermann's had sent Dr. Pelessier 
to see if he had not better be invalided home ; but he told the 
Doctor he was much better, and as he had no one at home to go 
to he begged him not to send him, and the Doctor, to his subse- 
quent regret, gave in. No one knows, who has not been 
to visit Africa, how terrible is the life of a white man in one of 
these out-of-the-way factories, with no white society, and with 
nothing to look at, day out and day in, but the one set of 
objects — the forest, the river, and the beach, which in a place 
like Osoamokita you cannot leave for months at a time, and 
of which }ou soon know every plank and stone. I felt utterly 
wretched as I started home again to come up to the end of 
the island, and go round it and down to Andande ; and paddled 
on for some little time, before I noticed that I was making 
absolutely no progress. I redoubled my exertions, and crept 
slowly up to some rocks projecting above the water ; but pass 
them I could not, as the main current of the Ogowe flew in 
hollow swirls round them against my canoe. Several passing 
canoefuls of natives gave me good advice in Igalwa ; but facts 
were facts, and the Ogowe was too strong for me. After about 
twenty minutes an old Fan gentleman came down river in a 
canoe and gave me good advice in Fan, and I got him to take 
me in tow — that is to say, he got into my canoe and I held on to 
his and we went back down river. I then saw his intention was 
to take me across to that disreputable village, half Fan, half 
Bakele, which is situated on the main bank of the river oppo- 
site the island ; this I disapproved of, because I had heard 
that some Senegal soldiers who had gone over there, had been 



2i8 LEMBARENE chap. 



stripped of every rag they had on, and maltreated ; besides, it 
was growing very late, and I wanted to get home to dinner. 
I communicated my feelings to my pilot, who did not seem to 
understand at first, so I feared I should have to knock them 
into him with the paddle ; but at last he understood I wanted 
to be landed on the island and duly landed me, when he seemed 
much surprised at the reward I gave him in pocket-handker- 
chiefs. Then I got a powerful young Igalwa dandy to paddle 
me home. 

I did not go to the island next day, but down below Fula, 
watching the fish playing in the clear water, and the lizards 
and birds on the rocky high banks ; but on my next journey 
round to the factories I got into another and a worse disaster. 
I went off there early one morning ; and thinking the only 
trouble lay in getting back up the Ogowe, and having devel- 
oped a theory that this might be minimised by keeping very 
close to the island bank, I never gave a thought to dangers 
attributive to going down river ; so, having by now acquired 
pace, my canoe shot out beyond the end rocks of the 
island into the main stream. It took me a second to 
realise what had happened, and another to find out I could 
not get the canoe out of the current without upsetting it, and 
that I could not force her back up the current, so there was 
nothing for it but to keep her head straight now she had 
bolted. A group of native ladies, who had followed my pro- 
ceedings with much interest, shouted observations which I 
believe to have been " Come back, come back ; you'll be 
drowned." " Good-bye, Susannah, don't you weep for me," 
I courteously retorted, and flew past them and the factory 
beaches and things in general, keenly watching for my chance 
to run my canoe up a siding, as it were, off the current main 
line. I got it at last — a projecting spit of land from the island 
with rocks projecting out of the water in front of it bothered 
the current, and after a wild turn round or so, and a near call 
from my terrified canoe trying to climb up a rock, I got into 
slack vvater and took a pause in life's pleasures for a few 
minutes. Knowing I must be near the end of the island, I 
went on pretty close to the bank, finally got round into the 
Kangwe branch of the Ogowe by a connecting creek, and 



THE IGALWAS 219 



after an hour's steady paddling I fell in with three big canoes 
going up river ; they took me home as far as Fula, whence a 
short paddle landed me at Andande only slightly late for 
supper, convinced that it was almost as safe and far more 
amusing to be bom lucky than wise. 

Now I have described my circumnavigation of the island, I 
will proceed to describe its inhabitants. The up-river end of 
Lembarene Island is the most inhabited. A path round 
the upper part of the island passes through a succession of 
Igalwa villages and by the Roman Catholic missionary station. 
The slave villages belonging to these Igalwas are away down 
the north face of the island, opposite the Fan town of Fula, 
which I have mentioned. It strikes me as remarkable that 
the Igalwa, like the Dualla of Cameroons, have their slaves in 
separate villages ; but this is the case, though I do not know 
the reason of it. These Igalwa slaves cultivate the plantations, 
and bring up the vegetables and fruit to their owners' villages, 
and do the housework daily 

The interior of the island is composed of high, rocky, heavily 
forested hills, with here and there a stream, and here and 
there a swamp ; the higher land is towards the up-river end ; 
down river there is a lower strip of land with hillocks. This 
is, I fancy, formed by deposits of sand, &c., catching in among 
the rocks, and connecting what was at one time several isolated 
islands. There are no big game or gorillas on the island, but 
it has a peculiar and awful house ant, much smaller than the 
driver ant, but with a venomous, bad bite ; its only good point 
is that its chief food is the white ants, which are therefore 
kept in abeyance on Lembarene Island, although flourishing 
destructively on the mainland banks of the river in this 
locality. I was never tired of going and watching those 
Igalwa villagers, nor were, I think, the Igalwa villagers ever 
tired of observing me. Although the physical conditions of 
life were practically identical with those of the mainland, the 
way in which the Igalwas dealt with them, i.e., the culture, was 
distinct from the culture of the mainland Fans. 

The Igalwas are a tribe very nearly akin, if not ethnically 
identical with, the M'pongwe, and the culture of these two 
tribes is on a level with the highest native African culture. 



220 LEMBARENE chap. 

/African culture, I may remark, varies just the same as 
European in this, that there is as much difference in the 
manners of life between, say, an Igalwa and a Bubi of Fernando 
Po, as there is between a Londoner and a Laplander. 

The Igahva builds his house like that of the M'pongwe, 
of bamboo, and he surrounds himself with European- 
made articles. The neat houses, fitted with windows, with 
wooden shutters to close at night, and with a deal door — a 
carpenter-made door — are in sharp contrast with the ragged 
ant-hill looking performances of the Akkas, or the bark huts 
of the Fan, with no windows, and just an extra broad bit of 
bark to slip across the hole that serves as a door. On going 
into an Igalwa house you will see a four-legged table, often 
covered with a bright-coloured tablecloth, on which stands a 
water bottle, with two clean glasses, and round about you 
will see chairs — Windsor chairs. These houses have usually 
three, sometimes more rooms, and a separate closed-in little 
kitchen, built apart, wherein you may observe European-made 
saucepans, in addition to the ubiquitous skillet. Outside, all 
along the clean sandy streets, the inhabitants are seated. 
The Igalwa is truly great at sitting, the men pursuing a policy 
of masterly inactivity, broken occasionally by leisurely netting 
a fishing net, the end of the netting hitched up on to the roof 
thatch, and not held by a stirrup. The ladies are employed in 
the manufacture of articles pertaining to a higher culture — I 
allude, as Mr. Micawber would say, to bed-quilts and pillow 
cases — the most gorgeous bed-quilts and pillow-cases — made 
of patchwork, and now and again you will see a mosquito-bar 
in course of construction, of course not made of net or muslin 
because of the awesome strength and ferocity of the Lem- 
barene strain of mosquitoes, but of stout, fair-flowered and 
besprigged chintzes ; and you will observe these things are 
often being sewn with a sewing machine. Here and there 
you will see a misguided woman making a Hubbard. For- 
give me, but I must break out on the subject of Hubbards ; 
I will promise to keep clear of bad language let the effort 
cost me what it may. A Hubbard is a female garment 
patronised by the whole set of missions from Sierra Leone 
to Congo Beige, so please understand I am not criticising 



THE HUBBARD 221 



If 



the Mission Evangelique in this affair. I think these things 
are one of the factors producing the well-known torpidity of 
the mission-trained girl ; and they should be suppressed in her 
interest,, apart from their appearance, which is enough to 
constitute a hanging matter. Their formation is this — a 
\'oke round the neck and shoulders fastens at the back with 
three buttons — two usually lost ; from this yoke protrude 
dwarf sleeves, and round its lower rim, on a level with the 
armpits, is sewn on a flounce, set in with full gathers, which 
falls to the heels of the wearer. Sometimes this flounce is 
sewn on with a chain-stitch machine, whereby I once saw 
a dreadful accident on the Leeward Coast. In church a limb 
of a child, seeking for amusement during the long extemporary 
prayer of its pastor, came across a thread of white sticking 
out from the back of the yoke of the Hubbard of the woman 
in front of her, and pulled it out by the yard. Of course, 
when the unconscious victim rose up, the whole of what 
might be called the practical part of her attire subsided on to 
the floor. This is only an occasional danger ; but the con- 
stant habit of the garment is to fall forward and reap the 
dirt whenever the wearer stoops forward to do anything, 
going into the fire, and the cooking, and things in general, and 
impeding all rapid movement. These garments are usually 
made at working parties in Europe ; and what idea the pious 
ladies in England, Germany, Scotland, and France can have of 
the African figure I cannot think, but evidently part of their 
opinion is that it is very like a tub. I was once helping to 
unpack a mission box. " What have they sent out these 
frills for palm-oil puncheons for? " I inquired of my esteemed 
friend, the lady missionary'. " Don't be more foolish than 
you can help," she answered. " Don't you see the sleeves ? 
They are Hubbards." I was crushed ; but even she acknow- 
ledged that it was trying of the home folk to make them 
like that, all the more so because their delusion on the 
African figure was not confined to the making of Hubbards, 
but extended to the making of shirts and chemises. There 
is nothing like measurements in ethnology, so I measured and 
found one that with a depth of thirty inches had a breadth of 
beam of forty-two inches ; one with a depth of thirty-six 



222 



LEMBARENE 



CHAP. 



inches had a breadth of sixty inches. It is not in nature 
for people to be made to fit these things. So I suggested 
that a few stuffed negroes should be sent home for distribution 
in working-party centres, and then the ladies could try the 
things on. My friend's answer was far from being personally 
complimentary, so I will not give it, but return hurriedly to 
the Igalwa ladies in the Lembarene village, sitting on the 
sunny sandy street on their low, wood country stools. The 




IGALWA WOMEN. 



chairs I have mentioned before are " for dandy " not for 
use. 

Those among them who may not be busy sewing, are busy 
doing each other's hair. Hair-dressing is quite an art among 
the Igalwa and M'pongwe women, and their hair is very 
beautiful ; very crinkly, but fine. It is plaited up, close to 
the head, partings between the plaits making elaborate 
parterres. Into the beds of plaited hair are stuck long pins 
of river ivory (hippo), decorated with black tracery and 



NATIVE DRESS 223 



W 



openwork, and made by their good men. A lady will stick 
as many of these into her hair as she can get, but the pre- 
vailing mode is to have one stuck in behind each ear, showing 
their broad, long heads above like two horns ; they are ex- 
ceedingly becoming to these black but comely ladies, verily 
I think, the comeliest ladies I have ever seen on the Coast. 
Very black they are, blacker than many of their neighbours, 
always blacker than the Fans, and although their skin lacks 
that velvety pile of the true negro, it is not too shiny, but it is 
fine and usually unblemished, and their figures are charmingly 
rounded, their hands and feet small, almost as small as a high- 
class Calabar woman's, and their eyes large, lustrous, soft and 
brown, and their teeth as white as the sea surf and undisfigured 
by filing. 

The native dress for men and women alike is the cloth or 
paun. The men wear it by rolling the upper line round 
the waist, and in addition they frequently wear a singlet 
or a flannel shirt worn 7»org Africano, flowing free. Rich 
men will mount a European coat and hat, and men con- 
nected with the mission or trading stations occasionally wear 
trousers. The personal appearance of the men does not 
amount to much when all's done, so we will return to the 
ladies. They wrap the upper hem of these cloths round under 
the armpits, a graceful form of drapery, but one which requires 
continual readjustment. The cloth is about four yards long 
and two deep, and there is always round the hem a border, 
or false hem, of turkey red twill, or some other coloured 
cotton cloth to the main body of the paun. In addition 
to the cloth there is worn, when possible, a European shawl, 
either one of those thick cotton cloth ones printed with 
' Chinese-looking patterns in dull red on a dark ground, this 
sort is wrapped round the upper part of the body : or what 
is more highly esteemed is a bright, light-coloured, fancy wool 
shawl, pink or pale blue preferred, which being carefully 
folded into a roll is placed over one shoulder, and is entirely 
for dandy. I am thankful to say they do not go in for hats ; 
when they wear anything on their heads it is a handkerchief 
folded shawlwise ; the base of the triangle is bound round 
the forehead just above the eyebrows, the ends carried round 



224 LEMBARENE CHAP. 

over the ears and tied behind over the apex of the triangle 
of the handkerchief, the three ends being then arranged fan- 
wise at the back. Add to this costume a sober-coloured silk 
parasol, not one of your green or red young tent-like, brutally 
masculine, knobby-sticked umbrellas, but a fair, lady-like 
parasol, which, being carefully rolled up, is carried handle 
foremost right in the middle of the head, also for dandy. Then 
a few strings of turquoise-blue beads, or imitation gold ones, 
worn round the shapely throat ; and I will back my Igalwa or 
M'pongwe belle against any of those South Sea Island young 
ladies we nowadays hear so much about, thanks to Mr. Steven- 
son, yea, e\'en though these may be wreathed with fragrant 
flowers, and the African lady very rarely goes in for flowers. 
The only time I have seen the African ladies wearing them for 
ornament has been among these Igalwas, who now and again 
stud their night-black hair with pretty little round vividly red 
blossoms in a most fetching way. I wonder the Africans do 
not wear flowers more frequently, for they are devoted to 
scent, both men and women. 

The usual statements that the African women age — go off, 
I believe, is the technical term — very early is, I am sure, 
wrong in many cases. Look at those Sierra Leone mammies, 
slightly spherical, I own, but undeniably charming ; and the 
Calabar women, although belonging to a very ugly tribe, are 
very little the worse for twenty years one way or the other ; 
and these women along Congo Frangais way, Well ! I know 
one who is all forty-five, and yet at present is regarded by a 
French official, a judge one might think, as une belle feinme. 

The Igalwas are a proud race, one of the noble tribes, like 
the M'pongwe and the Ajumba. The women do not inter- 
marry with lower-class tribes, and in their own tribe they 
are much restricted, owing to all relations on the mother's 
side being forbidden to intermarry. This well-known form of 
accounting relationships only through the mother [Mutter- 
rechf) is in a more perfected and elaborated form among the 
Igalwa than among any other tribe I am personally acquainted 
with ; brothers and cousins on the mother's side being in one 
class of relationship, and called by one name, Ndako. 

The father's responsibility, as regards authority over his own 



MARRIAGE CUSTOMS 225 



children is ver>' slight. The really resp)onsible male relative 
is the mother's elder brother. From him must leave to marrj' 
be obtained for either girl, or boy ; to him and the mother 
must the present be taken which is exacted on the 
marriage of a girl ; and should the mother die, on him and 
not on the father, lies the responsibility of rearing the children ; 
they go to his house, and he treats and regards them as nearer 
and dearer to himself than his own children, and at his death, 
after his own brothers by the same mother, they become his 
heirs. 

Marriage among the Igalwa and M'p)ongwe is not direct 
marriage by purchase, but a certain fi.xed price present is made 
to the mother and uncle of the girl. Other propitiatory pres- 
ents are made, but do not count legally, and have not neces- 
sarily to be returned in case of post-nuptial differences arising 
leading to a divorce — a ver>' frequent catastrophe in the social 
circle ; for the Igalwa ladies are spirited, and devoted to per- 

nal adornment, and they are naggers at their husbands, 
iany times when walking on Lembarene Island, have I 

en a lady stand in the street and let her husband, who 
had taken shelter inside the house, know what she thought of 
him, in a way that reminded me of some London slum scenes. 
When the husband loses his temper, as he surely does sooner or 
later, being a man, he whacks his wife — or wives, if they have 
been at him in a bod}-. This crisis usually takes place at night ; 
and when staying on board the Movd, or the Eciaireur, moored 
alongside the landing place at Lembarene Island, I have 
heard yells and squalls of a most dismal character. He may 
w hack with impunity so long as he does not draw blood ; if 
he does, be it never so little, his wife is off to her relations, 
the present he has given for her is returned, the marriage 
is annulled, and she can re-marry as soon as she is able. 

Her relations are only too glad to get her, because, although 
the present has to be returned, yet the propitiator^' offerings 
remain theirs, and they know more propitiatory offerings as 
well as another present will accrue with the next set of suitors. 
This of course is only the case with the younger women ; the 
older women for one thing do not nag so much, and moreover 
the\- have usually children willing and able to support them. 

Q 



226 LEMBARENE chap. 



If they have not, their state is, like that of all old childless I 
women in Africa, a very desolate one. l 

Infant marriage is now in vogue among the Igalwa, and to j 
my surprise I find it is of quite recent introduction and adop- , 
tion. Their own account of this retrograde movement in 
culture is that in the last generation — some of the old people 
indeed claim to have known him — there was an exceedingly 
lugly and deformed man who could not get a wife, the women 
being then, as the men are now, great admirers of physical 
beauty. So this man, being very cunning, hit on the idea of 
becoming betrothed to one before she could exercise her own 
choice in the matter ; and knowing a family in which an inte- 
resting event was likely to occur, he made heavy presents in 
the proper quarters and bespoke the coming infant if it should 
be a girl. A girl it was, and thus, say the Igalwa, arose the , 
•custom; and nowadays, although they do not engage their j 
wives so early as did the founder of the custom, they adopt 
infant marriage as an institution. 

I inquired carefully, in the interests of ethnology, as to what 
methods of courting were in vogue previously. They said 
people married each other because they loved each other. I : 
think other ethnologists will follow this inquiry up, for we 
may here find a real golden age, which in other races of 
humanity lies away in the mists of the ages behind the 
kitchen middens and the Cambrian rocks. My own opinion 
in this matter is that the earlier courting methods of the Igalwa 
involved a certain amount of effort on the man's part, a thing 
abhorrent to an Igalwa. It necessitated his dressing himself 
up, and likely enough fighting that impudent scoundrel who 
was engaged in courting her too ; and above all serenading her 
at night on the native harp, with its strings made from the ten- 
drils of a certain orchid, or on the marimba, amongst crowds 
of mosquitoes. Any institution that involved being out at 
night amongst crowds of those Lembarene mosquitoes would 
have to disappear, let that institution be what it might. 

The Igalwa are one of the dying-out coast tribes. As well 
as on Lembarene Island, their villages are scattered along the 
banks of the Lower Ogowe, and on the shores and islands of 
Eliva Z'onlange. On the island they are, so far, undis- 



ODEAKA CHEESE 227 



turbed by the Fan invasion, and laze their lives away like 
lotus-eaters. Their slaves work their large plantations, and 
bring up to them magnificent yams, ready prepared agooma, 
sweet-potatoes, papaw, &c., not forgetting that delicacy 
Odeaka cheese ; this is not an exclusive inspiration of theirs, 
for the M'pongwe and the Benga use it as well. It is made 
from the kernel of the wild mango, a singularly beautiful tree 
of great size and stately spread of foliage. I can compare it 
only in appearance and habit of growth to our Irish, or ever- 
;^rreen, oak, but it is an idealisation of that fine tree. Its leaves 
are a softer, brighter, deeper green, and in due season (August) 
it is covered — not ostentatiously like the real mango, with 
^reat spikes of bloom, looking each like a gigantic head of 
mignonette — but with small yellow-green flowers tucked away 
under the leaves, filling the air with a soft sweet perfume, 
and then falling on to the bare shaded ground beneath to make 
a deep-piled carpet. I do not know whether it is a mango tree 
at all, for I am no botanist : but anyhow the fruit is rather like 
that of the mango in external appearance, and in internal still 
more so, for it has a disproportionately large stone. These 
stones are cracked, and the kernel taken out. The kernels 
are spread a short time in the shade to dry ; then they are 
beaten up into a pulp with a wooden pestle, and the pulp put 
into a basket lined carefully with plantain leaves and placed 
in the sun, which melts it up into a stiff mass. The basket 
i-^ then removed from the sun and stood aside to cool. When 
cool, the cheese can be turned out in shape, and can be kept a 
long time if it is wTapped round with leaves and a cloth, and 
hung up inside the house. Its appearance is that of almond 
rock, and it is cut easily with a knife ; but at any period of its 
existence, if it is left in the sun it melts again rapidly into an 
oily mass. 

The natives use it as a seasoning in their cookery, stuffing 
fish and plantains with it and so on, using it also in the pre- 
paration of a sort of sea-pie they make with meat and fish. 
To make this, a thing well worth doing, particularly with 
hippo or other coarse meat, reduce the wood fire to embers, and 
make plantain leaves into a sort of bag, or cup ; small pieces of 
the meat should then be packed in layers with red pepper and 

Q 2 



228 LEMBARENE chap. 



odeaka in between. The tops of the leaves are then tied together 
with fine tie-tie, and the bundle, without any saucepan of any 
kind, stood on the glowing embers, the cook taking care 
there is no flame. The meat is done, and a superb gravy 
formed, before the containing plantain leaves are burnt 
through — plantain leaves will stand an amazing lot in the 
way of fire. This dish is really excellent, even when made with 
boa constrictor, hippo, or crocodile. It makes the former most 
palatable ; but of course it does not remove the musky taste 
from crocodile ; nothing I know of will. 

The Igalwa have been under missionary influence since 1874,. 
when Dr. Nassau founded the mission station at Kangwe. 
To this influence they owe their very frequent ability to read 
and write, and maybe also their somewhat refined culture. 
Nevertheless, this influence has not permeated their social 
institutions much yet. 

The great and important difference between the M'pongwe,'' 
Igalwa, and Ajumba fetish, and the fetish of those tribes 
round them, consists in their conception of a certain spirit 
called Mbuiri. They have, as is constant among the Bantu 
races of South-West Africa, a great god — the creator, a god 
who has made all things, and who now no longer takes an\' 
interest in the things he has created. Their name for this god 
is Anyambie, which when pronounced sounds to my ears like 
anlynlah — the I's being very weak, — the derivation of this 
name, however, is from Anyima a spirit, and Mbia, good. This 
god, unlike other forms of the creating god in fetish, has a 
viceroy or minister who is a god he has created, and to whom 
he leaves the government of affairs. This god is Mbuiri or 
Ombwiri, and this Ombwiri is of very high interest to the^ 
student of comparative fetish. He has never been, nor can 
he ever become, a man, i.e. be born as a man, but he cart 
transfuse with his own personality that of human beings, and • 
also the souls of all those things we white men regard as in- 
animate, such as rocks, trees, &c., in a similar manner. 

The M'pongwe know that his residence is in the sea, and 
some of them have seen him as an old white man, not flesh- 

^ The M'pongwe speaking tribes are the M'pongwe, Orungu, Nk&mi,, 
Ajumba, Inlenga and the Igalwa. 



THE SPIRIT MBUIRI 229 



colour white, but chalk white. There is another important 
point here, but it wants a volume to itself, so I must pass 
it. Mbuiri's appearance in a corporeal form denotes ill luck, 
not death to the seer, but misfortune of a severe and 
diffused character. The ruin of a trading enterprise, the 
destruction of a village or a family, are put down to Mbuiri's 
action. Yet he is not regarded as a malevolent god, a devil, 
but as an avenger, or punisher of sin ; and the M'pongwe 
look on him as the Being to whom the\' primarily owe the 
good things and fortunes of this life, and as the Being who 
alone has power to govern the host of truly malevolent spirits 
that exist in nature. 

The different instruments with which he works in the 
-Raping of human destiny bear his name when in his employ. 
\\ hen acting by means of water, he is Mbuiri Aningo ; 
\\ hen in the weather, Mbuiri Ngali ; when in the forests, 
Mbuiri Ibaka ; when in the form of a dwarf, Mbuiri Akkoa 
and so on. 

The great difference between Mbuiri and the lesser spirits 
is this : — the lesser spirits cannot incarnate themselves except 
through extraneous things ; Mbuiri can, he can become visible 
without anything beyond his own will to do so. The other 
-pirits must be in something to become visible. This is an 
extremely delicate piece of fetish which it took me weeks to 
\v(jrk out. I think I may say another thing about Mbuiri, 
jthough I say it carefully, and that is, that among the 
^^pong^ve and the tribe who are the parent tribe of the 
.M'pongwe — the now rapidly dying out Ajumba, and their 
allied tribe the Igalwa — Mbuiri is a distinct entity, while 
among the neighbouring tribes he is a class, i.e. there are 
hundreds of Mbuiri or Ombwiri, one for every remarkable 
place or thing, such as rock, tree, or forest thicket, and for 
every dangerous place in a river. Had I not observed a 
similar state of affairs regarding Sasabonsum, a totally 
different kind of spirit on the Windward coast, I should have 
had even greater trouble than I had, in finding a key to what 
seemed at first a mass of conflicting details regarding this 
important spirit Mbuiri. 

There is one other very important point in M'pongwe fetish ; 



230 LEMBARENE CH. x 



and that is that the souls of men exist before birth as well as 
after death. This is indeed, as far as I have been able to find 
out, a doctrine universally held by the West African tribes^ 
but among the M'pongwe there is this modification in it, 
which agrees strangely well with the idea I found regarding; 
reincarnated diseases, existent among the Okyon tribes 
(pure negroes). The malevolent minor spirits are capable of 
being born with, what we will call, a man's soul, as well as 
going in w^ith the man's soul during sleep. For example, an 
Olaga may be born with a man and that man will thereby be 
born mad ; he may at any period of his life, given certain 
conditions, become possessed by an evil spirit, Onlogho 
Abambo, Iniembe, Nkandada, and become mad, or ill ; but 
if he is born mad, or sickly, one of the evil spirits such as 
an Olaga or an Ibambo, the soul of a man that has not been 
buried properly, has been born with him. 

The rest of the M'pongwe fetish is on broad lines common 
to other tribes, so I relegate it to the general collection of 
notes on fetish. M'pongwe jurisprudence is founded on the 
same ideas as those on which West African jurisprudence at 
large is founded, but it is so elaborated that it would be 
desecration to sketch it. It requires a massive monograph. 



I 



CHAPTER XI 
II 

' ON THE WAV FROM KAXGWE TO LAKE NXOVI 

In which the voyager goes for bush again and wanders into a new lake 
and a new river. 

/ufy 22nd, 1895. — Left Kangwe. The four Ajumba^ did 
not turn up early in the morning as had been arranged, 
but arrived about eight, in pouring rain, so decided to 
wait until two o'clock, which will give us time to reach their 
town of Arevooma before nightfall, and may perhaps 
give us a chance of arriving there dr>'. At two we start. 
Good Mme. Jacot comes down to Andande beach to see 
us off, accompanied by Edmond ; M. Jacot, I am sorry to 
say, has a bad touch of fever, but insists that he will be all 
right to-morrow ; and as he is a person whom one auto- 
matically believes in, and also is a disciple of Kuhne, one 
can do nothing ; so I go, though feeling anxious for Mme. 
Jacot. I myself have an awful headache, complicated b\- the 
conviction that I am in for a heavy bout of fever : but as an 
Aduma canoe is one of the most comfortable things in Africa, 
or out of it, this is no cause for delay. We go down river 
on the Kang^ve side of Lembarene Island, make a pause in 
front of the Igalwa slave town, which is on the Island and 
nearly opposite the Fan town of Fula on the mainland bank, 
our motive being to get stores of yam and plantain — and 
mcignificent specimens of both we get — and then, when our 

^ These four .^jumba had been engaged, through the instrumentahty 
of M. Jacot, to accompany me to the Rembwe River. The Ajumba are 
one of the noble tribes and are the parent stem of the M'pongwe ; their 
district is the western side of Lake Ayzingo. 



232 FROM KANGWE TO LAKE NCOVI chap. 



•canoe is laden with them to an extent that would get us into 
trouble under the Act if it ran here, off we go again. Every 
canoe we meet shouts us a greeting, and asks where we are 
going, and we say " Rembwe " — and they say " What ! 
Rembwe ! " — and we say " Yes, Rembwe," and paddle on. I 
lay among the luggage for about an hour, not taking much 
interest in the Rembwe or anything else, save my own head- 
ache ; but this soon lifted, and I was able to take notice, just 
before we reached the Ajumba's town, called Arevooma. 
The sandbanks stretch across the river here nearly awash, so 
all our cargo of yams has to be thrown overboard on to the 
5and, from which they can be collected by being waded out 
to. The canoe, thus lightened, is able to go on a little 
further, but we are soon hard and fast again, and the crew 
have to jump out and shove her off about once every five 
minutes, and then to look lively about jumping back into 
her again, as she shoots over the cliffs of the sandbanks. 

When we reach Arevooma, I find it is a very prettily situated 
town, on the left-hand bank of the river — clean and well kept, 
and composed of houses built on the Igalwa and M'pongwe 
plan with walls of split Bamboo and a palm thatch roof I 
own I did not much care for these Ajumbas on starting, but 
they are evidently going to be kind and pleasant companions. 
One of them is a gentlemanly-looking man, who wears a gray 
shirt ; another looks like a genial Irishman who has 
accidentally got black, very black ; he is distinguished by 
wearing a singlet ; another is a thin, elderly man, notably 
silent ; and the remaining one is a strapping, big fellow, as 
black as a wolf's mouth, of gigantic muscular development, 
and wearing quantities of fetish charms hung about him. 
The two first mentioned are Christians ; the other two pagans, 
and I will refer to them by their characteristic points, for their 
honourable names are awfully alike when you do hear them, 
and, as is usual with Africans, rarely used in conversation. 

Gray Shirt places his house at my disposal, and both he 
and his exceedingly pretty wife do their utmost to make me 
•comfortable. The house lies at the west end of the town. It 
is one room inside, but has, I believe, a separate cooking shed. 
In the verandah in front is placed a table, an ivory bundle chair 



XI AX OPEN AJR SERVICE 233 



and a gourd of w ater, and I am also treated to a calico table- 
cloth, and most thoughtfully screened off from the public gaze 
with more calico so that I can have my tea in privacy. After 
this meal, to my surprise Xdaka turns up. Certainly he is 
one of the very ugliest men — black or white — I have ever 
seen, and I fancy one of the best. He is now on a holiday 
from Kangwe, seeing to the settlement of his dead brother's 
affairs. The dead brother was a great man in Arevooma 
and a pagan, but Xdaka, the Christian Bible-reader, seems to 
t^et on perfectly with the family and is holding to-night a 
meeting outside his brother's house and comes with a lantern 
to fetch me to attend it. Of course I have to go, headache or 
no headache 

Most of the town was there, mainly as spectators. Ndaka 
and my two Christian boatmen manage the service between 
them, and what with the hymns and the mosquitoes the e.x- 
perience is slightly awful. We sit in a line in front of the house, 
w hich is brilliantly lit up — our own lantern on the ground before 
us acting as a rival entertainment to the house lamps inside for 
ime of the best insect society in Africa, who after the manner 
' )f the insect world, insist on regarding us as responsible for their 
own idiocy in getting singed, and sting us in revenge, while we 
slap hard, as we howl hymns in the fearful Igalwa and M'pongwe 
way. Next to an English picnic, the most uncomfortable thing 
I know is an open-air service in this part of Africa. Service 
being over, Xdaka takes me over the house to show its 
; splendours. The great brilliancy of its illumination arises 
from its being lit by two hanging lamps supplied by Messrs. 
Woermann at five dollars apiece and burning Devoe's patent 
paraffin oil in them. This is not an advertisement, because 
no other firm sells this type of lamp round here, neither can 
30U get, all along the Coast, any other sort of paraffin oil. 
The most remarkable point about the house is the floor, 
\\ hich is made of split, plaited bamboo, the like of which I 
have never before seen. It gives under your feet in an 
alarming way, being raised some three or four feet above the 
ground, and I am haunted by the fear that I shall go 
'through it and give pain to myself, and great trouble to 
others before I could be got out. It is a beautiful piece of work- 



234 FROM KANGWE TO LAKE NCOVI CHAP. 



manship, and Arevooma has every reason to be proud of it. 
Having admired these things, I go, dead tired and still head- 
achy, down the road with my host who carries the lantern, 
through an atmosphere that has 45 per cent, of solid matter 
in the shape of mosquitoes ; then wishing him good-night, I 
shut myself in, and illuminate, humbly, with a candle. The 
furniture of the house consists mainly of boxes, containing 
the wealth of Gray Shirt, in clothes, mirrors, &c. One corner 
of the room is taken up by great calabashes full of some sort 
of liquor, and there is an ivory bundle chair, a hanging mirror, 
.several rusty guns, and a considerable collection of china 
basins and jugs. Evidently Gray Shirt is rich. The most 
interesting article to me, however, just now is the bed hung 
over with a clean, substantial, chintz mosquito bar, and spread 
with clean calico and adorned with patchwork-covered pillows. 
So I take off my boots and put on my slippers ; for it never 
does in this country to leave off boots altogether at any time, 
and risk getting bitten by mosquitoes on the feet, when you 
are on the march ; because the rub of your boot on the bite 
always produces a sore, and a sore when it comes in the 
Gorilla country, comes to stay. 

No sooner have I carefully swished all the mosquitoes from 
under the bar and turned in, than a cat scratches and mews 
at the door — turn out and let her in. She is evidently a pet. 
so I take her on to the bed with me. She is a very nice cat — 
sandy and fat — and if I held the opinion of Pythagoras 
concerning wild fowl, I .should have no hesitation in saying 
she had in her the soul of Dame Juliana Berners, such a 
whole-souled devotion to sport does she display, dashing out 
through the flaps of the mosquito bar after rats which, amid 
.squeals from the rats and curses from her, she kills amongst 
the china collection. Then .she comes to me, triumphant, 
expecting congratulations, and accompanied by mosquitoes, 
and purrs and kneads upon my chest until she hears another rat. 

Tuesday, July 2yd. — Am aroused by violent knocking at 
the door in the early gray dawn — so violent that two large 
centipedes and a scorpion drop en to the bed. They have 
evidently been tucked away among the folds of the bar 
all night. Well " when ignorance is bliss 'tis folly to be 



XI AJUMBA WAYS AND GAMES 235^ 



wise," particularly along here. I get up without delay, and 
find myself quite well. The cat has thrown a basin of water 
neatly over into my bag during her nocturnal hunts ; and 
when my tea comes I am informed a man " done die " in the 
night, which explains the firing of guns I heard. I inquire 
what he has died of, and am told " He just truck luck, and 
then he die." His widows are having their faces painted 
white by sympathetic lady friends, and are attired in their 
oldest, dirtiest clothes, and but very few of them ; still, they 
seem to be taking things in a resigned spirit. These Ajumba 
seem pleasant folk. They play with their pretty brown 
children in a taking way. Last night I noticed some men 
and women plajing a game new to me, which consisted in 
throwing a hoop at each other. The point was to get the 
hoop to fall over your adversarj's head. It is a cheerful game. 
Quantities of the common house-fly about — and, during the 
early part of the morning, it rains in a gentle kind of way ; 
but soon after we are afloat in our canoe it turns into a soft 
white mist. 

We paddle still westwards down the broad quiet waters of 
the O'Rembo Vongo. I notice great quantities of birds 
about here — great hornbills, vividly coloured kingfishers, and 
for the first time the great vulture I have often heard of,. 
and the skin of which I will take home before I mention even 
its approximate spread of wing.^ There are also noble 

' Since my return home I ha\"e read that rather rare and ver)' charming 
book, Ten Years' U^inderings amongt/te Ethiopians,\i\T.].\\\iichimson, 
a gentleman who was for a long time H.B.M. Consul in Calabar. He 
also has heard of this bird, which was described as "measuring five 
fathoms, />., thirty feet, — from the tip of one wing to the tip of the other. 
Its beak is a fathom, or six feet long. No man dares to go near it, and no 
gun fit to kill it. Its favourite food is obtained by killing the elephant, 
whose eyes it devours." Mr. Hutchinson goes on to say that "inquiring 
the colour of the bird's plumage the answer I received— namely, that its 
feathers were green," made me shut my note-book, with a "mental 
reservation " as to the ignorance of Baron Cuvier (p. 242). I am not 
going bail for these measurements being correct to an inch or so, and 
must state that the bird is not green but brown and gray, and the noise 
It makes when settling in the forest trees over one's head is ver)- great^ 
but for further particulars, you must wait until I or some other West 
Coaster brings home a specimen, and then 1 



236 FROM KANGWE TO LAKE NCOVI CHAP. 



-white cranes, and flocks of small black and white birds, new 
to me, with heavy razor-shaped bills, reminding one of the 
Devonian puffin. The hornbill is perhaps the most striking in 
-appearance. It is the size of a small, or say a good-sized hen- 
turkey. Gray Shirt says the flocks, which are of eight or ten, 
always have the same quantity of cocks and hens, and that 
they live together " white man fashion," i.e., each couple keep- 
ing together. They certainly do a great deal of courting, 
the cock filling out his wattles on his neck like a turkey, and 
spreading out his tail with great pomp and ceremony, but very 
awkwardly. To see hornbills on a bare sandbank is a solemn 
sight, but when they are dodging about in the hippo grass they 
sink ceremony, and roll and waddle, looking — my man said 
— for snakes and the little sand-fish, which are close in under the 
bank ; and their killing way of dropping their jaws — I should 
say opening their bills — when they are alarmed is comic. I 
think this has something to do with their hearing, for I often 
saw two or three of them in a line on a long branch, standing, 
stretched up to their full height, their great eyes opened wide, 
and all with their great beaks open, evidently listening for 
something. Their cry is most peculiar and can only be 
mistaken for a native horn ; and although there seems little 
A-'ariety in it to my ear, there must be more to theirs, for they 
will carry on long confabulations with each other across 
.a river, and, I believe, sit up half the night and talk scandal. 

There were plenty of plantain-eaters here, but, although 
their screech was as appalling as I have heard in Angola, 
they were not regarded, by the Ajumba at any rate, as 
.being birds of evil omen, as they are in Angola. Still, by no 
means all the birds here only screech and squark. Several of 
them have very lovely notes. There is one who always gives 
a series of infinitely beautiful, soft, rich-toned whistles just 
before the first light of the dawn shows in the sky, and one at 
least who has a prolonged and very lovely song. This bird, 
I was told in Gaboon, is called TelepJionus erythroptcrus. I 
expect an ornithologist would enjoy himself here, but I cannot 
— and will not — collect birds. I hate to have them killed 
any how, and particularly in the barbarous way in which 
.these natives kill them. 



XI LESSONS IN GEOGRAPHY 237 



The broad stretch of water looks like a long lake. In all 
directions sandbanks are showing their broad yellow backs, 
and there will be more showing soon, for it is not yet the 
height of the dr}-. We are perpetually grounding on those 
which by next month will be above water. These canoes are 
built, I believe, more with a view to taking sandbanks com- 
fortably than anything else ; but they are by no means yet 
sufficiently specialised for getting off them. Their flat bottoms 
enable them to glide on to the banks, and sit there, without 
cither upsetting or cutting into the sand, as a canoe with 
a keel would ; but the trouble comes in when you are getting 
( )ff the steep edge of the bank, and the usual form it takes is 
upsetting. So far my Ajumba friends have only tried to meet 
this difficulty by tying the cargo in. 

I try to get up the geography of this region conscientiously.. 
1-ortunately I find Gray Shirt, Singlet, and Pagan can speak 
trade English ; for my interpreter's knowledge of that language 
seems confined to " Praps," " 'Tis better so," and " Lordy^ 
Lordy, helpee me " — a valueless vocabulary. None of them,^ 
however, seem to recognise a single blessed name on the chart, 
u hich is saying nothing against the chart and its makers, who- 
probably got their names up from M'pongwes and Igalwas 
instead of Ajumba, as I am trying to. Geographical research 
in this region is fraught with difficulty, I find, owing to different 
tribes calling one and the same place by different names ; and 
I am sure the Royal Geographical Society ought to insert 
among their " Hints" that ever>- traveller in this region should 
carefully learn every separate native word, or set of words, 
signifying " I don't know," — four villages and two rivers I have 
come across out here solemnly set down with various forms of 
this statement, for their native name. Really I think the old 
Portuguese wa)- of naming places after Saints, &c., was wiser 
in the long run, and it was certainly pleasanter to the ears. 
My Ajumba, however, know about my Xgambi and the Vinue 
all right and Eliva z'Ayzingo, so I must tr\' and get cross 
bearings from these. 

We have an addition to our crew this morning — a man who 
wants to go and get work at John Holt's sub-factor>^ away on 
the Rembwe. He has been waiting a long while at Arevooma,. 



238 FROM KANGWE TO LAKE NCOVI chap. 



unable to get across, I am told, " because the road is now 
stopped between Ayzingo and the Rembwe by " those fearful 
Fans." " How are we going to get through that way ? " says 
I, with natural feminine alarm. " We are not, sir," says Gray 
Shirt. This is what Lady MacDonald would term a chatty 
little incident ; and my hair begins to rise as I remember 
what I have been told about those Fans and the indications I 
have already seen of its being true when on the Upper Ogowe. 
Now here we are going to try to get through the heart of their 
•country, far from a French station, and without the French 
flag. Why did I not obey Mr. Hudson's orders not to go 
wandering about in a reckless way ! Anyhow I am in for it, 
and Fortune favours the brave. The only question is : Do I 
individually come under this class ? I go into details. It 
seems Pagan thinks he can depend on the friendship of two 
Fans he once met and did business with, and who now live on 
an island in Lake Ncovi — Ncovi is not down on my map and 
I have never heard of it before — anyhow thither we are bound 
now. 

Each man has brought with him his best gun, loaded to 
the muzzle, and tied on to the baggage against which I am 
leaning — the muzzles sticking out each side of my head : the 
flint locks covered with cases, or sheaths, made of the black- 
haired skins of gorillas, leopard skin, and a beautiful bright 
bay skin, which I do not know, which they say is bush cow — 
but they call half a dozen things bush cow. These guns are 
not the " gas-pipes " I have seen up north ; but decent rifles 
which have had the rifling filed out and the locks replaced by 
flint locks and converted into muzzle loaders, and many of 
them have beautiful barrels. I find the Ajumba name for the 
beautiful shrub that has long bunches of red yellow and 
cream-coloured young leaves at the end of its branches is 
^' obaa." I also learn that in their language ebony and a monkey 
have one name. The forest on either bank is very lovely. 
Some enormously high columns of green are formed by a sort 
of climbing plant having taken possession of lightning-struck 
trees, and in one place it really looks exactly as if some one 
had spread a great green coverlet over the forest, so as to keep 
it dry. No high land showing in any direction. Pagan tells 



XI SANDBANK PALAVER 239 



me the extinguisher-shaped juju filled with medicine and made 
of iron is against drowning — the red juju is " for keep foot in 
path." Beautiful effect of a gleam of sunshine lighting up a 
red sandbank till it glows like the Xibelungen gold. Indeed 
the effects are Turneresque to-day owing to the mist, and the 
sun playing in and out among it. 

The sandbanks now have their cliffs to the N.N.W. and 
N.W. At 9.30, the broad river in front of us is apparently 
closed by sandbanks which run out from the banks thus : — 

yellow \ 
S. bank bright-red V N. bank. Current running strong along 

yellow J 
south bank. This bank bears testimony of this also being the 
case in the wet season, for a fringe of torn-down trees hangs 
from it into the river. Pass Seke, a town on north bank, 
interchanging the usual observations regarding our destination. 
The river seems absolutely barred with sand again ; but as we 
paddle down it, the obstructions resolve themselves into spits 
of sand from the north bank and the largest island in mid- 
stream, which also has a long tail, or train, of sandbank down 
iver. Here we meet a picturesque series of canoes, fruit and 
rade laden, being poled up stream, one man with his pole 
jver one side, the other with his pole over the other, making 
.1 St. Andrew's cross as you meet them end on. 

Most luxurious, charming, and pleasant trip this. The 
men are standing up swinging in rhythmic motion their long, 
rich red wood paddles in perfect time to their elaborate melan- 
choly, minor key boat song. Nearly lost with all hands. 
Sandbank palaver — only when we were going over the end 
of it, slipped sideways over its edge. River deep, bottom 
sand and mud. This information may be interesting to the 
geologist, but I hope I shall not be converted by circumstances 
into a human sounding apparatus again to-day. Next time 
she strikes I shall get out and shove behind. 

We are now skirting the real north bank, and not the bank 
of an island or islands as we have been for some time here- 
tofore. Lovely stream falls into this river over cascades. 
The water is now rough in a small way and the width of the 
river great, but it soon is crowded again with wooded islands. 



240 FROM KANGWE TO LAKE NCOVI CHAP- 



There are patches and wreaths of a lovely, vermilion-flowering 
bush rope decorating the forest, and now and again clumps 
of a plant that shows a yellow and crimson spike of bloom, 
very strikingly beautiful. We pass a long tunnel in the bush,, 
quite dark as you look down it — evidently the path to some 
native town. The south bank is covered, where the falling 
waters have exposed it, with hippo grass. Terrible lot of 
mangrove flies about, although we are more than one hundred 
miles above the mangrove belt. River broad again — tending 
W.S.W., with a broad flattened island with attributive sand- 
banks in the middle. The fair way is along the south bank of 
the river. Gray Shirt tells me this river is called the O'Rembo 
Vongo, or small River, so as to distinguish it from the main 
stream of the Ogowe which goes down past the south side of 
Lembarene Island, as well I know after that canoe affair of 
mine. Ayzingo now bears due north — and native mahogan}- 
is called " Okooma." Pass village called Welli on north bank. 
It looks like some gipsy caravans stuck on poles. I expect 
that village has known what it means to be swamped by the 
rising river ; it looks as if it had, very hastily in the middle 
of some night, taken to stilts, which I am sure, from their 
present rickety condition, will not last through the next wet 
season, and then some unfortunate spirit will get the blame 
of the collapse. I also learn that it is the natal spot of my 
friend Kabinda, the carpenter at Andande. Now if some of 
these good people I know would only go and distinguish 
themselves, I might write a sort of county family historx- of 
these parts ; but they don't, and I fancy won't. For example, 
the entrance — or should I say the exit ? — of a broadish little 
river is just away on the south bank. If you go up this river — 
it runs S.E. — you get to a good-sized lake ; in this lake there 
is an island called Adole ; then out of the other side of the 
lake there is another river which falls into the Ogowe main 
stream — but that is not the point of the story, which is that 
on that island of Adole, Ngouta, the interpreter, first saw 
the light. Why he ever did — there or anywhere — Heaven 
only knows ! I know I shall never want to write his 
biography. 

On the western bank end of that river going to Adole, there 



XI A STRANGE CEMETERY 241 

is an Igahva town, notable for a large quantity of fine white 
ducks and a clump of Indian bamboo. My informants say, 
'' Xo white man ever live for this place," so I suppose the 
ducks and bamboo have been imported by some black trader 
whose natal spot this is. The name of this village is 
Wanderegwoma. Stuck on sandbank — I flew out and shoved 
behind, leaving Ngouta to do the balancing performances in 
the stern. This O'Rembo Vongo divides up just below here, I 
am told, when we have re-embarked, into three streams. One 
goes into the main Ogowe opposite Ayshouka in Xkami 
country — Xkami country commences at Ayshouka and goes 
to the sea — one into the Xgumbi, and one into the Xunghi — 
all in the Ouroungou country. Ayzingo now lies X.E. 
according to Gray Shirt's arm. On our river there is here 
another broad low island with its gold-coloured banks shining 
out, seemingly barring the entire channel, but there is really a 
canoe channel along by both banks. 

We turn at this point into a river on the north bank that 
runs north and south — the current is running very swift to 
the north. We run down into it, and then, it being more than 
time enough for chop, we push the canoe on to a sandbank in 
our new river, which I am told is the Karkola. I, after having 
had my tea, wander off. I find behind our high sandbank, 
which like all the other sandbanks above water now, is getting 
grown over with hippo grass — a fine light green grass, the 
beloved food of both hippo and manatee — a forest, and enter- 
ing this I notice a succession of strange mounds or heaps, 
made up of branches, twigs, and leaves, and dead flowers. 
^.lany of these heaps are recent, while others have fallen into 
decay. Investigation shows they are burial places. Among 
[the debris of an old one there are human bones, and out from 
one of the new ones comes a stench and a hurrying, exceed- 
ingly busy line of ants, demonstrating what is going on. 
I own I thought these mounds were some kind of bird's or 
animal's nest. They look entirely unhuman in this desolate 
reach of forest. Leaving these, I go down to the water edge 
of the sand, and find in it a quantity of pools of varying 
breadth and expanse, but each surrounded by a rim of dark 
red-brown deposit, which you can lift off the sand in a skin. 

' R 



243 FROM KANGWE TO LAKE NCOVI chap. 



On the top of the water is a film of exquisite iridescent 
colours like those on a soap bubble, only darker and brighter. 
In the river alongside the sand, there are thousands of those 
beautiful little fish with a black line each side of their tails. 
They are perfectly tame, and I feed them with crumbs in my 
hand. After making every effort to terrify the unknown object 
ccjntaining the food — gallant bulls, quite two inches long,, 
sidling up and snapping at my fingers — they come and feed 
right in the palm, so that I could have caught them by the 
handful had I wished. There are also a lot of those weird,, 
semi-transparent, yellow, spotted little sand-fish with cup- 
shaped pectoral fins, which I see they use to enable them to 
make their astoundingly long leaps. These fish are of a 
more nervous and distrustful disposition, and hover round 
my hand but will not come into it. Indeed I do not believe 
the other cheeky little fellows would allow them to. They 
have grand butting matches among themselves, which wind 
up with a most comic tail fight, each combatant spinning 
round and going in for a spanking match with his adversary 
with his pretty little red-edged tail — the red rim round it 
and round his gill covers going claret-coloured with fury. I 
did not make out how you counted points in these fights — no 
one seemed a scale the worse. 

The men, having had their rest and their pipes, shout for 
me, and off we go again. The Karkola ^ soon widens to about 
lOO feet ; it is evidently very deep here ; the right bank (the 
east) is forested, the left, low and shrubbed, one patch look- 
ing as if it were being cleared for a plantation, but no village 
showing. A big rock shows up on the right bank, which is a 
change from the clay and sand, and soon the whole character 
of the landscape changes. We come to a sharp turn in 
the river, from north and south to east and west — thei 
current very swift. The river channel dodges round against 
a big bank of sword grass, and then widens out to the breadth 
of the Thames at Putney. I am told that a river runs out 
of it here to the west to Ouroungou country, and so I imagine 

1 As this river is not mentioned on maps, and as I was the first white 
traveller on it, I give my own phonetic spelling ; but I expect it would be 
spelt by modern geographers " K&kola." 



XI ISLANDS AND HIPPOS 243 

this Karkola falls ultimately into the Nazareth. We skirt the 
eastern banks, which are covered with low grass with a scanty 
lot of trees along the top. High land shows in the distance 
to the S.S.W. and S.W., and then we suddenly turn up into a 
broad river or straith, shaping our course X.X.E. On the 
opposite bank, on a high dwarf cliff, is a Fan town. " All 
Fan now," sa)s Singlet in anything but a gratified tone of 
voice. 

It is a strange, wild, lonely bit of the world we are now in, 
apparently a lake or broad — full of sandbanks, some bare and 
some in the course of developing into permanent islands by 
the growth on them of that floating coarse grass, any joint of 
which being torn off either by the current, a passing canoe, or 
hippos, floats down and grows wherever it settles. Like most 
things that float in these parts, it usually settles on a sandbank, 
and then grows in much the same way as our couch grass 
grows on land in England, so as to form a network, which 
catches for its adopted sandbank all sorts of floating debris ; 
so the sandbank comes up in the world. The waters of the 
wet season when they rise drown off" the grass ; but when they 
fall, up it comes again from the root, and so gradually the 
sandbank becomes an island and persuades real trees and 
shrubs to come and grow on it, and its future is then 
secured. 

We skirt alongside a great young island of this class ; the 
sword grass some ten or fifteen feet high. It has not got any 
trees on it yet, but by next season or so it doubtless will have. 
The grass is stubbled down into paths by hippos, and just as 
I have realised who are the road-makers, they appear in 
person. One immense fellow, hearing us, stands up and 
shows himself about six feet from us in the grass, gazes 
calmly, and then yawns a yawn a yard wide and grunts his 
news to his companions, some of whom — there is evidently a 
large herd— get up and stroll towards us with all the flowing 
grace of Pantechnicon vans in motion. We put our helm 
paddles hard a starboard and leave that bank. These hippos 
alwa)-s look to me as if they were the first or last creations in 
the animal world. At present I am undecided whether 
Nature tried " her 'prentice hand " on them in her earliest 

R 2 



244 FROM KANGWE TO LAKE NCOVI chap 



youth, or whether, having got thoroughly tired of making the 
deHcately beautiful antelopes, corallines, butterflies, and 
orchids, she just said : " Goodness ! I am quite worn out 
with this finicking work. Here, just put these other viscera 
into big bags — I can't bother any more." 

Our hasty trip across to the bank of the island on the other | 
side being accomplished, we, in search of seclusion and in the 
hope that out of sight would mean out of mind to hippos, shot 
down a narrow channel between semi-island sandbanks, and 
those sandbanks, if you please, are covered with specimens — 
as fine a set of specimens as you could wish for — of the West 
African crocodile. These interesting animals are also having 
their siestas, lying sprawling in all directions on the sand, 
with their mouths wide open. One immense old lady has a 
family of lively young crocodiles running over her, evidently 
playing like a lot of kittens. The heavy musky smell they 
give off is most repulsive, but we do not rise up and make 
a row about this, because we feel hopelessly in the wrong in 
intruding into these family scenes uninvited, and so apologetic- 
ally pole ourselves along rapidly, not even singing. The 
pace the canoe goes down that channel would be a 
wonder to Henley Regatta. When out of ear-shot I ask 
Pagan whether there are many gorillas, elephants, or bush- 
cows round here. " Plenty too much," says he ; and it occurs 
to me that the corn-fields are growing golden green away in 
England ; and soon there rises up in my mental vision a picture 
that fascinated my youth in the Fliegende Blatter, represent- 
ing " Friedrich Gerstaeker auf der Reise." That gallant man 
is depicted tramping on a serpent, new to M. Boulenger, while 
he attempts to club, with the butt end of his gun, a most 
lively savage who, accompanied by a bison, is attacking him 
in front. A terrific and obviously enthusiastic crocodile is 
grabbing the tail of the explorer's coat, and the explorer says 
"" Hurrah ! das gibt wieder einen prachtigen Artikel fur Die 
Allgenieine Zeitung." I do not know where in the world 
Gerstaeker was at the time, but I should fancy hereabouts. 
My vigorous and lively conscience also reminds me that the 
last words a most distinguished and valued scientific friend had 
said to me before I left home was, " Always take measurements. 



MI A DESERTED STATION 245 

Miss Kingsley, and always take them from the adult male." I 
know I have neglected opportunities of carrj'ing this commis- 
sion out on both those banks, but I do not feel like going back. 
Besides, the men would not like it, and I have mislaid my 
yard measure. 

The extent of water, dotted with sandbanks and islands in 
all directions, here is great, and seems to be fringed uniformly 
by low swampy land, beyond which, to the north, rounded 
lumps of hills show blue. On one of the islands is a little 
white house which I am told was once occupied by a black 
trader for John Holt. It looks a desolate place for any man 
live in, and the way the crocodiles and hippo must have 
. aie up on the garden ground in the evening time could not 
ha\e enhanced its charms to the average cautious man. My 
men sa}-, " Xo man live for that place now." The factor}', I 
belie\e, has been, for some trade reason, abandoned. Behind 
it is a great clump of dark-coloured trees. The rest of the 
md is now covered with hippo grass looking like a 
lutifully kept lawn. We lie up for a short rest at another 
md, also a weird spot in its way, for it is covered with a 
>ve of only one kind of tree, which has a twisted, con- 
ted, gray-white trunk and dull, lifeless-looking, green, hard 
f 11 age. 

I learn that these good people, to make topographical 
confusion worse confounded, call a river by one name when you 
are going up it, and by another when you are coming down ; 
¦ -t as if you called the Thames the London when you were 
^ ing up, and the Greenwich when you were coming down. The 
banks all round this lake or broad, seem all light-coloured sand 
l clay. We pass out of it into a channel. Current flowing 
rth. As we are entering the channel between banks of 
grass-overgrown sand, a superb white crane is seen standing 
bn the sand edge to the left. Gray Shirt attempts to get a 
stiot at it, but it — alarmed at our unusual appearance — 
raises itself up with one of those graceful preliminary 
curtseys, and after one or two preliminary' flaps spreads 
is broad wings and sweeps away, with its long legs trailing 
I ehind it like a thing on a Japanese screen. Gray Shirt does 
I ot fire, but puts down his gun on the baggage again with its 



246 FROM KANGWE TO LAKE NCOVI chap. 

muzzle nestling against my left ear. A minute afterwards we 
strike a bank, and bang goes off the gun, deafening me, 
singeing my hair and the side of my face slightly. Fortun- 
ately the two men in front are at the moment in the 
recumbent position attributive to the shock of the canoe 
jarring against the cliff edge of a bank, or they would have 
had a miscellaneous collection of bits of broken iron pots and 
lumps of lead frisking among their vitals. It is a little 
difficult to make out how much credit Providence really 
deserves in this affair, but a good deal. Of course if It had 
taken the trouble to keep us off the bank, or to remind Gray 
Shirt to uncock his weapon, the thing would not have hap- 
pened at all, but preliminary precaution is not Providence's 
peculiarity. Still, when the thing happened It certainly rose 
to it. I might have had the back of my head blown out, and 
the men might have been killed. I only hope this won't 
confirm Pagan permanently into superstition ; for only a few 
minutes before, he had been showing me a big charm to keep 
him from being hurt by a gun. If he thinks about it, he will 
see there is nothing in the charm, because the other man who 
equally escaped was a charmless Christian. 

The river into which we ran zig-zags about, and then takes a 
course S.S.E. It is studded wath islands slightly higher than 
those we have passed, and thinly clad with forest. The place 
seems alive with birds ; flocks of pelican and crane rise up before 
us out of the grass, and every now and then a crocodile slides off 
the bank into the water. Wonderfully like old logs they look, 
particularly when you see one letting himself roll and float 
down on the current. In spite of these interests I began to 
wonder where in this lonely land we were to sleep to-night. In 
front of us were miles of distant mountains, but in no direction 
the slightest sign of human habitation. Soon we passed out oj 
our channel into a lovely, strangely melancholy, lonely-looking 
lake — Lake Ncovi, my friends tell me. It is exceedingl}, 
beautiful. The rich golden sunlight of the late afternoor 
soon followed by the short-lived, glorious flushes of colour o 
the sunset and the after-glow, play over the scene as we paddU 
across the lake to the N.N.E. — our canoe leaving a long trai 
of frosted silver behind her as she glides over the mirror-lik< 



XI AN AWKWARD ENCOUNTER 247 



water, and each stroke of the paddle sending down air with it 
to come up again in luminous silver bubbles — not as before 
in swirls of sand and mud. The lake shore is, in all directions, 
wreathed with nobly forested hills, indigo and purple in the 
dying daylight. On the N.N.E. and N.E. these come 
directly down into the lake ; on N.W., N., S.W., and S.E. 
there is a band of well-forested ground, behind which they 
rise. In the north and north-eastern part of the lake several 
exceedingly beautiful wooded islands show, with gray rocky 
beaches and dwarf cliffs. 

Sign of human habitation at first there was none ; and 
n spite of its beauty, there was something which I was 

most going to say was repulsive. The men evidently 
felt the same as I did. Had any one told me that the 

ir that lay on the lake was poison, or that in among its 

-rests lay some path to regions of utter death, I should have 
said — " It looks like that " ; but no one said anything, and we 
only looked round uneasily, until the comfortable-souled 
Singlet made the unfortunate observation that he " smelt 
blood." ^ We all called him an utter fool to relieve our minds, 
and made our way towards the second island. When we got 
near enough to it to see details, a large village showed among 
the trees on its summit, and a steep dwarf cliff, overgrown 
with trees and creeping plants came down to a small beach 
covered with large water-washed gray stones. There was 
evidently some kind of a row going on in that village, that 
took a lot of shouting too. We made straight for the 
beach, and drove our canoe among its outlying rocks, and 
then each of my men stowed his paddle quickly, slung on his 
ammunition bag, and picked up his ready loaded gun, 
sliding the skin sheath off the lock. Pagan got out on to the 
stones alongside the canoe just as the inhabitants became 
j aware of our arrival, and, abandoning what I hope was a mass 
meeting to remonstrate with the local authorities on the 
I insanitary state of the town, came — a brown mass of naked 
humanity — down the steep cliff path to attend to us, whom 
they evidently regarded as an imperial interest. Things did 

^ A common African sensation among natives when alarmed, some- 
what akin to our feeling some one walk over our graves. 



248 FROM KANGWE TO LAKE NCOVI chap. 

not look restful, nor these Fans personally pleasant. Every- 
man among them — no women showed — was armed with a gun, 
and they loosened their shovel-shaped knives in their sheaths 
as they came, evidently regarding a fight quite as imminent as 
we did. They drew up about twenty paces from us in silence. 
Pagan and Gray Shirt, who had joined him, held out their 
unembarrassed hands, and shouted out the name of the Fan 
man they had said they were friendly with : " Kiva-Kiva." 
The Fans stood still and talked angrily among themselves for 
some minutes, and then, Silence said to me, " It would be bad 
palaver if Kiva no live for this place," in a tone that conveyed 
to me the idea he thought this unpleasant contingency almost 
a certaint}'. The Passenger exhibited unmistakable symp- 
toms of wishing he had come by another boat. I got up from 
my seat in the bottom of the canoe and leisurely strolled 
ashore, saying to the line of angry faces " M'boloani " in an 
unconcerned way, although I well knew it was etiquette 
for them to salute first. They grunted, but did not commit 
themselves further, A minute after they parted to allow a 
fine-looking, middle-aged man, naked save for a twist of dirty 
cloth round his loins and a bunch of leopard and wild cat 
tails hung from his shoulder by a strip of leopard skin, to 
come forward. Pagan went for him with a rush, as if he were 
going to clasp him to his ample bosom, but holding his hands 
just off from touching the Fan's shoulder in the usual way, 
while he said in Fan, " Don't you know me, my beloved Kiva ? 
Surely you have not forgotten your old friend ? " Kiva 
grunted feelingly, and raised up his hands and held them just 
off touching Pagan, and we breathed again. Then Gray 
Shirt made a rush at the crowd and went through great de- 
monstrations of affection with another gentleman whom he 
recognised as being a Fan friend of his own, and whom he had 
not expected to meet here. I looked round to see if there was 
not any Fan from the Upper Ogowe whom I knew to go for, 
but could not see one that I could on the strength of a pre- 
vious acquaintance, and on their individual merits I did not 
feel inclined to do even this fashionable imitation embrace. 
Indeed I must say that never — even in a picture book — ha\c 
I seen such a set of wild wicked-looking savages as those we 



XI INTRODUCTION TO THE FANS 249 

faced this night, and with whom it was touch-and-go for twent}' 
of the longest minutes I have ever lived, whether we fought 
— for our lives, I was going to say, but it would not have 
been even for that, but merely for the price of them. 

Peace ha\ing been proclaimed, conversation became general. 
Gray Shirt brought his friend up and introduced him to me, 
and we shook hands and smiled at each other in the conven- 
tional way. Pagan's friend, who was next introduced, was 
more alarming, for he held his hands for half a minute just 
above my elbows without quite touching me, but he meant 
well ; and then we all disappeared into a brown mass of 
humanit}- and a fog of noise. You would have thought, from 
e violence and vehemence of the shouting and gesticulation, 
liiat we were going to be forthwith torn to shreds ; but not a 
single hand really touched me, and as I, Pagan, and Gray 
Shirt went up to the town in the midst of the throng, the 
crowd opened in front and closed in behind, evidently half 
frightened at my appearance. The row when we reached the 
town redoubled in volume from the fact that the ladies, the 
children, and the dogs joined in. Every child in the place as 
soon as it saw m}- white face let a howl out of it as if it had 
seen his Satanic Majesty, horns, hoofs, tail and all, and fled 
into the nearest hut, headlong, and I feai, from the continuance 
of the screams, had fits. The town was exceedingly filthy — 
the remains of the crocodile they had been eating the week 
before last, and piles of fish offal, and remains of an elephant^ 
:ppo or manatee — I really can't say which, decomposition 
as too far ad\anced — united to form a most impressive 
tench. The bark huts are, as usual in a Fan town, in 
nbroken rows ; but there are three or four streets here, not 
one only, as in most cases. The palaver house is in the inner- 
most street, and there we went, and noticed that the village 
iew was not in the direction in which we had come, but across 
towards the other side of the lake. I told the Ajumba to 
'-xplain we wanted hospitality for the night, and wished to hire 
ree carriers for to-morrow to go with us to the Rembwe. 
For an hour and three-quarters by my watch I stood in 
the suffocating, smoky, hot atmosphere listening to, but onlv 
faintl}- understanding, the war of words and gesture that raged 



250 FROM KANGWE TO LAKE NCOVI chap. 



round us. At last the fact that we were to be received being 
settled, Gray Shirt's friend led us out of the guard house — 
the crowd flinching back as I came through it — to his own 
house on the right-hand side of the street of huts. It was 
a very different dwelling to Gray Shirt's residence at 
Arevooma. I was as high as its roof ridge and had to 
stoop low to get through the door-hole. Inside, the hut 
was fourteen or fifteen feet square, unlit by any window. 
The door-hole could be closed by pushing a broad piece of 
bark across it under two horizontally fixed bits of stick. 
The floor was sand like the street outside, but dirtier. On 
it in one place was a fire, whose smoke found its way out 
through the roof In one corner of the room was a rough 
bench of wood, which from the few filthy cloths on it and a i 
wood pillow I saw was the bed. There was no other furniture 
in the hut save some boxes, which I presume held my host's 
earthly possessions. From the bamboo roof hung a long stick i 
with hooks on it, the hooks made by cutting off branching j 
twigs. This was evidently the hanging wardrobe, and on it 
hung some few fetish charms, and a beautiful ornament of 
wild cat and leopard tails, tied on to a square piece of leopard 
skin, in the centre of which was a little mirror, and round the 
mirror were sewn dozens of common shirt buttons. In among 
the tails hung three little brass bells and a brass rattle ; these 
bells and rattles are not only " for dandy," but serve to scare 
away snakes when the ornament is worn in the forest. A fine 
strip ofsilky-haired, young gorilla skin made the band to sling 
the ornament from the shoulder when worn. Gorillas seem well 
enough known round here. One old lady in the crowd out- 
side, I saw, had a necklace made of sixteen gorilla canine teeth 
slung on a pine-apple fibre string. Gray Shirt explained to me 
that this is the best house in the village, and my host the 
most renowned elephant hunter in the district. 

We then returned to the canoe, whose occupants had been 
getting uneasy about the way affairs were going " on top," on 
account of the uproar they heard and the time we had 
been away. We got into the canoe and took her round the 
little promontory at the end of the island to the other beach, 
which is the main beach. By arriving at the beach when 



XI TRADE PALAVER 251 



we did, we took our Fan friends in the rear, and they did not 
see us coming in the gloaming. This was all for the best 
it seems, as they said they should have fired on us before they 
had had time to see we were rank outsiders, on the appre- 
hension that we were coming from one of the Fan towns we 
had passed, and with whom they were on bad terms regarding 
3. lady who bolted there from her lawful lord, taking with her 
— cautious soul ! — a quantity of rubber. The only white man 
who had been here before in the memor}^ of man, was a French 
officer who paid Kiva six dollars to take him somewhere, I was 
told — but I could not find out when, or what happened to that 
Frenchman.^ It was a long time ago, Kiva said, but these 
folks have no definite way of expressing duration of time nor, 
do I believe, any great mental idea of it ; although their 
ideas are, as usual with West Africans, far ahead of their 
language. 

All the goods were brought up to my hut, and while Xgouta 
gets my tea we started talking the carrier palaver again. The 
Fans received my offer, starting at two dollars ahead of what 
M. Jacot said would be enough, with utter scorn, and every 
dramatic gesture of dissent ; one man, pretending to catch 
Gray Shirt's words in his hands, flings them to the ground 
and stamps them under his feet. I affected an easy take-it-or- 
leave-it-manner, and looked on. A woman came out of the 
crowd to me, and held out a mass of slimy gray abomination 
on a bit of plantain leaf — smashed snail. I accepted it and gave 
her fish hooks. She was delighted and her companions excited, 
-o she put them into her mouth for safe keeping. I hurriedly 
xplained in my best Fan that I do not require any more snail ; 
-^o another lady tried the effect of a pine-apple. There might be 
no end to this, so I retired into trade and asked what she would 
sell it for. She did not want to sell it — she wanted to give it 
me ; so I gave her fish hooks. Silence and Singlet interposed, 

^ Since my return I think the French gentleman may have been M. F. 
Tenaille d'Estais, who is down on the latest map French as having visited 
a lake in this region in 1883, which is set down as Lac Ebouko. He seems 
to have come from and returned to Lake Ayzingo — on map Lac .A.zingo — 
but on the other hand " Ebouko ' was not known on the lake, Ajumba 
and Fans alike calling it Ncovi. 



252 FROM KANGWE TO LAKE NCOVI chap. 

saying the price for pine-apples is one leaf of tobacco, but I 
explained I was not buying. Ngouta turned up with my tea, 
so I went inside, and had it on the bed. The door-hole was 
entirely filled with a mosaic of faces, but no one attempted 
to come in. All the time the carrier palaver went on without 
cessation, and I went out and offered to take Gray Shirt's and 
Pagan's place, knowing they must want their chop, but they 
refused relief, and also said I must not raise the price ; I was 
offering too big a price now, and if I once rise the Fan will only 
think I will keep on rising, and so make the palaver longer to 
talk. " How long does a palaver usually take to talk round 
here ? " I ask. " The last one I talked," says Pagan, " took 
three weeks, and that was only a small price palaver." 
" Well," say I, " my price is for a start to-morrow — after then 
I have no price — after that I go away." Another hour how- 
ever sees the jam made, and to my surprise I find the three 
richest men in this town of M'fetta have personally taken up 
the contract — Kiva my host, Fika a fine young fellow, and 
Wiki, another noted elephant hunter. These three Fans, the 
four Ajumba and the Igalwa, Ngouta, I think will be enough. 
Moreover I fancy it safer not to have an overpowering per- 
centage of Fans in the party, as I know we shall have 
considerable stretches of uninhabited forest to traverse ; and 
the Ajumba say that the Fans will kill people, i.e., the black 
traders who venture into their country, and cut them up into 
neat pieces, eat what they want at the time, and smoke the 
rest of the bodies for future use. Now I do not want to arrive 
at the Rembwe in a smoked condition, even should my frag- 
ments be neat, and I am going in a different direction to what 
I said I was when leaving Kangwe, and there are so many 
ways of accounting for death about here — leopard, canoe 
capsize, elephants, &c. — that even if I were traced — well, 
nothing could be done then, anyhow — so will only take three 
Fans. One must diminish dead certainties to the level of 
sporting chances along here, or one can never get on. 

No one, either Ajumba or Fan, knew the exact course we 
were to take. The Ajumba had never been this way before — 
the way for black traders across being via Lake Ayzingo, the 
way Mr. Goode of the American Mission once went, and the 



A NIGHT PADDLE 253 



Fans said they only knew the way to a big Fan town called 
Efoua. where no white man or black trader had yet been. 
There is a path from there to the Rembwe they knew, because 
the Efoua people take their trade all to the Rembwe. They 
would, they said, come with me all the way if I would guarantee 
them safety if they " found war " on the road. This I agreed to 
do,and arranged to pay off at Hatton and Cookson's sub-factory 
on the Rembwe, and they have " Look my mouth and it be 
sweet, so palaver done set." Every load then, by the light of 
the bush lights held by the women, we arranged. I had to 
unpack my bottles of fishes so as to equalise the weight 
of the loads. Every load is then made into a sort of cocoon 
with bush rope. 

I was left in peace at about 11.30 P.M., and clearing off the 
clothes from the bench threw myself down and tried to get 
some sleep, for we were to start, the Fans said, before dawn. 
Sleep impossible — mosquitoes ! lice ! ! — so at 1 2.40 I got up 
and slid aside my bark door. I found Pagan asleep under his 
mosquito bar outside, across the door^vay, but managed to get 
past him without rousing him from his dreams of palaver 
which he was still talking aloud, and reconnoitred the town. The 
inhabitants seemed to have talked themselves quite out and 
were sleeping heavily. I went down then to our canoe and found 
it safe, high up among the Fan canoes on the stones, and then I 
lid a small Fan canoe off, and taking a paddle from a 



cluster stuck in the sand, paddled out on to the dark lake. 

It was a wonderfully lovely quiet night with no light save that 
from the stars. One immense planet shone pre-eminent in 
the purple sky, throwing a golden path down on to the 
still waters. Quantities of big fish sprung out of the water, 
their glistening silver-white scales flashing so that they look 
like slashing swords. Some bird was making a long, low boom- 
booming sound away on the forest shore. I paddled leisurely 
across the lake to the shore on the right, and seeing crawling 
on the ground some large glow-worms, drove the canoe on to 
the bank among some hippo grass, and got out to get them. 

While engaged on this hunt I felt the earth quiver under 
my feet, and heard a soft big soughing sound, and looking 
round saw I had dropped in on a hippo banquet. I made 



254 FROM KANGWE TO LAKE NCOVI chap. 



out five of the immense brutes round me, so I softly returned 
to the canoe and shoved off, steaHng along the bank, paddling 
under water, until I deemed it safe to run out across the lake 
for my island. I reached the other end of it to that on which 
the village is situated ; and finding a miniature rocky bay 
with a soft patch of sand and no hippo grass, the incidents 
of the Fan hut suggested the advisability of a bath. Moreover, 
there was no china collection in that hut, and it would be a 
long time before I got another chance, so I go ashore again, 
and, carefully investigating the neighbourhood to make 
certain there was no human habitation near, I then indulged 
in a wash in peace. Drying one's self on one's cummerbund is 
not pure joy, but it can be done when you put your mind to it. 
While I was finishing my toilet I saw a strange thing happen. 
Down through the forest on the lake bank opposite came a 
violet ball the size of a small orange. When it reached the sand 
beach it hovered along it to and fro close to the ground. In 
a few minutes another ball of similarly coloured light came 
towards it from behind one of the islets, and the two waver to 
and fro over the beach, sometimes circling round each other. 
I made off towards them in the canoe, thinking — as I still 
do — they were some brand new kind of luminous insect. 
When I got on to their beach one of them went off into the 
bushes and the other away over the water. I followed in the 
canoe, for the water here is very deep, and, when I almost 
thought I had got it, it went down into the water and I could 
see it glowing as it sunk until it vanished in the depths. I made 
my way back hastily, fearing my absence with the canoe might 
give rise, if discovered, to trouble, and by 3.30 I was back in 
the hut safe, but not so comfortable as I had been on the lake. 
A little before five my men are stirring and I get my tea. I 
do not state my escapade to them, but ask what those 
lights were. " Akom," said the Fan, and pointing to the 
shore of the lake where I had been during the night they 
said, " they came there, it was an ' Aku ' " — or devil bush. 
More than ever did I regret not having secured one of those sort 
of two phenomena. What a joy a real devil, appropriately put 
up in raw alcohol, would have been to my scientific friends ! 
Wednesday, July 24th. — We get away about 5.30, the Fans 



A TRAP FOR HIPPOS 25s 



coming in a separate canoe. We call at the next island 
to M'fetta to buy some more aguma. The inhabitants are 
very interested in my appearance, running along the stony 
beach as we paddle away, and standing at the end of it 
until we are out of sight among the many islands at the N.E. 
end of Lake Xcovi. The scenery is savage ; there are no 
terrific cliffs nor towering mountains to make it what one 
usually calls wild or romantic, but there is a distinction about 
it which is all its own. This N.E. end has beautiful sand 
beaches on the southern side, in front of the forested bank, 
lying in smooth ribbons along the level shore, and in scollops 
round the promontories where the hills come down into the 
lake. The forest on these hills, or mountains — for they are 
part of the Sierra del Cristal — is ver>' dark in colour, and the 
undergrowth seems scant. We presently come to a narrow 
but deep channel into the lake coming from the eastward, 
which we go up, winding our course with it into a valley 
between the hills. After going up it a little way we find it 
completely fenced across with stout stakes, a space being left 
open in the middle, broader than the spaces between the 
other stakes ; and over this is poised a spear with a bush 
rope attached, and weighted at the top of the haft with a great 
lump of rock. The whole affair is kept in position by a bush 
rope so arranged just under the level of the water that any- 
thing passing through the opening would bring the spear 
down. This was a trap for hippo or manatee, and similar in 
structure to those one sees set in the hippo grass near villages 
and plantations, which serve the double purpose of defending 
the vegetable supply, and adding to the meat supply of the 
inhabitants. We squeeze through between the stakes so as 
not to let the trap off", and find our little river leads us into 
another lake, much smaller than Ncovi. It is studded with 
islands of fantastic shapes, all wooded with high trees of an 
equal level, and with little or no undergrowth among them, so 
their pale gray stems look like clusters of columns supporting 
a dark green ceiling. The forest comes down steep hill sides 
to the water edge in all directions ; and a dark gloomy-look- 
ing herb grows up out of black slime and water, in a bank or 
ribbon in front of it. There is another channel out of this 



256 



FROM KANGWE TO LAKE NCOVI 



CH. IX 



lake, still to the N.E. The Fans say they think it goes into 
the big lake far far away, i.e., Lake Ayzingo. From the look 
of the land, I think this river connecting Ayzingo and Lake 
Ncovi wanders down this valley between the mountain spurs 
of the ¦ Sierra del Cristal, expanding into one gloomy lake 
after another. We run our canoe into a bank of the dank 
dark-coloured water herb to the right, and disembark into 
a fitting introduction to the sort of country we shall have to 
deal with before we see the Rembwe — namely, up to ou 
knees in black slime. 




[ To face /. 257. 



FANS. 



CHAPTER XII 

FROM XCOVI TO ESOOX 

Concerning the way in which the voyager goes from the island of M'fetta 
to no one knows exactly where, in doubtful and bad company, and of 
what this led to and giving also some accounts of the Great Forest 
and of those people that live therein. 

I WILL not bore you with my diary in detail regarding our 
land journey, because the water-washed little volume attri- 
butive to this period is mainly full of reports of law cases, 
I for reasons hereinafter to be stated ; and at night, when passing 
through this bit of country, I was usually too tired to do any- 
thing more than make an entry such as : "5 S., 4 R. A., N.E 
Ebony. T. i — 50, &c., &c." — entries that require amplification 
to explain their significance, and I will proceed to explain. 

Our first day's march was a very long one. Path in the 
ordinary acceptance of the term there was none. Hour after 
hour, mile after mile, we passed on, in the under-gloom of 
the great forest. The pace made by the Fans, \\ ho are in- 
finitely the most rapid Africans I have ever come across, 
severely tired the Ajumba, who are canoe men, and who had 
been as fresh as paint, after their exceedingly long day's 
paddling from Arevooma to M'fetta. Ngouta, the Igalwa 
interpreter, felt pumped, and said as much, very early in the 
day. I regretted very much having brought him ; for, from a 
mixture of nervous exhaustion arising from our M'fetta ex- 
periences, and a touch of chill he had almost entirely lost 
his voice, and I feared would fall sick. The Fans were evi- 
dently quite at home in the forest, and strode on over fallen 
trees and rocks with an easy, graceful stride. What saved us 
weaklings was the Fans' appetites ; every two hours they sat 
down, and had a snack of a pound or so of meat and aguma 

S 



258 FROM NCOVI TO ESOON chap. 



apiece* followed by a pipe of tobacco. We used to come 
up with them at these halts. Ngouta and the Ajumba 
used to sit down ; and rest with them, and I also, for a few 
minutes, for a rest and chat, and then I would go on alone, 
thus getting a good start. I got a good start, in the other 
meaning of the word, on the afternoon of the first day when 
descending into a ravine. 

I saw in the bottom, wading and rolling in the mud, a herd 
of five elephants. I am certain that owing to some misap- 
prehension among the Fates I was given a series of magnifi- 
cent sporting chances, intended as a special treat for some 
favourite Nimrod of those three ladies, and I know exactly 
how I ought to have behaved. I should have felt my favourite 
rifle fly to my shoulder, and then, carefully sighting for the 
finest specimen, have fired. The noble beast should have 
stumbled forward, recovered itself, and shedding its life blood 
behind it have crashed away into the forest. I should then have 
tracked it, and either with one well-directed shot have given 
it its quietus, or have got charged by it, the elephant passing 
completely over my prostrate body ; either termination is good 
form, but I never have these things happen, and never 
will. (In the present case I remembered, hastily, that your 
one chance when charged by several elephants is to dodge 
them round trees, working down wind all the time, until they 
lose smell and sight of you, then to lie quiet for a time, and 
go home.) It was evident from the utter unconcern of these 
monsters that I was down wind now, so I had only to attend to 
dodging, and I promptly dodged round a tree, thinking 
perhaps a dodge in time saves nine — and I lay down. Seeing 
they still displayed no emotion on my account, and fascinated 
by the novelty of the scene, I crept forward from one tree to 
another, until I was close enough to have hit the nearest one 
with a stone, and spats of mud, which they sent flying with their 
stamping and wallowing came flap, flap among the bushes 
covering me. 

One big fellow had a nice pair of 40 lb. or so tusks on him, 
singularly straight, and another had one big curved tusk and \ 
one broken one. If I were an elephant I think I would wear! 
the tusks straight ; they must be more effective weapons thus, 



ELEPHANTS IN FILE 259 



but there seems no fixed fashion among elephants here in this 
matter. Some of them lay right down like pigs in.the deeper part 
of the swamp, some drew up trunkfuls of water and syringed 
themselves and each other, and every one of them indulged in 
a good rub against a tree. Presently when they had had 
enough of it they all strolled off up wind, a way elephants 
have ; ^ but why 1 do not know, because they know the 
difference, always carrying their trunk differently when they 
are going up wind to what they do when they are going 
down — arrested mental development,"- I suppose. They 
strolled through the bush in Indian file, now and then 
breaking off a branch, but leaving singularly little dead 
water for their tonnage and breadth of beam. One laid 
his trunk affectionately on the back of the one in front 
of him, which I believe to be the elephant equivalent 
to walking arm-in-arm. When they had gone I rose up, 
turned round to find the men, and trod on Kiva's back 
then and there, full and fair, and fell sideways down the steep 
hillside until I fetched up among some roots. 

It seems Kiva had come on, after his meal, before the 
others, and seeing the elephants, and being a born hunter, had 
crawled like me down to look at them. He had not expected 
to find me there, he said. I do not believe he gave a thought 
of any sort to me in the presence of these fascinating creatures, 
and so he got himself trodden on. I suggested to him we 
should pile the baggage, and go and have an elephant hunt. He 
shook his head reluctantly, saying " Kor, kor," like a depressed 
rook, and explained we were not strong enough ; there were 
only three Fans — the Ajumba, and Xgouta did not count — 
and moreover that we had not brought sufficient ammunition 
owing to the baggage having to be carried, and the ammunition 
that we had must be saved for other game than elephant, for 
we might meet war before we met the Rembwe River. 

We had by now joined the rest of the party, and were all 
soon squattering about on our own account in the elephant 
bath. It was shocking bad going — like a ploughed field 

1 Foolish, because natives always attack them in the rear. 
- The usual explanation for anything you do not understand in a 
native of Africa's conduct. 

S 2 



26o FROM NCOVI TO ESOON CHAP. 



exaggerated by a terrific nightmare. It pretty nearly pulled 
all the legs off jne, and to this hour I cannot tell you if it is 
best to put your foot into a footmark — a young pond, I mean 
— about the size of the bottom of a Madeira work arm-chair, 
or whether you should poise yourself on the rim of the same, 
and stride forward to its other bank boldly and hopefully. 
The footmarks and the places where the elephants had been 
rolling were by now filled with water, and the mud underneath 
was in places hard and slippery. In spite of my determination- 
to preserve an awesome and unmoved calm while among 
these dangerous savages, I had to give way and laugh 
explosively ; to see the portly, powerful Pagan suddenly 
convert himself into a quadruped, while Gray Shirt poised 
himself on one heel and waved his other leg in the air to adver- 
tise to the assembled nations that he was about to sit down, 
was irresistible. No one made such palaver about taking a I 
seat as Gray Shirt ; I did it repeatedly without any fuss to 
speak of That lordly elephant-hunter, the Great Wiki, 
would, I fancy, have strode over safely and with dignity, but ¦ 
the man who was in front of him spun round on his own axis 
and flung his arms round the Fan, and they went to earth 
together ; the heavy load on Wiki's back drove them into 
the mud like a pile-driver. However we got through in time, 
and after I had got up the other side of the ravine I saw the 
Fan let the Ajumba go on, and were busy searching them- 
selves for something. 

I followed the Ajumba, and before I joined them felt a 
fearful pricking irritation. Investigation of the affected part 
showed a tick of terrific size with its head embedded in the 
flesh ; pursuing this interesting subject, I found three more, 
and had awfully hard work to get them off and painful too for 
they give one not only a feeling of irritation at their holding-on 
place, but a streak of rheumatic-feeling pain up from it. On 
completing operations I went on and came upon the Ajumba 
in a state more approved of by Praxiteles than by the general 
public nowadays. They had found out about elephant ticks,] 
so I went on and got an excellent start for the next stage. 

By this time, shortly after noon on the first day, we hadl 
struck into a mountainous and rocky country, and also struck 

I 



XII A PRIMAEVAL FOREST 261 



a track — a track you had to keep your e}'e on or you lost it 
in a minute, but still a guide as to direction. 

The forest trees here were mainly ebony and great hard 
wood trees,^ with no palms save my old enemy the climbing 
palm, calamus, as usual, going on its long excursions, up one 
tree and down another, bursting into a plume of fronds, and 
in the middle of each plume one long spike sticking straight 
up, which was an unopened frond, whenever it got a gleam 
of sunshine ; running along the ground over anything it 
meets, rock or fallen timber, all alike, its long, dark-coloured, 
rope-like stem simply furred with thorns. Immense must be 
the length of some of these climbing palms. One tree I noticed 
that day that had hanging from its summit, a good one hundred 
and fifty feet above us, a long straight rope-like palm stem. 
Interested, I went to it, and tried to track it to root, and 
found it was only a loop that came down from another tree. 
I had no time to trace it further ; for they go up a tree and 
travel along the surrounding tree-tops, take an occasional dip, 
and then up again. 

The character of the whole forest was xtry interesting. 
Sometimes for hours we passed among thousands upon 
thousands of gray-white columns of uniform height (about 
100 — 150 feet) ; at the top of these the boughs branched out 
and interlaced among each other, forming a canopy or ceiling, 
which dimmed the light even of the equatorial sun to such 
an extent that no undergrowth could thrive in the gloom. 
The statement of the struggle for existence was published 
here in plain figures, but it was not, as in our climate, a 
struggle against climate mainly, but an internecine war from 
over population. Now and again we passed among vast 
>tems of buttressed trees, sometimes enormous in girth ; and 
from their far-away summits hung great bush-ropes, some as 
straight as plumb lines, others coiled round, and intertwined 
among each other, until one could fancy one was looking on 
some mighty battle between armies of gigantic serpents, that 
had been arrested at its height by some magic spell. All 
these bush-ropes were as bare of foliage as a ship's wire 
rigging, but a good many had thorns. I was very curious as 
^ Diospyros and Copaifua mopane. 



262 FROM NCOVI TO ESOON chap. 



to how they got up straight, and investigation showed me 
that many of them were carried up with a growing tree. The 
only true chmbers were the calamus and the rubber vine 
{Landolphid), both of which employ hook tackle. 

Some stretches of this forest were made up of thin, spindly 
stemmed trees of great height, and among these stretches 1 
always noticed the ruins of some forest giant, whose death by 
lightning or by his superior height having given the demoniac 
tornado wind an extra grip on him, had allowed sunlight to 
penetrate the lower regions of the forest ; and then evidently 
the seedlings and saplings, who had for years been living a 
half-starved life for hght, shot up. They seemed to know that 
their one chance lay in getting with the greatest rapidity to the 
level of the top of the forest. No time to grow fat in the stem. 
No time to send out side branches, or any of those vanities. 
Up, up to the light level, and he among them who reached it 
first won in this game of life or death ; for when he gets there 
he spreads out his crown of upper branches, and shuts off 
the life-giving sunshine from his competitors, who pale off] 
and die, or remain dragging on an attenuated existence wait- 
ing for another chance, and waiting sometimes for centuries. 
There must be tens of thousands of seeds which perish I 
before they get their chance ; but the way the seeds of the j 
hard wood African trees are packed, as it were, in cases' 
specially made durable, is very wonderful. Indeed the ways 
of Providence here are wonderful in their strange dual inten- 
tion to preserve and to destroy ; but on the whole, as Peer 
Gynt truly observes, " Ein guter Wirth — nein das ist er nic/it." 

We saw this influence of light on a large scale as soon as 
we reached the open hills and mountains of the Sierra del 
Cristal, and had to pass over those fearful avalanche-like 
timber falls on their steep sides. The worst of these la)- 
between Efoua and Egaja, where we struck a part of the 
range that was exposed to the south-east. These falls had 
evidently arisen from the tornados, which from time to time 
have hurled down the gigantic trees whose hold on the super- 
ficial soil over the sheets of hard bed rock was insufficient, in 
spite of all the anchors they had out in the shape of roots and 
buttresses, and all the rigging in the shape of bush ropes. 



XII A BAD FALL 263 

Down they had come, crushing and dragging down with them 
those near them or bound to them by the great tough climbers. 

Getting over these falls was perilous, not to say scratch-- 
work. One or another member of our party always went 
through ; and precious uncomfortable going it was I found, 
when I tried it in one above Egaja ; ten or twelve feet of 
crashing creaking timber, and then flump on to a lot of rotten, 
wet debris, with more snakes and centipedes among it than you 
had any immediate use for, even though you were a collector ; 
but there you had to stay, while Wiki, who was a most critical 
connoisseur, selected from the surrounding forest a bush-rope 
that he regarded as the correct remedy for the case, and then 
up you were hauled, through the sticks you had turned the 
wrong way on your down journey. 

The Duke had a bad fall, going twenty feet or so before he 
found the rubbish heap ; while Fika, who went through with 
a heavy load on his back, took us, on one occasion, half an 
hour to recover ; and when we had just got him to the top, and 
able to cling on to the upper sticks, Wiki, who had been 
superintending operations, slipped backwards, and went 
through on his own account. The bush-rope we had been 
hauling on was too worn with the load to use again, and we 
just hauled Wiki out with the first one we could drag down 
and cut ; and Wiki, when he came up, said we were reckless, 
and knew nothing of bush ropes, which shows how ungrateful 
an African can be. It makes the perspiration run down my 
nose whenever I think of it. The sun was out that day ; we 
were neatly situated on the Equator, and the air was semi- 
solid, with the stinking exhalations from the swamps with 
which the mountain chain is fringed and intersected ; and 
we were hot enough without these things, because of the 
violent exertion of getting these twelve to thirteen-stone 
gentlemen up among us again, and the fine varied exercise 
of getting over the fall on our own account. 

When we got into the cool forest beyond it was delightful ; 
particularly if it happened to be one of those lovely stretches of 
forest, gloomy down below, but giving hints that far away above 
us was a world of bloom and scent and beaut\- which we saw as 
much of as earth-worms in a flower-bed. Here and there the 



264 FROM NCOVI TO ESOON chap. 



ground was strewn with great cast blossoms, thick, wax-hke, 
glorious cups of orange and crimson and pure white, each one 
of which was in itself a handful, and which told us that some of 
the trees around us were showing a glory of colour to heaven 
alone. Sprinkled among them were bunches of pure stepha- 
notis-like flowers, which said that the gaunt bush-ropes were 
rubber vines that had burst into flower when they had seen the 
sun. These flowers we came across in nearly every type of 
forest all the way, for rubber abounds here. 

I will weary you no longer now with the different kinds of 
forest and only tell you I have let you off several. The natives 
have separate names for seven different kinds, and these 
might, I think, be easily run up to nine. 

A certain sort of friendship soon arose between the Fans 
and me. We each recognised that we belonged to that same 
section of the human race with whom it is better to drink than 
to fight. We knew we would each have killed the other, if 
sufficient inducement were offered, and so we took a certain 
amount of care that the inducement should not arise. Gray 
Shirt and Pagan also, their trade friends, the Fans treated with 
an independent sort of courtesy ; but Silence, Singlet, the 
Passenger, and above all Ngouta, they openly did not care a 
row of pins for, and I have small doubt that had it not been 
for us other three they would have killed and eaten these very 
amiable gentlemen with as much compunction as an English 
sportsman would kill as many rabbits. They on their part 
hated the Fan, and never lost an opportunity of telling me 
" these Fan be bad man too much." I must not forget to 
mention the other member of our party, a Fan gentleman with 
the manners of a duke and the habits of a dustbin. He 
came with us, quite uninvited by me, and never asked for an\- 
pay ; I think he only wanted to see the fun, and drop in for a 
fight if there was one going on, and to pick up the pieces 
generally. He was evidently a man of some importance, 
from the way the others treated him ; and moreover he had a 
splendid gun, with a gorilla skin sheath for its lock, and orna- 
mented all over its stock with brass nails. His costume con- 
sisted of a small piece of dirty rag round his loins ; and when- 
ever we were going through dense undergrowth, or wading a 



XH A DANGEROUS LESSON 265 



swamp, he wore that filament tucked up scandalously short. 
Whenever we were sitting down in the forest having one of our 
nondescript meals, he alwa}s sat next to me and appropriated 
the tin. Then he would fill his pipe, and turning to me with 
the easy grace of aristocracy, would say what may be trans- 
lated as " My dear Princess, could you favour me with a 
lucifer ? " 

I used to say, " My dear Duke, charmed, I'm sure," and give 
him one ready lit. 

I dared not trust him with the box whole, having a personal 
conviction that he would have kept it. I asked him what he 
would do suppose I was not there with a box of lucifers ; 
and he produced a bush-cow's horn with a neat wood lid 
tied on with tie tie, and from out of it he produced a flint 
and steel and demonstrated. Unfortunately all his grace's 
minor possessions, owing to the scantiness of his attire, were 
in one and the same pine-apple-fibre bag which he wore slung 
across his shoulder ; and these possessions, though not great, 
u ere as dangerous to the body as a million sterling is said to 
be to the soul, for they consisted largely of gunpowder and 
snufif, and their separate receptacles leaked and their con- 
tents commingled, so that demonstration on fire-making 
methods among the F'an ended in an awful bang and blow-up 
in a small way, and the Professor and his pupil sneezed like 
fury for ten minutes, and a cruel world laughed till it nearly 
died, for twenty. Still that bag with all its failings was a 
wonder for its containing power. 

The first day in the forest we came across a snake ^ — a 
beauty with a new red-brown and yellow-patterned velvety skin, 
about three feet six inches long and as thick as a man's thigh. 
Xgouta met it, hanging from a bough, and shot backwards 
like a lobster, Xgouta having among his many weaknesses a 
rooted horror of snakes. This snake the Ogowe natives all hold 
in great aversion. For the bite of other sorts of snakes they 
profess to have remedies, but for this they have none. If, 
however, a native is stung by one he usually conceals the fact 
that it was this particular kind, and tries to get any chance 
the native doctor's medicine may give. The Duke stepped 
1 Vipera nasicornis j M'pongwe, Ompenle. 



266 FROM NCOVI TO ESOON chap. 



forward and with one blow flattened its head against the tree 
with his gun butt, and then folded the snake up and got as 
much of it as possible into the bag, while the rest hung dangling 
out. Ngouta, not being able to keep ahead of the Duke, hisj 1 
Grace's pace being stiff, went to the extreme rear of the party,' 
so that other people might be killed first if the snake returned 
to life, as he surmised it would. He fell into other dangers 
from this caution, but I cannot chronicle Ngouta's afflictions 
in full without running this book into an old-fashioned folio 
size. We had the snake for supper, that is to say the Fan 
and I ; the others would not touch it, although a good snake, 
properly cooked, is one of the best meats one gets out here, 
far and away better than the African fowl. 

The Fans also did their best to educate me in every way : 
they told me their names for things, while I told them mine, 
throwing in besides as " a dash for top " a few colloquial 
phrases such as : " Dear me, now," " Who'd have thought it," 
" Stuff, my dear sir," and so on ; and when I left them they 
had run each together as it were into one word, and a nice 
savage sound they had with them too, especially " dearmenow," 
so I must warn any philologist who visits the Fans, to beware 
of regarding any word beyond two syllables in length as 
being of native origin. I found several European words 
already slightly altered in use among them, such as " Amuck " 
— a mug, " Alas " — a glass, a tumbler. I do not know whether 
their " Ami " — a person addressed, or spoken of — is French or 
not. It may come from "Anwe" — M'pongwe for "Ye," 
" You." They use it as a rule in addressing a person after the 
phrase they always open up conversation with, " Azuna " — 
Listen, or I am speaking. 

They also showed me many things : how to light a fire 
from the pith of a certain tree, which was useful to me in after 
life, but they rather overdid this branch of instruction one way 
and another ; for example, Wiki had, as above indicated, a 
mania for bush-ropes and a marvellous eye and knowledge of 
them ; he would pick out from among the thousands sur- 
rounding us now one of such peculiar suppleness that you 
could wind it round anything, like a strip of cloth, and as 
strong withal as a hawser ; or again another which has 



GORILLAS AT HOME 267 



a certain stiffness, combined with a slight elastic spring, 
excellent for hauling, with the ease and accuracy of a lady 
who picks out the particular twisted strand of embroidery silk 
from a multi-coloured tangled ball. He would go into the 
bush after them while other people were resting, and par- 
ticularly after the sort which, when split is bright yellow, and 
very supple and excellent to tie round loads. 

On one occasion, between Egaja and Esoon, he came back 
from one of these quests and wanted me to come and see 
something, very quietly ; I went, and we crept down into a 
rocky ravine, on the other side of which lay one of the outer- 
Tnost Egaja plantations. When we got to the edge of the 
cleared ground, we lay down, and wormed our way, with 
elaborate caution, among a patch of Koko ; Wiki first, I 
following in his trail. 

After about fifty yards of this, Wiki sank flat, and I saw 
I before me some thirty yards off, busily employed in pulling 
Idown plantains, and other depredations, five gorillas : one old 
male, one young male, and three females. One of these had 
clinging to her a young fellow, with beautiful wa\y black hair 
with just a kink in it The big male was crouching on his 
haunches, with his long arms hanging down on either side, with 
the backs of his hands on the ground, the palms upwards. 
The elder lady was tearing to pieces and eating a pine-apple, 
while the others were at the plantains destroying more than 
they ate. 

They kept up a sort of a whinnying, chattering noise, quite 
different from the sound I have heard gorillas give when en- 
raged, or from the one you can hear them giving when they are 
what the natives call " dancing " at night. I noticed that 
their reach of arm was immense, and that when they went 
from one tree to another, they squattered across the open 
ground in a most inelegant style, dragging their long arms 
with the knuckles downwards. I should think the big 
male and female were over six feet each. The others would 
be from four to five. I put out my hand and laid it on Wiki's 
gun to prevent him from firing, and he, thinking I was going 
to fire, gripped m\' wrist. 

I watched the gorillas with great interest for a few seconds, 



268 FROM NCOVI TO ESOON chak 



until I heard Wiki make a peculiar small sound, and looking 
at him saw his face was working in an awful way as he clutched 
his throat with his hand violently. 

Heavens ! think I, this gentleman's going to have a fit ; it's 
lost we are entirely this time. He rolled his head to and fro, 
and then buried his face into a heap of dried rubbish at the 
foot of a plantain stem, clasped his hands over it, and gave 
an explosive sneeze. The gorillas let go all, raised them- 
selves up for a second, gav-e a quaint sound between a bark and 
a howl, and then the ladies and the young gentleman started 
home. The old male rose to his full height (it struck me at 
the time this was a matter of ten feet at least, but for scientific 
purposes allowance must be made for a lady's emotions) and 
looked straight towards us, or rather towards where that sound 
came from. Wiki went off into a paroxysm of falsetto sneezes 
the like of which I have never heard ; nor evidently had the 
gorilla, who doubtless thinking, as one of his black co-relatives 
would have thought, that the phenomenon favoured Duppy, 
vv^ent off after his family with a celerity that was amazing the 
moment he touched the forest, and disappeared as they had, 
swinging himself along through it from bough to bough, in a 
way that convinced me that, given the necessity of getting 
about in tropical forests, man has made a mistake in getting 
his arms shortened. I have seen many wild animals in their 
native wilds, but never have I seen anything to equal gorillas 
going through bush ; it is a graceful, powerful, superbly perfect 
hand-trapeze performance.^ 

After this sporting adventure, we returned, as I usually return 
from a sporting adventure, without measurements or the body. 

Our first day's march, though the longest, was the easiest, 
though, providentially I did not know this at the time. From 
my Woermann road walks I judge it was well twenty-five miles. 
It was easiest however, from its lying for the greater part of 

1 I have no hesitation in saying that the gorilla is the most horrible 
wild animal I have seen. I have seen at close quarters specimens of the 
most important big game of Central Africa, and, with the exception of 
snakes, I have run away from all of them ; but although elephants, 
leopards, and pythons give you a feeling of alarm, they do not give that 
feeling of horrible disgust that an old gorilla gives on account of its 
hideousness of appearance. 



:.ii A FORCED MARCH 269 

the way through the gloomy type of forest. All day long we 
never saw the sky once. 

The earlier part of the day we were steadily going up hill, 

here and there making a small descent, and then up again. 

until we came on to what was apparently a long ridge, for on 

either side of us we could look down into deep, dark, ravine- 

<e valleys. Twice or thrice we descended into these to cross 

lem, finding at their bottom a small or large swamp with a 

\ er running through its midst. Those rivers all went to Lake 

A}'zingo. 

We had to hurry because Kiva, who was the only one 
among us who had been to Efoua, said that unless we did we 
lould not reach Efoua that night. I said, " Why not .stay 
'T bush ? " not having contracted any love for a night in a Fan 
\vn by the experience of M'fetta ; moreover the Fans 
ere not sure that after all the whole party of us might not 
)end the evening at Efoua, when we did get there, simmer- 
.g in its cooking-pots. 
Xgouta, I may remark, had no doubt on the subject at all, 
and regretted having left Mrs. N. keenly, and the Andande 
store sincerely. But these Fans are a fine sporting tribe, and 
allowed the}' would risk it ; besides, they were almost certain 
ihey had friends at Efoua ; and, in addition, they showed me 
trees scratched in a way that was magnification of the con- 
dition of my own cat's pet table leg at home, demonstrating 
leopards in the vicinity. I kept going, as it was my only 
chance, because I found I stiffened if I sat down, and they 
always carefully told me the direction to go in when they sat 
down ; with their superior pace they soon caught me up, and 
then passed me, leaving me and Xgouta and sometimes Singlet 
and Pagan behind, we, in our turn, overtaking them, with 
:his difference that they were sitting down when we did so. 

About five o'clock I was off ahead and noticed a path which 
\ had been told I should meet with, and, when met with, 
: must follow. The path was slightly indistinct, but by 
ceeping my eye on it I could see it. Presently I came to a 
)lace where it went out, but appeared again on the other side 
)f a clump of underbush fairly distinctly. I made a short cut 
r it and the next news was I was in a heap, on a lot of spikes, 



270 FROM NCOVI TO ESOON chap. 

some fifteen feet or so below ground level, at the bottom of a 
bag-shaped game pit. 

It is at these times you realise the blessing of a good thick 
skirt. Had I paid heed to the advice of many people in 
England, who ought to have known better, and did not do it 
themselves, and adopted masculine garments, I should ha\e 
been spiked to the bone, and done for. Whereas, save for a 
good many bruises, here I was with the fulness of my skirt 
tucked under me, sitting on nine ebony spikes some twelve 
inches long, in comparativ-e comfort, howling lustily to be 
hauled out. The Duke came along first, and looked down at 
me. I said, " Get a bush-rope, and haul me out." He grunted 
and sat down on a log. The Passenger came next, and 
he looked down. " You kill ? " says he. " Not much," say I ; 
" get a bush-rope and haul me out." " No fit," says he, and 
sat down on the log. Presently, however, Kiva and Wiki came 
up, and Wiki went and selected the one and only bush-rope 
suitable to haul an English lady, of my exact complexion, 
age, and size, out of that one particular pit. They seemed 
rare round there from the time he took ; and I was just casting 
about in my mind as to what method would be best to emplo)- 
in getting up the smooth, yellow, sandy-clay, incurved walls, 
when he arrived with it, and I was out in a twinkling, and very 
much ashamed of myself, until Silence, who was then leading, 
disappeared through the path before us with a despairing yell. 
Each man then pulled the skin cover off his gun lock, care- 
fully looked to see if things there were all right and read}- 
loosened his knife in its snake-skin sheath ; and then we seL 
about hauling poor Silence out, binding him up where neces- 
sary with cool green leaves ; for he, not having a skirt, had got 
a good deal frayed at the edges on those spikes. Then we 
closed up, for the Fans said these pits were symptomatic cf 
the immediate neighbourhood of Efoua. We sounded our 
ground, as we went into a thick plantain patch, through 
which we could see a great clearing in the forest, and the lo\r 
huts of a big town. We charged into it, going right through 
the guard-house gateway, at one end, in single file, as its 
narrowness obliged us, and into the street-shaped town, and 
formed ourselves into as imposing a looking party as possible 



RECEPTION AT EFOUA 271 



in the centre of the street. The Efouerians regarded us with 
much amazement, and the women and children cleared off into 
the huts, and took stock of us through the door-holes. There 
were but few men in the town, the majority, we subsequently- 
learnt, being away after elephants. But there were quite suffi- 
ient left to make a crowd in a ring round us. Fortunately 
iki and Kiva's friends were present, and we were soon 
another word-fog but not so bad a one as that at M'fetta ; 
deed Efoua struck me, from the first, favourably ; it was, for 
ne thing, much cleaner than most Fan towns I have been in. 
As a result of the confabulation, one of the chiefs had his 
house cleared out for me. It consisted of two apartments 
almost bare of everything save a pile of boxes, and a small 
fire on the floor, some little bags hanging from the roof poles, 
and a general supply of insects. The inner room contained 
nothing save a hard plank, raised on four short pegs from the 
earth floor. 

I shook hands with and thanked the chief, and directed 

:hat all the loads should be placed inside the huts. I must 

dmit my good friend was a villainous-looking savage, but he 

ehaved most hospitably and kindly. From what I had 

heard of the Fan, I deemed it advisable not to make any 

; esent to him at once, but to base my claim on him on the 

^ht of an amicable stranger to hospitality. When I had 

seen all the baggage stowed I went outside and sat at the 

(loonvay on a rather rickety mushroom-shaped stool in the 

cool evening air, waiting for my tea which I wanted bitterly. 

'agan came up as usual for tobacco to buy chop with ; and 

ifter giving it to him, I and the two chiefs, with Gray Shirt 

acting as interpreter, had a long chat. Of course the first 

question was, Why was I there ? 

I told them I was on m\- way to the factor>' of H. and C. 
on the Rembwe. They said they had heard of " Ugumu," i.e.^ 
jlessrs Hatton and Cookson, but they did not trade direct 
\» ith them, passing their trade into towns nearer to the 
Rembwe, which were swindling bad towns, they said ; and 
tliey got the idea stuck in their heads that I was a trader, a 
ort of bagman for the firm, and Gray Shirt could not get this 
iea out, so off one of their majesties went and returned with 



272 FROM NCOVI TO ESOON chap. 



twenty-five balls of rubber, which I bought to promote good 
feeling, subsequently dashing them to Wiki, who passed them 
in at Ndorko when we got there. 1 also bought some elephant- 
hair necklaces from one of the chiefs' wives, by exchanging 
my red silk tie with her for them, and one or two other things. 
I saw fish-hooks would not be of much value because Efoua 
was not near a big water of any sort ; so I held fish-hooks and 
traded handkerchiefs and knives. 

One old chief was exceedingly keen to do business, and I 
bought a meat spoon, a plantain spoon, and a gravy spoon off 
him ; and then he brought me a lot of rubbish I did not Vv^ant, 
and I said so, and announced I had finished trade for that 
night. However the old gentleman was not to be put off, and 
after an unsuccessful attempt to sell me his cooking-pots, 
which were roughly made out of clay, he made energetic signs 
to me that if I would wait he had got something that he 
would dispose of which Gray Shirt said was " good too much.' 
Off he went across the street, and disappeared into his hut, 
where he evidently had a thorough hunt for the precious 
article. One box after another was brought out to the light of 
a bush torch held by one of his wives, and there was a great 
confabulation between him and his family of the " I'm sure 
you had it last," " You must have moved it," " Never touched 
the thing," sort. At last it was found, and he brought it across 
the street to me most carefully. It was a bundle of bark 
cloth tied round something most carefully with tie tie. This 
being removed, disclosed a layer of rag, which was unwound 
from round a central article. Whatever can this be ? thinks 
I ; some rare and valuable object doubtless, let's hope con- 
nected with Fetish worship, and I anxiously watched its 
unpacking ; in the end, however, it disclosed, to my disgust 
and rage, an old shilling razor. The way the old chief held 
it out, and the amount of dollars he asked for it, was enough to 
make any one believe that I was in such urgent need of the 
thing, that I was at his mercy regarding price. I waved it off 
with a haughty scorn, and then feeling smitten by the expres- 
sion of agonised bewilderment on his face, I dashed him a 
belt that delighted him, and went inside and had tea to soothe 
my outraged feelings. 



All AN UNPLEASANT DISCOVERY 273 

The chiefs made furious raids on the mob of spectators who 
pressed round the door, and stood with their eyes glued to 
every crack in the bark of which the hut was made. The 
next door neighbours on either side might have amassed a 
comfortable competence for their old age, by letting out seats 
for the circus. Every hole in the side walls had a human eye 
in it, and I heard new holes being bored in all directions ; so 
T deepl}- fear the chief, m}' host, must have found his palace 
idly draughty. I felt perfectly safe and content, however, 
though Xgouta suggested the charming idea that " P'r'aps 
Liem M'fetta Fan done sell we." The only grave question I 
liad to face was whether I should take off my boots or not ; 
they were wet through, from wading swamps, &c., and my 
feet were very sore ; but on the other hand, if I took those 
boots off, I felt confident that I should not be able to get them 
n again next morning, so I decided to lef 'em. 

As soon as all my men had come in, and established them- 
clves in the inner room for the night, I curled up among the 
boxes, with my head on the tobacco sack, and dozed. 

After about half an hour I heard a row in the street, and 
looking out, — for I recognised his grace's voice taking a solo 
part followed by choruses, — I found him in legal difficulties 
about a murder case. An a/idi was proved for the time being ; 
that is to say the prosecution could not bring up witnesses 
because of the elephant hunt ; and I went in for another doze, 
and the town at last grew quiet. Waking up again I noticed 
the smell in the hut was violent, from being shut up I suppose, 
and it had an unmistakably organic origin. Knocking the 
ash end off the smouldering bush-light that lay burning on 
the floor, I investigated, and tracked it to those bags, so I 
took down the biggest one, and carefully noted exactly how 
the tie-tie had been put round its mouth ; for these things are 
important and often mean a lot. I then shook its contents 
out in my hat, for fear of losing anything of value. They 
were a human hand, three big toes, four eyes, two ears, and 
other portions of the human frame. The hand was fresh, the 
others only so so, and shrivelled. 

Replacing them I tied the bag up, and hung it up again. 
I subsequently learnt that although the Fans will eat their 

T 



174 FROM NCOVI TO ESOON chap 



fellow friendly tribesfolk, yet they like to keep a little some- 
thing belonging to them as a memento. This touching trait 
in their character I learnt from Wiki ; and, though it's to their 
credit, under the circumstances, still it's an unpleasant 
practice when they hang the remains in the bedroom you 
occupy, particularly if the bereavement in your host's family 
has been recent. I did not venture to prowl round Efoua ; 
but slid the bark door aside and looked out to get a breath of 
fresh air. 

It was a perfect night, and no mosquitoes. The town, walled 
in on every side by the great cliff of high black forest, looked 
very wild as it showed in the starlight, its low, savage-built bark 
huts, in two hard rows, clo.sed at either end by a guard-house. 
In both guard -houses there was a fire burning, and in their 
flickering glow showed the forms of sleeping men. Nothing 
was moving save the goats, which are always brought into the 
special house for them in the middle of the town, to keep 
them from the leopards, which roam from dusk to dawn. 

Dawn found us stirring, me getting my tea, and the rest of 
the party their chop, and binding up anew the loads with 
Wiki's fresh supple bush-ropes. Kiva amused me much ; 
during our march his costume was exceeding scant, but when 
we reached the towns he took from his bag garments, and 
attired himself so resplendently that I feared the charm of his 
appearance would lead me into one of those dreadful wife 
palavers which experience had taught me of old to dread : 
and in the morning time he always devoted .some time to re- 
packing. I gave a big dash to both chiefs, and they came out 
with us, most civilly, to the end of their first plantations ; and 
then we took farewell of each other, with many expressions 
of hope on both sides that we should meet again, and many 
warnings from them about the dissolute and depraved 
character of the other towns we should pass through before 
we reached the Rembwe. 

Our second day's march was infinitely worse than the first, 
for it lay along a series of abruptly .shaped hills with deep 
ravines between them ; each ravine had its swamp and each 
swamp its river. This bit of country must be absolutely im- 
passable for any human being, black or white, except during 



FROM BOG TO BOG 275 



the dry^ season. There were representatives of the three chief 
forms of the West African bog. The large deep swamps 
were best to deal with, because they make a break in the 
forest, and the sun can come down on their surface and bake 
a crust, over which you can go, if you go quickly. From ex- 
perience in Devonian bogs, I knew pace was our best chance, 
and I fancy I earned one of my nicknames among the Fans on 
these. The Fans went across all right with a rapid striding 
_,lide, but the other men erred from excess of caution, and while 
hesitating as to where was the next safe place to plant their 
feet, the place that they were standing on went in with a glug. 
Moreover, they would keep together, which was more than the 
crust would stand. The portly Pagan and the Passenger gave 
us a fine job in one bog, by sinking in close together. Some 
< )f us slashed off boughs of trees and tore off handfuls of hard 
( anna leaves, while others threw them round the sinking 
victims to form a sort of raft, and then with the aid of bush- 
rope, of course, they were hauled out. 

The worst sort of swamp, and the most frequent hereabouts, 
is the deep narrow one that has no crust on, because it is too 
much shaded by the forest. The slopes of the ravines too are 
usually covered with an undergrowth of shenja, beautiful 
beyond description, but right bad to go through. I soon 
learnt to dread seeing the man in front going down hill, or to 
find myself doing so, for it meant that within the next half 
hour we should be battling through a patch of shenja. I believe 
there are few effects that can compare with the beauty of 
them, with the golden sunlight coming down through the 
upper forest's branches on to their exquisitely shaped, hard, 
dark green leaves, making them look as if they were sprinkled 
with golden sequins. Their long green stalks, which support 
the leaves and bear little bunches of crimson berries, take 
every graceful curve imaginable, and the whole affair is 
free from insects ; and when you have said this, you have 
said all there is to say in favour of shenja, for those long 
green stalks of theirs are as tough as twisted wire, and the 
graceful curves go to the making of a net, which rises round 
you shoulder high, and the hard green leaves when l>'ing on 
the ground are fearfully slippery. It is not nice going down 

T 2 



276 FROM NCOVI TO ESOON chap. 



through them, particularly when nature is so arranged that 
the edge of the bank you are descending is a rock-wall ten or 
twelve feet high with a swamp of unknown depth at its foot ; 
this arrangement was very frequent on the second and third 
day's marches, and into these swamps the shenja seemed to 
want to send you head first and get you suffocated. It is still less 
pleasant, however, going up the other side of the ravine when 
you have got through your swamp. You have to fight your 
way upwards among rough rocks, through this hard tough 
network of stems ; and it took it out of all of us except the 
Fans. 

These narrow shaded swamps gave us a world of trouble 
and took up a good deal of time. Sometimes the leader of 
the party would make three or four attempts before he found a 
ford, going on until the black, batter-like ooze came up round 
his neck, and then turning back and trying in another place : 
while the rest of the party sat upon the bank until the ford 
was found, feeling it was unnecessary to throw away human 
life, and that the more men there were paddling about in 
that swamp, the more chance there was that a hole in the 
bottom of it would be found ; and when a hole is found, the 
discoverer is liable to leave his bones in it. If I happened to 
be in front, the duty of finding the ford fell on me ; for none of 
us after leaving Efoua knew the swamps personally. I was 
too frightened of the Fan, and too nervous and uncertain of 
the stuff my other men were made of, to dare show the white 
feather at anything that turned up. The Fan took my conduct 
as a matter of course, never having travelled with white 
men before, or learnt the way some of them require carrying- 
over swamps and rivers and so on. I dare say I might have 
taken things easier, but I was like the immortal Schmelzle, 
during that omnibus journey he made on his way to Flaetz in 
the thunder-storm — afraid to be afraid. I am very certain I 
should have fared very differently had I entered a region 
occupied by a powerful and ferocious tribe like the Fan, from 
some districts on the West Coast, where the inhabitants are 
used to find the white man incapable of personal exertion, 
requiring to be carried in a hammock, or wheeled in a go-cart 
or a Bath-chair about the streets of their coast towns, depend- 



Kii A SEVERE DOSE OF STEEL 277 

ing for the defence of their settlement on a body of black 
-oldiers. This is not so in Congo Frangais, and I had behind 
;ne the prestige of a set of white men to whom for the native 
:o say, "You shall not do such and such a thing;" "You 
hall not go to such and such a place," would mean that those 
Jiings would be done. I soon found the name of Hatton and 
Cookson's agent-general for this district, Mr. Hudson, was one 
to conjure with among the trading tribes ; and the Ajumba, 
moreover, although their knowledge of white men had been 
small, yet those they had been accustomed to see were 
fine specimens. Mr. Fildes, Mr. Cockshut, M. Jacot, Dr. 
Pelessier, Pere Lejeune, M. Gacon, Mr. Whittaker, and 
that vivacious French official, were not men any man, black 
or white, would willingly ruffle ; and in addition there was 
the memory among the black traders of " that white man 
MacTaggart," whom an enterprising trading tribe near Setta 
Khama had had the hardihood to tackle, shooting him, and 
then towing him behind a canoe and slashing him all over with 
their knives the while ; yet he survived, and tackled them again 
in a way that must almost pathetically have astonished those 
simple savages, after the real good work they had put in to 
the killing of him. Of course it was hard to live up to these 
ideals, and I do not pretend to have succeeded, or rather that 
I should have succeeded had the real strain been put on me. 
Particularly sure am I that I should never flourish under 
the treatment Mr. MacTaggart habitually receives. I had 
the pleasure of meeting him on my way home the other 
day and found him quite convalescent from another overdose 
of steel. He had gone, about six weeks previousl}- with divers 
other white men, on a perfectly peaceable mission into a town. 
The treacherous inhabitants, after receiving them kindly and 
talking the palaver, went for Mr. MacTaggart as the party 
were returning to their boats, with sharpened cutlasses ; took 
the top off his head, and a large chip out of the back of it, 
and then, evidently knowing their man, proceeded to remove 
him in his stunned condition into the bush on a door. They 
there thought of taking off his head thoroughly, to make a Ju Ju 
of The securing of the head of a notably brave man is a 
great desideratum among West Coast tribes, and they thought 



278 - FROM NCOVI TO ESOON char 



by securing Mr. MacTaggart's head they would do this, and 
also remove him from his then sphere of activity, the 
prevention of gin smuggling. Their plan seems excellent in 
theory ; but I would not stake any money on its having 
succeeded, even if they had been able to get him well away on 
that door, which owing to his companions they were not. It 
is almost as risky to be notoriously brave among a West 
African tribe, as it is to be notoriously holy in the East. I 
know another case in which they desired to collect the head 
of a gentleman for their Ju Ju house. It showed in this case 
a lofty devotion on their part, for it would have caused them 
grave domestic inconvenience to have removed, at one fell 
swoop, their entire set of tradesmen. Still more did it show 
an artistic feeling of a high order ; for the head is a very hand- 
some one. Though they command my respect as a fellow 
collector by the care they took in the attempt to collect it b}- 
shooting the specimen in the legs, from other standpoints I 
am very glad they have failed, This idea of the advantage 
of having a big man's head is somewhat like the Eastern one 
that I remember reading of in one of Richard Burton's 
memoirs. He was once among some very pious Easterns 
disguised as a dervish and enjoying such an amount of 
admiration from them that he felt safe and content, until one 
day a native friend came to him, secretly, and advised him 
to fly, " because the people of this city are desirous of having 
the shrine of a very holy man among them — both because of 
the spiritual advantages it bestows, and the temporal ones 
arising from pilgrims coming to the town from other places 
to visit it, and they have decided that you are so very 
holy, and wise, and learned in the Koran that you will do." 
Burton left. 

But to return to that gorilla-land forest. All the rivers we 
crossed on the first, second, and third day I was told went 
into one or other of the branches of the Ogowe, showing that 
the long slope of land between the Ogowe and the Rembwe is 
towards the Ogowe. The stone of which the mountains were 
composed was that same hard black rock that I had found on 
the Sierra del Cristal, by the Ogowe rapids ; only hereabouts 
there was not amongst it those great masses of white quartz, 



XII PICKING OUR WAY 279 



which are so prominent a feature from Talagouga upwards in 
the Ogowe valley; neither were the mountains anything like so 
high, but they had the same abruptness of shape. They look 
like very old parts of the same range worn down to stumps 
b\' the disintegrating forces of the torrential rain and sun, and 
the dense forest growing on them. Frost of course they had 
not been subject to, but rocks, I noticed, were often being 
somewhat similarly split by rootlets having got into some tiny 
crevice, and b}- gradual growth enlarged it to a crack. 

Of our troubles among the timber falls on these mountains 
I have already spoken ; and these were at their worst between 
Efoua and Egaja. I had suffered a good deal from thirst 
that day, unboiled water being my ibet and we were all verj- 
nearl}' tired out with the athletic sports since leaving Efoua. 
One thing only we knew about Egaja for sure, and that 
was that not one of us had a friend there, and that it was a 
town of extra evil repute, so we were not feeling very cheerful 
w hen towards evening time we struck its outermost planta- 
tions, their immediate vicinity being announced to us by 
Silence treading full and fair on to a sharp ebony spike 
driven into the narrow path and hurting himself Fortunately, 
after we passed this first plantation, we came upon a camp of 
rubber collectors — four young men ; I got one of them to 
carr}' Silence's load and show us the way into the town, 
when on we went into more plantations. 

There is nothing more tiresome than finding your path 
going into a plantation, because it fades out in the cleared 
ground, or starts playing games with a lot of other little 
paths that are running about amongst the crops, and no West 
African path goes straight into a stream or a plantation, and 
straight out the other side, so you have a nice time picking it 
up again. 

We were spared a good deal of fine varied walking by our 
new friend the rubber collector ; for I noticed he led us out b}- 
a path nearly at right angles to the one by which we had 
entered. He then pitched into a pit which was half full of 
thorns, and which he observed he did not know was there, 
demonstrating that an African guide can speak the truth. 
When he had got out, he handed back Silence's load and got 



28o FROM NCOVI TO ESOON CHAi- 



a dash of tobacco for his help ; he left us to devote the rest of 
his evening by his forest fire, to unthorning himself, while we 
proceeded to wade a swift, deepish river that crossed the path 
he told us led into Egaja, and then went across another bit of 
forest and down hill again. " Oh, bless those swamps ! " 
thought I, " here's another," but no — not this time. Across 
the bottom of the steep ravine, from one side to another, la}- 
an enormous tree as a bridge, about fifteen feet above a river, 
which rushed beneath it, over a boulder-encumbered bed. I 
took in the situation at a glance, and then and there I would 
have changed that bridge for any swamp I have ever seen, 
yea, even for a certain bush-rope bridge in which I once wound 
myself up like a buzzing fly in a spider's web. I was fearfully 
tired, and my legs shivered under me after the falls and 
emotions of the previous part of the day, and my boots were 
slippery with water soaking. 

The Fans went into the river, and half swam, half waded 
across. All the Ajumba, save Pagan, followed, and Ngouta 
got across with their assistance. Pagan thought he would try 
the bridge, and I thought I would watch how the thing 
worked. He got about three yards along it and then slipped, 
but caught the tree with his hands as he fell, and hauled him- 
self back to my side again ; then he went down the bank and 
through the water. This was not calculated to improve one's 
nerve ; I knew by now I had got to go by the bridge, for I 
saw I was not .strong enough in my tired state to fight the 
water. If only the wretched thing had had its bark on it 
would have been better, but it was bare, bald, and round, and 
a slip meant death on the rocks below. I rushed it, and 
reached the other side in safety, whereby poor Pagan got 
chaffed about his failure by the others, who said they had gone 
through the water just to wash their feet. 

The other side, when we got there, did not seem much 
worth reaching, being a swampy fringe at the bottom of 
a steep hillside, and after a few yards the path turned into a 
stream or backwater of the river. It was hedged with thick!} 
pleached bushes, and covered with liquid water on the top of 
semi-liquid mud. Now and again for a change you had a foot 
of water on top of fearfully slippery harder mud, and then 



WE ENTER EGAJA 



we light-heartedly took headers into the bush, sideways, or 
sat down ; and when it was not proceeding on the evil tenor of 
its way, like this, it had holes in it ; in fact, I fancy the bottom of 
the holes was the true level, for it came near being as full of 
holes as a fishing-net, and it was very quaint to see the man in 
front, who had been paddling along knee-deep before, now plop 
down with the water round his shoulders ; and getting out of 
these slippery pockets, which were sometimes a tight fit, was 
difficult. 

However that is the path you have got to go by, if you're 
ii)t wise enough to stop at home ; the little bay of shrub over- 
grown swamp fringing the river on one side and on the other 
running up to the mountain side. 

At last we came to a sandy bank, and on that bank stood 
I'^gaja, the town with an evil name even among the Fan, 
but where we had got to stay, fair or foul. We went 
into it through its palaver house, and soon had the usual 
row. 

I had detected signs of trouble among my men during the 
w hole day ; the Ajumba were tired, and dissatisfied with the 
P ans ; the Fans were in high feather, openly insolent to 
Xgouta, and anxious for me to stay in this delightful locality, 
and go hunting with them and divers other choice spirits, whom 
they assured me we could easily get to join us at Efoua. 
I jNgouta kept away from them, and I was worried about him 
* on account of his cold and loss of voice. I kept peace as well 
as I could, explaining to the Fans I had not enough money 
with me now, because I had not, when stating, expected such 
magnificent opportunities to be placed at my disposal ; and 
promising to come back next year — a promise I hope to keep — 
and then we would go and have a grand time of it. This state 
of a party was a dangerous one in which to enter a strange Fan 
town, where our security lay in our being united. When the 
first burst of Egaja conversation began to boil down into 
something reasonable, I found that a villainous-looking 
scoundrel, smeared with soot and draped in a fragment 
of genuine antique cloth, was a head chief in mourning. 
He placed a house at my disposal, quite a mansion, for it had 
no less than four apartments. The first one was almost 






FROM NCOVI TO ESOON chap. 



entirely occupied by a bedstead frame that was being made 
up inside on account of the small size of the door. 

This had to be removed before we could get in with the 
baggage at all. While this removal was being effected with 
as much damage to the house and the article as if it were a 
quarter-day affair in England, the other chief arrived. He 
had been sent for, being away down the river fishing when 
we arrived. I saw at once he was a very superior man to 
any of the chiefs I had yet met with. It was not his attire, 
remarkable though that was for the district, for it consisted of 
a gentleman's black frock-coat such as is given in the ivor)- 
bundle, a bright blue felt sombrero hat, an ample cloth of 
Boma check ; but his face and general bearing was distinctive, 
and very powerful and intelligent ; and I knew that Egaja, for 
good or bad, owed its name to this man, and not to the mere 
sensual, brutal-looking one. He was exceedingly courteous, 
ordering his people to bring me a stool and one for himself, 
and then a fly-whisk to battle with the evening cloud of sand- 
flies. I got Pagan to come and act as interpreter while the 
rest were stowing the baggage, &c After compliments, 
" Tell the chief," I said, " that I hear this town of his is thief 
town." 

" Better not, sir," says Pagan. 

" Go on," said I, " or I'll tell him myself" 

So Pagan did. It was a sad blow to the chief 

" Thief town, this highly respectable town of Egaja ! a 
town whose moral conduct in all matters (Shedule) was an 
example to all towns, called a thief town ! Oh, what a wicked 
world ! " 

I said it was ; but I would reserve my opinion as to whether 
Egaja was a part of the wicked world or a star-like exception, 
until I had experienced it myself We then discoursed on man\- 
matters, and I got a great deal of interesting fetish information 
out of the chief, which was valuable to me, because the whole 
of this district had not been in contact with white culture ; and 
altogether I and the chief became great friends. 

Just when I was going in to have my much-desired tea, he 
brought me his mother — an old lad)-, evidently ver)- bright 
and able, but, poor woman, with the most disgusting hand and 



1 



xii MEDICAL PRACTICE 283 



arm I have ever seen. I am ashamed to say I came ver}' near 
being sympathetically sick in the African manner on the 
spot. I felt I could not attend to it, and ha\e my tea after- 
wards, so I directed one of the canoe-shaped little tubs, used 
for beating up the manioc in, to be brought and filled with hot 
water, and then putting into it a heav}- dose of Condy's fluid, 
I made her sit down and lay the whole arm in it, and went 
and had m}- tea. As soon as I had done I went outside, and 
getting some of the many surrounding ladies to hold bush- 
lights, I examined the case. The whole hand was a mass of 
jellow pus, streaked with sanies, large ulcers were burrowing 
into the fore-arm, while in the arm-pit was a big abscess. I 
of)ened the abscess at once, and then the old lady frightened 
me nearly out of my wits by gently subsiding, I thought dying, 
but I soon found out merely going to sleep. I then washed 
the abscess uell out, and having got a lot of baked plantains, I 
riiade a big poultice of them, mixed with boiling water and 
rtiore Condy in the tub, and laid her arm right in this ; and 
propping her up all round and covering her over with cloths I 
requisitioned from her son, I left her to have her nap while I 
went into the histor}' of the case, which was that some forty- 
eight hours ago she had been wading along the bank, catching 
crawfish, and had been stung by " a fish like a snake " ; so I 
presume the ulcers were an old-standing palaver. The hand 
had been a good deal torn by the creature, and the pain and 
swelling had been so great she had not had a minute's sleep 
since. As soon as the poultice got chilled I took her arm out 
and cleaned it again, and wound it round with dressing, and 
had her ladyship carried bodily, still asleep, into her hut, and 
after rousing her up, giving her a dose of that fine preparation, 
///. crotonis cum hydrargi, saw- her tucked up on her own plank 
bedstead for the night, sound asleep again. The chief was 
ver}- anxious to have some pills too ; so I gave him some, with 
firm injunctions only to take one at the first time. I knew 
that that one would teach him not to take more than one for 
ever after, better than I could do if I talked from June to 
Januar}-. Then all the afflicted of Egaja turned up, and 
wanted medical advice. There was evidently a good stiff 
epidemic of the yaws about ; lots of cases of dum with the 



284 FROM NCOVI TO ESOON chai 

various symptoms ; ulcers of course galore ; a man with a bit 
of a broken spear head in an abscess in the thigh ; one which 
I believe a professional enthusiast would call a " lovely case " of 
filaria, the entire white of one eye being full of the active little 
worms and a ridge of surplus population migrating across the 
bridge of the nose into the other eye, under the skin, looking 
like the bridge of a pair of spectacles. It was past eleven before 
I had anything like done, and my men had long been sound 
asleep, but the chief had conscientiously sat up and seen the 
thing through. He then went and fetched some rolls of bark 
cloth to put on my plank, and I gave him a handsome cloth I 
happened to have with me, a couple of knives, and some heads 
of tobacco and wished him good-night ; blockading my bark 
door, and picking my way over my sleeping Ajumba into an 
inner apartment which I also blockaded, hoping I had done 
with Egaja for some hours. No such thing. At 1.45 the whole 
town was roused by the frantic yells of a woman. I judged 
there was one of my beauties of Fans mixed up in it, and there 
was, and after paying damages, got back again by 2.30 a.m., 
and off to sleep again instantly. At four sharp, whole town of 
Egaja plunged into emotion, and worse shindy. I suggested 
to the Ajumba they should go out ; but no, they didn't care 
a row of pins if one of our Fans did get killed, so I went, 
recognising Kiva's voice in high expostulation. Kiva, it 
seems, a long time ago had a transaction in r^ a tooth of ivory 
with a man who, unfortunately, happened to be in this town 
to-night, and Kiva owed the said man a coat.^ 

Kiva, it seems, has been spending the whole evening 
demonstrating to his creditor that, had he only known they 
were to meet, he would have brought the coat with him — a 
particularly beautiful coat — and the reason he has not paid it 
before is that he has mislaid the creditor's address. The 
creditor says he has called repeatedly at Kiva's village, that 
notorious M'fetta, and Kiva has never been at home ; and 
moreover that Kiva's wife (one of them) stole a yellow dog 
of great value from .his (the creditor's) canoe. Kiva says, 
women will be women, and he had gone ofif to sleep thinking 

1 An European coat or its equivalent value is one of the constant 
quantities in an ivory bundle. 



A CASE IN BANKRUPTCY 285 



lie affair had blown over and the bill renewed for the time 
being. The creditor had not gone to sleep ; but sat up think- 
ing the affair over and remembered many cases, all cited in 
full, of how Kiva had failed to meet his debts ; also Kiva's 
rother on the mother's side and uncle ditto ; and so has 
ecided to foreclose forthwith on the debtor's estate, and as 
le estate is represented by and consists of Kiva's person, to 
ike and seize upon it and eat it. 

It is always highly interesting to observe the germ of an}- 
of our own institutions existing in the culture of a lower race. 
Nevertheless it ie trying to be hauled out of one's sleep 
in the middle of the night, and plunged into this study. 
Evidently this was a trace of an early form of the Bank- 
ruptcy Court ; the court which clears a man of his debt, being 
iiere represented by the knife and the cooking pot ; the white- 
kashing, as I believe it is termed with us, also shows, only it 
|s not the debtor who is whitewashed, but the creditors doing 
themselves over with white clay to celebrate the removal of 
heir enemy from his sphere of meretricious activity. This 
n version may arise from the fact that whitewashing a debtor 
ho was about to be cooked would be unwise, as the stuff 
ould boil off" the bits and spoil the gravy. There is always 
>ome fragment of sound sense underlying African institutions. 
Kiva was, when I got out, tied up, talking nineteen to the 
lozen ; and so was every one else ; and a lady was working 
up white clay in a pot. 

I dare say I ought to have rushed at him and cut his bonds, 
and killed people in a general way with a revolver, and then 
flown with my band to the bush ; only my band evidently 
had no flying in them, being tucked up in the hut pretending 
to be asleep, and uninterested in the affair ; and although I 
could have abandoned the band without a pang just then, I 
could not so light-heartedly fly alone with Kiva to the bush 
and leave my fishes ; so I shouted Azuna to the Bankruptcy 
Court, and got a Fan who spoke trade English to come and 
interpret for me ; and from him I learnt the above stated 
lUtline of the proceedings up to the time. Regarding the 
riginal iniquity of Kiva, my other Fans held the opinion that 
rhe old Scotch lady had regarding certain passages in the 



286 FROM NCOVI TO ESOON chap. 



history of the early Jews — that it was a long time ago, and 
habelings it was no true. 

Fortunately for the reader it is impossible for me to give 
in full detail the proceedings of the Court. I do not think if 
the whole of Mr. Pitman's school of shorthand had been 
there to take them down the thing could possibly have been 
done in word-writing. If the late Richard Wagner, however, 
had been present he could have scored the performance for a 
full orchestra ; and with all its weird grunts and roars, and 
pistol-like finger clicks, and its elongated words and thigh 
slaps, it would have been a masterpiece. 

I got my friend the chief on my side ; but he explained he 
had no jurisdiction, as neither of the men belonged to his 
town ; and I explained to him, that as the proceedings were 
taking place in his town he had a right of jurisdiction ipso 
facto. The Fan could not translate this phrase, so we gave 
it the chief raw, and he seemed to relish it, and he and I 
then cut into the affair together, I looking at him with 
admiration and approval when he was saying his say, and 
after his " Azuna " had produced a patch of silence he could 
move his tongue in, and he similarly regarding me during my 
speech for the defence. We neither, I expect, understood 
each other, and we had trouble with our client, who would 
keep pleading " Not guilty," which was absurd. Anyhow we 
produced our effect, my success arising from my concluding 
my speech with the announcement that I would give the 
creditor a book on Hatton and Cookson for the coat, and I 
would deduct it from Kiva's pay. 

But, said the Court : " We look your mouth and it be sweet 
mouth, but with Hatton and Cookson we can have no trade." 
This was a blow to me. Hatton and Cookson was my big 
Ju Ju, and it was to their sub-factory on the Rembwe that I 
was bound. On inquiry I elicited another cheerful little fact, 
which was they could not deal with Hatton and Cookson, 
because there was " blood war on the path that way." The 
Court said they would take a book on Holty, but with Holty, 
i.e. Mr. John Holt, I had no deposit of money, and I did not 
feel justified in issuing cheques on him, knowing also he could 
not feel amiable towards wandering scientists, after what he had 



ai A QUESTION OF CHAR.\CTER 287 

recently gone through with one. Not that I doubt for one 
minute but that his representatives would have honoured my 
book ; for the generosity and helpfulness of West African 
traders is unbounded and long-suffering. But I did not like to 
encroach on it, all the more so from a feeling that I might 
never get through to refund the money. So at last I paid the 
equivalent value of the coat out of my own trade-stuff: and 
the affair was regarded by all parties as satisfactorily closed 
by the time the gray dawn was coming up over the forest 
wall. I went in again and slept in snatches until I got my 
tea about seven, and then turned out to hurrj- my band out of 
Egaja. This I did not succeed in doing until past ten. One 
iow succeeded another with my men ; but I was determined to 
jet them out of that town as quickly as possible, for I had 
leard so much from perfectly reliable and experienced people 
ijegarding the treacherousness of the Fan. I feared too that 
more cases still would be brought up against Kiva, from the 
sumeoi his criminal career I had had last night, and I knew it 
IS very doubtful whether my other three Fans were any better 
an he. There was his grace's little murder affair only 
nguishing for want of evidence owing to the witnesses for 
tlie prosecution being out elephant-hunting not \&xy far away ; 
nd Wiki was pleading an alibi, and a twin brother, in a bad 
ife palaver in this town. I really hope for the sake of 
Fan morals at large, that I did engage the three worst villains 
in M'fetta, and that MTetta is the worst town in all Fan land, 
inconvenient as this arrangement was to me personally. 
Anyhow, I felt sure my Pappenheimers would take a lot of beat- 
ing for good solid crime, among any tribe anywhere. More- 
over, the Ajumba wanted meat, and the Fans, they said, 
offered them human. I saw no human meat at Egaja, but 
the Ajumba seem to thyik the Fans eat nothing else, which is 
a silly prejudice of theirs, because the Fans do. I think in 
this case the Ajumba thought a lot of smoked flesh offered 
was human. It may have been ; it was in neat pieces ; and 
again, as the Captain of the late ss. Sparrow would say, " it 
mayn't." But the Ajumba have a horror of cannibalism, and 
I honestly believe never practise it, even for fetish affairs, 
which is a rare thing in a West African tribe where sacrificial 



288 FROM NCOVI TO ESOON chap. 

and ceremonial cannibalism is nearly universal. Anyhow the 
Ajumba loudly declared the Fans were "bad men too much," 
which was impolitic under existing circumstances, and in- 
excusable, because it by no means arose from a courageous 
defiance of them ; but the West African ! Well ! " 'E's a devil 
an' a ostrich an' a orphan child in one." 

The chief was very anxious for me to stay and rest, but as 
his mother was doing wonderfully well, and the other women 
seemed quite to understand my directions regarding her, I 
did not feel inclined to risk it. The old lady's farewell of me 
was peculiar : she took my hand in her two, turned it palm 
upwards, and spat on it. I do not know whether this is a 
constant form of greeting among the Fan ; I fancy not. 
Dr. Nassau, who explained it to me when I saw him again 
down at Baraka, said the spitting was merely an accidental 
by-product of the performance, which consisted in blowing a 
blessing ; and as I happened on this custom twice afterwards, I 
feel sure from observation he is right. 

The two chiefs saw us courteously out of the town as far 
as where the river crosses the out-going path again, and the 
blue-hatted one gave me some charms " to keep my foot in 
path," and the mourning chief lent us his son to see us through 
the lines of fortification of the plantation. I gave them an 
equal dash, and in answer to their question as to whether I 
had found Egaja a thief- town, I said that to call Egaja a thief- 
town was rank perjury, for I had not lost a thing while in it ; 
and we parted with mutual expression of esteem and hopes 
for another meeting at an early date. 

The defences of the fine series of plantations of Egaja on 
this side were most intricate, to judge from the zigzag course 
our guide led us through them. He explained they had to 
be because of the character of the tow^is towards the Rembwe. 
After listening to this young man, I really began to doubt that 
the Cities of the Plain had really been destroyed, and wondered 
whether some future revision committee will not put trans- 
ported for destroyed. This young man certainly hit off the 
character of Sodom and Gomorrah to the life, in describing 
the towns towards the Rembwe, though he had never heard 
Sodom and Gomorrah named. He assured me I should see 



XII NORTHWESTWARD HO! 289 

the difference between them and Egaja the Good, and I 
thanked him and gave him his dash when we parted ; but told 
' im as a friend, I feared some alteration must take place, and 

me time elapse before he saw a regular rush of pilgrim 
worshippers of virtue coming into even Egaja the Good, 
though it stood just as good a chance and better than most 
towns I had seen in Africa. 

We went on into the gloom of the Great Forest again ; 
that forest that seemed to me without end, wherein, in a 
lazy, hazy-minded sort of way, I expected to wander through 
by day and drop in at night to a noisy savage town for the 
rest of my days. 

We climbed up one hill, skirted its summit, went through 
Our athletic sports over sundry timber falls, and struck down 
into the ravine as usual. But at the bottom of that ravine, 
vhich was exceeding steep, ran a little river free from swamp. 
As I was wading it I noticed it had a peculiarity that dis- 
tinguished it from all the other rivers we had come through ; 

d then and there I sat down on a boulder in its midst and 
hauled out my compass. Yes, by Allah ! it's going north- 
^ est and bound as we are for Rembwe River. I went out the 
other side of that river with a lighter heart than I went in, and 
shouted the news to the boys, and they yelled and sang as we 
went on our way. 

All along this bit of country we had seen quantities of 
rubber vines, and between Egaja and Esoon we came across 
quantities of rubber being collected. Evidently there was 
a big camp of rubber hunters out in the district very busy. 
Wiki and Kiva did their best to teach me the trade. Along 
each side of the path we frequently saw a ring of stout bush 
rope, raised from the earth on pegs about a foot to eighteen 
inches. On the ground in the middle stood a calabash, into 
which the ends of the pieces of rubber vine were placed, the 
other ends being supported by the bush rope ring. Round 
the outside of some of these rings was a slow fire, which just 
singes the tops of the bits of rubber vine as they project over 
the collar or ring, and causes the milky juice to run out of 
the lower end into the calabash, giving out as it does so a 
strong ammoniacal smell. When the fire was alight there 

U 



290 



FROM NCOVI TO ESOON 



CHAP. 



would be a group of rubber collectors sitting round it watch- I 
ing the cooking operations, removing those pieces that had 
run dry and placing others, from a pile at their side, in position. 
On either side of the path we continually passed pieces of 
rubber vine cut into lengths of some two feet or so, and on 
the top one or two leaves plaited together, or a piece of bush 
rope tied into a knot, which indicated whose property the 
pile was. 

The method of collection employed by the Fan is exceed- 




FANS WITH IVORY AND RUBBER. 



ingly wasteful, because this fool of a vegetable Landolphia 
florida {Ovariensis) does not know how to send up suckers 
from its root, but insists on starting elaborately from seeds 
only. I do not, however, see any reasonable hope of getting 
them to adopt more economical methods. The attempt made 
by the English houses, when the rubber trade was opened 
up in 1883 on the Gold Coast, to get the more tractable natives 
there to collect by incisions only, has failed ; for in the earl}- 
days a man could get a load of rubber almost at his own door 
on the Gold Coast, and now he has to go fifteen days' journey 



XII HOW BLOOD FEUDS BEGIN 291 



inland for it. When a Fan town has exhausted the rubber in 
its vicinity, it migrates, bag and baggage, to a new part of the 
forest. The young unmarried men are the usual rubber 
hunters. Parties of them go out into the forest, wandering 
about in it and camping under shelters of boughs by night, 
for a month and more at a time, during the dr>- seasons, 
until they have got a sufficient quantity together ; then they 
return to their town, and it is manipulated by the women, and 
finally sold, either to the white trader, in districts where he is 
within reach, or to the M'pongwe trader who travels round 
buying it and the collected ivory and ebony, like a Norfolk 
higgler. In districts like these I was in, remote from the 
M'pongwe trader, the Fans carry the rubber to the town nearest 
to them that is in contact with the black trader, and sell it to 
the inhabitants, who in their turn resell it to their next town, 
until it reaches him. 

This passing down of the rubber and ivor\' gives rise between 
the various towns to a series of commercial complications 
which rank with woman palaver for the production of rows ; it 
being the sweet habit of these Fans to require a life for a life, 
and to regard one life as good as another. Also rubber trade 
and wife palavers sweetly intertwine, for a man on the kill in 
re a wife palaver knows his best chance of getting the life 
from the village he has a grudge against lies in catching one 
of that village's men when he maybe out alone rubber hunting. 
So he does this thing, and then the men from the victim's 
village, go and lay for a rubber hunter, from the killer's village ; 
and then of course the men from the killer's village go and lay 
for rubber hunters from victim number one's village, and thus 
the blood feud rolls down the vaulted chambers of the ages, 
so that you, dropping in on affairs, cannot see one end or the 
other of it, and frequently the people concerned have quite 
forgotten what the killing was started for. Not that this dis- 
courages them in the least. Really if Dr. Nassau is right, and 
these Fans are descendants of Adam and Eve, I expect the 
Cain and Abel killing palaver is still kept going among 
them. 

Wiki, being great on bush rope, gave me much information 
regarding rubber, showing me the various other vines besides 

U 2 



292 FROM NCOVI TO ESOON chap. 

the true rubber vine, whose juice, mingled with the true sap by 
the collector when in the forest, adds to the weight ; a matter 
of importance, because rubber is bought by weight. The 
other adulteration gets done by the ladies in the villages 
when the collected sap is handed over to them to prepare 
for the markets. 

This preparation consists of boiling it in water slightly, and 
adding a little salt, which causes the gummy part to separate 
and go to the bottom of the pot, where it looks like a thick 
cream. The water is carefully poured off this deposit, 
which is then taken out and moulded, usually in the hands ; 
but I have seen it run into moulds made of small calabashes 
with a stick or piece of iron passing through, so that when 
the rubber is set this can be withdrawn. A hole being thus 
left the balls can be threaded on to a stick, usually five on 
one stick, for convenience of transport. It is during the 
moulding process that most of the adulteration gets in. 
Down by the side of many of the streams there is a white 
chalky-looking clay which is brought up into the villages, 
powdered up, and then hung up over the fire in a basket to 
attain a uniform smuttiness ; it is then worked into the 
rubber when it is being made up into balls. Then a good 
chunk of Koko, Arum esculentum (Koko is better than yam, 
I may remark, because it is heavier), also smoked approxi- 
mately the right colour, is often placed in the centre of the 
rubber ball. In fact, anything is put there, that is hopefully 
regarded as likely to deceive the white trader. 

I once overheard a long discussion between two ladies : " I 
always clay my rubber up well," says number one. " I think," 
says number two, " a bit of yam is better, with just a coat of 

rubber outside, then he hop good too much when Mr. 

frows him for floor." They did not convince each other as to 
the superiority of their individual methods, but became very 
friendly over the foolishness of a mutual friend, who both 
clayed and yammed her rubber to such an extent that when 

Mr. " frowed him for floor he done squat." Mr. then 

cut him open and " frowed " both the pieces at her head — a 
performance that raised Mr. in their esteem, as it demon- 
strated commercial intelligence, a thing universally admired 



XII INGENUITIES OF ADULTERATION 293 

down here. So great is the adulteration, that most of the 
traders have to cut each ball open. Even the Kinsembo 
rubber, which is put up in clusters of bits shaped like little 
thimbles formed by rolling pinches of rubber between the 
thumb and finger, and which one would think difficult to put 
anything inside of, has to be cut, because " the simple children 
of nature " who collect it and bring it to that " swindling white 
trader " struck upon the ingenious notion that little pieces of 
wood shaped like the thimbles and coated by a dip in rubber 
were excellent additions to a cluster. 

The pure rubber, when it is made, looks like putty, and has 
the same dusky-white colour ; but, owing to the balls being 
kept in the huts in baskets in the smoke, and in wicker-work 
cages in the muddy pools to soak up as much waste as 
possible before going into the hands of the traders, they get 
almost inky in colour. 



CHAPTER XIII 

FROM ESOON TO AGONJO 

In which the Voyager sets forth the beauties of the way from Esoon 
to N'dorko, and gives some account of the local Swamps. 

Our next halting place was Esoon, which received us with 
the usual row, but kindly enough ; and endeared itself to me 
by knowing the Rembwe, and not just waving the arm in the 
air, in any direction, and saying " Far, far plenty bad people 
live for that side," as the other towns had done. Of course 
they stuck to the bad people part of the legend ; but I was 
getting quite callous as to the moral character of new ac- 
quaintances, feeling sure that for good solid murderous rascality 
several of my old Fan acquaintances, and even my own party, 
would take a lot of beating ; and yet, one and all, they had 
behaved w^ell to me. I am glad to see from my diaries that I 
knew this at the time ; for I see in my Cameroon journal an 
entry " Wish to Allah the Fans were in this country ; have 
been inquiring in vain for a cannibal tribe to associate with, 
but there is not one round here " ; but that's another story. 
Esoon gave me to understand that of all the Sodoms and 
Gomorrahs that town of Egaja was an easy first, and it would 
hardly believe we had come that way. Still Egaja had dealt 
with us well. However I took less interest — except, of course, 
as a friend, in some details regarding the criminal career of 
Chief Blue-hat of Egaja — in the opinion of Esoon regarding 
the country we had survived, than in the information it had to 
impart regarding the country we had got to survive on our 
way to the Big River, which now no longer meant the Ogowe, 
but the Rembwe. I meant to reach one of Hatton and Cookson's 
sub-factories there, but — strictly between ourselves — I knew no 
more at what town that factory was than a Kindergarten < 



I. XIII " BLOOD WAR ON THE PATH '' 295 

Board School child does. I did not mention this fact ; and a 

casual observer might have thought that I had spent my youth 

ill that factory, when I directed my inquiries to the finding out 

the very shortest route to it. Esoon shook its head. " Yes, it 

as close, but it was impossible to reach Uguma's factory." 

Why ? " " There was blood war on the path." I said it was 

J war of mine. But Esoon said, such was the appalling 

jpravity of the next town on the road, that its inhabitants 

i\- in wait at day with loaded guns and shot on sight any 

ne coming up the Esoon road, and that at night they tied 

wrings with bells on across the road and shot on hearing them. 

\o one had been killed since the first party of Esoonians 

ere fired on at long range, because no one had gone that 

ay ; but the next door town had been heard b}' people who 

id been out in the bush at night, blazing down the road when 

e bells were tinkled by wild animals. Clearly that road was 

)t yet really healthy. 

The Duke, who as I have said before, was a fine courageous 

How, ready to engage in any undertaking, suggested I should 

) up the road — alone by myself — first — a mile ahead of the 

arty — and the next town, perhaps, might not shoot at sight, 

they happened to notice I was something queer ; and I 

light explain things, and then the rest of the party would 

How. " There's nothing like dash and courage, my dear 

Duke," I said, " even if one display it by deputy, so this plan 

does you great credit ; but as my knowledge of this charming 

language of yours is but small, I fear I might create a wrong 

impression in that town, and it might think I had kindly 

brought them a present of eight edible heathens — you and the 

remainder of my followers, you understand." My men saw 

ais was a real danger, and this was the only way I saw of 

excusing myself It is at such a moment as this that the 

Giant's robe gets, so to speak, between }-our legs and threatens 

to trip you up. Going up a forbidden road, and exposing 

yourself as a pot shot to ambushed natives would be jam and 

fritters to ^Ir. MacTaggart, for example ; but I am not up to 

that form yet. So I determined to leave that road severely 

alone, and circumnavigate the next town by a road that leaves 

Esoon going W'.X.W., which struck the Rembwe by N'dorko, 



296 FROM ESOON TO AGONJO chapJ 

I was told, and then follow up the bank of the river until I 
picked up the sub-factory. Subsequent experience did notj 
make one feel inclined to take out a patent for this plan, but) 
at the time in Esoon it looked nice enough. 

Some few of the more highly cultured inhabitants here I 
could speak trade English a little, and had been to the' 
Rembwe, and were quite intelligent about the whole affair. 
They had seen white men. A village they formerly occupied 
nearer the Rembwe had been burnt by them, on account of a 
something that had occurred to a Catholic priest who visited 
it. They were, of course, none of them personally mixed up 
in this sad affair, so could give no details of what had befallen 
the priest. They knew also " the Move," which was a great 
bond of union between us. " Was I a wife of them Move \wh.\iQ 
man," they inquired — " or them other white man ? " I civilly 
said them Move' men were my tribe, and they ought to have 
known it by the look of me. They discussed my points of re- 
semblance to " the Move white man," and I am ashamed to say 
I could not forbear from smiling, as I distinctly recognised my 
friends from the very racy description of their personal appear- 
ance and tricks of manner given by a lively Esoonian belle 
who had certainly met them. So content and happy did I 
become under these soothing influences, that I actually took 
off my boots, a thing I had quite got out of the habit of doing, 
and had them dried. I wanted to have them rubbed with palm 
oil, but I found, to my surprise, that there was no palm oil to 
be had, the tree being absent, or scarce in this region, so I had 
to content myself with having them rubbed with a piece of 
animal fat instead. I chaperoned my men, while among the 
ladies of Esoon — ^a forward set of minxes — with the vigilance 
of a dragon ; and decreed, like the Mikado of Japan, " that who- 
soever leered or winked, unless connubially linked, should 
forthwith be beheaded," have their pay chopped, I mean ; and 
as they were beginning to smell their pay, they were careful, 
and we got through Esoon without one of my men going into 
jail ; no mean performance when you remember that every 
man had a past — to put it mildly. Fika remained behind 
here, the others promising to bring back his pay bundle with 
them on their return journey home. I think Fika heard 



xiii MANGROVES AHEAD 297 



rumours in Esoon of some gentlemen he had met before 
and was not keen to meet again, being just then at X'dorko, 
so I parted with him and Esoon, with suitable dashes, in 
peace. 

Esoon is not situated like the other towns, with a swamp 
and the forest close round it ; but it is built on the side of a 
fairly cleared ravine among its plantain groves. When jou 
are on the southern side of the ravine, you can see Esoon 
looking as if it were hung on the hillside before you. You 
then go through a plantation down into the little river, and up 
into the town — one long, broad, clean-kept street. Leaving 
Esoon you go on up the hill through another plantation to 
the summit. Immediately after leaving the town we struck 
¦ westwards ; and when we got to the top of the next hill we had 
a view that showed us we were dealing with another type of 
country. The hills to the westward are lower, and the valleys 
between them broader and less heavily forested, or rather I 
should say forested with smaller sorts of timber. All our paths 
took us during the early part of the day up and down hills, 
through swamps and little rivers, all flowing Rembwewards. 
About the middle of the afternoon, when we had got up to the 
top of a high hill, after having had a terrible time on a timber 
fall of the first magnitude, into which four of us had fallen, I 
of course for one, I saw a sight that made my heart stand still. 
Stretching away to the west and north, winding in and out 
among the feet of the now isolated mound-like mountains, was 
that never to be mistaken black-green forest swamp of man- 
i;rove ; doubtless the fringe of the River Rembwe, which evi- 
dently comes much further inland than the mangrove belt on 
the Ogowe. This is reasonable and as it should be, though it 
surprised me at the time ; for the great arm of the sea which 
is called the Gaboon is really a fjord, just like Bonny and 
Opobo rivers, with several rivers falling into it at its head, 
and this fjord brings the sea water further inland. In addition 
to this the two rivers, the 'Como (Nkama) and Rembwe 
that fall into this Gaboon, with several smaller rivers, both 
bring down an inferior quantity of fresh water, and that at 
nothing like the tearing, tide-beating back pace of the Ogowe. 
As my brother would say, " It's perfectly simple if you think 



298 FROM ESOON TO AGONJO chap. 

about it ; " but thinking is not my strong point. Anyhow I 
was glad to see the mangrove-belt ; all the gladder because I 
did not then know how far it was inland from the sea, and 
also because I was fool enough to think that a long line I 
could see, running E. and W. to the north of where I stood, 
was the line of the Rembwe river ; which it was not, as we 
soon found out. Cheered by this pleasing prospect, we 
marched on forgetful of our scratches, down the side of the 
hill, and down the foot slope of it, until we struck the edge 
of the swamp. We skirted this for some mile or so, going 
N.E. Then we struck into the swamp, to reach what we had 
regarded as the Rembwe river. " Nature was at its ghastliest," 
as Chambers' s Magazine said, and hurt the feelings of the 
locality by saying, of the Oil Rivers scenery. We found our- 
selves at the edge of that open line we had seen from the 
mountain. Not standing, because you don't so much as try 
to stand on mangrove roots unless you are a born fool, and 
then you don't stand long, but clinging, like so many monkeys, 
to the net of aerial roots which surrounded us, looking blankly 
at a lake of ink-black slime. It was half a mile across, 
and some miles long. We could not see either the west or 
east termination of it, for it lay like a rotten serpent twisted 
between the mangroves. It never entered into our heads to try 
to cross it, for when a swamp is too deep for mangroves to grow 
in it, " No bottom lib for them dam ting," as a Kruboy once 
said to me, anent a small specimen of this sort of ornament 
to a landscape. But we just looked round to see which direc- 
tion we had better take. Then I observed that the roots, 
aerial and otherwise, were coated in mud, and had no leaves 
on them, for a foot above our heads. Next I noticed that 
the surface of the mud before us had a sort of quiver running 
through it, and here and there it exhibited swellings on its 
surface, which rose in one place and fell in another. No need 
for an old coaster like me to look at that sort of thing twice 
to know what it meant, and feeling it was a situation more 
suited to Mr. Stanley than myself, I attempted to emulate his 
methods and addressed my men. " Boys," said I, " this 
beastly hole is tidal, and the tide is coming in. As it took 
us two hours to get to this sainted swamp, it's time we started 



XIII WHY DID I COME TO AFRICA? 299 

out, one time, and the nearest way. It's to be hoped the 
practice we have acquired in mangrove roots in coming, will 
enable us to get up sufficient pace to get out on to dr>' land 
before we are all drowned." The boys took the hint. Fortu- 
itely one of the Ajumbas had been down in Ogowe, it was 
May Shirt, who " sabed them tide palaver." The rest of them, 
id the Fans, did not know what tide meant, but Gray Shirt 
istled them along and I followed, deeply regretting that my 
icestors had parted prematurely with prehensile tails for 
ur limbs, particularly when two of them are done up in 
boots and are not sufficient to enable one to get through a man- 
grove swamp network of slimy roots rising out of the water, 
and swinging lines of aerial ones coming down to the water 
a la mangrove, with anything approaching safet>'. Added to 
these joys were any quantity of mangrove flies, a broiling hot 
sun, and an atmosphere three quarters solid stench from the pu- 
trifying ooze all round us. For an hour and a half thought I, 
Why did I come to Africa, or why, having come, did I not 
know when I was well off and stay in Glass ? Before these 
problems were settled in my mind we were close to the true 
land again, with the water under us licking lazily among the 
roots and over our feet. 

We did not make any fuss about it, but we meant to stick 
to dry land for some time, and so now took to the side of a 
hill that seemed like a great bubblecomingout of the swamp, 
and bore steadily E. until we found a path. This path, 
according to the nature of paths in this country, promptly 
took us into another swamp, but of a different kind to our 
last — a knee-deep affair, full of beautiful palms and strange 
water plants, the names whereof I know not. There was 
just one part where that abomination, pandanus, had to be 
got through, but, as swamps go, it was not at all bad. 
I ought to mention that there were leeches in it, lest I 
may be thought too enthusiastic over its charms. But the 
c,^reat point was that the mountains we got to on the other 
-¦-ide of it, were a good solid ridge, running, it is true, E. and W., 
\\ hile we wanted to go N. ; still on we went waiting for develop- 
ments, and watching the great line of mangrove-swamp 
spreading along below us to the left hand, seeing many of 



300 FROM ESOON TO AGONJO CHAP. 

the lines in its dark face, which betokened more of those 
awesome slime lagoons that we had seen enough of at close 
quarters. 

About four o'clock we struck some more plantations, and 
passing through these, came to a path running north-east, 
down which we went. I must say the forest scenery here was 
superbly lovely. Along this mountain side cliff to the man- 
grove-swamp the sun could reach the soil, owing to the 
steepness and abruptness and the changes of curves of the 
ground ; while the soft steamy air which came up off the swamp 
swathed everything, and although unpleasantly strong in smell 
to us, was yet evidently highly agreeable to the vegetation. 
Lovely wine palms and rafia palms, looking as if they had been 
grown under glass, so deliciously green and profuse was their 
feather-like foliage, intermingled with giantredwoods,andlovely 
dark glossy green lianes, blooming in wreaths and festoons of 
white and mauve flowers, which gave a glorious wealth of 
beauty and colour to the scene. Even the monotony of the 
mangrove-belt alongside gave an additional charm to it, like 
the frame round a picture. 

As we passed on, the ridge turned N. and the mangrove 
line narrowed between the hills. Our path now ran east and 
more in the middle of the forest, and the cool shade was charm- 
ing after the heat we had had earlier in the day. We crossed 
a lovely little stream coming down the hillside in a cascade ; 
and then our path plunged into a beautiful valley. We had 
glimpses through the trees of an amphitheatre of blue mist- 
veiled mountains coming down in a crescent before us, and 
on all sides, save due west where the mangrove-swamp came 
in. Never shall I forget the exceeding beauty of that valle\-, 
the foliage of the trees round us, the delicate wreaths and 
festoons of climbing plants, the graceful delicate plumes of 
the palm trees, interlacing among each other, and showing 
through all a background of soft, pale, purple-blue mountains 
and forest, not really far away, as the practised eye knew, 
but only made to look so by the mist, which has this trick 
of giving suggestion of immense space without destroying tlu 
beauty of detail. Those African misty forests have the sanu- 
marvellous distinctive quality that Turner gives one in his 



INTO THE DEPTHS 



greatest pictures. I am no artist, so I do not know exactly 
what it is, but I see it is there. I luxuriated in the ex- 
quisite beauty of that valley, little thinking or knowing what 
there was in it besides beauty, as Allah " in mercy hid the 
book of fate." On we went among the ferns and flowers 
until we met a swamp, a different kind of swamp to those we 
had heretofore met, save the little one last mentioned. This 
e was much larger, and a gem of beauty ; but we had to 
ss it. It was completely furnished with characteristic flora, 
rtunately when we got to its edge we saw a woman 
crossing before us, but unfortunately she did not take a 
fancy to our appearance, and instead of staying and having a 
chat about the state of the roads, and the shortest way to 
N'dorko, she bolted away across the swamp. I noticed 
she carefully took a course, not the shortest, although that 
course immersed her to her arm-pits. In we went after 
her, and when things were getting unpleasantly deep, and 
feeling highly uncertain under foot, we found there was a 
great log of a tree under the water which, as we had 
seen the lady's care at this point, we deemed it advisable to 
walk on. All of us save one, need I say that one was myself, 
effected this with safety. As for me, when I was at the 
beginning of the submerged bridge, and busily laying about in 
my mind for a definite opinion as to whether it was better 
to walk on a slippy tree trunk bridge you could see, or on 
tone you could not, I was hurled off by that inexorable fate that 
Bdemands of me a personal acquaintance with fluvial and 
Ipaludial ground deposits ; whereupon I took a header, and am 
'thereby able to inform the world, that there is between 
! fifteen and twenty feet of water each side of that log. I con- 
scientiously went in on one side, and came up on the other. 
The log, I conjecture, is dum or ebony, and it is some fifty 
feet long ; anyhow it is some sort of wood that won't float. I 
really cannot be expected, by the most exigent of scientific 
friends, to go botanising under water without a proper outfit. 
Gray Shirt says it is a bridge across an under-swamp river. 
Having survived this and reached the opposite bank, we 
shortly fell in with a party of men and women, who were 
taking, they said, a parcel of rubber to Holty's. They told us 



302 FROM ESOON TO AGONJO chap. 

N'dorko was quite close, and that the plantations we saw- 
before us were its outermost ones, but spoke of a swamp, a 
bad swamp. We knew it, we said, in the foolishness of our; 
hearts thinking they meant the one we had just forded, andj 
leaving them resting, passed on our way ; half-a-mile further' 
on we were wiser and sadder, for then we stood on the rim of 
one of the biggest swamps I have 'ever seen south of the Rivers. 
It stretched away in all directions, a great sheet of filthy water, 
out of which sprang gorgeous marsh plants, in islands, great 
banks of screw pine, and coppices of wine palm, with their 
lovely fronds reflected back by the still, mirror-like water, so 
that the reflection was as vivid as the reality, and above all 
remarkable was a plant,^ new and strange to me, whose pale- 
green stem came up out of the water and then spread out in 
a flattened surface, thin, and in a peculiarly graceful curve. 
This flattened surface had growing out from it leaves, the 
size, shape and colour of lily of the valley leaves ; until I saw 
this thing I had held the wine palm to be the queen of grace 
in the vegetable kingdom, but this new beauty quite sur- 
passed her. 

Our path went straight into this swamp over the black 
rocks forming its rim, in an imperative, no alternative, " Come- 
along-this-way" style. Singlet, who was leading, carrying a good 
load of bottled fish and a gorilla specimen, went at it like a 
man, and disappeared before the eyes of us close following 
him, then and there down through the water. He came up, 
thanks be, but his load is down there now, worse luck. Then 
I said we must get the rubber carriers who were coming this 
way to show us the ford ; and so we sat down on the bank a 
tired, disconsolate, dilapidated-looking row, until they arrived. 
When they came up they did not plunge in forthwith ; but 
leisurely set about making a most nerve-shaking set of pre- 
parations, taking off their clothes, and forming them into 
bundles, which, to my horror, they put on the tops of their 
heads. The women carried the rubber on their backs still, but 
rubber is none the worse for being under water. The men 
went in first, each holding his gun high above his head. The\- 
skirted the bank before they struck out into the swamp, and 
^ Specimen placed in Herbarium at Kew. 



i 



A COLLAR OF LEECHES • 303 



w 



ere followed by the women and by our party, and soon we 
were all up to our chins. 

We were two hours and a quarter peissing that swamp. I 
was one hour and three-quarters ; but I made good weather of 
it, closely following the rubber-carriers, and only going in 
right over head and all twice. Other members of my band 
were less fortunate. One finding himself getting out of his 
depth, got hold of a palm frond and pulled himself into deeper 
water still, and had to roost among the palms until a special 
expedition of the tallest men went and gathered him like a 
flower. Another got himself much mixed up and scratched 
because he thought to make a short cut through screw pines. 
He did not know the screw pine's little ways,^ and he had to 
have a special relief expedition. One and all, we got 
horribly infested with leeches, having a frill of them round our 
necks like astrachan collars, and our hands covered with them, 
when we came out. The depth of the swamp is very uniform, 
at its ford we went in up to our necks, and climbed up on to 
the rocks on the hither side out of water equally deep. 

Knowing you do not like my going into details on such 
matters, I will confine my statement regarding our leeches, to 
the fact that it was for the best that we had some trade salt 
with us. It was most comic to see us salting each other ; but 
in spite of the salt's eflPicacious action I was quite faint 
from loss of blood, and we all presented a ghastly sight as we 
made our way on into N'dorko. Of course the bleeding did 
not stop at once, and it attracted flies and — but I am going 
into details, so I forbear. 

We had to pass across the first bit of open country I had 
seen for a long time— a real patch of grass on the top 
of a low ridge, which is fringed with swamp on all sides save 
the one we made our way to, the eastern. Shortly after 
passing through another plantation, we saw brown huts, and 

^ Pandanus candelabrum — a marsh tree from 20 to 30 feet high grow- 
¦ig m dense thickets, the stout aerial roots coming down into the water 
tnd forming with the true stems a network even more dense than that 
of mangroves. Their leaves, which grow in clusters, are sword-shaped, 
and from 4 to 6 feet in length with sharp spiney margins, and the whole 
afifair is e.xceedingly tough and scratchy. 



304 . FROM ESOON TO AGONJO chap, ^j 

in a few minutes were standing in the middle of a ramshackle 
village, at the end of which, through a high stockade, with 
its gateway smeared with blood which hung in gouts, we 
saw our much longed for Rembwe River. I made for it, 
taking small notice of the hubbub our arrival occasioned, 
and passed through the gateway to its bank ; then, setting 
its guarding bell ringing violently, I stood on the steep, 
black, mud slime bank, surrounded by a noisy crowd. It 
is a big river, but nothing to the Ogowe, either in breadth 
or beauty ; what beauty it has is of the Niger delta type — 
black mud-laden water, with a mangrove swamp fringe to it in 
all directions. I soon turned back into the village and asked 
for Ugumu's factory. " This is it," said an exceedingly dirty, 
good-looking, civil-spoken man in perfect English, though as 
pure blooded an African as ever walked. " This is it, sir," and 
he pointed to one of the huts on the right-hand side, indis- 
tinguishable in squalor from the rest. " Where's the Agent ? " 
said I. " I'm the Agent," he answered. You could have knocked 
me down with a feather. " Where's John Holt's factory?" said 
I. " You have passed it ; it is up on the hill." This showed 
Messrs. Holt's local factory to be no bigger than Ugumu's. At 
this point a big, scraggy, very black man with an irregularly 
formed face the size of a tea-tray and looking generally as if he 
had come out of a pantomime on the Arabian Nights, dashed 
through the crowd, shouting, " I'm for Holty, I'm for Holty." 
" This is my trade, you go 'way," says Agent number 
one. Fearing my two Agents would fight and damage 
each other, so that neither would be any good for me, I 
firmly said, " Have you got any rum ? " Agent number 
one looked crestfallen, Holty's triumphant. " Rum, fur sure," 
says he ; so I gave him a five-franc piece, which he regarded 
with great pleasure, and putting it in his mouth, he legged it 
like a lamplighter away to his store on the hill. " Have you 
any tobacco?" said I to Agent number one. He brightened, 
" Plenty tobacco, plenty cloth," said he ; so I told him to give 
me out twenty heads. I gave my men two heads apiece. I 
told them rum was coming, and ordered them to take the 
loads on to Hatton and Cookson's Agent's hut and then to go 
and buy chop and make themselves comfortable. They highly 



PAY PALAVER 305 



approved of this plan, and grunted assent ecstatically ; and just 
as the loads were stowed Holty's anatomy hove in sight with 
a bottle of rum under each arm, and one in each hand ; while 
behind him came an acolyte, a fat, small boy, panting and 
puffing and doing his level best to keep up with his long- 
legged flying master. I gave my men some and put the 
rest in with my goods, and explained that I belonged to 
Hatton and Cookson's (it's the proper thing to belong to some- 
body), and that therefore I must take up my quarters at their 
Store ; but Holty's energetic agent hung about me like a vulture 
in hopes of getting more five franc-piece pickings. I sent 
Xgouta off to get me some tea, and had the hut cleared of an 
excited audience, and shut myself in with Hatton and Cook- 
son's agent, and asked him seriously and anxiously if there 
was not a big factor}^ of the firm's on the river, because it was 
self-evident he had not got anything like enough stuff to pay 
off my men with, and my agreement was to pay oflf on the 
Rembwe, hence my horror at the smallness of the firm's 
N'dorko store. " Besides," I said, " Mr. Glass (I knew the 
head Rembwe agent of Hatton and Cookson was a Mr. Glass), 
you have only got cloth and tobacco, and I have promised 
the Fans to pay off in whatever they choose, and I know or 
sure they want powder." " I am not Mr. Glass," said my 
friend ; " he is up at Agonjo, I only do small trade for him here." 
Joy! ! ! ! but where's Agonjo? To make a long story short 
I found Agonjo was an hour's paddle up the Rembwe and the 
place we ought to have come out at. There was a botheration 
again about sending up a message, because of a war palaver ; 
but I got a pencil note, with my letter of introduction from 
Mr. Cockshut to Sanga Glass, at last delivered to that gentle- 
man ; and down he came, in a state of considerable astonish- 
ment, not unmixed with alarm, for no white man of any kind 
had been across from the Ogowe for years, and none had ever 
come out at N'dorko. Mr. Glass I found an exceedingly neat, 
\\ell-educated M'pongvve gentleman in irreproachable English 
irments, and with irreproachable, but sUghtly J^orm/e, English 
language. We started talking trade, with my band in the 
middle of the street ; making a patch of uproar in the moonlit 
surrounding silence. As soon as we thought we had got one 

X 



3o6 FROM ESOON TO AGONJO chai 



gentleman's mind settled as to what goods he would take his 
pay in, and were proceeding to investigate another gentleman's 
little fancies ; gentleman number one's mind came all to pieces 
again, and he wanted " to room his bundle," i.e. change articled 
in it for other articles of an equivalent value, if it must be, but 
of a higher, if possible. Oh ye shopkeepers in England who 
grumble at your lady customers, just you come out here and 
try to serve, and satisfy a set of Fans ! Mr. Glass was evidently 
an expert at the affair, but it was past 1 1 p.m. before we got 
the orders written out, and getting my baggage into some 
canoes, that Mr. Glass had brought down from Agonjo, for 
N'dorko only had a few very wretched ones, I started off up river 
with him and all the Ajumba, and Kiva, the Fan, who had 
been promised a safe conduct. He came to see the bundles 
for his fellow Fans were made up satisfactorily. 

The canoes being small there was quite a procession of 
them. Mr. Glass and I shared one, which w^as paddled by 
two small boys ; how we ever got up the Rembwe that night 
I do not know, for although neither of us were fat, the canoe 
was a one man canoe, and the water lapped over the edge in 
an alarming way. Had any of us sneezed, or had it been 
daylight when two or three mangrove flies would have joined 
the party, we must have foundered ; but all w^ent well ; and on 
arriving at Agonjo Mr. Glass most kindly opened his store, 
and by the light of lamps and lanterns, we picked out the 
goods from his varied and ample supply, and handed them 
over to the Ajumba and Kiva, and all, save three of the 
Ajumba, were satisfied. The three, Gray Shirt, Silence, and 
Pagan quietly explained to me that they found the Rembwe 
price so little better than the Lembarene price that they would 
rather get their pay off Mr. Cockshut, than risk taking it back 
through the Fan country, so I gave them books on him. I 
gave all my remaining trade goods, and the rest of the rum to 
the Fans as a dash, and they were more than satisfied. 1 
must say they never clamoured for dash for top. The 
Passenger we had brought through with us, who had reallx 
made himself very helpful, was quite surprised at getting a 
bundle of goods from me. My only anxiety was as to 
whether Fika would get his share all right ; but I expect he 



Mil FAREWELL TO THE FANS 307 

did, for the Ajumbas are very honest men ; and they were 
going back with my Fan friends. I found out, by the by, the 
reason of Fika's shyness in coming through to the Rembue ; 
it was a big wife palaver. 

I had a touching farewell with the Fans : and so in peace, 
c,ood feeling, and prosperity I parted company for the second 
time with "the terrible M'pongwe," whom I hope to meet with 
aL^ain, for with all their many faults and failings, they are real 
men. I am faint-hearted enough to hope, that our next journey 
together, may not be over a country that seems to me to have 

I' been laid down as an obstacle race track for Mr. G. F. Watts's 
Titans, and to have fallen into shocking bad repair. 



X 2 



CHx^PTER XIV I 

BUSH TRADE AND FAN CUSTOMS ^ 

Wherein the Voyager, having fallen among the black traderb, discourses 
on these men and their manner of life ; and the difficulties and 
dangers attending the barter they carry on with the bush savages ; 
and on some of the reasons that makes this barter so beloved and 
followed by both the black trader and the savage. To which is added 
an account of the manner of life of the Fan tribe; the strange form of 
coinage used by these people; their manner of hunting the elephant, 
working in iron; and such like things. 

I SPENT a few, lazy, pleasant days at Agonjo, Mr. Glass 
doing all he could to make me comfortable, though he 
had a nasty touch of fever on him just then. His efforts were 
ably seconded by his good lady, an exceedingly comely Gaboon 
woman, with pretty manners, and an excellent gift in cookery. 
The third member of the staff was the store-keeper, a clever 
fellow : I fancy a Loango from his clean-cut features and 
spare make, but his tribe I know not for a surety. What I 
do know is that he can sing " Partant pour la Syrie " with 
intense power and a penetrating pathos in the depths of the 
night. But I do not chronicle this as a discovery of my own ; 
it was common knowledge to every sentient being within 4 
radius of half a mile of the factory. 

Mosquitoes here we met again : some one ought to go into 
the local distribution of mosquitoes in Congo Fran^ais instead 
of just saying hard things about them. I leave the work for a 
nobler soul than mine, and to assist him, note the fact that thc\- 
are simply awful throughout all Kama country and Ouroungou. 
Up at Lembarene, which is above Kama countr}-, they are worsi 
and remain so until you get to Osamokita ; there they cea>i 



t 



CH. XIV FLAPPISTS AND CRUSHERS 309 



from troubling — although there is still a stretch of flat country 

and a supply of stagnant water in the shape of small lakes ; I 

.say this regretfully, but science is truth. I once had a nice 

little theory, that worked well in the Niger Delta, that you 

never had mosquitoes if you had a 4-knot current water supply ; 

nless you bred the said mosquitoes for yourself, in tanks or 

arrels ; because, said the theory, the larva got washed away 

own. But although the Ogowe has a 4-knot current twice over 

t Osamokita, and there are no mosquitoes ; still there are those 

akes in the forest at the back of it; so any one who can patch 

at theory up, and make it go again, is welcome to it. Again re- 

arding mosquito distribution, there's a pretty solid fog of them 

om Kang^ve to Arevooma, from Arevooma on to Lake Ncovi, 

nd at Lake Ncovi they — but it's no use ray writing down my 

•pinion about mosquitoes in Lake Ncovi because no one will 

rint it. When we left Ncovi, and got well into the forest, we 

issed them, and were no more troubled with them, until we 

tot here to Agonjo, where there is not a 4-knot current ; but I 

will not revert to that, and merely remark a peculiarity I have 

observed in mosquitoes since I have been so much in touch with 

them in Congo Frangais, and that is that they evidently feed on 

oil ; several — many hundreds that I have crushed have left quite 

- nool of oil — I presume palm oil, but it may be animal fat. I 

uld remark before leaving this subject that there are two 

ools in this district which quarrel much over the merits of their 

arate methods of destroying mosquitoes — the Flappists and 

Crushers. I am a Crusher, holding it better to allow the 

min to get a hold, and his entire mind set on blood, and 

n to descend on him quietly, but firmly, with a finger ; as for 

-se heretics the Flappists the}- always hurt themselves, and 

frequently fail to bag their game, by their more showy 

methods. 

I really thought that I was again getting a chance to secure 
a valuable specimen of spectra doinestica — or the common 
domestic ghost — the first night in Agonjo. I held it to be the 
ghost of a carpenter, for it made a continuous sawing noise in 
the bamboo wall by the side of my bed, but again I was disap- 
pointed : it was only the usual rat. This enterprising rodent 
indeed was a fellow collector, and had stolen the bladder off 



3IO BUSH TRADE AND FAN CUSTOMS chap. 



one of my bottles, and was determined to get it up into the 
roof whether the wall bamboos would let him or no. I helped 
him up with it, he holding on to his end while I poked the 
other up with a stick, and we got the thing done between us, 
and I hope he is happy. 

One of these black trader factories is an exceedingly inter- 
esting place to stay at, for in these factories you are right down 
on the bed rock of the trade. On the Coast, for the greater 
part, the white traders are dealing with black traders, middle- 
men, who have procured their trade stuff from the bush natives, 
who collect and prepare it. Here, in the black trader factory, 
you see the first stage of the export part of the trade : namely 
the barter of the collected trade stuff between the collector 
and the middleman. I will not go into details regarding it.^ 
What I saw merely confirmed my opinion from my other ex-* 
perience, and this opinion had been further strengthened by: 
what I had been seeing, during the previous months, while» 
living among bush men collecting trade stuff; and that is thatl 
the native is not cheated ; no, not even by a fellow African- 
trader ; and I will merely here pause to sing a paean to a 
very unpopular class — the black middleman as he exists on 
the South West Coast. It is impossible to realise the gloom 
of the lives of these men in bush factories, unless you have 
lived in one. It is no use saying "they know nothing 
better^ and so don't feel it," for they do know several 
things better, being very sociable men, fully appreciative of 
the joys of a Coast town, and their aim, object and end in life 
is, in almost every case, to get together a fortune that will 
enable them to live in one, give a dance twice a w^eek, card 
parties most nights, and dress themselves up so that their 
fellow Coast townsmen may hate them and their townswomen 
love them. From their own accounts of the dreadful state of 
trade ; and the awful and unparalleled series of losses they 
have had, from the upsetting of canoes, the raids and robberies 
made on them and their goods by " those awful bush savages " ; 
you would, if you were of a trustful disposition, regard the 
black trader with an admiring awe as the man who has at last 
solved the great commercial problem of how to keep a shop 
and live by the loss. Nay, not only live, but build for him- 



XIV THE TRADER'S LIFE 311 

self an equivalent to a palatial residence, and keep up, not only 
it, but half a dozen wives, with a fine taste for dress ever}- 
one of them. I am not of a trustful disposition and I accept 
those " losses " with a heavy discount, and know most of the 
rest of them have come out of my friend the white trader's 
:)Ockets. Still I can never feel the righteous indignation that 
I ought to feel, when I see the black trader " down in a seaport 
town with his Nancy," &c., as Sir W. H. S. Gilbert classically 

ays, because I remember those bush factories. 
Mr. Glass, however, was not a trader who made a fortune by 

osing those of other people ; for he had been many years in 
:he employ of the firm. He had risen certainly to the high post 
and position of charge of the Rembwe, but he was not down 
giddy-flying at Gaboon. His accounts of his experiences when 
he had been many years ago away up the still little known 
Xguni River, in a factory in touch with the lively Bakele, 
then in a factory among Fans and Igalwa on the Ogowe, and 
now among Fans and Skekiani on the Rembwe, were 
fascinating, and told vividly of the joys of first starting a 
factory in a wild district. The way in which your customers, 
for the first month or so, enjoyed themselves by trj-ing to 
frighten you, the trader, out of your wits and goods, and 
into giving them fancy prices for things you were trad- 
ing in, and for things no earthly use to you, or any one 
else ! The trader's existence during this period is marked by 
c\ ery unpleasantness save dulness ; from that he is spared 
by the presence of a mob of noisy, dangerous, thieving 
-avages all over his place all day ; invading his cook-house, to 
put some nastiness into his food as a trade charm ; helping 
themselves to portable property at large ; and making them- 
selves at home to the extent of sitting on his dining-table. 
At night those customers proceed to sleep all over the 
premises, with a view to being on hand to start shopping in 
the morning. Woe betide the trader if he gives in to this, 
and tolerates the invasion, for there is no chance of that house 
ever being his own again ; and in addition to the local flies, 
Sec, on the table-cloth, he will always have several big black 
;^entlemen to share his meals. If he raises prices, to tide over 
^ome extra row, he is a lost man; for the Africans can under- 



BUSH TRADE AND FAN CUSTOMS chap. 



I 



stand prices going up, but never prices coming down; and time 
being no object, they will hold back their trade. Then the 
district is ruined, and the trader along with it, for he cannot 
raise the price he gets for the things he buys. 

What that trader has got to do, is to be a " Devil man." 
They always kindly said they recognised me as one, which is 
a great compliment. He must betray no weakness, but a 
character which I should describe as a compound of the best 
parts of those of Cardinal Richelieu, Brutus, Julius Caesar, 
Prince Metternich, and Mettzofante, the latter to carry on the 
native language part of the business ; and he must cast those 
customers out, not only from his house ; but from his yard ; 
and adhere to the " No admittance except on business " 
principle. This causes a good deal of unpleasantness, and 
the trader's nights are now^ cheered by lively war-dances out- 
side his stockade ; the accompanying songs advertising that 
the customers are coming over the stockade to raid the store, 
and cut up the trader " into bits like a fish." Sometimes they 
do come — and then — finish ; but usually they don't ; and 
gradually settle down, and respect the trader greatly as " a 
Devil man " ; and do business on sound lines during the day. 
Over the stockade at night, by ones and twos, stealing, they 
will come to the end of the chapter. 

At Agonjo Mr. Glass, his wife, and the " Partant pour la 
Syrie" vocalist used to have to take it in turns to keep watch, 
because it was the habit of these local " children of nature " 
to sell a log or so of ebony during the day, and come and re- 
gain possession of it at night. They would then take it down 
to the next factory, and sell it there — similarly regaining it, and 
bringing it back, and re-selling it, and so on, da capo. Thereby 
it falls out that one man might live for quite a time on a few 
billets, with no exertion, or hard work, stealing being a beloved 
pastime — a kind of a sort of a game in which you only lose if 
you are found out. 

Moonlight nights are fairly restful for the bush trader, but 
when it is inky black, or pouring with rain, he has got to be 
very much out and about, and particularly vigilant has he got 
to be on tornado nights — a most uncomfortable sort of 
weather to attend to business in, I assure you. 



XIV 



TRADERS : ENGLISH AND FOREIGN 3»3 



The factory at Agonjo was typical ; the house is a fine 
specimen of the Igahva style of architecture; mounted on poles 
above the ground ; the space under the house being used as a 
tore for rubber in barrels, and ebony in billets ; thereby 
enabling the trader to hover over these precious possessions, 
.-leeping and waking, like a sitting hen over her eggs. 

Near to the house are the sleeping places for the beach 
hands, and the cook-house. In front, in a position commanded 
Dy the eye from the verandah, and well withdrawn from the 
stockade, are great piles of billets of red bar wood. The 
A hole of the clean, sandy yard containing these things, and 
• livers others, is surrounded by a stout stockade, its main face 
to the river frontage, the water at high tide lapping its base, 
and at low tide exposing in front of it a shore of black slime. 
Although I cite this factory as a typical factory of a black 
trader, it is a specimen of the highest class, for, being in 
connection with Messrs. Hatton and Cookson it is well kept 
up and stocked. Firms differ much in this particular. 
Messrs. Hatton and Cookson, like Messrs. Miller Brothers 
in the Bights, take ever>^ care that lies in their power 
of the people who serve them, down to the Kruboys work- 
ing on their beaches, giving ample and good rations and 
providing good houses. But this is not so with all firms on 
the Coast. I have seen factories belonging to the Swedish 
houses beside which this factor)' at Agonjo is a palace, 
although those factories are white man factories, and the un- 
fortunate white men in them are expected by these firms to 
live on native chop — an expectation the Agents by no means 
realise, for they usually die. Black hands, however, do not 
suffer much at the hands of such firms, for the Swedish 
Agents are a quiet, gentlemanly set of men, in the best sense of 
that much misused term, and they do not employ on their 
beaches such a staff of black helpers as the English houses, so 
the two or three Kruboys on a star\ation beach can fairly 
well fend for themselves, for there is always an adjacent village, 
and in that village there are always chickens, and on the shore 
crabs, and in the river fish, and for the rest of his diet the Kru- 
boy flirts with the local ladies. 

Although, as I have laid down, the bush factory at its best 



314 BUSH TRADE AND FAN CUSTOMS chap. 

is a place, as Mr. Tracey Tupman would say, more fitted for 
a wounded heart than for one still able to feast on social joys, 
it is a luxurious situation for a black trader compared to 
the other form of trading he deals with — that of travelling 
among the native villages in the bush. This has one hundred 
times the danger, and a thousand times the discomfort, and is 
a thoroughly unhealthy pursuit. The journeys these bush 
traders make are often remarkable, and they deserve great 
credit for the courage and enterprise they display. Certainly 
they run less risk of death from fever than a white man 
would ; but, on the other hand, their colour gives them no 
protection ; and their chance of getting murdered is distinctly 
greater ; and also the white governmental powers cannot 
revenge their death, in the way they would the death of a 
white man, for these murders usually take place away in some 
forest region, in a district no white man has ever penetrated; 
and when the account of it reaches the main trading station, 
or the sea coast town, to whom the man belongs — for many of 
them are not attached to any factory, but trading on their own 
accounts — it is usually in the form of the statement that So- 
and-so died of a disease. The relatives of the deceased never 
believe this, but the Government naturally feel disinclined to 
start off on a highly expensive expedition ; which is next to 
certain in the bargain to cost a white man who goes with it 
his life ; on a month or so's march, through trackless swamp 
and bush ; on the off chance of finding out at the end of 
their quest that So and so did really die of a disease ; or that 
the village where he died is utterly deserted ; the natives on 
hearing of their approach having gone for a pic-nic in the 
surrounding forest. 

You will naturally ask how it is that so many of these men 
do survive " to lead a life of sin " as a missionary described 
to me their Coast town life to be. This question struck me as 
requiring explanation. The result of my investigations, and 
the answers I have received from the men themselves, show- 
that there is a reason why the natives do not succumb every 
time to the temptation to kill the trader, and take his goods, 
and this is twofold : firstly, all trade in West Africa follows 
definite routes, even in the wildest parts of it; and so a village 



XIV A FEMALE BODYGUARD 315 

far away in the forest, but on the trade route, knows, that as 
a general rule twice a }ear, a trader will appear to purchase 
its rubber and ivor>'. If he does not appear somewhere 
about the expected time, that village gets uneasy. The 
ladies are impatient for their new clothes ; the gentlemen half 
wild for want of tobacco ; and things coming to a crisis, they 
make inquiries for the trader down the road, one village to 
another, and then, if it is found that a village has killed the 
trader, and stolen all his goods, there is naturally a big 
palaver, and things are made extremely hot, even for 
equatorial xAfrica, for that village by the tobaccoless husbands 
of the clothesless wives. Herein lies the trader's chief safety, 
the village not being an atom afraid, or disinclined to kill him, 
but afraid of their neighbouring villages, and disinclined to 
be killed by them. But the trader is not yet safe. There is 
still a hole in his armour, and this is only to be stopped up in 
one way, nameh-, b)' wives ; for you see although the village 
cannot safely kill him, and take all his goods, they can still 
safely let him die of a disease, and take part of them, passing 
on sufficient stuff to the other villages to keep them 
quiet. Now the most prevalent disease in the African bush 
comes out of the cooking pot, and so to make what goes into 
the cooking pot — which is the important point, for earthen 
pots do not in themselves breed poison — safe and wholesome, 
you have got to have some one who is devoted to your health to 
attend to the cooking affairs, and who can do this like a wife ? 
So you have a wife — one in each village up the whole of your 
route. I know myself one gentleman whose wiv^es stretch 
o\er 300 miles of country, with a good wife base in a Coast 
town as well. This system of judiciously conducted alliances, 
gives the black trader a security nothing else can, because 
naturally he marries into influential families at each village, 
and all his wife's relations on the mother's side regard him as 
one of themselves, and look after him and his interests. 
That security can lie in women, especially so many women, 
the so-called civilised man may ironically doubt, but the 
security is there, and there only, and on a sound basis, for re- 
member the position of a travelling trader's wife in a village 
is a position that gives the lady prestige, the discreet husband 



3i6 BUSH TRADE AND FAN CUSTOMS chap. 

showing little favours to her family and friends, if she asks 
for them when he is with her ; and then she has not got the 
bother of having a man always about the house, and liable to 
get all sorts of silly notions into his head if she speaks to 
another gentleman, and then go and impart these notions 
to her with a cutlass, or a kassengo, as the more domestic 
husband, I am assured by black ladies, is prone to. 

You may now, I fear, be falling into the other adjacent 
error — from the wonder why any black trader survives, namely, 
into the wonder why any black trader gets killed, with all 
these safeguards, and wives. But there is yet another danger, 
which no quantity of wives, nor local jealousies avail to guard 
him through. This danger arises from the nomadic habits of 
the bush tribes, notably the Fan, For when a village has made 
up its mind to change its district, either from having made the 
district too hot to hold it, with quarrels with neighbouring 
villages ; or because it has exhausted the trade stuff, i.e. rubber 
and ivory in reach of its present situation ; or because some 
other village has raided it, and taken away all the stuff it was 
saving to sell to the black trader ; it resolves to give itself a 
final treat in the old home, and make a commercial coup at 
one fell swoop. Thus when the black trader turns up with his 
boxes of goods, it kills him, has some for supper, smokes the 
rest, and takes it and the goods, and departs to found new 
homes in another district. 

The bush trade I have above sketched is the bush trade 
with the Fans. In those districts on the southern banks of 
the Ogowe the main features of the trade, and the trader's life 
are the same, but the details are more intricate, for the Igalwa 
trader from Lembarene, Fernan Vaz, or Njole, deals with 
another set of trading tribes, not first hand with the collectors. 
The Fan villages on the trade routes may, however, be regarded 
as trade depots, for to them filters the trade stuff of the more 
remote villages, so the difference is really merely technical, 
and in all villages alike the same sort of thing occurs. 

The Igalwa or M'pongwe trader arrives with the goods he 
has received from the white trader, and there are great rejoic- 
ing and much uproar as his chests and bundles and demijohns 
are brought up from the canoe. And presently, after a great 



XIV PRICES AND PROFITS 317 



deal of talk, the goods are opened. The chiefs of the village 
have their pick, and divide this among the principal men of 
the village, who pay for it in part with their store of collected 
rubber or ivory, and take the rest on trust, promising to collect 
enough rubber to pay the balance on the next visit of the 
trader. Thereby the trader has a quantity of debts outstand- 
ing in each village, liable to be bad debts, and herein lies his 
chief loss. Each chief takes a certain understood value in 
goods as a commission for himself — nyeno — giving the trader, 
as a consideration for this, an understood bond to assist him in 
getting in the trust granted to his village. This nyeno he 
utilises in buying trade stuff from villages not on the trade 
route. Among the Fans the men who have got the goods 
stand by with these to trade for rubber with the general public 
and bachelors of the village, in a way I will presently explain. 
In tribes like Ajumbas, Adooma, &c., the men having the 
goods travel off, as traders, among their various bush tribes, 
similarly paying their nyeno, and so by the time the goods 
reach the final producing men, only a small portion of them 
is left, but their price has necessarily risen. Still it is quite ab- 
surd for a casual white traveller, who may have dropped in on 
the terminus of a trade route, to cry out regarding the small 
value the collector (who is often erroneously described as the 
producer, giving a false " won-by-the-sweat-of-his-brow " halo 
to him) gets for his stuff, compared to the price it fetches in 
Europe. For before it even reaches the factory- of the Coast 
Settlement, that stuff has got to keep a whole series of traders. 
It appears at first bad that this should be the case, but the 
case it is along the west coast of the continent save in the 
districts commanded by the Royal Niger company, who, with 
courage and enterprise, have pushed far inland, and got in touch 
with the great interior trade routes — a performance which has 
raised in the breasts of the Coast trader tribes who have been 
supplanted, a keen animosity, which like most animosity in 
Africa, is not regardful of truth. The tribes that have had the 
trade of the Bight of Biafra passing through^their hands have 
been accustomed, according to the German Government who 
are also pressing inland, to make seventy-five per cent, profit 
on it, and they resent being deprived of this. A good deal is to 



3i8 BUSH TRADE AND FAN CUSTOMS chap. 



be said in favour of their views ; among other things that the 
greater part of the seaboard districts of West Africa, I may say 
every part from Sierra Leone to Cameroon, is structurally 
incapable of being self-supporting under existing conditions. 
Below Cameroon, on my beloved South-west coast, which is 
infinitely richer than the Bight of Benin, rich producing 
districts come down to the sea in most places until you reach 
the Congo; but here again the middleman is of great use to the 
interior tribes, and if they do have to pay him seventy-five 
per cent, serve them right. They should not go making wife 
palaver, and blood palaver all over the place to such an extent 
that the inhabitants of no village, unless they go en masse, dare 
take a ten mile walk, save at the risk of their lives, in any 
direction, so palaver no live. 

We will now enter into the reason that induces the bush 
man to collect stuff to sell among the Fans, which is the ex- 
pensiveness of the ladies in the tribe. A bush Fan is bound 
to marry into his tribe, because over a great part of the 
territory occupied by them there is no other tribe handy 
to marry into ; and a Fan residing in villages in touch with 
other tribes, has but little chance of getting a cheaper lady. 
For there is, in the Congo Frangais and the country ad- 
jacent to the north of it (Batanga), a regular style of aris- 
tocracy which may be summarised firstly thus : All the other 
tribes look down on the Fans, and the Fans look down 
on all the other tribes. This aristocracy has sub-divisions, 
the M'pongwe of Gaboon are the upper circle tribe ; next 
come the Benga of Corisco ; then the Bapoka ; then the 
Banaka. This system of aristocracy is kept up by the ladies. 
Thus a M'pongwe lady would not think of marrying into one 
of the lower tribes, so she is restricted, with many inner re- 
strictions, to her own tribe. A Benga lady would marry a 
M'pongwe, or a Benga, but not a Banaka, or Bapoka ; and 
so on with the others ; but not one of them would marry a 
Fan. As for the men, well of course they would marry any 
lady of any tribe, if she had a pretty face, or a good trading 
connection, if they were allowed to : that's just man's way. 
To the south-east the Fans are in touch with the Achille, 
Bakele, Dakele, practically one and the same tribe and a tribe 



XIV 



BUYING A WIFE 



319 



that has much in common with the Fan, but who differ from 
them in getting on in a very friendly way with the Httle dwarf 
people, the Matimbas, or Watwa, or Akkoa : people the Fans 
cannot abide. With these Achille the Fan can intermarry, 
but there is not much advantage in so doing, as the price is 
equally high, but still marry he must. 

A young Fan man has to fend for himself, and has a 
scratchy kind of life of it, aided only by his mother until — if 
he be an enterprising youth — he is able to steal a runaway 




AN AKKOA UWARK OF CONGO FRANt^AIS. 



wife from a neighbouring village, or if he is a quiet and steady 
young man, until he has amassed sufficient money to buy a 
wife. This he does by collecting ivory and rubber and selling 
it to the men who have been allotted goods by the chief of 
the village, from the consignment brought up by the black 
trader. He supports himself meanwhile by, if the situation of 
his village permits, fishing and selling the fish, and hunting 
and killing game in the forest. He keeps steadily at it in his 
way, reserving his roysterings until he is settled in life. A 
truly careful young man does not go and buy a baby girl 



320 BUSH TRADE AND FAN CUSTOMS chap. 



cheap, as soon as he has got a Httle money together ; but 
works and saves on until he has got enough to buy a good, 
tough widow lady, who, although personally unattractive, is , 
deeply versed in the lore of trade, and who knows exactly how I 
much rubbish you can incorporate in a ball of india rubber, 
without the white trader, or the black bush factory trader, 
instantly detecting it. The bush travelling trader has, in certain 
of the more savage districts, to take rubber without making an 
examination of it ; that would hurt the sensitive feelings of 
his Fan friends. But then in these districts he carefully keeps 
the price low to allow for this. When the Fan young man 
has married his wife, in a legitimate way on the cash system, 
he takes her round to his relations, and shows her off; and 
they make little presents to help the pair set up housekeeping. 
But the young man cannot yet settle down, for his wife will 
not allow him to. She is not going to slave herself to death 
doing all the work of the house, &c., and so he goes on col- 
lecting, and she preparing, trade stuff, and he grows rich 
enough to buy other wives — some of them young children, 
others widows, no longer necessarily old. But it is not until 
he is well on in life that he gets sufficient wives, six or seven. 
For it takes a good time to get enough rubber to buy a lady, 
and he does not get a grip on the ivory trade until he has got 
a certain position in the village, and plantations of his own 
which the elephants can be discovered raiding, in which case 
a percentage of the ivory taken from the herd is allotted to 
him. Now and again he may come across a dead elephant, 
but that is of the nature of a windfall ; and on rubber and 
ebony he has to depend during his early days. These he 
changes with the rich men of his village for a very peculiar 
and interesting form of coinage — bikei — little iron imitation 
axe-heads which are tied up in bundles called ntet, ten going 
to one bundle, for with bikei must the price of a wife be paid. 
You cannot do so with rubber or ivory, or goods. These bikei 
pass, however, as common currency among the Fans, for other 
articles of trade as well, but I do not think they will pass 
bikei out of the tribe. Possibly no one else will take, this 
form of change. Thousands of these bikei, done up into ntets, 
go to' the price of a wife. I was much interested in this coin- 



XIV FAN CURRENCY 321 



age-equivalent, and found out all I could regarding it, but 
there is plenty more to be found out, and I hope the next 
voyager among the Fans will keep his eye on it. You do not 
find bikei close down to Libreville, among the Fans who are 
there in a semi-civilised state, or more properly speaking in a 
state of disintegrating culture. You must go for bush. I 
thought I saw in bikei a certain resemblance in underlying 
idea with the early Greek coins I have seen at Cambridge, 
made like the fore-parts of cattle ; and I have little doubt that 
the articles of barter among the Fans before the introduction 
of the rubber, ebony, and ivory trades, which in their districts 
are comparatively recent, were iron implements. For the 
Fans are good w orkers in iron ; and it would be in consonance 
with well-known instances among other savage races in the 
matter of stone implements, that these things, important 
of old, should sur\ave, and be employed in the matter of such 
an old and important affair as marriage. They thus become 
ju-ju ; and indeed all West African legitimate marriage, 
although appearing to the casual observer a mere matter of 
barter, is never solely such, but always has ju-ju in it. 

We may as well here follow out the whole of the domestic 
life of the Fan, now we have got him married. His difficulty 
does not only consist in getting enough bikei together but in 
getting a lady he can marrJ^ No amount of bikei can justify 
a man in marrying his first cousin, or his aunt ; and as relation- 
ship among the Fans is recognised with both his father and 
his mother, not as among the Igalwa with the latter's blood 
relations only, there are an awful quantity of aunts and 
cousins about from whom he is debarred. But when he has 
surmounted his many diflficulties, and dodged his relations, and 
married, he is seemingly a better husband than the man of a 
more cultured tribe. He will turn a hand to anything, that 
does not necessitate his putting down his gun outside his 
village gateway. He will help chop firewood, or goat's chop, or 
he will carry the baby with pleasure, while his good lady does 
these things ; and in bush villages, he always escorts her so as 
to be on hand in case of leopards, or other local unpleasant- 
nesses. When inside the village he will lay down his gun, 
w ithin handy reach, and build the house, tease out fibre to 

Y 



322 BUSH TRADE AND FAN CUSTOMS chap. 



make game nets with, and plait baskets, or make pottery with 
the ladies, cheerily chatting the while. 

Fan pottery, although rough and sunbaked, is artistic in form 
and ornamented, for the Fan ornaments all his work ; the 
articles made in it consist of cooking pots, palm-wine bottles, 
water bottles and pipes, but not all w^ater bottles, nor all pipes 
are made of pottery. I wish they were, particularly the former, 
for they are occasionally made of beautifully plaited fibre 
coated with a layer of a certain gum with a vile taste, which 
it imparts to the water in the vessel. They say it does not 
do this if the vessel is soaked for two days in water, but it 
does, and I should think contaminates the stream it was 
soaked in into the bargain. The pipes are sometimes made of 
iron very neatly. I should imagine they smoked hot, but of 
this I have no knowledge. One of my Ajumba friends got 
himself one of these pipes when we were in Efoua, and that 
pipe was, on and off, a curse to the party. Its owner soon 
learnt not to hold it by the bowl, but by the wooden stem, 
when smoking it ; the other lessons it had to teach he 
learnt more slowly. He tucked it, when he had done smok- 
ing, into the fold in his cloth, until he had had three serious 
conflagrations raging round his middle. And to the end of 
the chapter, after having his last pipe at night with it, he would 
lay it on the ground, before it was cool. He learnt to lay it 
out of reach of his own cloth, but his fellow Ajumbas and he 
himself persisted in always throwing a leg on to it shortly after, 
and there was another row. 

The Fan basket-w^ork is strongly made, but very inferior to 
the Fjort basket-work. Their nets are, however, the finest I j 
have ever seen. These are made mainly for catching small game, ' 
such as the beautiful little gazelles {Ncheri) with dark gray skins 
on the upper part of the body, white underneath, and satin-like 
in sleekness all over. Their form is very dainty, the little legs 
being no thicker than a man's finger, the neck long and the 
head ornamented with little pointed horns and broad round 
ears. The nets are tied on to trees in two long lines, which 
converge to an acute angle, the bottom part of the net lying 
on the ground. Then a party of men and women ac- 
companied by their trained dogs, which have bells hung round 



A FAN FORGE 323 



their necks, beat the surrounding bushes, and the frightened 
small game rush into the nets, and become entangled. The 
fibre from which these nets are made has a long staple, and is 
exceedingly strong. I once saw a small bush cow caught in 
a set of them and unable to break through, and once a leopard ; 
he, however, took his section of the net awa}^ with him, and a 
good deal of vegetation and sticks to boot. In addition to 
nets, this fibre is made into bags, for carrying things 
in while in the bush, and into the water bottles already men- 
tioned. 

The iron-work of the Fans deser\es especial notice for its 
excellence. The anvil is a big piece of iron which is 
embedded firmly in the ground. Its upper surface is flat, and 
pointed at both ends. The hammers are solid cones of iron,, 
the upper part of the cones prolonged so as to give a good 
grip, and the blows are given directly downwards, like the 
blows of a pestle. The bellows are of the usual African 
type, cut out of one piece of solid but soft wood ; at the upper 
end of these bellows there are two chambers hollowed out in 
the wood and then covered with the skin of some animal, from 
which the hair has been removed. This is bound firmly round 
the rim of each chamber with tie-tie, and the bag of it at the top 
is gathered up, and bound to a small piece of stick, to give a 
convenient hand hold. The straight cylinder, terminating in 
the nozzle, has two channels burnt in it which communi- 
cate with each of the chambers respectively, and half-way up 
the cylinder, there are burnt from the outside into the air 
passages, three series of holes, one series on the upper surface,, 
and a series at each side. This ingenious arrangement gives 
a constant current of air up from the nozzle when the bellows 
are worked by a man sitting behind them, and rapidly and 
alternately pulling up the skin cover over one chamber, while 
depressing the other. In order to make the affair firm it is 
lashed to pieces of stick stuck in the ground in a suitable way 
so as to keep the bellows at an angle with the nozzle directed 
towards the fire. As wooden bellows like this if stuck into 
the fire would soon be aflame, the nozzle is put into a cylinder 
made of clay. This cylinder is made sufficientlj' large at the 
end, into which the nozzle of the bellows goes, for the air to 

Y 2 



324 



BUSH TRADE AND FAN CUSTOMS 



CHAP, 



have full play round the latter. On my first meeting with 
this performance, I must needs think that the clay affair did 
not fit the bellows, and asked if they had no bigger bellows. 
When finally the Fan blacksmith found out what error I was 
suffering from, he jammed his bellows into the clay cylinder 
and there was no end of a smother ; for of course when fixed 
tight, instead of getting the perpetual current of fresh air, it 
alternately sucked up and blew out the smoke and hot air 
from the fire itself. I apologised. 




ANGOLA BLACKSMITHS. 



The Fan bellows only differ from those of the other iron- 
working West Coast tribes in having the channels from the two 
chambers in one piece of wood all the way ; in the other bellows 
I have seen the two channels unite just above the nozzle. And 
also the Fan decorates the bellows with spearhead forms, the 
points whereof are directed towards the fire ; he seems to think 
this helps. His forge is the same as the other forges, a round 
cavity scooped in the ground ; his fuel also is charcoal. His 
other smith's tool consists of a pointed j:)iece of iron, with which 



XIV IVORY EATERS 325 

lie works out the patterns he puts at the handle-end of his 

\ords, &c. 

I must now speak briefly on the most important article with 
w hich the Fan deals, namely ivory. His methods of collecting 
this are several, and many a wild story the handles of your 
table knives could tell you, if their ivory has passed through Fan 
hands. For ivory is everywhere an evil thing before which the 
quest for gold sinks into a parlour game ; and when its charms 
seize such a tribe as the Fans, " conclusions pass their careers." 
A very common way of collecting a tooth is to kill the person 
who owns one. Therefore in order to prevent this catastrophe 
happening to you yourself, when you have one, it is held 
advisable, unless you are a powerful person in your own village, 
to bur>' or sink the said tooth and say nothing about it until 
the trader comes into your district or you get a chance of 
smuggling it quietly down to him. Some of these private 
ivories are kept for years and years before they reach the 
trader's hands. And quite a third of the ivory you see coming 

n board a vessel to go to Europe is dark from this keeping : 
some teeth a lovely brown like a well-coloured meerschaum, 
others quite black, and gnawed by that strange little creature — 
much heard of, and abused, yet little known in ivory ports — the 
ivory rat. This squirrel-like creature was first brought to Europe 
by Paul du Chaillu, and as far as I know no further specimen 
has been secured. I got two, but I am ashamed to say I lost 
them. Du Chaillu called it Sciurus eborivonis. Its main point, 
as may be imagined, is its teeth. The incisors in the upper 
jaw are long, and closely set together ; those in the lower are 
still longer, and as they seem always to go in under the upper 
teeth, I wonder how the creature gets its mouth shut. The 
feet are hairless, and somewhat like those of a squirrel. The 
tail is long, and marked with transverse bars, and it is not 
carried over the back. Over the eyes, and on either side of the 
mouth, are very long stiff bristles. The mischief these little 
creatures play with buried ivory is immense, because, for some 
inscrutable reason, they seem to prefer the flavour of the points 
of the teeth, the most valuable part. 

Ivor)-, however, that is obtained by murder is pri\ate ivorj'. 
The public ivory trade among the Fans is carried on in a way 



326 BUSH TRADE AND FAN CUSTOMS chap. 

more in accordance with European ideas of a legitimate trade. 
The greater part of this ivory is obtained from dead elephants. 
There are in this region certain places where the elephants are 
said to go to die. A locality in one district pointed out to 
me as such a place, was a great swamp in the forest. A 
swamp that evidently was deep in the middle, for from out its 
dark waters no swamp plant, or tree grew, and evidently its 
shores sloped suddenly, for the band of swamp plants round 
its edge was narrow. It is just possible that during the rainy 
season when most of the surrounding country would be under 
water, elephants might stray into this natural trap and get 
drowned, and on the drying up of the waters be discovered, and 
the fact being known, be regularly sought for by the natives 
cognisant of this. I inquired carefully whether these places 
where the elephants came to die always had water in them, but 
they said no, and in one district spoke of a valley or round- 
shaped depression in among the mountains. But natives were 
naturally disinclined to take a stranger to these ivory mines, 
and a white person who has caught — as any one who has been 
in touch must catch — ivory fever, is naturally equally disin- 
clined to give localities. 

A certain percentage of ivory collected by the Fans is 
from live elephants, but I am bound to admit that their method 
of hunting elephants is disgracefully unsportsmanlike. A herd 
of elephants is discovered by rubber hunters or by depredations 
on plantations, and the whole village, men, women, children, 
babies and dogs turn out into the forest and stalk the monsters 
into a suitable ravine, taking care not to scare them. When 
they have gradually edged the elephants on into a suitable 
place, they fell trees and wreathe them very roughly to- 
gether with bush rope, all round an immense enclosure, still 
taking care not to scare the elephants into a rush. This fence 
is quite inadequate to stop any elephant in itself, but it is made 
effective by being smeared with certain things, the smell 
whereof the elephants detest so much that when they wander 
up to it, they turn back disgusted. I need hardly remark that 
this preparation is made by the witch doctors and its con-| 
stituents a secret of theirs, and I was only able to find out 
some of them. Then poisoned jilantains arc placed within 



XIV AN ELEPHANT HUNT 327 

he enclosure, and the elephants eat these and grow drowsier 
md drowsier ; if the water supply within the enclosure is 
a pool it is poisoned, but if it is a running stream this 
cannot be done. During this time the crowd of men 
and women spend their days round the enclosure, ready to 
turn back any elephant who may attempt to break out, going 
to and fro to the village for their food. Their nights they spend 
in little bough shelters b}^ the enclosure, watching more vigil- 
antly than by day, as the elephants are more active at night, 
it being their usual feeding time. During the whole time the 
witch doctor is hard at work making incantations and charms, 
with a view to finding out the proper time to attack the 
ephants. In my opinion, his decision fundamentally 
Jepends on his knowledge of the state of poisoning the animals 
are in, but his version is that he gets his information from the 
forest spirits. When, however, he has settled the day, the 
best hunters steal into the enclosure and take up safe positions 
in trees, and the outer crowd set light to the ready-built fires, 
and make the greatest uproar possible, and fire upon the 
staggering, terrified elephants as they attempt to break out 
The hunters in the trees fire down on them as they rush past, 
the fatal point at the back of the skull being well exposed to 
them. 

When the animals 'are nearly exhausted, those men who do 
not possess guns dash into the enclosure, and the men who 
do, reload and join them, and the work is then completed. 
One elephant hunt I chanced upon at the final stage had taken 
two months' preparation, and although the plan sounds safe 
enough, there is really a good deal of danger left in it with all 
the drugging and ju-ju. There were eight elephants killed 
that day, but three burst through everj'thing, sending energetic 
spectators flying, and squashing two men and a baby as flat 
as botanica specimens. 

The subsequent proceedings were impressive. The whole 
of the people gorged themselves on the meat for days, and 
great chunks of it were smoked over the fires in all directions. 
A certain portion of the flesh of the hind leg was taken by 
the witch doctor for ju-ju, and was supposed to be put away 
by him, with certain suitable incantations in the recesses of 



328 BUSH TRADE AND FAN CUSTOMS chap. 



the forest ; his idea being apparently either to give rise to 
more elephants, or to induce the forest spirits to bring more 
elephants into the district. Meanwhile the carcases were going 
bad, rapidly bad, and the smell for a mile round was strong 
enough to have taken the paint off a door. Moreover there 
were flies, most of the flies in West Africa, I imagine, and — 
but I will say no more. I thought before this experience 
that I had touched bottom in smells w^hen once I spent the 
outside of a week in a village, on the sand bank in front of 
which a portly hippopotamus, who had been shot up river, got 
stranded, and proceeded energetically to melt into its ele- 
mental gases ; but that was a passing whiff to this; 

Dr. Nassau tells me that the manner in which the ivory 
gained by one of these hunts is divided is as follows : — " The 
witch doctor, the chiefs, and the family on whose ground the 
enclosure is built, and especially the household whose women 
first discovered the animals, decide in council as to the divi- 
sion of the tusks and the share of the flesh to be given to the 
crowd of outsiders. The next day the tusks are removed and 
each family represented in the assemblage cuts up and distri- 
butes the flesh." In the hunt I saw finished, the elephants had 
not been discovered, as in the case Dr. Nassau above speaks 
of, in a plantation by women, but by a party of rubber hunters 
in the forest some four or five miles from any village, and the 
ivory that would have been allotted to the plantation holder 
in the former case, went in this case to the young rubber 
hunters. 

Of the method of catching game in traps I have already 
spoken. Such are the pursuits, sports and pastimes of my 
friends the Fans. I have been considerably chaffed both by 
whites and blacks about my partiality for this tribe, but as I 
like Africans in my way — not a la Sierra Leone — and 
these Africans have more of the qualities I like than any 
other tribe I have met, it is but natural that I should prefer 
them. They are brave and so }'ou can respect them, which 
is an essential element in a friendly feeling. They are on 
the whole a fine race, particularly those in the mountain dis- 
tricts of the Sierra del Cristal, where one continually sees 
magnificent specimens of human beings, both male and 



XIV NEVER LOSE YOUR HEAD 3^9 



female. Their colour is light bronze, many of the men 
have beards, and albinoes are rare among them. The aver- 
age height in the mountain districts is five feet six to five 
feet eiffht, the difference in stature between men and women 
not being great. Their countenances are very bright and 
expressive, and if once you have been among them, you can 
never mistake a Fan. But it is in their mental charac- 
teristics that their difference from the lethargic, dying-out 
coast tribes is most marked. The Fan is full of fire, temper, 
intelligence and go ; very teachable, rather difficult to manage, 
quick to take offence, and utterly indifferent to human life. 
I ought to say that other people, who should know him better 
than I, say he is a treacherous, thievish, murderous canni- 
bal. I never found him treacherous ; but then I never trusted 
him, remembering one of the aphorisms of my great teacher 
Captain Boler of Bonny, " It's not safe to go among bush 
tribes, but if you are such a fool as to go, you needn't go and 
be a bigger fool still, you've done enough." And Captain 
Holer's other great aphorism was : " Never be afraid of a black 
man." " What if I can't help it ? " said I. " Don't show it," 
said he. To these precepts I humbly add another : " Never 
lose your head." My most favourite form of literature, I may 
remark, is accounts of mountaineering exploits, though I have 
never seen a glacier or a permanent snow mountain in my 
life. I do not care a row of pins how badly they may be 
written, and what form of bumble-puppy grammar and com- 
position is employed, as long as the writer will walk along the 
edge of a precipice with a sheer fall of thousands of feet on 
one side and a sheer wall on the other; or better still crawl up 
an arete with a precipice on either. Nothing on earth would 
persuade me to do either of these things myself, but they re- 
mind me of bits of country I have been through where you 
walk along a narrow line of security with gulfs of murder 
looming on each side, and where in exactly the same way you 
are as safe as if you were in }'our easy chair at home, as long 
as you get sufficient holding ground : not on rock in the 
bush village inhabited by murderous cannibals, but on 
ideas in those men's and women's minds ; and these ideas,, 
which I think I may say you will always find, give you safety. 



330 BUSH TRADE AND FAN CUSTOMS chap. 

It is not advisable to play with them, or to attempt to eradi- 
cate them, because you regard them as superstitious ; and 
never, never shoot too soon. I have never had to shoot, and 
hope never to have to ; because in such a situation, one white 
.alone with no troops to back him means a clean finish. But 
this would not discourage me if I had to start, only it makes 
me more inclined to walk round the obstacle, than to become a 
mere blood splotch against it, if this can be done without 
losing your self-respect, which is the mainspring of your 
power in West Africa. | 

As for flourishing about a revolver and threatening! 
to fire, I hold it utter idiocy. I have never tried it, however,' 
so I speak from prejudice which arises from the feeling that 
there is something cowardly in it. Always have your revolver 
ready loaded in good order, and have your hand on it when 
things are getting warm, and in addition have an exceedingly 
good bowie knife, not a hinge knife, because with a hinge 
knife you have got to get it open — hard work in a country 
where all things go rusty in the joints — and hinge knives are 
liable to close on your own fingers. The best form of 
knife is the bowie, with a shallow half moon cut out of the 
back at the point end, and this depression sharpened to 
a cutting edge. A knife is essential, because after wading 
neck deep in a swamp your revolver is neither use nor 
•ornament until you have had time to clean it. But the 
chances are you may go across Africa, or live years in it, 
and require neither. It is just the case of the gentleman 
who asked if one required a revolver in Carolina ? and was 
answered, " You may be here one year, and }'ou may be here 
two and never want it ; but when you do want it }'ou'll want 
it very bad." 

The cannibalism of the Fans, although a prevalent habit, is 
no danger, I think, to white people, except as regards the 
bother it gives one in preventing one's black companions from 
getting eaten. The Fan is not a cannibal from sacrificial 
motives like the negro. He does it in his common sense way. 
Man's flesh, he says, is good to eat, very good, and he wishes 
you would try it. Oh dear no, he never eats it himself, but the 
next door town does. He is always very much abused for 



I 



CANNIBALISM 



.ating his relations, but he really does not do this. He will 
:at his next door neigrhbour's relations and sell his own 




IN A FAN VILLAGE. 



deceased to his next door neighbour in return ; but he does 
not buy slaves and fatten them up Tfor his table as some of 



BUSH TRADE AND FAN CUSTOMS CH. xiv 



the Middle Congo tribes I know of do. He has no slaves, no 
prisoners of war, no cemeteries, so you must draw your own 
conclusions. No, my friend, I will not tell you any cannibal 
stories. I have heard how good M. du Chaillu fared after 
telling you some beauties, and now you come away from the 
Fan villare and down the Rembwe river. 



CHAPTER XV 

DOWN THE REMBWE 

Setting forth how the \'oyager descends the Rembwe River, with divers 
excursions and alarms, in the company of a black trader, and returns 
safely to the Coast. To which is added some account of the 
geography of this region, the Gaboon and its chief affluents. 

Getting away from Agonjo seemed as if it would be 
nearly as difficult as getting to it, but as the quatters were 
comfortable and the society fairly good, I was not anxious. 
I own the local scenery was a little too much of the Niger 
Delta type for perfect beauty, just the long lines of mangrove, 
and the muddy river lounging almost imperceptibly to sea, 
and nothing else in sight. Mr. Glass, however, did not take 
things so philosophically. I was on his commercial conscience, 
for I had come in from the bush and there was money in me. 
Therefore I was a trade product — a new trade stuff that ought 
to be worked up and developed ; and he found himself unable 
to do this, for although he had secured the first parcel, as it 
were, and got it successfully stored, yet he could not ship it. 
and he felt this was a reproach to him. 

Many were his lamentations that the firm had not provided 
him with a large sailing canoe and a suitable crew to deal 
with this new line of trade. I did my best to comfort him, 
pointing out that the most enterprising firm could not be 
expected to provide expensive things like these, on the ex- 
tremely remote chance of ladies arriving per bush at Agonjo — 
in fact not until the trade in them was well developed. But 
he refused to see it in this light and harped upon the subject, 
wrapped up, poor man, in a great coat and a muffler, because 



334 DOWN THE REMBWE chap. 



his ague was on him. In not accepting my view I think he 
was in error, undoubted authority on bush trade though he 
is ; for I feel fairly certain that even if Messrs. Hatton and 
Cookson, or any other firm, were to run a weekly line of 
Palace steamboats with brass bands, and red-velvet saloons uj| 
and down the Rembwe river, there would not be sufficient white 
passenger traffic to pay for coal. Certainly not by my route] 
one that had never been taken even by a black trader before. 
But I am not thinking of taking out a patent for it ; for one 
thing, I am sure it would never become sufficiently popular 
to pay the patentee's preliminary expenses, and for another 
the relatives of people who might attempt to use it at any 
but the short time in the year it is usable, would come down 
on me for damages. 

I next tried to convince Mr. Glass that any canoe would 
do for me to go down in. " No," he said, " any canoe will not 
do ; " and he explained that when you got down the Rembwe 
to 'Como Point you were in a rough, nasty bit of water, the 
Gaboon, which has a fine confused set of currents from the 
tidal wash and the streams of the Rembwe and 'Como rivers, 
in which it would be improbable that a river canoe could live 
any time worth mentioning. Progress below 'Como Point by 
means of mere paddling he considered impossible. There 
was nothing for it but a big sailing canoe, and there was no 
big sailing canoe to be had. I think Mr. Glass got a ray of 
comfort out of the fact that Messrs. John Holt's sub-agent 
was, equally with himself, unable to ship me. 

At this point in the affair there entered a highly dramatic 
figure. He came on to the scene suddenly and with much 
uproar, in a way that would have made his fortune in a trans- 
pontine drama. I shall always regret I have not got that 
man's portrait, for I cannot do him justice with ink. He 
dashed up on to the verandah, smote the frail form of Mr. 
Glass between the shoulders, and flung his o\\m massive one 
into a chair. His name was Obanjo, but he liked it pronounced 
Captain Johnson, and his profession was a bush and river 
trader on his own account. Every movement of the man was 
theatrical, and he used to look covertly at you every now and 
then to see if he had produced his impression, which was 



v CAPTAIN JOHNSON, ALIAS OBANJO 335 

¦vidently intended to be that of a reckless, rollicking skipper. 

There was a Hallo-my-Hearty atmosphere coming off him 

rom the top of his hat to the soles of his feet, like the scent 

fifa flower ; but it did not require a genius in judging men to 
~ee that behind, and under this was a verj' different sort of 
man, and if I should ever want to engage in a wild and awful 
career up a West African river I shall start on it by engaging 
Captain Johnson. He struck me as being one of those men, of 
whom I know five, whom I could rely on, that if one of them 
and I went into the utter bush together, one of us at least would 
come out alive and have made something substantial by the ven- 
ture; which is a great deal more than I could say, for example, 
of Xgouta, who was still with me, as he desired to see the glories 
of Gaboon and buy a hanging lamp. I will not commence 
that hanging lamp palaver here, however, but remark that 
Xgouta persisted in regarding himself as still surrounded by 
danger at Agonjo. 

Captain Johnson's attire calls for especial comment and 
admiration. However disconnected the two sides of his char- 
acter might be, his clothes bore the impress of both of his 
natures to perfection. He wore, when first we met, a huge 
-ombrero hat, a sf)otless singlet, and a suit of clean, well- 
^ot-up dungaree, and an uncommonly picturesque, powerful 
figure he cut in them, with his finely moulded, well-knit form 
and good-looking face, full of expression always, but always 
with the keen small eyes in it watching the effect his genial 
smiles and hearty laugh produced. The eyes were the eyes 

f Obanjo, the rest of the face the property of Captain John- 
son. I do not mean to say that they were the eyes of a bad 
bold man, but you had not to look tAvice at them to see they 
belonged to a man courageous in the African manner, full of 
energ}' and resource, keenly intelligent and self-reliant, and all 
that sort of thing. 

1 left him and the refined Mr. Glass together to talk over the 
palaver of shipping me, and they talked it at great length. 
Finally the price I was to pay Obanjo was settled and we 
proceeded to less important details. It seemed Obanjo, when 
up the river this time, had set about constructing a new and 

arge trading canoe at one of his homes, in which he was just 



336 DOWN THE REMBWE chap. 



thinking of taking his goods down to Gaboon. The only 
drawback was this noble vessel was not finished ; but 
that did not discourage any of us, except Mr. Glass, who 
seemed to think the firm would debit me to his account if 
I got lost. However, next morning Obanjo with his vessel 
turned up, and saying farewell to my kind host, Mr. Sanga 
Glass, I departed. 

She had the makings of a fine vessel in her ; though roughly 
hewn out of an immense hard-wood tree : her lines were good, 
and her type was that of the big sea-canoes of the Bight of 
Panavia. Very far forward was a pole mast, roughly made, 
but European in intention, and carrying a long gaff. Shrouds 
and stays it had not, and my impression was that it would 
be carried away if we dropped in for half a tornado, until I 
saw our sail and recognised that it would go to darning cotton 
instantly if it fell in with even a breeze. It was a bed quilt that 
had evidently been in the family some years, and although it 
had been in places carefully patched with pieces of previous 
sets of the captain's dungarees, in other places, where it had not, 
it gave " free passage to the airs of Heaven " ; w^hich I may 
remark does not make for speed in the boat mounting such 
canvas. Partly to this sail, partly to the amount of trading 
affairs we attended to, do I owe the credit of having made 
a record trip down the Rembwe, the slowest white man time 
on record. 

Fixed across the stern of the canoe there was the u.sual 
staging made of bamboos, flush with the gunwale. Now 
this sort of staging is an exceedingly good idea when it is 
fully finished. You can stuff no end of things under it ; 
and over it there is erected a hood of palm-thatch, giving 
a very comfortable cabin five or six feet long and about 
three feet high in the centre, and you can curl yourself up in 
it and, if you please, have a mat hung across the opening. 
But we had not got so far as that yet on our vessel, only just 
got the staging fixed in fact ; and I assure you a bamboo stag 
ing is but a precarious perch when in this stage of forrnatioi, 
I made myself a reclining couch on it in the Roman manner 
with my various belongings, and was exceeding comfortable 
until we got nearly out of the Rembwe into the Gaboon. 



XV A TRYING SITUATION 337 



Then came grand times. Our noble craft had by this time 
got a good list on her from our collected cargo — ill stowed. 
This made my home, the bamboo staging, about as reposeful a 
place as the slope of a writing desk would be if well polished : 
and the rough and choppy sea gave our vessel the most 
peculiar set of motions imaginable. She rolled, which made 
it precarious for things on the bamboo staging, but still a 
legitimate motion, natural and foreseeable. In addition to 
this, she had a cataclysmic kick in her, that I think the 
i heathenish thing meant to be a pitch — which no mortal being 
could foresee or provide against, and which projected portable 
property into the waters of the Gaboon over the stern and on 
to the conglomerate collection in the bottom of the canoe 
itself, making Obanjo repeat, with ferocity and feeling, words 
he had heard years ago, when he was boatswain on a 
^teamboat trading on the Coast. It was fortunate, you 
will please understand, for my future, that I have usually 
been on vessels of the British African or the Royal African 
lines when voyaging about this West African sea-board. 
as the owners of these vessels prohibit the use of bad 
language on board, or goodness only knows what words 
1 might not have remembered and used in the Gaboon 
estuary. 

We left Agonjo with as much bustle and shouting and 
cjcneral air of brisk seamanship as Obanjo could impart to the 
liTair, and the hopeful mind might have expected to reach 

newhere important by nightfall. I did not expect that ; 
neither, on the other hand, did I expect that after we had 
gone a mile and only four, as the early ballad would say, that 
we should pull up and anchor against a small village for the 
night ; but this we did, the captain going ashore to see for 
cargo, and to get some more crew. 

There were grand times ashore that night, and the captain 
returned on board about 2 A.M. with some rubber and pissava 
and two new hands whose appearance fitted them to join 
our vessel ; for a more villainous-looking set than our crew I 
never laid eye on. One enormously powerful fellow looked the 
incarnation of the horrid negro of buccaneer stories, and I 
admired Obanjo for the way he kept them in hand. We 

z 



338 DOWN THE REMBWE chap 

had now also acquired a small dug-out canoe as tender, 
and a large fishing-net. 

About 4 A.M. in the moonlight we started to drop down 
river on the tail of the land breeze, and as I observed Obanjo 
wanted to sleep I offered to steer. After putting me through 
an examination in practical seamanship, and passing me, he 
gladly accepted my offer, handed over the tiller which stuck 
out across my bamboo staging, and went and curled himself 
up, falling sound asleep among the crew in less time than it 
takes to write. On the other nights we spent on this voyage 
I had no need to offer to steer ; he handed over charge to me 
as a matter of course, and as I prefer night to day in Africa, 
I enjoyed it. Indeed, much as I have enjoyed life in Africa, 
I do not think I ever enjoyed it to the full as I did 
on those nights dropping down the Rembwe. The great, 
black, winding river with a pathway in its midst of frosted 
silver where the moonlight struck it : on each side the ink- 
black mangrove walls, and above them the band of star and 
moonlit heavens that the walls of mangrove allowed one to 
see. Forward rose the form of our sail, idealised from bed- 
sheetdom to glory ; and the little red glow of our cooking 
fire gave a single note of warm colour to the cold light of the 
moon. Three or four times during the second night, while 
I was steering along by the south bank, I found the man- 
grove wall thinner, and standing up, looked through the het-l 
work of their roots and stems on to what seemed like plains, 
acres upon acres in extent, of polished sih-er — more 
specimens of those awful slime lagoons, one of which, be- 
fore we reached Ndorko, had so very nearly collected me. I 
watched them, as we leisurely stole past, with a sort of 
fascination. On the second night, towards the dawn, I had 
the great joy of seeing Mount Okoneto, away to the S.W., 
first showing moonlit, and then taking the colours of the 
dawn before they reached us down below. Ah me ! give me 
a West African river and a canoe for sheer good pleasure. 
Drawbacks, you say ? Well, yes, but where are there not 
drawbacks ? The only drawbacks on those Rembw6 nights 
were the series of horrid frights I got by steering on 
to tree shadows and thinking they were mud banks, or trees 



NOCTURNAL NAVIGATION 339 



themselves, so black and solid did they seem. I never roused 
the watch fortunately, but got her off the shadow gallantly 
single-handed ever>- time, and called myself a fool instead of 
getting called one. My nautical friends carp at me for get- 
ting on shadows, but I beg them to consider before they judge 
me, whether they have ever steered at night down a river quite 
unknown to them an unhand}- canoe, with a bed-sheet sail, 
b}- the light of the moon. And what with my having a theorj- 
of my own regarding the proper way to take a vessel round 
a corner, and what with having to keep the wind in the bed- 
sheet where the bed-sheet would hold it, it's a wonder to me 
I did not cast that vessel away, or go and damage Africa. 

By da\light the Rembwe scener}' was certainly not so 
lovely, and might be slept through without a pang. It had 
monotony, without having enough of it to amount to 
grandeur. Every now and again we came to villages, each of 
which was situated on a heap of clay^and sandy soil, pre- 
sumably the end of a spit of land running out into the 
mangrove swamp fringing the river. Ever}' village we saw 
.\e went alongside and had a chat with, and tried to look up 
cargo in the proper way. One village in particular did we 
have a lively time at. Obanjo had a wife and home there, 
likewise a large herd of goats, some of which he was desirous 
of taking down with us to sell at Gaboon. It was a pleasant- 
looking village, with a clean yellow beach which most of the 
houses faced. But it had ramifications in the interior. I 
being very lazy, did not go ashore, but watched the panto- 
mime from the bamboo staging. The whole flock of goats 
enter at right end of stage, and tear violently across the 
scene, disappearing at left. Two minutes elapse. Obanjo 
and his gallant crew enter at right hand of stage, leg it 
like lamplighters across front, and disappear at left. Fear- 
ful pow-wow behind the scenes. Five minutes elapse. Enter 
goats at right as before, followed by Obanjo and company as 
before, and so on i/a capo. It was more like a fight I once 
saw between the armies of Macbeth and Macduff than any- 
thing I have seen before or since ; only our Rembwe play was 
better put on, more supers, and noise, and all that sort of 
thing, you know. It was a spirited performance I assure you 

z 2 



340 DOWN THE REMBWE chap. 



and I and the inhabitants of the village, not personally 
interested in goat-catching, assumed the role of audience and i 
cheered it to the echo. While engaged in shouting " Encore " 
to the third round, I received a considerable shock by hearing 
a well-modulated evidently educated voice saying in most 
perfect English : 

" Most diverting spectacle, madam, is it not ? " 
Now you do not expect to hear things called " diverting 
spectacles " on the Rembwe ; so I turned round and saw stand- 
ing on the bank against which our canoe was moored, what 
appeared to me to be an English gentleman who had from 
some misfortune gone black all over and lost his trousers and 
been compelled to replace them with a highly ornamental 
table-cloth. The rest of his wardrobe was in exquisite con- 
dition, with the usual white jean coat, white shirt and collar, 
very neat tie, and felt hat affected by white gentlemen out 
here. Taking a large and powerful cigar from his lips with one 
hand, he raised his hat gracefully with the other and said : 
" Pray excuse me, madam." 
I said, " Oh, please go on smoking." 
" May I ? " he said, offering me a cigar-case. 
" Oh, no thank you," I replied. 

" Many ladies do now," he said, and asked me whether I 
" preferred Liverpool, London, or Paris." 

I said, " Paris ; but there were nice things in both the other 
cities." 

" Indeed that is so," he said ; " they have got many very 
decent works of art in the St. George's Hall." 

I agreed, but said I thought the National Gallery preferable 
because there you got such fine representative series of works 
of the early Italian schools. I felt I had got to rise to this 
man whoever he was, somehow, and having regained my ncrw, 
I was coming up hand over hand to the level of his cultun- 
when Obanjo and the crew arrived, carrying goats. Obanjo 
dropped his goat summarily into the hold, and took off his hat 
with his very best bow to my new acquaintance, who acknow 
ledged the salute with a delicious air of condescension. 
" Introduce me," said the gentleman. 
" I cannot," said Obanjo. 



XV PRINCE MAKAGA 341 

" I regret, madam," said the gentleman, " I have not 
brought my card-case with me. One little expects in 
such a remote region to require one ; my name is Prince 
Makaga." ^ 

I said I was similarly card-caseless for reasons identical with 
his own, but gave him my name and address, and Obanjo, 
having got all aboard, including a member of the crew, fetched 
by the leg, shoved off, and with many bows we and the 
black gentleman parted. As soon as we were out of earshot 
from shore " Who is he, Obanjo ? " said I. Obanjo laughed, 
and said he was a M'pongwe gentleman who had at one time 
been agent for one of the big European firms at Gaboon, and 
had been several times to Europe. Thinking that he could 
make more money on his own account, he had left the firm 
and started trading all round this district. At first he made a 
great deal of money, but a lot of his trust had recently gone 
bad, and he was doubtless up here now looking after some 
.such matter. Obanjo evidently thought him too much of a 
lavender-kid-glove gentleman to deal with bush trade, and 
held it was the usual way ; a man got spoilt by going to 
Europe. I quite agree with him on general lines, but Prince 
Makaga had a fine polish on him without the obvious conceit 
usually found in men who have been home. 

We had another cheerful little incident that afternoon. 
While we were going along softly, softly as was our wont, in 
the broiling heat, I wishing I had an umbrella — for sitting on 
that bamboo stage with no sort of protection from the sun 
V. as hot work after the forest shade I had had previously — 
two small boys in two small canoes shot out from the bank 
and paddled hard to us and jumped on board. After a few 

' ¦ Makaga, an honourable name, which only one man, and he the 
bravest and best hunter in the tribe, may bear. The office of the Makaga 
is to lead all desperate affairs — for instance, if any one has murdered one 
of his fellow-villagers, and the murderer's town refuses to give him up 
(which is almost always the case, they thinking it is a shame to surrender 
any one who has taken refuge with them), then it is the business of the 
Makaga to take the best men of his village, and lead them to the 
assault of that which protects the murderer, and destroy it with its 
inhabitants." — Dti C/uu/iit's Explorations and Adventures in Equatorial 
Africa, 1861, p. 393. 



342 DOWN THE REMBWE chap. 



i 



minutes' conversation with Obanjo one of them carefully sank 
his canoe ; the other just turned his adrift and they joined 
our crew. I saw they were F"ans, as indeed nearly all the 
crew were, but I did not think much of the affair. Our 
tender, the small canoe, had been sent out as usual with the 
big black man and another A. B. to fish ; it being one of our 
industries to fish hard all the time with that big net. The 
fish caught, sometimes a bushel or two at a time, almost all 
grey mullet, were then brought alongside, split open, and 
cleaned. We then had all round as many of them for supper 
as we wanted, the rest we hung on strings over our fire, more 
or less insufficiently smoking them to prevent decomposition, 
it being Obanjo's intention to sell them when he made his next 
trip up the 'Como ; for the latter being less rich in fish than 
the Rembwe they would command a good price there. We 
always had our eye on things like this, being, I proudly 
remark, none of your gilded floating hotel of a ferry-boat like 
those Cunard or White Star liners are, but just a good trader 
that was not ashamed to pay, and not afraid of work. 

Well, just after we had leisurely entered a new reach of 
the river, round the corner after us, propelled at a phe- 
nomenal pace, came our fishing canoe, which we had left 
behind to haul in the net and then rejoin us. The occu- 
pants, particularly the big black A. B., were shouting something 
in terror stricken accents. " What ? " says Obanjo springing 
to his feet. " The Fan ! the Fan ! " shouted the canoe men 
as they shot towards us like agitated chickens making for 
their hen. In another moment they were alongside and 
tumbling over our gunwale into the bottom of the vessel still 
crying " The Fan ! The Fan ! The Fan ! " Obanjo then by 
means of energetic questioning externally applied, and accom- 
panied by florid language that cast a rose pink glow, smelling of 
sulphur, round us, elicited the information that about 40,000 
Fans, armed with knives and guns, were coming down thr 
Rembwe with intent to kill and slay us, and might be expected 
to arrive within the next half wink. On hearing this, the whole 
of our gallant crew took up masterly recumbent positions in 
the bottom of our vessel and turned gray round the lips 
But Obanjo rose to the situation like ten lions. " Take the 



A RACE FOR LIFE 343 



rudder," he shouted to me, " take her into the middle of the 
-tream and keep the sail full." It occurred to me that per- 
haps a position underneath the bamboo staging might be 
nore healthy than one on the top of it, exposed to every 
microbe of a bit of old iron and what not and a half that 
according to native testimony would shortly be frisking through 
the atmosphere from those Fan guns ; and moreover I had not 
forgotten having been previously shot in a somewhat similar 
situation, though in better company. However I did not say 
anything ; neither, between ourselves, did I somehow believe 
in those Fans. So regardless of danger, I grasped the helm, 
and sent our gallant craft flying before the breeze down the 
bosom of the great wild river (that's the proper way to put it, 
but in the interests of science it may be translated into crawling 
towards the middle). Meanwhile Obanjo performed prodigies 
»r valour all over the place. He triced up the mainsail, 
-tirred up his faint-hearted crew, and got out the sweeps, i.e. 
one old oar and four paddles, and with this assistance we 
-olemnly trudged away from danger at a pace that nothing 
-lower than a Thames dumb barge, going against stream, 
could possibly overhaul. Still we did not feel safe, and I 
suggested to Ngouta he should rise up and help ; but he 
declined, stating he was a married man. Obanjo cheering the 
paddlers with inspiriting words sprang with the agility of a 
leopard on to the bamboo staging aft, standing there with 
his gun ready loaded and cocked to face the coming foe, look- 
ing like a statue put up to himself at the public expense. 
The worst of this was, however, that while Obanjo's face was 
to the coming foe, his back was to the crew, and they forthwith 
commenced to re-subside into the bottom of the boat, paddles 
and all. I, as second in command, on seeing this, said a few 
blood-stirring words to them, and Obanjo sent a few more of 
reat power at them over his shoulder, and so we kept the 
paddles going. 

Presently from round the corner shot a Fan canoe. It con- 
tained a lady in the bows, weeping and wringing her hands, 
while another lady sympathetically howling, paddled it. 
Obanjo in lurid language requested to be informed why they 
were following us. The lady in the bows said, " My son I my 



344 DOWN THE RE MB WE chap. 

son ! " and in a second more three other canoes shot round the 
corner full of men with guns. Now this looked like business, 
so Obanjo and I looked round to urge our crew to greater exer- 
tions and saw, to our disgust, that the gallant band had suc- 
cessfully subsided into the bottom of the boat while we had 
been eying the foe. Obanjo gave me a recipe for getting the 
sweeps out again. I did not follow it, but got the job 
done, for Obanjo could not take his eye and gun off the 
leading canoe and the canoes having crept up to within some 
twenty yards of us, poured out their simple tale of woe. 

It seemed that one of those miscreant boys was a runaway 
from a Fan village. He had been desirous, with the usual 
enterprise of young Fans, of seeing the great world that he 
knew lay down at the mouth of the river, i.e. Libreville Gaboon. 
He had pleaded with his parents for leave to go down and 
engage in work there, but the said parents holding the tender- 
ness of his youth unfitted to combat with Coast Town life 
and temptation, refused this request, and so the young rascal 
had run away without leave and with a canoe, and was sur- 
mised to have joined the well-known Obanjo. Obanjo owned 
he had (more armed canoes were coming round the corner), 
and said if the mother would come and fetch her boy she 
could have him. He for his part would not have dreamed 
of taking him if he had known his relations disapproved. 
Every one seemed much relieved, except the causa belli. 
The Fans did not ask about two boys and providentially 
we gave the lady the right one. He went reluctantly. I 
feel pretty nearly sure he foresaw more kassengo than fatted 
calf for him on his return home. When the Fan canoes were 
well back round the corner again, we had a fine hunt for the 
other boy, and finally unearthed him from under the bamboo 
staging. When we got him out he told the same tale. He 
also was a runaway who wanted to see the world, and taking 
the opportunity of the majority of the people of his village 
being away hunting, he had slipped off one night in a canoe, 
and dropped down river to the village of the boy who had 
just been reclaimed. The two boys had fraternised, and come 
on the rest of their way together, lying waiting, hidden up a 
creek, for Obanjo, who they knew was coming down river ; and 



XV NAUTICAL PROBLEMS 345 

having successfully got picked up by him, they thought they 
were safe. But after this affair boy number two judged there 
was no more safety yet, and that his family would be down 
after him very shortly; for he said he was a more valuable and 
important boy than his late companion, but his family were 
an uncommon savage set. We felt not the least anxiety to 
make their acquaintance, so clapped heels on our gallant craft 
and kept the paddles going, and as no more Fans were in 
sight our crew kept at work bravely. While Obanjo, now in 
a boisterous state of mind, and flushed with victory, said 
things to them about the way they had collapsed when those 
two women in a canoe came round that corner, that must 
have blistered their feelings, but they never winced. They 
laughed at the joke against themselves merrily. The other 
boy's family we never saw and so took him safely to Gaboon, 
where Obanjo got him a good place. 

Really how much danger there was proportionate to the large 
amount of fear on our boat I cannot tell you. It never struck 
me there was any, but on the other hand the crew and Obanjo 
evidently thought it was a bad place ; and my white face would 
have been no protection, for the Fans would not have suspected 
a white of being on such a canoe and might have fired on us 
if they had been unduly irritated and not treated by Obanjo 
with that fine compound of bully and blarney that he is such 
a master of 

Whate\er may have been the true nature of the affair, how- 
ever, it had one good effect, it got us out of the Rembwe into 
the Gaboon, and although at the time this seemed a doubtful 
blessing, it made for progress. I had by this time mastered 
the main points of incapability in our craft. A. we could not 
go against the wind. B. we could not go against the tide. 
While we were in the Rembwe there was a state we will 
designate as C — the tide coming one way, the wind another. 
With this state we could progress, backwards if the wind 
came up against us too strong, but seawards if it did not, and 
the tide was running down. If the tide was running up, and 
the wind was coming down, then we went seaward, softly, 
softly alongside the mangrove bank, where the rip of the tide 
stream is least. When, however, we got down off 'Como Point, 



346 DOWN THE REMBWE chap. 

we met there a state I will designate as D — a fine confused set 
of marine and fluvial phenomena. For away to the north the 
'Como and Boque and two other lesser, but considerable 
streams, were, with the Rembwe, pouring down their waters in 
swirling, intermingling, interclashing currents ; and up against 
them, to make confusion worse confounded, came the tide, and 
the tide up the Gaboon is a .swift strong thing, and irregular, 
and has a rise of eight feet at the springs, two-and-a-half at 
the neaps. The wind was lulled too, it being evening time. In 
this country it is customary for the wind to blow from the land 
from 8 P.M. until 8 A.M., from the south-west to the east. 
Then comes a lull, either an utter dead hot brooding calm, 
or light baffling winds and draughts that breathe a few 
panting hot breaths into your sails and die. Then comes the 
sea breeze up from the south-south-west or north-west, some 
days early in the forenoon, some days not till two or three 
o'clock. This breeze blows till sundown, and then comes 
another and a hotter calm. 

Fortunately for us we arrived off the head of the Gaboon 
estuary in this calm, for had we had wind to deal with we 
should have come to an end. There were one or two wandering 
puffs, about the first one of which sickened our counterpane of 
its ambitious career as a marine sail, so it came away from its 
gaff and spread itself over the crew, as much as to say, " Here, 
I've had enough of this sailing. I'll be a counterpane again." 
We did a great deal of fine varied, spirited navigation, details of 
which, however, I will not dwell upon because it was successful. 
We made one or two circles, taking on water the while and 
then returned into the south bank backwards. At that bank 
we wisely stayed for the night, our meeting with the Gaboon 
so far having resulted in wrecking our sail, making Ngouta 
sea-sick and me exasperate ; for from our noble vessel having 
during the course of it demonstrated for the first time her 
cataclysmic kicking power, I had had a time of it with my 
belongings on the bamboo stage. A basket constructed for 
catching human souls in, given me as a farewell gift by a 
valued friend, a witch doctor, and in which I kept the few- 
things in life I really cared for, i.e., my brush, comb, tooth 
brush, and pocket handkerchiefs, went over the stern ; while I 



XV BAGGAGE OVERBOARD : 347 

was recovering this with my fishing Hne (such was the excellent 
nature of the thing, I am glad to say it floated) a black bag 
with my blouses and such essentials went away to leeward, 
Obanjo recovered that, but meanwhile my little portmanteau 
containing my papers and trade tobacco slid off to leeward ; 
and as it also contained geological specimens of the Sierra del 
Cristal, a massive range of mountains, it must have hopelessly 
sunk had it not been for the big black, who grabbed it. All 
my bedding, six Equetta cloths, given me by Mr. Hamilton in 
Opobo River before I came South, did get away successfully, 
but were picked up by means of the fishing line, wet but safe. 
After this I did not attempt any more Roman reclining couch 
luxuries, but stowed all my loose gear under the bamboo 
staging, and spent the night on the top of the stage, dozing 
precariously with my head on my knees. 

When the morning broke, looking seaward I saw the wel- 
come forms of Konig and Perroquet Islands away in the 
distance, looking, as is their wont, like two lumps of cloud that 
ha\ e dropped on to the broad Gaboon, and I felt that I was 
at last getting near something worth reaching, i.e. Glass, 
which though still out of sight, I knew lay away to the west 
of those islands on the northern shore of the estuary-. And if 
any one had given me the choice of being in Glass within 
twenty-four hours from the mouth of the Rembwe, or in Paris 
or London in a week, I would have chosen Glass without 
a moment's hesitation. Much as I dislike West Coast towns 
as a general rule, there are exceptions, and of all exceptions, 
the one I like most is undoubtedly Glass Gaboon ; and its 
charms loomed large on that dank chilly morning after 
a night spent on a bamboo staging in an unfinished native 
canoe. 

I may as well attempt to give }ou here a brief sketch of the 
local geography of the head of the Gaboon estuar>-, for I seem 
the immediate English successor, in the way of travellers, to 
Mr. Winwood Reade, who w as here in %i. He came up the 
estuary, and up into the 'Como, which he ascended as far as 
the rapids — rapids caused as usual in this country by the rocks 
of the Sierra del Cristal. Above these rapids, I hear from 
native sources, the 'Como is formed by a succession of smaller 



348 DOWN THE REMBW^ chap. 

streams having their origin in the mountain range. The 
'Como falls into the Gaboon on its northern bank, at its 
eastern end, and is probably the largest of its tributaries. 
A little distance up, the 'Como, or more properly written, the 
Nkama, is joined on its south bank by the Boque or Bakvve. 
Their joint stream, called the Olomb'ompolo, falls into the 
Gaboon. On the broad peninsula of land that separates 
the mouth of the 'Como from that of the Rembwe are two 
other rivers of less magnitude. The mouth of the Rembwe, 
about one and a half miles wide, is on the southern bank 
of the eastern end of the Gaboon. This southern bank is 
one low stretch of sandy land between thirty-five and forty 
miles long, having on it numerous native M'pongwe vil- 
lages, but no white settlement whatsoever. It ends at 
Pongara Point, the western seaward termination of the 
estuary, which is above nine miles off from the northern 
shore's western termination — Cape Santa Clara. 

The Rembwe, like the 'Como, is said to rise in the Sierra del 
Cristal. It is navigable to a place called Isango which is 
above Agonjo ; just above Agonjo it receives an affluent on 
its southern bank and runs through mountain country, where 
its course is blocked by rapids for anything but small canoes. 
Obanjo did not seem to think this mattered, as there was not 
much trade up there, and therefore no particular reason why 
any one should want to go higher up. Moreover he said the 
natives were an exceedingly bad lot ; but Obanjo usually thinks 
badly of the bush natives in these regions. Anyhow they are 
Fans — and Fans are Fans. He was anxious for me, however, 
to start on a trading voyage with him up another river, a 
notorious river, in the neighbouring Spanish territory. The 
idea was I should buy goods at Glass and we should go 
together and he would buy ivory with them in the interior. I 
anxiously inquired where my profits were to come in. Obanjo 
who had all the time suspected me of having trade motives, 
artfully said, "What for you come across from Ogowe? You 
say, see this country. Ah ! I say you come with me. I show 
you plenty country, plenty men, elephants, leopards, gorillas. 
Oh ! plenty thing. Then you say where's my trade ? " I 
disclaimed trade motives in a lordly way. Then says he, 



DECLINING TRADE 349 



" You come with me up there." I said I'd see about it later on. 
for the present I had seen enough men, elephants, gorillas and 
leopards, and I preferred to go into wild districts under the 
French flag to any flag. I am still thinking about taking that 
voyage, but I'll not march through Coventry with the crew we 
had down the Rembwe — that's flat, as Sir John Falstaff" says. 
Picture to yourselves, my friends, the charming situation of 
being up a river surrounded by rapacious savages with a lot 
of valuable goods in a canoe and with only a crew to defend 
them possessed of such fighting mettle as our crew had 
demonstrated themselves to be. Obanjo might be all right, 
would be I dare say ; but suppose he got shot and you had 
eighteen stone odd of him thrown on your hands in addition 
to your other little worries. There is little doubt such an 
excursion would be rich in incident and highly interesting, 
but I am sure it would be, from a commercial point of view, a 
failure. 

Trade however, even when carried on in a safer, saner way 
than our above scheme provides, is falling off on the Rembwe 
and 'Como. The white firms no longer find it pays to put 
white agents up at the factories on the Rembwe at Agonjo 
and Isango, and on the 'Como at N'enge N'enge, although they 
still keep the factories going under black agents. N'enge 
N'enge, a large island just inside the 'Como mouth by the con- 
fluence with the Boque, has still a white representative 
missionary of the American Presbyterian Mission — the mis- 
sion that first commenced working in this Gaboon, Ogowe, 
and Batanga region ; and the station at N'enge N'enge is still 
in connection with the headquarters of this mission at Baraka, 
not having been handed over with the Ogowe stations to the 
Mission Evangelique of Paris. But apart from this mission 
station and the evangelising tours made by the energetic 
Roman Catholic priests, the upper Gaboon region is not 
much troubled b}' white enterprise. Now and again that very 
hard-working little vessel, the gunboat stationed at Libreville, 
goes up river to see whether the natives are behaving properly, 
or to point out their errors to them. 

The reason for the falling off of the trade in this particular 
district is, I suspect, not — as is suggested — the impoverishment 



350 DOWN THE REMBWE CHAP. 



of the country from export trade articles being exhausted, but 
arises from the Fan invasion having upset things, and also 
from the trade being diverted to the Ogowe ; owing to the 
enterprising way the French have opened up that river since 
say the sixties. Before the sixties, the Ogowe was practic- 
ally only a legend in the native tongue. Now the enterprise 
of France has made it a practical trade outlet for a great part 
of some of the richest country in West Africa ; and the upper 
Rembwe trade has been drained in that direction. A very 
similar case to that of Bonny, whose trade has of late years 
pitifully fallen away, being drained towards Opobo by the 
greater ability and power of the Opobo chiefs. 

Trade has a fascination for me, and going transversely across 
the nine-mile-broad rough Gaboon estuary in an unfinished 
canoe with an inefficient counterpane sail has none ; but 
I return duty bound to this unpleasant subject. We started 
very early in the morning. We reached the other side en- 
tangled in the trailing garments of the night. I was thankful 
during that broiling hot day of one thing, and that was that 
if Sister Ann was looking out across the river, as was Sister 
Ann's invariable way of spending spare moments. Sister Ann 
would never think I was in a canoe that made such auda- 
ciously bad tacks, missed stays, got into irons, and in general 
behaved in a way that ought to have lost her captain his cer- 
tificate. Just as the night came down, however, we reached 
the northern shore of the Grand Gaboon at Dongila, just off 
the mouth of the 'Como, still some eleven miles east of Konig 
Island, and further still from Glass, but on the same side of 
the river, which seemed good work. The foreshore here is 
very rocky, so we could not go close alongside but anchored 
out among the rocks. At this place there is a considerable 
village and a station of the Roman Catholic Mission. When 
we arrived a nun was down on the shore with her school 
children, who were busy catching shell-fish and generally 
merry-making. Obanjo went ashore in the tender, and the 
holy sister kindly asked me, by him, to come ashore and 
spend the night ; but I was dead tired and felt quite unfit for 
polite society after the long broiling hot day and getting 
soaked by water that had washed on board. Moreover I learnt 



XV INVOLUNTARY IMMERSION 351 

she could not speak English, and I shrank in my condition 
from attempting to evolve the French language out of my 
inner consciousness ; feeling quite certain I should get much 
misunderstood by the gentle, clean, tidy lady, and she might 
put me down as an ordinary specimen of Englishwoman, and 
so I should bring disgrace on my nation. If I had been able 
to dress up, ashore I would have gone, but as it was I wrote 
her a note explaining things and thanking her. 

We lay off Dongila all night, because of the tide. I lay off 
everything, Dongila, canoe and all a little after midnight. 
Obanjo and almost all the crew stayed on shore that night, 
and I rolled myself up in an Equetta cloth and went sound 
and happily asleep on the bamboo staging, leaving the canoe 
litching slightly. About midnight some change in the tide, 
r original sin in the canoe, caused her to softly swing round 
a bit, and the next news was that I was in the water, I had 
long expected this to happen, so was not surprised, but highly 
disgusted, and climbed on board, needless to say, streaming. 
So, in the darkness of the night I got my portmanteau from 
the hold and thoroughly tidied up. The next morning we 
were off early, coasting along to Glass, and safely arriving 
there, I attempted to look as unconcerned as possible, and 
\ aguel}' hoped Mr. Hudson would be down in Libreville ; for I 
was nervous about meeting him, knowing that since he had 
carefully deposited me in safe hands with Mme. Jacot, with 
many injunctions to be careful, that there were many inci- 
dents in my career that would not meet with his approval. 
Vain hope ! he was on the pier. He did not approve. He 
had heard of most of my goings on. 

The agent for the German house at Lembarene had come 
to Libreville a few da}^s before in the legitimate way, i.e. down 
the Ogowe in a little steamer, and on to a mail boat at Feman 
Vaz, and thence to Libreville, and had brought the news that I 
was reported to have left Kangwe, going in the direction of 
the Rembwe. Knowing I ought to reach Agonjo, Mr. Hudson 
had most kindly sent a surf-boat with a good crew up the 
Rembwe to fetch me down. We never saw this surf- boat as 
we came down. I expect we were dodging round some 
corner or another after trade, or lying away in a swamp creek 



352 DOWN THE REMBW6 CH. xv 



for the night. But this in no way detracts from my great 
obHgation to Mr. Hudson for sending up for me, but adds 
another item to the great debt of gratitude I owe him ; for 
had it not been for him I should never have seen the interior 
of this beautiful region of the Ogowe. I tried to explain to 
him how much I had enjoyed myself and how I realised 
I owed it all to him ; but he persisted in his opinion that my 
intentions and ambitions were suicidal, and took me down the 
Woermann Road, the ensuing Sunday, as it were on a string. 





\Toface p. 3S3- 



DE BRAZZA. 



CHAPTER XVI 

CONGO FRAN9AIS 

In which a paean in honour of the great Ogowe explorers is sung by the 
Voyager, to which is added a great deal of \ery congested information 
on the geography in general of Congo Frangais.^ 

^EFORE leaving the Ogowe region I must attempt to give 
u a general resume of its geography ; for my own journals 
pt, while in it, contain this information in so scattered a 
sLcite, that no one save an expert in this bit of Africa would 
understand the full bearing of them ; and it would have to be 
an enthusiastic expert who would take the trouble of piecing 
the information together. 

My reason for going into these geographical details at 
all, is that I think I may say no region in Africa, certainly 
no region of equal importance, is so little known in England. 
The histor)'^ of the exploration of the upper regions of the 
Ogowe may be written in the life of one man, that of the 
greatest of all West African explorers, M. de Brazza ; and it 
is impossible for any one to fail to regard him with the 
greatest veneration, when one knows from personal acquaint- 
ance the make of country and the dangerousness of the 
native population with which he has had to deal and with 
which he still deals, restlessly but wisely pushing always 
onwards to expand the territories of the country of his 

1 1 have used the names of places as they have been published by the 
various travellers referred to ; but, owing to the kindness of Mr. R. B. N. 
Walker, I have since my return had from him a list of these names 
spelt in conformation with the native pronunciation, and, thinking that 
they may be valuable to subsequent travellers, I will occasionally append 
them in footnotes. 

A A 



354 CONGO FRANCAIS chap. 



adoption, France. It requires indeed some one who has 
personally sampled Africa to form a just estimate of the 
value of certain bits of work from what I may call an artistic 
standpoint. The " arm-chair explorer " may be impressed 
by the greatness of length of the red line route of an 
explorer ; but the person locally acquainted with the region 
may know that some of those long red lines are very easily 
made in Africa — thanks to the exertions of travellers who 
have gone before, or to what one of my German friends once 
poetically called the lamblike-calfheadedness of the natives,, 
or to the country itself being of a reasonably traversable 
nature. In other regions a small red line means 400 times 
the work and danger, and requires 4,000 times the pluck, per- 
severance and tact. These regions we may call choice spots. 

I do not mean to depreciate the value of extensive travel in 
Africa, far from it. It has an enormous value and so obvious 
a one that I need not dwell on it ; but the man who com- 
bines the two — who makes his long red line pass thrpugh great 
regions of choice spots — deserves especial admiration ; and 
when in addition to traversing them, he attains power over 
their natives, and retains it, welding the districts into a whole,, 
making the flag of his country respected and feared therein, he 
is a very great man indeed ; and such a man is de Brazza. 
Such a man Mr. Stanley might have been had it not been for 
matters I will not enter into here, for it would involve us in 
a discussion on the Congo Free State. 

M. de Brazza's first journey into the interior^ of Congi' 
Fran9ais was made in 1875-78 when, accompanied by MM. 
Ballay and Marche he reached the upper waters of the 
Ogowe and then pushed east and northwards, discovering; 
two new rivers, the Alima and the Licona, both of which he 
surmised were tributaries of the Congo. He at once saw the 
importance of these rivers to the French possessions ; for, b\ 
them, access would be obtained to the Congo, above the great 
barrier of navigation on that river, the Livingstone rapids. 
He convinced the authorities at home of this and was com- 
manded by the African Association (French Committee) and 

1 See Proceedings of Geographical Society of Paris for June 23rd, i882> 
quoted in Proceedings of Royal Geographical Society, August, 1882. 



XVI DE BRAZZA 



by the Government to make a second journey in order to 
trace the Alima to the Congo ; to establish civiHsing stations, 
one on the Ogowe and one on the Congo; and to cultivate the 
friendship of the native tribes throughout the region. 

The Chambers voted a grant towards the expenses, and he 
left France for Africa on the 27th of December, 1879 — M. 
Ballay, his companion on the first journey, remaining 
behind to complete the preparations for the exploration, 
more especially the fitting out of a steamer that was to be used 
in the navigation of the Ogowe and the Alima. When the 
said steamer should be ready in sections, M. Ballay was to 
bring it out and join M. de Brazza. There is always a steamer 
in sections in every story of a good expedition, and that steamer 
is invariably a curse that costs men's lives, and M. de Brazza's 
steamer was no exception to the rule ; but of that hereafter. 

Two Europeans went out with de Brazza, M. Xoguez and 
and M. Michaud. On landing on the Coast he organised hi« 
expedition at Gaboon, and ascended the Ogowe, the worst 
part of the journey being from Lembarene ^ to Boue, on account 
of the Fans all along this region, and the rapids along a great 
part of it, these having to be navigated through the Sierra de 
Cristal, owing to the wildness of the banks preventing portage. 
When these mountains are passed, however, there is an open 
park-like country where carriers can be employed, and you are 
no longer at the entire mercy of the flying furious river that 
makes this bit of the voyage from Xjole to Boue a peculiarly 
choice spot. Beyond the Sierra del Cristal, moreover, de 
Brazza got in touch with the Okanda and Adooma tribes, 
people less ferocious and more helpful than the Fans ; and 
over these two tribes he attained a great influence, arranging 
with them the regular system of communication with Njole 
that at present goes on, the Adoomas conveying supplies up 
and down through the region of the rapids. 

1 Lembarene is now an official district under the charge of a Chef de 
Poste, whose residence is on Lembarene Island, and to the island the 
name of Lembarene is colloquially limited. The native name for the 
island is Ezange-nenge'. In 1866 the name Lembarene was borne by one 
of the three Inlenga villages just below the confluence with the lake or 
lagoon Zele'. 

A A 2 



356 



CONGO FRANCAIS 



CHAP. 



He fixed on a point for his first station at the confluence of 
the Passa with the Ogowe, and founded there the station now 
know as Franceville in June, 1880. In the middle of the 
same month he sent down to the coast M. Michaud with 770 
men and forty-four canoes to meet M. Ballay, whom he 
expected would by this time have arrived at Gaboon with 
the sections of the steamer ; and leaving M. Noguez at France- 
ville to get on with making it, de Brazza started off in 
a way characteristic of him, alone, with a small party of 




AN UPPER OGOW6 VILLAGE. 



natives for the Congo ; although he fully expected to meet with 
opposition from the Apfuru tribe, who had on his previous 
journey barred the way to him down the Alima. He says he 
" relied on his growing reputation for friendliness, throughout 
the region, for softening the hostility of the natives." He may 
have done so ; but if he had not had time to acquire it, de Brazza 
would have gone on, relying on something else, his luck, most 
likely — that luck which, as the story on the Ogowe goes, once 
saved him from immolation at the hands of the Fans by 



XVI 



THE BATEKE 



357 



arranging for a pyrotechnic display to take place without 
human aid, with a quantity of fireworks he had with him. 

Two or three days' journey from Franceville going east, 
the nature of the country changes. To the clayey soil of the 
Ogowe basin and its richly wooded moist valleys succeeds a 
sandy, arid, hilly countr}-, with here and there in the neighbour- 
hood of a village a group of palm trees. 

This is the aspect of the country which forms the water- 




BATEKE PORTERS, OGOWt. 



shed between the Ogowe and the tributaries of the Upper 
Congo. On the northern bank of the Congo, and on the 
southern bank of the Congo, I found this same make of 
countr}-, more seaward, in the Pallaballa mountains above 
Matadi. 

De Brazza remarks it is a singular fact that narrow sandy 
tracts of country are ev;er>- where inhabited by one and the 
same tribe, the Bateke, reputed, probably erroneously he says, 
to be cannibals. 



358 CONGO FRANgAIS CHAP. 



When he had passed the Leketi, a southern branch of the 
AHma, his route lay across the plateau of Achicuya, an 
elevated district lying about 2,600 feet above sea level, and 
separated from another similar plateau (the Aboma) by the 
river Mpama. (Mpama = Ox.) 

The chief of Achicuya received the traveller in a friendly 
manner, and a similar reception awaited him on reaching the 
Abooma tribe. These latter people he describes as being the 
handsomest and bravest he had met ; and it was from them he 
received information regarding the Congo and the powerful 
chief Makoko, whose sovereignty the Abooma acknowledge. 

Leaving the Abooma district he travelled along the Lefini 
(the Lawson of Mr. Stanley), and just as he was finishing the 
construction of a raft to descend the Lefini, he received 
messengers from King Makoko with friendly greetings and 
offers of assistance. This much facilitated his further pro- 
ceedings. He descended the Lefini with the envoy as far as 
Ngampo on his raft, and then landed and went overland 
for two days across an uninhabited tableland. He states his 
march over the sun-scorched plateau was most wearisome ; 
and that two days' march must have been a choice spot, 
if, as I conjecture, this tableland was of the same formation 
as those truly horrible Pallaballa mountains, that have in their 
composition an immense percentage of mica, which glistens 
in the sun like diamond dust, and dazzles you, and which, 
bare of vegetation, reflect back the burning heat in a scorch- 
ing way, forming a layer of hot air, and making the whole 
desolate, hideous scene vibrate before your eyes as you can 
see things vibrating through the hot air over a line of gas jets. 
Never shall I forget my short experience in the Pallaballa 
range. Never have I in all West Africa come across a thing 
that came up to one's ideals of the infernal region so com- 
pletely. And the nights, when you had the whole earth 
round you exhaling a heavy, hot breath with the heat it 
had been soaking in during the day. Small wonder M. de 
Brazza should have " begun to find fault with his guide, 
Makoko's envoy, just before eleveo o'clock on the second 
night after a forced march." Fortunately shortly afterwards he 
came in sight of the Congo. " It appeared like an immense 



xvi KING MAKOKO 359 



sheet of water, the silver sheen of which contrasted with the 
sombre hue of the lofty mountains around. Towards the 
N.W. the waterline extended to the horizon, and the river 
swept in a noiseless slow current past the foot of the hills 
beneath." 

His first object on reaching the banks of the Great River 
was to establish peaceful relations with the Apfuru and other 
tribes of the 'Ubanji nation. The principal tribe of this family 
are the Alhialumo " sailors of the Congo," who are born, live, 
and die with their families on board the fine canoes, in which 
they carr)^ on their trade in ivory and other goods between the 
Alima and Stanley Pool. This was so on de Brazza's first 
-visit Now I am informed that trade route is to a considerable 
•extent diverted. 

De Brazza addressed himself to Ngampey their chief, who 
seemed inclined to be friendly. " Choose," said he, " between 
the cartridge and the flag I send you. One will be the 
sign of a war without mercy, the other a symbol of a peace 
as profitable to you as to us." He left the tribes on this side 
time to think over the answer and went on to King Makoko. 

De Brazza here says he felt his rights of priority and those 
of France now clearly established over the whole region be- 
tween the Ogowe, the Equator, and the Congo ; and he next 
"wished to extend this over the left bank of the Congo, the 
N., as far as the confluence of the river Djue to the south of 
Stanley Pool. In this part of the country the plateaus are 
more fertile and better cultivated than those in the interior 
and the population denser and equally pacific. " The Mus- 
sulman element," says de Brazza, " being unknown in this 
region, European civilisation need not expect to encounter 
the hostility, hatred, and fanaticism which oblige the French, 
for instance, not to advance except with armed forces from the 
Senegal to the Niger. There is nothing to be feared there 
•except the natural opposition of the natives to whatever is 
new." 

Makoko received him with all available magnificence, and 
lie remained twenty-five days with the chief and for a longer 
period in his provinces, and " could not have been better 
treated." 



36o CONGO FRAN^AIS chap. 



In the end a treaty was concluded by which the king placed 
his states under the protection of France, and ceded a tract 
of country, to be selected by M. de Brazza, on the shores of 
the Congo. The treaty was ratified on a day appointed, in 
the presence of all the vassal chiefs of Makoko. On its 
completion the grand fetish master put a little earth in 
a box and presented it to M. de Brazza, saying, " Take this 
earth and carry it to the great chief of the whites. It will 
remind him that we belong to him." De Brazza then planted 
the French flag before Makoko's house, saying, " This is the 
symbol of friendship and protection which I will leave with 
you. Wherever waves this emblem of peace there is France, 
and she will cause to be respected the rights of all those whom 
it covers." 

I have no hesitation in saying that as far as Congo Fran- 
gais goes (I have no experience of other French possessions), 
this high-flown statement is true ; and although de Brazza 
did a good thing for France that day, Makoko also did well,, 
for he saved himself from the Congo Free State. 

Soon after the signing of this treaty with Makoko, de 
Brazza left him and attended a meeting of the 'Ubanji 
chiefs at Nganchuno on the Congo. The chiefs came in an 
unsettled state of mind, and showed at first much opposition 
to the conclusion of a treaty, expressing their mistrust 
on account of a previous white traveller who had shot a 
member of the tribe and escaped down river too swiftly to be 
followed. However, after a second grand meeting, a treaty 
of peace was arranged and war was buried. This ceremony 
consisted in each chief and each man of de Brazza's small 
party burying some implement of war in a hole, over which a 
quickly growing tree was afterwards planted. French colours 
were distributed among the chiefs and the treaty definitely 
agreed to, 

De Brazza then set off to choose the site for the station 
on the Congo, making five days' journey down the river to 
the west into Stanley Pool, and finally selecting Ntamo, 
now known as Brazzaville. He took possession of this 
site duly under his agreement with Makoko, and hoisted 
the French flag here on the ist of October 1880. Its. 



BRAZZAVILLE 361 



selection has been subjected to a good deal of criticism, 
but it is clear that it is a commanding strategical position, 
for save with the goodwill of Brazzaville no one can pass 
from the Upper to the Lower Congo via the river. The 
Livingstone rapids of the Congo, that commence to the west- 
ward of it, are indeed permanent bars to steam vessels navi- 
gating the Congo, for about 200 miles ; yet they are not bars 
to canoe transport because the banks of the Congo, unlike 
those of the Ogowe, permit of portage. 

It must be confessed that these rapids of the Congo are a 
difficulty. The waters collected by the great river in its catch- 
ment basin of i ,600,000 square miles come through a narrow 
channel 170 miles in length, cut by them in the rocks of the 
Pallaballa range, and take the descent of 1,000 feet in fierce 
stretches of rushing water, broken by thirty-two distinct catar- 
acts. But to overcome these a railway is in course of construc- 
tion from Matadi to Stanley Pool ; for the courage and good 
.seamanship of Captain Murray demonstrated the fact that it 
was possible to take an ocean-going steamer up through the 
whirlpools of Hell's Cauldron, to Matadi, close to the foot of the 
last of the thirty-two cataracts, the Yellala, and 120 miles from 
the sea. But it is certain that the Congo Free State must soon 
be split up among the Powers in Africa ; and then the long 
stretch of country from Brazzaville to the 'Ubanji confluence 
already in the possession of France, thanks to M. de Brazza, 
will give France command over the whole district of the Middle 
Congo, I.e. that district draining its trade into the Congo for 
the 1,000 miles that separate the Livingstone Falls from the 
Stanley Falls. 

Access to the right bank of the Congo at Stanley Pool 
is undoubtedly easier ; but those southern regions, not now in 
the possession of the Congo Free State, belong to Portugal, 
and Portugal would have little chance of obtaining a tract of 
country when her rival for it is France. Portugal has 
already been almost completely ousted from the Congo, which 
her great explorer Diogo CSo discovered in 1482, but she 
still holds the southern bank of the Congo, from the sea to 
a point (Nkoi) just below Matadi ; and a very considerable 
quantity of the Congo trade filters into her country owing 



362 



CONGO FRANgAIS 



CHAP.! ¦¦ 

Free I 



to her imposts being more reasonable than those of the Free •. 
State. 

I will not here attempt to go further into the political side 
of de Brazza's journey and its attendant conquests for France, 
but will pass on to his return journey to the Coast. 




ADOOMAS, UPTER OGOW K. 



He left a Senegal sergeant and a few men at Brazzaville 
and proceeded to explore a new route from the Stanley Pool 
to the sea. This was by the valley of the N'Duo, which 
empties itself into the Niari ^ and leads from Ntamo to the At- 
lantic in a nearly due westerly direction. He thought this would 

^ In M'pongvve, Nyari = Buffalo. 



XVI THE OGOWE STEAMER 363 

be the easiest way to the sea ; but it was so entirely unexplored 
that the very name under which the Xiari enters the sea was 
unknown. Moreover the route proved so hazardous that he 
was compelled to continue his journey down the Congo, on 
his way meeting with Mr. Stanley, who gave him a cordial 
reception. 

From the mouth of the Congo he sailed to Gaboon, reaching 
Libreville on the 15th of December, 1880. Here a cruel dis- 
appointment awaited him, needless to say connected with that 
steamer. Neither de Ballay nor the steamer had arrived, and 
a very bitter nuisance this must have been, and one that would 
have caused many a man to throw up the whole undertaking ; 
for he had sent dow'n those 770 men and 44 canoes, promis- 
ing them divers wonderful manifestations of white man's 
power and plenty of work, and there was neither ; and de 
Brazza owned it was with painful feelings that he found himself 
so ill supported, and obliged, instead of returning to Europe 
to rest from his fatigues, having performed himself all he had 
undertaken to do, to hasten again into the interior in order to 
carry reinforcements to the men left in charge of the two stations 
he had founded, distant, the one 500, the other 800 miles. 

He started back into the interior with a party strengthened 
by two French sailors, Guiral and Amiel, and a number of 
native carpenters, gardeners, &c. In ascending the Ogowe for 
the third time his canoe was upset at the Boue Falls and 
he suffered much from illness brought on by having to work 
long in the water to save his baggage. Arriving at Franceville 
in February, 1881, he found there 100 natives satisfactorily 
established and engaged in various industries. The gardens 
had been well cared for and the settlement was self-supporting. 
De Brazza however had not lost faith in that steamer even 
yet, and he set about preparing means of transport for the 
thing when it should arrive. There were seventy-five miles 
of portage intervening between the station Franceville and 
the confluence of the Obia and Lekiba with the Alima, the point 
•chosen for the commencement of the navigation of the Alima. 
The clearing of a path for the transport of the sections of the 
steamer was accomplished by the aid of 4(X) labourers super- 
intended by Michaud, Guiral, and ^\miel. 



364 CONGO FRANCAIS chap. 



The organisation of a service of transport was then pro- 
ceeded with, a business of some difficulty owing to the 
jealousies of the tribes with regard to the profits of conveyance 
over different sections of the route. M. de Brazza then 
thought to surmount this difficulty by establishing a body of 
carriers of his own, but various obstacles intervened to prevent 
his accomplishing this forthwith, and in the meantime he had 
to send supplies to Brazzaville on the Congo. While thus 
engaged he was fortunately joined on the 27th of September 
by M. Mizon of the French navy, who had been sent from 
France in company with de Ballay. He brought de Brazza 
news that the latter was detained at Gaboon and that the 
steamer had been discovered to have defects in construction 
that would prevent her joining the expedition for a long 
time. 

M. de Brazza then resolved to leave Franceville in charge 
of M, Mizon and go off on an entirely new bit of exploration. 
He was by now, after those three voyages up and down them,, 
aware that the rapids of the Ogowe are not what you might 
call a safe and pleasant route to Franceville, particularly for 
heavy goods ; and he reverted to his old idea, that he had had 
to abandon testing when leaving Brazzaville in 1880, namely 
that a safer route to the sea-coast than the Ogowe affords, 
existed down the Niari valley. He first went to Nhango 
on the route between the Ogowe and the Congo, near the 
M'paka country of the latter river. There he learnt that Mr. 
Stanley had been attempting to persuade the chiefs of the 
Bateke to withdraw from their engagements with France and 
endeavouring to win over Malamine, the chief of Ntamo 
(Brazzaville). But de Brazza did not surmise there was any 
danger of Mr. Stanley succeeding in either of these diplomatic 
ventures, so proceeded on his exploration. 

He started at the end of January, 1882, passing over 
mountains by the sources of the Leketi and M'paka, and 
on the 8th of February he discovered one of the sources of 
the Ogowe at a point where it formed a mere rivulet of water. 
A month later he arrived on the banks of his desired Niari, 
which proved to be a beautiful river 270 feet broad and to- 
enter the ocean under the name of Ouilliou (Kouilou or 



XVI NEW ROUTE TO FRAXCEVILLE 365 

KilHou) just north of Loango. Not far from its left bank 
were found mines of copper and lead. 

Along this left bank he continued his march, finding to his 
great satisfaction that the river, as far as its confluence with 
the Lalli, flowed without rapids or falls along a broad, fertile, 



i^ 





A KONGAS, THE CHIEt OOMONE, A.NU HIS TWO WIVES. 

and densely peopled valley, lying athwart the great parallel 
terraces over which, ladderlike, the neighbouring Congo has 
cut its bed on its way to the ocean. About sixty miles 
further the Xiari tends a little towards the north and he 
quitted its banks after having crossed its little affluent the 



366 CONGO FRANCAIS ' ghap. 

Nkenge. From here he began the ascent of the plateau^: 
where the villagers no longer received him and his party with 
the friendliness he had encountered along the valley of the 
Niari. The mistrust with which he had to contend led at lastj 
to an hostile encounter at the village of Kimbendge, in which 
six of his men were wounded, and the expedition was obliged 
to beat a retreat. They marched without taking food, in a 
pouring rain all night long, going south, finding themselves 
in the morning at the summit of a mountain range at the foot 
of which extended a verdant plain through which flowed 
the Lundima (Loema). In the plain they passed a group of 
villages named Mboko, where copper ore is found on the 
surface ; and then journeying westwards arrived at Kimbunda, 
a Basundi village situated between Lundima and the Loango. 
This place is within five days' march of Boma (Emboma) on 
the Congo on one side and Landana on the Atlantic. The 
party arrived, exhausted with the fatigues of their long and 
difficult march, at Landana on the 17th of April, 1882. 

M. de Brazza claimed by this expedition a tract of country 
one-third the area of France as an addition to his previous 
discoveries, and he insisted on the importance of the position 
at Ntamo (Brazzaville) which he said was the key to the whole 
western interior of Equatorial Africa. It was in the hands 
of France and the route vid the Niari was the best road to it 
and the best line for a railway, which ought to be undertaken 
by the French as the most effectual means of opening up the 
country. 

The construction of this railroad has been undertaken, and 
that it has not been already completed I think, no doubt,, 
arises from the idea that the Congo Free State will shorth- 
fall into the hands of France, and then the route up the 
Congo, with a railway round the Livingstone rapids, will be 
the best and shortest way to Brazzaville, and things in general 
on the Middle Congo. However until that day dawns France 
has done much to utilise the Niari valley route and regular 
convoys now use it to the interior. De Brazza has of late 
years been ceaselessly working at the development and ex- 
pansion of Congo Fran^ais to the north and east, particularly 
to the establishment of a safe and easy line of transport to the 



XVI FROM ALGERIA TO THE CONGO 367 



southern shores of Lake Chad. With the insight into African 
geographical problems so characteristic of him, de Brazza 
saw the Sanga river was more likely to afford a route to the 
central Soudan from the Congo than the apparently more im- 
portant M'ubungi. Camfurel was the first man sent to trace 
the course of the Sanga, and he and his expedition were 
annihilated. Furneaux was then sent and succeeded in get- 
ting several days' journey above the rapids of the Sanga when 
he fell in with war, and got one white and seventeen black 
men of his party killed. Then he returned to de Brazza, who 
went up the river himself as far as the rapids and established 
a station there that black traders now frequent. He sent a 
lieutenant and fifty-five men on, and this good man got right 
through to Yola on the Niger and then returned to de Brazza 
-afely. On his way I may remark, as proof that he had 
struck an interior trade-route, he met traders who had pass- 
ports from Algeria on the Mediterranean, and these he counter- 
signed. Some of these people accompanied him, and when he 
returned to Brazzaville, horses from the Soudan were photo- 
graphed alongside a steamer on the Congo. 

He reported that as soon as you got out of the Ogowe 
forests to the north, the country became extremely healthy 
and none of the expedition suffered from sickness, and that 
this country abounds with cattle and horses. The lieutenant 
must have been traversing high land, for a part of the 
time while between the Ogowe and the Niger ; but that the 
country is healthy for white men I expect is only because 
there are no white men there for it to kill and make a death- 
rate. I do not believe that any part of Africa between the 
Zambesi and the Sahara is healthy for white men. 

There is in course of construction a railroad which is to 
open up the route from Congo Fran^ais to Lake Chad, 
following the course of the Sanga ; and this when com- 
pleted will form a line of markets that must be of great im- 
portance from the richness of the country they will drain. It 
should be the trade-route for the whole north central African 
ivory and other trades ; and there is no doubt de Brazza is 
manifesting his usual far-sightedness in turning his attention 
to the expansion of Congo Francais to the north-east, and 



368 CONGO FRANgAlS CHAP. 



unless Providence in the shape of death, or Sir George Goldie- 
de Brazza's only rival in administrative ability in West Africa! 
— intervenes, he will succeed in uniting Congo Frangais with the| 
French Soudan. De Brazza has done so much and done iti 
so well that I, as a woman, may be excused a sentimental hope** 
that he may live to see his edifice of power completed. 

After sketching the work of de Brazza the completer, we 
must turn to the work of Du Chaillu, the inaugurator of 
geographical knowledge in this region ; but I will only briefly 
sketch Du Chaillu's work, because his books are accessible 
to English readers and not given in scattered journals of 
geographical societies, as are the notices of de Brazza. 

Du Chaillu's works should be read carefully by every one in- 
terested in the forest region of Africa, for you find in them a 
series of wonderfully vivid pictures of life, both of man and 
beast, and of the country itself with its dense, gloriously 
beautiful, gloomy forests and its wild rivers, as true in all these 
things as on the day on which Du Chaillu wrote. On his 
return to England great doubt was cast upon his accounts ; 
but I have no hesitation in saying that I never came across 
anything while in his region that discredited Du Chaillu's 
narrative on the whole. His deductions from the things he 
saw are a matter apart, for no two West African travellers 
will ever be found to agree in their deductions ; but his descrip- 
tions of the country and the animals are truthful — yes, includ- 
ing those gorillas ; I know places where the gorilla population 
is every bit as thick as he says and the individuals every bit as 
big ; and his account of the natives and their ways are re- 
cognisable by any one having personal knowledge in the 
matter. Nor am I alone, I am glad to say ; for one of the 
greatest authorities on this matter, Dr. Nassau, who was on 
the Coast when Du Chaillu was, says there is nothing Du 
Chaillu relates that might not have happened in this country. 
More can be said of no one of the school of travellers of which 
Du Chaillu, Dr. Barth, Joseph Thomson, and Livingstone are 
past masters, and of which I am an humble member. We have 
not a set of white companions with us to confirm our statements 
and say, " Oui, out, certainement. Monsieur'^' as the engineer and 
his brother used to say on the Eclaireur to their captain; but we 




s 



wi DU CHAILLU 369 

have great compensations for this. We have no awful rows 
with each other in inconvenient places in Africa, or on our return 
home, and we can say to our critics : " Have you been 
there ? No ! Then go there or to whatever place you may 
happen to believe in ! and till then — shut up." Mr. VVinwood 
Reade accepted this sort of answer from Du Chaillu and 
went down to the regions of the Panavia Bight and Gaboon 
w ith a pre-determination to prove Du Chaillu was wrong ; 
and I am bound to say I think he utterly failed. He 
did not follow Du Chaillus course throughout by any means, 
jing little more than going in behind Corisco Bay and up the 
Gaboon estuary and the 'Como, a ver>' good bit of work, and 
charmingly described in his Savage Africa, but he was not 
in the country rich in gorillas in either place. 

Du Chaillu's journeys may be divided into two main groups, 
one of which is described in his first book, Explorations and 
Adventures in Equatorial Africa, 1861. During this journey 
he ascended the Muni River as far as the Osheba ^ country-, the 
'Como and Boque as far as the Sierra del Cristal, marched 
overland from the Gaboon estuarj^- to the rivers of the Delta 
of the Ogowe, and did a great deal of work in the whole 
of this great dangerous network ; going up and down the 
X'Poulounay^ and the O'Rembo and striking the upper waters 
of the Xgunie, going to and fro among the tribes of the 
Sierra del Cristal and Achangoland mountains. On his 
ccond journey, made in 1864-65, he was entirely in regions 
>outh of the Ogowe. He went into Feman Vaz, followed the 
O'Rembo for some little distance, and then struck away east 
by south, crossing the Ngunie at a point south of the spot he 
had reached on it when he discovered this river in 1858. 
Thence he went on into the mountains of Achangoland, 
where he was attacked and had to beat a very hurried 
retreat to the ocean. 

Nearly the whole of Du Chaillu's two journeys were 

1 The Osheba are now recognised as Fans. 

- Mr. R. B. X. Walker says Du Chaillu's X'Poulounay should read 
Mplunie, and that it is merely an inferior stream connecting the lower 
main Ogowe (Xgony-Oulange) and the Bandu. with the Feman Vaz, 
partly by means of the Ogalote. 

B B 



370 



CONGO FRANCAIS 



CHAP. 



through successions of choice spots. Many of his districts 
have not been revisited. In a few I was his immediate 
successor. 

By ill-luck M. Du Chaillu on both journeys just missed 
striking the main stream of the Ogowe, but he knew that it 
was there, and the information he brought back of the exist- 
ence of a great river whose delta he recognised he had been 
exploring, was received in France with a more proper spirit 




MOUNT LOPE, OGOWE. 



than in England or Germany; and in 1862 MM. Serval. 
Bellay, and Griffon were commanded by the French govern- 
ment to trace the Nazareth, which Du Chaillu regarded as 
the chief mouth of his great river. This they did almost to 
the bend of it by Eliva z'onlange (called by Du Chaillu 
Anengue) ; but they failed to reach the junction of the Ogowe 
(called by Du Chaillu the Okanda) with the great river 
discovered by Du Chaillu, the Ngunie, which junction he 



XVI AFRICAN EXPLORERS 371 

had surmised occurred. The confluence of these two rivers, 
as I have already described, is just above Lembarene, some 
twenty miles from the point this expedition reached, M. 
Ser\al, however, after the return of the expedition to Gaboon, 
made another attempt, and crossed by land from the Gaboon 
to the Ogowe, reaching Orongo a little above Osoamokita, 
definitely proving that the Gaboon estuary was not a mouth 
of the Ogowe and quite disconnected from it. In 1864 
another expedition sent by the French Government succeeded 
in reaching the confluence of the Xgunie with the Ogowe 
'^the Ngouyai with the Okanda of Du Chaillu). From those 
lays, up to the time of de Brazza, the most important worker on 

he Ogowe has been Mr. R. B. N. Walker, of whose journey 
I regret to say no full account has been published, for it 
..as a most remarkable one, undertaken before the Fans 

n the river bank had been overawed by M. de Brazza. 
-Air. Walker reached Lope, the furthest point attained until de 
Brazza's 1889 journey, and in addition to this, made many ex- 
ploring expeditions in the region.^ Then come the missionary 
journeys of Dr. Nassau, who was well-established up at 
Talagouga - with his house and church built when de Brazza 
came by in 1879. Since the latter opened up the district, the 
only travellers I know of, passing through the region up the 
Ogowe rapids, are MM. Alegret and Tesseris, who made a 
journey right up the Ogowe and out on to the Congo with a 
view to selecting a site for mission stations, and to these 
gentlemen I am indebted for many photographs of native 
types on the Upper Ogowe. Financial reasons have, I believe, 
militated against the establishment of further stations above 
Talagouga by the Mission Evangelique, to which these gentle- 
men belong ; and this station, and a Roman Catholic Mission 

1 Since my return to England, feeling much interested in the travels of 
Mr. Walker, I have hunted up several papers by him scattered among 
the transactions of various societies circa 1876, and from them fully recog- 
nise the great loss to our knowledge of the actual geography and 
ethnology of this region, that we suffer from Mr. Walker never having 
collected and published in book fonn the results of his travels and 
residence in Congo Frangais. 

- The natives sometimes call it Otalamaguga. Aguga means want, 
privation, hardship. 

B B 2 



372 CONGO FRANCAIS chap. 



at a place called Lestourville, close to Franceville, established 
in memory of a Governor who died, are now the outposts of 
Christianity in these West African regions. The main results 
of these travels on the Ogowe may be summarised as having 
shown that the Ogowe is one of the great rivers of Africa, the 
largest river between the Niger and the Congo, the largest 
strictly Equatorial river in the world, its course lying fairly 
neatly along the line for over 700 miles. It has a catchment 
basin roughly computed — for its basin is not yet thoroughly 
explored — of 130,000 square miles, and its discharge of water 
into the Atlantic is, according to the season, between 360,000 
and 1,750,000 cubic feet per second. 

Its main affluents are, in order of merit, the Ngunie enter- 
ing on its south bank, and the Ivindo, and the Okanda, both of 
which enter on its north bank. 

The Ogow6 is, on the whole, more of the nature of the 
Congo than of the Niger, save that unlike the Congo, it has an 
immense delta. This delta commences at Lembarene, just 
below the point where it receives the waters of the Ngunie 
river. The delta region is tremendously interesting both in 
flora, fauna, and fetish ; but it is tradeless, and its main popu- 
lation is made up of malaria microbes and mosquitoes, and it 
is supremely damp. Indeed the whole of it and the country 
from the Gaboon to Cette Kama,^ save the strange bubble- 
shaped mountains like Mount Sangato, Mount Mandji and 
Mount Okoneto, is under water when the Ogowe and its neigh- 
bouring rivers come down in the " long wet " ; and the lakes 
in the Lembarene district, Eliva Ayzingo and the still larger 
Eliva z'onlange, and all the string of lakes along the O'Rembo, 
Ungo, and Vinue overflow into the forest. The Sierra del 
Cristal cuts the course of the Ogowe just above Njole, form- 
ing the region of the rapids. There are 500 miles of these 
rapids, rendering navigation impossible in any other craft 

1 Sets Kama — the natives call it Masetyi. One or two Europeans pro- 
fess to believe that it was named by the Spaniards Siete Camas (the 
seven beds or graves) from the fact of seven men from some ship 
being buried there. It was first opened up as a trading station by Henry 
Walker in 1849, who traded from a ship. His brother, R. B. N. Walker 
established a factory on shore there in 1857. The natives have to this 
day a bad name. 



XVI THE OGOWE 373 



but a canoe, and highly perilous work in that, I assure you, 
from personal experience ; and when you get above them the 
river is not much use except for canoes, until you get to 
Franceville ; beyond Franceville it is only available for canoes 
in the wet season, but you do not want the Ogowe, being 
in touch with the great rivers flowing transversely to it into 
the Congo. 

Below the rapids, however, the Ogowe is a grand waterway, 
as waterways go on the West Coast. You can go up its 
main stream to Xjole for over 200 miles, and up its affluent 
the Ngunie as far as Samba, where there are lovel}' falls. 
Above these falls and a set of rapids the Ngunie would be 
again available for small steamboats, but there are none 
there at present. 

In addition to the main stream of the Ogowe, you can 
with the exercise of great care, and with the assistance of 
good fortune, navigate a small steamboat into Lake Ayzingo 
and Lake Z'onlange in the wet season, and also enter this 
main stream of the Ogowe from the ocean by two side creeks 
running down to Fernan Vaz. The current of the Ogowe is 
extremely swift, particularly above Lembarene, and the rise of 
the river in the Talagouga narrows, during the wet season, is 
from eighteen to twenty feet. This rise commences a month 
before the wet season gets established here, probably on account 
of the latter being earlier on the upper waters of the affluents 
that come in above Xjole — the Okanda, and the Ivindo. 

The region of the delta to the south is more water-eaten 
than to the north. The stretch of country to the north, between 
the delta of the Ogowe and the Gaboon, is rimmed along the 
seashore, and the estuary shore, by a sort of sand rampart 
which keeps in the overflow waters of the wet season, and 
forms the most impossible morass to get about in during this 
period. The human population of this region is sparse, and 
what there is resides in villages on the abruptly shaped 
bubble-like hills that rise isolated here and there. This region 
is very little explored ; the main stream of the Ogowe, en- 
tered either from Nazareth Bay or from Fernan Vaz, being 
the highway to and from the interior, and the unhealthiness 
and absence of trade in this great swampy forest belt offer 



374 CONGO FRANCAIS chap. 

but little inducement to travelling about in it. Along the 
banks of the main waterways passing through it, the villages 
are all situated in similar sites, namely perched on the top of a 
clay bank, or dwarf cliff, behind which the land slopes steeply 
into what, in the wet season, is a swamp. On all sides 
rises the colossal, white-trunked, liane-hung forest ; on all 
sides one may say, making no exception even for the broad 
river the villages face ; for across it there is the tree-cliff 
again and in its deep dark waters are mirrored back the 
forest and the sky — all that the world is made of to the 
inhabitants of these villages ; they are born, live, and die 
with no interval save sleep from the sight of that universe 
of forest, river and sky — and only a little sky — that which 
they can see over the river. All the change they get the 
seasons bring ; the gloomy dry season when the wind steals 
softly up the river in the morning time, and down the river in 
the evening ; the tornado seasons with their burst of earth- 
shaking thunder, and their lightnings coming down into the 
forest in great forked splashes, and their howling, squealing^ 
moaning winds, that rush devastating through it, claiming as 
many victims among its giants as even the lightnings do. 

The course of a grand tornado through a high forest is 
a thing to see, but anything but pleasant to experi- 
ence. The heavy brooding suffocating heat when the 
great storm seems pressing its hot breast down on the 
very ground — the sensation of depression and wretchedness 
that creeps over you — and the evident apprehension of all 
living things of what they know is coming ; an appre- 
hension which changes into terror when the storm bursts 
and comes sweeping seawards with all the frenzy of its de- 
moniac power and the roar of its rain. Behind it lie the 
bodies of many of the noblest trees, either lightning-.seared^ 
still standing, but turned in a moment from luxuriant living 
things into gaunt skeletons ; or thrown down, with all their 
bravery of foliage and bush-rope, by the winged force which 
has wrung them round, and pulled them sheer out by the 
roots — things lOO to 200 feet high, just as you would pull out a 
root of groundsel — flinging them crashing among their fellows, 
wrecks to rot. 



XVI THE WET SEASON 375 

r " 

I Then comes the wet season, not here like the wet season 
$n the Rivers, one grim, torrential waterfall ; but daily heavy 
sheets of rain diversified with intervals of bright sunshine 
and accompanied by heavy steamy heat ; with the Ogowe 
coming down daily muddier and muddier, floating along on 
its swift current bits of bank with the trees still growing 
on them, and surrounded by tangled masses of grass and 
drift-wood, forming the well-known floating islands which 
mariners often meet with miles out to sea off this coast. 

Every day the river rises up the banks, flowing over their 
lowest parts into the low reaches of the forest, and threatening 
with destruction the clay or mud-cliffs with the villages perched 
on them ; and often carrj'ing this threat out, and tearing down 
parts of the clay bank, swamping and sweeping away the frail 
houses and ruining the plantations of plantains close by. 

Between the Kama ^ countr>' and the Ouroungou country 
the channel of the Ogowe is, fortunatel)', broad, and there are 
opportunities for the swollen waters to flow easily away into 
the low-l)'ing uninhabited parts of the forest. Were it not so 
those clay cliffs would have worse times of it than they now 
do, and villages would be more precarious residential sites than 
is now the case. In the Talagouga gorge, where the current is 
more fierce — the waters being hemmed in to a narrower channel, 
and the banks made of the hard rocks of the Sierra del Cristal 
— the rise of the waters twenty and thirty feet above the dr}-- 
season level does not work the destruction that occurs in the 
clay bank region. 

The long wet season commences in September and lasts till 
the end of January-, its greatest intensity being in November 
and December.- In February' comes the short dr}-, then the 
short wet till May. From May till September is the long dr}-. 
The seasons, however, are not to be depended on with that 
calm reliance you may place in their wetness or drj'ness on the 
Gold Coast or in the Rivers. The long dry is fairly worthy of 
its name, the long wet also. 

The peculiarity of the dry season being the coolest season, 

1 Sometimes spelt Camma country-. The native name is Akania. The 
tribes living in it are known as the Nkami, frequently Xcomi. 
* Long dry season, Enomo ; long wet, Nlyanja. 



376 CONGO FRANCAIS chap. 



and its sky overhung with gray threatening-looking cloud, is • 
one that extends from just below Cameroons to Angola, 
z.e., to the edge of the Kalahari desert, where wet seasons 
are not; it strikes the person coming south from the Bights, 
where the dry season is the hot season and the wet the cooler, 
as most strange and peculiar. One of the many difficulties of 
travelling down the West African coast is that you are certain 
to get your season wrong somewhere. It is not so bad for me 
as it is for some people, because I rather prefer the wet and am 
reconciled to the climate. Now a person with a predilection for 
dry seasons has an awful life of it, and I must in justice remark 
that this predilection is the sane one to possess. I know 
an American gentleman, who " 'lowed he'd do West Africa," 
but ultimately " 'lowed West Africa had done him," who got 
so bothered by the different times different seasons were going 
on in different parts of the Coast that he characterised the 
entire West African climate as " a fried eel." Why fried I do 
not know. We do not fry in the Coast climate, we stew, — 
and I consider the statement harsh. Of course we have got 
the worst climate in the world and we are proud of it. Some 
day I will write a work in ten volumes that will be an ABC 
of the whole affair, and be what my German friends would call 
the essential pocket-book for West African travellers, and it 
will let them know what to expect, when, where, and how ; but 
meantime I may note that both wet and dry seasons have 
their points. If you want to go far up a river, without 
having ample opportunities of studying the various ways in 
which your craft can get wrecked on sandbanks, you must go 
in the full wet Of course this ends in your returning, or 
attempting to return in the dry, and as when you have pene- 
trated the interior any distance you usually start on your 
return journey full tilt, pursued by rapacious and ferocious 
cannibals, the fact that you stick on sandbanks on an 
average three times in a mile, gives you considerable worry. 
If you wish to penetrate the interior on foot, you must choose 
the dry season because of those swamps — a good bottomless 
swamp is impassable in the wet. In the dry it bears a crust 
over it, which, with suitable precautions, can be crossed, while 
the shallow swamps can be waded. And all the rivers are 



.^VI 



CANOE V. STEAM-LAUNCH 



377 



¦navigable in canoes in the dry, if too shallow for steamers, and 
xranoes are the most comfortable things to travel in in the 
?whole world. The predilection in favour of small steam 
launches is to me a myster}'. What joy any sane person 
-can have in one, who is not in a hurr}', I do not know. I 
have had some experience in them, and some of those ex- 
periences have been the 
worst I have gone 
through. I remember one 
occasion when I tried to 
get a little launch through 
a creek which was, al- 
though deep, full of water 
grass. Well ! I will be 
careful, but it was enough 
to make my distin- 
guished Liverpool friends 
use bad language. You 
see you could not get the 
screw to work because of 
the grass. Attempts at 
using the screw merely 
made the poor thing into 
a chaff cutter, and it was 
not made for that, so 
choked. You could not 
get up a sail, because there 
was no wind sufficiently 
strong to get through the 
grass, which towered in a 
dense mass some ten feet 
above your funnel. You 

could not row or paddle, because of the said grass, and 
you could not get out and walk or tow because the water 
was too deep. I should like to have the situation put 
as a problem at a nautical lamination. The only solution 
I found to it was to get two brawny blacks with matchets in 
the bows to cut a way for her, and the rest of the crew 
to pull her forward by catching hold of the grass ahead. 




A GIANTESS OF THE UPPER OGOW^ 



378 CONGO FRANCAIS chap. 



If any one can suggest a better I shall be only too de- 
lighted, for it was laborious work, and these choice spots are 
anything but uncommon in West African rivers. Then I re- 
member another steam lanch — the Dragon Fly. She had been 
built for coal, but there was no coal, so she had to burn wood. 
Wood, as my nautical friends would say, blows a ship out, and 
to store enough wood to go twenty miles you had to have 
wood billets everywhere ; all over the deck, and on top of the 
sun-deck, &c., to such an extent that there was no room for you, 
and the gunwale was nearly awash. Then you always got on 
a sandbank, several sandbanks, so the wood got burnt right 
up before you got anywhere you wanted to, and you had to 
return by the current and the help of poles. If I had 
been bound to go on in her, we must have spent the greater 
part of our lives wood-chopping in wet forests ; but I am of 
too nervous a disposition to penetrate the interior on the 
Dragon Fly with her dilapidated boiler. 

Then there was a patent launch that progressed theoretic- 
ally by the explosion of small quantities of gunpowder ; but 
the trade powder we had did not suit her somehow, so she 
pursued a policy of masterly inactivity, making awesome 
noises in her works, and the quickest trip she ever did was tO' 
the bottom. And she certainly did make that on trade 
powder. I own I am prejudiced against launches. The heat 
of the West Coast climate is quite enough for me without 
having a large hot water bottle, in the shape of a boiler, to sit 
by. And a canoe is a craft you can take almost anywhere, 
and is therefore better for general work, unless you have a 
good deep channel large enough for you to have a steamer of 
a respectable size. 

In addition to grass creeks and sandbanks, the obstacles 
to the navigation of side streams, on the Ogowe and its 
neighbouring rivers are swamps of papyrus, exceedingly 
lovely, but difficult to get through, and great floating masses of 
river lettuce {Pistia stratiotes). It is very like a nicely grown 
cabbage lettuce, and it is very charming when you look down 
a creek full of it, for the beautiful tender green makes a 
perfect picture against the dark forest that rises from the 
banks of the creek. If you are in a canoe, it gives }'ou little 



XVI 



RIVER-LETTUCE 



379 



apprehension to know you have got to go through it, but if 
)-ou are in a small steam launch, every- atom of pleasure in its 
beauty goes, the moment you lay eye on the thing. You 
dash into it as hard as you can go, with a sort of geyser of 
lettuces fl>ing up from the screw ; but not for long, for this 
interesting vegetable grows after the manner of couch-grass. 

I used to watch its method of getting on in life. Take 
a typical instance : a bed of river-lettuces growing in a creek 
become bold, and grow out into the current, which tears the 




UPPER OGOWE NATIVES. 



outsider pioneer lettuce off from the mat. Down river that 
young thing goes, looking as innocent as a turtle-dove. If 
you pick it up as it comes by your canoe and look under- 
neath, you see it has just got a stump. Roots ? Oh dear no ! 
What does a sweet green rose like that want roots for? It 
only wants to float about on the river and be happy; so you 
put the precious humbug back, and it drifts away with a smile 
and gets up some suitable quiet inlet and then sends out 
roots galore longitudinally, and at every joint on them buds 



38o CONGO FRANCAIS chap. 



up another lettuce; and if you go up its creek eighteen months 
or so after, with a Httle launch, it goes and winds those roots 
round your propeller. The fierce current of the wet season, 
when the main river scours into the creeks, and the creeks 
start fierce currents of their own with their increased waters, 
play great havoc with these lettuce beds, and plots of them 
get cut off from the main bodies. These plots float off down 
river, and as soon as they get into a bit of slack water or hitch 
on a rising sandbank, they collect all other floating things that 
come their way and start as islands. The grass soon chokes 
off its companion the lettuce, and makes the island habitable 
for other plants ; and so you have a floating island. These float- 
ing islands have a weird fascination, and I never saw so many 
of them in any river as in the Ogowe. To see a bit of seem- 
ing solid land, solemnly going past you down the river, as if it 
were out on business ; or if it is in tidal ways and you on a 
fixed point, to see it coming up to you, hanging about, and then 
retiring, is unsettling to one's general ideas of the propriety 
of nature. One of the largest of these floating islands I saw, 
was in the Karkola River. It had got caught in an eddy made 
by another stream entering this river, and it kept swimming 
round and round slowly and quietly. 

I have not here given an account of half the difficulties of 
navigating a tropical river in the forest-region, because they are 
so numerous, and so many of them not to be guarded against. 
Those logs which from their specific gravity float down just 
under water and strike you unexpectedly ; and even those 
logs that float on the surface, are nasty things to meet on an 
ink-black night. I well remember the miscellaneous joys we 
happened on once when dropping down the Ogowe in the 
dark in a small canoe. Half the way it was a steeplechase 
for the canoe over floating logs. Sometimes she refused her 
fences point-blank and butted them ; sometimes she would 
climb up them and fall over on the other side ; and even my 
experienced native companion owned that it was difficult to 
tell, during the subsequent aquatic sports which her crew 
indulged in, which was the bottom of the canoe and which was 
the unsophisticated log. Sometimes she would clear her log- 
fence at a bound in a showy way, but then ^\•hen she caine 
down the other side, she went too deep and filled herself and 



X\I 



TAKING THE TIMBER 



381 



foundered, and so the only thing was to pole the logs off. Some 
of those logs, by the by, had queer ways with them. One, on 
being poked on the end as it floated towards, us opened its 
front section and bit the pole with such a grip that the man 
using it let go all one time. Yes, I dare say it was a crocodile 
— -still African vegetation is a queer thing. 

You would naturally think that, in spite of sandbanks with 
cliff-edges down stream, of sections of the continent floating 
round, and of logs liable to bite and not liable to bite, you had 
at least one thing left to rely on — the bank. But that bank 
may be all right, and again, as the captain of the late 
ss. Sparrow would say, it mayn't. A friend of mine, for 
example, who got stuck in a launch up a river-creek on a sand- 
bank, got a hawser out, and winding it round some mangroves 
on the bank, proceeded " to have her off in no time " with the 
steam winch. She did not budge an inch, but the African 
continent did : the whole bit of bank came away, and down 
on the boat came the trees with a swish, burj-ing everj^thing 
and everybody in branches and foliage. As he said, we were 
like the babes in the wood after robins had been along,. 
' 'H a big scale " ; and he also stated, as we climbed up on 
top of our arboreal superstructure, that " Africa was a rotten 
continent." 




CHAPTER XVII 

THE LOG OF THE LAFAYETTE 

During a voyage undertaken to the island of Corisco, to which is added 
some account of the present condition of the island and its inhabitants, 
and also of that of Cape Esterias and things in general, as is cus- 
tomary with the author. 

As soon as I returned to Glass I naturally went to discourse 
with Doctor Nassau on Fetish. We discoursed, I may mention, 
at length and to my advantage. In one of these talks the 
doctor mentioned that there were lakes in the centre of the 
Island of Corisco, and that in those lakes were quantities of 
fish, which fish were always and only fished by the resident 
ladies, at duly appointed seasons. Needless to say, I felt it a 
solemn duty to go and investigate personally ; and equally 
needless to say, Doctor Nassau gave me every assistance, 
which took the form of lending me a small vessel called the 
Lafayette. She had been long in his possession, but of late 
years little used, still she was a fine seaworthy boat, so with a 
crew headed by the Doctor's factotum, Eveke, who was a 
native of the said island, together with a few friends of his, we 
set sail. 

Left Libreville at 8 A.M. so as to get full advantage of wind 
and tide. Doctor Nassau kindly comes along the wharf to 
see us clear away. We then make for the guard-ship, to pass 
our papers, and do this in an unyachtsmanlike way, lowering 
our gafif too soon, hence have ignominiously to row alongside. 
The off-shore breeze blows strong this morning and the tide 
is running out like a mill-race, so the Lafayette flies seaward 



CH. XVII THE LA FA VETTE 383 



gallantly. Libreville looks very bright and pleasing — with its 
red roofs and white walls amongst the surrounding wealth of 
dark green mango trees ; but we soon leave it behind, passing 
along in front of the low, rolling hills, all densely clad with 
forests, out to Cape Clara, or Cape Joinville as some maps will 
have it — the end of the northern shore of the Gaboon 
estuary. When we get to the Cape we find a pretty fair sea 
running, and Eveke, whose seamanship I am beginning to 
view with suspicion, lets her gybe, and I get knocked into 
the bottom of the boat by the boom, and stay there. There 
is nothing like entering into the spirit of a thing like this if 
you mean to enjoy it, and after all that's the wisest thing to 
do out here, for there's nothing between enjoying it and dying 
of it. The sun is broiling hot ; everything one has got to sit 
on or catch hold of is as hot as a burning brick, and there is 
no cabin, nor even locker, on our craft ; so I prop myself up 
against my collecting-box and lazily take stock of the things 
round me, and write. 

My crew are a miscellaneous lot of M'pong\ve, black but 
not comely. One gentleman, however, evidently thinks he is, 
as he has a beautiful pair of carefully tended whiskers, rare 
adjuncts to the African. He also has a pair of kerseymere 
trousers, far too tight for him ; but a man with whiskers " all 
same for one with white man " must dress the part, and 
trousers are scarce in this country. Our cargo consists of two 
bags of salt, several bags and boxes of sand for ballast, several 
bottles of water for drinking, a bundle of bedding — a loan from 
the Doctor, and a deck chair — a loan from Mr. Hudson. Owing 
to the Lafayette having no deck, the latter is " not required 
on the voyage," and is folded up. I observe with anxiety that 
the cargo is not stowed in a manner that would meet with the 
approval of Captain Murray, and decide to get dunnage and 
do it in style the first port we call at. Can't possibly shift 
cargo in this sea. The crew drink the water in such quantities 
that there will be an ocean tragedy if we get becalmed. We 
run along close in shore from Cape Clara to Cape Esterias — a 
fine, sandy, rock-strewn shore, backed by a noble bush — for 
eight miles. The land falls away then, for Esterias is the 
southernmost point of Corisco Bay. Close to Cape Esterias 



384 THE LOG OF THE LAFAYETTE chap. 



I see the familiar bark-built village that betokens Fans, and 
on sighting this we change our course and lay one apparently 
for the Brazilian ports. 

The Lafayette flies along before a heavy sea, and from my 
position at the bottom of her I can see nothing but her big 
white mainsail and her mast with its shrouds and stays stand- 
ing out clear, rocking to and fro, against the hard blue sky; 
and just the white crests of the waves as they go dancing by. 
I have nothing to hear save the pleasantest sounds in the 
world — the rustle of the sail and the swish of the waves as they 
play alongside the vessel. Now and then there is added to these 
the lazy, laughing talk of the black men ; and now and then an 
extra lively wave throws its crest in among us. Soon all the 
crew drop softly off to sleep, Eveke joining them, so I rouse 
up and take the main sheet and the tiller and keep her so. I 
feel as if I were being baked to a cinder, but there's no help 
for it, and some of it is very pleasant. About four o'clock I 
see two lumps of land on the sky-line. I wake Eveke up and 
he seems surprised at my not knowing what they are. " That's 
Corisco and Bana, sir," says he. I explain to Eveke, as I hand 
over the navigation to him, that every one has not been born 
on Corisco, and the fact of his having had this advantage is 
the reason of his being pilot now ; and I reseat myself in the 
bottom of the boat and carefully look over the side, mindful 
of that boom palaver. We head for the bigger and most 
western bit of land, soon seeing the details of its undulating, 
black-green forests. When we get within a mile, Eveke asks 
me to wake up the man in front of me, and I stir him firmly, 
but gently, with a chart ; for I know what waking black men 
leads to sometimes ; and when he rouses I order him to wake 
up the others, and in a few minutes they are all more or less 
awake, even the man on the look-out. They wash their 
mouths out with sea-water, and then re-commence their laugh- 
ing, talking and water-drinking again. 

We run into a small, sandy-shored, wooded bay where, as 
1 find is Eveke's habit, we lower our gaff prematurely and 
drift, in the proper way, leisurely towards the above, 
stern foremost. At last the Lafayette, finding ever}'thing 
is left to her, says : " Look here, you fellows, if you don't help 



i 



XVII CORISCO 385 

I won't play," and stops and commences to swing broadside 
on. So the oars — or sweeps I should call them, for we have 
evidently returned to fourteenth century seamanship — are got 

ut and in a few minutes we are bumping violently on the 
-trand. We let go the anchor, make all snug and go ashore. 
When ashore, of course with the exception of myself 

nd the pilot, the crew indulge in a dance to stretch their 
cramped limbs. As no inhabitants turn up, Eveke runs up 
into the little village that fronts us and hunts a few out, who 
come and stare at us in a wooll}- stupid way, very different 
from my friends, the vivacious Fans. Eveke has tremendous 
greetings with them — particularly with the young ladies. He 
hastily informs me that he is related to them. I hope he is. 
He says most of the people are away at the farms — which is 
not an affliction to me, for Eveke wastes enough time on those 
we have got, and they seem to me a churlish lot for Africans. 
The only question they ask us is : Have we any tobacco ? 
Corisco is nearly out of tobacco, owing to the weather having 
been too rough of late for them to get across either to Elob)', 
or Cocco Beach, where the factories are, for more. They are 
gratified by our affirmative answer, and sit down, in a line, on 
a large log, and beam at us in a subdued way, while we get 
the things we want off the Lafayette and finish securing her 
for the night. This being done, Eveke and I go off to his 
father's house — his father, the Rev. Mr. Ibea, being the sole 
representative of the American Presbyterian mission now on 
Corisco Island. 

I have heard much of the strange variety of scenery to be 
found on this island : how it has, in a miniature wa}% rivers, 
lakes, forests, prairies, swamps and mountains ; and our walk 
demonstrates to me the baldness of the truth of the statement. 
The tide being now nearly in, we cannot keep along the beach 
all the way, which is a mercy — for the said beach is, where it 
is dr}-, of the softest, whitest sand imaginable ; where it is wet, 
I 'f the softest, pink-dove-coloured sand, and it is piled with 
fresh, rotting, and rotten seaweed into which, at every step, 
)ou sink over your ankles in an exhausting way, and on the 
surface of which you observe centipedes crawling, and, need- 
less to say, sandflies galore. When we come to a point of an>- 

C c 



386 THE LOG OF THE LAFA YETTE chap. 

one of the many little bays or indentations in the coast-line 
where the sea is breaking, we clamber up the bank and turn 
inland, still ankle deep in sand, and go through this museum 
of physical geography. First a specimen of grass land, then 
along a lane of thickly pleached bush, then down into a wood 
with a little (at present) nearly dried up swamp in its recesses ; 
then up out on to an open heath which has recently been 
burnt and is covered with dead bracken and scorched oil 
palms ; then through a village into grass again, and back to 
the beach to plough our way through seaweed across another 
bay ; then round some remarkable rocks, up into a wood, then 
grass, and more bush and more beach, and up among a cluster 
of coco-palms, more grass ; and then a long stretch of path 
with one side of it a thick hedge which is encroaching in a 
way that calls for energetic lopping, for the bush leans so 
across the path that you also have to lean at an angle of nearly 
45° towards the other side. I begin to despair, my boots 
being full of sand, and to fear we shall never get through the 
specimens before nightfall. There is such an air of elaborate 
completeness about this museum, and we have not even com- 
menced the glacier or river departments. However, at length 
we see what seems to be the entrance to an English park, 
and coming up to this find a beautiful avenue of mango 
trees. 

Corisco evidently feels the dry season severely. The dry 
sandy soil is thickly strewn with dead leaves. At the end of 
the avenue there is a pretty wooden house, painted white, with 
its doors and window-frames painted a bold bright blue. 
Around it are a cluster of outbuildings like it, each mounted 
on poles, the little church, the store, and the house for the 
children in the mission school. A troop of children rush out 
and greet Eveke effusively. One of them, I am informed, is 
his brother, and he commences to bubble out conversation in 
Benga. I send Eveke off to find his mother, thinking he will 
like to get his greetings with her over unobserved, and after a 
few minutes she comes forward to greet me, — a pretty, bright- 
looking lady whom it is hard to believe old enough to be 
Eveke's mother ; and not only Eveke's but the mother of a 
lot of strapping young women who come forward with her, 



XVII A NATURAL BREAKWATER 387 

and the grandmother of other strapping young women 
mixed up among them. I must really try and find out which 
is which. Until I do so perhaps it will be diplomatic to 
regard them all as her daughters. Mrs. Ibea insists, in the 
kindliest way possible, on my taking possession of her own 
room. Mr. Ibea is away, she says, on an evangelising visit to 
the mainland at Cape St. John (the northern extremity of 
Corisco Bay), intending to call at Eloby Island ; so he may not 
be here for some days, and she promptly gives me tea and 
alligator pears, both exceedingly welcome. 

The views from the windows of my clean and comfortable 
room are very beautiful. The house stands on a high pro- 
montory called Alondo Point, the turning point of the south 
and west sides of the island, and almost overhangs the sea. 
A reef of rock runs out at the foot of the cliff for about a mile, 
on which the sea breaks constantly. The great rollers of the 
South Atlantic, meeting'here their first check since they left 
Cape Horn and the Americas, fly up in sheets of foam with a 
never-ending thunder. I go to bed early, thankfully observing 
that the gay mosquito curtain is entirely " for dandy " — 
decorative and not defensive. 

The obtaining of specimens of fish from the lakes in the 
centre of the island being my main object in visiting Corisco, 
I set to work by starting immediately after breakfast to the 
bay that we came to last night, and which I will call Nassau 
Bay in future. I go along the same variegated path I came 
by yesterday. Eveke has slept at the village in the Bay 
among his relatives so as to keep an eye, he says, on the 
Lafayette. When I find him, he says that only women can 
catch the lake fish, and that they always catch them in 
certain baskets, and as these have to be made they cannot be 
ready to-day. Having heard Corisco is famous for shells, and 
having seen nothing on any of the many beaches on the 
southern side of the island more conchologically charming 
than half a dozen dilapidated whelks, I ask where the main 
deposits of shells are. Eveke says there is any quantity of 
them on the other little islands, Laval to the south, and Bana 
to the S.E. in Corisco Bay. To his horror I say I will go to 
those islands now, and we get our scattered crew together and 

C C 2 



388 THE LOG OF THE LAFA YETTE CHAP. 



the Lafayette under way, and run across first to some sand-! 
banks, whose heads are exposed at low water — beautiful 
stretches of dove-coloured sand, but apparently not even a 
whelk as far as shells go. Up through the sand are sticking 
thousands of little white tubes, apparently empty ; but after a 
few minutes, — having parted from the riot of the crew and 
quietness reigning — I find, when the sand is wetted by the 
foam, some lovely little sea anemones looking out of the tops 
of the tubes. After a time I rejoin the crew and find they 
have dug out a few olive and harp shells, but nothing remark- 
able ; and I hurt Eveke's feelings by saying I consider Corisco, 
as a collecting ground for shells, a fraud. He assures me 
solemnly that in the wet season, which has calmer seas than 
the dry, when the sun comes out and shines upon the 
exposed sandbanks, they are covered with thousands of shells, 
but from his description I think they are mostly olives. We 
go across from the sandbank to Laval, a little rock island 
with a patch of bush on its summit, and from its edges 
— the size does not run to shores — I get some sponges. Then 
on to Bafia, a larger island, which has a population of rats 
only, from whence it is sometimes called Rat Island — but I 
get no more shells. Before I get back to Corisco, Eveke 
solemnly assures me that the women with their fishing baskets 
will be ready to-morrow early. 

Get up and hurry off early to Nassau Bay. Women not 
ready. Wait for two hours sitting on the steps of a native's 
house, which is built in the European style, and situated across 
the top of the village. There are two other houses like this one, 
I notice, between here and Alondo, each ostentatiously placed 
across the street. At last Eveke comes and says, " The 
\\ omen make trouble. They no get the baskets ready to-day ; 
they have them ready to-morrow for sure, but not to-day." 
Internally blessing Eveke and the ladies, I go to see how the 
world is made along the southern shores of the island — along the 
dove-coloured sand, hedged on my right hand by the spray wall 
of the surf, and on the left by low -growing bushes, flowering 
profusely with long sprays of intensely sweet-scented, white 
mimosa-like flower. Behind these rises the high bush of one 
of the miniature forests. Every now and then I pass a path 



XVII CAVES OF CORISCO 389 

> some native village, which, though hidden behind the trees, 
has its existence betrayed by the canoes, three or four of 
them drawn high up out of the reach of the surf under a group 
of coco-palms, which, as a general rule, stand as a gatCAvay to 
these paths. About a mile along, perhaps a little more, the 
point runs out which makes the eastern end of Nassau Bay, 
the largest bay on this southern side of the island, and the 
only reasonably safe anchorage on all Corisco's shores. This 
point is composed of similar rock to that which juts out and 
forms the western end of this bay.^ The rocks are exceed- 
ingly strange and picturesque. The surf play has hollowed 
them out underneath, until the upper part overhangs like a 
.snow cornice ; and in several places masses of rock jut out 
beyond the others, weathered into strange forms, looking 
wonderfully like the heads of great lizard and serpent mon- 
sters stretched out, gazing towards the mainland of Africa. 
Some of these points of rock have trees growing along the 
neck of them, looking like a bristling mane. The under part 
of the rock is eaten back into a concavity, and in this again 
are eaten out groups of caves, a network of them intercommu- 
nicating in places, and pillars of rock rising in them from floor 
to ceiling. In the floor are perfectly lovely, clear pools of sea- 
water ; the rock in which the\' are hollowed out is a soft 
gray-green, and some zoophjte of an exquisite bright mauve 
or pink-violet colour grows in a broad band round the upper 
edge ; and in the water, lambent with the light reflected from 
the roof, float in a tangled skein the seaweeds — the softest, 
sweetest commingling of golden-browns, greens, and reds 
imaginable. These little caves are gems of beaut}-, and 
nothing but becoming suddenly aware that the tide is rapidly 
coming in, makes me tear myself away and return across the 
bay, past where the Lafayette lies anchored, towards Alondo. 
After a mile over this trying track of rotten seaweed, on going 
round a little point, I find a lot of wild, uncivil children, who 
\ ell and dance round me half-terrified, but wholly malignant. 
They spit at me and shout, " Frenchy no good," " Frenchy no 
good," in English, such as it is, and equally broken Spanish. 
At first I think, Well ! France is no business of mine ; but I 
^ Specimen identified by the Geological Sur\-ey as calcareous grit. 



390 THE LOG OF THE LAFAYETTE CHAP. 



instantly receive a severe rap on my moral knuckles from my 
conscience, which tells me that as I chose to place myself 
under the protection of the French flag above Njole, and a 
great protection it undoubtedly was, I must, in my turn, pro- 
tect it from insult when it flies on the Lafayette in foreign 
waters. Moreover, the blood of the Vikings that is in me gets 
up on its own account at such treatment, and I make up my 
mind to suitably correct those children forthwith, particularly 
a male albino about fourteen years old, who is clad in the 
remains of an antique salt sack, which he wears unaltered, in- 
verted over him. Unfortunately, holes have been roughly cut 
in the bottom and sides of it to let out his unnecessary head 
and arms ; but at this identical moment I catch sight of a 
sweet-looking nun doing needle-work as she sits on the rocks. 
I go up to her and pass compliments, but do not complain to 
her about her flock, because she must be perfectly aware how 
they are going on, and secondly I am sure she is too meek to | 
deal with them, even if she disapproves. Moreover, my know- 
ledge of Spanish consists almost entirely of expressions of 
thanks and greetings — expressions which you are most in 
need of when dealing with Spaniards, as a general rule. So, 
finding she knows no English, I bow myself off and go my 
way round the rocky point that forms the end of another 
shallow bay, looking ostentatiously tired and feeble. Round 
that rocky point after me come the yelling pack led by the 
albino, and there things happen to those children that cause 
them to prefer the nun's company to mine. I make my way 
on, and to my dismay find the sea flying and churning up 
in a roaring rock cauldron at the extremity of the next point, 
so that I cannot get past. There is no path up inland 
that I can reach without passing the place where I have left 
the nun sitting. I feel naturally shy about doing this because 
of the male albino having gone off leaving his sack with me, 
and I do not know the Spanish idiom fpr " Please, ma'am, itj 
came off in my hand ;" though doubtless this idiom exists, for ' 
there are parlour-maids and wine-glasses in Spain, and I am 
sure they employ this phrase every time when, in washing a 
wine-glass, they have gripped one end like a vice and wrung the 
other off And not the albino alone has got out of repair this 



xvn MAGIC IN MATCHES 391 

side of the rock, for neither that promising young lady who 
spat in my face, nor the one who threw sand in my eyes are 
what they were this morning. There is nothing for it then 
but the dwarf cHfif ; so I climb it and get into the bush and 
try and strike a path. I get into a plantain plantation, 
which means there is a village close at hand, and on the 
further side I come into a three-hut one, and find a 
most amiable old lady sunning herself in the centre of 
it. Unfortunately she does not know any English, but I shed 
a box of lucifer matches on her, wishing to show that I 
mean well, and knowing that one of the great charms of a 
white man to a black is this habit of shedding things. It is 
their custom to hang round one in their native wilds in the 
hope something will be shed, either intentionally or uninten- 
tionally. Not, I fancy, for the bald sake of the article itself, 
but from a sort of sporting interest in what the next thing 
shed will be. I know it is my chief charm to them, and 
they hang round wondering whether it will be matches, 
leaf tobacco, pocket-handkerchiefs, or fish-hooks ; and when 
the phenomena flag they bring me various articles for sale 
to try to get me into working order again. My present 
old lady is glad of her matches and they brighten up her 
intelligence, and she begins to understand I want something. 
After experimenting on me with a bunch of plantains and 
a paw-paw unsuccessfully, she goes and fetches a buxom j'oung 
woman who soon comprehends I want Mrs. Ibea's house, and 
instantly she and the old lady escort me down a grass path 
and through some galleries of specimens of physical geography. 
We are soon joined by two pretty young girls, and wind our 
way back to the shore again on the further side of the point 
that had driven me inland. The elders then take themselves 
off after a mutual interchange of compliments and thanks ; 
the young women come on with me. Mighty prett}- pictures 
they make with their soft dusky skins, lithe, rounded figures, 
pretty brown eyes, and surf-white teeth showing between their 
laughing lips as they dance before me ; and I cannot help 
thinking what a comfort they would be to a shipwrecked 
mariner and how he would enjoy it all. 

On we go, climbing round every rocky point until we 



392 THE LOG OF THE LAFA YETTE chap. 

find the tide too far in for any more beach at all, and strike 
into an inland path. These Corisco paths require under- 
standing to get on with. They all seem to start merely with 
the intention of taking you round a headland because the tide 
happens to be in ; but, like all African paths, once they are 
started Allah or Sheitan only knows where they will go, 
and their presiding spirits might quote Kipling and sing, " God 
knows where we shall go, dear lass, and the deuce knows what 
we shall see," to the wayfarer who follows them. One thing 
and one thing only you can safely prognosticate of the 
African path ; and that is that it will not follow the shortest 
line between any two given points. A Corisco one turns up 
off the beach, springs inland saying to you, "Want to go round 
that corner, do you ? Oh ! well just come and see some of our 
noted scenery while you are here," and takes you through a 
miniature forest, small swamp, and a prairie. " It's a pity," 
says the path, " not to call at So-and-so's village now we 
are so near it," and off you have to go through a patch of 
grass and a plantation to the village. " We must hurry up 
and get back to that beach again. Blessed if I hadn't nearly 
forgotten what I came out for ! " it continues ; and back 
on to the beach it plunges, landing you about fifty yards 
from the place where you left it on account of the little 
headland. 

At last we reach Alondo, and I give my guides buttons, reels 
of cotton, pocket-handkerchiefs, fish-hooks, and matches, and 
we part friends ; they to show their treasures in their village, 
and to give rise to the hope that I may get lost on Corisco 
again, soon and often, I to tea and talk with Mrs. Ibea. I tell 
her Eveke had said in the forenoon, when I last saw him, 
that he was coming home in the evening ; but he does not turn 
up and his mother says she " expects he is courting his mother- 
in-law." Regarding this as probably a highly interesting piece 
of native custom, in the interests of Science, I prop open my 
sleepy eyelids and listen. After all it isn't — but only a piece 
of strange native morality. His lady-love, it seerns, is house- 
keeper to a man on the mainland who is always talking of 
leaving the district but doesn't do so, so the marriage gets 
perpetually postponed. I hope that man won't try the patient 



XVII NATIVE TR.VDER KILLED 393 

affection of the engaged pair too long, for I should fancy it 
might lead to some internal disorder. 

I heard a quantity of details of Corisco family affairs — 
one very sad one, of how a young man who was a native 
trader for one of the German houses up the Cameroons 
River, came to his death a short time ago. The firm had 
decided to break factory at the place where he was stationed^ 
a thing the natives of this country cannot bear ; for having a 
factory that has once been established among them removed, 
brings them into derision and contempt among their neigh- 
bours. " You're a pretty town," say the scornful. " You can't 
keep a factory. Yah ! " Moreover, a factory in a town is an 
imusement and a convenience, let alone being lucrative to the 
native. Well, this unfortunate young Benga man was left 
behind by the white men to see the last of the goods cleared 
)Ut and brought down river; and while he was faithfully looking 
to these things, the local natives attacked him and killed him 
and " cut him up like a fish into small pieces and threw them 
into the water," says Mrs. Ibea. These native sub-traders 
have very risky lives of it, travelling undefended, with goods, 
amongst the savage tribes on this South-West Coast. They 
frequently get killed and robbed, and the only thing that 
keeps them from not being so treated still more frequently is 
that the commercial instinct of the bush tribes warns them 
that it would completely stamp out trade. In Corisco Bay 
the river Muni, a name given it by the Portuguese early 
navigators from the native word for " take care," is notoriously 
unsafe — all the more so because there is no settled European 
authority over it, France and Spain being at loggerheads about 
the ownership of the piece of coast from Cape Esterias to 
Batta. This had doubtless a good deal to do with those 
children's conduct this afternoon ; for Corisco Island and Eloby 
Islands are Spanish possessions, and are under a Vice- 
Governor to the Governor of Fernando Po. I remember 
when I was out before, being led to believe that the Vice- 
Governorship of Eloby was a sort of pensioning-off place for 
Spanish officials who had gone mad, or that it was held by 
London County Councillors in disguise. One of the Vice- 
Govemors was truly great at domestic legislation, and nothing 



394 THE LOG OF THE LAFAYETTE chap. 



but the habit of forgetting in a day or so the orders he had 
issued made the place habitable at all. At one time there was 
an ordinance that all lights on the island should be out at 
lo P.M., and as your African is a sad dog for late hours, this 
bored him terribly. Shortly after, there was another that all 
goats should be kept tied up. This fairly ran the native off 
his legs trying to catch them. The goats, I believe, liked it, 
regarding it as a kind of a game, though they made an awful 
ba-aaing which kept the lightless Africans awake. I do not 
know what the present Governor is like. Maybe he would 
have seen fit to regard me as a filibuster coming in flying the 
French flag, intent on annexing Corisco to Gaboon, and might 
have sent me off to prison at Fernando Po, as happened to Mr. 
Ibea once for some religious palaver he got into with the two 
Catholic priests who are on the island. 

These priests, and I believe three nuns, are the only white 
live people on the island now. Dead white people are there 
in the two cemeteries in a sad quantity ; for in the early fifties, 
when the American Presbyterian Mission opened work on 
this Coast, their opinion was that the fever risk for the white 
ministers would be less on this island, separated as it is 
by some twenty miles of sea from the mainland, and that 
they could establish a station on it and live in comparative 
safety, while they educated natives to go and do the work on 
the mainland. But Corisco Island behaved like every other 
West Coast " sanatorium," and demonstrated that it was no 
healthier than its neighbouring country ; and several ministers 
having died and most of the remainder suffering severely from 
fever, they decided to move on to the continent, where the}- 
could carry on their work directly and could not be much 
worse off than they were on the island. 

Dr. Nassau, of whom I have already spoken, and Mrs. Hog- 
den, whose husband lies buried on Corisco, are the surviving 
members of the early days of the American Presbyterian Mis- 
sion ; and on the Mission moving to the continent, the Doctor, 
more stw, made some wonderful journeys hundreds of miles 
into the interior, where no white man had been before, and 
where in many places no white man has been since. I am quite 
aware that Dr. Nassau was the first white man to send home 



XVII DR. NASSAU 395 

gorillas' brains ; still I deeply regret he has not done more for 
science and geography. Had he but had Livingstone's con- 
scientious devotion to taking notes and publishing them, 
we should know far more than we do at present about the 
hinterland from Cameroons to the Ogowe, and should have, for 
ethnological purposes, an immense mass of thoroughly reliable 
information about the manners and religions of the tribes 
therein, and Dr. Nassau's fame would be among the greatest 
of the few great African explorers — not that he would care a 
row of pins for that. I beg to state I am not grumbling at 
him, however, as I know he would say I was, because of his 
disparaging remarks on my pronunciation of M'pongvve 
names, but entirely from the justifiable irritation a student of 
fetish feels at knowing there is but one copy of this collection 
of materials, and that that copy is in the form of a human 
being and will disappear with him before it is half learnt by 
us, who cannot do the things he has done. 

Get up very early, make a hasty breakfast, and walk to 
Nassau Bay, full of pleasant anticipations of a day's good fish- 
ing in those lakes. When I arrive at the village find I need 
not have hurried, so sit down for my usual wait. 

At last Eveke, who has been making demonstrations of 
great activity in getting the ladies under way, succeeds in 
so doing — or, I fancy, more properly speaking, those ladies 
who are ready, and disposed to start on their own account, 
do so. Several men accompany the party and we leave the 
village by a path that goes round to the right of the plank- 
built house, plunges forthwith into a little ravine, goes across 
a dried swamp, up a hill and out on to an open prairie, all in 
about twenty minutes. The prairie has recently been burnt, 
and is a stretch of blackened green with the ruins of a few 
singed, or burnt up, trees rising from it. 

These burnt lands are interesting, though they make one in 
a horrid mess. I now understand the rationale of the state- 
ment the natives have often made to me ; namely, that if you 
fire the grass too soon, or when there is no wind, you kill it for 
good. If you wait until it is "dr>^ too much " it is all right 
and you don't kill it. This is because the grass grows in a 
lot of bulb-like bottom tufts ; when the outer and upper parts 



396 THE LOG OF THE LAFA YETTE chap. 



are quite dry it catches fire and, fanned by the wind, the fire 
licks this up and sweeps on with great rapidity, leaving the 
moist heart of the tuft comparatively uninjured ; and this sends 
out fresh green leaves when the wet season's tornado rain 
comes down on it. Whereas if you burn it too soon, and 
without wind, the outer stuff, being insufficiently dry to burn 
with this rapidity, smoulders, and the heat of it lasting longer, 
kills the inside. 

Some of the low-growing, bamboo-like palms act in the 
same way; but should there happen to be a lot of dry grass, or 
their own dry cast-off leaves round them, close up to the 
stem, their vital part just above the root gets injured, and 
they die or make very bad convalescences. I do not know 
whether it is so in Corisco, but at other places where I have 
been there is always a fire-doctor, who by means of ju-ju, 
backed as ju-ju often is by sound common sense and local 
knowledge, decides which is the proper day to set the grass 
on fire. 

We go across this prairie into a little wood mainly made 
up of beautiful wild fig-trees, with their muscles showing 
through the skin like our own beech-trees' muscles do, only 
the wild fig stem is whitish-grey and most picturesquely 
twisted and branching. Then out of this on to another 
prairie, larger and unburnt. During the whole of our walk 
from the village we have been yelling in prolonged, intoned 
howls for ladies, whose presence is necessary to the legiti- 
mate carrying on of our fishing — lady representatives of each 
village being expected to attend and see the fish are properly 
divided. I cannot find there is any fetish at the bottom of 
this custom, and think its being restricted to the women is 
originally founded on the male African's aversion to work ; 
and in the representation of the villages, on the Africans' 
distrust of each other. 

Notably, and grievously, we howl for En-gou-ta-a-a and 
Engouta comes not ; so we throw ourselves down on the 
deliciously soft, fine, golden brown grass, in the sun, and wait 
for the tardy, absent ones, smoking, and laughing, and sleeping, 
and when any of the avocations palls on any of us we rise up 
and howl " Engouta." After about two mortal hours of this, and 



CORISCO CONFLAGRATIONS 397 



when my companions have for some time settled down, quite 
reconciled, to sleep peacefully, I hear a crackle-crackle-like 
fusillade of miniature guns. Looking towards the place whence 
the sound comes I notice a cloud of bright blue smoke sur- 
mounting a rapidly advancing wall of crimson fire. I get up 
and mention this fact briefly to my drowsy companions, adding 
in the case of the more profound sleepers an enlightening 
kick, and make an exemplary bee-line to the bush in front 
of us. The others follow my example with a rapidity I should 
not have e.xpected in their tribe, but, in spite of some verj' 
creditable and spirited sprint performances, three members of 
the party get scorched and spent the balance of the afternoon 
sitting in mud-holes, comforting themselves with the balmy 
black slime. 

The fire swept across our bit of the prairie in the line of the 
breeze, and died out when it came to the green wood in a very 
short time ; and shortl)' afterwards the absent ones, including 
ICngouta, turn up. These ladies explained " some fool man 
been done burn " a patch on the other side to plant manioc. 
rhe whole island is busy planting now before the rains come 
<jn. Some days ago he thought the fire was out, and safe, but 
it wasn't, and the stiff breeze fanned it up. " People should 
be careful with fire," I say sententiously and they all agree 
with me, the scorched ones enthusiasticall)'. 

A little clamber down into the wood we are in brings us to 
the lakes. There is a little chain of them — the\- are just 
basins in the rock strata of varying sizes, and each has a 
thick lining of black mud. The water is at its lowest now, 
as it is the end of the dry season, and the water they contain 
is, I think, the accumulation of rain water from wet seasons. 

As far as I can see there are no streams running into or 
out of them. In the wet season probably- there ma}- be both. 
One of them the ladies refuse to fish in, saying it was too 
deep ; possibly being a deep crack in the rock like the one you 
see as you pass the enclosed grounds of theCatholic Mission at 
Evangelanda ; and I think they are prevented from evaporating, 
as that one does in the dry season, by being surrounded with 
the dense bush of this tangled little wood, which occupies the 
hollow of the interior of the island in which they are situated. 



398 THE LOG OF THE LAFA YETTE chap. 

Even with this I believe they would dry, were the dry season 
the hot season, as it is on the Gold Coast. Most of these 
lakes have an encircling rim of rock, from which, if you are a 
fisher, you jump down into unmitigated black slime to your 
knees ; you then waddle, and squatter, and grunt, and sky- 
lark generally, to the shallow remnant of water. If it is one 
of the larger lakes, you and your companions drive in two- 
rows of stakes, cutting each other at right angles, more or less, 
in the centre of the lake. 

This being done, the women, with the specially made 
baskets— affairs shaped like bed-pillows with one side open — 
form a line with their backs towards the banks, their faces to 
the water, in the enclosure ; the other women go into the 
water by the stakes, and splash with hands and feet and 
sticks as hard as they can, needless to say shouting hard the 
while. The terrified fish fly from them into the baskets, and 
are scooped up by the peck. In little basins of water the 
stakes are not required, but the rest of the proceedings are the 
same, some women standing with their backs to the bank, 
holding their baskets' mouths just under water, and scooping 
up the fish flying from the beaters in the middle. 

From twelve to fourteen bushels is the usual result of the 
day's fishing, and the fish are divided between the representa- 
tives and distributed among the villages. A tremendous fish 
dinner ensues in the evening, and what fish are left are smoked 
and kept as relishes and dainties until next fishing time 
•comes round. 

I was told on the island that this fishing takes place every year 
in August, that is after the farm planting and just before the 
tornado rains come on. On the mainland the tradition is 
that it takes place here every two years, in August. I dare 
say this was the case in old days ; although, by the way, I 
heard that this regular institution of fishing with its repre- 
.sentatives, &c., was of comparatively recent introduction, and 
arose from the fear that the fish, by irregular and constant fish- 
ing, would be exterminated. Corisco would not accept this view 
at all, and insisted that the fashion had come down from the 
old times, meaning it had an unlimited antiquity. But with 
all this formality, after all I had gone through, and all my 



XVII A BITTER DISAPPOINTMENT 399^ 



walks and waitings, those wretched fish were nothing and 
nobody else but an African mud-fish, a brute I cordially hate, 
for whenever I ask native fishermen for fish, they bring me 
him ; if I start catching fish for myself, nine times in ten it's 
him I catch. It was a bitter disappointment, for I had looked 
forward to getting some strange fish, or strongly modified 
form, in the middle of this little sea island, in fresh-water, some 
twenty miles from the mainland shore. But there I it's Africa all 
over; presentingonewith familiar objects when one least requires 
them, like that razor in the heart of Gorilla-land ; and un- 
familiar, such as elephants and buffaloes when you are out for 
a quiet stroll armed with a butterfly net, to say nothing of 
snakes in one's bed and scorpions in one's boots and sponge. 
One's view of life gets quite distorted ; I don't believe I should 
be in the least surprised to see a herd of hippo stroll on to the 
line out of one of the railway tunnels of Notting Hill Gate 
station. West Africa is undoubtedly bad for one's mind. 

I did not go completely round all the lakes, having to watch 
the fishing, and at last, finding there was only this one kind of 
fish to be had, and that it was getting late, I set off on my 
weary, long walk back to Alondo, where I found on arriving that 
Mrs. Ibea had got tea waiting for me, and that Mr. Ibea was back 
from his evangelising mission to Cape St. John and Eloby. 
He is a splendidly built, square-shouldered man, a pure Benga, 
if the finest type, full of energy and enthusiasm. I found 
some difficulty in accepting his statement regarding the age 
of Mrs. Ibea and himself, and I still think he stuck a good 
ten years on. 

His views on native social questions I had less diflficulty in 
accepting, more particularly those which coincide with my 
Avn. We talked about the Fan — the backbone of native, 
md a good big factor in white conversation, all along here. 

In this part of the world the descent of this great tribe is 
usting the older inhabitants of the land. Mr. Ibea says that 
'He of the first white members of the American Presbyterian 
Mission that came to this Coast some thirty years ago, made 
a journey into the interior behind Batanga. At the further 
end of this journey he heard of the coming Fan, even then 
in a state of migration westwards ; and, from what he heard,. 



400 THE LOG OF THE LAFA YETTE chap. 



on his return to Corisco he prophesied that before another 
ten years were past they would have the Fan to deal with on 
the sea-coast districts. Natives and Europeans both laughed 
at him ; but before the ten years were past the Fans were over 
the border line of the M'pongwe and Igalwa, but the prophet 
was not alive to see the realisation of his prophecy. At this 
present time, the Fans are, in a few places, down by the sea- 
shore itself, busy learning how to manage a canoe on the 
open and deep sea — not yet so proficient in the art as the 
M'pongwe or Benga who are great masters, but getting 
on well with their studies, for they are an indefatigable 
race, and plucky, which is the main element in any race's 
success. It is very evident to an observer that the Fans 
on the Ogowe are comparatively recent, and that when they 
came they brought with them no experiery:e in dealing with a 
great rapid river ; but they tackle it in a game way, and are 
getting on. In addition to the causes of decay that the presence 
of the Fan among the Coast tribes brings into play, there are 
many others helping the extinction of 'the latter. It always 
-seems to me a wonder we have so many traces of early man as 
we have, when one sees here in Africa how one tribe sweeps 
¦out another tribe that goes like the foam of a broken wave into 
the Ewigkeit before it, leaving nothing, after the lapse of a 
¦century, to show it ever existed. 

Here the Dualla and the M'pongwe, both tribes now be- 
•coming on their own account extinct, have their traditions of 
having come down to the sea-board from nearly the same 
region from whence the Fan are now swarming. The in- 
habitants of Fernando Po, the so-called Bubi, probably the 
oldest race now on the sea-board, remember the coming of the 
M'pongwe too, for they say these M'pongwe drov'e them 
out of the districts round Gaboon. How long ago this 
happened it is impossible to say, owing to the absence of 
monuments, and the weak-mindedness of the African regarding 
time ; but I am sure, from many conversations, that you ma}' 
place a limit of 500 years as the extreme one for the very 
oldest Negro or Bantu historical tradition. Indeed I doubt 
much whether any Bantu tradition would run to that ; I sa)- 
historical, because the religious tradition ma)- be of intense 



ii THE FAX INVASION 401 

tiquit}', being handed down from generation to generation 

laltered for immense periods of time. The child would be 

Id, for example, that a dangerous spirit lived in the rapids 

f a river, or lurked in the forest, which it would be advisable 

I >r him to keep an eye on, for his own safety. But who would 

trouble to tell him that a chief of such and such a name once 

lived there where the Engombie-Gombie trees have been 

^liadowed down again by the great forest ? The chief is dead. 

The village is dead, " palaver done set," so the historical tradi- 

n fades out like smoke. 

J'2ven the invasion of another tribe.like the Fans, for example, 

loes not affect the religious tradition much. For it is not on 

tlie whole a war invasion : they come down in villagefuls 

nong the older tribes, and hear the local spirit-gossip, and 

<e it to their ample bosom, of belief, and pass the traditions 

to their children. Meanwhile, the tribe that told them these 

ngs has moved West, away from them, because they have 

t the best bush places cleared and covered with their planta- 

ns, and they catch all the fish, and they get all the trade, and 

y eat respectable people occasionally, and steal from them 

ntinually, and they kick up such a noise, and have such 

rpetual rows among each other, and respectable villages 

'onging to the older tribe; that the older tribe has the opinion 

ced upon it, that no decent people can live near those filthy, 

iiful Fans, and so move nearer in to Lembarene or Libre- 

ie. 

In addition to this cause of a tribe leaving its old districts, 

fhere are others which move tribes completely off earthly dis- 
ricts of any kind altogether : among these are the smallpox, 
ind the sleep disease. The former is most common in Congo 
l-'rancais, where it receives the graphically descriptive name 
< f " the spotted death " among the natives, the latter appears 
i 1 its worst form in Kacongo and Angola, where whole villages 
jj are, at intervals, depopulated by it. The visitations of these 
j maladies, indeed of all maladies in West Africa, take the form 
I of epidemics, and seem periodic. I have collected much 
Biaterial, but not sufficient yet to make deductions from, as to 
me duration of the periods between the outbreaks. The natives 
a|ll along the Coast from Calabar to the South will tell you : " It 
i D D 



402 THE LOG OF THE LAFA YETTE chap 



is when the crabs come up the river," which means when the 
crayfish come down the rivers; but that is just their artless, un- 
observant way of putting things. This swarming of the crayfish 
occurs about every five years, and for days the ri\er-water \i 
crowded with them, so that }'Ou can bale them out by basket 
fuls. This the native does, accompanying his operations with 
songs and tom-toms, and he then eats any quantity of them ; 
another quantity he smokes and preserves, in what he pleases 
to regard as a dried state, for sauce making ; and the greatest 
quantity of all he chucks in heaps to fester round his dwelling. 

There are plenty more causes of the extinction of tribes 
besides these — so many in fact, that one gets to wonder that 
there are any Coast tribes of lOO years old or so left. 

Mr. Ibea himself says that there are not now more than 
2,000 of his own tribe left, and that those that are now repre- 
senting it are far inferior, physically, to those he remembers as 
having seen as old men, when he was a bo}-. 

These Benga were once an exceedingly powerful and proud 
tribe. Now they have little save their pride left. In old da)s 
they were ver}- busy making war on their neighbours, elephant 
hunting, shipping themselves as crew to whaling vessels, and 
other people as slaves to slaving vessels, and so on. Great 
hands at the slave trade were these Benga, and slave-owners 
are they still ; but gone is their glory, and in a few \'ears 
more the Benga will themselves have gone to join the 
shades of the tribes that were before them in this land, 
leaving behind them no sign, not even a fliint arrow-head, to 
show that they ever existed ; for their wooden utensils and 
their iron weapons will rot like rag in the hot moist earth : 
and then " finish." 

Mr. Ibea and I got quite low about this. He agreed it w 
partially the Benga's own fault ; the}' had of late }-ears taken 
to bad habits, he said ; amongst these to infant marriage. This 
struck me as strange, for as I have already mentioned, the also 
dying-out Igalwas have only recently adopted this custom. He 
sa}'s that forty years ago it was quite unknown among the 
Benga, and that in former days both men and women were 
frequently over fifteen and twent}- before the}- married. Now 
the old men buy girl children, both as wives for themselves and 



EFFECTS OF CIVILISATION 403 



; their infant sons. Then Mr. Ibea blamed the rum ; although 
he owned they had plenty of rum in the old prosperous whaling 
md slaving days. Indeed he said he thought the main reason 
<f their extinction was the indolence that had come over the 
tribe, now these incentives to activity were gone ; for inactivity 
in Africa is death. He said, of course as a Christian minister, 
he knew it was for the best that the old warlike, bloodthirst}- 
Benga spirit was broken, but — but well, I think he felt as I 
feel m}self when I come across quantities of my fellow 
countrymen talking of the wickedness of war, and the neces- 
sity of checking our growing population, and so on ; only I feel 
it more than Mr. Ibea, for I am not a Christian minister and 
am more of a savage than he is. 

Nothing strikes one so much, in studying the degeneration of 
these native tribes, as the direct effect that civilisation and re- 
formation has in hastening it. The worst enemy to the 
existence of the African tribe, is the one who comes to it and 
- lys : — Now you must civilise, and come to school, and leave 

fall those awful goings-on of yours, and settle down quietl\-. 
1 he tribe does so ; the African is teachable and tractable ; and 
then the ladies and some of the young men are happy and 
content with the excitement of European clothes and frequent 
( hurch services ; but the older men and some of the bolder 
'ung men soon get bored with these things and the, to 

em, irksome restraints, and they go in for too much rum, 
mope themselves to death, or return to their native 

stoms. The African treats his religion much as other men 

: when he gets slightly educated, a little scientific one 

might sa}-, he removes from his religion all the disagreeable 

1 irts. He promptly eliminates its equivalent Hell, represented 

Fetishism by immediate and not future retribution. Then 

>es his rigid Sabbath-keeping, and food-restriction equivalent, 
, nd he has nothing left but the agreeable portions: dances, 
polygamy, and so on; and it's a very bad thing for him. I only 
state these things so as to urge upon people at home the 
importance of combining technical instruction in their mission 
teaching ; which by instilling into the African mind ideas of 
discipline, and providing him with manual occupation, will 
«ive him from these relapses which are now the reproach of 

D D 2 



404 THE LOG OF THE LAFAYETTE chap 

missionary effort, and the curse and degradation of the African 
I do not feel sure that one must accept Mr. Ibea's opinion, anc 
class infant marriage among the causes of tribe extinction, 
because this custom is in vogue among many tribes that arc 
still swarming, and among these Fans it is in vogue as regard^ 
the women. This, I think, is the earliest stage of the custom. 

The island of Corisco is three miles in length, north and 
south, and averages one and three-quarters in breadth. Its ' 
north-west point is in lat. o°, 58' north and long. 9°, 20' east. I 
have acquired a good deal of information from local tradi- . 
tions, charts, and personal experience, the latter being of \ 
course largely of the situation of rocks and banks when 
personally navigating ; so I will set the general results of my 
studies down. 

Corisco Island is situated in the middle of Corisco Bay and 
is most seaward of the islands in the bay. It is surrounded 
by a hollow bank, irregular^ in outline, extending in some 
places two-and-a-half miles off shore ; and in addition to this 
extensive shoal are several detached rocky patches off the N.E. 
shore of the island. Off the N.E. point lie Corisco Banks, the 
outer patch with three-and-a-half fathoms of water three miles 
off shore. On the outer large patch you may get twelve feet 
of water, but I found bottom at two feet. On the inner and 
larger it averages three feet ; among both these patches there 
are boat channels ; and Mr. Ibea's accounts of his experiences 
among them during the many voyages he has made to and 
from the mainland, with the stiff current that runs round Cape 
St. John, are thrilling, but not such as would induce any one 
to make Corisco a yachting centre. 

Laval Island, which I have mentioned above, is about 200 
yards long but makes the most of itself with rocks and trees, and 
stands high above the water. It is one mile south of Corisco 
Island. It has a line of bank, on which the sea breaks, north and 
north-east. The " West Coast Pilot "says there is only a can< n- 
passage between it and Corisco Island, This is not the case, 
for you can take a small schooner between them, though I do 
not advise it because of the rock reef running out from Alondo 
Point. The edge of the encircling bank of Corisco Island 
goes round outside Laval one and a half miles to the west, 



LAVAL AND BANA BANKS 405 



i two miles to the southward. About a mile S.E. of Laval 
re is a reef which, when I was on Corisco, was a perpetual 
• of foam. 

Laval Bank lies S.W. f S. three-and-a-half miles from 

\al Island. It is rock and sand. There is good fishing 

ir it, but the sea breaks over the head of it furiousl)-. It 

tches two miles north and south and is one and a half 

ad, the Pilot says. I passed through it on my return voyage 

Gaboon and think it is in man}- places two miles wide, but 

this being the rough season in these seas it showed itself off 

in full. 

Rana Island is a quarter of a mile long, and is lower than 

val. It is five miles S. of the S.E. end of Corisco Island, 

it is, Alondo. Its surrounding plinth of rock shows in 

, ices at low water and one large rock, which is never covered, 

shows about a mile out to sea, VV. by S. 

But Bana Island is nothing to Bana Bank, which supports 

Obanjo's — I beg his pardon, Captain Johnson's — statement 

that " half dem dar 'femal Corisco Bay Islands lib under water." 

This bank is nine miles long, in an east by north and west 

b\- south direction, averaging three and a half miles in breadth. 

On it the depths are verj' shallow and variable. The 

eastern part of the bank is called the Crown Sand and a patch 

dries, for I was shell-hunting on it. About two miles S.E. by 

1 -. f E. of Baiia, that is to say shorewards to the mainland, 

there is another patch of the Crown Sand which dries, which 

is called the East Sand ; on this I got some sponges and 

rgonia. After trying to give a conscientious account of 

na Bank. I notice m\- friend the " West Coast Pilot " collapses 

1 pathetically beseeches jou, if you will, or must, go into 

risco Bay, to be verj- careful. I think these patches of 

lie Crown Sand that dry must be near to the end of 

the bank ; for Captain Porter, who knows this bit of coast 

^vell, tells me there is a passage for vessels out of Corisco 

Bay by Oranda Point, towards Cape Esterias, provided 

the}- do not draw more than two fathoms and know the way; 

but this passage is not used now. 

Eleven miles east from the north-east end of Corisco Island, 
1 ther into the ba>-, lie the two Eloby Islands. They are on the 



^ 



4o6 THE LOG OF THE LAFAYETTE chap. 



top of an extensive shoal, running in most directions for miles, 
but particularly eastwards and southwards. Mail steamers 
that come in to call at Messrs. Holt's factory on little Eloby, 
and off the mouth of the Muni River where Hatton and 
Cookson have a factory, come into Corisco Bay, from the north, 
round to the east of the Eloby islands, and leave by the same 
channel, which averages six fathoms ; and go south, if they 
want to, well outside to the west of all Corisco Bay's banks. 
I do not know why little Eloby Island should be the inhabited 
one. Big Eloby is a fine, likely-looking island. I was told by 
a Benga on Cape Esterias that it was once inhabited, but there 
was a war and the inhabitants were killed and carried off as 
slaves, and it has not since been re-colonised. 

The northern part of the bay I have had no personal ex- 
perience in navigating, but, according to the " Pilot " it has its 
drawbacks, and according to people who have to work it, 
these drawbacks are by no means down in all their beauty in 
the charts. It was in this bay that the Benguella struck on a 
something. I cannot be more definite because some of my 
friends who ought to know say it was a wreck — the old wreck 
of the McGregor Laird ; others, who ought to know, say it 
was rocks ; anyhow she tore, then and there, a big wound in 
herself, and nothing but the fine seamanship of Captain Evers- 
field ever got her up into Cameroons River and successfully 
beached her and repaired her there. During her convalescence 
she was the haven of refuge for the unfortunate white folk of 
Cameroon while the mutiny of the Dahomeyan soldiers went 
on ashore in 1 894. 

There is another wreck not down in the chart, just off Alondo, 
the south-east point of Corisco Island ; it is that of the schooner 
Elfie, belonging to the American Presbyterian Mission. 

This Corisco Bay, when you look at it on the map, seems an 
ideally formed harbour, and I once heard it strongly recom- 
mended as a suitable site for a coaling station ; but a glance 
at its chart will show you it is only a subtly rock-set trap for 
vessels, imperfect as the chart is. Its width is thirty-five miles 
south by west and three-quarters west. This line touches the 
eastern end of Corisco Island, and eastwards of it the bay is 
fourteen miles deep. 



XVII SIERRA DEL CRISTAL 40? 



Two rivers fall into Corisco Bay, the Muni and the Moondah. 
The latter runs up behind Libreville. There is a creek, the 
entrance to which is on the right-hand bank near the mouth of 
the Moondah as j'ou enter ; this runs behind Cape Esterias, in 
a south-east direction, and nearly communicates with the 
Gaboon estuary ; so nearly that it is possible to utilise it as a 
short cut to Corisco Bay from Libreville, it being possible to 
drag a boat over the intervening strip of land. 

The ]Muni is a longer and more important river than the 
Moondah ; its outfall is north of it, opposite little Eloby Island, 
on the mainland shore. On a chart it looks like the usual 
African river turned upside down, its upper course being split 
up into several streams instead of its lower. Both these rivers, 
like many others in this region, rise in the range of the Sierra 
del Cristal, an enormous belt of mountainous country the 
eastern limitations of which are at present unexplored. 

A few great rivers cut through this range from sources be- 
yond the Sierra, such as the Ogowe and the joint streams of 
the Mbam and Sanaga which come into the Atlantic under the 
names of the O'Bengo and the Boungo. The ranges round the 
Ogowe are the best known parts of the Sierra del Cristal; for the 
Ogowe places at the traveller's disposal a path, such as I have 
partially described, through 500 miles of it ; and the Ogowe's 
chief affluent, the Nguni, cuts through it again from Samba 
south-eastwards ; and the Okanda's course lies, as far as that 
river has been ascended, in the very heart of it, going away 
north-east. It is a range of old volcanic origin, running in 
series of ridges parallel to each other, and following the long 
line of the continent. Its general trend is north-west and 
south-east. It comes down almost to the sea beach behind 
Batanga, and the beautiful little Loway River falls from a 
small cliff some twenty or thirty feet high belonging to, it on 
to the sea shore itself 

It is this range which gives the coast from Cameroon to 
Landana the marked superiority in beauty it possesses 
over the rest of the West Coast ; excepting, of course, the 
splendours of Ambas Bay, which is a thing apart and out of 
all keeping with the Coast. These western ridges of the 
Sierra make a beautiful purple blue background to the splendid 



4o8 THE LOG OF THE LAFA YETTE chap. 



M 



band of forest that runs behind the bright yellow sands of the 
sea shore, which are again bordered to seaward by the white 
wall of surf The mountains forming it are distinct in outline 
and fantastic in form, notably the one behind Batanga, which 
seen from seaward takes the exact form of a kneeling elephant. 
Its height is 1707 feet and I am told there is another one of 
almost identical shape in the same parallel of latitude on the 
East African Coast. It was first ascended by Sir Richard 
Burton, since then Mr. Newberry of Batanga has been up it. 
He tells me the view from the summit to the east is into a 
mountainous country as far as eye can see. Several of the 
other peaks of this range that have been measured, and are 
visible from the sea, are higher than the Elephant. The Mitre^ 
inland from Cape St. John, is 3940 feet ; the highest of a 
stretch of hills called the Seven Hills, but belonging to one 
range, is 2786 feet. Mount Alouetteis 3415 feet but none are 
so striking in form as Mount Elephant. 

Behind Corisco Bay the range takes a trend inland, in a 
direction nearly at right angles to the shore, going inland to 
the south-east by south ; but the details of its peaks are not 
known, this district being little explored. The range seems to 
turn more eastward still behind Cape Esterias, and runs 
towards, and unites with, that part of the Sierra del Cristal 
that cuts the course of the Ogowe some 170 miles from the 
sea at Talagouga ; only a few isolated bubble-shaped hills,^ 
like Mount Sangatao, being in the Ogowe delta region. The 
position of this range when I struck its western flank, coming 
across from the Ogowe to the Rembwe, was some 140 to 150 
miles inland, the main chain of this part lying to the eastward 
of where I was. The Rembwe cuts through a portion of it 
just above Agonjo, but the Rembwe itself rises in the range. 
The 'Como, which it joins with at 'Como Point to form the 
Gaboon estuary, is said to rise inlands behind this range, and 
is formed like the Muni by several streams uniting. Obanjo 
told me, when I was at Ajongo, that the range was going from 
there in a north by east direction, but of the upper part of the 
'Como little or nothing is personally known b)- white men. 

The inhabitants of the shores and hinterland of Corisco Ba)' 
are a wild set of savages of several tribes. The Benga were once 



J 



XVII THE COAST CLIMATE 409 



the ruling race among them, but they have diminished rapidl>' 
of late years. The country is very rich in rubber and ebon>-, 
which is bought by the Benga native traders, and M'pongwe, 
and sold to the white traders at Elob}' and Cocoa Beach. 

Those traders who know the inland tribes describe them 
as savage and treacherous. The Fans are coming down 
through this part of the country- to the beach all the wax- 
along from Batanga to the Gaboon estuar)'. I cannot 
hold out much hope that the}- will enlighten or ameliorate 
the manners and customs of the older inhabitants as re- 
gards trade, but they can teach them a thing or two worth 
knowing in the way of activit}' and courtes}-. That they will 
suffer the same e.xtinction that the previous migrants to the 
Coast have suffered, there is no reason to doubt, for the}- will 
be under similar conditions; and Mr. Ibea and myself agree 
again, that there is something inimical to human life, black or 
white, in the immediate Coast region of West and South-West 
Africa, as far down as Congo : and the interior tribes also 
join us in our opinion. Many times have I, and others, been 
told b\- interior tribes that there is a certain air which comes 
from the sea that kills men — that is just their way of putting 
it I call it Paludisme Malarix,' which is just my way of 
putting it, and of course I fancy that it comes from the rotting, 
reeking swamp land and lagoons, and not from the sea. 
An}how, white men and black feel it, and suffer and die. 



CHAPTER XVIII 

FROM CORISCO TO GABOON 

The log of the Lafayette on her return voyage from Corisco to Gaboon, 
giving some account of Cape Esterias and the inhabitants thereof ; to 
which is added a full and particular account of a strange sailing 
manoeuvre, first carried out by this voyager, and not included in any 
published treatise on the art of seamanship in the known world. 

August 8///, 1895. — Weather still very rough, the two mile 
spit of rock running seawards from Alondo Point is a white 
stretch of flying foam, and the roar and thunder of it shakes the 
rocky cliff on which the house stands. Mr. Ibea thinks, however, 
that we should make Cape Esterias by nightfall, presumably 
because we are all sober ; for he tells me an enlivening tale of 
how he " started from Corisco, on just such a day as this," in a 
boat commanded and owned by a native, who was drunk at 
starting and became more so. In addition to himself and this 
disreputable person, there were some women, and a crew of 
four or five men. " Shortly," says Mr. Ibea, " we were upset, 
and I had to swim about and put them all back into the boat 
again. I had not got them in half-an-hour before he got the 
boat over again, and I again had to fetch them out of the 
water." Mr. Ibea is a magnificent swimmer, and a fine dash- 
ing sailor, and I wish he were coming with me instead of 
Eveke, and would leave Eveke to look after pastoral matters ; 
but this I know is not possible, and it may be worse to-morrow, 
so I'm off, and shall spend my time keeping the Lafayette 
from being upset, for I cannot swim round like ten Newfound- 
land story-book dogs, or one Mr. Ibea, gathering people from 
the South Atlantic waves and replacing them on board her, or 
any ves.sel. So I take a grateful farewell of Mr.s. Ibea and the 



CH. xviii WAITING FOR THE TIDE 41 ' 



family at large. Mr. Ibea and his younger son, who is bubbling 
out conversation in Benga, as he has ever been doing since I 
came to the island, come with me a little way, and then 
we part. 

I notice that the sea is rough, and the lagoons behind the 
beaches stink worse even than usual : no wonder the mission 
found it as unhealthy here as on the mainland ! The fine sand 
blows in the wind, stinging my face — in fact it is bad weather, 
but I have had enough of walking to and fro along this sandy 
beach, while Eveke courts his mother-in-law elect, and, in 
order to get more time to do so, tries to frighten me about 
the weather. 

Arrived at Nassau Bay and have the usual job of hunting 
out Eveke and the crew from the village, and the usual delays. 
We wait for the turn of the tide on Eveke's advice. It would, 
I am sure, have been better to have gone out before the 
slack, so as to have had the full tide for Esterias, but I 
let him have his way and wait patiently in the wooden, 
European-fashion built house which I learn belongs to Eveke's 
uncle. It does not give one the idea of being much lived in. 

It is fairly clean, the walls inside are painted white, with 
the door and window-frames a bright cobalt blue. Cobalt 
blue, by the bye, seems a great feature on this island. I 
wonder whether a cargo of it was ever washed ashore from a 
wreck, or whether it is a special line of goods for " paying off" 
in ? One rarely sees any other coloured paint. There is one 
other little village I have been passing through dailj- since I 
have been here, that has each house door painted w ith it and 
white paint in strif>es, diagonal bands, straight bands, plain and 
chess-board patterns, till it's as good as names and numbers to 
that village. It would be far and away better for postmen and 
diners-out than a plan in vogue in a far away London suburb I 
know of, wherein the christening of the villas seems to have 
been done by a gardener, giving the more ordinary individual 
gay times — for the houses are named after trees, and which 
particular shrub your friend lives at often slips down a hole 
in your memory, when you find yourself confronted by the 
front gates of " the Bays," " Lilacs," " Elms," " Oaks," " Labur- 
nums," &c. This house of Eveke's uncle wants no name or 



412 FROM CORISCO TO GABOON chap. 



number to distinguish it from the neighbouring bamboo huts, 
— }'ou couldn't miss it in a London fog, for were you once to 
get into the village street, you would be bound to run up 
against it, as it stands right across the top. 

It is considerately furnished inside. In the room in which I 
await the tide turn there are two chests of drawers, a real dining 
table, nine chairs, another table, three looking-glasses and a 
big wooden bedstead of the native type — a wooden bench with- 
out sides, but with a head- and foot-board ; one usually sees 
this sort of bedstead basking in the sun in the street. There 
are four I see now at it in the broad village street below me, 
to the end of compelling the surplus parasitic population to 
leave. On the one in this room lies a heap of muddled dirt)' 
clothes, giving it an air of being the one thing in the house that 
is u.sed. The rest seems all " for dandy." On the table, 
scattered anyhow together, are glass scent-bottles, a hanging- 
lamp, framed oleographs of English farmyard scenes ; and 
amongst them an old album full of faded photographs, 
evidently once the valued treasure of some white man who is 
dead now ; for were he living he would never have parted with 
it, after pasting in against the pictures those little English wild 
roses and bits of heather and bluebells. 

At last Eveke rushes up with one of those spasmodic attacks 
of activity which he simulates, and which never impose on an}- 
one but him.self, and we all go aboard. Yesterday I met a 
lady on the shore who asked me if I would take her to 
Gaboon. I said, as any skipper would, " delighted, ni)- 
dear"; and here she is sitting on the top of the cargo with her 
head just exactly in the proper position to get it bashed in, or 
knocked off by the boom ; and her five bundles, one tin box, a 
peck of limes and a husband. In fact, things are in such a 
muddle on board that before we weigh anchor, I decide to stow 
cargo, as befits the pupil of Captain Murray. No black man 
can stow cargo. I say so viciously, from m}- canoe experi- 
ences. The Lafayette s " hold " is in a condition that would 
bleach the hair of any " British African " officer on the 
Coast, even if he only caught sight of it through a telescope. 
For it partakes strongl)- of the arrangement of a rubbish heap ; 
the lad}- passenger's belongings, mine, the crew's, the deck 



xviii STOWING CARGO 413 



chair, the bundle of bedding, the boxes of sand for ballast, all 
together anyhow ; and for dunnage, parcels of the men's 
aguma and neat little packets of salt, done up in plantain 
leaves tied round with tie-tie ; and an untidily made up 
bundle of yam, pieces whereof have got out of the plantain 
leaf and evaded the tie-tie, and are now wandering about, 
mixed up with most things. I think, at first, that Mr. 
Hudson's clean, tidy, deck-chair is underneath everything ; 
I can just see a corner of it sticking out beneath a box of 
sand, like Mr. PecksnifTs feelings, or the Princes in the 
Tower, only it is anything but pillows that are smother- 
ing it. On making a spirited rescue of the chair, I find, 
however, that Dr. Nassau's bedding is the thing that really 
is in the bilge water. During these operations, I jump 
forward, on to what I imagine is a lot of the crew's 
clothes, and " Oh ! that's my husband," cries the lady pas- 
senger, " you fit to hurt him projjer " ; he upsets me on to the 
cargo, and groans a good deal and talks about compensa- 
tion ; but I say " he had come at shipper's own risk," and I 
have " no liability," so he settles down again. When I have 
finished stowing cargo we set out to sea — Eveke at the helm. 
I find I am expected to sit surrounded by a rim of alligator 
pears and bananas, as though I were some kind of joint 
garnished for table, instead of a West Coast skipper. The 
Lafayette having neither cabin nor locker is e.xtremely diflli- 
cult to keep tidy. There is, unavoidably, an "all the coals 
adrift on deck, half the rails below " look about her, do what 
one will. I stow the pears in under the end strut, where there 
is a hole with an ornamental woodwork flourish round it, but 
no door; so those charming fruit will persist in coming larking 
out again as soon as ever I have got them in. *' Oh, it's a dog's 
life, is the sea, for a man," as my sailor friends say. Eveke 
meanwhile takes us out of Nassau Bay through Bana Bank and 
then goes to sleep and I take charge. My lady passenger is 
quite the lady passenger, frightened of the sea, and dissatisfied 
with the accommodation. I have stowed her with every care in 
the bottom of the boat, on the bedding athwart-ships, and she 
is grateful for the attention ; but sa\s " the vessel is not big 
enough," and goes on eating e.xcruciatingly sour limes in a 



414 FROM CORISCO TO GABOON chap. 

wa}- that sets my teeth on edge. Half her sufferings arise 
from her disastrous habit of falling asleep ; and then her head 
goes flump off the seat she is leaning it against, and crack 
against the ribs of the boat's side ; I put my leather photo- 
graph case in her usual striking place, but she dodges it in her 
descent seven times in ten. 

The sea is running high, and all the afternoon we beat up 
and tack, and the Lafayette has a larky wa}-, giving herself 
the airs of a duck washing itself, putting her head down and 
shaking the water out over her stern ; a good deal of water 
comes on board one wa}- and another, o\er one side on one 
tack, over the other side on the other tack, over the bows 
always. The man with the whiskers is a smart seaman, and 
the only one worth his salt, and he attends to the jib ; the 
others sleep and eat and talk and attend to the jiggers in 
their feet, A\hich the}- have picked up on Corisco, where the}- 
swarm. 

The weather is a bit thick, so we do not sight the continent 
until four o'clock, and it is borne in on me that there's no Cape 
Esterias for us to-night. Eveke pilots us close in towards the 
shore, and we run among the long line of rollers, attributive to 
the great rock reefs that fringe it, and which run out to sea in an 
irregular cone shape, stretching true north and north-north-east 
from the blunt headland that has for its north-west extremit}- 
Akanda point and for its southern. Cape Clara. Cape Esterias 
runs out further seaward than Akanda, and is the real south- 
east point of Corisco Bay; but from Akanda to Cape Clara (or 
Joinville) may be taken as the limits of the headland that 
separates Corisco Bay from the Gaboon Estuary : and the 
Moondah River mouth is here. " The sun's rim sinks, the stars 
rush out, at one stride comes the dark " and finds us still 
lolloping about in the breaking swell. Half an hour after 
sundown the wind drops, with that suddenness that the 
breeze, be it light or heavy, always drops alongshore down 
here; and although we could do little when we had it, as it was 
nearly in our teeth, we can of course do nothing without it, 
so we run the Lafayette on to a tongue of sand between rock 
reefs, that were breathing heavily, just North of Akanda point. 
Well do I remember now the time I spent sitting on a 



xviii BECALMED 415 



deck chair on the deck of the 2,000 ton Rodielle in 1893, with 
all anxiet}^ as to locality and navigation on the mind of Captain 
Harrison, while I lazily wondered what it was like ashore here. 
The stretch of land looked there so desolate and wild : a long 
line of surf, a long line of dove-coloured sand, a long line of 
green shrub-brushes, backed by a low, dark forest. We soon 
lost sight of it on the Roclielle, as she swung out west to give 
its dangers a wide berth. Little did I think then that I should 
ever be in circumstances so pre-eminently fitted for acquiring 
detailed knowledge of the entire phenomena, surf, rocks, sand, 
beach and all, as I am at present in. We lower our gaff 
and anchor as hard as we can, and then, leaving two men 
in the boat and the lad\- passenger ; the rest of us jump over 
the side into the surf, and wade ashore to stretch our limbs 
and pick up firewood. We do not stay long, because we are 
afraid of the Lafayette dragging her anchors. Don't mention 
it, pray, in " British African " circles ; but as we back her 
stem-foremost on to the sand, we want a hand-line for 
soundings to find a suitable sand tongue to settle on. I give 
Whiskers my fishing-line ; its lead sinker does verj- well, only 
you see we haven't time to take ofi" the line of fish hooks, and, 
so when he, in proper style, swings the lead to take a cast, those 
hooks just hitch in the cargo. I cut them adrift with a jack 
knife with commendable promptitude, Eveke meanwhile 
handles the sail and I, when danger becomes imminent, ener- 
getically take soundings over the stern with my umbrella. It 
is magnificent, but not navigation, still it works well. 

We wade back to the Lafayette, clamber on board, and 
start to get our supper in the dark, for by now the last 
light has died out of the sky, and artificial light we have none. 
Unfortunately I have packed my eatables in m}- collecting box, 
so attempt to eat a very interesting dead-wood fungus in 
lieu of biscuit. Giving this up, I decide to confine my 
attention to my one surviving tin, the opening of which costs 
me skin and blood. I am not surprised, but grieved, to find 
that after all it contains only vegetables for putting into 
soups, because I have had experience with this species of tinned 
product before. This particular tin is one of the consign- 
ment so kindly sent b}- Mr. Hudson to my rescue on the 



4i6 FROM CORISCO TO GABOON chap. 



Ogowe, and I did not feel justified in returning it to store 
when I got back to Gaboon, because its little golden label had, 
as is usual with those French forms of labels, come off, and after 
all, I being an optimistic ass, hoped there might be something 
in the tin good to eat. Well there isn't, and what is worse, I 
have nothing to drink, for the Lafayette is too agitated to 
allow us to make a fire to boil water for tea. There is plenty 
of water in bottles for the men, but unboiled water is my 
ibet. There are always little somethings that are not quite 
pleasant in African travel. 

The lady passenger groans a good deal and eats those 
excruciating limes and the biscuits, of which I had given her 
a good store in the afternoon, in the hopes of distracting her 
from a series of observations she was then making on the 
height of Atlantic waves. She soon goes off to sleep as 
I hear by the sound of the crack of her head against the ribs 
of the boat. In my dual capacity of skipper and stewardess, I 
search her head out from amongst a bunch of bananas, an iron 
pot and the photograph case, and, eliminating the other factors, 
arrange it nicely on the banana bunch and wrap her up com- 
pletely in my thick rug and shawl, because she only has on 
one thin cloth, and the seas that have come on board have 
soaked that through long ago. 

The men, after their supper on the provisions I had rescued 
from a state of dunnage, light their pipe — I say pipe advisedly, 
for they had one, a thing about the size of a young model- 
dwelling washing copper. It takes a whole leaf of tobacco 
rolled round and placed into it horizontally, with three lucifer 
matches broken up and placed in the hole in the middle, and 
of course a bit of plantain leaf folded and put on top to 
prevent its roaring away too rapidly. They hand it on 
from one to the other, while they make their arrangements for 
the night. These arrangements consist in placing the main 
.sail across the boom like a tent, they then creep in under this 
and go to sleep on the cargo. They want to erect a tent for 
me with the jib, because they say it is very bad to sleep 
in the light of the moon which is rising ; but I do not feel 
like sleeping, so I refuse. I have no hesitation in saying 
that they pass an unea.sy night. For one reason, in under 



XVIII OF MISTS 417 

their tent with them is a large ram Mr. Ibea is sending 
to Gaboon, and that sheep has scimitar-shaped sharp 
horns and restless habits, and I can see he does things that 
hurt and rouse the sleepers to groaning-point perpetually, 
I sit up by the rudder watching the black heaving ocean, too- 
rough for the weak moon to brighten save when it flies aloft 
in angry white foam and surf over the shoals and rocks ; and 
the dimly moonlit sky with the clouds fljing in the ever 
blowing upper wind from the equator ; and the motionless 
black line of the forest with the soft white mist rolling low 
and creeping and crawling out between its stems from the 
lagoons behind the sand-ridged beach. The mist comes stretch- 
ing out from under the bushes over the sand towards the sea. 
now raising itself up into peaks, now crouching down upoi^ 
the sand, and sending out long white arms or feelers towards 
the surf and then drawing them back as if it were some spirit- 
possessed thing, poisonous and malignant, that wanted to- 
reach us, and yet is timorous and frightened of the surTs 
thunder-roar and spray. It gets over its alarm after about an 
hour, however, and comes curling out in a white wall and 
during the rest of the calm before the dawn-wind comes,, 
wraps itself round us, dankly -smelling like .some foul corpse. 

I don't think this sort of mist is healthy, but it is often; 
supremely lovely and always fascinates me. I have seen it 
play the weirdest wildest tricks many a time, in many a place 
in West Africa. I have, when benighted, walked hurriedly- 
through it for miles in the forest while it has mischievously 
hidden the path at my feet from the helpful illumination; 
of the moon, swishing and swirling round my moving 
skirts. I have seen it come out of the forests and gather 
on the creek before and round me when out o' nights in 
canoes, gradually as we glided towards the breeze-swept 
river, forming itself into a great ball which has rolled before 
us, alongside, or behind us, showing dimly now in the shadow,, 
ghostly white now in the moonshine, and bursting into- 
thousands of flakes if the river breeze when it met it was too 
strong for it ; if it were not, just melting away into the sheet of 
mist that lay sleeping on the broad river itself Now and again 
you will see it in the forest stretch up a gradually lengthening 

E E 



4i8 FROM CORISCO TO GABOON chap. 



arm, and wind it lazily round and round some grand column 
•of a tree-stem, to the height of ten or twenty feet from the 
ground, spread out its top like a plume and then fall back 
again to the mist-river from which it came. It has weird ways, 
this mist of the West Coast. I have often, when no one has 
been near to form opinions of my frivolity, played with 
it, scooping it up in my hands and letting it fall again, or 
swished it about with a branch, when it lay at a decent level 
of three or four feet from the ground. When it comes higher 
and utterly befogs you, you don't feel much inclination to 
play with it. The worst of it is, you never quite know how 
high it is coming. I have seen it rise out of Bimbia flats and 
cover the Great Cameroon as though it said, " Ah you are 
Grand Mungo, but I am grander — I am Death." 

I drop off to sleep now and then, only to be aroused 
either by the Lafayette having dragged her anchor and got 
off skylarking with a lot of rough rocks so that she must 
be rescued and re-anchored, or by ejaculations from under 
the sail because of that ram. The tent amidships would 
afford a series of fine studies for any one who wanted to 
illustrate anything a la Dore ; it looks like a great grave-cloth 
spread over a tumbled heap of corpses, which vaguely show 
their outlines through its heavy white folds. When my crew 
do a good writhe they are particularly fine. My attention 
gets riveted on them because one of them has an abominable 
<juavering, hysterical, falsetto snore, which, as I want to go 
to sleep myself, rouses in my mind a desire to slay the per- 
former, for that snore cuts through the sound of the surf 
on to my nerves like a knife. Three times during the night 
I arose, and grasping the stump of a plantain bunch and 
walking along the thwarts, hovered, like a revengeful fiend, 
over the shrouded sleepers, hesitating for a few minutes to 
locate the seat of the disorder, for I used all suitable care 
and precaution to avoid hitting the innocent, but this is 
difficult, for the snore seems to come from underneath the 
upper layer, whose heads show through the sail like plums 
through a pie-crust, so I am regretfully compelled to take 
swipes at the excrescence nearest the source of the nuisance. 
This remedy is only a temporary one, but during the lull it 



XVIII HUGGING THE SHORE 419 



produces I fall asleep, after the third application firmly, 
and do not wake up until the scratching of the crew to ex- 
tricate itself from under the sail arouses me, and I then find 
my head under the seat and my unlucky body bent wherever 
nature had omitted to provide a joint. I have to get up and 
undo the sail, for I had tied the ends of it securely together to 
bottle up some of the noise last time the snore aroused me. 

August loth. — The morning breaks gray, cheerless and chilly, 
the sea looks angr>' and wicked. For half-an-hour, while the 
crew are getting things straight, I comb my tangled hair and 
meditate on the problem " Why did I come to Africa ? " This 
done we heave up anchor and shove off at about 5.30 A.M. and 
from that time till 1.45 go along near in-shore on the land 
breeze, among the rollers. I do not cite this as the proper 
course to lay, but give it as an example of the impossibility of 
getting a black crew to run out of smell of land ; they always 
like to hug the shore, as not only my own experiences but 
those of sympathetic friends with whom I have interchanged 
experiences demonstrate. Let the shore be what it may 
they cling to it. Poor Mr. S., going from Gaboon to Eloby, 
got run well up the Moondah River on one occasion, owing 
to this persistent habit, and other adventurers have fared no 
better. 

The shore along from Akanda to Cape Clara is one to 
which any white seaman would give a lot of room. Immedi- 
ately south of our anchorage it begins to rise into dwarf 
vertical cliffs overhung by bush and trailing plants between 
which the cliff-face shows strange-looking slabs of white clay 
and rock. The sea plays furiously against them at high tide, and 
at low leaves a very narrow beach heavily strewn with immense 
rock boulders. By 1.30 we find we cannot get round Cape 
Esterias, so run in under the shallow lea of its northern side. 
There is here a narrow sand-beach, with plenty of rock on it, 
and a semi-vertical and supremely slippery path leading up 
to an ostentatiously European plank-built house. We fix up 
the Lafayette safely and all go ashore. 

The inhabitants of this country have been watching us 
beating in, and taking a kindly interest in the performance, 
and so as soon as everything is all right they sing out in a 

E E 2 



420 FROM CORISCO TO GABOON chap. 



chorus Mboloani. They did not do so before because it is not 
etiquette to distract people when they are engaged in the 
crucial occupation of landing a boat or canoe. I am taken 
possession of by a very comely-iooking brown young lady, 
gracefully attired in my favourite coloured cloth, bright pink 
with a cardinal twill hem round it, and we go up the hill 
together. I note that she wears a tight rope of large green 
and white beads round her beautiful throat ; she tells me 
her name is Agnes and that she is a subtrader for Messrs, 
Holt's factory at Eloby, and I find, thanks be ! she talks fluent 
trade English, and further that on account of its European 
planks the ostentatious house is regarded by these kind)}' 
people as ipso facto my fit and proper dwelling for the time 
I may think good to stay at Cape Esterias. Its enterprising 
builder and owner apologises for its unfinished state ; indeed,, 
when at close quarters with it, I see it has merely got its 
walls up and its roof on. It is perched some four feet above 
the ground, on poles, and the owner has not yet decided what 
flight of stairs he will erect to the verandah. He has pur- 
chased an old ready-made flight, and has himself constructed 
a bamboo ladder, its cross pieces tied on to the uprights, I 
need hardly say, with tie-tie. This being done he has got 
both ladders lying on the ground beside each other, while he 
thinks the matter well out as to their respective advantages. 
Of course the additional fluster of my unexpected arriv^al 
renders him more than ever incapable of coming to a decision 
on their rival merits. I relieve his mind by ignoring them 
and swing up on to the verandah and enter the house. 
The furniture consists of shavings, tools, the skeleton of a 
native bedstead, and a bag of something which evidently 
.serves as a bed. The owner proudly displays the charms of 
the establishment ; he intends, he remarks, to paint the inside 
of the walls white, with the door and window frames a bright 
blue. ... I recognise the good old cobalt in a pot. I applaud 
the idea, not that it is new on this Coast, but it is better than 
all white, or dunduckety mud-colour paint, the only other 
colour schemes in vogue for domestic decoration, and worlds- 
an' away ahead of varnish, which acts as a " catch 'em alive oh " 
for all manner of insects, and your clothes when you hang 



XVIII OPEN-HANDED HOSPITALITY 421 



them against it I note there will be a hea\y jjercentage of 
blue here, because in the fifteen feet square living room there 
are three doors and two windows — each one of which, from a 
determination to be quite the white man, is fitted with a lock 
and a bolt. The next room, there are only two, is particularly 
strong in windows, being provided with three. Out of the 
two to the north there is a lovely view of wooded vallej-s and 
low hills seen across that charming bright foreground of a 
banana plantation. The window to the east commands the 
line of back arrangements of one side of the little village, a 
view full of interest to the ethnologist, only just at present I 
am too wet and tired for the soulful contemplation of science, 
or of scenic beautj^ so I close all three windows up with their 
wooden shutters, — glass, of course, there is none — and having 
got my portmanteau, and a pudding basin of European 
origin — with a lively combination of blue, maroon, and gas 
greens all over it — full of water and, joy ! a towel from Agnes, 
I proceed to wash and dress in the dark. I hear, meanwhile, 
great uproar in the next room ; the entire settlement seems to 
be doing things and talking about it! On re-entering the 
other apartment I find one kindly native has lent me a 
four-legged table, and another an ivory bundle chair, and 
the population of Cape Esterias has been enterprisingly em- 
ployed in hauling and hoisting the furniture on to the stairless 
verandah and into the house, or standing by and giving advice 
as to how this was to be done. Agnes also adds a slip of 
new calico for a table cloth, and I am e.xceedingh- grateful, 
but, Allah ! how stiff and bruised and tired ! So after having 
some food and a cup of sugarless and milkless coffee, I e.xcuse 
myself and go and lie down on the most luxurious bed, that 
bag of old salt sack stuff, filled with sweating sea-weed, just 
a bit over-populated, perhaps, with fleas, but ver}* enjoyable, 
on the plank floor. 

It is 5 o'clock when I awake, and I am still thirsty ; not 
liking to bother Agnes for more coffee and being mortal 
frightened of raw water, I ask her for a " paw-paw." She gets 
me some unripe ones, explaining " that those nasty boys done 
gone chop all them ripe one " — such is the universal nature of 
boys ! I regretfully decline the hard fruit, and as the}' attract 



422 FROM CORISCO TO GABOON chap. 

quantities of ants I say, "Agnes, just throw them away." " What 
you mean ?" says my charmer. " Put 'em outside," say L 
She gazes blankly, " Chuck 'em," says I, descending still further 
in my language. A gleam of comprehension comes to Agnes. 
" You mean I hev them ? " says she. " That's it, heave them,"" 
I answer, and she forthwith "hev 'em " out of one of our many 
windows. I feel it is my duty to go and pay my respects to- 
the Mission ; Agnes quite agrees, and off we go among the 
scattered bamboo-built houses, one of which in a skeleton 
state she tells me she is building for herself 

The Roman Catholic Mission, the only representative of 
white men here, is on the southern face of Cape Esterias^ 
Its buildings consist of a small residence and a large church' 
The church has a concrete floor and wooden benches, the 
white walls relieved by a frieze of framed prints of a reli- 
gious character, a pretty altar with its array of bright brass 
candlesticks, and above it the tinted and gilt figure of the 
Virgin and Child. Every part of the place is sweet and clean, 
giving evidence of the loving care with which it is tended. As 
I pass the residence, the missionary, seeing me, sends one of 
his black retainers to fetch me in, and leads me on to the 
verandah, where I am most cordially received b}' the Pere in 
charge, who has practical views on hospitality, and is anxious 
for me to have wine and many things else he can ill afford to 
spare from his own store. I thankfull}- confine my depreda- 
tions to some sugar and a loaf of excellent bread, but he 
insists on handing to Agnes for me a tin of beef and a lot of 
oranges. As I cannot speak French, nor he English, I do 
my best to convey my sense of his kindness and bow 
myself off 

Agnes, who is very proud of the Mission, tells me there is 
only one Pere and one Frere stationed here, but she says 
" they are very good — good too much." They educate the 
children, teaching them to read French, &c., and should a 
child display any aptitude it is forwarded round to Gaboon to 
acquire a further training in the technical schools there in 
connection with the headquarters of the Mission. She herself, 
I gather, was educated primaril}- by the Mission, but she has 
continued her studies on her own account, for not onl}' does 



il 



xviii A WASHERWOMAN'S VANITY 425 

she speak French grammatically, as the natives are taught to^ 
and read and write it, but also English — Coast English no 
doubt, but comforting to the wanderer who falls in with her, 
while she claims an equal knowledge of Spanish ; no mean, 
range of accomplishments for a lady. I return to my abode 
and have a square meal and sugar in my coffee, thanks to the 
missionary, and so to bed, as Mr. Pepys would say. I am 
sure, by the way, Mr. Pepys would like Agnes, she is quite 
his style of beauty, plump and pleasant ; I don't expect he 
would care for my seaweed bed though, unless he had been 
broken into it by African travel, for Mr. Pepjs had great 
ideas of being comfortable in a conventional waj*. 

August I \th. — Agnes rouses me from my thalassic couch and 
suggests Mass at 5.30 A.M. It seems a ver>- prop)er suggestion, 
so I carry it out. I find the rest of the inhabitants already on 
their knees in the church, singing their Salve Maria responses 
inthat musical, metallic twang the Latin seems to bring out 
so strangely in the African voice, usually so full and throaty. 
I endeavour to follow properl}-, and when my whole attention 
is absorbed in so doing, a terrific tug at my skirts alarms me, 
I look carefully round and see Agnes on her knees behind me. 
" What's the matter ? " I ask. She whispers something. " Salve 
Maria," I say, joining the congregational chorus hastily, and 
add in a whisper " I no fit to hear you, speak them thing 
softly, softly," — she then emits a hissing whisper, full of earnest 
meaning but incomprehensible as to detail ; " Salve Maria " 
comes again and I, feeling frightened that I am doing some- 
thing awfully wrong somehow, answer anxiously "What?" 
and then right out loud and clear, Agnes says, " I be his Jack 
wash." " Salve Maria," say I, with the congregation. Then 
we have an explanation outside, and it seems she does his 
reverence's washing, and feeling, justly enough, proud of the 
white lace petticoats which he was displaying before the altar 
she was compelled to communicate the fact to me and claim 
her share in their beauty. Vanity, thy name is Woman ! 

I take leave of Agnes with gifts, and of my host, the owner 
of the house, giving him a present. He is more than satisfied, 
but explains this must be regarded as a gift and not as pay 
for the hire of his house — it not beinir the fashion of his 



424 FROM CORISCO TO GABOON chak 



country to take this from a traveller. While waiting about for 
the Lafayette to get ready for sea, i.e., for the water bottles to 
be refilled, I learn the cause of the weird howls and screams I 
have heard during the night. A poor maniac who has run 
from Gaboon to Cape Esterias haunts the rocky narrow beach 
at night and flies from any one who approaches him to give 
him food, or offer him shelter. He soon returns and hangs 
about near the houses again and runs at night along the beach 
screaming and moaning as he jumps about among the rocks. 
When I get on to the beach he is sitting playing on a rock, 
not far off, tearing up a plantain leaf into shreds. I take 
up some packages of aguma and biscuits, and softly and 
cautiously make my way towards him, but he just lets me get 
within a few yards and then is off with a howl, at a pace 
which, if it holds, must by now have landed him on the shores of 
Victoria Nyanza. In addition to this fortuitous lunatic, there 
is at Cape Esterias a local one, quite the biggest black man I 
have ever seen ; he must be little short of seven feet high, and 
his muscular development is such that he looks very heavily 
built for his height. They tell me he is a slave who was 
brought in his youth, like most Benga slaves, from one of the 
Fernan Vaz tribes, and is quite harmless and hard-w^orking, 
but quite mad, " some witch has stolen one of his souls." I 
have seen it stated that insanity is almost unknown among the 
Africans ; I can truly say I have never stayed any time in 
a district among them without coming across several cases of 
it. In the Rivers, indeed among all the true negro tribes, it is 
customary to kill lunatics off. On the South-West Coast 
insanity usually takes the form of malignant melancholy 
and they kill themselves off. Amongst the Kacongo and 
Bas-congo tribes, this suicide is at times almost an epidemic, 
and it is there customary when a man shows symptoms of its 
coming on by hanging himself, without rhyme or reason, about 
the place or by trying to knock his brains out against a 
post, for a family conclave to be held. The utter folly of 
his proceedings are then pointed out to him by his relations, 
as only relations can point it out, and should he after this still 
persist in attempting to kill himself, spoiling things, and dis- 
turbing people, the job is taken off his hands and his relations 



XVIII WHALES COURTING -P5 



club him on the head, and throw the body in the river, so 
•'palaver done set." These Benga and M'pongwe people seem 
just to let lunatics alone, though to their credit be it said they 
had tried to feed this poor fellow from Gaboon, because, they 
said, they feared he would starve. When lunatics are dangerous 
they secure them to trees by a chain. There was one, I am 
told, chained near Glass a long time, but one night he broke 
loose and was never heard of again. 

I should say my lady passenger left here. I fanc>- she had 
had enough of the Lafayette. She said she " would walk the 
rest of the way," which may be translated into she'd write to 
Mr. A. L. Jones. We get out through the breakers and hoist 
our mainsail and beat along among the rollers, rolling ourselves 
like mad as the heavy waves sweep broadside on under us. 
Just off the Cape itself we have to run almost out of smell of 
land, to get round a rock reef ; I am bound to confess the 
consequences of this spirited display of seamanship are not 
encouraging. A terrific marine phenomenon exhibits itself 
suddenly off our weather bow, at a distance of fifteen to 
twenty feet. My first opinion is that it is the blow-up of 
a submarine volcano, not because I am a specialist in marine 
volcanic methods, having never seen one out of a picture-book, 
but this is very like the picture-book, waves and foam and 
flying water. In another .second it explains itself com- 
pletely, for out of the centre of it springs aloft the immense 
fluke of a great whale, as high as our mainmast. It swings 
round with a flourish and then comes flop down on to and into 
the broken sea, sending sheets of water over us and into the 
boat. We bale hard all, and stand by for another jierform- 
ance, but, to my intense relief, we see the whale blow a few 
minutes later a good distance off, and then have another 
flourish — a most charming spectacle on the horizon. My crew 
then say, as they take the baling easier, it is a common 
affair in Corisco Bay just about now, for it is the courting 
time for whales. I don't come again into Corisco Bay in 
canoes or small craft while any of that wretched foolishness is 
going on. They also tell me that the other day four people 
coming from Cape Esterias to Gaboon in a canoe were 
drowned, all hands, and they think they must have fallen in 



426 FROM CORISCO TO GABOON chap. 



with this whale ; certainly if a small canoe had been as close 
as we were it would have had a bad time of it, for with us the 
mainsail protected us from a lot of water coming on board. 
Goodness knows, however, we had enough, and did some 
brilliant baling. 

Rounding the reef we run inshore again, and oeat up to 
Cape Clara, the shore showing the same type of dwarf cliff 
and forest on top. Here and there a village shows, some 
of them Fans who have arrived in the easterly end of their 
migration and are, according to my crew, making by no means 
good preparations for their eternal one. 

On going round Cape Clara, to my joy we see the Grand 
Estuary of Gaboon running inland before us, and the wind 
being favourable, we run up it in grand style, looking, I am 
sure, quite the well-handled racer. But " short is human 
glory, vain the vanity of man," our true nature shows up 
again soon in the way we approach the stately Minervey 
the guardship, to pass our papers. I hand over to Eveke,. 
making it a rule, since I placed my bowsprit into a con- 
servatory and took the paint off one side of a small-pox 
hospital, not to keep charge when approaching valuable 
objects. Eveke promptly lowers the gaff, dropping the 
mainsail completely over me, and hastily getting out our 
oars, we avoid a collision and hook on to her ladder. 
A frantic conversation is already going on between my 
crew and the authorities before I extricate myself. It is 
a difficult thing to get anything like gracefully and amiably 
from under a wet mainsail, but my prophetic soul tells me 
we are in disgrace, so I do my best and beam upon an 
officer, who is at the bottom of the ladder, asking leading 
questions about the health of Corisco, and demanding the 
official bill of the same. Eveke is much alarmed, for I tell him 
we shall get quarantined, and he ought to have seen about this,, 
and at last by means of the feeble French of one of our crew, we 
demonstrate to the officer that bills of health simply can't be got 
on Corisco, there being no Spanish official on the forsaken 
island to issue them. The official is unconvinced and goes up 
the ladder to see other officers about it. The interval of sus- 
pense I employ in blowing up Eveke, and he in attempting to> 



XVIII HOW TO TAP YOUR MAINTOP 427 



exculpate himself and inculpate Dr. Nassau for not having 
told him one was necessary'. However, in a few minutes down 
the ladder comes the doctor, saying that a merciful view has 
been taken of the case, only we must not do it again. I 
solemnly assure him I will not ; nor will I, for it's not my 
present intention to revisit an island that has only mud-fish 
in its lakes and courting whales in its encircling seas. While 
we have been busy over this affair, the lively Lafayette has 
been availing herself, as usual when my eje is off her, of the 
opportunity to get into mischief and bring down disgrace and 
derision upon her captain and crew ; this time by jamming her 
topmast, with a nice, clean, new French flag on it, up the tap of 
a cistern — a most unseamanlike proceeding, and one which the 
instruction I have received from Captain Murray and Pro- 
fessor Roy — instruction, I am aware, I do small credit to- 
— gives me no hints as to the proper way of dealing with, 
so we have to be ignominously extricated by the Minerve's 
crew, who roar at us, as we shove off, drifting, waddling and 
wobbling away, until we get our mainsail up again. 

As the manoeuvre of placing your main-top up a tap is not 
mentioned, even in m>' friend The Sailors Sea Book I had 
better explain how the thing is done. The Minerve is an old 
line-of-battle ship, moored off Libreville to ser\-e as a guard 
ship, a depot, and a hospital. She is by nature high out of 
water, on her gun deck is the hospital, on the main deck the 
officers' quarters and the exercise ground for the sailors and 
marines, and above this again is another structure with 
cisterns on, their taps projecting overside — wh)* I do not know, 
unless they screw hose on them, for I have never been aboard 
her or had her geograph}- explained ; above all is a roof of 
palm-leaf mats, in good old Coast style. The whole fabric, 
as Clark Russell would say, towers high into the air, just high 
enough about the cisterns for the lively Lafayette to get her 
precious spar up the nozzle of one of those taps, and of course 
it was a joke she could not resist trying on. I wish it clearly 
to be understood that I am not saying a syllable against the 
staid, stately Minerve. The only indiscretion she was ever 
guilty of was once leaving her moorings and going off with a 
heavy tornado, to the horror of Glass and Libreville, drifting 



428 FROM CORISCO TO GABOON CH. xviii 



away, hospital and all, to what seemed destruction. She was 
rescued, but what the feelings of those on board were, save 
that they had a lurid glow of glory in them and a determina- 
tion that they would die in a manner creditable to La France, 
I know not. The feelings of those ashore I am faintly able 
to realise, and they must have been painful in the extreme, for 
the Minerve is beloved ; many a man, nay, almost every man, 
knows that he owes his life to the skill and care he received on 
board her when he had " that attack." No man is, I think, 
regarded as being initiated into the inner life of Congo 
Fran^ais until he has been carried on board her in a dying 
condition from the fearful Coast fever, and duly pulled round. 
It would be an immense advantage to the other settlements 
along here had they such an institution. She is infinitely better 
than the so-called " Sanatorium" on higher ground. The idea 
of the efficacy of such stations is one of the most dangerous 
illusions rife on the West Coast — I even learn now that this 
Government is thinking of doing away with the floating 
hospital and building one ashore which will not have any- 
thing like so good a record to show as the wards of the 
Minerve now have. 

After our incident with the authorities we pull ourselves 
together, and arrive at Hatton and Cookson's Wharf with a 
delusive dash, and glad I am to get there and return to all 
the comforts, society, and safety associated with it. 



1 



CHAPTER XIX 

FETISH 

In which the \'o>'ager attempts cautiously to approach the subject of 
Fetish, and gives a classification of spirits, and some account of the 
II)et and Orundas. 

Having given some account of my personal experiences 
among an African tribe in its original state, i.e., in a state un- 
influenced by European ideas and culture, I will make an 

ttempt to give a rough sketch of the African form of 
thought and the difficulties of studying it, because the study 
of this thing is my chief motive for going to West Africa. 
Since 1893 I have been collecting information in its native 
state regarding Fetish, and I use the usual terms fetish and 
ju-ju because they have among us a certain fixed value — a 
conventional value, but a useful one. Neither "fetish" nor 
" ju-ju " are native words. Fetish comes from the word 
the old Portuguese explorers used to designate the objects 
the}' thought the natives worshipped, and in which they 
were wise enough to recognise a certain similarity' to their 
' u n little images and relics of Saints, " Feitico." Ju-ju, on the 

ther hand, is French, and comes from the word for a toy or 
(loll,^ so it is not so applicable as the Portuguese name, for 
the native image is not a doll or toy, and has far more affinity to- 
the image of a saint, inasmuch as it is not venerated for 
itself, or treasured because of its prettiness, but only because 
it is the residence, or the occasional haunt, of a spirit. 

1 It is held by some authorities to come from gru-gru, a Mandingoword 
for charm, but I respectfully question whether gru-gru has not come from 
ju-ju, the native approximation to the French joujou. 



430 FETISH chap. 

Stalking the wild West African idea is one of the most 
charming pursuits in the world. Quite apart from the in- 
tellectual, it has a high sporting interest ; for its pursuit is 
as beset with difficulty and danger as grizzly bear hunting, 
yet the climate in which you carry on this pursuit — vile as 
it is — is warm, which to me is almost an essential of existence. 
Personally I prefer it to elephant hunting ; and I shall never 
forget the pleasure with which, in the forest among the Fans, 
I netted one reason for the advantage of possessing a white 
man's eye-ball, and, as I wrote it down in my water- worn 
notebook, saw it joined up with the reason why it is advisable 
to cut off big men's heads in the Niger Delta. Above all, 
I beg you to understand that I make no pretension to a 
thorough knowledge of Fetish ideas ; I am only on the 
threshold. " Ich weiss nicht all doch viel ist mir bekannt," as 
Faust said — and, like him after he had said it, I have got a lot 
to learn. 

I do not intend here to weary you with more than a small 
portion of even my present knowledge, for I have great 
collections of facts that I keep only to compare with those 
of other hunters of the wild idea, and which in their present 
state are valueless to the cabinet ethnologist. Some of these 
may be rank lies, some of them mere individual mind-freaks, 
others have underlying them some idea I am not at present 
in touch with. 

The difficulty of gaining a true conception of the savage's 
real idea is great and varied. 

In places on the Coast where there is, or has been, much 
missionary influence the trouble is greatest, for in the first case 
the natives carefully conceal things they fear will bring them 
into derision and contempt, although they still keep them in 
their innermost hearts ; and in the second case, you have a set 
¦of traditions which are Christian in origin, though frequently 
altered almost beyond recognition by being kept for years in 
the atmosphere of the African mind. For example, there is 
this beautiful story now extant among the Cabindas. God made 
at first all men black — He always does in the African story — 
and then He went across a great river and called men to follow 
Him, and the wisest and the bravest and the best plunged into 



XIX NATIVE LANGUAGE AND NATIVE MIND 431 



the great river and crossed it ; and the water washed them 
white, so they are the ancestors of the white men. But the 
others were afraid too much, and said, " No, we are comfortable 
here ; we have our dances, and our tom-toms, and plenty to 
eat — we won't risk it, we'll stay here" ; and they remained in 
the old place, and from them come the black men. But to 
this day the white men come to the bank, on the other side of 
the river, and call to the black men, saying, " Come, it is better 
over here." I fear there is little doubt that this story is a 
modified version of some parable preached to the Cabindas at 
the time the Jesuit Fathers had such influence among them, 
before they were driven out of the lower Congo regions more 
than a hundred years ago, for political reasons, by the Portu- 
guese. The Cabindas have quite forgotten its origin — " it is 
old story " — and they keep it on, in much the same way as a 
neighbouring tribe keeps on the ringing of the old bells, 
morning and evening, that were once bells in a Jesuit 
monastery long since forgotten. " Our Fathers did it " ; so 
palaver done set. 

In the bush — where the people have been little, or not at all, 
in contact with European ideas — in some ways the investiga- 
tion is easier ; yet another set of difficulties confronts you. 
The difficulty that seems to occur most easily to people 
is the difficulty of the language. My brother the other day 
derided me, as is his wont, saying, " What a great advantage it 
was, that peculiar power African travellers all seemed to have 
of conversing on the most obscure metaphysical questions 
with the natives ; whereas when he was in Singapore, things were 
otherwise — if you said carefully, ' Pergi ka Mercantile Bank,' 
the chances were your rick-shaw runner took you to the 
waterworks." But the truth is that the West African languages 
are not difficult to pick up ; nevertheless, there are an awful 
quantity of them and they are at the best most imperfect 
mediums of communication. No one who has been on the 
Coast can fail to recognise how inferior the native language 
is to the native mind behind it — and the prolixity and re- 
petition he has therefore to employ to make his thoughts 
understood. 

The great comfort is the wide diffiision of that peculiar 



432 FETISH CHAP. 

language, " trade English " ; it is not only used as a means- 
of intercommunication between whites and blacks, but be- 
tween natives using two distinct languages. On the south-west 
Coast you find individuals in villages far from the sea, or a 
trading station, who know it, and this is because they have 
picked it up and employ it in their dealings with the coast 
tribes and travelling traders. It is by no means an easy 
language to pick up — it is not a farrago of bad words and 
broken phrases, but is a definite structure, has a great 
peculiarity in its verb forms, and employs no genders. There 
is no grammar of it out yet ; and one of the best ways of 
learning it is to listen to a seasoned second mate regulating 
the unloading or loading, of cargo, over the hatch of the hold. 
No, my Coast friends, I have not forgotten— but though you 
did not mean it helpfully, this was one of the best hints you 
ever gave me. 

Another good way is the careful study of examples which 
display the highest style and the most correct diction ; so I 
append the letter given by Mr. Hutchinson as being about 
the best bit of trade English I know. 

" To Daddy nah Tampin Office, — 

Ha Daddy, do, yah, nah beg you tell dem people for me ; 
make dem Sally-own pussin know. Do }^ah. Berrah well. 

Ah lib nah Pademba Road — one bwoy lib dah oberside 
lakah dem two Docter lib overside you Tampin office. Berrah 
well. 

Dah bwoy head big too much — he say nah Militie Ban — he 
got one long long ting so so brass, someting lib dah go flip 
flap, dem call am key. Berrah well. Had ! Dah bwoy kin 
blow ! — she ah ! — na marin, oh ! — nah sun time, oh ! nah evenin, 
oh ! — nah middle night, oh ! — all same — no make pussin sleep. 
Not ebry bit dat, more lib da ! One Boney bwoy lib oberside 
nah he like blow bugle. When dem two woh-woh bwoy blow 
dem ting de nize too much too much. 

When white man blow dat ting and pussin sleep he kin tap 
wah make dem bwoy earn do so ? Dem bwoy kin blow ebry 
da)' eben Sunday dem kin blow. When ah yerry dem blow 
Sunday ah wish dah bugle kin go down na dem troat or 
dem kin blow them head-bone inside. 



XIX TRADE ENGLISH 433 



Do nah beg you yah tell all dem people 'bout dah ting wah 
dem two buoy dah blow. Till am Amtrang Boboh hab febah 
bad. Till am titty cam sleep nah night. Dah nize go kill me 
two pickin, oh ! 

Plabba done. Good by Daddy. 
Crashey Jane." 

Now for the elementary' student we will consider this letter. 
The complaint in Crashey Jane's letter is about two boys who 
are torturing her morning, noon, and night, Sunday and 
week day, by blowing some " long long brass ting " as well as a 
bugle, and the way she dwells on their staying power must 
bring a sympathetic pang for that black sister into the heart 
of many a householder in London who lives next to a ladies' 
school, or a family of musical tastes. " One touch of nature," 
&c. '' Daddy " is not a term of low familiarity but one of esteem 
and respect, and the " Tampin Oflfice " is a respectful appellation 
for the Office of the " New Era " in which this letter was once 
published. " Bwoy head big too much," means that the young 
man is swelled with conceit because he is connected with 
" Militie ban." " Woh woh " you will find, among all the natives 
in the Bights, to mean extremely bad. I think it is native, 
having some connection with the root Wo — meaning power, 
&c. ; but Mr. Hutchinson may be right, and it may mean " a 
capacity to bring double woe." 

" Amtrang Boboh " is not the name of some uncivilised 
savage, as the uninitiated may think ; far from it. It is Bob 
Armstrong — upside down, and slightly altered, and refers 
to the Hon. Robert Armstrong, stipendiary magistrate of 
Sierra Leone, &c. 

" Berrah well " is a phrase used whenever the native thinks he 
has . succeeded in putting his statement well. He sort of 
turns round and looks at it, says " Berrah well," in admiration 
of his own art, and then proceeds. 

'¦' Pickin " are children. 

" Boney bwoy " is not a local living skeleton, but a native 
from Bonny River. 

" Sally own " is Sierra Leone. 

"Blow them head-bone inside" means, blow the top ofif 
their heads. 

F F 



434 FETISH chap. 

I have a collection of trade English letters and documents, 
for it is a language that I regard as exceedingly charming, 
and it really requires study, as you will see by reading Crashey 
Jane's epistle without the aid of a dictionary. It is, more- 
over, a language that will take you unexpectedly far in Africa, 
and if you do not understand it, land you in .some pretty 
situations. One important point that you must remember is 
that the African is logically right in his answer to such a 
question as " You have not cleaned this lamp ? " — he says, 
" Yes, sah " — which means, " yes, I have not cleaned the lamp." 
It does not mean a denial to your accusation ; he always uses 
this form, and it is liable to confuse you at first, as are many 
other of the phrases, such as " I look him, I no see him " ; 
this means " I have been searching for the thing but have not 
found it " ; if he really meant he had looked upon the object 
but had been unable to get to it, he would say : " I look him, 
I no catch him," &c. 

There is another class of letters written by Africans who 
have had school teaching to a high degree, and these are very 
fine literature — quite as fine as that of the Indian Baboo and 
with more ability and go in them. They are usually written 
in really exquisite handwriting, and abound in grandiloquence. 
I will not quote any here, save a phrase written in a letter I 
heard read out before the Court of the Chiefs at Bonny by 
young George Peppel — anent a quarrel then going on between 
him and his brother. " The subject," George eloquently 
stated, " has now become so delicately distended as to require 
the united wisdom of the wisest heads in Bonny for its solu- 
tion." I like " delicately distended," much. I know so many 
subjects in England that are in this condition from the 
quantity of gas that has been put into them. 

The difficulty of the language is, however, far less than the 
whole set of difficulties with your own mind. Unless you can 
make it pliant enough to follow the African idea step by step, 
however much care you may take, you will not bag your game. 
I heard an account the other day — I have fo;;gotten where — 
of a representative of her Majesty in Africa who went out for a 
day's antelope shooting. There were plenty of antelope about, 
and he stalked them with great care ; but always, just before 



:x PRIMITIVE CULTURE 435 

he got within shot of the game, they saw something and 
bolted. Knowing he and the boy behind him had been 
making no sound and could not have been seen, he stalked 
on, but always with the same result ; until happening to look 
round, he saw the boy behind him was supporting the dignit>' of 
the Empire at large, and this representative of it in particular, 
by steadfastly holding aloft the consular flag. Well, if you 
go hunting the African idea with the flag of your own 
religion or opinions floating ostentatiously over you, you will 
similarly get a very poor bag, 

A few hints as to your mental outfit when starting on this 
port may be useful. Before starting for West Africa, bum 
all your notions about sun-myths and worship of the elemental 
forces. My own opinion is you had better also bum the notion, 
although it is fashionable, that human beings got their first 
notion of the origin of the soul from dreams. 

I went out with my mind full of the deductions of 
every' book on Ethnology, German or English, that I had 
read during fifteen years — and being a good Cambridge 
j^erson, I was particularly confident that from Mr. Frazer's 
book, T/te Golden Bough, I had got a semi -universal key 
to the underlying idea of native custom and belief. But 
I soon found this was verj' far from being the case. His idea 
is a true key to a certain quantity of facts, but in West 
Africa only to a limited quantity. 

I do not say, do not read Ethnology — by all means do 
so; and above all things read, until you know it by heart, 
Primitive Culture, by Dr. E. B. Tylor, regarding which book 
I may say that I have never found a fact that flew in the 
face of the carefully made, broad-minded deductions of this 
greatest of Ethnologists. In, addition you must know your 
Westermarck on Human Marriage, and your Waitz Anthro- 
pologie, and your Topinard — not that you need expect to go 
measuring people's skulls and chests as this last named authorit>' 
expects you to do, for no self-respecting person black or 
white likes that sort of thing from the hands of an utter stranger, 
and if you attempt it you'll get yourself disliked in West 
Africa. Add to this the knowledge of all A. B. Ellis's works ; 
Y^nrton's Anatomy of Melancholy ; VVmys Natural History ; and 

F F 2 



436 FETISH chap. 

as much of Aristotle as possible. If you have a good know- 
ledge of the Greek and Latin classics, I think it would be an 
immense advantage ; an advantage I do not possess, for my 
classical knowledge is scrappy, and in place of it I have a 
knowledge of Red Indian dogma : a dogma by the way that 
seems to me much nearer the African in type than Asiatic 
forms of dogma. 

Armed with these instruments of observation, with a little 
industry and care you should in the mill of your mind be able 
to make the varied tangled rag-bag of facts that you will 
soon become possessed of into a paper. And then I advise 
you to lay the results of your collection before some great 
thinker and he will write upon it the opinion that his greater 
and clearer vision makes him more fit to form. 

You may say. Why not bring these home their things in the 
raw state ? And bring them home in a raw state you must, for 
purposes of reference ; but in this state they are of little use 
to a person unacquainted with the conditions which 
surround them in their native homes. Also very few 
African stories bear on one subject alone, and they hardly 
ever stick to a point. Take this Fernando Po legend. Wind- 
wood Reade (^Savage Africa, p. 62) gives it, and he says he 
heard it twice. I have heard it, in variants, four times — once 
on Fernando Po, once in Calabar and twice in Gaboon. So 
it is evidently an old story : — 

" The first man called all people to one place. His name 
was Raychow. ' Hear this, my people ' said he, ' I am going 
to give a name to every place, I am King in this River.' One 
day he came with his people to the Hole of Wonga Wonga, 
which is a deep pit in the ground from which fire comes at 
night. Men spoke to them from the Hole, but they could not 
see them. Raychow said to his son, ' Go down into the 
Hole ' — and his son went. The son of the King of the Hole 
came to him and defied him to a contest of throwing the 
spear. If he lost he should be killed, if he won he should go 
back in safety. He won — then the son of the King of the 
Hole said, ' It is strange you should have won, for I am a 
spirit. Ask whatever you wish,' and the King's son asked 
for a remedy for every disease he could remember ; and the 



XIX A WEST AFRICAN LEGEND 437 

spirit gave him the medicines, and when he had done so, he 
>aid, ' There is one sickness you have forgotten — it is the Kraw- 
kraw, and of that you shall die.' 

" ' A tribe named Ndiva was then strong but now none 
remain (Windwood Reade says four remain). They gave 
Raychow's son a canoe and forty men, to take him back to 
his father's town, and when he saw his father he did not 
speak. His father said, ' My son, if you are hungry eat' 
He did not answer, and his father said, ' Do you wish me to 
kill a goat ? ' He did not answer ; his father said, ' Do you 
wish me to give you new wives ? ' He did not answer. Then 
his father said, ' Do you want me to build you a fetish hut? ' 
Then he answered, 'Yes,' and the hut was built, and the 
medicines he had brought back from the Hole were put 
into it. 

'' ' Now,' said the son of King Raychow, 'I go to make the 
Moondah enter the Orongo' (Gaboon) ; .so he went and dug 
a canal and when this was finished all his men were dead. 
Then he said, ' I will go and kill river-horse in the Benito.' 
He killed four, and as he was killing the fifth, the people 
descended from the mountains against him. So he made 
fetish on his great war-spear and sang 

My spear, go kill these people, 
Or these p>eople will kill me ; 

and the spear went and killed the people, except a few who 
cjot into canoes and flew to Fernando Po. Then said their 
King, ' My people shall never wear cloth till we have con- 
quered the M'pongwe,' and to this day the Fernando Poians 
go naked and hate with a special hatred the M'pongwe.' " 

Now this is a noble story — there is a lot of fine confused 
feeding in it, as the Scotchman said of boiled sheep's head. 

You learn from it — A. The name of the first man, and also 
that he was filled with a desire for topographical nomenclature. 

B. You hear of the Hole Wonga Wonga, and this is most 
interesting because to this day, apart from the story, you are 
told by the natives of a hole that emits fire, and Dr. Nassau 
says it is always said to be north of Gaboon ; but so far no 
white man has any knowledge of an active volcano there. 



438 FETISH chap. 

although the district is of volcanic origin. The crater of 
Fernando Po may be referred to in the legend because of the 
king's son being sent home in a canoe ; but I do not think it 
is, because the Hole is known not to be Fernando Po, and it 
has got, according to local tradition, a river running from it or 
close to it. 

C. The kraw-kraw is a frightfully prevalent disease ; no 
one has a remedy for it, presumably owing to Raychow's son's 
forgetfulness. 

D. The silence of the son to the questions is remarkable, 
because you always find people who have been among spirits 
lose their power of asking for what they want, for a time, and 
can only answer to the right question. 

E. The sudden way in which Raychow's son gets fired 
with the desire to turn civil engineer just when he has got a 
magnificent opening in life as a doctor is merely the usual 
flightiness of young men, who do not see where their true 
advantages lie — and the conduct of the men in dying, after 
digging a canal is normal, and modern experiences sup- 
port it, for men who dig canals down in West Africa die 
plentifully, be they black, white, or yellow ; so you can't help 
believing in those men, although it is strange a black man 
should have been so enterprising as to go in for canal digging 
at all. There is no other case of it extant to my knowledge, 
and a remarkable fact is, that the Moondah does so nearly 
connect, by one creek, with the Gaboon estuary that you can 
drag a boat across the little intervening bit of land. 

F. Is a sporting story that turns up a little unexpectedly, 
certainly ; but the Benito is within easy distance north of the 
Moondah, so the geography is all right. 

G. The inhabitants of Fernando Po have still an especial 
hatred for the M'pongwe, and both they and the M'pongwe 
have this account of the one tribe driving the other off the 
mainland. Then the Bubis ^ — as the inhabitants on Fernando 
Po are called, from a confusion arising in the minds of the 
sailors calling at Fernando Po, between their stupidity and 
their word Babi = stranger, which they use as a word of greet- 

1 The proper way to spell this name is booby, i.e., silly, but as Bubi is 
the accepted spelling, I bow to authority. 



AFRICAN CHARACTERISTICS 439 



ing — these Bubis are undoubtedly a ver>' early African race. 
Their culture, though presenting some remarkable points, is 
on the whole exceedingly low. They never wear clothes 
unless compelled to, and their language depends so much on 
gesture that they cannot talk in it to each other in the dark. 

I give this as a sample of African stories. It is far 
more connected and keeps to the point in a far more business- 
like way than most of them. They are of great interest when 
you know the locality and the tribe they come from ; but I 
am sure if you were to bring home a heap of stories like this, 
and empty them over any distinguished ethnologist's head, 
without ticketing them with the culture of the tribe they 
belonged to, the conditions it lives under, and so forth, you 
would stun him with the seeming inter-contradiction of some, 
and utter pointlessness of the rest, and he would give up 
ethnology and hurriedly devote his remaining years to the 
attempt to collect a million postage stamps, so as to do some- 
thing definite before he died. Remember, you must always 
have your original material — carefully noted down at the time 
of occurrence — with you, so that you may say in answer to his 
Why ? Because of this, and this, and this. 

However good may be the outfit for your work that you 
take with you, you will have, at first, great difficulty in realising 
that it is possible for the people you are among really to believe 
things in the way they do. And you cannot associate with 
them long before you must recognise that these Africans have 
often a remarkable mental acuteness and a large share of 
common sense ; that there is nothing really " child-like " in 
their form of mind at all. Observe them further and you will 
find they are not a flighty-minded, mystical .set of people in 
the least. They are not dreamers, or poets, and you will 
observe, and I hope observe closely — for to my mind this is 
the most important difference between their make of mind and 
our own — that they are notably deficient in all mechanical 
arts : they have never made, unless under white direction and 
instruction, a single fourteenth-rate piece of cloth, pottery, a 
tool or machine, house, road, bridge, picture or statue ; that 
a written language of their own construction they none of 
them possess. A careful study of the things a man, black or 



440 FETISH chap. 

white, fails to do, whether for good or evil, usually gives you a 
truer knowledge of the man than the things he succeeds in 
doing. When you fully reali.se this acuteness on one hand 
and this mechanical incapacity on the other which exist in 
the people you are studying, you can go ahead. Only, I 
beseech you, go ahead carefully. When you have found the 
easy key that opens the reason underlying a series of facts, as 
for example, these : a Benga spits on your hand as a greeting ; 
you see a man who has been marching regardless through the 
broiling sun all the forenoon, with a heavy load, on entering 
a village and having put down his load, elaborately steal round 
in the shelter of the houses, instead of crossing the street ; you 
come across a tribe that cuts its dead up into small pieces and 
scattei-s them broadcast, and another tribe that thinks a white 
man's eye-ball is a most desirable thing to be possessed of — 
do not, when you have found this key, drop your collecting 
work, and go home with a shriek of " I know all about Fetish," 
because you don't, for the key to the above facts will not open 
the reason why it is regarded advisable to kill a person who 
is making Ikung ; or why you should avoid at night a cotton 
tree that has red earth at its roots ; or why combings of hair and 
paring of nails should be taken care of; or why a speck of 
blood that may fall from your flesh should be cut out of wood — 
if it has fallen on that — and destroyed, and if it has fallen on 
the ground stamped and rubbed into the soil with great care. 
This set requires another key entirely. 

I must warn you also that your own mind requires protection 
when you send it stalking the savage idea through the tangled 
forests, the dark caves, the swamps and the fogs of the 
Ethiopian intellect. The best protection lies in recognising 
the untrustworthiness of human evidence regarding the unseen, 
and also the seen, when it is viewed by a person who has in 
his mind an explanation of the phenomenon before it occurs. 
For example, take a person who, believing in ghosts, sees a 
white figure in a churchyard, bolts home, has fits, and on revival 
states he has seen a ghost, and gives details. He has seen a 
ghost and therefore he is telling the truth. Another person 
who does not believe in ghosts sees the thing, flies at it and 
finds its component parts are boy and bed-sheet. 



XIX THE AFRICAN POINT OF VIEW 441 

Do not applaud this individual, for he is quite conceited 
enough to make him comfortable ; yet when he says the 
phenomenon was a boy and a bed-sheet, he is also telling the 
truth, and not much more of the truth than obser\er number 
one, for, after all, inside the boy there is a real ghost that 
made him go and do the thing. I know many people have 
doubts as to the existence of souls in small boys of this 
class, holding that they contain only devils ; but devils can 
become ghosts, according to a mass of testimony. Great as 
the protection to the mind is, to keep it, as Hans Breitmann 
says, " still skebdical," I warn you that, with all precaution, 
the study of African metaphysics is bad for the brain, when 
\ou go and carry it on among all the weird, often unaccount- 
able surroundings, and depressing scenery of the Land of the 
Shadow of Death — a land that stretches from Goree to 
Loanda. 

The fascination of the African point of view is as sure to 
linger in your mind as the malaria in your body. Never then 
will you be able to attain to the gay, happy cock-sureness 
regarding the Deity and the Universe of those people who 
stay at home, and whom the Saturday so aptly called " the 
suburban agnostics." You will always feel inclined to 
ask this class of people, " Yes ; well, what is Force ? What 
is Motion ; and above all, tell me what is Matter that you talk 
so glibly of ? and if so why?" And the suburban agnostic 
looks down on you, and says pityingly, " Read Schopenhauer 
and Clifford," as if he were ordering you pills ; which revolts 
you, and you retort " Read Kant and Darwin," and the con- 
versation disappears into a fog of words. 

The truth is, the study of natural phenomena knocks the 
bottom out of any man's conceit if it is done honestly and 
not by selecting only those facts that fit in with his pre-con- 
ceived or ingrafted notions. And, to my mind, the wisest way 
is to get into the state of mind of an old marine engineer who 
oils and sees that every screw and bolt of his engines is clean 
and well watched, and who loves them as living things, caressing 
and scolding them himself, defending them, with stormy 
language, against the aspersions of the silly, uninformed outside 
world, which persists in regarding them as mere machines, a 



I 



442 FETISH CHAP. 



thing his superior intelHgence and experience knows they are 
not. Even animistic-minded I got awfully sat upon the other 
day in Cameroon by a superior but kindred spirit, in the form of 
a First Engineer. I had thoughtlessly repeated some scandalous 
gossip against the character of a naphtha launch in the river. 
" Stuff ! " said he furiously ; " she's all right, and she'd go from 
June to January if those blithering fools would let her alone." 
Of course I apologised. 

The religious ideas of the Negroes, i.e., the West Africans in 
the district from the Gambia to the Cameroon region, say 
roughly to the Rio del Rey (for the Bakwiri appear to have 
more of the Bantu form of idea than the negro, although 
physically they seem nearer the latter), differ very consider- 
ably from the religious ideas of the Bantu South- West Coast 
tribes. The Bantu is vague on religious subjects ; he gives 
one accustomed to the negro the impression that he once had 
the same set of ideas, but has forgotten half of them, and those 
that he possesses have not got that hold on him that the 
corresponding or. super-imposed Christian ideas have over the 
true Negro ; although he is quite as keen on the subject of 
witchcraft, and his witchcraft differs far less from the witch- 
craft of the Negro than his religious ideas do. 

Witchcraft is a wonderful thing in its way. In Africa I 
constantly come upon ideas and methods of procedure in 
it that are identical with those of Irish, Devonian, and 
Semitic witchcraft, but this subject is too large to enter upon 
here. 

The god, in the sense we use the word, is in essence 
the same in all of the Bantu tribes I have met with on the 
Coast : a non-interfering and therefore a negligeable quantity. 
He varies his name : Anzambi, Anyambi, Nyambi, Nzambi^ 
Anzam, Nyam, Ukuku, Suku, and Nzam, but a better investi- 
gation shows that Nzam of the Fans is practically identical 
with Suku south of the Congo in the Bihe country, and 
so on. 

They regard their god as the creator of man, plants^ 
animals, and the earth, and they hold that having made them, 
he takes no further interest in the affair. But not so the 
crowd of spirits with which the universe is peopled, they take 



XIX INFERIOR SPIRITS 443 



only too much interest and the Bantu wishes they would not 
and is perpetually saying so in his prayers, a large percentage 
whereof amounts to " Go away, we don't want }-ou." " Come 
not into this house, this village, or its plantations." He knows 
from experience that the spirits pay little heed to these objur- 
gations, and as they are the people who must be attended to, 
he develops a cult whereby they may be managed, used, and 
understood. This cult is what we call witchcraft. 

As I am not here writing a complete work on Fetish I 
will leave Nzam on one side, and turn to the inferior spirits. 
These are almost all malevolent ; sometimes they can be 
coaxed into having creditable feelings, like generosity and 
gratitude, but you can never trust them. No, not even 
if you are yourself a well-established medicine man. Indeed 
they are particularly dangerous to medicine men, just as 
lions are to lion tamers, and many a professional gentleman, 
in the full bloom of his practice, gets eaten up by his own 
particular familiar which he has to keep in his own inside 
whenever he has not sent it off into other people's. 

I am Indebted to the Reverend Doctor Nassau for a great 
quantity of valuable information regarding Bantu religious 
ideas — information which no one is so competent to give as he, 
for no one else knows the West Coast Bantu tribes with the 
same thoroughness and sympathy. He has lived among them 
since 185 1, and is perfectly conversant with their languages 
and culture, and he brings to bear upon the study of them 
a singularly clear, powerful, and highly-educated intelli- 
gence. 

I shall therefore carefully ticket the information I have 
derived from him, so that it may not be mixed with my own. 
I may be wrong in my deductions, but Dr. Nassau's are above 
suspicion. 

He says the origin of these spirits is vague — some of them 
come into existence by the authority of Anzam (by which 
you will understand, please, the same god I have quoted 
above as having many names), others are self-existent — many 
are distinctly the souls of departed human beings, "which 
in the future which is all around them " retain their human 
wants and feelings, and the Doctor assures me he has heard 



444 FETISH chap. 

dying people with their last breath threatening to return as 
spirits to revenge themselves upon their living enemies. He 
could not tell me if there was any duration set upon the exist- 
ence as spirits of these human souls, but two Congo Fran^ais 
natives, of different tribes, Benga and Igalwa, told me that 
when a family had quite died out, after a time its spirits died 
too. Some, but by no means all, of these spirits of human 
origin, as is the case among the negro Efifiks, undergo re- 
incarnation. The Doctor told me he once knew a man whose 
plantations were devastated by an elephant. He advised 
that the beast should be shot, but the man said he dare not 
because the spirit of his dead father had passed into the 
elephant. 

Their number is infinite and their powers as varied as human 
imagination can make them ; classifying them is therefore a 
difficult work, but Doctor Nassau thinks this may be done 
fairly completely into : — 

1. Human disembodied spirits — Manu. 

2. Vague beings, well described by our word ghosts : 
Abambo. 

3. Beings something like dryads, who resent intrusion into 
their territory, on to their rock, past their promontory, or tree. 
When passing the residence of one of these beings, the 
traveller must go by silently, or with some cabalistic invocation, 
with bowed or bared head, and deposit some symbol of an 
offering or tribute even if it be only a pebble. You occasion- 
ally come across great trees that have fallen across a path 
that have quite little heaps of pebbles, small shells, &c., upon 
them deposited by previous passers-by. This class is called 
Ombiviri. 

4. Beings who are the agents in causing sickness, and either 
aid or hinder human plans — Mionde. 

5. There seems to be, the Doctor says, another class of 
spirits somewhat akin to the ancient Lares and Penates, who 
especially belong to the household, and descend by inheritance 
with the family. In their honour are secretly kept a bundle 
of finger, or other bones, nail-clippings, eyes, brains, &c., 
accumulated from deceased members of successive genera- 
tions. 



XIX TRANSMIGRATION OF SOULS 445 

Dr. Nassau says " secretly," and he refers to this custom 
being existent in non-cannibal tribes. I saw bundles of this 
character among the cannibal Fans, and among the non- 
cannibal Adooma, openly hanging up in the thatch of the 
sleeping apartment. 

6. He also says there may be a sixth class, which may, 
however only be a function of any of the other classes — namely, 
those that enter into any animal body, generally a leopard. 
Sometimes the spirits of living human beings do this, and the 
animal is then guided by human intelligence, and will exercise 
its strength for the purposes of its temporary human possessor. 
In other cases it is a non-human soul that enters into the 
animal, as in the case of Ukuku. 

Spirits are not easily classified by their functions because 
those of different class may be employed in identical under- 
takings. Thus one witch doctor may have, I find, particular 
influence over one class of spirit and another over another class ; 
yet they will both engage to do identical work. But in spite 
of this I do not see how you can classify spirits otherwise than 
by their functions ; you cannot weigh and measure them, and 
it is only a few that show themselves in corporeal form. 

There are characteristics that all the authorities seem agreed 
on, and one is that individual spirits in the same class vary 
in power : some are strong of their sort, some weak. 

They are all to a certain extent limited in the nature 
of their power ; there is no one spirit that can do all things ; 
their efficiency only runs in certain lines of action and all of 
them are capable of being influenced, and made subservient to 
human wishes, by proper incantations. This latter characteristic 
is of course to human advantage, but it has its disadvantages, 
for you can never really trust a spirit, even if you have paid 
a considerable sum to a most distinguished medicine man to get 
a powerful one put up in a ju-ju, or monde,^ as it is called in 
several tribes. 

The method of making these charms is much the same 
among Bantu and Negroes. I have elsewhere described the 

1 This article has different names in different tribes ; thus it is called 
a bian among the Fan, a tarwiz, gree-gree, &c., on other parts of the 

Coast. 



446 



FETISH 



CHAP. 



Gold Coast method, so here confine myself to the Bantu. This 
similarity of procedure naturally arises from the same under- 
lying idea existing in the two races. 

You call in the medicine man, the "oganga," as he is 
commonly called in Congo Frangais tribes. After a variety 
of ceremonies and processes, the spirit is induced to localise 
itself in some object subject to the will of the possessor. 
The things most frequently used are antelopes' horns, the 
large snail-shells, and large nut-shells, according to Doctor 



\IV 




MAKING A CHARM IN THE UPPER OGOWE REGION. 



Nassau. Among the Fan I found the most frequent charm- 
case was in the shape of a little sausage, made very neatly of 
pineapple fibre, the contents being the residence of the spirit 
or power, and the outside coloured red to flatter and please 
him — for spirits always like red. 

The substance put inside charms is all manner of Hasti- 
ness, usually on the sea coast having a high percentage of 
fowl dung. 

The nature of the substance depends on the spirit it is 



\ix THE BLOOD IS THE LIFE 447 

intended to be attractive to — attractive enough to induce it 
to leave its present abode and come and reside in the charm. 

In addition to this attractive substance I find there are 
other materials inserted which have relation towards the work 
the spirit will be wanted to do for its owner. For example, 
charms made either to influence a person to be well disposed 
towards the owner, or the still larger class made with intent 
to work evil on other human beings against whom the owner 
has a grudge, must have in them some portion of the person 
to be dealt with — his hair, blood, nail-parings, &c. — or, failing 
that, his or her most intimate belonging, something that has 
got his smell in — a piece of his old waist-cloth for example. 

This ability to obtain power over people by means of their 
blood, hair, nails, &c., is universally diffused ; you will find 
it down in Devon, and away in far Cathay, and the Chinese, 
I am told, have in some parts of their empire little ovens to 
burn their nail- and hair-clippings in. The fear of these latter 
belongings falling into the hands of evilly-disposed persons 
is ever present to the West Africans. The Igalwa and other 
tribes will allow no one but a trusted friend to do their hair, 
and bits of nails and hair are carefully burnt or thrown away 
into a river ; and blood, even that from a small cut or a fit of 
nose-bleeding, is most carefully covered up and stamped out 
if it has fallen on the earth. Dr. Nassau says, " If it falls on 
the side of a canoe, or a tree, the place is carefully cut out 
and the chip destroyed. Blood from a wound on a woman is 
held in high horror. This has probably something to do with 
the drawing of blood constituting grounds of divorce among the 
Igalwa. A Fan told me that a man in the village, who was so 
weak from some cause or other that he could hardly crawl 
about, had fallen into this state by seeing the blood of a woman 
who had been killed by a falling tree. The underlying idea 
regarding blood is of course the old one that the blood is the 
life. 

The life in Africa means a spirit, hence the liberated blood is 
the liberated spirit, and liberated spirits are always whipping 
into people who do not want them. In the case of the young 
Fan, the opinion held was that the weak spirit of the woman 
had got into him. I could not help being reminded of the 



448 FETISH chap. 

saying one often hears from a person in England who has seen 
some tragedy, — " I cannot get the horror of it out of my eyes." 
This " horror " would mean to an African a spirit coming from 
the thing itself 

Charms are made for every occupation and desire in life — 
loving, hating, buying, selling, fishing, planting, travelling, 
hunting, &c., and although they are usually in the form 
of things filled with a mixture in which the spirit nestles, 
yet there are other kinds ; for example, a great love charm 
is made of the water the lover has washed in, and this, 
mingled with the drink of the loved one, is held to soften the 
hardest heart. Of a similar nature is the friendship-com- 
pelling charm I know of on the Ivory Coast, which I have 
been told is used also in the Batanga regions. This is ob- 
tained on the death of a person you know really cared for you 
— like your father or mother, for example — by cutting off the 
head and suspending it over a heap of chalk, as the white earth 
that you find in river beds is called here, then letting it drip as 
long as it will and using this saturated chalk to mix in among 
the food of any one you wish should think kindly of you and 
trust you. This charm, a Bassa man said to me, " was good 
too much for the white trader," and made him give you " good 
price too much " for palm oil, &c., and that statement revived 
my sympathy for a friend who once said to me that when he 
used first to come to the Coast he had " pretty well had the 
inside raked up out of him " from the sickness caused by the 
charms that his local cook administered to him in the interest 
of the cook's friends. That man keeps an Accra cook now, 
and I trust lives a life of healthy, icy, unemotional calm. 

Some kinds of charms, such as those to prevent your getting 
drowned, shot, seen by elephants, &c., are worn on a bracelet 
or necklace. A new-born child starts with a health-knot tied 
round the wrist, neck, or loins, and throughout the rest of its 
life its collection of charms goes on increasing. This col- 
lection does not, however, attain inconvenient dimensions, 
owing to the failure of some of the charms to work. 

That is the worst of charms and prayers. The thing you wish 
of them may, and frequently does, happen in a strikingly direct 
way, but other times it does not. In Africa this is held to arise 



XIX UNCERTAINTY OF CHARMS 449 

from the bad character of the spirits ; their gross ingrati- 
tude and fickleness. You may have taken ever}' care of a 
spirit for years, given it food and other offerings that you 
wanted for yourself, wrapped it up in your cloth on chilly 
nights and gone cold, put it in the only dry spot in the canoe, 
and so on, and yet after ^1 this, the wretched thing will be 
capable of being got at by your rival or enemy and lured 
away, leaving you only the case it once lived in. 
;• Finding, we will say, that you have been upset and half- 
drowned, and your canoe-load of goods lost three times in a 
-week, that your paddles are always breaking, and the amount 
of snags in the river and so on is abnormal, you judge that 
l your canoe-charm has stopped. Then you go to the medicine 
> man who supplied you with it and complain. He says it was 
I a perfectly good charm when he sold it you and he never had 
jany complaints before, but he will investigate the affair ; when 
he has done so, he either says the spirit has been lured away 
from the home he prepared for it by incantations and 
I^resents from other people, or that he finds the spirit is dead ; 
has been killed by a more powerful spirit of its class, which 
- in the pay of some enemy of yours. In all cases the little 
thing you kept the spirit in is no use now, and only fit to sell 
to a white man as " a big curio ! " and the sooner you let 
him have sufficient money to procure you a fresh and still 
more powerful spirit — necessarily more expensive — the safer 
it will be for you, particularly as your misfortunes distinctly 
point to some one being desirous of your death. You of 
)urse grumble, but seeing the thing in his light you pay up, 
and the medicine man goes busily to work with incantations, 
dances, looking into mirrors or basins of still water, and con- 
coctions of messes to make you a new protecting charm. 

Human eye-balls, particularly of white men, I have already 

<aid are a great charm. Dr. Nassau says he has known graves 

i^ed for them. This, I fancy, is to secure the "man that 

ives in your eyes" for the service of the village, and naturally 

the white man, being regarded as a superior being, would 

of high value if enlisted into its service. A similar idea 

>{ the possibility of gaining possession of the spirit of a dead 

man obtains among the Negroes, and the heads of important 

G G 



450 FETISH chap. 

chiefs in the Calabar districts are usually cut off from the 
body on burial and kept secretly for fear the head, and there- 
by the spirit, of the dead chief, should be stolen from the town. 
If it were stolen it would be not onl}- great advantage to its 
new possessor, but a great danger to the chief's old town, be- 
cause he would know all the pecailiar ju-ju relating to it. 
For each town has a peculiar one, kept exceedingly secret, in 
addition to the general ju-jus, and this secret one would then 
be in the hands of the new owners of the spirit. It is for 
similar reasons that brave General MacCarthy's head was 
treasured by the Ashantees, and so on. 

Charms are not all worn upon the body, some go to the 
plantations, and are hung there, ensuring an unhappy and 
swift end for the thief who comes stealing. Some are hung 
round the bows of the canoe, others over the doorway of the 
house, to prevent evil spirits from coming in — a sort of tame 
watch-dog spirits. 

The entrances to the long street-shaped villages are frequently 
closed with a fence of saplings and this sapling fence you will 
see hung with fetish charms to prevent evil spirits from enter- 
ing the village and sometimes in addition to charms you will 
see the fence wreathed with leaves and flowers. I tried to 
find out whether these leaves were for the residence or amuse- 
ment of the protecting spirits or whether they were traps for 
the evil spirits attempting to enter the town. Both reasons 
were given me, the latter most definitely. Bells are frequently 
hung on these fences, but I do not fancy ever for fetish 
reasons. At Ndorko, on the Rembw6, there were many guards 
against spirit visitors, but the bell, which was carefully hung 
so that you could not pass through the gateway without 
ringing it, was a guard against thieves and human enemies 
only. It was entirely a piece of native manufacture, shaped very 
like the cow-bells my friends bring home from Switzerland, 
with the same hoarse note, and I was informed, when at 
Lembarene, that down in a corner of the Lake of Islands there 
were a party of Fans who could not get out because they had 
quarrelled, more suo, with a village of fellow Fans who guard 
the entrance for canoes to the said corner, keeping a bright 
look out by day, to see the imprisoned ones did not escape, 



SACRIFICIAL RITES 45^ 



nd by night stretching a Hne hung with bells from stake to 
take, so that the least touch of a canoe on it set the bells 
ringing and the captors on the alert. The opinion was that 
unless the Government intervened the imprisoned Fans would 
gradually get killed and eaten by their fellow tribesmen, and 
then there will be a brief peace in that corner. They seem, I 
must say, to be a nice set down in that Eliva Z'onange, for 
they had eaten a returning communicant from the Catholic 
mission a few weeks before I reached Lembarene ; but this 
is mere chop palaver, for the cannibalism of the Fan is 
not a sacrificial cannibalism like that of the Niger Delta 
tribes, so we will leave it on one side and return to the 
, ateways. 

Frequently a sapling is tied horizontally near the ground 
across the entrance. Dr. Nassau could not tell me why, but 
ays it must never be trodden on. When the smallpox, a 
lire pestilence in these regions, is raging, or when there is 
war, these gateways are sprinkled with the blood of sacrifices, 
and for these sacrifices and for the payments of heavy blood 
fines, &c., goats and sheep are kept. They are rarely eaten 
for ordinary purposes, and these West Coast Africans have all 
a perfect horror of the idea of drinking milk, holding this 
custom to be a filthy habit, and saying so in unmitigated 
language. 

The villagers eat the meat of the sacrifice, that having 
nothing to do with the sacrifice to the spirits, which is the 
blood, for the blood is the life.^ 

Beside the few spirits that the Bantu regards himself as 
having got under control in his charms, he has to worship the 
uncontrolled army of the air. This he does by sacrifice and 
incantation. 

The sacrifice is the usual killing of something valuable as 
an offering to the spirits. The value of the offering in these 
S.W. Coast regions has certainly a regular relationship to the 
value of the favour required of the spirits. Some favours are 
worth a dish of plantains, some a fowl, some a goat and some 

1 Care must be taken not to confuse with sacrifices propitiations of 
spirits ; the killing of men and animals as offerings to the souls of deceased 
persons. 

G G 2 



452 FETISH CHAP. 

a human being, though human sacrifice is very rare in 
Congo Fran^ais, the killing of people being nine times in ten | 
a witchcraft palaver. 

Dr. Nassau, however, says that " the intention of the giver 
ennobles the gift," the spirit being supposed, in some vague 
way, to be gratified by the recognition of itself, and even some- 
times pleased with the homage of the mere simulacrum of at 
gift. I believe the only class of spirits that have this convenient 
idea are the Ombwiri ; thus the stones heaped by passers-by 
on the foot of some great tree, or rock, or the leaf cast from a 
passing canoe towards a promontory on the river, &c., 
although intrinsically valueless and useless to the Ombwiri 
nevertheless gratify him. It is a sort of bow or taking off 
one's hat to him. Some gifts, the Doctor says, are supposed to 
be actually utilised by the spirit. 

In some part of the long single street of most villages there 
is built a low hut in which charms are hung, and by which 
grows a consecrated plant, a lily, a euphorbia, or a fig. In 
some tribes a rudely carved figure, generally female, is set 
up as an idol before which offerings are laid. I saw at 
Egaja two figures about 2 feet 6 inches high, in the house 
placed at my disposal. They were left in it during my occupa- 
tion, save that the rolls of cloth (their power) which were round 
their necks, were removed by the owner chief; of the signifi- 
cance of these rolls I will speak elsewhere. 

Incantations may be divided into two classes, supplications 
analogous to our idea of prayers, and certain cabalistic words and 
phrases. The supplications are addresses to the higher spirits. 
Some are made even to Anzam himself, but the spirit of the 
new moon is that most commonly addressed to keep the lower 
spirits from molesting. 

Dr. Nassau gave me many instances out of the wealth of 
his knowledge. One night when he was stopping at a village, 
he saw standing out in the open street a venerable chief who 
addressed the spirits of the air and begged them, " Come ye not 
into my town ;" he then recounted his good deeds, praising him- 
self as good, just, honest, kind to his neighbours, and so on. 
I must remark that this man had not been in touch withi 
Europeans, so his ideal of goodness was the native one — whichi 



XIX CABALISTIC WORDS AND PHRASES 453 



you will find everywhere among the most remote West Coast 
natives. He urged these things as a reason why no evil 
should befall him, and closed with an impassioned appeal 
to the spirits to stay away. At another time, in another 
village, when a man's son had been wounded and a bleeding 
artery which the Doctor had closed had broken out again and 
the haemorrhage seemed likely to prove fatal, the father rushed 
out into the street wildly gesticulating towards the^ sky, saying, 
" Go away, go away, go away, ye spirits, why do you come to 
kill my son ? " In another case a woman rushed into the street, 
alternately objurgating and pleading with the spirits, who, she 
said, were vexing her child which had convulsions. " Observe," 
said the Doctor in his impressive way, " these were distinctly 
j^rayers, appeals for mercy, agonising protests, but there was 
no praise, no love, no thanks, no confession of sin." I said, 
considering the underlying idea, I did not see how that could 
be, thinking of the thing as they did, and the Doctor and I had 
one of our little disagreements. I shall always feel grateful 
to him for his great toleration of me, but I am sure this arose 
from his feeling that I saw there was an underlying idea in 
the minds of the people he loved well enough to lay down 
his life for in the hope of benefiting and ennobling them, and 
that I did not, as many do, set them down as idiotic brutes, 
glorying in an aimless cruelty that would be a disgrace to a 
devil. 

Regarding the cabalistic words and phrases, things which 
had long given me great trouble to get any comprehension of, 
the Doctor gave me great help. He says some of these 
phrases and words are coined by the person himself, others 
are archaisms handed down from ancestors and believed to 
possess an eflficacy, though their actual meaning is forgotten. 
He says they are used at any time as defence from evil, when 
a person is startled, sneezes, or stumbles. Among these I 
think I ought to class that peculiar form of friendly farewell 
or greeting which the Doctor poetically calls a "blown 
blessing" and the natives Ibata. I thought the three times 
it was given to me that it was just spitting on the hand. 
Practically it is so, but the Doctor says the spitting is acci- 
dental, a by-product I suppose. The method consists in 



454 FETISH chap.^ 



taking the right hand in both yours, turning it palm upwards, 
bending your head low over it, and saying with great energy 
and a violent propulsion of the breath, Ibata. • 

Idols are comparatively rare in Congo Francais, but where' 
they are used the people have the same idea about them as the 
true negroes have, namely, that they are things which spirits 
reside in, or haunt, but not in their corporeal nature 
adorable. The resident spirit in them and in the charms and 
plants, which are also regarded as residences of spirits, has to 
be placated with offerings of food and other sacrifices. You 
will see in the Fetish huts above mentioned dishes of plantain 
and fish left till they rot. Dr. Nassau says the life or essence 
of the food only is eaten by the spirit, the form of the 
vegetable or flesh being left to be removed when its life 
is gone out. The Calabar negroes told me that the spirits 
often take the forms of lizards — which abound in this country 
— and come and eat the food, and they always seem to doubt 
whether the offered food has reached its proper destination 
unless some animal has eaten it. But for one thing, as I have 
said before, the true Negro is more definite in his ideas, and 
his gods and spirits very practical individuals, whereas the 
Bantu are vaguer, and moreover there are not so many lizards 
in Congo Francais, so perhaps the native metaphysician is 
forced to be more spiritual in his ideas about his sacrifice. 

In cases of emergency a fowl with its blood is laid at thej 
door of the Fetish hut, or when pestilence is expected, or an 
attack by enemies, or a great man or woman is very ill, goats 
and sheep are sacrificed and the blood put in the Fetish hut as 
well as on the gateways of the village. These sacrifices 
among the Fan are made with a very peculiar-shaped knife, a' 
fine specimen of which I secured by the kindness of Captain 
Davies ; it is shaped like the head of a hornbill and is quite 
unlike the knives in common use among the tribes, which are 
either long, leaf-shaped blades sharpened along both edges, or 
broad, trowel-shaped, almost triangular daggers. All Fan 
knives are fine weapons, superior to the knives of all other 
Coast tribes I have met with, but the sacrifice knife is 
distinctly peculiar. Du Chaillu figures one in his book, 
calling it a tomahawk. Other people besides him speak of it 



XIX FORBIDDEN FOOD 455 



and call it a throwing knife. I believe it is entirely used for 
sacrificing. I do not believe you could throw it, as its curve 
and heavy weight at the back bring it round when you attempt 
to, and it is quite unlike the multi-bladed, real throwing 
knives of some middle Congo tribes. But it is perfectly 
adapted for killing animals by a blow behind the head, at the 
top of the spine, and this is the way I have seen it used, and 
if I remember right, Du Chaillu does not say that he himself 
saw it thrown. I have never seen any knife like it except 
in an illustration to Junker's i'^^'/j^r ivi Afrika (1891, vol. iii. p. 
122), where one very similar is figured among the knives of 
the Mungabatu. 

There are several other irtiplements of this cannibal tribe 
figured by Junker that have a great resemblance to the 
Fan things used for similar purposes, and I am much tempted 
to think that these two tribes are, if not identical, at least very 
nearly related. The same dwarf people, the pygmies, are in 
the Mungabatu region, and are fairly frequent in the forest 
among the Fans, and the north-east and east limitations of the 
Fans are not yet known. 

I found to my great interest the same superstition in 
Congo Fran^ais that I met with first in the Oil Rivers. Its 
meaning I am unable to fully account for, but I believe it to 
be a form of sacrifice. In Calabar each individual has a 
certain forbidden thing or things. These things are either 
forms of food, or the method of eating. In Calabar this pro- 
hibition is called I bet, and when, in consequence of the 
influence of white culture, a man gives up his I bet, he is 
regarded by good sound ju-juists as leading an irregular and 
dissipated life, and even the unintentional breaking of the 
I bet is regarded as very dangerous. For example, in buying a 
slave the purchaser always inquires what is the slave's Ibet, 
because if the slave were given his Ibet to eat, he would get 
ill ; again, once when staying with my esteemed friend Miss 
Mary Slessor at Okyon, there arrived among her crowd of 
patients a small boy with a very " sick foot." On being asked 
from what it had arisen, instead of getting the usual answer, 
" picked up medicine on the road," the boy said he had 
broken his Ibet. Miss Slessor told me that shortly after 



456 FETISH CHAP. 

a child is bom some of the elderly female relatives meet 
together and find out, by their magic, what the child's Ibet 
during life is to be. When they have done so, it is made 
known and he has to keep to it. 

Special days are set apart by each individual ; on these 
days he eats only the smallest quantity and plainest quality 
of food. No one must eat with him, nor any dog, fowl, &c., 
feed off the crumbs, nor any one watch him while eating. I 
suspect on this day the Ibet is eaten, but 1 have not verified 
this, only getting, from an untrustworthy source, a statement 
that supported it. 

Dr. Nassau told me that among Congo Fran^ais tribes 
certain rites are performed for children during infancy or 
youth, in which a prohibition is laid upon the child as regards 
the eating of some particular article of food, or the doing of 
certain acts. " It is difficult," he said, " to get the exact 
object of the ' Orunda.' Certainly the prohibited article is 
not in itself evil, for others but the inhibited individual may 
eat or do with it as they please. Most of the natives blindly 
follow the custom of their ancestors without being able to 
give any raison d'etre, but again, from those best able to give 
a reason, you learn the prohibited article is a sacrifice ordained 
for the child by its parents and the magic doctor as a gift to 
the governing spirit of its life. The thing prohibited becomes 
removed from the child's common use, and is made sacred to 
the spirit. Any use of it by the child or man would therefore 
be a sin, which would bring down the spirit's wrath in the 
form of sickness or other evil, which can be atoned for only 
by expensive ceremonies or gifts to the magic doctor who 
intercedes for the offender." 

Anything may be an Orunda provided only that it is con- 
nected with food ; I have been able to find no definite ground for 
the selection of it. The Doctor said, for example, that " once 
when on a boat journey, and camped in the forest for the 
noon-day meal, the crew of four had no meat. They needed 
it. I had a chicken but ate only a portion, and gave the rest 
to the crew. Three men ate it with their manioc meal, the 
fourth would not touch it. It was his Orunda." " On another 
journey," said the Doctor, " instead of all my crew leaving me 



ORUNDA AND IBET 457 



respectfully alone in the canoe to have my lunch and going 
ashore to have theirs, one of them stayed behind in the canoe, 
and I found his Orunda was only to eat over water when on a 
journey by water." " At another place, a chief at whose village 
we once anchored in a small steamer when a glass of rum was 
given him, had a piece of cloth held up before his mouth that 
the people might not see him drink, which was his Orunda." 

I know some ethnologists will think this last case should 
be classed under another head, but I think the Doctor is 
right. He is well aware of the existence of the other class of 
prohibitions regarding chiefs and I have seen plenty of chiefs 
myself up the Rembwe who have no objection to take their 
drinks coram publico, and I have no doubt this was only an 
individual Orunda of this particular Rembwe chief 

Great care is requisite in these matters, because a man may 
do or abstain from doing one and the same thing for divers 
reasons. 

The word Orunda means prohibition, the Doctor says. In 
Effik I found the word Ibet meant a command — a law — an 
abstinence. 



CHAPTER XX 

FETISH — {Continued) 

In which the Voyager discourses on deaths and witchcraft, and, with no 
intentional slur on the medical profession, on medical methods and 
burial customs, concluding with sundry observations on twins. 

It is exceedingly interesting to compare the ideas of the 
Negroes with those of the Bantu. At present I have 
a more definite knowledge of the former, but I have 
gained sufficient knowledge of the West Coast Bantu to be 
able to commence a regular comparative study of these two 
analogous, but by no means identical, sets of ideas, 

I fancy you find the earliest forms, both of religion and 
witchcraft, among the negroes, and I hope in some future 
sojourn on the Bantu border-line to work up the subject 
more thoroughly, for it is one of great interest to the student 
of mental evolution. 

The mental condition of the lower forms of both races 
seems very near the other great border-line that separates 
man from the anthropoid apes, and I believe that if we had 
the material, or rather if we could understand it, we should 
find little or no gap existing in mental evolution in this old, 
undisturbed continent of Africa. 

There is one point in evolution, and one only, on which 
I am a little heterodox, and that is the dogma that all human 
beings came in the beginning from a single pair, appearing 
somewhere in Asia, and that their descendants then migrated 
about the earth accustoming themselves, their religion, their 
cooking, and their culture to new environments, turning the 
while all sorts of colours, and developing peculiarities of no 



CH. XX WITCHCRAFT AND BUSH-SOULS 459 



mortal use, and half the time of no ornament, in the matter of 
hair. 

I know, of course, that the South-West Coast tribes have all 
migrated from a region in the north-east that seems to be 
perpetually throwing off tribe after tribe, which all come west, 
and die out in the swamp-lands of the West Coast ; but at the 
same time we know, and have known for hundreds of years, 
quite enough of the regions beyond those from which the 
South-West Coast tribes — Duallas, M'pong^ve, Benga, and Fan 
— have come during modern times, to be certain that these 
interesting and striking-looking hosts of human beings have 
not come trapesing across from AsicL I am not planting 
an African garden of Eden to rival the Asiatic one. I am 
only saying I agree with the French ethnologists and fancy 
there have been several points of origin of the human race. 

Let, however, these things be as they may, one thing about 
Negro and Bantu races is very certain, and that is that their 
lives are dominated by a profound belief in witchcraft and its 
i effects. 

Among both alike the rule is that death is regarded as 
la direct consequence of the witchcraft of some malevolent 
' human being, acting by means of spirits, over which he has, 
by some means or another, obtained control. 

To all rules there are exceptions. Among the Calabar 
negroes, who are definite in their opinions, I found two classes 
of exceptions. The first arises from their belief in a bush- 
soul. They believe every man has four souls : a, the soul that 
survives death ; d, the shadow on the path ; c, the dream-soul ; 
of, the bush-soul. 

This bush-soul is always in the form of an animal in the 
forest — never of a plant. Sometimes when a man sickens it 
is because his bush-soul is angry at being neglected, and a 
witch-doctor is called in, who, having diagnosed this as being 
the cause of the complaint, advises the administration of 
some kind of offering to the offended one. When you wander 
about in the forests of the Calabar region, you will frequently 
see little dwarf huts with these offerings in them. You must 
not confuse these huts with those of similar construction you 
are continually seeing in plantations, or near roads, which 



46o FETISH 



CHAP. 



refer to quite other affairs. These offerings, in the Httle huts 
in the forest, are placed where your bush-soul was last seen. 
Unfortunately, you are compelled to call in a doctor, which is 
an expense, but you cannot see your own bush-soul, unless 
you are an Ebumtup, a sort of second-sighter. 

Ebumtupism is rare, and if you do happen to possess this 
gift, it is discovered by the presiding elders during your 
initiation to the secret society of your tribe. When it is 
discovered the presiding elders strongly advise that you 
should enter the medical profession and become a witch 
doctor, as this profession is a paying one, although the 
training for it is dreadfully expensive to your parents, for it 
has to be carried on by the established witch-doctor. Your 
parents, if you are discovered to be an Ebumtup, usually make 
sacrifices after the way of parents, black or white, and you 
proceed with your studies. 

But to return to the bush-soul of an ordinary person. If 
the offering in the hut works well on the bush-soul, the 
patient recovers, but if it does not he dies. Diseases arising 
from derangements in the temper of the bush-soul however, 
even when treated by the most eminent practitioners, are very 
apt to be intractable, because it never realises that by injur- 
ing you it endangers its own existence. For when its human 
owner dies, the bush-soul can no longer find a good place, and 
goes mad, rushing to and fro — if it sees a fire it rushes into it ; 
if it sees a lot of people it rushes among them, until it is killed, 
and when it is killed it is " finish " for it, as M. Pichault would 
say, for it is not an immortal soul. 

The bush-souls of a family are usually the same for a man 
and for his sons, for a mother and for her daughters. Some- 
times, however, I am told all the children take the mother's, 
sometimes all take the father's. They may be almost any kind 
of animal, sometimes they are leopards, sometimes fish, or 
tortoises, and so on. 

There is another peculiarity about the bush-soul, and that 
is that it is on its account that old people are held in such 
esteem among the Calabar tribes. For, however bad these 
old people's personal record may have been, the fact of their 
longevity demonstrates the possession of powerful and astute 



XX REINCARNATION 461 

bush-souls. On the other hand, a man may be a quiet, 
respectable citizen, devoted to peace and a whole skin, and 
yet he may have a sadly flighty disreputable bush-soul which 
will get itself killed or damaged and cause him death or 
continual ill-health. 

There is another waj- by which a man dies apart from the 
action of bush-souls or witchcraft ; he may have had a bad 
illness from some cause in his previous life and, when rein- 
carnated, part of this disease may get reincarnated with him 
and then he will ultimately die of it. There is no medicine 
of any avail against these reincarnated diseases. 

The idea of reincarnation is very strong in the Niger Delta 
tribes. It exists, as far as I have been able to find out, 
throughout all Africa, but usually only in scattered cases, as it 
were ; but in the Delta, most — I think I may say all — human 
souls of the " surviving soul " class are regarded as returning 
to the earth again, and undergoing a reincarnation shortly after 
the due burial of the soul. 

These two exceptions from the rule of all deaths and 
sickness being caused by witchcraft are, however, of minor 
importance, for infinitely the larger proportion of death and 
sickness is held to arise from witchcraft itself, more particu- 
larly among the Bantu. 

Witchcraft acts in two ways, namely, witching something 
out of a man, or witching something into him. The former 
method is used by both Negro and Bantu, but is decidedly 
more common among the Negroes, where the witches are 
continually setting traps to catch the soul that wanders from 
the body when a man is sleeping ; and when they have 
caught this soul, they tie it up over the canoe fire and its 
owner sickens as the soul shrivels. 

This is merely a regular line of business, and not an affair 
of individual hate or revenge. The witch does not care 
whose dream-soul gets into the trap, and will restore it on 
payment. Also witch-doctors, men of unblemished pro- 
fessional reputation, will keep asylums for lost souls, i.€., souls 
who have been out wandering and found on their return to 
their body that their place has been filled up by a Sisa, 
a low class soul I will speak of later. These doctors keep 



462 FETISH CHAP. 

souls and administer them to patients who are short of the 
article. 

But there are other witches, either wicked on their own 
account, or hired by people who are moved by some hatred to 
individuals, and then the trap is carefully set and baited for 
the soul of the particular man they wish to injure, and 
concealed in the bait at the bottom of the pot are knives and 
sharp hooks which tear and damage the soul, either killing it 
outright, or mauling it so that it causes its owner sickness on 
its return to him. I knew the case of a Kruman who for 
several nights had smelt in his dreams the savoury smell of 
smoked crawfish seasoned with red peppers. He became 
anxious, and the headman decided some witch had set a trap 
baited with this dainty for his dream-soul, with intent to do 
him grievous bodily harm, and great trouble was taken for the 
next few nights to prevent this soul of his from straying 
abroad. 

My attention was drawn to the case by snorts, snores, and 
flumps on the Kruman's part of even more than usual violence, 
and I went to see what was up with the man, mentally deciding 
that what he wanted was a dose of my pet pill. I found him 
under a blanket and his nose and mouth tied over with a 
handkerchief. It was a sweltering hot night and the man 
was as wet with sweat as if he had been dragged through a 
river, so I suggested his muzzle should be removed and then 
being informed of the state of affairs regarding his soul, I of 
course did not interfere. 

The witching of things into a man is far the most frequent 
method among the Bantu, hence the prevalence among them 
of the post-mortem examination, — a practice I never found 
among the Negroes. 

The idea of the majority of deaths arising from witchcraft 
is, I believe, quite true if you will read witchcraft as 
poison. In a dull sort of way sometimes the black man 
understands it so too, as is shown by his very generally re- 
garding the best remedy for witching as being a brisk pur- 
gative and emetic, accompanied of course with suitable 
ceremonies. 

The belief in witchcraft is the cause of more African deaths 



XX TERROR OF WITCHCRAFT 461 



than anything else. It has killed and still kills more men and 
women than the slave-trade. Its only rival is perhaps the 
smallpox, the Grand Kraw-Kraw, as the Krumen graphically 
call it 

At almost every death a suspicion of witchcraft arises. The 
witch-doctor is called in, and proceeds to find out the guilty 
person. Then woe to the unpopular rnen, the weak women, and 
the slaves ; for on some of them will fall the accusation that 
means ordeal by poison, or fire, followed, if these point to 
guilt, as from their nature they usually do, by a terrible death : 
slow roasting alive — mutilation by degrees before the throat 
is mercifully cut — tying to stakes at low tide that the high tide 
may come and drown — and any other death human ingenuity 
and hate can devise. 

The terror in which witchcraft is held is interesting in spite 
of all its horror. I have seen mild, gentle men and women 
turned by it, in a moment, to incarnate fiends, ready to rend 
and destroy those who a second before were nearest and 
dearest to them. Terrible is the fear that falls like a spell 
upon a village when a big man, or big woman is just known 
to be dead. The very men catch their breaths, and grow grey 
round the lips, and then every one, particularly those belonging 
to the household of the deceased, goes in for the most demon- 
strative exhibition of grief Long, low howls creep up out of 
the first silence — those blood-curdling, infinitely melancholy, 
wailing howls — once heard, never to be forgotten. 

The men tear ofi" their clothes and wear only the most 
filthy rags ; women, particularly^ the widows, take off orna- 
ments and almost all dress ; their faces are painted white with 
chalk, their heads are shaven, and they sit crouched on the 
earth in the house, in the attitude of abasement, the hands 
resting on the shoulders, palm downwards, not crossed across 
the breast, unless they are going into the street 

Meanwhile the witch-doctor has been sent for, if he is not 
already present, and he sets to work in different ways to find 
out who are the persons guilty of causing the death. 

Whether the methods vary with the tribe, or with the in- 
dividual witch-doctor, I cannot absolutely say, but I think 
largely with the latter. 



464 FETISH CHAP. 

Among the Benga I saw a witch-doctor going round a 
village ringing a small bell which was to stop ringing outside 
the hut of the guilty. Among the Cabindas (Fjort) I saw, 
at different times, two witch-doctors trying to find witches, 
one by means of taking on and off the lid of a small basket 
while he repeated the names of all the people in the village. 
When the lid refused to come off at the name of a person, 
that person was doomed. The other Cabinda doctor first 
tried throwing nuts upon the ground, also repeating names. 
That method apparently failed. Then he resorted to another, 
rubbing the flattened palms of his hands against each other. 
When the palms refused to meet at a name, and his hands 
flew about wildly, he had got his man. 

The accused person, if he denies the guilt, and does not 
claim the ordeal, is tortured until he not only acknowledges 
his guilt but names his accomplices in the murder, for re- 
member this witchcraft is murder in the African eyes. It is 
not just producing the parlour tricks of modern spiritualists. 

If he claims the ordeal, as he usually does, he usually has 
to take a poison drink. Among all the Bantu tribes I know 
this is made from Sass wood (sass = bad ; sass water = rough 
water ; sass surf = bad surf, &c.), and is a decoction of the 
freshly pulled bark of a great hard wood forest tree, which has 
a tall unbranched stem, terminating in a crown of branches 
bearing small leaves. Among the Calabar tribes the ordeal 
drink is of two kinds : one made from the Calabar bean, the 
other, the great ju-ju drink Mbiam, which is used also in taking 
oaths. 

In both the sass-wood and Calabar bean drink the only 
chance for the accused lies in squaring the witch-doctor, so that 
in the case of the sass-wood drink it is allowed to settle before 
administration, and in the bean that you get a very heavy dose, 
both arrangements tending to produce the immediate emetic 
effect indicative of innocence. If this effect does not come on 
quickly you die a miserable death from the effects of the poison 
interrupted by the means taken to kill you as soon as it is 
decided from the absence of violent sickness that you are 
guilty. 

The Mbiam is not poisonous, nor is its use confined, as the 



MBIAM OATH FORMULA 465 



use of the bean is, entirely to witch palaver ; but it is the most 
respected and dreaded of all oaths, and from its decision there 
is but one appeal, the appeal open to all condemned persons, 
but rare!}- made — the appeal to Long ju-ju. This Long ju-ju 
means almost certain death, and before it a severe frightening 
that is worse to a negro mind than mere physical torture. 

The Mbiam oath formula I was able to secure in the upper 
districts of the Calabar. One form of it runs thus, and it is 
recited before swallowing the drink made of filth and blood : — 

" If I have been guilty of this crime. 

'• If I have gone and sought the sick one's hurt, 

" If I have sent another to seek the sick one's hurt, 

" If I have employed anj- one to make charms or to cook 
bush, 

" Or to put anything in the road, 

" Or to touch his cloth, 

" Or to touch his yams. 

" Or to touch his goats, 

" Or to touch his fowl, 

" Or to touch his children. 

" If I have prayed for his hurt. 

" If I have thought to hurt him in my heart, 

" If I have any intention to hurt him, 

" If I ever, at an\- time, do any of these things (recite in 
full;, 

" Or employ others to do these things (recite in full) 

" Then, Mbiam ! Thoji deal with me." 

This form I give was for use when a man was sick, and 
things were generally going badly with him, for it is not cus- 
tomary in cases of disease to wait until death occurs before 
making an accusation of witchcraft. In the case of Mbiam 
being administered after a death this long and complicated 
oath would be worded to meet the case most carefully, the 
future intention clauses being omitted. In all cases, whenever 
it is used, the greatest care is taken that the oath be recited 
in full, oath-takers being sadly prone to kiss their thumb, as it • 
were, particularly ladies who are taking Mbiam for accusations 
of adulter}-, in conjunction with the boiling oil ordeal. Indeed, 
so unreliable is this class of offenders, or let us rather say this 

H H 



466 FETISH chap. 

class of suspected persons, that some one usually says the oath 
for them. 

From the penalty and inconveniences of these accusations 
of witchcraft there is but one escape, namely flight to a sanc- 
tuary. There are several sanctuaries in Congo Frangais. The 
great one in the Calabar district is at Omon. Thither mothers 
of twins, widows, thieves, and slaves fly, and if they reach 
it are safe. But an attempt at flight is a confession of guilt ; 
no one is quite certain the accusation will fall on him, or her, 
and hopes for the best until it is generally too late. Moreover, 
flying anywhere beyond a day's march, is difficult work in 
West Africa. So the killing goes on and it is no uncommon 
thing for ten or more people to be destroyed for one man's 
sickness or death ; and thus over immense tracts of country 
the death-rate exceeds the birth-rate. Indeed some of the 
smaller tribes have thus been almost wiped out. In the 
Calabar district I have heard of entire villages taking the 
bean voluntarily because another village had accused it en bloc 
of witchcraft. It amounts almost to a mania with these 
people. Miss Slessor has frequently told me how, during a 
quarrel, one person has accused another of witchcraft, and 
the accused has bolted off in a towering rage and swallowed 
the bean. 

The witch-doctor is not always the cause of people being 
subjected to the ordeal or torture. In Calabar and the Okyon 
districts all the widows of a dead man are subjected to 
ordeal. 

They have to go the next night after the death, before an 
assemblage of chiefs and the general surrounding crowd, to a 
cleared space where there is a fire burning. A fowl is tied to 
the right hand of each widow, and should that fowl fail to 
cluck at the sight of the fire the woman is held guilty of 
having bewitched her dead husband and is dealt with accord- 
ingly. 

Among the Bantu, although the killing among the wives 
from the accusation of witchcraft is high, some of them being 
almost certain to fall victims, yet there is not the wholesale 
slaughter of women and slaves sent down with the soul of the 
dead that there is among the Negroes. 



I 



XX POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS 467 



Dr. Nassau told me of an interesting case which had come 
under his notice. Once he met a native heathen Akele 
chief who showed him a string of shells, horns, and wild cats' 
tails which he said could turn aside bullets. Although the 
Doctor is well known as a dead shot, the Akele dared him, in 
a friendly way, to shoot at him with a rifle, and to tr>' him the 
Doctor pointed the rifle at him, at the distance of a few paces, 
but the Akele never quailed, and " of course," said the Doctor, 
" I did not fire." Two years after, that same man when 
hunting was charged b>' a wounded elephant and pierced 
by its tusks. His attendants drove off the beast, and the 
fearfully lacerated man survived just long enough to accuse 
one of his women and some slaves of having bewitched his 
gun and thus caused his death, and on this accusation four 
people were killed. The ingenious ethnologist may trace 
from this the accusations made against guns by European 
sportsmen and recognise survivals in them. 

In doubtful cases of death, i.e., in all cases not arising from 
actual violence, when blood shows in the killing, the Bantu of 
the S.W. Coast make post-mortem examinations. Notably 
common is this practice among the Cameroons and Batanga 
region tribes. The body is cut open to find in the entrails 
some sign of the path of the injected witch. 

I am informed that it is the lung that is most usually eaten by 
the spirit. If the deceased is a witch-doctor it is thought, as I 
have mentioned before, that his familiar spirit has eaten him 
internally, and he is opened with a view of securing and de- 
stroying his witch. In 1893 I saw in a village in Kacongo five 
unpleasant-looking objects stuck on sticks. They were the 
livers and lungs, and in fact the plucks, of witch-doctors, 
and the inhabitants informed me they were the witches that 
had been found in them on post-mortems and then been 
secured. 

Mrs. Grenfell, of the Upper Congo, told me in the same 
year, when I had the pleasure of travelling with her from 
Victoria to Matadi, that a similar practice was in vogue among 
several of the Upper Congo tribes. 

Again in 1893 I came across another instance of the post- 
mortem practice. A woman had dropped down dead on afactor\' 

H n 2 



468 FETISH CHAP. 

beach at Corisco Bay. The natives could not make it out at 
all. They were irritated about her conduct: "She no sick, 
she no complain, she no nothing, and then she go die one 
time." 

The post-mortem showed a burst aneurism. The native 
verdict was " She done witch herself," i.e., she was a witch 
eaten by her own familiar. 

The general opinion held by people living near a river is 
that the spirit of a witch can take the form of a crocodile to 
do its work in ; those who live away from large rivers or in 
districts like Congo Fran^ais, where crocodiles are not very 
savage, hold that the witch takes on the form of a leopard. 
Still the crocodile spirit form is believed in in Congo Fran- 
cais, and to a greater extent in Kacongo, because here 
the crocodiles of the Congo are very ferocious and numerous, 
taking as heavy a toll in human life as they do in the delta 
of the Niger and the estuaries of the Sierra Leone and 
Sherboro' Rivers. 

One witch-doctor I know in Kacongo had a strange profes- 
sional method. When, by means of his hand rubbings, &c., he 
had got hold of a witch or a bewitched one, he always gave 
the unfortunate an emetic and always found several lively- 
young crocodiles in the consequence, and the stories of the 
natives in this region abound in accounts of people who have 
been carried off by witch crocodiles, and kept in places under- 
ground for years. I often wonder whether this idea may not 
have arisen from the well-known habit of the crocodile of 
burying its prey on the bank. Sometimes it will take off a 
limb of its victim at once, but frequently it buries the body 
whole for a few days before eating it. The body is always 
buried if it is left to the crocodile. 

I have a most profound respect for the whole medical 
profession, but I am bound to confess that the African repre- 
sentatives of it are a little empirical in their methods of treat- 
ment. The African doctor is not always a witch-doctor in 
the bargain, but he is usually. Lady doctors abound. They 
are a bit dangerous in pharmacy, but they do not often venture 
on surger}% so on the whole they are safer, for African surgery 
is heroic. Dr. Nassau cited the worst case of it I know of. 



XX 



HEROIC SURGERY 469 



A man had been accidentally shot in the chest by another man 
with a gun on the Ogowe. The native doctor who was called 
in made a perpendicular incision into the man's chest, extend- 
ing down to the last rib ; he then cut diagonally across, and 
actually lifted the wall of the chest, and groped about among 
the vitals for the bullet which he successfully extracted. 
Patient died. Xo anaesthetic was employed. 

I came across a minor operation. A man had broken the 
ulna of the left arm. The native doctor got a piece — a very 
nice piece — of bamboo, drove it in through the muscles and 
integuments from the wrist to the elbow, then encased the 
limb in plantain leaves, and bound it round, tightly and neatly, 
needless to say with tie-tie. The arm and hand when I saw 
it, some six or seven months after the operation, was quite 
useless, and was withering away. 

Many of their methods, however, are better. The Dualla 
medicos are truly great on poultices for extracting foreign 
substances, such as bits of iron cooking-pot — a very frequent 
form of foreign substance in a man out here, owing to their 
being generally used as bullets. Almost incredible stories are 
told by black and white of the efficacy of these poultices ; one 
case I heard from a reliable source of a man who had been 
shot with fragments of iron pot in the thigh. The white 
doctor extracted several pieces and said he had got all out, 
but the man still went on suffering, and could not walk, so, 
at his request, a native doctor was called in, and he applied 
his poultice. In a few minutes he removed it, and on its face 
were two pieces of jagged iron pot. Probably they had been 
in the poultice when it was applied, anyhow the patient 
recovered rapidly. 

Baths accompanied by massage are much esteemed. The 
baths are sometimes of hot water with a few herbs thrown in, 
sometimes they are made by digging a hole in the earth and 
putting into it a quantity of herbs, and bruised cardamoms, 
and peppers. Boiling water is then plentifully poured over 
these and the patient is placed in the bath and is covered over 
with the parboiled green stuff; a coating of clay is then placed 
over all, leaving just the head sticking out. The patient 
remains in this bath for a period of a few hours, up to a day 



470 FETISH chap. 

and a half, and when taken out is well rubbed and kneaded. 
This form of bath I saw used by the M'pongwe and Igalwas, 
and it is undoubtedly good for many diseases, notabl}- for that 
curse of the Coast, rheumatism, which afflicts black and white 
alike. Rubbing and kneading and hot baths are, I think, 
the best native remedies, and the plaster of grains-of-paradise 
pounded up, and mixed with clay, and applied to the forehead 
as a remedy for malarial headache, or brow ague, is often 
very useful, but apart from these, I have never seen, in any of 
these herbal remedies, any trace of a really valuable drug. 

The Calabar natives are notably behindhand in their 
medical methods, depending more on ju-ju than the Bantus. 
In a case of rheumatism, for example, instead of ordering the 
hot bath, the local practitioner will " woka " his patient and 
extract from the painful part, even when it has not been 
wounded, pieces of iron pot, millepedes, etc., and, in cases of 
dysentery, bundles of shred-up palm-leaves. These things, he 
asserts, have been b}- witchcraft inserted into the patient. 
His conduct can hardh" be regarded as professional ; and 
moreover as he goes on to diagnose who has witched these 
things into the patient's anatomy, it is highly dangerous to the 
patient's friends, relations, and neighbours into the bargain. 

The strangest thing, however, that I ever heard of being 
witched into a man I was told of by a most intelligent Igalwa, 
a Christian, and a very trustworthy man, and his statement 
was attested by another man, equally reliable, but not a 
Christian. They said that a relation of theirs had been 
witched two years previously. An emetic was administered, 
and there appeared upon the scene a strange little animal 
which grew with visible rapidity. An hour after its coming 
to light it crawled about, got out of its basin, and then flew 
away. I tried my best to identify the species, but the nearest 
thing I could get to it was that it was like a small bat. It 
had bat's wings, but then it had a body and tail like a lizard, 
which was distracting of it, to a naturalist. This thing, they 
said, had been given to the man when it was " small small," 
{i.e., very small) in some drink or food, and if it had been left 
undisturbed by that emetic, it would have grown up inside 
the man, killing him by feeding on his vitals. There was no 



DYING UNDER DIFFICULTIES 47i 



want of information or verbal testimony in the case, but I 
should ha\e felt more sure about the affair if I could have got 
that thing in a bottle of pure alcohol. The only other case of this 
winged lizard I heard of was at Batanga, when a witch-doctor 
had been opened and a winged, lizard-like thing found in his 
inside, which, Batanga said, was his power. I was reminded of 
this case, however, the other day when I was in Cameroon. 
Two traders that I know had been up river, and had had 
to remain out all night in an open boat. One of them 
was prett}' ill after the experience, and he is, I hear, since 
dead. 

" No, Miss Kingsley," said the other to me, " it is not fever ; 

we don't quite know what it is, but we think Mr. must 

have swallowed a parasite." 

With no intentional slur on the medical profession, after 
this discussion on their methods I will pass on to the question 
of dying. 

Dying in West Africa particularh- in the Niger Delta, is 
made very unpleasant for the native by his friends and 
relations. 

When a {person is insensible, violent means are taken to 
recall the spirit to the body. Pepi^er is forced up the nose 
and into the eyes. The mouth is propped open with a stick. 
The .shredded fibres of the outside of the oil-nut are set alight 
and held under the nose and the whole crowd of friends and 
relations with whom the stifling hot hut is tightly packed yell 
the dying man's name at the top of their voices, in a way that 
makes them hoarse for days, just as if they were calling to a 
person lost in the bush or to a person struggling and being 
torn or lured away from them. " Hi, hi, don't you hear? come 
back, come back. See here. This is your place," &c. 

This custom holds good among both Negroes and Bantus ; 
but the funeral ceremonies vary immensel}', in fact with every 
tribe, and form a subject the details of which I will reser\e 
for a separate work on Fetish. 

Among the Okyon tribes especial care is taken in the case 
of a woman dying and leaving a child over six months old. 
The underlying idea is that the spirit of the mother is sure 
to come back and fetch the child, and in order to pacify her 



472 FETISH CHAP. 

and prevent the child dying, it is brought in and held just in 
front of the dead body of the mother and then gradually 
carried away behind her where she cannot see it, and the 
person holding the child makes it cry out and says, " See, your 
child is here, you are going to have it with you all right." 
Then the child is hastily smuggled out of the hut, while a 
bunch of plantains is put in with the body of the woman and 
bound up with the funeral binding clothes. 

Very young children they do not attempt to keep, but throw 
them away in the bush alive, as all children are thrown who 
have not arrived in this world in the way considered orthodox, 
or who cut their teeth in an improper way. Twins are killed 
among all the Niger Delta tribes, and in districts out of 
English control the mother is killed too, except in Omon, 
where the sanctuary is. 

There twin mothers and their children are exiled to an 
island in the Cross River. They have to remain on the island 
and if any man goes across and marries one of them he has to 
remain on the island too. This twin-killing is a widely 
diffused custom among the Negro tribes. 

I doubt whether the Bantus do it so much, but I distrust 
those Bantus in the matter of twins. They lulled my mind 
into an unsuspicious, restful state regarding twins, and then 
played it low, so I won't go bail for them. It was this way. 
When I first came out to the Coast, my friends told me every- 
thing they could lay tongue on until I frequently smelt their 
souls scorching, and a brief experience of my friends' conver- 
sation warned me that the phrase, " We've some very peculiar 
customs down here " was the Leit Motif of the entrance of 
twins into the conversation. Regarding this subject as unfit 
for general discussion, I therefore used to smother those twins 
by leading the conversation off by the ear immediately I 
heard the warning note, and exceedingly skilful in this I 
became. 

When, however, I was past the Negro ports Bonny, Calabar, 
&c., and across the Bantu border line, below Cameroon, I 
found the subject did not arise, and I became lulled into a 
sense of false security. All went well for some time, until 
one day I was walking with an Englishman across a stretch 



TREATMENT OF TWINS 473 



of country where there w ere several villages. At one of these 
high festival was evidently being held, a dance of women was 
taking place in the main street, the usual wriggle and stamp 
affair, to the thump, thump, thump of the native drums. Be- 
fore one house, on either side of the doorway, stood a man 
and a woman. The remarkable point about the affair was 
that their legs were painted white, and as the view of them 
was not interrupted by clothes, the effect was somewhat 

startling. " Dear me, Mr. ," I said, " that's rather quaint." 

" We've some very peculiar customs down here regarding 
twins," said he, before I, being unprepared, had time to turn 
the conversation. 

These customs (Akele) amounted to the mother of t\vins 
being kept in her hut for a year after the birth. Then there 
was a great dance and certain ceremonies, during which the 
lady and the doctor, not the husband, had their legs painted 
white. When the ceremonials were over the woman returned 
to her ordinary avocations. 

There is always a sense of there being something uncanny 
regarding twins in West Africa, and in those tribes where 
they are not killed they are regarded as requiring great care to 
prevent them from dying on their own account. I remember 
once among the Tschwi trying to amuse a sickly child with 
an image which was near it and which I thought was its doll. 
The child regarded me with its great melancholy eyes pity- 
ingly, as much as to say, " A pretty fool you are making of 
yourself," and so I was, for I found out that the image was 
not a doll at all but an image of the child's dead twin which 
was being kept near it as a habitation for the deceased 
twin's soul, so that it might not have to wander about, and, 
feeling lonely, call its companion after it. 

The terror with which twins are regarded in the Niger 
Delta is exceedingly strange and real. When I had the 
honour of being with Miss Slessor at Okyon, the first twins 
in that district were saved with their mother from immolation 
owing entirely to Miss Slessor 's great influence with the 
natives and her own unbounded courage and energy. The 
mother in this case was a slave woman — an Eboe, the most 
expensive and valuable of slaves. She was the property of a 



474 FETISH CHAP. 

big woman who had ah\ays treated her — as indeed most slaves 
are treated in Calabar — with great kindness and consideration, 
but when these two children arrived all was changed ; im- 
mediately she was subjected to torrents of virulent abuse, her 
things were torn from her, her English china basins, possessions 
she valued most highly, were smashed, her clothes were torn, 
and she was driven out as an unclean thing. Had it not been 
for the fear of incurring Miss Slessor's anger, she would, at this 
point, have been killed with her children, and the bodies thrown 
into the bush. 

As it was, she was hounded out of the \-illage. The rest of 
her possessions were jammed into an empty gin-case and cast 
to her. No one would touch her, as they might not touch to 
kill. Miss Slessor had heard of the twins' arrival and had 
started off, barefooted and bareheaded, at that pace she can 
go down a bush path. By the time she had gone four miles 
she met the procession, the woman coming to her and all the 
rest of the village yelling and howling behind her. On the 
top of her head was the gin-case, into which the children 
had been stuffed, on the top of them the woman's big brass 
skillet, and on the top of that her two market calabashes. 
Needless to say, on arriving Miss Slessor took charge of 
affairs, relieving the unfortunate, weak, staggering woman 
from her load and carrying it herself, for no one else would 
touch it, or anything belonging to those awful twin things, and 
they started back together to Miss Slessor's house in the 
forest-clearing, saved b}' that tact which, coupled with her 
courage, has given Miss Slessor an influence and a power 
among the negroes unmatched in its wa}' by that of an}* other 
white. 

She did not take the twins and their mother down the 
\illage path to her own house, for though had she done so 
the people of Okyon would not have prevented her, yet so 
polluted would the path have been, and so dangerous to pass 
down, that they would have been compelled to cut another, 
no light task in that bit of forest, I assure you. So Miss 
Slessor stood waiting in the broiling sun, in the hot season's 
height, while a path was being cut to enable her just to get 
through to her own grounds. The natives worked away hard, 



XX A HOME FOR WAIFS 475 



knowing that it saved the polluting of a long stretch of market 
road, and when it was finished Miss Slessor went to her own 
house b\- it and attended with all kindness, promptness, and 
skill, to the woman and children. I arrived in the middle of 
this affair for m\- first meeting with Miss Slessor, and things at 
Ok\-on were rather crowded, one way and another, that after- 
noon. All the attention one of the children wanted — the boy, 
for there was a bo\' and a girl — \\as burj'ing, for the people 
who had crammed them into the box had utterly smashed the 
child's head. The other child was alive, and is still a member 
of that household of rescued children all of whom owe their 
lives to Miss Slessor. There are among them twins from other 
districts, and delicate children who must have died had they 
been left in their villages, and a ver\' wonderful young lady, 
ver\- plump and ver)- prett\-, aged about four. Her mother 
died a few days after her birth, so the child was taken and 
thrown into the bush, by the side of the road that led to the 
market. This was done one market-day some distance from 
the Ok}"on town. This particular market is held every- ninth 
da>-, and on the succeeding market-day some women from the 
village by the side of Miss Slessor's house happened to pass 
along the path and heard the child feebl)- crying : they came 
into Miss Slessor's yard in the evening, and sat chatting over 
the day's shopping, &c., and casualK' mentioned in the way of 
conversation that the\' had heard the child cr\ing, and that it 
was rather remarkable it should be still alive. Needless to say, 
Miss Slessor was off, and had that waif home. It was truly in 
an awful state, but just alive. In a marvellous waj- it had 
been left by leopards and snakes, with which this bit of forest 
abounds, and, more marvellous still, the driver ants had not 
scented it. Other ants had considerabh- eaten into it one wa}" 
and another ; nose, eyes, &c., were swarming with them and 
flies ; the cartilage of the nose and part of the upper lip had 
been absolute!)- eaten into, but in spite of this she is now one 
of the prettiest black children I have ever seen, which is saying 
a good deal, for negro children are ver\- prett\- with their round 
faces, their large mouths not yet coarsened by heavy lips, their 
beautifull}- shaped flat little ears, and their immense melancholy 
deer-like e\es, and above these charms the\- possess that of 



476 FETISH chap. 

being fairly quiet. This child is not an object of terror, like 
the twin children ; it was just thrown away because no one 
would be bothered to rear it, but when Miss Slessor had had 
all the trouble of it the natives had no objection to pet and 
play with it, calling it " the child of wonder," because of its 
survival. 

With the twin baby it was very different. They would not 
touch it and only approached it after some days, and then 
only when it was held by Miss Slessor or me. If either of us 
wanted to do or get something, and we handed over the bundle 
to one of the house children to hold, there was a stampede of 
men and women off the verandah, out of the yard, and over 
the fence, if need be, that was exceedingly comic, but most 
convincing as to the reality of the terror and horror in which 
they held the thing. Even its own mother could not be 
trusted with the child ; she would have killed it. She never 
betrayed the slightest desire to have it with her, and after a 
few days' nursing and feeding up she was anxious to go back 
to her mistress, who, being an enlightened woman, was willing 
to have her if she came without the child. 

The main horror is undoubtedly of the child, the mother 
being killed more as a punishment for having been so 
intimately mi.xed up in bringing the curse, danger, and horror 
into the village than for anything else. 

The woman went back by the road that had been cut for 
her coming, and would have to live for the rest of her life an 
outcast, and for a long time in a state of isolation, in a hut of 
her own into which no one would enter, neither would any one 
eat or drink with her, nor partake of the food or water she had 
cooked or fetched. She would lead the life of a leper, working 
in the plantation by day, and going into her lonely hut at night, 
shunned and cursed. I tried to find out whether there was 
any set period for this quarantine, and all I could arrive at 
was that if — and a very considerable if — a man were to marry 
her and she were subsequently to present to society an accept- 
able infant, she would be to a certain extent socially re- 
habilitated, but she would always be a woman with a jmst — a 
thing the African, to his credit be it said, has no taste for. 

The woman's own lamentations were pathetic. She would 



XX "THE CUSTOxVI OF OUR FATHERS" 477 



>it for hours singing or rather mourning out a kind of dirge 
"ver herself: "Yesterda\- I was a woman, now I am a 
liorror, a thing all people run from. Yesterda\- the\- would 
at with me, now the}- spit on me. Yesterda\- the>' would 
ilk to me with a sweet mouth, now they greet me only with 
-irses and execrations. They have smashed m}- basin, the\' 
ave torn m}- clothes," and so on, and so on. There was no 
complaint against the people for doing these things, only a 
bitter sense of injur}- against some superhuman power that 
had sent this withering curse of twins down on her. She 
knew not wh}' ; she sang " I have not done this. I have not 
done that " — and highly interesting information regarding the 
moral standpoint a good deal of it was. I have tried to find 
out the reason of this wideh- diffused custom which is the 
cause of such a pitiful waste of life ; for in addition to the 
mother and children being killed it often leads to other people, 
tally unconcerned in the affair, being killed by the relatives 
I the sufferer on the suspicion of having caused the calamity 
!)>• witchcraft, and until one gets hold of the underlying idea, 
and can destro}' that, the custom will be hard to stamp out in 
a district like the great Niger Delta. But I have never 
been able to hunt it down, though I am sure it is there, and a 
very quaint idea it undoubtedly is. The usual answer is, 
• It was the custom of our fathers," but that alwajs and 
< -nly means, " We don't intend to tell." Another e.xplanation 
is that the dislike is grounded on the idea that it is like the 
lower animals. The teeth-filing I think undoubtedly does 
arise from this ; you often hear a native of tribes that go in for 
filing or knocking out teeth say contemptuously of those who 
do not follow the custom, " Those men have teeth all same 
for one with dog." Although I grant that when you are a 
Niger Delta native you have to be a little careful for fear of 
being taken for one of the lower animals, just as seedy young 
men with us object to carrying paper parcels for fear of being 
taken for tailors, still this idea does not explain the terror 
the abject terror, with which twins are regarded, nor the 
conviction that their existence and proximity bring down on 
all diseases, difficulties, and disaster. I overheard once a 
rational reason given, but again the reason was not strong 



478 FETISH CHAP. 

enough, and moreover the source of information was intoxi- 
cated. 

AffiHated to this custom of twin-kilHng, and having, I sus- 
pect, the same underlying idea, is the custom common in Negro 
and Bantu tribes of throwing away the body of a woman who 
has died in her confinement without the child being born, 
burning everything belonging to her, and blotting out her 
name and memory. The name of such a woman is never 
mentioned after the catastrophe, and the body is thrown far 
away into the bush, not near the path, where the bodies of 
little children are thrown in order that their souls may choose 
a new mother from the women who pass by. 

Funeral customs vary considerably between the Negro and 
Bantu, and I never yet found among the Bantu those unpleasant 
death-charms which are in vogue in the Niger Delta. One of 
these is the custom of the nearest relatives sitting round the 
body during the time — an awesome long time considering the 
climate — that elapses before burial under the house floor, the 
assembled relatives sniffing frequently and powerfully at the 
body. The young children are brought in and held over it so 
that they can sniff too. 

I was once in a canoe with four men and women and three 
children, and a corpse came towards us on the current. My 
companions paddled towards it with enthusiasm and getting 
it against the side of the canoe, dipped their calabashes into j 
the water round the corpse, and drank calabash after calabash, \ 
until they had got their back teeth under water and then they 
emptied, in that fine swallow-or-choke and hang-the-spilling 
style of theirs, calabashes of water into the children until the 
unfortunate infants fairly overflowed. 

" Good death-charm," they said to me. " I shouldn't wonder 
if it were," said I, " paddle away," for I was frightened lest 
these people, who are, barring their manners and customs, 
kindly and affectionate, should have the corpse on board and 
take it home to their families and make a decoction for home 
consumption, and it was an unpleasant corpse — smallpox and 
all that sort of thing, you know. I am told this custom occurs 
in the Niger estuaries and in the Old Calabar regions. I was 
in Bantu regions, but my companions were not pure Bantu. 



XX BURIAL CUSTOMS 479 



The Calabar people, when the consular eye is off them, bury 
nder the house. In the case of a great chief the head is cut 
iTand buried with great secrecy somewhere else, for reasons 
I have already stated. The body is buried a few days after 
death, but the really important part of the funeral is the 
burying of the spirit, and this is the thing that causes all the 
West Africans, Negro and Bantu alike, great worry, trouble, 
and expense. For the spirit, no matter what its late owner 
may have been, is malevolent — all native-made spirits are. 
The family have to get together a considerable amount of 
wealth to carry out this burial of the spirit, so between the 
body-burying and the spirit-burying a considerable time 
usually elapses ; maybe a year, maybe more. The custom 
of keeping the affair open until the big funeral can be made 
obtains also in Cabinda and Loango, but there, instead of bury- 
ing the body in the meantime, it is placed upon a platform of 
wood, and slow fires kept going underneath to dry it, a mat roof 
being usually erected over it to keep off rain. When suffi- 
ciently dried, it is wrapf>ed in clothes and put into a coffin, 
until the money to finish the affair is ready. The Duallas are 
more tied down ; their death-dances must be celebrated, I am 
informed, on the third, seventh, and ninth day after death. On 
these days the spirit is supposed to be particularly present in 
its old home. In all the other ca.ses, I should remark, the 
spirit does not leave the home until its devil is made and if 
this is delayed too long he naturally becomes fractious. 

Among the Congo Francais tribes there are many different 
kinds of burial — as the cannibalistic of the Fan. I may remark, 
however, that they tell me themselves that it is considered 
decent to bur\' a relative, even if you subsequently dig him up 
and dispose of the body to the neighbours. Then there is 
the earth-burial of the Igalwas and M'pongwe, and the 
beating into unrecognisable pulp of the body which, I am 
told on good native authority, is the method of several 
Upper Ogowe tribes, including the Adoomas. I had no 
opportunitj' of making quiet researches on burial customs 
when I was above Xjoli, because I was so busy trying to 
avoid qualifying for a burial myself ; so I am not quite sure 
whether this method is the general one among these little- 



48o FETISH CHAP. 

know n tribes, as I am told by native traders, who have it 
among them that it is — or whether it is reserved for the bodies 
of people believed to have been possessed of dangerous souls. 

Destroying the body b}- beating up, or by cutting up, is a 
widely diffused custom in West Africa in the case of dangerous 
souls, and is universally followed with those that have con- 
tained wanderer-souls, i.e., those souls w'hich keep turning up 
in the successive infants of a family. A child dies, then 
another child comes to the same father or mother, and that 
dies, after giving the usual trouble and expense. A third 
arrives and if that dies, the worm — the father, I mean — turns, 
and if he is still desirous of more children, he just breaks one 
of the legs of the body before throwing it in the bush. 

This he thinks will act as a warning to the wanderer-soul 
and give it to understand that if it will persist in coming into 
his family, it must settle down there and give up its flighty 
ways. If a fourth child arrives in the family, " it usualK' 
limps," and if it dies, the justly irritated parent cuts its bod\' 
up carefully into very small pieces, and scatters them, doing 
away with the soul altogether. 

The Kama country people of the lower Ogowe are more 
superstitious and full of observances than the upper river 
tribes. 

Particularly rich in Fetish are the Ncomi, a Fernan Vaz 
tribe. I once saw a funeral where they had been called in 
to do the honours, and M. Jacot told me of an almost pre- 
cisely similar occurrence that he had met with in one of his 
many evangelising expeditions from Lembarene. I will 
give his version because of his very superior knowledge of the 
language. 

He was staying in a Fan town where one of the chiefs 
had just died. The other chief (there are usually two in a 
Fan town) decided that his deceased confrei-e should have 
due honour paid him, and resolved to do the thing hand- 
somely. 

The Fans openly own to not understanding thoroughly 
about death and life and the immortality of the soul, and 
things of that sort, and so the chief called in the Ncomi, who 
are specialists in these subjects, to make the funeral customs. 



XX NCOMI DEATH-DANXE 481 

M. Jacot said the chief made a speech to the effect that 
the Fans did not know about these things, but their neigh- 
bours, the Ncomi, were known to be well versed in them and 
the proper things to do, so he had called them in to pay- 
honour to the dead chief. Then the Ncomi started and 
carried on their weird, complicated death-dance. 

The Fans sat and stood round watching them in a ring for 
a long time, but to a rational, common-sense, shrewd, un- 
imaginative set of people like the Fans, just standing hour 
after hour gazing on a dance you do not understand, and 
which consists of a wriggle and a stamp, a wriggle and a 
stamp, in a solemn walk, or prance, round and round, to the 
accompaniment of a monotonous phrase thumped on a tom- 
tom and a monotonous, melancholy chant, uttered in a minor 
key interspersed every few minutes with an emphatic howl, 
produces a feeling of boredom, therefore the Fans softly stole 
away and went to bed, which disgusted the Ncomi, and there 
was a row. In the dance I saw the same thing happened, 
only when the Ncomi saw the audience getting thin they 
complained and said that they were doing this dance in 
honour of the Fans' chief, in a neighbourly way, and the very 
least the Fans could do, as they couldn't dance themselves, 
was to sit still and admire people who could. The Fan chief 
in my village quite saw it, and went and had the Fans who 
had gone home early turned up and made them come and see 
the performance some more ; this they did for a time, and 
then stole off again, or slept in their seats, and the Ncomi 
w ere highly disgusted at those brutes of Fans, whom the>' 
regarded, they said in their way, as Philistines of an utterly 
obtuse and degraded type. 

The Ncomi themselves put the body into coffins. A barrel 
is the usual one, but two gun-cases, the ends knocked out and 
the gun-cases fitted together, is another frequent form of coffin 
used by them. These coffins are not buried, but are put into 
special places in the forest. 

Along the bank of the Ogowe you will notice here and there 

long stretches of uninhabited bush. These are not all mere 

retches of swamp forest. If you land on some of these and 

^o in a little way you will find the forest full of mounds — or 

I I 



482 FETISH CH. xx 

rather heaps, because they have no mould over them — made of 
branches of trees and leaves ; underneath each of these heaps 
there are the remains of a body. One very evil-looking place 
so used I found when I was on the Karkola river. Dr. 
Nassau tells me they are the usual burying grounds of the 
Ajumbas. 

He said that once, when on a boat journey up the Ogow6, 
wanting to camp to get the mid-day meal, he ordered his men 
to pull ashore to a bank. They did not like to, saying it 
was a bad place, but its badness not being apparent, the 
Doctor stuck to the point, and ashore they went. He then 
found for the first time these mounds, and not knowing what 
they were, he pulled out some of the sticks and saw under 
them the remains of a body. He went back to the canoe 
and had his lunch elsewhere, to the evident pleasure of his 
companions. 




DEATH-DANCE COSTUMES, OLD CALAPAR. 



\To ftue /. 4S3. 



CHAPTER XXI 

FETISH — '^continued) 

In which the Voyager discourses on the legal methods of natives of this 
countr}-, the ideas governing forms of burial, of their manner of 
mourning for their dead, and the condition of the African soul in its 
under-world. 

Great as are the incidental miseries and dangers sur- 
rounding death to all the people in the village in which a 
death occurs, undoubtedly those who suffer most are the 
widows of a chief or free man. 

The uniform custom among both Negroes and Bantus is 
that those who escape execution on the charge of having 
witched the husband to death, shall remain in a state of filth 
and abasement, not even removing vermin from themselves, 
until after the soul-burial is complete — the soul of the dead 
man being regarded as hanging about them and liable to be 
injured. Therefore, also to the end of preventing his soul 
from getting damaged, they are confined to their huts ; this 
latter restriction is not rigidly enforced, but it is held theoreti- 
cally to be the correct thing. 

They maintain the attitude of grief and abasement, sitting 
on the ground, eating but little food, and that of a coarse 
kind. In Calabar their legal rights over property, such as 
slaves, are meanwhile considerably in abeyance, and they are 
put to great expense during the time the spirit is awaiting 
burial. They have to keep watch, two at a time, in the hut, 
when the body is buried, keeping lights burning, and they 
have to pay out of their separate estate for the entertainment 
of all the friends of the deceased who come to pay him 

I I 2 



484 FETISH CHAP. 

compliment ; and if he has been an important man, a big man, 
the whole district will come, not in a squadron, but just when 
it suits them, exactly as if they were calling on a live friend. 
Thus it often happens that even a big woman is bankrupt by 
the expense. I will not go into the legal bearings of the case 
here, for they are intricate, and, to a great extent, only 
interesting to a student of Negro law. 

The Bantu women occupy a far inferior position in regard 
to the rights of property to that held by the Negro women. 

The disposal of wives after the death of the husband among 
the M'pongwe and Igalwa is a subject full of interest ; but it 
is, like most of their law, very complicated. The brothers of 
the deceased are supposed to take them — the younger brother 
may not marry the elder brother's widows, but the elder 
brothers may marry those of the younger brother. Should 
any of the women object to the arrangement, they may 
" leave the family." 

I own that the ground principle of African law practically 
is " the simple plan that they should take who have the power, 
and they should keep who can," and this tells particularly 
against women and children who have not got living, powerful 
relations of their own. Unless the children of a man are 
grown up and sufficiently powerful on their own account, they j 
have little chance of sharing in the distribution of his estate ; 
but in spite of this abuse of power there is among Negroes 
and Bantus a definite and acknowledged law, to which an 
appeal can be made by persons of all classes, provided they 
have the wherewithal to set the machinery of it in motion. 
The difficulty the children and widows have in sharing in the 
distribution of the estate of the father and husband arises, I 
fancy, in the principle of the husband's brothers being the 
true heir, which has sunk into a fossilised state near the 
trading stations in the face of the white culture. The 
reason for this inheritance of goods passing from the man 
to his brother by the same mother has no doubt for one 
of its origins the recognition of the fact that the brother by 
the same mother must be a near relation, whereas, in spite of 
the strict laws against adultery, the relationship to you of the 
children born of your wives is not so certain. Nevertheless 



XXI THE LAW OF INHERITANCE 485 



this is one of the obvious and easy explanations for things it 
is well to exercise great care before accepting, for you must 
always remember that the African's mind does not run on 
identical lines with the European — what may be self-evident 
to you is not so to him, and vice versa. I have frequently 
heard African metaphysicians complain that white men make 
great jumps in their thought-course, and do not follow an 
idea step by step. You soon become conscious of the careful 
way a Negro follows his idea. Certain customs of his you 
can, by the exercise of great patience, trace back in a 
perfectly smooth line from their source in some natural 
phenomenon. Others, of course, you cannot, the traces of 
the intervening steps of the idea having been lost, owing 
partly to the \eneration in which old customs are held, 
which causes them to regard the fact that their fathers had 
this fashion as reason enough for their having it, and above 
all to the total absence of all but oral tradition. But so great 
a faith have I in the lack of inventive power in the African, 
that I feel sure all their customs, had we the material that has 
slipped down into the great swamp of time, could be traced 
back either, as I have said, to some natural phenomenon, or to 
the thing being advisable, for reasons of utility. 

The uncertainty in the parentage of offspring may seem to 
be such a utilitarian underlying pnnciple, but, on the other 
hand, it does not sufficiently explain the varied forms of the 
law of inheritance, for in some tribes the eldest or most in- 
fluential son does succeed to his father's wealth ; in other 
places you have the peculiar custom of the chief slave in- 
heriting. I think, from these things, that the underlying idea 
in inheritance of property is the desire to keep the wealth of 
" the house," i.e., estate, together, and if it were allowed to pass 
into the hands of weak people, like women and young children, 
this would not be done. Another strong argument against 
the theory that it arises from the doubtful relationship of the 
son, is that certain ju-ju always go to the son of the chief 
wife, if he is old enough, at the time of the father's death, even 
in those tribes where the wealth goes elsewhere. 

Certain tribes acknowledge the right of the women and 
children to share in the dead man's wealth, given that these 



486 FETISH CHAP. 

are legally married wives, or the children of legally married 
wives ; it is so in Cameroons, for example. An esteemed 
friend of mine who helps to manage things for the Fatherland 
down there was trying a palaver the other day with a patience 
peculiar to him, and that intelligent and elaborate care I 
should think only a mind trained on the methods of German 
m.etaphysicians could impart into that most wearisome of 
proceedings, wherein every one says the same thing over 
fourteen different times at least, with a similar voice and 
gesture, the only variation being in the statements regarding 
the important points, and the facts of the case, these varying 
with each individual. This palaver was made by a son 
claiming to inherit part of his father's property ; at last, to the 
astonishment, and, of course, the horror, of the learned judge, 
the defendant, the wicked uncle, pleaded through the inter- 
preter, " This man cannot inherit his father's property, because 
his parents married for love." There is no encouragement to 
foolishness of this kind in Cameroon, where legal marriage 
consists in purchase. 

In Bonny River and in Opobo the inheritance of " the house " 
is settled primarily by a vote of the free men of the house ; 
when the chief dies, their choice has to be ratified by the 
other chiefs of houses ; but in Bonny and Opobo the 
white traders have had immense influence for a long time, so 
one cannot now find out how far this custom is purely native 
in idea. 

Among the Fans the uncle is, as I have before said, an 
important person although the father has more rights than 
among the Igalwa, and here I came across a peculiar 
custom regarding widows. M. Jacot cited to me a similar 
case or so, one of which I must remark was in an Ajumba 
town. The widows were inside the dead husband's hut, as 
usual ; the Fan huts are stoutly built of sheets of flattened 
bark, firmly secured together with bark rope, and thatched — 
they never build them in any other way except when they are 
in the bush rubber-collecting or elephant-hunting, when they 
make them of the branches of trees. Well, round the bark hut, 
with the widows inside, there was erected a hut made of 
branches, and when this was nearly completed, the Fans com- 



XXI MODES OF MOURNING 487 

menced pulling down the inner bark hut, and finally cleared 
it right out, thatch and all, and the materials of which it had 
been made were burnt. I was struck with the performance 
because the Fans, though surrounded by intensely super- 
stitious tribes, are remarkably free from superstition ^ them- 
selves, taking little or no interest in speculative matters, ex- 
cept to get charms to make them invisible to elephants, to keep 
their feet in the path, to enable them to see things in the forest, 
and practical things of that sort, and these charms they fre- 
quently gave me to assist and guard me in my wanderings. 

The M'pongwe and Igalwa have a peculiar funeral custom, 
but it is not confined in its operation to widows, all the near 
relatives sharing in it. The mourning relations are seated on 
the floor of the house, and some friend — -Dr. Nassau told me he 
was called in in this capacity — comes in and " lifts them up," 
bringing to them a small present, a factor of which is always 
a piece of soap. This custom is now getting into the sur- 
vival form in Libreville and Glass. Nowadays the relatives 
do not thus sit, unwashed and unkempt, keenly requiring 
the soap. Among the bush Igalwa, I am told, the soap is 
much wanted. 

It is not only the widows that remain, either theoretically 
or practically unwashed ; all the mourners do. The Ibibios 
seem to me to wear the deepest crape in the form of 
accumulated dirt, and all the African tribes I have met have 
peculiar forms of hair cutting — shaving the entire head, not 
shaving it at all, shaving half of it &c. — when in mourning. 

The period of the duration of wearing mourning is, I believe, 
in all West Coast tribes that which elapses between the 
death and the burial of the soul. I believe a more thorough 
knowledge would show us that there is among the Bantu also 
a fixed time for the lingering of the soul on earth after death, 
but we have not got sufficient evidence on the point yet. The 
onh' thing we know is that it is not proper for the widow to 
re-marry while his soul is still in her vicinity. 

Among the Calabar tribes the burial of the spirit liberates 

1 In speaking of native ideas I should prefer to use the good Yorkshire 
term of " overthrowing " in place of " superstition," but as the latter is the 
accepted word for such matters I feel bound to employ it. 



488 FETISH chap. 

the woman. Among the Tschwi she requires special cere- 
monies on her own account. In Togoland, among the Ewe 
people, I know the period is between five and six weeks, 
during which time the widow remains in the hut, armed with 
a good stout stick, as a precaution against the ghost of her 
husband, so as to ward off attacks should he be ill-tempered. 
After these six weeks the widow can come out of the hut, but 
as his ghost has not permanently gone hence, and is apt to 
revisit the neighbourhood for the next six months, she has to 
be taken care of during this period. Then, after certain cere- 
monies, she is free to marry again. So I conclude the period 
of mourning, in all tribes, is that period during which the soul 
remains round its old possessions, whether these tribes have a 
definite soul-burial or devil-making or not. 

The ideas connected with the under-world to which the 
ghost goes are exceedingly interesting. The Negroes and 
Bantus are at one on these subjects in one particular only, 
and that is that no marriages take place there. The Tschwis 
say that this under-world, Srahmandazi, is just the same as this 
world in all other particulars, save that it is dimmer, a veritable 
shadow-land where men have not the joys of life, but only the 
shadow of the joy. Hence, says the Tschwi proverb, " One 
day in this world is worth a year in Srahmandazi." The 
Tschwis, with their usual definiteness in this sort of detail, 
know all about their Srahmandazi. Its entrance is just east 
of the middle Volta, and the way down is difficult to follow, 
and when the sun sets on this world it rises on Srahmandazi. 
The Bantus are vague on this important and interesting point. 
The Benga, for example, although holding the absence of 
marriage there, do not take steps to meet the case as 
the Tschwis do, and kill a supply of wives to take down with 
them. This reason for killing wives at a funeral is another 
instance that, however strange and cruel a custom may be here 
in West Africa, however much it may at first appear to be the 
flower of a rootless superstition, you will find on close investi- 
gation that it has some root in a religious idea, and a common- 
sense element. The common-sense element in the killing of 
wives and slaves among both the Tschwi and the Calabar tribes 
consists in the fact that it discourages poisoning. A Calabar 



A THORN TOO MANY 



489 



chief elaboratelyexplained to me that the rigorous putting down 
of kilHng at funerals that was being carried on by the Govern- 
ment not only landed a man in the next world as a wretched 
pauper, but added an additional chance to his going there 
prematurely, for his wives and slaves, no longer restrained by 
the prospect of being killed at his death and sent off with 
him would, on very slight aggravation, put " bush in his 




VIEW ON THE MIDDLE VOLTA. 



chop." It is sad to think of this thorn being added to the 
rose-leaves of a West Coast chief's life, as there are gg^ 
per cent, of thorns in it already. 

I came across a similar case on the Gold Coast, when a 
chief complained to me of the way the Government were pre- 
serving vermin, in the shape of witches, in the districts under 
its sur\eil lance. You were no longer allowed to destro>- them 
as of old, and therefore the vermin were destroying the game ; 



490 FETISH CHAP. 

for, said he, the witches here Hve almost entirely on the blood 
they suck from children at night. They used, in old days, to 
do this furtively, and do so now where native custom is 
unchecked ; but in districts where the Government says 
that witchcraft is utter nonsense, and killing its proficients 
utter murder which will be dealt with accordingly, the witch 
flourishes exceedingly, and blackmails the fathers and mothers 
of families, threatening that if they are not bought off they 
will have their child's blood ; and if they are not paid, the 
child dies away gradually — poison again, most likely. 

I often think it must be the common-sense element in fetish 
customs that enables them to survive, in the strange way they 
do, in the minds of Africans who have been long under Euro- 
pean influence and education. In witching, for example, 
every intelligent native knows there is a lot of poison in the 
affair, but the explanation he gives you will not usually 
display this knowledge, and it was not until I found the wide 
diffusion of the idea of the advisability of administering an 
emetic to the bewitched person, that I began to suspect my 
black friends of sound judgment. 

The good ju-juist will tell you all things act by means of 
their life, which means their power, their spirit. Dr. Nassau 
tells me the efficacy of drugs is held to depend on their bene- 
volent spirits, which, on being put into the body, drive away 
the malevolent disease-causing spirits — a leucocytes-versus 
pathogenic-bacteria sort of influence, I suppose. On this same 
idea also depends the custom of the appeal to ordeal, the 
working of which is supposed to be spiritual. Nevertheless, 
the intelligent native, believing all the time in this factor, 
squares the common-sense factor by bribing the witch-doctor 
who makes the ordeal drink. 

The feeling regarding the importance of funeral observances 
is quite Greek in its intensity. Given a duly educated 
African, I am sure that he would grasp the true inwardness of 
the Antigone far and away better than any European now 
living can. A pathetic story which bears on this feeling was 
told me some time ago by Miss Slessor when she was 
stationed at Creek Town. An old blind slave woman was found 
in the bush, and brought into the mission. She was in a 



XXI 



KILLING AT FUNERALS 49^ 



deplorable state, utterly neglected and starving, her feet torn 
by thorns and full of jiggers, and so on. Every care was 
taken of her and she soon revived and began to crawl about, 
but her whole mind was set on one thing with a passion that 
had made her alike indifferent to her past sufferings and to 
her present advantages. What she wanted was a bit, only a 
little bit, of white cloth. Now, I may remark, white cloth is 
anathema to the Missions, for it is used for ju-ju offerings, and 
a rule has to be made against its being given to the uncon- 
verted, or the missionary becomes an accessory before the fact 
to pagan practices, so white cloth the old woman was told she 
could not have, she had been given plenty of garments for her 
own use and that was enough. The old woman, however, 
kept on pleading and saying the spirit of her dead mistress 
kept coming to her asking and crying for white cloth, and 
white cloth she must get for her, and so at last, finding it was 
not to be got at the Mission station, she stole away one day, 
unobserved, and wandered off into the bush, from which she 
never again reappeared, doubtless falling a victim to the many 
leopards that haunted hereabouts. 

To provide a proper burial for the dead relation is the great 
duty of a negro's life, its only rival in his mind is the desire to 
have a burial of his own. But, in a good negro, this passion 
will go under before the other, and he will risk his very life 
to do it. He may know, surely and well, that killing slaves and 
women at a dead brother's grave means hanging for him when 
their Big Consul knows of it, but in the Delta he will do it. 
On the Coast, Leeward and Windward, he will spend every 
penny he possesses and, on top, if need be, go and pawn him- 
self, his wives, or his children into slavery to give a deceased 
relation a proper funeral. 

This killing at funerals I used to think would be more easily 
done awa}' with in the Delta than among the Tschwi tribes, 
but a little more knowledge of the Delta's idea about the 
future life showed me I was wrong. 

Among the Tschwi the slaves and women killed are to form 
for the dead a retinue, and riches wherewith to start life 
in Srahmandazi, where there are markets and towns and all 
things as on this earth, and so the Tschwi would have little 



492 FETISH CHAP. 

difficulty in replacing human beings at funerals with gold-dust, 
cloth, and other forms of riches, and this is already done in 
districts under white influence. But in the Delta there is no 
under-world to live in, the souls shortly after reaching the 
under-world being forwarded back to this, in new babies, and 
the wealth that is sent down with a man serves as an indication 
as to what class of baby the soul is to be repacked and sent up 
in. As wealth in the Delta consists of women and slaves I do 
not believe the under- world gods of the Niger would understand 
the status of a chief who arrived before them, let us say, with 
ten puncheons of palm oil, and four hundred yards of crimson 
figured velvet ; they would say, " Oh ! very good as far as 
it goes, but where is your real estate ? The chances are you 
are only a trade slave boy and have stolen these things " ; and 
in consequence of this, killing at funerals will be a custom 
exceedingly difficult to stamp out in these regions. Try and 
imagine yourself how abhorrent it must be to send down a dear 
and honoured relative to the danger of his being returned to 
this world shortly as a slave. There is no doubt a certain idea 
among the Negroes that some souls may get a rise in status on 
their next incarnation. You often hear a woman saying she 
will be a man next time, a slave he will be a freeman, and so 
on, but how or why some souls obtain promotion I have not yet 
sufficient evidence to show. I think a little more investigation 
will place this important point in my possession. I once said 
to a Calabar man, " But surely it would be easy for a man's 
friends to cheat ; they could send down a chief's outfit with a 
man, though he was only a small man here ? " 

" No," said he, " the other souls would tell on him, and 
then he would get sent up as a dog or some beast as a 
punishment." 

My first conception of the prevalence of the incarnation 
idea was also gained from a Delta negro. I said, " Why in the 
world do you throw away in the bush the bodies of your dead 
slaves ? Where I have been they tie a string to the leg of 
a dead slave and when they bury him bring the string to 
the top and fix it to a peg, with the owner's name on, and 
then when the owner dies he has that slave again down 
below." 



XXI WHY NOT CONVERT THE GODS? 493 

" They be fool men," said he, and he went on to explain 
that the ghost of that slave would be almost immediately back 
on earth again growing up ready to work for some one else, 
and would not wait for its last owner's soul down below, and 
out of the luxuriant jungle of information that followed 1 
gathered that no man's soul dallies below long, and also that 
a soul returning to a family, a thing ensured by certain ju-jus, 
was identified. The new babies as they arrive in the family 
are shown a selection of small articles belonging to deceased 
members whose souls are still absent ; the thing the child 
catches hold of identifies him. " Why he's Uncle John, see ! 
he knows his own pipe ; " or " That's cousin Emma, see ! she 
knows her market calabash," and so on. 

I remember discoursing with a very charming French official 
on the difficulty of eradicating fetish customs. 

" Why not take the native in the rear, Mademoiselle," said 
he, " and convert the native gods ? " 

I explained that his ingenious plan was not feasible, 
because you cannot convert gods. Even educating gods is 
hopeless work. All races of men through countless ages, 
have been attempting to make their peculiar deities under- 
stand how they are wanted to work, and what they are 
wanted to do, and the result is anything but encouraging. 

As I have dwelt on the repellent view of Negro funeral 
custom, I must in justice to them cite their better view. There 
is a custom that I missed much on going south of Calabar, 
for it is a pretty one. Outside the villages in the Calabar 
districts, by the sides of the most frequented roads, you 
will see erections of boughs. I do not think these are 
intended for huts, but for beds, for they are very like the 
Calabar type of bed, only made in wood instead of clay. 
Over them a roof of mats is put, to furnish a protection 
against rain. 

These shelters — graves or fetish huts they are wrongly 
called by Europeans — are made by driving four longish stout 
poles into the ground while at the height of about three feet or 
so four more poles are tied so as to make a skeleton platform 
which is filled in with withies and made flat. Another set of 
five poles is tied above, and to these the roof is affixed. On 



494 FETISH CHAP. 

the platform, is placed the bedding belonging to the 
deceased, the undercloth, counterpane, &c., and at the head 
are laid the pillows, bolster-shaped and stuffed with cotton- 
tree fluff, or shredded palm-leaves, and covered with some 
gaily-coloured cotton cloth. In every case I have seen — and 
they amount to hundreds, for you cannot take an hour's walk 
even from Duke Town without coming upon a dozen or so of 
these erections — the pillows are placed so that the person 
lying on the bed would look towards the village. 

On the roof and on the bed, and underneath it on the 
ground, are placed the household utensils that belonged to the 
deceased ; the calabashes, the basins, the spoons cut out of 
wood, and the boughten iron ones, as we should say in Devon, 
and on the stakes are hung the other little possessions ; there 
is one I know of made for the ghost of a poor girl who died, 
on to the stakes of which are hung the dolls and the little pin- 
cushions, &c., given her by a kind missionary. 

Food is set out at these places and spirit poured over them 
from time to time, and sometimes, though not often, pieces of 
new cloth are laid on them. Most of the things are deliber- 
ately damaged before they are put on the home for the spirit ; 
I do not think this is to prevent them from being stolen, 
because all are not damaged sufficiently to make them useless. 
There was a beautifully made spoon with a burnt-in pattern 
on one of these places when I left Calabar to go South, and 
on my return, some six months after, it was still there. On 
another there was a very handsome pair of market calabashes, 
also much decorated, that were only just chipped and in better 
repair than many in use in Calabar markets, and I make no 
doubt the spoon and they are still lying rotting among the 
debris of the pillows, &c. These places are only attended to 
during the time the spirit is awaiting burial, as they are 
regarded merely as a resting-place for it while it is awaiting this 
ceremony. The body is not buried near them, I may remark 

In spite, however, of the care that is taken to bury spirits, a 
considerable percentage from various causes — poverty of the 
relations, the deceased being a stranger in the land, accidental 
death in some unknown part of the forest or the surf — remain 
unburied, and hang about to the common danger of the village 



1, XXI BANISHING THE SPIRITS 495 



they ma>- choose to haunt. Many devices are resorted 
to, to purify the villages from these spirits. One which was 
in use in Creek Town, Calabar, to within a few years ago, and 
which I am informed is still customar>' in some interior villages, 
was very- ingenious, and believed to work well by those who 
ern ployed it 

In the houses were set up Xbakim,— large, grotesque 
images carved of wood and hung about with cloth strips and 
gew-gaws. Every November in Creek Town (I was told by 
some authorities it was every second November) there was a 
sort of festival held. Offerings of food and spirits were placed 
before these images ; a band of people accompanied by the 
rest of the population used to make a thorough round of the 
town, up and down each street and round everj' house, 
dancing, singing, screaming and tom-toming, in fact making 
all the noise they knew how to — and a Calabar EfSk is very 
gifted in the power of making noise. After this had been done 
for what was regarded as a sufficient time, the images were 
taken out of the houses, the crowd still making a terrific row 
and were then thrown into the river, and the town was regarded 
as being cleared of spirits. 

The rationale of the affair is this. The wandering spirits 
are attracted by the images, and take shelter among their 
rags, like earwigs or something of that kind. The charivari 
is to drive any of the spirits who might be away from their 
shelters back into them. The shouting of the mob is to 
keep the spirits from venturing out again while they are 
being carried to the river. The throwing of the images, rags 
and all, into the river, is to destroy the spirits or at least send 
them elsewhere. They did not go and pour boiling water 
on their earwig-traps, as wicked white men do, but they 
meant the same thing, and when this was over they made and 
set up new images for fresh spirits who might come into the 
town, and these were kept and tended as before, until the next 
N'dok ceremony came round. 

It is owing to the spiritual view which the African takes 
of existence at large that ceremonial observances form the 
greater part of even his common-law procedure. 

There is, both among the Negro and Bantu, a recognised 



496 FETISH chap. 

code of law, founded on principles of true but merciless 
justice. It is not often employed, because of the difficulty 
and the danger to the individual who appeals to it, should 
that individual be unbacked by power, but nevertheless the 
code exists. 

The African is particularly hard on theft ; he by no means 
" compounds for sins he is inclined to by damning those he 
has no mind to," for theft is a thing he revels in. 

Persons are tried for theft on circumstantial evidence, 
direct testimony, and ordeal. Laws relating to mortgage are 
practically the same among Negroes and Bantu and Europeans. 
Torts are not recognised ; unless the following case from 
Cameroon points to a vague realisation of them. A. let his 
canoe out to B., in good order, so that B. could go up river, 
and fetch down some trade. B. did not go himself, but let C, 
who was not his slave, but another free man who also wanted 
to go up for trade, have the canoe on the understanding that 
in payment for the loan of the said canoe C. should bring 
down B's. trade. 

A. was not told about this arrangement at all. B. says A. 
was, only A. was so blind drunk at the time he did not under- 
stand. Well, up river C. goes in the canoe, and fetches up 
on a floating stump in the river, and staves a hole you could 
put your head in, in the bow of the said canoe. C. returns it 
to B. in this condition. B. returns it to A. in this condition. 
A. sues B. before native chief, saying he lent his canoe to B. 
on the understanding, always implied in African loans, that it 
was to be returned in the same state as when lent, fair wear 
and tear alone expected. B. tries first to get C. to pay for 
the canoe, and for the rent of the canoe on top, as a compensa- 
tion for the delay in bringing down his, B's. trade. C. calls B. 
the illegitimate offspring of a green house-lizard, and pleads 
further that the floating log was 2. force majeure — an act of God, 
and denies liability on all counts. B. then pleads this as his own 
defence in the case of A. and B. (authorities cited in support 
of this view) ; he also pleads he is not liable, because C. is a 
free man, and not his slave. 

The case went on for a week ; the judge was drunk for five 
days in his attempt to get his head clear. The decision 



XXI PUNISHMENT OF ADULTERY 497 



finally was that B, was to pay A. full compensation. B. z: C. 
is still pending. 

The laws against adultery are, theoretically, exceedingly 
severe. The punishment is death, and this is sometimes 
carried out. The other day King Bell in Cameroon flogged 
one of his wives to death, and the German Government have 
deposed and deported him, for you cannot do that sort of 
thing with impunity within a stone's throw of a Government 
head-quarters. But as a general rule all along the Coast 
the death penalty for murder or adultery is commuted to a 
fine, or you can send a substitute to be killed for you, if you 
are rich. This is frequently done, because it is cheaper, if you 
have a seedy slave, to give him to be killed in your stead 
than to pay a fine which is often enormous. 

The adultery itself is often only a matter of laying your 
hand, even in self-defence from a virago, on a woman — or 
brushing against her in the path. These accusations of 
adultery are, next to witchcraft, the great social danger to the 
West Coast native, and they are often made mereh' from 
motives of extortion or spite, and without an atom of truth in 
them. 

It is customary for a chief to put his wives frequently to 
ordeal on this point, and this is almost always done after there 
has been a big devil-making, or a dance, which his family have 
been gracing with their presence. The usual method of 
applying the ordeal is by boiling palm-oil — a pot is nearly 
filled with the oil, which is brought to the boil over a fire ; 
when it is seething, the woman to be tried is brought out in 
front of it. She first dips her hands into water, and then has 
administered to her the M'biam oath saying or having said for 
her that long elaborate formula, in a form adjusted to meet the 
case. Then she plunges her hand into the boiling oil for an 
instant, and shakes the oil off with all possible rapidity, and the 
next woman comes forward and goes through the same })er- 
formance, and so on. Xext day. the hands of the women are 
examined, and those found blistered are adjudged guilty, and 
punished. In order to escape heavy punishment the woman 
will accuse some man of having hustled against her, or sat 
down on a bench beside her, and so on, and the accused man 

K K 



498 FETISH chap. 

has to pay up. If he does not, in the Calabar district, Egbo 
will come and " eat the adultery," and there won't be much of 
that man's earthly goods left. Sometimes the accusation is 
v'olunteered by the woman, and frequently the husband and 
wife conspire together and cook up a case against a man for 
the sake of getting the damages. There is nothing that 
ensures a man an unblemished character in West Africa, save 
the possession of sufficient power to make it risky work for 
people to cast slurs on it. 

The ownership of children is a great source of palaver. 
The law among Negroes and Bantus is that the children of a 
free woman belong to her. In the case of tribes believing in 
the high importance of uncles considerable powers are vested 
in that relative, while in other tribes certain powers are vested 
in the father. 

The children of slave wives are the only children the father 
has absolute power over if he is the legal owner of the slave 
woman. If, as is frequently the case, a free man marries 
a slave woman who belongs to another man, all her children 
are the absolute property of her owner, not her husband ; 
and the owner of the woman can take them and sell them, 
or do whatsoever he chooses with them, unless the free 
man father redeems them, as he usually does, although the 
woman may still remain the absolute property of the owner, 
recallable by him at any time. 

This law is the cause of the most brain-spraining palavers 
that come before the white authorities. There is naturally no 
statute of limitations in West Africa, because the African 
does not care a row of pins about time. The wily A. will let 
his slave woman live with B. without claiming the redemption 
fees as they become due — letting them stand over, as it were, 
at compound interest. All the male as well as the female 
children of the first generation are A.'s property, and 
all the female children of these children are his property 
ev'en unto the second and third generation and away into 
eternity. A. may die before he puts in his claim, in which 
case the ownership passes on into the hands of his heir 
or assignees, who may foreclose at once, on entering into 
heir heritage, or [may again let things accumulate for their 



XXI OWNERSHIP OF CHILDREN' 499 



heirs. Anyhow, sooner or later the foreclosure comes and 
then there is trouble. X., Y., Z., &c., free men, have married 
some of the original A.'s slave woman's descendants. The}' 
have either bought them right out, or kept on conscientiously 
redeeming children of theirs as they arrived. Of course A., 
or his heirs, contend that X., Y., Z., &c. have been wasting time 
and money by so doing, because the people X., Y., Z. have 
paid the money to had no legal title to the women. Of course 
X., Y., Z. contend that their particular woman, or her ancestress, 
was dul}' redeemed from the legal owner. 

Remember there is no documentary evidence available, and 
squads of equally reliable and oldest inhabitants are swearing 
hard-all both ways. Just realise this, and that your Govern- 
ment says that whenever native law is not blood-stained 
it must be supported, and you may be able to realise the gidd\- 
mazes of a native palaver, which if you continuously attempt 
to follow with the determination that justice shall be duly ad- 
ministered, will for certain lay you low with an attack of 
fever. 

The law of ownership is not all in favour of the owner, 
masters being responsible for damage done by their slaves, and 
this law falls very heavily and expensively on the owner of a 
bad slave. Indeed, when one lives out here and sees the sur- 
rounding conditions of this state of culture, the conviction 
grows on you that, morally speaking, the African is far from 
being the brutal fiend he is often painted, a creature that loves 
cruelty and blood for their own sake. The African does not ; 
and though his culture does not contain our institutions, 
lunatic asylums, prisons, workhouses, hospitals, &c., he has to 
deal with the same classes of people who require these things 
So with them he deals by means of his equivalent institutions, 
slavery, the lash, and death. You have just as much right, m\ 
logical friend, to call the West Coast Chief hard names for his 
habit of using brass bars, heads of tobacco, and so on. in place 
of sixpenny pieces, as you have to abuse him for clubbing 
an inveterate thief. It's deplorably low of him. I own, but 
by what alternative plan of government his can be replaced 
I do not quite see, under existing conditions. In religious 
affairs, the affairs which lead him into the majority of his 

K K 2 



I 



$00 P'ETISH CH. XXI 

iniquities, his real sin consists in believing too much. In his 
witchcraft, the sin is the same. Toleration means indifference, 
I believe, among all men. The African is not indifferent on 
the subject of witchcraft, and I do not see how one can 
expect him to be. Put yourself in his place and imagine you 
have got hold of a man or woman who has been placing a live 
¦crocodile or a catawumpus of some kind into your own or a 
valued relative's, or fellow-townsman's inside, so that it may 
¦eat up valuable viscera, and cause you or your friend suffering 
and death. How would you feel ? A little like lynching your 
-captive, I fancy. 

I confess that the more I know of the West Coast Africans 
the more I like them. I own I think them fools of the first 
water for their power of believing in things ; but I fancy I have 
analogous feelings towards even my fellow-countrymen when 
they go and violently believe in something that I cannot 
quite swallow. 



CHAPTER XXII 
FETISH — {Continued) 

In which the \oyager complains of the inconveniences arising from the 
method of African thought, and discourses on apparitions and 
Deities. 

However much some of the African's mental attributes 
get under-rated, I am sure there are others of them for 
which he gets more credit than he deserves. One of these is 
his imagination. It strikes the new-comer with awe, and 
frequentl}- fills him with rage, when he first meets it ; but 
as he matures and gets used to the African, he sees the 
string. For the African fancy is not the "aerial fancy- 
flying free," mentioned by our poets, but merely the aerial 
of the theatre suspended by a wire or cord. The wire that 
supports the African's fancy may be a very thin, small fact 
indeed, or in some cases merely his incapacity to distin- 
guish between animate and inanimate objects, which give 
rise to his idea that eyerjthing is possessed of a soul. 
Everything has a soul to him, and to make confusion worse 
confounded, he usually believes in the existence of matter 
apart from its soul. But there is little he won't believe in, 
if it comes to that ; and I have a feeling of thankfulness 
that Buddhism, Theosophy, and above all Atheism, which 
chases its tail and proves that nothing can be proved, have not 
>et been given the African to believe in. He would be- 
lieve the whole lot if he had the chance, and his mind is 
in a prett\- muddle as it is. I dare say I speak with irrita- 
tion, but I have suffered much from the African's mind 
muddle. 



502 FETISH CHAP. 

The African's want of making it clear in his language 
whether he is referring to an animate or inanimate thing, has 
landed me in many a dilemma, and his foolishness in not 
having a male and female gender in his languages amounts 
to a nuisance, and has nearly, at one fell swoop, turned my 
hairs gray and brought them in sorrow to the grave. For 
example, I am a most lady-like old person and yet get con- 
stantly called " Sir." I hasten to assure you I never even 
wear a masculine collar and tie, and as for encasing the more 
earthward extremities of my anatomy in — you know what I 
mean — well, I would rather perish on a public scaffold. The 
other day, circumstances having got beyond my control 
during the afternoon, I arrived in the evening in a saturated 
condition at a white settlement, and wishing to get accommo- 
dation for myself and my men, I made my way to the factory 
of a firm from whose representatives I have always received 
great and most courteous help. The agent in charge was not 
at home, and his steward-boy said, " Massa live for Mr. B.'s 
house." " Go tell him I live for come from," &c., said I, and 
" I fit for want place for my men." I had nothing to write 
on, or with, and I thought the steward-boy could carry this 
little message to its destination without dropping any of it, as 
Mr. B.'s house was close by ; but I was wrong. Off he went, 
and soon returned with the note I here give a copy of: — 

" Dear old Man, 

" You must be in a deuce of a mess after the tor- 
nado. Just help yourself to a set of my dry things. The shirts 
are in the bottom drawer, the trousers are in the box under 
the bed, and then come over here to the sing-song. My leg 
is dickey or I'd come across, — Yours," &c. 

Had there been any smelling salts or sal volatile in this 
subdivision of the Ethiopian region I should have forthwith 
fainted on reading this, but I well knew there was not, so I 
blushed until the steam from my soaking clothes (for I truly 
was " in a deuce of a mess ") went up in a cloud and then, just 
as I was, I went " across " and appeared before the author of 
that awful note. When he came round, he said it had taken 



XXII VIVID DESCRIPTIONS 503 



seven years' growth out of him, and was intensely apologetic. 
I remarked it had very nearly taken thirty years' growth out 
of me, and he said the steward boy had merely informed him 
that " White man live for come from X," a place where he 
knew there was another factory belonging to his firm, and he 
naturally thought it was the agent from X who had come 
across. He offered to commit suicide, and kill the boy ; but 
I thought that, under the circumstances, I had no right to 
avail myself of the first part of his offer, and as my chief 
pride in West Africa is that I have never raised hand nor 
caused hand to be raised against a native, I did not like to 
have the boy killed. So after seeing my men safe for the 
night I settled down and had supper. 

You rarely, indeed I believe never, find an African with a 
gift for picturesque descriptions of scenery. The nearest 
approach to it I ever got was from my cook when we were on 
Mungo mah Lobeh. He proudly boasted he had been on 
a mountain, up Cameroon River, with a German officer, and 
on that mountain, " If you fall down one side you die, if you 
fall down other side you die." 

Graphic and vivid descriptions of incidents you often get, 
but it is not Art. The effect is produced entirely by a bald 
brutality of statement, the African having no artistic 
reticence whatsoever. One fine touch, however, which does 
not come in under this class was told me by my lamented 
friend Mr. Harris of Calabar. Some years ago he had out a 
consignment of Dutch clocks with hanging weights, as is 
natural to the Dutch clock. They were immensely popular 
among the chiefs, and were soon disposed of save one, which 
had seen trouble on the voyage out and lost one of its 
weights. Mr. Harris, who was a man of great energy and 
resource, melted up some metal spoons and made a new 
weight and hung it on the clock. The day he finished this a 
chief came in, anxious for a Dutch clock, and Mr. Harris 
forthwith sold him the repaired one. About a week elapsed, 
and then the chief turned up at the factory again with a 
rueful countenance, followed by a boy carrying something 
swathed in a cloth. It was the clock. 

"You do me bad too much, Mr. Harris," said the chief. 



S04 FETISH • CHAP. 

Mr. Harris denied this on the spot with the vehemence of 
injured innocence. The chief shook his head and spat 
profusely and sorrowfully. 

" You no sabe him clock you done sell me ? " said he. 
" When I look him clock it no be to-day, it be to-morrow." 
Mr. Harris took the clock back, to see \\hat was the cause of 
this strange state of affairs. Of course it arose from his 
having been too liberal in the amount of spoon in the weight, 
and this being altered, the chief was not hurried onward to 
his grave at such a rattling jja'ce ; " but," said Mr. Harris, 
" that clock was a fl}'er to the last." 

Phrases in the native languages often point to a power of 
imagery ; for example the Efifik word for both stars and 
fire-flies is Ntan-ta fiong, and if one takes the translation 
some authorities give of this, namely "moon dust," it is 
pretty, but other authorities sa}^ it means " made of the same 
stuff as the moon," which reduces it to simple idiocy. The 
name for butterflies, meaning " the cloth of the spirit," has no 
detractors ; nor has that for the pretty little gecko lizard 
that haunts the houses and is now learning to walk on 
ceilings, " the spirit of the child," and so on. But I will not go 
into the subject of African languages here, but only remark of 
them that although they are elaborate enough to produce, for 
their users, nearly every shade of erroneous statement, they 
are not, save perhaps M'pongwe, elaborate enough to enable a 
native to state his exact thought. Some of them are very 
dependent on gesture. When I was with the Fans they 
frequently said, " We will go to the fire so that we can see what 
the>' say," \\hen any question had to be decided after dark, 
and the inhabitants of Fernando Po, the Bubis, are quite 
unable to converse with each other unless they have sufficient 
light to see the accompanying gestures of the conversation. 
In all cases I feel sure the African's intelligence is far ahead 
of his language. 

The African is usually great at dreams, and has them veiy 
noisily ; but he does not seem to me to attach immense import- 
ance to them, certainly not so much as the Red Indian does. 
I doubt whether there is much real ground for supposing that 
from dreams came man's first conception of the spirit world, 



XXII ORIGIN OF RELIGION 505 



and I think the origin of man's religious belief lies in man's 
misfortunes. 

There can be little doubt that the ver\- earliest human 
beings found, as their descendants still find, their plans frus- 
trated, let them plan ever so wiseh' and carefully ; the}- must 
have seen their companions overtaken by death and disaster, 
arising both from things they could see and from things they 
could not see. The distinction between these t^vo classes of 
phenomena is not so definitelj- recognised by .savages or 
animals as it is by the more cultured races of humanit}-. I 
ioubt whether a savage depends on his five sen.ses alone to 
teach him what the world is made of, any more than a Fellow 
of the Royal Societ>' does. From this method of viewing 
nature I feel sure that the general idea arose — which you find in 
all earl\- cultures — that death was always the consequence of 
the action of some, malignant spirit, and that there is no 
accidental or natural death, as we call it ; and death is, after 
all, the most impressive attribute of life. 

If a man were knocked on the head with a club, or shot with 
an arrow, the cause of death is clearly the malignanc)- of the 
person using these weapons ; and so it is easy to think that a 
man killed by a fallen tree, or by the upsetting of a canoe in 
the surf, or in an eddy in the river, is also the victim of some 
being using these things as weapons. 

A man having thus gained a belief that there are more than 
human actors in life's tragedy, the idea that disease is also a 
manifestation of some invisible being's wrath and power seems 
to me natural and easy ; and he knows you can get another 
man for a consideration to kill or harm a third part}', and so he 
thinks that, for a consideration, you can also get one of these 
superhuman beings, which we call gods or devils, but which 
the African regards in another light, to do so. 

A certain set of men and women then specialise off to study 
how these spirits can be managed, and so arises a priesthood ; 
and the priests, or medicine men as they are called in their 
earliest forms, graduall}-, for their own ends, elaborate and 
wrap round their profession with ritual and myster}-. 

The savage is also conscious of another great set of 
phenomena which, he soon learns, take no interest in human 



5o6 FETISH chap. 

affairs. The sun which rises and sets, the moon which 
changes, the tides which come and go : — what do they care ? 
Nothing ; and what is more, sacrifice to them what you may, 
you cannot get them to care about you and your affairs, and 
so the savage turns his attention to those other spirits that do 
take only too much interest, as is proved by those unexpected 
catastrophes ; and, as their actions show, these spirits are all 
malignant, so he deals with them just as he would deal with 
a bad man whom he was desirous of managing. He flatters 
and fees them, he deprives himself of riches to give to them as 
sacrifices, believing they will relish it all the more because it 
gives him pain of some sort to give it to them. He holds 
that they think it will be advisable for them to encourage him 
to continue the giving by occasionally doing what he asks 
them. Naturally he never feels sure of them ; he sees that 
you may sacrifice to a god for years, you may wrap him up 
— or more properly speaking, the object in which he resides — 
in your only cloth on chilly nights while you shiver yourself ; 
you and your children, and your mother, and your sister and 
her children, may go hungry that food may rot upon his 
shrine ; and yet, in some hour of dire necessity, the power will 
not come and save you — because he has been lured away by 
some richer gifts than yours. 

You white men will say, " Why go on believing in him then ? " 
but that is an idea that does not enter the African mind. I 
might just as well say " Why do you go on believing in the 
existence of hansom cabs," because one hansom cab driver 
malignantly fails to take you w^here you want to go, or fails 
to arrive in time to catch a train you wished to catch. 

The African fully knows the liability of his fetish to fail, but 
he equally fully knows its power. One, to me, grandly tragic 
instance of this I learnt at Opobo. There was a very great 
Fetish doctor there, universally admired and trusted, who 
lived out on the land at the mouth of the Great River. One 
day he himself fell sick, and he made ju-ju against the sick- 
ness ; but it held on, and he grew worse. He made more ju-ju 
of greater power, but again in vain, and then he made the 
greatest ju-ju man can make, and it availed nought, and he 
knew he was dying ; and so, with his remaining strength, he 



XXII PARADISE LOST 507 



broke up and dishonoured and destroyed all the Fetishes in 
which the spirits Hved, and cast them out into the surf and 
died Hke a man. 

Then horror came upon the people when they knew he had 
done this, and they burnt his house and all things belonging 
to him, and cried upon the spirits not to forsake them, not to 
lay this one man's deadly sin at their doors. I rather doubt 
whether those spirits have come round yet, for Dr. Tompstone 
wrote to me that last November, just when their yearly plays 
were in full swing, to make sure of having fine weather for 
them, Opobo " called in a noted consultant from up river and," 
says the Doctor with a gracious sympathy for a fellow medical 
man, " it has rained in torrents ever since. It is ver>' rough 
on him, as I believe he did his best and sacrificed large 
numbers of fowls." 

In connection with the gods of West Africa I may remark 
that in almost all the series of native tradition there, you will 
find accounts of a time when there was direct intercourse 
between the gods or spirits that live in the sky, and men. That 
intercourse is always said to have been cut off by some human 
error ; for example, the Fernando Po people say that once upon 
a time there was no trouble or serious disturbance upon earth 
because there was a ladder, made like the one you get palm-nuts 
with, " only long, long ; " and this ladder reached from earth to 
heaven so the gods could go up and down it and attend per- 
sonally to mundane affairs. But one day a cripple boy started to 
go up the ladder, and he had got a long way up when his mother 
saw him, and went up in pursuit. The gods, horrified at the 
prospect of having boys and women invading heaven, threw 
down the ladder, and have since left humanity' severely alone. 
The Timneh people, north-east of Sierra Leone, say that in old 
times God was very friendly with men, and when He thought 
a man had lived long enough on earth. He sent a messenger 
to him telling him to come up into the sky, and stay with 
Him ; but once there was a man who, when the messenger of 
God came, did not want to leave his wives, his slaves, and his 
riches, and so the messenger had to go back without him ; and 
God was ver>- cross and sent another messenger for him, who 
was called Disease, but the man would not come for him either. 



5o8 FETISH CHAP. 

and so Disease sent back word to God that he must have help 
to bring the man ; and so God sent another messenger whose 
name was Death ; and Disease and Death together got hold of 
the man, and took him to God ; and God said in future He 
^\¦ould always send these messengers to fetch men. 

The Fernando Po legend may be taken as fairly pure 
African, but the Timneh, I expect, is a transmogrified Arabic 
story — though I do not know of anything like it among Arabic 
stories ; but they are infinite in quantity, and there is a certain 
ring about it I recognise, and these Timnehs are much in 
contact with the Mohammedan, Mandingoes, &c. In none of 
the African stories is there given anything like the importance 
to dreams that there is given to attempts to account for acci- 
dents and death ; and surely it must have been more impressive 
and important to a man to have got his leg or arm snapped 
off by a crocodile in the river, or by a shark in the surf, or to 
have got half killed, or have seen a friend killed by a falling 
tree in the forest in the day time, than to have experienced 
the most wonderful of dreams. He sees that however terrific 
his dream-experiences may have been, he wa.sp not much the 
worse for them. Not so in the other case, a limb gone or a life 
gone is more impressive, and more necessary to account for. 

No trace of sun-worship have I ever found. The firmament 
is, I believe, always the great indifferent and neglected god, the 
Nyan Kupon of the Tschwi, and the Anzambe, Nzam, &c., of 
the Bantu races. The African thinks this god has great power 
if he would only exert it, and when things go \'ery badly with 
him, when the river rises higher than usual and sweeps away his 
home and his plantations ; when the smallpox stalks through 
the land, and day and night the corpses float down the river 
past him, and he finds them jammed among his canoes that 
are tied to the beach, and choking up his fish traps ; and then 
when at last the death-wail over its victims goes up night and 
day from his own village, he will rise up and call upon this 
great god in the terror maddened b}- despair, that he may 
hear and restrain the evil workings of these lesser devils ; 
but he evidently finds, as Peer Gynt saj-s, " Nein, er hort 
nicht. Er ist taub wie gewohnlich " for there is no organised 
cult for Anzam. 



XXII SUNDRY APPARITIONS 509 



Accounts of apparitions abound in all the West Coast 
districts, and although the African holds them all in high 
horror and terror, he does not see anything supernatural in 
his " Duppy." It is a horrid thing to happen on, but there 
is nothing strange about it, and he is ten thousand times more 
frightened than puzzled over the affair. He does not want to 
"investigate "to see whether there is anything in it. He wants 
to get clear away, and make ju-ju against it, " one time." 

These apparitions have a great variety of form, for, firstly, 
there are all the true spirits, nature spirits ; secondly, the spirits 
of human beings — these human spirits are held to exist before 
as well as during and after bodily life ; thirdly, the spirits of 
things. Probably the most horrid of class one is the Tschwi's 
Sasabonsum. Whether Sasabonsum is an individual or a class 
is not quite clear, but I believe he is a class of spirits, each 
individual of which has the same characteristics, the same 
manner of showing anger, the same personal appearance, and 
the same kind of residence. I am a devoted student of his 
cult and I am always coming across equivalent forms of him 
in other tribes as well as the Tschwi, and I think he is very 
early. I see no reason why gorillas should not believe in 
Sasabonsum, only unfortunately Dr. Gamer has not given us 
that grammar and dictionary of Gorillese, so I cannot question 
these interesting people on the point. As the Tschwi have 
got their religious notions in a most tidy and definite state, 
we will take their version of Sasabonsum. 

He lives in the forest, in or under those great silk-cotton 
trees around the roots of which the earth is red. This 
coloured earth identifies a silk-cotton tree as being the residence 
of a Sasabonsum, as its colour is held to arise from the 
blood it whips off him as he goes down to his under-world 
home after a night's carnage. All silk-cotton trees are sus- 
pected because they are held to be the roosts for Duppies. 
But the red earth ones are feared with a great fear, and no one 
makes a path by them, or a camp near them at night. 

Sasabonsum is a friend of witches. He is of enormous 
size, and of a red colour. He wears his hair straight and he 
waylays unprotected wayfarers in the forest at night, and in 
all districts except that of Apollonia he eats them. Round 



5IO FETISH CHAP. 

Apollonia he only sucks their blood. Natives of this district 
after meeting him have crawled home and given an account 
of his appearance, and then expired. 

Ellis says he is believed to be implacable, and when angered 
can never be mollified or propitiated, but it is certain that 
human victims are constantly sacrificed to him in districts 
beyond white control ; in districts under it, the equivalent value 
of a human sacrifice in sheep and goats is offered to him. In 
Ashantee he has priests, and of course human sacrifice. 
Away among the Dahomeyan tribes — where he has kept his 
habits but got another name, and seems to have crystallised 
from a class into an individual — the usual way in which a god 
develops — he has priests and priestesses, and they are holy 
terrors ; but among the Tschwi, Sasabonsum is mainly dealt 
with by witches, and people desirous of possessing the power 
of becoming witches. They derive their power from him 
in a remarkable way. I put myself to great personal incon- 
venience (fever risk, mosquito certainty, high leopard and snake 
palaver probability, and grave personal alarm and apprehen- 
sion) to verify Colonel Ellis's account of the methods witches 
employ in this case, and finding his account correct I quote it, 
because it is more concise than mine is likely to be. 

Ellis says, " A person who wishes to obtain a suhman (tute- 
lary deity) proceeds to the dark and gloomy recesses of the 
forest, wherein, among the Bombaces a local Sasabonsum 
resides. There, having first poured a small quantity of rum 
upon the earth as a propitiatory offering, he adopts one of the 
following courses. 

" I. He cuts from a tree a moderately thick branch which 
he carves into a rude resemblance of the human figure ; usually 
these figures are simply cylindrical pieces of wood, from ten to 
fourteen inches in length and from three to four in diameter. 
Two or three inches from one end, which may be called the top, 
the stick is notched so as to roughly resemble a neck, and the 
top is then rounded to bear some rough distant resemblance 
to a head. 

" 2. He takes the root of a plant or bush growing there, 
scrapes it, and grinds it into a paste with the blood of a fowl. 

" 3. He takes some red earth from the spot and mixes it 



XXII WITCHES 511 

into a paste with blood or rum. In the second and third 
cases the preparation is kept in a small brass pan, and the red 
tail-feathers of a parrot are commonl}' stuck in the paste. A 
suhman prepared in one of the last three modes is frequenth* 
kept co\ered in Shea butter, but a wooden figure never. 

" Having adopted one of these courses, the individual in 
quest of a suhman then calls upon the spirit of Sasabonsum 
to enter the object which he has prepared, promising to rever- 
ence it and give it offerings. According to most natives he 
then picks certain leaves, the juice of which he squeezes upon 
the object, saying, ' eat this and speak.' Then, if a spirit has 
entered the object — in other words if the latter has become a 
suhman — a low hissing noise is heard. Being thus assured 
that the spirit is there, the man then puts a number of ques- 
tions — ought he, the suhman, to be kept in a box, or left 
unenclosed ? should he be anointed with Shea butter, or left 
dr>' ? and those questions to which a low hissing sound is 
heard in reply are believed to be answered in the aflfirmative." 

In the two cases in which I saw a suhman procured, the 
methods emploj'ed were Nos. i and 3. I have seen ehsuhman 
in the possession of individuals, answering all the particulars 
in appearance of the other kinds. 

The chief use of a suhman is the power it gives its owner 
to procure the death of other people, not necessarily his own 
enemies, for he will sell charms made by the agency of his 
suhman to another person whose nerves have not been equal 
to facing Sasabonsum on his own account. He can also 
provide by its agency other charms, such as those that protect 
houses from fire, and things and individuals from accidents on 
the road, or in canoes, and the home circle from good-lookino- 
but unprincipled young men, and so on. 

The quantity of charms among the Negroes, as among the 
Bantu, verges on infinit}-. Most of them are procured from 
suhman holders, but not all. I fancy a suhman wears himself 
out in making charms, for you will sometimes come across 
" dead " ones that you may buy. These dead ones are eh- 
suhman (pi.) who have failed several times to work because 
the spirit has left them ; whereas a live charm is treasured, 
and treated as a sentient thing. A man I know had a bundle 



5^2 FETISH CHAP. 

of feathers with a porcupine tail in their midst, and he used 
always to squirt out of his mouth a little rum over it when he 
was drinking. 

As a rule the person who has a suhman keeps the fact 
pretty quiet, for the possession of such an article would lead 
half the catastrophes in his district, from the decease of pigs, 
fowls, and babies, to fires, &c., to be accredited to him, which 
would lead to his neighbours making " witch palaver " over 
him, and he would have to undergo poison-ordeal and other 
unpleasantness to clear his character. He, however, always 
keeps a special day in his suhman's honour, and should he be 
powerful, as a king or big chief, he will keep this day openly. 
King Kwoffi Karri Kari, whom we fought with in 1874, used to 
make a big day for his suhman, which was kept in a box 
covered with gold plates, and he sacrificed a human victim to 
it every Tuesday, with general festivities and dances in its 
honour. 

I should remark that Sasabonsum is married. His wife, 
or more properly speaking his female form, is called Sha- 
mantin. She is far less malignant than the male form. Her 
name comes from Srahman — ghost or spirit ; the termination 
*' tin " is an abbreviation of tsintsiii — -tall. She is of immense 
height, and white ; perhaps this idea is derived from the white 
stem of the silk-cotton trees wherein she invariably abides. 
Her method of dealing with the solitary wayfarer is no doubt 
inconvenient to him, but it is kinder than her husband's ways, 
for she does not kill and eat him, as Sasabonsum does, but 
merely detains him some months while she teaches him all about 
the forest : what herbs are good to eat, or to cure disease ; where 
the game come to drink, and what they say to each other, and 
so forth. I often wish I knew this lady, for the grim, grand 
African forests are like a great library, in which, so far, I can 
do little more than look at the pictures, although I am now 
busily learning the alphabet of their language, so that I may 
some day read what these pictures mean. 

Do not go away with the idea, I beg, that goddesses as a 
general rule, are better than gods. They are not. There are 
stories about them which I could — I mean I could not — tell 
you. There is one belonging also to the Tschwi. She lives 



THE ALBINO DEITY 513 



t Moree, a village five miles from Cape Coast. She is, as is 
sual with deities, human in shape and colossal in size, and as is 
not usual with deities, she is covered with hair from head to 
foot, — short white hair like a goat. Her abode is on the path 
to surf-cursed Anamabu near the sea-beach, and her name is 
Aynfwa ; a worshipper of hers has only got to mention the 
name of a person he wishes dead when passing her abode 
and Aynfwa does the rest. She is the goddess of all albinoes, 
who are said to be more frequent in occurrence round Moree 
than elsewhere. Ellis says that in 1886, when he was there, 
they were i per cent, of the entire population. These albinoes 
are, ipso facto, her priests and priestesses, and in old days an 
albino had only to name anywhere a person Aynfwa wished 
for, and that person was forthwith killed. 

I think I may safely say that every dangerous place in 
West Africa is regarded as the residence of a god — rocks 
and whirlpools in the rivers — swamps " no man fit to pass " — 
and naturally, the surf Along the Gold Coast, at every place 
where you have to land through the surf, it fairly swarms 
with gods. A little e.xperience with the said surf inclines you 
to think, as the dabblers in spiritualism say, " that there is 
something in it." I will back this West Coast surf — " the 
Calemma," as we call it down South, against any other male- 
volent abomination, barring only the English climate. Its ways 
of dealing with human beings are cunning and deceitful. In its 
most ferocious moods it seizes a boat, straightway swamps it, 
and feeds its pet sharks with the boat's occupants. If the 
surf is merely sky-larking it lets your boat's nose just smell 
the sand, and then says " Thought you were all right this time, 
did you though," and drags the boat back again under the 
incoming wave, or catches it under the stem and gaily 
throws it upside down over you and yours on the beach. 
Variety, they say, is charming. Let those who say it, and 
those who believe it, just do a course of surf-work, and I'll 
warrant they will change their minds ; and above all let men 
who have to do with the demon-possessed surf of the West 
-African sea-board take care not to get their minds entirely 
filled with the terror of getting drowned or eaten by sharks, 
for these are minor dangers in the affair, though they occur. 

L L 



514 FETISH CHAP. 

The danger is your own boat, for it is not given to every \ 
man to do like my gigantic friend, Captain Heldt, and swim 
ashore and crawl up the beach, with three ribs broken, and 
his legs temporarily paralysed, by having a heavy surf- 
boat hurled by a wave on to his back, while engaged in 
an independent venture to reach the shore, after a catas- 
trophe on the outer breakers. And let me add that when 
you are advised in a yell to jump into the surf by the black 
bo'sn of the windward coast, or the equally black Padrone of 
the S.W. Coast, do so " one time." Never mind those sharks, 
but mind and jump out on the windward side of the boat, 
the side that the surf is breaking against, the side that looks 
the worst, for by this means you may keep clear of the boat. 
I do not advise you to take a white man's advice as to jumping 
until you have gone through his genealogy and ascertained 
that beyond doubt he is a direct descendant of George 
Washington. There was a nice young doctor once on a S.W. 
Coast boat, who did not pursue this plan, and did not know 
that in this nineteenth century it is every man's duty to keep 
his powers of belief for religious purposes ; so this doctor 
frittered his powers away on old coasters and sea-captains, 
most excellent people, but supremely human. I am one 
myself now, so I speak with authority ; only the information 
we lavish on the new-comer is often too strong for him, and 
it was so in this doctor's case. They had told him about the 
surf; how you had to jump and swim the last breakers of 
it as soon as you heard the shout, and so on ; so when 
going ashore at Batanga, the gallant boat-boys gave the 
rousing war-yell with which it is their custom to greet 
their enemy, "with that stern joy a warrior feels," over 
the side the doctor went like a shot, to the horror of the 
remorse-smitten sea-captain, who was in the boat. He got 
through all right, however. Now and again, I own, the new- 
comer scores. There was one who came out for the Govern- 
ment to Accra, where the surf is notorious. The boat got 
upset in the first line of breakers, and there was as bad 
a surf on that day as Accra ever rose. When he got ashore, 
the old coasters thought he would be impressed and terrified ; 
but no. He just remarked it was lucky he had such a 



SURF SPIRITS 515 



good day for landing, " for he'd only had to swim the last 
fifty yards." 

And finally, as the preacher says, remember it is highly 
advisable to have your conscience clear, at any rate regarding 
\our past treatment of your Kru or Accra boat-boys, before 
\ou trust yourself to them to take you through a surf There 
was a bad man once on the Gold Coast who had ill-used his men 
and when they took him out through the surf to go aboard 
the ship that was to take him home, there was the usual catas- 
trophe, which no one thought much of, only saying " It was 
hard on B. just as he was going home," until the body of B. 
came ashore, and then, in the clothes, were found three iron 
shark hooks, with lots of line attached, wherewith the men had 
held B. back from shore, and played him like a fish, until the 
surf beat the life out of him. 

Forgive this digression on surf, but a coaster cannot help 
going on like this as soon as his pet enemy is mentioned, and 
I humbly return to African apparitions. There is one thing 
about the surf that I do not understand, and that is why 
witches always walk stark naked along the beach by it 
at night, and eat sea crabs the while. That such is a 
confirmed habit of theirs is certain ; and they tell me that 
while doing this the witches emit a bright light, and also that 
there is a certain medicine, which, if you have it with you, you 
can throw over the witch, and then he, or she, will remain 
blazing until morning time, running to and fro, crying out 
wildly, in front of the white, breaking, thundering surf wall, 
and when the dawn comes the fire bums the witch right 
up, leaving only a grey ash — and palaver set in this world 
and the next for that witch. 

A highly-esteemed native minister told me when I was at 
Cape Coast last, that a fortnight before, he had been away in 
the Apollonia district on mission work. One evening he and 
a friend were walking along the beach and the night was dark, 
so that you could see only the surf It is never too dark to 
see that, it seems to have light in itself They saw a flame 
coming towards them, and after a moment's doubt they knew 
it was a witch, and feeling frightened, hid themselves among 
the bushes that edge the sand}- shore. As they watched, it 

L L 2 



Si6 FETISH CHAP. 

came straight on and passed them, and they saw it disappear 
in the distance. My informant laughed at himself, and very 
wisely said, " One has not got to believe those things here, 
one has in Apollonia." 

To the surf and its spirits the sea-board-dwelling Tschwis 
bring women who have had children and widows, both after a 
period of eight days from the birth of the child, or the death 
of the husband. 

A widow remains in the house until this period has elapsed, 
neglecting her person, eating little food, and sitting on the bare 
floor in the attitude of mourning. On the Gold Coast they 
bury very quickly, as they are always telling you, usually 
on the day after death, rarely later than the third day, even 
among the natives; and the spirit, or Srah, of the dead man is 
supposed to hang about his wives and his house until the 
ceremony of purification is carried out. This is done, need- 
less to say, with uproar. The relations of each wife go to her 
house with musical instruments — I mean tom-toms and that 
sort of thing — and they take a quantity of mint, which grows 
wild in this country, with them. This mint they burn, some of 
it in the house, the rest they place upon pans of live coals and 
carry round the widow as she goes in their midst down to 
the surf, her relatives singing aloud to the Srah of the departed 
husband, telling him that now he is dead and has done with 
the lady he must leave her. This singing serves to warn all 
the women who are not relations to get out of the way, 
which of course they always carefully do, because if they 
were to see the widow their own husbands would die within i 
the year. 1 

When the party has arrived at the shore, they strip every I 
rag off the widow, and throw it into the surf ; and a thoughtful 
female relative having brought a suit of dark blue baft 
with her for the occasion, the widow is clothed in this and 
returns home, where a suitable festival is held, after which 
she may marry again ; but if she were to marry before this 
ceremony, the Srah of the husband would play the mischief 
with husband number two or three, and so on, as the case 
might be. 

In the inland Gold Coast districts the widows remain in 



A WANDERING SOUL 517 



a state of mourning for several months, and a selection 
of them, a quantity of slaves, and one or two free men are 
killed to escort the dead man to Srahmandazi ; and as well as 
these, and in order to provide him with merchandise to keep 
up his house and state in the under-world, quantities of gold 
dust, rolls of rich velvets, silks, satins, &c., are thrown into the 
grave. 

Among the dwellers in Cameroon, when you are across the 
Bantu border-line, velvets, &c., are buried with a big man or 
woman; but I am told it is only done for the glorification of 
his living relatives, so that the world may say, " So and so 
must be rich, look what a lot of trade he threw away at that 
funeral of his wife," or his father, or his son, as the case may 
be ; but I doubt whether this is the true explanation. If it is, 
I should recommend my German friends, if they wish to 
inter\ene, to introduce the income tax into Cameroon — that 
would eliminate this custom. 

The Tschwis hold that there is a definite earthly existence 
belonging to each soul of a human kind. Let us say, for ex- 
ample, a soul has a thirt\- \ears' bodily existence belonging 
to it. Well, suppose that soul's body gets killed off at twenty- 
five, its remaining five years it has to spend, if it is left alone, 
in knocking about its old haunts, homes, and wives. In 
this state it is called a Sisa, and is a nuisance. It will cause 
sickness. It will throw stones. It will pull off roofs, and it 
will play the ver>' mischief with its wives' subsequent husbands, 
all because, not having reached its full term of life, it has not 
learnt its waj- down the dark and diflficult path to 
Srahmandazi, the entrance to which is across the Volta 
River to the N.E. This knowledge of the path to Srahmandazi 
is a thing that grows gradually on a man's immortal soul (the 
other three souls are not immortal), and naturally not having 
been allowed to complete his life, his knowledge is imperfect. 
A man's soul, however, can be taught the way, if necessary, in 
the funeral " custom " made by his relatives and the priests ; 
but in a case of an incompletelifeonearthsoul, as a German 
would say, when it does arrive in the land of Insrah (pi.) it is 
in a weak and feeble state from the diflficulties of its journey, 
whereas a soul that has lived out its allotted span of life goes 



5i8 FETISH CHAi'. 

straightway off to Srahmandazi as soon as its " custom " or 
*' devil " is made and gives its surviving relatives no further 
trouble. Still there is great difference of opinion among all 
the Tschvvis and Ga men I have come across on this point, 
and Ellis likewise remarks on this difference of opinion. 
Some informants say that a soul that has been sent hence 
before its time, although it is exhausted by the hardships it 
has suffered on its journey down, yet recovers health in a 
month or so; while a soul that has run its allotted span on earth 
is as feeble as a new-born babe on arriving in Srahmandazi, 
and takes years to pull round. Other informants say they 
have no knowledge of these details, and state that all the 
difference they know of between the souls of men who have 
been killed and the men who have died, is that the former can 
always come back, and that really the safest way of disposing of 
this class of soul is, by suitable spells and incantations, to get it to 
enter into the body of a new-born baby, where it can live out the 
remainder of its life. This method is not difficult to carry out, 
because a Sisa is always on the look-out for a body, and causes 
a great deal of harm by whipping itself into the bodies of 
sleeping persons whose own dream-Srah is temporarily absent. 
But getting a Sisa into a new baby is a mean thing to do, 
because, as I have said before, it is held that some of these 
Insisa become wanderer-souls and are a trial to the baby 
owners. 

Before closing these observations on Srahmandazi I will 
give the best account of that land that I am at present able \ 
to. Some day perhaps I may share the fate of the Oxford 
Professor in In the Wrong Paradise and go there myself, but so 
far my information is second-hand. It is like this world. There 
are towns and villages, rivers, mountains, bush, plantations, 
and markets. When the sun rises here it sets in Srahmandazi. 
It has its pleasures and its pains, not necessarily retributive 
or rewarding, but dim. All souls in it grow forward or 
backward into the prime of life and remain there, some 
informants say; others say that each inhabitant remains there 
at the same age as he was when he quitted the world above. 
This latter view is most like the South West one. The former 
is possibly only an attempt to make Srahmandazi into a 



XXII THE TSCHWI UNDERWORLD 519 

heaven in conformation with Christian teaching, which it is 
not, any more than it is a hell. 

I have much curious information regarding its flora and 
fauna. A great deal of both is seemingly indigenous, and 
then there are the souls of great human beings, the Asrah- 
nanfw, and the souls of all the human beings, animals, and 
hings sent down with them, I have had great and highly 
ibstruse controversies with Ethiopian theologians on the 
luestion of what happens to the soul of the soul of things, 
A hen the Asrahmanfo kills these for his support in Srahman- 
dazi. But as nothing since the Middle Ages has approached 
these controversies in confusion of idea and worthlessness of 
ultimate deductions arrived at, I will not inflict them on you 
here. The ghosts do not seem to leave off" their interest in 
mundane affairs, for they not only have local palavers, but try 
palavers left over from their earthly existence ; and when there 
is an outbreak of sickness in a Fantee town or village, and 
several inhabitants die off, the opinion is often held that there is 
a big palaver going on down in Srahmandazi and that the spirits 
are sending up on earth for witnesses, subpoenaing them as it 
were. Medicine men or priests are called in to find out what 
particular earthly grievance can be the subject of the ghost 
palaver, and when they have ascertained this, they take the 
evidence of every one in the town on this affair, as it were on 
commission, and transmit the information to the court sitting 
in Srahmandazi. This prevents the living being incommoded 
by personal journeys down below and although the priests 
have their fee, it is cheaper in the end, because the witnesses 
funeral expenses would fall heavier still. 

Although far more elaborated and thought out than any 
other African under-world I have ever come across, the Tschwi 
Srahmandazi may be taken as a type of all the African under- 
worlds. The Bantu's idea of a future life is a life spent in 
much such a place. As far as I can make out there is no 
definite idea of eternity. I have even come across cases in 
which doubt was thrown on the present existence of the 
Creating God, but I think this has arisen from attempts 
having been made to introduce concise conceptions into the 
African mind, conceptions that are quite foreign to its true 



520 FETISH CH. XXII 

nature and which alarm and worry it. You never get the 
strange idea of the difference between time and eternity — the 
idea I mean, that they are different things — in the African 
that one frequently gets in cultured Europeans ; and as for 
the human soul, the African always believes " that still 
the spirit is whole, and life and death but shadows of the 
soul." 



CHAPTER XXIII 
FETISH — {Concluded) 

In which the discourse on apparitions is continued, with some obser\-a- 
tions on secret societies, both tribal and murder, and the kindred 
subject of leof>ards. 

Apparitions are by no means always of human soul origin. 
All the Tschw is and the Ewe gods, for example, have the 
habit of appearing pretty regularly to their priests,and occasion- 
ally to the laity, like Sasabonsum; but it is only to priests that 
these appearances are harmless or beneficial. The effect of 
Sasabonsum's appearance to the layman I have cited above, 
and I could give many other examples of the bad effects of 
those of other gods, but will only now mention Tando, the 
Hater, the chief god of the Northern Tschwis, the Ashantees, 
&c. He is terribly malicious, human in shape, and though 
not quite white, is decidedly lighter in complexion than 
the chief god of the Southern Tschwis, Bobowissi. His hair 
is lank, and he carries a native sword and wears a long robe. 
His well-selected messengers are those awful driver ants 
(Inkran) which it is not orthodox to molest in Tando's 
territories. He uses as his weapons lightning, tempest, and 
disease, but the last is the most favourite one. 

There is absolutely no trick too mean or venomous for 
Tando. For example, he has a way of appearing near a 
village he has a grudge against in the form of a male child, 
and wanders about crying bitterly, until some kind-hearted, 
unsuspecting villager comes and takes him in and feeds him. 
Then he develops a contagious disease that clears that village 
out. 



522 FETISH CHAP. 

This form of appearance and subsequent conduct is, un- 
happily, not rigidly confined to Tando, but is used by many 
spirits as a method of collecting arrears in taxes in the way 
of sacrifices. I have found traces of it among Bantu gods or 
spirits, and it gives rise to a general hesitation in West Africa 
to take care of waifs and strays of unexplained origin. 

Other things beside gods and human spirits have the habit 
of becoming incarnate. Once I had to sit waiting a long 
time at an apparently perfectly clear bush path, because in 
front of us a spear's ghost used to fly across the path about 
that time in the afternoon, and if any one was struck by it 
they died. A certain spring I know of is haunted by the 
ghost of a pitcher. Many ladies when they have gone alone 
to fill their pitchers in the evening time at this forest spring 
have noticed a very fine pitcher standing there ready filled, 
and thinking exchange is no robbery, or at any rate they 
would risk it if it were, have left their own pitcher and taken 
the better looking one ; but always as soon as they have 
come within sight of the village huts, the new pitcher has 
crumbled into dust, and the water in it been spilt on the ground ; 
and the worst of it is, when they have returned to fetch their 
own discarded pitcher, they find it also shattered into pieces. 

There is also another class of apparition, of which I have 
met with two instances, one among pure Negroes (Okyon) ; 
the other among pure Bantu (Kangwe). I will give the Bantu 
version of the affair, because at Okyon the incident had 
happened a good time before the details were told me, and in 
the Bantu case they had happened the previous evening. But 
there was very little difference in the main facts of the case, 
and it was an important thing because in both cases the 
underlying idea was sacrificial. 

The woman who told me was an exceedingly intelligent, 
shrewd, reliable person. She had been to the factory with 
some trade, and had got a good price for it, and so was in a 
good temper on her return home in the evening. She got out 
of her canoe and leaving her slave boy to bring up the things, 
walked to her house, which was the ordinary house of a 
prosperous Igalwa native, having two distinct rooms in it, and 
a separate cook-house close by in a clean, sandy yard. She 



XXIII BLOOD PALAVER 



trod on some nastiness in the yard, and going into the cook- 
house found the slave girls round a very small and inefficient 
fire, trying to cook the evening meal. She blew them up for 
not having a proper fire ; they said the wood was wet, and 
would not burn. She said they lied, and she would see to 
them later, and she went into the chamber she used for a 
sleeping apartment, and trod on something more on the 
floor in the dark ; those good-for-nothing hussies of slaves had 
not lit her palm-oil lamp, and mentally forming the opinion 
that they had been out flirting during her absence, and re- 
solving to teach them well the iniquity of such conduct, she 
sat down on her bed into a lot of messy stuff of a clammy, 
damp nature. Now this fairly roused her, for she is a notable 
housewife, who keeps her house and slaves in exceedingly 
good order. So dismissing from her mind the commercial 
consideration she had intended to gloat over when she came 
into her room, she called Ingremina and others in a tone that 
brought those young ladies on the spot. She asked them how 
they dared forget to light her lamp ; they said they had not, 
but the lamp in the room must have gone out like the other 
lamps had, after burning dim and spluttering. They further 
said they had not been out, but had been sitting round the fire 
trying to make it burn properly. She duly whacked and pulled 
the ears of all within reach. I say within reach for she is not very 
active, weighing, I am sure, upwards of eighteen stone. Then 
she went back into her room and got out her beautiful English 
paraffin lamp, which she keeps in a box, and taking it into the 
cook-house, picked up a bit of wood from the hissing, splutter- 
ing fire, and lit it. When she picked up the wood she noticed 
that it was covered with the same sticky abomination she had 
met before that evening, and it smelt of the same faint smell 
she had noticed as soon as she had reached her house, and 
by now the whole air seemed oppressive with it. 

As soon as the lamp was alight she saw what the stuff 
was, namely, blood. Blood was everyAvhere, the rest of the 
sticks in the fire had it on them, it sizzled at the burning ends, 
and ran off the other in rills. There were pools of it about 
her clean, sandy yard. Her own room was reeking, the bed, 
the stools, the floor ; it trickled down the door-post ; coagu- 



524 FETISH CHAP. 

lated on the lintel. She herself was smeared with it from the 
things she had come in contact with in the dark, and the 
slaves seemed to have been sitting in pools of it. The things 
she picked up off the table and shelf left rims of it behind 
them ; there was more in the skillets, and the oil in the open 
palm-oil lamps had a film of it floating on the oil. Investigation 
showed that the whole of the rest of her house was in a similar 
mess. The good lady gave a complete catalogue of the house- 
hold furniture and its condition, which I need not give here. 
The slave girls when the light came were terrified at w^hat 
they saw, and she called in the aristocracy of the village, and 
asked them their opinion on the blood palaver. They said 
they could make nothing of it at first, but subsequently 
formed the opinion that it meant something was going to 
happen, and suggested with the kind, helpful cheerfulness 
of relatives and friends, that they should not wonder if it were 
a prophecy of her own death. This view irritated the already 
tried lady, and she sent them about their business, and started 
the slaves on house-cleaning. The blood cleaned up all right 
when you were about it, but kept on turning up in other 
places, and in the one you had just cleaned as soon as you 
left off and went elsewhere ; and the morning came and 
found things in much the same state until " before sun- 
time," say about lo o'clock, when it faded away. 

I cautiously tried to get my stately, touchy dowager 
duchess to explain how it was that there was such a lot of 
blood, and how it was it got into the house. She just said " it 
had to go somewhere," and refused to give rational explana- 
tions as Chambers's Journal does after telling a good ghost 
stor}'. I found afterwards that it was quite decided it was a 
case of " blood come before," and at Okyon, Miss Slessor told 
me, in regard to the similar case there, that this was the 
opinion held regarding the phenomenon. It is alwaj's 
held uncanny in Africa if a person dies without shedding 
blood. You see, the blood is the life, and if you see it come 
out, you know the going of the thing, as it were. If you do 
not, it is mysterious. At Okyon, a few days after the blood 
appeared, a nephew of the person whose house it came into 
was killed while felling a tree in the forest ; a bough struck 



SUNDRY BLOOD NOTIONS 525 



him and broke his neck, without shedding a drop of blood, 
and this bore out the theory, for the blood having " to go some- 
where "came before. In the Bantu case I did not hear of 
such a supporting incident happening. 

Certain African ideas about blood puzzle me. I was told by 
a Batanga friend, a resident white trader, that a short time pre- 
viously a man was convicted of theft by the natives of a village 
close to him. The hands and feet of the criminal were tied 
together, and he was flung into the river. He got himself free, 
and swam to the other bank, and went for bush. He was 
recaptured, and a stone tied to his neck, and in again he was 
thrown. The second time he got free and ashore, and was 
recaptured, and the chief then, most regretfully, ordered that 
he was to be knocked on the head before being thrown 
in for a third time. This time palaver set, but the chief knew 
that he would die himself, by spitting the blood he had spilt, 
from his own lungs, before the year was out. I inquired 
about the chief when I passed this place, more than eighteen 
months after, and learnt from a native that the chief was dead, 
and that he had died in this way. The objection thus was 
not to shedding blood in a general way, but to the shedding 
in the course of judicial execution. There may be some idea 
of this kind underlying the ingenious and awful ways the 
negroes have of killing thieves, by tying them to stakes in the 
rivers, or down on to paths for the driver ants to kill and eat, 
but this is only conjecture ; I have not had a chance yet to 
work this subject up ; and getting reliable information about 
underlying ideas is very difficult in Africa. The natives will 
say " Yes " to any mortal thing, if they think you want them 
to ; and the variety of their languages is another great 
hindrance. Were it not for the prevalence of Kru English 
or trade English, investigation would be almo.st impossible ; 
but, fortunately, this quaint language is prevalent, and the 
natives of different tribes communicate with each other in it, 
and so round a fire, in the evening, if you listen to the gossip, 
you can pick up all sorts of strange information, and gain 
strange and often awful lights on your absent white friends' 
characters, and your present companions' religion. For ex- 
ample, the other day I had a set of porters composed of four 



526 FETISH ¦ CHAP- 

Bassa boys, two Wei Weis, one Dualla, and two Yorubas. 
N"one of their languages fitted, so they talked trade English, 
and pretty lively talk some of it was, but of that anon. 

I cannot close this brief notice of native ideas without men- 
tioning the secret societies; but to go fully into this branch of 
the subject would require volumes, for every tribe has its 
secret society. The Poorah of Sierra Leone, the Oru of 
Lagos, the Egbo of Calabar, the Yasi of the Igalwa, the Ukuku 
of the M'pongwe, the Ikun of the Bakele, and the Lukuku of 
the Bachilangi, Baluba, are some of the most powerful secret 
societies on the West African Coast. 

These secret societies are not essentially religious, their 
action is mainly judicial, and their particularly presiding spirit 
is not a god or devil in our sense of the word. The ritual 
differs for each in its detail, but there are broad lines of agree- 
ment between them. There are societies both for men and for 
women, but no mixed societies for both sexes. Those that I 
have mentioned above are all male, and women are utterly 
forbidden to participate in the rites or become acquainted 
with their secrets, for one of the chief duties of these societies 
is to keep the women in order ; and besides this reason it is 
undoubtedly held that women are bad for certain forms of 
ju-ju, even when these forms are not directly connected, as far 
as I can find out, with the secret society. For example, the 
other day a chief up the Mungo River deliberately destroyed 
his ju-ju by showing it to his women. It was a great ju-ju, 
but expensive to keep up, requiring sacrifices of slaves and 
goats, so what with trade being bad, fall in the price of oil and 
ivory and so on, he felt he could not afford that ju-ju, and so 
destroyed its power, so as to prevent its harming him when he 
neglected it. Probably the destructive action of women 
is not only the idea of their inferiority — for had inferiority 
been the point, that chief would have laid his ju-ju with dogs, 
or pigs — but arises from the undoubted fact that women 
are notably deficient in real reverence for authority, as is 
demonstrated by the way they continually treat that of their 
husbands. 

The general rule with these secret societies is to admit the 
young free people at an age of about eight to ten years, the 



i 



XXIII DANGEROUS SCEPTICISM 527 

boys entering the male, the girls the female society. Both 
-ocieties are rigidly kept apart. A man who attempts to pene- 
trate the female m}-steries would be as surely killed as a woman 
who might attempt to investigate the male mysteries ; still I 
came, in 1893, across an amusing case which demonstrates the 
inextinguishable thirst for knowledge, so long as that knowledge 
is forbidden, which characterises our sex. Alas ! had only this 
Forschuugschwiirmerei filled us for other classes of knowledge, 
we might have been the discoverers of the electric telegraph, 
and a thing or so more of that order. 

It was in the district just south of Big Batanga. The male 
society had been very hard on the ladies for some time, and 
one day one star-like intellect among the latter told her next- 
door neighbour, in strict confidence, that she did not believe 
Ikun was a spirit at all, but only old So-and-so dressed up in 
leaves. This rank heresy spread rapidly, in strict confidence, 
among the ladies at large, and they used to assemble together 
in the house of the foundress of the theory, secretly of course,, 
because husbands down there are hasty with the cutlass and 
the kassengo, and they talked the matter over. Somehow or 
other, this came to the ears of the men. Whether the ladies 
got too emancipated and winked when Ikun was mentioned, 
or asked how Mr. So-and-so was this morning, in a pointed 
way, after an Ikun manifestation, I do not know ; some people 
told me this was so, but others, who, I fear, were right, con- 
sidering the acknowledged slowness of men in putting two 
and two together, and the treachery of women towards 
each other, said that a woman had told a man that she had 
heard some of the other women were going on in this 
heretical way. Anyhow, the men knew, and were much 
alarmed ; scepticism had spread by now to such an extent 
that nothing short of burning or drowning all the women 
could stamp it out and reintroduce the proper sense of awe 
into the female side of societ>% and after a good deal of con- 
sideration the men saw, for men are undoubtedly more gifted 
in foresight than our sex, that it was no particular use re- 
introducing this awe if there was no female half of society to 
be impressed by it. It was a brain-spraining problem for the 
men all round, for it is clear society cannot be kept together 



528 FETISH CHAP. 

without some superhuman aid to help to keep the feminine 
portion of it within bounds. 

Grave councils were held, and it was decided that the 
woman at whose house these treasonable meetings were held 
should be sent away early one morning on a trading mission 
to the nearest factory, a job she readily undertook ; and while 
the other women were away in the plantation or at the 
spring, certain men entered her house secretly and dug a big 
chamber out in the floor of the hut, and one of them, dressed 
as Ikun, and provided with refreshments for the day, got into 
this chamber, and the whole affair was covered over carefully 
and the floor re-sanded. That afternoon there was a bisf 
manifestation of Ikun. He came in the most terrible form, 
his howls were awful, and he finally went dancing away into 
the bush as the night came down. The ladies had just taken 
the common-sense precaution of removing all goats, sheep, 
fowls, &c., into enclosed premises, for, like all his kind, he 
.seizes and holds any property he may come across in the 
street, but there was evidently no emotional thrill in the 
female mind regarding him, and when the leading lady 
returned home in the evening the other ladies strolled into 
their leader's hut to hear about what new cotton prints, 

beads, and things Mr. had got at his factory by the last 

steamer from Europe, and interesting kindred subjects bearing 

on Mr. . When they had threshed these matters out, 

the conversation turned on to religion, and what fools those 
men had been making of themselves all the afternoon with 
their Ikun. No sooner was his name uttered than a venomous 
howl, terminating in squeals of rage and impatience, came 
from the ground beneath them. They stared at each other 
for one second, and then, feeling that something was tearing 
its way up through the floor, they left for the interior of Africa 
with one accord. Ikun. gave chase as soon as he got free, but 
what with being half-stifled and a bit cramped in the legs, and 
much encumbered with his vegetable decorations, the ladies 
o-ot clear away and no arrests were made — but society was 
saved. Scepticism became in the twinkling of an eye a thing 
of the past ; and, although no names were taken, the men 
observed that certain ladies were particularly anxious, and 



xxiii THE PRICE OF PROSPERITY 529 



regardless of expense, in buying immunity from Ikun, and 
they fancied that these ladies were probably in that hut on 
that particular evening, but they took no further action 
.against them, save making Ikun particularly expensive. 
There ought to be a moral to an improving tale of this order, 
I know, but the only one I can think of just now is that it^ 
takes a priest to get round a woman ; and I alv/ays feel 
inclined to jump on to the table myself when I think of those 
poor dear creatures sitting on the floor and feeling that awful 
thing clapper-clawing its way up right under them. 

Ikun has the peculiar habit of coming in from the sea in a 
canoe. The heads of his society always see him first, and go 
out to meet him in their canoes, and bring him in his Jack-in- 
the-Green dress ashore ; meanwhile all the women dash about 
driving into enclosures ducks, chickens, children, sheep, and 
goats, and then conceal themselves. He is the only member 
of his class I have ever heard of that comes in from the sea ; 
they usually come out of the bush like Egbo and Yasi, and 
his dress is bush anyhow. There is another peculiarity of 
Ikun, whieh is that he has a peculiar way of taking payment 
for a thing which all his fellow secret societies and spirits also 
supply, namely, the power of becoming rich. 

For example, a man desires this power, so he goes to some 
one known to possess Ikun, and inquires of him if he will let 
him have a certain quantity of his power, say, enough to 
ensure his becoming a thousand-pound-a-yearer. The man 
who possesses the power says that for this quantity of the 
power the applicant must pay the lives of fifty of his blood 
relations. All these lives the man must take himself, from 
time to time, secretly, as occasion offers ; and the spirits 
of the murdered go to Ikun in the under-world and work 
for him as slaves, and as they go down, so every under- 
taking of the murderer turns out profitably, and he gradually 
grows richer and richer. 

It is a dangerous practice in this world, because when your 
neighbours notice how your relatives are going off, and how 
you are getting on, they are apt to say you are making Ikun ; 
whereupon they descend on you and kill you, and collar your 
hard-earned wealth, and have a dance in the evening ; but I 

M M 



530 



FETISH 



CHAP. 



am assured that if you succeed in killing off your relations, 
unnoticed, up to the proper amount, there is no eternal 
unpleasantness awaiting you personally as there would be in 
Europe if you made a deal with the devil. Whether this, 
arises from a lack of moral perception of the iniquity of this 
sort of thing in the African, or from the difficulty of imagining 
— with only the African's allowance of imagination — a greater 
hell than existence in a West African village under native 
law, I must leave to psychologists. 




LADY OF OBAMBO, OGOWK, SHOWING CICATRISATION. 



Tattooing on the West Coast is comparatively rare, and I 
think I may say never used with decorative intent only. The 
skin decorations are either paint or cicatrices — in the former 
case the pattern is not kept always the same by the individual. 
A peculiar form of it you find in the Rivers, where a pattern is 
painted on the skin, and then when the paint is dry, a wash 
is applied which makes the unpainted skin rise up in between 
the painted pattern. The cicatrices are sometimes tribal 
marks, but sometimes decorative. They are made by cutting 



XXIII FATTENING-HOUSES 53> 



the skin and then placing in the wound the fluff of the silk 
cotton tree. 

The great point of agreement between all these West 
African secret societies lies in the methods of initiation. 

The boy, if he belongs to a tribe that goes in for tattooing, 
is tattooed, and is handed over to instructors in the societies' 
secrets and formulae. He lives, with the other boys of his 
tribe undergoing initiation, usually under the rule of several 
instructors, and for the space of one year. He lives always 
in the forest, and is naked and smeared with clay. 

The boys are exercised so as to become inured to hard- 
ship ; in some districts, they make raids so as to perfect them- 
selves in this useful accomplishment. They always take a new 
name, and are supposed by the initiation process to become 
new beings in the magic wood, and on their return to their 
village at the end of their course, they pretend to have entirely 
forgotten their life before they entered the wood ; but this pre- 
tence is not kept up beyond the period of festivities given to 
welcome them home. They all learn, to a certain extent, a new 
language, a secret language only understood by the initiated. 

The same removal from home and instruction from initiated 
members is also observed with the girls. However, in their 
case, it is not always a forest-grove they are secluded in, 
sometimes it is done in huts. Among the Grain Coast tribes, 
however, the girls go into a magic wood until they are married. 
Should they have to leave the wood for any temporary' reason, 
they must smear themselves with white clay. A similar 
custom holds good in Okyon, Calabar district, where, should a 
girl have to leave the fattening-house, she must be covered with 
white clay. I believe this fattening-house custom in Calabar 
is not only for fattening up the women to improve their 
appearance, but an initiatory custom as well, although the 
main intention is now, undoubtedly, fattening, and the girl is 
constantly fed with fat-producing foods, such as fou-fou soaked 
in palm oil. I am told, but I think wrongly, that the white 
clay with which a Calabar girl is kept covered while in 
the fattening-house, putting on an extra coating of it 
should she come outside, is to assist in the fattening process 
by preventing perspiration. 

M M 2 



532 FETISH CHAP. 

The duration of the period of seclusion varies somewhat. 
San Salvador boys are six months in the wood. Cameroon 
boys are twelve months. In most districts the girls are 
betrothed in infancy, and they go into the wood or initiatory 
hut for a few months before marriage. In this case the time 
seems to vary with the circumstances of the individual ; not 
so with the boys, for whom each tribal society has a duly 
appointed course terminating at a duly appointed time ; but 
sometimes, as among some of the Yoruba tribes, the boy has 
to remain under the rule of the presiding elders of the society, 
painted white, and wearing only a bit of grass cloth, if he 
wears anything, until he has killed a man. Then he is held to 
have attained man's estate by having demonstrated his 
courage and also by having secured for himself the soul of 
the man he has killed as a spirit slave. 

The initiation of boys into a few of the elementary dogmas 
of the secret society by no means composes the entire work 
of the society. All of them are judicial, and taken on the 
whole they do an immense amount of good. The methods 
are frequently a little quaint. Rushing about the streets dis- 
guised under masks and drapery, with an imitation tail swing- 
ing behind you, while you lash out at every one you meet with 
a whip or cutlass, is not a European way of keeping the peace, 
or perhaps I should say maintaining the dignity of the law. 
But discipline must be maintained, and this is the West 
African way of doing it. 

The Egbo of Calabar is a fine type of the secret society. 
It is exceedingly well developed in its details, not sketchy like 
Yasi, nor so red-handed as Poorah. Unfortunately, how^ever, 
I cannot speak with the same amount of knowledge of Egbo 
as I could of Poorah. 

Egbo has the most grades of initiation, except perhaps 
Poorah, and it exercises jurisdiction over all classes of crime 
except witchcraft. Any Effik man who desires to become an 
influential person in the tribe must buy himself into as high a 
grade of JLgho as he can afford, and these grades are expensive, 
. ;^i,500 or ^i,ooo English being required for the higher steps, 
I am informed. But it is worth it to a great trader, as an 
influential Efiik necessarily is, for he can call out his own class 



XXIII TRAPPING EGBO 



of Egbo and send it against those of his debtors who may be 
of lower grades, and as the Egbo methods of deHvering its 
orders to pay up consist in placing Egbo at a man's doorway, 
and until it removes itself from that doorway the man dare 
not venture outside his house, it is most successful. 

Of course the higher a man is in Egbo rank, the greater his 
power and security, for lower grades cannot proceed against 
higher ones. Indeed, when a man meets the paraphernalia of 
a higher grade of Egbo than that to which he belongs, he has 
to act as if he were lame, and limp along past it humbly, as if 
the sight of it had taken all the strength out of him, and, 
needless to remark, higher grade debtors flip their fingers at 
lower grade creditors. 

After talking so much about the secret society spirits, it may 
be as well to say what they are. They are, one and all, a kind 
of a sort of a something that usually (the exception is Ikun) 
lives in the bush. Last February I was making my way back 
toward Duke Town — late, as usual ; I was just by a town on 
the Qwa River. As I was hurrying onward I heard a terrific 
uproar accompanied by drums in the thick bush into which, 
after a brief interval of open ground, the path turned. I 
became cautious and alarmed, and hid in some dense bush as 
the men making the noise approached. I saw it was some 
ju-ju affair. They had a sort of box which they carried on 
poles, and their dresses were peculiar, and abnormally ample 
over the upper part of their body. They were prancing about 
in an ecstatic way round the box, which had one end open, beat- 
ing their drums and shouting. They were fairly close to me, 
but fortunately turned their attention to another bit of under- 
growth, or that evening they would have landed another kind 
of thing to what they were after. The bushes they selected 
they surrounded, and evidently did their best to induce some- 
thing to come out of them and go into their box arrangement. 
I was every bit as anxious as they were that they should suc- 
ceed, and succeed rapidly, for }'ou know there are a nasty lot 
of snakes and things in general, not to mention driver ants, 
about that Calabar bush, that do not make it at all pleasant ' 
to go sitting about in. However, presently the}- got this 
something into their box and rejoiced exceedingl}-, and 



534 FETISH chap. 

departed staggering under the weight. I gave them a good 
start, and then made the best of my way home ; and all that 
night Duke Town howled, and sang, and thumped its tom-toms 
unceasingly ; for I was told Egbo had come into the town. 
Egbo is very coy, even for a secret society spirit, and seems 
to loathe publicity ; but when he is ensconced in this ark he , 
utters sententious observations on the subject of current politics, \ 
and his word is law. The voice that comes out of the ark is 
very strange, and unlike a human voice. I heard it shortly 
after Egbo had been secured. I expect, from what I saw, that 
there was some person in that ark all the time, but I do not 
know. It is more than I can do to understand my ju-ju 
details at present, let alone explain them on rational lines. I 
hear that there is a tribe on the slave coast who have been 
proved to keep a small child in the drum that is the residence 
of their chief spirit, and that when the child grows too large to 
go in it is killed, and another one that has in the meantime 
been trained by the priests takes the place of the dead one, until 
it, in its turn, grows too big and is killed, and so on. I expect 
this killing of the children is not sacrificial, but arises entirely 
from the fact that as ex-kings are dangerous to the body 
politic, therefore still more dangerous would ex-gods be. 

Very little is known by outsiders regarding Egbo compared 
to wiiat there must be to be known, owing to a want of 
interest or to a sense of inability on the part of most white 
people to make head or tail out of what seems to them a 
horrid pagan practice or a farrago of nonsense. 

It is still a great power, although its officials in Duke or 
Creek Town are no longer allowed to go chopping and 
whipping promiscuous-like, because the Consul-General has a 
prejudice against this sort of thing, and the Effik is learning 
that it is nearly as unhealthy to go against his Consul-General 
as against his ju-ju. So I do not believe you will ever get 
the truth about it in Duke Town, or Creek Town. If you want 
to get hold of the underlying idea of these societies you must 
o-o round out-of-the-way corners where the natives are not 
yet afraid of being laughed at or punished. I subjoin a 
fragment from my Duke Town diaries to demonstrate that I 
did endeavour to do what I could in the interests of science. 



XXIII YASI DANCES AND POORAH 535 

" They are at it down in Duke Town to-night, not only 
rubbing the drum, but singing one of the big tunes. I'll just 
go down and see to it, though it's inky dark, and Calabar has 
not risen to the cultured level of oil street-lamps ; still there's 
lots of sheet lightning. Two and a half hours later. It's a 
perfect scandal they do not keep those Duke Town paths in 
a better state. They are nothing in this world but drains, 
and precious bad at that. There ought to be one fixed 
light at Mr. Fynn's Ditch, or by the bridge, and then you 
would know which was which before you were waist-high in 
water." 

Of the South-West Coast secret societies the Ukuku seems 
the most powerful. The Yasi belonging to those indolent 
I gal was, and M'pongwe is now little more than a play. 
You pretty frequently come upon Yasi dances just round 
Libreville. You will see stretched across the little street in a 
cluster of houses, a line from which branches are suspended, 
making a sort of screen. The women and children keep one 
side of this screen, the men dancing on the other side to the 
peculiar monotonous Yasi tune. Poorah I have spoken of 
elsewhere, but one thing I may remark regarding it which 
struck me as peculiar. I was in the forest at the back of 
Victoria, Cameroons. I recognised in a piece of forest a 
peculiar look about a portion of it. The branches were bent, 
and the tendrils were tied together in a way I had seen 
elsewhere, but which I had never noticed among Bantu tribes. 
I was puzzled, and after having passed this place a couple of 
hundred yards or so I turned back to look at it again, telling 
the men to go on. I examined the place closely for some 
minutes, and then rejoined my men, and said nothing. 

Presently said one of my Wei Weis, " How you sabe them 
thing, ma?" 

" What thing? " said I, not wishing to give him the lead. 

" You look them thing, ma, when you pass him then you 
go look him again, you sabe Poorah, ma?" in a tone of 
accusation. 

"Well," said I, "what is it doing here?" 

" Them Sa lone (Sierra Leon6) boys done bring him, ma," 
was the answer. 



536 FETISH 



CHAP 



Until this I did not know that secret societies were exported 
from their own districts. 

I believe that these secret societies are always distinct from 
the leopard societies. I have pretty nearly enough evidence to 
prove that it is so in some districts, but not in all. So far m>' 
evidence only goes to prove the distinction of the two among 
the negroes, not among the Bantu, and in all cases you will 
find some men belonging to both. Some men, in fact, go in 
for all the societies in their district, but not all the men ; and 
in all districts, if you look close, you will find several societies 
apart from the regular youth-initiating one. 

These other societies are practically murder societies, and 
their practices usually include cannibalism, which is not an 
essential part of the rites of the great tribal societies, Yasi or 
Egbo. In the Calabar district I was informed by natives that 
there was a society of which the last entered member has to 
provide, for the entertainment of the other members, the body 
of a relative of his own, and sacrificial cannibalism is always 
breaking out, or perhaps I should say being discovered, by the 
white authorities in the Niger Delta. There was the great 
outburst of it at Brass, early last year, and the one chronicled 
in \h.& Liverpool Mercury for August 13th, 1895, as occurring 
at Sierra Leone. This account is worth quoting. It describes 
the hanging by the authorities of three murderers, and states 
the incidents, which took place in the Imperi country behind 
Free Town. 

One of the chief murderers was a man named Jowe, who 
had formerly been a Sunday-school teacher in Sierra Leone. 
He pleaded in extenuation of his offence that he had been 
compelled to join the society. The others said they com- 
mitted the murders in order to obtain certain parts of the 
body for ju-ju purposes, the leg, the hand, the heart, &c. 
The Mercury goes on to give the statement of the Reverend 
Father Bomy of the Roman Catholic Mission. " He said he 
was at Bromtu, where the St. Joseph Mission has a station, 
when a man was brought down from the Imperi country in a 
boat. The poor fellow was in a dreadful state, and was 
brought to the station for medical treatment. He said he was 
working on his farm, when he was suddenly pounced upon 



THE WORSHIP OF BOOFIMA 537 



from behind. A number of sharp instruments were driven 
into the back of his neck. He presented a fearful sight, 
having wounds all over his body supposed to have been in- 
flicted by the claws of the leopard, but in reality they were 
stabs from sharp-pointed knives. The native, who was a 
powerfully-built man, called out, and his cries attracting the 
attention of his relations, the leopards made off. The poor 
fellow died at Bromtu from the injuries. It was only his 
splendid physique that kept him alive until his arrival at the 
Mission." The Mercury goes on to quote from the Pall 
Mall, and I too go on quoting to show that these things are 
known and acknowledged to have taken place in a colony like 
Sierra Leone, which has had unequalled opportunities of 
becoming christianised for more than one hundred years, 
and now has more than one hundred and thirty places of 
Christian worship in it. " Some twenty years ago there 
was a war between this tribe Taima and the Paramas. The 
Paramas sent some of their war boys to be ambushed in 
the intervening country, the Imperi, but the Imperi delivered 
these war boys to the enemy. In revenge, the Paramas 
sent the Fetish Boofima into the Imperi country. This 
Fetish had up to that time been kept active and working 
by the sacrifice of goats, but the medicine men of the 
Paramas who introduced it into the Imperi country decreed 
at the same time that human sacrifices would be required 
to keep it alive, thereby working their vengeance on 
the Imperi by leading them to exterminate themselves in 
sacrifice to the Fetish. The country for years has been 
terrorised by this secret worship of Boofima and at one time 
the Imperi started the Tonga dances, at which the medicine 
men pointed out the supposed worshippers of Boofima — the 
so-called Human Leopards, because when seizing their victims 
for sacrifice they covered themselves with leopard skins, and 
imitating the roars of the leopard, they sprang upon their 
victim, plunging at the same time two three-pronged forks 
into each side of the throat. The Government some years ago 
forbade the Tonga dances, and are now striving to suppress 
the human leopards. There are also human alligators who, 
disguised as alligators, swim in the creeks upon the canoes and 



538 FETISH CHAP. 

carry off the crew. Some of them have been brought for trial 
but no complete case has been made out against them ! " In 
comment upon this account, which is evidently written by 
some one well versed in the affair, I will only remark that 
sometimes, instead of the three-pronged forks, there are fixed 
in the paws of the leopard skin sharp-pointed cutting knives, 
the skin being made into a sort of glove into which the 
hand of the human leopard fits. In one skin I saw down 
south this was most ingeniously done. The knives were 
shaped like the leopard's claws, curved, sharp-pointed, and 
with cutting edges underneath, and I am told the American 
Mendi Mission, which works in the Sierra Leone districts, have 
got a similar skin in their possession. In Calabar and 
Libreville, these murders used to be very common right in 
close to the white settlements ; but in Calabar white jurisdiction 
is now too much feared for them to be carried on near it, and 
in Libreville the making of the " Boulevard " between that 
town and Glass has cleared the custom out from its great 
haunt along by the swamp path that was formerly there. 
But before the existence of the Boulevard, when the narrow 
track was intercepted by patches of swamp, and ran between 
dense bush, it was notoriously unsafe even for a white man 
to go along it after dark. In the districts I know where 
human leopardism occurs (from Bonny to Congo Beige) the 
victims are killed to provide human flesh for certain secret 
societies who eat it as one of their rites. Sometimes it is 
used by a man playing a lone hand to kill an enemy. 

The human alligator mentioned, is our old friend the witch 
crocodile — the spirit of the man in the crocodile. I never 
myself came across a case of a man in his corporeal body 
swimming about in a crocodile skin, and I doubt whether any 
native would chance himself inside a crocodile skin and swim 
about in the river among the genuine articles for fear of their 
penetrating his disguise mentally and physically. 

In Calabar witch crocodiles are still flourishing. There 
is an immen.se old brute that sporting Vice-Consuls periodi- 
cally go after, which is known to contain the spirit of a 
Duke Town chief who shall be nameless, because they are 
getting on at such a pace just round Duke Town that haply I 



xxiii A GIANT JU-JU 539 

might be had up for libel. When I was in Calabar once, 
a peculiarly energetic officer had hit that crocodile and the 
chief was forthwith laid up by a wound in his leg. He said 
a dog had bit him. They, the chief and the crocodile, are 
quite well again now, and I will say this in favour of that 
chief, that nothing on earth would persuade me to believe 
that he went fooling about in the Calabar River in his 
corporeal body, either in his own skin or a crocodile's. 

The introduction of the Fetish Boofima into the country 
of the Imperi is an interesting point as it show's that these 
different tribes have the same big ju-ju. Similarly, Calabar 
Egbo can go into Okyon, and will be respected in some of 
the New Calabar districts, but not at Brass, where the secret 
society is a distinct cult Often a neighbouring district 
will send into Calabar, or Brass, where the big ju-ju is, and 
ask to have one sent up into their district to keep order, but 
Egbo will occasionally be sent into a district without that 
district in the least wanting it ; but, as in the Imperi case, 
when it is there it is supreme. But say, for example, you 
were to send Egbo round from Calabar to Cameroon. 
Cameroon might be barely civil to it, but would pay it no 
homage, for Cameroon has got no end of a ju-ju of its own. 
It can rise up as high as the Peak, 13,760 feet. I never saw 
the Cameroon ju-ju do this, but I saw it start up from four 
feet to quite twelve feet in the twinkling of an eye, and I was 
assured that it was only modest reticence on its part that 
made it leave the other 13,748 feet out of the performance. 

Cameroon also has its murder societies, but I have never 
been resident sufficiently long in Cameroon River to speak 
with any authority regarding them, but when I was in there 
in May, 1895, the natives of Bell Town were in a state of great 
anxiety about their children. A week before, two little girls 
and a boy belonging to one family had gone down among 
a host of other children to the river-beach by Bell Town, to 
fill the pots and calabashes for the evening. It was broad 
daylight at the time, and the place they went to is not a 
lonely place but right on the beach before the town and 
plenty of people about in all directions. The children filled 
the pots and then, after playing about as is usual, the little 



540 FETISH chap. 

girls went home with their vessels of water, with a nice piece 
of palm leaf put on the top of the water to prevent it 
splashing as they went up the hill side of the bluff on which 
the town stands. " Where is your brother ? " said the mother, 
and they said they did not know ; they thought he was 
playing with the other children. As the dusk came down 
and he did not return, the mother went down to the riverside 
and found all the other children had gone home. She made 
inquiries but no one knew of him save that he had been 
playing on the beach. A thorough search was started, but 
it was five long days before the boy was found, and then 
his body, decorated with palm leaves, suddenly appeared 
lying on the beach. It was slit all over longitudinally with 
long cuts on the face, head, legs, and arms. The crime could 
not be traced by means convincing to white man's law, but 
had the witch doctors had the affair in their hands a near 
relative of the dead boy would have been killed. Those 
natives who did not share the opinion of this man's guilt 
said it was the people in the water who had done the thing. 
These people in the water are much thought of in Cameroon. 
" They are just the same as people on land, only they live in 
water." 

Doctor Nassau seems to think that the tribal society of 
the Corisco regions is identical with the leopard societies. 
He has had considerable experience of the workings of 
the Ukuku, particularly when he was pioneering in the 
Benito regions, when it came very near killing him. I will 
not quote the grand account he gave me of his adventures 
with it, because I should wish every one to read for themselves 
the biography he wrote of his first wife, Crowned in Palm 
Land, for they will find there a series of graphic descriptions of 
what life really is in the Corisco region, and certainly one of 
the most powerful and tragic bits of writing in any literature — 
the description of his wife's death in an open boat out at sea, 
when he was trying to take her to Gaboon for medical aid. 

In reference to Ukuku, he says the name signifies a departed 
spirit. "It is a secret society into which all the males are 
initiated at puberty, whose procedure may not be seen by 
females, nor its laws disobeyed by any one under pain of death, 



XIII A TIMELY WARNING 541 

a penalty which is sometimes commuted to a fine, a heavy 
fine. Its discussions are uttered as an oracle from any secluded 
spot by some man appointed for the purpose. 

" On trivial occasions any initiated man may personate 
Ukuku or issue commands for the family. On other occasions, 
as in Shiku, to raise prices, the society lays its commands on 
foreign traders." 

Some cases of Ukuku proceedings against white traders 
have come under my own observation. A friend of mine, a 
trader in the Batanga district, in some way incurred the 
animosity of the society's local branch. He had, as is usual 
in the South-West Coast trade, several sub-factories in the 
bush. He found himself under taboo ; no native came in to 
his yard to buy or sell at the store, not even to sell food. He 
took no notice and awaited developments. One evening when 
he was sitting on his verandah, smoking and reading, he 
thought he heard some one singing softly under the house, 
this, like most European buildings hereabouts, being 
elevated just above the earth. He was attracted to the song 
and listened : it was evidently one of the natives singing, 
not one of his own Kruboys, and so, knowing the language, 
and having nothing else particular to do, he attended to the 
affair. 

It was the same thing sung softly over and over again, so 
softly that he could hardly make out the words. But at last, 
catching his native name among them, he listened more 
intently than ever, down at a knot-hole in the wooden 
floor. The song was — " They are going to attack your factory 
at . . . to-morrow. They are going to attack your factory 
at . . . to-morrow," over and over again, until it ceased ; and 
then he thought he saw something darker than the darkness 
round it creep across the yard and disappear in the bush. 
Very early in the morning he, with his Kruboys and some 
guns, went and established themselves in that threatened 
factory in force. The Ukuku Society turned up in the evening, 
and reconnoitred the situation, and finding there was more in 
it than they had expected, withdrew. 

In the course of the next twenty-four hours he succeeded in 
talking the palaver successfully with them. He never knew 



542 FETISH CHAP. 

who his singing friend was, but suspected it was a man whom 
he had known to be grateful for some kindness he had done 
him. Indeed there were, and are, many natives who have 
cause to be grateful to him, for he is deservedly popular among 
his local tribes, but the man who sang to him that night 
deserves much honour, for he did it at a terrific risk. 

Sometimes representatives of the Ukuku fraternity from 
several tribes meet together and discuss intertribal difficulties, 
thereby avoiding war. 

Dr. Nassau distinctly says that the Bantu region leopard 
society is identical with the Ukuku, and he says that although 
the leopards are not very numerous here they are very daring, 
made so by immunity from punishment by man. " The 
superstition is that on any man who kills a leopard will fall a 
curse or evil disease, curable only by ruinously expensive 
process of three weeks' duration under the direction of Ukuku. 
So the natives allow the greatest depredations and ravages 
until their sheep, goats, and dogs are swept away, and are roused 
to self-defence only when a human being becomes the victim 
of the daring beast. With this superstition is united another 
similar to the werewolf of Germany, viz., a belief in 
the power of human metamorphosis into a leopard. A person 
so metamorphosed is called ' Uvengwa.' At one time in 
Benito an intense excitement prevailed in the community. 
Doors and shutters were rattled at the dead of night, marks 
of leopard claws were scratched on door-posts. Then tracks 
lay on every path. Women and children in lonely places saw 
their flitting forms, or in the dusk were knocked down by 
their spring, or heard their growl in the thickets. It is difficult 
to decide in many of these reports whether it is a real leopard 
or only an Uvengwa — to native fears they are practically the 
same, — we were certain this time the Uvengwa was the thief 
disguised in leopard's skin, as theft is always heard of about 
such times." 

When I was in Gaboon in September, 1895, there was great 
Ukuku excitement in a district just across the other side of 
the estuary, mainly at a village that enjoyed the spacious 
and resounding name of Rumpochembo, from a celebrated 
chief, and all these phenomena were rife there. Again, when 



OF LEOPARDS 543 



I was in a village up the Calabar there were fourteen goats 
and five slaves killed in eight days by leopards, the genuine 
things, I am sure, in this case ; but here, as down South, there 
was a strong objection to proceed against the leopard, and no 
action was being taken save making the goat-houses stronger. 
In Okyon, when a leopard is killed, its body is treated with 
great respect and brought into the killer's village. Messages 
are then sent to the neighbouring villages, and they send 
representatives to the village and the gall-bladder is most 
carefully removed from the leopard and burnt coram publico, 
each person whipping their hands down their arms to disavow 
any guilt in the affair. This burning of the gall, however, is 
not ju-ju, it is done merely to destroy it, and to demonstrate 
to all men that it is destroyed, because it is believed to be a 
deadly poison, and if any is found in a man's possession the 
punishment is death, unless he is a great chief — a few of these 
are allowed to keep leopards' gall in their possession. John 
Bailey tells me that if a great chief commits a great crime, 
and is adjudged by a conclave of his fellow chiefs to die, it 
is not considered right he should die in a common way, and 
he is given leopards' gall. A precisely similar idea regarding 
the poisonous quality of crocodiles' gall holds good down 
South. 

The ju-ju parts of the leopard are the whiskers. You 
cannot get a skin from a native with them on, and gay, reck- 
less young hunters wear them stuck in their hair and swagger 
tremendously while the elders shake their heads and keep a 
keen eye on their subsequent conduct. 

I must say the African leopard is an audacious animal, 
although it is ungrateful of me to say a word against him, 
after the way he has let me off personally, and I will speak of 
his extreme beauty as compensation for my ingratitude. I 
really think, taken as a whole, he is the most lovely animal I 
have ever seen ; only seeing him, in the one way you can 
gain a full idea of his beauty, namely in his native forest, is 
not an unmixed joy to a person, like myself, of a nervous dis- 
position. I may remark that my ner\'ousness regarding the 
big game of Africa is of a rather peculiar kind. I can con- 
fidently say I am not afraid of any wild animal — until I see 



544 FETISH chap 

it — and then — well I will yield to nobody in terror ; fortunately 
as I say my terror is a special variety ; fortunately because no 
one can manage their own terror. You can suppress alarm, 
excitement, fear, fright, and all those small-fry emotions, but 
the real terror is as dependent on the inner make of you as 
the colour of your eyes, or the shape of your nose ; and when 
terror ascends its throne in my mind 1 become preternaturally 
artful, and intelligent to an extent utterly foreign to my true 
nature, and save, in the case of close quarters with bad big 
animals, a feeling of rage against some unknown person that 
such things as leopards, elephants, crocodiles, &c., should be 
allowed out loose in that disgracefully dangerous way, I do not 
think much about it at the time. Whenever I have come across 
an awful animal in the forest and I know it has seen me I take 
Jerome's advice, and instead of relying on the power of the 
human eye rely upon that of the human leg, and effect a 
masterly retreat in the face of the enemy. If I know it has 
not seen me I sink in my tracks and keep an eye on it, hoping 
that it will go away soon. Thus I once came upon a leopard. 
I had got caught in a tornado in a dense forest. The massive, 
mighty trees were waving like a wheat-field in an autumn 
gale in England, and I dare say a field mouse in a wheat-field 
in a gale would have heard much the same uproar. The 
tornado shrieked like ten thousand vengeful demons. The 
great trees creaked and groaned and strained against it and 
their bush-rope cables groaned and smacked like whips, and 
ever and anon a thundering crash with snaps like pistol shots 
told that they and their mighty tree had strained and struggled 
in vain. The fi.erce rain came in a roar, tearing to shreds the 
leaves and blossoms and deluging everything. I was making 
bad weather of it, and climbing up over a lot of rocks out of a 
gully bottom where I had been half drowned in a stream, and 
on getting my head to the level of a block of rock I observed 
right in front of my eyes, broadside on, maybe a yard off, 
certainly not more, a big leopard. He was crouching on the 
ground, with his magnificenthead thrown backand his eyes shut. 
His fore-paws were spread out in front of him and he lashed 
the ground with his tail, and I grieve to say, in face of 
that awful danger — I don't mean me, but the tornado — that 



XXIII AN AWKWARD ENCOUNTER 545 



depraved creature swore, softly, but repeatedly and profoundly. 
I did not get all these facts up in one glance, for no sooner did 
I see him than I ducked under the rocks, and remembered 
thankfully that leopards are said to have no power of smell. 
But I heard his observation on the weather, and the flip-flap 
of his tail on the ground. Every now and then I cautiously 
took a look at him with one eye round a rock-edge, and he 
remained in the same position. My feelings tell me he 
remained there twelve months, but my calmer judgment puts 
the time down at twenty minutes ; and at last, on taking 
another cautious peep, I saw he was gone. At the time I 
wished I knew exactly where, but I do not care about that 
detail now, for I saw no more of him. He had moved off in 
one of those weird lulls which you get in a tornado, when for 
a few seconds the wild herd of hurrying winds seem to have 
lost themselves, and wander round crying and wailing like 
lost souls, until their common rage seizes them again and they 
rush back to their work of destruction. It was an immense 
pleasure to have seen the great creature like that. He was 
so evidently enraged and baffled by the uproar and dazzled 
by the floods of lightning that swept down into the deepest 
recesses of the forest, showing at one second every detail of 
twig, leaf, branch, and stone round you, and then leaving you 
in a sort of swirling dark until the ne.xt flash came ; this, 
and the great conglomerate roar of the wind, rain and thunder, 
was enough to bewilder any living thing. 

I have never hurt a leopard intentionally ; I am habitually 
kind to animals, and besides I do not think it is ladylike to 
go shooting things with a gun. Twice, however, I have been in 
collision with them. On one occasion a big leopard had 
attacked a dog, who, with her family, was occupying a broken- 
down hut next to mine. The dog was a half-bred boarhound, 
and a savage brute on her own account. I, being roused by 
the uproar, rushed out into the feeble moonlight, thinking she 
was having one of her habitual turns-up with other dogs, and 
I saw a whirling mass of animal matter within a yard of me. 
I fired two mushroom-shaped native stools in rapid succes- 
sion into the brown of it, and the meeting broke up into a 
leopard and a dog. The leopard crouched, I think to spring 

N N 



546 FETISH chap. 

on me. I can see its great, beautiful, lambent eyes still, 
and I seized an earthen water-cooler and flung it straight at 
them. It was a noble shot ; it burst on the leopard's head like 
a shell and the leopard went for bush one time. Twenty 
minutes after people began to drop in cautiously and inquire 
if anything was the matter, and I civilly asked them to go 
and ask the leopard in the bush, but they firmly refused. We I 
found the dog had got her shoulder slit open as if by a blow 
from a cutlass, and the leopard had evidently seized the dog 
by the scrufif of her neck, but owing to the loose folds of skin 
no bones were broken and she got round all right after much 
ointment from me, which she paid me for with several bites. 
Do not mistake this for a sporting adventure. I no more 
thought it was a leopard than that it was a lotus when I joined 
the fight. My other leopard was also after a dog. Leopards 
always come after dogs, because once upon a time the leopard 
and the dog were great friends, and the leopard went out one 
day and left her whelps in charge of the dog, and the dog 
went out flirting, and a snake came and killed the whelps, so 
there is ill-feeling to this day between the two. For the 
benefit of sporting readers whose interest may have been 
excited by the mention of big game, I may remark that the 
largest leopard skin 1 ever measured myself was, tail included, 
9 feet 7 inches. It was a dried skin, and every man who saw 
it said, " It was the largest skin he had ever seen, except one 
that he had seen somewhere else." 

The largest crocodile I ever measured was 22 feet 3 inches, 
the largest gorilla 5 feet 7 inches. I am assured by the mis- 
sionaries in Calabar, that there was a python brought into 
Creek Town in the Rev. Mr. Goldie's time, that extended the 
whole length of the Creek Town mission-house verandah and 
to spare. This python must have been over 40 feet. I have 
not a shadow of doubt it was. Stay-at-home people will 
always discredit great measurements, but experienced bush- 
men do not, and after all, if it amuses the stay-at-homes to do 
so, by all means let them ; they have dull lives of it and it 
don't hurt you, for you know how exceedingly difficult it is to 
preserve really big things to bring home, and how, half the 
time, they fall into the hands of people who would not bother 



OTHER SECRET SOCIETIES 547 



their heads to preserve them in a rotting climate like West 
Africa. 

The largest python skin I ever measured was a damaged one, 
which was 26 feet. There is an immense one hung in front 
of a house in San Paul de Loanda which you can go and 
measure yourself with comparative safety any day, and which is, 
I think, over 20 feet. I never measured this one. The com- 
mon run of pythons is 10-15 feet, or rather I should say this is 
about the sized one you find with painful frequency in your 
chicken-house. 

Of the Lubuku secret society 1 can speak with no personal 
knowledge. I had a great deal of curious information regard- 
ing it from a Bakele woman, who had her information second- 
hand, but it bears out what Captain Latrobe Bateman says 
about it in his most excellent book TJie First Ascent of the 
Kasai (George Phillip, 1889), and to his account in Note J 
of the Appendix, I beg to refer the ethnologist. My informa- 
tion also went to show what he calls " a dark inference as to 
its true nature," a nature not universally common by any 
means to the African tribal secret society. 

In addition to the secret society and the leopard society, 
there are in the Delta some ju-jus held only by a few great 
chiefs. The one in Bonny has a complete language to itself, 
and there is one in Duke Town so powerful that should you 
desire the death of any person you have only to go and name 
him before it. " These ju-jus are very swift and sure." I 
would rather drink than fight with any of them — yes, far. 



N N 2 



CHAPTER XXIV 

ASCENT OF THE GREAT PEAK OF CAiMEROONS 

Setting forth how the \'oyager is minded to ascend the mountain called 
Mungo Mah Lobeh, or the Throne of Thunder, and in due course 
reaches Buea, situate thereon. 

After returning from Corisco I remained a few weeks in 
Gaboon, and then regretfully left on the Niger. My regrets, 
I should say, arose from leaving the charms and interests of 
Congo Frangais, and had nothing whatever to do with taking 
passage on one of the most comfortable ships of all those 
which call on the Coast. 

The Niger was homeward-bound when I joined her, and in 
due course arrived in Cameroon River, and I was once again 
under the dominion of Germany. It would be a very inter- 
esting thing to compare the various forms of European govern- 
ment in Africa — English, French, German, Portuguese, and 
Spanish ; but to do so with any justice would occupy more 
space than I have at my disposal, for the subject is extremely 
intricate. Each of these forms of government have their good 
points and their bad. Each of them are dealing with bits 
of Africa differing from each other — in the nature of their 
inhabitants and their formation, and so on — so I will not enter 
into any comparison of them here, but merely remark that, on 
the whole, German colonial methods in Africa are more akin 
to P^nglish than to French, and that Germany has one of 
the main P^nglish faults in an emphasised state — namely, a 
want of due appreciation of the work of the men who serve 
her in Africa. Time after time I have come across cases of 
German officers in Cameroon who have done their country 



i. XXIV UNGRATEFUL FATHERLAND 549 



good and noble service, and who yet, on their return to the 
Fatherland they have loved so well, have found, not only a 
want of due reward, but worse. When the flush of enthusiasm 
for colonial enterprise dies out in Germany — as it may die 
out in the face of the want of profit from her colonies, 
arising from a too heavy expenditure of money on them 
— the sin of her ingratitude to those men who have served 
her in Cameroon will find her out, and no longer will her 
best and bravest sons risk their honour in her service. The 
worst case of German ingratitude to Germans is the last, 
that of the late Vice-Governor of Cameroon, Herr von Lucke, 
of whom I shall later have occasion to speak. This fine young 
officer, full of enthusiasm for his country and devoted to his 
Emperor, was driven to suicide from a vile lie to the eflfect 
that he had spoken disrespectfully of his Emperor — a lie told 
by I know not whom, but I presume by some of those in 
Germany who seem to make it their special mission in life to 
run down her greatest colony, Cameroon. A more devoted 
subject, or a truer gentleman and soldier than Herr von 
Lucke, no country and no ruler ever possessed. I also see in 
German newspapers that Governor von Puttkamer has been 
accused of severity to natives in Cameroon, and I and those 
Englishmen who know him have no hesitation in saying this 
accusation is also ill-founded ; but I hope Germany in carpet 
slippers and in barracks has by this time realised that it is not 
fitted to judge Germany in Africa. I will say no more, how- 
ever, on this subject (for I am devoted through good and ill 
report to my first-cousins, the German and the Dane), but 
will return to my own trivial experiences. 

From the deck of the Xiger I found myself again con- 
fronted with my great temptation — the magnificent Mungo 
Mah Lobeh — the Throne of Thunder. Now it is none of my 
business to go up mountains. There's next to no fish on 
them in West Africa, and precious little good rank fetish, as 
the population on them is sparse— the African, like myself, 
abhorring cool air. Nevertheless, I feel quite sure that no 
white man has ever looked on the great Peak of Cameroon 
without a desire arising in his mind to ascend it and know 
in detail the highest point on the western side of the 



550 THE GREAT PEAK OF CAMEROONS chap 



continent, and indeed one of the highest points in all 
Africa. Do not, however, imagine that the ascent is a 
common incident in a coaster's life ; far from it. The 
coaster as a rule resists the temptation of Mungo firml\-, 
being stronger minded than I am ; moreover, he is busy and 
only too often fever -stricken in the bargain. But I am the 
exception, I own, and I have given in to the temptation and am 
the third Englishman to ascend the Peak and the first to 
have ascended it from the south-east face. The first man to 
reach the summit was Sir Richard Burton, accompanied by 
the great botanist, Gustav Mann. He went up, as did the 
succeeding twenty-five (mostly Germans) from Babundi ; a 
place on thp seashore to the west. The first expedition to 
reach the summit from the side I tackled it was composed 
of the first lieutenant and doctor of the German man-of-war 
Hycena. These gentlemen had accomplished this feat a few 
weeks before I landed at Victoria to make my attempt. I go 
into these details so as to excuse myself for subsequently 
giving you a detailed account of the south-east face of Mungo 
Mah Lobeh. 

So great is the majesty and charm of this mountain that 
the temptation of it is as great to me to-day as it was on 
the first day I saw it, when I was feeling my way down the 
West Coast of Africa on the S.S. Lagos in 1893, and it revealed 
itself by good chance from its surf-washed plinth to its sky- 
scraping summit. Certainly it is most striking when you see 
it first, as I first saw it, after coasting for weeks along the low 
shores and mangrove-fringed rivers of the Niger Delta. Sud- 
denly, right up out of the sea, rises the great mountain to 
its 13,760 feet, while clo.se at hand, to westward, towers the 
lovely island mass of Fernando Po to 10,190 feet. But ever>^ 
time you pass it by its beauty grows on you with greater and 
greater force, though it is never twice the same. Sometimes 
it is wreathed with indigo-black tornado clouds, sometimes 
crested with snow, sometimes softly gorgeous with gold, 
green, and rose-coloured vapours tinted by the setting sun, 
sometimes completely swathed in dense cloud so that you 
cannot see it at all ; but when }'ou once know it is there 
is all the same, and you bow down and worship. 



! 



XXIV 



THRONE OF THUNDER 



551 



There are only two distinct peaks to this glorious thing that 
geologists brutally call the volcanic intrusive mass of the 
Cameroon Mountains, viz., Big Cameroon and Little Cameroon. 
The latter, Mungo Mah Etindeh, has not yet been scaled, 
although it is only 5,820 feet. One reason for this is doubtless 
that the few people in fever-stricken, over-worked West Africa 
who are able to go up mountains, naturally try for the adjacent 




I'KAK OF CAMER<X)NS FROM THE NORTH-WEST. 



Big Cameroon; the other reason is that Mungo Mah Etindeh, to 
which Burton refers as " the awful form of Little Cameroon," 
is mostly sheer cliff, and is from foot to summit clothed in an 
almost impenetrable forest. Behind these two mountains of 
\olcanic origin, which cover an area on an isolated base of 
between 700 and 800 square miles in extent, there are 
distinctly visible from the coast two chains of mountains, 
or I should think one chain deflected, the so-called Rumby 



552 THE GREAT PEAK OF CAMEROONS chap. 



and Omon ranges. These are no relations of Mungo, being 
of very different structure and conformation ; the geological 
specimens I have brought from them and from the Cameroons 
being identified by geologists as respectively schistose grit 
and vesicular lava. 

After spending a few pleasant days in Cameroon River in 
the society of Frau Plehn, my poor friend Mrs. Duggan 
having, I ought to say, departed for England on the death of 
her husband, I went round to Victoria, Ambas Bay, on the 
Niger, and in spite of being advised solemnly by Captain 
Davies to " chuck it as it was not a picnic," I started to 
attempt the Peak of Cameroons as follows. 

September 20th, 1895. — Left Victoria at 7.30, weather fine. 
Herr von Lucke, though sadly convinced, by a series of 
experiments he has been carrying on ever since I landed, and 
I expect before, that you cannot be in three places at one 
time, is still trying to do so ; or more properly speaking he 
starts an experiment series for four places, man-like, instead 
of getting ill as I should under the circumstances, and he 
kindly comes with me as far as the bridge across the lovely 
cascading Lukole River, and then goes back at about seven 
miles an hour to look after Victoria and his sick subordinates 
in detail. 

I, with my crew, keep on up the grand new road the 
Government is making, which when finished is to go from 
Ambas Bay to Buea, 3,000 feet up on the mountain's side. 
This road is quite the most magnificent of roads, as regards 
breadth and general intention, that 1 have seen anywhere in 
West Africa, and it runs through a superbly beautiful country, 
It is, I should say, as broad as Oxford Street ; on either side 
of it are deep drains to carry off the surface waters, with 
banks of varied beautiful tropical shrubs and ferns, behind 
which rise, 100 to 200 feet high, walls of grand forest, the 
column-like tree-stems either hung with flowering, climbing 
plants and ferns, or showing soft red and soft grey shafts 
sixty to seventy feet high without an interrupting branch. 
Behind this again rise the lovely foot hills of Mungo, high up 
against the sky, coloured the most perfect soft dark blue. 

The whole scheme of colour is indescribably rich and full in 



AN UNFINISHED ROAD 553 



>ne. The very earth is a velvety red brown, and the butter- 
ies — which abound — show themselves off in the sunlight, in 
:heir canar>'-coloured, crimson, and peacock-blue liveries, to 
perfection. After five minutes' experience of the road I envy 
those butterflies. I do not believe there is a more lovely 
road in this world, and besides, it's a noble and enterpris- 
ing thing of a Government to go and make it, considering 
the climate and the country ; but to get any genuine pleasure 
out of it, it is requisite to hover in a bird- or butterfly-like 
way, for of all the truK' awful things to walk on, that road, 
when I was on it, was the worst. 

Of course this arose from its not being finished, not ha\ing 
its top on in fact : the bit that was finished, and had got its 
top on, for half a mile beyond the bridge, you could go over 
in a Bath chair. The rest of it made you fit for one for the 
rest of \our natural life, for it was one mass of broken lava 
rock, and here and there leviathan tree-stumps that had been 
partially blown up with gunpowder. 

When we near the forest end of the road, it comes on to 
rain heavily, and I see a little house on the left-hand side, 
and a European engineer superintending a group of very 
cheerful natives felling timber. He most kindly invites me 
to take shelter, saying it cannot rain as heavily as this for 
long. My men also announce a desire for water, and so I sit 
down and chat with the engineer under the shelter of his 
verandah, while the men go to the water-hole, some twenty 
minutes off. 

The engineer is an Alsatian, and has been engaged on the 
Congo Free State Railway, which he abandoned because they 
put him up at the end station, on those awful Palaballa 
mountains. Four men who were at the station died of fever 
and he got it himself, and applied for leave to go down to 
Matadi to see a doctor. His request was peremptorily 
refused, and he was told he must remain at his post until 
another engineer came up to take over charge. He stayed 
for some days waiting, but no one came or gave signs of 
coming, and he found the company had given all their em- 
ployes orders that he was not to be allowed on a train, so he 
walked down to Matadi. How he did it, knowing that 



554 THE GREAT PEAK OF CAMEROONS chap. 

country, I cannot think, but he was exceedingly ill when 
he got there, as may easily be imagined, and as soon as he 
had sufifiiciently recovered, he came up to Cameroons, and 
obtained his present appointment, after having been kept 
and nursed up in the hospital there, to his considerable sur- 
prise after his Congo experiences. He was not hopeful 
about the future of that Congo railroad, or of that of 
its directors. He quoted as one of the reasons for his 
leaving it the doubt that it would ever be finished. Inex- 
plicable is man ! Why he should have cared whether it was 
finished or not as long as it kept on paying him £ i a day, I 
do not know. He had kept a diary of the accidents, which 
averaged two a day, and usually took the form of something 
going off the line, because the railway engines used were so 
light as to be flighty, and not really powerful enough to take 
up more than two trucks at a time, though always expected 
to do so. The wages of the natives employed were from is. 
to IS. 6d. a day ; very high pay. The Chinamen imported 
as navvies were an awful nuisance, always making palaver. 
The Senegal men are dangerous, because the French 
officials on the line always support them against other 
white men, Senegalese being Frenchmen, just as Kruboys are 
Englishmen. 

While I am getting this last news from Congo, the rain keeps 
on pouring down. I presently see one of my men sitting 
right in the middle of the road on a rock, totally unsheltered, 
and a feeling of shame comes over me in the face of this black 
man's aquatic courage. Besides, Herr von Lucke had said I 
was sure to get half-drowned and catch an awful cold, so 
there is no use delaying. Into the rain I go, and off we 
start. I may remark I subsequently found that my aquatic 
underling was drunk. I conscientiously attempt to keep dry, 
by holding up an umbrella, knowing that though hopeless it 
is the proper thing to do. 

We leave the road about fifty yards above the hut, turning 
into the unbroken forest on the right-hand side, and following 
a narrow, slippery, muddy, root- beset bush-path that was a 
comfort after the road. Presently we come to a lovely moun- 
tain torrent flying down over red-brown rocks in white foam ; 



xxiv A WET WALK 555 



exquisitely lovely, and only a shade damper than the rest of 
things. Seeing this I solemnly fold up my umbrella and 
give it to Kefalla. My relations, nay, even Mrs. Roy, who is 
blind to a large percentage of my imperfections, say the most 
scathing things about my behaviour with regard to water. 
But really my conduct is founded on sound principles. I 
know from a series of carefully conducted experiments, 
carried out on the Devonshire Lynn, that I cannot go across 
a river on slippery stepping-stones ; therefore, knowing that 
attempts to keep my feet out of water only end in my 
placing the rest of my anatomy violently in, I take charge of 
P'ate and wade. 

This particular stream, too, requires careful wading, the 
rocks over which it flows being arranged in picturesque, but 
perilous confusion ; however all goes well, and getting to the 
other side I decide to " chuck it, ' as Captain Davies would 
say, as to keeping dr}-, for the rain comes down heavier 
than ever. 

Now we are evidently dealing with a foot-hillside, but 
the rain is too thick for one to see two yards in any direction, 
and we seem to be in a ghost-land forest, for the great palms 
and red-woods rise up in the mist before us, and fade out in 
the mist behind, as we pass on. The rocks which edge and 
strew the path at our feet are covered with exquisite ferns 
and mosses — all the most delicate shades of green imagin- 
able, and here and there of absolute gold colour, looking 
as if some ray of sunshine had lingered too long playing 
on the earth, and had got shut off from heaven by the mist, 
and so lay nestling among the rocks until it might rejoin 
the sun. 

The path now becomes an absolute torrent, with mud- 
thickened water, which cascades round one's ankles in a 
sportive wa}-, and round one's knees in the hollows in the 
path. Five seconds after abandoning the umbrella I am wet 
through, but it is not uncomfortable at this temperature, some- 
thing like that of a cucumber frame with the lights on, if you 
can clear your mind of all prejudice, as Dr. Johnson says, and 
forget the risk of fever which saturation entails. 

On we go, the path underneath the water seems a pretty 



556 THE GREAT PEAK OF CAMEROONS chap. 

equal mixture of rock and mud, but they are not evenly dis- 
tributed. Plantations full of weeds show up on either side of 
us, and we are evidently now on the top of a foot-hill. I 
suspect a fine view of the sea could be obtained from here, if 
you have an atmosphere that is less than gpf per cent, of water. 
As it is, a white sheet — or more properly speaking, considering 
its soft, stuffy woolliness, a white blanket — is stretched across 
the landscape to the south-west, where the sea would show. 

We go down-hill now, the water rushing into the back of my 
shoes for a change. The path is fringed by high, sugar-cane- 
like grass which hangs across it in a lackadaisical way, 
swishing you in the face and cutting like a knife whenever you 
catch its edge, and pouring continually insidious rills of water 
down one's neck. It does not matter. The whole Atlantic 
could not get more water on to me than I have already got. 
Ever and again I stop and wring out some of it from my 
skirts, for it is weighty. One would not imagine that anything 
could come down in the way of water thicker than the rain, 
but it can. When one is on the top of the hills, a cold breeze 
comes through the mist chilling one to the bone, and bending 
the heads of the palm trees, sends down from them water by 
the bucketful with a slap ; hitting or missing you as the case 
may be. 

Both myself and my men are by now getting anxious for 
our " chop," and they tell me, " We look them big hut soon." 
Soon we do look them big hut, but with faces of undisguised 
horror, for the big hut consists of a few charred roof-mats, &c., 
lying on the ground. There has been a fire in that simple 
savage home. Our path here is cut by one that goes east 
and west, and after a consultation between my men and 
the Bakwiri, we take the path going east, down a steep 
slope between weedy plantations, and shortly on the left 
shows a steep little hill-side with a long low hut on the 
top. We go up to it and I find it is the habitation of a Basel 
Mission black Bible-reader. He comes out and speaks Eng- 
lish well, and I tell him I want a house for myself and my 
men, and he says we had better come and stay in this one. 
It is divided into two chambers, one in which the children who 
attend the mission-school stay, and wherein there is a fire. 



XXIV STAY AT BUANA 557 



and one evidently the abode of the teacher. I thank the 
Bible-reader and say that I will pay him for the house, and I 
and the men go in streaming, and my teeth chatter with cold 
as the breeze chills my saturated garment while I give out the 
rations of beef, rum, blankets, and tobacco to the men. Then 
I clear my apartment out and attempt to get dry, opera- 
tions which are interrupted by Kefalla coming for tobacco 
to buy firewood off the mission teacher to cook our food by. 

Presently my excellent little cook brings in my food, and 
in with it come two mission teachers — our first acquaintance, 
the one with a white jacket, and another with a blue. 
They lounge about and spit in all directions, and then chiefs 
commence to arrive with their families complete, and they 
sidle into the apartment and ostentatiously ogle the demi- 
john of rum. 

They are, as usual, a nuisance, sitting about on everything. 
No sooner have I taken an unclean-looking chief off the wood 
sofa, than I observe another one has silently seated himself 
in the middle of my open portmanteau. Removing him and 
shutting it up, I see another one has settled on the men's beef 
and rice sack. 

It is now about three o'clock and I am still chilled to the 
bone in spite of tea. The weather is as bad as ever. The 
men say that the rest of the road to Buea is far worse than 
that which we have so far come along, and that we should 
never get there before dark, and " for sure " should not get 
there afterwards, because by the time the dark came down we 
should be in " bad place too much." Therefore, to their great 
relief, I say I will stay at this place — Buana — for the night, 
and go on in the morning time up to Buea ; and just for the 
present I think I will wrap myself up in a blanket and try and 
get the chill out of me, so I give the chiefs a glass of rum 
each, plenty of head tobacco, and my best thanks for their 
kind call, and then turn them and the expectorating mission 
teachers out I have not been lying down five minutes on the 
plank that serves for a sofa by day and a bed by night, when 
Charles comes knocking at the door. He wants tobacco. 
" Missionary man no fit to let we have firewood unless we buy 
em." Give Charles a head and shut him out again, and drop 



558 THE GREAT PEAK OF CAMEROONS chap. 



off to sleep again for a quarter of an hour, then am aroused by 
some enterprising sightseers pushing open the window-shut- 
ters ; when I look round there are a mass of black heads 
sticking through the window-hole. I tell them respectfully 
that the circus is closed for repairs, and fasten up the shutters, 
but sleep is impossible, so I turn out and go and see what 
those men of mine are after. They are comfortable enough 
round their fire, with their clothes suspended on strings in the 
smoke above them, and I envy them that fire. I then stroll 
round to see if there is anything to be seen, but the scenery is- 
much like that you would enjoy if you were inside a blanc- 
mange. So as it is now growing dark I return to my room 
and light candles, and read Dr. Gllnther on Fishes. If this 
sort of weather goes on I expect I shall specialise fins and 
gills myself Room becomes full of blacks. Unless you 
watch the door, you do not see how it is done. You look at 
a corner one minute and it is empty, and the next time you 
look that way it is full of rows of white teeth and watching 
eyes. The two mission teachers come in and make a show of 
teaching a child to read the Bible. I, having decided that it 
does not matter much what kind of fins you wear as they all 
work well, write up my log. About seven I get cook to make 
me some more tea, and shortly after find myself confronted 
with difficulties as to the disposal of the two mission teachers 
for the night. This class of man has no resource in him, and 
I think worse of the effects of mission-teaching than usual as 
I prepare to try and get a sleep ; not an elaborate affair, I 
assure you, for I only want to wrap myself round in a blanket 
and lie on that plank, but the rain has got into the blankets 
and horror ! there is no pillow. The mission men have cleared 
their bed paraphernalia right out. Now you can do without a 
good many things, but not without a pillow, so hunt round to 
find something to make one with ; find the Bible in English, 
the Bible in German, and two hymn-books, and a candle-stick. 
These seem all the small articles in the room — no, there is a 
parcel behind the books — mission teachers' Sunday trousers — 
make delightful arrangement of books bound round with 
trousers and the whole affair wrapped in one of my towels. 
Never saw till now advantage of Africans having trousers. 



HUSBANDS AND WIVES 559 



' ivilisation has its points after all. But it is no use 
trying to get any sleep until those men are quieter. The 
partition which separates my apartment from theirs is a bam- 
boo and mat affair, straight at the top so leaving under the 
roof a triangular space above common to both rooms. Also 
common to both rooms are the smoke of the fire and the con- 
ersation. Kefalla is holding forth in a dogmatic way, and 
some of the others are snoring. There is a new idea in deco- 
ration along the separating wall. Mr. Morris might have made 
-omething out of it for a dado. It is composed of an arrange- 
ment in line of stretched out singlets. Vaseline the revolver. 
Wish those men would leave off chattering. Kefalla seems 
:o know the worst about most of the people, black and 
vhite, down in Ambas Bay, but I do not believe those last 
two stories. Evidently great jokes in next room now ; Kefalla 
has thrown himself, still talking, in the dark, on to the top of 
one of the mission teachers. The women of the village out- 
side have been keeping up, this hour and more, a most 
melancholy coo-ooing. Those foolish creatures are evidently 
worrying about their husbands who have gone down to market 
in Ambas Bay, and who, they think, are lost in the bush. I have 
not a shadow of a doubt that those husbands who are not home 
by now are safely drunk in town, or reposing on the grand new 
road the kindly Government have provided for them, either in 
one of the side drains, or tucked in among the lava rock. 

September 2\st. — Coo-5oing went on all-night. I was aroused 
about 9.30 P.M., by uproar in adjacent hut : one husband had 
returned in a bellicose condition and whacked his wives, and 
their squarks and squalls, instead of acting as a warning to 
the other ladies, stimulate the silly things to go on coo-ooing 
louder and more entreatingly than ever, so that their husbands 
might come home and whack them too, I suppose, and whenever 
the unmitigated hardness of my plank rouses me I hear them 
still coo-ooing. 

No watchman is required to wake you in the morning 
on the top of a Cameroon foot-hill by 5.30, because about 
4 .\.M. the dank chill that comes before the dawn does so most 
effectively. One old chief turned up early out of the mist 
and dashed me a bottle of palm wine ; he says he wants to 



I 



56o THE GREAT PEAK OF CAMEROONS chap. 

dash me a fowl, but I decline, and accept two eggs, and give 
him four heads of tobacco. 

The whole place is swathed in thick w^hite mist through 
which my audience arrive. But I am firm with them, and 
shut up the doors and windows and disregard their hangings 
on them while I am dressing, or rather redressing. The 
mission teachers get in with my tea, and sit and smoke and 
spit while I have my breakfast. Give me cannibal Fans ! 
I do not believe Blue Jacket is a teacher at all, but a horrible 
Frankenstein parasite thing, on White Jacket. He takes 
everything away from White Jacket as soon as I give it him : 
White Jacket feebly remonstrating. I see as we leave that 
he is taking the money I gave the latter vi et annis out of his 
pocket. 

It is pouring with rain again now, and we go down the 
steep hillock to the path we came along yesterday, keep it 
until we come to where the old path cuts it, and then turn up 
to the right following the old path's course and leave Buana 
without a pang of regret. Our road goes N.E. Oh, the mud 
of it ! Not the clearish cascades of yesterday but stick}-, 
sHppery mud, intensely sticky, and intensely slippery. The 
narrow path which is filled by this, is V-shaped underneath 
from wear, and I soon find the safest way is right through 
the deepest mud in the middle. 

The white mist shuts off all details beyond ten yards in any 
direction. All we can see, as we first turn up the path, is a 
patch of kokos of tremendous size on our right. After this comes 
weedy plantation, and stretches of sword grass hanging across 
the road. The country is not so level as — or rather, I should say, 
more acutely unlevel than — that we came over yesterday. On 
we go, patiently doing our mud pulling through the valleys ; 
toiling up a hillside among lumps of rock and stretches of 
forest, for we are now beyond Buana's plantations; and skirting 
the summit of the hill only to descend into another valley. 
Evidently this is a succession of foot-hills of the great 
mountain and we are not on its true face yet. As we go on 
they become more and more abrupt in form, the valleys mere 
narrow ravines. Evidently in the wet season (this is only the 
tornado season) each of these valleys is occupied by a raging 



XXIV MUD-SLIDES 561 

orrent from the look of the confused water- worn boulders. 

Vow among the rocks there are only isolated pools, for the 

eather for a fortnight before I left Victoria had been fairly 

!ry, and this rich porous soil soaks up an immense amount of 

\ater. It strikes me as strange that when we are either 

_oing up or down the hills, the ground is less muddy 

han when we are skirting their summits, but as my 

brother would say, " it is perfectly simple, if you think about 

:t," because on the inclines the rush of water clears the 

5oil away down to the bed rock. There is an outcrop of 

•clay down by Buana, but though that was slipper^', it is 

nothing to the slipperiness of this fine, soft, red-brown earth 

that is the soil higher up, and also round Ambas Bay. This 

gets churned up into a sort of batter where there is enough 

•water lying on it, and, when there is not, an ice slide is an 

infant to it. 

My men and I flounder about ; thrice one of them, load and 
all, goes down with a squidge and a crash into the side grass, 
and says "damn ! " with quite the European accent ; as a rule, 
however, we go on in single file, my shoes giving out a melli- 
fluous squidge, and their naked feet a squish, squash. The 
men take it ver}' good temperedly, and sing in between acci- 
dents ; I do not feel much like singing myself, particularly at one 
awful spot, which was the exception to the rule that ground at 
acute angles forms the best going. This exception was a long 
slippery slide down into a ravine with a long, perfectly glassy 
slope up out of it. I remember one of my tutors saying, 
¦" Always when on a long march assume the attitude you feel 
most inclined to, as it is less tiring." There could not be the 
least shadow of a doubt about your inclinations as to attitude 
here, nor to giving way to them, so we arri\e at the bottom of 
that ravine in a fine confused heap. As for going up out of 
it, it was not mere inclination*— it was passion that possessed 
you. What you wanted to do was to plant your nose against the 
hill-side and wave your normally earthward extremities in the 
air, particularly when you were near the middle of the slope, or 
close to the top. Two of the boys gave way to this impulse ; I, 
of course, did not, but when I felt it coming on like a sort of fit, 
flung myself sideways into the dense bush that edges the path, 

O o 



562 THE GREAT PEAK OF CAMEROONS chap. 

and when it had passed off, scrambled out and had another 
try at the sHde. 

After this we have a stretch of rocky forest, and pass 
by a widening in the path which I am told is a place where 
men blow, i.e., rest, and then pass through another a little 
further on, which is Buea's bush market. Then through an 
opening in the great war-hedge of Buea, a growing stockade 
some fifteen feet high, the lower part of it wattled. Close 
by is a cross put up to mark the spot where that gallant }^oung 
German officer fell last January twelvemonth, when on the 
first expedition to open up this side of the mountain. 

At the sides of the path here grow banks of bergamot and 
balsam, returning good for evil and smiling sweetly as we 
crush them. Thank goodness we are in forest now, and we 
seem to have done with the sword-grass. The rocks are 
covered with moss and ferns, and the mist curling and 
wandering about among the stems is very lovely. I have to 
pause in life's pleasures because I want to measure one of 
the large earthworms, which, with smaller sealing-wax-red 
worms, are crawling about the path. He was eleven inches 
and three-quarters. He detained me some time getting this 
information, because he was so nervous during the operation. 

In our next ravine there is a succession of pools, part of a 
mountain torrent of greater magnitude evidently than those 
we have passed, and in these pools there are things swimming. 
Spend more time catching them, with the assistance of Bum. 
I do not value Kefalla's advice, ample though it is, as being 
of any real value in the affair. Bag some water-spiders 
and two small fish. The heat is less oppressive than yester- 
day. All yesterday one was being alternately smothered in 
the valley and chilled on the hill-tops. To-day it is a more 
level temperature, about 70°, I fancy. 

The soil up here, about 2,500 feet above sea-level, though 
rock-laden is exceedingly rich, and the higher we go there is 
more bergamot, native indigo, with its under-leaf dark blue, 
and lovely coleuses with red markings on their upper leaves, 
and crimson linings, I, as an ichthyologist, am in the wrong 
paradise. What a region this would be for a botanist ! 

The country is gloriously lovely if one could only see it for 



WELCOME TO BUEA 563 



the rain and mist ; but one only gets dim hints of its beauty- 
hen some cold draughts of wind come down from the great 
lountains and seem to push open the mist-veil as with spirit 
ands, and then in a minute let it fall together again. I do 
')t expect to reach Buea within regulation time, but at 1 1.30 
ly men say " we close in," and then, coming along a forested 
ill and down a ravine, we find ourselves facing a rushing 
liver, wherein a squad of black soldiers are washing clothes, 
with the assistance of a squad of black ladies, with much up- 
roar and sky-larking. I hesitate on the bank. I am in an 
awful mess — mud-caked skirts, and blood-stained hands and 
face. Shall I make an exhibition of myself and wash here, or 
make an exhibition of myself by going unwashed to that un- 
known German officer who is in charge of the station ? 
Naturally I wash here, standing in the river and swishing the 
mud out of my skirts ; and then wading across to the other 
bank, I wring out my skirts, but what is life without a towel ? 
The ground on the further side of the river is cleared of bush, 
and only bears a heavy crop of balsam ; a few steps onwards 
bring me in view of a corrugated iron-roofed, plank- sided 
house, in front of which, towards the great mountain which 
now towers up into the mist, is a low clearing with a quad- 
rangle of native huts — the barracks. 

I receive a most kindly welcome from a fair, grey-eyed 
ierman gentleman, only unfortunately I see my efforts to 
appear before him clean and tidy have been quite unavailing, 
for he views my appearance with unmixed horror, and suggests 
an instant hot bath. I decline. Men can be trying ! How in 
the world is any one going to take a bath in a house with no 
doors, and only very sketchy wooden window-shutters ? 

The German officer is building the house quickly, as Ollen- 
dorff would say, but he has not yet got to such luxuries 
as doors, and so uses army blankets strung across the door- 
way ; and he has got up temporary wooden shutters to keep the 
worst of the rain out, and across his own room's window he 
has a frame covered with greased paper. Thank goodness he 
has made a table, and a bench, and a washhand-stand out of 
planks for his spare room, which he kindly places at my 
disposal ; and the Fatherland has evidently stood him an iron 

002 



564 THE GREAT PEAK OF CAMEROONS chap. 

bedstead and a mattress for it. But the Fatherland is not 
spoiling or cosseting this man to an extent that will enervate 
him in the least. 

I get the loads brought into my room, where they steam and 
distil rills of water on to the bare floor, and then, barricading the 
door-blankets and the window-shutters, I dispossess myself of 
the German territory I have acquired during the last twenty- 
four hours, and my portmanteau having kept fairly watertight, I 
appear as a reasonable being before society — i.e., Herr Liebert, 
the German officer — and hunt up my boys to get me tea. 
This being done, I go out on the verandah and discourse. 

Society has got a dreadfully bad foot ; weeks ago he injured 
it on the road, and then in cleaning out a bad sore on one of 
the men some of the purulent matter got into the wound, and 
consequently he has nearly lost his leg, or more properly 
speaking his life, for he lay thirteen days in bed, and there was 
no doctor even down in Victoria to take the leg off, if it 
had turned to gangrene, as it seemed likely to do. He makes 
nothing of it, and hops about in a most energetic way, looking 
after seventy black soldiers and their wives and children, giving 
them out their rations, drilling them, doctoring them, and 
everything else, and hankering to do more. Many of the 
soldiers are down with bad feet, in consequence of the badness 
of the roads hereabouts. These soldiers are an assortment of 
Wei-Weis and Su-Su from Sierra Leone, and some Yorubas. 
They are smart men and well cared for, and their uniforms far 
more reasonable and military than the absurd uniforms we 
put our Haussas into in Calabar, only the Fatherland ordains 
that they shall wear braces, and these unnecessary articles for 
an African are worn flowing free, except by those men actually 
on duty. 

The mist clears off" in the evening about five, and the sur- 
rounding scenery is at last visible. Fronting the house there 
is the cleared quadrangle, facing which on the other three 
sides are the lines of very dilapidated huts, and behind these 
the ground rises steeply, the great S.E. face of Mungo Mah 
Lobeh. It looks awfully steep when }'ou know you have got 
to go up it. This station at Buea is 3,000 feet above sea-level, 
which explains the hills we have had to come up. The moun- 



XIV BUSH AMBUSCADES 565 

lin wall when viewed from Buea is very grand, although it 
icks snow-cap or glacier, and the highest summits of Mungo 
a e not visible because we are too close under them, but its enor- 
mous bulk and its isolation make it highly impressive. The 
I forest runs up it in a great band above Buea, then sends up 
great tongues into the grass belt above. But what may be 
above this grass belt I know not yet, for our view ends at the 
top of the wall of the great S.E. crater. My men say there are 
devils and gold up beyond, but the German authorities do not 
support this view. Those Germans are so sceptical. This 
station is evidently on a ledge, for behind it the ground falls 
steeply, and you get an uninterrupted panoramic view of the 
Cameroon estuary and the great stretches of low swamp lands 
with the Mungo and the Bimbia rivers, and their many creeks 
and channels, and far away east the strange abrupt forms 
of the Rumby Mountains. Herr Liebert says you can see 
Cameroon Government buildings from here, if only the day 
is clear, though they are some forty miles away. This 
view of them is, save a missionary of the Basel mission, the 
only white society available at Buea. Society here says the 
intercourse, though better than none, is slow. I suggest he 
should pay calls and indulge in conversation by means of a 
code of fireworks. " Ha ! " says he, " you're like the Calabar 
major." " Which one ? " say I, for there are majors and majors. 
" The one who came here last dry season," he said, " and who 
went up on to the wall and set the grass on fire to show how he 
was going on, and had to run down for his life." I know that 
man, and a very excellent man he is, but he is not in Calabar, 
nor is he a major ; but society everywhere makes mistakes in 
technical things. 

I hear more details about the death of poor Freiherr von 
Gravenreuth, whose fine monument of a seated lion I saw in 
the Government House grounds in Cameroons the other day. 
Bush fighting in these West African forests is dreadfully 
dangerous work. Hemmed in by bush, in a narrow path' 
along which you must pass slowly in single file, you are a 
target for all and any natives invisibly hidden in the under- 
growth ; and the war-hedge of Buea must have made an 
additional danger and difficulty here for the attacking party. 



566 THE GREAT PEAK OF CAMEROONS CH. xxiv 



I 



The lieutenant and his small band of black soldiers had, after 
a stiff fight, succeeded in forcing the entrance to this, when 
their ammunition gave out, and they had to fall back. The 
Bueans, regarding this as their victory, rallied, and a chance 
shot killed the lieutenant instantly. A further expedition 
was promptly sent up from Victoria and it wiped the error 
out of the Buean mind and several Bueans with it. But 
it was a very necessary expedition. These natives were 
a constant source of danger to the more peaceful trading 
tribes, whom they would not permit to traverse their territory. 
The Bueans have been dealt with mercifully by the Germans, | 
for their big villages, like Sapa, are still standing, and a con- 
tinual stream of natives come into the barrack-yard, selling 
produce, or carrying it on down to Victoria markets, in a 
perfectly content and cheerful way. I met this morning a 
big burly chief with his insignia of office — a great stick. He, 
I am told, is the chief or Sapa whom Herr von Lucke has called 
to talk some palaver with down in Victoria. 

At last I leave Herr Liebert, because everything I say to 
him causes him to hop, flying somewhere to show me some- 
thing, and I am sure it is bad for his foot. I go and see that 
my men are safely quartered. Kefalla is laying down the 
law in a most didactic way to the soldiers. Herr Liebert 
has christened him " the Professor," and I adopt the name for 
him, but I fear " Windbag " would fit him better. 

At 7.30 a heavy tornado comes rolling down upon us. 
Masses of indigo cloud with livid lightning flashing in the 
van, roll out from over the wall of the great crater above ; 
then with that malevolence peculiar to the tornado it sees all 
the soldiers and their wives and children sitting happily 
in the barrack yard, howling in a minor key and beating 
their beloved tom-toms, so it comes and sits flump down 
on them with deluges of water, and sends its lightning run- 
ning over the ground in livid streams of living death. Oh, 
they are nice things are tornadoes ! I wonder what the}- 
will be like when we are up in their home ; up atop of that 
precious wall ? I had no idea Mungo was so steep. If I had 
— well, I am in for it now ! 



CHAPTER XXV 

ASCENT OF THE GREAT PEAK OF CAMEROONS — {Continued^ 

^Vherein is recounted how the \'oyager sets out from Buea, and goes up 
through the forest belt to the top of the S.E. crater of Mungo Mah 
Lobeh, with many dilemmas and disasters that befell on the way. 

September 22nd. — Wake at 5. Fine morning. Fine view 
towards Cameroon River. The broad stretch of forest below, 
and the water-eaten mangrove swamps below that, are all a 
glorious indigo flushed with rose colour from " the death of the 
night," as Kiva used to call the dawn. No one stirring till 
six, when people come out of the huts, and stretch themselves 
and proceed to begin the day, in the African's usual per- 
functory, listless way. I am not stating this as a peculiar 
trait arising from his cerebral development ; it is merely the 
natural sequence of the nights he goes in for so cheerily : 
Katzcnjatnvier, is, I believe, the technical term. 

My crew are worse than the rest. I go and hunt cOok out. 
He props open one eye, with difficulty, and yawns a yawn 
that nearly cuts his head in two. I wake him up with a shock, 
by saying I mean to go on up to-day, and want my chop, and 
to start one time. He goes off and announces my horrible 
intention to the others. Kefalla soon arrives upon the scene 
full of argument, " You no sabe this be Sunday, Ma ? " says 
he in a tone that tells he considers this settles the matter. I 
" sabe " unconcernedly ; Kefalla scratches his head for other 
argument, but he has opened with his heavy artillerj- ; which 
being repulsed throws his rear lines into confusion. Bum, 
the head man, then turns up, sound asleep inside, but quite 
ready to come. Bum, I find, is always ready to do what he is 



568 THE GREAT PEAK OF CAMEROON S chap. 

told, but has no more original ideas in his head than there are 
in a chair leg. Kefalla, however, by scratching other parts of 
his anatomy diligently, has now another argument ready, the 
two Bakwiris are sick with abdominal trouble, that requires 
rum and rest, and one of the other boys has hot foot. 

Herr Liebert now appears upon the scene, and says I can 
have some of his labourers, who are now more or less idle, 
because he cannot get about much with his bad foot to direct 
them, so I give the Bakwiris and the two hot foot cases " books ' 
to take down to Herr von Lucke who will pay them off for 
me, and seeing that they have each a good day's rations of 
rice, beef, &c., eliminate them from the party. 

In addition to the labourers, I am to have as a guide Sasu,. 
a black sergeant, who went up the Peak with the officers of 
the Hycena, and I get my breakfast, and then hang about 
watching my men getting ready very slowly to start. They spin 
some plausible yarns about getting food cooked, in case they 
cannot get a fire when we reach the top of the forest belt, 
where we are to camp. I never saw a forest yet in Africa 
where you could not get a fire, but knowing that my previous 
experiences have never been beyond 5,000 feet in elevation, I 
let them have their way. Off we get about 8, and start 
with all good wishes, and grim prophecies, from Herr 
Liebert. 

Led by Sasu, and accompanied by " To-morrow," a man 
who has come to Buea from some interior unknown district, 
and who speaks no known language, and whose business it is to 
help to cut a way through the bush, we go down the path we 
came and cross the river again. This river seems to separate 
the final mass of the mountain from the foot-hills on this side. 
Immediately after crossing it we turn up into the forest on 
the right hand side, and " To-morrow " cuts through an over- 
grown track for about half-an-hour, and then leaves us. 

Everything is reeking wet, and we swish through thick 
undergrowth and then enter a darker forest where the earth 
is rocky and richly decorated with ferns and moss. For the 
first time in my life I see tree-ferns growing wild in luxuriant 
profusion. What glorious creations they are ! Then we get 
out into the middle of a koko plantation. Next to sweet- 



XV FOREST PATHS 569^ 



potatoes, the premier abomination to walk through, give me 

':okos for good all-round tryingness, particularly when they 

re wet, as, is very much the case now. These gigantic arums 

oise in their broad leaves little reservoirs of water, which you 

pset over yourself as you pass through. The big round 

jots are excellent things to fall over. They project above 

le earth, and you can jam your foot against them and pitch 

forward, or you can step on one of them and fall backwards 

or sideways. The entertainment they afford the wayfarer is 

not monotonous, but it is exasperating. Getting through. 

these we meet the war hedge again, and after a conscientious^ 

struggle with various forms of vegetation in a muddled, tangled 

state, Sasu says, " No good, path done got stopped up," so we 

turn and retrace our steps all the way, cross the river, 

and horrify Herr Liebert by invading his house again. We 

explain the situation. Grave headshaking between him and 

Sasu about the practicability of any other route, because there 

is no other path. I do not like to say " so much the better," 

because it would have sounded ungrateful, but I knew from 

my Ogowe experiences that a forest that looks from afar a 

dense black mat is all right underneath, and there is a short 

path recently cut by Herr Liebert that goes straight up 

towards the forest above us. It had been made to go to a 

clearing, where ambitious agricultural operations were being 

inaugurated, when Herr Liebert hurt his foot. Up this we 

go, it is semi-vertical while it lasts, and it ends in a scrubby 

patch that is to be a plantation ; this crossed we are in the 

Urwald, and it is more exquisite than words can describe^ 

but not good going, particularly at one spot where a gigantic 

tree has fallen down across a little rocky ravine, and has to be 

crawled under. It occurs to me that this is a highly likely 

place for snakes, and an absolutely sure find for scorpions, and 

when we have passed it three of these latter interesting 

creatures are observed on the load of blankets which is 

I fastened on to the back of Kefalla. We inform Kefalla of the 

I fact on the spot. A volcanic eruption of entreaty, advice, 

\ and admonition results, but we still hesitate. However, the 

\ gallant cook tackles them in a sort of tip-cat way with a stick, 

! and we proceed into a patch of long grass, beyond which there 



570 THE GREAT PEAK OF CAMEROONS chap 



is a reach of amomums. The winged amomum I see here in 
Africa for the first time. Horrid sHppery things amomum 
sticks to walk on, when they are lying on the ground ; and 
there is a lot of my old enemy the calamus about. 

On each side are deep forested dells and ravines, and rocks 
show up through the ground in every direction, and things in 
general are slippery, and I wonder now and again, as I assume 
with unnecessary violence a recumbent position, why I came 
to Africa ; but patches of satin-leaved begonias and clumps of 
lov^ely tree-ferns reconcile me to my lot. Cook does not feel 
these forest charms, and gives me notice after an hour's 
experience of mountain forest-belt work ; what cook would 
not? 

As we get higher we have to edge and squeeze every few 
minutes through the aerial roots of some tremendous kind of 
tree, plentiful hereabouts. One of them we passed through I 
am sure would have run any Indian banyan hard for extent of 
ground covered, if it were measured. In the region where 
these trees are frequent, the undergrowth is less dense than it 
is lower down. 

Imagine a vast, seemingly limitless cathedral with its 
•countless columns covered, nay, composed of the most exquisite 
dark-green, large-fronded moss, with here and there a 
•delicate fern embedded in it as an extra decoration. The 
white, gauze-like mist comes down from the upper mountain 
towards us : creeping, twining round, and streaming through 
the moss-covered tree columns — long bands of it reaching 
along sinuous, but evenly, for fifty and sixty feet or more, 
and then ending in a puff like the smoke of a gun. Soon, 
however, all the mist-streams coalesce and make the 
atmosphere all their own, wrapping us round in a clammy, 
chill embrace ; it is not that wool-blanket, smothering 
affair that we were wrapped in down by Buana, but exquisitely 
delicate. The difference it makes to the beauty of the forest 
is just the same difference you would get if you put a delicate 
veil over a pretty woman's face or a sack over her head. In 
fact, the mist here was exceedingly becoming to the forest's 
beauty. Now and again growls of thunder roll out from, and 
•quiver in the earth beneath our feet. Mungo is making a big 



XXV CAMPING OUT 57i 

tornado, and is stirring and simmering it softly so as to make 
it strong. I only hope he will not overdo it, as he does six 
times in seven, and make it too heavy to get out on to the 
Atlantic, where all tornadoes ought to go. If he does the thing 
will go and burst on us in this forest to-night. 

The forest now grows less luxuriant though still close — we 
have left the begonias and the tree-ferns, and are in another 
zone. The trees now, instead of being clothed in rich, dark- 
green moss, are heavily festooned with long, greenish-white 
lichen. It pours with rain. 

At last we reach the place where the sergeant sa}s we ought 
to camp for the night. I have been feeling the time for camping 
was very ripe for the past hour, and Kefalla openly said as 
much an hour and a half ago, but he got such scathing things 
said to him about civilians' legs by the sergeant that I did not 
air my own opinion. 

We are now right at the very edge of the timber belt. My 
head man and three boys are done to a turn. If I had had a 
bull behind me or Mr, Fildes in front, I might have done 
another five or seven miles, but not more. 

The rain comes down with extra virulence as soon as we set 
to work to start the fire and open the loads. I and Peter have 
great times getting out the military camp-bed from its tight, 
bolster-like case, while Kefalla gives advice, until, being irritated 
by the bed's behaviour, I blow up Kefalla and send him to 
chop firewood. However, we get the thing out and put up 
after cutting a place clear to set it on : owing to the world 
being on a stiff slant hereabouts, it takes time to make it 
stand straight. I get four stakes cut, and drive them in at 
the four corners of the bed, and then stretch over it Herr von 
Lucke's waterproof ground-sheet, guy the ends out to pegs 
with string, feel profoundly grateful to both Herr Liebert 
for the bed and Herr von Lucke for the sheet, and place the 
baggage under the protection of the German Government's 
two belongings. Then I find the boys have not got a fire with 
all their fuss, and I have to demonstrate to them the lessons 
I have learnt among the Fans regarding fire-making. We 
build a fire-house and then all goes well. I notice they do 
not make a fire Fan fashion, but build it in a circle. 



572 THE GREAT PEAK OF CAMEROONS chap. 

Evidently one of the labourers from Buea, named Xenia, 
is a good man. Equally evidently some of my other men 
are only fit to carry sandwich-boards for Day and Martin's 
blacking. I dine luxuriously off tinned fat pork and hot 
tea, and then feeling still hungry go on to tinned herring. 
Excellent thing tinned herring, but I have to hurry because 
I know I must go up through the edge of the forest on to 
the grass land, and see how the country is made during 
the brief period of clearness that almost always comes just 
before nightfall. So leaving my boys comfortably seated 
round the fire having their evening chop, I pass up through 
the heavily lichen-tasselled fringe of the forest-belt into deep 
jungle grass, and up a steep and slippery mound. 

In front the mountain-face rises like a wall from behind 
a set of hillocks, similar to the one I am at present on. The 
face of the wall to the right and left has two dark clefts in 
it. The peak itself is not visible from where I am ; it rises 
behind and beyond the wall. I stay taking compass bearings 
and look for an easy way up for to-morrow. My men, by 
now, have missed their " ma " and are yelling for her dismally, 
and the night comes down with great rapidity for we are in 
the shadow of the great mountain mass, so I go back into 
camp. Alas ! how vain are often our most energetic efforts 
to remove our fellow creatures from temptation. I knew 
a Sunday down among the soldiers would be bad for my 
men, and so came up here, and now, if you please, these men 
have been at the rum, because Bum, the head man, has been 
too done up to do anything but lie in his blanket and feed. 
Kefalla is laying down the law with great detail and unction. 
Cook who has been very low in his mind all day, is now 
weirdly cheerful, and sings incoherently. The other boys, 
who want to go to sleep, threaten to " burst him " if he " no 
finish." It's no good — cook carols on, and soon succumbing 
to the irresistible charm of music, the other men have to join 
in the choruses. The performance goes on for an hour, 
growing woollier and woollier in tone, and then dying out in 
sleep. 

I write by the light of an insect-haunted lantern, sitting 
on the bed, which is tucked in among the trees some twenty 



XXV TIMBER LINES 573 



}ards away from the boys' fire. There is a bird whistling 
in a deep rich note that I have never heard before. 

September 23/^/. — Morning gloriously fine. Rout the boys 
Lit, and start at seven, with Sasu, Head man, Xenia, Black 
)oy, Kefalla and Cook. 

The great south-east wall of the mountain in front of us 

- quite unflecked by cloud, and in the forest are thousands 

r bees. We notice that the tongues of forest go up the 

nountain in some places a hundred yards or more above the 

true line of the belt. These tongues of forest get more 

and more heavily hung with lichen, and the trees thinner 

and more stunted, towards their ends. I think that these 

mgues are always in places where the wind does not 

et full play. All those near our camping place on this 

outh-east face are so. It is evidently not a matter of soil, for 

there is ample soil on this side above where the trees are, 

and then again on the western side of the mountain — the side 

facing the sea — the timber line is far higher up than on this. 

Nor, again, is it a matter of angle that makes the timber line 

here so low, for those forests on the Sierra del Cristal were 

growing luxuriantly over far steeper grades. There is some 

peculiar local condition just here evidently, or the forest 

would be up to the bottom of the wall of the crater. I am 

not unreasonable enough to expect it to grow on that, but its 

conduct in staying where it does requires explanation. 

We clamber up into the long jungle grass region and go 
on our way across a series of steep-sided, rounded grass 
hillocks, each of which is separated from the others by dry, 
rocky watercourses. The effects produced by the seed -ears 
of the long grass round us are very beautiful ; they look a 
golden brown, and each ear and leaf is gemmed with dew- 
drops, and those of the grass on the sides of the hillocks at a 
little distance off show a soft brown-pink. 

After half an hour's climb, when we are close at the base 
of the wall, I observe the men ahead halting, and coming up 
with them find Monrovia Boy down a hole ; a little deep 
blow-hole, in which, I am informed, water is supposed to be. 
But Monrovia soon reports " No live." 

I now find we have not a drop of water, either with us or in 



574 THE GREAT PEAK OF CAMEROONS chap. 



camp, and now this hole has proved dry. There is, says the 
sergeant, no chance of getting any more water on this side of 
the mountain, save down at the river at Buea. 

This means failure unless tackled, and it is evidently a trick 
played on me by the boys, who intentionally failed to let me 
know of this want of water before leaving Buea, where it 
seems they have all learnt it. Had I known, of course I should 
have brought up a sufficient supply. Now they evidently 
think that there is nothing to be done but to return to Buea, 
and go down to Victoria, and get their pay, and live happily 
ever after, without having to face the horror of the upper 
regions of the mountain. They have worked their oracle 
with other white folk, I find, for they quote the other white 
folk's docile conduct as an example to me. I express my 
opinion of them and of their victims in four words — send 
Monrovia boy, who I know is to be trusted, back to Buea with 
a scribbled note to Herr Liebert asking him to send me up 
two demijohns of water. I send cook with him as far as the 
camp in the forest we have just left with orders to bring up 
three bottles of soda water I have left there, and to instruct 
the men there that as soon as the water arrives from Buea they 
are to bring it on up to the camp I mean to make at the top 
of the wall. 

The men are sulky, and Sasu, Peter, Kefalla, and head man 
say they will wait and come on as soon as cook brings the 
soda water, and I go on, and presently see Xenia and Black 
boy are following me. We get on to the intervening hillocks 
and commence to ascend the face of the wall. 

The angle of this wall is great, and its appearance from 
below is impressive from its enormous breadth, and its abrupt 
rise without bend or droop for a good 2,000 feet into the air. 
It is covered with short, yellowish grass through which the 
burnt-up, scoriaceous lava rock protrudes in rough masses. 

I got on up the wall, which when you are on it is not so 
perpendicular as it looks from below, my desire being to see 
what sort of country there was on the top of it, between it 
and the final peak. Sasu had reported to Herr Liebert that 
it was a wilderness of rock, in which it would be impossible to 
fix a tent, and spoke vaguely of caves. Here and there on 



XXV NO WATER LIVE ! 575 



the way up I come to holes, similar to the one my men had 
been down for water. I suppose these holes have been caused 
by gases from an under hot layer of lava bursting up through 
the upper cool layer. As I get higher, the grass becomes 
shorter and more sparse, and the rocks more ostentatiously 
displayed. Here and there among them are sadly tried 
bushes, bearing a beautiful yellow flower, like a large yellow 
wild rose, only scentless. It is not a rose at all, I may remark. 
The ground, where there is any basin made by the rocks, 
grows a great sedum, with a grand head of whit>'-pink flower, 
also a tall herb, with soft downy leaves silver grey in colour, 
and having a very pleasant aromatic scent, and here and there 
patches of good honest parsley. Bright blue, flannelly-looking 
flowers stud the grass in sheltered places and a very pretty 
large green orchid is plentiful. Above us is a bright 
blue sky with white cloud rushing hurriedly across it to the 
N.E. and a fierce sun. When I am about half-way up, I 
think of those boys, and, wanting rest, sit down by an 
inviting-looking rock grotto, with a patch of the yellow flowered 
shrub growing on its top. Inside it grow little ferns and 
mosses, all damp ; but alas I no water pool, and ver>' badh' I 
want water by this time. 

Below me a belt of white cloud had now formed, so that I 
ould see neither the foot-hillocks nor the forest, and presently 
out of this mist came Xenia toiling up, carrying my black 
bag. " Where them Black boy live ? " said I. " Black bo}- say 
him foot be tire too much," said Xenia, as he threw himself 
down in the little shade the rock could give. I took a cupful 
of sour claret out of the bottle in the bag, and told Xenia to 
come on up as soon as he was rested, and meanwhile to yell to 
the others down below and tell them to come on. Xenia did, 
but sadly observed, " softly softly still hurts the snail," and I 
left him and went on up the mountain. 

When I had got to the top of the rock under which I had 
sheltered from the blazing sun, the mist opened a little, and I 
saw my men looking like as many little dolls. They were 
still sitting on the hillock where I had left them. Buea 
showed from this elevation well. The guard house and the 
mission house, like little houses in a picture, and the make oC 



¦576 THE GREAT PEAK OF CAMEROONS chap. 

the ground on which Buea station stands, came out distinctly 
as a ledge or terrace, extending for miles N.N.E. and S.S.W. 
This ledge is a strange-looking piece of country, covered 
with low bush, out of which rise great, isolated, white- 
stemmed cotton trees. Below, and beyond this is a denser 
band of high forest, and again below this stretches the 
vast mangrove-swamp fringing the estuary of the Cameroons, 
Mungo, and Bimbia rivers. It is a very noble view, giving 
one an example of the peculiar beauty one oft-times gets 
in this West African scenery, namely colossal sweeps of 
•colour. The mangrove-swamps looked to-day like a vast 
-damson-coloured carpet threaded with silver where the 
waterways ran. It reminded me of a scene I saw once near 
Cabinda, when on climbing to the top of a hill I suddenly 
found myself looking down on a sheet of violet pink more 
than a mile long and half a mile wide. This was caused by 
a climbing plant having taken possession of a valley full 
•of trees, whose tops it had reached and then spread and 
interlaced itself over them, to burst into profuse glorious 
laburnum-shaped bunches of flowers. 

After taking some careful compass bearings for future use 
regarding the Rumby and Omon range of mountains, which 
were clearly visible and which look fascinatingly like my 
beloved Sierra del Cristal, I turned my face to the wall of 
Mungo, and continued the ascent. The sun, which was blazing, 
was reflected back from the rocks in scorching rays. But 
it was more bearable now, because its heat was tempered by a 
¦bitter wind. 

The slope becoming steeper, I gradually made my wa}' 
towards the left until I came to a great lane, as neatly walled 
with rock as if it had been made with human hands. It runs 
down the mountain face, nearly vertically in places and at stiff" 
angles always, but it was easier going up this lane than on 
the outside rough rock, because the rocks in it had been 
smoothed by mountain torrents during thousands of wet 
seasons, and the walls protected one from the biting wind, a 
wind that went through me, for I had been stewing for nine 
months and more in tropic and equatorial swamps. 

Up this lane I went to the very top of the mountain wall, 



XV A SUBLIME SCENE 577 

and then, to my surprise, found myself facing a great, hillocky, 
rock-encumbered plain, across the other side of which rose the 
mass of the peak itself, not as a single cone, but as a wall 
surmounted by several, three being evidentl}- the highest 
among them. 

I started along the ridge of my wall, and went to its 
highest part, that to the S.W., intending to see what I could 
of the view towards the sea, and then to choose a place for 
camping in for the night. 

When I reached the S.W. end, looking westwards I saw 
the South Atlantic down below, like a plain of frosted 
silv^er. Out of it, barely twenty miles away, rose Fernando 
Po to its 10,190 feet with that majestic grace peculiar to a 
volcanic island. Immediately below me, some 10,000 feet 
or so, lay Victoria with the forested foot-hills of Mungo Mah 
Lobeh encircling it as a diadem, and Ambas Bay gemmed with 
rocky islands lying before it. On my left away S.E. was the 
glorious stretch of the Cameroon estuary, with a line of white 
cloud lying very neatly along the course of Cameroon River. 

In one of the chasms of the mountain wall that I had come 
up — in the one furthest to the north — there was a thunderstorm 
brewing, seemingly hanging on to, or streaming out of the 
mountain side, a soft billowy mass of dense cream-coloured 
cloud, with flashes of golden lightnings playing about in it 
ith soft growls of thunder. Surely Mungo Mah Lobeh him- 
self, of all the thousands he annually turns out, never made 
one more lovely than this. Soon the white mists rose from 
the mangrove-swamp, and grew rose-colour in the light of 
the setting sun, as they swept upwards over the now purple 
high forests. In the heavens, to the north, there was a rain- 
bow, vivid in colour, one arch of it going behind the peak, 
the other sinking into the mist sea below, and this mist sea 
rose and rose towards me, turning from pale rose-colour to 
lavender, and where the shadow of the Mungo lay across it, to 
a dull leaden grey. It was soon at my feet, blotting the under- 
\vorld out, and soon came flowing over the wall top at its 
lowest parts, stretching in great spreading rivers over the 
crater plain, and then these coalescing ever}thing was shut 
out save the two summits : that of Cameroon close to 

P P 



578 THE GREAT PEAK OF CAMEROONS chap. I 

me, and that of Clarence away on Fernando Po. These two 
stood out alone, like great island masses made of iron rising 
from a formless, silken sea. 

The space around seemed boundless, and there was in it 
neither sound nor colour, nor anything with form, save those 
two terrific things. It was like a vision, and it held me spell- 
bound, as I stood shivering on the rocks with the white mist 
round my knees until into my wool-gathering mind came 
the memory of those anything but sublime men of mine ; and 
I turned and scuttled off along the rocks like an agitated ant 
left alone in a dead universe. 

I soon found the place where I had come up into the crater 
plain and went down over the wall, descending with twice 
the rapidity, but ten times the scratches and grazes, of the 
ascent. 

I picked up the place where I had left Xenia, but no Xenia 
was there, nor came there any answer to my bush call for him, 
so on I went down towards the place where, hours ago, I had 
left the men. The mist was denser down below, but to my joy 
it was warmer than on the summit of the wind-swept wall. 

I had nearly reached the foot of this wall and made my 
mind up to turn in for the night under a rock, when I heard 
a melancholy croak away in the mist to the left. I went to- 
wards it and found Xenia lost on his own account, and dis- 
tinctly quaint in manner, and then I recollected that I had 
been warned Xenia is slightly crazy. Nice situation this : 
a madman on a mountain in the mist. Xenia, I found, had 
no longer got my black bag, but in its place a lid of a saucepan 
and an empty lantern. To put it mildly, this is not the sort of 
outfit the R.G.S. Hints to Travellers would recommend for 
African exploration. Xenia reported that he gave the bag to 
Black boy, who shortly afterwards disappeared, and that he 
had neither seen him nor any of the others since, and didn't ex- 
pect to this side of Srahmandazi. In a homicidal state (^f 
mind, I made tracks for the missing ones followed b\' 
Xenia. I thought mayhap they had grown on to the rocks 
they had sat upon so long, but presently, just before it became 
quite dark, we picked up the place we had left them in and 
found there only an empty soda-water bottle. Xenia poured out 



FINDING CAMP 579 



muddled mass of observations to the effect that "they got 
right too much about them water palaver." 

I did not linger to raise a monument to them, but I said 
I wished they were in a condition to require one, and we went 
n over our hillocks with more confidence now that we knew 
e had stuck well to our unmarked track. 

The moving Moon went up the sky, 

And nowhere did abide : 
Softly she was going up, 

And a star or two beside." 

Only she was a young and inefficient moon, and although we 
were below the thickest of the mist band, it was dark. 

Finding our own particular hole in the forest wall was 
about as easy as finding " our particular rabbit hole in an un- 
known hay-field in the dark," and the attempt to do so af- 
forded us a great deal of varied exercise. I am obliged to 
be guarded in my language, because my feelings now are only 
down to one degree below boiling point. The rain now began 
to fall, thank goodness, and I drew the thick ears of grass 
through my parched lips as I stumbled along over the rugged 
lumps of rock hidden under the now waist-high jungle grass. 

Our camp hole was pretty easily distinguishable by day- 
light, for it was on the left-hand side of one of the forest 
tongues, the grass land running down like a lane between two 
tongues here, and just over the entrance three conspicuously 
high trees showed. But we could not see these " picking-up " 
points in the darkness, so I had to keep getting Xenia to 
strike matches, and hold them in his hat while I looked at 
the compass. Presently we came full tilt up against a belt of 
trees which I knew from these compass obser\'ations was our 
tongue of forest belt, and I fired a couple of revolver shots 
into it, whereabouts I judged our camp to be. 

This was instantly answered by a yell from human voices 
in chorus, and towards that yell in a slightly amiable — a very 
slightly amiable — state of mind I went. 

I will draw a veil over the scene, particularly over my 
observations to those men. They did not attempt to deny 
their desertion, but they attempted to explain it, each one 

P P 2 



58o THE GREAT PEAK OF CAMEROONS CH, xxv 

saying that it was not he but the other boy who " got fright 
too much." 

As the black sergeant was nominally our guide, I asked 
him for his views on the situation. He said that when he got 
back to the camp the boys were drunk, which I daresay was 
true, but left the explanation of why he went back out of the 
affair. I pointed this out, and Bum, the Head man, charged 
into the gap with the statement that Black boy had got " sick 
in him tummick, he done got fever bad bad too much," and 
so he and the rest had to escort Black boy back to camp. 
This statement, though a contribution to the knowledge of 
the reason of the return, was manifestly untrue ; because 
Black boy, who did not know English, sat laughing and 
talking at the fire during this moving recital of his woes. 
Those men should have rehearsed their explanations, and then 
Black boy could have done a good rousing writhe to. support 
poor Bum's statement. 

I closed the palaver promptly with a brief but lurid sketch 
of my opinion on the situation, and ordered food, for not 
having had a thing save that cup of sour claret since 6.30 A.M., 
and it being now 1 1 P.M., I felt sinkings. Then arose another 
beautiful situation before me. It seems when Cook and 
Monrovia got back into camp this morning Master Cook was 
seized with one of those attacks of a desire to manage things 
that produce such awful results in the African servant, and 
sent all the beef and rice down to Buea to be cooked, because 
there was no water here to cook it. Therefore the men have 
got nothing to eat. I had a few tins of my own food and so 
gave them some, and they became as happy as kings in a 
few minutes, listening and shouting over the terrible adventures 
of Xenia, who is posing as the Hero of the Great Cameroon. 
I get some soda-water from the two bottles left and some 
tinned herring, and then write out two notes to Herr Liebert 
asking him to send me three more demijohns of water, and 
some beef and rice from the store, promising faithfully to pay 
for them on my return. 

I would not prevent those men of mine from going up that 
peak above me after their touching conduct to-day. Oh ! no : 
not for worlds, dear things. 



CHAPTER XXVI 

THE GREAT PEAK OF CAMEROON'S— (6V?«//««^d?) 

Setting forth how the Voyager for a second time reaches the S.E. crater, 
with some account of the pleasures incidental to camping out in the 
said crater. 

September 24///. — Lovely morning, the grey-white mist in the 
forest makes it like a dream of Fairyland, each moss-grown tree 
stem heavily gemmed with dewdrops. At 5.30 I stir the boys, 
for Sasu, the sergeant, says he must go back to his military 
duties. The men think we are all going back with him as he is 
our only guide, but I send three of them down with orders to go 
back to Victoria — two being of the original set I started with. 
They are surprised and disgusted at being sent home, but they 
have got " hot foot," and something wrong in the usual seat 
of African internal disturbances, their " tummicks," and I am 
not thinking of starting a sanatorium for abdominally- 
afflicted Africans in that crater plain above. Black boy is 
the other boy returned, I do not want another of his attacks. 

They go, and this leaves me in the forest camp with Kefalla, 
Xenia, and Cook, and we start expecting the water sent for 
by Monrovia boy yesterday forenoon. There are an abomin- 
able lot of bees about ; they do not give one a moment's peace, 
getting beneath the waterproof sheets over the bed, and pre- 
tending they can't get out and forthwith losing their tempers, 
which is imbecile, because the whole four sides of the affair 
are broad open. 

The ground, bestrewn with leaves and dried wood, is a mass 
of large flies rather like our common house-fly, but both but- 
terflies and beetles seem scarce ; but I confess I do not feel up 



S82 THE GREAT PEAK OF CAMEROONS chap. 

to hunting much after yesterday's work, and deem it advisable 
to rest. 

My face and particularly my lips are a misery to me, having 
been blistered all over by yesterday's sun, and last night I 
inadvertently whipped the skin all off one cheek with the 
blanket, and it keeps on bleeding, and, horror of horrors, there 
is no tea until that water comes. 

I wish I had got the mountaineering spirit, for then I could 
say, " I'll never come to this sort of place again, for you can 
get all you want in the Alps." I have been told this by my 
mountaineering friends — I have never been there — and that 
you can go and do all sorts of stupendous things all day, and 
come back in the evening to table d'hote at an hotel ; but as 
I have not got the mountaineering spirit, I suppose I shall 
come fooling into some such place as this as soon as I get the 
next chance. 

About 8.30, to our delight, the gallant Monrovia boy comes 
through the bush with a demijohn of water, and I get my tea, 
and give the men the only half-pound of rice I have and a 
tin of meat, and they eat, become merry, and chat over their 
absent companions in a scornful, scandalous way. Who cares 
for hotels now ? When one is in a delightful place like this, 
one must work, so off I go to the north into the forest, after 
giving the rest of the demijohn of water into the Monrovia 
boy's charge with strict orders it is not to be opened till my 
return. Quantities of beetles. 

A little after two o'clock I return to camp, after having 
wandered about in the forest and found three very deep holes, 
down which I heaved rocks and in no case heard a splash. In 
one I did not hear the rocks strike, owing to the great depth. 
I hate holes, and especially do I hate these African ones, for I 
am frequently falling, more or less, into them, and they will be 
my end. So far I have never fallen down a West Coast 
native gold mine, but I know people who have ; but all 
the other sorts I have tried, having pitched by day and night 
into those, from three to twelve feet deep, made by industrious 
indigenous ones, as Mrs. Gault calls them, digging out sand 
and earth to make the " swish " walls of their simple savage 
homes ; and also into those from twenty to thirty feet deep 



XXVI A BAD FALL 583 

with pointed stakes at the bottom, artfully disposed to impale 
the elephant and leopard of the South-West Coast. But 
my worst fall was into a disused Portuguese well of un- 
known depth at Cabinda. I " feel the place in frost>^ weather 
still," though I did not go down all the way, my descent being 
arrested by a collection of brushwood and rubbish, which had 
been cast into it, and which had hitched far down in the shaft. 
When I struck this subterranean wood raft, I thought — Saved ! 
The next minute it struck me that raft was sinking, and so it 
was, slowly and jerkily, but sinking all the same. I clapper- 
clawed round in the stuffy dark for something at the side to 
hang on to, and got some tough bush rope, just as I was con- 
vinced that my fate was an inglorious and inverted case of 
I Elijah, and I was being carried off, alive, to Shiol. 
[ The other demijohns of water have not arrived yet, and 
mure are getting anxious again because the men's food has 
Fnot come up, and they have been so exceedingly thirsty that 
they have drunk most of the water — not, however, since it has 
been in Monrovia's charge; but at 3.15 another boy comes 
through the bush with another demijohn of water. We 
receive him gladly, and ask him about the chop. He knows 
nothing about it. At 3.45 another boy comes through the 
bush with another demijohn of water ; we receive him kindly ; 
Jit does not know anything about the chop. At 4.10 another 
boy comes through the bush with another demijohn of water, 
and knowing nothing about the chop, we are civil to him, and 
that's all. 

A terrific tornado which has been lurking growling about 
then sits down in the forest and bursts, wrapping us up in a 
lively kind of fog, with its thunder, lightning, and rain. It 
was impossible to hear, or make one's self heard at the distance 
of even a few paces, because of the shrill squeal of the wind, 
the roar of the thunder, and the rush of the rain on the trees 
round us. It was not like having a storm burst over you in 
the least ; you felt you were in the middle of its engine-room 
\\ hen it had broken down badly. After half an hour or so the 
thunder seemed to lift itself off the ground, and the lightning 
¦came in sheets, instead of in great forks that flew like flights of 
spears among the forest trees. The thunder, however, had not 



584 THE GREAT PEAK OF CAMEROONS chap. 

settled things amicably with the mountain ; it roared its rage 
at Mungo, and Mungo answered back, quivering with a rage 
as great, under our feet. One feels here as if one were con- 
stantly dropping, unasked and unregarded, among painful and 
violent discussions between the elemental powers of the uni- 
verse. Mungo growls and swears in thunder at the sky, and 
sulks in white mist all the morning, and then the sky answers 
back, hurling down lightnings and rivers of water, with total dis- 
regard of Mungo's visitors. The way the water rushes down from 
the mountain wall through the watercourses in the jungle just 
above, and then at the edge of the forest spreads out into a 
sheet of water that is an inch deep, and that flies on past us 
in miniature cascades, trying the while to put out our fire, 
and so on, is — quite interesting. (I exhausted my vocabulary 
on those boys yesterday.) 

As soon as we saw what we were in for, we had thrown 
dry wood on to the fire, and it blazed just as the rain came 
down, so with our assistance it fought a good fight with its 
fellow elements, spitting and hissing like a wild cat. It could 
have managed the water fairly well, but the wind came, very 
nearly putting an end to it by carrying away its protecting 
bough house, which settled on " Professor " Kefalla, who burst 
out in a lecture on the foolishness of mountaineering and the 
quantity of devils in this region. Just in the midst of these 
joys another boy came through the bush with another demi- 
john of water. We did not receive him even civilly ; I burst 
out laughing, and the boys went off in a roar, and we shouted 
at him, " Where them chop ? " " He live for come," said the 
boy, and we then gave him a hearty welcome and a tot of rum, 
and an hour afterwards two more boys appear, one carrying a 
sack of rice and beef for the men, and the other a box for me 
from Herr Liebert, containing a luxurious supply of biscuits, 
candles, tinned meats, and a bottle of wine and one of beer. 

We are now all happy, though exceeding damp, and the 
boys sit round the fire, with their big iron pot full of beef and 
rice, busy cooking while they talk. Wonderful accounts of 
our prodigies of valour I hear given by Xenia, and terrible 
accounts of what they have lived through from the others, 
and the men who have brought up the demijohns and the 



XXVI 



WATERPROOF BEDS 58> 



chop recount the last news from Buea. James's wife has run 
away again, 

I have taken possession of two demijohns of water and the 
rum demijohn, arranging them round the head of my bed. The 
worst of it is those tiresome bees, as soon as the rain is over, 
come in hundreds after the rum, and frighten me continually. 
The worthless wretches get intoxicated on what they can suck 
from round the cork, and then they stagger about on the ground 
buzzing malevolently. When the boys have had the chop 
and a good smoke, we turn to and make up the loads for to- 
morrow's start up the mountain, and then, after more hot tea,. 
I turn in on my camp bed — listening to the soft sweet murmur 
of the trees and the pleasant, laughing chatter of the men. 

September 2 5^//. — Rolled off the bed twice last night into 
the bush. The rain has washed the ground away from under 
its off legs, so that it tilts ; and there were quantities of large 
longicorn beetles about during the night — the sort with spiny 
backs ; they kept on getting themselves hitched on to my 
blankets and when I wanted civilly to remove them they made 
a horrid fizzing noise and showed fight — cocking their horns in 
a defiant way. I awake finally about 5 a.m. soaked through 
to the skin. The waterproof sheet has had a label sewn 
to it, so is not waterproof, and it has been raining softly but 
amply for hours. I wish the camp bed had had a ticket sewn 
on, and nothing but my profound admiration for Kaiser Wil- 
helm. Emperor of Germany, its owner, prevents me from mak- 
ing holes in it, for it sags in the middle, and constitutes an 
excellent rain-water cistern. I have been saying things to 
it, during the night, about this habit, but the bed is so imbued 
w ith the military spirit that it says, " My orders are to be 
waterproof, and waterproof I'll be " : so I decide to leave it 
behind, carefully drying it and protecting it as much as 
possible. 

About seven we are off again, with Xenia, head man,, 
cook, Monrovia boy and a labourer from Buea — the water- 
carriers have gone home after having had their morning 
chop. 

We make for the face of the wall by a route to the left of 
that I took on Monday, and when we are clambering up it^ 



586 THE GREAT PEAK OF CAMEROONS chap. 

some 600 feet above the hillocks, swish comes a terrific rain- 
storm at us accompanied by a squealing, bitter cold wind. 
We can hear the roar of the rain on the forest below, and 
hoping to get above it we keep on ; hoping, however, is vain. 
The dense mist that comes with it prevents our seeing more 
than two yards in front, and we get too far to the left. I am 
behind the band to-day, severely bringing up the rear, and 
about I o'clock I hear shouts from the vanguard and when I 
:get up to them I find them sitting on the edge of one of the 
clefts or scars in the mountain face. 

I do not know how these quarry-like chasms have been 
formed. They both look alike from below — the mountain wall 
¦comes down vertically into them — and the bottom of this one 
slopes forward, so that if we had had the misfortune when a 
little lower down to have gone a little further to the left, we 
should have got on to the bottom of it, and should have found 
•ourselves walled in on three sides, and had to retrace our 
steps ; as it is we have just struck its right-hand edge. And 
fortunately, the mist, thick as it is, has not been sufficiently 
thick to lead the men to walk over it ; for had they done so 
they would have got killed, as the cliff arches in under so 
that we look straight into the bottom of the scar some 200 
•or 300 feet below, when there is a split in the mist. The sides 
and bottom are made of, and strewn with, white, moss- 
grown masses of volcanic cinder rock, and sparsely shrubbed 
with gnarled trees which have evidently been under fire — one 
-of my boys tells me from the burning of this face of the 
mountain by " the Major from Calabar " during the previous 
dry season. 

We keep on up a steep grass-covered slope, and finally 
reach the top of the wall. The immense old crater floor 
before us is to-day the site of a seething storm, and the peak 
itself quite invisible. My boys are quite demoralised by the 
cold. I find most of them have sold the blankets I gave 
them out at Buana ; and those who have not sold them have 
left them behind at Buea, from laziness perhaps, but more 
possibly from a confidence in their powers to prevent us 
getting so far. 

I believe if I had collapsed too — the cold tempted me to do 



XXVI COLD TOO MUCH 587 

so as nothing else can — they would have lain down and died 
in the cold sleety rain. 

I sight a clump of gnarled sparsely-foliaged trees be- 
draped heavily with lichen, growing in a hollow among the 
rocks ; thither I urge the men for shelter and they go 
like storm-bewildered sheep. My bones are shaking in my 
skin and my teeth in my head, for after the experience I had 
had of the heat here on Monday I dared not clothe myself 
heavily. 

The men stand helpless under the trees, and I hastily take 
the load of blankets Herr Liebert lent us off a boy's back 
and undo it, throwing one blanket round each man, and 
opening my umbrella and spreading it over the other blankets. 
Then I give them a tot of rum apiece, as they sit huddled in 
their blankets, and tear up a lot of the brittle, rotten 
wood from the trees and shrubs, getting horrid thorns into my 
hands the while, and set to work getting a fire with it and the 
driest of the moss from beneath the rocks. By the aid of it 
and Xenia, who soon revived, and a carefully scraped up 
candle and a box of matches, the fire soon blazes, Xenia hold- 
ing a blanket to shelter it, while I, with a cutlass, chop 
stakes to fix the blankets on, so as to make a fire tent. 

The other boys now revive, and I hustle them about to 
make more fires, no easy work in the drenching rain, but 
work that has got to be done. We soon get three well 
alight, and then I clutch a blanket — a wringing wee blanket, 
but a comfort — and wrapping myself round in it, issue orders 
for wood to be gathered and stored round each fire to dr}-, 
and then stand over cook while he makes the men's already 
cooked chop hot over our first fire, when this is done getting 
him to make me tea, or as it more truly should be called, 
soup, for it contains bits of rice and beef, and the general 
taste of the affair is wood smoke. 

Kefalla by this time is in lecturing form again, so my 
mind is relieved about him. although he says, " Oh ma ! 
It be cold, cold too much. Too much cold kill we black 
man, all same for one as too much sun kill you white man. 
Oh ma ! . . . ," &c. I tell him they have only got them- 
selves to blame ; if they had come up with me on Monday 



588 THE GREAT PEAK OF CAMEROONS chap. 

we should have been hot enough, and missed this storm of 
rain. 

When the boys have had their chop, and are curHng 
themselves up comfortably round their now blazing fires, 
Xenia must needs start a theory that there is a better place 
than this to camp in ; he saw it when he was with an unsuc- 
cessful expedition that got as far as this. Kefalla is fool 
enough to go off with him to find this place ; but they 
soon return, chilled through again, and unsuccessful in their 
quest. I gather that they have been to find caves. I wish 
they had found caves, for I am not thinking of taking out 
a patent for our present camp site. 

The bitter wind and swishing rain keep on. We are to a 
certain extent sheltered from the former, but the latter is of 
that insinuating sort that nothing but a granite wall would 
keep off. 

Just at sundown, however, as is usual in this country, the 
rain ceases for a while, and I take this opportunity to get out 
my seaman's jersey, and retire up over the rocks to have my 
fight into it unobserved. It is a mighty fight to get that 
thing on, or off, at the best of times, but to-day it is worse 
than usual, because I have to get it on over my saturated 
cotton blouse, and verily at one time I fear I shall 
have to shout for assistance or be suffocated, so firmly does it 
get jammed over my head. But I fight my way unaided 
into it, and then turn to survey our position, and find I 
have been carrying on my battle on the brink of an abysmal 
hole whose mouth is concealed among the rocks and 
scraggly shrubs just above our camp. I heave rocks down 
it, as we in Fanland would offer rocks to an Ombwiri, and 
hear them go " knickity-knock, like a pebble in Carisbrook 
well." I think I detect a far away splash, but it was an 
awesome way down. This mountain seems set with these 
man-traps, and " some day some gentleman's nigger " will get 
killed down one. 

The mist has now cleared away from the peak, but lies all 
over the lower world, and I take bearings of the three highest 
cones or peaks carefully. Then I go away over the rocky 
ground southwards, and as I stand looking round, the mist 



XXVI CAMP FIRES 5^9 

sea below is cleft in twain for a few minutes by some fierce 
down-draught of wind from the peak, and I get a strange, 
clear, sudden view right down to Ambas Bay. It is just 
like looking down from one world into another. I think 
how Odin hung and looked down into Xifelheim, and then of 
how hot, how deliciously hot, it was away. down there, and 
then the mist closes over it. I shiver and go back to 
camp, for night is coming on, and I know my men will 
require intellectual support in the matter of procuring 
firewood. 

The men are now quite happy ; over each fire they have 
made a tent with four sticks with a blanket on, a blanket that 
is too wet to burn, though I have to make them brace the 
blankets to windward for fear of their scorching. 

The wood from the shrubs here is of an aromatic and a 
resinous nature, which sounds nice, but it isn't ; for the volumes 
of smoke it gives off when burning are suffocating, and the boys, 
who sit almost on the fire, are every few moments scrambling 
to their feet and going apart to cough out smoke, like so many 
novices in training for the profession of fire-eaters. However, 
they soon find that if they roll themselves in their blankets, 
and lie on the ground to windward they escape most of the 
smoke. They have divided up into three parties : Kefalla 
and Xenia, who have struck up a great friendship, take the 
lower, the most exposed fire. Head man. Cook, and Monrovia 
Boy have the upper fire, and the labourer has the middle one 
— he being an outcast for medical reasons. They are all 
steaming away and smoking comfortably. 

I form the noble resolution to keep awake, and rouse up any 
gentleman who may catch on fire during the night, a catas- 
trophe which is inevitable, and see to wood being put on the 
fires, so elaborately settle myself on my wooden chop-box, 
wherein I have got all the lucifers which are not in the 
soap-box. The very address on that chop-box, ought to 
keep its inside dry and up to duty, for it is "An den 
Hochwohlgebornen Freiherrn von Stettin," &c. Owing to there 
not being a piece of ground the size of a sixpenny piece level 
in this place, the arrangement of my box camp takes time, but 
at last it is done to my complete satisfaction, close to a tree 



590 THE GREAT PEAK OF CAMEROONS chap. 

trunk, and I think, as I wrap myself up in my two wet blankets 
and lean against my tree, what a good thing it is to know how 
to make one's self comfortable in a place like this. This tree 
stem is perfection, just the right angle to be restful to one's 
back, and one can rely all the time on Nature hereabouts not to 
let one get thoroughly effete from luxurious comfort, so I 
lazily watch and listen to Xenia and Kefalla at their fire 
hard by. 

They commence talking to each other on their different 
tribal societies ; Kefalla is a Vey, Xenia a Liberian, so in the 
interests of science I give them two heads of tobacco to 
stimulate their conversation. They receive them with tragic 
grief, having no pipe, so in the interests of science I undo my 
blankets and give them two out of my portmanteau ; then do 
myself up again and pretend to be asleep. I am rewarded 
by getting some interesting details, and form the opinion that 
both these worthies, in their pursuit of their particular ju-jus,, 
have come into contact with white prejudices, and are now 
fugitives from religious persecution. I also observe they have 
both their own ideas of happiness. Kefalla holds it lies in a 
warm shirt Xenia that it abides in warm trousers ; and every 
half-hour the former takes his shirt off, and holds it in the fire 
smoke, and then puts it hastily on ; and Xenia, who is the one 
and only trouser wearer in our band, spends fifty per cent, of 
the night on one leg struggling to get the other in or out of 
these garments, when they are either coming off to be 
warmed, or going on after warming. Those trousers of Xenia's 
have something wrong about them ; I don't pretend to under- 
stand the garment, never having gone in for that sort of thing 
myself, but it is my belief he slings them too high, with 
those braces, which more Aleinanni he wears. Anyhow, in 
season and out, they want taking off. Three mortal times 
to-day when on that wind- and rain-swept wall, the whole 
of us have been brought to a standstill by Xenia having 
to stand on one leg and do something to his peculiar vest- 
ments. It's a mercy he did not kill himself when he fell 
over while engaged in these operations among the rocks 
this afternoon — as it is, I see he has smashed the lantern glass 
again, so that I have to keep it under my blankets to- 



A DAMP BED 59^ 



prevent the candle getting blown out by this everlasting 
X.E. wind. 

There seem but few insects here. I have only got two 
moths to-night — one pretty one with white wings with little 
red spots on, like an old-fashioned petticoat such as an early 
Victorian-age lady would have worn — the other a sweet thing 
in silver. 

Then a horrid smell of burning negro interrupts my writing 
and I have to get up and hunt it down. After some trouble I 
find it is a spark in cook's hair, he sleeping the while sweetly. 
I rouse him, via his shins, and tell him to put himself out,, 
and he is grateful. 

My face is a misery to me, as soon as it dries it sets into a 
mask, and when I move it, it splits and bleeds. 

(Later, i.e., 2. 1 5 A.M.). I have been asleep against that abomin- 
able vegetable of a tree. It had its trunk covered with a soft 
cushion of moss, and pretended to be a comfort — a right angle 
to lean against, and a softly padded protection to the spine from 
wind, and all that sort of thing ; whereas the whole mortal time it 
was nothing in this wretched world but a water-pipe, to conduct 
an extra supply of water down my back. The water has simply 
streamed down it, and formed a nice little pool in a rocky 
hollow where I keep my feet, and I am chilled to the inner- 
most bone, so have to scramble up and drag my box to 
the side of Kefalla and Xenia's fire, feeling sure I have con- 
tracted a fatal chill this time. I scrape the ashes out of the 
fire into a heap, and put my sodden boots into them, and they 
hiss merrily, and I resolve not to go to sleep again. 5 A.M. — 
Have been to sleep twice, and have fallen oflf my box bodily 
into the fire in my wet blankets, and should for sure have put 
it out like a bucket of cold water had not Xenia and Kefalla 
been roused up by the smother I occasioned and rescued 
me — or the fire. It is not raining now, but it is bitter cold 
and cook is getting my tea. I give the boys a lot of hot tea 
with a big handful of sugar in, and they then get their own. 
food hot. 



CHAPTER XXVII 

THE GREAT PEAK OF CAMEROONS — {Continued) 

Setting forth how the Voyager attains the summit of Mungo Mah Lobeh, 
and descends therefrom to Victoria, to which is added some remarks 
on the natural history of the West Coast porter, and the native 
methods of making fire. 

September 26th. — The weather is undecided and so am I, 
for I feel doubtful about going on in this weather, but I do 
not like to give up the peak after going through so much for 
it. The boys being dry and warm with the fires have 
forgotten their troubles. However, I settle in my mind to 
keep on, and ask for volunteers to come with me, and Bum, 
the head man, and Xenia announce their willingness. I put 
two tins of meat and a bottle of Herr Liebert's beer into the 
little wooden box, and insist on both men taking a blanket 
apiece, much to their disgust, and before six o'clock we are off 
over the crater plain. It is a broken bit of country with rock 
mounds sparsely overgrown with tufts of grass, and here and 
there are patches of boggy land, not real bog, but damp 
places where grow little clumps of rushes, and here and there 
among the rocks sorely-afflicted shrubs of broom, and the 
yellow-flowered shrub I have mentioned before, and quantities 
of very sticky heather, feeling when you catch hold of it as if 
it had been covered with syrup. One might fancy the entire 
race of shrubs was dying out ; for one you see partially alive 
there are twenty skeletons which fall to pieces as you brush 
past them. 

It is downhill the first part of the way, that is to say, the 
trend of the land is downhill, for be it down or up, the details 



CH. XXVII DESERTION 593 

of it are rugged mounds and masses of burnt-out lava rock. 
It is evil going, but perhaps not quite so evil as the lower 
hillocks of the great wall where the rocks are hidden beneath 
long slippery grass. VVe wind our way in between the 
mounds, or clamber over them, or scramble along their sides 
impartially. The general level is then flat, and then comes a 
rise towards the peak wall, so we steer N.N.E. until we 
strike the face of the peak, and then commence a stiff 
rough climb. We are all short of breath, but I do not think 
from the altitude ; my shortness arises from a cold I have got, 
and my men's from too much breakfast, I fancy. 

We keep as straight as we can, but get driven at an angle 
by the strange ribs of rock which come straight down. These 
are most tiresome to deal with, getting worse the higher we 
go, and so rotten and weather-eaten are they that they crumble 
into dust and fragments under our feet. Head man gets half 
a dozen falls, and when we are about three parts of the way 
up Xenia gives in. The cold and the climbing are too much 
for him, so I make him wrap himself up in his blanket, which 
he is glad enough of now, and shelter in a depression under 
one of the many rock ridges, and head man and I go 
on. When we are some 600 feet higher the iron-grey mist 
comes curling and waving round the rocks above us, like some 
savage monster defending them from intruders, and I again 
debate whether I was justified in risking the men, for it is a 
risk for them at this low temperature, with the evil weather I 
know, and they do not know, is coming on. But still we 
have food and blankets with us enough for them, and the 
camp in the plain below they can reach all right, if the worst 
comes to the worst ; and for myself — well — that's my own 
affair, and no one will be a ha'porth the worse if I am dead in 
an hour. So I hitch myself on to the rocks, and take bearings, 
particularly bearings of Xenia's position, who, I should say, 
has got a tin of meat and a flask of rum with him, and then 
turn and face the threatening mist. It rises and falls, and sends 
out arm-like streams towards us, and then Bum, the head man, 
decides to fail for the third time to reach the peak, and I 
leave him wrapped in his blanket with the bag of provisions, 
and go on alone into the wild, grey, shifting, whirling mist 

Q Q 



594 THE GREAT PEAK OF CAMEROONS chap. 

above, and soon find myself at the head of a rock ridge in a 
narrowish depression, walled by massive black walls which 
show fitfully but firmly through the mist. 

I can see three distinctly high cones before me, and then 
the mist, finding it cannot drive me back easily, proceeds to 
desperate methods, and lashes out with a burst of bitter wind, 
and a sheet of blinding, stinging rain. I make my way up 
through it towards a peak which I soon see through a tear 
in the mist is not the highest, so I angle off and go up 
the one to the left, and after a desperate fight reach the 
cairn — only, alas ! to find a hurricane raging and a fog in full 
possession, and not a ten yards' view to be had in any direction. 
Near the cairn on the ground are several bottles, some of 
which the energetic German officers, I suppose, had emptied in 
honour of their achievement, an achievement I bow down 
before, for their pluck and strength had taken them here in a 
shorter time by far than mine. I do not meddle with any- 
thing, save to take a few specimens and to put a few more 
rocks on the cairn, and to put in among them my card, merely 
as a civility to Mungo, a civility his Majesty will soon turn i 
into pulp. Not that it matters — what is done is done. j 

The weather grows worse every minute, and no sign of any 
clearing shows in the indigo sky or the wind-reft mist. The 
rain lashes so fiercely I cannot turn my face to it and breathe, 
the wind is all I can do to stand up against. 

Verily I am no mountaineer, for there is in me no exultation, 
but only a deep disgust because the weather has robbed me 
of my main object in coming here, namely to get a good 
view and an idea of the way the unexplored mountain range 
behind Calabar trends. 

No doubt had the weather been clear I should have been 
able to do this well, for the whole Omon range must be visible 
from this great summit of Cameroons, which rises at right 
angles to it. For when I was in Okyon close to this Rumby 
or Omon range, Mungo's great mass was perfectly visible 
looking seawards. My only consolation is that my failure to 
do this bit of work is not my own fault, save as regards 
my coming here at the wrong season, which matter was also 
beyond my control. Moreover there was just the chance, as 



xxvil ON THE SUMMIT 595 

this is the tornado season, and not the real wet, that I 
might have had a clear day on the peak. I took my chance 
and it failed, so there's nothing to complain about. 

Comforting myself with these reflections, I start down to 
find Bum, and do so neatly, and then together we scramble 
down carefully among the rotten black rocks, intent on finding 
Xenia. The scene is very grand. At one minute we can 
see nothing save the black rocks and cinders under foot ; the 
next the wind-torn mist separates now in one direction, 
now in another, showing us always the same wild scene of 
great black cliffs, rising in jagged peaks and walls around and 
above us. I think this walled cauldron we had just left 
i is really the highest crater on Mungo.^ 

We soon become anxious about Xenia, for this is a fearfully 
easy place to lose a man in such weather, but just as we get 
below the thickest part of the pall of mist, I observe a doll- 
sized figure, standing on one leg taking on or off its trousers — 
our lost Xenia, beyond a shadow of a doubt, and we go down 
direct to him. 

When we reach him we halt, and I give the two men one of 
the tins of meat, and take another and the bottle of beer my- 
self, and then make a hasty sketch of the great crater plain 
below us. At the further edge of the plain a great white cloud 

1 Since my return to England I have read Sir Richard Burton's account 
of his first successful attempt to reach the summit of the Great Cameroons 
in 1862. His companions were Herr Mann, the botanist, and Senor Calvo. 
Herr Mann claimed to have ascended the summit a few days Ijefore the 
two others joined him, but Burton seems to doubt this. The account he 
himself gives of the summit is : " Victoria mountain now proved to be a 
shell of a huge double crater opening to the south-eastward, where a 
tremendous torrent of fire had broken down the weaker wall, the whole 
interior and its accessible breach now lay before me plunging down in 
vertical cliff. The depth of the bowl may be 360 feet. The total 
diameter of the two, which are separated by a rough partition of lava, 
1,000 feet. . . . Not a blade of grass, not a thread of moss, breaks the 
gloom of this Plutonic pit, which is as black as Erebus, except where the 
fire has painted it red or yellow." This ascent was made from the west 
face. I got into the " Plutonic pit " through the S.E. break in its wall, 
and was the first English person to reach it from the S.E., the third of 
my nation, all told, to ascend the peak, and the twenty-eighth ascender 
according to my well-informed German friends. 

Q Q 2 



596 THE GREAT PEAK OF CAMEROONS chap. 

is coming up from below, which argues badly for our trip down 
the great wall to the forest camp, which I am anxious to reach 
before nightfall after our experience of the accommodation 
afforded by our camp in the crater plain last night. 

While I am sitting waiting for the men to finish their meal, 
I feel a chill at my back, as if some cold thing had settled 
there, and turning round, see the mist from the summit above 
coming in a wall down towards us. These mists up here, 
as far as my experience goes, are always preceded by a strange 
breath of ice-cold air — not necessarily a wind. 

Bum then draws my attention to a strange funnel-shaped 
thing coming down from the clouds to the north. A big 
waterspout, I presume : it seems to be moving rapidly N.E., 
and I profoundly hope it will hold that course, for we have 
quite as much as we can manage with the ordinary rain-water 
supply on this mountain, without having waterspouts to deal 
with. 

We start off down the mountain as rapidly as we can. Xenia 
is very done up, and Head man comes perilously near breaking 
his neck by frequent falls among the rocks ; my unlucky boots 
are cut through and through by the latter. When we get down 
towards the big crater plain, it is a race between us and the 
pursuing mist as to who shall reach the camp first, and the 
mist wins, but we have just time to make out the camp's 
exact position before it closes round us, so we reach it 
without any real difficulty. When we get there, about one 
o'clock, I find the men have kept the fires alight and Cook is 
asleep before one of them with another conflagration smoulder- 
ing in his hair. I get him to make me tea, while the others 
pack up as quickly as possible, and by two we are all off on 
our way down to the forest camp. 

The boys are nervous in their way of going down over the 
mountain wall. The misadventures of Cook alone would fill 
volumes. Monrovia boy is out and away the best man at 
this work. Just as we reach the high jungle grass, down comes 
the rain and up comes the mist, and we have the worst time 
we have had during our whole trip, in our endeavours to find 
the hole in the forest that leads to our old camp. 

Unfortunately, I must needs go in for acrobatic performances 



XXVII DESCENT 597 

on the top of one of the highest, rockiest hillocks. Poising 
myself on one leg I take a rapid slide sideways, ending in a 
very showy leap backwards which lands me on the top of the 
lantern I am carrying to-day, among miscellaneous rocks. 
There being fifteen feet or so of jungle grass above me, all the 
dash and beauty of my performance are as much thrown away 
as I am, for my boys are too busy on their own accounts in 
the mist to miss me. After resting some little time as I fell, 
and making and unmaking the idea in my mind that I am 
killed, I get up, clamber elaborately to the top of the next 
hillock, and shout for the boys, and " Ma,'' " ma," comes 
back from my flock from various points out of the fog. I 
find Bum and Monrovia boy, and learn that during my absence 
Xenia, who always fancies himself as a path-finder, has taken 
the lead, and gone off somewhere with the rest. We shout 
and the others answer, and we join them, and it soon becomes 
evident to the meanest intelligence that Xenia had better have 
spent his time attending to those things of his instead of 
going in for guiding, for we are now right off the track we 
made through the grass on our up journey, and we proceed 
to have a cheerful hour or so in the wet jungle, ploughing 
hither and thither, trying to find our way. 

At last we pick up the top of a tongue of forest that we all 
feel is ours, but we — that is to say, Xenia and I, for the others go 
like lambs to the slaughter wherever they are led — disagree as 
to the path. He wants to go down one side of the tongue, I to 
go down the other, and I have my way, and we wade along, 
skirting the bushes that fringe it, trying to find our hole. I 
own I soon begin to feel shaky about having been right in 
the affair, but soon Xenia, who is leading, shouts he has got 
it, and we limp in, our feet sore with rugged rocks, and every- 
thing we have on, or in the loads, wringing wet, save the 
matches, which providentially I had put into my soap-box. 

Anything more dismal than the look of that desired camp 
when we reach it, I never saw. Pools of water everywhere. 
The fire-house a limp ruin, the camp bed I have been thinking 
fondly of for the past hour a water cistern. I tilt the water 
out of it, and say a few words to it regarding its hide-bound 
idiocy in obe)'ing its military instructions to be waterproof ; 



598 THE GREAT PEAK OF CAMEROONS chap. 

and then, while the others are putting up the fire-house, 
head man and I get out the hidden demijohn of rum, and the 
beef and rice, and I serve out a tot of rum each to the boys, 
who are shivering dreadfully, waiting for cook to get the fire. 
He soon does this, and then I have my hot tea and the men 
their hot food, for now we have returned to the luxury of two 
cooking pots. 

Their education in bush is evidently progressing, for they 
make themselves a big screen with boughs and spare blankets, 
between the wind and the fire-house, and I get Xenia to cut 
some branches, and place them on the top of my waterproof 
sheet shelter, and we are fairly comfortable again, and the 
boys quite merry and very well satisfied with themselves. 

Unfortunately the subject of their nightly debating society 
is human conduct, a subject ever fraught with dangerous 
elements of differences of opinion. They are busy discussing, 
with their mouths full of rice and beef, the conduct of an 
absent friend, who it seems is generally regarded by them as 
a spendthrift. " He gets plenty money, but he no have none no 
time." " He go frow it away on woman, and drink." " He 
no buy clothes." This last is evidently a very heavy accusa- 
tion, but Kefalla says, " What can a man buy with money 
better than them thing he like best ? " 

This philosophic outburst from Kefalla is followed by a 
wordy war on the innate worthlessness of woman and drink, 
the details of which I will not give, but presently there is an 
extra row, and Cook rushes to me, holding in one hand the 
cooking pot, into which I find I am expected to shove my 
nose, and then to sniff at his abominably dirty singlet. Kefalla 
comes hurrying after him talking sixteen to the dozen. It 
seems that during the discussion of a particularly knotty point 
on practical ethics, Kefalla fell out with Cook, and seizing 
his rum and water, threw it at him, and what has not 
gone over Cook has gone into his supper in the pot. Cook 
displays a lively horror of the smell of rum in his rice, which 
is, coming from him, a bit comic. I call up head man, who 
is as usual not attending to his duty of keeping the others in 
order, and we two talk the palaver and decide, in spite of 
Kefalla's specious arguments, that he is to pay Cook for both 



xxvji MAKING FIRE 599 

the rice and the rum, and the latter goes off content, vowing 
he'll have their value to the last farthing out of Kefalla. The 
men then gradually go off to sleep, breaking out now and 
again spasmodically into little rows over a pipe, and so on, 
until at last all is peace. 

There is a very peculiar look on the rotten wood on the 
ground round here ; to-night it has patches and flecks of 
iridescence like one sees on herrings or mackerel that have 
been kept too long. The appearance of this strange eerie 
light in among the bush is very weird and charming. I have 
seen it before in dark forests at night, but never so much of it. 

September 2yth. — Fine morning. It's a blessing my Pappen- 
heimers have not recognised what this means for the afternoon. 
We take things very leisurely. I know it's no good hurrying, 
we are dead sure of getting a ducking before we reach Buea 
anyhow, so we may as well enjoy ourselves while we can. 

I ask my boys how they would " make fire suppose no 
matches live." Not one of them thinks it possible to do so, 
" it pass man to do them thing suppose he no got live stick or 
matches." They are coast boys, all of them, and therefore 
used to luxury, but it is really remarkable how widely diffused 
matches are inland, and how very dependent on them these 
natives are. When I have been away in districts where 
they have not penetrated, it is exceedingly rarely that the 
making of fire has to be resorted to. I think I may say that in 
most African villages it has not had to be done for years and 
years, because when a woman's fire has gone out, owing to 
her having been out at work all day, she just runs into some 
neighbour's hut where there is a fire burning, and gives com- 
pliments, and picks up a burning stick from the fire and runs 
home. From this comes the compliment, equivalent to our 
" Oh ! don't go away yet," of " You come to fetch fire." This 
will be said to you all the way from Sierra Leone to Loanda, 
as far as I know, if you have been making yourself agreeable 
in an African home, even if the process may have extended 
over a day or so. The hunters, like the Fans, have to make 
fire, and do it now with a flint and steel ; but in districts where 
their tutor in this method — the flint-lock gun — is not available, 
they will do it with two sticks, not always like the American 



6oo THE GREAT PEAK OF CAMEROONS chap. 

Indians' fire-sticks. One stick is placed horizontally on the 
ground and the other twirled rapidly between the palms of 
the hands, but sometimes two bits of palm stick are worked in 
a hole in a bigger bit of wood, the hole stuffed round with the 
pith of a tree or with silk cotton fluff, and the two sticks 
rotated vigorously. Again, on one occasion I saw a Bakele 
woman make fire by means of a slip of rafia palm drawn 
very rapidly, to and fro, across a notch in another piece of 
rafia wood. In most domesticated tribes, like the Effiks 
or the Igalwa, if they are going out to their plantation, 
they will enclose a live stick in a hollow piece of a certain 
sort of wood, which has a lining of its interior pith left in it, 
and they will carry this " fire box " with them. Or if they are 
going on a long canoe journey, there is always the fire in the 
bow of the canoe put into a calabash full of sand, or failing 
that, into a bed of clay with a sand rim round it. 

By lo o'clock we are off down toBuea. At 10.15 it pours as 
it can here; by 10.17 we are all in our normal condition of 
bedraggled saturation, and plodding down carefully and cheer- 
fully among the rocks and roots of the forest, following the 
path we have beaten and cut for ourselves on our way up. It 
is dangerously slippery, particularly that part of it through the 
amomums, and stumps of the cut amomums are very likely 
to spike your legs badly — and, my friend, never, never, step 
on one of the amomum stems lying straight in front of you, 
particularly when they are soaking wet. Ice slides are nothing 
to them, and when you fall, as you inevitably must, because 
all the things you grab hold of are either rotten, or as brittle as 
Salviati glass-ware vases, you hurt yourself in no end of places, 
on those aforesaid cut amomum stumps. I am speaking from 
sad experiences of my own, amplified by observations on the 
experiences of my men. 

The path, when we get down again into the tree-fern region, 
is inches deep in mud and water, and several places where we 
have a drop of five feet or so over lumps of rock are worse 
work going down than we found them going up, especially 
when we have to drop down on to amomum stems. One abomin- 
able place, a V-shaped hollow, mud-lined, and with an immense 
tree right across it — a tree one of our tornadoes has thrown 



XXVII VEGETATION 6oi 

down since we passed — bothers the men badly, as they 
slip and scramble down, and then crawl under the tree and 
slip and scramble up with their loads. I say nothing about 
myself. I just take a flying slide of twenty feet or so and shoot 
flump under the tree on my back, and then deliberate whether 
it is worth while getting up again to go on with such a 
world ; but vanity forbids my dying like a dog in a ditch, and 
I scramble up, rejoining the others where they are standing 
on a cross-path : our path going S.E. by E., the other 
S.S.VV. Two men have already gone down the S.W. one, 
which I feel sure is the upper end of the path Sasu had led us to 
and wasted time on our first day's march ; the middle regions 
of which were, as we had found from its lower end, im- 
passable with vegetation. So after futile attempts to call 
the other two back, we go on down the S.E. one, and get 
shortly into a plantation of giant kokos mid-leg deep in most 
excellent fine mould — the sort of stuff you pay 6s. a load 
for in England to start a conservatory bed with. Upon 
my word, the quantities of things there are left loose in 
Africa, that ought to be kept in menageries and greenhouses 
and not let go wild about the country, are enough to try a 
saint. 

We then pass through a clump of those lovely great tree- 
ferns. The way their young fronds come up with a graceful 
curl, like the top of a bishop's staff, is a poem ; but being at 
present fractious, I will observe that they are covered with 
horrid spines, as most young vegetables are in Africa. But 
talking about spines, I should remark that nothing save that 
precious climbing palm — I never like to say what I feel about 
climbing palms, because one once saved my life — equals the 
strong bush rope which abounds here. It is covered with short, 
strong, curved thorns. It creeps along concealed by decora- 
tive vegetation, and ^ you get your legs twined in it, and of 
course injured. It festoons itself from tree to tree, and when 
your mind is set on other things, catches you under the chin, 
and gives you the appearance of having made a determined 
but ineffectual attempt to cut your throat with a saw. It 
whisks your hat off and grabs your clothes, and commits 
other iniquities too numerous to catalogue here. Years and 



6o2 THE GREAT PEAK OF CAMEROONS chap. 

years that bush rope will wait for a man's blood, and when he 
comes within reach it will have it. 

We are well down now among the tree-stems grown over 
with rich soft green moss and delicate filmy-ferns. I should 
think that for a botanist these south-eastern slopes of Mungo 
Mah Lobeh would be the happiest hunting grounds in all 
West Africa. 

The vegetation here is at the point of its supreme luxuri- 
ance, owing to the richness of the soil ; the leaves of trees and 
plants I recognise as having seen elsewhere are here far larger, 
and the undergrowth particularly is more rich and varied, far 
and away. Ferns seem to find here a veritable paradise. 
Everything, in fact, is growing at its best. I dare say a friend 
of mine who told me that near Victoria he had stuck his um- 
brella into the ground one evening, and found in the morning 
it was growing leaves all up its stick, was overstating the facts 
of the case ; still, if the incident could happen anywhere it 
would be in this region. 

We come to another fallen tree over another hole ; this tree 
we recognise as an old acquaintance near Buea, and I feel 
disgusted, for I had put on a clean blouse, and washed my 
hands in a tea-cupful of water in a cooking pot before leaving 
the forest camp, so as to look presentable on reaching Buea, 
and not give Herr Liebert the same trouble he had to recognise 
the white from the black members of the party that he said 
he had with the members of the first expedition to the peak ; 
and all I have got to show for my exertion that is clean or 
anything like dry is one cuft'over which I have been carrying 
a shawl. 

We double round a corner by the stockade of the station's 
plantation, and are at the top of the mud glissade — the new 
Government path, I should say — that leads down into the 
barrack-yard. 

In the wild exhilaration the view of the barrack-yard and 
the official residence gives me, I feel mightily inclined to 
toboggan down it, but I observe what I imagine to be 
Society on his verandah, and so forbear. But I find when 
I reach the verandah I might have done it, for Society was 
superintending making a back drain for surface water and it 



XXVII 



MUNGO'S ERUPTIONS 603 



was only Society's washing that was dr>'ing from the wash 
that had alarmed me. 

Our arrival brings Herr Liebert promptly on the scene, 
as kindly helpful and energetic as ever, and again anxious 
for me to have a bath. The men bring our saturated loads 
into my room, and after giving them their food and plenty of 
tobacco, I get my hot tea and change into the clothes I had 
left behind at Buea, and feeling once more fit for polite 
societ}', go out and find his Imperial and Royal Majesty's 
representative making a door, tightening the boards up with 
wedges in a very artful and professional way. We discourse 
on things in general and the mountain in particular. The 
great south-east face is now showing clear before us, the 
clearness that usually comes before nightfall. It looks again 
a vast wall, and I wish I were going up it again to-morrow. 
When " the Calabar major " set it on fire in the dry season it 
must have been a noble sight, and it is small wonder 
Cameroons thought " die grosse Kolonie " was going to be 
Pompeiied by an awful eruption from " der grossen Kolonie 
am grossten feuerspeienden Berg." 

The north-eastern edge of the slope of the mountain seems 
to me unbroken up to the peak. The great crater we went 
and camped in must be a very early one in the history of the 
mountain, and out of it the present summit seems to have 
been thrown up. From the sea face, the western, I am told the 
slope is continuous on the whole, although there are several 
craters on that side ; seventy craters all told are so far known 
on Mungo. 

The last reported eruption was in 1852, when signs of 
volcanic activity were observed by a captain who was passing 
at sea. The lava from this eruption must have gone down 
the western side, for I have come across no fresh lava beds in my 
wanderings on the other face. Herr Liebert has no confidence 
in the mountain whatsoever, and announces his intention of 
leaving Buea with the army on the first symptom of renewed 
volcanic activity. I attempt to discourage him from this 
energetic plan, pointing out to him the beauty of that Roman 
soldier at Pompeii who was found, centuries after that 
eruption, still at his post ; and if he regards that as merely 



6o4 THE GREAT PEAK OF CAMEROONS chap. 



mechanical virtue, why not pursue the plan of the elder 
Pliny ? Herr Liebert planes away at his door, and says it's 
not in his orders to make scientific observations on volcanoes 
in a state of eruption. When it is he'll do so — until it is, he 
most decidedly will not. He adds Pliny was an admiral and 
sailors are always as curious as cats. 

Buea seems a sporting place for weather even without 
volcanic eruptions, during the whole tornado season (there 
are two a year), over-charged tornadoes burst in the barrack 
yard. From the 14th of June till the 27th of August you 
never see the sun, because of the terrific and continuous wet 
season downpour. At the beginning and end of this cheerful 
period occurs a month's tornado season, and the rest of the year 
is dry, hot by day and cold by night. 

They are talking of making Buea into a sanatorium for the 
fever-stricken. I do not fancy somehow that it's a suitable 
place for a man who has got all the skin off his nerves with 
fever and quinine, and is very liable to chill ; but all Govern- 
ments on the Coast, English, German, or French, are stark mad 
on the subject of sanatoriums in high places, though the ex- 
perience they have had of them has clearly pointed out that 
they are valueless in West Africa, and a man's one chance is 
to get out to sea on a ship that will take him outside the 
three-mile-deep fever-belt of the coast. I hear grand accounts 
of other people who have gone up the peak, or tried to ; I 
gather most of the failures have been on account of the 
oorters. Herr Leist went up once from Babundi, and once 
this side. This side he failed because the three boys he had 
with him nearly died from the cold, and would have done so 
entirely if he and Herr Yost, who was with him, had not taken 
a. world of trouble to wrap them in blankets, and rub them, 
and then, on the boys' account, return down. My Head man, 
Bum, was with Herr Leist when he tried the sea face side from 
Babundi and he says they turned back then because it was 
too steep. I am sure the boys collapsed on that side too, if 
the truth were known. The only point I congratulate myself 
on is having got my men up so high, and back again, un- 
damaged ; but, as they said, I was a Father and a Mother to 
them, and a very stern though kind set of parents I have been. 



AFRICAN CARRIERS 605 



I cannot help thinking how very perfectly Kipling's obser- 
vations on the 'Oont fit the African carrier, for like the 
commissariat camel 



'E's a devil an' an ostrich an' an orphan child in one. 



also 



'E'll gall and chafe and lame and fight, 

"E smells most awful vile, 

'E'll lose hisself for ever, if you let him stray a mile. 

'E's game to graze the 'ole day long 

And 'owl the ole night through ; 

An' when he conies to greasy ground 

He splits hisself in two. 

Volumes upon volumes all illustrated with instantaneous 
photographs, and stiff with statistics, couldn't give you a truer 
account of him. For instance there are those two who strayed 
down that other path this afternoon, just coming down the 
slide in front of us, thank goodness ! for I was making up my 
mind it was my pater-maternal duty to go and find them. 

Herr Liebert gives me some interesting details about the first 
establishment of the station here and a bother he had with the 
plantations. Only a short time ago the soldiers brought him 
in some black wood spikes, which they had found with their 
feet, set into the path leading to the station's koko planta- 
tions, to the end of laming the men. On further investi- 
gation there were also found pits, carefully concealed with 
sticks and leaves, and the bottoms lined with bad thorns, also 
with malicious intent. The local Bakwiri chiefs were called in 
and asked to explain these phenomena existing in a countr}^ 
where peace had been concluded, and the chiefs said it was 
quite a mistake, those things had not been put there to kill 
soldiers, but only to attract their attention, to kill and injure 
their own fellow-tribesmen who had been stealing from plan- 
tations latterly. That's the West African's way entirely all 
along the Coast ; the " child-like " native will turn out and shoot 
you with a gun to attract your attention to the fact that a tribe 
you never heard of has been and stolen one of his ladies, whom 
you never saw. It's the sweet infant's wa}' of " rousing up 
popular opinion," but I do not admire or approve of it. If I 



6o6 THE GREAT PEAK OF CAMEROONS chap. 

am to be shot for a crime, for goodness sake let me commit 
the crime first. 

September 2%th. — Down to Victoria in one day, having no 
desire to renew and amplify my acquaintance with the mission 
station at Buana. It poured torrentially all the day through. 
I wonder what it is like here in the wet season ; something 
rather like the climate of the bed of the Atlantic, I presume. 

My boots are a dreadful nuisance to-day. I got them dried 
last night for the first time since I left Victoria, and they are 
like boards. Xenia brought them to me this morning and I 
congratulated him on being able to do without boots, but he 
proudly pointed to his distorted toe-joints, and informed me 
that once he always wore boots, better boots than mine, and 
boots that were " all shiny." I am sure Xenia has had a 
chequered past ; he is from the Republic of Liberia. I wonder 
whether he is a fugitive president or a defaulting bank mana- 
ger ? They have copies of all the high points of American 
culture there, 1 am told. 

The old chief at Buana was very nice to-day when we were 
coming through his territory. He came out to meet us with 
some of his wives. Both men and women among these 
Bakwiri are tattooed, or rather painted, on the body, face and 
arms, but as far as I have seen not on the legs. The patterns 
are handsome, and more elaborate than any such that I 
have seen. One man who came with the party had two 
figures of men tattooed on the region where his waistcoat 
should have been. I gave the chief some tobacco though he 
never begged for anything. He accepted it thankfully, and 
handing it to his wives preceded us on our path for about a 
mile and a half and then having reached the end of his 
district, we shook hands and parted. 

After all the rain we have had, the road was of course worse 
than ever, and as we were going through the forest towards the 
war hedge, I noticed a strange sound, a dull roar which made 
the light friable earth quiver under our feet, and I remembered 
with alarm the accounts Herr Liebert has given me of the 
strange ways of rivers on this mountain ; how by Buea, about 
200 metres below where you cross it, the river goes bodily 
down a hole. How there is a waterfall on the south face of 



XXVII SUBTERRANEAN RIVERS • 607 



the mountain that falls right into another hole, and is never seen 
again, any more than the Buea River is. How there are in 
certain places underground rivers, which though never seen can 
be heard roaring, and felt in the quivering earth under foot in 
the wet season, and so on. So I judged our present roar arose 
from some such phenomenon, and with feminine nervousness 
began to fear that the rotten water-logged earth we were on 
might give way, and engulf the whole of us, and we should 
never be seen again. But when we got down into our next 
ravine, the one where I got the fish and water-spiders on our 
way up, things explained themselves. The bed of this ravine 
was occupied by a raging torrent of great beauty, but alarming 
appearance to a person desirous of getting across to the other 
side of it. On our right hand was a waterfall of tons of water 
thirty feet high or so. The brown water wreathed with 
foam dashed down into the swirling pool we faced, and at the 
other edge of the pool, striking a ridge of higher rock, it flew 
up in a lovely flange some twelve feet or so high, before 
making another and a deeper spring to form a second water- 
fall. My men shouted to me above the roar that it was " a 
bad place." They never give me half the credit I deserve for 
seeing danger, and they said, " Water all go for hole down 
there, we fit to go too suppose we fall." " Don't fall," I yelled 
which was the only good advice I could think of to give them 
just then. 

Each small load had to be carried across by two men along 
a submerged ridge in the pool, where the water was only 
breast high. I had all I could do to get through it, 
though assisted by my invaluable Bakwiri staff. But no 
harm befell. Indeed we were all the better for it, or at all events 
cleaner. We met five torrents that had to be waded during the 
day ; none so bad as the first, but all superbly beautiful. 

When we turned our faces west\vards just above the wood 
we had to pass through before getting into the great road, the 
view of Victoria, among its hills, and fronted by its bay, was 
divinely lovely and glorious with colour. I left the boys here, 
as they wanted to rest, and to hunt up water, &c., among the 
little cluster of huts that are here on the right-hand side of 
the path, and I went on alone down through the wood, and 



6o8 THE GREAT PEAK OF CAMEROONS CH. xxvii. 

out on to the road, where I found my friend, the Alsatian 
engineer, still flourishing and busy with his cheery gang of 
wood-cutters. I made a brief halt here, getting some soda 
water. I was not anxious to reach Victoria before nightfall, 
but yet to reach it before dinner, and while I was chatting, 
my boys came through the wood and the engineer most kindly 
gave them a tot of brandy apiece, to which I owe their arrival in 
Victoria. I left them again resting, fearing I had overdone my 
arrangements for arriving just after nightfall and went on down 
that road which was more terrible than ever now to my bruised, 
weary feet, but even more lovely than ever in the dying light 
of the crimson sunset, with all its dark shadows among the trees 
begemmed with countless fire-flies — and so safe into Victoria 
— sneaking up the Government House hill by the private path 
through the Botanical Gardens. 

Idabea, the steward, turned up, and I asked him to let me 
have some tea and bread and butter, for I was dreadfully 
hungry. He rushed off, and I heard tremendous operations 
going on the room above. In a few seconds water poured freely 
down through the dining-room ceiling. It was bath palaver 
again. The excellent Idabea evidently thought it was severely 
wanted, more wanted than such vanities as tea. Fortunately, 
Herr von Lucke was away down in town, looking after duty 
as usual, so I was tidy before he returned to dinner. When 
he returned he had the satisfaction a prophet should feel. I 
had got half-drowned, and I had got an awful cold, the most 
awful cold in the head of modern times, I believe, but he was 
not artistically exultant over my afflictions. 

My men having all reported themselves safe I went to my 
comfortable rooms, but could not turn in, so fascinating was 
the warmth and beauty down here ; and as I sat on the verandah 
overlooking Victoria and the sea, in the dim soft light of 
the stars, with the fire-flies round me, and the lights of 
Victoria away below, and heard the soft rush of the Lukola 
River, and the sound of the sea-surf on the rocks, and the 
tom-tomming and singing of the natives, all matching and 
mingling together, " Why did I come to Africa ? " thought I. 
Why ! who would not come to its twin brother hell itself for 
all the beauty and the charm of it ! 



CHAPTER XXVIII 

THE ISLANDS IN THE BAY OF AMBOISES 

Setting forth how the Voyager abandons a noble project, and luxuriates in 
a port on account of the goodwill of the Viceroy of the Emperor of 
Germany, with some account of this port, and its islands, and of 
its foundation, and the futility of sanatoriums in this country', and 
divers other matters ; ending in the safe return of the Voyager to 
England. 

It had been my intention when I landed at Victoria either to 
procure a canoe and go round into that black mud mangrove- 
swamp-fringed river the Rio del Rey, or to get the Ambas Bay 
Trading Company to run me round to their trading station in 
that river on their little steamer. Once in the Rio del Rey I 
knew I could get a canoe to paddle me through the creek 
into the Akwayafe river, a fourteen hours' paddle. And then I 
expected to be able to get up in a canoe to that remarkable 
gentleman, Mr. Holmes, who, I was confident, would send me 
round somehow into the Calabar, if I could only make him 
hear that I wanted to go there. 

Had the desire to get myself killed, with which I am con- 
stantly being taxed, been my real and only motive for going 
to West Africa, I should have rigidly adhered to this fine varie- 
gated plan, all the more so, because Herr von Lucke said it 
was highly dangerous during the tornado season to go in the 
open and deep sea round from Victoria to Rio del Rey in a 
canoe, because of the violent storms that sweep down suddenly 
from the mountain and the unhandiness of the native craft. 
He, with his abiding accuracy regarding statistics and detail, 
said two in six native canoes so going, got lost with all hands, 
and he added it would be better for me to go round to Calabar 

R R 



I 



6io THE ISLANDS IN THE BAY OF AMBOISES chap. 

in the Nachtigal, a powerful little guard-ship which acts as the 
Governor of Cameroons' yacht. " True, O King ! " I replied, 
" but I am not the Governor of Cameroons." He bowed and 
said he knew that, but the Nachtigal was in a few days coming 
into Victoria on her way to Calabar with Herr von Besser, 
who was the German representative on the Calabar- Cameroon 
Delimitation Commission, and that he was sure Governor von 
Puttkamer would allow me to go round in her. Previous 
experience of the kindness and courtesy of Governor von 
Puttkamer made me feel Herr von Lucke was right, and 
I gladly accepted this generous offer and proceeded to wait 
for the Nachtigal^ and a very pleasant process this was. 

The first day after my return from the mountain, Herr von 
Lucke suggested what he called a walk, and what I knew 
meant an affair of fourteen miles or so, taken at a good five 
miles an hour. And I, being as stiff as a table-leg, declined. 
Then he suggested going to see the islands in the bay in a 
boat, and I did not decline, and off we went. 

This Bay of Amboises, commonly called Ambas Bay, is 
without doubt both the most lovely and the most fertile spot 
oh the whole of the western side of the continent of Africa ; 
and experienced mariners who have wandered far and wide 
say that it has few rivals in either quality in any other region 
of the world. To me with my experience of the world strictly 
limited to England and West Africa, it is an unthinkable thing 
that there can be any place more perfect in loveliness, majesty, 
colour and charm, with its circumambient mountains to land- 
ward — mountains that rise out of its dark, clear waters to 
heights from 3,000 to 13,760 feet. At their feet is just one 
narrow strip of flat shore, on which, nestling among the mango 
trees, is the pretty, long, ribbon-like town of Victoria — a soft 
brown native town, here and there speckled with a few white 
. European buildings, while in the bay itself are three islands — 
Ambas, Mondoleh and Bobia — and several pinnacle rocks 
with energetic acrobats of trees growing in among their clefts 
and crevices. 

Ambas and Bobia Islands are perfect gems of beauty. 
Mondoleh I cannot say I admire. It always looks to me 
exactly like one of tho.se flower-stands full of ferns and plants 



XXVIII MONDOLEH ISLAND 6ii 

— the sort that you come across in drawing-rooms at home, 
with wire-work legs. I do not mean that Mondoleh has wire- 
work legs under water, but it looks as if it might have. It is 
a bunch of crammed-together vegetation, half a mile long, 
200 feet high, with rocky but rich soil made of a com- 
bination of decomposed rock and decomposed vegetation. 
On Mondoleh there is a very nice house, built, I believe, by 
that indefatigable consul Sir H. H. Johnston, once of Calabar, 
now of East Africa. As long as ever we have held Calabar 
it has been regarded as an unhealthy place to live in, so 
unhealthy that it was also regarded as a certainty that any- 
where else must necessarily be better. At first when consuls 
were established there, they and the missionaries used to 
think it advisable to leave it during the wet season and go on . 
to Fernando Po, which island we held up to 1858 as a naval 
depot for the suppression of the slave trade. Then Fernando 
Po, by means of several epidemics of yellow fever, demon- 
strated that it could not be regarded as a health resort, and 
Mondoleh was selected as a more suitable site for a consular 
residence. This house was then built nearly at its summit on the 
seaward side of the island, and was used until the Niger Coast 
Protectorate was formed under the governorship of Sir Claude 
MacDonald. This energetic oflficer soon recognised that let 
the healthiness of Mondoleh be what it might, it was an 
inconvenient spot for a consul to have as his chief residence ; 
because, for one thing, it was a diflficult place to get on to, and 
for another a difficult place to get off from, as the only means 
of doing either of these things was to wait for a man-of-war 
coming along, or to go knocking about this very draughty bit 
of rock\- Atlantic in an open gig. Also there was not enough 
room on it for the enlarged staff and the Haussa troops. So 
Sir Claude built the present fine Government head-quarters 
in Old Calabar, and not being a man who would leave his 
staff to live or die in a place where he would not do so himself, he 
disposed of the house at Mondoleh to the German Governor, 
who was most anxious to possess it, for it was the only piece 
of British territory left in Cameroon, and its acquisition as it 
were rounded off the German Empire. It is not now used as 
a residence for any one but a black caretaker and his family, 

R R 2 



6i2 THE ISLANDS IN THE BAY OF AMBOISES chap. 



Governor von Puttkamer having a belief in the healthiness of 
residences open to sea breezes — a belief I do not share. Nor, 
evidently, did the builder of the residence on Mondoleh, for they 
are carefully excluded by a dense plantation of gigantic bam- 
boos and heavily-latticed, deep verandahs, making the interior 
of the house very dark. The landing at Mondoleh also is bad, 
the water round being deep and the island's sides precipitous 
and rocky. From the little landing-place there is the most 
awful sort of staircase made carefully with logs and stone up 
the steep hill-side to the residence. I shall never forget either 
going up or coming down those stairs. There is every con- 
venience for taking a headlong dive into the deep Atlantic on 
one side of it and dense bush on the other, and not two of 
those steps are either the same height or the same distance 
apart. A friend of mine who had once tried them assured 
me it was " exactly like going up the Tower of London when 
you were drunk." He may have been right, for certainly the 
steps gave one, in the blazing heat, a feeling of bewilderment 
after the first dozen or so. When I was there last, the heavy 
tornado rains had caused a landslip from the top of the island 
to the bottom, which now shows as a yellow scar, and which 
nearly swept the staircase clean away. 

Ambas Island is the outermost island in the bay. It is 
smaller and lower than Mondoleh and but little forested. In- 
deed most of it is only covered with brushwood and grass, 
for there is not much soil among its rocks. It now belongs 
to an officer of the Hycena, who won it in a raffle for 500 
marks. But although Ambas Island is very beautiful, and so 
on, I do not think the returns on the invested capital will be 
high for some years to come. It has no human habitation or 
inhabitants yet on it, and its population consists of goats and 
pigs. The most noticeable thing about Ambas Island is the fact 
that both the English and the Germans have got it arranged 
wrong on their charts. Bobia is the most interesting of 
all the three islands. It is on a line with the Pirate rocks. 
Indeed it is really one of them, only slightly bigger than its 
neighbours, and it is called sometimes Pirate Island. Its sides 
are strictly perpendicular, and you can get to the top by a 
projecting rock ridge which runs up the cliff on the northern 



XXVIII BOBIA PIGS 613 

side. I did not go up, for the day I was taken round it the 
weather was too rough for us to get to the ledge of rock on 
which you land. Strangely enough, this rocky and least fertile 
of all the islands in Ambas Bay is densely inhabited by a 
quantity of fisher-folk and their wives, families, pigs, and 
goats, all living together in a village on the top, facing 
seawards. Facing landwards they have made on the top of a 
sheer cliff a long bench, on which the fishermen sit in a row 
most of the day, watching Victoria, while their wives look 
after the rest of the inhabitants and do odd jobs generally, 
and I should imagine these good ladies must lead anxious 
lives for fear of either the children or the live stock falling 
out of the village into the sea. At night Ambas Bay is 
dotted all over with the torches of these fishermen, as they 
seem to do most of their fishing by spearing, and they are 
obliged to be industrious at their profession because among 
other inconveniences Bobia has no water, and all the water 
has to be bought and brought from the mainland and there is 
no room for a plantation. Besides, the pig population is too 
heavy to allow of agriculture. I deeply regret not having 
been able to bring home a Bobia pig. One would have caused 
a profound sensation at the Royal Agricultural Show. These 
interesting animals are black in colour, as indeed is common in 
African pigs, two-thirds head, and after a very small and very 
flat bit of body, end in an inordinately long tail. Their 
mental dispositions are lively, frolicsome and extremely 
nomadic and predatory. The Chief of Bobia, in a burst of 
affection, gave Herr von Lucke one just before I arrived in 
Victoria, and a good deal of my time while waiting to start up 
Mungo, was spent in assisting Idabea and the steward boys 
in chivying this pig. Herr von Lucke had given strict orders 
it was to be kept tied up, and solemnly warned his retainers 
they were responsible for its safe keeping. But somehow or 
another it was always slipping its cable and getting away, and 
I used to meet it away in the Botanical Gardens, and in fact 
in so many unexpected places that I should not have been 
surprised to have met it anywhere. After my first few days' ex- 
perience of it, whenever I met it I used first to try and secure 
it, and then failing brilliantly, post off uphill and report its 



6i4 THE ISLANDS IN THE BAY OF AMBOISES chap. 

iniquities. All household work would be suspended for the 
next hour or so, and finally, after giving good sport, the pig 
would be brought back squealing by triumphant and heated 
stewards. 

When I got back to Victoria one of my first inquiries was 
after that Bobia pig. I instantly saw^ I had aroused sad 
memories, and learnt that the cook — its most responsible cus- 
todian — was under arrest, though out on bail — on its behalf It 
seems it got adrift as usual, and when the hunt was started no 
pig was to be found, so cook, fearing the ire of Germany, posts 
off into the town and gets hold of the first pig there he can 
lay hands on. Now this pig was the property of a lady — a 
woman of spirit, and she clouted cook and swore cook 
clouted her. But anyhow cook bore off his prize, and tied it 
up in place of the Bobia pig, trusting that his busy master 
would not notice the difference in the two pigs, and would not 
hear of his raid. His hopes were vain. Herr von Lucke saw 
that this succulent little porker was not the offering from 
Bobia, and with a truly Roman sense of duty, handed his own 
cook over to be tried by the native court, presided over by 
the Baptist minister and two local chiefs. The case took 
nearly all day, and all the Government House staff had to be 
absent from their work, giving evidence as to the character of 
the cook, and the pig, and so on. The case went against cook 
in the end, and he had to pay damages to the injured lady and 
return his capture. What became of the original Bobia pig 
I do not know, for it had not been found up to the time of 
my leaving Victoria. 

The problem why so many people choose to reside on this 
isolated rock is quite as great as the problem of the whereabouts 
of that pig. Their own explanation is that the people on the 
mainland were too bad for respectable people to live among ; 
in short, as Mr. Micawber would say, they were driven on to 
the island ; but then you can very rarely believe what people 
say about themselves in West Africa. Then the people on 
the mainland say that they, the mainlanders, are injured inno- 
cents, and that the men of Bobia live on that island so as to 
carry on to greater advantage piratical practices : hence the 
name Pirate Island that Bobia bears, and that — but then again 



XXVIII BAPTIST MISSIONS 61; 



you can hardly ever believe what people say about each other 
in West Africa, so the problem is unsolved. 

The Pirate rocks extend S.W. from Bobia Island, and are 
quite uninhabited. It is possible, at certain states of the tide, 
in calm weather, to get from Bobia to the nearest one, on 
which there are a few trees. The next rock has a remarkable 
hole in it through which the water flies in a great jet, and as 
the weather was rough the day we were round it, this showed 
grandly. The others that are above water are mere rocky 
pinnacles. 

These rocks are by no means all the rocks in Ambas Bay, 
which, like Corisco Bay, though to a far less extent, is not 
half so good a harbour as it looks on a map. 

In 1858 the Spanish Government decided definitely to 
retake possession of Fernando Po, which had been lent to the 
English for the purpose of forming a naval depot for 
suppressing the slave trade, and in May of that year, the 
Spanish man-of-war Vasco Xtinez de Balboa came into 
Clarence and issued a lengthy proclamation, one article of 
which was : — " The religion of this colony is that of the 
Roman Catholic Church, as the only one of the kingdom of 
Spain, with the exclusion of any other, and no other religious 
profession is tolerated or allowed but that made by the 
missionaries of the aforesaid Catholic religion, and no 
school allowed." 

This proclamation, says Mr. Hutchinson, who was then the 
English consul for the Bights, fell like a bombshell amongst 
the inhabitants of Clarence, who had been since 1843 under 
the religious superintendence of the Baptist missionaries, and 
who, since their first settlement there under Captain Owen in 
1 827, had considered themselves to be safely under the protec- 
tion of the British Government, and therefore entitled to 
perfect liberty of religious worship. A remonstrance was 
at once made by the Baptists against this proclamation 
as being contrary " to that liberty of worship decreed and 
allowed by Don J. O. de Lorena, captain of the Spanish Navy 
and commander of the brig Nervion,\x\ the year 1844, and 
confirmed by the Spanish Consul-General (the Chevalier 
Guillemard) in the year 1846." This remonstrance further 



6i6 THE ISLANDS IN THE BAY OF AMBOISES chap. 



entreated that the execution of the foregoing decree should be 
delayed until a final appeal could be made to the Queen of 
Spain. The commander of the Balboa, Don Carlos Chacon, 
courteously expressed his readiness to forward this memorial 
to his Queen, and this was done ; but things still proving most 
unsatisfactory to the Baptists, they decided to leave Clarence 
and make a settlement at the foot of Cameroon Mountain, in 
Ambas Bay, which was then regarded as British property, and 
this settlement they called Victoria. The Baptist missionary 
at Clarence in those days was a Mr. Saker, to whom we are 
indebted for a great deal of valuable scientific information 
about this region, and whose name is still held in great rever- 
ence among the native Baptists on the West Coast. This 
gentleman with his family and two or three families of the 
native members of his church, went to Victoria, acquired a 
large stretch of land there — a possession which has been 
honourably acknowledged by the present German Govern- 
ment — and built their new church and schools, and to this day 
they are the dominant party in Victoria, under the leadership 
of Mr. Wilson, who came over when a boy with Mr. Saker. 
Mr. Wilson has been appointed as magistrate, and presides 
over a bench whose other members are two chiefs ; and before 
this bench come all the minor offences of the native popula- 
tion. The Baptists of Victoria have no white minister among 
them, but seem a very well-ordered and prosperous body. 
They cherish a feeling of grievance against the English for the 
way they were first abandoned to the Spaniards and then 
handed over to the Germans, but they still profess a senti- 
mental attachment to the English. However, as far as I had 
opportunities of judging, they have little to complain of in the 
way the German Government have treated them — a very 
different line of action to that of the Spanish Government, 
for the Spaniards virtually confiscated the extensive pro- 
perty which the Baptists had received from the West African 
Company at Clarence. The Spanish version of this affair is 
that the real criminals were the West African Company, who 
had no rights whatsoever to make over the land to the Baptists, 
as the land was not theirs to dispose of. 

Mr. Saker, when he settled in Ambas Bay, formed a very 



XXVIII AMBAS BAY 617 

high opinion of its value as a harbour, and the high lands 
above it as a site for a sanatorium. Mr. MacGregor Laird 
communicated to Earl Grey in 1856 a lengthy statement 
founded on Mr. Saker's information. Read by the light of 
after years this memorandum is highly interesting, although 
almost all the asseverations in it have now been proved 
fallacious ; for example, Ambas Bay is described as " being 
capable of being made a most complete naval station." 
Further on as " a good open harbour, accessible at all times to 
ships of the largest class and easily descended." 

Mr. Saker made a communication to Consul Hutchinson in 
June, 1858, in which the advantages of Ambas Bay as a 
harbour were set down in detail, but a survey of the bay, made 
in 1859 by Commodore Wise, R.N., in H.M.S. Vesuvius, did 
not prove it to correspond to the description given of it by 
the enthusiastic missionaries. One important point in the 
bay described in the Reverend Mr. Saker's chart as having 
four to six fathoms of water, was found by Mr. Brown, 
Master R.X., who had charge of the soundings, to have only 
from six to nine feet. And from that day to this people have 
gone on discovering pinnacle and shoal rocks in the bay. 

I have been now five times into Ambas Bay, and with those 
very sporting vessels, the British and African, and the Royal 
African steamers, and I have never seen one of them 
nestle right up in Morton Cove, as the inner part is 
called ; and as for men-o'-war, although their official organ, 
the West Coast Pilot, says, " the anchorage is excellent 
in all parts of Ambas Bay with good holding ground, and a 
depth of six to seven fathoms," I have never seen a man-o'- 
war such a fool as to act on this statement and come well in- 
side. The West Coast Pilot certainly does go on to say, " It 
forms a lee shore, and there is an incessant swell," and then 
" that the prevalent wind is S.VV. to which the bay is quite 
open." These later observations may be the things that deter 
men-o'-war from coming well inside, and as for the merchant- 
men, although the\' have a sort of genial affection for the 
Pilot, they do not trust it, unless its statements agree with 
their own personal knowledge. 

The Pilot, goes on to say, referring to the climate, " From 



6i8 THE ISLANDS IN THE BAY OF AMBOISES chap. 

the peculiarity of its situation and from local circumstances, 
Ambas Bay will probably be found to be one of the most 
healthy situations on the West Coast of Africa." Now this 
statement is utterly unsupported by facts, and there are no 
healthy places on the West Coast of Africa at all, so it cannot 
be more healthy than others, but it might be less unhealthy,, 
and it is not even that ; Ambas Bay, Cameroon River, .and 
Gaboon being the three deadliest spots between Calabar and 
the Congo. 

This idea that Ambas Bay and the mountain-sides of 
Mungo might give to the fever-smitten West Coast a reliable 
sanatorium, I have no doubt first arose from Mr. Saker's 
reports on it, and it is a theory that lives on, floating in air, as 
it were, after its foundations have been removed by experience, 
just as that other notion that there are no sharks south of the 
Congo ; and it is hopeless work to attempt to destroy an idea 
of this kind. Any amount of sharks may display themselves 
ostentatiously south of Congo, and any amount of fever occur 
in Ambas Bay, but the statements survive. I have never been 
in Ambas Bay without finding severe cases of fever, and during 
my stay there this last time, the wife of the Basle missionary 
died of fever, and every one except Herr von Lucke, the head 
agent of the Ambas Bay Company, and myself, had fever 
more or less severely. This is reasonable enough when you 
look at the subject with the light of personal experience of the 
place. It is exceedingly hot, and exceedingly damp, and the 
cold winds from the mountains, and the sea-breezes that come 
into it in the mornings, are conducive to that main pre- 
disposing cause of an attack of fever— chill. 

The idea that a sanatorium might be built high on the 
mountain, above the so-called fever line — a line that is merely 
an imaginative figment, for local conditions alter it in every 
separate place — at first seemed reasonable, but a closer know- 
ledge of the peculiar meteorological conditions of the great 
mountain has proved this idea also to be an erroneous one. 

A. very noble and devoted Scotch gentleman named 
Thomson, possessed of considerable wealth and anxious to 
do what he could to aid the mission work of the United 
Presbyterians in Calabar, came out and did his best to> 



XXVIII THE FEVER LINE 619- 

establish a sanatorium where the fever-stricken missionaries 
from Calabar could come and recruit their health without 
having to make the voyage home to England.^ The station, 
he established upon the mountain at the elevation of 3,000 
feet is now occupied by a Roman Catholic mission, and their 
health has been little, if at all, better than that of other 
Roman Catholics at a lower level. I say other Roman 
Catholics advisedly, because these missionaries live, as a rule^ 
in a more healthy way than members of other missions in 
West Africa. The reasons why the upper slopes of Mungo- 
do not afford the healthiness expected of them are many. 
Chief among them is the exceedingly heavy rainfall. At 
Babundi, I am told, there was a panic a short time ago among 
the natives because there was no rain for an entire week, and 
this extraordinary phenomenon gave rise to the idea that 
something serious had gone wrong with Nature and that 
something was going to happen, but a calm business man 
told me this story must be without foundation, because it has 
never been dry for a week at Babundi. 

The reason of the heavy rainfall and drenching mists which 
fall on the mountain is that it is surrounded by enormous 
steaming swamps : to the north by those of the Rio del 
Rey and Calabar, to the south by those of the Cameroon^ 
Mungo, and Bimbia Rivers, while its superior height catches- 
the heavy, water-laden clouds floating in from the Atlantic. 
In addition to this, the cold air rushes down its sides 
in draughts that condense the water in the hot overladen 
lower layers of the atmosphere. 

One hears a great deal in West Africa of the 3,000 feet line 
as being the limit of the region of malarial fever, but I da 
not think this is anything more than a theoretical idea, and 
indeed there are few situations in West Africa besides Mungo^ 
where the theory could be put to the test. Buea, and De 
Buncha, Mr. Thomson's sanatorium site, are at about this eleva- 
tion. Buea has not yet had sufficient trial as a health 
resort to speak of it finally, but the great prevalence there 
of phagedaenic ulcers does not lead one to regard the air 

^ Mr. George Thomson died at Victoria, while engaged on this work, ia 
1871. 



620 THE ISLANDS IN THE BAY OF AMBOISES chap. 

as healthy. Of its climate I have spoken already. Buea, 
however, has this advantage over De Buncha, that it has 
a fine water-supply, the finest, indeed as far as is at present 
known, the only considerable water supply above 2,000 
feet on the mountain. When one is in Victoria, particular!}' 
in the evening of a hot rainless day, you can see a great band 
of white mist girdling the mountain where the water-laden hot 
air rising from the forest and swamps meets the cold air of 
the upper mountain, which condensing, must cause it to 
deposit, not only the water, but the exhalations from the swamp 
lands, and every morning and evening you see great whiffs of 
mist coming up one of the forests on the foot-hills round 
Victoria, making the whole district look as if it were a great 
smouldering fire. The difficulty of getting a sick man up to 
either Buea or De Buncha would at present be great, but 
granting these difficulties removed, as one will be when the 
road to Buea is completed, I do not think that when a fever 
patient got up above the 3,000 feet level he would find much 
benefit, and he would run great risk of chill and dysentery. I 
regard this idea of the possibility of finding an elevated situa- 
tion in West Africa suitable for a sanatorium, as one of the 
most dangerous the governmental authorities suffer from, 
for it induces them to build houses in out-of-the-way places, 
and send men suffering from fever to them to die, robbing the 
sick man of his great chance of recovery, namely, getting out 
to sea. The ti ue sanatorium for the Coast would be a hospital 
vessel attached to each district, but as this is practically im- 
possible, the next best thing would be for the indefatigable 
Mr. A. L. Jones and Messrs. Elder Dempster to have a special 
hospital cabin on every one of their vessels. The drawback 
to this is that getting out to a vessel through the Gold 
Coast surf would be risky work for a sick man, and in the 
Rivers the mail steamers have to go from one mangrove 
swamp river to another, and into places like Forcados, 
where, owing to Lagos Bar's iniquities, vessels are detained for 
days, lying idle in the sweltering heat waiting for cargo. 
Below the Rivers, on the South West-Coast, these objections 
would only hold to a lesser extent, but then the South- West 
-Coast is by no means so much in need of sanatoriums, and the 



XXVIII WEST AFRICAN GOVERNORS * 621 



white men livino; there are fewer and more scattered than on 
the West Coast or in the Rivers. There is another plan which 
might work well for Lagos and the Oil Rivers, and that is to 
have hospital hulks anchored outside. The experience of 
the French guard-ship Minerve seems to show that this would 
be a repaying plan, particularly if it were not combined with 
the French therapeutic methods, which have an immense 
amount of dash and go in them, and I dare say if a man were 
in rude health he might undergo them with little permanent 
injury to his constitution. 

The next excitement after cruising in the bay was the 
arrival of the Nachtigal early in the morning. Of course I 
packed furiously, and when I was quite read}* found her 
arrival had nothing to do with going to Calabar ; she had 
brought round the Governor from Cameroons, he having been, 
I am sorry to say, nearly dead with fever. With him came 
m}- old friend Doctor Plehn, and I heard sad news of the 
numbers of bad fever cases in Cameroon River since I had left 
it, and the Doctor, who had been anxiously expected here for 
some time, flew hither and thither and rapidly repaired the 
health of Victoria. 

Herr von Puttkamer kindly asked me to breakfast on board 
the Nachtigal, and confirmed Herr von Lucke's statement 
about my being welcome to go round in her to Calabar. He 
said as soon as he got back to Cameroons he should be send- 
ing her round with the Commissioner. 

I had a verj' pleasant afternoon, and got a good deal of 
material for a work on the Natural Historv* of Governors 
which I do not intend to publish, but I will just state that all the 
West Coast Governors, whatever may be the nation they 
represent, are exceedingly good society. The Governor of 
Cameroons I consider the best ; he is the most experienced, 
for one thing. He was Governor in Togo before he came to 
Cameroons, and also was for some time in Lagos and on the 
Niger ; but that is another stor>', and although a highly divert- 
ing one, we will not go into it here. But for fear there should be 
a rush of people out from home to enjoy the charms of the 
society of West African Governors, I will remark that they 
have their faults. They are awfully bad for your clothes. It 



•622 THE Islands of the bay of amboises chap. 

is this way : after being in West Africa some little time, 
particularly if you have been away in the bush, your 
wardrobe is always in a rarefied state. For example, when in 
•Cameroons I had one dress, and one only, that I regarded as 
fit to support the dignity of a representative of England, so of 
•course when going to call on the representative of another 
Power I had to put that dress on, and then go out in open 
.boats to war-ships or for bush walks in it, and equally of 
course down came tornadoes and rain by the ton. I did not 
-care for the thunder, lightning, or wind. What worried me 
was the conviction that that precious rain would take the 
¦colour out of my costume. 

Governor von Puttkamer has a peculiarity not shared b}- 
any other Governor on the Coast. He likes the sea, so during 
breakfast the Nachtigal was ordered to steam about the 
bay, which she energetically did. Fortunately, I like the sea 
"too, or — well ! as it was, the only inconvenience we suffered 
was getting a heavy shock in the middle of the meal. We 
thought we had discovered a new rock, but found we had onh' 
struck a sleeping whale. What the whale thought I do not 
know, but it made a considerable fuss and left the bay with- 
out a word of apology to the Governor. 

The Nachtigal left Victoria the next day, it being held too 
.unhealthy a place for the Governor to stay in after his 
severe illness, and went round to Man-o'-War Bay. And the i 
day after Herr von Lucke took me round to the plantation in ] 
Man-o'-War Bay, whereat the Governor was staying for a few 
days. 

Man-o'-War Bay is a very peculiar and charming bay to 
the south of Ambas, having a narrower inlet and not quite so 
great a depth as the latter, from which it is separated by a 
high rocky promontory of hills. I do not think it has been 
carefully sounded, but there is deep water close alongside its 
shores, which rise very steeply in densely wooded mountains. 
The main peculiarity of it is that through a rock wall at its 
eastern end there is a natural tunnel in the rock, and you 
can row through this in a boat and then find yourself on 
another sheet of water which has no other inlet or outlet, and 
.is, if possible, more beautiful than Man-o'-War Bay itself, 



XXVIII VERANDAHS ' 623 



though much smaller. It would be an exquisite place for 
smuggling. 

On the southern shore of Man-o'-War Bay is a beautiful 
little quay and landing-place for the grand plantation 
colloquially known as Frederickshafen, after its energetic 
¦custodian. This plantation is the property of a syndicate, the 
main shareholders being Messrs. Woermann, and its magnifi- 
cent condition and grand output ought to do much to heal 
that firm's feelings regarding their great losses over their 
Gaboon plantation. The house belonging to it is the finest 
house I know in West Africa. It is built of brick and wood 
and has the customary deep verandah running round it, but 
with this important difference, that this verandah is closed in 
with glazed windows, which prevent the inner rooms from 
being too dark to work in, and also prevents the verandah 
from being draught}\ On the West Coast these are two 
dreadful faults in the European-built houses. You cannot 
imagine what an intolerable gloom and discomfort arises from 
the usual English sort of house here. The abominable structure 
is made of corrugated iron, roof and all, with just its skeleton 
and floors made of wood. Sometimes the under part of the 
house is clo.sed in and used for stores and oflRces ; sometimes it 
is left open, but always the living rooms are on the first floor 
and open out on to a verandah. The sides of this verandah 
are usually closed in by Venetian shutters with windows 
at internals. During the tornado seasons these shutters and 
windows have to be closed up on an average twice a day. 
During the wet season they are kept closed most of the six 
months' spell. Consequently you have to live on the verandah, 
for the inner rooms are then " as dark as ignorance," and the 
Venetians only keep out a percentage of the rain, and divide the 
fierce tornado winds into strips which cut into you and give you 
> our death of fever, and send all your papers flying ; while the 
tornado, or the wet season rain plays like fifty thousand 
demons on the tom-tom of your corrugated iron roof Now 
these things were avoided in the house at Frederickshafen, for 
when the windows round the verandah were shut, they, being 
glazed, kept out the wind and let in the light, and the roof 
was a roof of tiles and not a horrid tin tom-tom affair. 



624 THE ISLANDS OF THE BAY OF AMBOISES chap. 

Herr Fredericksky most kindly showed me all over his 
plantation. When it was first started the cautious planter 
then in charge planted coffee and oil-palms so as to have 
something to fall back on should the coffee fail, and to a con- 
siderable extent coffee has failed throughout Victoria. It 
gets afflicted with a sort of blight analogous to honey-dew, 
and on this honey-dew grows a large black mildew which 
mats the coffee-berries together and ruins them, although it 
does not seem to injure the health of the tree much. But 
cacao flourishes exceedingly in the Victoria district, and has 
so far got no disease. And so the coffee in this plantation, and 
in the native plantations round Ambas Bay, is being replaced 
by cacao, and to such purpose has this plan been followed, 
that the profit on the latter product exported by the small 
native growers last year amounted to ^i,ooo English, and 
this large plantation ships on an average 400 bags a month. 
During the two flushes which occur in the year, as many as 600 
and 650 bags a month would be shipped ; during the interme- 
diate seasons 200 to 300. 

The enterprise with which capital has been expended here, 
and the judiciousness with which it has been employed, is very 
remarkable for a West Coast undertaking, wherein, as a gene- 
ral rule, there is usually one without the other, or a notable 
absence of both. 

There are near to the living house large, well-built houses 
with the proper machinery for drying the cocoa, after it has 
been properly fermented and washed in another house, that is. 
away at the further end of the plantation where the ferment- 
ing house is established, because of a suitable little river ; and 
wonderful to relate these two sets of houses are connected 
by an excellent tramway, very carefully and soundly made, 
and ten times pleasanter and safer to travel on than the Congo 
Free State Railway. The little cars on which you, or bags of 
cocoa, sit are pushed by energetic labourers ; a distinct improve- 
ment on West African steam-engines. After conscientiously 
doing the drying and the fermenting sheds, and enjoying the 
faint but pleasant smell of the mauve-coloured cocoa in heaps 
on the floors in various statesof fermentation, we proceeded to 
seriously study cacao growing ; and I was taken by the two 



XXVIII HINTS OX FORESTRY 62: 



gigantic German gentlemen over acre after acre of plants 
in various stages of growth, from those just showing leaf 
above the ground, to those whose beautiful golden fruit were 
being gathered by gangs of labourers imported from the 
Batanga region, the Kru Coast, Sierra Leone and other places. 
If it had not been for driver ants, I feel sure I should have 
acquired enough information that afternoon to enable me to 
go and set up a plantation on my own account and make 
that plantation pay ; but as it was, I just made a mental 
note that it was well to cut down your forest to start a clearing 
with in the middle of the dry season ; then let the trees and 
bush-wood dry a little ; and then set them on fire. Then, just 
before the rains, I was to plant three cacao beans in a hole, 
and I learnt with pleasure that I need not bother to remove 
the gigantic charred tree-trunks that lay about in a glorious 
confusion — in fact, it was advisable to leave them, as they 
afforded shelter for the young plants from an excess of sun ; and 
also I need not bother about planting my series of three beans 
in one hole in tidy lines, but might just stick them in, in a 
general sort of way, wherever I felt disposed. This was a com- 
fort, for how any one was to do otherwise with the ground over- 
laid with a confused sort of network of trees, fromsixty to one 
hundred feet long and from three to thirty feet in circumference, 
I don't know. Then when these seedlings had attained a suf- 
ficient growth, they were to be carefully transplanted into a 
cleared piece of ground — a nurser\-, where they were to be 
planted in proper rows. Just as we reached the nurser>', and 
my education was flowing on in a peaceful, pleasant stream, 
forty-eight burning hot pinchers were inserted into me and I 
knew " joy's short life was overpast " for that afternoon, in other 
words that I had got into a train of drivers. Resolving to 
suffer and be strong, I said nothing, and seeing that there 
were no more of the enemy on the ground immediately round 
me, I lived my tormentors down, and did my best to keep up 
an appearance of interest in cacao, but really the only thing 
that did interest me just then was whether either of my 
companions had got drivers on them. 

They never mentioned drivers. They had a little difference 
of opinion over coffee disease, and a lengthy discussion on 

S S 



626 THE ISLANDS IN THE BAY OF AMBOISES chap. 



the relative value of white and blue kokos as food-supply for 
labourers, and one of them talked a little wildly, for him, at 
moments. But there was no headlong dash for water, sur- 
rounded in blue flames of bad language, such as I am accus- 
tomed to when a lord of creation gets drivers on him, and I 
proudly thought that to me alone belonged the glory of 
quietly living down driver ants, but I subsequently learnt 
that England had to share this honour in the field of colonial 
enterprise with Germany ; and so, as Mr. Pepys would say, 
home to Victoria, in the lovely late afternoon. There was just 
a doubt, however, for half-an-hour or so, whether we should 
succeed in rounding the rocky promontory that separates 
Ambas from Man-o'-War Bay, for the sea had got rough in 
the mysterious way seas do down here, without any weather 
reason, and the wind, what there was of it, was dead against 
us. But although my dress was nearly reduced to the dead 
level of my other dresses, the thing was done. 

The next few days I spent expecting the Nachtigal. Of 
course I had unpacked all my things again and most of them 
were at the wash, when Idabea rushes into my room saying, 
^^ NacJitigalVoTi\YCi\." and I packed furiously, and stood by to 
go aboard, having been well educated by my chief tutor, 
Captain Murray, on the iniquity of detaining the ship. I 
hasten to say the lesson on this point I never brought down 
on myself I have never robbed a church or committed a 
murder, so should never dream of plunging into this lower- 
most depth of crime without a preparatory course of capital 
offences. When, however, I was packed, I found that it was 
not the Nachtigal which had come in, but the Hycena — the 
guard-ship of Cameroons River — out for an airing, and as her 
commander Captain Baham, kindly asked me on board to 
lunch, I had to unpack again. At lunch I had the honour of 
meeting the two officers who had first ascended the peak of 
Cameroon from the south-east face, and I learnt from them 
many things which would have been of great help to me had I 
had this honour before I went up, but which were none the 
less good to know ; and during the whole of their stay in 
Ambas Bay I received from the Hycena an immense amount 
of pleasure, courtesy, and kindness, adding to the already great 



XXVIII HOMEWARD BOUND 627 



debt in these things I owe to Cameroons — a debt which I 
shall never forget, although I can never repay it. 

The third announcement of the Nachtigal proved true, and 
with m}- dilapidated baggage I went round in her, under the 
charge of Herr von Besser, into Old Calabar, where I received 
ever}' hospitality from Mr. Moore and Mr. Wall, for my good 
friends Sir Claude and Lady MacDonald had left for England 
some months previously — for the last time as it turned out, 
for shortly after his arrival in England Sir Claude was sent as 
British Minister to Pekin. 

W^hen I reached Calabar I found that the Bakana, com- 
manded by Captain Porter and having for her chief engineer 
Mr. Peter Campbell, was expected to come in daily, and being 
a sister ship to the Batanga and so one of the finest boats 
in the ser\ice, I decided to wait for her, going up to say 
40od-bye to Miss Slessor at Okyon during the few days at 
my disposal. 

We had a comfortable voyage up to Sierra I^eone, where a 
gloom fell over the whole ship from the death of the purser, 
Mr. Crompton. It was one of those terribly, sudden, hopeless 
cases of Coast fever, so common on the West Coast, where no 
man knows from day to day whether he or those round him 
will not, before a few hours are over, be in the grip of malarial 
fe\-er, on his way to the grave. 



s s 2 



APPENDICES 



I 



APPENDIX I 
TRADE AND LABOUR IN WEST AFRICA 



As I am under the impression that the trade of the West 
African Coast is its most important attribute, I hope I may be 
pardoned for entering into this subject. My chief excuse for 
so doing Hes in the fact that independent travellers are rare in 
the Bights. The last one I remember hearing of was that 
unfortunate gentleman who went to the Coast for pleasure and 
lost a leg on Lagos Bar. Now I have not lost any portion of 
my anatomy anywhere on the Coast, and therefore have no 
personal prejudice against the place. I hold a brief for no 
party, and I beg the more experienced old coaster to remember 
that " a looker on sees the most of the game." 

First of all it should be remembered that Africa does 
not possess ready-made riches to the extent it is in many 
quarters regarded as possessing. It is not an India filled with 
the accumulated riches of ages, waiting for the adventurer to 
enter and shake the pagoda tree. The pagoda tree in Africa 
only grows over stores of buried ivor>', and even then it is a 
stunted specimen to that which grew over the treasure-houses 
of Delhi, Seringapatam, and hundreds of others as rich as 
they in gems and gold. Africa has lots of stuff in it ; 
structurally more than any other continent in the world, 
but it is very much in the structure, and it requires hard work 
to get it out, particularly out of one of its richest regions, the 
West Coast, where the gold, silver, copper, lead, and petroleum 
lie protected against the miner by African fever in its deadliest 
form, and the produce prepared by the natives for the trader 
is equally fever-guarded, and requires men of a particular type 
to work and export it successfully — men endowed with great 
luck, pluck, patience, and tact. 

The first things to be considered are the natural resources of 



632 APPENDIX I 



the country. This subject may be divided into two sub- 
sections — (i)" The means of working these resources as they 
at present stand ; (2) The question of the possibiHty of 
increasing them by introducing new materials of trade-value 
in the shape of tea, coffee, cocoa, &c. 

With regard to the first sub-division the most cheerful things 
that there are to say on the West Coast trade can be said ; the 
means of transport being ahead of the trade in all districts save 
the Gold Coast. I know this is heresy, so I will attempt to 
explain the matter. First, as regards communication to 
Europe by sea, the West Coast is extremely well off, the two 
English lines of steamers managed by Messrs. Elder Dempster, 
the British African, and the Royal African, are most enterpris- 
ingly conducted, and their devotion to trade is absolutely 
pathetic. Let there be but the least vague rumour (sometimes 
I have thought they have not waited for the rumour, but 
" gone in " as an experiment) of a puncheon of oil, or a log of 
timber waiting for shipment at an out-of-the-world, one house 
port, one of these vessels will bear down on that port, and have 
that cargo. In addition to the English lines there is the 
Woermann line, equally devoted to cargo, I may almost say 
ev^en more so, for it is currently reported that Woermann 
liners will lie off and wait for the stuff to grow. This I will 
not vouch for, but I know the time allow^ed to a Woermann 
captain by his owners between Cameroons and Big Batanga 
just round the corner is eight days. 

These English and German lines, having come to a friendly 
understanding regarding freights, w^ork the Bights of Benin, 
Biafra, and Panavia, uathout any rivals, save now and again 
the vessels chartered by the African Association to bring out a 
big cargo, and the four sailing vessels belonging to the 
Association which give an eighteenth-century look to the Rivers, 
and have great adventures on the bars of Opobo and Bonny.^ 
The Bristol ships on the Half Jack Coast are not rivals, but a 
sort of floating factories, shipping their stuff home and getting 
it out by the regular lines of steamers. The English and 
German liners therefore carry the bulk of the trade from the 
whole Coast. Their services are complicated and frequent, 
but perfectly simple when you have grasped the fact that the 
English lines may be divided into two sub-divisions — Liver- 
pool boats and Hamburg boats, either of which are liable 
when occasion demands to call at Havre. The Liverpool 
line is the mail line to the more important ports, the Hamburg 

^ The African Association now own two steamers. Alexander Miller 
Brothers and Co. also charter steamers. 



TRADE AND LABOUR IX WEST AFRICA 633 

line being almost entirely composed of cargo vessels calling at 
the smaller ports as well as the larger. 

There is another classification that must be grasped. The 
English boats being divided into, firstly a line having its 
terminus at Sierra Leone and calling at the Isles do Los; 
secondly, a line having its terminus at Akassa ; thirdly, a line 
having its terminus at Old Calabar ; fourthly, a line having 
its terminus at San Paul de Loanda, and in addition, a direct 
line from Antwerp to the Congo, chartered by the Congo Free 
State Government. Division 4, the South-westers, are the 
quickest vessels as far as Lagos, for they only call at the 
Canaries, Sierra Leone, off the Kru Coast, at Accra, and off 
Lagos ; then they run straight from Lagos into Cameroons, 
without touching the Rivers, reaching Cameroons in twenty- 
seven days from Liverpool. After Cameroons they cross to 
Fernando Po and run into Victoria, and then work their way 
steadily down coast to their destination. Thence up again, 
doing all they know to extract cargo, but never succeeding as 
they would wish, and so being hungry in the hold when they 
get back to the Bight of Benin, they are liable to smell cargo 
and go in after it, and therefore are not necessarily the quickest 
boats home. 

Two French companies run to the French possessions, sub- 
sidised by their Government (as the German line is, and as 
our lines are not) — the Chargeurs Reunis and the Fraissinet. 
The South-west Coast liners of these companies run to 
Gaboon and then to Koutonu, up near Lagos, then back to 
Gaboon, and down as far as Loango, calling on their way 
home at the other ports in Congo Fran^ais. They are mainly 
carriers of import goods, because they run to time, and on the 
South-west Coast unless time has an ameliorating touch of 
eternity in it you cannot get export goods off 

Below the Congo the rivals of the English and German 
lines are the vessels of the Portuguese line, Empreza 
Xacional. These run from Lisbon to the Cape Verde Islands, 
thence to San Thome and Principe, then to the ports of Angola 
(Loanda, Benguella, Mossamedes, Ambrizette, &c.), and they 
carry the bulk of the Angola trade at present, because of the 
preferential dues on goods shipped in Portuguese bottoms. 

The service of English vessels to the West Coast is weekly, 
to the Rivers fortnightly, to the South-west Coast monthly ; 
and it is the chief thing in West Coast trade enterprise that 
England has to be" proud of 

Any one of the English boats will go anywhere that mortal 
boat can go ; and their captains' local knowledge is a thing 



634 APPENDIX I 



England at large should be proud of and the rest of the 
civilised world regard with awe-stricken admiration. That 
they leave no room for further development of ocean carriage 
has been several times demonstrated by the collapse of 
lines that have attempted to rival them — the Prince line and 
more recently the General Steam Navigation. 

But although the West Coast trader has at his disposal 
these vessels, he has by no means an easy time, or cheap 
methods, of getting his stuff on board, save at Sierra Leone 
and in the Oil Rivers. Of the Gold Coast surf, and Lagos 
bar I have already spoken, and the Calemma as we call the 
South-west Coast surf is nearly, if not quite as bad as that 
on the Gold Coast. Indeed I hold it is worse, but then I have 
had more experience of it, and it has frequently to be worked 
in native dug-outs, and not in the well-made surf boats used 
on the Gold Coast. But although these surf- boats are more 
safe they are also more expensive than canoes, as a fine ;^40 
or ;^6o surf-boat's average duration of life is only two years 
in the Gold Coast surf, so there is little to choose from a 
commercial standpoint between the two surfs when all is 
done. 

As regards interior transport, the difficulty is greater, but 
in the majority of the West Coast possessions of European 
powers there exist great facilities for transport in the network 
of waterways near the coast and the great rivers running far 
into the interior. 

These waterways are utilised by the natives, being virtually 
roads ; in many districts practically the only roads existing 
for the transport of goods in bulk, or in the present 
state of the trade required to exist. But there is room for 
more white enterprise in the matter of river navigation ; and 
my own opinion is that if English capital were to be employed 
in the direction of small suitably-built river steamers, it would 
be found more repaying than lines of railway. Waterways 
that might be developed in this manner exist in the Cross 
River, the Volta, and the Ancobra. I do not say that there 
will be any immediate dividend on these river steamboat lines, 
but I do not think that there will be any dividend, immediate 
or remote, on railways in West Africa. This question of trans- 
port is at present regarded as a burning one throughout the 
Continent ; and for the well-being of certain parts of the West 
Coast railways are essential, such as at Lagos, and on 
the Gold Coast. Of Lagos I do not pretend to speak. I 
have never been ashore there. Of the Gold Coast I have 
seen a little, and heard a great deal more, and I think I may 




s 



TRADE AND LABOUR IN WEST AFRICA 635 

safely say that railway making would not be difficult on it, 
for it is good hard land, not stretches of rotten swamp. 
The great difficulty in making railroads here will consist in 
landing the material through the surf This difficulty cannot 
be got over, except at enormous expense by making piers, 
but it might be surmounted by sending the plant ashore 
on small bar boats that could get up the Volta or Ancobra. 
When up the Volta it may be said, " it would be nowhere 
when any one wanted it," but the cast-iron idea that goods 
must go ashore at places where there are government 
headquarters like Accra and Cape Coast, places where the 
surf is about at its worst, seems to me an erroneous one. 
The landing place at Cape Coast might be made safe and easy 
by the expenditure of a few thousands in " developing " that 
rock which at present gives shelter when }-ou get round the 
lee side of it, but this would only make things safer for surf- 
boats. No other craft could work this bit of beach ; and there 
is plenty of room for developing the Volta, as it is a water^vay 
which a vessel drawing six feet can ascend fifty miles from 
July till November, and thirty miles during the rest of the year. 
The worst point about the Volta is the badness of its bar 
— a great semicircular sweep with heavy breakers — too bad a 
bar for boats to cross ; but a steamer on the Lagos bar boat 
plan might manage it, as the Bull Frog reported in 1884 
nineteen to twenty-one feet on it, one hour before high water. 
The absence of this bar boat, and the impossibility of sending 
goods out in surf-boats across the bar, causes the goods from 
Adda (Riverside), the chief town on the Volta, situated about 
six miles up the river from its mouth, to be carried across the 
spit of land to Beach Town, and then brought out through the 
shore surf — the worst bit of surf on the whole Gold Coast. 
The Ancobra is a river which penetrates the interior, through 
a district very rich in gold and timber and more than sus- 
pected of containing petroleum. It is from eighty to one 
hundred yards wide up as far as Akanko, and during the rains 
carries three and a half to four and a half fathoms, and boats 
are taken up to Tomento about forty miles from its mouth with 
goods to the Wassaw gold mines. But the bar of the Ancobra 
is shallow, only giving six feet, although it is firm and settled, 
not like that of the Volta and Lagos ; and the Portuguese, in 
the sixteenth centun,-, used to get up this river, and work the 
country' to a better profit than we do nowadays. 

The other chief Gold Coast river, the Bosum Prah, that 
enters the sfea at Chama, is no use for navigation from the 
-ea, being obstructed with rock and rapids, and its bar only 



\ 



636 APPENDIX I 



carrying two feet ; but whether these rivers are used or not 
for the landing of railroad plant, it is certain that that plant 
must be landed, and the railways made, for if ever a 
district required them the Gold Coast does. There has been 
for some time much talk of the Government constructing a 
line, and a survey for it has been made, but I believe this 
survey has not given satisfaction, and a new one is in con- 
templation. It is to be hoped it will soon enter into the phase of 
construction, for it is a return to the trade (from which it 
draws its entire revenue) that the local government owes, and 
owes heavily; and if our new acquisition of Ashantee is to be 
developed, it must have a railway bringing it in touch with 
the coast trade, not necessarily running into Coomassie, but 
near enough to Coomassie to enable goods to be sold there 
at but a small advance on Coast prices. 

It is an error, easily fallen into, to imagine that the natives 
in the interior are willing to give much higher prices than the 
sea-coast natives for goods. Be it granted that they are 
compelled now to give say on an average seventy-five per 
cent, higher prices to the sea-coast natives who at present 
act as middlemen between them and the white trader, but if 
the white trader goes into the interior, he has to face, first, 
the difficulty of getting his goods there safely ; secondly, the 
opposition of the native traders who can, and will drive him 
out of the market, unless he is backed by easy and cheap 
means of transport. Take the case of Coomassie now. A 
merchant, let us say, wants to take up from the Coast to 
Coomassie ^^"3,000 worth of goods to trade with. To trans- 
port this he has to employ 1,300 carriers at is. 3^. per day a 
head. The time taken is eight days there, and eight days back, 
= sixteen days, which figures out at iJ^ 1,300, without allowing 
for loss and damage. In order to buy produce with these 
goods that will cover this, and all shipping expenses, &c., he 
would have to sell at a far higher figure in Coomassie than he 
would on the sea coast, and the native traders would easily 
oust him from the market. Moreover so long as a district is in 
the hands of native traders there is no advance made, and no 
development goes forward ; and it would be a grave error to 
allow this to take place at Coomassie, now that we have at last 
done what we should have done in 1874 and taken actual 
possession, for Coomassie is a grand position that, if properly 
managed for a few years, will become a great interior market, 
attracting to itself the routes of interior trade. It is not now 
a great centre ; because of the oppression and usury which the 
Kings of Ashantee have inflicted on all in their power, and 



TRADE AND LABOUR IN WEST AFRICA 637 

which have caused Coomassie mainly to attract one form of 
trade, viz., slaves ; who were used in their constant human 
sacrifices, and for v»hom a higher price was procurable here than 
from the Mohammedan tribes to the north under French 
sway. And as for the other trade stuffs, they have naturally 
for years drained into the markets of the French Soudan ; 
instead of through such a country' as Ashantee, into the 
markets of the English Gold Coast ; and so unless we run a 
railroad up to encourage the white traders to go inland, and 
make a market that will attract these trade routes into 
Coomassie, we shall be a few years hence singing out " What's 
the good of Ashantee," and so forth, as is our foolish wont, 
never realising that the West Coast is not good unless it is 
made so by white effort. 

The new regime on the Gold Coast is undoubtedly more 
active than the old — more aliv^e to the importance of pushing 
inland and so forth — and a road is going to be made twenty-five 
feet wide all the way to Coomassie, and then beyond it, which 
is an excellent thing in its way. But it will not do much for 
trade, because the pacification of the countr)', and the greater 
security of personal property to the native, which our rule will 
afford will aid him in bringing his goods to the coast, but 
not so greatly aid our taking our goods inland, for the carriers 
will require just as much for carrying goods along a road, as 
they do for carrj'ing goods along a bush path, and rightly too, 
for it is quite as heavy work for them, and heavier, as I know 
from my experience of the governmental road in Cameroon. 
In such a countr}- as West Africa there can be no doubt 
that a soft bush path with a thick coating of moss and 
leaves on it, and shaded from the sun above by the interlacing 
branches, is far and away better going than a hard, sunny 
wide road. This road will be valuable for militar>^ expeditions 
possibly, but military expeditions are not everj-day affairs 
on the Gold Coast ; and it cannot be of use for draught 
animals, because of the horse-sickness and tsetse fly which 
occur as soon as you get into the forest behind the littoral 
region : so it must not be regarded as an equivalent for steam 
transport, as it will only serve to bring down the little trickle 
of native trade, and possibly not increase that trickle much. 

The question of transport of course is not confined to the 
Gold Coast. Below Lagos there is the great river system, 
towards which the trade slowly drains through native hands 
to the white man's factories on the river banks, but this trade 
being in the hands of native traders is not a fraction of what 
it would become in the hands of white men ; and any mineral 



638 APPENDIX I 



wealth there may be in the heavily-forested stretches of 
country remains unworked and unknown. The difficulty of 
transport here greatly hampers the exploitation of the timber 
wealth, it being utterly useless for the natives to fell even 
a fine tree, unless it is so close to a waterway that it can be 
floated down to the factory. This it is which causes the 
ebony, bar, and cam wood to be cut up by them into small 
billets which a man can carry. The French and Germans 
are both now following the plan of getting as far as possible 
into the interior by the waterways, and then constructing 
railways. The construction of these railways is fairly easy, 
as regards gradients, and absence of dense forest, when your 
waterway takes you into the great park-like plateau lands 
which extend, as a general rule, behind the forest belt, and 
the inevitable mountain range. The most important of these 
railways will be that of M. de Brazza up the Sanga valley in 
the direction of the Chad. When this railway is constructed, 
it will be the death of the Cameroon and Oil River trade, 
more particularly of the latter, for in the Cameroons the 
Germans have broken down the monopoly of the coast tribes, 
which we in our possessions under the Niger Coast Pro- 
tectorate have not. The Niger Company has broken through, 
and taken full possession of a great interior, doing a bit of 
work of which every Englishman should feel proud, for it is 
the only thing in West Africa that places us on a level with 
the French and Germans in courage and enterprise in pene- 
trating the interior, and fortunately the regions taken over by 
the Company are rich and not like the Senegal " made of sand 
and savage savages." Where in West Africa outside the 
Company will you find men worthy as explorers to be named 
in the same breath with de Brazza, Captain Binger, and 
Zintgraff? 

Some day, I fear when it will be too late, we shall realise 
the foolishness of sticking down on the sea coast, tidying up 
our settlements, establishing schools, and drains, and we shall 
find our possessions in the Rivers and along the Gold Coast 
valueless, particularly in the Rivers, for the trade will surely 
drain towards the markets along the line of the French rail- 
road behind them, for the middlemen tribe that we foster 
exact a toll of seventy-five per cent, on the trade that 
comes through their hands, and the English Government is 
showing great signs of an inclination to impose such duties 
on the only stuff the native cares much for — alcohol — that he 
will take his goods to the market where he can get his alcohol ; 
even if he pays a toll to these markets of fifty per cent. ' 



I 



TRADE AND LABOUR IN WEST AFRICA 639 

But of this I will speak later, and we will return to the 
question of transport. ^Vlr. Scott Elliot,^ speaking on this 
subject as regarding East African regions, has given us a most 
interesting contribution based on his personal experience, and 
official figures. As many of his observations and figures are 
equally applicable to the West Coast, I hope I may be for- 
given for quoting him. His criticism is in favour of the 
utilisation of ever)' mile of w aterway available. He says, re- 
garding the Victoria Xyanza, that " it is possible to place on 
it a steamer at the cost of ;^ 12,677. Taking the cost of 
maintenance, fuel and working expenses at /^ 1,200 a year (a 
large estimate) a capital e.xpenditure of ;^53,ooo, (i^i 3,000 for 
the steamer and ^40,000 to yield three per cent, interest) 
would enable this steamer to convey, say thirt\' tons at the 
rate of five to ten miles an hour for ;^ 1,600 a year. This 
makes it possible to convey a ton at the rate of a halfpenny a 
mile, while it would require about ;^53,ooo to build a railway 
only eighteen miles long." 

The Congo Free State railway I am informed, has cost, at 
a rate per mile, something like eight times this. Further on 
Mr. Elliot says : " In America the surplus population of 
Europe, and the markets in the Eastern States have made 
railway development profitable on the whole, but in Africa, 
until pioneer work has been done, and the prospects of 
colonisation and plantation are sufficiently definite and settled 
to induce colonists to go out in considerable numbers, it will 
be ruinous to build a long railway line." 

I do not quote these figures to discourage the West 
Coaster from his railway, but only to induce him to get his 
government to make it in the proper direction, namely, into the 
interior, where further development of trade is possible. 
Judging from other things in English colonies, I should 
expect, if left to the spirit of English (West Coast) enterprise, 
it would run in a line that would enable the engine drivers 
to keep an e\e on the Atlantic Ocean instead of the direc- 
tion in which it is high time our eyes should be turned. 
I confess I am not an enthusiast on civilising the African. 
My idea is that the French method of dealing with Africa 
is the best at present. Get as much of the continent 
as possible down on the map as yours, make }our flag 
wherever }ou go a sacred thing to the native — a thing he 
dare not attack. Then, when you have done this, you may 
abandon the French plan, and gradually develop the'trade in 
an English manner, but not in the English manner a la Sierra 
^ A Naturalist in Mid Africa, 1896. 



640 APPENDIX I 



Leone. But do your pioneer work first. There is a very 
excellent substratum for English pioneer work on our Coasts 
in the trading community, for trade is the great key to the 
African's heart, and everywhere the English trader and his 
goods stand high in West African esteem. This pioneei 
work must be undertaken, or subsidised by the government 
as it has been in the French possessions, for the West Coast 
does not offer those inducements to the ordinary traveller 
that, let us say. East Africa with its magnificent herds of big 
game, or the northern frontier of India, with its mountains and 
its interesting forms, relics, and monuments of a high culture, 
offer. Travel in West Africa is very hard work, and very 
unhealthy. There are many men who would not hesitate for a 
moment to go there, were the dangers of the native savagery 
the chief drawback ; but they hesitate before a trip which means, 
in all probability, month after month of tramping through 
wet gloomy forests with a swamp here and there for a change,^ 
and which will, the chances are 100 to i, end in their dying 
ignominiously of fever in some wretched squalid village. 

Reckless expenditure of money in attempts to open up the 
country is to be deprecated, for this hampers its future terribly, 
even if attended with partial success, the mortgage being too 
heavy for the estate, as the Congo Free State finances show ; 
and if it is attended with failure it discourages further efforts. 
What we want at present in West Africa are three or four 
Bingers and Zintgraffs to extend our possessions northwards, 
eastwards, and south-eastwards, until they command the 
interior trade routes. And there is no reason that these men 
should enter from the West Coast, getting themselves killed, 
or half killed, with fever, before they reach their work. 
Uganda, if half one hears of it is true, would be a very 
suitable base for them to start from, and then travelling west 
they might come down to the present limit of our West Coast 
possessions. This belt of territory across the continent 
would give us control of, and place us in touch with, the whole 
of the interior trade. A belt from north to south in Africa — 
thanks to our supineness and folly — we can now never have. 

I will now briefly deal with the second sub-division I spoke 
of some pages back — the possibility of introducing new trade 
exports by means of cultivating plantations. The soil of 

^ The accounts given by the various members of the Stanley Emin 
Relief Expedition well describe the usual sort of West African hinterland 
work, but the forests of the Congo are less relieved by open park-like 
country than those of the rivers to the north or south. Still the Congo, 
in spite of this disadvantage, has greater facilities for transport in the 
way of waterways than is found east of the Cross or Cameroon. 



TRADE AND LABOUR IN WEST AFRICA 641 



West Africa is extremely rich in places, but by no means so 
in all, for \ ast tracts of it are mangrove swamps, and other vast 
tracts of it are miserably poor, sour, sandy clay. It is impos- 
sible in the space at m\' disposal to enter into a full description 
of the localities where these unprofitable districts occur, but 
\ou will find them here and there all along the Coast after 
leaving Sierra Leone. The sour clay seems to be new soil 
recenth' promoted into the mainland from dried-up mangrove 
swamps, and a good rough rule is, do not start a plantation 
on soil that is not growing hard-wood forest. Considerable 
areas on the Gold Coast, even though the soil is good, are 
now useless for cultivation, on account of their having been 
deforested by the natives' wasteful way of making their 
farms, coupled with the Harmattan and the long dry season. 

The regions of richest soil are not in our possessions, but in 
those of Germany, France, Spain, and Portugal, namely, the 
Cameroons and its volcanic island series, Fernando Po, Prin- 
cipe, and San Thome. 

The rich volcanic earths of these places will enable them to 
compete in the matter of plantations with any part of the 
known world. Cameroons is undoubtedly the best of these, 
because of its superior river supply, and although not in the 
region of the double seasons it is just on the northern limit of 
them, and the height of the Peak — 13,760 feet — condenses the 
u ater-Iaden air from its surrounding swamps and the Atlantic, 
so that rain is pretty frequent throughout the year. When 
within the region of the double seasons just south of Cam- 
eroons \ou have a rainfall no heavier than that of the Rivers, yet 
better distributed, an essential point for the prosperity of such 
plantations as those of tea and tobacco, which require showers 
once a month. To the north of Cameroons there is no 
prospect of either of these well-paying articles being produced 
in a quantity, or quality, that would compete with South 
America, India, or the Malayan regions, and they will have 
to depend in the matter of plantations on coffee and cacao. 
Below Cameroons, Congo Francais possesses the richest soil 
and an excellently arranged climate. The lower Congo soil 
is bad and poor close to the river. Kacongo, the bit of Portu- 
guese territor}'^ to the north of the Congo banks, and that part 
of Angola as far as the River Bingo, are pretty much the 
same make of country as Congo Frangais, only less heavily 
forested. The whole of Angola is an immensely rich region, 
save just round Loanda where the land is sand-logged for 
about fifty square miles, and those regions to the extreme 
south and south-east, which are in the Kalahari desert regions. 

T T 



642 APPENDIX I 



Coffee grows wild throughout Angola in those districts 
removed from the dry coast-lands — in the districts of Golongo 
Alto and Cassengo in great profusion, and you can go through 
utterly uncultivated stretches of it, thirty miles of it at a time. 
The natives, now the merchants have taught them its value, are 
collecting this wild berry and bringing it in in quantities, and 
in addition the English firm of Newton and Carnegie have 
started plantations up at Cassengo. The greater part of these 
plantations consist of clearing and taking care of the wild 
coffee, but in addition regularly planting and cultivating young 
trees, as it is found that the yield per tree is immensely in- 
creased by cultivation. 

Six hundred to eight hundred bags a month were shipped 
from Ambrizette alone when I was there in 1893, and the 
amount has since increased and will still further increase when 
that leisurely, but very worthy little railroad line, which proudly 
calls itself the Royal Trans-African, shall have got its sections 
made up into the coffee district. It was about thirty miles off 
at Ambaca when I was in Angola, but by now it may have got 
further. However, I do not think it is very likely to have gone 
far, and I have a persuasion that that railroad will not become 
trans-African in my day ; still it has an " immediate future " 
compared with that which any other West Coast railway can 
expect ; for besides the coffee, Angola is rich in malachite 
and gum of high quality, and its superior government will 
attract the rubber from the Kassai region of the Congo Free 
State. 

In our own possessions the making of plantations is being 
carried on with much energy by Messrs. Miller Brothers on 
the Gold Coast,^ by several private capitalists, including Mr. A. 
L. Jones of Liverpool, at Lagos ; by the Royal Niger Company 
in their territory, and by several head Agents in the Niger 
Coast Protectorate. Sir Claude MacDonald offered every 
inducement to this trade development, and gave great material 
help by founding a botanical station at Old Calabar, where 
plants could be obtained. He did his utmost to try and get 
the natives to embark on plantation-njaking, ably seconded b\- 
Mr. Billington, the botanist in charge of the botanical station. 

1 Export of coffee from the Gold Coast, 1894, given in the Colonial 
Report on that year published in 1896, was of the value of ^1,265 3^. ^d. : 
cocoa, £S4^ ^7^- 4'*^- ^^e greater part of this coffee goes to Germany. 

Export of coffee from Lagos, given in Colonial Report for 1892, 
published in 1893, was of the value of £\2. No figures on this subject 
are given in the 1894 report, published in 1896, but I cite these figures 
to show the delay in publishing these reports by the Colonial Oflfice and 
the difficulty of getting reliable statistics on West African trade. 



TRADE AND LABOUR IN WEST AFRICA 643 



who wrote an essay in Effik on coffee growing and cultiva- 
tion at large for their special help and guidance. A few 
chiefs, to oblige, took coffee plants, but they are not enthusi- 
astic, for the slaves that would be required to tend coffee and 
keep it clean, in this vigorous forest region, are more profitably 
employed now in preparing palm oil. 

Of the coffee plantation at Man o' War Bay I have already 
spoken, and of those in Congo Francais, which, although not 
at present shipping like the German plantation, will soon be 
¦doing so. In addition to coffee and cacao attempts are 
being made in Congo Francais to introduce the Para rubber 
tree, a large plantation of which I frequently visited near 
Libreville, and found to be doing well. This would be an 
¦excellent tree to plant in among coffee, for it is ver\- clean and 
tidy, and seems as if it would take to West Africa like a duck 
to water, but it is not a quick cropper, and I am informed 
must be left at least three or four years before it is tapped at 
all, so, as the gardening books would say, it should be planted 
early. 

It is very possible man}' other trees producing tropical 
products valuble in commerce might be introduced success- 
fully into West Africa. The cultivation of cloves and nutmegs 
would repay here well, for allied species of trees and shrubs are 
indigenous, but the first of these trees takes a long time before 
coming into bearing and the cultivation of the second is a 
speculative affair. Allspice I have found growing wild in several 
¦districts, but in no large quantity. Cotton with a fine long staple 
grows wild in quantities wherever there is open ground, but it 
is not cultivated by the natives ; and when attempts have been* 
made to get them to collect it they do so, but bring it in very 
dirty, and the traders having no machiner)' to compress it like 
that used in America, it does not pay to ship. Indigo is 
common ever}'where along the Coast and used by the natives for 
dyeing, as is also a teazle, which gives a \ery fine permanent 
maroon ; and besides these there are many other dyes and 
drugs used by them — colocynth, datura soap bark, cardam- 
mom, ginger, peppers, strophanthus, nux vomica, &c., &c., but 
the difficulty of getting these things brought in to the traders 
in sufficient quantities prevents their being exported to any 
considerable extent. Tea has not been tried, and is barely 
worth trying, though there is little doubt it would grow in 
Cameroons and Congo Francais where it would have an 
excellent climate and pretty nearly any elevation it liked. 
But I believe tea has of late years been discovered to be 
like coffee, not such a stickler for elevation as it used to 

T T 2 



644 appp:ndix I 



be thought, merely requiring not to have its roots in standing 
water. 

Vanilla grows with great luxuriance in Cameroons. In 
Victoria a grove of gigantic cacao trees is heavily overgrown 
with this lovely orchid in a -most perfect way. It does not 
seem to injure the cacaos in the least, and there are other 
kinds of trees it will take equally well to. I saw it growing 
happily and luxuriantly under the direction of the Roman 
Catholic Mission at Landana ; but it requires a continuously 
damp climate. Vanilla when once started gives little or 
no trouble, and its pods do not require any very careful 
manipulation before sending to Europe, and this is a very 
important point, for a great hindrance — the great hindrance 
to plantation enterprise on the Coast — is the difficulty of 
getting neat-handed labourers. I had once the pleasure of 
meeting a Dutch gentleman — a plantation expert, who had 
been sent down the West Coast by a firm trading there, and 
also in the Malay Archipelago — prospecting, at a heavy fee, 
to see whether it would pay the firm to open up plantations 
there better than in Malaysia. I believe his final judgment 
was adverse to the West African plan, because of the difficulty 
of getting skilful natives to tend young plants, and prepare the 
products. Tea he regarded as quite hopeless from this diffi- 
culty, and he said he did not think you would ever get 
Africans at as cheap a rate, or so deftly fingered to roll tea, 
as you can get Asiatics. No one knows until they have tried 
it the trouble it is to get an African to do things carefully ; 
but it is a trouble, not an impossibility. If you don't go 
off with fever from sheer worry and vexation the thing can 
be done, but in the meantime he is maddening. I have 
had many a day's work on plantations instructing cheerful, 
willing, apparently intelligent Ethiopians of various sexes 
and sizes on the mortal crime of hoeing up young coffee 
plants. They have quite seen it. " Oh, Lor ! massa, I no 
fit to do dem thing." Aren't they ! You go along to- 
morrow morning, and you'll find your most promising pupils 
laying around them with their hoes, talking about the 
disgraceful way their dearest friends go on, and destroying 
young coffee right and left. They are just as bad, if not 
slightly worse, particularly the ladies, when it comes to pick- 
ing coffee. As soon as your eye is off them, the bough is off 
the tree. I know one planter who leads the life of the Sur- 
prise Captain in W. H. S. Gilbert's ballad, lurking among his 
groves, and suddenly appearing among his pickers. This, he 
says, has given them a feeling of uncertainty as to when and 



TRADE AND LABOUR IN WEST AFRICA 645 



where he may appear, kassengo and all, that has done much 
to preserve his plantation ; but it is a wearying life, not what 
he expected from his book on coffee-plantations, which had a 
frontispiece depicting a planter seated in his verandah, with a 
tumblerful of something cool at his right hand, and a pipe in 
his mouth, contemplating a large plantation full of industrious 
natives picking berries into baskets on all sides. 

Labour. — Ths labour problem is one that must be studied 
and solved before West Africa can advance much further than 
its present culture condition, because the climate is such that 
the country cannot be worked by white labourers ; and that this 
state of affairs will remain as it is until some true specific is 
•discovered for malaria, something important happens to the 
angle of the earth's axis, or some radical change takes place 
in the nature of the sun, is the opinion of all acquainted with 
the region. The West African climate shows no signs of im- 
proving whatsoever. If it shows any sign of alteration it is 
for the worse, for of late years two extremely deadly forms of 
fever have come into notice here, malarial typhoid and black- 
water. The malarial typhoid seems confined to districts 
where a good deal of European attention has been given to 
drainage systems, which is in itself discouraging. 

The labour problem has been imported with European 
civilisation. The civilisation has not got on to any considerable 
extent, but the labour problem has ; for, being a malignant 
nuisance, it has taken to West Africa as a duck to water, and it 
is now flourishing. It has not }et, however, attained its zenith ; 
it is just waiting for the abolition of domestic slavery for that — 
and then ! Meanwhile it grows with the demand for hands to 
carry on plantation work, and public works. On the West Coast 
— that is to say, from Sierra Leone to Cameroon — it is worse 
than on the South West Coast from Cameroon to Benguella. 

The Kruman. the Accra, and the Sierra Leonian are at 
present on the West Coast the only solution available. The 
first is as fine a ship-and-beach-man as you could reasonably 
wish for, but no good for plantation work. The second is, 
thanks to the practical training he has received from the Basle 
Mission, a very fair artisan, cook, or clerk, but also no good 
for plantation work, except as an overseer. The third is a 
poor artisan, an excellent clerk, or subordinate official, but so 
unreliable in the matter of honesty as to be nearly reliable to 
swindle any employer. Lagos turns out a large quantity of 
educated natives, but owing to the growing prosperity of the 
colony, these are nearly all engaged in Lagos itself 



646 APPENDIX I 



An important but somewhat neglected factor in the problem 
is the nature of the West African native, and as I think a 
calm and unbiassed study of this factor would give us the 
satisfactory solution to the problem, I venture to give my 
own observations on it. 

The Kruboys, as the natives of the Grain Coast are called,, 
irrespective of the age of the individual, by the white men — 
the Menekussi as the Effiks call them — are the most important 
people of West Africa ; for without their help the working 
of the Coast would cost more lives than it already does, and 
would be in fact practically impossible. Ever since vessels- 
have regularly frequented the Bights, the Kruman has had the 
helpful habit of shipping himself off on board, and doing all 
the heavy work. Their first tutors were the slavers, who- 
initiated them into the habit, and instructed them in ship's 
work, that they might have the benefit of their services in 
working their vessels along the Slave Coast. And in order ta 
prevent any Kruboy being carried off as a slave by mistake, 
which would have prejudiced these useful allies, the slavers 
persuaded them always to tattoo a band of basket-work 
pattern down their foreheads and out on to the tip of their 
broad noses : this is the most extensive bit of real tattoo 
that I know of in West Africa, and the Kruboys still keep the 
fashion. Their next tutors were the traders, who have taught 
and still teach them beach work ; how to handle cargo, try 
oil, and make themselves generally useful in a factory,. 
— " learn sense," as the Kruboy himself puts it. To religious 
teaching the Kruboy seems for an African singularly im- 
pervious, but the two lessons he has learnt — ship and 
shore work — are the best that the white has so far taught the 
black, because unattended with the evil consequences that 
have followed the other lessons. Unfortunately, the Kruman 
of the Grain Coast and the Cabinda of the South West 
Coast, are the only two tribes that have had the benefit of 
this kind of education, but there are many other tribes who, 
had circumstances led the trader and the slaver to turn their 
attention to them, would have done their tutors quite as much 
credit. But circumstances did not, and so nowadays, just as 
a hundred years ago, you must get the Kruboy to help you 
if you are going to do any work, missionary or mercantile, 
from Sierra Leone to Cameroon. Below Cameroon the 
Kruboy does not like to go, except to the beach of an 
English house, for he has suffered much from the Congo Free 
State, and from Spaniards and Portuguese, who have not 
respected his feelings in the matter of wanting to return 



J 



TRADE AND LABOUR IN WEST AFRICA 647 



ever}' }'ear, or every two years at the most, to his own 
country, and his rooted aversion to agricultural work and 
carr\'ing loads about the bush. 

The pay of the Kruboy averages £1 a month. There are 
modifications in the way in which this sum is reached ; for 
example, some missionaries pay each man ;^20 a year, but 
then he has to find his own chop. Some South West Coast 
traders pay ^8 a }ear, but they find their boys entirely, and 
well, in food, and give them a cloth a week. English men-of- 
war on the West African Station have, like other vessels 
to take them on to save the white crew, and they pay the 
Kruboys the same as they pay the white men, i.e., £4 los. a 
month with rations. Needless to say, men-of-war are popular, 
although service on board them cuts our friend off from almost 
every chance of stealing chickens and other things of which I 
ma\' not speak, as Herodotus would say. I do not know the 
manner in which men-of-war pay off the Kruboy, but I think 
in hard cash. In the circles of society I most mix with on 
the Coast — the mercantile marine and the trading — he is always 
paid in goods, in cloth, gin, guns, tobacco, gunpowder, &c., with 
little concessions to his mdividual fancy in the matter, for each 
of these articles has a known value, and just as one of our coins 
can be changed, so you can get here change for a gun or any 
other trade article. 

The Kruboy much prefers being paid off in goods. I well 

remember an exquisite scene between Captain and King 

Koftee of the Kru Coast when the subject of engaging boys 
was being shouted over one voyage out. The Captain at that 
time thought I was a W.W.T.A.A. and ostentatiously wanted 
Koffee to let him pay off the boys he was engaging to work 
the ship in money, and not in gin and gunpowder. King 

Koffee's face was a study. If Captain , whom he knew of 

old, had stood on his head and turned bright blue all over 
w ith yellow spots, before his eyes, it would not have been any- 
thing like such a shock to his Majesty. " What for good him 
ting, Cappy ? " he said, interrogation and astonishment ringing 
in every word. " What for good him ting for we country, 
Cappy? I suppose you gib gin, tobacco, gun he be fit for 

trade, but money " Here his Majesty's feelings flew ahead 

of the Royal command of language, great as that was, and he 
expectorated with profound feeling and expression. Captain 

's expressive countenance was the battle ground of 

despair and grief at being thus forced to have anything to 
do with a traffic unpopular in missionary circles. He how- 
ever controlled his feelings sufficiently to carefully arrange 



648 APPENDIX I 



the due amount of each article to be paid, and the affair was 
settled. 

The somewhat cumbrous wage the Kruboy gets at the end 
of his term of service, minus those things he has had on account 
and plus those things he has " found," is certainly a source of 
great worry to our friend. He obtains a box from the car- 
penter of the factory, or buys a tin one, and puts therein his 
tobacco and small things, and then he buys a padlock and 
locks his box of treasure up, hanging the key with his other 
ju-jus round his neck, and then he has peace regarding this 
section of his belongings. Peace at present, for the day must 
some time dawn when an experimental genius shall arise 
among his fellow countrymen, who will try and see if one key 
will not open two locks. When this possibility becomes 
known I can foresee nothing for the Kruboy but nervous 
breakdown ; for even now, with his mind at rest regarding the 
things in his box, he lives in a state of constant anxiety about 
those out of it, which have to lie on the deck during the 
return voyage to his home. He has to keep a vigilant eye on 
them by day, and sleep spread out over them by night, for 
fear of his companions stealing them. Why he should take 
all this trouble about his things on his voyage home I can't 
make out, if what is currently reported is true, that all the 
wages earned by the working boys become the property of 
the elders of his tribe when he returns to them. I myself rather 
doubt if this is the case, but expect there is a very heavy tax 
levied on them, for your Kruboy is very much a married man, 
and the elders of his tribe have to support and protect his 
wives and families when he is away at work, and I should not 
wonder if the law was that these said wives and families 
" revert to the State " if the boy fails to return within some- 
thing like his appointed time. There must be something 
besides nostalgia to account for the dreadful worry and appre- 
hension shown by a detained Kruboy. I am sure the tax is 
heavily taken in cloth, for the boys told me that if it were 
made up into garments for themselves they did not have 
to part with it on their return. Needless to say, this makes 
our friend turn his attention to needlework during his return 
voyage, and many a time I have seen the main deck looking 
as if it had been taken possession of by a demoniacal Dorcas 
working party. 

Strangely little is known of the laws and language of these 
Krumen, considering how close the association is between 
them and the whites. This arises, I think, not from the diffi- 
culty of learning their language, but from the ease and fluency 



I 



TRADE AND LABOUR IN WEST AFRICA 649 

with which they speak their version of our own — Kru-English, 
or " trade English," as it is called, and it is therefore unneces- 
sary for a hot and wearied white man to learn " Kru mouth." 
What particularly makes me think this is the case is, that I 
have picked up a little of it, and I found that I could make a 
Kruman understand what I was driving at with this and my 
small stock of Bassa mouth and Timneh, on occasions when I 
wished to say something to him I did not want generally 
understood. But the main points regarding Krumen are well 
enough known by old coasters — their willingness to work if 
well fed, and their habit of engaging for twelve-month terms 
of work and then returning to " we country'." A trader who 
is satisfied with a boy gives him, when he leaves, a bit of 
paper telling the captain of any vessel that he will pay the 
boy's passage to his factory again, when he is willing to come. 
The period that a boy remains in his beloved "we country'" 
seems to be until his allowance of his own earnings is ex- 
pended. One can picture to one's self some sad partings in 
that far-away dark land. " My loves," says the Kruboy to 
his families, his voice heavy with tears, " I must go. There 
is no more cloth, I have nothing between me and an easily- 
shocked world but this decayed filament of cotton." And 
then his families weep with him, or, what is more likely, but 
not so literary, expectorate with emotion, and he tears 
himself away from them and comes on board the passing 
steamer in the uniform of Gunga Din — nothing much before 
and rather less than half of that behind, and goes down Coast 
on the strength of the little bit of paper from his white master 
which he has carefully treasured, and works like a nigger in the 
good sense of the term for another spell, to earn more goods 
for his home-folk. 

Those boys who are first starting on travelling to work, and 
those without books, have no diflficulty in getting passages on 
the steamers, for a captain is glad to get as many on board as 
he can, being sure to get their passage money and a premium 
for them, so great is the demand for Kru labour. But even 
this help to working the West Coast has been much interfered 
with of late years by the action of the French Government in 
imposing a tax per head on all labourers leaving their ports on 
the Ivory Coast. This tax, I believe, is now removed or much 
reduced ; but as for the Liberian Republic, it simply gets its 
revenue in an utterly unjustifiable way out of taxing the 
Krumen who ship as labourers. The Krumen are no property 
of theirs, and they dare not interfere with them on shore ; but 
owing to that little transaction in the celebrated Rubber 



650 APPENDIX I 



Monopoly, the Liberians became possessed of some ready 
cash, which, with great foresight, they invested in two Httle 
gun-boats which enabled them to enforce their tax on the 
Krumen in their small canoes. I do not feel so sympathetic 
with the Krumen or their employers in this matter as I should,, 
for the Krumen are silly hens not to go and wipe out Liberia 

on shore, and the white men are silly hens not to but I 

had better leave that opinion unexpressed. 

The power of managing Kruboys is a great accomplishment 
for any one working the West Coast. One man will get 20 per 
cent, more work out of his staff, and always have them cheer- 
ful, fit, and ready ; while another will get very little out of the 
same set of men except vexation to himself, and accidents to 
his goods ; but this very necessary and important factor in 
trade is not to be taught with ink. Some men fall into the 
proper way of managing the boys very quickly, others may 
have years of experience and yet fail to learn it. The rule is, 
make them respect you, and make them like you, and then the 
thing is done ; but first dealing wich the Kruboy, with all his 
good points, is very trying work, and they give the new hand 
an awful time of it while they are experimenting on him to 
see how far they can do him. They do this very cleverly, but 
shortsightedly, more Africano, for they spoil the tempers of 
half the white men whom they have to deal with. It is not 
necessary to treat them brutally, in fact it does not pay to do 
so, but it is necessary to treat them severely, to keep a steady 
hand over them. Never let them become familiar, never let 
them see you have made a mistake. When you make a mis- 
take in giving them an order let it be understood that that 
way of doing a thing is a peculiarly artful dodge of your own, 
and if it fails, that it is their fault. They will quite realise 
this if it is properly managed. I speak from experience ; for 
example, once, owing to the superior sex being on its back 
with fever and sending its temperature up with worrying about 
getting some ebony logs off to a bothering wretch of a river 
steamer that must needs come yelling along for cargo just 
then, I .said, "You leave it to me, I'll get it shipped all right," 
and proceeded, with the help of three Kruboys, to raft that 
ebony off. I saw as soon as I had embarked on the affair, 
from the Kruboys' manner, I was down the wrong path, but 
how, or why, I did not see until a neat arrangement of ebony 
billets tied together with tie-tie was in the water. Then I 
saw that I had constructed an excellent sounding apparatus 
for finding out the depth of water in the river ; and that 
ebony had an affinity for the bottom of water, not for the 



TRADE AND LABOUR IN WEST AFRICA 651 



top. The situation was a trying one and the way the captain 
of the vessel kept dancing about his deck saying things in a 
foreign tongue, but quite comprehensible, was distracting ; 
but I did not devote myself to giving him the information 
he asked for, as to what particular kind of idiot I was, because 
he was neither a mad doctor nor an ethnologist and had no 
right to the information ; but I put a raft on the line of a 
\-ery light wood we had a big store of, and this held up the 
ebony, and the current carried it down to the steamer all right. 
Then we hauled the line home and sent him some more on 
the patent plan, but, just to hurry up, you understand, and 
not delay the ship, a deadly crime, some of that ebony went 
off in a canoe and all ended happily, and the Kruboys 
regarded themselves as having been the spectators of another 
manifestation of white intelligence. In defence of the cap- 
tain's observations, I must say he could not see me because 
I was deploying behind a woodstack ; nevertheless, I do not 
mean to say this method of shipping ebony is a good one. 
I shall not try it again in a hurry, and the situation cannot 
be pulled through unless you have, as Allah gave me, a very 
\ ift current ; and although, when the thing went well, I did 
-a\- things from behind the woodstack to the captain, I did 
not feel justified in accepting his apologetic invitation to come 
on board and have a drink. 

My experiences with Kruboys would, if written in full, make 
an excellent manual for a new-comer, but they are too lengthy 
for this appendix. My first experience with them on a small 
bush journey aged me very much ; and ever since I have shirked 
chaperoning Kruboys about the West African bush among 
ticklish-tempered native gentlemen and their forward hussies 
of wives. 

I have always admired men for their strength, their courage, 
lieir enterprise, their unceasing struggle for the beyond — the 
jmething else, but not until I had to deal with Krumen did 
1 realise the vastness to which this latter characteristic of theirs 
could attain. One might have been excused for thinking that 
a man without rates and taxes, without pockets, and without 
the manifold, want-creating culture of modern European 
civilisation and education would necessarily have been bounded, 
to some extent, in his desires. But one would have been 
wrong, profoundly wrong, in so thinking, for the Kruman 
yearns after, and duns for, as many things for his body as the 
lamented Faustus did for his soul, and away among the apes 
this interesting creature would have to go, at once, if the 
wanting of little were a crucial test for the determination of 



6S2 APPENDIX I 



the family termed by the scientific world the Hominidae. 
Later, when I got to know the Krumen well, I learnt that they 
desired not only the vast majority of the articles that they 
saw, but did more — obtained them — at all events some of 
them, without asking me for them ; such commodities, for 
example, as fowls, palm wine, old tins and bottles, and other 
gentlemen's wives were never safe. One of that first gang of 
boys showed self-help to such a remarkable degree that I 

christened him Smiles. His name — You-be-d d — being 

both protracted and improper, called for change of some sort, 
but even this brought no comfort to one still hampered with 
conventional ideas regarding property, and frequent roll-calls 
were found necessary, so that the crimes of my friend Smiles 
and his fellows might not accumulate to an unmanageable 
extent. 

This used to be the sort of thing — " Where them Xettlerash 
lib ? " " He lib for drunk, Massa." " Where them Smiles ? " 
" He lib for town, for steal, Massa." " Where them Black Man 
Misery? " But I draw a veil over the confessional, for there is 
simply no artistic reticence about your Kruman when he is 
telling the truth, or otherwise, regarding a fellow creature. 

After accumulating with this gang enough experience to 
fill a hat (remembering always " one of the worst things you 
can do in West Africa is to worry yourself") I bethought me 
of the advice I had received from my cousin Rose Kingsley, 
who had successfully ridden through Mexico when Mexico 
was having a rather worse revolution than usual, " to always 
preserve a firm manner." I thought I would try this on those 
Kruboys and said " NO " in place of " I wish you would not do 
that, please." I can't say it was an immediate success. During 
this period we came across a trader's lonely store wherein he 
had a consignment of red parasols. After these appalling 
objects the souls of my Krumen hungered with a great desire. 
" NO," said I, in my severest tone, and after buying other things, 
we passed on. Imagine my horror, therefore, hours afterwards 
and miles away, to find my precious crew had got a red parasol 
apiece. Previous experience quite justified me in thinking that 
these had been stolen ; and I pictured to myself my Portuguese 
friends, whose territory I was then in, commenting upon the 
incident, and reviling me as another instance of how the brutal 
English go looting through the land. I found, however, I was 
wrong, for the parasols had been " dashed " my rapacious 
rascals " for top," and the last one connected with the affair 
who deserved pity was the trader from whom I had believed 
them stolen. It was I, not he, who suffered, for it was the 



i 



TRADE AND LABOUR IN WEST AFRICA 653 



wet season in West Africa and those red parasols ran. To this 
day my scientific soul has never been able to account for the 
vast body of crimson dye those miserable cotton things poured 
out, plentifully drenching myself and their owners, the Kruboys, 
and ever\thing we associated with that day. I am quite pre- 
pared to hear that some subsequent wanderer has found a red 
trail in Africa itself like that one so often sees upon the 
maps. When they do, I hereby claim that real red trail as 
mine. 

I confess I like the African on the whole, a thing I never 
expected to do when I went to the Coast with the idea that 
he was a degraded, savage, cruel brute ; but that is a trifling 
error you soon get rid of when you know him. The Kruboy 
is decidedly the most likeable of all Africans that I know. 
Wherein his charm lies is difficult to describe, and you cer- 
tainly want the patience of Job, and a conscience made of 
stretching leather to deal with the Kruboy in the African 
climate, and live. In his better manifestations he reminds me 
of that charming personality, the Irish peasant, for though he 
lacks the sparkle, he is full of humour, and is the laziest and 
the most industrious of mankind. He lies and tells the truth 
in such a hopelessly uncertain manner that you cannot rely 
on him for either. He is ungrateful and faithful to the 
death, honest and thievish, all in one and the same specimen 
of him. 

Ingratitude is a crime laid very frequently to the score of 
all Africans, but I think unfairly ; certainly I have never had 
to complain of it, and the Krumen often show gratitude for 
good treatment in a grand way. The way those Kruboys of 
gallant Captain Lane helped him work Lagos Bar and save 
lives by the dozen from the stranded ships on it and hauled 
their " INIassa " out from among the sharkey foam everv* time he 
went into it, on the lifeboat upsetting, would have done credit 
to Deal or Norfolk lifeboat men, but the secret of their devo- 
tion is their personal attachment. They do not save people 
out of surf on abstract moral principles. The African at 
large is not an enthusiast on moral principles, and one and all 
they'll let nature take its course if they don't feel keen on a 
man surviving. 

Half the African's ingratitude, although it may look very 
bad on paper, is reall}' not so very bad ; for half the time 
you have been asking him to be grateful to you for doing to, 
or giving him things he does not care a row of pins about. I 
have quite his feelings, for example, for half the things in 
civilised countries I am expected to be glad to get. " Oh, 



654 APPENDIX T 



how nice it must be to be able to get about in cars, omnibuses 
and railway trains again ! " Is it? Well I don't think so, and 
I do not feel glad over it. Similarly, we will take an African 
case of ingratitude. A white friend of mine put himself to 
an awful lot of trouble to save the life of one of his sub-traders 
who had had an accident, and succeeded. It had been the 
custom of the man's wife to bring the trader little presents of 
fowls, etc., from time to time, and some time after the accident 
he met the lady and told her he had noticed a falling off in her 
offerings and he thought her very ungrateful after what he had 
done for her husband. She grunted and the next morning she 
brings in as a present the most forlorn, skinny, one-and-a-half- 
feathered chicken you ever laid eye on, and in answer to the 
trader's comments she said : " Massa, fo sure them der chicken 
no be 'ticularly good chicken, but fo sure dem der man no 
be 'ticularly good man. They go " (they match each other). 

I have referred at great length to the Krumen because of 
their importance, and also because they are the natives the 
white men have more to do with as servants than any other ; 
but methods of getting on with them are not necessarily 
applicable to dealing with other forms of African labourers, 
such as plantation hands in the Congo Frangais, Angola, and 
Cameroon. In Cameroon the Germans are now using largely 
the Batanga natives on the plantations ; the Duallas, the great 
trading tribe in Cameroon River, being too lazy to do any 
heavy work ; and they have also tried to import labourers from 
Togo Land, but this attempt was not a success, ending in the 
revolt of 1894, which lost several white lives. The public work 
is carried on, as it is in our own colonies, by the criminals in 
the chain-gang. The Germans have had many accusations 
hurled against them by people of their own nationality, but on 
the whole these " atrocities " have been much exaggerated and 
only half understood ; and certainly have not amounted to 
anything like the things that have gone on in the " philan- 
thropic " Congo Free State. The food given out by the German 
Government is the best Government rations given on the whole 
West Coast. When they have allowed me to have some of 
their native employes, as when I was up Cameroon Mountain, 
for example, I bought rations from the Government stores for 
them, and was much struck by the soundness and good quality 
of both rice and beef, and the rations they gave out to those 
Dahomeyans or Togolanders who revolted was so much more 
than they could, or cared to eat, that they used to sell much 
of it to the Duallas in Bell Town. This is not open to the 
criticism that the stuff was too bad for the Togolanders to 



TRADE AND LABOUR IN WEST AFRICA 655 

eat, as was once said to me by a philanthropic German who 
had never been to the Coast, because the Duallas are a rich 
tribe, perfectly free traders in the matter, able to go to the 
river factories and buy provisions there had they wished to, and 
so would not have bought the Government rations unless they 
were worth ha\ing. The great point that has brought the 
Germans into disrepute with the natives employed by them is 
their military spirit, which gives rise to a desire to regulate 
cverj'thing ; and that other attribute of the militarj^ spirit, 
nagging. You should never nag an African, it only makes 
him bothered and then sulky, and when he's sulky he'll lie 
down and die to spite you. But in spite of the Germans 
being over-given to this unpleasant habit of military regularity 
and so on, the natives from the Kru Coast and from Bassa and 
the French Ivory Coast return to them time after time for spells 
of work, so there must be grave exaggeration regarding their 
bad treatment, for these natives are perfectly free in the 
matter. 

The French use Loango boys for factory hands and these 
people are ver>' bright and intelligent, but as a M'pongwe, 
who knew them well, said : " They are much too likely to be 
devils to be good too much" and are undoubtedly given to 
poisoning, which is an unpleasant habit in a house servant. 
Their militar)' force are composed of Senegalese Laptot, ver}' 
fine, fierce fellows, superior, I believe, as fighting men to our 
Hausas, and very devoted to, and well treated by, their French 
officers. 

That the Frenchman does not know how to push trade in his 
possessions, the trade returns, with the balance all on the 
wrong side, clearly show ; still he does know how to get 
possession of Africa better than we do, and this means he 
knows how to deal with the natives. The building up of 
Congo Francais for example, has not cost one-third of the 
human lives, black or white, that an equivalent quantity of 
Congo Beige has, nor one-third of the expense of Uganda or 
Sierra Leone. It is customary^ in England to dwell on the 
commercial failure, and deduce from it the erroneous conclu- 
sion that France will soon leave it off when she finds it does 
not pa}-. This is an error, because commercial success — 
the making the thing pay — is not the French ideal in 
the affair. It is our own, and I am the last person to say our 
ideal is wrong ; but it is not the French ideal, and I am the 
last person to say France is wrong either. There may exist 
half a hundred or more right reasons for doing anything, and 
the reasons France has for her energetic policy in Africa are 



656 APPENDIX I 



sound ones ; for they are the employment of her martial spirits 
where their activity will not endanger the State, the stowing 
of these spirits in Paris having been found to be about as 
advisable as stowing over-proof spirits and gunpowder in a 
living-room with plenty of lighted lucifers blazing round ; and 
her other reason is the opportunity African enterprise affords 
for sound military training. You will often hear in England 
regarding French annexation in i\frica, " Oh ! let her have the 
deadly hole, and much good may it do her." France knows 
very well what good it will do her, and she will cheerfully take 
all she is allowed to get-quietly, as a sop for her quietness re- 
garding Egypt, and she will cheerfully fight you for the rest 
— small blame to her. She knows Africa is a superb training 
ground for her officers. Sham fights and autumn manoeuvres 
have a certain value in the formation of a fighting army, but 
the whole of these parlour-games, put together in a ten-year 
lump, are not to be compared to one month's work at real war, 
to fit an army for its real work, and France knows well the 
real work will come some day — not far off — for her army. 
How soon it comes she little cares, for she has no ideal of 
Peace before her, never has had, never will have, and the next 
time she tries conclusions with one of us Teutonic nations, 
she will be armed with men who have learned their trade well 
on the burning sands of Senegal, and they will take a lot of 
beating. We do not require Africa as a training ground for our 
army ; India is as magnificent a military academy as any 
nation requires ; but we do require all the Africa we can get. 
West, East, and South, for a market, and it is here we clash 
with France ; for France not only does not develop the trade 
of her colonies for her own profit, but stamps trade at large 
out by her preferential tariffs, &c. ; so that we cannot go into 
her colonies and trade freely as she and Germany can come 
into ours. W^e can go into her colonies and do business with 
French goods, and this is done ; but French goods are not 
so suitable, from their make, nor capable of being sold at a 
sufficient profit to make a big trade. But France throws few 
obstacles, if any, in the matter of plantation enterprise. Still 
this enterprise being so hampered by the dearth of good labour 
is not at the present time highly remunerative in Africa. 

Foreign Labour. — Several important authorities have ad- 
vocated the importation of foreign labour into Africa. This 
seems to me to be a fatal error, for several reasons. For one 
thing, experience has by now fully demonstrated that the West 
Coast climate is bad for men not native to it, whether those 



TRADE AND LABOUR IN WEST AFRICA 657 

men be white, black, or yellow. The United Presbyterian 
Mission who work in Old Calabar was founded with the inten- 
tion of inaugurating a mission which, after the white men had 
established it, was to be carried on by educated Christian 
blacks from Jamaica, where this mission had long been estab- 
lished and flourished. But it was found that these men, 
although primarily Africans, had by their deportation from 
Africa in the course, in some cases, of only one generation, lost 
the power of resistance to the deadly malarial climate their 
forefathers possessed, and so the mission is now carried on by 
whites ; not that these good people have a greater resistance 
to the fever than the Jamaica Christians, but because they are 
more devoted to the evangelisation of the African ; and what 
black assistance they receive comes with the exception of 
Mrs. Fuller, from a few educated Effiks of Calabar. 

The Congo Free State have imported as labourers both 
West Indian negroes — principally Barbadians — and China- 
men. In both cases the mortality has been terrible — more 
than the white mortality, which competent authorities put 
clown for the Congo at yj per cent., and the experiment has 
therefore failed. It may be said that much of this mortality 
has arisen from the way in which these labourers have been 
treated in the Free State, but that this is not entirely the 
case is demonstrated by the case of the Annamese in Congo 
Fran^ais, who are well treated. These Annamese are the 
political prisoners arising from the French occupation of 
Tong-kin ; and the mortality among one gang of 100 of them 
who were employed to make the path through swampy 
ground from Glass to Libreville — a distance of two and a half 
miles — was seventy, and this although the swamp was nothing 
particularly bad as swamps go, and was swept by sea-air the 
whole way. 

Even had the experiment of imported labour been suc- 
cessful for the time being, I hold it would be a grave error 
o import labour into Africa. For this reason, that Africa 
possesses in herself the most magnificent mass of labour 
material in the whole world, and surely if her children could 
^ build up, as they have, the prosperity and trade of the 
¦ Americas, she should, under proper guidance and good 
management, be able to build up her own. But good guid- 
ance and proper management are the things that are 
wanted — and are wanting. It is impossible to go into this 
complicated question fully here, and I will merely ask un- 
prejudiced people who do not agree with me, whether they 
do not think that as so much has been done with one African 

U U 



658 



APPENDIX I 



tribe, the Krumen — a tribe possessing no material difference 
in make of mind or body from hundreds of other tribes, 
but which have merely been trained by white men in a 
different way from other tribes — that there is room for great 
hope in the native labour supply ? And would not a very 
hopeful outlook for West Africa regarding the labour question 




BRINGING IN RUBBER — CONGO. 



be possible, if a regime of common sense were substituted for 
our present one ? 

This is of course the missionary question — a questioi 
which 1 feel it is hopeless to attempt to speak of with^ 
out being gravely misunderstood, and which I therefore 
would willingly shirk mentioning, but I am convinced thai 



TRADE AND LABOUR IX WEST AFRICA 659 



the future of Africa is not to be dissociated from the future 
of its natives by the importation of yellow races or Hindoos ; 
and the missionary question is not to be dissociated from 
the future of the African natives ; and so the subject must be 
touched on ; and I preface my remarks by stating that I 
have a profound personal esteem for several missionaries, 
naturally, for it is impossible to know such men and 
women as Mr. and Mrs. Dennis Kemp, of the Gold Coast, 
]\Ime. and M. Jacot, and Mme. and M. Forget, and 
M. Gacon, and Dr. Nassau, of Gaboon, and many others 
without recognising at once the beauty of their natures, and 
the nobility of their intentions. Indeed, taken as a whole, 
the missionaries must be regarded as superbly brave, noble- 
minded men who go and risk their own lives, and often those 
of their wives and children, and definitely sacrifice their 
personal comfort and safety to do what, from their point of 
view, is their simple duty ; but it is their methods of working 
that have produced in West Africa the results which all truly 
interested in West Africa must deplore ; and one is bound to 
make an admission that goes against one's insular prejudice — 
that the Protestant English missionaries have had most to do 
with rendering the African useless. 

The bad effects that have arisen from their teaching have 
come primarily from the failure of the missionary to recognise 
the difference between the African and themselves as being 
a difference not of degree but of kind. I am aware that they 
are supported in this idea by several eminent ethnologists ; 
but still there are a large number of anatomical facts that 
point the other way, and a far larger number still relating 
to mental attributes, and I feel certain that a black man 
is no more an undeveloped white man than a rabbit is 
an undeveloped hare ; and the mental difference between 
the two races is very similar to that between men and 
women among ourselves. A great woman, either mentally 
or physically, will excel an indifferent man, but no woman 
ever equals a really great man. The missionary to the 
African has done what my father found them doing to the 
Polynesians — " regarding the native minds as so many jugs 
only requiring to be emptied of the stuff which is in them 
and refilled with the particular form of dogma he is engaged 
in teaching, in order to make them the equals of the white 
races." This form of procedure works in very various ways. 
It eliminates those parts of the native fetish that were a 
wholesome restraint on the African. The children in the 
mission school are, be it granted, better than the children 

U U 2 



66o APPENDIX I 

outside it in some ways ; they display great aptitude for 
learning anything that comes in their way — but there is a 
great difference between white and black children. The 
black child is a very solemn thing. It comes into the world 
in large quantities and looks upon it with its great sad eyes 
as if it were weighing carefully the question whether or no 
it is a fit place for a respectable soul to abide in. Four times 
in ten it decides that it is not, and dies. If, however, it decides 
to stay, it passes between two and three years in a grim and 
profound study — occasionally emitting howls which end 
suddenly in a sob — whine it never does. At the end of this 
period it takes to spoon food, walks about and makes itself 
handy to its mother or goes into the mission school. If it 
remains in the native state it has no toys of a frivolous nature, 
a little hoe or a little calabash are considered better training ; 
if it goes into the school, it picks up, with astonishing rapidity, 
the lessons taught it there — giving rise to hopes for its future 
which are only too frequently disappointed in a few years' time. 
It is not until he reaches years of indiscretion that the 
African becomes joyful ; but, when he attains this age he 
always does cheer up considerably, and then, whatever his 
previous training may have been, he takes to what Mr. Kip- 
ling calls " boot " with great avidity — and of this he consumes 
an enormous quantity. For the next sixteen years, barring 
accidents, he " rips " ; he rips carefully, terrified by his many 
fetish restrictions, if he is a pagan ; but if he is in that partially 
converted state you usually find him in when trouble has 
been taken with his soul— then he rips unrestrained. 

It is most unfair to describe Africans in this state as "con- 
verted," either in missionary reports or in attacks on them. 
They are not converted in the least. A really converted 
African is a very beautiful form of Christian ; but those 
Africans who are the chief mainstay of missionary reports 
and who afford such material for the scoffer thereat, have 
merely had the restraint of fear removed from their minds 
in the mission schools without the greater restraint of love 
being put in its place. 

The missionary-made man is the curse of the Coast, and 
you find him in European clothes and without, all the wa}- 
down from Sierra Leone to Loanda. The pagans despisi 
him, the whites hate him, still he thinks enough of himself t( 
keep him comfortable. His conceit is marvellous, nothing 
equals it except perhaps that of the individual rife among us 
which the Saturday Rcvieiv once aptly described as " the 
suburban agnostic " ; and the missionary man is very much like 



TRADE AND LABOUR IN WEST AFRICA 66i 



the suburban agnostic in his religious method. After a period of 
mission-school life he returns to his country-fashion, and deals 
with the fetish connected with it very much in the same way 
as the suburban agnostic deals with his religion, i.e.^ he removes 
from it all the inconvenient portions. " Shouldn't wonder 
if there might be something in the idea of the immortality of 
the soul, and a future Heaven, you know — but as for Hell, my 
dear sir, that's rank superstition, no one believes in it now, and 
as for Sabbath-keeping and food-restrictions — what utter 
rubbish for enlightened people ! " So the backsliding African 
deals with his country-fashion ideas : he eliminates from them 
the idea of immediate retribution, &c., and keeps the polygamy 
and the dances, and all the lazy, hazy-minded native ways. 
The education he has received at the mission school in reading 
and writing fits him for a commercial career, and as every 
African is a bom trader he embarks on it, and there are pretty 
goings on ! On the West Coast he frequently sets up in 
business for himself ; on the South West Coast he usually 
becomes a sub-trader to one of the great English, French, or 
German firms. On both Coasts he gets himself disliked, and 
brings down opprobrium on all black traders, expressed in 
language more powerful than select. This wholesale denun- 
ciation of black traders is unfair, because there are many per- 
fectly straight trading natives ; still the majority are recruited 
from missionary school failures, and are utterly bad. 

'' Post Jioc lion propter hoc" is an excellent maxim, but one 
that never seems to enter the missionary head down here. 
Highly disgusted and pained at his pupils' goings-on, but 
absolutely convinced of the excellence of his own methods of 
instruction, and the spiritual equality, irrespective of colour, of 
Christians ; the missionary rises up, and says things one can 
understand him saying about the bad influence of the white 
traders ; stating that they lure the pupils from the fold to de- 
struction. These things are nevertheless not true. Then the 
white trader hears them, and gets his back up and says things 
about the effect of missionary training on the African, which 
are true, but harsh, because it is not the missionaries' intent to 
turn out skilful forgers, and unmitigated liars, although they 
practically do so. My share when I drop in on this state of 
mutual recrimination is to get myself into hot water with both 
parties. The missionary thinks me misguided for regarding 
the African's goings-on as part of the make of the man, and 
the trader regards me as a soft-headed idiot when I state that 
it is not the missionary's individual blame that a lamb recently 
acquired from the fold has gone down the primrose path with 



662 APPENDIX I 



the trust, or the rum. Shade of Sir John Falstaff ! what a life 
this is ! 

The two things to which the missionary himself ascribes his 
want of success are polygamy, and the liquor traffic. Now 
polygamy is, like most other subjects, a difficult thing to form 
a just opinion on, if before forming the opinion you make a 
careful study of the facts bearing on the case. It is therefore 
advisable, if you wish to produce an opinion generally accept- 
able in civilised circles, to follow the usual recipe for making 
opinions— just take a prejudice of your own, and fix it up with 
the so-called opinion of that class of people who go in for that 
sort of prejudice too. I have got myself so entangled with 
facts that I cannot follow this plan, and therefore am com- 
pelled to think polygamy for the African is not an unmixed 
evil ; and that at the present culture-level of the African it is 
not to be eradicated. This arises from two reasons ; the first 
is that it is perfectly impossible for one African woman to do 
the work of the house, prepare the food, fetch water, cultivate 
the plantations, and look after the children attributive to one 
man. She might do it if she had the work in her of an 
English or Irish charwoman, but she has not, and a whole 
villageful of African women do not do the work in a week 
that one of these will do in a day. Then, too, the African lady 
is quite indifferent as to what extent her good man may flirt 
with other ladies so long only as he does not go and give them 
more cloth and beads than he gives her ; and the second 
reason for polygamy lies in the custom well-known to ethno- 
logists, and so widely diffused that one might say it was 
constant throughout all African tribes, only there are so 
many of them whose domestic relationships have not been 
carefully observed. 

As regards the drink traffic — no one seems inclined to 
speak the truth about it in West Africa ; and what I say I 
must be understood to say only about West Africa, because 
I do not like to form opinions without having had oppor- 
tunities for personal observation, and the only part of Africa 
I have had these opportunities in has been from Sierra 
Leone to Angola ; and the reports from South Africa show 
that an entirely different, and a most unhealthy state of 
affairs exist there from its invasion by mixed European 
nationalities, with individuals of a low type, greedy for 
wealth. West African conditions are no more like South 
African conditions than they are like Indian. The missionary 
party on the whole have gravely exaggerated both the evil 
and the extent of the liquor traffic in West Africa. I make 



t 

TRADE AND LABOUR IN WEST AFRICA 663 



an exception in favour of the late superintendent of the 
Wesleyan mission on the Gold Coast, the Rev. Dennis Kemp, 
who had enough courage and truth in him to stand up at a 
public meeting in Liverpool, on July 2nd, 1896, and record it 
as his opinion that, " the natives of the Gold Coast were 
remarkably abstemious ; but spirits were, ' he believed,' of no 
benefit to the natives, and they would be better without them." 
I have quoted the whole of the remark, as it is never fair to 
quote half a man says on any subject, but I do not agree 
with the latter half of it, and the Gold Coast natives are not 
any more abstemious, if so much so, as other tribes on the 
Coast. I have elsewhere ^ attempted to show that the drink- 
traffic is by no means the most important factor in the mission 
failure on the West Coast, but that it has been used in an 
unjustifiable way by the missionary party, because they know 
the cry against alcohol is at present a popular one in England, 
and it has also the advantage of making the subscribers 
at home regard the African as an innocent creature who 
is led away by bad white men, and therefore still more 
interesting and more worthy, and in more need of subscrip- 
tions than ever. I should rather like to see the African lady 
or gentleman who could be " led away " — all the leading 
away I have seen on the Coast has been the other way 
about. 

I do not say every missionary on the West Coast who 
makes untrue statements on this subject is an original liar; 
he is usually only following his leaders and repeating their 
observations without going into the evidence around him ; 
and the missionary public in England and Scotland are 
largely to blame for their perpetual thirst for thrilling details 
of the amount of Baptisms and Experiences among the 
people they pay other people to risk their lives to convert, or 
for thrilling details of the difficulties these .said emissaries 
have to contend with. As for the general public who swallow 
the statements, I think they are prone, from the evidence of 
the evils they see round them directly arising from drink, to 
accept as true — without bothering themselves with calm 
investigation — statements of a like effect regarding other 
people. I have no hesitation in saying that in the whole of 
West Africa, in one week, there is not one-quarter the amount 
of drunkenness you can see any Saturday night you choose in 
a couple of hours in the Vauxhall Road ; and you will not 
find in a whole year's investigation on the Coast, one seven- 
tieth part of the evil, degradation, and premature decay you 

^ "The Development of Dodos." National Rci'iew, March, 1896. 



664 APPENDIX I 



can see any afternoon you choose to take a walk in the more 
densely-populated parts of any of our own towns. I own the 
whole affair is no business of mine ; for I have no financial 
interest in the liquor traffic whatsoever. But I hate the 
preying upon emotional sympathy by misrepresentation, and 
I grieve to see thousands of pounds wasted that are bitterly 
needed by our own cold, starving poor. I do not regard the 
money as wasted because it goes to the African, but because 
such an immense percentage of it does no good and much 
harm to him. 

It is customary to refer to the spirit sent out to West Africa 
as "poisonous" and as raw alcohol. It is neither. I give an 
analysis of a bottle of Van Huytemer's trade-gin, which I 
obtained to satisfy my own curiosity on the point.' 

"Analysis of Sample of Trade-Gin. 

" With reference to the bottle of the above I havfe the 
honour to report as follows : — 

It contains — Per cent. 

Absolute alcohol 39'35 

Acidity expressed as acetic acid . . o"oo68 ' 

Ethers expressed as acetic acid . . o"02i 

Aldehydes . . . Present in small quantity. 

Furfural . . . Ditto ditto 

Higher alcohols . . Ditto ditto 

" The only alcohol that can be estimated quantitively is Ethyl 
Alcohol. 

" There is no methyl, and the higher alcohols, as shown by 
Savalie's method, only exist in traces. The spirit is flavoured 
by more than one essential oil, and apparently oil of juniper 
is one of these oils. 

" The liquid contains no sugar, and leaves but a small extract. 
In my opinion the liquid essentially consists of a pure dis- 
tilled spirit flavoured with essential oils. 

" Of course no attempt to identify these oils in the quantity 
sent, viz., 632 c.c. (one bottle) was made. The ethers are 
returned as ethyl acetate, but from fractional distillation amyl 
acetate was found to be present. 

" I have the honour to be, &c., 
(Signed) " G. H. Robertson. 

" Fellow of the Chemical Society, 
" Associate of the Institute of Chemistry." 



TRADE AND LABOUR IN WEST AFRICA 665 



In a subsequent letter Mr. Robertson observed that he had 
been " assisted in making the above analysis by an expert in 
the chemistry of alcohols, who said that the present sample 
differed in no material particulars from, and was neither more 
nor less deleterious to health than, gin purchased in different 
parts of London and submitted to analysis." 

In addition to this analysis I have also one of Messrs. 
Peters' gin, equally satisfactory-, and as Van Huytemers and 
Peters are the two great suppliers of the gin that goes to 
West Africa, I think the above is an answer to the *' poison " 
statements, and should be sufficient evidence against it for all 
people who are not themselves absolute teetotalers. Absolute 
teetotalers are definite-minded people, and one respects them 
more than one does those who do not hold with teetotalism 
for themselves, but think it a good thing for other people, and 
moreover it is of no use arguing with them because they say 
all alcohol is poison, and won't appreciate any evidence to 
the contrary, so " palaver done set " ; but a large majority of 
those who attack, or believe in the rectitude of the attack on, 
the African liquor traffic are not teetotalers and so should be 
capable of forming a just opinion. 

My personal knowledge of the district where most of the 
liquor goes in — the Oil Rivers — has been gained in Duke 
Town, Old Calabar. I have been there four separate times, 
and last year stayed there continuously for some months 
during a period in which if Duke Town had felt inclined to go 
on the bust, it certainly could have done so ; for the police 
and most of the Government officials were away at Brass in 
consequence of the Akassa palaver, and those few who were 
left behind and the white traders were down with an epidemic 
of malarial typhoid. But Duke Town did nothing of the 
kind. I used to be down in the heart of the town, at Eyambas 
market by Prince Archebongs's house, night after night alone, 
watching the devil-makings that were going on there, and the 
amount of drunkenness I saw was exceedingly small. I did 
the same thing at the adjacent town of Qwa. My knowledge 
of Bonny, Bell, and Akkwa towns, Libreville, Lembarene, 
Kabinda, Boma, Banana, Xkoi, Loanda, &c., is extensive and 
peculiar, and I have spent hours in them when the whole of 
the missionary and Government people have been safe in their 
distant houses ; so had the evils of the liquor traffic been an\-- 
thing like half what it is made out to be I must have come 
across it in appalling forms, and I have not. 

The figures of the case I will not here quote because the\' 
are easily obtainable from Government reports by any one 



666 APPENDIX I 



interested in the matter. I regard their value as being small 
unless combined with a knowledge of the West Coast trade. 
The liquor goes in at a few ports on the West Coast, and into 
the hands of those tribes who act as middlemen between the 
white trader and the interior trade-stufif-producing tribes ; 
and is thereby diffused over an enormous extent of thickly 
inhabited country. We English are directly in touch with 
none of the interior trade — save in the territory of the Royal 
Niger Company, and the Delta tribes with whom we deal in 
the Oil Rivers subsist on this trade between the interior and 
the Coast, and they prefer to use spirits as a buying medium 
because they get the highest percentage of profit from it, and 
the lowest percentage of loss by damage when dealing with 
it. It does not get spoilt by damp, like tobacco and cloth 
do ; indeed, in addition to the amount of moisture supplied by 
their reeking climate, they superadd a large quantity of river 
water to the spirit before it leaves their hands, while with the 
other articles of trade it is one perpetual grind to keep them 
free from moisture and mildew. In their coast towns there are 
immense stores of gin in cases, which they would as soon think 
of drinking themselves as we, if we were butchers, would think 
of eating up the stock in the shop. A certain percentage of 
spirit is consumed in the Delta, and if spirits are wanted any- 
where they are wanted in the Niger Delta region ; and about 
one-eighth part of that used here is used for fetish-worship, 
poured out on the ground and mixed with other things to 
hang in bottles over fish-traps, and so on to make residences for 
guardian spirits who are expected to come and take up their 
abode in them. Spirits to the spirits, on the sweets to the 
sweet principle is universal in West Africa ; and those photo- 
graphs you are often shown of dead chiefs' graves with bottles 
on them merely demonstrate that the deceased was taking 
down with him a little liquor for his own use in the under 
world — which he holds to be possessed of a chilly and damp 
climate — and a little over to give a propitiatory peg to one of 
the ruling authorities there — or any old friend he may come 
across in the Elysian fields. This is possibly a misguided 
heathen thing of him to do, and it is generally held in 
European circles that the under-world such an individual as he 
will go to is neither damp, nor chilly. But granting this, no 
one can contest but that the world he spends his life here 
in is damp, and that the natives of the Niger Delta live in a 
saturated forest swamp region that reeks with malaria. Their 
damp mud-walled houses frequently flooded, they themselves 
spend the greater part of their time dabbling about in the 



TRADE AND LABOUR IN WEST AFRICA 667 



I Stinking mangrove swamps, and then, for five months in the 
year, they are wrapped in the almost continuous torrential 
downpour of the West African wet season, followed in the 
Delta by the so-called " dry " season, with its thick morning 
and evening mists, and the air rarely above dew-point. Then 
their food is of poor quality and insufficient quantity, and in 
districts near the coast noticeably deficient in meat of any 
kind. I think the desire for spirits and tobacco, given these 
conditions, is quite reasonable, and that when they are taken 
in moderation, as they usually are, they are anything but dele- 
terious. The African himself has not a shadow of a doubt 
on the point, and some form of alcohol he will have. When 
he cannot get white man's spirit — r/zin viakara,2i?> he calls it in 
Calabar — he takes black man's spirit ;;//// effik. This is palm 
wine, and although it has escaped the abuse heaped on rum 
and gin, it is worse for the native than either of these, for he 
has to drink a disgusting quantity of it, because from the 
palm wine he does not get the stimulating effect quickly as 
from gin or rum, and the enormous quantity consumed at one 
sitting will distribute its effects over a week. You can always 
tell whether a native has had a glass too much rum, or half 
a gallon or so too much palm wine ; the first he soon 
recovers from, while the palm wine keeps him a disgusting 
nuisance for days, and the constitutional effects of it are 
worse, for it . produces a definite type of renal disease 
which, if it does not cut short the life of the sufferer in a 
paroxysm, kills him graduall)' with dropsy. There is another 
native drink which works a bitter woe on the African in the 
form of into.xication combined with a brilliant bilious attack. 
It is made from honey flavoured with the bark of a certain 
tree, and as it is ver>' popular I had better not spread it 
further by giving the recipe. The imported gin keeps the 
African off these abominations which he has to derange his 
internal works with before he gets the stimulus that enables 
him to resist this vile climate ; particularly will it keep him 
from his worst intoxicant Ihiamba {Cannabis sativa), a plant 
which grows wild on the South-West Coast and on the West for 
all I know, as well as the African or bowstring hemp ySan- 
seviera giiiniensis). The plant that produces the Ihiamba is 
a nettle-like plant growing six to ten feet high, and the natives 
collect the tops of the stems, with the seed on, in little bundles 
and dry them. It is evidently the seeds which are regarded 
b\' them as being the important part, although they do not 
collect these separately ; but you hear great rows among them 
when buying and selling a little bundle, on the point of the 



668 APPENDIX I 



seeds being shaken out, " Chi ! Chi ! Chi ! " says A., " this 
is worthless, there are no seeds." " Ai, Ai, " says B., " never 
were there so many seeds in a bunch of Ihiamba," &c. It is 
used smoked, like the g'anja of India, not like the preparation 
bhang, and the way the x'\fricans in the Congo used it was 
a very quaint one. They would hollow out a little hole 
in the ground, making a little dome over it ; then in went 
a few hemp-tops, and on to them a few stones made red hot 
in a fire. Then the dome was closed up and a reed stuck 
through it. Then one man after another would go and draw 
up into his lungs as much smoke as he could with one pro- 
longed deep inspiration ; and then go apart and cough in a 
hard, hacking distressing way for ten minutes at a time, and then 
back to the reed for another pull. In addition to the worry of 
hearing their coughs, the Ihiamba gives you trouble with the 
men, for it spoils their tempers, making them moody and 
fractious, and prone to quarrel with each other ; and when 
they get an excessive dose of it their society is more terrifying 
than tolerable. I once came across three men who had got 
into this state and a fourth man who had not, but was of the 
party. They fought with him, and broke his head, and then 
we proceeded on our way, one gentleman taking flying leaps 
at some places, climbing up trees now and again, and em- 
bedding himself in the bush alongside the path " because of 
the pools of moving blood on it." (" If it had, not kept mov- 
ing," he said as he sat where he fell — " he could have managed 
it ") — the others having grand times with various creatures, 
which, judging from their description of them, I was truly 
thankful were not there. The men's state of mind, however, 
soon cleared ; and I must say this was the only time I came 
across this Ihiamba giving such strong effects ; usually the 
men just cough with that racking cough that lets you know 
what they have been up to, and quarrel for a short time. 
When, however, a whiff of Ihiamba is taken by them in the 
morning before starting on a march, the effect seems to be 
good, enabling them to get over the ground easily and to 
endure a long march without being exhausted. But a small 
tot of rum is better for them by far. Many other intoxicants 
made from bush are known to and used by the witch 
doctors. 

You may say : — Well ! if it is not the polygamy and not the 
drink that makes the West African as useless as he now is as 
a developer, or a means of developing the country, what is it ? 
In my opinion, it is the sort of instruction he has received, not 
that this instruction is necessarily bad in itself, but bad 



TRADE AND LABOUR IN WEST AFRICA 669 



from being unsuited to the sort of man to whom it has 
been given. It has the tendency to develop his emotion- 
alism, his sloth, and his vanity, and it has no tendency 
to develop those parts of his character which are in a rudi- 
mentary state and much want it ; thereby throwing the whole 
character of the man out of gear. 

The great inferiority of the African to the European lies in 
the matter of mechanical idea. I own I regard not only the 
African, but all coloured races, as inferior — inferior in kind 
not in degree — to the white races, although I know it is un- 
scientific to lump all Africans together and then generalise over 
them, because the difference between various tribes is very great. 
But nevertheless there are certain constant quantities in their 
character, let the tribe be what it ma\', that enable us to do 
this for practical purposes, making merely the distinction be- 
tween Negroes and Bantu, and on the subject of this division I 
may remark that the Negro is superior to the Bantu. He is 
both physically and intellectually the more powerful man, and 
although he does not christianise well, he does often civilise 
well. The native officials cited by IMr. Hodgson in his letter to 
the Times of January 4, 1 895, as having satisfactorily carried on 
all the postal and the governmental printing work of the Gold 
Coast Colon}-, as well as all the subordinate custom-house 
officials in the Niger Coast Protectorate — in fact I ma\' say all 
of them in the whole of the British possessions on the West 
Coast — are educated Negroes. I am aware that all sea-captains 
regard this latter class as poisonous nuisances, but then every 
properly constituted sea-captain regards custom-house officials, 
let their colour be what it may, as poisonous nuisances any- 
where. In addition to these, you will find, notably m Lagos, 
excellent pure-blooded negroes in European clothes, and with 
European culture. The best men among these are lawyers, 
doctors, and merchants, and I have known many ladies of 
Africa who have risen to an equal culture-level with their 
lords. On the West African seaboard you do not find the 
Bantu equally advanced, except among the M'pongwe, and I 
am persuaded that this tribe is not pure Bantu but of Negro 
origin. The educated blacks that are not M'pongAve on the 
Bantu coast (from Cameroons to Benguela), you will find are 
Negroes, who have gone down there to make mone\', but this 
class of African is the clerk class, and we are now concerned 
with the labourer. The African's own way of doing anything 
mechanical is the simplest way, not the easiest, certainly not 
the quickest : he has all the chuckle-headedness of that over- 
rated creature the ant, for his head never saves his heels. 



670 APPENDIX I 



Watch a gang of boat-boys getting a surf-boat down a sandy 
beach. They turn it broadside on to the direction in which 
they wish it to go, and then turn it bodily over and over, 
with structure-straining bumps to the boat, and any amount 
of advice and recriminatory observations to each other. 
Unless under white direction they will not make a slip, nor 
will they put rollers under her. Watch again a gang of natives 
trying to get a log of timber down into the river from the 
bank, and you will see the same sort of thing — no idea of a 
lever, or any thing of that sort — and remember that, unless 
under white direction, the African has never made an even 
fourteenth-rate piece of cloth or pottery, or a machine, tool, 
picture, sculpture, and that he has never even risen to the level 
of picture-writing. I am aware of his ingenious devices for 
transmitting messages, such as the cowrie shells, strung 
diversely on strings, in use among the Yoruba, but even these 
do not equal the picture-writing of the South American 
Indians, nor the picture the Red Indian "does on a raw elk 
hide ; they are far and away inferior to the graphic sporting 
sketches left us of mammoth hunts by the prehistoric cave 
men. 

This absence of mechanical aptitude is very interesting, 
though it most likely has the very simple underlying reason 
that the conditions under which the African has been living 
have been such as to make no call for a higher mechanical 
culture. In his native state he does not want to get heavy 
surf-boats into the sea ; his own light dug-out is easily slid 
down, he does not want to cut down heavy timber trees, and 
get them into the river, and so on ; but this state is now getting 
disturbed by the influx of white enterprise, and not only dis- 
turbed, but destroyed, and so he must alter his ways or there 
will be grave trouble ; but it is encouraging to remark that the 
African is almost as teachable and as willing to learn handicrafts 
as he is to assimilate other things, provided his mind has not 
been poisoned by fallacious ideas, and the results ahead}- 
obtained from the Krumen and the Accras are good. The 
Accras are not such good workmen as they might be, because 
they are to a certain extent spoilt by getting, owing to the 
dearth of labour, higher wages and more toleration for 
indifferent bits of work than they deserve, or their work 
is worth ; but they have not yet fallen under that deadly 
spell worked by so many of the white men on so many 
of the black — the idea that it is the correct and proper 
thing not to work with your own hands but to get some 
underling to do all that sort of thing for you, while you 



TRADE AND LABOUR IN WEST AFRICA 671 



read and write. This false ideal formed by the native from 
his empirical observations of some of the white men around 
him, has been the cause of great mischief He sees the white 
man is his ruling man, rich, powerful, and honoured, and 
so he imitates him, and goes to the mission-school classes to 
read and write, and as soon as an African learns to read and 
write he turns into a clerk. Now there is no immediate 
use for clerks in Africa, certainly no room for further develop- 
ment in this line of goods. What Africa wants at present, 
and will want for the next 200 years at least, are workers, 
planters, plantation hands, miners, and seamen ; and there are 
no schools in Africa to teach these things or the doctrine of the 
f nobility of labour save the technical mission-schools. Almost 
every mission on the Coast has now a technical school just 
I started or having collections made at home to start one ; but in 
the majority of these crafts such as bookbinding, printing, 
tailoring, &c., are being taught which are not at present wanted. 
Still any technical school is better than none, and apart from 
lay considerations, is of great religious value to the mission in- 
directly, for there are many instances in mission annals of a 
missionary receiving great encouragement from the natives 
when he first starts in a district. At first the converts flock in, 
get baptised in batches, go to church, attend school, and 
adopt European clothes with an alacrity and enthusiasm that 
frequently turns their devoted pastor's head, but after the lapse 
of a few months their conduct is enough to break his heart. 
Dressing up in European clothes amuses the ladies and some 
of the young men for a long time, in some cases permanently, 
but the older men and the bolder youths soon get bored, and 
when an African is bored — and he easily is so — he goes utterl)- 
to the bad. It is in these places that an industrial mission 
would be so valuable to the spiritual cause, for by employing 
and amusing the largely preponderating lower faculties of the 
African's mind, it would give the higher faculties time to develop. 
I have frequently been told when advocating technical instruc- 
tion, that there are objections against it from spiritual stand- 
points, which, as my own views do not enable me to understand 
them, I will not enter into. Also several authorities, not 
mission authorities alone, state with ethnologists that the 
African is incapable of learning, except during the period of 
childhood. 

Prof A. H. Keanc says — " their inherent mental inferiorit}-, 
almost more marked than their physical characters, depends 
on physiological causes by which the intellectual faculties seem 
to be arrested before attaining their normal development " ; 



672 APPENDIX I 



and further on, " We must necessarily infer that the develop- 
ment of the negro and white proceeds on different lines. While 
with the latter the volume of the brain grows with the expan- 
sion of the brain-pan ; in the former the growth of the brain is 
on the contrary arrested by the premature closing of the cranial 
sutures, and lateral pressure of the frontal bone." ^ You will 
frequently meet with the statement that the negro child is as 
intelligent, or more so, than the white child, but that as soon 
as it passes beyond childhood it makes no further mental 
advance. Burton says : "His mental development is arrested, 
and thenceforth he grows backwards instead of forwards." Now 
it is nervous work contradicting these statements, but with all 
due respect to the makers of them I must do so, and I have the 
comfort of knowing that many men with a larger personal ex- 
perience of the African than these authorities have, agree with 
me, although at the same time we utterly disclaim holding the 
opinion that the African is a man and a brother. A man he 
is, but not of the same species ; and his cranial sutures do, 
I agree, close early ; indeed I have seen them almost obliterated 
in skulls of men who have died quite young ; but I think most 
anthropologists are nowadays beginning to see that the 
immense value they a few years since set upon skull 
measurements and cranial capacity, &c., has been excessive 
and not to have so great a bearing on the intelligence as 
they thought. There has been an enormous amount of material 
carefully collected, mainly by Frenchmen, on craniology, which 
is exceedingly interesting, but full of difficulty, and giving 
very diverse indications. Take the weights of brain given by 
Topinard : — 

I Annamite . . . 1 233 grammes 

7 African negroes . . 1238 „ 

8 African negroes . . 1289 „ 
I Hottentot . . . 1417 „ 

and I think you will see for practical purposes such considera- 
tions as weight of brain, or closure of sutures, &c., are negligible^ 
and so we need not get paralysed with respect for " ph}-sio- 
logical causes." Moreover I may remark that the top-weight, 
the Hottentot, was a lady, and that M. Broca weighed one 
negro's brain which scaled 1,500 grammes, while 105 English 
and Scotchmen only gave an average of 1,427. 

So I think we may make our minds easy on the safety of 
sticking to outside facts, and say that after all it does hot 
much affect the question of capacity for industrial training in 

1 Ethnology^ p. 266. A. H. Keane, Cambridge, 1896. 



TRADE AND LABOUR IN WEST AFRICA 673 

the African if he does choose to close up the top of his head 
early, and that the whole attempt to make out that the African 
is a child-form, " an arrested development," is — well, not sup- 
ported by facts. The very comparison between white and 
black children's intelligence to the disadvantage of the former 
is all wrong. The white child is not his inferior ; he is not so 
quick in picking up parlour tricks ; but then where are either 
of the children at that alongside a French poodle? What 
happens to the African from my observations is just what 
happens to the European, namely, when he passes out of child- 
hood, he goes into a period of hobbledehoyhood. During 
this period, his skull might just as well be filled inside with 
wool as covered outside with it. But after a time, during 
which he has succeeded in distracting and discouraging the 
white men who hoped so much of him when he was a child, 
his mind clears up again and goes ahead all right. It is utter 
rubbish to say " You cannot teach an adult African," and that 
" he grows backwards " ; for even without white interference he 
gets more and more cunning as the time goes on. Does 
any one who knows them feel inclined to tell me that those 
old palm-oil chiefs have not learnt a thing or two during 
their lives ? or that a well-matured bush trader has not ? 
Go down to West Africa yourself, if you doubt this, and 
carry on a series of experiments with them in subjects 
they know of — trade subjects — try and get the best of a 
whole series of matured adults, male or female, and I can 
promise you you will return a wiser and a poorer man, but 
with a jovful heart regarding the capacity of the African to 
grow up. Whether he does this by adding convolutions or 
piling up his gray matter we will leave for the present. All 
that I wish to urge regarding the African at large is that he 
has been mismanaged of late years by the white races. The 
study of this question is a very interesting one, but I have no 
space to enter into it here in detail. In my opinion — I say my 
own, I beg you to remark, only when I am uttering heresy — this 
mismanagement has been a by-product of the wave of 
hysterical emotionalism that has run through white culture 
and for which I have an instinctive hatred. 

I have elsewhere briefly pointed out the evil worked by mis- 
directed missionary effort on the native mind,^ but it is not the 
missionary alone that is doing harm. The government does 
nearly as much. Whether it does this because of the fear of 
Exeter Hall as representing a big voting interest, or whether 
just from the tendency to get evervthing into the hands of a 
^ "Development of Dodos^^ National Review, March, 1896. 

X X 



674 APPENDIX I 



council, or an office, to be everlastingly nagging and legislating 
and inspecting, matters little ; the result is bad, and it fills me 
with the greatest admiration for my country to see how in 
spite of this she keeps the lead. That she will always keep it 
I believe, because I believe that it is impossible that this 
phase of emotionalism — no, it is not hypocrisy, my French 
friends, it is only a sort of fit^ — will last, and we shall soon be 
back in our clear senses again and say to the world, " We 
do this thing because we think it is right ; because we think 
it is best for those we do it to and for ourselves, not because 
of the wickedness of war, the brotherhood of man, or any 
other notion bred of fear." 

The way in which the present ideas acting through the 
government do harm in Africa are many. English govern- 
ment officials have very little and very poor encouragement 
given them if they push inland and attempt to enlarge the 
sphere of influence, which their knowledge of local conditions 
teaches them requires enlarging, because the authorities at 
home are afraid other nations will say we are rapacious land- 
grabbers. Well, we always have been, and they will say it 
anyhow ; and where after all is the harm in it ? We have 
acted in unison with the nations who for good sound reasons 
of their own have cut down Portuguese possessions in Africa 
because we were afraid of being thought to support a nation 
who went in for slavery. I always admire a good move in a 
game or a brilliant bit of strategy, and that was a beauty ; 
and on our head now lie the affairs of the Congo Free 
State, while France and Germany smile sweetly, knowing 
that these affairs will soon be such that they will be able to 
step in and divide that territory up between themselves with- 
out a stain on their character — in the interests of humanity — 
the whole of that rich region, which by the name of Living- 
stone, Speke, Grant, Burton, and Cameron, should now be 
ours. 

Then again in commercial competition our attitude seems to 
me very lacking in dignity. We are now just beginning to know 
it is a fight, and this commercial war has been going on since 
1880 — since, in fact, France and Germany have recovered 
from their war of 1 870. 

And if we are to carry on this commercial war with an}- 
hope of success, we must abandon our " Oh ! that's not fair ; I 
wont play" attitude — and above all we must have no more 
government restrictions on our foreign trade. In West Africa 
governmental restriction settles, like dew in autumn, on the 
liquor traffic. It is a case of give a dog a bad name and 



TRADE AND LABOUR IX WEST AFRICA 675 

hang him. Moreover, raising the import dues on Hquor 
may bring into the government a good revenue ; but it is a 
short-sighted poHcy — for the Hquor is the thing there is 
the best market for in West Africa. The natives have no 
enthusiasm about cotton-goods, as they seem from some 
accounts to have in East Central, and the supply of them 
they now get, and get cheap and good, is as much as they 
require. And if the question of the abstract morality of 
introducing clothes, or introducing liquor, to native races, 
were fairly gone into, the results would be interesting — for 
clothing native races in European clothes works badly for them 
and kills them off. Indeed the whole of this question of trade 
with the lower races is full of curious and unexpected points. 
Speaking at large, the introduction of European culture — 
governmental, religious, or mercantile — has a destructive 
action on all the lower races ; many of them the governmental 
and religious sections have stamped right out ; but trade has 
never stamped a race out when disassociated from the other 
two, and it certainly has had no bad effect in tropical Africa. 
With regard to the liquor traffic, try and put yourself in the 
West African's place. Imagine, for example, that you want a 
pair of boots. You go into a shop, prepared to pay for them, 
but the man who keeps the shop says, " My good friend, you 
must not have boots, they are immoral. You can have a tin of 
sardines, or a pocket-handkerchief, they are much better for 
you." \\ ould you take the sardines or the pocket-handker- 
chiefs? more particularly would you feel inclined to take 
them instead of }our desired boots if you knew there was a 
shop in a neighbouring street where boots are to be had ? 
And there is a neighbouring shop-street to all our West 
Coast possessions which is in the hands of either France or 
Germany. 

I do not for a moment deny that the liquor traffic requires 
regulation, but it requires more regulation in Europe than it 
does in Africa, because Europe is more given to intoxication. 
In Africa all that is wanted is that the spirit sent in should 
be wholesome, and not sold at a strength over 45° below 
proof These requirements are fairly well fulfilled alread\' on 
the West Coast, and I can see no reason for any further 
restriction or additional impost. If further restrictions in the 
sale of it are wanted, it is not for interior trade where the 
natives are not given to excess, but in the larger coast towns, 
where there is a body of nati\es who are the debris of 
the disintegrating process of white culture. But even in 
those towns like Sierra Leone and Lagos these men are 

X X 2 



676 APPENDIX I 



a very small percentage of the population.^ If things are 
even made no worse for him than they are at present, 
the English trader may be trusted to hold the greater part 
of the trade of West Africa for the benefit of the English 
manufacturers ; if he is more heavily hampered, the English 
trade will die out, the English trader remain, because he 
is the best trader with the natives ; but it will be small 
profit to the English manufacturers because the trader will 
be dealing in foreign-made stuff, as he is now in the posses- 
sions of France and Germany. English manufacturers, I 
may remark, have succeeded in turning out the cloth goods 
best suited for the African markets, but there has of late 
years been an increase in the quantity of other goods 
made by foreigners used in the West Coast trade. The im- 
ports from France and Germany and the United States to the 
Gold Coast for 1894 (published 1896) were ^^217, 388 oj-. \d., 
the exports ;^2 12,320 \s. '^d. ; and the Consular Report (158) 
for the Gold Coast says that while the trade with the United 
Kingdom has increased from ;i^ 1,054,3 36 i/-^- ^d- iri 1893 to 
;^i, 190,532 \s. 3^. in 1894, or roughly 13 per cent, the trade 
with foreign countries has increased upwards of 22 per cent., 
namely, from ;^350,387 y. ^d. to ^^"429,708 \s. /\d. In the Lagos 
Consular Report (No. 150) similar comparative statistics are 
not given, but the increase at that place is probably greater 
than on the Gold Coast, as a heavy percentage of the Lagos 
trade goes through the hands of two German firms ; but this 
increase in foreign trade in our colonies seems to be even 
greater in other parts of Africa, for in a Foreign Office Report 
from Mozambique it is stated, regarding Cape Colony, that 
" while British imports show an otherwise satisfactory increase, 
German trade has more than trebled." ^ 

There is a certain school of philanthropists in Europe who 
say that it is not advisable to spread white trade in Africa, that 
the native is provided by the Bountiful Earth with all that he 
really requires, and that therefore he should be allowed to live his 
simple life, and not be compelled or urged to work for the white 
man's gain. I have a sneaking sympathy with these good 

^ Lagos Annual Consular Report (150, p. 6 ), 1894: "There were only 
three cases of drunkenness. Considering that in the Island of Lagos alone 
the population is over 33,300, this clearly proves that drunkenness in this 
part of Africa is uncommon, and that there is insufficient evidence for the 
contention which is advanced that the native is being ruined by what is so 
often spoken of as the heinous gin traffic ; it is a well-known fact by those 
in a position best able to judge by long residence that the inhabitants of 
this country have a natural repugnance to intemperance." 

2 Board of Trade Journal, August 1896. 



TRADE AND LABOUR IN WEST AFRICA 677 

people, because I like the African in his bush state best ; and 
one can understand any truly human being being horrified at 
the extinction of native races in the Polynesian, Melanesian, 
and American regions. But still their view is full of error as 
regards Africa, for one thing I am glad to say the African does 
not die off as do those weaker races under white control, but 
increases ; and herein lies the impossibility of accepting this 
plan as within the sphere of practical politics, most certainly in 
regard to all districts under white control, for the Bountiful 
Earth does not amount to much in Africa with native methods 
of agriculture. It sufficed when a percentage of the population 
were shipped to America as slaves ; now it suffices only to help 
to keep the natives in their low state of culture — a state that is 
only kept up even to its present level b\' trade. The condition 
of the African native will be a ver)- dreadful one if this trade is 
not maintained ; indeed, I may say if it is not increased pro- 
portionatelv' to the increase of white government control — for 
this governmental control does man}' things that are good in 
themselves, and glorious on paper. It prevents the export slave 
trade ; it suppresses human sacrifice ; it stops internecine war 
among the natives — in short, it does everj'thing save suppress 
the terrible infant mortality (why it does not do this I need 
not discuss) to increase the native population, without in itself 
doing anything to increase the means of supporting this 
population ; nay, it even wants to decrease these by importing 
Asiatics to do its work, in making roads, &c. 

It may be said there is no fear of the trade, which keeps the 
native, disappearing from the West Coast, but it is well to 
remember that the stuff that this trade is dependent on, the 
stuff brought into the traders' factor}' b\' the native, is mainly 
— indeed, save for the South-West Coast coffee and cacao, we 
may say, entirely — bush stuff, uncultivated, merely collected 
and roughly prepared, and it is so wastefully collected by the 
native that it cannot last indefinitely. Take rubber, for example, 
one of the main exports. Owing to the wasteful methods 
employed in its collection it gets stamped out of districts. The 
trade in it starts on a bit of coast ; for some years so i ich is the 
supply, that it can be collected almost at the native s back door, 
but owing to his cutting down the vine, he clears it off, and 
every year he has to go further and further afield for a load. But 
his ability to go further than a certain point is prevented by the 
savage interior tribes not under white control ; and also on its 
pa}ing him to go on these long journeys, for the price at home 
takes little notice of his difficulties, because of the more care- 
fully collected supply of rubber sent into the home markets by 



678 APPENDIX I 



South America and India ; therefore the native loses, and 
when he has cleared the districts reachable by him, the trade 
is finished there, and he has no longer the wherewithal to buy 
those things which in the days of his prosperity he has 
acquired a taste for. The Oil Rivers, which send out the 
greatest quantity of trade on the West Coast possessions, sub- 
sist entirely on palm oil for it. Were anything to happen to 
the oil palms in the way of blight, or were a cheap substitute 
to be found for palm oil at home, the population of the Oil 
Rivers, even at its present density, would starve. The develop- 
ment of trade is a necessary condition for the existence of the 
natives, and the discovery of products in the forests that will 
be marketable in Europe, and the making of plantations whose 
products will help to take the place of those he so reck- 
lessly now destroys, will give him a safer future than can any 
amount of abolitions of domestic slavery, or institutions of 
trial by jury, &c. If white control advances and plantations are 
not made and trade with the interior is not expanded, the con- 
dition of the West African will be a very wretched one, far 
worse than it was before the export slave-trade was suppressed. 
In the more healthy districts the population will increase to a 
state of congestion and will starve. The coast region's malaria 
will always keep the black, as well as the white, population 
thinned down, but if deserted by the trader, and left to the 
government official and the missionary, without any longer 
the incentive of trade to make the native exert himself, or the 
resulting comforts which assist him in resisting the climate, 
which the trade now enables him to procure, the Coast native 
will sink, via vice and degradation, to extinction, and most 
likely have this process made all the more rapid and un- 
pleasant for him by incursions of the wild tribes from the 
congested interior. 

I do not cite this as an immediate future for the West 
African, but " a little more and how much it is, a little less and 
how far away." Remember human beings are under the same 
rule as other creatures ; if you destroy the things that prey on 
them, they are liable to overswarm the food-producing power of 
their locality. It may be said this is not the case ; look at the 
Polynesians, the South American Indians, and so on. You 
may look at them as much as you choose, but what you see 
there will not enable you to judge the African. The African does 
not fade away like a flower before the white man — not in the 
least. Look at the increase of the native in the Cape 
territory ; look at what he has stood on the West Coast. 
Christopher Columbus visited him before he discovered the 



TRADE AND LABOUR IN WEST AFRICA 679 

American Indians. Whaling captains, and seamen of all sorts 
and nationalities have dropped in on him " frequent and free." 
He has absorbed all sorts of doctrine from religious sects ; 
cotton goods, patent medicines, foreign spirits, and — as the 
man who draws up the Lagos Annual Colonial Report 
poetically observes — twine, whisky, wine, and woollen goods. 
Yet the West Coast African is here with us by the million — 
playing on his tom-tom, paddling his dug-out canoe, living 
in his palm leaf or mud hut, read\- and able to stand more 
"white man stuff." Save for an occasional habit of going 
raving or melancholy mad when educated for the ministry, 
and dying when he, and more particularh* she, is shut up in 
; the broiling hot, corrugated-iron school-room with too many 
clothes on, and too much headwork to do, he survives in a 
way which I think you will own is interesting, and which 
commands my admiration and respect. But there is nowa- 
days a new factor in his relationship with the white races — the 
factor of domestic control. I do not think the African will 
survive this and flourish, if it is to be of the nature that the 
present white ideas aim to make it. But, on the other hand, I 
do not believe that he will be called upon to tr)', for under the 
present conditions white control will not become very thorough ; 
and in the event of a European war, governmental attention will 
be distracted from West Africa, and the African will then do 
what he has done several times before when the white e>'e has 
been off him for a decade or so, — sink back to his old level as he 
has in Kacongo after the Jesuits tidied him up, and as he must 
have done after his intercourse with the Phoenicians and 
Eg>'ptians. The travellers of a remote future will find him, 
I think, still with his tom-tom in his dug-out canoe — ^just as 
willing to sell as " big curios " the debris of our importations 
to his ancestors at a high price. Exactly how much he will 
ask for a Devos patent paraffin oil tin or a Morton's tin, I 
cannot imagine, but it will be something stiff — like he asks 
nowadays for the Phoenician " Aggry " beads. There will 
be then as there is now, and as there was in the past, 
individual Africans who will rise to a high level of culture, 
but that will be all for a verj- long period. To say that the 
African race will never advance be\ond its present culture- 
level, is saying too much, in spite of the mass of evidence 
supporting this view, but I am certain he will never advance 
above it in the line of European culture. The country- he 
lives in is unfitted for it, and the nature of the man him- 
self is all against it — the truth is the West Coast mind 
has got a great deal too much superstition about it, and too 



68o APPENDIX I 



little of anything else. Our own methods of instruction have 
not been of any real help to the African, because what he 
wants teaching is how to work. Bishop Ingram would have 
been able to write a more cheerful and hopeful book than his 
Sierra Leone after lOO Years, if the Sierra Leonians had 
had a thorough grounding in technical culture, suited to -the 
requirements of their country, instead of the ruinous instruc- 
tion they have been given, at the cost of millions of money, 
and hundreds of good, if ill-advised, white men's lives. For 
it is possible for a West African native to be made by 
European culture into a very good sort of man, not the same 
sort of man that a white man is, but a man a white man can 
shake hands with and associate with without any loss of self- 
respect. It is by no means necessary, however, that the 
African should have any white culture at all to become a 
decent member of society at large. Quite the other way 
about, for the percentage of honourable and reliable men 
among the bushmen is higher than among the educated 
men. 

I do not believe that the white race will ever drag the black 
up to their own particular summit in the mountain range 
of civilisation. Both polygamy and slavery are, for divers 
reasons, essential to the well-being of Africa — at any rate for 
those vast regions of it which are agricultural, and these two 
institutions will necessitate the African having a summit to 
himself Only — alas ! for the energetic reformer— the African 
is not keen on mountaineering in the civilisation range. He = 
prefers remaining down below and being comfortable. He is 
not conceited about this ; he admires the higher culture very 
much, and the people who inconvenience themselves by going 
in for it — but do it himself? NO. And if he is dragged up 
into the higher regions of a self-abnegatory religion, six times 
in ten he falls back damaged, a morally maimed man, into 
his old swampy country fashion valley. 






APPENDIX II 

DISEASE IX WEST AFRICA 

Great as is the delay and difficulty placed in the way 
of the development of the immense natural resources of 
West Africa by the labour problem, there is another cause 
of delay to this development greater and more terrible by far 
— namely, the deadliness of the climate. " Nothing hinders 
a man, Miss Kingsley, half so much as dying," a friend said to 
me the other day, after nearly putting his opinion to a practical 
test. Other parts of the world have more sensational out- 
breaks of death from epidemics of yellow fever and cholera, 
but there is no other region in the world that can match West 
Africa for the steady kill, kill, kill that its malaria works on the 
white men who come under its influence. 

Malaria you will hear glibly talked of; but what malaria 
means and consists of you will find few men ready to attempt to 
tell you, and these few by no means of a tale. It is ver>- strange 
that this terrible form of disease has not attracted more 
scientific investigators, considering the enormous mortality 
it causes throughout the tropics and sub-tropics. A few years 
since, when the peculiar microbes of everything from measles 
to miracles were being " isolated," several bacteriologists 
isolated the malarial microbe, only unfortunately they did not all 
isolate the same one. A resume of the various claims of these 
microbes is impossible here, and whether one of them was the 
true cause, or whether they all have an equal claim to this 
position, is not yet clear ; for malaria, as far as I have seen or 
read of it seems to be not so much one distinct form of fever 
as a group of fevers — a genus, not a species. Many things 
point to this being the case ; particularly the different forms 
so called malarial poisoning takes in different localities. This 
subject may be also subdivided and complicated by going 
into the controversy as to whether yellow fever is endemic on 
the \^'est Coast or not. That it has occurred there from time 



682 APPENDIX II 



to time there can be no question: at Fernando Po in 1862 
and 1866, in Senegal pretty frequently, and at least one 
epidemic at Bonny was true yellow fever. But in the case of 
each of these outbreaks it is said to have been imported from 
South America, into Fernando Po, by ships from Havana, and 
into Bonny by a ship which had on her previous run been down 
the South American ports with a cargo of mules. The litter 
belonging to this mule cargo was not cleared out of her until 
she got into Bonny, when it was thrown overside into the river, 
and then the yellow fever broke out. But, on the other hand, 
South America taxes West Africa — the Guinea Coast — with 
having first sent out yellow fever in the cargoes of slaves. This 
certainly is a strange statement, because the African native 
rarely has malarial fever severely — he has it, and you are 
often informed So-and-so has got yellow fever, but So-and-so 
does not often die of it, merely is truly wretched and sick for 
a day or so, and then recovers. 

Regarding the ha^maturia there is also controversy. A 
very experienced and excellent authority doubts whether this is 
entirely a malarial fever, or whether it is not, in some cases at any 
rate, brought on by over-doses of quinine, and Dr. Plehn asserts, 
and his assertions are heavily backed up by his great success in 
treating this fever, that quinine has a very bad influence when 
the characteristic symptoms have declared themselves, and that 
it should not be given. I hesitate to advise this, because I fear 
to induce any one to abandon quinine, which is the great 
weapon against malaria, and not from any want of faith in 
Dr. Plehn, for he has studied malarial fevers in Cameroon 
with the greatest energy and devotion, bringing to bear on the 
subject a sound German mind trained in a German way, and 
than this, for such subjects, no better thing exists. His 
brother, also a doctor, was stationed in Cameroon before him, 
and is now in the German East African possessions, similarly- 
working hard, and when these two shall publish the result of 
their conjoint investigations, we shall have the most important 
contribution to our knowledge of malaria that has ever ap- 
peared. It is impossible to over- rate the importance of such 
work as this to West Africa, for the man who will make West 
Africa pay will be the scientific man who gives us something- 
more powerful against malaria than quinine. It is too much 
to hope that medical men out at work on the Coast, doctoring 
day and night, and not only obliged to doctor, but to nurse their 
white patients, with the balance of their time taken up by 
giving bills of health to steamers, wrestling with the varied 
and awful sanitary problems presented by the native town, 



u 



DISEASE IN WEST AFRICA 683 



&c., can have sufficient time or life left in them to earn- on 
series of experiments and series of cultures, but they can 
and do supply to the man in the laboratory- at home grand 
material for him to carry the thing through ; meanwhile we 
wait that man and do the best we can. 

The net results of laboratory' investigation, according to the 
French doctors, is that the mycetozoic malarial bacillus, the 
microbe of paludism, is amcEboid in its movements, acting on 
the red corpuscles, leaving nothing of them but the dark pig- 
ment found in the skin and organs of malarial subjects.^ 
The German doctors make a practice of making microscopic 
examinations of the blood of a patient, saying that the mi- 
crobes appear at the commencement of an attack of fever, 
increase in quantity as the fever increases, and decrease as it 
decreases, and from these investigations they are able to judge 
fairly accurately how many remissions may be expected ; in 
fact to judge of the severity of the case which, taken with the 
knowledge that quinine only affects malarial microbes at a 
certain stage of their existence, is helpful in treatment. 

There is, I may remark, a very peculiar point regarding 
ha^maturic disease, the most deadly form of West Coast fever. 
This disease, so far as we know, has always been present on the, 
South-West Coast, at Loando, the Lower Congo and Gaboon, 
but it is said not to have appeared in the Rivers until 1881, 
and then to have spread along the West Coast. My learned 
friend, Dr. Plehn, doubts this, and says people were less ob- 
servant in those days, but the symptoms of this fever are so 
distinct, that I must think it also totally impossible for it not 
to have been differentiated from the usual remittent or inter- 
mittent by the old West Coasters if it had occurred there in 
former times with anything like the frequency it does now ; 
but we will leave these theoretical and technical considerations 
and turn to the practical side of the question. 

You will always find lots of people ready to give advice on 

^ See also Klebs and Tommasi Crudeli, ArcA. /. exp. Path., xi. ; Ceci, 
ibid^ XV.; Tommasi Crudeli, Z<? malaria de Rome, Paris, 1881 ; Nuovi 
studj sulla natura del/a Malaria, Rome, 188 1 ; " Malaria and the Ancient 
Drainage of the Roman Hills," Practitioner, ii., 1881 ; Instituzioni de 
anat. Path., vol. i., Turin, 1882 ; Marchiafava e Cuboni Nuoz'i studj 
sulla natura delta Malaria, Acad, dei Lincei, Jan. 2, 1881 ; Marchand, Virch. 
Arch., vol. Ixxxviii. ; Laveran, Nature parasitaire des accidents dUmpalu- 
disme, Paris, 1881 ; Richard, Comptes Rendus, 1881 ; Steinberg, Rep. 
Nat. Board of Health {U.S.), 1881. Malaria-krankheiten, K. Schwalbe ; 
Berlin, 1890 ; Parkes, On the Issue of a Spirit Ration in the Ashante'e 
Campaign, Churchill, 1875 ; Zumsden, Cyclopadia of Medicine : Asue 
Dr. M. D. OConnell Calcutta 1885. ^ ' 



684 APPENDIX II 



fever, particularly how to avoid getting it, and you will find 
the most dogmatic of these are people who have been 
singularly unlucky in the matter, or people who know nothing 
of local conditions. These latter are the most trying of all 
to deal with. They tell you, truly enough no doubt, that the 
malaria is in the air, in the exhalations from the ground, which 
are greatest about sunrise and sunset, and in the drinking 
water, and that you must avoid chill, excessive mental and 
bodily exertion, that you must never get anxious, or excited, 
or lose your temper. Now there is only one — the drinking 
water — of this list that you can avoid, for, owing to the great 
variety and rapid growth of bacteria encouraged by the 
tropical temperature, and the aqueous saturation of the 
atmosphere from the heavy rainfall, and the great extent of 
swamp, &c., it is practically impossible to destroy them in 
the air to a satisfactory extent. I was presented by scientific 
friends, when I first went to the West Coast, with two devices 
supposed to do this. One was a lamp which you burnt some 
chemical in ; it certainly made a smell that nothing could 
live with — but then I am not nothing, and there are enough 
smells on the Coast now. I gave it up after the first half-hour. 
Xhe other device was a muzzle, a respirator, I should say. 
Well ! all I have got to say about that is that you need be a 
better-looking person than I am to wear a thing like that 
without causing panic in a district. Then orders to avoid the 
night air are still more difficult to obey — may I ask how you 
are to do without air from 6.30 P.M. to 6.30 A.M.? or what 
other air there is but night air, heavy with malarious exhala- 
tions, available then ? 

The drinking water you have a better chance with, as I will 
presently state ; chill you cannot avoid. When you are at 
work on the Coast, even with the greatest care, the sudden 
fall of temperature that occurs after a tornado coming at the 
end of a stewing-hot day, is sure to tell on any one, and as 
for the orders regarding temper neither the natives, nor the 
country, nor the trade, help you in the least. But still you 
must remember that although it is impossible to fully carry 
out these orders, you can do a good deal towards doing 
so, and preventive measures are the great thing, for it is 
better to escape fever altogether, or to get off with a light 
touch of it, than to make a sensational recovery from Yellow 
Jack himself 

There is little doubt that a certain make of man has the 
best chance of surviving the Coast climate — an energetic, spare, 
nervous but light-hearted creature, capable of enjoying what- 



DISEASE IN WEST AFRICA 685 



ever there may be to enjoy, and incapable of dwelling on 
discomforts or worries. It is quite possible for a person of 
this sort to live, and work hard on the Coast for a considerable 
j^eriod, possibly with better health than he would have in 
England. The full-blooded, corpulent and vigorous should 
avoid West Africa like the plague. One after another, men 
and women, who looked, as the sajing goes, as if you could 
take a lease of their lives, I have seen come out and die, 
and it gives one a sense of horror when they arrive at your 
West Coast station, for you feel a sort of accessory before the 
fact to murder, but what can you do except get yourself 
laughed at as a croaker, and attend the funeral ? 

The best ways of avoiding the danger of the night air are — 
to have your evening meal about 6.30 or 7, — 8 is too late ; sleep 
under a mosquito curtain whether there are mosquitoes in your 
district or not, and have a meal before starting out in the 
morning, a good hot cup of tea or coffee and bread and butter, 
if you can get it, if not, something left from last night's supper 
or even aguvia. Regarding meals, of course we come to the 
vexed question of stimulants — all the evidence is in favour 
of alcohol, of a proper sort, taken at proper times, and in 
proper quantities, being extremely valuable. Take the case 
of the missionaries, who are almost all teetotalers, they are 
\ oung men and women who have to pass a medical examina- 
tion before coming out, and whose lives on the Coast are 
far easier than those of other classes . of white men, yet 
the mortalit)' among them is far heavier than in any other 
class. 

Mr. Stanley says that wine is the best form of stimulant, 
but that it should not be taken before the evening meal. 
Certainly on the South- West Coast, where a heavy, but sound, 
red wine imported from Portugal is the common drink, the 
mortality is less than on the West Coast. Beer has had what 
one might call a thorough trial in Cameroon since the 
German occupation and is held by authorities to be the cause 
in part of the number of cases of ha^maturic fever in that 
river being greater than in other districts. But this subject 
requires scientific comparative observation on various parts of 
the Coast, for Cameroons is at the beginning of the South- 
West Coast, whereon the percentage of cases of haematuric 
to those of intermittent and remittent fevers is far higher than 
on the West Coast. 

A comparative study of the diseases of the western division 
of the continent would, I should say, repay a scientific doctor, if 
he survived. The material he would have to deal with would be 



686 APPENDIX II 



enormous, and in addition to the history of ha^maturic he 
would be confronted with the problem of the form of fever 
which seems to be a recent addition to West African afflictions, 
the so-called typhoid malaria, which of late years has come 
into the Rivers, and apparently come to stay. This fever is, 
I may remark, practically unknown at present in the South- 
West Coast regions where the " sun for garbage " plan is 
adhered to. At present the treatment of all white man's 
diseases on the Coast practically consists in the treatment of 
malaria, because whatever disease a person gets hold of 
takes on a malarial type which masks its true nature. Why, 
I knew a gentleman who had as fine an attack of the 
smallpox as any one would not wish to have, and who for 
days behaved as if he had remittent, and then burst out 
into the characteristic eruption ; and only got all his earthly 
possessions burnt, and no end of carbolic acid dressings for 
his pains. 

I do not suppose this does much harm, as the malaria is 
the main thing that wants curing ; unless Dr. Plehn is right 
and quinine is bad in haematuria. His success in dealing with 
this fever seems to support his opinion ; and the French doctors 
on the Coast, who dose it heavily with quinine, have certainly 
a very heavy percentage of mortality among their patients 
with the hasmaturic, although in the other forms of malarial 
fever they very rarely lose a patient. 

But to return to those preventive measures, and having 
done what we can with the air, we will turn our attention to 
the drinking water, for in addition to malarial microbes the 
drinking and washing water of West Africa is liable to contain 
dermazoic and entozoic organisms, and if you don't take care 
you will get from it into your anatomy Tinea versicolor. Tinea 
decalvans. Tinea circinata. Tinea sycosis, Tinea favosa, or some 
other member of that wretched family, let alone being nearly 
certain to import Trichocephalus dispar, Ascaris lumbricoides, 
Oxyuris vermicularis, and eight varieties of nematodes, each 
of them with an awful name of its own, and unpleasant conse- 
quences to you, and, lastly, a peculiar abomination, a filaria. 
This is not, what its euphonious name may lead you to suppose, 
a fern, but it is a worm which gets into the white of the eye and 
leads there a lively existence, causing distressing itching, 
throbbing and pricking sensations, not affecting the sight 
until it happens to set up inflammation. I have seen the eyes 
of natives simply swarming with these filariae. A curious thing 
about the disease is that it usually commences in one eye, and 
when that becomes over-populated an emigration society sets 



DISEASE IN WEST AFRICA 687 

out for the other eye, travelling thither under the skin of the 
bridge of the nose, looking while in transit like the bridge of 
a pair of spectacles. A similar, but not identical, worm is 
fairly common on the Ogowe, and is liable to get under the 
epidermis of any part of the body. Like the one affecting the 
eye it is very active in its movements, passing rapidly about 
under the skin and producing terrible pricking and itching, 
but ver>' trifling inflammation in those cases which I have 
seen. The treatment consists of getting the thing out, and 
the thing to be careful of is to get it out whole, for if any part 
of it is left in, suppuration sets in, so even if you are per- 
sonally convinced you have got it out successfully it is just 
as well to wash out the wound with carbolic or Condy's fluid. 
The most frequent sufferers from these filariec are the natives, 
but white people do get them. I hear there is an account in 
the Lancet, October 17th, 1894, of one that was extracted 
from the eye of a European. This case came from Calabar, 
but the disease is more frequent on the South-West Coast. 

Do not confuse this filaria with the Guinea worm, Filaria 
medinensis, which runs up to ten and twelve feet in length, and 
whose habits are different. It is more sedentarj', but it is in 
the drinking water inside small Crustacea (cyclops). It appears 
commonly in its human host's leg, and rapidly grows, curled 
round and round like a watch-spring, showing raised under 
the skin. The native treatment of this pest is very cautiously to 
open the skin over the head of the worm and secure it between 
a little cleft bit of bamboo and then gradually wind the rest 
of the affair out. Only a small portion can be wound out at 
a time, as the wound is very liable to inflame, and should the 
worm break, it is certain to inflame badly, and a terrible wound 
will result. You cannot wind it out by the tail because you 
are then, so to speak, turning its fur the wrong way, and it 
catches in the wound. 

I should, I ma}' remark, strongly advise any one who likes to 
start early on a canoe journey to see that no native member 
of the party has a Filaria medinensis on hand ; for winding 
it up is always reser\ ed for a morning job and as many other 
jobs are similarly reserved it makes for delay. 

I know, my friends, that you one and all say that the drinking 
water at your particular place is of singular beauty and purit>', 
and that you ahva}s tell the boys to filter it ; but I am con- 
vinced that that water is no more to be trusted than the boys, 
and I am lost in amazement at jDeople of your intelligence 
trusting the trio of water, boj^s, and filter, in the way you do. 
One favourite haunt of mine gets its drinking water from a 



688 APPENDIX II 



cemented hole in the back yard into which drains a very strong- 
smelUng black little swamp, which is surrounded by a ridge 
of sandy ground, on which are situated several groups of native 
houses, whose inhabitants enhance their fortunes and their 
drainage by taking in washing. At Fernando Po the other da} 
I was assured as usual that the w^ater was perfection, " beautiful 
spring coming down from the mountain," &c. In the course 
of the afternoon affairs took me up the mountain to Basile, for 
the first part of the way along the course of the said stream. 
The first objects of interest I observed in the drinking-water 
supply were four natives washing themselves and their clothes ; 
the next was the bloated body of a dead goat reposing in a 
pellucid pool. The path then left the course of the stream, 
but on arriving in the region of its source I found an interest- 
ing little colony of Spanish families which had been imported 
out whole, children and all,bythe Government. They had a nice, 
neat little cemetery attached, which his excellency the doctor 
told me was " stocked mostly with children, who were always 
dying off from worms." Good, so far, for the drinking water ! 
and as to what that beautiful stream was soaking up when it 
was round corners — I did not see it so I do not know — but I will 
be bound it was some abomination or another. But it's no use 
talking, it's the same all along. Sierra Leone, Grain Coast, 
Ivory Coast, Gold Coast, Lagos, Rivers, Cameroon, Congo 
Fran^ais, Kacongo, Congo Beige, and Angola. When you 
ask your white friends how they can be so reckless about the 
water, which, as they know, is a decoction of the malarious 
earth, exposed night and day to the malarious air, they all up 
and say theirs is not ; they have " got an awfully good filter, 
and they tell the boys," &c., and that they themselves often put 
wine or spirit in the water to kill the microbes. Vanity, 
vanity ! At each and every place I know, men have died and 
worms have eaten them. The safest way of dealing witli 
water I know is to boil it hard for ten minutes at least, and 
then instantly pour it into a jar with a narrow neck, which plug 
up with a wad of fresh cotton-wool — not a cork ; and should 
you object to the flat taste of boiled water, plunge into it a bit 
of red-hot iron, which will make it more agreeable in taste. 
Before boiling the water you can carefully filter it if \-ou like. 
A good filter is a very fine thing for clearing drinking water of 
hippopotami, crocodiles, water snakes, catfish, &c., and I 
daresay it will stop back sixty per cent, of the live or dead 
African natives that may be in it ; but if you think it is going 
to stop back the microbe of marsh fever — my good sir, you 
are mistaken. And remember that you must give up cold 



DISEASE IX WEST AFRICA 689 

water, boiled or unboiled, altogether ; for if you take the 
boiled or filtered water and put it into one of those water- 
coolers, and leave it hanging exposed to night air or day on 
the verandah, you might just as well save yourself the trouble 
of boiling it at all. 

Next in danger to the diseases come the remedies for them. 
Let the new-comer remember, in dealing with quinine, calomel, 
arsenic, and spirits, that they are not castor sugar nor he a 
glass bottle, but let him use them all — the two first fairly 
frequently — not waiting for an attack of fever and then ladle- 
ing them into himself with a spoon. The third, arsenic — a drug 
much thought of by the French, who hold that if you establish 
an arsenic cachexia you do not get a malarial one — should not 
be taken except under a doctor's orders. Spirit is undoubtedly 
extremely valuable when, from causes beyond your control, you 
have got a chill. Remember always your life hangs on 
quinine, and that it is most important to keep the system 
sensitive to it, which you do not do if you keep on pouring 
in heavy doses of it for nothing and you make yourself deaf 
into the bargain. I have known people take sixty grains of 
quinine in a day for a bilious attack and turn it into a disease 
they only got through by the skin of their teeth ; but the 
prophylactic action of quinine is its great one, as it only 
has power over malarial microbes at a certain state of their 
development, — the fully matured microbe it does not affect 
to any great degree — and therefore by taking it when in a 
malarious district, say, in a dose of five grains a day, you 
keep down the malaria which you are bound, even with 
every care, to get into your system. When you have got 
very chilled or over-tired, take an extra five grains with a little 
wine or spirit at any time, and when you know, by reason of 
aching head and limbs and a sensation of a stream of cold water 
down your back and an awful temper, that you are in for a fever, 
send for a doctor if you can. If, as generally happens, there 
is no doctor near to send for, take a compound calomel and 
colocynth pill, fifteen grains of quinine and a grain of opium, 
and go to bed wrapped up in the best blanket available. 
When safely there take lashings of hot tea or, what is better, 
a hot drink made from fresh lime-juice, strong and without 
sugar — fresh limes are almost always to be had — if not, 
bottled lime-juice does well. Then, in the hot stage, don't 
go fanning about, nor in the perspiring stage, for if you get 
a chill then you may turn a mild dose of fever into a fatal 
one. If, how-ever, you keep conscientiously rolled in your 
blanket until the perspiring stage is well over, and stay in 

Y Y 



690 APPENDIX II 



bed till the next morning, the chances are you will be all 
right, though a little shaky about the legs. You should 
continue the quinine, taking it in five-grain doses, up to fifteen 
to twenty grains a day for a week after any attack of fever, 
but you must omit the opium pill. The great thing in West 
Africa is to keep up your health to a good level ; that will 
enable you to resist fever, and it is exceedingly difficult for 
most people to do this, because of the difficulty of getting 
exercise and good food. But do what you may it is almost 
certain you will get fever during a residence of more than six 
months on the Coast, and the chances are two to one on the 
Gold Coast that you will die of it. But, without precautions, 
you will probably have it within a fortnight of first landing, and 
your chances of surviving are almost nil. With precautions, 
in the Rivers and on the S.W. Coast your touch of fever maj- 
be a thing inferior in danger and discomfort to a bad cold in 
England. 

Yet remember, before you elect to cast your lot in with 
the West Coasters, that 85 per cent, of them die of fever 
or return home with their health permanently wrecked. Also 
remember that there is no getting acclimatised to the Coast. 
There are, it is true, a few men out there who, although they 
have been resident in West Africa for years, have never had 
fever, but you can count them up on the fingers of one hand. 
There is another class who have been out for twelve months at 
a time, and have not had a touch of fever ; these you want the 
fingers of your two hands to count, but no more. By far the 
largest class is the third, which is made up of those who have 
a slight dose of fever once a fortnight, and some day, ap- 
parently for no extra reason, get a heavy dose and die of it. 
A very considerable class is the fourth — those who die within 
a fortnight to a month of going ashore. 

The fate of a man depends solely on his power of resisting 
the so-called malaria, not in his system becoming inured 
to it. The first class of men that I have cited have some un- 
known element in their constitutions that renders them im- 
mune. With the second class the power of resistance is 
great, and can be renewed from time to time by a spell home 
in a European climate. In the third class the state is that of 
cumulative poisoning ; in the fourth of acute poisoning. 

Let the new-comer who goes to the Coast take the most 
cheerful view of these statements and let him regard himself 
as preordained to be one of the two most favoured classes. 
Let him take every care short of getting frightened, which i- 
as deadly as taking no care at all, and he may — I sincerel\ 



DISEASE IN WEST AFRICA 691 



hope he will — survive ; for a man who has got the grit in him 
to go and fight in West Africa for those things worth fighting 
for — duty, honour and gold — is a man whose death is a dead 
loss to his country. 

The cargoes from West Africa truly may " wives and mithers 
maist despairing ca' them lives o' men." Yet grievous as is the 
price England pays for her West African possessions, to us who 
know the men who risk their lives and die for them, England 
gets a good equivalent value for it ; for she is the greatest 
manufacturing country in the world, and as such requires 
markets. Nowadays she requires them more than new colonies. 
A colony drains annually thousands of the most enterprising 
and energetic of her children from her, leaving behind them 
their aged and incapable relations. Moreover, a colony 
gradually becomes a rival manufacturing centre to the mother 
countr}-, whereas West Africa will remain for hundreds of 
years a region that will supply the manufacturer with his 
raw material, and take in exchange for it his manufactured 
articles, giving him a good margin of profit. And the holding 
of our West African markets drains annually a few score of 
men onl}- — only too often for ever — but the trade they carrj- 
on and develop there — a trade, according to Sir George Baden- 
Powell, of the annual value of nine millions sterling — enables 
thousands of men, women and children to remain safely in 
England, in comfort and pleasure, owing to the wages and 
profits arising from the manufacture and export of the articles 
used in that trade. 

So I trust that those at home in England will give all honour 
to the men still working in West Africa, or rotting in the 
weed-grown, snake-infested cemeteries and the forest swamps 
— men whose battles have been fought out on lonely beaches far 
awa\- from home and friends and often from another white 
man's help, sometimes with savages, but more often with a 
more deadly foe, with none of the anodyne to death and 
danger given b}' the companionship of hundreds of fellow 
soldiers in a fight v.ith a foe >ou can see, but with a foe >"ou 
can see only incarnate in the dreams of your delirium, which 
runs as a poison in burning veins and aching brain — the 
dread West Coast fever. And may England never again dream 
of forfeiting, or playing with, the conquests won for her by 
those heroes of commerce, the West Coast traders ; for of 
them, as well as of such men as Sir Gerald Portal, truly it 
may be said — of such is the Kingdom of England. 

Y Y 2 



APPENDIX III 

DR. A. GUNTHER ON REPTILES AND FISHES^ 

Report on a Collection of Reptiles and Fishes made by Miss M. 
H. Kingsley during Jier travels on the Ogowe River and in 
Old Calabar. By Dr. A. GOnther, F.R.S. 

[Plates I.— II.] 

Miss Mary H. Kingsley, on returning from her first visit to 
the West Coast of Africa in 1894, brought with her a miscel- 
laneous collection of zoological specimens, sufficiently large 
to show the interest she took in the fauna of the countries 
visited by her. Last year she started again from England, 
with the object of extending her travels in the interior of the 
Gaboon country ; and as she intended to follow during a part 
of this expedition the course of the Ogowe River, she readily 
fell in with my view that an opportunity of collecting the 
fishes of this mighty river should not be lost. The means of 
preserving and transporting the specimens were naturally 
limited, as Miss Kingsley travelled alone with a native crew ; 
besides, whilst traversing the region of the rapids, which 
extends over some hundred of miles, the upsetting of her 
canoe was a matter of frequent occurrence. Nevertheless she 
succeeded in bringing home in excellent condition a collection 
of eighteen species of Reptiles and about sixty-five species 
of Fishes, which will be enumerated or described in this 
paper, besides a number of other, especially entomological, 
specimens. 

During a temporary stay at Old Calabar and a visit to the 
island of Corisco some freshwater fishes were added to the 
main collection from the Ogowe River. These will be also 
embodied in the present paper, whilst the marine species, 
being all well known, are omitted. 

^ Reprinted by permission from the Annals and Magasine of Natural 
History, 6th series, No. 100. April, 1896. 



PUdtl. 




z 
o 

< 



(0 
CD 
2 



DR. A. GUNTHER ON REPTILES AND FISHES 693 






Thirt}- jears ago scarcely anything but the name was known 
of the Ogowe River ; but between 1 860 and 1 870 French 
officials and traders began to trace its course inland, discover- 
ing a long stretch of rapids in its middle course which render 
navigation dangerous and, at places, impossible to any vessel 
larger than a boat. Among those earlier explorers an 
Englishman, Mr. R. B. X. Walker, took a prominent part,^ 
making two expeditions in 1866 and 1873, and penetrating 
to Lope, in the Okanda countr}-. The sur\-ey of the upper 
parts of the river was completed by Messrs. de Brazza and 
Balay. 

All that was known before the jear i860 of the reptiles and 
fishes of the Gaboon country- has been collected by Aug. 
Dumeril in his memoir " Reptiles et Poissons de I'Afrique 
Occidentale," in Arch. Mus. vol. x. I find that in the list at 
the end of his memoir he mentions eight freshwater fishes 
from Gaboon, all being from the littoral portion of the countr>\ 
In 1867- I described the collection made by Walker on the 
Ogowe, adding seventeen species to its fauna, ten of which 
were new. This list was increased by six others found bj- 
Buchholz and determined by Peters (MB. Berlin Akad. 1876. 
p. 244;. Two jears later M. Sauvage commenced to publish 
the results of his examination of the materials that had 
accumulated in the Paris Museum (Bull. Soc. Philom. 1878, 
pp. 90-103), giving a complete acc9unt of the then knowledge 
of this fish-fauna in his memoir " Etude sur la Faune ichthy- 
ologique de I'Ogooue," in X. Arch. Mus. iii. 1880. In it he 
enumerates thirty-seven species, a part of which, however, he 
knew only from the papers of his predecessors. This number 
has been increased by him in a last supplementary list to 
forty-six (Bull. Soc. Zool. France, ix. 1884). 

In the present paper I have added to the Gaboon fauna 
from Miss Kingsley's collection the following sixteen 
species : — 

Gobius (Bneofuscus, Gthr. 
Eleotris senegalensis, Stdchr. 
Ophioceplialus obscurus, Gthr. 

Ctenopoma gaboneuse, sp. n. {J = Ct. multispine, Sauv., 
nee Ptrs.}. 

tianuju, sp. n. 

I KingsleycB, sp. n. (J=Ct. Petheria, Sauv., nee Gthr.;. 

^ Bull. Soc. Geogr. Paris, 1879, p. 114. 

^ Ann. & Mag. Nat. Hist, 1867, xx. p. 109. In this paper the name of 
the river is misspelt Ogome. 



694 APPENDIX III 



Chroinis ogowensis, sp. n. (? = Ch. niicrocephalus, Sauv., nee 

Blkr.). 
Cynoglossus senegalensis, Kaup. 
Clarias Walkeri, sp. n. 
Eu tropins liberiensis, Hubrecht. 
Chrysichthys Biittikoferi, Stdchr. ( = Ch. inacrops, Sauv., 

nee Gthr.). 
Bariliiis bibie, Joannis. 
Alestes longipinnis, Gthr. 

KingsleycB, sp. n. 

Morniyrus amblystovia, sp. n. 
Notopterus nigri, Gthr. 

Deducting from M. Sauvage's list three species which I 
consider merely synonyms, and allowing for four others which 
I believe to figure in my and M. Sauvage's lists under different 
names, I compute the total number of species known at present 
from this river to be fifty-one, a number which may be expected 
to be doubled by future investigations. The fish-fauna of 
the Nile consists of about ninety species. 

The localities which will be mentioned in this report are the 
following : 

Warn, on the Forcados River (mouth of the Niger). 
Azwiiine Creek, freshwater, running into the Opobo 

River, with a swift current, 25 miles from the sea 

(Niger delta region). 
Egwanga, on the Opobo River (Niger delta region ).i 
Corisco Island, off the Gaboon Coast. 
Lambai^ene} Ogowe River. 
Talagouga, about 180 miles from the mouth of the 

Ogowe. 
Kondo-Kondo, an island in the Alemba Rapids of the 

Osrowe. 



Reptiles and Batrachians. 

The Reptiles were collected at Lambarene, and belong to 
the following species : — 

I. Cycloderina Aubryi, D. B. — A young specimen well 
agreeing with one figured by Peters (MB. Berl. 
Akad. 1876, p. 117). 

1 = Lembarene Island, sometimes also spelt Lambarenie Island. 



PIojUR 






Gx-een. dci et litK . -^ Mint.em.BroB. imp. 

A. MORMYRUS XING-SLEYyF. B . A1.BS1ES Kli; GSLEY^ . 
CBARTilUS BIEIZ- 



DR. A. GUXTHER ON REPTILES AND FISHES 695 



2. Monitor niloticus. L. 

3. Poromera Fordii, Hallow. 

4. Mabouia Raddonii, Gray. 

5. Gymnodactylus fasciatus, D. B. 

6. Polemoti Bart hit, Jan. 

7. Coronella fidiginoides, Gthr. 

8. Grayia Sinythii, Leach. 

9. HydrcBthiops melanogaster, Gthr. 

10. Hapsidophtys iineatus, Fisch. 

1 1 . Philothamnus nitidiis, Gthr. 

12. Lycophidium irroratuin. Leach. 

13. Dipsadoboa assiinilis, Matschie. 

14. Naja melanoleuca. Hallow. 

15. Vipera nasicornis, Shaw. 

16. Atheris anisolepts, Mocq. 

1 7. Cornufer Johnstonti, Blgr. 

18. Rana crasstpes, Ptr.s. 

Before passing on to the Fishes I offer remarks on a few of 
these species. 

Poromera. 

Poromera, Koul. Liz. iii. p. 6. 

Nostril between two nasals and the suture between rostral 
and first labial. Lower eyelid scaly. Collar present. Back 

vered with scales larger than those of the tail, and strongly 
.eeled, the keels forming continuous longitudinal ridges ; 
sides with much smaller scales ; ventral scales rather large, 
imbricate, keeled, the keels again forming continuous series. 
Fingers and toes slender, with a double series of smooth, very 
small scutes beneath. Femoral pores ; no inguinal pores. 
Tail long, cylindrical. 

Porofnera Fordii. 

Tachydroinus Fordii, Hallow. Proc. Ac. Nat. Sci. Philad. 1857, p. 48. 
Poromera Fordii, Boul. /. c. 

General aspect of a Fachydromus. 

The scutes on the upper side of the head show longitudinal 

ridges either along the middle or concentric with their margins. 

The anterior nasal meets its fellow in the median line behind 

the rostral. Anterior frontal longer than broad ; an unpaired 

nail scute between the posterior frontals. Vertical bell- 

naped twice as long as broad ; a pair of anterior occipitals, 



696 APPENDIX III 



half the size of the posterior, between which a central occipital. 
The posterior occipitals are fringed by some smaller marginal 
scutes. Two large supraoculars on each side. Seven or eight 
narrow upper labials, of which the penultimate is the largest. 
Four chin-shields on one side, five on the other. Temporal 
scales small, strongly keeled. 

Ear very open, vertically long. Collar more distinct in 
front of the shoulder-joint, and nearly obsolete across the 
chest. Dorsal scales in eight, ventral in ten, longitudinal 
series. Praeanal region covered by keeled scales, in size 
and shape scarcely differing from those preceding them. 
About twelve femoral pores. All the caudal scales strongly 
keeled. 

The fore limb pressed backwards does not reach the groin ; 
the hind limb carried forwards extends to the ear. Thigh 
finely granular behind. 

The upper parts are brown, or, after the removal of the 
epidermis, green iridescent. Back anteriorly with a black 
longitudinal band of each side of the median line, the two 
bands coalescent further behind. An indistinct greenish band 
along each side of the neck. Lower parts whitish. 

millim. 

Distance ot snout from vent 45 

Length of tail no 

Distance of snout from ear 12 

Length of fore limb 20 

Length of hind limb 30 

Length of fourth toe (measured from its junc- 
tion with the fifth) 12 

I have given a full description of this lizard, as the speci- 
men found by Miss Kingsley at Lambarene seems to be on!\ 
the second known to exist in collections. Its specific identit}- 
with Tachydj'oimis Fordii of Hallowell might be questioned, 
as this author has described the specimen in the museum of 
the Philadelphia Academy as possessing only six rows of 
ventral scales ; also the scutellation of the prsanal region is 
differently described. However, as there is a great agreement 
in other respects between the two specimens, and the localit\ 
(Gaboon) as given by Hallowell points likewise to a specific 
identity, I adopt the name given by the latter author. 



DR. A. GUNTHER ON REPTILES AND FISHES 697 



Dipsadoboa assiinilis. 

Dipsadoboa assiinilis^ Matschie, SB. Ges. naturf. Fr. Berl. 1893, p. 173 
(Togoland) ; Bocage, Jorn. Sc. Lisb. iv. 1895, p. 17. 

The specimen obtained at Lambarene agrees better with 
D. assimilis than with D. unicolor with regard to the number 
and disposition of the labial shields. 

Professor Bocage refers his specimens from Fernando Po 
also to D. assiviilis, whilst, singularly enough, I have now 
some evidence that the type of D. unicolor came from the 
same island, as I received some years ago a specimen from 
Fernando Po which is identical with D. ujiicolor. There- 
fore, as far as our present experience goes, both D. unicolor 
and assimilis (if they are really distinct) would seem to occur 
in Fernando Po, while the former does not extend on to the 
mainland. 

Athcris anisolepis. 

At/ieris anisolepiSy Mocquard, Bull. Soc. Philom. 1887, p. 90. 
Atheris Ite^'iceps, Boettger, Zool. Anz. x. p. 651 ; Ber. Senckenb, Ges. 
1888, p. 92, tab. ii. fig. 7 (head). 

An adult specimen from Lambarene. The specimens from 
which Boettger took his description came from Banana (Congo 
delta). The principal distinctive characters of this species 
are, in my opinion, the number and size of scales and the 
two series of suboculars, rather than the degree of carination 
of some of the scales on the crown of the head, which depends 
on age. 

Thanks to the kindness of Professor L. Vaillant and Dr. 
Jentink I have been able, by a re-examination of the typical 
specimens described by Schlegel and Mocquard, to form a 
definite opinion as to the species of Athens which deserve 
recognition. They are the following : — 

1. A. squajnigera, Hallowell, = ^. j«/^(?«///?rr>, Fisch., prob- 

ably = A. Burtonii, Gthr. With 17 (in A. Burtonii 
with 19) series of scales ; onl}- one row of minute 
subocular scales (exceptionally parti}- confluent with 
upper labials). 

2. A. anisolepis, Mocquard 1887), = ^. Icez'iceps, Boettger 

(1887), = ^. chloroechis, Boettg., part. With 22-25 
series of scales ; two rows of minute suboculars, the 
lower row sometimes incomplete, but always indi- 
cated b)- several scales. 



698 APPENDIX III 



3. A. chloroechis, Schleg., = A. polylepis, Ptrs, With 

31-36 series of scales and with a double row of 
suboculars. 

4. A. cei'atophora, Werner. 

Rana crassipes, Buchh. & Ptrs. 

One young specimen from Glass, Gaboon estuary. 

This specimen, as well as an adult in the British Museum, 
has no vomerine teeth, whilst two short groups are present in 
the second of the British Museum specimens, which is inter- 
mediate in size between the two former. 

Freshwater Fishes. 

Gobius csneofuscus. 

Gobius ceneqfuscus^ Peters, MB. Berl. Akad. 1852, p. 681, and Reise n. 

Mossamb., Flussf. p. 18, Taf. iii. fig. i ; Giinth. Fish. iii. p. 61. 
Gobius (sneofuscus, var. guineensis, Peters, MB. Berlin. Akad. 1876, 

p. 248. 
Gobius taiasica, Steind. Not. Leyd. Mus. xvi. p. 25 (not synom.). 

A Goby which seems to be very common in the freshwaters 
of Liberia and the Cameroon River, and is abundant in the 
Ogowe River, where numerous examples were obtained by 
Miss Kingsley at Kondo-Kondo, is identical with the species 
discovered by Peters in the Zambeze, but not, as Dr. Stein- 
dachner thinks, with the West- Indian G. banana, which has 
considerably smaller scales on the tail. G. oeneofuscus, there- 
fore, belongs to the freshwater fauna of Tropical Africa ex- 
tending right across the continent. 

Gobius lateHstriga, A. Dum. Arch. Mus. x. p. 247, pi. xxi. 
fig I, if not identical with this species, is, at any rate, closely 
allied to it ; unfortunately the author has omitted to describe 
the scales, dentition, and other important characters. 

PeriopJitJialmus Koelreuteri, \?iX. papilio, Bl. Schn. 

Common on the West Coast, and attracting the notice of : 
every traveller by its semiterrestrial habits and by the 
astonishing rapidity with which it leaps, frog-like, over the 
mud-flats of the littoral. 

Island of Corisco (Steindachner, SB. Wien. Akad. 1869, Ix. 

P- 945)- 



DR. A. GUNTHER ON REPTILES AND FISHES 699 



Eleotris senegalensis. 

Eleoiris {Culius) senegalensis, Steind. SB. Wien. Akad. 1869, Ix. p. 949, 
Taf. ii. figs. I, 2. 

Ascends the Ogowe River, specimens having been obtained 
at Kondo-Kondo. 

Mastacembelus cryptacanthus. 

Mastacembelus cryptacanthus, Giinth. P. Z. S. 1867, p. 102 ; Ann. & 

Mag. Nat. Hist. 1867, xx. p. no. 
Mastacembelus Marc/iei, Sauv. Bull. Soc. Philom. 1876, p. 94, and N. 

Arch. Mus. iii. 1880, p. 36, pi. i. fig. i ; Steind. Not. Leyd. Mus. 

xvi. p. 31 ; Denkschr. Wien. Ak. 1879, xl'-j "Ueber einige neue . . . 

Fisch.,'" p. 16. 

Lambarene. 

Mugil fakipinnis, C. V. 
Warri (Niger delta). 

Ophiocephaliis obscurus, Gthr. 

Lambarene and Kondo-Kondo. 

Figured in Petherick's "Travels," 1869, ii. pi. ii. fig. B. 



CtenopoMA, Ptrs. 

From an examination of a much greater number of speci- 
mens than were at vay disposal some years ago I have come 
to the conclusion that the variation in the characters of the 
species is of a limited extent, and that a greater number of 
species exist than I was formerly inclined to admit. Neither 
is the distinction of this genus from SpirobrancJms so sharp 
as was supposed, the armature of the opercles not being 
equally developed in all species, and ver>^ young Ctenopomas 
apparently lacking it. At present I divide the specimens 
before me under the following specific names : — 

I . A very distinct space between anal and caudal 
fins. 
A. Large scales on the back, above the lateral 
line. 

I. Maxillary extending below the centre 
of the eye. 

D. '^ ' . A. -, Subopercular armature 

strong I. multispine. Ptrs. 



700 APPENDIX III 



2. Maxillary extending to below the centre 

of the eye. 

D- "^TT^- A. —~-. Subopercular arma- 
ture strong 2. gaboite7ise^ sp. n. 

3. Maxillar>' not extending to below centre 

of the eye. 
¦p. 15 — 16 . s 

'^- ^^- ~~^ • ^- Q_jp . Suboperculum 

not serrated .' 3. ;/«/«/;//, sp. n. 

^. D. —. A. — . Suboperculum ser- 
rated 4. congicum, Blgr.^ 

B. Small scales on the back, above the lateral 

line 5. microlepidottim, Gthr. 

II. Anal and caudal fins nearly continuous. 

A- D. ^^^^. A. i^. Depth of body I 

of length in adult, A in young . . . 6. Pet/ierid, Gxhv. 

B. D. ~^. A. 1^. Depth of body 1 of 

length in adult, f in young .... 7. Ki7igsley(e^ Gthr. 

Ctenopo7)ta gabonense, s^. n. (PI. I. fig. C.) 

Ctenopoma midtisplne, var., Giinth Ann. & Mag. Nat. Hist. 1867, x\. 
p. no. 

D. '° . A. ^"". L. lat. 32. L. transv. 2i/Q. 

9-10 9 ¦-' .i/ ^ 

Body almost as oblong as in Ct. multispine, to which this 
species is closely allied. The height of the body is two 
.sevenths, or less than one third, of the total length (without 
caudal), the length of the head two sevenths or rather more 
than two sevenths. The snout equals the diameter of the 
eye, which is one fifth of the length of the head ; interorbital 
space nearly flat, much wider than the orbit. Mouth mode- 
rately wide, the maxillary not extending beyond the vertical 
from the centre of the eye. The entire margin of the sub- 
operculum is armed with prominent spines ; also part of the 
interopercular margin is spiny. The space between anal and 
caudal fins is equal to, or even longer than, the diameter of 
the eye. Ventral fin not reaching the vent. Pores on the 
head rather small, inconspicuous. Coloration uniform. 

Of this species there are two specimens in the British 
Museum, 140 and 153 millim. long, both from the Gaboon. 
One was obtained by Mr. R. B. N. Walker, and there- 
fore most probably came from the Ogowe River. Both 
have twenty dorsal spines, which number does not seem to 
have been e\er observed in Ct. DiiUtispiuc ; from the latter 

1 Ann. & Mag. Nat. Hist. 1887, xix. p. 148. 



DR. A. GUNTHER ON REPTILES AND FISHES 701 



species the present differs besides in a rather smaller mouth 
and much stronger subopercular armature. Vomerine and 
palatine teeth present. 

Ctenopoma nanum, sp. n. (PI. I. fig. B.) 

D. '^"'^. A. ' . L. lat. 27. L. transv. 2i 9. 

^ 9-10 ' - -^ 

Body stouter than in Ct. iniiltispine or Ct. gabotiense, its 
greatest depth being contained 2\ in the total length (without 
caudal) and nearly equal to the length of the head. The 
snout equals the diameter of the eye, which is contained 4I in 
the length of the head ; interorbital space rather convex, not 
wider than the orbit. Mouth rather narrow, the maxillary 
not extending to the vertical from the centre of the eye. 
Opercular armature weak ; there are only a few spinous teeth 
above and below the opercular notch, and none at all on the 
sub- and interoperculum. The space between anal and 
caudal fins is equal to a diameter of the eye. Pores on the 
head entirely covered by scales. Five series of scales on 
the cheek, the lowermost covering the prasopercular margin. 
Ventral fins reaching beyond the origin of the anal, the two 
outer rays being prolonged into filaments. Body with darker 
cross-band ; an indistinct oblique irr^^lar dark band from 
the eye towards the root of the pectoral. 

Two specimens from the Gaboon 67 millim. long, are in 
the British Museum : they were collected with specimens of 
Ct. Petherici. 

This species does not possess palatine teeth, and I am 
unable to see any teeth on the vomer, the head of which, 
however, is visible and not covered by the mucous membrane. 
Of course the possibility of these specimens being the young 
of one of the other species has been considered ; but beside 
agreeing among themselves and differing from the other 
.species in the number of spines, the comparative size of the 
eye and width of the interorbital space clearly point to their 
being either mature or not far removed from maturity. 

Ctenopoma Petherici. 

Ctenopoma Petherici., Giinth. Ann. & Mag. Nat. Hist. 1864, xiii. p. 211, 
and 1867, XX. p. no (part.) ; and in Petherick's " Travels," ii. 1869, 
p. 208, pi. i. fig. A. 

The British Museum contains a specimen the exact habitat 
which is not known, but which was bought with other 



702 APPENDIX III 



West-African fishes. Although this specimen differs from 
typical Ct. Petherici in the fin-formula, which is D. \%, A. y-'y, i 
I refer it for the present to the Nilotic species. 

In young specimens, 60 millim. long, the opercular arma- 
ture and the vomerine and palatine teeth are well developed ; 
but these specimens have the body still lower than the adult, 
viz., one third of the total (without caudal) ; in the adult it is 
a little less than two fifths. The ornamental colours are 
prettier than in the adult, the diffuse blackish spot on the tail 
of the latter being a complete white-edged ocellus in the 
young. 

Ctenopoma Kingsleyce, sp. n. (PI. I. fig. A.) 

Ctenopovia Petherici, part., Giinth. Ann. & Mag. Nat. Hist. 1867, x 
p. no (part.). 

This species is allied to Ct. Petherici, but has a deeper 
body, and especially the young differs much from that of the 
Nilotic species. 

D. '^^. A. 9"'°. L. lat 25. L. transv. 21/9. 

9 9—10 -¦ - / -^ 

The depth of the body is scarcely less than one half of the 
total length (without caudal), the length of the head a little 
less than one third. The snout is nearly equal to the diameter 
of the eye, which is two ninths of the length of the head ; 
interorbital space rather convex, wider than the orbit. Mouth 
narrow, the maxillary extending somewhat beyond the front 
margin of the orbit. Vomerine teeth ; palatine teeth in a very 
narrow linear band. A series of short spinous teeth above 
and below the opercular notch ; subopercular and part of the 
interopercular margin finely and equally serrated. Tail very 
short, the anal terminating immediately before, or subcon- 
tinuous with, the caudal. Pores on the head entirely covered 
by scales. Five or six rows of scales on the cheek, the scales 
near the eye being much smaller than the others. Ventral 
fins not prolonged, reaching the vent. Soft parts of the 
vertical fins scaly. Blackish, a diffuse large black spot on the 
end of the tail, in front of the root of the caudal. 

This diagnosis is taken from an adult specimen 150 millim. 
long ; two young ones, 60 millim. long, differ in the following 
points : — 

Their body is somewhat less elevated (though much more 
than in young Ct. Petherici), its depth being contained 2^ 
times in the total length (without caudal). Interorbital space 
as wide as the diameter of the eye, which is one fourth of the 



DR. A. GiJNTHER ON REPTILES AND FISHES 703 



length of the head. Two or three spines above and one 
below the opercular notch ; suboperculum partly and indis- 
tinctly, interoperculum not serrated. Vomerine teeth de- 
veloped, only traces of palatine teeth in front of the bone. 
Coloration as in the adult. 

All three specimens from Kondo-Kondo. 

Chromis latus, Gthr. 

\\ arri. 

The typical specimen was most likely from the same 
locality, the late Mr. Fraser being known to have collected in, 
or to have received collections from, the Niger delta. 

Chromis ogowensis, sp. n. 

? Chromis vticrocephalus^ Sauvage, Bull, Soc. Zool. France, i.x. 1884, 
p. 196 (nee Bleek.). 

D. \\. A. %. P. 13. L. lat. 27. L. transv. 3/1 1. 

Scales on the cheek in three series. Twenty-eight notched 
teeth on each side of the upper jaw. The maxillar>' ter- 
minates some distance in advance of the vertical from the 
eye. The depth of the body is a little less than one half of 
the total length (without caudal), the length of the head a 
little less than one third. Eye two ninths of the length of 
the head, much less than the length of the snout and than the 
width of the interorbital space. Pectoral fin with the third 
and fourth rays produced and extending to the first anal spine. 
Caudal fin truncated, scaly. Body with indistinct cross-bands. 
\*ertical fins blackish, the dorsal with black longitudinal 
stripes, longitudinal on the spinous portion, oblique on the 
>oft ; a large oval black spot behind the last dorsal spine. 
Ventrals black. A black opercular spot 

millim. 

Total length 170 

„ „ without caudal 143 

Length of the head 47 

Diameter of the eye . 10 

Length of the eighth dorsal spine . . 19 

Ogowe River (Lambarene) 

Heniichromis fasciatus, Ptrs. 
Azumine Creek ; Ogowe River. 



704 APPENDIX III 



Hem id I roin is bimaculatus. 

Hemichromis biinaculatus, Gill. Proc. Philad, Ac. 1862, p. 137 ; Steind. 

Notes Leyd. Mus. xvi. p. 49. 
Hemichromis auritus, Gill, /. c. p. 135. 

Allied to H. guttatus and H. subocellatus, but with the body 
deeper and the spinous dorsal higher. 

D. i^. A. -f. L. lat. 24. L. transv. 3/10. 

The height of the body is contained 2| in the total length 
(without caudal), the length of the head 2f . Length of the 
snout equal to the diameter of the eye, which is one fourth of 
the length of the head and equal to the width of the interorbital 
space. Teeth conical, brown, equal in size. Four series of 
scales on the cheek. Cleft of the mouth rather narrow, 
slightly oblique, with the lower jaw slightly projecting and 
with the maxillary not quite reaching the vertical from the 
front margin of the orbit. The length of the eighth dorsal 
spine is two fifths of that of the head. In the adult the soft 
dorsal and anal and the ventral fin are produced into points. 
Brownish above, a deep black spot on the end of the oper- 
culum and another in the middle of the body ; three or four 
series of round bluish spots on the cheek and gill-cover. Fins 
without spots. 

millim. 

Total length 78 

„ „ without caudal 60 

Depth of the body 25 

Length of the head ... 22 

Diameter of the eye 6 

From the middle course of the Ogowe River. 

Hemichromis Schwebischi. 

? Hemichromis Schwebischi, Sauvage, Bull. Soc. Zool. France, ix. 1884, 
p. 198, pi. V. fig. 2. 

D. '^y^. A. f. L. lat. 28. L. transv. 3/10. 

The height of the body is contained 2% times in the total 
length (without caudal), the length of the head 25 times. 
Snout produced, with the upper jaw slightly the longer, 
longer than the postorbital portion of the head. Mouth of 
moderate width, very slightly oblique, the maxillary reaching 
but little beyond the vertical from the nostril. Teeth small, 
subequal, with brown pointed tips. The eye is a little less 



DR. A. GUNTHER ON REPTILES AND FISHES 705 



than one-half of the length of the snout and contained 
4 1 times in that of the head ; its diameter does not equal 
the width of the interorbital space in the largest specimen. 
Prseorbital as wide as the eye. Praeoperculum with a broad 
scaleless inferior limb, but its width is much narrower than 
the cheek, on which the scales are arranged in four series. 
The dorsal fin commences above the root of the pectoral fin ; 
its spines are of moderate strength, the middle ones being 
much longer than the eye. Caudal fin slightly emarginate. 

Specimens from Azumine Creek have sixteen dorsal spines 
and the pectoral fin reaches nearly the vent. Two faint broad 
longitudinal bands on the upper half of the body are crossed 
by five or six transverse bands, equally faint, the parts 
crossed being of a darker tint. These markings are more 
distinct in young examples than in the adult. An opercular 
spot. 

Specimens from Kondo-Kondo have fifteen dorsal spines 
and a rather shorter pectoral. None of the markings are 
present beside the opercular spot. 

millim. 

Total length 148 

„ „ without caudal 125 

Length of the head 45 

Diameter of the eye 10 

Length of the ninth dorsal spine 15 

The specimen described by Sauvage was considerably larger 
than ours ; to this circumstance I am inclined to ascribe the 
discrepancies between the two descriptions. 

Cynoglossus senegalensis , Kaup. 
Lambarene. 

Clanas Walkeri, sp. n. 

D. 77. A. 56. P. 1/8. 

Vomerine teeth villiform, forming a rather narrow band, 
without posterior projection, and as broad as the intermaxillary 
band ; each half of the latter is twice as wide as broad, and 
both the intermaxillary and vomerine bands have the same 
lateral extent. Head covered above with smooth thin skin, 
scarcely any granulation being visible. The occipital process 
projects as an isosceles triangle, the hind margin of the head 
forming an open crescent on each side of the process. The 

z z 



7o6 APPENDIX III 



fontanelle is elongate, slightly encroaching upon the base 
of the triangular process. The length of the head (measured 
to the end of the process) is two-ninths of the total (without 
caudal) ; the width of the interorbital space is one-half of the 
length of the head. Barbels moderately long, that of the 
nostril not reaching the gill-opening, and that of the maxil- 
lary extending to the origin of the dorsal fin, which is opposite 
to the end of the pectoral. Anal fin not low. Vertical fins 
separated from each other by a small interspace. Coloration 
uniform blackish brown. 



millim. 

Total length • . . . 171 

„ „ without caudal 150 

Length of upperside of head 35 

Width of interorbital space 18 

Diameter of the eye 27 

Ogowe River. 

Clarias gabonensis. 
Clarias gabonensis, Giinth, Ann. & Mag. Nat. Hist. 1867, xx. p. no. 

D. 76-78. A. 56-60. P. i/io. 

Vomerine teeth villiform, forming a band which is a little 
broader than the intermaxillary band, without posterior pro- 
jection ; each half of the intermaxillary band is twice as wide 
as it is broad, and laterally scarcely extends so far as the 
vomerine band. Head naked above, finely granular and 
striated. The occipital process triangular, with rounded end, 
its base being a little longer than its sides. The fontanelle 
is ovate, and does not encroach upon the base of the triangular 
process. Length of the head one-fourth of the total (without 
caudal) ; snout contracted, the width of the interorbital space 
being less than one-half of the length of the head. Barbels 
moderately long, that of the nostril reaching to the root of the 
pectoral fin and that of the maxillary to the origin of the 
dorsal, which is nearly opposite to the end of the pectoral. 
Anal fin not low. Vertical fins separated from each other by 
a small interspace. Coloration uniform blackish brown. 

millim. 

Total length 168 

„ „ without caudal 148 

Length of upperside of the head 38 

Width of interorbital space 15 

Diameter of the eye 3 



DR. A. GUNTHER ON REPTILES AND FISHES 707 



This species inhabits also the Ogowe River. To facilitate 
comparison with the other species here described, I have given 
a fuller diagnosis than my former one. 



Clarias buthupogon. 

? Clarias Iccviccps, Gill, Proc. Ac. Nat. Sci. Philad, 1862, p. 139. 
Clarias buthupogon, Sauvage, Bull. Soc. Philom. 1878, p. 96. 
Clarias gabonensis {Clarias megapogon), Sauvage, N. .A.rch. Mus. iii. 
1880, p. 39, pi. i. fig. 2 (not Giinth.). 

D. 84-87. A. 65-67. P. 1/8. 

Vomerine teeth villiform, forming a rather broad band, 
Vithout posterior projection, and as broad as the intermaxil- 
lary band ; each half of the latter is twice as wide as broad, 
and both the intermaxillary and vomerine bands have the 
same lateral e.xtent. Head covered above with a verj' thin 
skin and finely and rather sparsely granular. The occipital 
process projects as an isosceles triangle, the hind margin of 
the head being deeply notched on each side of the process. 
The fontanelle is of an oval shape, its greater portion lying 
in advance of the base of the process. The length of the 
head (measured to the end of the process) is two-sevenths or 
one-fourth of the total (without caudal) ; the width of the 
interorbital space is somewhat less than one-half of the length 
of the head. All the barbels ver}^ long, the nasal reaching 
be\ond the head and the maxillary- beyond the origin of the 
anal. Pectoral fin extending to the vertical from the first 
dorsal ra}-. Anal fin low ; both the dorsal and anal extend 
to the root of the caudal. Sides of the head and neck with 
whitish specks. 

millim. 

Total length 225 

„ „ without caudal 195 

Length of upperside of head . . 48 

Width of interorbital space 21 

Diameter of the eye 4-5 

The specimens were obtained at Kondo-Kondo and in 
Corisco Island. The original description of C. Iceviceps runs 
as follows : — " Height at anus a tenth of length ; head 
(laterally) a sixth, its breadth an eighth ; the surface smooth ; 
maxillar}- barbels twice as long as head. D. 86, A. 61," — 
and is quite insufficient for exact determination of specimens. 
The typical specimen came probably from Liberia. 

z z 2 



7o8 APPENDIX III 



Schilbe niystus, Cuv. Val. 
Old Calabar. 

Schilbe aispila, Gthr. 

Azumine Creek (Opobo River). 

I believe that the specimens so named should be reunited 
with Schilbe mvstiis. 



Eutropius liberiensis. 
cht, Notes I 

D. 47-50. 



Etdropiiis liberiensis Hubrecht, Notes Leyd. Mus. iii. p. 6g ; Steind. 
ibid. xvi. p. 59. 



Lambarene. 

Eutropius congensis, Gthr. 

Warri. 

Chrysichthys BUttikoferi. 

Chrysichthys BUttikoferi^ Steindachner, Notes Leyd. Mus. xvi. p. 60. 

This is a species clearly distinct from Ch. inacrops, having 
the adipose fin much shorter and further distant from the 
dorsal fin. In this respect it agrees with Ch. nigrodigitatus, 
which, as a rule, has a more contracted snout and narrower 
mouth. However, I have examined large specimens which 
it is difficult to refer to either of these two species with cer- 
tainty. And the difficulty is increased, as I find that there 
are specimens with eleven and with thirteen anal rays in 
both the narrow-snouted form {Ch. nigrodigitatiis) and the 
broad-snouted {Ch. BUttikoferi). Possibly more than these 
two species should be distinguished. Miss Kingsley found 
Ch. BUttikoferi at Kondo-Kondo and in Corisco Island. 

Synodontis serratus, Riipp. 
Old Calabar. 

Malapterurus beninensis, Murr. 
Old Calabar ; Ogowe River. 



DR. A. GUXTHER OX REPTILES AND FISHES 709 



Labeo coubie, Riipp. 

Old Calabar. 

Barbus Kessleri, Steind. 

Specimens from the Ogowe River have the barbels rather 
longer and the base of the dorsal fin at a steeper slope than 
specimens from Angola. 

Barilius bibie. (PI. II. fig. C.) 

¦ ? Leuciscus bibie, De Joannis, Guerin, Mag. Zool. 1835, Pise. pi. iv. ; 
Giinth. Fish. vii. p. 293. 

D. 10. A. 1 8. V. 9. L. lat. 54. L. transv. 8/4. 

Body compressed, its depth being two-ninths, the length of 
the head one-fourth, of the total length (without caudal). 
Head oblong, with pointed snout, which is equal to the dia- 
meter of the eye or two-sevenths of the length of the head. 
Width of the interorbital space equal to the diameter of the 
eye. Mouth wide, oblique, the narrow maxillar>' extending 
to below the middle of the eye, its extremity being hidden 
below the suborbital, when the mouth is shut. Praeorbital 
about half the area of the orbit ; the first suborbital is narrow, 
much narrower than the second and third, which nearly 
entirely cover the cheek, leaving only a space uncovered 
about equal to the size of the first suborbital. The origin of 
the dorsal fin is rather nearer to the caudal than to the occiput ; 
origin of the anal fin below the middle of the dorsal. Caudal 
fin deepl}- forked. Pectoral fin shorter than the head, not 
reaching the much shorter ventral. Scales thin, with very 
distinct radiating striae ; lateral line sweeping down in a curve 
towards the abdomen, and, following the lower profile, 
terminates below the centre of the caudal fin. Silver)-, with 
twelve bluish vertical bars along the middle of the side, and 
with a large blackish spot at the root of the caudal. 

millim. 

Total length no 

„ without caudal 95 

Length of the head 22 

Diameter of the eye 6 

Ogowe River. ¦ 

This is one of the most interesting fishes in the collection. 
Originally described and figured in a very rude manner from 



7IO APPENDIX III 



a small specimen from the Nile, L. bibie has remained undis- 
covered in that river up to the present time. De Joannis 
does not mention the bluish cross-bars, which, however, are 
very faint. It is most desirable that specimens from the Nile 
should be directly compared with West African ones. 

I am unable to arrive at a definite conclusion as to whether 
Barilius senegalensis, Steindachner (SB. Wien. Akad. 1870, 
Ixi. p. 564, Taf V. fig. 2), from the Senegal, should be referred 
to this species. Lat. 1. 59-63 ; maxillary extending to behind 
the centre of the eye. 

I am equally uncertain with regard to Opsaridiujii Buch- 
>^^/^z, Peters (MB. Berl. Akad. 1876, p. 251, fig. 4). It also' 
comes from the Ogowe River ; but, to judge from the diag- 
nosis and figure, Peters's fish has fewer scales in the lateral 
line (46), a smaller eye and longer snout (the specimens are 
of about the same size), and a longer maxillary, which reaches 
behind the middle of the eye. Peters represents his fish 
without any colour-markings. 

Assuming that there are two distinct species of Barilius 
in West Africa, from a geographical point of view B. senegal- 
ensis would probably prove to be identical with the Nile fish, 
whilst the Ogowe specimens described by Peters and myself 
might prove to be the second species ; but this assumption is 
not confirmed by the description of the various authors. Thus, 
as not one of the descriptions extant fully agrees with our 
specimen, I apply at present the oldest name to it. 

Alestes macrophthalnius. 

Alestes macrophthahmis, Giinth, Ann. & Mag. Nat. Hist. 1867, xx. 
p. 112. 

Talagouga. 

Alestes macrolepidotus^ C. V. 
Old Calabar. 

Alestes leuciscus. 
Alestes leuciscus, Giinth. Ann. & Mag. Nat. Hist. 1867, xx. p 113. 
Egwanga, on the Opobo River. 



Alestes longipinnis. 
Brachyalestcs longipintns^ Giinth, Fish. v. p. 315. 
Azumin6 Creek and Ogow6 River. 



DR. A. GUNTHER OX REPTILES AND FISHES 711 



IAlestes KingsleycB, sp. n. (PI. II. fig. B.) 
D. 10. A. 15-16. L. lat. 23-24. L. transv. 4/3I. 
The height of the body is one-third of the total length 
(without caudal), the length of the head one- fourth. Eye two- 
sevenths of the length of the head, equal to that of the snout, 
but less than the width of the interorbital space. Origin of 
the dorsal fin a little behind that of the ventrals. None of 
the fin-rays elongate. A deep black band commences 
abruptly in the middle of the tail, opposite to the origin of 
the anal fin, and runs to the end of the central caudal rays ; 
it is broader at its commencement than at its end. A more 
or less distinct dark spot above the commencement of the 
lateral line. 

millim. 

Total length 115 

„ „ without caudal 95 

Length of the head 26 

Diameter of the eye 8 

Ogowe River. 

Sarcodaces odo'e, Bl. 

Old Calabar ; Ogowe River. 

Distichodus notospilus. 

Distichodus notospilus^ Giinth. Ann. & Mag. Nat. Hist 1867, .xx. p. 1 14. 

Lambarene. 

Xenocharax spilurns. 

Xenocharax spilurus, Giinth. .Ann. & Mag. Nat. Hist. 1867, xx. p. 113, 
pi. iii. fig. B. 

Talagouga. 

Mormyrus zandirostris. 

Mormyrus zanclirostris, Giinth, .\nn. & Mag. Nat. Hist. 1867, x.\. 
p. 114, pi. ii. fig. B. 

Common at Talagouga. 



Morjnyrus viicrocephalus. 
phalus, G 

Common at Talagouga. 



Mormyrus microcephalus, Giinth. Ann. & Mag. Nat. Hist 1867, xx. 
p. 114. 



712 APPENDIX III 



Mormyrus lepturus. 

Mormyrus lepturus, Giinth. P.Z.S. 1871, p. 670, pi. Ixix. fig. B. 
1 Mormyrus granaisquamis, Peters, MB. Berl. Akad. 1876, p. 250. 

I described this species from two young specimens 3 inches 
long. Miss Kingsley has rediscovered it at Talagouga, and 
collected specimens apparently adult and up to 190 millim. in 
length. Thus I am enabled to amend my original diagnosis 
in several points. 

D. 20-24. A. 25-29. L. lat. 42-44. 

Snout obtuse, with the mouth terminal and, with age, with 
the lower lip thickened into a short adipose protuberance. 
The upper profile is somewhat more curved than the lower. 
Eye small, shorter than (in adult specimens only half as long 
as) the snout, situated in the anterior half of the head. 
Teeth of m.oderate size, notched, few in number. The height 
of the body is two-sevenths of the total length (without 
caudal) the length of the head two-ninths. The caudal 
peduncle is slender, about as long as the head, its depth being 
one-third of its length. Origin of the dorsal fin a little behind 
that of the anal, midway between the root of the caudal and 
the head. Pectoral a little shorter than the head, extending 
to the middle of the ventral, which is only half as long and 
terminates a long way from the vent. The scales of the 
anterior part of the trunk are of moderate size ; they gradually 
increase in size towards behind, and are largest on the hinder 
part of the tail and on the caudal peduncle, on the side of 
which they stand in three series. Brownish or silvery, darker 
on the head. Two black vertical bands descend from the 
anterior and hindmost dorsal rays to the anal, spreading 
more or less over that fin. 

Mormyrus sphecodes. 

Mormyrops sphekodes, Sauvage, Bull. Soc. Philom. 1878, p. 10 1 : X. 
Arch. Mus. iii. 1880, p. 55, pi. ii. fig. 4. 

D. 22. A. 26. L. lat. 65. 

The teeth on the palate and tongue are well developed. 
Sauvage's description is fairly applicable to a specimen from 
Talagouga, 138 millim. long, but I count only 65 transverse 
series of scales, whilst Sauvage states 82. The diameter of 
the eye is only one-eighth of the length of the head in our 



DR. A. GUNTHER ON REPTILES AND FISHES 713 

specimen. These differences could be accounted for by a 
somewhat less perfect state of preservation of Sauvage's 
specimen. 

Monnyrus Kingsleyce, sp. n. (PL II. fig. A.) 

D. 17. A. 22. L. lat. 56. 

Snout short, rounded, parabolic, with the small mouth 
antero-inferior. Five notched teeth above and six below. 
The eye is small, half the length of the snout and scarcely 
one-seventh of that of the head. Body rather elongate, its 
greatest depth being contained 4J times, the length of the 
head 4A times in the total (without caudal). Caudal peduncle 
compressed, moderately long, shorter than the head, its depth 
being one-half of its length. Origin of the dorsal fin behind 
that of the anal and twice as distant from the end of the 
snout as from the root of the caudal. The length of the base 
of the anal equals that of the head. Pectoral fin shorter than 
the head, nearly reaching the ventral. Ventral fin more than 
half as long as the pectoral, and half as long as the distance 
of its root from the vent. Scales rather small ; there are 
eight in an oblique series running from the first anal ray to 
the lateral line, and five longitudinal series on the side of the 
caudal peduncle. Uniform brown. 

millim. 

Total length 106 

„ „ without caudal 93 

Length of the head 19 

Diameter of the eye 2*4 

Height of the body 20 

Length of the caudal p>eduncle 15 

A single specimen was obtained in Old Calabar. This 
species is nearest to M. liberiensis (Steind.), but readily 
distinguished by a shorter anal fin, with a smaller number of 
rays. 

Mormyrus amblystoma, sp. n. 

D. 24. A. 30. L. laL 40. 

Snout short, obtuse, as long as the eye, with the mouth at 
the lower side. The mouth is ver>' broad, twice as broad as 
the eye, armed above with twenty-two and below with thirty- 
notched teeth ; its comer is beyond the vertical from the 
front margin of the eye. The upper profile of the head is 



714 APPENDIX III 



somewhat more curved than the lower and steadily ascends to 
the dorsal fin. Eye small, one-fifth of the length of the head. 
The height of the body is contained 2f times in the total 
length (without caudal), the length of the head 3f times ; the 
caudal peduncle is slender, much shorter than the head, its 
depth being two-fifths of its length. The origin of the dorsal 
fin is behind that of the anal and nearer to the root of the 
caudal than to the head. The anal extends also further 
backwards than the dorsal. Pectoral shorter than the head, 
reaching to the middle of the ventral. Ventral very short, 
only half as long as the pectoral or as the distance of its root 
from the vent. Scales rather large ; there are eight in an 
oblique series running from the first anal ray to the lateral 
line, and three and two half longitudinal series on the side of 
the peduncle of the tail. Silvery brownish above ; a deep 
black spot on the root of the caudal, and another high up on 
the side below the origin of the dorsal fin. 

millim. 

Total length 155 

„ „ without caudal 133 

Length of the head 35 

Diameter of the eye 7 

Width of the mouth 14 

Length of the pectoral fin 25 

,, „ ventral fin 12 

„ „ caudal peduncle 23 

Height of the body 49 

One specimen from Talagouga. 

Morviyrus simus. 

Mormyrus {Petrocephalus) simus ^ Sauvage, Bull. Soc. Philom. 1878, 
p. 100 ; Nouv. Arch. Mus. iii. 1880, p. 51, pi. ii. fig. 3 (fig. mediocr.). 

Mormyrus tetniicauda, Steind. Notes Leyd. Mus. xvi. 1894, p. 69, pi. iv. 
fig. I. 

D. 26-28. A. 31—33. L. lat. 48.1 

Snout short, obtuse, a little shorter than the eye, with the 
mouth at its lower side. The mouth is narrow, not wider 
than the eye, armed above with twelve and below with 
twenty-two teeth ; its corner lies beyond the vertical from 
the front margin of the eye. The upper profile of the head 
is a little more curved than the lower, and steadily ascends to 
the origin of the dorsal fin. Eye one-fourth of the length of 

1 This is the number of transverse series above the lateral line, which 
s composed of larger scales, only forty in number. 



DR. A. GUNTHER ON REPTILES AND FISHES 715 

the head. The height of the body is contained 2f times in 
the total length (without caudal), the length of the head four 
times. Caudal peduncle slender, much shorter than the head 
(measured from the last anal ray), its depth being contained 
2§ times in its length. The origin of the dorsal fin is behind 
that of the anal and midway between the root of the caudal 
and end of the opercle. The anal extends also further back- 
wards than the dorsal. Pectoral fin shorter than the head, 
reaching rather beyond the middle of the ventral. Ventral 
fin only half as long as the pectoral or as the distance of its 
root from the vent. Scales of moderate size ; there are twelve 
or thirteen in an oblique series running from the first anal ray 
to the lateral line, and three and two half longitudinal series 
on the side of the caudal peduncle. Silver}', brownish above ; 
anterior part of the dorsal blackish. 

inillim. 

Total length 130 

„ „ without caudal 106 

Length of the head 25 

Diameter of the eye 6 

Width of the mouth 5'5 

Height of the body 41 

Length cf the caudal peduncle 20 

There are some slight discrepancies between this and 
Sauvage's descriptions, which are quite within the limits of 
individual variation. Besides, our specimens from Tala- 
gouga belong to the same district as Sauvage's, which came 
from Doume (Ogowe). Steindachner's description is more 
precise and his figure more accurate ; he compared the species 
with J/. Sauvagii (Blgr.), which, however, has a much wider 
mouth. The specimens described by Steindachner came 
from Liberia. Thanks to Dr. Jentink's kindness I have been 
able to compare the latter with those collected by Miss 
Kingsley. 

Mortnyrus Sauvagii. 

Mormyrus {Petrocephalus) Sauvagii, Boulenger, Ann. & Mag. Nat. 
Hist. 1887, xix. p. 149. 

VVarri. 

Mormyrus affinis. 

Petrocephalus affinis, Sauvage, Bull. Soc. Philm. 1878, p. loi. 
Mormyrus {Pefrocephalus) affinis, Sauvage, N. Arch. Mus. iii. 1880, 
p. 52, pi. ii. fig. 2. 

I refer a young specimen, 86 millim. long, from Talagouga 



7i6 APPENDIX III 



to this species, although it shows some discrepancies from 
the typical specimen (from Doume) ; it has D. 20, A. 25, 
L. lat. 58 ; there are eight notched teeth in the upper as well 
as lower jaw. Five longitudinal series of scales along each 
side of the caudal peduncle. 



Mormyrus Marchei. 

? Petrocephalus Marchei, Sauvage, Bull. Soc. Philom. 1878, p. 100. 
? Mormyrus {Petrocephalus) Marchei, Sauvage, N. Arch. Mus. iii. 1880, 
p. 50, pi, ii. fig. 5. 

D. 22. A. 30. L. lat. 63 

Snout short, obtuse, but rather longer than the eye, with 
the mouth at its lower side. Mouth narrow, a little wider 
than the eye, armed above and below with six notched teeth ; 
its corner lies a little in advance of the vertical from the front 
margin of the orbit. The upper profile of the head is some- 
what more convex than the lower and ascends slightly towards 
the origin of the dorsal. Eye one-fifth of the length of the 
head. The height of the body is contained 3f times in the 
total length (without caudal), the length of the head 5| times. 
Caudal peduncle extremely slender, longer than the head 
(measured from the last anal ray), its depth being only two- 
ninths of its length. The origin of the dorsal fin is behind 
that of the anal and midway between the root of the caudal 
and the end of the opercle. The anal extends also further 
backwards than the dorsal. Pectoral fin as long as the head, 
reaching beyond the middle of the ventral ; ventral fin half as 
long as the pectoral or as the distance of its root from the 
vent. Abdomen behind the ventral fin compressed into a 
ridge. Scales of moderate size ; there are nine in an oblique 
series running from the vent to the lateral line and three and 
two half longitudinal series cover the side of the caudal 
peduncle. Silvery, light brownish above. 

millim. 

Total length 175 

„ ,, without caudal 1 50 

Length of the head 27 

Diameter of the eye 5 

Width of the mouth 5*5 

Height of the body 38 

Length of caudal peduncle 2>}> 

One specimen from Talagouga. 



DR. A. GUNTHER OX REPTILES AND FISHES 717 

Pellonula vorax, Gthr. 
Old Calabar. 

Notopterus afer, Gthr. 
Old Calabar. 

Notopterus nigri, Gthr. 
Kondo-Kondo. 

Tetrodon pustulatus, Murr. 
Old Calabar. 

EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES. 

Plate I. 

Fig. A. Ctenopoma Kingsleya. 

Fig. B. nanum. 

Fig. C. gabonense. 

Plate IL 

Fig. A. Mortnyrus Kingsleya. 
Fig. B. A testes Kingsleya. 
Fig. C. Barilius bilne. 

%* The specimens mentioned in this paper as from the Azumine Creek 
and Warri were kindly given to me by \V. H. Hamilton Esq., and 
D. Bleasby, Esq., respectively. — M. H. K. 



APPENDIX IV 

ORTHOPTERA, HYMENOPTERA, AND 
HEMIPTERA 

A List of the Orthoptera, Hymenoptera, and Hemiptera collected 
by Miss Kingsley on the River Ogowe\ with Descriptions of 
some new Genera and Species. By W. F. KiRBY, F.L.S., 
F.E.S., &c., Assistant in Zoological Department, British 
Museum (Natural History). 

The collection formed by Miss Kingsley, though small,^ con- 
tained several species of considerable interest, in addition to the 
novelties ; and hence I have thought it worth while to prepare 
a complete list. Eight species in all are here described as 
new, for two of which it has been necessary to establish new 
genera. It is, however, to be regretted that in most cases only 
single specimens were received, and several of them were 
immature, or the number of new species might have been 
larger. 

Order ORTHOPTERA. 

Family Blattidae. 

Subfamily Panchlorinje. 

Trichomera, gen. nov. 

Female. — Apterous : front of head rounded, projecting be- 
yond the prothorax ; face hardly oblique ; antennae thickened 
at base and tapering to tips ; prothorax moderately arched, 
the hinder angles rounded off, those of the meso- and meta- 
thorax less rounded and more produced backwards ; tibiae 

^ This collection is entirely from Lenibarene (River Ogowd). I have 
no lists of collection of insects from Calabar. — M. H. K. 



I 



ORTHOPTER.A, HYMEXOPTERA, AND HEMIPTERA 719 

strongly spined above, but femora with no spines, but only 
clothed with fine hair ; abdoroen very broad, supra-anal plate 
triangularly emarginate at the extremity to nearly half its 
ength ; cerci ver>- broad, pointed at the end, and a little shorter 
than the supra-anal lamina. 

The unarmed femora place this genus in the Panchlorinai, 
but in shape it resembles the females of some of the Blattinae. 
The male is probably winged. 

Trtckomera insignata, sp. n. 

Long. Corp. 20-21 millim., lat. 13 millim. 

Female. — Blackish, with testaceous markings ; face nearly 
smooth, shining black below the vertex, the sides, mouth, and 
a band within the eyes and antennae testaceous ; vertex test- 
aceous in front, with blackish streaks projecting into it from 
behind ; head and thorax clothed with fine down ; prothorax 
and sides of meso- and metathorax finely punctured, middle of 
meso- and metathorax and abdomen rather coarsely granu- 
lated ; mesothorax testaceous, somewhat speckled with reddish 
brown, the centre filled up with a large blackish blotch, with 
two projecting angles on each side in front and behind, the 
two innermost of the hinder projections extending to the 
hinder margin of the prothorax, and the second of the front 
projections connected with a large oblong black patch border- 
ing part of the sides of the prothorax ; meso- and metathorax 
bordered on the sides with reddish brown and with several 
irregular testaceous markings ; on the abdomen these are con- 
tinued more regularly, forming a central and nearly parallel 
series, and two outer series, the first of which is nearly straight 
and the second connected with the testaceous border below 
the lateral angles of the segments ; supra-anal plate black, with 
a broad testaceous band on each side ; cerci black ; antennae 
reddish, shading into brown ; pectus testaceous ; abdomen 
brown beneath. 

Two specimens obtained. 

Family Mantidae. 

Subfamily M anting, 

HiERODULA, Burm. 

A single immature specimen of this genus, remarkable for 
the very heavy black band on the front femora and tibise and 
for the black spines of the latter. 



720 APPEN])IX IV 



Family Phasmidae. 

Subfamily Palophinm. 

Palophus centaurus. 

Palophus centaurus^ Westw. Cat. Phasm. p. 91, n. 233, pi. xxxi. fig. i 
(1859) ; Brogn. Nouv. Arch. Mus. Paris, (3) iii. p. 195, pi. viii., pi. i.x. 
figs. 1-4(1892). 

One of the largest winged African Phasmidae. A single 
female specimen was in the collection. 

Subfamily Phasminm. 
Bathycharax, gen. nov. 

Female. — Apterous, rather stout, granulated ; antennae rather 
shorter than the front femora, 23-jointed, with most of the joints 
long and cylindrical ; scape flattened, about twice as long as 
broad, second joint also longer than broad and considerably 
longer than the following joints ; front legs much longer 
and front femora much thicker than in the last two pairs 
of legs. 

Readily distinguished from Phasnia {Bacillus auct.) by the 
granulated body and the cylindrical joints of the antennae. 

Bathycharax granulatus, sp. n. 

Uniform brown, except that the face is varied above with 
black and below with yellow. Head with a row of four raised 
tubercles behind ; pronotum with three imperfectly formed 
grooves and a transverse one dividing it nearly equally ; there 
is also a distinct carina on each side ; mesonotum thickly 
granulated and with three central carinae, the lateral ones not 
extending to its extremity, but a central one continued along 
the metanotum and abdomen ; abdomen with segments 2-8 
(counting the median segment as i) gradually diminishing 
in length ; ninth short and transverse ; tenth three times as 
long as broad, gradually tapering, and extending for half 
its length beyond the operculum ; cerci very short, rather 
broad and rounded, just projecting on each side at the base 
of the tenth segment. Under surface of the body carinated 
throughout on the central line behind the propectus, which is 
carinated on the sides ; most of the hinder part of the body is 
carinated on the sides both above and below the middle. Legs 
carinated and sulcated ; first joint of front tarsi about as long 



ORTHOPTERA, HYMENOPTER-\, AND HEMIPTERA 721 

as all the remaining joints together ; first joint of four hinder 
legs about as long as the terminal joint, the second and third 
being each about twice as long as the fourth, which is the 

-'^ortest. 

Diinetisions. 

millim. 

Long, corporis 100 

„ antennarum 18 

„ capitis 6 

„ pronoti 5 

mesonoti 22 

,, metanoti, cum segmento medio 17 

,, segment! medii 4 

,, terminali 9 

„ femorum anticorum 24 

„ „ mediorum 19 

„ „ posteriorum .... 22 

„ tibiarum anticarum 26 

„ „ mediarum 15 

„ ., posteriarum . . 



->'> 



In many particulars this species agrees with the description 

i/i Bacillus Buchholzi, Gerstaecker, from the Cameroons (Mitth. 

laturw. \^er. Xeu-Vorpommern und Riigen, xiv. p. 99, 1883), 

"but it is much larger, and the structure of the abdomen 

appears to be very dissimilar in the two insects. 



Family Achetidae. 

Subfamily Gryllotalpix^. 

Gryllotalpa africana. 

Gryllotalpa africana^ Palisot de Beauvois, Ins. .\fr. .\m^r. p. 229, Orth. 
pi. iii. c. fig. 6 (1805?). 

An abundant species throughout the warmer parts of the 

world. 

Family Phasgonuridae. 

Subfamily Hetkodi.w-e. 

Cosmoderus Ktngsleyce, sp. n. 

Long. 21-25 millim, 

Rufo-testaceous, abdomen inclining to cupreous, especially 
in the female ; face yellowish, slightly varied with red, and 
w ith a black spot on each side at the base of the clypeus ; 

3 A 



722 APPENDIX IV 



antennae reddish on the basal half, shading into blackish, at 
least 40-jointed, the scape and second joint thickened, the scape 
half as long again as broad, the second joint hardly longer than 
broad, the third joint twice as long as the fourth, the rest taper- 
ing and gradually decreasing in length to beyond the middle, 
when they become longer and more cylindrical ; vertex and 
thorax closely punctured, the latter more coarsely ; thorax 
with two strong spines at the frontal angles, a strong spine on 
each side, between which runs a raised ridge, and a row of 
eight large spines behind. There is one more large spine on 
each side slightly before the others ; on the yellow lower ridge 
of the thorax most of the spines are red, tipped with black ; 
those on the legs are described in characterising the genus, 
The dividing ridge of the thorax is brownish ; before it are 
two pairs of shallow brownish depressions, and behind it a 
row of five on each side, curving outwards, and two or three 
additional pairs in the middle. Abdomen smooth, more or 
less cupreous, with some scattered punctures towards the end 
of the segments. 

Much resembles C. erinaceus, Fairmaire, from the Gaboon, 
but only half the size. Described from two males and one 
female, which hardly differ in structure, thus making it prob- 
able that the insect alluded to by Dr. Karsch as the female of 
Cosmoderus erinaceus (Berl. ent. Zeitschr. xxxi. p. 59) belongs 
to a different genus, and not improbably to Aprophantia, de- 
scribed below. 

The curious wingless insects belonging to the family Hetro- 
didai must be very numerous in the warmer parts of Africa. 
Almost every collection from these regions, however small, 
furnishes one or more new species if it contains any Ortho- 
ptera. I take the opportunity of adding the description of a 
new genus and species, which appears to have been confounded 
with Cosmoderus erinaceus, in a footnote.^ 

1 Aprophantia, gen. nov. 

Allied to Cosmoderus, but with longer and more slender legs, the hind 
tibia: especially being considerably longer than the others. All the tibii^ 
sulcated, front tibia? with conspicuously open foramina. Femora above 
with a strong pair of terminal spines ; femora and tibia otherwise un- 
armed above, but with a double row of very strong spines beneath. 
Frontal spine very strong ; front coxae spined, and a spine in front of the 
middle tarsi. 

Abdomen smooth ; mesothorax raised in the middle, its front angles 
armed with a large doulile spine, from which a strong carina runs to the 
sides of the ridge, where the carina rises into another large spine ; the 
hinder part of the mesothorax is armed with a row of nine or ten more 



ORTHOPTERA, HYMENOPTERA, AND HEMIPTERA 723 

Subfamily CoifocEPHALix^. 

Psetidorhynchus sicarius. 
Pseudorhynchus sicariuSy Serv-ille, Hist. NaL Ins., Orth. p. 310 (1839). 
One specimen. 

Subfamily Mecopodinm. 

Macroscirtes kanguroo. 
Macroscirtes kanguroo, Pictet, Mdm. Soc. Geneve, xxxi. (6) p. 14, pi. iii. 

fig. 38(ir - 



One specimen of this curious long-legged insect. 

Family Locastidae. 

PCECILOCERA, Serv. 

A single immature specimen probably belonging to this 
genus. 

Cyrtacanthacris ruficomis. 

Gryllus ruficomis^ Fabr. Ent Syst ii. p. 54, n. 28 (1793). 

One of the great migrator)' locusts of Africa. The descrip- 
tion of Fabricius seems to have been taken from an unusually 
dark specimen. 

strong spines, extending on each side nearly to the level of the front 
coxae. 

Aprophantia maculaitt, sp. n. 

Long. Corp. 38-48 millim. 

Testaceous yellow (probably green during life) ; the tips of the spines, 
a double row of spots more or less complete on both sides of the femora, 
and a patch over the foramina on the front tibiae black. Antennae testa- 
ceous, with five long black bands increasing in length, the last terminal. 
Male with some obsolete brown markings on the face, two running up 
from above the frontal horn, and one on each side beyond, angulated 
outwards. The male also has some obsolete depressed brown marks on 
the front and sides of the thorax above, nearly as in the species of true 
Cosmoderus. In the female these markings are wanting, and the colour 
is darker, especially at the sides of the thorax, the front and back of the 
abdomen, and towards the extremities of the tibiae, and along their 
carina?. The male has three pairs of spines on the femora beneath and 
two additional spines on the outer carina of the hind femora, and six pairs 
of spines on the four front tibiae, and eight or nine rows of spines (not all 
paired) on the hind tibiae. The female differs in having five pairs of 
spines on the hind femora, but the legs are otherwise spined nearly as in 
the male. 

Described from a single pair {$ and $ ) from the Cameroons. 

3 A 2 



724 APPENDIX IV 



Order HYMENOPTERA. 

Section TEREBRANTIA. 

Subsection Entomophaga. 

Family Braconidse. 

* Bracon plumosus, sp. n. 

Long. Corp. ii millim. ; long. ovip. lO millim. 

Female.— Y\q.z.^^ antennae, and abdomen (including the 
petiole) black above ; head beneath and mouth-parts fulvous ; 
mandibles bidentate and tipped with black ; thorax wholly- 
rufous. Front legs : coxae and base of femora rufous, the rest 
wanting ; middle legs rufous, tarsi and tibiae above black ; 
hind legs black, a white spot at the end of the coxae above 
and the second joint of the trochanters rufous. Abdomen 
below white, with a row of five long black dashes on each 
side, the first bifid in front. Ovipositor rufous, partly black 
towards the extremity ; above it are two long and rather 
stout black setae, densely plumose beyond the middle, the 
apical third of the cilia being white ; the extreme tip of the 
setae is spatulate and whitish beneath. Wings smoky, the 
transverse nervures bordered with subhyaline. 

Probably allied to B. semiflavus, Brulle. 

Family Ichneumonidae. 

Subfamily Pimplinm. 

Pimpla nigricornis, sp. n. 

Long. Corp. cum ovip. 15 millim. ; ovip. 3 millim. exp. al. 
23 millim. 

Female. — Yellow, antennae and ovipositor black ; vertex 
with a black band covering the ocelli, which is pointed in front 
and on each side of the frontal ocellus ; mesothorax with a 
large oval black spot on each side, a triangular reddish patch 
in front, the hinder angle of which is black, and a transverse 
black patch in front of the raised scutellum ; abdomen yellow 
on the first two segments and shading into light reddish be- 
yond ; a large black spot on each side of segments 3-5 ; the 
first segment has a slight impression on each side, the five 
following ones have a deep groove before the extremity ; the 
front of the body is nearly smooth, but the third segment of 
the abdomen is sparingly, and .segments 4-6 heavily, punc- 



ORTHOPTERA, HYMENOPTERA, AND HEMIPTERA 725 

tured. Legs slightly suffused with reddish ; middle femora 
slightly, and hind femora considerably, thickened ; hind legs 
much longer than the others and hind tarsi clothed with a 
blackish pubescence. 

One specimen. 

Allied to the Indian P. punctata, Fabr. 

Subfamily OpHioNiNyE. 
Ophion latipenne, sp. n. 

Long. Corp. 26 millim. ; exp. al. 53 millim. ; lat. al. ant. 9 
millim. 

Female. — Rufo-testaceous, slightly pubescent ; occiput, an- 
tennae, legs, and especially the sides of the face, slightly more 
yellowish ; eyes slightly emarginate in front just above the 
antennae, below the antennae they are nearly parallel, or ver>' 
slightly incurved. Antennas pubescent, about 50-jointed 
joints three and four annular, joint five the longest, the re- 
mainder cylindrical, hardly longer than broad in the middle, 
and gradually tapering and lengthening towards the extre- 
mity, the last conical ; tips of mandibles black ; ocelli very 
large, filling up the space between the eyes on the vertex, 
black, except extreme front of the frontal ocellus beneath, and 
the outer sides of the two hinder ocelli. Thorax and abdomen 
very finely and closely punctured ; mesothorax with two con- 
verging lines slightly yellower than the ground-colour, but 
only carinated at the lateral borders ; metathorax also with a 
middle carina. Abdomen very large, raised, and somewhat 
compressed laterally. Hind legs longer than the others ; all 
the tibia armed with a pair of terminal spines. Wings rather 
broad, yellowish hyaline, more strongly tinged with yellow at 
the base and along the costal area of the hind wings, and 
towards the tip a little smoky, especially on the hind wings. 
Nervures rufous along the costa and towards the inner mar- 
gin ; otherwise blackish. Anterior wings with three bullae — 
one on the lower cur\e of the cell near its extremity, one on 
the recurrent nervule, and the third on the cross-nervule 
running upwards from the extremity of the internal nervule. 

The Ophionidae of Africa are rather numerous, but very few 
have yet been described. 



726 APPENDIX IV 



Family EvaniidsB. 

Evania Icevigata. 

Evania Icevigata, Latr. Gen. Crust. Ins. iii. p. 251 (1807). 

The species of this curious genus, though rare in England, 
are common in many countries, and are believed to be para- 
sitic on cockroaches. 

Section ACULEATA. 
Subsection Heterogyna. 

Family Formicidse. 
Subfamily Forimicinm. 
Camponotus maculatus. 
Formica maculata, Fabr. Spec. Ins. i. p. 491, n. 15 (1781). 
A common African species. 

CEcophylla virescens. 
Formica virescens, Fabr. Syst. Ent. p. 392, n. 9 (1775). 

These green ants are found throughout the tropics of the 
Old World, and form their nests of leaves on trees. 

Subfamily Ponerin/e. 

Anomura molesta. 

Anomura molesta, Gerst. Mon. Akad. Wiss. Berl. 1858, p. 262 ; Peters's 
Reise Mossamb., Zool. v. p. 562, pi. xii. fig. 2 (1862). 

A species originally described from Mozambique. 

Subsection FOSSORES. 

Pelopceus spirifex. 
Sphex spirifex, Linn. Syst. Nat. (cd. x.) i. p. 570, n. 8 (1758). 
A widely distributed species in South Europe and Africa, 



ORTHOPTERA, HYMENOPTERA, AND HEMIPTERA 727 



Subsection Diploptera. 
Family EumenidaB. 
Eumenes decipiens, sp. n. 
Eumenes melanosoma^ Smith, MS., nee. Sauss. 

Long. Corp. 15-17 millim. ; exp. al. 25-27 milHm. 

Head black above, the points of the angles within the eyes 
yellowish ; antennae ferruginous, black above ; face ferru- 
'ginous, very long, beak-like, sometimes yellow, only the 
mandibles and a space at the base of the clypeus remaining 
ferruginous. Trothorax red, with a large triangular black 
spot nearly filling up the hinder angles on each side ; meso- 
thorax black ; tegulae large, black, bordered outside with 
reddish ; scutellum black, a short yellow dash running from 
its extremity between the base of the wings ; postscutellum 
black, with a yellow dot on each side ; metathorax black, 
deeply sulcated in the middle, and forming two long triangles, 
the points reddish, into which runs an oblique lateral yellow 
line. Pectus black, red towards the sutures. Petiole and 
abdomen black, shining, and much more finely punctured 
than the thorax ; petiole rufous beneath and bordered behind 
above with a pale yellow line. First segment of abdomen 
bordered behind above with a j'ellow line, widely interrupted 
in the middle. Legs rufous, front (and sometimes middle) 
tibiae lined with yellowish ; tarsi clothed with greyish pubes- 
cence, and the four hinder legs more or less blackish above. 
Wings iridescent purplish subhyaline. 

Agrees very closely with the description and figure of the 
Javan E. vielanosoma, Sauss., but appears to be distinct. 
Specimens in the British Museum from Sierra Leone were 
labelled E. melanosoma by the late F. Smith. The species 
belongs to the group of E. cBthiopica, Sauss. 

Synagris dentata. 

Synagris dentata^ Sauss. Etudes Fam. Vesp. i. p. 80, pi. xiii. fig. 3 
(1852). 

A common African species. 



728 APPENDIX IV 



Subsection Anthophila. 

Family Apidse. 

Subfamily Megachilinm. 

Euaspis abdoniinalis. 

Thynnus abdoininalis^ Fabr. Ent. Syst. ii. p. 245, n. 3 (1793). 

A single specimen. 

Subfamily Xylocopin/e. 
Xylocopa imitator. 

Xylocopa imitator, Smith, Cat. Hvm. Ins. Brit. Mus. ii. p. 351, n. 35 
(1854). 

One specimen. 

Order HEMIPTERA. 
Suborder Heteroptera. 

Family Scutelleridae. 

Subfamily Arthiopterinje. 

Plataspis punctata. 

Canopus punctatus, Leach, Bowdich, Mis. Ashantee, App. p. 496 
(1819) ; Gray, Griffith's Anim. Kingd. xv. p. 233, pi. xcii. fig., 2 
(1832). 

A very pretty species. 

Brachyplatys pallipes. 
Cimex pallipes, Fabr. Spec. Ins. ii. p. 343, n. 26 (1781). 
One specimen. 

Coptosoma Murrayi (?). 

Coptosoma Murrayi, Sign., Thomson, Arch. Ent. ii. p. 271, pi. ii. fig. 

(1858) ; Stai, Hem. Afr. i. p. 9 (1864). 
Coptosoma hirtella, Stal, CEfv. Vet.-Akad. Forh. 1858, p. 433. 

One specimen only. 

Subfamily Scutellerinm. 
Sphcerocoris ocellatus. 
Tetyra ocellata, Klug, Symb. Phys. v. pi. xliii. figs. 1-3 (1834). 
A common species in most parts of Africa. 



ORTHOPTERA, HYMENOPTERA, AND HEMIPTERA 729 



r 



Family Pentatomidae. 

Subfamily Pest a tomin^. 

Gen. ? 

An undetermined species of Pentatomidae, superficially 
resembling Dolycoris baccaruni, Linn., but with longer and 
more slender antennae. 

Atelocera serrata. 

Halys serratcL, Fabr. Svst. Rhyng. p. 181, n. 2 (1803). 

One specimen. 

Aspongopus, Lap., sp. 

An immature specimen, apparently allied to A. femoralis, 
Stal ; black, with the tegmina, borders of the abdomen, and 
femora greenish cupreous, and the last joint of the antennae 
rufo-testaceous, except at the base. 

Subfamily Tesseratominm. 

PiesostemujH inucronatum. 

Pentatoma mucronata^ Pal. de Beauvois, Ins. Afr. Amer. p. j6, Hemipt. 
pi. vi. fig. 5 (1805 ?). 

One specimen, considerably smaller than P. calidum, Fabr., 
and agreeing fairly with Palisot de Beauvois's figure quoted 
above, which I have no doubt was taken from an African 
specimen, though it has latterly been referred to the American 
P. subulatiim. This small form may or may not prove to be 
distinct from P. calidmn, for a series would be required to 
compare the characters ; and I therefore provisionally retain 
Palisot's name for it. 

Subfamily P hyllocephalin.'e. 

Gen. ? 

An immature specimen, apparently belonging to a new 
genus near Macrina, Amyot. 



730 APPENDIX IV 



Family Coreidae. 

Subfamily Corein^. 

Mygdonia tuberculosa. 

Mictis tuberculosa, Sign. Rev. Zool. 1851, p. 447, pi. xv. g. 5. 
A common West-African species. 

Mictis tristator. 

LygCBUs tristator, Fabr. Ryng. p. 266, n. 13(1 803). 
Two specimens obtained. 

Family Pyrrhocoridae. 

Subfamily Pyrkhocorinac. 

Antilochus submaculatus, sp. n. 

Long. Corp. 16 millim. 

Head red, occiput and vertex black nearly as far as the 
base of the antennae, but upper orbits red ; the lower part of 
the head under the proboscis is blackish, except behind ; 
head with a central groove and rugose-punctate ; close to the 
back is a waved line, the narrow part behind which is finely 
punctured. Antennae black, the terminal joint testaceous, 
brown towards the tip. Scape curved, thicker than the 
remaining joints, and a little shorter than the second and 
fourth joints, which are of equal length ; third joint rather 
shorter than the scape. Rostrum extending as far as the 
hind coxaj ; the basal joint grooved. Thorax black, bordered 
all round with testaceous ; the inner edge of the border and 
the hinder lobe marked with large punctures ; front lobe with 
a central groove and not punctured, except on a narrow 
triangular space in front. Scutellum and clavus sparingly 
punctured, corium more thickly ; scutellum and tegmina 
black, clavus bordered with a narrow red line at the base and 
on the inside ; corium rather broadly bordered with rufo- 
testaceous on the outside, the stripe then crossing to the end 
of the clavus, and then curving outwards again, leaving the 
greater part of the centre and the apex black, as is also the 
membrane. Legs black ; coxae, trochanters, base and under 
surface of femora coral-red ; tarsi, except the basal joint, 
yellowish grey below. Pleura black, bordered with testaceous 
above and in the sutures, and with red below ; abdomen coral- 



ORTHOPTERA, HYMENOPTERA, AND HEMIPTERA 731 



red, the first five segments beneath with a long black band on 
the sides behind. 

Allied to A. boerJiavice^ Fabr., but very distinct 

Family Keduviidae. 
Subfamily Reduviis^ 
Reduvius, Fabr., sp. 
An immature specimen, 

FamiK- Belostomatidae. 
Hydrocyrius herculeus (?). 

IlyotrepJics herculeus^ Stal, CEfv. \'et.-.\kad. Forh. 1855, p. 46. 
Hydrocyrius lurculeus, StSl, Hemipt. Afr. iii. p. 181 (1865). 

From Lembarene. 

Agrees fairly with Stal's description, taken from Caffrarian 
specimens. 

List of Arachnida and Myriapoda sent by Miss 
klxgsley to the british museum.^ 

A. Ticks. — Red velvety Tick from Ambaca — Trom- 

bidium tinctorium, Linn. 
Elephant Tick from Old Calabar — 
Ixodes sp. ? 

/ The t\vo 

B. Spiders. — i. Nephila femoralis, Luc. | species that 

2. Nephila lucasii, Sim. spin the great 

Gold Coast and Old 1 webs of which 
Calabar. the natives 

vuse the silk. 

3. Heteropoda venatoria, Linn. Old 

Calabar. Large, long-legged, flattish 
House Spider. 

4. Ctenus guineensis, Luc. Old Calabar. 

Large Spider. 

C. Pedipalp. — Titanodamon johnstonii, Poc. Old 

Calabar. Okyon, Talagonga. 

D. Millipede.— Oxydermus vittatus. Cook. Old Calabar. 

^ All these insects were collected during the dry season. — M. H. K. 



732 APPENDIX IV 



List of Shells, etc. Collected at Corisco, 
Gaboon Estuary. 

Conus prometheus. 

Terebra cingula, Kiener. 

Malongena morio, Lamarck. 

Oliva acuminata, Lamarck. 

Purpura coronata, Lamarck. 

Cypraia starcororia, Linn. 

Cypraea lurida, Linn. 

Cypraea zonata, Chamintz. 

Strombus bubonius, Lamarck. (Fernando Po.) 

Cassis spinosus, Gronovius. 

Littorina ahenea. Reeve. 

Pachymalania Byroni, Gray. (Old Calabar R.) 

Tympanolomus fuscatus, Linn. 

Tympanolomus radula, Linn. 

Achatina marginata, Swainson. 

Achatina balteata, Reeve. 

Pseudachatina Downesi, Gray. 

Cardium costatune, Linn. 

Dosinia africana, Gray. 

Cardita lacunosa, Reeve. 

Macoma nymphalis, Lamarck. 

Schizodesma nitida, Schreetar. 

Schizodesma largillierti, Philippi. 

Standella silicula, Deshayes. 

Donose rugosus, Linn. 

Ungulina alba, Kang. 

Two Gorgon IAS. 

Leptogorgia pinnata. 
Antillia sp. 

Plants Collected in the Cameroons and 
Ocowfi Districts. 

C=froin the bundle labelled " Cameroons." 
O „ „ „ "Ogowe." 

Triumfetta semitriloba, O. 
Adenocarpus Mannii, Hook. f. C. 
Crassula abyssinica, A. Rich. C. 
Cuviera acutiflora, D. C. 



ORTHOPTERA, HYMENOPTERA, AND HEMIPTERA 733 

Morinda citrifolia, O. 

Psychotria sp. O. 

Helichrysum Mannii, Hook. f. C. 

Helichrysum globosum, Schpr. C. 

Senecio Burtoni, Hook. f. C. 

Senecio clarenceana, Hook. f. C. 

Lactuca capensis, Thunb. O. 

Ericinella Mannii, Hook. f. C. 

Lippia sp. near L. asperifolia, A. Rich. C. 

Stachys ? C. 

Habenaria, 3 species. C. 

Renealmia africana, Benth. C. 

Commelinacea sp. O. 

Cyperus diffusus, Vahl. O. 

Gleichenia dichotoma, Hook. O. 

Pteris aquilina, O. 

Pteris quadriaurita, Retz. C. 

Asplenium Brachypteron, Kze. C. 

Nephrodium cicutarium, Baker. C. 

Nephrodium Filix mas, Rich ? C. 

Dalbergia ? O. 

Usnea barbata, Fr. O. 

Usnea barbata, van O. 

Physcia leucomela, Mich, O. 

Fasicated stem of Dracanea from Rembwe Swamps. 

List of Grasses Collected in West Tropical Africa. 

Trichopter>'x near T. elegans. 
Trichopterj'x flammida, Benth. 
Pennisetum setosum, Rich. 
Setaria sp. near S. aurea. 
Panicum ovalifolium, Beauv. ? 
Panicum plicatum, Lam.? 
Paspalum paniculatum, L 
Sporobolus elongatus, R. Br. 



APPENDIX V 

THE ENVENTION OF THE CLOTH LOOM 

This story is taken down from an Eboe, but practically the same story 
can -be found among all the cloth-making tribes in West Africa. 

In the old times there was a man who was a great hunter ; 
but he had a bad wife, and when he made medicine to put on 
his spear, she made medicine against his spear, but he knew 
nothing of this thing and went out after bush cow. 

By and by he found a big bush cow, and threw his spear 
at it, but the bush cow came on, and drove its horns through 
his thigh, so the man crept home, and lay in his house very 
sick, and the witch doctor found out which of his wives had 
witched the spear, and they killed her, and for many days the 
man could not go out hunting. But he was a great hunter, 
and his liver grew hot in him for the bush, so he dragged him- 
self to the bush, and lay there every day. One day, as he lay, 
he saw a big spider making a net on a bush and he watched 
him. By and by he saw how the spider caught his game, 
and that the spider was a great hunter, and the man said : — " If 
I had hunted as this spider hunts, if I had made a trap like 
that and put it in the bush and then gone aside and let the 
game get into it and weary itself to death quickly, — quicker 
and safer than they do in pitfalls — that bush cow would not 
have gored me." And so after a time he tried to make a net 
like the spider's, out of bush rope, and he did this thing and 
put his net into the forest, and caught bush deer (gazelles) and 
earth-pig (pangolins) and porcupine, and he made more nets, 
and every net he made was better, and he grew well, and 
became a greater hunter than before. One day he made a 
very fine net, and his wife said " This is a cloth, it is better 
than our cloth (bark cloth) because when the rain gets to it, it 
does not shrivel. Make me a cloth like this and then I will 
beat it with the mallet and wear it." And the man tried to 



THE INVENTION OF THE CLOTH LOOM 735 

do this thing, but he could not get it a good shape and he 
said, " Yet the spider gets a shape in his cloth. I will go and 
ask him again about this thing." And he went to the spider, 
and took him offering, and said : " Oh, my lord, teach me 
more things." And he sat and watched him for man\- days. 




LOOM AT EQUETTA. 

By and by he saw more (his eyes were opened) and he saw 
the spider made his net on sticks, and so he went home and 
got fine bush rope that he had collected, and taken there, to 
make his game nets with, and he brought them to the bush 
near the spider, and fixing the strings on to the bush he made 
a new net and he got shape into it, and he made more nets 



736 APPENDIX V 



this way, and every net he made was better. And his wife 
was pleased and gave him sons, and by and by the man saw 
that he did not want all the sticks of a bush to make his net 
on, only some of them ; and so he took these home and put 
them up in his house, and made his nets there, and after a 
time his wife said : " Why do you make the stuff for me with 
that bush rope ? Why do you not make it with something 
finer? " And he went into the bush and took offerings to the 
spider and said : " Oh, my lord, teach me more things ! " And 
he sat and watched the spider, but the spider only went on 
making stuff out of his belly. And the man said : " Oh, my 
lord, you pass me. I cannot do this thing." And as he vv^ent 
home he thought and saw that there are trees, and there are 
bush ropes, thick bush rope and thin bush rope, and then 
there is grass which was thinner still, and he took the grass, 
and tried to make a net with it, and did this thing and made 
more nets and every net he made was better. And his wife 
was pleased and said " This is good cloth." And the man 
lived to be very old and was a great chief and a great hunter. 
For it is good for a man to be a great hunter, and it is good 
for a man to please women. This is the origin of the cloth 
loom. 

It was in the old time, and men have got now thread on 
spools from the white man, for the white man is a great spider ; 
but this is how the black man learnt to make cloth. 



INDEX 



3 B 



INDEX 



Abambo, see Ghosts 

Aburi, 29 

Accra, 26, 29 

Adooma Tribe, 355 

Adulten-, Laws of, 497 

Africans, their cuUure and characteris- 
tics, 439, 5oc>-5CM, 605 

-\gonjo, 306, 308, 333 

Ajumba, 317-229 

Akanda Point, 414 

Alondo Point, 392, 410 

Alouette, Mt. 408 

Ambas (or Amboises) Bay and Island, 
610-613 

Andande, 215 

Angola-bells, 66 

Anno Bom, 46, 55 

Anram, or Anyambi, God, 442 

Apparitions, 520-523 

Arevooma, 250 

Art, characteristics of Negro, 503 

AsjTika, 375 

Axim, 95 

Aynfwa Goddess, 512 

Ayshouka, 241 

Ayringo Lake, Eliva z'Ayzingo, 237, 
240, 269 

B 

Bakwe, Boque, River, 348 

Bana, Bank and Island, 405 

Bantu, religious ideas of the, 443 

Basile in Fernando Po. 44 

Bateke Tribe, the, 357 

Bats, Witch, 470 

Bauniann, Dr. Oscar, on the dances of 
the Bubis, 67 
on the Gods of the Bubis, 69 
on the language of the Bubis, 64 
on the liquor traffic, 63 note 



Beads " A^r)," 679 

Beans, Calabar, used in ordeals, 465, 466 

Bells, musical, of the Bubis, 66 

used by Witch Doctors, 464 

Watch, among the Fans, 450, 
Bell Town, Murder Societj- at, 539 
Benga Tribe, the, 400, 402 

Witch Doctors of the, 464 
Bights, of Benin and Biafra, 75 
Bikei, Coinage among the Fans, 320-321 
Blood, an apparition of, 522, 523 

ideas among the W. African tribes 
with regard to, 447, 525 
" Blown-blessings," Ibata, 453 
Bobia Island, 610, 612 
Bobowissi, 521 
Boko Boko, on the Ogowe River, 183, 

185 
Bonny, Town and River, 97 
Boofima, 539 

Boque, or Bakwe River, 34S 
Bosum Prah River, 635 
Brazza, M. de, at Loango, 105 

his exploration of the Ogowe, 353- 
368 
Brazzaville, 360, 361 
Buana, 606 
Bubis, the, of Fernando Po 

Arts and Crafts, 64 

Character of, 56 

Charms, 69 

Fetish, 68 

Gods, 69 

Government, 69 

Implements, 65 

Language. 64 

Music, 66, 68 
Buea, on Cameroons, 600, 604 
Burial customs (see Funeral customs) 

among the Bubis, 70 

African ideas regarding, 491 
Burial grounds of the Ajumba, 481 



3 B 2 



740 



INDEX 



Burton, Sir Richard, his ascent of 

Mungo Mah Lobeh, 595 (note) 
Bush Souls, 459 
Bush trade, with the Fans, 310 

with the Ic;alwa and M'pongwe, 
316 



Cabalistic Words, 453 

Cabinda, Witch doctors among the, 464 

Calabar, Old, 12 

Cameroons, 548 (see Mungo Mah 

Cobeh) 
Canary, Grand, 13 

Cannibalism among the Fans, 287, 330 
Cape Coast Castle, 26 
Carica papaya, 39 
Carthaginian beads, 679 
Chaillu, M. du, his explorations, 368-370 
Charms, 445, 448-450, 511 

Mahommedan, 19 
Children, ownership of, 498 
Christiansborg, 30-33 
Civilization, effect of on W. African 

tribes, 403 
Clarence Cove and Town, Fernando Po, 

50 
Clarence Peak, 47, 50 
Coast Divisions of the W. African, 75 
Cocoa growing, 624 
Coffee growing in Congo Fran5ais, 147 

at Fernando Po, 48 

on the W. Coast, 642 
Coinage of the Bubis, 59 

of the Fans, 320-1 
Coinage Equivalents of the Bubis, 59 

of the Natives near the Ogowe, 203 
Colonial methods, 548 
Como River, 345-347> 4o8 
Congo Fran9ais, 369-381 
Congo Free State Railway, 553, 624 
Cookery. Native, 208, 211 
Coomassie, Trade of, 636 
Corisco Island, 382, 

fishing at, 398-404 
Costumes of the Sierra Leone Negroes, 

20 
Cotton growing, 643 
Cray fish swarms, 402 
Crocodiles, 88, 89, 546 
Crocodile Witches, 448, 538 
Cross River, 624 
Crown Sand, 405 

D 

Death, Customs at, 459, 471, 482 
Diseases, Native ideas with regard to, 
500 



J 



Diseases, Native remedies for, 468-47 

Doctors, Witch, 464, 446 

Dongila, 351 

Dreams, Native ideasregarding, 504, 505 

Drink traffic. The, 18, 63, {note), 662- 

668 
Dualla Tribe, The, 400 
"Duppy" 509 

E 

Ebumptup Seers, 459 
Education of the Natives by the French, 
205 

by the Missions, 658-662 
Efoua, 270 
Egaja, 282 
Egbo Society, 532 
Elephants, 258 

hunting, 326 

sense of smell, 160 
Ellis, Colonel, on the Native Religions 

and Magic, 510 
Elmina, 27 
Eloby, 385, 406 
Esoon, 294, 297 
Esterias, 408-410, 420 
Extinction of W. African tribes, 401 

403 
Eyeballs used as charms, 449 



Fan Tribe, 103-104 {note), 138, 141- 
142, 247 

aggressions on other tribes, 399 

arts and crafts, 322-324 

cannibalism, 330 

coinage, 320 

hunting, 325-327 

ideas about death, 381 

marriage laws, 321 

moral characteristics, 329 

trade, 310 
Fernan Vaz, 104 
Fernando Po, 42-73 

British occupation or, 53 

Fauna, 60 

Flora, 48 

Natives, See Bubis 

Spanish colonization of, 54, 615 
Fetish, origin of the name, 429 
Fever on the W. Coast, 85-86, 61 S 

619, 680, 681 
Fishes, 692 
Filaria, 686 
Forests, characteristics of the W. African, jj 

lOI ^ J 

on the Ijanksof the Ogowe, 261 -262I 
Francoville, 356 



INDEX 



741 



Frederickshafen, 623 
Free Town, 14-25 
Fruits of the W. Coast, 38 
Funeral Customs, 490-491 

of the Ajumbas, 481 

,, ,, Bantus, 478 

, , , , Deha of the Niger tribes, 490 

,, ,, Calabar tribes, 479, 693-95 

Congo Francais tribes, 479 

Fans, 481 

'Mpongwe and 'galwa, 287 

Xcomi, 281 



iiooN, 104-106, 329 

(oon River, 326 

>graphy of Congo Francais, 369 
I hosts and Spirits, 443-445, 505, 509 
( .lass, 108, 347 

Is, Native ideas concerning, 442, 

507, 513 
_ Id Coast, The, 26-41 

imports, 676 
Gorillas, 267-268 
Grain Coast, The, 75 
Graves of the Ajumbas, 481 

,, ,, Natives of Calabar, 293 
( iri-Gri bags, 19 
( ini -Gni, 429 (note) 



H 



Hii-roi'OTAMi, 243, 253 
Hornbills, 256 
• liubbards," 220 



I 



" Ibet," Prohibitions, 455 

Idols, 454 

Igalwa Tribe, 219, 227 

dress, 223 

houses, 220 
Ikun, 527-529 
Inenibe spirit, 230 
Incarnation of spirits, 521-522 
Indigo planting, 543 
Inheritance, Laws of, 485 
Insects, 720-731 
Islands, floating, 380 
Ivor)-, trade in, 325 



Jl-Jl,' origin of the word, 429 
[see Religion) 



Kacoxgo, 401, 641-679 
Kama countrj-, 375 

Kangwe Mission Station, 133. 215. 231 
Kang\ve, Mount, 177 
Karkola, River, 241-242 
Kembe Island, 174, 199 
Kondo Kondo, 177, 177 
Konig Island, 347 
Kraw-kraw, 437 

Kruboys, treatment of by the Por- 
tuguese, 49 
as labourers, 645-654 
Km Coast, 75 



Labour on the West Coast, 645, 656 

foreign, 656 
Lafayette, the Ic^ of the, 382 428 
Lagos, 76 

Bar, 73-75 
Lhiamba, 667 

Language, 602-504 (see Trade English) 
Laval Island, 404 
Law, Native, 496-500 

of Adulter^-, 497 

of Inheritance, 485-486 

of Ownership, 498^-499 

of Theft, 496 
Lawson River, 35S 
Lefini River, 35S 
Lekete River. 358 
Lembarene Island, 131, 217-219 
Leopards, 543-546 
Leopard societies, 537 
Lestourville, 372 
Libre\-ille, loiS 
Licona River, 354 
Liquor Traffic, 63, 662, 668, 675 
Lizard demon, 471 
Loango, 105 

Lobe, God of the Bubis, 69 
Lomanjawki, 177 
Loom, cloth. Invention of, 734 
Lope, Mount, 370 
Lopez, Cape, 104 



M 



Mahcmmedaxs at Sierra Leone, 17-19 

Mangrove swamps, 87-95. ' ' ^ 

Man o' Wars Bay, 620 

Marriage, Native, I J 3, 225 

Mbiam used in ordeals, 464 

Mbuiri, 228 

Medicine, Native ideas on, 469 

Medicine men, 446 



742 



INDEX 



Mental attributes of the Negroes, 669- 

673 
Mioncle charm, 444 
Missionary teaching, 658-602 
Missions, 28, 54, 422, 615 
Mondoleh Island, 610 
Moondah River, 407 
Mourning for the dead. Native, 482 
Mpama River, 358 
^Mpongwe tribe, 223, 400 
Mungubattu Region, 455 
Mungo Mah Lobeh (The Peak of 

Cameroons), Ascent of, 548-608 
Mungo River 576 
Muni River, 407 
Murder Societies, 536 
Music, Native, 66, 181 
Mlitterrecht, traces of, 224, 486 



Okana River, 185 

Okoneto Mt. 338 

Okyon, 74 

Olaga Souls, 230 

Olangi Mt. 177 

Old Calabar, 42 

Olomb'ompolo River, 348 

Ombiwiri spirits, 444 

Omon Range, 99 \jiote), 594 

Ordeals, 464, 490, 497 

O'Rembo Vongo, 235, 241 

Orunda Prohibition, 456 

Osheba tribe, 369 [note) 

Osoamokita, 143, 217 

Otalamaguga, 371 

Ovata, 185 

Owassa God, 69 

Ownership native laws of, 498-499 



N 



Nassau, Dr., his explorations on the 

Ogowe, 371, 394 
his description of Ivory hunting, 

328 
quoted on the subject of native 

superstitions, 456 
Nazareth Bay, 125 
Nbakim or ghost traps, 495 
Ncovi, Lake, 238 
Ndiva, Tribe, 437 
Ndorko, 338 
Ndork, 495 
Negroes, 442 
Ngunie River, 137, 370 
Niger River, Mangrove swamps at the 

mouth of the, 94 
" Nigger" English, 432-433 
Njole, 105, 148, 167 
Njoko, Mount, 185 
Nkama, River, 348 
Nkami Country, 242 
N'Poulounay, 369 [nnfe) 
Ntamo, Brazzaville, 360, 361, 366 



O 



Oath, Mbiam formula, 465 
Odeaka Cheese, 227 
Ogolole Creek, 104 
Ogowe River, 103 

Discovery of, 103, 370 

(Geography of, 372, 375 

History of its exploration, 354-371 

Scenery of, 129-130 
Oil Rivers, 73 



Pallaballa Mountains, 99 [note) 

358 
Palm Wine, 667 

Pandamis Candelabrum, 303 {note) 
Papaw, 39 

Parroquet Island, 347 
Pepper Coast, 75 
Phangwe, {see Fan) 
Picarthartes gymnocephahis, 23 
Pico de las Nieves, 13 
Pirate Rocks, 615 
Pistia stratiotes, river lettuce, 378 
Plantain eaters, 236 
Plantations, 640-645 
Plants of Cameroons and the Ogowi 

district, 732-733 
Polygamy, 212-214, 662 
Pongara Point, 348 
Portos of Fernando Po, 59, 71 
Ports, The Leeward and the Windward. 

75 ; post-mortem, 467 
Portuguese possessions, 641 
Pottery of the Bubis, 65 

of the Pans, 322 
Princepe Island, 46-48 
Property, Native Laws of, 484-486 
Pythons, Measurements of, 161, 547 



Railways, 634, 638-639 
Read, Mr. Winwood, 357, 437 
Rembwe River, 297, 333-352 
Rio del Rey, 609 



INDEX 



743 



Rivers of West Africa as waterways, 634, 

63s, 638 
Rubber collecting, 289-292 
Rumby Mountains, 99 {note) 894 



Sacrifices, 451-454. 455 

Samba, 137 

Sanatoriums, 6o4,near Ambas Bay, 615- 

618, 620 
Sanctuaries, 466 
Santa Isabel, 50 
San Thome, 46 
Sasabonsum, 509, 511 
Sass Wood, 464 
Schools, Mission, 28, 29 
Sciunis eborivorus, 325 
Seasons of the West Coast, 375 
Second sight, 460 
Sete Kama, 372 
Shandi Island, 185 
Sierra Leone, 14, 25 
Sierra del Cristal, 99 (note) 159, 177, 

185, 262, 407 
Sissa souls, 517 
Slessor, Miss, 74, 474, 524 
Slaver}' among the Bubis, 70, 678 
Sleep Disease, 401 
Small Pox, 401 
Societies, Secret, 526-543 
Crocodile, 538 

Egbo. 532 

Ikun, 521, 527, 529 

Leopard, 537, 543 

Ukuku, 445, 535, 540 

Vassi, 535, 542 
Soil character of the West Coast,620-62 
Songs, of the Bubis, 66 
Soul of the Igalwa and 'Mpongwe, 180, 

459 
Spaniards at Fernando Po, 53, 55 
Spirits and Apparitions, 443-445, 505, 

509, 555 
Srahmandazi, the underworld of the 

Tschwis, 517-520 
Suhman (tutelar)- deity), 510, 511 
Sun Worship, absence of, in Native 

Creeds, 508 ; surf, 513 
Swam]is {see Mangrove, 87, 95) 



Talismans, Mahommedan, 19 

Tando, God, 521 

Tattooing, 530 

Tea-planting, 644 

Teneriffe, 13 

Tetze Fly, 637 

Theft, Laws of, 496 

Timber, 638 

Tomanjawki, Mt. , 182 

Tornados, 374 

Trade, English, 432-434, 502-504 

W. Africa, 631 
Transport, means of, from the interior 

to the Coast, 634 
Twins, Native superstitions regarding. 

472-3 



U 



Ubanji Nation, 359 
Ukuku Society, 541 
Underworld, the, 48S, 517- 5?o 



Vanilla, 644 

Victoria, 606, 607 

Victoria, Peak, {see Mungo Mah Lobeh) 

Vipera Nasiconiis, 205 

Volcanoes, 437 

Volcanic Islands on the W. Coast, 46 

Volta, River, 634 

Vultures, legends regarding, 235 {note) 



W 



W A LK E R , M r. , his explorations, 369-37 1 

Water-drinking, 687 

Widows, Native treatment of, 487- 

491, 516 
Witchcraft, Native, 442-458, 463-467, 

482, 515 
Witch Doctors, 463-464 
Wives, Native, 466, 497 
Women, 527 

their rights of property, 484-485 
Wonga Wonga, the Hole, 437 
Words, Magic, 453 



Taboos, 485, 456, 455 
Talagouga, 152, 156 {note) 165 

gorge, 143 

Mt., 144 



ZOENANGE, Lake Eliza z Onange, (Lac 
Anengue in map), 226 



RiCHANi) Clay and Sons, Limited 

LONDON AND BUNGAY. 



The Cambridge llatural History. 

Edited by S. F. HARMER, M.A., Fellow of King's College, C.-imbridge, Super- 
intendent of the University Mui^eum of Zoology ; and A. E. SHIPLEY, M.A., 
Fellow of Christ's College, Cambridge, University Lecturer on the Morphology 

of Invertebrates. 
To be completed in Ten Volumes. Zvo, price 17s. net each. 
Intended in all respects to be a Standard Natural History accurate enough to be of tise to the 
Student, and at the 5ame time popular enough for the general reader who desires trustworthy m- 
formaiion as to the structure and habits of all memner-; of the Animal Kingdo-n, fro n the 
Protozoa to the MammaU. The Volumes are fully illustrated by original figures drawn where 
possible from nature. When complete the Scries is one which should be indispeasable in aU 
libraries, whether public or private. 

XOW READY. 

WORMS, LEECHES, &c. Volume IL 
FLATWORMS. By F. W. Gamble, M.Sc, Vict., Owens College. 
NEMERTINZS. By Miss L. Sheldon, Newnham College, Cambridge. 
THREAD- WORMS, &c. By .\. E. Shipley, M. A., FcUow of Christ's Collie, 

Cambridge. 

ROTIFEKS. By Marcus Hartog, M.A. Trinity College, Cambridge, D.Sc. 

Lond., Professor of Natural History in the Queen's College. Cork. 

POLVCH.\ET WORMS. By W. Blaxland Benham, D.Sc. Lond., Hon. 

M A I ixcn., .-Mdrichian Demonstrator of Comparative Anatomy in the University of Cxford. 

EARTHWORMS AND LEECHES. By F. E. Beddard, M.A. Oxon., 

F.R.S.. Prosertor to the Zoological Society, London. 
GEFHYREA, &c. By A. E. Shipley, M.A., Fellow of Christ's College, 

Cambndge. 

POLYZOA. By S. F. Harmer, M.A., Fellow of King's College, Cambridge. 

SHELLS. Volume III. 

MOLLUSCS AND BRACHIOPOD.S. By the Rev. A. H. Cooke, M.A., 
A. E. SHIPLEY, M..\., and F. R. C. REED, M.A. 

FIELD. — " We know of no book available to the general reader which affords such a vast 
fund of information on the structure and habits of mollu-^cs." 

DAILY NEWS. — " Promises to be, in its own department of sc'ence, the most important 
work of the day. . . . This large and exhaustive work is writtei; especially for general readers. 
No spec al training in science is needed for the easy comprehension of this first volume at any 
rate. Uut while the writers treat their respective subjects in what is called a popular way, they 
are careful to give due importance to the latest results of scientific research. . . . The volume is 
liberallv and adm rably illustrated." 

KNOWLEDGE. — " If .'ucceeding volumes are like this on?, the Cambridge Natural History 
will rank as one of the finest works on natural history ever published." 

WESTMINSTER REVIEW.— ' Should find a place in tiie Hbrary of every naturalist." 

INSECTS AND CENTIPEDES. Volume V. 
r£RIP.\TUS. By Ad.\m .Sedgwick, M..\., F.R.S. MYRI.\P0DS. By 

F. ti. SIN'CLAIR, M.A. INSECTS. Part I. By D.\YID SHARP, M.A. CanUb.. 
M.B. Edin., F.K.S. 

FIELD. — ".Although written for the student and the specialist, the book is not the less 
aiiapted to all intellii;ent readers who wish to make themselves thoroughly acquainted with the 
habits, struciure, and the modem classification of the animals of which it treats. To such it 
cannot be r-coin^nendeH t^o strongly." 

A THEN^UM. — ¦¦ This book will find a place in the library of most entomologists, prove a 
welcome boon to « eak brethren w.lo are compelled to lecture — doctndo itiscimus — and occupy 
by the side of Wf-stMOod's ' Modem Classification ' and Burmester's ' Manual ' a niche that hajs 
long been empty." 

NA TURE NOTES. — "' When the following volume is completed. Mr. Sharp's work will, we 
think, last for manv years as the standard text-book on Entomology in England." 

SCIENCE PROGRESS.— "The work is excellently illustrated, and besides being full of 
interest for the general reader will prove extremely useful to the student." 

*,* The next Volumes to appear will be Vol. IX. on BIRDS, by Mr. A. II. 
Evans, and Vol. VII. on FISHES and Kindred Forms, by Prof. Bridge, and 
oiher contributors. These will be published in the course of 1897, and the re- 
maining Volumes are all in active progress. 

MACMILLAN AND CO., Ltd., LONDON. 



JOURNAL OF THE RIGHT HON. 
SIR JOSEPH BANKS, Bart., K.B., P.R.S. 

During Captain Cook's First Voyage in H.M.S. Endeavour, in ' 

1768-71, to Terra del Fuego, Otahite, New Zealand, Australia, the 

Dutch East Indies, &c. 

Edited by Sir JOSEPH D. HOOKER, F.R.S. 

With Portraits and Charts. 8vo, 17^-. net. 

NATURE. — ''This journal, which now sees the light after varying 
vicissitudes, will take fitting place on our book-shelves by the side of 
Darwin's 'Voyage of the Beagle' and Moseley's ' Challenger Notes' as 
one of the classics of scientific travel. Sir Joseph Hooker, in realising a 
hope he has indulged, as he tells us, since he was a boy, adds another to 
the many services he has rendered to science by presenting to us this 
journal in the delightful form it has assumed under his editing. ... As 
a narrative the journal is full of charm. It comes before us, old as it is, 
with all the freshness of a first impression." 

DAIL Y CHRONICLE.—'' This journal— and we only wish we had 
more space to quote from it — belongs to that class of literature which 
never grows old or out of fashion, but will retain a human as well as a 
scientific interest to the end of time." 

STANDARD. — " The diary will have a permanent interest because 
of the vivid picture it draws of regions which hitherto civihsed races 
either had not visited, or, at any rate, had not stayed long enough to 
influence." 

TIMES. — " Probably many will be grateful to Sir Joseph Hooker for 
affording them an excuse to re-read the story in the rich and interesting 
pages of Sir Joseph Banks' journal." 

MORNING POST.—"- The editor of this volume has performed his 
work in a manner that calls for high commendation. By judicious 
selection he has produced a work that will be widely appreciated as an 
absorbing book of travels, and will also have a peculiar attraction for all 
who concern themselves with the progress of scientific investigation. 

LEEDS MERCURY.— ''TYixs book is as interesting as any recent 
work of travel which we have encountered, and it throws light, often of 
an unexpected kind, on the incidents and progress of early exploration 
in the Pacific." , 

A THENALUM.—^'- Naturalists and literary men have now to thank Sir 1 
Joseph Hooker, the grandson of Mr. Dawson Turner, for rescuing this 
most interesting record from oblivion, and for enabling us to place it side 
by side with Cook's own journal." 

MACMILLAN AND CO., Ltd., LONDON. 



THROUGH JUNGLE 

AND DESERT. 

TRAVELS IN EASTERN AFRICA. 

By WILLIAM ASTOR CHANLER, A.M. (Harv.), F.R.G.8., 

Honorary Member of the Imperial a$td Royal Geographical 
Society of Vienna. 

With Illustrations from Photographs taken by the Author, and Maps. 
Large 8vo, 215. net 



DAILY NE WS.—'' Valuable and interesting." 

TIMES. — "The book fills up an important blank between the 
explorations to the south of Mount Kenia and those in the Lake 
Rudolf region by Count Teleki and Mr. Chanler's countryman, 
Dr. Donaldson Smith." 

DAILY TELEGRAPH.— "Ur. Chanler's valuable addition to 
the already rich store of African literature contains many sporting 
stories, all equally good." 

NATURE. — " Represents a substantial addition to our knowledge 
of British East African geography . . . Mr. Chanler has given us a 
map of an unknown region, discovered a most remarkable and in- 
teresting tribe, solved an important geographical problem, and made 
valuable scientific collections." 

G UARDIAN. — " His book abounds in exciting adventure, and 
is illustrated with many sketches, as well as with the excellent maps 
to which we have already referred." 

MORNING POST. — " Contains a large amount of information 
about little known regions and tribes of Eastern Africa, and is 
decidedly a book worth reading. The illustrations from photographs 
taken by the author are numerous and characteristic." 

GLASGOW HERALD.—'' A notable work." 

FIELD. — " The book contains some valuable information regarding 
the country and people between Mount Kenia and the Lake Rudolf 
region, and much that will be read with interest by sportsmen." 

MACMILLAN AND CO., Ltd., LONDON. 



FOURTH EDITION, with Supplementary Chapter on the 
ARMENIAN QUESTION. 

TRANSCAUCASIA AND 
ARARAT : 

Being Notes of a Vacation Tour in the Autumn of 1876. 

By JAMES BRYCE, 

Author of " TJie Holy Roman Empire," " The American 
Commonwealth',' &c. 

With Engraving and Coloured Map. 

Extra crown 8vo, Sj. 6d. net. 

DAILY NEWS. — "To that charming book of travel the author has now 
added a supplementary chapter, giving the history of the last ' Twenty Years of 
the Armenian Question.' It is a chapter of modern history which Mr. Bryce has 
special, and perhaps unique, qualifications for writing. . . . He is a historian, 
at once of brilliant parts and impartial temper." 

WESTMINSTER GAZETTE.—'' We trust, however, that this chapter 
will be widely read and studied. Mr. Bryce, with the practised hand of the his- 
torian, seizes the salient points in the situation during the past two decades, and 
groups them in a manner which shows forth at a glance the damning facts so far 
as the Powers and the Sultan are concerned." 

SPE AKER. — " Has long since established its right to be considered one of 
the most charming books of the charming class to which it belongs. ... It is 
because Mr. Bryce, in this supplementary chapter, gives us what is, so far as we 
know, the most precise, connected and complete sketch of the origin and history 
of the Armenian question in its modern aspect that we give a double welcome to 
this new edition of an old friend." 

GUARDIAN. — "To the new edition of his delightful tour in Transcaucasia 
in the autumn of 1876 Mr. Bryce has added a chapter on ' The Recent History of 
the Armenian Question.' As a statement of facts it is excellent, and, though we 
do not wholly go with Mr. Bryce in his conclusions, they are rather indicated than 
stated, and have not been allowed to colour in any way the narrative of the events 
which have made the last two years memorable even in the annals of Turkish 
oppression. " 

SCOTSMAN. — " Mr. Bryce's ' Transcaucasia and Ararat' is deservedly one of 
the classics of modern travel. But the book has an interest beyond that which 
it posseses as a narrative of journeys and ascents in an interesting region of the 
world. It deals with races, places, and political questions which have recently 
been thrust by terrible events prominently under the notice of the world." 

MACMILLAN AND CO., Ltd., LONDON. 



New Books on Ethnology. 

THE BUDDHIST PRAYING 
WHEEL: 

A Collection of Material bearing upon the Symbols of the Wheel 
and Circular Movements in Custom and Religious Ritual. By 
WILLIAM SIMPSON, R.L, M.R.A.S., F.R.G.S., Hon. Associate 
R.I.B.A. With numerous Illustrations by the Author. Demy 8vo, 

I OS. net. 

DAIL Y NEWS. — " A most curious subject it is, treated by Mr. Simpson with an amount and 
variety of learning far beyond nine-hundred and ninety -nine in a thousand of the critics." 

TIMES. — "A very interesting account, from personal observation, of the well-known 
instrument of worship and ritual employed chiefly among the Buddhists of Tibet." 

PALL MALL GAZETTE— ^' M.t. William Simpson's scholarly and interesting work. . . . 
His speculations are most striking and instructive." 

THE SACRED TREE, 

Or the Tree in Religion and Myth. By Mrs. J. HENRY 
PHILPOT. Illustrated. 8vo, Ss. 6d. net. 

THE GOLDEN BOUGH. 

A Study in Comparative Religion. By J. G. FRAZER, M.A., 
Fellow of Trinity College, Cambridge. Two Vols., 8vo, 28s. 

The SA TURDA Y REVIEW sx^i, :— "There is no doubt that the cleames;, and logic of his 
work give it a most convincing quality. Mr. Frazer belongs to the new school of students in 
religion, who begin at the opposite point from the old point of departure. Till quite recently, 
mythologists started from the high guds of established official, pnestly, and literary religions. 
These they explained as well as they could, chiefly by studying the etymologies of their names. 
The new plan is to begin from the remains of ancient ritual which survive in peasant practice 
and savage custom. The hypothesis is that the peasant has changed but little in his tradi- 
tional usages from rites which were old before Homer and Hesiod made their orthodo.xy for the 
Greeks. His book is lucid and cntertainmg, logical and learned. It is probably the best work 
on a certain aspect of early religion that has appeared since Mr. Tylor's Primitiz'c Culture." 

The ACADEMY 's^iys : — "His reading is e.tceptionally wide, comprising not only the 
standard authorities, ancient and modem, but including numerous and obscure monographs on 
the local folk-lore of all countries. And he is not merely erudite, but able and ingenious : so that 
his book, which is presented as a first instalment of a much larger work on primitive religion, 

cannot fail to place its author in the front rank of living mythologists It may be frankly 

acknowledged that we are indebted to him for an important work, which calls attention to an 
aspect of primitive religion hitherto unduly neglected." 

The PALL MALL GAZETTE says : — " We may as well begin by saying outright at once 
that Mr. Frazer has written a great book— a book worthy to rank beside Tylor's Primitive 
Culture and Herbert Spencer's Principles of Sociology as one among the main foundations of 
the new science of human belief anJ human institutions, .^nd what is even better, not only has 
he given us many ideas untouched upon by either, but aUo he has done us the precious service of 
compelling us to reconsider and reverse some most cherished convictions. His work is an 
admirable mental rouser. ... It is learned, ingenious, acute, logical, and most often convincing." 

MACMILLAN AND CO., Ltd., LONDON. 



Macmillan & Co.'s New Books. 



Just published. 8vo, 8^. ^d. net. 

LETTERS FROM THE 
SUDAN. 

By he Special Correspondent of the "TIMES," 

E. F. KNIGHT. 

Reprinted from the Times of April to October, 1896. With Illus- 
trations and Plans. 



WANDERINGS IN 

UNKNOWN AUSTRIA. 

By RANDOLPH L. HODGSON. 

With Illustrations by the PRINCESS MARY of THURN and 
TAXIS. Small 4to, cloth gilt, 7^. dd. 

ACADEMY. — "A charming volume of travel, written in thepleasant personal 
manner of which ' Eothen and the Travels with a Donkey ' are good examples." 

SPEAKER. — "A book of slight but none the less attractive sketches of 
Aquileia and other places round the north and north-east of the Adriatic." 

LAND AND WA TER. — "It is unconventional in style, and what is described 
is well done." 



MACMILLAN AND CO., Ltd., LONDON. 



A SKETCH OF THE NATURAL 
HISTORY OF AUSTRALIA. 

With some Notes on Sport. 

By FREDERICK G. AFLALO, F.Z.S. 

Author of ''Sea Fishing on the English Coast," ^^ Hints and 
Wrinkles on Sea Fishing." 

Illustrated by F. SETH. Crown 8vo, 6s. 



JVESTMIiYSTER GAZETTE.— ''Thxs interesting and com- 
prehensive little work supplies a want that has long been felt by 
visitors to Australia, and even by Colonists." 

SATURDA Y REVIEW.—'^ Mr. Aflalo, in a simple and inter- 
esting fashion, has set forth the main problems and peculiarities of 
the Australian zoology." 

CAMBRIDGE RE^IEIV.—" Csinnot fail to be useful to any 
dweller in Australia who has a taste for zoology." 

DAILY NEWS. — "Contains much that is curious upon a 
subject which thus presents so many features of interest." 

BOOKMAN. — " They are not mere drj- jottings, but the careful 
record of a watchful man, who has accurately described what he 
himself has seen and inquired into." 

SCOTSMAN—'' Mr. F. G. Aflalo's excellent little book on ' The 
Natural Histor}' of Australia ' is written chiefly for the general reader, 
and in some special measure for the Colonial. . . . The bock, which 
is illustrated and provided with a good glossary and index, deserves 
to be popular both in the Colonies and at home." 

GLASGO W HERALD.—'' Will be useful to the settler and to 
those who otherwise take an interest in the zoology of the Australian 
region." 

DAIL Y CHRONICLE.—" It will be obvious, we trust, from 
the foregoing remarks, that Mr. Aflalo's book is distinctly worth 
reading." 

MACMILLAN AND CO., Ltd., LONDON. 



ROUND THE YEAR. 

A SERIES OF SHORT NATURE STUDIES. 

By Professor L. C. MIALL, F.R.S. 

With Illustrations, chiefly by A. R. HAMMOND, F.L.S. 

Crown 8vo, ^s. 

GUARDIAN. — "Would that all books on subjects classed as 
scientific were written in this pleasant style — a style breathing human 
sympathy and the strong desire to rouse in other minds the spirit of 
wholesome investigation of the wonders and mysteries belonging to 
things about us." 

SPEAKER. — " It is a charming book, written with the utmost 
simplicity by a man of the highest scientific attainments, and it there- 
fore possesses merits which are incontestable." 

SATURDAY REVIEW.— ''T\\OM^ there is not a dry passage 
in the book, the insight and research displayed are remarkable, and 
none of the many subjects can be said to be treated superficially." 

PALL MALL GAZETTE.— ''We have rarely met with a more 
fascinating book for fresh young minds ; it is one in a thousand." 

RURAL WORLD. — "A delightful companion, and we doubt if 
a more suitable gift-book will be published this season." 

MANCHESTER GUARDIAN.—'' Though intended especially 
for young observers, the reader of larger growth will find much that 
is both useful and interesting if he be, as the author says, one who 
cares for ' live natural history.' " 

• DAILY NEWS. — " In a series of short nature studies Professor 
Miall gives us, under the title of ' Round the Year,' some further 
glimpses of that line — natural history — in distinction to mere know- 
ledge of names and classification — of which he has already shown 
himself so masterly an exponent." 

SCIENCE GOSSIP. — " The satisfaction of taking up any work 
by Professor Miall lies in the feeling that whatever therein may be 
contained will be not only popularly written, but also with accuracy. 
... In this work there is not a dry page ; but if one finds less interest 
in some of the subjects than others, there is ample variety to select 
from." 

NATIONAL OBSERVER.-^" A merit of Professor Miall is 
that he is seldom content with giving something interesting to read ; 
he is constantly suggesting something equally interesting to do." 

MACMILLAN AND CO., Ltd., LONDON. 



3411 



^cr u :> 1995 



