About This File

This file is part of a corpus compiled by Caitlin Matheis (University of Nebraska-Lincoln) for a 2021 computational text analysis project for the One More Voice recovery project (onemorevoice.org). This corpus encompasses a wide range of plain text (TXT) files containing nineteenth- and early twentieth-century literary works centered on Africa by several dozen different British and African writers. Questions about the corpus and project can be directed to Caitlin Matheis (cmatheis2@huskers.unl.edu), the creator of the corpus, and Adrian S. Wisnicki (awisnicki@unl.edu), lead developer for One More Voice.

File Source: Internet Archive, https://archive.org/details/lastjournalsofda01livi/page/n5/mode/2up

--------------------------------------


THE LAST JOURNALS 
OF 
DAVID LIVINGSTONE, 
IN CENTRAL AFRICA, 
FROM 1865 TO HIS DEATH. 

CONTINUED BY A NARRATIVE OF
HIS LAST MOMENTS AND SUFFERINGS, 
OBTAINED FROM 
HIS FAITHFUL SERVANTS CHUMA AND SUSI, 

BY HORACE WALLER, F.R.G.S., 
RECTOR OF TWYWELL, NORTHAMPTON. 

IN TWO VOLUMES.— VOL. I. 
WITH PORTRAIT, MAPS, AND ILLUSTRATIONS. 

LONDON: 
JOHN MURRAY, ALBEMARLE STREET. 
1874. 

The right of translation is reserved. 

LONDON: 
PRINTED BY WILLIAM CLOVES AND SONS, 
STAMFORD STREET AND CHARING CROSS. 



or 
1030 

WH 

Mi 

Sc*)H<3i3 



INTRODUCTION. 



In the midst of the universal sorrow caused by the intelli- 
gence that Dr. Livingstone had lost his life at the furthest 
point to which he had penetrated in his search for the true 
sources of the Nile, a faint hope was indulged that some 
of his journals might survive the disaster : this hope, I 
rejoice to say, has been realized beyond the most sanguine 
expectations. 

It is due, in the first place, to his native attendants, whose 
faithfulness has placed his last writings at our disposal, 
and also to the reader, before he launches forth upon a series 
¦of travels and scientific geographical records of the most 
extraordinary character, to say that in the following narra- 
tive of seven years' continuous work and new discovery no 
break whatever occurs. 

We have not to deplore the loss, by accident or care- 
lessness, of a single entry, from the time of Livingstone's 
departure from Zanzibar in the beginning of 1866 to the 
day when his note-book dropped from his hand in the village 
of Ilala at the end of April, 1873. 

I trust it will not be uninteresting if I preface the history 
with a few words on the nature of these journals and writings 
as they have come to hand from Central Africa. 

It will be remembered that when Mr. Stanley returned to 
England in 1872, Dr. Livingstone entrusted to his care a 
very large Letts' diary, sealed up and consigned to the safe 
keeping of his daughter, Miss Agnes Livingstone. Upon 
the confirmation of the worst news, this book was examined 
and found to contain a considerable portion of the notes 

a 2 



iv INTRODUCTION. 

which her father made during his travels previous to the 
time of Mr. Stanley's meeting him. 

The Doctor's custom was always to have metallic note- 
books in use, in which the day's jottings were recorded. 
"When time and opportunity served, the larger volume was 
posted up with scrupulous care. 

It seems, however, that in the last three or four years of 
his life this excellent rule had to give way to the toils 
of travel and the exhaustion of most distressing illnesses. 
Whilst in the Manyuema country he ran out of note-books, 
ink, and pencils, and had to resort to shifts which at 
first made it a very debateable point whether the most 
diligent attempt at deciphering would suceeed after all. 
Such pocket-books as remained at this period of his travels 
were utilized to the last inch of paper. In some of them we 
find lunar observations, the names of rivers, and the heights 
of hills advancing towards the middle from one end, whilst 
from the other the itinerary grows day by day, interspersed 
Avith map routes of the march, botanical notes, and care- 
fully made drawings. But in the mean time the middle 
portion of the book was filling up with calculations, private 
memoranda, words intended for vocabularies, and extracts 
from books, whilst here and there the stain of a pressed 
flower causes indistinctness ; yet the thread of the narrative 
runs throughout. Nothing but his invariable habit of 
constantly repeating the month and year obviates hopeless 
confusion. Nor is this all ; for pocket-books gave out 
at last, and old newspapers, yellow Avith African damp, 
were scaau together, and his notes Avere written across the 
type Avith a substitute for ink made from the juice of a tree. 
To Miss Livingstone and to the Kev. C. A. Alington I am 
very much indebted for help in the laborious task of 
deciphering this portion of the Doctor's journals. Their 
knowledge of his handAvriting, their perseverance, coupled 
with good eyes and a strong magnifying-glass, at last made 
their task a complete success. 



INTRODUCTION. v 

In comparing this great mass of material with the journal 
brought home by Mr. Stanley, one finds that a great deal of 
most interesting matter can be added. It would seem that 
in the hurry of writing and copying despatches previous to 
his companion's departure, the Doctor rapidly entered up as 
much from his note-books as time and space permitted. 

Most fortunately, he still carried the greater part of 
these original notes till the time of his death, so that 
they were forthcoming when his effects were subsequently 
saved. 

This brings us to the second instalment of the journals, 
for we have thus acknowledged the first to have reached 
us on Mr. Stanley's return. 

When the battered tin travelling-case, which was with 
Livingstone to the last, was opened at the Foreign Office 
in the spring of this year, not only were these valuable 
papers disclosed which I have mentioned, but it was found 
also that Livingstone had kept a copious journal during his 
stay at Unyanyembe in some copy-books, and that when 
his stock of note-books was replenished a daily record of 
his subsequent travels had been made. 

It was with fear and trembling that one looked to see 
whether all had been saved or only part, but with satis- 
faction and thankfulness I have subsequently discovered 
that his men preserved every single line, besides his maps, 
which now come to light for the first time. 

Thus much on the material of the diaries : it remains 
to say a few words on the Map which accompanies these 
journals. It has been compiled from Dr. Livingstone's 
original drawings and note-books, with the corrections 
and additions he made from time to time as the work of 
exploration progressed, and the details of physical geography 
became clearer to him. The compiler, Mr. John Bolton,* 



* Attached to Mr. Stanford's staff. 



vi IXTKODTJCTION. 

implicitly following the original outline of the drawing as 
far as possible, has honestly endeavoured to give such a 
rendering of the entire work, as the Doctor would have done 
had he lived to return home, and superintend the construc- 
tion; and I take this opportunity of expressing my sincere 
gratification that Mr. Bolton's rare technical skill, scientific 
knowledge, and unwearying labour have been available for 
the purpose. 

Amongst almost the last words that Livingstone wrote, I 
find an unfinished letter to myself, in which he gives me 
very clear and explicit directions concerning the geographical 
notes he had previously sent home, and I am but carrying- 
out the sacred duty which is attached to a last wish when 
I call attention to the fact, that he particularly desired in 
this letter that no positions gathered from his observations for 
latitude and longitude, nor for the levels of the Lahes, <£r., 
should be considered correct till Sir Thomas Maclear had 
examined them. The position of Casembe's town, and of a 
point near Pambette at the S.E., and of Lake Liemba 
(Tanganyika), have been computed and corrected by Sir 
T. Maclear and Dr. Mann. The observations for latitude 
were taken at short intervals, and where it has been possible 
to test them they have been found very correct, but I 
repeat that until the imprimatur of his old friend at the- 
Cape of Good Hope stands over the whole of Livingstone's 
work, the map must be accepted as open to further correc- 
tions. 

The journey from Kabwabwata to Mparru has been inserted 
entirely from notes, as the traveller was too ill to mark the 
route: this is the only instance in all his wanderings where 
he failed to give some indication on his map of the nature 
of the ground over which he passed. The journey from 
Mikindany Bay to Lake Nyassa has also been laid down 
from his journal and latitudes in consequence of the section 
of this part of his route (which he left at Ujiji) not having 



INTRODUCTION. vii 

arrived in England at this date.* It will be observed that 
the outline of Lake Nyassa differs from that on any pub- 
lished map : it has been drawn from the original ex- 
ploratory survey of its southern shores made by Dr. 
Livingstone in 1861-3. For some reason this original plan 
was not adhered to by a former draughtsman, but the Lake 
has here been restored to a more accurate bearing and 
position. 

How often shall we see in the pages of this concluding 
chapter of his life, that unwavering determination which 
was pre-eminently the great characteristic of David Living- 
stone ! 

Naturally endowed with unusual endurance, able to con- 
centrate faculties of no ordinary kind upon whatever he 
took in hand, and with a dread of exaggeration which at 
times almost militated against the importance of some of his 
greatest discoveries, it may be doubted if ever Geographer 
went forth strengthened with so much true power. Let 
us add to these a sincere trust that slavery, the " great 
open sore of the world," as he called it, might under God's 
good guidance receive healing at his hands ; a fervent hope 
that others would follow him after he had removed those 
difficulties which are comprised in a profound ignorance of 
the physical features of a new country, and we have the 
inarching orders of him who left us in August 1865 never 
to return alive. 

Privileged to enjoy his near personal friendship for a 
considerable period in Africa, and also at home, it has been 
easy to trace — more especially from correspondence with 
him of late years — that Livingstone wanted just some such 



* In February last this sjction of the map (as we suppose), together 
with some of the Doctor's papers, was sent off from Ujiji by Lieutenant 
Cameron. Nothing, however, had arrived on the 22nd September at 
Zanzibar, and H.M. Consul, Captain Prideaux, entertained serious doubts 
at that time whether they would ever come to band. All Livingstone'^ 
journals were saved through other instrumentality, as I have shown. 



viii INTRODUCTION. 

gigantic problem as that which, he attacked at the last to 
measure his strength against : that he finally overrated and 
overtaxed it I think all must admit. 

He had not sufficiently allowed for an old wound which 
his constitution received whilst battling with dysentery and 
fever, on his celebrated journey across Africa, and this 
finally sapped his vital powers, and, through the irritation 
of exhaustion, insidiously clouded much of his happiness. 

Many of his old friends were filled with anxiety when 
they found that he intended to continue the investiga- 
tion of the Nile sources, for the letters sent home by 
Mr. Stanley raised the liveliest apprehensions, which, alas ! 
soon proved themselves well grounded. 

The reader must be warned that, however versed in 
books of African travel he may be, the very novelty of 
his situation amongst these pages will render him liable 
perhaps to a danger which a timely word may avert. 
Truly it may be said he has an eiribarras cle richesses! 
To follow an explorer who by his individual exertions 
has filled up a great space in the map of Africa, who 
has not only been the first to set foot on the shores of vast 
inland seas, but who, with the simple appliances of his 
bodily stature for a sounding pole and his stalwart stride for 
a measuring tape, lays down new rivers by the hundreds, is 
a task calculated to stagger him. It may be provoking to 
find Livingstone busily engaged in bargaining for a canoe 
upon the shores of Bangweolo, much as he would have 
secured a boat on his own native Clyde ; but it was not in 
his nature to be subject to those paroxysms in which travellers 
too often indite their discoveries and descriptions. 

At the same time these journals will be found to contain 
innumerable notes on the habits of animals, birds, and fishes, 
many of them probably new species, and on phenomena in 
every direction which the keen eye searched out as the 
great traveller moved amongst some of the grandest scenes 
of this beautiful world : it may be doubted if ever eye 



INTRODUCTION. ix 

so keen was backed by so much perseverance to shield it 
from a mere superficial habit of noticing. .Let his adven- 
tures speak for themselves. 

Amongst the greatest facts recorded here the Geographer 
will perceive that the Doctor has placed it beyond doubt 
that Lake Nyassa belongs to a totally distinct system of 
waters to that which holds Lake Tanganyika, and the rivers 
running north and west. He was too sagacious to venture 
the surmise that Tanganyika has a subterranean outlet 
without having duly weighed the probabilities in the scale 
with his elaborate observations : the idea gathers force when 
we remember that in the case of limestone cliffs, water so 
often succeeds in breaking bounds by boring through the 
solid rock. No more interesting problem is left to solve, 
and we shall yet learn whether, through the caverns of 
"Western Kabogo, this Lake adds its waters to the vast 
northerly flow of rivers we now read of for the first time, 
and which are undoubtedly amongst the largest in the world. 

I cannot close these remarks without stating how much 
obliged I am. to Mr. James Young, F.E.S., of Kelly, for 
having ensured the presence of the Doctor's men, Chuma 
and Susi. Ever ready to serve his old friend Livingstone, 
he took care that they should be at my elbow so long as 
I required them to help me amidst the pile of MSS. and 
maps. Their knowledge of the countries they travelled in 
is most remarkable, and from constantly aiding their master 
by putting questions to the natives respecting the course 
of rivers, &c, I found them actual geographers of no mean 
attainments. In one instance, when in doubt concerning a 
particular watershed, to my surprise Susi returned a few 
hours afterwards with a plan of the whole system of rivers 
in the region under examination, and I found his sketch 
tally well with the Doctor's map. Known to me previously 
for years on the Zambesi and Shire it was a pleasure to 
have them with me for four months. Amongst other good 



x INTRODUCTION. 

services they have aided the artist by reproducing the exact 
facsimile of the hut in -which Dr. Livingstone expired, 
besides making models of the " kitanda " on which he was 
carried, and of the village in which his body lay for fourteen 
days. 

I need not add what ready and valuable assistance I have 
derived from the Doctor's old companion Dr. Kirk wherever 
I have found it necessary to apply to him; some of the 
illustrations are more particularly owing to his kindness. 

It only remains to say that it has been thought advisable 
to retain all the strictly scientific matter found in Dr. 
Livingstone's journals for future publication. When one 
sees that a register of the daily rainfall was kept throughout, 
that the temperature was continually recorded, and that 
barometrical and hypsometrical observations were made 
with unflagging thoroughness of purpose year in and year 
out, it is obvious that an accumulated mass of information 
remains for the meteorologist to deal with separately, which 
alone must engross many months of labour. 

A constant sense of great responsibility has been mine 
throughout this task, for one cannot doubt that much of the 
future welfare of distant tribes and races depends upon 
Livingstone obtaining through these records a distinct 
hearing for their Avoes, their misery, and above all for their 
willingness to welcome men drawn towards them by motives 
like his. 

At the same time memory and affection have not failed to 
bring back vividly the man, the traveller, and the friend. 
May that which he has said in his journals suffer neither 
loss of interest nor depth of meaning at the compiler's 
hands. 

Hokace Waller. 

Twywell Rectory, Thbatston, 
Northamptonshire. 
Nov. 2, 1874. 



CONTENTS. 



CHArTEE I. 

PAGE 

Arrival at Zanzibar. Hearty reception by Said Majid, the sultan. 
Murder of Baron van der Decken. The slave-market. Prepa- 
rations for starting to the interior. Embarkation in H.M.S. 
Penguin and dhow. Eovnma Bay impracticable. Disembarks 
at Mikindany. Joy at travelling once more. Trouble with 
sepoys. Camels attacked by tsetse fly, and by sepoys. Jungle 
sappers. Meets old enemies. The Makonde. Lake Nangandi. 
Gum-copal diggings. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 1 

CHAPTER II. 

Effect of Pioneer's former visit. The poodle Chitane. Piesult of 
tsetse bites. Death of camels and buffaloes. Disaffection of 
followers. Disputed right of ferry. Mazitu raids. An old 
friend. Severe privations. The Biver Loendi. Sepoys mutiny. 
Dr. Boscher. Desolation. Tattooing. Ornamental teeth. Singular 
custom. Death of the Nassick boy, Bichard. A sad reminiscence. 31 

CHArTEE III. 

Horrors of the slave-trader's track. System of cultivation. Pottery. 
Special exorcising. Death of the last mule. Bescue of Chirika- 
loma's wife. Brutalities of the slave-drivers. Mtarika's. Des- 
perate march to Mtaka's. Meets Arab caravans. Dismay of 
slavers. Dismissal of sepoys. Mataka. The Waiyau metropolis. 
Great hospitality and good feeling. Mataka restores stolen cattle. 
Life with the chief. Beauty of country and healthiness of climate. 
The Waiyau people and their peculiarities. Eegrets at the abandon- 
ment of Bishop Mackenzie's plans .. .. .. .. ..56 



CONTEXTS. 



CHAPTER IV. 

i»AO E 

Geology and description of the Waiyau land. Leaves Mataka's. 
The Nyumbo plant. Native iron-foundry. Blacksmiths. Makes 
for the Lake Nyassa. Delight at seeing the Lake once more. 
The Manganja or Nyassa tribe. Arab slave crossing. Unable to 
procure passage across. The Kungu fly. Fear of the English 
amongst slavers. Lake shore. Blue ink. Chitane" changes colour. 
The Nsaka fish. Makalaose drinks beer. The Sanjika fish. 
London antiquities. Lake rivers. Mukate's. Lake Pamalombe'. 
Mponda's. A slave gang. Wikatani discovers his relatives and 
remains.. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ..83 



CHAPTER V. 

Crosses Cape Maclear. The havildar demoralised. The discomfited 
chief. Reaches Marenga's town. The earth-sponge. Description 
of Marenga's town. Rumours of Mazitu. Musa and the Johanna 
men desert. Reaches Kimsusa's. His delight at seeing the 
Doctor once more. The fat ram. Kimsusa relates his experience 
of Livingstone's advice. Chuma finds relatives. Kimsusa solves 
the transport difficulty nobly. Another old fishing acquaintance. 
Description of the people and country on the west of the Lake. 
The Kanthundas. Kauma. Iron-smelting. An African Sir Colin 
Campbell. Milandos .. .. .. .. .. .. ..Ill 



CHAPTER VI. 

Progress northwards. An African forest. Destruction by Mazitu. 
Native salutations. A disagreeable chief. On the watershed 
between the Lake and the Loangwa River. Extensive iron- 
workings. An old Nimrod. The Bua River. Lovely scenery. 
Difficulties of transport. Chilobe. An African Pythoness. Enlists 
two Waiyou bearers. 111. The Chitclla bean. Rains set in. 
Arrives at the Loangwa. .. .. .. .. .. .. 136 



CHAPTER VII. 

Crosses the Loangwa. Distressing inarch. The king-hunter. Great 
hunger. Christmas feast necessarily postponed. Loss of goats. 
Honey-hunters. A meal at last. The Babisa. The Mazitu again. 
Chitembo's. End of 1866. The new year. The northern brim of 
the great Loangwa Valley. Accident to chronometers. Meal gives 



CONTEXTS. 



out. Escape from a Cobra capella. Pushes for the diambeze\ 
Death of Chitane. Great pinch for food. Disastrous loss of 
medicine chest. Bead currency. Babisa. The Chambeze. Beaches 
Chitapangwa's town. Meets Arab traders from Zanzibar. Semis 
off letters. Chitapangwa and his people. Complications.. .. 159 



CHATTER VIII. 

Chitapangwa's parting oath. Course laid for Lake Tanganyika. 
Moamba's village. Another watershed. The Babcmba tribe. Ill 
with fever. Threatening attitude of Chibue's people. Continued 
illness. Beaches cliffs overhanging Lake Liemba. Extreme beauty 
of the scene. Dangerous fit of insensibility. Leaves the Lake. 
Bernambuco cotton. Eumours of war between Arabs and Nsama. 
Beaches Chitimba's village. Presents Sultan's letter to principal 
Arab, Hamees. The war in Itawa. Geography of the Arabs. 
Ivory traders and slave-dealers. Appeal to the Koran. Gleans 
intelligence of the Wasongo to the eastward, and their chief, 
Merere. Hamees sets out against Nsama. Tedious sojourn. 
Departure for Ponda. Native cupping .. .. .. .. 19c 



CHAPTER IX. 

Peace negotiations with Nsama. Geographical gleanings. Curious 
spider. Beaches the Biver Lofu. Arrives at Nsama's. Hamees 
marries the daughter of Nsama. Flight of the bride. Con- 
flagration in Arab quarters. Anxious to visit Lake Moero. 
Arab burial. Serious illness. Continues journey. Slave-traders 
on the march. Beaches Moero. Description of the Lake. Infor- 
mation concerning the Chambeze and Luapula. Hears of Lake 
Bemba. Visits spot of Dr. Lacerda's death. Casembe apprised 
of Livingstone's approach. Meets Mohamad Bogharib. Lakelet 
Mofwe. Arrives at Casembe's town . . . . . . . . . . 22i 



CHAPTER X. 

Grand reception of the traveller. Casembe and his wife. Long stay 
in the town. Goes to explore Moero. Despatch to Lord Clarendon, 
with notes on recent travels. Illness at the end of 1867. Further 
exploration of Lake Moero. Flooded plains. The Biver Luao. 
Visits Kabwabwata. Joy of Arabs at Mohamad bin Salleh's 
freedom. Again ill with fever. Stories of underground dwellings. 250 



xiv CONTENTS. 

CHAPTER XL 

TACB 

Riot in the camp. Mohamad's account of his long imprisonment. 

Superstitions about children's teeth. Concerning dreams. News 
of Lake Chowambe. Life of the Arab slavers. The Katanga 
gold supply. Muabo. Ascent of the Eua Mountains. Syde bin 
Habib. Birthday, 19th March, 1868. Hostility of Mpweto. Con- 
templates visiting Lake Bemba. Nile sources. Men desert. The 
shores of Moero. Visits Fungafunga. Return to Casembe's. 
Obstructiveness of " Cropped - ears." Accounts of Pereira and 
Dr. Lacerda. Major Monteiro. The line of Casembes. Casembe 
explains the connection of the Lakes and the Luapula. Queen 
Moiiri. Arab sacrifice. Kapika gets rid of his wife .. .. 275 

CHAPTER XII. 

Prepares to examine Lake Bemba. Starts from Casembe's 11th June, 
1868. Dead leopard. Moenampanda's reception. The River 
Luongo. Weird death-song of slaves. The forest grave. Lake 
Bemba changed to Lake Bangweolo. Chikumbi's. The Imbozhwa 
people. Kombokombo's stockade. Mazitu difficulties. Discovers 
Lake Bangweolo on 18th July, 1868. The Lake Chief Mapuni. 
Description of the Lake. Prepares to navigate it. Embarks for 
Lifunge Island. Immense size of Lake. Reaches Mpabala Island. 
Strange dream. Fears of canoe men. Return to shore. March 
back. Sends letters. Meets Banyamwezi. Reviews recent ex- 
plorations at length. Disturbed state of country .. .. .. 301 



CHAPTER XIIL 

Cataracts of the Kalongosi. Passage of the river disputed. Leeches 
and method of detaching them. Syde bin Habib's slaves escape. 
Enormous collection of tusks. 111. Theory of the Nile sources. 
Tribute to Miss Tinne. Notes on climate. Separation of Lake 
Nyassa from the Nile system. Observations on Victoria Nyanza. 
Slaves dying. Repentant deserters. Mohamad Bogharib. En- 
raged Imbozhwa. An attack. Narrow escape. Renewed attack. 
A parley. Help arrives. Bin Juma. March from the Imbozhwa 
country. Slaves escape. Burial of Syde bin Habib's brother. 
Singular custom. An elephant killed. Native game-laws. Rumour 
of Baker's Expedition. Christmas dinners .. .. .. .. 333 



ILLUSTRATIONS. 



[Dr. Livingstone, though no artist, had acquired a practice of making rude 
sketches of scenes and objects, which have furnished material for the En- 
gravers in the Illustrations for this book.] 



^full-page Illustrations. 



1. Portrait of Dr. Livingstone. 

Annan .. 

2. Slavers revenging their Losses 

3. Slaves abandoned 

4. Chitapangwa receiving Dr. Livingstone 

5. The Village on Lake Liemba — Tanganyika 

6. The Arrival of Hamees' Bride 

7. Discovery of Lake Bangweolo 



(From a Photograph by 

Frontlspiee. 



Paste 



56 
62 
185 
206 
232 
316 



Smalkr Illustrations. 

1. Dr. Livingstone's House, Zanzibar .. 

2. Dhow used for Transport of Dr. Livingstone's Camels 

3. A Thorn-climber .. 

4. Tomahawk and Axe 

5. Carved Door, Zanzibar .. 

6. Tattoo of Matambwe .. 

7. Imitation of Basket-work in Pottery 

8. Digging-stick weighted with round Stone . . 

9. Manganja and Machinga Women 



MELS 


12 




19 




20 




30 


.. 


49 




79 




80 


.. 


110 



ILLUSTRATIONS. 



§mal(rr Illustrations {continued). 

10. Tatoo on Women.. 

11. Carved Stool made of a single Wooden Block 

12. Women's Teeth hollowed out 

13. Mode of Forging Hoes .. 



14. Mallet for separating Fibres 

15. The Chief Chitapangwa 

16. Ciiitapangwa's Wives 

17. Filed Teeth of Queen Moari 

18. A Forest Grave .. .. 



of B 



Pa 



g C 



125 

127 
140 
140 
155 

185 
186 

302 
307 



General Map of Dr. Livingstone's own Discoveries 



at end. 



DE. LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. 



CHAPTER I. 



Arrival at Zanzibar. Hearty reception by Said Majid, tlie Sultan. 
Murder of Baron van der Decken. Tbe slave-market. Preparations 
for starting to tbe interior. Embarkation in H.M.S. Penguin and 
dhow. Eovuma Bay impracticable. Disembarks at Mikindany. Joy 
at travelling once more. Trouble with sepoys. Camels attacked by 
tsetse fly, and by sepoys. Jungle sappers. Meets old enemies. The 
Makonde. Lake Nangandi. Gum-copal diggings. 

Zanzibae, 28th January, 1866. — After a passage of twenty- 
three days from Bombay we arrived at this island in the 
Thule, which was one of Captain Sherard Osborne's late 
Chinese fleet, and now a present from the Bombay Govern- 
ment to the Sultan of Zanzibar. I was honoured with 
the commission to make the formal presentation, and 
this was intended by H. E. the Governor-in-Council to 
show in how much estimation I was held, and thereby 
induce the Sultan to forward my enterprise. The letter 
to his Highness was a commendatory epistle in my favour, 
foT which consideration on the part of Sir Bartle Frere I 
feel deeply grateful. It runs as follows : — 

To His Highness Sejuel Majid, Sultan of Zanzibae. 

(Copy.) 

" Youe Highness, — I trust that this will find you in the 
enjoyment of health and happiness. 

VOL. 1. B 



2 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [CnAr. I. 

" I have requested my friend, Dr. David Livingstone, 
who is already personally well and favourably known to 
your Highness, to convey to you the assurance of the con- 
tinual friendship and goodwill of Her Majesty's Government 
in India. 

" Your Highness is already aware of the benevolent objects 
of Dr. Livingstone's life and labours, and I feel assured that 
your Highness will continue to him the favour and protec- 
tion which you have already shown to him on former occa- 
sions, and that your Highness will direct every aid to be 
given him within your Highness's dominions which may 
tend to further the philanthropic designs to which he has 
devoted himself, and which, as your Highness is aware, are 
viewed with the warmest interest by Her Majesty's Govern- 
ment both in India and England. 

" I trust your Highness will favour me with continued 
accounts of your good health and welfare. 

" I remain, your Highness's sincere friend, 

(Signed) "H. B. E. Frere. 

"Bombay Castle, 2nd January, 1866." 

When Ave arrived Dr. Seward, the Acting Consul, was 
absent at the Seychelles on account of serious failure of 
health : Mr. Schultz, however, was representing him, but 
he too was at the time away. Dr. Seward was expected 
back daily, and he did arrive on the 31st. I requested 
a private interview with the Sultan, and on the following 
day (29th) called and told him the nature of my commission 
to his Highness. He was very gracious, and seemed pleased 
with the gift, as well he might, for the Tliule is fitted up 
in the most gorgeous manner. We asked a few days to 
put her in perfect order, and this being the Ramadan, or 
fasting month, he was all the more willing to defer a visit 
to the vessel. r*_n.i 

DSI 



I860.] THE 'THULE' PRESENTED TO THE SULTAN. 3 

Dr. Seward arranged to have an audience with the Sultan, 
to carry out his instructions, which were to present me 
in a formal manner ; Captain Bradshaw of the Wasp, with 
Captain Leatham of the Vigilant, and Bishop Tozer, were 
to accompany us in full dress, but the Sultan had a tooth- 
ache and gumboil, and could not receive us ; he, however, 
placed one of his houses at my disposal, and appointed a 
man who speaks English to furnish board for my men and 
me, and also for Captain Brebner, of the Thule, and his men. 




Livingstone's House, Zanzibar. 



6th February, 1866. — The Sultan being still unable to 
come, partly on account of toothache and partly on account 
of Kamadan, he sent his commodore, Captain Abdullah, 
to receive the Tliule. When the English flag was hauled 
down in the Thule, it went up to the mainmast of the 
Iskander Shah, and was saluted by twenty-one guns ; then 
the Wasp saluted the Arab flag with an equal number, 
which honour being duly acknowledged by a second royal 
salute from the Iskander Shah, Captain Abdullah's frigate, 
the cer-emony ended. 

b 2 



4 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. I. 

Next day, the 7th, we were received by the Sultan, 
and through his interpreter, I told him that his friend, the 
Governor of Bombay, had lately visited the South Mahratta 
Princes, and had pressed on them the necessity of education ; 
the world was moving on, and those who neglected to acquire 
knowledge would soon find that power slipped through their 
fingers, and that the Bombay Government, in presenting his 
Highness with a portion of steam power, showed its desire to 
impart one of the greatest improvements of modern times, 
not desiring to monopolize power, but hoping to lift up 
others with themselves, and I wished him to live a hundred 
years and enjoy all happiness. The idea was borrowed 
partly from Sir Bartle Frere's addresses, because I thought 
it would have more weight if he heard a little from that 
source than if it emanated from myself. He was very anxious 
that Captain Brebner and his men, in returning to India, 
should take a passage from him in the Nadir Shah, one of 
his men-of-war, and though he had already placed his things 
aboard the Vigilant, to proceed to Seychelles, and thence 
to Bombay, we persuaded Captain Brebner to accept his 
Highness's hospitality. He had evidently set his heart on 
sending them back with suitable honours, and an hour after 
consent was given to go by the Nadir Shah, he signed an 
order for the money to fit her out. 

11th February. — One of the foremost subjects that 
naturally occupied my mind here was the sad loss of the 
Baron van der Decken, on the Biver Juba, or Aljib. The 
first intimation of the unfortunate termination of his 
explorations was the appearance of Lieutenant von Schich 
at this place, who had left without knowing whether his 
leader were dead or alive, but an attack had been made on 
the encampment Avhich had been planned after the steamer 
struck the rocks and filled, and two of the Europeans were 
killed. The attacking party came from the direction in 
which the Baron and Dr. Link went, and three men of note 



16(30.] CONVERSATION WITH SAID MAJID. 

in it were slain. Von Schick went back from Zanzibar to 
Brava to ascertain the fate of the Baron, and meanwhile 
several native sailors from Zanzibar had been allowed to 
escape from the scene of confusion to Brava. 

18/A February. — All the Europeans went to pay visits 
of congratulation to his Highness the Sultan upon the 
conclusion of the Ramadan, when sweetmeats were placed 
before us. He desired me to thank the Governor of Bombay 
for his magnificent gift, and to state that although he would 
like to have me always with him, yet he would show me the 
same favour in Africa which he had done here : he added 
that the Thule was at my service to take me to the Kovuma 
whenever I wished to leave. I replied that nothing had 
been wanting on his part ; he had done more than I expected, 
-and I was sure that his Excellency the Governor would be 
delighted to hear that the vessel promoted his health and 
prosperity ; nothing would delight him more than this. He 
said that he meant to go out in her on Wednesday next 
(20th) : Bishop Tozer, Captain Fraser, Dr. Steere, and all 
the English were present. The sepoys came in and did 
obeisance ; and I pointed out the Nassick lads as those who 
had been rescued from slavery, educated, and sent back to 
their own country by the Governor. Surely he must see 
that some people in the world act from other than selfish 
motives. 

In the afternoon Sheikh Sulieman, his secretary, came 
with a letter for the Governor, to be conveyed by Lieutenant 
Brebner, I. N., in the Nadir Shah, which is to sail to- 
morrow. He offered money to the lieutenant, but this could 
not be heard of for a moment. 

The translation of the letter is as follows, and is an answer 
to that which I brought. 



6 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. I. 

To His Excellency the Governor of Bombay. 
[After compliments.] 

" . . . . The end of my desire is to know ever that your 
Excellency's health is good. As for me — your friend — I 
am very well. 

"Your honoured letter borne by Dr. Livingstone duly 
reached me, and all that you said about him I understood. 

" I will show him respect, give him honour, and help him 
in all his affairs ; and that I have already done this, I trust 
he will tell you. 

" I hope you will let me rest in your heart, and that you 
will send me many letters. 

" If you need anything I shall be glad, and will give it. 
" Your sincere friend, 

"Majid bin Said. 

"Dated 2nd Shtral, 1282 (18th February, 1866)." 



2nd March, 1866. — A northern dhow came in with slaves ; 
when this was reported to the Sultan he ordered it to be 
burned, and we saw this done from the window of the 
Consulate ; but he has very little power over Northern 
Arabs. He has shown a little vigour of late. He wished 
to raise a revenue by a charge of 10 per cent, on all articles 
brought into town for sale, but this is clearly contrary to 
treaty, which provides that no monopoly shall be permitted, 
and no dues save that of 5 per cent, import duty. The 
French Consul bullies him: indeed the French system of 
dealing with the natives is well expressed by that word ;. 
no wonder they cannot gain influence among them : the 
greatest power they exercise is by lending their flag to 
slaving dhows, so that it covers that nefarious traffic. 

The stench arising from a mile and a half or two square 
miles of exposed sea beach, which is the general depository 
of the filth of the town, is quite horrible. At night it is 



1866.] THE ZANZIBAR SLATE-MABKET. 7 

so gross or crass one might cut out a slice and manure a 
garden with it : it might be called Stinkibar rather than 
Zanzibar. No one can long enjoy good health here. 

On visiting the slave-market I found about 300 slaves 
exposed for sale, the greater part of whom came from Lake 
Nyassa and the Shire River; I am so familiar with the 
peculiar faces and markings or tattooings, that I expect 
them to recognize me. Indeed one woman said that she had 
heard of our passing up Lake Nyassa in a boat, but she did 
not see me : others came from Chipeta, S.W, of the Lake. 
All who have grown up seem ashamed at being hawked 
about for sale. The teeth are examined, the cloth lifted 
up to examine the lower limbs, and a stick is thrown for 
the slave to bring, and thus exhibit his paces. Some are 
dragged through the crowd by the hand, and the price 
called out incessantly : most of the purchasers were Northern 
Arabs and Persians. This is the period when the Sultan's 
people may not carry slaves coastwise ; but they simply 
cannot, for the wind is against them. Many of the dhows 
leave for Madagascar, and thence come back to complete 
their cargoes. 

The Arabs are said to treat their slaves kindly, and this 
also may be said of native masters ; the reason is, master 
"and slave partake of the general indolence, but the lot 
of the slave does not improve with the general progress in 
civilization. While no great disparity of rank exists, his 
energies are little tasked, but when society advances, wants 
multiply ; and to supply these the slave's lot grows harder. 
The distance between master and man increases as the lust 
of gain is developed, hence we can hope for no improvement 
in the slave's condition, unless the master returns to or 
remains in barbarism. 

6th March. — Eains have begun now that the sim is over- 
head. We expect the Penguin daily to come from Johanna, 
and take us to the Eovuma. It is an unwholesome place ; 



8 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. I. 

six of my men have fever ; few retain health long, and 
considering the lowness of the island, and the absence of 
sanitary regulations in the town, it is not to be wondered at. 
The Sultan has little power, being only the successor to the 
captain of the horde of Arabs who came down and overran 
the island and maritime coasts of the adjacent continent. 
He is called only Said or Syed, never Sultan; and they 
can boast of choosing a new one if he does not suit 
them. Some coins were found in digging here which have 
Cufic inscriptions, and are about 900 years old. The island 
is low ; the highest parts may not be more than 150 feet 
above the sea ; it is of a coral formation, with sandstone 
conglomerate. Most of the plants are African, but clove- 
trees, mangoes, and cocoa-nut groves give a luxuriant South 
Sea Island look to the whole scenery. 

We visited an old man to-day, the richest in Zanzibar, 
who is to give me letters to his friends at Tanganyika, 
and I am trying to get a depot of goods for provisions 
formed there, so that when I reach it I may not be 
destitute. 

18th March. — I have arranged with Koorje, a Banian, who 
farms the custom-house revenue here, to send a supply of 
beads, cloth, flour, tea, coffee, and sugar, to TJjiji, on Lake 
Tanganyika. The Arab there, with whom one of Koorje's 
people will remain in charge of the goods, is called Thani 
bin Suelim. 

Yesterday we went to take leave of the Sultan, and to 
thank him for all his kindness to me and my men, which 
has indeed been very great. He offered me men to go with 
me, and another letter if I wished it. He looks very ill. 

I have received very great kindness during my stay from 
Dr. and Mrs. Seward. They have done everything for me 
in their power : may God Almighty return it all abun- 
dantly into their bosoms, in the way that He best can. Dr. 
Seward's views of the policy pursued here I have no doubt 



I860.] DR. LIVINGSTONE SAILS FROM ZANZIBAR. 9 

are the right ones ; in fact, the only ones which can be 
looked back to with satisfaction, or that have probability of 
success among a race of Pariah Arabs. 

The Penguin came a few days ago, and Lieutenant Gar- 
forth in command agrees to take me down to the Bovunia 
Eiver, and land me there. I have a dhow to take my 
animals : six camels, three buffaloes, and a calf, two mules, 
and four donkeys. I have thirteen Sepoys, ten Johanna 
men, nine Nassick boys, two Shupanga men, and two 
Wayaus, Wekatani and Chuma.* 

[It may be well to point out that several of these men 
had previously been employed by Dr. Livingstone on the 
Zambesi and Shire ; thus Musa, the Johanna man, was a 
sailor on the Lady Nyassa, whilst Susi and Amoda were 
engaged at Shupanga to cut wood for the Pioneer. The 
two Waiyau lads, Wakatani and Chuma, were liberated 
from the slavers by the Doctor and Bishop Mackenzie in 
1861, and lived for three years with the Mission party at 
Chibisa's before they were engaged by Livingstone. The 
Nassick lads were entire strangers, and were trained in 
India.] 

19$ March. — We start this morning at 10 A.M. I trust 
that the Most High may prosper me in this work, granting* 
me influence in the eyes of the heathen, and helping me to 
make my intercourse beneficial to them. 

22nd March. — We reached Eovuma Bay to-day, and 
anchored about two miles from the mouth of the river, in 
five fathoms. I went up the left bank to see if the gullies 
which formerly ran into the bay had altered, so as to 
allow camels to cross them: they seemed to have become 



* Dhow is the name given to the coasting vessel of East Africa and the 
Indian Ocean. 



10 LIVING STONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. I. 

shallower. There was no wind for the dhow, and as for the 
man-of-war towing her, it was out of the question. On the 
23rd the cutter did try to tow the dhow, but without success, 
as a strong tide runs constantly out of the river at this season. 
A squall came up from the S.E., which would have taken 
the dhow in, but the master was on board the Penguin, and 
said he had no large sail. I got him off to his vessel, but 
the wind died away before we could reach the mouth of the 
river. 

24.th March. — I went to the dhow, and there being no wind 
I left orders with the captain to go up the right bank should 
a breeze arise. Mr. Fane, midshipman, accompanied me up 
the left bank above, to see if we could lead the camels along 
in the water. Near the point where the river first makes a 
little bend to the north, we landed and found three formid- 
able gullies, and jungle so thick with bush, date-palms, 
twining bamboo, and hooked thorns, that one could scarcely 
get along. Further inland it was sticky mud, thickly planted 
over with mangrove roots and gullies in whose soft banks one 
sank over the ankles. No camels could have moved, and 
men with extreme difficulty might struggle through ; but 
we never could have made an available road. We came to 
a she-hippopotamus lying in a ditch, which did not cover 
her; Mr. Fane fired into her head, and she was so upset 
that she nearly fell backward in plunging up the opposite 
bank : her calf was killed, and was like sucking-pig, though 
in appearance as large as a full-grown sow. 

We now saw that the dhow had a good breeze, and she 
came up along the right bank and grounded at least a mile 
from the spot where the mangroves ceased. The hills, about 
two hundred feet high, begin about two or three miles above 
that, and they looked invitingly green and cool. My com- 
panion and I went from the dhow inland, to see if the man- 
groves gave way, to a more walkable country, but the swamp 
covered over thickly with mangroves only became worse the 



1866.] PRESENT STATE OF THE ROVUMA. II 

farther we receded from the river. The whole is flooded at 
high tides, and had we landed all the men we should have 
been laid up with fever ere we could have attained the higher 
land, which on the right bank bounds the line of vision, 
and the first part of which lies so near. I thought I had 
better land on the sand belt on the left of Eovuma Bay, and 
then explore and get information from the natives, none of 
whom had as yet come near us, so I ordered the dhow to 
come down to the spot next day, and went on board the 
Penguin. Lieutenant Garforth was excessively kind, and 
though this is his best time for cruising in the North, he 
most patiently agreed to wait and help me to land. 

24th March. — During the night it occurred to me that 
Ave should be in a mess if after exploration and informa- 
tion from the natives we could find no path, and when I 
mentioned this, Lieutenant Garforth suggested that we should 
proceed to Kilwa, so at 5 a.m. I went up to the dhow with 
Mr. Fane, and told the captain that we were going there. 
He was loud in his protestations against this, and strongly 
recommended the port of Mikindany, as quite near to 
Eovuma, Nyassa, and the country I wished to visit, besides 
being a good landing-place, and the finest port on the coast. 
Thither we went, and on the same evening landed all our 
animals in Mikindany bay, which lies only twenty-five miles 
N. of Eovuma. The Penguin then left. 

The Eovuma is quite altered from what it was when first 
we visited it. It is probable that the freshets form banks 
inside the mouth, which are washed out into the deep bay, 
and this periodical formation probably has prevented the 
Arabs from using the Eovuma as a port of shipment. It 
is not likely that Mr. May* would have made a mistake if 
the middle were as shoal as now : he found soundings of 
three fathoms or more. 



* The Commander of H.M.S. Pioneer in 1361. 



12 



LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. 



[Chap. I. 



2oth March. — I hired a house for four dollars a month 
and landed all our goods from the dhow. The bay gives off 
a narrow channel, about 500 yards wide and 200 yards long, 
the middle is deep, but the sides are coral reefs and shoal : 




Dhow used for Transport of Dr. Livingstone's Camels. 

the deep part seems about 100 yards wide. Outside in the 
Bay of Mikindany there is no anchorage except on the edge 
of the reef where the Penguin got seven fathoms, but further 
in it was only two fathoms. The inner bay is called Pemba, 
not Pimlea, as erroneously printed in the charts of Owen. It 



1866.] ONCE MORE ABOUT TO TRAVEL. 13 

is deep and quite sheltered ; another of a similar round form 
lies somewhat to the south: this bay may be two miles 
square. 

The cattle are all very much the worse for being knocked 
about in the dhow. We began to prepare saddles of a very 
strong tree called Ntibwe, which is also used for making the 
hooked spear with which hippopotami are killed — the hook 
is very strong and tough ; I applied also for twenty carriers 
and a Banian engaged to get them as soon as possible. 
The people have no cattle here, they are half-caste Arabs 
mostly, and quite civil to us. 

26th March. — A few of the Nassick boys have the slave 
spirit pretty strongly; it goes deepest in those who have 
the darkest skins. Two Gallah men are the most intelli- 
gent and hardworking among them ; some look on work 
with indifference when others are the actors. 

Now that I am on the point of starting on another trip 
into Africa I feel quite exhilarated : when one travels with 
the specific object in view of ameliorating the condition of 
the natives every act becomes ennobled. 

Whether exchanging the customary civilities, or arriving 
at a village, accepting a night's lodging, purchasing food 
for the party, asking for information, or answering polite 
African enquiries as to our objects in travelling, we begin 
to spread a knowledge of that people by whose agency 
their land will yet become enlightened and freed from the 
slave-trade. 

The mere animal pleasure of travelling in a wild unex- 
plored country is very great. When on lands of a couple 
of thousand feet elevation, brisk exercise imparts elasticity 
to the muscles, fresh and healthy blood circulates through 
the brain, the mind works well, the eye is clear, the step 
is firm, and a day's exertion always makes the evening's 
repose thoroughly enjoyable. 

We have usually the stimulus of remote chances of 



U LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. I. 

danger either from beasts or men. Our sympathies are 
drawn out towards our humble hardy companions by a com- 
munity of interests, and, it may be, of perils, which make us 
all friends. Nothing but the most pitiable puerility would 
lead any manly heart to make their inferiority a theme for 
self-exaltation ; however, that is often done, as if with the 
vague idea that we can, by magnifying their deficiencies, 
demonstrate our immaculate perfections. 

The effect of travel on a man whose heart is in the right 
place is that the mind is made more self-reliant : it becomes 
more confident of its own resources — there is greater pre- 
sence of mind. The body is soon well-knit; the muscles 
of the limbs grow as hard as a board, and seem to have 
no fat; the countenance is bronzed, and there is no dys- 
pepsia. Africa is- a most wonderful country for appetite, and 
it is only when one gloats over marrow bones or elephant's 
feet that indigestion is possible. No doubt much toil is 
involved, and fatigue of which travellers in the more tem- 
perate climes can form but a faint conception ; but the 
sweat of one's brow is no longer a curse when one works for 
God : it proves a tonic to the system, and is actually a 
blessing. No one can truly appreciate the charm of repose 
unless he has undergone severe exertion. 

27th March. — The point of land which on the north 
side of the entrance to the harbour narrows it to about 
300 yards is alone called Pemba ; the other parts have 
different names. Looking northwards from the point, the 
first hundred yards has ninety square houses of wattled 
daub ; a ruin (a mosque) has been built of lime and coral. 
The whole point is coral, and the soil is red, and covered 
over with dense tropical vegetation, in which the baobab is 
conspicuous. Dhows at present come in with ease by the 
easterly wind which blows in the evening, and leave next 
morning, the land wind taking them out. 

While the camels and other animals are getting over 



1806.] MIKINDANY HARBOUR. 15 

their fatigues and bad bruises, we are making camels' saddles, 
and repairing those of the mules and buffaloes. Oysters 
abound on all the rocks and on the trees over which the 
tide flows : they are small, but much relished by the people. 

The Arabs here are a wretched lot physically — thin, 
washed-out creatures — many with bleared eyes. 

29-30th March. — This harbour has somewhat the shape 
of a bent bow or the spade on a playing-card, the shaft 
of the arrow being the entrance in ; the passage is very 
deep, but not more than 100 yards wide, and it goes 
in nearly S.W. ; inside it is deep and quite secure, and 
protected from all winds. The lands westward rise at 
once to about 200 feet, and John, a hill, is the land- 
mark by which it is best known in coming along the 
coast — so say the Arabs. The people have no cattle, 
but say there are no tsetse flies : they have not been 
long here, i. e. under the present system ; but a ruin on 
the northern peninsula or face of the entrance, built of 
stone and lime — Arab -fashion, and others on the north- 
west, show that the place has been known and used of 
old. The adjacent country has large game at different 
water pools, and as the whole country is somewhat elevated 
it probably is healthy. There is very little mangrove, but 
another enclosed piece of water to the south of this probably 
has more. The language of the people here is Swaheli ; 
they trade a little in gum-copal and Orchilla weed. An 
agent of the Zanzibar custom-house presides over the 
customs, which are very small, and a jemidar acknow- 
ledging the Sultan is the chief authority; but the people 
are little superior to the natives whom they have dis- 
placed. The jemidar has been very civil to me, and gives 
me two guides to go on to Adonde, but no carriers can be 
hired. Water is found in wells in the coral rock which 
underlies the whole place. 

4dh April, 1866. — When about to start from Pemba, at the 
entrance to the other side of the bay, one of our buffaloes 



16 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOUENALS. [Chap. I. 

gored a donkey so badly that he had to be shot : we cut off 
the tips of the offender's horns, on the principle of " locking 
the stable-door when the steed is stolen," and marched. 
We came to level spots devoid of vegetation, and hard 
on the surface, but a deposit of water below allowed the 
camels to sink up to their bodies through the crust. 
Hauling them out, we got along to the jemidar's house, 
which is built of coral and lime. Hamesh was profuse in his 
professions of desire to serve, but gave a shabby hut which 
let in rain and wind. I slept one night in it, and it was 
unbearable, so I asked the jemidar to allow me to sleep in 
his court-room, where many of the sepoys were : he con- 
sented, but when I went refused ; then, being an excitable, 
nervous Arab, he took fright, mustered all his men, 
amounting to about fifteen, with matchlocks ; ran off, saying 
he w r as going to kill a lion ; came back, shook hands 
nervously with me, vowing it was a man who would not 
obey him, " it was not you." 

Our goods were all out in the street, bound on the pack- 
saddles, so at night we took the ordinary precaution of 
setting a guard. This excited our dignitary, and after dark 
all his men were again mustered with matches lighted. I 
took no notice of him, aud after he had spent a good deal 
of talk, which we could hear, he called Musa and asked what 
I meant. The explanations of Musa had the effect of sending 
him to bed, and in the morning, when I learned how much 
I had most unintentionally disturbed him, I told him that I 
was sorry, but it did not occur to me to tell him about an 
ordinary precaution against thieves. He thought he had 
given me a crushing reply when he said with vehemence, 
" But there are no thieves here." I did not know till after- 
wards that he and others had done me an ill turn in saying- 
that no carriers could be hired from the independent tribes 
adjacent. They are low-coast Arabs, three-quarters African, 
and, as usual, possess the bad without the good qualities 
of both parents. Many of them came and begged brandy, 



I860.] BEX ALI ENLISTED AS GUIDE. 17 

and laughed when they remarked that they could drink it 
in secret but not openly ; they have not, however, introduce I 
it as an article of trade, as we Christians have done on the 
West Coast. 

6th April. — We made a short march round to the south- 
west side of the Lake, and spent the night at a village 
in that direction. There are six villages dotted round the 
inner harbour, and the population may amount to 250 or 
300 souls — coast Arabs and their slaves ; the southern por- 
tion of the harbour is deep, from ten to fourteen fathoms, 
but the north-western part is shoal and rocky. Very little 
is done in the Avay of trade; some sorghum, sem-sem seed, 
gum-copal, and orchilla weed, constitute the commerce of 
the port : I saw two Banian traders settled here. 

7th April. — Went about south from Kindany with a 
Somalie guide, named Ben Ali or Bon Ali, a good-looking- 
obliging man, who was to get twenty dollars to take us up 
to Ngomano. Our path lay in a valley, with well-wooded 
heights on each side, but the grass towered over our heads, 
and gave the sensation of smothering, whilst the sun beat 
down on our heads very fiercely, and there was not a breath 
of air stirring. Not understanding camels, I had to trust 
to the sepoys who overloaded them, and before we had 
accomplished our march of about seven miles they were 
knocked up. 

8th April. — We spent the Sunday at a village called 
Nyangedi. Here on the evening of the 7th April our 
buffaloes and camels were first bitten by the tsetse fly." 
We had passed through some pieces of dense jungle which, 
though they offered no obstruction to foot-passengers, but 
rather an agreeable shade, had to be cut for the tall camels, 



* Those who have read the accounts given by African travellers will 
remember that the bites inflicted by two or three of these small flies 
will usually lay the foundation of a sickness which destroys oxen, horses, 
and dogs in a few weeks. 

VOL. I. C 



18 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chai\ I. 

and fortunately we found the Makonde of this village glad 
to engage themselves by the day either as woodcutters or 
carriers. "We had left many things with the jemidar from 
an idea that no carriers could be procured. I lightened 
the camels, and had a party of woodcutters to heighten 
and widen the path in the dense jungle into which we 
now penetrated. Every now and then we emerged on 
open spaces, where the Makonde have cleared gardens for 
sorghum, maize, and cassava. The people were very much 
more taken up with the camels and buffaloes than with me. 
They are all independent of each other, and no paramount 
chief exists. Their foreheads may be called compact, nar- 
row, and rather low ; the alee nasi expanded laterally ; lips 
full, not excessively thick ; limbs and body well formed ; 
hands and feet small ; colour dark and light-brown ; height 
middle size, and bearing independent. 

10th April. — We reached a village called Nam, lat. 
10° 23' 14" S. Many of the men had touches of fever. I 
gave medicine to eleven of them, and next morning all were 
better. Food is abundant and cheap. Our course is nearly 
south, and in " wadys," from which, following the trade-road, 
we often ascend the heights, and then from the villages, 
which are on the higher land, we descend to another on 
the same wady. No running water is seen; the people 
depend on wells for a supply. 

11th April. — At Tandahara we were still ascending as we 
went south ; the soil is very fertile, with a good admixture 
of sand in it, but no rocks are visible. Very heavy crops 
of maize and sorghum are raised, and the cassava bushes are 
seven feet in height." The bamboos are cleared off them, 
spread over the space to be cultivated and burned to serve 
as manure. Iron is very scarce, for many of the men appear 
with wooden spears ; they find none here, but in some spots 
where an ooze issued from the soil iron rust appeared. At 
each of the villages_where we spent a night we presented a 



1866.] AN AFRICAN COAST JUNGLE. 19 

fathom of calico, and the headman always gave a fowl or 
two, and a basket of rice or maize. The Makonde dialect 
is quite different from Swaheli, but from their intercourse 
with the coast Arabs many of the people here have ac- 
quired a knowledge of Swaheli. 

12th April. — On starting we found the jungle so dense 
that the people thought " there was no cutting it : " it 
continued upwards of three miles. The trees are not large, 
but so closely planted together that a great deal of labour 
was required to widen and heighten the path : where bam- 
boos prevail they have starved out the woody trees. The 
reason why the trees are not large is because all the spaces 
we passed over were formerly garden ground before the 
Makonde had been thinned by the slave-trade. As soon as 
a garden is deserted, a thick crop of trees of the same sorts 
as those formerly cut down springs up, and here the process 
of woody trees starving out their fellows, and occupying 
the land without dense scrub below, has not had time to 
work itself out. Many are mere poles, and so intertwined 
with climbers as to present the appearance of a ship's ropes 
and cables shaken in among them, and many have woody 
stems as thick as an eleven-inch hawser. One species may 
be likened to the scabbard of 
a dragoon's sword, but along 
the middle of the flat side 
runs a ridge, from which 
springs up every few inches 
a bimch of inch-long straight 
sharp thorns. It hangs straight 
for a couple of yards, but as 
if it could not give its thorns 
a fair chance of mischief, it a Tkom-dimber. 

suddenly bends on itself, and all its cruel points are now at 
right angles to what they were before. Darwin's observation 
shows a great deal of what looks like instinct in these 

c 2 




20 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. I. 

climbers. This species seems to be eager for mischief; its 
tangled limbs hang out ready to inflict injury on all passers- 
by. Another climber is so tough it is not to be broken 
by the fingers ; another appears at its root as a young 
tree, but it has the straggling habits of its class, as may 
be seen by its cords stretched some fifty or sixty feet off ; 
it is often two inches in diameter; you cut it through at 
one part and find it reappear forty yards off. 

Another climber is like the leaf of an aloe, but convoluted 
as strangely as shavings from the plane of a carpenter. It 
is dark green in colour, and Avhen its bark is taken off it is 
beautifully striated beneath, lighter and darker green, like 
the rings of growth on wood ; still another is a thin string 
with a succession of large knobs, and another has its bark 
pinched up all round at intervals so as to present a great 
many cutting edges. One sort need scarcely be mentioned, 
in which all along its length are strong bent hooks, placed 
in a way that will hold one if it can but grapple with him, 
for that is very common and not like those mentioned, which 
the rather seem to be stragglers from the carboniferous 
period of geologists, when Pachydermata Avriggled un- 
scathed among tangled masses worse than these. We 
employed about ten jolly young Makonde to deal with 
these prehistoric plants in their own way, for they are ac- 
customed to clearing spaces for gardens, 
and went at the work with a will, usino- 
tomahawks well adapted for the work. 
They whittled away right manfully, 
taking an axe when any trees had to 
be cut. Their pay, arranged before- 

Toniahawk and Axe. ¦., ¦, i p i • 

hand, was to be one yard ol calico per 
day : this is not much, seeing we are still so near the sea- 
coast. Climbers and young trees melted before them like 
a cloud before the sim ! Many more would have worked 
than we employed, but we used the precaution of taking 





1866.] AFRICAN PIONEERS. 21 

the names of those ensealed. The tall men became exhausted 
soonest, while the shorter men worked vigorously still — 
but a couple of days' hard work seemed to tell on the best 
of them. It is doubtful if any but meat-eating people can 
stand long-continued labour without exhaustion : the Chinese 
may be an exception. When French navvies were first 
employed they could not do a tithe of the work of our 
English ones ; but when the French were fed in the same 
style as the English, they performed equally well. Here 
the Makonde have rarely the chance of a good feed of meat : 
it is only when one of them is fortunate enough to spear a 
wild hog or an antelope that they know this luxury ; if a fowl 
is eaten they get but a taste of it with their porridge. 

13t7i April. — We now began to descend the northern slope 
down to the Eovuma, and a glimpse could occasionally be 
had of the country ; it seemed covered with great masses 
of dark green forest, but the undulations occasionally looked 
like hills, and here and there a Sterculia had put on yellow- 
foliage in anticipation of the coming winter. More fre- 
quently our vision was circumscribed to a few yards till 
our merry woodcutters made for us the pleasant scene of a 
long vista fit for camels to pass : as a whole, the jungle 
would have made the authors of the natty little hints to 
travellers smile at their own productions, good enough, 
perhaps, where one has an open country with trees and hills, 
by which to take bearings, estimate distances, see that 
one point is on the same latitude, another on the same 
longitude with such another, and all to be laid down fair 
and square with protractor and compass, but so long as we 
remained within the vegetation, that is fed by the moisture 
from the Indian Ocean, the steamy, smothering air, and 
dank, rank, luxuriant vegetation made me feel, like it, 
struggling for existence, — and no more capable of taking 
bearings than if I had been in a hogshead and observing 
through the bumrhole ! 



22 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOUBNALS. [Chap. I. 

An old Monyinko headman presented a goat and asked if 
the sepoys wished to cut its throat : the Jokannees, being 
of a different sect of Mahometans, wanted to cut it in some 
other way than their Indian co-religionists : then ensued a 
fierce dispute as to who was of the right sort of Moslem ! It 
was interesting to see that not Christians alone, but other 
nations feel keenly on religious subjects. 

I saw rocks of grey sandstone (like that which overlies 
coal) and the Kovuma in the distance. Didi is the name 
of a village whose headsman, Chombokea, is said to be a 
doctor ; all the headmen pretend or are really doctors ; how- 
ever one, Fundindomba, came after me for medicine for 
himself. 

14:th April. — To-day we succeeded in reaching the Kovuma, 
where some very red cliffs appear on the opposite heights, 
and close by where it is marked on the map that the Pioneer 
turned back in 1861. Here we rested on Sunday 15th. 

16th April. — Our course now lay westwards, along the 
side of that ragged outline of table-land, which we had 
formerly seen from the river as flanking both sides. There 
it appeared a range of hills shutting in Rovuma, here we 
had spurs jutting out towards the river, and valleys retiring 
from a mile to three miles inland. Sometimes we wended 
our way round them, sometimes rose over and descended 
their western sides, and then a great deal of wood-cutting 
was required. The path is not straight, but from one 
village to another. We came perpetually on gardens, and 
remarked that rice was sown among the other grain ; there 
must be a good deal of moisture at other times to admit 
of this succeeding : at present the crops were suffering for 
want of rain. We could purchase plenty of rice for the 
sepoys, and well it was so, for the supply which was to last 
till we arrived at Ngomano was finished on the 13th. An 
old doctor, with our food awaiting, presented me with two 
large bags of rice and his wife husked it for us. 



1866.] BEN ALI'S WAYS ARE CROOKED. 23 

11th April. — I had to leave the camels in the hands of 
the sepoys : I ordered them to bring as little luggage as 
possible, and the Havildar assured me that two buffaloes 
were amply sufficient to carry all they would bring. I now 
find that they have more than full loads for two buffaloes, 
two mules, and two donkeys; but when these animals fall 
down under them, they assure me with so much positiveness 
that they are not overloaded, that I have to be silent, or 
only, as I have several times done before, express the opinion 
that they will kill these animals. This observation on my 
part leads them to hide their things in the packs of the 
camels, which also are over-burdened. I fear that my ex- 
periment with the tsetse will be vitiated, but no symptoms 
yet occur in any of the camels except weariness.* The sun 
is very sharp ; it scorches. Nearly all the sepoys had fever, 
but it is easily cured ; they never required to stop marching, 
and we cannot make over "four or five miles a day, which 
movement aids in the cure. In all cases of fever removal 
from the spot of attack should be made : after the fever 
among the sepoys, the Nassick boys took their turn along 
with the Johannees. 

18th April. — Ben Ali misled us away up to the north 
in spite of my protest, when we turned in that direction ; 
he declared that was the proper path. We had much wood- 
cutting, and found that our course that day and next was 
to enable him to visit and return from one of his wives — 
a comely Makonde woman ! He brought her to call on me, 
and I had to be polite to the lady, though we lost a day by 
the zigzag. This is one way by which the Arabs gain in- 
fluence ; a great many very light-coloured people are strewed 
among the Makonde, but only one of these had the Arab 



* Dr. Livingstone was anxious to try camels and Indian buffaloes in a 
tsetse country to see the effect upon them. 



24 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. L. 

hair. On asking Ali whether any attempts had been made 
by Arabs to convert those with whom they enter into such 
intimate relationships, he replied that the Makonde had no 
idea of a Deity — no one could teach them, though Makonde 
slaves when taken to the coast and elsewhere were made 
Mahometans. Since the slave-trade was introduced this 
tribe has much diminished in numbers, and one village 
makes war upon another and kidnaps, but no religious teach- 
ing has been attempted. The Arabs come down to the 
native ways, and make no efforts to raise the natives to 
theirs ; it is better that it is so, for the coast Arab's manners 
and morals would be no improvement on the pagan African ! 

19th April. — We were led up over a hill again, and on 
to the level of the plateau (where the evaporation is 
greater than in the valley), and tasted water of an agree- 
able coldness for the first time this journey. The people, 
especially the women, are very rude, and the men very 
eager to be employed as woodcutters. Yery merry they are 
at it, and every now and then one raises a cheerful shout, 
in which all join. I suppose they are urged on by a desire 
to please their wives with a little clothing. The higher 
up the Rovuma we ascend the people are more and more 
tattooed on the face, and on all parts of the body. The 
teeth are filed to points, and huge lip-rings are worn by 
the women ; some few Mabeha men from the south side of 
the river have lip-rings too. 

20th April. — A Johanna man allowed the camels to tres- 
pass and destroy a man's tobacco patch : the owner would 
not allow us after this to pass through his rice-field, in 
which the route lay. I examined the damage, and made 
the Johanna man pay a yard of calico for it, which set 
matters all right. 

Tsetse are biting the buffaloes again. Elephants, hippo- 
potami, and pigs are the only game here, but we see none : 



1866.] LUOPAKD'S FLESH UNCLEAN. 25 

tlie tsetse feed on them. In the low meadow land, from 
one to three miles broad, which lies along both banks, 
Ave have brackish pools, and one, a large one, which we 
passed, called Wrongwe, had much fish, and salt is got 
from it. 

21st April — After a great deal of cutting we reached 
the valley of Mehanibwe to spend Sunday, all glad that it 
had come round again. Here some men came to our camp 
from Ndonde, who report that an invasion of Mazitu had 
three months ago swept away all the food out of the country, 
and they are now obliged to send in every direction for 
provisions. When saluting, they catch each other's hands 
and say, "Ai! Ai!" but the general mode (introduced, 
probably by the Arabs) is to take hold of the right hand, 
and say, "JVlarhaba" (welcome). 

A wall-eyed ill-looking fellow, who helped to urge on 
the attack on our first visit in 1861, and the man to 
whom I gave cloth to prevent a collision, came about us 
disguised in a jacket. I knew him well, but said nothing 
to him* 

23rd April. — When we marched this morning we passed 
the spot where an animal had been burned in the fire, 
and on enquiry I found that it is the custom when a 
leopard is killed to take off the skin and consume the 
carcase thus, because the Makonde do not eat it. The 
reason they gave for not eating flesh which is freely eaten 
by other tribes, is that the leopard devours men ; this 
shows the opposite of an inclination to cannibalism. 

All the rocks we had seen showed that the plateau consists 
of grey sandstone, capped by a ferruginous sandy con- 
glomerate. AYe now came to blocks of silicified wood lying 
on the surface ; it is so like recent wood, that no one who 



* This refers to an attack made upon the boats of the Pioneer when the 
Doctor was exploring the River Rovuma in 1861. 



¦26 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. I. 

has not handled it would conceive it to be stone and not 
wood : the outer surface preserves the grain or woody fibre, 
the inner is generally silica. 

Buffaloes bitten by tsetse again show no bad effects from 
it : one mule is, however, dull and out of health ; I thought 
that this might be the effect of the bite till I found that 
his back was so strained that he could not stoop to drink, 
and could only eat the tops of the grasses. An ox would 
have been ill in two days after the biting on the 7th. 

A carrier stole a shirt, and went off unsuspected ; when 
the loss was ascertained, the man's companions tracked him 
with Ben Ali by night, got him in his hut, and then 
collected the headmen of the village, who fined him about 
four times the value of what had been stolen. They came 
back in the morning without seeming to think that they 
had done aught to be commended ; this was the only case 
of theft we had noticed, and the treatment showed a natural 
sense of justice. 

24th April. — We had showers occasionally, but at night 
all the men were under cover of screens. The fevers were 
speedily cured; no day was lost by sickness, but we could 
not march more than a few miles, owing to the slowness 
of the sepoys ; they are a heavy drag on us, and of no 
possible use, except when acting as sentries at night. 

When in the way between Kendany and Bovuma, I ob- 
served a plant here, called Mandare, the root of which is in 
taste and appearance like a waxy potato ; I saw it once 
before at the falls below the Barotse Valley, in the middle of 
the continent ; it had been brought there by an emigrant, 
who led out the water for irrigation, and it still maintained 
its place in the soil. Would this not prove valuable in the 
soil of India ? I find that it is not cultivated further up 
the country of the Makonde, but I shall get Ali to secure 
some for Bombay. 



1866.] INFAMOUS CRUELTY OF SEPOYS. 27 

2bth April. — A serpent bit Jack, our dog, above the eye, 
the upper eyelid swelled very much, but no other symptoms 
appeared, and next day all swelling was gone; the serpent 
was either harmless, or the quantity of poison injected very 
small. The pace of the camels is distressingly slow, and 
it suits the sepoys to make it still slower than natural 
by sitting down to smoke and eat. The grass is high 
and ground under it damp and steamy. 

2&h April.— On the 25th we reached Nam, and resolved 
to wait the next day and buy food, as it is not so plentiful 
in front ; the people are eager traders in meal, fowls, eggs, 
and honey ; the women are very rude. Yesterday I caught 
a sepoy, Pando, belabouring a camel with a big stick as 
thick as any part of his arm, the path being narrow, it could 
not get out of his way ; I shouted to him to desist ; he did 
not know I was in sight, to-day the effect of the bad usage 
is seen in the animal being quite unable to move its leg : 
inflammation has set up in the hip-joint. I am afraid that 
several bruises which have festered on the camels, and were 
to me unaccountable, have been wilfully bestowed. This 
same Pando and another left Zanzibar drunk : he then stole 
a pair of socks from me, and has otherwise been perfectly 
useless, even a pimple on his leg was an excuse for doing- 
nothing for many days. We had to leave this camel at 
Narri under charge of the headman. 

28th April. — The hills on the north now retire out of 
our sight. A gap in the southern plateau gives passage to a 
small river, which arises in a lakelet of some size, eight or 
ten miles inland: the river and lakelet are both called 
Nangadi ; the latter is so broad that men cannot be distin- 
guished, even by the keen eyes of the natives on the other 
side : it is very deep, and abounds in large fish ; the people 
who live there are Mabiha. A few miles above this gap 
the southern highland falls away, and there are lakelets on 



28 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. I. 

marshes, also abounding in fish, an uninhabited space next 
succeeds, and then we have the Matambwe country, which 
extends up to Ngomano. The Matambwe seem to be a 
branch of the Makonde, and a very large one : their country 
extends a long way south, and is well stocked with elephants 
and gum-copal trees. 

They speak a language slightly different from that of 
the Makonde, but they understand them. The Matambwe 
women are, accordiug to Ali, very dark, but very comely, 
though they do wear the lip-ring. They carry their ivory, 
gum-copal, and slaves to Ibo or Wibo. 

29th April. — We spend Sunday, the 29th, on the banks of 
the Eovuma, at a village called Nackuchu, nearly opposite 
Konayumba, the first of the Matambwe, whose chief is called 
Kimbembe. Ali draws a very dark picture of the Makonde. 
He says they know nothing of a Deity, they pray to their 
mothers when in distress or dying ; know nothing of a 
future state, nor have they any religion except a belief in 
medicine; and every headsman is a doctor. No Arab has 
ever tried to convert them, but occasionally a slave taken to 
the coast has been circumcised in order to be clean ; some 
of them pray, and say they know not the ordeal or muavi. 
The Nassick boys failed me when I tried to communicate 
some knowledge through them. They say they do not 
understand the Makonde language, though some told me that 
they came from Ndonde's, which is the head-quarters of the 
Makonde. Ali says that the Makonde blame witches for 
disease and death ; when one of a village dies, the whole 
population departs, saying " that is a bad spot." They are 
said to have been notorious for fines, but an awe has come 
over them, and no complaints have been made, though our 
animals in passing the gardens have broken a good deal of 
corn. Ali says they fear the English. This is an answer 
to my prayer for influence on the minds of the heathen. I 



1866.] THE GUM-COPAL TREE. 29 

regret that I cannot speak to them that good of His name 
which I ought. 

I went with the Makonde to see a specimen of the gum- 
copal tree in the vicinity of this village. The leaves are in 
pairs, glossy green, with the veins a little raised on both 
face and back ; the smaller branches diverge from the. same 
point : the fruit, of which we saw the shells, seems to be 
a nut ; some animal had in eating them cut them through. 
The bark of the tree is of a light ash colour ; the gum was 
oozing from the bark at wounded places, and it drops on the 
ground from branches ; it is thus that insects are probably 
imbedded in the gum-copal. The people dig in the vicinity 
of modern trees in the belief that the more ancient trees 
which dropped their gum before it became an article of 
commerce must have stood there. " In digging, none may 
be found on one day but God (Mungu) may give it to us on 
the next." To this all the Makonde present assented, and 
showed me the consciousness of His existence was present 
in their minds. The Makonde get the gum in large 
quantities, and this attracts the coast Arabs, who remain a 
long time in the country purchasing it. Hernia humoralis 
abounds ; it is ascribed to beer-drinking. 

30th April. — Many ulcers burst forth on the camels ; 
some seem old dhow bruises. They come back from pasture, 
bleeding in a way that no rubbing against a tree would 
account for. I am sorry to suspect foul play : the buffaloes 
and mules are badly used, but I cannot be always near to 
prevent it. 

Bhang* is not smoked, but tobacco is : the people have no 
sheep or goats ; only fowls, pigeons, and Muscovy ducks are 
seen. Honey is very cheap; a good large pot of about a 
gallon, with four fowls, was given for two yards of calico. 



A species of hemp. 



30 



LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. 



[Chap. I. 



Buffaloes again bitten by tsetse, and by another fly exactly 
like the house-fly, but having a straight hard proboscis 
instead of a soft one ; other large flies make the blood run. 
The tsetse does not disturb the buffaloes, but these others 
and the smaller flies do. The tsetse seem to like the camel 
best ; from these they are gorged with blood — they do not 
seem to care for the mules and donkeys. 




'X 



Carved Door, Zanzibar. 



( 3L ) 



CHAPTER II. 

Effect of Pioneer's former visit. The poodle Chitane. Eesult of tsetse 
bites. Death of camels and buffaloes. Disaffection of followers. Dis- 
puted right of ferry. Mazitu raids. An old friend. Severe privations. 
The Kiver Loendi. Sepoys mutiny. Dr. Roscher. Desolation. Tat- 
tooing. Ornamental teeth. Singular custom. Death of the Nassick 
boy, Richard. A sad reminiscence. 

1st May, 1866. — We now came along through a country 
comparatively free of wood, and we could move on without 
perpetual cutting and clearing. It is beautiful to get a 
good glimpse out on the surrounding scenery, though it 
still seems nearly all covered with great masses of umbra- 
geous foliage, mostly of a dark green colour, for nearly all 
of the individual trees possess dark glossy leaves like laurel. 
We passed a gigantic specimen of the Kumbe, or gum-copal 
tree. Kmnba means to dig. Changkumbe, or things dug, 
is the name of the gum; the Arabs call it "sandaruse." Did 
the people give the name Kumbe to the tree after the value 
of the gum became known to them ? The Malole, from the 
fine grained wood of which all the bows are made, had 
shed its fruit on the ground ; it looks inviting to the 
eye — an oblong peach-looking thing, with a number of seeds 
inside, but it is eaten by maggots only. 

When we came to Ntande's village, we foimd it enclosed 
in a strong stockade, from a fear of attack by Mabika, who 
come across the river and steal their women when going to 



32 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. IT. 

draw water : this is for the Ibo market. They offered to 
pull down their stockade and let us in if we would remain 
over-night, but we declined. Before reaching Ntande we 
passed the ruins of two villages ; the owners were the 
attacking party when we ascended the Rovuma in 1862. 
I have still the old sail, with four bullet-holes through it, 
made by the shots which they fired after we had given cloth 
and got assurances of friendship. The father and son of 
this village were the two men seen by the second boat 
preparing to shoot ; the fire of her crew struck the father 
on the chin and the son on the head. It may have been 
for the best that the English are thus known as people who 
can hit hard when unjustly attacked, as we on this occasion 
most certainly were : never was a murderous assault more 
unjustly made or less provoked. They had left their villages 
and gone up over the highlands away from the river to 
their ambush whilst their women came to look at us. 

2nd May. — Mountains again approach us, and we pass 
¦one which was noticed in our first ascent from its resem- 
blance to a table mountain. It is 600 or 800 feet high, and 
called Liparu : the plateau now becomes mountainous, giving 
forth a perennial stream which comes down from its western 
base and forms a lagoon on the meadow-land that flanks 
the Rovuma. The trees which love these perpetual streams 
spread their roots all over the surface of the boggy banks, 
and make a firm surface, but at spots one may sink a yard 
deep. We had to fill up these deep ditches with branches 
and leaves, unload the animals, and lead them across. We 
spent the night on the banks of the Liparu,* and then pro- 
ceeded on our way. 

3rd May. — We rested in a Makoa village, the head of 
which was an old woman. The Makoa or Makoane are 
known by a half-moon figure tattooed on their foreheads or 



* Farther on we found it called Nkonya. 



18G6.] KINDNESS OF NATIVES TOWARDS TRAVELLERS. 33 

elsewhere. Our poodle dog Chitane chased the dogs of 
this village with unrelenting fury, his fierce looks inspired 
terror among the wretched pariah dogs of a yellow and 
white colour, and those looks were entirely owing to its 
being difficult to distinguish at which end his head or tail 
lay. He enjoyed the chase of the yelping curs immensely, 
but if one of them had turned he would have bolted the 
other way. 

A motherly-looking woman came forward and offered me 
some meal ; this was when we were in the act of departing : 
others had given food to the men and no return had been 
made. I told her to send it on by her husband, and I would 
purchase it, but it would have been better to have accepted 
it : some give merely out of kindly feeling and with no 
prospect of a return. 

Many of the Makoa men have their faces thickly tattooed 
in double raised lines of about half an inch in length. After 
the incisions are made charcoal is rubbed in and the flesh 
pressed out, so that all the cuts are raised above the level 
of the surface. It gives them rather a hideous look, and a 
good deal of that fierceness which our kings and chiefs 
of old put on whilst having their portraits taken. 

4:th May. — The stream, embowered in perpetual shade 
and overspread with the roots of water-loving, broad-leaved 
trees, we found to be called Nkonya. The spot of our 
encampment was an island formed by a branch of it part- 
ing and re-entering it again : the owner had used it for 
rice. 

The buffaloes were bitten again by tsetse on 2nd, and also 
to-day, from the bites of other flies (which look much more 
formidable than tsetse), blood of arterial colour flows down ; 
this symptom I never saw before, but when we slaughtered 
an ox which had been tsetse bitten, we observed that the 
blood had the arterial hue. The cow has inflammation of 
one eye, and a swelling on the right lumbar portion of the 

VOL. I. D 



34 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. II. 

pelvis : the grey buffalo has been sick, but this I attribute 
to unmerciful loading ; for his back is hurt : the camels do 
not seem to feel the fly, though they get weaker from the 
horrid running sores upon them and hard work. There 
are no symptoms of tsetse in mules or donkeys, but one 
mule has had his shoulder sprained, and he cannot stoop to 
eat or drink. 

We saw the last of the flanking range on the north. The 
country in front is plain, with a few detached granitic peaks 
shot up. The Makoa in large numbers live at the end of 
the range in a place called Nyuchi. At Nyamba, a village 
where we spent the night of the 5th, was a doctoress and 
rain-maker, who presented a large basket of soroko, or, as 
they call it in India, " mung," and a fowl. She is tall and 
well made, with fine limbs and feet, and was profusely 
tattooed all over; even her hips and buttocks had their 
elaborate markings : no shame is felt in exposing these 
parts. 

A good deal of salt is made by lixiviation of the soil and 
evaporating by fire. The head woman had a tame khanga 
tole or tufted guinea-fowl, with bluish instead of white 
spots. 

In passing along westwards after leaving the end of the 
range, we came first of all on sandstone hardened by fire ; 
then masses of granite, as if in that had been contained the 
igneous agency of partial metamorphosis ; it had also lifted 
up the sandstone, so as to cause a dip to the east. Then the 
syenite or granite seemed as if it had been melted, for it 
was all in strise, which strise, as they do elsewhere, run east 
and west. With the change in geological structure we get 
a different vegetation. Instead of the laurel-leaved trees of 
various kinds, we have African ebonies, acacias, and mimosse : 
the grass is shorter and more sparse, and we can move along 
without wood-cutting. We were now opposite a hill on the 
south called Simba, a lion, from its supposed resemblance to 



1866.] EFFECT OF THE TSETSE'S BITE. 

that animal. A large Mabiha population live there, and 
make raids occasionally over to this side for slaves. 

6th May. — Tsetse again. The animals look drowsy. The 
cow's eye is dimmed; when punctured, the skin emits a 
stream of scarlet blood. The people hereabouts seem intel- 
ligent and respectful. At service a man began to talk, but 
when I said, " Ku soma Mlungu," — " we wish to pray to 
God," he desisted. It would be interesting to know what the 
ideas of these men are, and to ascertain what they have 
gained in their communings with nature during the ages 
past. They do not give the idea of that boisterous wicked- 
ness and disregard of life which we read of in our own dark 
ages, but I have no one to translate, although I can under- 
stand much of what is said on common topics chiefly from 
knowing other dialects. 

7th May. — A camel died during the night, and the grey 
buffalo is in convulsions this morning. The cruelty of these 
sepoys vitiates my experiment, and I quite expect many 
camels, one buffalo, and one mule to die yet; they sit 
down and smoke and eat, leaving the animals loaded in the 
sun. If I am not with them, it is a constant dawdling ; they 
are evidently unwilling to exert themselves, they cannot 
carry their belts and bags, and their powers of eating and 
vomiting are astounding. The Makonde villages are remark- 
ably clean, but no sooner do we pass a night in one than 
the fellows make it filthy. The climate does give a sharp 
appetite, but these sepoys indulge it till relieved by vomit- 
ing and purging. First of all they breakfast, then an 
hour afterwards they are sitting eating the pocketfuls of 
corn maize they have stolen and brought for the purpose, 
whilst I have to go ahead, otherwise we may be misled into 
a zigzag course to see Ali's friends ; and if I remain behind 
to keep the sepoys on the move, it deprives me of all the 
pleasure of travelling. We have not averaged four miles 
a day in a straight line, yet the animals have often been 

d 2 



SO LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. II. 

kept in the stm for eight hours at a stretch. When we 
get up at 4 a.m. we cannot get under weigh before 8 o'clock. 
Sepoys are a mistake. 

1th May. — "We are now opposite a mountain called 
jSTabungala, which resembles from the north-east an elephant 
lying down. Another camel, a very good one, died on the 
way : its shiverings and convulsions are not at all like what 
we observed in horses and oxen killed by tsetse, but such 
may be the cause, however. The only symptom pointing to 
the tsetse is the arterial-looking blood, but we never saw it 
ooze from the skin after the bite of the gad-fly as we do 
now. 

8th May. — "We arrived at a village called Jponde, or 
Liponde, which lies opposite a granitic hill on the other 
side of the river (where we spent a night on our boat trip), 
called Nakapuri; this is rather odd, for the words are not 
Makonde but Sichuana, and signify goat's horn, from the 
projections jutting out from the rest of the mass. I left 
the havildar, sepoys, and ISTassick boys here in order to 
make a forced march forward, where no food is to be had, 
and send either to the south or westwards for supplies, so 
that after they have rested the animals and themselves five 
days they may come. One mule is very ill ; one buffalo 
drowsy and exhausted; one camel a mere skeleton from 
bad sores; and another has an enormous hole at the 
point of the pelvis, which sticks out at the side. I suspect 
that this was made maliciously, for he came from the field 
bleeding profusely ; no tree would have perforated a round 
hole in this way. I take all the goods and leave only the 
sepoys' luggage, which is enough for all the animals now. 

9th May. — I went on with the Johanna men and twenty- 
four carriers, for it was a pleasure to get away from the sepoys 
and Nassick boys ; the two combined to overload the animals. 
I told them repeatedly that they would kill them, but no 
sooner had I adjusted the burdens and turned my back than 



1866.] ABOLISHING A TOLL. 07 

they put on all their things. It was however such continual 
vexation to contend with the sneaking spirit, that I gave up 
annoying myself by seeing matters, though I felt certain 
that the animals would all be killed. We did at least eight 
miles pleasantly well, and slept at Moedaa village. The rocks 
are still syenite. We passed a valley with the large thorny 
acacias of which canoes are often made, and a euphorbiaceous 
tree, with seed-vessels as large as mandarin oranges, with 
three seeds inside. We were now in a country which, in 
addition to the Mazitu invasion, was suffering from one of 
those inexplicable droughts to which limited and sometimes 
large portions of this country are subject. It had not been 
nearly so severe on the opposite or south side, and thither 
too the Mazitu had not penetrated. Rushes, which plagued 
us nearer the coast, are not observed now ; the grass is all 
crisp and yellow ; many of the plants are dead, and leaves 
are fallen off the trees as if winter had begun. The ground 
is covered with open forest, with here and there thick jungle 
on the banks of the streams. All the rivulets we have passed 
are mere mountain torrents filled with sand, in which the 
people dig for water. 

We passed the spot where an Arab called Birkal was 
asked payment for leave to pass. After two and a half days' 
parley he fought, killed two Makonde, and mortally wounded 
a headman, which settled the matter ; no fresh demand has 
been made. Ali's brother also resisted the same sort of 
demand, fought several times, or until three Makonde and 
two of his people were killed ; they then made peace, and no 
other exactions have been made. 

11th Maij. — We now found a difficulty in getting our 
carriers along, on account of exhaustion from want of food. 
In going up a sand stream called Nyede, we saw that all 
moist spots had been planted with maize and beans, so the 
loss caused by the Mazitu, Avho swept the land like a cloud 
of locusts, will not be attended by much actual starvation. 



38 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. II.. 

We met a runaway woman : slie was seized by Ali, and it 
was plain that he expected a reward for his pains. He 
thought she was a slave, but a quarter of a mile off was the 
village she had left, and it being doubtful if she were a 
runaway at all, the would-be fugitive slave-capture turned 
out a failure. 

12th May. — About 4' E.N.E. of Matawatawa, or Nyama- 
tolole, our former turning point. 

\3th May. — We halted at a village at Matawatawa. A 
pleasant-looking lady, Avith her face profusely tattooed, came 
forward with a bunch of sweet reed, or Sorghum saccharatum, 
and laid it at my feet, saying, "I met you here before," 
pointing to the spot on the river Avhere we turned. I re- 
member her coming then, and that I asked the boat to wait 
while she went to bring us a basket of food, and I think it was 
given to Chiko, and no return made. It is sheer kindliness 
that prompts them sometimes, though occasionally people do- 
make presents with a view of getting a larger one in return : 
it is pleasant to find that it is not always so. She had a quiet,, 
dignified manner, both in talking and walking, and I now 
gave her a small looking-glass, and she went and brought 
me her only fowl and a basket of cucumber-seeds, from 
which oil is made; from the amount of oily matter they 
contain they are nutritious when roasted and eaten as nuts. 
She made an apology, saying they were hungry times at 
present. I gave her a cloth, and so parted with Kanangone,- 
or, as her name may be spelled, Kanaiione. The carriers- 
were very useless from hunger, and we could not buy any- 
thing for them for the country is all dried up, and covered 
sparsely with mimosas and thorny acacias. 

14ih May. — I could not get the carriers on more than 
an hour and three-quarters : men tire very soon on empty 
stomachs. We had reached the village of Hassane, opposite 
to a conical hill named Chisulwe, which is on the south side of 
the river, and evidently of igneous origin. It is tree-covered,. 



1866.] TEEEOK OF NATIVES OWING TO MAZITII. 39 

while the granite always shows lumps of naked rock. All 
about lie great patches of beautiful dolomite. It may have 
been formed by baking of the tufa, which in this country 
seems always to have been poured out with water after 
volcanic action. Hassane's daughter was just lifting a pot 
of French beans, boiled in their pods, off the fire when we 
entered the village, these he presented to me, and when I 
invited him to partake, he replied that he was at home 
and would get something, while I was a stranger on a 
journey. He, like all the other headmen, is a reputed 
doctor, and his wife, a stout old lady, a doctoress ; he had 
never married any wife but this one, and he had four 
children, all of whom lived with their parents. We em- 
ployed one of his sons to go to the south side and purchase 
food, sending at the same time some carriers to buy for 
themselves. The siroko and rice bought by Hassane's son 
we deposited with him for the party behind, when they 
should arrive. The amount of terror the Mazitu inspire 
cannot be realized by us. They shake their shields and the 
people fly like stricken deer. I observed that a child would 
not go a few yards for necessary purposes unless grand- 
mother stood in sight. Matumora, as the Arabs call the 
chief at Ngomano, gave them a warm reception, and killed 
several of them : this probably induced them to retire. 

15th and 16th May. — Miserably short marches from 
hunger, and I sympathise with the poor fellows. Those sent 
to buy food for themselves on the south bank were misled 
by a talkative fellow named Chikungu, and went off north, 
where we knew nothing could be had. His object was to get 
paid for three days, while they only loitered here. I suppose 
hunger has taken the spirit out of them ; but I told them 
that a day in which no work was done did not count : they 
admitted this. We pay about two feet of calico per day, and 
a fathom or six feet for three days' carriage. 

17th May. — With very empty stomachs they came on a 



40 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. II. 

few miles and proposed to cross to the south side ; as this 
involved crossing the Loendi too, I at first objected, but in 
hopes that we might get food for them we consented, and 
were taken over in two very small canoes. I sent Ali and 
Musa meanwhile to the south to try and get some food. I got 
a little green sorghum for them and paid them off. These 
are the little troubles of travelling, and scarce worth men- 
tioning. A granitic peak now appears about 1& off, to the 
W.S.W. It is called Chihoka. 

18th May. — At our crossing place metamorphic rocks of a 
chocolate colour stood on edge ; and in the country round 
we have patches of dolomite, sometimes as white as marble. 
The country is all dry ; grass and leaves crisp and yellow. 
Though so arid now, yet the great abundance of the dried 
stalks of a water-loving plant, a sort of herbaceous acacia, 
with green pea-shaped flowers, proves that at other times 
it is damp enough. The marks of people's feet floundering 
in slush, but now baked, show that the country can be 
sloppy. 

The headman of the village where we spent the night of 
17th is a martyr to rheumatism. He asked for medicine, 
and when I gave some he asked me to give it to him out of 
my own hand. He presented me with a basket of siroko and 
of green sorghum as a fee, of which I was very glad, for my 
own party were suffering, and I had to share out the little 
portion of flour I had reserved to myself. 

19 th May. — Coming on with what carriers we could find 
at the crossing place, we reached the confluence without 
seeing it; and Matumora being about two miles up the 
Loendi, we sent over to him for aid. He came over this 
morning early, — a tall, well-made man, with a somewhat 
severe expression of countenance, from a number of wrinkles 
on his forehead. He took us over the Loendi, which is 
decidedly the parent stream of the Eovmna, though that 
as it comes from the west still retains the name Loendi from 



I860.] MATUMOEA'S GEOGRAPHY. 41 

the south- west here, and is from 150 to 200 yards wide, while 
the Rovuma above Matawatawa is from 200 to 250, full of 
islands, rocks, and sandbanks. The Loendi has the same 
character. We can see the confluence from where Ave cross 
about 2' to the north. Both rivers are rapid, shoal, and 
sandy ; small canoes are used on them, and the people pride 
themselves on their skilful management : in this the women 
seem in no way inferior to the men. 

In looking up the Loendi we see a large granitic peak 
called Nkanje, some 20 miles off, and beyond it the dim out- 
line of distant highlands, in which seams of coal are exposed. 
Pieces of the mineral are found in Loendi's sands. 

Matumora has a good character in the country, and 
many flee to him from oppression. He was very polite; 
sitting on the right bank till all the goods were carried 
over, then coming in the same canoe with me himself, 
he opened a fish basket in a weir and gave me the contents, 
and subsequently a little green sorghum. He literally has 
lost all his corn, for he was obliged to flee with his people 
to Marumba, a rocky island in Rovuma, about six miles 
above Matawatawa. He says that both Loendi and Rovuma 
come out of Lake Nyassa ; a boat could not ascend, however, 
because many waterfalls are in their course : it is strange if 
all this is a myth. Matumora asked if the people through 
whose country I had come would preserve the peace I wished. 
He says he has been assailed on all sides by slave-hunters : 
he alone has never hunted for captives : if the people in 
front should attack me he would come and fight them : 
finally he had never seen a European before (Dr. Roscher 
travelled as an Arab), nor could I learn where Likumbu 
at Ngomano lives ; it was with him that Roscher is said to 
have left his goods. 

The Mazitu had women, children, oxen and goats with 
them. The whole tribe lives on plundering the other natives 
by means of the terror their shields inspire ; had they gone 



42 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. II. 

further down the Kovunia, no ox would have survived the 
tsetse. 

20th May. — I paid Ali to his entire satisfaction, and 
entrusted him with a despatch, " No. 2 Geographical," and 
then sent off four men south to buy food. Here we are 
among Matambwe. Two of Matumora's men act as guides. 
We are about 2' south and by west of the confluence 
Ngomano. Lat. 11° 26' 23" S. ; long. 37° 49' 52" E. 

Abraham, one of the Nassick boys, came up and said he 
had been sent by the sepoys, who declared they would come 
no further. It was with the utmost difficulty they had come 
so far, or that the havildar had forced them on, they would 
not obey him — would not get up in the mornings to march ; 
lay in the paths, and gave their pouches and muskets to 
the natives to carry : they make themselves utterly useless. 
The black buffalo is dead ; one camel ditto, and one mule 
left behind ill. Were I not aware of the existence of the 
tsetse, I should say they died from sheer bad treatment 
and hard work. 

I sent a note to be read to the sepoys stating that I had 
seen their disobedience, unwillingness, and skulking, and 
as soon as I received the havildar's formal evidence, I would 
send them back. I regretted parting with the havildar only. 

A leopard came a little after dark while the moon was 
shining, and took away a little dog from among us; it is 
said to have taken off a person a few days ago. 

22nd May. — The men returned with but little food in 
return for much cloth. Matumora is very friendly, but he 
has nothing to give save a little green sorghum, and that 
he brings daily. 

A south wind blows strongly every afternoon. The rains 
ceased about the middle of May, and the temperature is 
lowered. A few heavy night showers closed the rainy 
season. 

2Srd-24dh May. — I took some Lunar observations. 



18C6.] A CAMEL BEATEN TO DEATH. 4B 

25th May. — Matumora is not Ndonde. A chief to the 
south-west of this owns that name and belongs to the 
Matumbwe tribe. 

26th May. — I sent Musa westwards to buy food, and he 
returned on the evening of 27th without success ; he found 
an Arab slave-dealer waiting in the path, who had bought 
up all the provisions. About 11 p.m. we saw two men pass 
our door with two women in a chain ; one man carried fire 
in front, the one behind, a musket. Matumora admits that 
his people sell each other. 

27th May. — The havildar and Abraham came up. Havildar- 
says that all I said in my note was true, and when it was 
read to the sepoys they bewailed their folly, he adds that 
if they were all sent away disgraced, no one would be to^ 
blame but themselves. He brought them to Hassane's, but 
they were useless, though they begged to be kept on: I 
may give them another trial, but at present they are a sad 
incumbrance. South-west of this the Manganja begin ; but 
if one went by them, there is a space beyond in the south- 
west without people. 

The country due west of this is described by all to be so 
mountainous and beset by Mazitu, that there is no possibility 
of passing that way, I must therefore make my way to the 
middle of the Lake, cross over, and then take up my line 
of 1863. 

2nd June, 1866. — The men sent to the Matambwe south- 
east of this returned with a good supply of grain. The 
sepoys won't come; they say they cannot, — a mere excuse,, 
because they tried to prevail on the Nassick boys to go- 
slowly like them, and wear my patience out. They killed 
one camel with the butt ends of their muskets, beating- 
it till it died. I thought of going down disarming them 
all, and taking five or six of the willing ones, but it is 
more trouble than profit, so I propose to start westwards 
on Monday the 4th, or Tuesday the 5th. My sepoys offered 



44 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chai>. II. 

Ali eight rupees to take them to the coast, thus it has 
been a regularly organized conspiracy. 

From the appearance of the cow-buffalo, I fear the tsetse 
is its chief enemy, but there is a place like a bayonet wound 
on its shoulder, and many of the wounds or bruises on the 
camels were so probed that I suspect the sepoys. 

Many things African are possessed of as great vitality in 
their line as the African people. The white ant was im- 
ported accidentally into St. Helena from the coast of Guinea, 
and has committed such ravages in the town of St. James, 
that numerous people have been ruined, and the governor 
calls out for aid against them. In other so-called new 
countries a wave of English weeds follows the tide of 
English emigration, and so with insects; the European 
house-fly chases away the blue-bottle fly in New Zealand. 
Settlers have carried the house-fly in bottles and boxes for 
their new locations, but what European insect will follow 
us and extirpate the tsetse? The Arabs have given the 
Makonde bugs, but we have the house-fly wherever we go> 
the blue-bottle and another like the house-fly, but with a 
sharp proboscis ; and several enormous gad-flies. Here there 
is so much room for everything. In New Zealand the 
Norwegian rat is driven off by even the European mouse ; 
not to mention the Hanoverian rat of Waterton, which is 
lord of the land. The Maori say that " as the white man's 
rat has driven away the native rat, so the European fly 
drives away our own; and as the clover kills our fern, so 
will the Maori disappear before the white man himself." 
The hog placed ashore by Captain Cook has now overrun 
one side of the island, and is such a nuisance that a large 
farmer of 100,000 acres has given sixpence per head for 
the destruction of some 20,000, and without any sensible 
diminution ; this would be no benefit here, for the wild 
hogs abound and do much damage, besides affording food 
for the tsetse : the brutes follow the ewes with young, 



I860.] DEEP REVERENCE IN THE NATIVE MIND. 45 

and devour the poor lambs as soon as they make their 
appearance. 

3rd June. — The cow-buffalo fell down foaming at the 
mouth, and expired. The meat looks fat and nice, and is 
relished by the people, a little glariness seemed to be 
present on the foreleg, and I sometimes think that, not- 
withstanding the dissimilarity of the symptoms observed 
in the camels and buffaloes now, and those we saw in 
oxen and horses, the evil may be the tsetse, after all, 
but they have been badly used, without a doubt. The calf 
has a cut half an inch deep, the camels have had large 
ulcers, and at last a peculiar smell, which portends death. 
I feel perplexed, and not at all certain as to the real causes 
of death. 

I asked Matumora if the Matambwe believed in God, he 
replied, that he did not know Him, and I was not to ask the 
people among whom I was going if they prayed to Him 7 
because they would imagine that I wished them to be killed. 
I told him that we loved to speak about Him, &c. He said, 
when they prayed they offered a little meal and then prayed, 
but did not know much about Him. 

They have all great reverence for the Deity, and the deli- 
berate way in which they say "We don't know Him" is 
to prevent speaking irreverently, as that may injure the 
country. The name is "Muiungu": Makochera afterwards 
said, that " He was not good, because He killed so many 
people." 

Aih June. — Left Ngomano. I was obliged to tell the 
Nassick boys that they must either work or return, it 
was absurd to have them eating up our goods, and not even 
carrying their own things, and I would submit to it no more : 
five of them carry bales, and two the luggage of the rest. 
Abraham and Bichard are behind. I gave them bales to 
carry, and promised them ten rupees per month, to begin 
on this date. Abraham has worked hard all along, and his 



46 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. II. 

pay may be due from 7th April, the day we started from 
Kindany. 

5ih June. — We slept at a village called Lamba, on the 
banks of the Rovuma, near a brawling torrent of 150 yards, 
or 200 perhaps, with many islands and rocks in it. The 
¦country is covered with open forest, with patches of cultiva- 
tion everywhere, but all dried up at present and withered, 
partly from drought and partly from the cold of winter. 
We passed a village with good ripe sorghum cut down, 
and the heads or ears all laid neatly in a row, this is to 
.get it dried in the sun, and not shaken out by the wind, 
by waving to and fro ; besides it is also more easily 
watched from being plundered by birds. The sorghum 
occasionally does not yield seed, and is then the Sorghum 
saccharatum, for the stalk contains abundance of sugar, and 
is much relished by the natives. Now that so much has 
failed to yield seed, being indeed just in flower, the stalks 
.are chewed as if sugar-cane, and the people are fat thereon ; 
but the hungry time is in store when these stalks are 
all done. They make the best provision in their power 
-against famine by planting beans and maize in moist spots. 
The common native pumpkin forms a bastard sort in the 
same way, but that is considered very inferior. 

6th June. — Great hills of granite are occasionally in 
sight towards the north, but the trees, though scraggy, 
-close in the view. We left a village, called Mekosi, and 
soon came to a slaving party by a sand stream. They said 
that they had bought two slaves, but they had run away 
from them, and asked us to remain with them; more 
•civil than inviting. We came on to Makochera, the prin- 
cipal headman in this quarter, and found him a merry 
laughing mortal, without any good looks to recommend his 
genial smile, — low forehead, covered with deep wrinkles; 
flat nose, somewhat of the Assyrian shape; a big mouth 
and lean body. He complained of the Machinga (a Waiyau 



1866.] RICHARD FALLS OUT OF THE MARCH. 47 

tribe north of him and the Rovuma) stealing his people. 
Lat. of village, 11° 22' 49" S. The river being about 2' north, 
still shows that it makes a trend to the north after we pass 
Ngoniano. Makochera has been an elephant hunter. Few 
acknowledge as a reason for slaving that sowing and spinning 
cotton for clothing is painful. I waited some days for the 
Nassick boys, who are behind, though we could not buy any 
food except at enormous prices and long distances off. 
! 1th June. — The havildar and two sepoys came up with 
Abraham, but Richard, a Nassick boy, is still behind from 
weakness. I sent three off to help him with the only 
¦cordials we could muster. The sepoys sometimes profess 
inability to come on, but it is unwillingness to encounter 
hardship : I must move on whether they come or not, for 
we cannot obtain food here. I sent the sepoys some cloth, 
and on the 8th proposed to start, but every particle of food 
had been devoured the night before, so we despatched two 
parties to scour the country round, and give any price rather 
than want. 

I could not prevail on Makochera to give me a specimen 
of poetry ; he was afraid, neither he nor his forefathers 
had ever seen an Englishman. He thought that God was 
not good because He killed so many people. Dr. Eoscher 
must have travelled as an Arab if he came this way, for he 
was not known.* 

9th June. — We now left and marched through the same 
sort of forest, gradually ascending in altitude as we went 
west, then we came to huge masses of granite, or syenite, 
with flakes peeling off. They are covered with a plant 
with grassy-looking leaves and rough stalk which strips 
into portions similar to what are put round candles as orna- 



* It will be remembered tbat this German traveller was murdered near 
Lake Xyassa. The native chiefs denounced his assassins, and sent them 
to Zanzibar, where they were executed. — Ed. 



48 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. II. 

nients. It makes these hills look light grey, with patches 
of black rock at the more perpendicular parts ; the same 
at about ten miles off look dark blue. The ground is 
often hard and stony, but all covered over with grass and 
plants : looking down at it, the grass is in tufts, and like 
that on the Kalahari desert. Trees show uplands. One 
tree of which bark cloth is made, pterocarpus, is abundant. 
Timber-trees appear here and there, but for the most part 
the growth is stunted, and few are higher than thirty feet. 
We spent the night by a hill of the usual rounded form, 
called Njengo. The Eovuma comes close by, but leaves 
us again to wind among similar great masses. Lat. 
11° 20' 05" S. 

10th June. — A very heavy march through the same kind 
of country, no human habitation appearing ; we passed 
a dead body — recently, it was said, starved to death. The 
large tract between Makochera's and our next station at 
Ngozo hill is without any perennial stream ; water is found 
often by digging in the sand streams which we several 
times crossed; sometimes it was a trickling rill, but I 
suspect that at other seasons all is dry, and people are 
made dependent on the Eovuma alone. The first evidence 
of our being near the pleasant haunts of man was a nice 
little wonian drawing water at a well. I had become 
separated from the rest ; on giving me water she knelt 
doAvn, and, as country manners require, held it up to me 
with both hands. I had been misled by one of the carriers, 
who got confused, though the rounded mass of Ngozo was 
plainly visible from the heights we crossed east of it. 

An Arab party bolted on hearing of our approach : they 
don't trust the English, and this conduct increases our im- 
portance among the natives. Lat. 11° 18' 10" S. 

11th June. — Our carriers refuse to go further, because 
they say that they fear being captured here on their return. 

12th June. — I paid off the carriers, and wait for a set 



1866.] THE MATAMBWE. 40 

from this. A respectable man, called Makoloya, or Impande, 
visited me, and wished to ask some questions as to where I 
was going, and how long I should be away. He had heard 
from a man who came from Ibo, or Wibo, about the Bible, 
a large book which was consulted. 

13th June. — Makoloya brought his wife and a little corn, 
and says that his father told him that there is a God, but 
nothing more. The marks on their foreheads and bodies are 
meant only to give beauty in the dance, they seem a sort 
of heraldic ornament, for they can at once tell by his tattoo 
to what tribe or portion of tribe a man belongs. The tattoo 
or tembo of the Matambwe and Upper Makonde very much 
resembles the drawings of the old Egyptians; wavy lines, 
such as the ancients made to signify water, trees and gardens 
enclosed in squares, seem to have been meant of old for the 
inhabitants who lived on the Eovuma, and cultivated also, 
the son takes the tattoo of his father, and thus it has been 
perpetuated, though the meaning now appears lost. The 



i Mis ^y^Mmw it 









Tattoo of Matambwe. 



Makoa have the half or nearly full moon, but it is, they 
say, all for ornament. Some blue stuff is rubbed into the 
cuts (I am told it is charcoal), and the ornament shows 
VOL. I. e 




50 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. II. 

brightly in persons of light complexion, who by the bye are 
common. The Makonde and Matambwe file their front teeth 
to points; the Machinga, a Waiyau 
tribe, leave two points on the sides 
of the front teeth, and knock out one 
of the middle incisors above and 

Machinga and Waiyau Teeth. -i i 

lAth June. — I am now as much dependent on carriers as if 
I had never bought a beast of burden — but this is poor stuff 
to fill a journal with. We started off to Metaba to see if 
the chief there would lend some men. The headman, Kit- 
wanga, went a long way to convoy us; then turned, saying 
he was going to get men for Musa next clay. We passed 
near the base of the rounded masses Ngozo and Mekanga,, 
and think, from a near inspection, that they are over 200O 
feet above the plain, possibly 3000 feet, and nearly bare,, 
with only the peculiar grassy plant on some parts which 
are not too perpendicular. The people are said to have 
stores of grain on them, and on one the chief said there is 
water ; he knows of no stone buildings of the olden time in 
the country. We passed many masses of ferruginous conglo- 
merate, and I noticed that most of the gneiss dips westwards. 
The stria? seem as if the rock had been partially molten : at 
times the strike is north and south, at others east and west ; 
Avhen Ave come to what may have been its surface, it is as- 
if the striae had been stirred with a rod while soft. 

We slept at a point of the Eovuma, above a cataract where* 
a reach of comparatively still water, from 150 to 200 yards 
wide, allows a school of hippopotami to live : when the 
river becomes fordable in many places, as it is said to do 
in August and September, they must find it difficult to 
exist. 

15th June. — Another three hours' march brought us from 
the sleeping-place on the Eovuma to Metaba, the chief of 
which, Kinazombe, is an elderly man, with a cunning and 



1866.] SUFFERINGS OF THE SLAVE TRANSIT. 51 

severe cast of countenance, and a nose Assyrian in type ; he 
lias built a large reception house, in which a number of half- 
caste Arabs have taken up their abode. A great many of the 
people have guns, and it is astonishing to see the number 
of slave-taming sticks abandoned along the road as the poor 
wretches gave in, and professed to have lost all hope of 
escape. Many huts have been built by the Arabs to screen 
themselves from the rain as they travelled. At Kinazombe's 
the second crop of maize is ready, so the hunger will not be 
very much felt. 

16th June. — We heard very sombre accounts of the 
country in front : — four or five days to Mtarika, and then 
ten days through jungle to Mataka's town : little food at Mta- 
rika's, but plenty with Mataka, who is near the Lake. The 
Eovuma trends southerly after we leave Ngozo, and Masusa 
on that river is pointed out as south-west from Metaba, so at 
Xgozo the river may be said to have its furthest northing. 
Masusa is reported to be five days, or at least fifty miles, 
from Metaba. The route now becomes south-west. 

The cattle of Africa are like the Indian buffalo, only 
partially tamed; they never give their milk without the 
presence of the calf or its stuffed skin, the " fulchan." The 
women adjacent to Mozambique partake a little of the wild 
animal's nature, for, like most members of the inferior 
races of animals, they refuse all intercourse Avith their 
husbands when enceinte and they continue this for about 
three years afterwards, or until the child is weaned, which 
usually happens about the third year. I was told, on most 
respectable authority, that many fine young native men 
marry one wife and live happily with her till this period ; 
nothing will then induce her to continue to cohabit with 
him, and, as the separation is to continue for three years, 
the man is almost compelled to take up with another wife : 
this was mentioned to me as one of the great evils of 
society. The same absurdity prevails on the West Coast, 

e 2 



52 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. II. 

and there it is said that the men acquiesce from ideas of 
purity. 

It is curious that trade-rum should form so important an 
article of import on the West Coast while it is almost unknown 
on the East Coast, for the same people began the commerce in 
both instances. If we look north of Cape Delgado, we might 
imagine that the religious convictions of the Arabs had 
something to do with the matter, but the Portuguese south 
of Cape Delgado have no scruples in the matter, and would 
sell their grandfathers as well as the rum if they could make 
money by the transaction, they have even erected distilleries 
to furnish a vile spirit from the fruit of the cashew and other 
fruits and grain, but the trade does not succeed. They give 
their slaves also rewards of spirit, or " mata bicho " (" kill the 
creature," or " craving within "), and you may meet a man 
who, having had much intercourse with Portuguese, may 
beg spirits, but the trade does not pay. The natives will 
drink it if furnished gratis. The indispensable " dash " of 
rum on the West Coast in every political transaction with 
independent chiefs is, however, quite unknown. The Mos- 
lems would certainly not abstain from trading in spirits 
were the trade profitable. They often asked for brandy from 
me in a sly way — as medicine ; and when reminded that 
their religion forbade it, would say, " Oh, but we can drink 
it in secret." 

It is something in the nature of the people quite in- 
explicable, that throughout the Makonde country hernia 
humoralis prevails to a frightful extent; it is believed by 
the natives to be the result of beer drinking, so they 
cannot be considered as abstemious. 

18th June. — Finding that Musa did not come up with 
the goods I left in his charge, and fearing that all was 
not right, we set off with all our hands who could carry, 
after service yesterday morning, and in six hours' hard 
tramp arrived here just in time, for a tribe of Wanindi, or 



I860.] THE NASSICK BOY RICHARD DIES. 53 

Manindi, who are either Ajawas (Waiyau),* or pretended 
Mazitu, had tried to cross the Eovuma from the north bank. 
They came as plunderers, and Musa having received no 
assistance was now ready to defend the goods. A shot or 
two from the people of Kitwanga made the Wanindi desert 
after they had entered the water. 

Six sepoys and Simon had come up this length ; Reuben 
and Mabruki reported Richard to be dead. This poor boy 
was left with the others at Liponde, and I never saw him 
again. I observed him associating too much with the sepoys ; 
and often felt inclined to reprove him, as their conversation 
is usually very bad, but I could not of my own knowledge 
say so. He came on with the others as far as Hassane or 
Pachassane : there he was too weak to come further, and 
as the sepoys were notoriously skulkers, I feared that poor 
Richard was led away by them, for I knew that they had 
made many attempts to draw away the other Nassick boys 
from their duty. "When, however, Abraham came up and 
reported Richard left behind by the sepoys, I became 
alarmed, and sent off three boys with cordials to help him 
on : two days after Abraham left he seems to have died, 
and I feel very sorry that I was not there to do what I could. 
I am told now that he never consented to the sepoy tempta- 
tion : he said to Abraham that he wished he were dead, he 
was so much troubled. The people Avhere he died were not 
very civil to Simon. 

The sepoys had now made themselves such an utter 
nuisance that I felt that I must take the upper hand with 
them, so I called them up this morning, and asked if they 
knew the punishment they had incurred by disobeying 
orders, and attempting to tamper with the Nassick boys to 



* Further -westward amongst the Manganja or Nyassa people the Waiyau 
tribe is called " Ajawa," and we find Livingstone always speaking of them 
as Ajawas in his previous explorations on the River Rovuma. (See ' The 
Zambesi and its Tributaries.') — Ed. 



54 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. II. 

turn them back. I told them they not only remained in the 
way when ordered to march, but offered eight rupees to Ali 
to lead them to the coast, and that the excuse of sickness 
was nought, for they had eaten heartily three meals a day 
while pretending illness. They had no excuse to offer, so 
I disrated the naik or corporal, and sentenced the others to 
carry loads ; if they behave well, then they will get fatigue 
pay for doing fatigue duty, if ill, nothing but their pay. 
Their limbs are becoming contracted from sheer idleness ; 
while all the other men are well and getting stronger they 
alone are disreputably slovenly and useless-looking. Their 
filthy habits are to be reformed, and if found at their habit 
of sitting down and sleeping for hours on the march, or 
without their muskets and pouches, they are to be flogged. 
I sent two of them back to bring up two comrades, left 
behind yesterday. All who have done work are compara- 
tively strong. 

[We may venture a word in passing on the subject of 
native recruits, enlisted for service in Africa, and who return 
thither after a long absence. All the Nassick boys were 
native-born Africans, and yet we see one of them succumb 
immediately. The truth is that natives, under these cir- 
cumstances, are just as liable to the effects of malaria on 
landing as Europeans, although it is not often that fever 
assumes a dangerous form in such cases. The natives of the 
interior have the greatest dread of the illnesses which they 
say are sure to be in store for them if they visit the coast.] 

19th June. — I gave the sepoys light loads in order to inure 
them to exercise and strengthen them, and they carried 
willingly so long as the fright was on them, but when the 
fear of immediate punishment wore off they began their 
skulking again. One, Perim, reduced his load of about 
20 lbs. of tea by throwing away the lead in which it was 



1866.] A SORROW IN AMBUSH. 56 

rolled, and afterwards about 15 lbs. of tlie tea, thereby 
¦diminishing our stock to 5 lbs. 

[Dr. Livingstone's short stay in England in 1864r-5 was 
mainly taken up with compiling an account of his travels 
on the Zambesi and Shire : during this time his mother 
expired in Scotland at a good old age. When he went back 
to Africa he took with him, as part of his very scanty 
travelling equipment, a number of letters which he received 
from friends at different times in England, and he very often 
quoted them when he had an opportunity of sending letters 
home. We come to an entry at this time which shows that 
an these reminiscences he had not thus preserved an unmixed 
pleasure. He says : — ] 

I lighted on a telegram to-day : — 

" Your mother died at noon on the 18th June." 
This was in 1865 : it affected me not a little. 



( 56 ) 



CHAPTEE III. 

Horrors of the slave-trader's track. System of cultivation. Pottery. 
Special exorcising. Death of the last mule. .Rescue of Chirikaloma's 
wife. Brutalities of the slave-drivers. Mtarika's. Desperate march 
to Mtaka's. Meets Arab caravans. Dismay of slavers. Dismissal of 
sepoys. Mataka. The Waiyau metropolis. Great hospitality and 
good feeling. Mataka restores stolen cattle. Life with the chief. 
Beauty of country and healthiness of climate. The Waiyau people 
and their peculiarities. Regrets at the abandonment of Bishop Mac- 
kenzie's plans. 

19^ June, 1866. — We passed a woman tied by the neck 
to a tree and dead, the people of the country explained 
that she had been unable to keep up with the other slaves 
in a gang, and her master had determined that she should 
not become the property of anyone else if she recovered 
after resting for a time. I may mention here that we saw 
others tied up in a similar manner, and one lying in the 
path shot or stabbed,* for she was in a pool of blood. The 
explanation we got invariably was that the Arab who owned 
these victims was enraged at losing his money by the slaves 
becoming unable to march, and vented his spleen by murder- 
ing them ; but I have nothing more than common report in 
support of attributing this enormity to the Arabs. 

20th June. — Having returned to Metaba, we were told 
by Kinazombe, the chief, that no one had grain to sell but 



* There is a double purpose in these murders; the terror inspired in 
the minds of the survivors spurs them on to endure the hardships of the 
march : the Portuguese drovers are quite alive to the merits of this 
stimulus. — Ed. 



1866.] MOTHER'S DEVOTION TO SICK CHILD. 57 

himself. He had plenty of powder and common cloth from 
the Arabs, and our only chance with him was parting with 
our finer cloths and other things that took his fancy. He 
magnified the scarcity in front in order to induce us to buy 
all we could from him, but he gave me an ample meal of 
porridge and guinea-fowl before starting. 

21st June. — We had difficulties about carriers, but on 
reaching an island in the Kovuma, called Chimiki, we found 
the people were Makoa and more civil and willing to work 
than the Waiyau : we sent men back to bring up the 
havildar to a very civil headman called Chirikaloma. 

22nd June. — A poor little boy with prolapsus ani was 
carried yesterday by his mother many a weary mile, lying 
over her right shoulder — the only position he could find 
ease in, — an infant at the breast occupied the left arm, and 
on her head were carried two baskets. The mother's love 
was seen in binding up the part when we halted, whilst the 
coarseness of low civilization was evinced in the laugh with 
which some black brutes looked at the sufferer. 

23rd June. — The country is covered with forest, much 
more open than further east. We are now some 800 feet 
above the sea. The people all cultivate maize near the 
Rovuma, and on islands where moisture helps them, nearly 
all possess guns, and plenty of poAvder and fine beads, — red 
ones strung on the hair, and fine blue ones in rolls on the 
neck, fitted tightly like soldiers' stocks. The lip-ring is 
universal ; teeth filed to points. 

24th June. — Immense quantities of wood are cut down, 
collected in heaps, and burned to manure the land, but this 
does not prevent the country having an appearance of forest. 
Divine service at 8.30 a.m. ; great numbers looking on. They 
have a clear idea of the Supreme Being, but do not pray to 
Him. Cold south winds prevail ; temp. 55°. One of the mules 
is very ill — it was left with the havildar when we went back 
to Ngozo, and probably remained uncovered at night, for as 



58 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. III. 

•soon as we saw it, illness was plainly visible. Whenever an 
.animal has been in their power the sepoys have abused it. 
It is difficult to feel charitably to fellows whose scheme seems 
to have been to detach the Nassick boys from me first, 
then, when the animals were all killed, the Johanna men, 
.afterwards they could rule me as they liked, or go back and 
leave me to perish ; but I shall try to feel as charitably as I 
-can in spite of it all, for the mind has a strong tendency to 
brood over the ills of travel. I told the havildar when I 
¦came up to him at Metaba what I had done, and that I was 
very much displeased with the sepoys for compassing my 
failure, if not death ; an unkind word had never passed my 
lips to them : to this he could bear testimony. He thought 
that they would only be a plague and trouble to me, but he 
" would go on and die with me." 

Stone boiling is unknown in these countries, but ovens are 
made in anthills. Holes are dug in the ground for baking 
the heads of large game, as the zebra, feet of elephants, 
humps of rhinoceros, and the production of fire by drilling 
between the palms of the hands is universal. It is quite 
common to see the sticks so used attached to the clothing 
•or bundles in travelling ; they wet the blunt end of the 
upright stick with the tongue, and dip it in the sand to 
make some particles of silica adhere before inserting it in 
the horizontal piece. The wood of a certain wild fig-tree is 
¦esteemed as yielding fire readily. 

In wet weather they prefer to carry fire in the dried 
balls of elephants' dung which are met with — the male's 
being about eight inches in diameter and about a foot long : 
"they also employ the stalk of a certain plant which grows 
on rocky places for the same purpose. 

We bought a senze, or Aulaeaudatus Swindemianus, which 
had been dried over a slow fire. This custom of drying fish, 
flesh, and fruits, on stages over slow fires, is practised very 
generally: the use of salt for preservation is unknown. 



18CC] NATIVE POTTERIES. 59 

Besides stages for drying, the Makonde use thern about six 
feet liigk for sleeping on instead of the damp ground: a 
fire beneath helps to keep off the mosquitoes, and they are 
used by day as convenient resting-places and for observation. 

Pottery seems to have been known to the Africans from 
the remotest times, for fragments are found everywhere, 
•even among the oldest fossil bones in the country. Their 
pots for cooking, holding water and beer, are made by the 
women, and the form is preserved by the eye alone, for no 
sort of machine is ever used. A foundation or bottom is first 
laid, and a piece of bone or bamboo used to scrape the clay 
or to smooth over the pieces which are added to increase 
the roundness ; the vessel is then left a night : the next 
morning a piece is added to the rim — as the air is dry 
several rounds may be added — and all is then carefully 
smoothed off; afterwards it is thoroughly sun-dried. A 
light fire of dried cow-dung, or corn-stalks, or straw, and 
grass with twigs, is made in a hole in the ground for the 
final baking. Ornaments are made on these pots of black 
lead, or before being hardened by the sun they are orna- 
mented for a couple or three inches near the rim, all the 
tracery being in imitation of plaited basket work. 

Chirikaloma says that the surname of the Makoa, to whom 
he belongs, is Mirazi — others have the surname Melola or 
Malola — Chimposola. All had the half-moon mark when in 
the south-east, but now they leave it off a good deal and 
adopt the Waiyau marks, because of living in their country. 
They show no indications of being named after beasts and 
birds. Mirazi was an ancestor ; they eat all clean animals, 
but refuse the hyeena, leopard, or any beast that devours 
dead men.* 

* A tribal distinction turns on the customs prevailing with respect to 
animal food, e.g. one tribe will eat the elephant, the next looks on such 
flesh as unclean, and so with other meat. The neighbouring Manganja 
gladly eat the leopard and hytena. — Ed. 



60 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. III. 

25th June. — On leaving Cliirikaloma we came on to 
Namalo, whose village that morning had been deserted, the 
people moving off in a body towards the Matambwe country, 
where food is more abundant. A poor little girl was left in 
one of the huts from being too weak to walk, probably an 
orphan. The Arab slave-traders flee from the path as soon 
as they hear of our approach. The Eovuma is from 56 to SO 
yards wide here. No food to be had for either love or 
money. 

Near many of the villages we observe a wand bent and 
both ends inserted into the ground: a lot of medicine, 
usually the bark of trees, is buried beneath it. When sick- 
ness is in a village, the men proceed to the spot, wash them- 
selves with the medicine and water, creep through beneath 
the bough, then bury the medicine and the evil influence 
together. This is also used to keep off evil spirits, wild 
beasts, and enemies. 

Chirikaloma told us of a child in his tribe which was 
deformed from his birth. He had an abortive toe where 
his knee should have been ; some said to his mother, " Kill 
him;" but she replied, "How can I kill my son?" He 
grew up and had many fine sons and daughters, but none 
deformed like himself: this was told in connection with an 
answer to my question about the treatment of Albinoes : 
he said they did not kill them, but they never grew to 
manhood. On inquiring if he had ever heard of cannibals, 
or people with tails, he replied, " Yes, but we have always 
understood that these and other monstrosities are met with 
only among you sea-going people." The other monstrosities 
he referred to were those who are said to have eyes behind 
the head as well as in front : I have heard of them before, 
but then I was near Angola, in the west. 

The rains are expected here when the Pleiades appear in 
the east soon after sunset ; they go by the same name here 
as further south — Lemila or the " hoeings." 



1806.] CHIEIKALOMA APPEALS TO THE DOCTOR. 01 

In the route along the Kovuina, we pass among people 
who are so well supplied with white calico by the slave- 
trade from Kilwa, that it is quite a drug in the market : we 
cannot get food for it. If we held on westwards we should 
cross several rivers flowing into the Eovuma from the south- 
ward, as the Zandulo, the Sanjenze, the Lochiringo, and then, 
in going round the north end of Nyassa, we should pass 
among the Nmdi, who now inhabit the parts vacated by 
the Mazitu, and imitate them in having shields and in 
marauding. An Arab party went into their country, and got 
out again only by paying a whole bale of calico ; it would not 
be wise in me to venture there at present, but if we return 
this way we may ; meanwhile we shall push on to Mataka, 
who is only a few days off from the middle of the Lake, and 
has abundance of provisions. 

26th June. — My last mule died. In coming along in 
the morning we were loudly accosted by a well-dressed 
woman who had just had a very heavy slave-taming stick 
put on her neck ; she called in such an authoritative tone to 
us to witness the flagrant injustice of which she was the 
victim that all the men stood still and went to hear the case. 
She was a near relative of Chirikaloma, and was going up 
the river to her husband, when the old man (at whose house 
she was now a prisoner) caught her, took her servant away 
from her, and kept her in the degraded state we saw. The 
withes with which she was bound were green and sappy. 
The old man said in justification that she was running away 
from Chirikaloma, and he would be offended with him if he 
did not secure her. 

I asked the officious old gentleman in a friendly tone 
what he expected to receive from Chirikaloma, and he said, 
" Nothing." Several slaver - looking fellows came about, 
and I felt sure that the woman had been seized in order 
to sell her to them, so I gave the captor a cloth to pay 
to Chirikaloma if he were offended, and told him to say 



62 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. IIL 

that I, feeling ashamed to see one of his relatives in a 
slave-stick, had released her, and would take her on to her 
husband. 

She is evidently a lady among them, having many fine 
beads and some strung on elephant's hair : she has a good 
deal of spirit too, for on being liberated she went into the 
old man's house and took her basket and calabash. A 
virago of a wife shut the door and tried to prevent her, 
as well as to cut off the beads from her person, but she 
resisted like a good one, and my men thrust the door open 
and let her out, but minus her slave. The other wife — 
for old officious had two — joined her sister in a furious tirade 
of abuse, the elder holding her sides in regular fishwife 
fashion till I burst into a laugh, in which the younger wife 
joined. I explained to the different headmen in front of this 
village what I had done, and sent messages to Chirikaloma 
explanatory of my friendly deed to his relative, so that no 
misconstruction should be put on my act. 

We passed a slave woman shot or stabbed through the 
body and lying on the path : a group of men stood about a 
hundred yards off on one side, and another of women on the 
other side, looking on ; they said an Arab who passed early 
that morning had done it in anger at losing the price he 
had given for her, because she was unable to walk any 
longer. 

21th June. — To-day we came upon a man dead from star- 
vation, as he was very thin. One of our men wandered and 
found a number of slaves with slave-sticks on, abandoned 
by their master from want of food ; they were too weak to 
be able to speak or say where they had come from; some 
were quite young. We crossed the Tulosi, a stream coming 
from south, about twenty yards wide. 

At Chenjewala's the people are usually much startled 
when I explain that the numbers of slaves we see dead on 
the road have been killed partly by those who sold them, 



1866.] A MARAUDING PARTY. 63- 

for I tell them that if they sell their fellows, they are- 
like the man who holds the victim while the Arab performs- 
the murder. 

Chenjewala blamed Machemba, a chief above him on 
the Kovunia, for encouraging the slave-trade; I told him 
I had travelled so much among them that I knew all the- 
excuses they could make, each headman blamed some one- 
else. 

" It would be better if you kept your people and cultivated 
more largely," said I, " Oh, Machemba sends his men and 
robs our gardens after we have cultivated," was the reply - 
One man said that the Arabs who come and tempt them 
with fine clothes are the cause of their selling: this was 
childish, so I told them they would very soon have none to 
sell : their country was becoming jungle, and all their people 
who did not die in the road would be making gardens for 
Arabs at Kilwa and elsewhere. 

28th June. — When we got about an hour from Chen- 
jewala's we came to a party in the act of marauding ; the- 
owners of the gardens made off for the other side of the 
river, and waved to us to go against the people of Machemba,. 
but we stood on a knoll with all our goods on the ground, 
and waited to see how matters would turn out. Two of the 
marauders came to us and said they had captured five people. 
I suppose they took us for Arabs, as they addressed Musa. 
They then took some green maize, and so did some of my 
people, believing that as all was going, they who were really 
starving might as well have a share. 

I went on a little way with the two marauders, and by the 
footprints thought the whole party might amount to four 
or five with guns ; the gardens and huts were all deserted. 
A poor woman was sitting, cooking green maize, and one 
of the men ordered her to follow him. I said to him, 
" Let her alone, she is dying." " Yes," said he, " of hunger," 
and went on without her. 



64 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. III. 

We passed village after village, and gardens all deserted ! 
We were now between two contending parties. We slept 
at one garden ; and as we were told by Chenjewala's people 
to take what we liked, and my men had no food, we gleaned 
what congo beans, bean leaves, and sorghum stalks we could, 
— poor fare enough, but all we could get. 

29th June. — We came on to Machemba's brother, Chimseia, 
who gave us food at once. The country is now covered 
with deeper soil, and many large acacia-trees grow in the 
rich loam : the holms too are large, and many islands 
afford convenient maize grounds. One of the Nassick lads 
came up and reported his bundle, containing 240 yards 
of "calico, had been stolen ; he went aside, leaving it on the 
path (probably fell asleep), and it was gone when he came 
back. I cannot impress either on them or the sepoys that 
it is wrong to sleep on the march. 

Akosakone, whom we had liberated, now arrived at 
the residence of her husband, who was another brother of 
Machemba. She behaved like a lady all through, sleeping 
at a fire apart from the men. The ladies of the different 
villages we passed condoled with her, and she related to 
them the indignity that had been done to her. Besides this 
she did us many services : she bought food for us, because, 
having a good address, we saw that she could get double 
what any of our men could purchase for the same cloth; 
she spoke up for us when any injustice was attempted, and, 
when we were in want of carriers, volunteered to carry a bag 
of beads on her head. On arriving at Machemba's brother, 
Chimseia, she introduced me to him, and got him to be 
liberal to us in food on account of the service we had 
rendered to her. She took leave of us all with many 
expressions of thankfulness, and we were glad that we 
had not mistaken her position or lavished kindness on the 
undeserving. 

One Johanna man was caught stealing maize, then another, 



1866.] TERRIBLE SIGHTS ON THE SLAVE PATH. 65 

after I had paid for the first. I sent a request to the chief 
not to make much of a grievance about it, as I was very much 
ashamed at my men stealing ; he replied that he had liked 
me from the first, and I was not to fear, as whatever service 
he could do he would most willingly in order to save me 
pain and trouble. A sepoy now came up having given his 
musket to a man to carry, who therefore demanded payment. 
As it had become a regular nuisance for the sepoys to employ 
people to carry for them, telling them that I would pay, I 
demanded why he had promised in my name. " Oh, it was 
but a little way he carried the musket," said he. Chimseia 
warned us next morning, 30th June, against allowing any one 
to straggle or steal in front, for stabbing and plundering 
were the rule. The same sepoy who had employed a man to 
carry his musket now came forward, Avith his eyes fixed and 
shaking all over. This, I was to understand, meant extreme 
weakness ; but I had accidentally noticed him walking quite 
smartly before this exhibition, so I ordered him to keep 
close to the donkey that carried the havildar's luggage, 
and on no account to remain behind the party. He told 
the havildar that he would sit down only for a little while ; 
and, I suppose, fell asleep, for he came up to us in the 
evening as naked as a robin. 

I saw another person bound to a tree and dead — a sad 
sight to see, whoever was the perpetrator. So many 
slave-sticks lie along our path, that I suspect the people 
here-about make a practice of liberating what slaves 
they can find abandoned on the march, to sell them 
again. 

A large quantity of maize is cultivated at Chimsaka's, at 
whose place we this day arrived. We got a supply, but- 
being among thieves, we thought it advisable to move on to 
the next place (Mtarika's). When starting, we found that 
fork, kettle, pot, and shot-pouch had been taken. The 
thieves, I observed, kept up a succession of jokes with 

VOL. I. F 



G6 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOUENALS. [Chap. III. 

Ckuma and Wikatani and when the latter was enjoying 
them, gaping to the sky, they were busy putting the 
things of which he had charge under their cloths! I 
spoke to the chief, and he got the three first articles back 
for me. 

A great deal if not all the lawlessness of this quarter is 
the result of the slave-trade, for the Arabs buy whoever 
is brought to them and in a country covered with forest 
as this is, kidnapping can be prosecuted with the greatest 
ease; elsewhere the people are honest, and have a regard 
for justice. 

1st July, 1866. — As we approach Mtarika's place, the 
country becomes more mountainous and the land sloping 
for a mile down to the south bank of the Rovuma supports 
a large population. Some were making new gardens by 
cutting down trees and piling the branches for burning;, 
others had stored up large quantities of grain and were 
moving it to a new locality, but they were all so well 
supplied with calico (Merikano) that they would not look at 
ours : the market was in fact glutted by slavers from (Quiloa) 
Kilwa. On asking why people were seen tied to trees to die 
as we had seen them, they gave the usual answer that the 
Arabs tie them thus and leave them to perish, because they 
are vexed, when the slaves can walk no further, that they 
have lost their money by them. The path is almost strewed! 
with slave-sticks, and though the people denied it, I suspect 
that they make a practice of following slave caravans and 
cutting off the sticks from those who fall out in the march, 
and thus stealing them. By selling them again they get 
the quantities of cloth we see. Some asked for gaudy prints, 
of which we had none, because we knew that the general 
taste of the Africans of the Interior is for strength rather 
than show in what they buy. 

The Eovuma here is about 100 yards broad, and still keeps 
up its character of a rapid stream, with sandy banks and 



1866.] GREAT SCARCITY OF FOOD. 67 

islands : the latter are generally occupied, as being defen- 
sible when the river is in flood. 

2nd July, 1866. — We rested at Mtarika's old place ; and 
though we had to pay dearly with our best table-cloths * for 
it, we got as much as made one meal a day. At the same 
dear rate we could give occasionally only two ears of maize 
to each man ; and if the sepoys got their comrades' corn into 
their hands, they eat it without shame. We had to bear a 
vast amount of staring, for the people, who are Waiyau, have 
a great deal of curiosity, and are occasionally rather rude. 
They have all heard of our wish to stop the slave-trade, 
and are rather taken aback when told that by selling they 
are art and part guilty of the mortality of which we had 
been unwilling spectators. Some were dumbfounded when 
shown that in the eye of their Maker they are parties to 
the destruction of human life which accompanies this traffic 
both by sea and land. If they did not sell, the Arabs would 
not come to buy. Chuma and Wakatani render what is 
said very eloquently in Chiyau, most of the people being 
of their tribe, with only a sprinkling of slaves. Chimseia, 
Chimsaka, Mtarika, Mtehde, Makanjela, Mataka, and all the 
chiefs and people in our route to the Lake, are Waiyau, or 
Waiau.f 

On the southern slope down to the river there are many 
oozing springs and damp spots where rice has been sown 
and reaped. The adjacent land has yielded large crops of 
sorghum, congo-beans, and pumpkins. Successive crowds of 
people came to gaze. My appearance and acts often cause a 
burst of laughter; sudden standing up produces a flight of 
women and children. To prevent peeping into the hut 
which I occupy, and making the place quite dark, I do 
my writing in the verandah. Chitane', the poodle dog, the 



* A coloured cloth manufactured expressly for barter in East Africa. 
f This is pronounced " Y-yow." — Ed. 

F 2 



68 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOUENALS. [Chap. III. 

buffalo-calf, and our only remaining donkey are greeted 
with the same amount of curiosity and laughter-exciting 
comment as myself. 

Every evening a series of loud musket reports is heard 
from the different villages along the river ; these are imi- 
tation evening guns. All copy the Arabs in dress and 
chewing tobacco with " nora " lime, made from burnt river 
shells instead of betel-nut and lime. The women are stout, 
well-built persons, with thick arms and legs ; their heads 
incline to the bullet shape; the lip-rings are small; the 
tattoo a mixture of Makoa and Waiyau. Fine blue and 
black beads are in fashion, and so are arm-coils of thick 
brass wire. Very nicely inlaid combs are worn in the hair ; 
the inlaying is accomplished by means of a gum got from 
the root of an orchis called Nangazu. 

3rd July. — A short march brought us to Mtarika's new 
place. The chief made his appearance only after he had 
ascertained all he could about us. The population is 
immense ; they are making new gardens, and the land is 
laid out by straight lines about a foot broad, cut with the 
hoe ; one goes miles without getting beyond the marked or 
surveyed fields. 

Mtarika came at last ; a big ugly man, with large mouth 
and receding forehead. He asked to see all our curiosities, 
as the watch, revolver, breech-loading rifle, sextant. I 
gave him a lecture on the evil of selling his people, 
and he wished me to tell all the other chiefs the same 
thing. 

They dislike the idea of guilt being attached to them for 
having sold many who have lost their lives on their way 
down to the sea-coast. We had a long visit from Mtarika 
next day ; he gave us meal, and meat of wild hog, with a 
salad made of bean-leaves. A wretched Swaheli Arab, ill 
with rheumatism, came for aid, and got a cloth. They all 
profess to me to be buying ivory only. 



1866.] A SUPPOSED CANNIBAL. GO 

5th July. — We left for Mtende, who is the last chief 
before we enter oil a good eight days' march to Mataka's ; 
we might have gone to Kandulo's, who is near the Eo- 
vuina, and more to the north, but all are so well supplied 
with everything by slave-traders that we have difficulty in 
getting provisions at all. Mataka has plenty of all kinds 
of food. On the way we passed the burnt bones of a person 
who was accused of having eaten human flesh ; he had been 
poisoned, or, as they said, killed by poison (inuave ?), and 
then burned. His clothes were hung up on trees by the 
Avayside as a warning to others. The country was covered 
with scraggy forest, but so undulating that one could often 
see all around from the crest of the waves. Great mountain 
masses appear in the south and south-west. It feels cold, 
and the sky is often overcast. 

6th July. — I took lunars yesterday, after which Mtende 
invited us to eat at his house where he had provided a large 
mess of rice porridge and bean-leaves as a relish. He says 
that many Arabs pass him and many of them die in their 
journeys. He knows no deaf or dumb person in the country. 
He says that he cuts the throats of all animals to be eaten, 
and does not touch lion or hysena. 

1th July. — We got men from Mtende to carry loads and 
show the way. He asked a cloth to ensure his people going 
to the journey's end and behaving properly; this is the 
only case of anything like tribute being demanded in this 
journey : I gave him a cloth worth 5s. 6d. Upland vegetation 
prevails ; trees are dotted here and there among bushes five 
feet high, and fine blue and yellow flowers are common. We 
pass over a succession of ridges and valleys as in Londa; 
each valley has a running stream or trickling rill ; garden 
willows are in full bloom, and also a species of sage with 
variegated leaves beneath the flowers. 

When the sepoy Perim threw away the tea and the lead 
lining, I only reproved him and promised him punishment 



70 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. III. 

if lie committed any other wilful offence, but now he and 
another skulked behind and gave their loads to a stranger 
to carry, with a promise to him that I would pay. We 
waited two hours for them; and as the havildar said 
that they would not obey him, I gave Perim and the 
other some smart cuts with a cane, but I felt that I was 
degrading myself, and resolved not to do the punishment 
myself again. 

8th July. — Hard travelling through a depopulated country. 
The trees are about the size of hop-poles with abundance of 
tall grass ; the soil is sometimes a little sandy, at other times 
that reddish, clayey sort which yields native grain so well. 
The rock seen uppermost is often a ferruginous conglomerate, 
lying on granite rocks. The gum-copal tree is here a 
mere bush, and no digging takes place for the gum : it 
is called Mchenga, and yields gum when wounded, as also 
bark, cloth, and cordage when stripped. Mountain masses 
are all around us ; we sleep at Linata mountain. 

9th Juhj. — The Masuko fruit abounds : the name is the 
same here as in the Batoka country ; there are also rhodo- 
dendrons of two species, but the flowers white. We slept 
in a wild spot, near Mount Leziro, with many lions roaring 
about us ; one hoarse fellow serenaded us a long time, but 
did nothing more. Game is said to be abundant, but we 
saw none, save an occasional diver springing away from the 
path. Some streams ran to the north-west to the Lismy- 
ando, which flows N. for the Iiovuina ; others to the south- 
east for the Loendi. 

10th and 11th July. — Nothing to interest but the same 
weary trudge : our food so scarce that we can only give a 
handful or half a pound of grain to each person per day. 
The Masuko fruit is formed, but not ripe till rains begin ; 
very few birds are seen or heard, though there is both food 
and water in the many grain-bearing grasses and running 
streams, which we cross at the junction of every two ridges. 



1866.] FORCED MARCHES FOR MATAKA'S. 71 

A dead body lay in a hut by the wayside ; the poor thing 
had begun to make a garden by the stream, probably in 
hopes of living long enough (two months or so) on wild 
fruits to reap a crop of maize. 

12th Julij. — A drizzling mist set in during the night 
and continued this morning, we set off in the dark, how- 
ever, leaving our last food for the havildar and sepoys 
who had not yet come up. The streams are now of good 
size. An Arab brandy bottle was lying broken in one village 
called Msapa. We hurried on as fast as we could to the 
Luatize, our last stage before getting to Mataka's ; this 
stream is rapid, about forty yards wide, waist deep, with 
many podostemons on the bottom. The country gets more 
and more undulating and is covered with masses of green 
foliage, chiefly Masuko trees, which have large hard leaves. 
There are hippopotami further down the river on its way to 
the Loendi. A little rice which had been kept for me I 
divided, but some did not taste food. 

13th July. — A good many stragglers behind, but we push 
on to get food and send it back to them. The soil all 
reddish clay, the roads baked hard by the sun, and the 
feet of many of us are weary and sore : a weary march and 
long, for it is perpetually up and down now. I counted 
fifteen running streams in one day : they are at the bottom 
of the valley which separates the ridges. We got to the 
brow of a ridge about an hour from Mataka's first gardens, 
and all were so tired that we remained to sleep ; but we 
first invited volunteers to go on and buy food, and bring 
it back early next morning : they had to be pressed to do 
this duty. 

lAth July. — As our volunteers did not come at 8 a.m.. 
I set off to see the cause, and after an hour of perpetual 
up and down march, as I descended the steep slope which 
overlooks the first gardens, I saw my friends start up at 
the apparition — they were comfortably cooking porridge for 



72 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. IIL 

themselves ! I sent men of Mataka back with food to the 
stragglers behind and came on to his town. 

An Arab, Sef Rupia or Rubea, head of a large body of 
slaves, on his way to the coast, most kindly came forward 
and presented an ox, bag of flour, and some cooked meat, 
all of which were extremely welcome to half-famished men, 
or indeed under any circumstances. He had heard of our 
want of food and of a band of sepoys, and what could the 
English think of doing but putting an end to the slave- 
trade ? Had he seen our wretched escort, all fear of them 
would have vanished ! He had a large safari or caravan 
under him. This body is usually divided into ten or twelve 
portions, and all are bound to obey the leader to a certain 
extent : in this case there were eleven parties, and the 
traders numbered about sixty or seventy, who were dark 
coast Arabs. Each underling had his men under him, 
and when I saw them they were busy making the pens of 
branches in which their slaves and they sleep. Sef came 
on with me to Mataka's, and introduced me in due form 
with discharges of gunpowder. I asked him to come back 
next morning, and presented three cloths with a request 
that he would assist the havildar and sepoys, if he met 
them, with food : this he generously did. 

We found Mataka's town situated in an elevated valley 
surrounded by mountains ; the houses numbered at least 
1000, and there were many villages around. The mountains 
were pleasantly green, and had many trees which the people 
were incessantly cutting down. They had but recently 
come here : they were besieged by Mazitu at their former 
location west of this ; after fighting four days they left 
unconquered, having beaten the enemy off. 

Mataka kept us waiting some time in the verandah 
of his large square house, and then made his appearance, 
smiling with his good-natured face. He is about sixty 
years . of age, dressed as an Arab, and if we may judge 



1866.] ARKIVES AT MATAKA'S TOWX. 73 

from the laughter with which his remarks were always 
greeted, somewhat humorous. He had never seen any but 
Arabs before. He gave me a square house to live in, indeed 
the most of the houses here are square, for the Arabs 
are imitated in everything : they have introduced the 
English pea, and we were pleased to see large patches 
of it in full bearing, and ripe in moist hollows which had 
been selected for it. The numerous springs which come 
out at various parts are all made use of. Those parts 
which are too wet are drained, whilst beds are regularly 
irrigated by water-courses and ridges : we had afterwards 
occasion to admire the very extensive draining which has 
been effected among the hills. Cassava is cultivated on 
ridges along all the streets in the town, which give it a 
somewhat regular and neat appearance. Peas and tobacco 
were the chief products raised by irrigation, but batatas 
and maize were often planted too : wheat would succeed 
if introduced. The altitude is about 2700 feet above 
the sea : the air at this time is cool, and many people have 
coughs. 

Mataka soon sent a good mess of porridge and cooked 
meat (beef) ; he has plenty of cattle and sheep : and the 
next day he sent abundance of milk. We stand a good 
deal of staring unmoved, though it is often accompanied 
by remarks by no means complimentary; they think that 
they are not understood, and probably I do misunderstand 
sometimes. The Waiyau jumble their words as I think, 
and Mataka thought that I did not enunciate anything, 
but kept my tongue still when I spoke. 

Town of Mataka, Moembe. 15th July. — The safari 
under Sef set off this morning for Eilwa. Sef says that 
about 100 of the Kilwa people died this year, so slaving 
as well as philanthropy is accompanied with loss of life : 
we saw about seven of their graves ; the rest died on the 
road up. 



74 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. III. 

There are two roads from this to the Lake, one to Losewa, 
¦which is west of this, and opposite Kotakota ; the other, to 
Makatu, is further south : the first is five days through 
deserted country chiefly ; but the other, seven, among people 
and plenty of provisions all the way. 

It struck me after Sef had numbered up the losses that 
the Kilwa people sustained by death in their endeavours to 
enslave people, similar losses on the part of those who go to 
" proclaim liberty to the captives, the opening of the prison 
to them that are bound," — to save and elevate, need not 
be made so very much of as they sometimes are. 

Soon after our arrival we heard that a number of Mataka's 
Waiyau had, without his knowledge, gone to Nyassa, and in 
a foray carried off cattle and people : when they came home 
Avith the spoil, Mataka ordered all to be sent back whence 
they came. The chief came up to visit me soon after, and 
I told him that his decision was the best piece of news I 
had heard in the country: he was evidently pleased with 
my approbation, and, turning to his people, asked if they 
heard what I said. He repeated my remark, and said, 
"You silly fellows think me wrong in returning the cap- 
tives, but all wise men will approve of it," and he then 
scolded them roundly. 

I was accidentally spectator of this party going back, for 
on going out of the town I saw a meat market opened, and 
people buying with maize and meal. On inquiring, I was 
told that the people and cattle there were the Nyassas? 
and they had slaughtered an ox, in order to exchange 
meat for grain as provisions on the journey. The women 
and children numbered fifty-four, and about a dozen boys 
were engaged in milking the cows: the cattle were from 
twenty-five to thirty head. 

The change from hard and scanty fare caused illness 
in several of our party. I had tasted no animal food 
except what turtle-doves and guinea-fowls could be shot 



1866.] THE SEPOYS' TIGEES. 75 

since we passed Matawatawa, — true, a fowl was given by 
Mtende. The last march was remarkable for the scarcity 
of birds, so eight days were spent on porridge and rice 
without relish. 

I gave Mataka a trinket, to be kept in remembrance of 
his having sent back the Nyassa people : he replied that 
he would always act in a similar manner. As it was a 
spontaneous act, it was all the more valuable. 

The sepoys have become quite intolerable, and if I cannot 
get rid of them we shall all starve before we accomplish what 
we wish. They dawdle behind picking up wild fruits, and 
over our last march (which we accomplished on the morn- 
ing of the eighth day) they took from fourteen to twenty- 
two days. Eetaining their brutal feelings to the last they 
killed the donkey which I lent to the havildar to carry his 
things, by striking it on the head when in boggy places 
into which they had senselessly driven it loaded ; then the 
havildar came on (his men pretending they could go no 
further from weakness), and killed the young buffalo and 
eat it when they thought they could hatch up a plausible 
story. They said it had died, and tigers came and devoured 
it — they saw them. " Did you see the stripes of the tiger?" 
said I. All declared that they saw the stripes distinctly. 
This gave us an idea of their truthfulness, as there is no 
striped tiger in all Africa. All who resolved on skulking or 
other bad behaviour invariably took up with the sepoys ; 
their talk seemed to suit evil-doers, and they were 
such a disreputable-looking lot that I was quite ashamed 
of them. The havildar had no authority, and all bore 
the sulky dogged look of people going where they were 
forced but hated to go. This hang-dog expression of 
countenance was so conspicuous that I many a time have 
heard the country people remark, " These are the slaves of 
the party." They have neither spirit nor pluck as com- 
pared with the Africans, and if one saw a village he turned 



76 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. III. 

out of the way to beg in the most abject manner, or lay 
down and slept, the only excuse afterwards being, " My 
legs were sore." Having allowed some of them to sleep 
at the fire in my house, they began a wholesale plunder of 
everything they could sell, as cartridges, cloths, and meat, so 
I had to eject them. One of them then threatened to shoot 
my interpreter Simon if he got him in a quiet place away 
from the English power. As this threat had been uttered 
three times, and I suspect that something of the kind had 
prevented the havildar exerting his authority, I resolved to 
get rid of them by sending them back to the coast by the 
first trader. It is likely that some sympathizers will take 
their part, but I strove to make them useful. They had but 
poor and scanty fare in a part of the way, but all of us suf- 
fered alike. They made themselves thoroughly disliked by 
their foul talk and abuse, and if anything tended more than 
another to show me that theirs was a moral unfitness for 
travel, it was the briskness assumed when they knew they 
were going back to the coast. I felt inclined to force them 
on, but it would have been acting from revenge, and to pay 
them out, so I forbore. I gave Mataka forty-eight yards 
of calico, and to the sepoys eighteen yards, and arranged 
that he should give them food till Suleiman, a respectable 
trader, should arrive. He was expected every day, and we 
passed him near the town. If they chose to go and get their 
luggage, it was of course all safe for them behind. The 
havildar begged still to go on with me, and I consented, 
though he is a drag on the party, but he will count in any 
difficulty. 

Abraham recognised his uncle among the crowds who 
came to see us. On making himself known he found that his 
mother and two sisters had been sold to the Arabs after he 
had been enslaved. The uncle pressed him to remain, and 
Mataka urged, and so did another uncle, but in vain. I 
added my voice, and could have given him goods to keep 



1866.] MATAKA AT HOME. 77 

hiin afloat a good while, but he invariably replied, " How 
can I stop where I have no mother and no sister?" The 
affection seems to go to the maternal side. I suggested that 
he might come after he had married a wife, but I fear very 
much that unless some European would settle, none of these 
Nassick boys will come to this country. It would be 
decidedly better if they were taught agriculture in the 
simplest form, as the Indian. Mataka would have liked to 
put his oxen to use, but Abraham could not help him with 
that. He is a smith, or rather a nothing, for unless he 
could smelt iron he would be entirely without materials to 
work with. 

14th-28th July, — One day, calling at Mataka's, I found 
as usual a large crowd of idlers, who always respond with 
a laugh to everything he utters as wit. He asked, if he 
went to Bombay what ought he to take to secure some 
gold? I replied, "Ivory," he rejoined, "Would slaves not 
be a good speculation?" I replied that, "if he took slaves 
there for sale, they would put him in prison." The idea of 
the great Mataka in " chokee " made him wince, and the 
laugh turned for once against him. He said that as all the 
people from the coast crowd to him, they ought to give him 
something handsome for being here to supply their wants. 
I replied, if he would fill the fine well-watered country we 
had passed over with people instead of sending them off to 
Kilwa, he would confer a benefit on visitors, but we had 
been starved on the way to him ; and I then told him what 
the English would do in road-making in a fine country like 
this. This led us to talk of railways, ships, ploughing with 
oxen — the last idea struck him most. I told him that I 
should have liked some of the Nassick boys to remain and 
teach this and other things, but they might be afraid to 
venture lest they should be sold again. The men who 
listened never heard such decided protests against selling 
each other into slavery before ! 



78 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. III. 

The idea of guilt probably floated but vaguely in their 
minds, but the loss of life we have witnessed (in the guilt 
of which the sellers as well as the buyers participate) conies 
home very forcibly to their minds. 

Mataka has been an active hand in slave wars himself, 
though now he wishes to settle down in quiet. The Waiyau 
generally are still the most active agents the slave-traders 
have. The caravan leaders from Kilwa arrive at a Waiyau 
village, show the goods they have brought, are treated 
liberally by the elders, and told to wait and enjoy them- 
selves, slaves enough to purchase all will be procured : then 
a foray is made against the Manganja, who have few or no 
guns. The Waiyau who come against them are abundantly 
supplied with both by their coast guests. Several of the low 
coast Arabs, who differ in nothing from the Waiyau, usually 
accompany the foray, and do business on their own account : 
this is the usual way in which a safari is furnished with 
slaves. 

Makanjela, a Waiyau chief about a third of the way from 
Mtende's to Mataka, has lost the friendship of all his neigh- 
bours by kidnapping and selling their people; if any of 
Mataka's people are found in the district between Makanjela 
and Moembe, they are considered fair game and sold. Makan- 
jela's people cannot pass Mataka to go to the Manganja, so 
they do what they can by kidnapping and plundering all 
who fall into their hands. 

When I employed two of Mataka's people to go back on 
the 14th with food to the havildar and sepoys, they went a 
little way and relieved some, but would not venture as far 
as the Luatize, for fear of losing their liberty by Makan- 
jela's people. I could not get the people of the country 
to go back ; nor could I ask the Nassick boys, who had 
been threatened by the sepoys with assassination, — and it 
was the same with the Johanna men, because, though 
Mahometans, the sepoys had called them Caffirs, &c, and 



1866.] 



REMAINS OF BETTER TIMES. 



70 



they all declared, " We are ready to do anything for yon, 
but we will do nothing for these Hindis." I sent back a 
sepoy, giving him provisions ; he sat down in the first 
village, ate all the food, and returned. 

An immense tract of country lies uninhabited. To the 
north-east of Moembe we have at least fifty miles of as fine 
land as can be seen anywhere, still bearing all the marks of 
having once supported a prodigious iron-smelting and grain- 
growing population. The clay pipes which are put on the 
nozzles of their bellows and inserted into the furnace are 
met with everywhere — often vitrified. Then the ridges on 
which they planted maize, beans, cassava, and sorghum, 
and which they find necessary to drain off the too abundant 
moisture of the rains, still remain unlevelled to attest the 
industry of the former inhabitants ; the soil being clayey, 
resists for a long time the influence of the weather. These 
ridges are very regular, for in crossing the old fields, as the 
path often compels us to do, one foot treads regularly on 
the ridge, and the other in the hollow, for a considerable 
distance. Pieces of broken pots, with their rims ornamented 
with very good imitations of basket-work, attest that the 
lady potters of old followed the example given them by 
their still more ancient mothers, — their designs are rude, 
but better than we can make them without referring to the 
original. 




Imitation of basket-work in Pottery. 

No want of water has here acted to drive the people 
away, as has been the case further south. It is a perpetual 
succession of ridge and valley, with a running stream or 



80 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. III. 

oozing bog, where ridge is separated from ridge : the ridges 
become steeper and narrower as we approach Mataka's. 

I counted fifteen running burns of from one to ten yards 
wide in one day's march of about six hours ; being in a hilly 
or rather mountainous region, they flow rapidly and have 
plenty of water-power. In July any mere torrent ceases to 
flow, but these were brawling burns with water too cold 
(61°) for us to bathe in whose pores were all open by the 
relaxing regions nearer the coast. The sound, so un- African, 
of gushing water dashing over rocks was quite familiar to 
our ears. 

This district, which rises up west of Mataka's to 3400 
feet above the sea, catches a great deal of the moisture 
brought up by the easterly winds. Many of the trees are 
covered with lichens. While here we had cold southerly 
breezes, and a sky so overcast every day after 10 a.m., that 
we could take no astronomical observations : even the 
latitude was too poor to be much depended on. 12° 53' S. 
may have been a few miles from this. 

The cattle, rather a small breed, black and white in 
patches, and brown, with humps, give milk which is duly 
prized by these "Waiyau. The sheep are the large-tailed 
variety, and generally of a black colour. Fowls and 
pigeons are the only other domestic animals we see, if we 
except the wretched village dogs which our poodle had 
immense delight in chasing. 

The Waiyau are far from a handsome race, but they are 
not the prognathous beings one sees on the West Coast 
either. Their heads are of a round shape; compact fore- 
heads, but not particularly receding; the alse nasi are 
flattened out; lips full, and with the women a small lip- 
ring just turns them up to give additional thickness. 
Their style of beauty is exactly that which was in fashion 
when the stone deities were made in the caves of Elephanta 
and Kenora near Bombay. A favourite mode of dressing 



1866.] DESCRIPTION OF THE WAIYOU. 81 

the hair into little knobs, which was in fashion there, is 
more common in some tribes than in this. The mouths 
of the women would not be so hideous with a small lip- 
ring if they did not file their teeth to points, but they 
seem strong and able for the work which falls to their 
lot. The men are large, strong-boned fellows, and capable 
of enduring great fatigue, they undergo a rite which once 
distinguished the Jews about the age of puberty, and take a 
new name on the occasion ; this was not introduced by the 
Arabs, whose advent is a recent event, and they speak 
of the time before they were inundated with European 
manufactures in exchange for slaves, as quite within their 
memory. 

Young Mataka gave me a dish of peas, and usually brought 
something every time he made a visit, he seems a nice boy, 
and his father, in speaking of learning to read, said he and 
his companions could learn, but he himself was too old. The 
soil seems very fertile, for the sweet potatoes become very 
large, and we bought two loads of them for three cubits and 
two needles ; they quite exceeded 1 cwt. The maize becomes 
very large too; one cob had 1600 seeds. The abundance of 
water, the richness of soil, the available labour for building 
square houses, the coolness of the climate, make this nearly 
as desirable a residence as Magomero ; but, alas ! instead 
of three weeks' easy sail up the Zambesi and Shire, we 
have spent four weary months in getting here : I shall 
never cease bitterly to lament the abandonment of the 
Magomero mission. 

Moaning seems a favourite way of spending the time with 
some sick folk. For the sake of the warmth, I allowed a 
Nassick boy to sleep in my house ; he and I had the same 
complaint, dysentery, and I was certainly worse than he, but 
did not moan, while he played at it as often as he was awake. 
I told him that people moaned only when too ill to be 

VOL. I. G 



82 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. III. 

sensible of what they were doing ; the groaning ceased, 
though he became worse. 

Three sepoys played at groaning very vigorously outside 
my door ; they had nothing the matter with them, except 
perhaps fatigue, which we all felt alike ; as these fellows 
prevented my sleeping, I told them quite civilly that, if so 
ill that they required to groan, they had better move off a 
little way, as I could not sleep ; they preferred the verandah, 
and at once forbore. 

The abundance of grain and other food is accompanied by 
great numbers of rats or large mice, which play all manner 
of pranks by night ; white ants have always to be guarded 
against likewise. Anyone who would find an antidote to 
drive them away would confer a blessing ; the natural check 
is the driver ant, which when it visits a house is a great pest 
for a time, but it clears the others out. 



( 83 ) 



CHAPTEE IV. 

Geology and description of the Waiyau land. Leaves Mataka's. The 
Nyumbo plant. Native iron-foundry. Blacksmiths. Makes for the 
Lake Nyassa. Delight at seeing the Lake once more. The Manganja or 
Nyassa tribe. Arab slave crossing. Unable to procure passage across. 
The Kungu fly. Fear of the English amongst slavers. Lake shore. 
Blue ink. Chitane changes colour. The Nsaka fish. Makalaose 
drinks beer. The Sanjika fish. London antiquities. Lake rivers. 
Mukate's. Lake Pamalombe. Mponda's. A slave gang. Wikatani 
discovers his relatives and remains. 

28th July, 1866. — We proposed to start to-day, but Ma- 
taka said that he was not ready yet : the flour had to be 
ground, and he had given us no meat. He had sent plenty 
of cooked food almost every day. He asked if we would 
slaughter the ox he would give here, or take it on ; we 
preferred to kill it at once. He came on the 28th with a 
good lot of flour for us, and men to guide us to Nyassa, 
telling us that this was Moembe, and his district extended 
all the way to the Lake : he would not send us to Losewa, 
as that place had lately been plundered and burned. 

In general the chiefs have shown an anxiety to promote 
our safety. The country is a mass of mountains. On 
leaving Mataka's we ascended considerably, and about the 
end of the first day's march, near Magola's village, the 
barometer showed our greatest altitude, about 3400 feet 
above the sea. There were villages of these mountaineers 
everywhere, for the most part of 100 houses or more each. 
The springs were made the most use of that they knew ; 

g 2 



84 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. IV. 

the damp spots drained, and the water given a free channel 
for use in irrigation further down : most of these springs 
showed the presence of iron by the oxide oozing out. A 
great many patches of peas are seen in full bearing and 
flower. The trees are small, except in the hollows : there is 
plenty of grass and flowers near streams and on the heights. 
The mountain-tops may rise 2000 or 3000 feet above their 
flanks, along which we wind, going perpetually up and 
down the steep ridges of which the country is but a 
succession. 

Looking at the geology of the district, the plateaux on 
each side of the Eovuma are masses of grey sandstone, 
capped with masses of ferruginous conglomerate ; apparently 
an aqueous deposit. When we ascend the Eovuma about 
sixty miles, a great many pieces and blocks of silicified wood 
appear on the surface of the soil at the bottom of the slope 
up the plateaux. This in Africa is a sure indication of the 
presence of coal beneath, but it was not observed cropping 
out ; the plateaux are cut up in various directions by wadys 
well supplied with grass and trees on deep and somewhat 
sandy soil : but at the confluence of the Loendi highlands 
they appear in the far distance. In the sands of the Loendi 
pieces of coal are quite common.* 

Before reaching the confluence of the Eovuma and Loendi, 
or say about ninety miles from the sea, the plateau is succeeded 
by a more level country, having detached granitic masses 
shooting up some 500 or 700 feet. The sandstone of the 
plateau has at first been hardened, then quite metamorphosed 
into a chocolate-coloured schist. As at Chilole hill, we have 
igneous rocks, apparently trap, capped with masses of beautiful 
white dolomite. We still ascend in altitude as we go west- 
wards, and come upon long tracts of gneiss with hornblende. 



* Coal was shown to a group of natives when first the Pioneer ascended 
the river Shire. Members of numerous tribes were present, and all recog- 
nised it at once as Makala or coal. — Ed. 



1866.] THE MOUNTAINS AEOUND LAKE NYASSA. 85 

The gneiss is often striated, all the striae looking one way — 
sometimes north and south, and at other times east and 
west. These rocks look as if a stratified rock had been 
nearly melted, and the strata fused together by the heat. 
From these striated rocks have shot up great rounded 
masses of granite or syenite, whose smooth sides and crowns 
contain scarcely any trees, and are probably from 3000 to 
4000 feet above the sea. The elevated plains among these 
mountain masses show great patches of ferruginous conglo- 
merate, which, when broken, look like yellow haematite with 
madrepore holes in it : this has made the soil of a red 
colour. 

On the watershed we have still the rounded granitic 
hills jutting above the plains (if such they may be called) 
which are all ups and downs, and furrowed with innumerable 
running rills, the sources of the Eovuma and Loendi. The 
highest rock observed with mica schist was at an altitude of 
3440 feet. The same uneven country prevails as we proceed 
from the watershed about forty miles down to the Lake, and 
a great deal of quartz in small fragments renders travelling- 
very difficult. Near the Lake, and along its eastern shore, 
we have mica schist and gneiss foliated, with a great deal of 
hornblende ; but the most remarkable feature of it is that the 
rocks are all tilted on edge, or slightly inclined to the Lake. 
The active agent in effecting this is not visible. It looks as 
if a sudden rent had been made, so as to form the Lake, and 
tilt all these rocks nearly over. On the east side of the 
lower part of the Lake we have two ranges of mountains, 
evidently granitic : the nearer one covered with small trees 
and lower than the other; the other jagged and bare, or of 
the granitic forms. But in all this country no fossil- yielding- 
rock was visible except the grey sandstone referred to at the 
beginning of this note. The rocks are chiefly the old crys- 
talline forms. 

One fine straight tall tree in the hollows seemed a species 



8G LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. IV. 

of fig : its fruit was just forming, but it was too high for 
me to ascertain its species. The natives don't eat the fruit, 
but they eat the large grubs which come out of it. The 
leaves were fifteen inches long by five broad : they call it 
Unguengo. 

29th July. — At Magola's village. Although we are now 
rid of the sepoys, we cannot yet congratulate ourselves on 
being rid of the lazy habits of lying down in the path 
which they introduced. A strong scud comes up from the 
south bringing much moisture with it: it blows so hard 
above, this may be a storm on the coast. Temperature in 
mornings 55°. 

30th July. — A short march brought us to Pezimba's 
village, which consists of 200 houses and huts. It is placed 
very nicely on a knoll between two burns, which, as usual, 
are made use of for irrigating peas in winter time. The 
headman said that if we left now we had a good piece of 
jungle before us, and would sleep twice in it before reaching 
Mbanga. We therefore remained. An Arab party, hearing 
of our approach, took a circuitous route among the moun- 
tains to avoid coming in _ contact with us. In travelling to 
Pezimba's we had commenced our western descent to the 
Lake, for we were now lower than Magola's by 300 feet. We 
crossed many rivulets and the Lochesi, a good-sized stream. 
The watershed parts some streams for Loendi and some for 
Eovuma. There is now a decided scantiness of trees. Many 
of the hill-tops are covered with grass or another plant; 
there is pleasure now in seeing them bare. Ferns, rhodo- 
dendrons, and a foliaged tree, which looks in the distance 
like silver-fir, are met with. 

The Mandare root is here called ISTyumbo, when cooked 
it has a slight degree of bitterness with it which cultivation 
may remove. Mica schist crowned some of the heights on 
the watershed, then gneiss, and now, as we descend further, 
we have igneous rocks of more recent eruption, porphyry 



1866.] THE SLAVERS FEAR DR. LIVINGSTONE. 87 

and gneiss, with hornblende. A good deal of ferruginous 
conglomerate, with holes in it, covers many spots; when 
broken, it looks like yellow haematite, with black linings to 
the holes: this is probably the ore used in former times 
by the smiths, of whose existence we now find still more 
evidence than further east. 

Slst July. — I had presentedJPezimba with a cloth, so he 
cooked for us handsomely last night, and this morning 
desired us to wait a little as he had not yet sufficient meal 
made to present : we waited and got a generous present. 

It was decidedly milder here than at Mataka's, and we 
had a clear sky. In our morning's march we passed the 
last of the population, and w.ent on through a fine well- 
watered fruitful country, to sleep near a mountain called 
Mtewire, by a stream called Msapo. A very large Arab 
slave-party was close by our encampment, and I wished to 
speak to them ; but as soon as they knew of our being near 
they set off in a pathless course across country, and were six 
days in the wilderness.* 

1st August, 1866. — We saw the encampment of another 
Arab party. It consisted of ten pens, each of which, from 
the number of fires it contained, may have held from eighty 
to a hundred slaves. The people of the country magnified 
the numbers, saying that they would reach from this to 
Mataka's ; but from all I can learn, I think that from 300 
to 800 slaves is the commoner gang. This second party 
went across country very early this morning. We saw the 
fire-sticks which the slaves had borne with them. The 
fear they feel is altogether the effect of the English name, 
for we have done nothing to cause their alarm. 

2nd August. — There was something very cheering to me 
in the sight at our encampment of yellow grass and trees 
dotted over it, as in the Bechuana country. The birds were 



Dr. Livingstone licard this subsequently when at Casembe's. 



88 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. IV. 

singing merrily too, inspired by the cold, which was 47°, and 
by the vicinity of some population. Gum-copal trees and 
bushes grow here as well as all over the country ; but gum 
is never dug for, probably because the trees were never 
large enough to yield the fossil gum. Marks of smiths 
are very abundant and some furnaces are still standing. 
Much cultivation must formerly have been where now all 
is jungle. 

We arrived at Mbanga, a village embowered in trees, 
chiefly of the euphorbia, so common in the Manganja country 
further south. Kandulo, the headman, had gone to drink 
beer at another village, but sent orders to give a hut and to 
cook for us. We remained next day. Took lunars. 

We had now passed through, at the narrowest part, the 
hundred miles of depopulated country, of which about seventy 
are on the N.E. of Mataka. The native accounts differ as 
to the cause. Some say slave wars, and assert that the 
Makoa from the vicinity of Mozambique played an impor- 
tant part in them ; others say famine ; others that the 
people have moved to and beyond Nyassa.* Certain it is, 
from the potsherds strewed over the country, and the still 
remaining ridges on which beans, sorghum, maize, and 
cassava, were planted, that the departed population was 
prodigious. The Waiyau, who are now in the country, 
came from the other side of the Eovuma, and they pro- 
bably supplanted the Manganja, an operation which we see 
going on at the present day. 

Ath August. — An hour and a half brought us to Miule, 
a village on the same level with Mbanga ; and the chief 
pressing us to stay, on the plea of our sleeping two nights in 
the jungle, instead of one if we left early next morning, we 
consented. I asked him what had become of the very large 



* The greater part were driven down into the Manganja country by- 
war and famine combined, and eventually filled the slave gangs of the Por- 
tuguese, whose agents went from Tette and Senna to procure them. — Ed. 




18G6.] WOODEN IMPLEMENTS. 80 

iron-smelting population of this region; he said many had 
died of famine, others had fled to the west of Nyassa: the 
famine is the usual effect of slave wars, and much death is 
thereby caused — probably much more than by the journey 
to the coast. He had never heard any tradition of stone 
hatchets having been used, nor of stone spear-heads or arrow- 
heads of that material, nor had he heard of any being turned 
up by the women in hoeing. The Makonde, as we saw, use 
wooden spears where iron is 
scarce. I saw wooden hoes 
used for tilling the soil in 
the Bechuana and Bataka 
countries, but never stone 
ones. In 1841 I saw a Bush- 
woman in the Cape Colony 
with a round stone and a hole 
through it ; on being asked 

she showed me how it was used by inserting the top of a 
digging-stick into it, and digging a root. The stone was 
to give the stick weight. 

The stones still used as anvils and sledge-hammers by 
many of the African smiths, when considered from their 
point of view, show sounder sense than if they were burdened 
with the great weights we use. They are unacquainted 
with the process of case-hardening, which, applied to certain 
parts of our anvils, gives them their usefulness ; and an 
anvil of their soft iron would not do so well as a hard stone. 
It is true a small light one might be made, but let any one 
see how the hammers of their iron bevel over and round 
in the faces with a little work, and he will perceive that 
only a wild freak would induce any sensible native smith 
to make a mass equal to a sledge-hammer, and burden 
himself with a weight for what can be better performed by 
a stone. If people are settled, as on the coast, then they 
gladly use any mass of cast iron they may find, but never 



90 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. IV. 

where, as in the interior, they have no certainty of re- 
maining any length of time in one spot. 

5th August. — We left Miule, and commenced onr march 
towards Lake Nyassa, and slept at the last of the streams 
that flow to the Loendi. In Mataka's vicinity, N.E., there 
is a perfect brush of streams flowing to that river : one 
forms a lake in its course, and the sources of the Rovmna 
lie in the same region. After leaving Mataka's we crossed 
a good-sized one flowing to Loendi, and, the day after 
leaving Pezimba's, another going to the Chiringa or Loch- 
iringa, which is a tributary of the Rovuma. 

6th August. — We passed two cairns this morning at the 
beginning of the very sensible descent to the Lake. They 
are very common in all this Southern Africa in the passes 
of the mountains, and are meant to mark divisions of 
countries, perhaps burial-places, but the Waiyau who accom- 
panied us thought that they were merely heaps of stone 
collected by some one making a garden. The cairns were 
placed just about the spot where the blue waters of Nyassa 
first came fairly into view. 

We now came upon a stream, the Misinje, flowing into 
the Lake, and we crossed it five times ; it was about twenty 
yards wide, and thigh deep. We made but short stages 
when we got on the lower plateau, for the people had great 
abundance of food, and gave large presents of it if we rested. 
One man gave four fowls, three large baskets of maize, 
pumpkins, eland's fat — a fine male, as seen by his horns, — and 
pressed us to stay, that he might see our curiosities as well 
as others. He said that at one day's distance south of him 
all sorts of animals, as buffaloes, elands, elephants, hippopo- 
tami, and antelopes, could be shot. 

Sfli August. — We came to the Lake at the confluence 
of the Misinje, and felt grateful to That Hand which had 
protected us thus far on our journey. It was as if I had 
come back to an old home I never expected again to see ; 



I860.] ENDEAVOURS TO CROSS LAKE NYASSA. 01 

and pleasant to bathe in the delicious waters again, hear 
the roar of the sea, and dash in the rollers. Temp. 71° at 
8 a.m., while the air was 65°. I feel quite exhilarated. 

The headman here, Mokalaose, is a real Manganja, and 
he and all his people exhibit the greater darkness of colour 
consequent on being in a warm moist climate ; he is very- 
friendly, and presented millet, porridge, cassava, and hippo- 
potamus meat boiled and asked if I liked milk, as he had 
some of Mataka's cattle here. His people bring sanjika the 
best Lake fish, for sale ; they are dried on stages over slow 
fires, and lose their fine flavour by it, but they are much 
prized inland. I bought fifty for a fathom of calico ; when 
fresh, they taste exactly like the best herrings, *. e. as we 
think, but voyagers' and travellers' appetites are often so 
whetted as to be incapable of giving a true verdict in 
matters of taste. 

[It is necessary to explain that Livingstone knew of an 
Arab settlement on the western shore of the Lake, and that 
he hoped to induce the chief man Jumbe to give him a 
passage to the other side.] 

10th August. — I sent Seyed Majid's letter up to Jumbe, 
but the messenger met some coast Arabs at the Loangwa, 
which may be seven miles from this, and they came back 
with him, haggling a deal about the fare, and then went 
off, saying that they would bring the dhow here for us. 
Finding that they did not come, I sent Musa, who brought 
back word that they had taken the dhow away over to 
Jumbe at Kotakota, or, as they pronounce it, Ngotagota. 
Very few of the coast Arabs can read ; in words they are 
very polite, but truthfulness seems very little regarded. I 
am resting myself and people — working up journal, lunars, 
and altitudes — but will either move south or go to the 
Arabs towards the north soon. 



92 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chai\ IV. 

Mokalaose's fears of the Waiyau will make him welcome 
Jumbe here, and then the Arab will some clay have an op- 
portunity of scattering his people as he has done those at 
Kotakota. He has made Losewa too hot for himself. When 
the people there were carried off by Mataka's people, Jumbe 
seized their stores of grain, and now has no post to which he 
can go there. The Loangwa Arabs give an awful account 
of Jumbe's murders and selling the people, but one cannot 
take it all in ; at the mildest it must have been bad. This 
is all they ever do ; they cannot form a state or indepen- 
dent kingdom : slavery and the slave-trade are insuperable 
obstacles to any permanence inland; slaves can escape so 
easily, all therefore that the Arabs do is to collect as much 
money as they can by hook and by crook, and then leave 
the country. 

We notice a bird called namtambwe, which sings very 
nicely with a strong voice after dark here at the Misinje 
confluence. 

11th August. — Two headmen came down country from 
villages where we slept, bringing us food, and asking how 
we are treated ; they advise our going south to Mukate's, 
where the Lake is narrow. 

12^-14^ August. — Map making ; but my energies were 
sorely taxed by the lazy sepoys, and I was usually quite 
tired out at night. Some men have come down from 
Mataka's, and report the arrival of an Englishman with 
cattle for me, " he has two eyes behind as well as two in 
front :" this is enough of news for awhile ! 

Mokalaose has his little afflictions, and he tells me of 
them. A wife ran away, I asked how many he had ; he told 
me twenty in all : I then thought he had nineteen too many. 
He answered with the usual reason, "But who would cook 
for strangers if I had but one ? " 

We saw clouds of " kungu" gnats on the Lake ; they are not 
eaten here. An ungenerous traveller coming here with my 



18GC] A NEW VARIETY OF ANT. 93 

statement in his hand, and finding the people denying all 
knowledge of how to catch and cook them, might say that 
I had been romancing in saying I had seen them made into 
cakes in the northern part of the Lake ; when asking here 
about them, a stranger said, " They know how to use them 
in the north ; we do not." 

Mokalaose thinks that the Arabs are afraid that I may 
take their dhows from them and go up to the north. He 
and the other headmen think that the best way will be to 
go to Mukate's in the south. All the Arabs flee from me, 
the English name being in their minds inseparably con- 
nected with recapturing slavers : they cannot conceive that 
I have any other object in view; they cannot read Seyed 
Majid's letter. 

21st August. — Started for the Loangwa, on the east side 
of the Lake ; hilly all the way, about seven miles. This 
river may be twenty yards wide near its confluence; the 
Misinje is double that : each has accumulated a promon- 
tory of deposit and enters the Lake near its apex. We 
got a house from a Waiyau man on a bank about forty feet 
above the level of Nyassa, but I could not sleep for the 
manoeuvres of a crowd of the minute ants which infested 
it. They chirrup distinctly ; they would not allow the men 
to sleep either, though all were pretty tired by the rough 
road up. 

22nd August. — We removed to the south side of the 
Loangwa, where there are none of these little pests. 

23rd August. — Proposed to the Waiyau headman to send 
a canoe over to call Jumbe, as I did not believe in the 
assertions of the half-caste Arab here that he had sent for 
his. All the Waiyau had helped me, and why not he ? He 
was pleased with this, but advised waiting till a man sent to 
Losewa should return. 

2Mh August. — A leopard took a dog out of a house next 
to ours ; he had bitten a man before, but not mortally. 



94 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. IV. 

29th August. — News come that the two dhows have come 
over to Losewa (Losefa). The Mazitu had chased Junibe 
up the hills : had they said, on to an island, I might have 
believed them. 

30th August. — The fear which the English have inspired 
in the Arab slave-traders is rather inconvenient. All flee 
from me as if I had the plague, and I cannot in conse- 
quence transmit letters to the coast, or get across the Lake. 
They seem to think that if I get into a dhow I will be sure 
to burn it. As the two dhows on the Lake are used for 
nothing else but the slave-trade, their owners have no hope 
of my allowing them to escape, so after we have listened 
to various lies as excuses, we resolve to go southwards; and 
cross at the point of departure of the Shire from the Lake. 
I took lunars several times on both sides of the moon, and 
have written a despatch for Lord Clarendon, besides a 
number of private letters. 

3rd September, 1866. — Went down to confluence of the 
Misinje and came to many of the eatable insect "kungu," 
— they are caught by a quick motion of the hand holding 
a basket. We got a cake of these same insects further 
down ; they make a buzz like a swarm of bees, and are 
probably the perfect state of some Lake insect. 

I observed two beaches of the Lake : one about fifteen feet 
above the present high-water mark, and the other about forty 
above that ; but between the two the process of disintegra- 
tion, which results from the sudden cold and heat in 
these regions, has gone on so much that seldom is a well- 
rounded smoothed one seen ; the lower beach is very well 
marked. 

The strike of large masses of foliated gneiss is parallel 
with the major axis of the Lake, and all are tilted on edge. 
Some are a little inclined to the Lake, as if dipping to it 
westwards, but others are as much inclined the opposite 
way, or twisted. 



1866.] EFFECTS OF AFRICA ON CIIITANE. 95 

I made very good blue ink from the juice of a berry, the 
fruit of a creeper, which is the colour of port wine when 
expressed. A little ferri carb. ammon. added to this is all 
that is required. 

The poodle dog Chitane is rapidly changing the colour of 
its hair. All the parts corresponding to the ribs and neck 
are rapidly becoming red ; the majority of country dogs are 
of this colour. 

The Manganja, or Wa-nyassa, are an aboriginal race ; 
they have great masses of hair, and but little, if any, of 
the prognathous in the profile. Their bodies and limbs 
are very well made, and the countenance of the men is 
often very pleasant. The women are very plain and lumpy, 
but exceedingly industrious in their gardens from early 
morning till about 11 A.M., then from 3 p.m. till dark, or 
pounding corn and grinding it: the men make twine 
or nets by day, and are at their fisheries in the evenings 
and nights. They build the huts, the women plaster 
them. 

A black fish, the Nsaka, makes a hole, with raised edges, 
which, with the depth from which they are taken, is from 
fifteen to eighteen inches, and from two to three feet broad. 
It is called by the natives their house. The pair live in it for 
some time, or until the female becomes large for spawning ; 
this operation over, the house is left. 

I gave Mokalaose some pumpkin seed and peas. He 
took me into his house, and presented a quantity of beer. 
I drank a little, and seeing me desist from taking more, 
he asked if I wished a servant-girl to "jpata mhriba." Not 
knowing what was meant, I offered the girl the calabash 
of beer, and told her to drink, but this was not the in- 
tention. He asked if I did not wish more; and then 
took the vessel, and as he drank the girl performed the 
operation on himself. Placing herself in front, she put 
both hands round his waist below the short ribs, and pressing 



96 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOUENALS. [Chap. IV. 

gradually drew thern round to his belly in front. He took 
several prolonged draughts, and at each she repeated the 
operation, as if to make the liquor go equally over the 
stomach. Our topers don't seem to have discovered the 
need for this. 

5th September. — Our march is along the shore to Ngornbo 
promontory, which approaches so near to Senga or Tsenga 
opposite, as to narrow the Lake to some sixteen or eighteen 
miles. It is a low sandy point, the edge fringed on the 
north-west and part of the south with a belt of papyrus and 
reeds; the central parts wooded. Part of the south side 
has high sandy dunes, blown up by the south wind, which 
strikes it at right angles there. One was blowing as we 
marched along the southern side eastwards, and was very 
tiresome. We reached Panthunda's village by a brook 
called Lilole. Another we crossed before coming to it is 
named Libesa : these brooks form the favourite spawning 
grounds of the sanjika and mpasa, two of the best fishes of 
the Lake. The sanjika is very like our herring in shape 
and taste and size ; the mpasa larger every way : both live 
on green herbage formed at the bottom of the Lake and 
rivers. 

1th September. — Chirumba's village being on the south 
side of a long lagoon, we preferred sleejoing on the main- 
land, though they offered their cranky canoes to ferry us 
over. This lagoon is called Pansangwa. 

8th September. — In coming along the southern side of 
Ngombo promontory we look eastwards, but when we leave 
it we turn southwards, having a double range of lofty 
mountains on our left. These are granitic in form, the 
nearer range being generally the lowest, and covered with 
scraggy trees ; the second, or more easterly, is some 6000 
feet above the sea, bare and rugged, with jagged peaks 
shooting high into the air. This is probably the newest 
range. The oldest people have felt no earthquake, but 



1866.] DEPOPULATION BY THE SLAVE WARS. 97 

some say that they have heard of such things from their 
elders. 

We passed very many sites of old villages, which are 
easily known by the tree euphorbia planted round an 
umbelliferous one, and the sacred fig. One species here 
throws out strong buttresses in the manner of some man- 
groves instead of sending down twiners which take root, 
as is usually the case with the tropical fig. These, with 
millstones — stones for holding the pots in cooking — and 
upraised clay benches, which have been turned into brick 
by fire in the destruction of the huts, show what were 
once the " pleasant haunts of men." Ko stone implements 
ever appear. If they existed they could not escape notice, 
since the eyes in walking are almost always directed to 
the ground to avoid stumbling on stones or stumps. In 
some parts of the world stone implements are so common 
they seem to have been often made and discarded as 
soon as formed, possibly by getting better tools ; if, indeed, 
the manufacture is not as modern as that found by Mr. 
Waller. Passing some navvies in the City who were 
digging for the foundation of a house, he observed a very 
antique-looking vase, wet from the clay, standing on the 
bank. He gave ten shillings for it, and subsequently, by 
the aid of a scrubbing brush and some water, detected the 
hieroglyphics " Copeland late Spode " on the bottom of it ! 

Here the destruction is quite recent, and has been 
brought about by some who entertained us very hospitably 
•on the Misinje, before we came to the confluence. The 
woman chief, Ulenjelenje, or Njelenje, bore a part in it for 
the supply of Arab caravans. It was the work of the 
Masininga, a Waiyau tribe, of which her people form a 
part. They almost depopulated the broad fertile tract, of 
some three or four miles, between the mountain range 
and the Lake, along which our course lay. It was weari- 
some to see the skulls and bones scattered about every- 

VOL. T. H 



98 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOUKNALS. [Chap. IV. 

where ; one would fain not notice them, but they are so 
striking as one trudges along the sultry path, that it 
cannot be avoided. 

9th September. — We spent Sunday at Kandango's village-. 
The men killed a hippopotamus when it was sleeping 
on the shore; a full-grown female, 10 feet 9 inches from 
the snout to the insertion of the tail, and 4 feet 4 inches 
high at the withers. The bottom here and all along south- 
wards now is muddy. Many of the Siluris Glanis are 
caught equal in length to an eleven or a twelve-pound 
salmon, but a great portion is head ; slowly roasted on a 
stick stuck in the ground before the fire they seemed to 
me much more savoury than I ever tasted them before. 
With the mud we have many shells : north of Ngombo 
scarcely one can be seen, and there it is sandy or rocky. 

10th September. — In marching southwards we came close 
to the range (the Lake lies immediately on the other side 
of it), but we could not note the bays which it forms ; we 
crossed two mountain torrents from sixty to eighty yards 
broad, and now only ankle deep. In flood these bring 
down enormous trees, which are much battered and bruised 
among the rocks in their course ; they spread over the 
plain, too, and would render travelling here in the rains 
impracticable. After spending the night at a very civil 
headman's chefu, we crossed the Lotende, another of these 
torrents : each very lofty mass in the range seemed to give 
rise to one. Nothing of interest occurred as we trudged 
along. A very poor headman, Pamawawa, presented a roll 
of salt instead of food : this was grateful to us, as we have 
been without thatUuxury some time. 

12th September. — We crossed the rivulet Nguena, and 
then went on to another with a large village by it, it is 
called Pantoza Pangone. The headman had been suffering 
from sore eyes for four months, and pressed me to stop and 
give him medicine, which I did. 



1866.] THE LAKE'S TRIBUTARY STREAMS. 99 

13^ September. — We crossed a strong brook called Nkore. 
My object in mentioning the brooks which were flowing 
at this time, and near the end of the dry season, is to 
give an idea of the sources of supply of evaporation. The 
men enumerate the following, north of the Misinje. Those 
which are greater are marked thus -J-, and the lesser 

ones — . 

1. Misinje -f has canoes. 

2. Loangwa — 

3. Lesefa — 

4. Lelula - 

5. Nchamanje — 

6. Musumba + 

7. Fubwe + 

8. Chia - 

9. Kisanga -J- 

10. Bweka — 

11. Chifumero + Jias canoes. 

12. Loangwa — 

13. Mkoho - 

14. Mangwelo - at 1ST. end of Lake. 

Including the above there are twenty or twenty-four 
perennial brooks and torrents which give a good supply of 
water in the dry season ; in the wet season they are supple- 
mented by a number of burns, which, though flowing now, 
have their mouths blocked up with bars of sand, and yield 
nothing except by percolation ; the Lake rises at least four 
feet perpendicularly in the wet season, and has enough 
during the year from these perennial brooks to supply the 
Shire's continual flow. 

[It will be remembered that the beautiful river Shire" 
carries off the waters of Lake Nyassa and joins the Zambesi 
near Mount Morambala, about ninety miles from the sea. 
It is by this water-way that Livingstone always hoped to 

n 2 



100 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. IV. 

find an easy access to Central Africa. The only obstacles 
that exist are, first, the foolish policy of the Portuguese 
with regard to Customs' duties at the mouth of the Zam- 
besi ; and secondly, a succession of cataracts on the Shire, 
which impede navigation for seventy miles. The first 
hindrance may give way under more liberal views than 
those which prevail at present at the Court of Lisbon, and 
then the remaining difficulty — accepted as a fact — will be 
solved by the establishment of a boat service both above 
and below the cataracts. Had Livingstone survived he 
would have been cheered by hearing that already several 
schemes are afoot to plant Missions in the vicinity of Lake 
Nyassa, and we may with confidence look to the revival of 
the very enterprise which he presently so bitterly deplores 
as a thing of the past, for Bishop Steere has fully deter- 
mined to re-occupy the district in which fell his prede- 
cessor, Bishop Mackenzie, and others attached to the 
Universities Mission.] 

In the course of this day's march we were pushed close 
to the Lake by Mount Gome, and, being now within three 
miles of the end of the Lake, we could see the whole 
plainly. There we first saw the Shire emerge, and there 
also we first gazed on the broad waters of Nyassa. 

Many hopes have been disappointed here. Far down on 
the right bank of the Zambesi lies the dust of her whose 
death changed all my future prospects; and now, instead 
of a check being given to the slave-trade by lawful com- 
merce on the Lake, slave-dhows prosper ! 

An Arab slave-party fled on hearing of us yesterday. 
It is impossible not to regret the loss of good Bishop 
Mackenzie, who sleeps far down the Shire, and with him 
all hope of the Gospel being introduced into Central Africa. 
The silly abandonment of all the advantages of the Shire 
xoute by the Bishop's successor I shall ever bitterly deplore, 



18G6.] PLACE OF DR. EOSCHER'S DEATH. 101 

but all will come right some clay, though I may not live 
to participate in the joy, or even see the commencement 
of better times. 

In the evening we reached the village of Cherekalongwa 
on the brook Pamchololo, and were very jovially received 
by the headman with beer. He says that Mukate,* Kabinga, 
and Mponda alone supply the slave-traders now by raids 
on the Manganja, but they go S.W. to the Maravi, who, 
impoverished by a Mazitu raid, sell each other as well. 

14th September. — At Cherekalongwa's (who has a skin 
disease, believed by him to have been derived from eating 
fresh-water turtles), Ave were requested to remain one day in 
order that he might see us. He had heard 'much about us ; 
had been down the Shire, and as far as Mosambique, but 
never had an Englishman in his town before. As the heat 
is great we were glad of the rest and beer, with which he 
very freely supplied us. 

I saw the skin of a Phenembe, a species of lizard which 
devours chickens; here it is named Salka. It had been 
flayed by a cut up the back— body, 12 inches; across belly, 
10 inches. 

After nearly giving up the search for Dr. Eoscher's point 
of reaching the Lake — because no one, either Arab or native, 
had the least idea of either Nusseewa or Makawa, the name 
given to the place — I discovered it in Lessefa, the accen- 
tuated e being sounded as our e in set. This word would 
puzzle a German philologist, as being the origin of Nussewa, 
but the Waiyau pronounce it Losewa, the Arabs Lussewa, 
and Eoscher's servant transformed the L and e into JST and 
ee, hence Nusseewa. In confirmation of this rivulet Lesefa, 
which is opposite Kotakota, or, as the Arabs pronounce it, 
Nkotakota, the chief is Mangkaka (Makawa), or as there 
is a confusion of names as to chief it may be Mataka > 



Pronounced Mkata by the Waiyau. — Ed. 



102 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOUKNALS. [Chap. IV. 

whose town and district is called Moembe, the town Pa- 
moembe = Mamemba. 

I rest content with Kingoniango so far verifying the place 
at which he arrived two months after we had discovered 
Lake Nyassa. He deserved all the credit due to finding 
the way thither, but he travelled as an Arab, and no one 
suspected him to be anything else. Our visits have been 
known far and wide, and great curiosity excited; but 
Dr. Eoscher merits the praise only of preserving his incog- 
nito at a distance from Kilwa : his is almost the only case 
known of successfully assuming the Arab guise — Burck- 
hardt is the exception. When Mr. Palgrave came to Muscat, 
or a town in Oman where our political agent Col. Desborough 
was stationed, he was introduced to that functionary by an 
interpreter as Hajee Ali, &c. Col. Desborough replied, 
" You are no Hajee Ali, nor anything else but Gifford Pal- 
grave, with whom I was schoolfellow at the Charter House." 
Col. Desborough said he knew him at once, from a peculiar 
way of holding his head, and Palgrave begged him not to 
disclose his real character to his interpreter, on whom, and 
some others, he had been imposing. I was told this by 
Mr. Dawes, a Lieutenant in the Indian navy, who accom- 
panied Colonel Pelly in his visit to the Nejed, Eiad, &c, 
and took observations for him. 

Tangare is the name of a rather handsome bean, which 
possesses intoxicating qualities. To extract these it is boiled, 
then peeled, and new water supplied : after a second and 
third boiling it is pounded, and the meal taken to the river 
and the water allowed to percolate through it several times. 
Twice cooking still leaves the intoxicating quality; but if 
eaten then it does not cause death : it is curious that the 
natives do not use it expressly to produce intoxication. 
When planted near a tree it grows all over it, and yields 
abundantly : the skin of the pod is velvety, like our broad 
beans. 



1866.] VISITS THE CHIEF MUKATE. 103 

Another bean, with a pretty white mark on it, grows 
freely, and is easily cooked, and good : it is here called 
Givingwiza. 

15th September. — We were now a short distance sonth 
of the Lake, and might have gone west to Mosauka's 
(called by some Pasauka's) to cross the Shire there, but I 
thought that my visit to Mukate's, a Waiyau chief still 
further south, might do good. He, Mponda, and Kabinga, 
are the only three chiefs who still carry on raids against 
the Manganja at the instigation of the coast Arabs, and 
they are now sending periodical marauding parties to the 
Maravi (here named Malola) to supply the Kilwa slave- 
traders. We marched three hours southwards, then up 
the hills of the range which flanks all the lower part 
of the Lake. The altitude of the town is about 800 feet 
above the Lake. The population near the chief is large, and 
all the heights as far as the eye can reach are crowned 
with villages. The second range lies a few miles off, and 
is covered with trees as well as the first, the nearest high 
mass is Mafigoche. The people live amidst plenty. All the 
ehiefs visited by the Arabs have good substantial square 
houses built for their accommodation. Mukate never saw a 
European before, and everything about us is an immense 
curiosity to him and to his people. We had long visits from 
him. He tries to extract a laugh out of every remark. He 
is darker than the generality of Waiyau, with a full beard 
trained on the chin, as all the people hereabouts have — 
Arab fashion. The courts of his women cover a large space, 
our house being on one side of them. I tried to go out 
that way, but wandered, so the ladies sent a servant to 
conduct me out in the direction I wished to go, and we 
found egress by passing through some huts with two doors 
in them. 

16th September. — At Mukate's. The Prayer Book does 
not give ignorant persons any idea of an unseen Being 



104 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. IV. 

addressed, it looks more like reading- or speaking to the 
book : kneeling and praying with eyes slnvt is better than 
our usual way of holding Divine service. 

We had a long discussion about the slave-trade. The 
Arabs have told the chief that our object in capturing slavers 
is to get them into our own possession, and make them of 
our own religion. The evils which Ave have seen- — the skulls,, 
the ruined villages, the numbers who perish on the way to 
the coast and on the sea, the wholesale murders committed 
by the Waiyau to build up Arab villages elsewhere — these 
things Mukate often tried to turn off with a laugh, but 
our remarks are safely lodged in many hearts. Next day, 
as we went along, our guide spontaneously delivered their 
substance to the different villages along our route. Before 
we reached him, a headman, in convoying me a mile or 
two, whispered to me, " Speak to Mukate to give his forays 
up." 

It is but little we can do, but we lodge a protest in the 
heart against a vile system, and time may ripen it. Their 
great argument is, "What could we do without Arab cloth?" 
My answer is, "Do what you did before the Arabs came 
into the country." At the present rate of destruction of 
population, the whole country will soon be a desert. 

An earthquake happened here last year, that is about the 
end of it or beginning of this (the crater on the Grand 
Comoro Island smoked for three months about that time) ;. 
it shook all the houses and everything, but they observed, 
no other effects.* No hot springs are known here. 



* Earthquakes are by no means uncommon. A slight shock was felt 
in 18G1 at Magomero ; on asking the natives if they knew the cause of it, 
they replied that on one occasion, after a very severe earthquake which 
shook boulders off the mountains, all the wise men of the country assem- 
bled to talk about it and came to the following conclusion, that a star had 
fallen from heaven into the sea, and that the bubbling caused the whole 
earth to rock ; they said the effect was the same as that caused by throwing, 
a red-hot stone into a pot of water. — Ed. 



1866.] EARTHQUAKES. THE MAEAVI. 105 

17th September. — We marched down from Mukate's and 
to about the middle of the Lakelet Pamalombe. Mukate 
had no people with canoes near the usual crossing place, 
and he sent a messenger to see that we were fairly served. 
Here we got the Manganja headmen to confess that an 
earthquake had happened ; all the others we have in- 
quired of have denied it ; why, I cannot conceive. The old 
men said that they had felt earthquakes twice, once near 
sunset and the next time at night — they shook everything,, 
and were accompanied with noise, and all the fowls cackled ; 
there was no effect on the Lake observed. They profess 
ignorance of any tradition of the water having stood higher. 
Their traditions say that they came originally from the 
west, or west north-west, which they call "Maravi;" and 
that their forefathers taught them to make nets and kill 
fish. They have no trace of any teaching by a higher 
instructor ; no carvings or writings on the rocks ; and they 
never heard of a book until Ave came among them. Their 
forefathers never told them that after or at death they went 
to God, but they had heard it said of such a one who died,. 
" God took him." 

l§th September. — We embarked the whole party in eight 
canoes, and went up the Lake to the point of junction between 
it and the prolongation of Nyassa above it, called Massan- 
gano ("meetings"), which took us two hours. A fishing 
party there fled on seeing us, though we shouted that we 
were a travelling party (or " Olendo "). 

Mukate's people here left us, and I walked up to the 
village of the fugitives with one attendant only. Their 
suspicions were so thoroughly aroused that they would 
do nothing. The headman (Pima) was said to be absent ; 
they could not lend us a hut, but desired us to go on to 
Mponda's. We put up a shed for ourselves, and next 
morning, though we pressed them for a guide, no one 
would come. 



106 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. IV. 

From Pima's village we had a fine view of Pamalombe 
and the range of hills on its western edge, the range 
which flanks the lower part of Nyassa, — on part of which 
Mukate lives, — the gap of low land south of it behind which 
Shirwa Lake lies, and Chikala and Zomba nearly due south 
from us. People say hippopotami come from Lake Shirwa 
into Lake Nyassa. There is a great deal of vegetation in 
Pamalombe, gigantic rushes, duckweed, and great quantities 
of aquatic plants on the bottom; one slimy translucent 
plant is washed ashore in abundance. Fish become very fat 
on these plants; one called "kadiakola" I eat much of; it 
has a good mass of flesh on it. 

It is probable that the people of Lake Tanganyika and 
Nyassa, and those on the Eivers Shire and Zambesi, are all 
of one stock, for the dialects vary very little * I took obser- 
vations on this point. An Arab slave-party, hearing of us, 
decamped. 

19th September. — When we had proceeded a mile this 
morning Ave came to 300 or 400 people making salt on a 
plain impregnated with it. They lixiviate the soil and boil 
the water, which has filtered through a bunch of grass in 
a hole in the bottom of a pot, till all is evaporated and a 
mass of salt left. We held along the plain till we came 
to Mponda's, a large village, with a stream running past. 
The plain at the village is very fertile, and has many 
large trees on it. The cattle of Mponda are like fatted 
Madagascar beasts, and the hump seems as if it would 
weigh 100 lbs.f The size of body is so enormous that their 
legs, as remarked by our men, seemed very small. Mponda 
is a blustering sort of person, but immensely interested in 



* The Waiyau language differs very much from the Nyassa, and is 
exceedingly difficult to master : it holds good from the coast to Nyassa, 
but to the west of the Lake the Nyassa tongue is spoken over a vast 
tract. — Ed. 

f We shall see that more to the north the hump entirely disappears. 



18G6.] HALT OF THE SLAVE-GANG. 107 

everything European. He says that lie would like to go 
with me. " Would not care though he were away ten 
years." I say that he may die in the journey. — " He will 
die here as well as there, but he will see all the won- 
derful doings of our country." He knew nie, having come 
to the boat, to take a look incognito when we were here 
formerly. 

We found an Arab slave-party here, and went to look 
at the slaves ; seeing this, Mponda was alarmed lest we 
should proceed to violence in his town, but I said to him 
that we went to look only. Eighty-five slaves were in a 
pen formed of dura stalks (Holcus sorghum). The majority 
were boys of about eight or ten years of age ; others were 
grown men and women. Nearly all were in the taming- 
stick ; a few of the younger ones were in thongs, the thong 
passing round the neck of each. Several pots were on 
the fires cooking dura and beans. A crowd went with us, 
expecting a scene, but I sat clown, and asked a few questions 
about the journey, in front. The slave-party consisted of 
five or six half-caste coast Arabs, who said that they came 
from Zanzibar; but the crowd made such a noise that we 
could not hear ourselves speak. I asked if they had any 
objections to my looking at the slaves, the owners pointed 
out the different slaves, and said that after feeding them, 
and accounting for the losses in the way to the coast, they 
made little by the trip. I suspect that the gain is made by 
those who ship them to the ports of Arabia, for at Zanzibar 
most of the younger slaves we saw went at about seven 
dollars a head. I said to them it was a bad business 
altogether. They presented fowls to me in the evening. 

20th September. — The chief begged so hard that I would 
stay another day and give medicine to a sick child, 
that I consented. He promised plenty of food, and, as an 
earnest of his sincerity, sent an immense pot of beer in the 
evening. The child had been benefited by the medicine 



108 . LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. IV. 

given yesterday. He offered more food than we chose to 
take. 

The agricultural class does not seem to be a servile 
one : all cultivate, and the work is esteemed. The chief 
was out at his garden when we arrived, and no disgrace 
is attached to the field labourer. The slaves very likely 
do the chief part of the work, but all engage in it, and 
are proud of their skill. Here a great deal of grain is 
raised, though nearly all the people are Waiyau or Ma- 
chinga. This is remarkable, as they have till lately been 
marauding and moving from place to place. The Manganja 
possessed the large breed of humped cattle which fell into 
the hands of the Waiyau, and knew how to milk them. 
Their present owners never milk them, and they have 
dwindled into a few instead of the thousands of former 
times.* 

A lion killed a woman early yesterday morning, and ate 
most of her undisturbed. 

It is getting very hot ; the ground to the feet of the 
men " burns like fire " after noon, so we are now obliged to 
make short marches, and early in the morning chiefly. 

Wikatani — Bishop Mackenzie's favourite boy — met a 
brother here, and he finds that he has an elder brother 
and a sister at Kabinga's. The father who sold him into 
slavery is dead. He wishes to stop with his relatives, and 
it will be well if he does. Though he has not much to say, 
what he does advance against the slave-trade will have its. 
weight, and it will all be in the way of preparation for better 
times and more light. 

The elder brother was sent for, but had not arrived when 



* It is very singular to witness the disgust with, which the idea of 
drinking milk is received by most of these tribes when we remember 
that the Caffre nations on the south, and again, tribes more to the north, 
subsist principally on it. A lad will undergo punishment rather than 
milk a goat. Eggs are likewise steadily eschewed. — En. 



1866;] WIKATANI LEAVES THE DOCTOR. 109 

it was necessary for us to leave Mponda's on the Rivulet 
Nternangokwe. I therefore gave Wikatani some cloth, a 
flint gun instead of the percussion one he carried, some flints, 
paper to write upon, and commended him to Mponda's care 
till his relatives arrived. He has lately shown a good deal 
of levity, and perhaps it is best that he should have a 
touch of what the world is in reality. 

[In a letter written about this time Dr. Livingstone, in 
speaking of Wikatani, says, " He met with a brother, and 
found that he had two brothers and one or two sisters 
living down at the western shore of Lake Pamelombe 
under Kabinga. He thought that his relatives would not 
again sell him. I had asked him if he wished to remain, 
and he at once said yes, so I did not attempt to dissuade 
him : his excessive levity will perhaps be cooled by mar- 
riage. I think he may do good by telling some of what he 
has seen and heard. I asked him if he would obey an order 
from his chief to hunt the Manganja, and he said, ' No.' I 
hope he won't. In the event of any mission coming into 
the country of Mataka, he will go there. I gave him paper 
to write to you,* and, commending him to the chiefs, bade 
the poor boy farewell. I was sorry to part with him, but 
the Arabs tell the Waiyau chiefs that our object in liberating 
slaves is to make them our own and turn them to our 
religion. I liad declared to them, through Wikatani as 
interpreter, that they never became our slaves, and were at 
liberty to go back to their relatives if they liked ; and now 
it was impossible to object to Wikatani going without 
stultifying my own statements." It is only necessary to 
repeat that Wikatani and Chuma had been liberated from 
the slavers by Dr. Livingstone and Bishop Mackenzie in 
1861 ; they were mere children when set free. 

* To myself. — Ed. 



110 



LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. IV. 



We must not forget to record the fact that when Mr. 
Young reached Maponda, two years afterwards, to ascertain 
whether the Doctor really had been murdered, as Musa 
declared, he was most hospitably received by the chief, 
who had by this time a great appreciation of everything 
English.] 

The lines of tattoo of the different tribes serve for orna- 
ments, and are resorted to most by the women ; it is a sort 
of heraldry closely resembling the Highland tartans. 




Manganja and Machinga women (from a Drawing by the late Dr. Meller). 



( 111 ) 



CHAPTEE V. 

Crosses Cape Maclear. The havildar demoralised. The discomfited chief. 
Reaches Marenga's town. The earth-sponge. Description of Marenga's 
town. Rumours of Mazitn. Musa and the Johanna men desert. 
Reaches Kimsusa's. His delight at seeing the Doctor once more. 
The fat ram. Kimsusa relates his experience of Livingstone's advice. 
Chuma finds relatives. Kimsusa solves the transport difficulty nobly. 
Another old fishing acquaintance. Description of the people and 
country on the west of the Lake. The Kanthundas. Kauma. Iron- 
smelting. An African Sir Colin Campbell. Milandos. 

21st September, 1866. — We marched westwards, making 
across the base of Cape Maclear. Two men employed as 
guides and carriers, went along grumbling that their dignity 
was so outraged by working — " only fancy Waiyau carrying 
like slaves ! ! " They went but a short distance, and took ad- 
vantage of my being in front to lay down the loads, one of 
which consisted of the havildar's bed and cooking things ; 
here they opened the other bundle and paid themselves — 
the gallant havildar sitting and looking on. He has never 
been of the smallest use, and lately has pretended to myste- 
rious pains in his feet ; no swelling or other symptom accom- 
panied this complaint. On coming to Pima's village he ate 
a whole fowl and some fish for supper, slept soundly till 
daybreak, then on awaking commenced a furious groaning — 
" his feet were so bad." I told him that people usually 
moaned when insensible, but he had kept quiet till he 
awaked ; he sulked at this, and remained all day, though 
I sent a man to carry his kit for him, and when he came 



112 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOUKNALS. [Chap. Y. 

up lie had changed the seat of his complaint from his feet 
to any part of his abdomen. He gave off his gun-belt and 
pouch to the carrier. This was a blind to me, for I examined 
and found that he had already been stealing and selling his 
ammunition : this is all preparatory to returning to the coast 
with some slave-trader. Nothing can exceed the ease and 
grace with which sepoys can glide from a swagger into the 
most abject begging of food from the villagers. He has 
remained behind. 

22nol September. — The hills we crossed were about 700 
feet above Nyassa, generally covered with trees ; no people 
were seen. We slept by the brook Sikocke. Rocks of 
hardened sandstone rested on mica schist, which had an 
efflorescence of alum on it, above this was dolomite; the 
hills often capped with it and oak-spar, giving a snowy 
appearance. We had a Waiyau party with us — six hand- 
somely-attired women carried huge pots of beer for their 
husbands, who very liberally invited us to partake. After 
seven hours' hard travelling we came to the village, where 
we spend Sunday by the torrent Usangazi, and near a re- 
markable mountain, Namasi. The chief, a one-eyed man, was 
rather coy — coming incognito to visit us ; and, as I suspected 
that he was present, I asked if the chief were an old woman, 
afraid to look at and welcome a stranger ? All burst into a 
laugh, and looked at him, when he felt forced to join in it, 
and asked what sort of food we liked best. Chuma put this 
-clear enough by saying, " He eats everything eaten by the 
Waiyau." This tribe, or rather the Machinga, now super- 
sede the Manganja. We passed one village of the latter 
near this, a sad, tumble-down affair, while the Waiyau 
villages are very neat, with handsome straw or reed fences 
all around their huts. 

24:th September. — We went only 2\ miles to the village 
of Marenga, a very large one, situated at the eastern edge 
of the bottom of the heel of the Lake. The chief is ill 



1866.] PHYSICAL GEOGRAPHY. 1 1 3 

of a loathsome disease derived direct from the Arabs. 
Eaised patches of scab of circular form disfigure the face 
and neck as well as other parts. His brother begged me to 
see him and administer some remedy for the same complaint. 
He is at a village a little way off, and though sent for, was 
too ill to come or to be carried. The tribe is of Babisa 
origin. Many of these people had gone to the coast as 
traders, and returning with arms and ammunition joined 
the Waiyau in their forays on the Manganja, and eventually 
set themselves up as an independent tribe. The women 
do not wear the lip-ring, though the majority of them are 
Waiyau. They cultivate largely, and have plenty to eat. 
They have cattle, but do not milk them. 

The bogs, or earthen sponges,* of this country occupy a 
most important part in its physical geography, and pro- 
bably explain the annual inundations of most of the rivers. 
Wherever a plain sloping towards a narrow opening in hills 
or higher ground exists, there we have the conditions 
requisite for the formation of an African sponge. The 
vegetation, not being of a heathy or peat-forming kind, falls 
down, rots, and then forms rich black loam. In many cases a 
mass of this loam, two or three feet thick, rests on a bed of 
pure river sand, which is revealed by crabs and other aquatic 
animals bringing it to the surface. At present, in the dry 
season, the black loam is cracked in all directions, and the 
cracks are often as much as three inches wide, and very 
deep. The whole surface has now fallen down, and rests on 
the sand, but when the rains come, the first supply is nearly 
all absorbed in the sand. The black loam forms soft slush, 
and floats on the sand. The narrow opening prevents it from 
moving off in a landslip, but an oozing spring rises at that 



* Dr. Livingstone's description of the " Sponge " will stand the reader 
in good stead when he comes to the constant mention of these obstructions 
in the later travels towards the north. — En. 

VOL. I. I 



114 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOUKNALS. [Chap. V. 

spot. All the pools iii the lower portion of this spring- 
course are filled by the first rains, which happen south of 
the equator when the sun goes vertically over any spot. 
The second, or greater rains, happen in his course north 
again, when all the bogs and river-courses being wet, the 
supply runs off, and forms the inundation : this was cer- 
tainly the case as observed on the Zambesi and Shire, and, 
taking the different times for the sun's passage north of the 
equator, it explains the inundation of the Nile. 

2bth September. — Marenga's town on the west shore of 
Lake Nyassa is very large, and his people collected in great 
numbers to gaze at the stranger. The chief's brother 
asked a few questions, and I took the occasion to be a good 
one for telling him something about the Bible and the 
future state. The men said that their fathers had never 
told them aught about the soul, but they thought that the 
whole man rotted and came to nothing. What I said was 
very nicely put by a volunteer spokesman, who seemed to 
have a gift that way, for all listened most attentively, and 
especially when told that our Father in heaven loved all, 
and heard prayers addressed to Him. 

Marenga came dressed in a red-figured silk shawl, and 
attended by about ten court beauties, who spread a mat for 
him, then a cloth above, and sat down as if to support him. 
He asked me to examine his case inside a hut. He exhi- 
bited his loathsome skin disease, and being blacker than his 
wives, the blotches with which he was covered made him 
appear very ugly. He thought that the disease was in the 
country before Arabs came. Another new disease acquired 
from them was the small-pox. 

26th September. — An Arab passed us yesterday, his slaves 
going by another route across the base of Cape Maclear. 
He told Musa that all the country in front was full of 
Mazitu ; that forty-four Arabs and their followers had been 
killed by them at Kasungu, and he only escaped. Musa 



1866,] THE JOHANNA MEN DESERT. 115 

and all the Johanna men now declared that they would go 
no farther. Musa said, " No good country that ; I want 
to go back to Johanna to see my father and mother and 
son." I took him to Marenga, and asked the chief about 
the Mazitu. He explained that the disturbance was caused 
by the Manganja finding that Jumbe brought Arabs and 
ammunition into the country every year, and they resented 
it in consequence ; they would not allow more to come, be- 
cause they were the sufferers, and their nation was getting 
destroyed. 

I explained to Musa that we should avoid the Mazitu : 
Marenga added, " There are no Mazitu near where you are 
going ; " but Musa's eyes stood out with terror, and he said, 
" I no can believe that man." But I inquired, " How can 
you believe the Arab so easily ? " Musa answered, " I ask 
him to tell me true, and he say true, true," &c. 

"When we started, all the Johanna men walked off, leaving 
the goods on the ground. They have been such inveterate 
thieves that I am not sorry to get rid of them ; for though 
my party is now inconveniently small, I could not trust 
them with flints in their guns, nor allow them to remain 
behind, for their object was invariably to plunder their 
loads. 

[Here then we have Livingstone's account of the origin 
of that well-told story, which at first seemed too true. How 
Mr. Edward Young, R.N., declared it to be false, and sub- 
sequently proved it untrue, is already well known. This 
officer's quick voyage to Lake Nyassa reflected the greatest 
credit on him, and all hearts were filled with joy when he 
returned and reported the tale of Livingstone's murder to 
be merely an invention of Musa and his comrades.] 

I ought to mention that the stealing by the Johanna 
men was not the effect of hunger ; it attained its height 

i 2 



110 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. V. 

when we had plenty. If one remained behind, we knew 
his object in delaying was stealing. He gave what he 
filched to the others, and Musa shared the dainties they 
bought with the stolen property. When spoken to he would 
say, " I every day tell Johanna men no steal Doctor's things." 
As he came away and left them in the march, I insisted on 
his bringing up all his men; this he did not relish, and 
the amount stolen was not small. One stole fifteen pounds 
of fine powder, another seven, another left six table-cloths 
out of about twenty-four; another called out to a man to 
bring a fish, and he would buy it with beads, the beads 
being stolen, and Musa knew it all and connived at it ; but 
it was terror that drove him away at last. 

With our goods in canoes we went round the bottom 
of the heel of Nyassa, slept among reeds, and next morning 
(27th) landed at Msangwa, Avhich is nearly opposite Kim- 
susa's, or Katosa's, as the Makololo called him. A man 
had been taken off by a crocodile last night ; he had been 
drinking beer, and Avent down to the water to cool himself, 
where he lay down, and the brute seized him. The water 
was very muddy, being stirred up by an east wind, which 
lashed the waves into our canoes, and wetted our things. 
The loud wail of the women is very painful to hear; it 
sounds so dolefully. 

28th September. — We reached Kimsusa's, below Mount 
Mulundini, of Kirk's range.* The chief was absent, but he 
was sent for immediately : his town has much increased 
since I saw it last. 

29th September. — Another Arab passed last night, with 
the tale that his slaves had all been taken from him by the 
Mazitu. It is more respectable to be robbed by them than 
by the Manganja, who are much despised and counted 



* So named when Dr. Livingstone, Dr. Kirk, and Mr. Charles Living- 
stone, discovered Lake Nyassa together. 



16G6.] KIMSUSA'S HOSPITABLE WELCOME. 117 

nobodies. I propose to go west of this among the Maravi 
until quite away beyond the disturbances, whether of Mazitu 
or Manganja. 

30th September. — We enjoy our Sunday here. We have 
.abundance of food from Kimsusa's wife. The chief wished me 
to go alone and enjoy his drinking bout, and then we could 
return to this place together ; but this was not to my taste. 

1st October, 18G6. — Kimsusa, or Mchusa, came this morn- 
ing, and seemed very glad again to see his old friend. 
He sent off at once to bring an enormous ram, which had 
either killed or seriously injured a man. The animal came 
tied to a pole to keep him off the man who held it, while 
a lot more carried him. He was prodigiously fat ;* this is a 
true African way of showing love — plenty of fat and beer. 
Accordingly the chief brought a huge basket of " pombe," 
the native beer, and another of " nsima," or porridge, and a 
pot of cooked meat ; to these were added a large basket of 
maize. So much food had been brought to us, that we had 
.at last to explain that we could not carry it. 

[The Doctor states a fact in the next few lines which 
shows that the Africans readily profit by advice which 
appeals to their common sense, and we make this observa- 
tion in full knowledge of similar instances.] 

Kimsusa says that they felt earthquakes at the place 
Mponda now occupies, but none where he is now. He con- 
firms the tradition that the Manganja came from the west 
or W.N.W. He speaks more rationally about the Deity than 
some have done, and adds, that it was by following the 



* The sheep are of the black-haired variety : their tails grow to an 
enormous size. A ram which came from Nunkajowa, a Waiyau chief, on 
a former occasion, was found to have a tail weighing 11 lbs.; but for the 
journey, and two or three days short commons, an extra 2 or 3 lbs. of fat 
would have been on it. — Ed. 



118 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. V. 

advice which I gave him the last time I saw him, and not 
selling his people, that his village is now three times its 
former size. He has another village besides, and he was 
desirous that I should see that too ; that was the reason 
he invited me to come, but the people would come and 
visit me. 

2nd October. — Kimsusa made his appearance early with a 
huge basket of beer, 18 inches high and 15 inches in diameter. 
He served it out for a time, taking deep draughts himself, 
becoming extremely loquacious in consequence. He took 
us to a dense thicket behind his town, among numbers of 
lofty trees, many of which I have seen nowhere else ; that 
under which we sat bears a fruit in clusters, which is eat- 
able, and called " Mbedwa." A space had been cleared, 
and we were taken to this shady spot as the one in which 
business of importance and secrecy is transacted. Another 
enormous basket of beer was brought here by his wives, but 
there was little need for it, for Kimsusa talked incessantly, 
and no business was done. 

. 3rd October. — The chief came early, and sober. I rallied 
him on his previous loquacity, and said one ought to find 
time in the morning if business was to be done : he took 
it in good part, and one of his wives joined in bantering 
him. She is the wife and the mother of the sons in whom 
he delights, and who will succeed him. I proposed to him 
to send men with me to the Babisa country, and I would 
pay them there, where they could buy ivory for him with 
the pay, and, bringing it back, he would be able to purchase 
clothing without selling his people. He says that his 
people would not bring the pay or anything else back. 
When he sends to purchase ivory he gives the price to 
Arabs or Babisa, and they buy for him and conduct his 
business honestly ; but his people, the Manganja, cannot be 
trusted : this shows a remarkable state of distrust, and, 
from previous information, it is probably true. 



1866.] RELATIONS DISCOVER CHUMA. 110 

A party of the Arab Kharnbuiri's people went up lately 
to the Maravi country above this, and immediately west 
of Kirk's range, to purchase slaves : but they were attacked 
by the Maravi, and dispersed with slaughter : this makes 
Kimsusa's people afraid to venture there. They had some 
quarrel with the Maravi also of their own, and no intercourse 
now took place. A path further south was followed by 
Mponda lately, and great damage done, so it would not be 
wise to go on his footsteps. Kimsusa said he would give 
me carriers to go up to the Maravi, but he wished to be 
prepaid : to this I agreed, but even then he could not 
prevail on anyone to go. He then sent for an old Mobisa 
man, who has a village under him, and acknowledges 
Kimsusa's power. He says that he fears that, should he 
force his Manganja to go, they would leave us on the road, 
or run away on the first appearance of danger; but this 
Mobisa man would be going to his own country, and would 
stick by us. Meanwhile the chief overstocks us with beer 
and other food. 

4th October. — The Mobisa man sent for came, but was 
so ignorant of his own country, not knowing the names of 
the chief Babisa town or any of the rivers, that I declined 
his guidance. He would only have been a clog on us ; and 
anything about the places in front of us we could ascertain 
at the villages where we touch by inquiry as well as he 
could. 

A woman turned up here, and persuaded Chuma that she 
was his aunt. He wanted to give her at once a fathom of 
calico and beads, and wished me to cut his pay down for 
the purpose. I persuaded him to be content with a few 
beads for her. He gave her his spoon and some other 
valuables, fully persuaded that she was a relative, though 
he Avas interrogated first as to his father's name, and tribe, 
&c, before she declared herself. 

It shows a most forgiving disposition on the part of these 



120 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOUKNALS. [Chap. V. 

boys to make presents to those avIio, if genuine relations, 
actually sold them. But those who have been caught 
young know nothing of the evils of slavery, and do not 
believe in its ills. Chuma, for instance, believes now that 
he was caught and sold by the Manganja, and not by his 
own Waiyau, though it was just in the opposite way that 
he became a slave, and he asserted and believes that no 
Waiyau ever sold his own child. When reminded that 
Wikatani was sold by his own father, he denied it ; then 
that the father of Chimwala, another boy, sold him, his 
mother, and sister, he replied, " These are Machinga." 
This is another tribe of Waiyau; but this showed that 
he was determined to justify his countrymen at any rate. 
I mention this matter, because though the Oxford and 
Cambridge Mission have an advantage in the instruction 
of boys taken quite young from slavers, yet these same 
boys forget the evils to which they were exposed and from 
which they were rescued, and it is even likely that they 
will, like Chuma, deny that any benefit was conferred upon 
them by their deliverance. This was not stated broadly by 
Chuma, but his tone led one to believe that he was quite 
ready to return to the former state. 

5th October. — The chief came early with an immense 
basket of beer, as usual. We were ready to start : he did 
not relish this ; but I told him it was clear that his people 
set very light by his authority. He declared that he would 
force them or go himself, with his wives as carriers. This 
dawdling and guzzling had a bad effect on my remaining 
people. Simon, a Nassick lad, for instance, overheard two 
words which he understood ; these were " Mazitu " and 
" lipululu," or desert ; and from these he conjured up a 
picture of Mazitu rushing out upon us from the jungle, 
and killing all without giving us time to say a word ! To 
this he added scraps of distorted information : Khambuiri 
was a very bad chief in front, &c, all showing egregious 



1866.] KIMSUSA SOLVES A DIFFICULTY. 121 

•cowardice; yet lie came to give me advice. On asking 
what he knew (as he could not speak the language), he 
replied that he heard the above two words, and that Chuma 
could not translate them, but he had caught them, and came 
to warn me. 

The chief asked me to stay over to-day, and he would go 
with his wives to-morrow ; I was his friend, and he would 
not see me in difficulties without doing his utmost. He 
says that there is no danger of our not finding people for 
carrying loads. It is probable that Khambuiri's people 
went as marauders, and were beaten off in consequence. 

6th October. — We marched about seven miles to the north 
to a village opposite the pass Tapiri, and on a rivulet, 
Godedza. It was very hot. Kimsusa behaves like a king : 
his strapping wives came to carry loads, and shame his 
people. Many of the young men turned out and took the 
loads, but it was evident that they feared retaliation if they 
ventured up the pass. One Avife carried beer, another meal ; 
and as soon as we arrived, cooking commenced: porridge 
.and roasted goat's flesh made a decent meal. A preparation 
of meal called " Toku " is very refreshing and brings out 
all the sugary matter in the grain : he gave me some in 
the way, and, seeing I liked it, a calabash full was prepared 
for me in the evening. Kimsusa delights in showing me to 
his people as his friend. If I could have used his pombe, 
or beer, it would have put some fat on my bones, but it 
requires a strong digestion ; many of the chiefs and their 
wives live on it almost entirely. A little flesh is necessary 
to relieve the acidity it causes ; and they keep all flesh 
very carefully, no matter how high it may become : drying- 
it on a stage over a fire prevents entire putridity. 

1th October. — I heard hooping-cough* in the village. 



* This complaint lias not been reported as an African disease before ; it 
probably clings to the higher levels. — Ed. 



122 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. V. 

We found our visitors so disagreeable that I was glad to 
march ; they were Waiyau, and very impudent, demanding 
gun or game medicine to enable them to shoot well : they 
came into the hut uninvited, and would take no denial. It 
is probable that the Arabs drive a trade in gun medicine : 
it is inserted in cuts made above the thumb, and on the fore- 
arm. Their superciliousness shows that they feel themselves 
to be the dominant race. The Manganja trust to their old 
bows and arrows ; they are much more civil than Ajawa or 
Waiyau. 

[The difference between these two great races is here well 
worthy of the further notice which Livingstone no doubt 
Avould have given it. As a rule, the Manganja are extremely 
clever in all the savage arts and manufactures. Their looms 
turn out a strong serviceable cotton cloth ; their iron weapons 
and implements show a taste for design which is not reached 
by the neighbouring tribes, and in all matters that relate to 
husbandry they excel : but in dash and courage they are 
deficient. The Waiyau, on the contrary, have round apple- 
shaped heads, as distinguished from the long well-shaped 
heads of the poor Manganja ; they are jocular and merry, 
given to travelling, and bold in war — these are qualities 
which serve them well as they are driven from pillar to post 
through slave wars and internal dissension, but they have 
not the brains of the Manganja, nor the talent to make their 
mark in any direction where brains are wanted.] 

A Manganja man, who formerly presented us with the 
whole haul of his net, came and gave me four fowls : some 
really delight in showing kindness. When we came near 
the bottom of the pass Tapiri, Kimsusa's men became loud 
against his venturing further ; he listened, then burst away 
from them : he listened again, then did the same ; and 
as he had now got men for us, I thought it better to let 
him c;o. 



18C6.] THE REVENGEFUL EATCATCHEE. 123 

In three hours and a quarter we had made a clear ascent 
of 2200 feet above the Lake. The first persons we met were 
two men and a boy, who were out hunting with a dog and 
basket-trap. This is laid down in the run of some small 
animal ; the dog chases it, and it goes into the basket 
which is made of split bamboo, and has prongs looking 
inwards, which prevent its egress : mouse traps are made in 
the same fashion. I suspected that the younger of the men 
had other game in view, and meant, if fit opportunity offered, 
to insert an arrow in a Waiyau, who was taking away his 
wife as a slave. He told me before we had gained the top 
of the ascent that some Waiyau came to a village, separated 
from his by a small valley, picked a quarrel with the in- 
habitants, and then went and took the wife and child of a 
poorer countryman to pay these pretended offences. 

8th October. — At the first village we found that the people 
up here and those down below were mutually afraid of each 
other. Kimsusa came to the bottom of the range, his last 
act being the offer of a pot of beer, and a calabash of Toku, 
which latter was accepted. I paid his wives for carrying 
our things : they had done well, and after we gained the 
village where we slept, sang and clapped their hands vigor- 
ously till one o'clock in the morning, when I advised them 
to go to sleep. The men he at last provided were very 
faithful and easily satisfied. Here we found the headman, 
Kawa, of Mpalapala, quite as hospitable. In addition to 
providing a supper, it is the custom to give breakfast before 
starting. Besting on the 8th to make up for the loss of rest 
on Sunday ; we marched on Tuesday (the 9th), but were soon 
brought to a stand by Gombwa, whose village, Tamiala, 
stands on another ridge. 

Gombwa, a laughing, good-natured man, said that he 
had sent for all his people to see me ; and I ought to 
sleep, to enable them to look on one the like of whom 
had never come their way before. Intending to go on, 



124 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. V. 

I explained some of my objects in coming through the 
country, advising the people to refrain from selling each 
•other, as it ends in war and depopulation. He was cunning, 
and said, " Well, you must sleep here, and all my people 
will come and hear those words of peace." I explained that 
I had employed carriers, who expected to be paid though 
I had gone but a small part of a day ; he replied, " But 
they will go home and come again to-morrow, and it will 
count but one day :" I was thus constrained to remain. 

9th October. — Both barometer and boiling-point showed 
.an altitude of upwards of 4000 feet above the sea. This 
is the hottest month, but the air is delightfully clear, and 
delicious. The country is very fine, lying in long slopes, 
Avith mountains rising all around, from 2000 to 3000 feet 
above this upland. They are mostly jagged and rough 
(not rounded like those near to Mataka's) : the long slopes 
.are nearly denuded of trees, and the patches of cultivation 
.are so large and often squarish in form, that but little 
imagination is requisite to transform the whole into the 
•cultivated fields of England ; but no hedgerows exist. The 
trees are in clumps on the tops of the ridges, or at the 
villages, or at the places of sepulture. Just now the young 
leaves are out, but are not yet green. In some lights they 
look brown, but with transmitted light, or when one is 
near them, crimson prevails. A yellowish-green is met some- 
times in the young leaves, and brown, pink, and orange-red. 
The soil is rich, but the grass is only excessively rank in 
spots; in general it is short. A kind of trenching of the 
ground is resorted to ; they hoe deep, and draw it well to 
themselves : this exposes the other earth to the hoe. The 
soil is burned too : the grass and weeds are placed in flat 
heaps, and soil placed over them : the burning is slow, and 
most of the products of combustion are retained to fatten 
the field ; in this way the people raise large crops. Men and 
women and children engage in field labour, but at present 



I860.] 



BUAZE CLOTH. ENORMOUS BOWS. 



12; 



many of the men are engaged in spinning buaze*and cotton. 
The former is made into a coarse sacking-looking stuff, im- 
mensely strong, which seems to he worn by the women alone ; 
the men are clad in uncomfortable goatskins. No wild 
animals seem to be in the country, and indeed the popu- 
lation is so large they would have very unsettled times of 
it. At every turning we meet people, or see their villages ; 
all armed with bows and arrows. The bows are unusually 
long : I measured one made of bamboo, and found that along 
the bowstring it measured six feet four inches. Many carry 
large knives of fine iron ; and indeed the metal is abundant. 
Young men and women wear the hair long, a mass of small 
ringlets comes down and rests on the shoulders, giving them 
the appearance of the ancient Egyptians. One side is often 
cultivated, and the mass hangs jauntily on that side ; some 
few have a solid cap of it. Not many women wear the 
lip-ring : the example of the Waiyau has prevailed so far ; 





UfJ^V 



Tattoo on Women. 



but some of the young women have raised lines crossing 
each other on the arms, which must have cost great pain : 
they have also small cuts, covering in some cases the whole 
body. The Maravi or Manganja here may be said to be in 
their primitive state. We find them very liberal with their 



* A fine fibre derived from the shoots of a shrub (Secitridaca Longi- 
pedunculata). 



126 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. V. 

food : we give a cloth to tlie headman of the village where 
we pass the night, and he gives a goat, or at least cooked 
fowls and porridge, at night and morning. 

We were invited by Gombwa in the afternoon to speak 
the same words to his people that we used to himself in the 
morning. He nudged a boy to respond, which is considered 
polite, though he did it only with a rough hem ! at the end 
of each sentence. As for our general discourse we mention 
our relationship to our Father : His love to all His children 
— the guilt of selling any of His children — the consequence ; 
e.g. it begets war, for they don't like to sell their own, and 
steal from other villagers, who retaliate. Arabs and Waiyau 
invited into the country by their selling, foster feuds, and 
war and depopulation ensue. We mention the Bible — 
future state — prayer : advise union, that they should unite 
as one family to expel enemies, who came first as slave- 
traders, and ended by leaving the country a wilderness. 
In reference to union, we showed that they ought to have 
seen justice done to the man who lost his wife and child at 
their very doors ; but this want of cohesion is the bane of 
the Manganja. If the evil does not affect themselves they 
don't care whom it injures ; and Gombwa confirmed this, by 
saying that when he routed Khambuiri's people, the villagers 
west of him fled instead of coming to his aid. 

We hear that many of the Manganja up here are fugitives 
from Nyassa. 

10th October. — Kawa and his people were with us early this 
morning, and we started from Tamiala with them. The 
weather is lovely, and the scenery, though at present tinged 
with yellow from the grass, might be called glorious. The 
bright sun and delicious air are quite exhilarating. We 
passed a fine flowing rivulet, called Levize, going into the 
Lake, and many smaller runnels of delicious cold water. On 
resting by a dark sepulchral grove, a tree attracted the 
attention, as nowhere else seen: it is called Bokonto, and 



1866.] THE BOKONTO TREE. KULU ABSCONDS. 127 

said to bear eatable fruit. Many fine flowers were just 
bursting into full blossom. After about four hours' march 
we put up at Chitimba, the village of Kangomba, and were 
introduced by Kawa, who came all the way for the purpose. 
11th October. — A very cold morning, with a great bank 
of black clouds in the east, whence the wind came. Therm. 
59° ; in hut 69°. The huts are built very well. The roof, 
with the lower part plastered, is formed so as not to admit a 
ray of light, and the only visible mode of ingress for it is 
by the door. This case shows that winter is cold : on pro- 
posing to start, breakfast was not ready : then a plan was 
formed to keep me another day at a village close by, be- 
longing to one Kulu, a man of Kauma, to whom we go next. 
It was effectual, and here we 
are detained another day. A 
curiously cut-out stool is in 
my hut, made by the Mkwisa, 
who are south-west of this : 
it is of one block, but hol- 
lowed out, and all the spaces 

x Curiously cut-out Stool made of one block of 

indicated are hollow too : wood hollowed out. 

about 1\ feet long by 1J foot high. 

12th October. — We march westerly, with a good deal 
of southing. Kulu gave us a goat, and cooked liberally for 
us all. He set off with us as if to go to Kauma's in our 
company, but after we had gone a couple of miles he slipped 
behind, and ran away. Some are naturally mean, and some 
naturally noble : the mean cannot help showing their 
nature, nor can the noble ; but the noble-hearted must enjoy 
life most. Kulu got a cloth, and he gave us at least its 
value ; but he thought he had got more than he gave, and 
so by running away that he had done us nicely, without 
troubling himself to go and introduce us to Kauma. I 
usually request a headman of a village to go with us. 
They give a good report of us, if for no other reason 




128 . LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOUBNALS. [Chap. V. 

than for their own credit, because no one likes to be 
thought giving his countenance to people other than 
respectable, and it costs little. 

We came close to the foot of several squarish mountains,, 
having perpendicular sides. One, called "Ulazo pa Ma- 
lungo," is used by the people, whose villages cluster round 
its base as a storehouse for grain. Large granaries stand 
on its top, containing food to be used in case of war. A 
large cow is kept up there, which is supposed capable 
of knowing and letting the owners know when war is- 
coming.* There is a path up, but it was not visible to us. 
The people are all Kanthunda, or climbers, not Maravi. 
Kimsusa said that he was the only Maravi chief, but 
this I took to be an ebullition of beer bragging : the 
natives up here, however, confirm this, and assert that 
they are not Maravi, who are known by having markings 
down the side of the face. 

We spent the night at a Kanthunda village on the western 
side of a mountain called Phunze (the h being an aspirate 
only). Many villages are planted round its base, but in front, 
that is, westwards, we have plains, and there the villages are 
as numerous: mostly they are within half a mile of each 
other, and few are a mile from other hamlets. Each village 
has a clump of trees around it : this is partly for shade and 
partly for privacy from motives of decency. The heat of 
the sun causes the effluvia to exhale quickly, so they are 
seldom offensive. The rest of the country, where not culti- 
vated, is covered with grass, the seed-stalks about knee deep. 
It is gently undulating, lying in low waves, stretching N.E. 
and S.W. The space between each wave is usually occupied 
by a boggy spot or watercourse, which in some cases is filled 
with pools with trickling rills between. All the people are 



* Several superstitions of tliis nature seem to point to a remnant of the 
old heathen ritual, and the worship of gods in mountain groves. 



1866.] NATIVE AGRICULTURE. HUMID CLIMATE. 129 

engaged at present in making mounds six or eight feet 
square, and from two to three feet high. The sods in places 
not before hoed are separated from the soil beneath and col- 
lected into flattened heaps, the grass undermost ; when dried, 
fire is applied and slow combustion goes on, most of the 
products of the burning being retained in the ground, much 
of the soil is incinerated. The final prejDaration is effected 
by the men digging up the subsoil round the mound, pass- 
ing each hoeful into the left hand, where it pulverizes, and 
is then thrown on to the heap. It is thus virgin soil on the 
top of the ashes and burned ground of the original heap, 
very clear of weeds. At present many mounds have beans 
and maize about four inches high. Holes, a foot in diameter 
and a few inches deep, are made irregularly over the surface 
of the mound, and about eight or ten grains put into each : 
these are watered by hand and calabash, and kept growing 
till the rains set in, when a very early crop is secured. 

13th October. — After leaving Phunze, we crossed the 
Levinge, a rivulet which flows northwards, and then into 
Lake Nyassa ; the lines of gentle undulation tend in that 
direction. Some hills appear on the plains, but after the 
mountains which we have left behind they are mere 
mounds. We are over 3000 feet above the sea, and the air 
is delicious ; but we often pass spots covered with a plant 
-which grows in marshy places, and its heavy smell always 
puts me in mind that at other seasons this may not be so 
pleasant a residence. The fact of even maize being planted 
on mounds where the ground is naturally quite dry, tells a 
tale of abundant humidity of climate. 

Kauma, a fine tall man, with a bald head and pleasant 
manners, told us that some of his people had lately returned 
from the Chibisa or Babisa country, whither they had gone 
to buy ivory, and they would give me information about the 
path. He took a fancy to one of the boys' blankets ; offer- 
ing a native cloth, much larger, in exchange, and even a 

VOL. i. K 



130 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. V.. 

sheep to boot ; but the owner being unwilling to part with 
his covering, Kauma tolcl me that he had not sent for his 
Babisa travellers on account of my boy refusing to deal with 
him. A little childish this, but otherwise he was very hos- 
pitable ; he gave me a fine goat, which, unfortunately, my 
people left behind. 

The chief said that no Arabs ever came his way, nor 
Portuguese native traders. When advising them to avoid 
the first attempts to begin the slave-trade, as it would 
inevitably lead to war and depopulation, Kauma replied 
that the chiefs had resolved to unite against the Waiyau 
of Mponde should he come again on a foray up to the- 
highlands; but they are like a rope of sand, there is no- 
cohesion among them, and each village is nearly indepen- 
dent of every other : they mutually distrust each other. 

14th October. — Spent Sunday here. Kauma says that 
his people are partly Kanthunda and partly Chipeta. The 
first are the mountaineers, the second dwellers on the plains. 
The Chipe'ta have many lines of marking : they are all 
only divisions of the great Manganja tribe, and their 
dialects differ very slightly from that spoken by the same 
people on the Shire. The population is very great and very 
ceremonious. When we meet anyone he turns aside and 
sits down : we clap the hand on the chest and say, " Re 
peta — re peta," that is, " we pass," or " let us pass :" this is- 
responded to at once by a clapping of the hands together. 
When a person is called at a distance he gives two loud 
claps of assent ; or if he rises from near a superior he does 
the same thing, which is a sort of leave-taking. 

We have to ask who are the principal chiefs in the 
direction which we wish to take, and decide accordingly. 
Zomba was pointed out as a chief on a range of hills on 
our west : beyond him lies Undi m'senga. I had to take 
this route, as my people have a very vivid idea of the 
danger of going northwards towards the Mazitu. W r e made 



18G6.] MOLOMBA. ANOTHER SHUPANGA. 131 

more southing than we wished. One day beyond Zomba and 
W.S.W. is the part called Chindando, where the Portuguese 
formerly went for gold. They don't seem to have felt it 
worth while to come here, as neither ivory nor gold could 
be obtained if they did. The country is too full of people 
to allow any Avild animals elbow-room : even the smaller 
animals are hunted down by means of nets and dogs. 

We rested at Pachoma ; the headman offering a goat 
and beer, but I declined, and went on to Molomba. Here 
Kauma's carriers turned because a woman had died that 
morning as Ave left the village. They asserted that had she 
died before we started not a man would have left : this shows 
a reverence for death, for the woman was no relative of 
any of them. The headman of Molomba was very poor but 
very liberal, cooking for us and presenting a goat : another 
headman from a neighbouring village, a laughing, good- 
natured old man, named Chikala, brought beer and a fowl 
in the morning. I asked him to go on with us to Mironga,. 
it being important, as above-mentioned, to have the like of 
his kind in our company, and he consented. We saw Mount 
Ngala in the distance, like a large sugar-loaf shot up in 
the air : in our former route to Kasungu Ave passed north 
of it. 

16th October. — Crossed the rivulet Chikuyo going N. for 
the Lake, and Mironga being but one-and-a-half hour off, 
we Avent on to Chipanga : this is the proper name of Avhat 
on the Zambesi is corrupted into Shupanga. The headman, 
a miserable hemp-consuming * leper, fled from us. We 
were offered a miserable hut, which Ave refused, Chikala 
meanAvhile Avent through the Avhole village seeking a better,, 
which we ultimately found: it was not in this chief to be 
generous, though Chikala did what he could in trying to 



* Hemp = bange is smoked throughout Central Africa, and if used in. 
excess produces partial imbecility. — Ed. 

K 2 



132 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOUKNALS. [Chap. V. 

indoctrinate him: when I gave him a present he imme- 
diately proposed to sell a goat! We get on pretty well 
however. 

Zomba is in a range of hills to our west, called Zala 
nyama. The Portuguese, in going to Casembe, went still 
further west than this. 

Passing on we came to a smithy, and watched the 
founder at work drawing off slag from the bottom of his 
furnace. He broke through the hardened slag by striking 
it with an iron instrument inserted in the end of a pole, 
when the material flowed out of the small hole left for the 
purpose in the bottom of the furnace. The ore (probably 
the black oxide) was like sand, and was put in at the top 
of the furnace, mixed with charcoal. Only one bellows was 
at work, formed out of a goatskin, and the blast Avas very 
poor. Many of these furnaces, or their remains, are met 
with on knolls ; those at work have a peculiarly tall hut 
built over them. 

On the eastern edge of a valley lying north and south, 
with the Diampwe stream flowing along it, and the Dzala 
nyama range on the western side, are two villages screened 
by fine specimens of the Ficus Indica. One of these is 
owned by the headman Theresa, and there we spent the 
night. We made very short marches, for the sun is very 
powerful, and the soil baked hard, is sore on the feet: 
no want of water, however, is felt, for we come to supplies 
every mile or two. 

The people look very poor, having few or no beads ; 
the ornaments being lines and cuttings on the skin. 
They trust more to buaze than cotton. I noticed but two 
cotton patches. The women are decidedly plain ; but mono- 
polize all the buaze cloth. Theresa was excessively liberal, 
and having informed us that Zomba lived some distance 
up the range and was not the principal man in these parts, 
we, to avoid climbing the hills, turned away to the north, 



18G6.] AN OUTWARD RESEMBLANCE ONLY. 133 

in the direction of the paramount chief, Chisumpi, whom 
we found to be only traditionally great. 

20th October. — In passing along we came to a village 
embowered in fine trees ; the headman is Kaveta, a really 
fine specimen of the Kanthunda, tall, well-made, with a fine 
forehead and Assyrian nose. He proposed to us to remain 
over night with him, and I unluckily declined. 

Convoying us out a mile, we parted with this gentleman , 
and then came to a smith's village, where the same invitation 
was given and refused. A sort of infatuation drove us on, 
and after a long hot march we found the great Chisumpi, 
the facsimile in black of Sir Colin Campbell ; his nose, 
mouth, and the numerous wrinkles on his face were identical 
with those of the great General, but here all resemblance 
ceased. Two men had preceded us to give information, and 
when I followed I saw that his village was one of squalid 
misery, the only fine things about being the lofty trees in 
which it lay. Chisumpi begged me to sleep at a village 
about half a mile behind : his son was browbeating him on 
some domestic affair, and the older man implored me to go. 
Next morning he came early to that village, and arranged 
for our departure, offering nothing, and apparently not 
wishing to see us at all. I suspect that though paramount 
chief, he is weak-minded, and has lost thereby all his 
influence, but in the people's eyes he is still a great one. 

Several of my men exhibiting symptoms of distress, 
I inquired for a village in which we could rest Saturday 
and Sunday, and at a distance from Chisumpi. A head- 
man volunteered to lead us to one west of this. In 
passing the sepulchral grove of Chisumpi our guide re- 
marked, " Chisumpi's forefathers sleep there." This was 
the first time I have heard the word "sleep" applied to 
death in these parts. The trees in these groves, and around 
many of the villages, are very large, and show what the 
country would become if depopulated. 



134 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chat\ V. 

We crossed the Diampwe or Adiampwe, from five to fifteen 
yards wide, and well supplied with water even now. It rises 
near the Ndomo mountains, and flows northwards into the 
Lintipe and Lake. We found Chitokola's village, called 
Paritala, a pleasant one on the east side of the Adiampwe 
Valley. Many elephants and other animals feed in the 
valley, and we saw the Bechuana Hopo* again after many 
years. 

The Ambarre, otherwise Nyumbo plant, has a pea-shaped, 
or rather papilionaceous flower, with a fine scent. It seems 
to grow quite wild ; its flowers are yellow. 

Chaola is the poison used by the Maravi for their arrows, 
it is said to cause mortification. 

One of the wonders usually told of us in this upland 
.region is that we sleep Avithout fire. The boys' blankets 
suffice for warmth during the night, when the thermometer 
sinks to 64°— 60°, but no one else has covering sufficient ; 
some huts in process of building here show that a thick 
coating of plaster is put on outside the roof before the grass 
thatch is applied; not a chink is left for the admission 
of air. 

Chitikola was absent from Paritala when we arrived on 
some milando or other. These milandos are the business of 
their lives. They are like petty lawsuits ; if one trespasses 
¦on his neighbour's rights in any way it is a milando, and 
rt;he headmen of all the villages about are called on to 
settle it. Women are a fruitful source of milando. A 
few ears of Indian corn had been taken by a person, and 
Chitikola had been called a full day's journey off to settle 
ihis milando. He administered Muave\ and the jDerson 



* The Hopo is a funnel-shaped fence which encloses a considerable 
tract of country : a " drive " is organised, and animals of all descriptions 
are urged on till they become jammed together in the neck of the hopo, 
where they are speared to death or else destroyed in a number of pitfalls 
^placed there for the purpose. f The ordeal poison. 



I860.] CHITAKOLA RETURNS FROM THE MILANDO. L35 

vomited, therefore innocence was clearly established ! He 
came in the evening of the 21st footsore and tired, and at 
once gave us some beer. This perpetual reference to food 
and drink is natural, inasmuch as it is the most important 
point in our intercourse. While the chief was absent we 
got nothing ; the queen even begged a little meat for her 
child, who was recovering from an attack of small-pox. 
There being no shops we had to sit still without food. I 
took observations for longitude, and whiled away the time 
by calculating the lunars. Next day the chief gave us 
.a goat cooked whole and plenty of porridge : I noticed that 
lie too had the Assyrian type of face. 



'W7C. 



( 13G ) 



CHAPTEE VI. 

Progress northwards. An African forest. Destruction by Mazitu. Native 
salutations. A disagreeable chief. On the watershed between the 
Lake and the Loangwa Eiver. Extensive iron-workings. An old 
Mmrod. The Bua Eiver. Lovely scenery. Difficulties of transport. 
Chilobe. An African Pythoness. Enlists two Waiyou bearers. 111. 
The Chitella bean. Pains set in. Arrives at the Loangwa. 

We started with Chitikola as our guide 011 the 22nd of 
October, and he led us away westwards across the Lilongwe- 
Eiver, then turned north till we came to a village called 
Mashumba, the headman of which w r as the only chief who- 
begged anything except medicine, and he got less than we 
were in the habit of giving in consequence : we give a cloth 
usually, and clothing being very scarce this is considered 
munificent.* 

We had the Zalanyama range on our left, and our course- 
was generally north, but we had to go in the direction of 
the villages which w r ere on friendly terms with our guides, 
and sometimes we went but a little way, as they studied 
to make the days as short as possible. The headman of 
the last village, Chitoku, was with us, and he took us to a 
village of smiths, four furnaces and one smithy being at 
work. We crossed the Chiniambo, a strong river coming 
from Zalanyama and flowing into the Mirongwe, which again 
goes into Lintipe. The country near the hills becomes. 
covered with forest, the trees are chiefly Masuko Mochenga. 



A cloth means two yards of unbleached calico. 



186G.] AN ALARM OF MAZITL'. 137 

(the gum-copal tree), the bark-cloth tree and rhododendrons. 
The heath known at the Cape as Bhinoster bosch occurs 
frequently, and occasionally we have thorny acacias. The 
grass is short, but there is plenty of it. 

24:th October. — Our guide, Mpanda, led us through the- 
forest by what he meant to be a short cut to Chimuna's. 
We came on a herd of about fifteen elephants, and many 
trees laid down by these animals : they seem to relish 
the roots of some kinds, and spend a good deal of time 
digging them up ; they chew woody roots and branches as 
thick as the handle of a spade. Many buffaloes feed here, 
and we viewed a herd of elands ; they kept out of bow-shot 
only : a herd of the baama or hartebeest stood at 200 paces, 
and one was shot. 

While all were rejoicing over the meat we got news,, 
from the inhabitants of a large village in full flight, that 
the Mazitu were out on a foray. While roasting and eating 
meat I went forward with Mpanda to get men from Chi- 
muna to carry the rest, but was soon recalled. Another crowd 
were also in full retreat ; the people were running straight 
to the Zalanyama range regardless of their feet, making a 
path for themselves through the forest ; they had escaped 
from the Mazitu that morning ; " they saw them ! " Mpanda's 
people wished to leave and go to look after their own 
village, but we persuaded them, on pain of a milando, to 
take us to the nearest village, that was at the bottom of 
Zalanyama proper, and we took the spoor of the fugitives.- 
The hard grass with stalks nearly as thick as quills must 
have hurt their feet sorely, but what of that in comparison 
with dear life ! We meant to take our stand on the hill and 
defend our property in case of the Mazitu coming near ; and 
we should, in the event of being successful, be a defence 
to the fugitives who crowded up its rocky sides, but next 
morning we heard that the enemy had gone to the south. 
Had we gone forward, as we intended, to search for men to 



138 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. VI. 

•carry the meat we should have met the marauders, for 
the men of the second party of villagers had remained 
behind guarding their village till the Mazitu arrived, and 
they told us what a near escape I had had from walking 
into their power. 

25$ October. — Came along northwards to Chimuna's 
town, a large one of Chipeta with many villages around. 
Our path led through the forest, and as we emerged into 
the open strath in which the villages lie, we saw the 
large anthills, each the size of the end of a one-storied 
cottage, covered with men on guard watching for the 
Mazitu. 

A long line of villagers were just arriving from the south, 
and we could see at some low hills in that direction the smoke 
arising from the burning settlements. None but men were 
present, the women and the chief were at the mountain called 
Painbe ; all were fully armed with their long bows, some flat 
in the bow, others round, and it was common to have the 
¦quiver on the back, and a bunch of feathers stuck in the 
hair like those in our Lancers' shakos. But they remained 
not to fight, but to watch their homes and stores of grain 
from robbers amongst their own people in case no Mazitu 
came ! They gave a good hut, and sent off at once to let 
the chief at Painbe know of our arrival. We heard the 
cocks crowing up there in the mountain as we passed in 
the morning. Chimuna came in the evening, and begged 
jne to remain a day in his village, Pamaloa, as he was the 
greatest chief the Chipeta had. I told him all wished the 
same thing, and if I listened to each chief we should never 
get on, and the rains were near, but we had to stay over 
with him. 

26th October. — All the people came down to-day from 
Pambe, and crowded to see the strangers. They know 
very little beyond their own affairs, though these require a 
good deal of knowledge, and Ave should be sorely put about 



1SG6.] CHIMUNA UNDER TREATMENT. L39 

if, without their skill, we had to maintain an existence here. 
Their furnaces are rather bottle shaped, and about seven feet 
high by three broad. One toothless patriarch had heard of 
books and umbrellas, but had never seen either. The oldest 
inhabitant had never travelled far from the spot in which he 
was born, yet he has a good knowledge of soils and agricul- 
ture, hut-building, basket-making, pottery, and the manu- 
facture of bark-cloth and skins for clothing, as also making 
of nets, traps, and cordage. 

Chimuna had a most ungainly countenance, yet did well 
enough : he was very thankful for a blister on his loins to 
ease rheumatic pains, and presented a huge basket of 
porridge before starting, with a fowl, and asked me to fire 
a gun that the Mazitu might hear and know that armed 
men were here. They all say that these marauders flee 
from fire-arms, so I think that they are not Zulus at all, 
though adopting some of their ways. 

In going on to Mapuio's we passed several large villages, 
each surrounded by the usual euphorbia hedge, and having 
large trees for shade. We are on a level, or rather gently 
undulating country, rather bare of trees. At the junctions 
of these earthen waves we have always an oozing bog, this 
often occurs in the slope down the trough of this terrestrial 
sea ; bushes are common, and of the kind which were cut 
down as trees. Yellow haematite is very abundant, but the 
other rocks scarcely appear in the distance ; we have moun- 
tains both on the east and west. 

On arriving at Mapuio's village, he was, as often happens, 
invisible, but he sent us a calabash of fresh-made beer, 
Avhich is very refreshing, gave us a hut, and promised to 
cook for us in the evening. We have to employ five or six 
carriers, and they rule the length of the day's march. Those 
from Chimuna's village growled at the cubit of calico with 
which we paid them, but a few beads pleased them perfectly, 
and we parted good friends. It is not likely I shall ever 



140 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. VI. 

see theni again, but I always like to please them, because it 
is right to consider their desires. Is that not what is meant 
in " Blessed is he that considereth the poor " ? There is a 
great deal of good in these poor people. In cases of milando 
they rely on the most distant relations and connections 
to plead their cause, and seldom are they disappointed, 
though time at certain seasons, as for instance at present, is 
felt by all to be precious. Every man appears with hoe or 
axe on shoulder, and the people often only sit down as we 
pass and gaze at us till we are out of sight. 

Many of the men have large slits in the lobe of the ear, 
and they have their distinctive tribal tattoo. The women 
-^=a--^. ^r--*^ indulge in this painful luxury more than 
'Jlif ''iT^lnl^^ the men, probably because thev have very 
"^^W^wv^"^ few ornaments. The two central front 

women's Teeth hollowed, teeth are hollowed at the cutting edge. 
Many have quite the Grecian facial angle. Mapuio has 
thin legs and quite a European face. Delicate features and 
limbs are common, and the spur-heel is as scarce as among 
Europeans ; small feet and hands are the rule. 

Clapping the hands in various ways is the polite way of 
saying " Allow me," " 1 beg pardon," " Permit me to pass," 
"Thanks," it is resorted to in respectful introduction and 
leave-taking, and also is equivalent to " Hear hear." When 
inferiors are called they respond by two brisk claps of the 
hands, meaning "I am coming." They are very punctilious 
amongst each other. A large ivory bracelet marks the head- 
man of a village ; there is nothing else to show differences 
of rank. 

28th October. — We spent Sunday at Mapuio's and had a 
long talk with him ; his country is in a poor state from 
the continual incursions of the Mazitu, who are wholly 
unchecked. 

2$th October. — We marched westwards to Makosa's village, 
and could not go further, as the next stage is long and 



1866.] EAST AFRICANS AT HOME. 141 

through an ill-peopled country. The morning was lovely, the 
whole country bathed in bright sunlight, and not a breath 
of air disturbed the smoke as it slowly curled up from 
the heaps of burning weeds, which the native agriculturist 
wisely destroys. The people generally were busy hoeing in 
the cool of the day. One old man in a village where we 
rested had trained the little hair he had left into a tail, 
which, well plastered with fat, he had bent on itself and 
laid flat on his crown ; another was carefully paring a stick 
for stirring the porridge, and others were enjoying the cool 
shade of the wild fig-trees which are always planted at 
villages. It is a sacred tree all over Africa and India, and 
the tender roots which drop down towards the ground are 
used as medicine — a universal remedy. Can it be a tradition 
of its being like the tree of life, which Archbishop Whately 
conjectures may have been used in Paradise to render man 
immortal ? One kind of fig-tree is often seen hacked all 
over to get the sap, which is used as bird-lime ; bark-cloth is 
made of it too. I like to see the men weaving or spinning, 
or reclining under these glorious canopies, as much as I love 
to see our more civilized people lolling on their sofas or 
ottomans. 

The first rain — a thunder shower — fell in the afternoon, 
air in shade before it 92° ; wet bulb 74°. At noon the soil 
in the sun was 140°, perhaps more, but I was afraid of 
bursting the thermometer, as it was graduated only a few 
degrees above that. This rain happened at the same time 
that the sun was directly overhead on his way south; it 
was but a quarter of an inch, but its effect was to deprive 
us of all chance of getting the five carriers we needed, all 
were off to their gardens to commit the precious seed to the 
soil. We got three, but no one else would come, so we have 
to remain here over to-day (30th October). 

30th October. — The black traders come from Tette to this 
country to buy slaves, and as a consequence here we come 



142 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. VI. 

to bugs again, which we left when we passed the Arab slave- 
traders' beat. 

31st October.— We proceed westwards, and a little south 
through a country covered with forest trees, thickly planted, 
but small, generally of bark-cloth and gum-copal trees, 
masukos, rhododendrons, and a few acacias. At one place 
we saw ten wild hogs in a group, but no other animal, 
though marks of elephants, buffaloes, and other animals 
having been about in the wet season were very abundant. 
The first few miles were rather more scant of water 
than usual, but we came to the Leue, a fine little stream 
with plenty of water sand from 20 to 30 yards wide; it 
is said by the people to flow away westwards into the 
Loangwa. 

1st November, 1866. — In the evening we made the 
Chigurnokire, a nice rivulet, where we slept, and the next 
morning we proceeded to Kangene, whose village is situated 
on a mass of mountains, and to reach which we made more 
southing than we wished. Our appearance on the ascent 
of the hill caused alarm, and we were desired to wait till 
our spokesman had explained the unusual phenomenon of a 
white man. 

This kept us waiting in the hot sun among heated 
rocks, and the chief, being a great ugly public-house-keeper 
looking person, excused his incivility by saying that his 
brother had been killed by the Mazitu, and he was afraid 
that we were of the same tribe. On asking if Mazitu 
wore clothes like us he told some untruths, and, what has- 
been an unusual thing, began to beg powder and other 
things. I told him how other chiefs had treated us, 
which made him ashamed. He represented the country 
in front to the N.W. to be quite impassable from want 
of food : the Mazitu had stripped it of all provisions, and 
the people were living on what wild fruits they could 
pick up. 



1866.] A CHURLISH HEADMAN. 143 

2nd November. — Kan gene is very disagreeable naturally,, 
and as we have to employ five men as carriers, we are in 
his power. 

We can scarcely enter into the feelings of those who 
are harried by marauders. Like Scotland in the twelfth 
and thirteenth centuries harassed by Highland Celts on 
one side and by English Marchinen on the other, and thus 
kept in the rearward of civilisation, these people have rest 
neither for many days nor for few. When they fill their 
garners they can seldom reckon on eating the grain, for 
the Mazitu come when the harvest is over and catch as 
many able-bodied young persons as they can to carry away 
the corn. Thus it was in Scotland so far as security for 
life and property was concerned ; but the Scotch were apt 
pupils of more fortunate nations. To change of country 
they were as indifferent as the Romans of the olden times ; 
they were always welcome in France, either as pilgrims,, 
scholars, merchants, or soldiers ; but the African is dif- 
ferent. If let alone the African's mode of life is rather 
enjoyable; he loves agriculture, and land is to be had any- 
where. He knows nothing of other countries, but he has 
imbibed the idea of property in man. This Kangene told 
me that he would like to give me a slave to look after 
my goats : I believe he would rather give a slave than a 
goat! 

We were detained by the illness of Simon for four days. 
When he recovered Ave proposed to the headman to start 
with five of his men, and he agreed to let us have them ; 
but having called them together such an enormous demand 
was made for wages, and in advance, that on the 7th of 
November we took seven loads forward through a level 
uninhabited country generally covered with small trees, 
slept there, and on the morning of the 8th, after leaving 
two men at our depot, came back, and took the remaining 
five loads. 



144 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. VI. 

Kangene was disagreeable to the last. He asked where 
we had gone, and, having described the turning point as 
near the hill Chimbinibe, he complimented ns on going 
so far, and then sent an offer of three men ; but I preferred 
not to have those who would have been spies unless he could 
give five and take on all the loads. He said that he 
would find the number, and after detaining us some hours 
brought two, one of whom, primed with beer, babbled out 
that he was afraid of being killed by us in front. I asked 
whom we had killed behind, and moved off. The headman 
is very childish, does women's work — cooking and pound- 
ing ; and in all cases of that kind the people take after their 
leader. The chiefs have scarcely any power unless they 
are men of energy ; they have to court the people rather 
than be courted. We came much further back on our 
way from Mapuio's than we liked; in fact, our course is 
like that of a vessel baffled with foul winds : this is mainly 
owing to being obliged to avoid places stripped of pro- 
visions or suffering this spoliation. The people, too, can 
give no information about others at a distance from their 
own abodes. Even the smiths, who are a most plodding- 
set of workers, are as ignorant as the others : they supply 
the surrounding villages with hoes and knives, and, com- 
bining agriculture with handicraft, pass through life. An 
intelligent smith came as our guide from Chimbimbe Hill 
on the 7th, and did not know a range of mountains about 
twenty miles off: "it was too far off for him to know 
the name." 

9th November. — The country over which we actually 
travel is level and elevated, but there are mountains all 
about, which when put on the map make it appear to be a 
mountainous region. We are on the watershed, apparently 
between the Loangwa of Zumbo on the west, and the Lake 
-on the east. The Leue or Leuia is said by the people to 
flow into the Loangwa. The Chigumokire coming from the 



1806.] PORTUGUESE GEOGRAPHY. 145 

north in front, eastward of Irongwe (the same mountains on 
which Kangene skulks out of sight of Mazitu), flows into the 
Leue, and north of that we have the Mando, a little stream 
flowing into the Bua. The rivulets on the west flow in deep 
defiles, and the elevation on which we travel makes it certain 
that no water can come from the lower lands on the west. It 
seems that'the Portuguese in travelling to Casembe did not 
inquire of the people where the streams they crossed went, 
for they are often wrongly put, and indicate the direction 
only in which they appeared to be flowing at their crossing 
places. The ^natives have a good idea generally of the 
rivers into which the streams flow, though they are very 
deficient in information as to the condition of the people 
that live on theirbanks. Some of the Portuguese questions 
must have been asked through slaves, who would show no 
hesitation in answering. Maxinga, or Machinga, means 
"mountains" only; once or twice it is put down Saxa de 
Maxinga, or Machinga, or Mcanga, which translated from 
the native tongue means " rocks of mountains, or mountains 
of rocks." 

10th November. — We found the people on the Mando to 
be Chawa or Ajawa, but not of the Waiyau race : they are 
Manganja, and this is a village of smiths. We got five men 
readily to go back and bring up our loads ; and the sound 
of the hammer is constant, showing a great deal of industry. 
They combine agriculture, and hunting with nets, with their 
handicraft. 

A herd of buffaloes came near the village, and I went and 
shot one, thus procuring a supply of meat for the whole 
party and villagers too. The hammer which we hear from 
dawn till sunset is a large stone, bound with the strong 
inner bark of a tree, and loops left which form handles. 
Two pieces of bark form the tongs, and a big stone sunk into 
the ground the anvil. They make several hoes in a day, 
and the metal is very good ; it is all from yellow haematite, 

VOL. I. L 



146 



LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. VI. 



which abounds all over this part of the country ; the bellows 
consist of two goatskins with sticks at the open ends, which 
are opened and shut at every blast. 




Forging Hoes. 

13th November. — A lion came last night and gave a growl 
or two on finding he could not get our meat : a man had 
lent us a hunting net to protect it and us from intruders of 
this sort. The people kept up a shouting for hours afterwards, 
in order to keep him away by the human voice. 

We might have gone on, but I had a galled heel from 
new shoes. Wild figs are rather nice when quite ripe. 

14th November. — We marched northwards round the end 
of Chisia Hill, and remained for the night at a black- 
smith's, or rather founder's village ; the two occupations of 



1866.] IRON SMELTERS AND BLACKSMITHS. 147 

founder and smith are always united, and boys taught to be 
smiths in Europe or India would find themselves useless if 
unable to smelt the ore. A good portion of the trees of the 
country have been cut down for charcoal, and those which 
now spring up are small ; certain fruit trees alone are left. 
The long slopes on the undulating country, clothed with 
fresh foliage, look very beautiful. The young trees alternate 
with patches of yellow grass not yet burned ; the hills are 
covered with a thick mantle of small green trees with, as 
usual, large ones at intervals. The people at Kalumbi, on 
the Mando (where we spent four days), had once a stockade 
of wild fig (Ficus Indica) and euphorbia round their village, 
which has a running rill on each side of it; but the trees 
which enabled them to withstand a siege by Mazitu fell 
before elephants and buffaloes during a temporary absence 
of the villagers ; the remains of the stockade are all around 
it yet. Lions sometimes enter huts by breaking through 
the roof : elephants certainly do, for Ave saw a roof destroyed 
by one ; the only chance for the inmates is to drive a spear 
into the belly of the beast while so engaged. 

A man came and reported the Mazitu to be at Chanyan- 
dula's village, where we are going. The headman advised 
remaining at his village till we saw whether they came this 
way or went by another path. The women were sent away, 
but the men went on with their employments ; two pro- 
ceeded with the building of a furnace on an anthill, where 
they are almost always placed, and they keep a look-out 
while working. We have the protection of an all-embracing 
Providence, and trust that He, whose care of His people 
exceeds all that our utmost self-love can attain, will shield 
us and make our way prosperous. 

16th November. — An elephant came near enough last 
night to scream at us, but passed on, warned, perhaps, 
by the shouting of the villagers not to meddle with man. 
No Mazitu having come, we marched on and crossed the 

l 2 



148 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOUENALS. [Chap. VL 

Bua, eight yards wide and knee deep. It rises in the 
northern hills a little beyond Kanyindnla's village, winds 
round his mountains, and away to the east. The scenery 
among the mountains is very lovely : they are covered with 
a close mantle of green, with here and there red and 
light-coloured patches, showing where grass has been burned 
off recently and the red clay soil is exposed ; the lighter 
portions are unburned grass or rocks. Large trees are 
here more numerous, and give an agreeable change of 
contour to the valleys and ridges of the hills ; the boughs 
of many still retain a tinge of red from young leaves. 
We came to the Bua again before reaching Kanyenje, as 
Kanyindula's place is called. The iron trade must have 
been carried on for an immense time in the country, for one 
cannot go a quarter of a mile without meeting pieces of 
slag and broken pots, calcined pipes, and fragments of the 
furnaces, which are converted by the fire into brick. It is 
curious that the large stone sledge-hammers now in use are 
not called by the name stone-hammers, but by a distinct 
word, " kama :" nyundo is one made of iron. 

When we arrived at Kanyenje, Kanyindula was out col- 
lecting charcoal. He sent a party of men to ask if we should 
remain next day : an old, unintellectual-looking man was 
among the number sent, who had twenty-seven rings of 
elephant's skin on his arm, all killed by himself by the 
spear alone : he had given up fighting elephants since the 
Mazitu came, whom we heard had passed away to the south- 
east of this place, taking all the crops of last year, and 
the chief alone has food. He gave us some, which was- 
very acceptable, as we got none at the two villages south 
of this. Kanyindula came himself in the evening, an active, 
stern-looking man, but we got on very well with him. 

The people say that they were taught to smelt iron by 
Chisumpi, which is the name of Mulungu (God), and that 
they came from Lake Nyassa originally; if so, they are 



1S66.] BEAUTIFUL SCENERY OF THE BUA. 149 

greatly inferior to the Manganja on the Lake in pottery, for 
the fragments, as well as modern whole vessels, are very 
coarse ; the ornamentation is omitted or merely dots. They 
never heard of aerolites, but know hail. 

I notice here that the tree Mfu, or Mo, having sweet- 
scented leaves, yields an edible plum in clusters. Bua-bwa 
is another edible fruit-tree with palmated leaves. 

Mbeu is a climbing, arboraceous plant, and yields a very 
pleasant fruit, which tastes like gooseberries : its seeds are 
very minute. 

18th and 19th November. — Eain fell heavily yesterday 
afternoon, and was very threatening to-day ; we remain to 
sew a calico tent. 

20th November. — Kanyindula came with three carriers 
this morning instead of five, and joined them in demand- 
ing prepayment : it was natural for him to side with them, 
as they have more power than he has, in fact, the chiefs 
in these parts all court their people, and he could feel 
more interest in them than in an entire stranger whom he 
might never see again : however, we came on without his 
people, leaving two to guard the loads. 

About four miles up the valley we came to a village 
named Kanyenjere Mponda, at the fountain-eye of the 
Bua, and thence sent men back for the loads, while we 
had the shelter of good huts during a heavy thunder- 
shower, and made us willing to remain all night. The 
valley is lovely in the extreme. The mountains on each 
side are gently rounded, and, as usual, covered over with 
tree foliage, except where the red soil is exposed by recent 
grass-burnings. Quartz rocks jut out, and much drift of 
that material has been carried down by the gullies into the 
bottom. These gullies being in compact clay, the water 
has but little power of erosion, so they are worn deep but 
narrow. Some fragments of titaniferous iron ore, with 
haematite changed by heat, and magnetic, lay in the gully, 



150 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. VI.. 

which had worn itself a channel on the north side of the 
village. The Bna, like most African streams whose sources 
I have seen, rises in an oozing boggy spot. Another stream,, 
the Tenibwe, rises near the same spot, and flows N.W. into 
the Loangwa. We saw Shuare palms in its bed. 

21st November. — We left Bua fountain, lat. 13° 40' south,, 
and made a short march to Mokatoba, a stockaded village, 
where the people refused to admit us till the headman 
came. They [have a little food here, and sold us some. 
We have been on rather short commons for some time, and 
this made our detention agreeable. We rose a little in 
altitude after leaving this morning, then, though in the 
same valley, made a little descent towards the N.N.W. 
High winds came driving over the eastern range, which is 
called Mchinje, and bring large masses of clouds, which are 
the rain-givers. They seem to come from the south-east. 
The scenery of the valley is lovely and rich in the extreme- 
All the foliage is fresh washed and clean ; young herbage 
is bursting through the ground ; the air is deliciously cool,, 
and the birds are singing joyfully : one, called Mzie, is a 
good songster, with a loud melodious voice. Large game 
abounds, but we do not meet with it. 

We are making our way slowly to the north, where food 
is said to be abundant. I divided about 50 lbs. of powder 
among the people of my following to shoot with, and buy 
goats or other food as we could. This reduces our extra 
loads to three — four just now, Simon being sick again. He 
rubbed goat's-fat on a blistered surface, and caused an 
eruption of pimples. 

Mem. — The people assent by lifting up the head instead of 
nodding it down as we do; deaf mutes are said to do the 
same. 

22nd November. — Leaving Mokatoba village, and pro- 
ceeding down the valley, which on the north is shut up 
apparently by a mountain called Kokwe, we crossed the- 



1866.] SOUTHERN SLOPE OF THE LOANGWA VALLEY. 151 

Iiasamba, about two miles from Mokatoba, and yet found it, 
though so near its source, four yards wide, and knee deep. 
Its source is about a mile above Mokatoba, in the same 
valley, with the Bua and Tembwd. We were told that 
elephants were near, and Ave saw where they had been an 
hour before ; but after seeking about could not find them. 
An old man, in the deep defile between Kokwe and Yasika 
Mountains, pointed to the latter, and said, " Elephants ! 
why, there they are. Elephants, or tusks, walking on foot 
are never absent;" but though we were eager for flesh, we 
could not give him credit, and went down the defile which 
gives rise to the Sandili Eiver : where we crossed it in the 
defile, it was a mere rill, having large trees along its banks,, 
yet it is said to go to the Loangwa of Zumbo, N.W. or 
N.N.W. We were now in fact upon the slope which inclines 
to that river, and made a rapid descent in altitude. We 
reached Silubi's village, on the base of a rocky detached 
hill. No food to be had ; all taken by Mazitu, so Silubi 
gave me some Masuko fruit instead. They find that they 
can keep the Mazitu off by going up a rocky eminence, 
and hurling stones and arrows down on the invaders : they 
can defend themselves also by stockades, and these are 
becoming very general. 

On leaving Silubi's village, we went to a range of hills, 
and after passing through found that we had a compara- 
tively level country on the north : it would be called a well- 
wooded country if we looked at it only from a distance. 
It is formed into long ridges, all green and wooded; but 
clumps of large trees, where villages have been, or are still 
situated, show that the sylvan foliage around and over the 
whole country is that of mere hop-poles. The whole of this 
upland region might be called woody, if we bear in mind 
that where the population is dense, and has been long 
undisturbed, the trees are cut down to the size of low 
bush. Large districts are kept to about the size of hop- 



152 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. VI. 

poles, growing on pollards three or four feet from the 
ground, by charcoal burners, who, in all instances, are 
smiths too. 

On reaching Zeore's village, on the Lokuzhwa, we found 
it stockaded, and stagnant pools round three sides of it. 
The Mazitu had come, pillaged all the surrounding villages, 
looked at this, and then went away ; so the people had food to 
sell. They here call themselves Echewa, and have a different 
marking from the Atumboka. The men have the hair 
dressed as if a number of the hairs of elephants' tails were 
stuck around the head : the women wear a small lip-ring, 
and a straw or piece of stick in the lower lip, which dangles 
down about level with the lower edge of the chin: their 
clothing in front is very scanty. The men know nothing 
of distant places, the Manganja being a very stay-at-home 
people. The stockades are crowded with huts, and the 
children have but small room to play in the narrow spaces 
between. 

25th November. — Sunday at Zeore's. The villagers 
thought we prayed for rain, which was much needed. The 
cracks in the soil have not yet come together by the 
swelling of soil produced by moisture. I disabused their 
minds about rain-making prayers, and found the headman 
intelligent. 

I did not intend to notice the Lokuzhwa, it is such a 
contemptible little rill, and not at present running ; but in 
going to our next point, Mpande's village, we go along its 
valley, and cross it several times, as it makes for the 
Loangwa in the north. The valley is of rich dark red loam, 
and so many lilies of the Amaryllis kind have established 
themselves as completely to mask the colour of the soil. 
They form a covering of pure white where the land has 
been cleared by the hoe. As we go along this valley to 
the Loangwa, we descend in altitude. It is said to rise 
at " Nombe mine," as we formerly heard. 



1866.] THE CHILOBE PEA. RAIN MAKING. 153 

27 th November. — Zeore's people would not carry without 
prepayment, so we left our extra loads as usual and 
Avent on, sending men back for them : these, however, did 
not come till 27th, and then two of my men got fever. I 
groan in spirit, and do not know how to make our gear into 
nine loads only. It is the knowledge that we shall be 
detained some two or three months during the heavy rains 
that makes me cleave to it as means of support. 

Advantage has been taken by the people, of spots where 
the Lokuzhwa goes round three parts of a circle, to erect 
their stockaded villages. This is the case here, and the 
water, being stagnant, engenders disease. The country 
abounds in a fine light blue flowering perennial pea, which 
the people make use of as a relish. At present the blossoms 
only are collected and boiled. On inquiring the name, 
chilobe, the men asked me if we had none in our country. 
On replying in the negative, they looked with pity on us : 
" What a wretched country not to have chilobe." It is on 
the highlands above ; we never saw it elsewhere ! Another 
species of pea (Chilobe Weza), with reddish flowers, is eaten 
in the same way ; but it has spread but little in comparison. 
It is worth remarking that porridge of maize or sorghum is 
never offered without some pulse, beans, or bean leaves, or 
flowers, they seem to feel the need of it, or of pulse, which 
is richer in flesh-formers than the porridge. 

Last night a loud clapping of hands by the men was 
followed by several half-suppressed screams by a woman. 
They were quite eldritch, as if she could not get them out. 
Then succeeded a lot of utterances as if she were in ecstasy, 
to which a man responded, " Moio, moio." The utterances, 
so far as I could catch, were in five-syllable snatches — abrupt 
and laboured. I wonder if this " bubbling or boiling over " 
has been preserved as the form in which the true prophets 
of old gave forth their " burdens"? One sentence, frequently 
repeated towards the close of the effusion, was " linyama uta," 



154 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. VI. 

" flesh of tlie bow," showing that the Pythoness loved venison 
killed by the bow. The people applauded, and attended, 
hoping, I suppose, that rain would follow her efforts. Next 
day she was duly honoured by drumming and dancing* 

Prevalent beliefs seem to be persistent in certain tribes. 
That strange idea of property in man that permits him to 
be sold to another is among the Arabs, Manganja, Makoa, 
Waiyau, but not among Kaffirs or Zulus, and Beckuanas. 
If we exclude the Arabs, two families of Africans alone are 
slavers on the east side of the Continent. 

30th November. — We march to Chilunda's or Embora's, 
still on the Lokuzhwa, now a sand-stream about twenty yards 
wide, with pools in its bed ; its course is pretty much north 
or N.N.W. We are now near the Loangwa country,, 
covered with a dense dwarf forest, and the people collected 
in stockades. This village is on a tongue of land (between 
Lokuzhwa and another sluggish rivulet), chosen for its 
strength. It is close to a hill named Chipemba, and there 
are ranges of hills both east and west in the distance. 
Embora came to visit us soon after we arrived — a tall man 
with a Yankee face. He was very much tickled Avhen asked 
if he were a Motumboka. After indulging in laughter at the 
idea of being one of such a small tribe of Manganja, he said 
proudly, " That he belonged to the Echewa, who inhabited 
all the country to which I was going." They are generally 
smiths ; a mass of iron had just been brought in to him 
from some outlying furnaces. It is made into hoes, which, 
are sold for native cloths down the Loangwa. 



4 Chuma remembers part of the words of her song to be as follows : — 

Kowe ! kowe ! n'andambwi, 

M'vula leru, korole ko okwe, 

Waie, ona, kordi, mvula ! 
He cannot translate it as it is pure Manganja, but with the exception of 
the first line — which relates to a little song-bird with a beautiful note, it 
is a mere reiteration " rain will surely come to-day." — Ed. 



1SGG.] TWO WAIYAU RECEDITS ENLIST. 155 

3rd December, 1SG6. — March through a hilly country 
covered with dwarf forest to Kande's village, still on the 
Lokuzhwa. We made some westing. The village was sur- 
rounded by a dense hedge of bamboo and a species of bushy 
fig that loves edges of water-bearing streams : it is not 
found where the moisture is not perennial. Kande is a fine 
tall smith ; I asked him if he knew his antecedents ; he 
said he had been bought by Babisa at Chipeta, and left 
at Chilunda's, and therefore belonged to no one. Two 
Waiyau now volunteered to go on with us, and as they 
declared their masters were killed by the Mazitu, and 
Kande seemed to confirm them, we let them join. In 
general, runaway slaves are bad characters, but these two 
seem good men, and we want them to fill up our com- 
plement : another volunteer we employ as goatherd. 

A continuous tap-tapping in the villages shows that bark 
cloth is being made. The bark, on being removed from the 
tree, is steeped in water, or in a black 
muddy hole, till the outer of the two 
inner barks can be separated, then com- 
mences the tapping with a mallet to 
separate and soften the fibres. The head 
of this is often of ebony, with the face 
cut into small furrows, which, without breaking, separate 
and soften the fibres. 

Ath December. — Marched westwards, over a hilly, dwarf 
forest-covered country: as we advanced, trees increased 
in size, but no people inhabited it; we spent a miserable 
night at Katette, wetted by a heavy thunder-shower, which 
lasted a good while. Morning (5th December) muggy, 
clouded all over, and rolling thunder in distance. Went 
three hours with, for a wonder, no water, but made westing- 
chiefly, and got on to the Lokuzhwa again : all the people 
are collected on it. 

Gth December. — Too ill to march. 




156 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. VI. 

1th December. — Went on, and passed Mesumbe's village, 
also protected by bamboos, and came to the hill Mparawe, 
with a village perched on its northern base and well 
up its sides. The Babisa have begun to imitate the 
Mazitu by attacking and plundering Manganja villages. 
Muasi's brother was so attacked, and now is here and 
eager to attack in return. In various villages Ave have 
observed miniature huts, about two feet high, very neatly 
thatched and plastered, here we noticed them in dozens. 
On inquiring, we were told that when a child or relative 
dies one is made, and when any pleasant food is cooked 
or beer brewed, a little is placed in the tiny hut for the 
departed soul, which is believed to enjoy it. 

The Lokuzhwa is here some fifty yards wide, and running. 
Numerous large pitholes in the fine-grained schist in its bed 
show that much water has flowed in it. 

Sth December. — A kind of bean called " chitetta " is 
eaten here, it is an old acquaintance in the Bechuana 
country, where it is called " mositsane," and is a mere 
plant; here it becomes a tree, from fifteen to twenty feet 
high. The root is used for tanning ; the bean is pounded, 
and then put into a sieve of bark cloth to extract, by 
repeated washings, the excessively astringent matter it 
contains. Where the people have plenty of water, as here, 
it is used copiously in various processes, among Bechuanas 
it is scarce, and its many uses unknown : the pod becomes 
from fifteen to eighteen inches long, and an inch in diameter. 

9th December. — A poor child, whose mother had died, 
was unprovided for ; no one not a relative will nurse 
another's child. It called out piteously for its mother by 
name, and the women (like the servants in the case of the 
poet Cowper when a child), said, " She is coming." I gave 
it a piece of bread, but it was too far gone, and is dead 
to-day. 

An alarm of Mazitu sent all the villagers up the sides of 



1866.] MARABOU'S NEST. IIUMMIXG-BIRDS. 157 

Mparawe this morning. The affair was a chase of a hyaena, 
but everything- is Mazitu ! The Babisa came here, but were 
surrounded and nearly all cut off. Muasi was so eager to 
be off with a party to return the attack on the Mazitu, 
that, when deputed by the headman to give us a guide, 
he got the man to turn at the first village, so we had to 
go on without guides, and made about due north. 

llth December. — We are now detained in the forest, at a 
place called Chonde Forest, by set-in rains. It rains every 
day, and generally in the afternoon ; but the country is not 
wetted till the " set-in " rains commence ; the cracks in the 
soil then fill up and everything rushes up with astonishing- 
rapidity ; the grass is quite crisp and soft. After the fine- 
grained schist, we came on granite with large flakes of talc 
in it. This forest is of good-sized trees, many of them 
mopane. The birds now make much melody and noise — 
all intent on building. 

\2th December. — Across an undulating forest country north 
Ave got a man to show us the way, if a pathless forest can so 
be called. We used a game-path as long as it ran north, 
but left it when it deviated, and rested under a baobab- 
tree with a marabou's nest — a bundle of sticks on a branch ; 
the young ones uttered a hard chuck, chuck, when the old 
ones flew over them. A sun-bird, with bright scarlet throat 
and breast, had its nest on another branch, it was formed 
like the weaver's nest, but without a tube. I observed the 
dam picking out insects from the bark and leaves of the 
baobab, keeping on the wing the while : it would thus 
appear to be insectivorous as well as a honey-bibber. Much 
spoor of elands, zebras, gnus, kamas, pallahs, buffaloes, reed- 
bucks, with tsetse, their parasites. 

13th December. — Reached the Tokosusi, Avhich is said to 
rise at Nombe Eume, about twenty yards wide and knee 
deep, swollen by the rains : it had left a cake of black tena- 
cious mud on its banks. Here I got a pallah antelope, and 



158 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. VI. 

a very strange flower called " katende," Avhich was a whorl 
of seventy-two flowers sprung- from a flat, round root ; but it 
cannot be described. Our guide would have crossed the 
Tokosusi, which was running north-Avest to join the Loangwa, 
and then gone to that river ; but always Avhen Ave have any 
difficulty the " lazies " exhibit themselves. We had no 
grain; and three remained behind spending four hours at 
Avhat we did in an hour and a quarter. Our guide became 
tired and turned, not before securing another ; but he would 
not go over the Loangwa; no one likes to go out of his 
own country : he Avould go westwards to Maranda's, and 
noAvhere else. A " set-in " rain came on after dark, and 
Ave went on through slush, the trees sending down heavier 
drops than the shoAvers as Ave neared the LoangAva; Ave 
forded several deep gullies, all flowing north or north-Avest 
into it. The paths were running with Avater, and when 
we emerged from the large Mopane Forest, Ave came on 
the plain of excessively adhesive mud, on which Maranda's 
stronghold stands on the left bank of LoangAA r a, here a 
good-sized river. The people were all afraid of us, and Ave 
were mortified to find that food is scarce. The Mazitu have 
been here three times, and the fear they have inspired, 
though they Avere successfully repelled, has prevented 
agricultural operations from being carried on. 

Mem. — A flake of reed is often used in surgical operations 
among the natives, as being sharper than their knives. 

M 



( 150. ) 



CHAPTEE VII. 

Crosses the Loangwa. Distressing march. The king-hunter. Great hunger. 
Christmas feast necessarily postponed. Loss of goats. Honey-hunters. 
A meal at last. The Babisa. The Mazitu again. Chitembo's. End 
of 1866. The new year. The northern brim of the great Loangwa 
Valley. Accident to chronometers. Meal gives out. Escape from a 
Cobra capella. Pushes for the Chambeze. Death of Chitane. Great 
pinch for food. Disastrous loss of medicine chest. Bead currency. 
Babisa. The Chambeze. Beaches Chitapangwa's town. Meets Arab 
traders from Zanzibar. Sends off letters. Chitapangwa and his 
people. Complications. 

16^ December, 1866. — We could get no food at any price on 
15th, so we crossed the Loangwa, and judged it to be from 
seventy to a hundred yards wide : it is deep at present, and 
it must always be so, for some Atumboka submitted to the 
Mazitu, and ferried them over and back again. The river 
is said to rise in the north; it has alluvial banks with 
large forest trees along them, bottom sandy, and great sand- 
banks are in it like the Zambesi. No guide would come, 
so we went on without one. The " lazies " of the party 
seized the opportunity of remaining behind — wandering, as 
they said, though all the cross paths were marked.* This 
evening we secured the latitude 12° 40' 48" S., which would 
make our crossing place about 12° 45' S. Clouds prevented 
observations, as they usually do in the rainy season. 



* In coming to cross roads it is the custom of the leader to " mark " 
all side paths and wrong turnings by making a scratch across them 
with his spear, or by breaking a branch and laying it across : in this 
way those who follow are able to avoid straying off the proper road. — Ed. 



1G0 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. VII. 

17th December. — We went on through a bushy country 
without paths, and struck the Pamazi, a river of sixty yards 
wide, in steep banks and in flood, and held on as well as we 
could through a very difficult country, the river forcing us 
north-west : I heard hippopotami in it. Game is abun- 
dant but wild; we shot two poku antelopes* here, called 
" tsebulas," which drew a hunter to us, who consented for 
meat and pay to show us a ford. He said that the Pamazi 
rises in a range of mountains we can now see (in general 
we could see no high ground during our marches for the 
last fortnight), we forded it, thigh deep on one side and 
breast deep on the other. We made only about three 
miles of northing, and found the people on the left bank 
uncivil : they would not lend a hut, so we soon put up a 
tent of waterproof cloth and branches. 

IStli December. — As the men grumbled at their feet 
being pierced by thorns in the trackless portions we had 
passed I was anxious to get a guide, but the only one we 
could secure would go to Molenga's only ; so I submitted, 
though this led us east instead of north. When we arrived 
we were asked what we wanted, seeing we brought neither 
slaves nor ivory : I replied it was much against our will 
that we came ; but the guide had declared that this was 
the only way to Casembe's, our next stage. To get rid of 
us they gave a guide, and Ave set forward northwards. 
The Mopane Forest is perfectly level, and after rains the 
water stands in pools ; but during most of the year it is 
dry. The trees here were very large, and planted some 
twenty or thirty yards apart : as there are no branches on 
their lower parts animals see very far. I shot a gnu, but 
wandered in coming back to the party, and did not find 
them till it was getting dark. Many parts of the plain 
are thrown up into heaps, of about the size of one's cap 



Ileleotrasris Vardonii. 



1866.] THE KING-HUNTER, BIRD LIFE. 161 

(probably by crabs), which now, being hard, are difficult 
to walk over ; under the trees it is perfectly smooth. The 
Mopane-tree furnishes the iron wood of the Portuguese Pao 
Ferro : it is pretty to travel in and look at the bright 
sunshine of early morning ; but the leaves hang perpen- 
dicularly as the sun rises high, and afford little or no 
shade through the day,* so as the land is clayey, it 
becomes hard-baked thereby. 

We observed that the people had placed corn-granaries 
at different parts of this forest, and had been careful to 
leave no track to them — a provision in case of further 
visits of Mazitu. King-hunters f abound, and make the air 
resound with their stridulous notes, which commence with a 
sharp, shrill cheep, and then follows a succession of notes, 
which resembles a pea in a whistle. Another bird is par- 
ticularly conspicuous at present by its chattering activity, 
its nest consists of a bundle of fine seed-stalks of grass hung 
at the end of a branch, the free ends being left untrimmed, 
and no attempt at concealment made. Many other birds 
are now active, and so many new notes are heard, that it 
is probable this is a richer ornithological region than the 
Zambesi. Guinea-fowl and francolins are in abundance, 
and so indeed are all the other kinds of game, as zebras, 
pallahs, gnus. 

19th December. — I got a fine male kudu. We have no 
grain, and live on meat alone, but I am better off than the 
men, inasmuch as I get a little goat's-milk besides. The 
kudu stood five feet six inches high ; horns, three feet on 
the straight. 

20th December. — Peached Casembe,$ a miserable hamlet 



* The tamarind does the same thing in the heat of the day. 

f A species of kingfisher, which stands flapping its wings and attempt- 
ing to sing in a ridiculous manner. It never was better described than by 
one observer who, after watching it through its performance, said it was 
" a toy-shoppy bird." — Ed. 

% Xot the great chief near Lake Moero of the same name. 
VOL. I. M 



102 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. VII, 

of a few huts. The people here are very suspicious, and will 
do nothing but Avith a haggle for prepayment ; we could get 
no grain, nor even native herbs, though we rested a day 
to try. 

After a short march we came to the Nyamazi, another 
considerable rivulet coming from the north to fall into the 
Loangwa. It has the same character, of steep alluvial 
banks, as Pamazi, and about the same width, but much 
shallower ; loin deep, though somewhat swollen ; from fifty 
to sixty yards wide. We came to some low hills, of coarse 
sandstone, and on crossing these we could see, by looking 
back, that for many days we had been travelling over a 
perfectly level vsilley, clothed with a mantle of forest. The 
barometers had shown no difference of level from about 
1800 feet above the sea. We began our descent into this- 
great valley when we left the source of the Bua ; and now 
these low hills, called Ngale or Ngaloa, though only 100 feet 
or so above the level we had left, showed that we had come 
to the shore of an ancient lake, which probably was let off 
when the rent of Kebra-basa on the Zambesi was made, for 
we found immense banks of well-rounded shinsrle above — 
or, rather, they may be called mounds of shingle — all of 
hard silicious schist with a few pieces of fossil-wood among 
them. The gullies reveal a stratum of this well-rounded 
shingle, lying on a soft greenish sandstone, which again lies- 
on the coarse sandstone first observed. This formation is 
identical with that observed formerly below the Victoria 
Falls. We have the mountains still on our north and north- 
west (the so-called mountains of Bisa, or Babisa), and from 
them the Nyamazi flows, Avhile Pamazi comes round the end, 
or what appears to be the end, of the higher portion. (22nd 
December.) Shot a bush-buck ; and slept on the left bank 
of Nyamazi. 

23rd December. — Hunger sent us on ; for a meat diet is 
far from satisfying : we all felt very weak on it, and soon 



1866.] NO HIOSPECT OF A CHRISTMAS DINNER. 1G3 

tired cm a march, but to-day we hurried on to Kavimba, 
who successfully beat off the Mazitu. It is very hot, and 
between three and four hours is a good day's march. On 
sitting down to rest before entering the village we were 
observed, and all the force of the village issued to kill us 
as Mazitu, but when we stood up the mistake was readily 
perceived, and the arrows were placed again in their quivers. 
In the hut four Mazitu shields show that they did not get it 
all their own way; they are miserable imitations of Zulu 
shields, made of eland and water-buck's hides, and ill sewn. 

A very small return present was made by Kavimba, and 
nothing could be bought except at exorbitant prices. We 
remained all day on the 24th haggling and trying to get 
some grain. He took a fancy to a shirt, and left it to his 
wife to bargain for. She got the length of cursing and 
swearing, and we bore it, but could get only a small price 
for it. We resolved to hold our Christmas some other day, 
and in a better place. The women seem ill-regulated here 
— Kaviinba's brother had words with his spouse, and at the 
end of every burst of vociferation on both sides called out, 
" Bring the Muavi ! bring the Muavi !" or ordeal. 

Christmas-clay, 1866. — No one being willing to guide us 
to Moerwa's, I hinted to Kavimba that should we see a 
rhinoceros I would kill it. He came himself, and led us on 
where he expected to find these animals, but we saw only 
their footsteps. We lost our four goats somewhere — stolen or 
strayed in the pathless forest, we do not know which, but 
the loss I felt very keenly, for Avhatever kind of food we 
had, a little milk made all right, and I felt strong and 
well, but coarse food hard of digestion without it was very 
trying. We spent the 26th in searching for them, but all 
in vain. Kavimba had a boy carrying two huge elephant 
spears, with these he attacks that large animal single-handed. 
We parted from him, as I thought, good friends, but a man 
who volunteered to act as guide saw him in the forest 

m 2 



164 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. VII. 

afterwards, and was counselled by him to leave us as we 
should not pay him. This hovering near us after we parted 
makes me suspect Kavimba of taking the goats, but I am 
not certain. The loss affected me more than I could have 
imagined. A little indigestible porridge, of scarcely any 
taste, is now my fare, and it makes me dream of better. 

27th December. — Our guide asked for his cloth to wear on 
the way, as it was wet and raining, and his bark cloth was a 
miserable covering. I consented, and he bolted on the first 
opportunity; the forest being so dense he was soon out of 
reach of pursuit : he had been advised to this by Kavimba, 
and nothing else need have been expected. We then fol- 
lowed the track of a travelling party of Babisa, but the grass 
springs up over the paths, and it was soon lost: the rain 
had fallen early in these parts, and the grass was all in seed. 
In the afternoon we came to the hills in the north where 
Nyamazi rises, and went up the bed of a rivulet for some 
time, and then ascended out of the valley. At the bottom 
of the ascent and in the rivulet the shingle stratum was 
sometimes fifty feet thick, then as we ascended we met mica 
schist tilted on edge, then grey gneiss, and last an igneous 
trap among quartz rocks, with a great deal of bright mica 
and talc in them. On resting near the top of the first 
ascent two honey hunters came to us. They were using the 
honey-guide as an aid, the bird came to us as they arrived, 
waited quietly during the half-hour they smoked and 
chatted, and then went on with them.* 

The tsetse flies, Avhich were very numerous at the bottom, 
came up the ascent with us, but as we increased our alti- 
tude by another thousand feet they gradually dropped off 
and left us: only one remained in the evening, and he 



* This extraordinary bird flies from tree to tree in front of the hunter, 
chirrupping loudly, and will not be content till he arrives at the spot 
where the bees'-nest is ; it then waits quietly till the honey is taken, and 
feeds on the broken morsels of comb winch fall to its share. 



1866.] COURSE OF THE RIVER LOANGWA. 166 

seemed out of spirits. Near sunset we encamped by water 
on the cool height, and made our shelters with boughs of 
leafy trees ; mine was rendered perfect by Dr. Stenhouse's in- 
valuable patent cloth, which is very superior to mackintosh : 
indeed the india-rubber cloth is not to be named in the 
same day with it. 

28th December. — Three men, going to hunt bees, came 
to us as we were starting and assured us that Moerwa's 
was near. The first party had told us the same thing, and 
so often have we gone long distances as "pafiqn" (near), 
when in reality they were " jpatari " (far), that we begin to 
think pafupi means " I wish you to go there," and patarl 
the reverse. In this case near meant an hour and three- 
quarters from our sleeping-place to Moerwa's ! 

When we look back from the height to which we have 
ascended we see a great plain clothed with dark green 
forest except at the line of yellowish grass, where probably 
the Loangwa flows. On the east and south-east this plain is 
bounded at the extreme range of our vision by a wall of dim 
blue mountains forty or fifty miles off. The Loangwa is 
said to rise in the Chibale country due north of this 
Malambwe (in which district Moerwa's village is situated), 
and to flow S.E., then round to where Ave found it. 

Moerwa came to visit me in my hut, a rather stupid man, 
though he has a well-shaped and well-developed forehead, 
and tried the usual little arts of getting us to buy all we 
need here though the prices are exorbitant. " No people in 
front, great hunger there." " We must buy food here and 
carry it to support us." On asking the names of the next 
headman he would not inform me, till I told him to try and 
speak like a man ; he then told us that the first Lobeniba 
chief was Motuna, and the next Chafunga. We have 
nothing, as we saw no animals in our way hither, and 
hunger is ill to bear. By giving Moerwa a good large 
cloth he was induced to cook a mess of inaere or millet 
ami elephant's stomach ; it was so good to get a full meal 



1G6 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chai\ VII. 

that I could have given him another cloth, and the more 
so as it was accompanied by a message that he would cook 
more next day and in larger quantity. On inquiring next 
evening he said "the man had told lies," he had cooked 
nothing more : he was prone to lie himself, and was a rather 
bad specimen of a chief. 

The Babisa have round bullet heads, snub noses, often 
high cheek-bones, an upward slant of the eyes, and look as 
if they had a lot of Bushman blood in them, and a good 
many would pass for Bushmen or Hottentots. Both Babisa 
and Waiyau may have a mixture of the race, which would 
account for their roving habits. The women have the 
fashion of exposing the upper part of the buttocks by 
letting a very stiff cloth fall down behind. Their teeth are 
filed to points, they wear no lip-ring, and the hair is parted 
so as to lie in a net at the back part of the head. The 
mode of salutation among the men is to lie down nearly on 
the back, clapping the hands, and making a rather inelegant 
half-kissing sound with the lips. 

2dth December. — We remain a day at Malambwe, but get 
nothing save a little maere,* which grates in the teeth and 
in the stomach. To prevent the Mazitu starving them they 
cultivate small round patches placed at wide intervals in 
the forest, with which the country is covered. The spot, 
some ten yards or a little more in diameter, is manured with 
ashes and planted with this millet and pumpkins, in order 
that should Mazitu come they may be unable to carry off 
the pumpkins, or gather the millet, the seed of which is 
very small. They have no more valour than the other 
Africans, but more craft, and are much given to falsehood. 
They will not answer common questions except by misstate- 
ments, but this may arise in our case from our being in 
disfavour, because we will not sell all our goods to them for 
ivory. 



* Eleusine Coracana. 



1866.] MOERWA. ELEPHANT HUNTING. 107 

30^ December. — Marched for Chitemba's, because it is 
said he has not fled from the Mazitu, and therefore has 
food to spare. While resting, Moerwa, with all his force of 
men, women, and dogs, came up, on his way to hunt elephants. 
The men were furnished with big spears, and their dogs are 
used to engage the animal's attention while they spear it ; 
the women cook the meat and make huts, and a smith goes 
with them to mend any spear that may be broken. 

We pass over level plateaux on which the roads are 
•wisely placed, and do not feel that we are travelling in a 
mountainous region. It is all covered with dense forest, 
which in many cases is pollarded, from being cut for bark 
cloth or for hunting purposes. Masuko fruit aboimds. From 
the cisalpinse and gum-copal trees bark cloth is made. 

We now come to large masses of ha?matite, which is often 
.ferruginous : there is conglomerate too, many quartz pebbles 
being intermixed. It seems as if when the lakes existed in 
the lower lands, the higher levels gave forth great quan- 
tities of water from chalybeate fountains, which deposited 
this iron ore. Grey granite or quartz with talc in it or 
gneiss lie under the hoematite. 

The forest resounds with singing birds, intent on nidifica- 
tion. Francolins abound, but are wild. " Whip-poor-wills," 
,and another bird, which has a more laboured treble note and 
voice — "Oh, oh, oh!" Gay flowers blush unseen, but the 
people have a good idea of what is eatable and what not. I 
looked at a woman's basket of leaves which she had collected 
for supper, and it contained eight or ten kinds, with mush- 
rooms and orchidaceous flowers. We have a succession of 
showers to-day, from N.E. and E.N.E. We are uncertain 
when we shall come to a village, as the Babisa will not tell 
us where they are situated. In the evening we encamped 
beside a little rill, and made our shelters, but we had so 
little to eat that I dreamed the night long of dinners I had 
eaten, and might have been eating. 



168 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. TIL 

I shall make this beautiful laud better known, which is 
an essential part of the process by which it will become the 
" pleasant haunts of men." It is impossible to describe its 
rich luxuriance, but most of it is running to waste through 
the slave-trade and internal wars. 

Slst December. — When we started this morning after rain, 
all the trees and grass dripping, a lion roared, but we did 
not see him. A woman had come a long way and built a 
neat miniature hut in the burnt-out ruins of her mother's 
house : the food-offering she placed in it, and the act of 
filial piety, no doubt comforted this poor mourner's heart ! 

We arrived at Chitembo's village and found it deserted. 
The Babisa dismantle their huts and carry off the thatch to 
their gardens, where they live till harvest is over. This 
fallowing of the framework destroys many insects, but we 
observed that wherever Babisa and Arab slavers go they 
leave the breed of the domestic bug : it would be well if 
that were all the ill they did ! Chitembo was working in 
his garden when we arrived, but soon came, and gave us 
the choice of all the standing huts : he is an old man, much 
more frank and truthful than our last headman, and says 
that Chitapanga is paramount chief of all the Abemba. 

Three or four women whom we saw performing a rain 
dance at Moerwa's were here doing the same; their faces 
smeared with meal, and axes in their hands, imitating as 
well as they could the male voice. I got some maere or 
millet here and a fowl. 

We now end 1866. It has not been so fruitful or useful as 
I intended. Will try to do better in 1867, and be better — 
more gentle and loving ; and may the Almighty, to whom I 
commit my way, bring my desires to pass, and prosj)er me ! 
Let all the sins of 'QQ be blotted out for Jesus' sake. 
****** 

1st January, 1867. — May He who was full of grace and 
truth impress His character on mine. Grace — eagerness to 



1867.] DREAMING HUNGRY HOURS AWAY. 109 

show favour ; truth — truthfulness, sincerity, honour — for His 
mercy's sake. 

We remain to-day at Mbulukuta-Ckitembo's district, by 
the boys' desire, because it is New Year's day, and also 
because we can get some food. 

2nd and 3rd January. — Remain on account of a 
threatened set-in rain. Bought a senze (Aulocaudatus 
Swindemianus), a rat-looking animal ; but I was glad to 
get anything in the shape of meat. 

4th January. — It is a set-in rain. The boiling-point 
thermometer shows an altitude of 3565 feet above the sea. 
Barometer, 3983 feet ditto. We get a little maere here, and 
prefer it to being drenched and our goods spoiled. We 
have neither sugar nor salt, so there are no soluble goods ; 
but cloth and gunpowder get damaged easily. It is hard 
fare and scanty ; I feel always hungry, and am constantly 
dreaming of better food when I should be sleeping. Savoury 
viands of former times come vividly up before the imagina- 
tion, even in my waking hours ; this is rather odd as I am 
not a dreamer ; indeed I scarcely ever dream but when I 
am going to be ill or actually so.* 

We are on the northern brim (or north-western rather) 
of the great Loangwa Valley we lately crossed : the rain 
coming from the east strikes it, and is deposited both above 
and below, while much of the valley itself is not yet well 
wetted. Here all the grasses have run up to seed, and yet 
they are not more than two feet or so in the seed-stalk s. 
The pasturage is very fine. The people employ these con- 
tinuous or set-in rains for limiting the elephant, which gets 
bogged, and sinks in from fifteen to eighteen inches in soft 



* It may not be altogether without interest to state that Livingstone 
could fall asleep when he wished at the very shortest notice. A mat, 
and a shady tree under which to spread it, would at any time afford him 
a refreshing sleep, and this faculty no doubt contributed much to his great 
powers of endurance. — Ed. 



170 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. VII. 

mud, then even he, the strong one, feels it difficult to 
escape.* 

5th January. — Still storm-stayed. We shall be off as soon 
as we get a fair day and these heavy rains cease. 

Gth January. — After service two men came and said 
that they were going to Lobeinba, and would guide us to 
Motuna's village ; another came a day or two ago, but he 
had such a villainous look we all shrank from him. These 
men's faces pleased us, but they did not turn out all we ex- 
pected, for they guided us away westwards without a path : 
it was a drizzling rain, and this made us averse to striking 
off in the forest Avithout them. No inhabitants now except 
at wide intervals, and no animals either. In the afternoon 
we came to a deep ravine full of gigantic timber trees and 
bamboos, with the Mavoche River at the bottom. The damp- 
ness had caused the growth of lichens all over the trees, and 
the steep descent was so slippery that two boys fell, and he 
who carried the chronometers, twice : this was a misfortune, 
as it altered the rates, as was seen by the first comparison 
of them together in the evening. No food at Motuna's 
village, yet the headman tried to extort two fathoms of 
¦calico on the ground that he was owner of the country : we 
offered to go out of his village and make our own sheds on 
¦" God's land," that is, where it is uncultivated, rather than 
have any words about it : he then begged us to stay. A 
very high mountain called Chikokwe appeared W.S.W. from 
this village ; the people who live on it are called Matumba ; 
this part is named Lokmnbi, but whatever the name, all 
the people are Babisa, the dependants of the Babemba, 
reduced by their own slaving habits to a miserable jungly 
state. They feed much on wild fruits, roots, and leaves ; 
and yet are generally plump. They use a wooden hoe for 



* "When the elephant becomes confused by the yelping pack of dogs 
with which he is surrounded, the hunter stealthily approaches behind, 
and with one blow of a sharp axe hamstrings the huge beast. — Ed. 



1867.] QUANTITIES OF FLOWERS AND GAME. 171 

sowing their maere, it is a sort of V-shaped implement, 
made from a branch with another springing out of it, about 
an inch in diameter at the sharp point, and with it they 
claw the soil after scattering the seed ; about a dozen young- 
men were so employed in the usual small patches as we 
passed in the morning. 

The country now exhibits the extreme of leafiness and the 
undulations are masses of green leaves ; as far as the eye 
can reach with distinctness it rests on a mantle of that hue, 
and beyond the scene becomes dark blue. Near at hand 
many gay flowers peep out. Here and there the scarlet 
martagon (Lilium clialceclonicum), bright blue or yellow 
gingers ; red, orange, yellow, and pure white orchids ; pale 
lobelias, &c. ; but they do not mar the general greenness. 
As we ascended higher on the plateau, grasses, which have 
pink and reddish brown seed-vessels imparted distinct shades 
of their colours to the lawns, and were grateful to the eye. 
We turned aside early in our march to avoid being wetted 
by rains, and took shelter in some old Babisa sheds ; these, 
when the party is a slaving one, are built so as to form a 
circle, with but one opening : a ridge pole, or rather a suc- 
cession of ridge poles, form one long shed all round, with 
no partitions in the roof-shaped hut. 

On the 9th of January we ascended a hardened sandstone 
range. Two men who accompanied our guide called out 
every now and then to attract the attention of the honey- 
guide, but none appeared. A water-buck had been killed 
and eaten at one spot, the ground showing marks of a 
severe struggle, but no game was to be seen. Buifaloes and 
elephants come here at certain seasons ; at present they 
have migrated elsewhere. The valleys are very beautiful : 
the oozes are covered with a species of short wiry grass, 
which gives the valleys the appearance of well-kept gentle- 
men's parks; but they are full of water to overflowing — 
immense sponges in fact ; — and one has to watch carefully 
in crossing them to avoid plunging into deep water-holes, 



172 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. VII. 

made by the feet of elephants or buffaloes. In the ooze 
generally the water comes half-way up the shoe, and we go 
plash, plash, plash, in the lawn-like glade. There are no 
people here now in these lovely wild valleys ; but to-day Ave 
came to mounds made of old for planting grain, and slag 
from iron furnaces. The guide was rather offended because 
he did not get meat and meal, though he is accustomed to 
leaves at home, and we had none to give except by wanting 
ourselves : he found a mess without much labour in the 
forest. My stock of meal came to an end to-day, but Simon 
gave me some of his. It is not the unpleasantness of eating- 
unpalatable food that teases one, but we are never satisfied ; 
I could brace myself to dispose of a very unsavoury mess, 
and think no more about it; but this maere engenders a 
craving which plagues day and night incessantly. 

10th January. — We crossed the Muasi, flowing strongly to 
the east to the Loangwa River. 

In the afternoon an excessively heavy thunderstorm 
wetted us all to the skin before any shelter could be made. 
Two of our men wandered, and other two remained behind 
lost, as our track was washed out by the rains. The country 
is a succession of enormous waves, all covered with jungle, 
and no traces of paths ; we were in a hollow, and our firing 
was not heard till this morning, when we ascended a height 
and were answered. I am thankful that no one was lost, for 
a man might wander a long time before reaching a village. 
Simon gave me a little more of his meal this morning, and 
went without himself: I took my belt up three holes to 
relieve hunger. We got some wretched wild fruit like that 
called " jambos" in India, and at midday reached the village 
of Chafuuga. Famine here too, but some men had killed an 
elephant and came to sell the dried meat : it was high, and 
so were their prices ; but we are obliged to give our best 
from this craving hunger. 

12th January. — Sitting down this morning near a tree 
my head was just one yard off a good-sized cobra, coiled up 



1867.] CHITANE PERISHES IN THE WATER. 173 

in the sprouts at its root, but it was benumbed with cold : 
a very pretty little puff-adder lay in the path, also be- 
numbed ; it is seldom that any harm is done by these reptiles 
here, although it is different in India. We bought up all the 
food we could get; but it did not suffice for the marches 
we expect to make to get to the Chambeze, where food is 
said to be abundant, we were therefore again obliged to 
travel on Sunday. We had prayers before starting ; but I 
always feel that I am not doing right, it lessens the sense 
of obligation in the minds of my companions ; but I have 
no choice. We went along a rivulet till it ended in a small 
lake, Mapampa or Chimbwe, about five miles long, and 
one and a half broad. It had hippopotami, and the poku 
fed on its banks. 

15th January. — We had to cross the Chimbwe at its 
eastern end, where it is fully a mile wide. The guide re- 
fused to show another and. narrower ford up the stream, 
which emptied, into it from the east ; and I, being the first 
to cross, neglected to give orders about the poor little dog, 
Chitane. The water was waist deep, the bottom soft peaty 
stuff with deep holes in it, and the northern side infested 
by leeches. The boys were — like myself — all too much 
engaged with preserving their balance to think of the 
spirited little beast, and he must have swam till he sunk. 
He was so useful in keeping all the country curs off our 
huts ; none dare to approach and steal, and he never stole 
himself. He shared the staring of the people with his 
master, then in the march he took charge of the whole 
party, running to the front, and again to the rear, to see 
that all was right. He was becoming yellowish-red in 
colour ; and, poor thing, perished in what the boys all call 
Chitane's water. 

16th January. — March through the mountains, which 
are of beautiful white and pink dolomite, scantily covered 
with upland trees and vegetation. The rain, as usual, made 
us halt early, and wild fruits helped to induce us to stay. 



174 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. TIL 

111 one place we lighted on a party of people living on 
Masuko fruit, and making mats of the Shuare* palm petioles. 
We have hard lines ourselves ; nothing but a little maere 
porridge and dampers. We roast a little grain, and boil 
it, to make believe it is coffee. The guide, a maundering 
fellow, turned because he was not fed better than at home, 
and because he knew that but for his obstinacy we should 
not have lost the dog. It is needless to repeat that it is all 
forest on the northern slopes of the mountains — open glade 
and miles of forest ; ground at present all sloppy ; oozes 
full and overflowing — feet constantly wet. Eivulets rush 
strongly with clear water, though they are in flood : we 
can guess which are perennial and which mere torrents 
that dry up ; they flow northwards and westwards to the 
Chambeze. 

17th January. — Detained in an old Babisa slaving en- 
campment by set-in rain till noon, then set off in the midst 
of it. Came to hills of dolomite, but all the rocks were 
covered with white lichens (ash-coloured). The path took 
us thence along a ridge, which separates the Lotiri, run- 
ning westwards, and the Lobo, going northwards, and we 
came at length to the Lobo, travelling along its banks till 
we reached the village called Lisunga, which was about 
five yards broad, and very deep, in flood, with clear water, 
as indeed are all the rivulets now ; they can only be crossed 
by felling a tree on the bank and letting it fall across. 
They do not abrade their banks — vegetation protects them. 
I observed that the brown ibis, a noisy bird, took care to 
restrain his loud, harsh voice when driven from the tree in 
which his nest was placed, and when about a quarter of a 
mile off, then commenced his loud "Ha-ha-ha!" 

18th January. — The headman of Lisunga, Chaokila, took 
our present, and gave nothing in return. A deputy from 
Chitapangwa came afterwards and demanded a larger 

* Raphia. 



18(37.] CHITAPANGWA'S ENVOY. 175 

present, as lie was the greater man, and said that if we 
gave him two fathoms of calico, he would order all the 
people to bring plenty of food, not here only, but all the 
way to the paramount chief of Lobemba, Chitapangwa. I 
proposed that he should begin by ordering Chaokila to give 
us some in return for our present. This led, as Chaokila 
told us, to the cloth being delivered to the deputy, and we 
saw that all the starvelings south of the Chambeze were 
poor dependants on the Babemba, or rather their slaves, 
who cultivate little, and then only in the rounded patches 
above mentioned, so as to prevent their conquerors from 
taking away more than a small share. The subjects are 
Babisa — a miserable lying lot of serfs. This tribe is en- 
gaged in the slave-trade, and the evil effects are seen in 
their depopulated country and utter distrust of every one. 

19th January. — Baining most of the day. Worked out 
the longitude of the mountain-station said to be Mpini, 
but it will be better to name it Chitane's, as I could not get 
the name from our maundering guide ; he probably did not 
know it, Lat. 11° 9' 2" S. ; long. 32° 1' 30" E. 

Altitude above sea (barometer) 5353 feet ; 
Altitude above sea (boiling-point) 5385 feet. 



Diff. 32* 

Nothing but famine and famine prices, the people living 
on mushrooms and leaves. Of mushrooms we observed that 
they choose five or six kinds, and rejected ten sorts. One 
species becomes as large as the crown of a man's hat ; it is 
pure white, with a blush of brown in the middle of the 
crown, and is very good roasted; it is named "Motenta;" 
another, Mofeta ; 3rd, Bosefwe ; 4th, Nakabausa ; 5th, Chi- 
sinibe, lobulated, green outside, and pink and fleshy inside ; 



Top of mountain (barometer) 6638 feet. 



176 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. VII. 

as a relish to others : some experience must have been 
requisite to enable them to distinguish the good from the 
noxious, of which they reject ten sorts. 

We get some elephants' meat from the people, but high 
is no name for its condition. It is very bitter, but we used 
it as a relish to the maere porridge : none of the animal 
is wasted ; skin and all is cut up and sold, not one of us 
would touch it with the hand if we had aught else, for the 
gravy in which we dip our porridge is like an aqueous 
solution of aloes, but it prevents the heartburn, which 
maere causes when taken alone. I take mushrooms boiled 
instead ; but the meat is never refused when we can purchase 
it, as it seems to ease the feeling of fatigue which jungle- 
fruit and fare engenders. The appetite in this country is 
always very keen, and makes hunger worse to bear : the 
want of salt, probably, makes the gnawing sensation worse. 

[We now come to a disaster which cannot be exaggerated 
in importance when we witness its after effects month by 
month on Dr. Livingstone. There can be little doubt that 
the severity of his subsequent illnesses mainly turned upon 
it, and it is hardly too much to believe that his constitution 
from this time was steadily sapped by the effects of fever- 
poison which he was powerless to counteract, owing to the 
want of quinine. In his allusion to Bishop Mackenzie's 
death, we have only a further confirmation of the one rule 
in all such cases which must be followed, or the traveller in 
Africa goes — not with his life in his hand, but in some 
luckless box, put in the charge of careless servants. Bishop 
Mackenzie had all his drugs destroyed by the upsetting of a 
canoe, in which was his case of medicines, and in a moment 
everything was soaked and spoilt. 

It cannot be too strongly urged on explorers that they 
should divide their more important medicines in such a way 
that a total loss shall become well-nigh impossible. Three 



1807.] THE MEDICINE-CHEST IS STOLEN. 177 

or four tin canisters containing some calomel, Dover's 
powder, colocynth, and, above all, a supply of quinine, can 
be distributed in different packages, and then, if a mishap 
occurs similar to that which Livingstone relates, the disaster 
is not beyond remedy.] 

20th January. — A guide refused, so we marched without 
one. The two Waiyau, who joined us at Kande's village, 
now deserted. They had been very faithful all the way, 
and took our part in every case. Knowing the language 
well, they were extremely useful, and no one thought 
that they would desert, for they were free men — their 
masters had been killed by the Mazitu — and this circum- 
stance, and their uniform good conduct, made us trust them 
more than we should have done any others who had been 
slaves. But they left us in the forest, and heavy rain 
came on, which obliterated every vestige of their footsteps. 
To make the loss the more galling, they took what we could 
least spare — the medicine-box, which they would only throw 
away as soon as they came to examine their booty. One 
of these deserters exchanged his load that morning with 
a boy called Baraka, who had charge of the medicine-box, 
because he was so careful. This was done, because with the 
medicine-chest were packed five large cloths and all Baraka 's 
clothing and beads, of which he was very careful. The 
Waiyau also offered to carry this burden a stage to help 
Baraka, while he gave his own load, in which there was 
no cloth, in exchange. The forest was so dense and high, 
there was no chance of getting a glimpse of the fugitives, 
who took all the dishes, a large box of powder, the flour we 
had purchased dearly to help us as far as the Chambeze, 
the tools, two guns, and a cartridge-pouch ; but the medi- 
cine-chest was the sorest loss of all ! I felt as if I had 
now received the sentence of death, like poor Bishop 
Mackenzie. 

vol. i. N 



178 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. VII. 

All the other goods I had divided in case of loss or 
desertion, but had never dreamed of losing the precious 
quinine and other remedies ; other losses and annoyances I 
felt as just parts of that undercurrent of vexations which is 
not wanting in even the smoothest life, and certainly not 
worthy of being moaned over in the experience of an ex- 
plorer anxious to benefit a country and people — but this 
loss I feel most keenly. Everything of this kind happens 
by the permission of One who watches over us with most 
tender care ; and this may turn out for the best by taking 
away a source of suspicion among more superstitious, charm- 
dreading people further north. I meant it as a source of 
benefit to my party and to the heathen. 

We returned to Lisunga, and got two men off to go back 
to Chafunga's village, and intercept the deserters if they 
went there ; but it is likely that, having our supply of flour, 
they will give our route a wide berth and escape altogether. 
It is difficult to say from the heart, "Thy will be done;" 
but I shall try. These Waiyau had few advantages : sold 
into slavery in early life, they were in the worst possible 
school for learning to be honest and honourable, they be- 
haved well for a long time; but, having had hard and 
scanty fare in Lobisa, wet and misery in passing through 
dripping forests, hungry nights and fatiguing days, their 
patience must have been worn out, and they had no senti- 
ments of honour, or at least none so strong as we ought to 
have ; they gave way to the temptation which their good 
conduct had led us to put in their way. Some we have 
come across in this journey seemed born essentially mean 
and base — a great misfortune to them and all Avho have to 
deal with them, but they cannot be so blamable as those who 
have no natural tendency to meanness, and whose education 
has taught them to abhor it. True; yet this loss of the 
medicine-box gnaws at the heart terribly. 

21st and 22nd January, — Remained at Lisunga — raining 



1867.] SEVERE SUFFERINGS FROM HUNGER. 170 

nearly all day ; and we bought all the niaere the chief 
would sell. We were now forced to go on and made for 
the next village to buy food. Want of food and rain are 
•our chief difficulties now, more rain falls here on this 
northern slope of the upland than elsewhere ; clouds come 
up from the north and pour down their treasures in heavy 
thunder-showers, which deluge the whole country south 
¦of the edge of the plateau : the rain-clouds come from the 
west chiefly. 

23rd January. — A march of five and three-quarter hours 
brought us yesterday to a village, Chibanda's stockade, 
w : here "no food" was the case, as usual. We crossed a 
good-sized rivulet, the Mapampa (probably ten yards wide), 
(lashing along to the east; all the rest of the way was in 
dark forest. I sent off the boys to the village of Muasi 
to buy food, if successful, to-morrow we march for the 
Chambeze, on the other side of which all the reports 
agree in the statement that there plenty of food is to 
be had. We all feel weak and easily tired, and an incessant 
himger teases us, so it is no wonder if so large a space of 
this paper is occupied by stomach affairs. It has not been 
merely want of nice dishes, but real biting hunger and 
faintness. 

2-ith January. — Four hours through unbroken, dark 
forest brought us to the Movushi, which here is a sluggish 
stream, winding through and filling a marshy valley a mile 
wide. It comes from south-east, and falls into the Cham- 
beze, about 2' north of our encampment. The village of 
Moaba is on the east side of the marshy valley of the 
Movuhi, and very difficult to be approached, as the water 
is chin-deep in several spots. I decided to make sheds on 
the west side, and send over for food, which, thanks to the 
Providence which watches over us, we found at last in a 
good supply of niaere and some ground-nuts ; but through 
all this upland region the trees yielding bark-cloth, or 

n 2 



180 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. TIL 

nyanda, are so abundant, that the people are all well-clothed 
with it, and care but little for our cloth. Red and pink 
beads are in fashion, and fortunately we have red. 

[We may here add a few particulars concerning beads, 
which form such an important item of currency all through 
Africa. With a few exceptions they are all manufactured 
in Venice. The greatest care must be exercised, or the 
traveller — ignorant of the prevailing fashion in the country 
he is about to explore — finds himself with an accumulation 
of beads of no more value than tokens would be if tendered 
in this country for coin of the realm. 

Thanks to the kindness of Messrs. Levin & Co., the bead 
merchants, of Bevis Marks, E.C., we have been able to get 
some idea of the more valuable beads, through a selection 
made by Susi and Chuma in their warehouse. The Waiyou 
prefer exceedingly small beads, the size of mustard-seed, 
and of various colours, but they must be opaque : amongst 
them dull white chalk varieties, called " Catchokolo," are 
valuable, besides black and pink, named, respectively, 
" Bububu " and " Sekundereche " = the " dregs of pombe." 
One red bead, of various sizes, which has a white centre, is 
always valuable in every part of Africa. It is called " Sami- 
sami " by the Suahele, " Chitakaraka " by the Waiyou, 
' ; Mangazi," = " blood," by the Nyassa, and was found popu- 
lar even amongst the Manyuema, under the name of " Maso- 
kantussi " = " bird's eyes." Whilst speaking of this distant 
tribe, it is interesting to observe that one peculiar long bead, 
recognised as common in the Manyuema land, is only sent 
to the West Coast of Africa, and never to the East. On 
Chuma pointing to it as a sort found at the extreme limit 
explored by Livingstone, it was at once seen that he must 
have touched that part of Africa which begins to be within 
the reach of the traders in the Portuguese settlements. 
" Machua Kanga " = " guinea fowl's eyes," is another popular 



1867.] BEAD CURRENCY. MUSHROOMS. 181 

variety; and the "Moiompio" = "new heart," a large pale 
blue bead, is a favourite amongst the Wabisa ; but by far the 
most valuable of all is a small white oblong bead, which, 
when strung, looks like the joints of the cane root, from 
which it takes its name, " Salani " = cane. Susi says that 
1 lb. weight of these beads would buy a tusk of ivory, at 
the south end of Tanganyika, so big that a strong man 
could not carry it more than two hours.] 

25^ January. — Eemain and get our maere ground into 
flour. Moaba has cattle, sheep, and goats. The other side 
of the Chambeze has everything in still greater abundance ; 
so we may recover our lost flesh. There are buffaloes in 
this quarter, but we have not got a glimpse of any. If 
game was to be had, I should have hunted ; but the hopo 
way of hunting prevails, and we pass miles of hedges by 
which many animals must have perished. In passing- 
through the forests it is surprising to see none but old 
footsteps of the game ; but the hopo destruction accounts 
for its absence. When the hedges are burned, then the 
manured space is planted with pumpkins and calabashes. 

I observed at Chibanda's a few green mushrooms, which, 
on being peeled, showed a pink, fleshy inside ; they are 
called " chisimba ;" and only one or two are put into the 
mortar, in which the women pound the other kinds, to give 
relish, it was said, to the mass : I could not ascertain what 
properties chisimba had when taken alone ; but mushroom 
diet, in our experience, is good only for producing dreams 
of the roast beef of bygone days. The saliva runs from 
the mouth in these dreams, and the pillow is wet with it 
in the mornings. 

These Babisa are full of suspicion ; everything has to be 
paid for accordingly in advance, and we found that giving a 
present to a chief is only putting it in his power to cheat 
us out of a supper. They give nothing to each other for 



182 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. VII.. 

nothing, and if this is enlargement of mind produced by 
.commerce, commend me to the untrading African ! 

Fish now appear in the rivulets. Higher altitudes have 
only small things, not worth catching. 

An owl makes the woods resound by night and early 
morning with his cries, which consist of a loud, double- - 
initial note, and then a succession of lower descending notes. 
Another new bird,, or at least new to me, makes the forests - 
ring. 

When the vultures see us making our sheds, they con- 
clude that we have killed some animal ; but after watching 
awhile, and seeing no meat, they depart. This is suggestive 
of what other things prove, that it is only by sight they are 
guided* 

With respect to the native head-dresses the colouring; 
matter, " nkola," which, seems to be cam-wood, is placed as 
an ornament on the head, and some is put on the bark-cloth 
to give it a pleasant appearance. The tree, when cut, is 
burned to bring out the strong colour, and then, when it is 
developed, the wood is powdered. 

The gum-copal, trees now pour out gum where wounded, . 
and I have seen masses of it fallen on the ground. 

26t7i January. — Went northwards along the Movushi, 
near to its confluence with Chambeze, and then took lodging 
in a deserted temporary village. In the evening I shot 
a poku, or tsebula, full-grown male. It measured from snout 



* The experience of all African sportsmen tends towards the same con- 
clusion. Vultures probably have their beats high overhead in the sky, 
too far to be seen by the eye. From this altitude they can watch a vast 
tract of country, and whenever the disturbed movements of game are 
observed they draw together, and for the first time are seen wheeling 
about at a great height over the spot. So soon as an animal is killed, 
every tree is filled with them, but the hunter has only to cover the meat 
with boughs or reeds and the vultures are entirely at a loss — hidden, 
from view it is hidden altogether : the idea that they are attracted by 
their keen sense of smell is altogether erroneous.- — Ed.. 



1867.] THE TSEBULA ANTELOPE. 183 

to insertion of tail, 5 feet 3 inches ; tail, 1 foot ; height at 
withers, 3 feet ; circumference of chest, 5 feet ; face to inser- 
tion of horns, 9£ inches ; horns measured on curve, 16 inches. 
Twelve rings on horns, and one had a ridge behind, \ inch 
broad; ^ inch high, and tapering up the horn; probably 
accidental. Colour : reddish-yellow, dark points in front of 
foot and on the ears, belly nearly white. The shell went 
through from behind the shoulder to the spleen, and burst 
on the other side, yet he ran 100 yards. I felt very thank- 
ful to the Giver of all good for this meat. 

21th January. — A set-in rain all the morning, but having 
meat Ave were comfortable in the old huts. In changing my 
dress this morning I was frightened at my own emaciation. 

28th January. — We went five miles along the Movushi 
and the Chambeze to a crossing-place said to avoid three 
rivers on the other side, which require canoes just now, and 
have none. Our lat. 10° 34' S. The Chambeze was flooded 
with clear water, but the lines of bushy trees, which showed 
its real banks, were not more than forty yards apart, it 
showed its usual character of abundant animal life in its 
waters and on its banks, as it wended its way westwards. The 
canoeman was excessively suspicious ; when prepayment was 
acceded to, he asked a piece more, and although he was 
promised full payment as soon as we were all safely across 
he kept the last man on the south side as a hostage for 
this bit of calico : he then ran away. They must cheat 
each other sadly. 

Went northwards, wading across two miles of flooded 
flats on to which the Clarias Capensis, a species of siluris, 
comes to forage out of the river. We had the Likindazi, 
a sedgy stream, with hippopotami, on our right. Slept in 
forest without seeing anyone. Then next day we met with 
a party who had come from their village to look for us. 
We were uoav in Lobemba, but these villagers had nothing 
but hopes of plenty at Chitapangwa's. This village had 



184 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. VII. 

half a mile of ooze and sludgy marsh in front of it, and 
a stockade as usual. We observed that the people had 
great fear of animals at night, and shut the gates carefully, 
of even temporary villages. When at Molemba (Chita- 
pangwa's village) afterwards, two men were killed by a 
lion, and great fear of crocodiles was expressed by our 
canoe-man at the Chambeze, when one washed in the 
margin of that river. There was evidence of abundance 
of game, elephants, and buffaloes, but we saw none. 

29th January. — When near our next stage end we were 
shown where lightning had struck; it ran down a gum- 
copal tree without damaging it, then ten yards horizontally, 
and dividing there into two streams it went up an anthill ; 
the withered grass showed its course very plainly, and next 
day (31st), on the banks of the Mabula, we saw a dry tree 
Avhich had been struck ; large splinters had been riven off 
and thrown a distance of sixty yards in one direction and 
thirty yards in another : only a stump was left, and patches 
of withered grass where it had gone horizontally. 

30^ January. — Northwards through almost trackless 
dripping forests and across oozing bogs. 

31st January. — Through forest, but gardens of larger 
size than in Lobisa now appear. A man offered a thick 
bar of copper for sale, a foot by three inches. The hard- 
leafed acacia and mohempi abound. The valleys, with the 
oozes, have a species of grass, having pink seed-stalks 
and yellow seeds : this is very pretty. At midday we 
came to the Lopiri, the rivulet which waters Chitapanga's 
stockade, and soon after found that his village has a triple 
stockade, the inner being defended also by a deep broad 
ditch and hedge of a solanaceous thorny shrub. It is about 
200 yards broad and 500 long. The huts not planted very 
closely. 

The rivulets were all making for the Chambeze. They 
contain no fish, except very small ones — probably fry. On 



1867.] 



CHITAPANGWA'S STATE RECEPTION. 



18£ 



the other, or western side of the ridge, near which "Ma- 
lemba " is situated, fish abound worth catching. 

Chitapangwa, or Motoka, as he is also called, sent to 
inquire if we wanted an audience. "We must take some- 
thing in our hands the first time we came before so great a 
Being tired from marching, I replied, " Not till the 



man. 




¦^«38j85sr 



Chitapangwa. 



evening," and sent notice at 5 p.m. of my coming. We 
passed through the inner stockade, and then on to an 
enormous hut, where sat Chitapangwa, with three drummers 
and ten or more men, with two rattles in their hands. The 
drummers beat furiously, and the rattlers kept time to the 
drums, two of them advancing and receding in a stooping- 
posture, with rattles near the ground, as if doing the chief 
obeisance, but still keeping time with the others. I declined 



186 



LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOUKNALS. [Chap. VII. 



to sit on the ground, and an enormous tusk was brought for 
me. The chief saluted courteously. He has a fat jolly face, 
and legs loaded with brass and copper leglets. I mentioned 







Chitapangwa's Wives. 



our losses by the desertion of the Waiyau, but his power is 
merely nominal, and he could do nothing. After talking 
awhile he came along with us to a group of cows, and pointed 
out one. " That is yours," said he. The tusk on which I 
sat was sent after me too as being mine, because I had sat 
upon it. He put on my cloth as token of acceptance, and 
sent two large baskets of sorghum to the hut afterwards, and 
then sent for one of the boys to pump him after dark. 

1st February, 1867. — We found a small party of black 
Arab slave-traders here from Bagamoio on the coast, and as 



1867.] NEW ROUTE FROM ZANZIBAR. 187 

the chief had behaved handsomely as I thought, I went this 
morning and gave him one of our best cloths; but when 
we were about to kill the cow, a man interfered and pointed 
out a smaller one. I asked if this was by the orders of the 
chief. The chief said that the man had lied, but I declined 
to take any cow at all if he did not give it willingly. 

The slavers, the headman of whom was Magaru Mafupi, 
came and said that they were going off on the 2nd ; {2nd 
February) but by payment I got them to remain a day, 
and was all day employed in writing despatches. 

'3rd February. — Magaru Mafupi left this morning with 
a packet of letters, for which he is to get Es. 10 at 
Zanzibar.* They came by a much shorter route than we 
followed, in fact, nearly due west or south-west ; but not a 
soul would tell us of this way of coming into the country 
when we were at Zanzibar. Bagamoio is only six hours 
north of Kurdary Harbour. It is possible that the people 
of Zanzibar did not know of it themselves, as this is the 
first time they have come so far. The route is full of vil- 
lages and people who have plenty of goats, and very cheap. 
They number fifteen stations, or sultans, as they call the 
chiefs, and will be at Bagamoio in two months : — 1. Chasa ;. 

2. Lombe ; 3. Uchere ; 4. Nyamiro ; 5. Zonda ; 6. Zambi ; 
7. Lioti ; 8. Merere'; 9. Kirangabana; 10. Nkongozi; 11. 
Sombogo ; 12. Sure ; 13. Lomolasenga ; 14. Kapass ; 15.. 
Ckanze\ They are then in the country adjacent to Baga- 
moio. Some of these places are two or three days apart 
from each other. 

They came to three large rivers : 1. "VW-nibo ; 2. Luaha ; 

3. Luvo; but I had not time to make further inquiries. 
They had one of Speke's companions to Tanganyika with 
them, named Janje, or Janja, who could imitate a trumpet 
by blowing into the palm of his hand. I ordered another 



These letters reached England safely. 



188 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. VII. 

supply of cloth and beads, and I sent for a small quantity 
of coffee, sugar, candles, French preserved meats, a cheese 
in tin, six bottles of port-wine, quinine, calomel, and resin 
of jalap, to be sent to Ujiji. 

I proposed to go a little Avay east Avith this route to buy 
goats, but Chitapangwa got very angry, saying, I came only 
to show my things, and would buy nothing : he then altered 
his tone, and requested me to take the cow first presented 
and eat it, and as we were all much in need I took it. We 
were to give only what we liked in addition ; but this was 
a snare, and when I gave two more cloths he sent them 
back, and demanded a blanket. The boys alone have 
blankets ; so I told him these were not slaves, and I could 
not take from them what I had once given. Though it is 
disagreeable to be thus victimized, it is the first time we 
have tasted fat for six weeks and more. 

6th February. — Chitapangwa came with his wife to see the 
instruments which I explained to them as well as I could, 
and the books, as Avell as the Book of Books, and to my 
statements he made intelligent remarks. The boys are 
sorely afraid of him. When Abraham does not like to say 
what I state, he says to me " I don't know the proper 
word ; " but when I speak without him, he soon finds them. 
He and Simon thought that talking in a cringing manner 
was the way to win him over, so I let them try it with a 
man he sent to communicate with us, and the result was 
this fellow wanted to open their bundles, pulled them 
about, and kept them awake most of the night. Abraham 
came at night : " Sir, what shall I do ? they won't let me 
sleep." " You have had your own way," I replied, " and 
must abide by it." He brought them over to me in the 
morning, but I soon dismissed both him and them. 

1th February. — I sent to the chief either to come to me 
or say when I should come to him and talk ; the answer I 
irot was that he would come when shaved, but he afterwards 



1867.] THE CHIEF BARGAINS FOR A BLANKET. 189 

sent a man to hear what I had to advance — this I declined, 
and when the rain ceased I went myself. 

On coming into his hut I stated that I had given him 
four times the value of his cow, but if he thought other- 
wise, let us take the four cloths to his brother Moamba, and 
if he said that I had not given enough, I would buy a cow 
and send it back. This he did not relish at all. "Oh, 
great Englishman ! why should we refer a dispute to an 
inferior. I am the great chief of all this country. In- 
gleze mokolu, you are sorry that you have to give so much 
for the ox you have eaten. You would not take a smaller, 
and therefore I gratified your heart by giving the larger; 
and why should not you gratify my heart by giving cloth 
sufficient to cover me, and please me ? " 

I said that my cloths would cover him, and his biggest wife 
too all over, he laughed at this, but still held out; and 
as we have meat, and he sent maize and calabashes, I went 
away. He turns round now, and puts the blame of greedi- 
ness on me. I cannot enter into, his ideas, or see his point 
of view ; cannot, in fact, enter into his ignorance, his preju- 
dices, or delusions, so it is impossible to pronounce a true 
judgment. One who has no humour cannot understand one 
who has : this is an equivalent case. 

Rain and clouds so constantly, I could not get our latitude 
till last night, 10° 14' 6" S. On 8th got lunars. Long. 
31° 46' 45" E. Altitude above sea, 4700 feet, by boiling- 
point and barometer. 

8th February. — The chief demands one of my boxes and a 
blanket; I explain that one day's rain would spoil the 
contents, and the boys who have blankets, not being slaves, 
I cannot take from them what I have given. I am 
told that he declares that he will take us back to the 
Loangwa; make war and involve us in it, deprive us of 
food, &c. : this succeeds in terrifying the boys. He thinks 
that we have some self-interest to secure in passing 



390 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. YII. 

through the country, and therefore he has a right to a 
share in the gain. "When told it was for a public benefit, 
he pulled down the underlid of the right eye.* He be- 
lieves we shall profit by our journey, though he knows not 
in what way. 

It is possibly only a coincidence, but no sooner do we 
meet with one who accompanied Speke and Burton to Tan- 
ganyika, than the system of mulcting commences. I have 
no doubt but that Janje told this man how his former 
employers paid down whatever was demanded of them. 

10th February. — I had service in the open air, many look- 
ing on, and spoke afterwards to the chief, but he believes 
nothing save what Speke and Burton's man has told him. 
He gave us a present of corn and ground-nuts, and says he 
did not order the people not to sell grain to us. We must 
stop and eat green maize. He came after evening service, 
and I explained a little to him, and showed him woodcuts 
in the ' Bible Dictionary,' which he readily understood. 

11th February. — The chief sent us a basket of hippopo- 
tamus flesh from the Chambeze, and a large one of green 
maize. He says the three cloths I offered are still mine: 
all he wants is a box and blanket ; if not a blanket, a box 
must be given, a tin one. He keeps out of my way, by 
going to the gardens every morning. He is good-natured, 
and our intercourse is a laughing one ; but the boys betray 
their terrors in their tone of voice, and render my words 
powerless. 

The black and white, and the brownish-grey water wag- 
tails are remarkably tame. They come about the huts and 
even into them, and no one ever disturbs them. They 
build their nests about the huts. In the Bechuana country, 
a fine is imposed on any man whose boys kill one, but 



* It seems almost too ridiculous to believe that we have here the exact 
equivalent of the schoolboy's demonstrative " Do you see any green in my 
eye?" nevertheless it looks wonderfully like it! — Ed. 



1867.] ^EMBARRASSED BY INTERPRETERS. 191 

why, no one can tell me. The boys with me aver that 
they are not killed, because the meat is not eaten ! or 
because they are so tame ! ! 

13th February . — I gave one of the boxes at last, Chita- 
pangwa offering a heavy Arab wooden one to preserve our 
things, which I declined to take, as I parted with our own 
partly to lighten a load. Abraham unwittingly told me that 
he had not given me the chiefs statement in full when he 
pressed me to take his cow. It was, " Take and eat the one 
you like, and give me a blanket." Abraham said " He has no 
blanket." Then he said to me, " Take it and eat it, and 
give him any pretty thing you like." I was thus led to 
mistake the chief, and he, believing that he had said 
explicitly he wanted a blanket for it, naturally held out. 
It is difficult to get these lads to say what one wants 
uttered : either with enormous self-conceit, they give dif- 
ferent, and, as they think, better statements, suppress them 
altogether, or return false answers : this is the great and 
crowning difficulty of my intercourse. 

I got ready to go, but the chief was very angry, and came 
with all his force, exclaiming that I wanted to leave against 
his will and power, though he wished to adjust matters, and 
send me away nicely. He does not believe that we have no 
blankets. It is hard to be kept waiting here, but all may 
be for the best : it has always turned out so, and I trust 
in Him on whom I can cast all my cares. The Lord look 
¦on this and help me. Though I have these nine boys, I 
feel quite alone. 

I gave the chief some seeds, peas, and beans, for which he 
seemed thankful, and returned little presents of food and 
beer frequently. The beer of maere is stuffed full of the 
growing grain as it begins to sprout, it is as thick as porridge, 
very strong and bitter, and goes to the head, requiring a 
strong digestion to overcome it. 

lUh February. — I showed the chief one of the boys' 



192 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. VII. 

blankets, which he is willing to part with for two of our 
cloths, each of which is larger than it, but he declines to 
receive it, because we have new ones. I invited him, since 
he disbelieved my assertions, to look in our bales, and if 
he saw none, to pay us a fine for the insult : he consented 
in a laughing way to give us an ox. All our personal 
intercourse has been of the good-natured sort. It is the 
communications to the boys, by three men who are our 
protectors, or rather spies, that is disagreeable ; I won't let 
them bring these fellows near me. 

15th February. — He came early in the morning, and I 
showed that I had no blanket, and he took the old one, 
and said that the affair was ended. A long misunderstanding 
would have been avoided, had Abraham told me fully what 
the chief said at first. 

16th February. — The chief offered me a cow for a piece 
of red serge, and after a deal of talk and Chitapangwa 
swearing that no demand would be made after the bargain 
was concluded, I gave the serge, a cloth, and a few beads for 
a good fat cow. The serge was two fathoms, a portion of 
that which Miss Coutts gave me when leaving England in 
1858. 

The chief is not so bad, as the boys are so cowardly. 
They assume a chirping, piping tone of voice in speaking to 
him, and do not say what at last has to be said, because in 
their cringing souls they believe they know what should be 
said better than I do. It does not strike them in the least 
that I have grown grey amongst these people ; and it is 
immense conceit in mere boys to equal themselves to me. 
The difficulty is greater, because when I do ask their 
opinions I only receive the reply, "It is as you please, 
sir." Very likely some men of character may arise and 
lead them ; but such as I have would do little to civilise. 

nth February. — Too ill with rheumatic-fever to have 
service ; this is the first attack of it I ever had — and no 



1867.] NATIVE DYES. 193 

medicine ! but I trust in the Lord, who healeth His 
people. 

18^ February. — This cow we divided at once. The last 
one we cooked, and divided a full, hearty meal to all every 
evening. 

The boom — booming 1 of water dashing against or over the 
rocks is heard at a good distance from most of the burns in 
this upland region ; hence it is never quite still. 

The rocks here are argillaceous schist, red and white. 
{Keel, Scottice.) 

19 th February. — Chitapangwa begged me to stay an- 
other day, that one of the boys might mend his blanket ; 
it has been worn every night since April, and I, being weak 
and giddy, consented. A glorious day of bright sunlight 
after a night's rain. We scarcely ever have a twenty-four 
hours without rain, and never half that period without 
thunder. 

The camwood (?) is here called molombwa, and grows very 
abundantly. The people take the bark, boil, and grind it 
fine : it is then a splendid blood-red, and they use it ex- 
tensively as an ornament, sprinkling it on the bark-cloth, 
or smearing it on the head. It is in large balls, and is now 
called mkola. The tree has pinnated, alternate lanceolate, 
leaves, and attains a height of 40 or 50 feet, with a diameter 
of 15 or 18 inches finely and closely veined above, more 
widely beneath. 

I am informed by Abraham that the Nyumbo (Nunibo or 
Mumbo) is easily propagated by cuttings, or by cuttings of 
the roots. A bunch of the stalks is preserved in the soil 
for planting next year, and small pieces are cut off, and 
take root easily ; it has a pea-shaped flower, but we never 
saw the seed. It is very much better here than I have seen 
it elsewhere ; and James says that in his country it is quite 

VOL. i. o 



194 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. TIT. 

white and better still ; what I have seen is of a greenish 
tinge after it is boiled. 

[Amongst the articles brought to the coast the men took 
care not to lose a number of seeds which they found in 
Dr. Livingstone's boxes after his death. These have been 
placed in the hands of the authorities at Kew, and we may 
hope that in some instances they have maintained vitality. 

It is a great pity that there is such a lack of enterprise 
in the various European settlements on the East Coast of 
Africa. Were it otherwise a large trade in valuable woods- 
and other products would assuredly spring up. Ebony and 
lignum vitas abound ; Dr. Livingstone used hardly any other 
fuel when he navigated the Pioneer, and no wood was found 
to make such " good steam." India-rubber may be had for 
the collecting, and we see that even the natives know some 
of the dye-woods, besides which the palm-oil tree is found, 
indigo is a weed everywhere, and coffee is indigenous.] 



( 105 ) 



CHAPTEE VIII. 

Chitapangwa's parting oath. Course laid for Lake Tanganyika. Moamba's 
village. Another watershed. The Babemba tribe. Ill with fever. 
Threatening attitude of Chibue's people. Continued illness. Reaches 
cliffs overhanging Lake Liemba. Extreme beauty of the scene. Dan- 
gerous fit of insensibility. Leaves the Lake. Pernambuco cotton. 
Humours of war between Arabs and Nsama. Reaches Chitimba's village. 
Presents Sultan's letter to principal Arab Hamees. The war in Itawa. 
Geography of the Arabs. Ivory traders and slave-dealers. Appeal to 
the Koran. Gleans intelligence of the Wasongo to the eastward, and 
their chief, Merere. Hamees sets out against Nsama. Tedious sojourn. 
Departure for Ponda. Native cupping. 

20th February, 1867. — I told the chief before starting that 
my heart was sore, because he was not sending me away so 
cordially as I liked. He at once ordered men to start with 
us, and gave me a brass knife with ivory sheath, which he 
had long worn, as a memorial. He explained that we ought 
to go north as, if we made easting, we should ultimately be 
obliged to turn west, and all our cloth would be expended 
ere we reached the Lake Tanganyika; he took a piece of 
clay off the ground and rubbed it on his tongue as an oath 
that what he said was true, and came along with us to see 
that all was right ; and so we parted. 

We soon ascended the plateau, which encloses with its 
edge the village and stream of Molemba. Wild pigs are 
abundant, and there are marks of former cultivation. A 
short march brought us to an ooze, surrounded by hedges, 
game-traps, and pitfalls, where, as we are stiff and weak, 
we spend the night. Bocks abound of the same dolomite 

2 



196 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOUENALS. [Chap. VIII. 

kind as on the ridge further south, between the Loangwa 
and Charnbeze, covered, like them, with lichens, orchids, 
euphorbias, and upland vegetation, hard-leaved acacias, 
rhododendrons, masukos. The gum-copal tree, when per- 
forated by a grub, exudes from branches no thicker than 
one's arm, masses of soft, gluey-looking gum, brownish 
yellow, and light grey, as much as would fill a soup-plate. 
It seems to yield this gum only in the rainy season, and 
now all the trees are full of sap and gum. 

21st February. — A night with loud and near thunder, 
and much heavy rain, which came through the boys' sheds. 
Roads all plashy or running with water, oozes full, and 
rivulets overflowing ; rocks of dolomite jutting out here and 
there. I noticed growing here a spikenard-looking shrub, 
six feet high, and a foot in diameter. The path led us west 
against my will. I found one going north ; but the boys 
pretended that they did not see my mark, and went west, 
evidently afraid of incurring Moamba's displeasure by 
passing him. I found them in an old hut, and made the 
best of it by saying nothing. They said that they had 
wandered; that was, they had never left the west-going 
path. 

22nd February. — We came to a perennial rivulet run- 
ning north, the Merungu. Here we met Moamba's people, 
but declined going to his village, as huts are disagree- 
able ; they often have vermin, and one is exposed to the 
gaze of a crowd through a very small doorway. The people 
in their curiosity often make the place dark, and the 
impudent ones offer characteristic remarks, then raise a 
laugh, and run away. 

We encamped on the Merungu's right bank in forest, 
sending word to Moamba that we meant to do so. He sent 
a deputation, first of all his young men, to bring us ; then 
old men, and lastly he came himself with about sixty 
followers. I explained that I had become sick by living 



1867.] ENORMOUS TUSKS. 19.7 

in a little hut at Molemba ; that I was better in the open 
air ; that huts contained vermin ; and that I did not mean 
to remain any while here, but go on our way. He pressed 
us to come to his village, and gave us a goat and kid, with a 
huge calabashful of beer. I promised to go over and visit 
him next day ; and went accordingly. 

23rd February. — Moamba's village was a mile off, and 
on the left bank of the Merenge, a larger stream than the 
Merungu flowing north and having its banks and oozes 
covered with fine, tall, straight, evergreen trees. The village 
is surrounded with a stockade, and a dry ditch some fifteen 
or twenty feet wide, and as many deep. I had a long talk 
with Moamba, a big, stout, public-house-looking person, 
with a slight outward cast in his left eye, but intelligent 
and hearty. I presented him with a cloth; and he gave 
me as much maere meal as a man could carry, with a large 
basket of ground-nuts. He wished us to come to the Merenge, 
if not into his village, that he might see and talk with me : 
I also showed him some pictures in Smith's 'Bible Dic- 
tionary,' which he readily understood, and I spoke to him 
about the Bible. He asked me " to come next day and tell 
him about prayer to God," this was a natural desire after 
being told that we prayed. 

He was very anxious to know why we were going to 
Tanganyika ; for what we came ; what we should buy there ; 
and if I had any relations there. He then showed me some 
fine large tusks, eight feet six in length. " What do you 
wish to buy, if not slaves or ivory?" I replied, that the 
only thing I had seen worth buying was a fine fat chief like 
him, as a specimen, and a woman feeding him, as he had, 
with beer. He was tickled at this ; and said that when we 
reached our country, I must put fine clothes on him. This 
led us to speak of our climate, and the production of wool. 

2±th February. — I went over after service, but late, as 



198 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. VIII. 

the rain threatened to be heavy. A case was in process 
of hearing, and one old man spoke an hour on end, the 
chief listening all the while with the gravity of a judge. 
He then delivered his decision in about five minutes, the 
successful litigant going off lullilooing. Each person, before 
addressing him, turns his back to him and lies down on the 
ground, clapping the hands : this is the common mode of 
salutation. Another form here in Lobemba is to rattle the 
arrows or an arrow on the bow, which all carry. We had 
a little talk with the chief; but it was late before the 
cause was heard through. He asked us to come and spend 
one night near him on the Merenge, and then go on, so we 
came over in the morning to the vicinity of his village. A 
great deal of copper-wire is here made, the wire-drawers 
using for one part of the process a seven-inch cable. They 
make very fine wire, and it is used chiefly as leglets and 
anklets; the chief's wives being laden with them, and 
obliged to walk in a stately style from the weight : the 
copper comes from Katanga. 

26th February. — The chief wishes to buy a cloth with two 
goats, but his men do not bring them up quickly. Simon, 
one of the boys, is ill of fever, and this induces me to re- 
main, though moving from one place to another is the only 
remedy we have in our power. 

With the chief's men we did not get on well, but with 
himself all was easy. His men demanded prepayment for 
canoes to cross the river Loombe ; but in the way that he 
put it, the request was not unreasonable, as he gave a man 
to smooth our way, and get canoes, or whatever else was 
needed, all the way to Chibue's. I gave a cloth when he 
put it thus, and he presented a goat, a spear ornamented 
with copper-wire, abundance of meal, and beer, and numbo ; 
so we parted good friends, as his presents were worth the 
cloth. 

Holding a north-westerly course we met with the Chikosho 



1867.] RIVERS OF THE BABEMBA. 199 

flowing west, and thence came to the Likonibe by a high 
ridge called Losauswa, which runs a long way westward. 
It is probably a watershed between streams going to the 
Ohambeze and those that go to the northern rivers. 

We have the Locopa, Loombe, Nikelenge, then Lofubii 
or Lovu; the last goes north into Liembe, but accounts 
.are very confused. The Chambeze rises in the Mambive 
country, which is north-east of Moamba, but near to it. 

The forest through which we passed was dense, but 
•scrubby ; trees unhealthy and no drainage except through 
oozes. On the keel which forms a clay soil the rain runs off, 
.and the trees attain a large size. The roads are not soured 
by the slow process of the ooze drainage. At present all 
the slopes having loamy or sandy soil are oozes, and full to 
overflowing ; a long time is required for them to discharge 
their contents. The country generally may be called one 
covered with forest. 

6^ March, 1867. — We came after a short march to a 
village on the Molilanga, flowing east into the Loombe, here 
we meet with bananas for the first time, called, as in Lunda, 
nkonde. A few trophies from Mazitu are hung up : Chita- 
rpangwa had twenty-four skulls ornamenting his stockade. 
The Babemba are decidedly more warlike than any of the 
tribes south of them : their villages are stockaded, and have 
deep dry ditches round them, so it is likely that Mochimbe 
will be effectually checked, and forced to turn his energies 
to something else than to marauding. 

Our man from Moamba here refused to go further, 
and we were put on the Avrong track by the headman 
wading through three marshes, each at least half a mile 
broad. The people of the first village we came to shut 
their gates on us, then came running after us ; but we 
declined to enter their village : it is a way of showing their 
independence. We made our sheds on a height in spite of 
itheir protests. They said that the gates were shut by the 



200 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. VIII. 

boys ; but when I pointed out the boy who had done it, he 
said that he had been ordered to do it by the chief. If we 
had gone in now we should have been looked on as having 
come under considerable obligations. 

8th March. — We went on to a village on the Looinbe, 
where the people showed an opposite disposition, for not 
a soul was in it — all were out at their farms. When the 
good wife of the place came she gave us all huts, which 
saved us from a pelting shower. The boys herding 
the goats did not stir as we passed down the sides of the 
lovely valley. The Loombe looks a sluggish stream from a 
distance. The herdsman said we were welcome, and he 
would show the crossing next day, he also cooked some food 
for us. 

Guided by our host, we went along the Loombe west- 
wards till we reached the bridge (rather a rickety affair), 
which, when the water is low may be used as a weir. 
The Loombe main stream is 66 feet wide, 6 feet deep, 
with at least 200 feet of flood beyond it. The water was 
knee deep on the bridge, but clear; the flooded part beyond 
was waist deep and the water flowing fast. 

All the people are now transplanting tobacco from the 
spaces under the eaves of the huts into the fields. It seems 
unable to bear the greater heat of summer : they plant also- 
a kind of liranda, proper for the cold weather. We thought 
that we were conferring a boon in giving peas, but Ave found 
them generally propagated all over the country already, 
and in the cold time too. We went along the Diola River 
to an old hut and made a fire ; thence across country ta 
another river, called Loendawe, 6 feet wide, and 9 feet deep. 

10th March. — I have been ill of fever ever since we left 
Moaniba's ; every step I take jars in the chest, and I am. 
very weak; I can scarcely keep up the march, though 
formerly I was always first, and had to hold in my pace 
not to leave the people altogether. I have a constant 



1867.] THE BALUNGU. COMES TO CHIBUE'S. 201 

singing in the ears, and can scarcely hear the loud tick 
of the chronometers. The appetite is good, but we have 
no proper food, chiefly maere meal or beans, or mapemba 
or ground-nuts, rarely a fowl. 

The country is full of hopo-hedges, but the animals are 
harassed, and we never see them. 

11th March. — Detained by a set-in rain. Marks on masses 
of dolomite elicited the information that a party of Londa 
smiths came once to this smelting ground and erected their 
works here. We saw an old iron furnace, and masses of 
haematite, which seems to have been the ore universally 
used. 

12th March. — Eain held us back for some time, but 
we soon reached Chibue, a stockaded village. Like them 
all, it is situated by a stream, with a dense clump of trees 
on the waterside of some species of mangrove. They attain 
large size, have soft wood, and succulent leaves ; the roots 
intertwine in the mud, and one has to watch that he does 
not step where no roots exist, otherwise he sinks up to the 
thigh. In a village the people feel that we are on their 
property, and crowd upon us inconveniently ; but outside, 
where we usually erect our sheds, no such feeling exists, we 
are each on a level, and they don't take liberties. 

The Balungu are marked by three or four little knobs on 
the temples, and the lobes of the ears are distended by a 
piece of wood, which is ornamented with beads ; bands of 
beads go across the forehead and hold up the hair. 

Chibue's village is at the source of the Lokwena, which 
goes N. and N.E. ; a long range of low hills is on our N.E., 
which are the Mambwe, or part of them. The Chambeze 
rises in them, but further south. Here the Lokwena, round 
whose source we came on starting this morning to avoid wet 
feet, and all others north and west of this, go to the Lofu or 
Lobu, and into Liemba Lake. Those from the hills on our 
right go east into the Loanzu and so into the Lake. 



202 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. VIII. 

15th March. — We now are making for Kasonso, the 
chief of the Lake, and a very large country all around 
it, passing the Lochenje, five yards wide, and knee deep, 
then to the Chanumba. All flow very rapidly just now and 
are flooded with clean water. Everyone carries an axe, as 
if constantly Marring with the forest. My long-continued 
fever ill disposes me to enjoy the beautiful landscape. We 
are evidently on the ridge, but people have not a clear 
conception of where the rivers run. 

19th March. — A party of young men came out of the 
village near which we had encamped to force us to pay 
something for not going into their village. " The son of a 
great chief ought to be acknowledged," &c. They had their 
bows and arrows with them, and all ready for action. I 
told them Ave had remained near them because they said 
we could not reach Kasonso that day. Their headman had 
given us nothing. After talking a while, and threatening 
to do a deal to-morrow, they left, and through an Almighty 
Providence nothing was attempted. We moved on N.W. in 
forest, with long green tree-covered slopes on our right; and 
came to a village of Kasonso in a very lovely valley. Great 
green valleys were now scooped out, and many, as the 
Kakanza, run into the Lovu. 

20th March.— The same features of country prevailed, 
indeed it was impossible to count the streams flowing 
N.W. We found Kasonso situated at the confluence of two 
streams ; he shook hands a long while, and seems a frank 
sort of man. A shower of rain set the driver ants on the 
move, and about two hours after we had turned in we 
were overwhelmed by them. They are called Kalandu or 
Nkalanda. 

To describe this attack is utterly impossible. I wakened 
covered with them : my hair was full of them. One by 
one they cut into the flesh, and the more they are disturbed, 
the more vicious are their bites ; they become quite insolent. 



18G7.] ILLNESS. LAKE LIEMBA AT LAST. 203 

I went outside the hut, but there they swarmed everywhere ; 
they covered the legs, biting furiously ; it is only when they 
are tired that they leave off. 

One good trait of the Balungu up here is, they retire 
when they see food brought to anyone, neither Babisa nor 
Makoa had this sense of delicacy : the Babemba are equally 
polite. 

We have descended considerably into the broad valley of 
the Lake, and it feels warmer than on the heights. Cloth 
here is more valuable, inasmuch as bark-cloth is scarce. 
The skins of goats and wild animals are used, and the kilt 
is very diminutive among the women. 

22nd March. — Cross Loela, thirty feet wide and one deep, 
and meet with tsetse fly, though we have seen none since 
we left Chitapangwa's. Kasonso gave us a grand reception, 
and we saw men present from Tanganyika; I saw cassava 
here, but not in plenty. 

28th March. — Set-in rain and Chuma fell ill. There are 
cotton bushes of very large size here of the South American 
kind. After sleeping in various villages and crossing nu- 
merous streams, we came to Mombo's village, near the ridge 
overlooking the Lake. 

Slst March, and 1st April, 1867. — I was too ill to march 
through. I offered to go on the 1st, but Kasonso's son, who 
was with us, objected. We went up a low ridge of hills at 
its lowest part, and soon after passing the summit the blue 
water loomed through the trees. I was detained, but soon 
heard the boys firing their muskets on reaching the edge 
of the ridge, which allowed of an undisturbed view. This 
is the south-eastern end of Liemba, or, as it is sometimes 
called, Tanganyika.* We had to descend at least 2000 
feet before we got to the level of the Lake. It seems 



* It subsequently proved to be the southern extremity of this great 
Lake. 



204 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOUENALS. [Chap. VIII. 

about eighteen or twenty miles broad, and we could see 
about thirty miles up to the north. Four considerable 
rivers flow into the space before us. The nearly per- 
pendicular ridge of about 2000 feet extends with breaks 
all around, and there, embosomed in tree-covered rocks, re- 
poses the Lake peacefully in the huge cup -shaped cavity. 

I never saw anything so still and peaceful as it lies all 
the morning. About noon a gentle breeze springs up, and 
causes the waves to assume a bluish tinge. Several rocky 
islands rise in the eastern end, which are inhabited by 
fishermen, who capture abundance of fine large fish, of which 
they enumerate about twenty-four species. In the north it 
seems to narrow into a gateway, but the people are miserably 
deficient in geographical knowledge, and can tell us nothing 
about it. They suspect us, and we cannot get information, 
or indeed much of anything else. I feel deeply thankful 
at having got so far. I am excessively weak — cannot walk 
without tottering, and have constant singing in the head, 
but the Highest will lead me further. 

Lat. of the spot we touched at first, 2nd April, 1867. 
Lat. 8° 46' 54" S., long. 31° 57'; but I only worked 
out (and my head is out of order) one set of observations. 
Height above level of the sea over 2800 feet, by boiling- 
point thermometers and barometer. The people won't let 
me sound the Lake. 

After being a fortnight at this Lake it still appears one 
of surpassing loveliness. Its peacefulness is remarkable, 
though at times it is said to be lashed up by storms. It 
lies in a deep basin whose sides are nearly perpendicular, but 
covered well with trees ; the rocks which appear are bright 
red argillaceous schist ; the trees at present all green : 
down some of these rocks come beautiful cascades, and 
buffaloes, elephants, and antelopes wander and graze on the 
more level spots, while lions roar by night. The level place 
below is not two miles from the perpendicular. The village 



1867.] DR. LIVINGSTONE DANGEROUSLY ILL. '10o 

(Pambete), at which we first touched the Lake, is surrounded 
by palm-oil trees — not the stunted ones of Lake Nyassa, but 
the real West Coast palm-oil tree,* requiring two men to 
carry a bunch of the ripe fruit. In the morning and evening 
huge crocodiles may be observed quietly making their way 
to their feeding grounds ; hippopotami snort by night and 
at early morning. 

After I had been a few days here I had a fit of insensi- 
bility, which shows the power of fever without medicine. I 
found myself floundering outside my hut and unable to get 
in ; I tried to lift myself from my back by laying hold of two 
posts at the entrance, but when I got nearly upright I let 
them go, and fell back heavily on my head on a box. The 
boys had seen the wretched state I was in, and hung a 
blanket at the entrance of the hut, that no stranger might 
see my helplessness; some hours elapsed before I could 
recognize where I was. 

As for these Balungu, as they are called, they have a 
fear of us, they do not understand our objects, and they 
keep aloof. They promise everything and do nothing ; but 
for my excessive weakness we should go on, but we wait 
for a recovery of strength. 

As people they are greatly reduced in numbers by the 
Mazitu, who carried off very large numbers of the women, 
boys, girls, and children. They train or like to see the 
young men arrayed as Mazitu, but it would be more profit- 
able if they kept them to agriculture. They are all exces- 
sively polite. The clapping of hands on meeting is something- 
excessive, and then the string of salutations that accompany 
it would please the most fastidious Frenchman. It implies 
real politeness, for in marching with them they always 
remove branches out of the path, and indicate stones or 
stumps in it carefully to a stranger, yet we cannot prevail 

* Elais, sp. (?). 



206 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. VIII. 

on them to lend carriers to examine the Lake or to sell 
goats, of which, however, they have very few, and all on 
one island. 

The Lake discharges its water north-westward or rather 
nor-north-westwards. We observe weeds going in that 
direction, and as the Lonzua, the Kowe, the Kapata, the 
Luaze, the Kalambwe, flow into it near the east end, and 
the Lovu or Lofubu, or Lofu, from the south-west near the 
end it must find an exit for so much water. All these 
rivers rise in or near the Mambwe country, in lat. 10° S., 
where, too, the Chambeze rises. Liemba is said to remain 
of about the same size as we go north-west, but this we shall 
see for ourselves. 

Elephants come all about us. One was breaking trees 
close by. I fired into his ear without effect : I am too 
Aveak to hold the gun steadily. 

30th Ayril. — We begin our return march from Liemba. 
Slept at a village on the Lake, and went on next day to 
Pambete, where we first touched it. I notice that here 
the people pound tobacco-leaves in a mortar after they 
have undergone partial fermentation by lying in the sun, 
then they put the mass in the sun to dry for use. 

The reason why no palm-oil trees grow further east than 
Pambete is said to be the stony soil there, and this seems a 
valid one, for it loves rich loamy meadows. 

1st May, 1867. — We intended to go north-west to see 
whether this Lake narrows or not, for all assert that it 
maintains its breadth such as we see it beyond Pemba as 
far as they know it ; but when about to start the headman 
and his wife came and protested so solemnly that by going 
N.W. we should Avalk into the hands of a party of Mazitu 
there, that we deferred our departure. It was not with a 
full persuasion of the truth of the statement that I con- 
sented, but we afterwards saw good evidence that it was 
true, and that we were saved from being plundered. These 



18G7.] ANOTHER FIT OF INSENSIBILITY. 207 

marauders have changed their tactics, for they demand so 
many people, and so many cloths, and then leave. They 
made it known that their next scene of mulcting would be 
Mombo's village, and there they took twelve people — four 
slaves, and many cloths, then went south to the hills they 
inhabit. A strict watch was kept on their movements by 
our headman and his men. They trust to fleeing into a 
thicket on the west of the village should the Mazitu come. 

I have been informed on good authority that Kasonso was 
on his way to us when news arrived that his young son had 
died. He had sent on beer and provisions for us, but the 
Mazitu intervening they were consumed. 

The Mazitu having left we departed and slept half-way 
up the ridge. I had another fit of insensibility last night : 
the muscles of the back lose all power,* and there is constant 
singing in the ears, and inability to do the simplest sum. 
Cross the Aeeze (which makes the water-fall) fifteen yards 
wide and knee deep. The streams like this are almost 
innumerable. 

Mombo's village. It is distressingly difficult to elicit 
accurate information about the Lake and rivers, because the 
people do not think accurately. Mombo declared that two 
Arabs came when we were below, and inquired for us, but he 
denied our presence, thinking thereby to save us trouble and 
harm. 

The cotton cultivated is of the Pernambuco species, and 
the bushes are seven or eight feet high. Much cloth was 
made in these parts before the Mazitu raids began, it was 
striped black and white, and many shawls are seen in the 
country yet. It is curious that this species of cotton should 
be found only in the middle of this country. 

In going westwards on the upland the country is level 



* This is a common symptom — men will suddenly lose all power in the 
lower extremities, and remain helpless where they fall. — Ed. 



208 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOUENALS. [Chai\ VIII. 

and covered with scraggy forest as usual, long lines of 
low hills or rather ridges of denudation run N. and S. on 
our east. This is called Moami country, full of elephants, 
but few are killed. They do much damage, eating the 
sorghum in the gardens unmolested. 

11th May. — A short march to-day brought us to a village 
on the same Moami, and to avoid a Sunday in the forest we 
remained. The elephants had come into the village and 
gone all about it, and to prevent their opening the corn 
safes the people had bedaubed them with elephant's drop- 
pings. When a cow would not give milk, save to its calf, 
a like device was used at Kolobeng; the cow's droppings 
were smeared on the teats, and the calf was too much 
disgusted to suck : the cow then ran till she was distressed 
by the milk fever and was willing to be relieved by the 
herdsman. 

12th and 13th May. — News that the Arabs had been 
fighting with Nsama came, but this made us rather anxious 
to get northward along Liemba, and we made for Mokam- 
bola's village near the edge of the precipice which over- 
hangs the Lake. Many Shuare Eaphia palms grow in the 
river which flows past it. 

As we began our descent we saw the Lofu coming from 
the west and entering Liemba. A projection of Liemba 
comes to meet it, and then it is said to go away to the 
north or north-west as far as my informants knew. Some 
pointed due north, others north-west, so probably its true 
course amounts to N.N.W. We came to a village about 
2' W. of the confluence, whose headman was affable and 
generous. The village has a meadow some four miles wide 
on the land side, in which buffaloes disport themselves, 
but they are very wild, and hide in the gigantic grasses. 
Sorghum, ground-nuts, and voandzeia grow puxuriantly. 
The Lofu is a quarter of a mile wide, but higher up three 
hundred yards. The valley was always clouded over at 



18G7.] RETURNS TO CHITIMBA'S. 209 

night so I could not get an observation except early in 
the morning when the cold had dissipated the clouds. 

We remained here because two were lame, and all tired 
by the descent of upwards of 2000 feet, and the headman 
sent for fish for us. He dissuaded us strongly from at- 
tempting to go down the Liemba, as the son of Nsama 
(Kapoma) was killing all who came that way in revenge for 
what the Arabs had done to his father's people, and he 
might take us for Arabs. A Suaheli Arab came in the 
evening and partly confirmed the statements of the head- 
man of Karambo ; I resolved therefore to go back to Chi- 
timba's in the south, where the chief portion of the Arabs 
are assembled, and hear from them more certainly. 

The last we heard of Liemba was that at a great way 
north-west, it is dammed up by rocks, and where it sur- 
mounts these there is a great waterfall. It does not, it is 
said, diminish in size so far, but by bearings protracted 
it is two miles wide. 

18th May. — Keturn to Mokambola's village, and leave 
for Chitimba's. Baraka stopped behind at the village, 
and James ran away to him, leaving his bundle, containing 
three chronometers, in the path : I sent back for them, and 
James came up in the evening ; he had no complaint, and 
no excuse to make. The two think it will be easy to return 
to their own country by begging, though they could not 
point it out to me when we were much nearer to where it is 
supposed to be. 

Idth May. — Where we were brought to a standstill was 
miserably cold (55°), so we had prayers and went on S. and 
S.W. to the village of Chisaka. 

20th May. — Chitimba's village was near in the same 
direction ; here we found a large party of Arabs, mostly 
black Suahelis. They occupied an important portion of the 
stockaded village, and when I came in, politely showed me 
to a shed where they are in the habit of meeting. After 

vol. i. r 



210 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOUENALS. [Chap. VIII. 

explaining whence I had come, I showed them the Sultan's 
letter. Hamees presented a goat, two fowls, and a quantity 
of flour. It was difficult to get to the bottom of the Nsama 
affair, but according to their version that chief sent an 
invitation to them, and when they arrived called for 
his people, who came in crowds — as he said to view the 
strangers. I suspect that the Arabs became afraid of the 
crowds and began to fire ; several were killed on both sides, 
and Nsama fled, leaving his visitors in possession of the 
stockaded village and all it contained. Others say that 
there was a dispute about an elephant, and that Nsania's 
people were the aggressors. At any rate it is now all 
confusion ; those who remain at Nsania's village help them- 
selves to food in the surrounding villages and burn them, 
while Chitimba has sent for the party who are quartered 
here to come to him. An hour or two after we arrived a 
body of men came from Kasonso, with the intention of pro- 
ceeding into the country of Nsama, and if possible catch- 
ing Nsama, " he having broken public law by attacking 
people who brought merchandise into the country." This 
new expedition makes the Arabs resolve to go and do 
what they can to injure their enemy. It will just be a 
plundering foray — each catching what he can, whether 
animal or human, and retiring when it is no longer safe to 
plunder ! 

This throws the barrier of a broad country between me 
and Lake " Moero " in the west, but I trust in Providence 
a way will be opened. I think now of going southwards 
and then westwards, thus making a long detour round the 
disturbed district. 

The name of the principal Arab is Hamees Wodim Tagh, 
the other is Syde bin Alle bin Mansure : they are connected 
with one of the most influential native mercantile houses 
in Zanzibar. Hamees has been particularly kind to me in 
presenting food, beads, cloth, and getting information. 



1807.] DISTURBANCES THROUGHOUT THE COUNTRY. 211 

Thanii bin Suaelim is the Arab to whom my goods are 
directed at TJjiji. 

2±th May. — At Chitiniba's we are waiting to see what 
events turn up to throw light on our western route. Some 
of the Arabs and Kasonso's men went off to-day: they 
will bring information perhaps as to Nsama's haunts, and 
then we shall move south and thence west. Wrote tp Sir 
Thomas Maclear, giving the position of Liemba and to Dr. 
Seward, in case other letters miscarry. The hot season is 
beginning now. This corresponds to July further south. 

Three goats were killed by a leopard close to the village 
in open day. 

28^ May. — Information came that Nsama begged pardon 
of the Arabs, and would pay all that they had lost. He 
did not know of his people stealing from them : we 
shall hear in a day or two whether the matter is to be 
patched up or not. While some believe his statements, 
others say, " Nsama's words of peace are simply to gain 
time to make another stockade:" in the mean time Ka- 
sonso's people will ravage all his country on this eastern 
side. 

Hamees is very anxious that I should remain a few days 
longer, till Kasonso's son, Kampamba, comes with certain 
information, and then he will see to our passing safely to 
Chiwere's village from Kasonso's. All have confidence in 
this last-named chief as an upright man. 

1st June, 1867. — Another party of marauders went off this 
morning to plunder Nsama's country to the west of the con- 
fluence of the Lofu as a punishment for a breach of public 
law. The men employed are not very willing to go, but 
when they taste the pleasure of plunder they will relish it 
more ! 

The watershed begins to have a northern slope about 
Moamba's, lat. 10° 10' S., but the streams are very tortuous, 
and the people have very confused ideas as to where they 

p 2 



212 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOUKNALS. [Chap. VIII.. 

run. The Lokhopa, for instance, was asserted by all the 
men at Moamba's to flow into Lokholu, and then into a 
river going to Liemba, but a young wife of Moamba, who 
seemed very intelligent, maintained that Lokhopa and 
Lokholu went to the Chambeze ; I therefore put it down 
thus. The streams which feed the Chambeze and the 
Liemba overlap each other, and it would require a more 
extensive survey than I can give to disentangle them. 

North of Moamba, on the Merenge, the slope begins to 
Liemba. The Lofu rises in Chibue's country, and with its 
tributaries we have long ridges of denudation, each some 
500 or 600 feet high, and covered with green trees. The 
valleys of denudation enclosed by these hill ranges guide 
the streams towards Liemba or the four rivers which flow 
into it. The country gradually becomes lower, warmer, and 
tsetse and mosquitoes appear ; so at last we come to the 
remarkable cup-shaped cavity in which Liemba reposes. 
Several streams fall down the nearly perpendicular cliffs, 
and form beautiful cascades. The lines of denudation are 
continued, one range rising behind another as far as the 
eye can reach to the north and east of Liemba, and pro- 
bably the slope continues away down to Tanganyika. The 
watershed extends westwards to beyond Casembe, and the 
Luapula, or Chambeze, rises in the same parallels of lati- 
tude as does the Lofu and the Lonzua. 

The Arabs inform me that between this and the sea, 
about 200 miles distant, lies the country of the Wasango — 
called Usango — a fair people, like Portuguese, and very 
friendly to strangers. The Wasango possess plenty of 
cattle : their chief is called Merdre.* They count this 
twenty-five days, Avhile the distance thence to the sea at 
Bagamoio is one month and twenty-five days — say 440 
miles. Uchere is very far off northwards, but a man told 



* The men heard in 1873 that he had been killed. 



1867.] THE ARABS SHOW KIND FORETHOUGHT. 213 

me that he went to a salt-manufactory in that direction 
in eight days from Kasonso's. Merere goes frequently on 
marauding expeditions for cattle, and is instigated thereto 
by his mother. 

What we understand by primeval forest is but seldom 
seen in the interior here, though the country cannot be 
described otherwise than as generally covered with inter- 
minable forests. Insects kill or dwarf some trees, and men 
maim others for the sake of the bark-cloth ; elephants 
break down a great number, and it is only here and there 
that gigantic specimens are seen : they may be expected 
in shut-in valleys among mountains, but on the whole the 
trees are scraggy, and the varieties not great. The different 
sorts of birds which sing among the 'branches seem to me 
to exceed those of the Zambesi region, but I do not shoot 
them : the number of new notes I hear astonishes me. 

The country in which we now are is called by the Arabs 
and natives Ulungu, that farther north-west is named 
Marungu. Hamees is on friendly terms with the Mazitu 
(Watuta) in the east, who do not plunder. The chief sent 
a man to Kasonso lately, and he having received a present 
went away highly pleased. 

Hamees is certainly very anxious to secure my safety. 
Some men came from the N.E. to inquire about the dis- 
turbance here and they recommend that I should go with 
them, and then up the east side of the Lake to Ujiji ; but 
that would ruin my plan of discovering Moero and after- 
wards following the watershed, so as to be certain that this 
is either the watershed of the Congo or Nile. He was not 
well pleased when I preferred to go south and then west- 
wards, as it looks like rejecting his counsel ; but he said 
if I waited till his people came, then we should be able 
to speak with more certainty. 

On inquiring if any large mountains exist in this country, 
I was told that Moufipa, or Fipa, opposite the lower end of 



214 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOUKNALS. [Chap. VIII, 

the Lake, is largest — one can see Tanganyika from it. It 
probably gives rise to the Nkalanibwe Kiver and the Luaze. 

There is nothing interesting in a heathen town. All are 
busy in preparing food or clothing, mats or baskets, whilst 
the women are cleaning or grinding their corn, which 
involves much hard labour. They first dry this in the sun, 
then put it into a mortar, and afterwards with a flat basket 
clean off the husks and the dust, and grind it between two 
stones, the next thing is to bring wood and water to cook it. 
The chief here was aroused the other day, and threatened 
to burn his own house and all his property because the 
people stole from it, but he did not proceed so far : it was 
probably a way of letting the Arab dependants know that 
he was aroused. 

Some of the people who went to fight attacked a large 
village, and killed several men ; but in shooting in a bushy 
place they killed one of their own party and wounded 
another. 

On inquiring of an Arab who had sailed on Tanganyika 
which way the water flowed, he replied to the south ! 

The wagtails build in the thatch of the huts ; they are 
busy, and men and other animals are active in the same way. 

I am rather perplexed how to proceed. Some Arabs seem 
determined to go westwards as soon as they can make it up 
with Nsama, whilst others distrust him. One man will send 
his people to pick up what ivory they can, but he himself 
will retire to the Usango country. Nsama is expected to- 
day or to-morrow. It would be such a saving of time and 
fatigue for us to go due west rather than south, and then 
west, but I feel great hesitation as to setting out on the 
circuitous route. Several Arabs came from the Liemba side 
yesterday ; one had sailed on Tanganyika, and described 
the winds there as very baffling, but no one of them has a 
clear idea of the Lake. They described the lower part as- 
a '"' sea," and thought it different from Tanganyika. 



1867.] NATIVE POLITENESS. GOVERNMENT. 218 

Close observation of the natives of Ulungu makes me 
believe them to be extremely polite. The mode of saluta- 
tion among relatives is to place the hands round each other's 
chests kneeling, they then clap their hands close to the 
ground. Some more abject individuals kiss the soil before 
a chief ; the generality kneel only, with the fore-arms close 
to the ground, and the head bowed down to them, saying, 
" Ajadla chiusa, Mari a bwino." The Usanga say, " Aje 
senga." The clapping of hands to superiors, and even 
equals, is in some villages a perpetually recurring sound. 
Aged persons are usually saluted : how this extreme defer- 
ence to each other could have arisen, I cannot conceive ; it 
does not seem to be fear of each other that elicits it. Even 
the chiefs inspire no fear, and those cruel old platitudes 
about governing savages by fear seem unknown, yet governed 
they certainly are, and upon the whole very well. The 
people were not very willing to go to punish Nsama's breach 
of public law, yet, on the decision of the chiefs, they went, 
and came back, one with a wooden stool, another with a 
mat, a third with a calabash of ground-nuts or some dried 
meat, a hoe, or a bow — poor, poor pay for a fortnight's hard 
work hunting fugitives and burning villages. 

16th June. — News came to-day that an Arab party in 
the south-west, in Lunda, lost about forty people by the 
small-pox (" ndue"), and that the people there, having heard 
of the disturbance with Nsama, fled from the Arabs, and 
would sell neither ivory nor food : this looks like another 
obstacle to our progress thither. 

17th-19th June. — Hamees went to meet the party from 
the south-west, probably to avoid bringing the small-pox 
here. They remain at about two hours' distance. Hamees 
reports that though the strangers had lost a great many 
people by small-pox, they had brought good news of certain 
Arabs still further west : one, Seide ben Umale, or Salem, 
lived at a village near Casembe, ten days distant, and 



216 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. VIII. 

another, Jurna Merikano, or Katata Katanga, at another 
village further north, and Seide ben Habib was at Phueto, 
which is nearer Tanganyika. This party comprises the 
whole force of Hamees, and he now declares that he will 
go to Nsama and make the matter up, as he thinks that 
he is afraid to come here, and so he will make the first 
approach to friendship. 

On pondering over the whole subject, I see that, tiresome 
as it is to wait, it is better to do so than go south and 
then w r est, for if I should go I shall miss seeing Moero, which 
is said to be three days from Nsaina's present abode. His 
people go there for salt, and I could not come to it from the 
south without being known to them, and perhaps considered 
to be an Arab. Hamees remarked that it was the Arab way 
first to smooth the path before entering upon it ; sending 
men and presents first, thereby ascertaining the disposition 
of the inhabitants. He advises patience, and is in hopes of 
making a peace with Nsama. That his hopes are not un- 
reasonable, he mentioned that when the disturbance began, 
Nsama sent men with two tusks to the village whence he 
had just been expelled, offering thereby to make the matter 
up, but the Arabs, suspecting treachery, fired upon the 
carriers and killed them, then ten goats and one tusk were 
sent with the same object, and met with a repulse ; Hamees 
thinks that had he been there himself the whole matter 
would have been settled amicably. 

All complain of cold here. The situation is elevated, and 
we are behind a clump of trees on the rivulet Chiloa, which 
keeps the sun off us in the mornings. This cold induces the 
people to make big fires in their huts, and frequently their 
dwellings are burned. Minimum temperature is as low as 
46° ; sometimes 33°. 

2-ith June. — The Arabs are all busy reading their Koran, 
or Kuran, and in praying for direction; to-morrow they 
will call a meeting to deliberate as to what steps they 



1867.] WATER-WAGTAILS. AN ARAB WEDDING. 217 

will take in the Nsama affair. Hamees, it seems, is highly 
thought of by that chief, who says, " Let him come, and all 
will be right." Hamees proposes to go with but a few 
people. These Zanzibar men are very different from the 
slavers of the Waiyau country. 

25#i June. — The people, though called, did not assemble, 
but they will come to-morrow. 

Young wagtails nearly full-fledged took wing, leaving one 
in the nest ; from not being molested by the people they 
took no precautions, and ran out of the nest on the ap- 
proach of the old ones, making a loud chirping. The old 
ones tried to induce the last one to come out too, by flying 
to the nest, and then making a sally forth, turning round 
immediately to see if he followed : he took a few days 
longer. 

It was decided at the meeting that Hamees, with a few 
people only, should go to Nsama on the first day after the 
appearance of the new moon (they are very particular on 
this point) ; the present month having been an unhappy 
one they will try the next. 

, 28th June. — A wedding took place among the Arabs to- 
day. About a hundred blank cartridges were fired off, and 
a procession of males, dressed in their best, marched through 
the village. They sang with all their might, though with 
but little music in the strain. Women sprinkled grain on 
their heads as wishes for plenty.* 

Nsama is said to be waiting for the Arabs in his new 
stockade. It is impossible to ascertain exactly who is to 
blame in this matter, for I hear one side only ; but the fact 
of the chiefs in this part of the country turning out so 
readily to punish his breach of public law, and no remon- 
strance coming from him, makes me suspect that Nsama 



* This comes near to the custom of throwing rice after the bride and 
bridegroom in England. — Ed. 



218 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. YIII. 

is the guilty party. If he had been innocent he certainly 
would have sent to ask the Bulungu, or Baulungu, why they 
had attacked his people without cause. 

[Here is an entry concerning the tribe living far to the 
East.] 

The Wasongo seem much like Zulus ; they go naked, and 
have prodigious numbers of cattle, which occupy the same 
huts with their owners. Oxen two shukahs each ; plenty of 
milk. Merere is very liberal with his cattle, and gives every 
one an ox : there is no rice, but maize and maere. Hamees 
left the people to cultivate rice. Merere had plenty of ivory 
when the^ Arabs came first, but now has none. 

1st July, 1867. — New moon to-day. They are very par- 
ticular as to the time of offering up prayers, and in making 
charms. One to-night was at 10 p.m. exactly. 

A number of cabalistic figures were drawn by Halfani, and 
it is believed that by these Nsama's whereabouts may be 
ascertained ; they are probably remains of the secret arts 
which prevailed among Arabs before Mahomet appeared. 
These Suaheli Arabs appear to have come down the coast 
before that Prophet was born. 

3rd July. — Kasonso's people are expected. All the cap- 
tives that were taken are to be returned, and a quantity of 
cloth given to Nsama in addition: so far all seems right. 
The new moon will appear to-night. The Arabs count from 
one appearance to the next, not, as we do, from its conjunc- 
tion with the sun to the next. 

4th July. — Katawanya came from near Liemba to join 
the peacemakers. He and his party arrived at Liemba 
after we did; he sent his people all round to seek ivory; 
they don't care for anything but ivory, and cannot under- 
stand why I don't do the same. 

6th July. — An earthquake happened at 3.30 p.m., accom- 
panied with a hollow rumbling sound; it made me feel 



1867.] EXPEDITION OF ALLIES AGAINST NSAMA. 219 

as if afloat, but it lasted only a few seconds. The boys 
came running to ask me what it was. Nowhere could it be 
safer; the huts will not fall, and there are no high rocks 
near. Barometer 25*0. Temperature 68° 5'. Heavy cumuli 
hanging about ; no rain afterwards. 

1th July. — Hamees started this morning with about 300 
followers dressed in all their finery, and he declares that 
his sole object is peace. Kasonso, Mombo, Chitimba send 
their people, and go themselves to lend all their influence 
in favour of peace. Syde stops here. Before starting Syde 
put some incense on hot coals, and all the leaders of the 
party joined in a short prayer; they seem earnest and 
sincere in their incantations, according to their knowledge 
and belief. I wished to go too, but Hamees objected, 
as not being quite sure whether Nsama would be friendly, 
and he would not like anything to befall me when with 
him. 

8th July. — Kasonso found an excuse for not going him- 
self. Two men, Arabs it was said, came to Chibue's and 
were there killed, and Kasonso must go to see about it. 
The people who go carry food with them, evidently not 
intending to live by plunder this time. 

While the peacemakers are gone I am employing time in 
reading Smith's ' Bible Dictionary,' and calculating different 
positions which have stood over in travelling. I don't suc- 
ceed well in the Baulungu dialect. 

The owners of huts lent to strangers have a great deal 
of toil in consequence; they have to clean them after the 
visitors have withdrawn ; then, in addition to this, to clean 
themselves, all soiled by the dust left by the lodgers ; their 
bodies and clothes have to be cleansed afterwards — they 
add food too in all cases of acquaintanceship, and then we 
have to remember the labour of preparing that food. My 
remaining here enables me to observe that both men and 
women are in almost constant employment. The men are 



220 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. VIII. 

making mats, or weaving, or spinning ; no one could witness 
their assiduity in their little affairs and conclude that they 
were a lazy people. The only idle time I observe here is in 
the mornings about seven o'clock, when all come and sit to 
catch the first rays of the sun as he comes over our clump of 
trees, but even that time is often taken as an opportunity 
for stringing beads. 

I hear that some of Nsama's people crossed the Lovu 
at Karambo to plunder, in retaliation for what they have 
suffered, and the people there were afraid to fish, lest they 
should be caught by them at a distance from their stockades. 

The Biiulungu men are in general tall and well formed, 
they use bows over six feet in length, and but little bent. 
The facial angle is as good in most cases as in Europeans, 
and they have certainly as little of the " lark-heel " as 
whites. One or two of the under front teeth are generally 
knocked out in women, and also in men. 

14th July. — Syde added to his other presents some more 
beads : all have been very kind, which I attribute in a 
great measure to Seyed Majid's letter. Hamees crossed the 
Lovu to-day at a fordable spot. The people on the other 
side refused to go with a message to Nsama, so Hamees 
had to go and compel them by destroying their stockade. 
A second village acted in the same way, though told that 
it was only peace that was sought of Nsama : this stockade 
suffered the same fate, and then the people went to Nsama, 
and he showed no reluctance to have intercourse. He gave 
abundance of food, pombe, and bananas ; the country being 
extremely fertile. Nsama also came and ratified the peace 
by drinking blood with several of the underlings of Hamees. 
He is said to be an enormously bloated old man, who cannot 
move unless carried, and women are constantly in attend- 
ance pouring pombe into him. He gave, Hamees ten tusks, 
and promised him twenty more, and also to endeavour to 
make his people return what goods they plundered from the 



1867.] TIEESOME DELAY. A CONFLAGRATION. 221 

Arabs, and he is to send his people over here to call us 
after the new moon appears. 

It is tiresome beyond measure to wait so long, but I 
hope to see Moero for this exercise of patience, and I could 
not have visited it had Hamees not succeeded in making 
peace. 

17th July. — A lion roared very angrily at the village 
last night, he was probably following the buffaloes that 
sometimes come here to drink at night : they are all very 
shy, and so is all the game, from fear of arrows. 

A curious disease has attacked my left eyelid and sur- 
rounding parts: a slight degree of itchiness is followed 
by great swelling of the part. It must be a sort of lichen ; 
exposure to the sun seems to cure it, and this leads me to 
take long walks therein. This is about 30° 19' E. long. ; 
lat. 8° 57' 55" S. 

2±th July. — A fire broke out at 4 a.m., and there being 
no wind the straw roofs were cleared off in front of it on 
our side of the village. The granaries were easily unroofed, 
as the roof is not attached to the walls, and the Arabs 
tried to clear a space on their side, but were unable, and 
then moved all their ivory and goods outside the stockade ; 
their side of the village was all consumed, and three goats 
perished in the flames. 

Chitimba has left us from a fear of his life, he says ; it 
is probable that he means this flight to be used as an 
excuse to Nsama after we are gone. "And I, too, was 
obliged to flee from my village to save my life ! What 
could I do ? " This is to be his argument, I suspect. 

A good many slaves came from the two villages that were 
destroyed : on inquiry I was told that these would be 
returned when Nsama gave the ivory promised. 

When Nsama was told that an Englishman wished to go 
past him to Moero, he replied, " Bring him, and I shall send 
men to take him thither." 



222 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOUENALS. [Chap. VIII. 

Hamees is building a " tenibe," or house, with a flat roof, 
and walls plastered over with mud, to keep his ivory from 
fire while he is absent. We expect that Nsama will send 
for us a few days after the 2nd August, when the new moon 
appears ; if they do not come soon Hamees will send men to 
Nsama without waiting for his messengers. 

28th July. — Prayers, with the Litany* Slavery is a great 
evil wherever I have seen it. A poor old woman and child 
are among the captives, the boy about three years old seems 
a mother's pet. His feet are sore from walking in the sun. 
He was offered for two fathoms, and his mother for one 
fathom ; he understood it all, and cried bitterly, clinging 
to his mother. She had, of course, no power to help him ; 
they were separated at Karungu afterwards. 

[The above is an episode of every-day occurrence in 
the wake of the slave-dealer. " Two fathoms," mentioned 
as the price of the boy's life — the more valuable of the two, 
means four yards of unbleached calico, which is a universal 
article of barter throughout the greater part of Africa : the 
mother was bought for two yards. The reader must not 
think that there are no lower prices ; in the famines which 
succeed the slave-dealer's raids, boys and girls are at times 
to be purchased by the dealer for a few handfuls of maize.] 

29th July. — Went 2\ hours west to village of Ponda, 
where a head Arab, called by the natives Tipo Tipo, lives ; 
his name is Hamid bin Mahamed bin. Juma Borajib. He 
presented a goat, a piece of white calico, and four big bunches 
of beads, also a bag of Holcus sorghum, and apologised 
because it was so little. He had lost much by Nsama ; and 



* In his Journal the Doctor writes " S," and occasionally " Service," 
whenever a Sunday entry occurs. We may add that at all times during 
his travels the Services of the Church of England were resorted to by 
him. — Ed. 



1867.] NSAMA IS ROUTED. NATIVE CUPPING. 223 

received two arrow wounds there; they had only twenty 
guns at the time, but some were in the stockade, and though 
the people of Nsama were very numerous they beat them 
off, and they fled carrying the bloated carcase *ofj_Nsama 
with them. Some reported that boxes were found_£in the 
village, which belonged to parties who had perished before, 
but Syde assured me that this was a mistake. 

Moero is three days distant, and as Nsama's people go 
thither to collect salt on its banks, it would have been 
impossible for me to visit it from the south without being 
seen, and probably suffering loss. 

The people seem to have no family names. A man takes 
the name of his mother, or should his father die he may 
assume that. Marriage is forbidden to the first, second, and 
third degrees : they call first and second cousins brothers 
and sisters. 

A woman, after cupping her child's temples for sore eyes, 
threw the blood over the roof of her hut as a charm. 

[In the above process a goat's horn is used with a small 
hole in the pointed end. The base is applied to the part 
from which the blood is to be withdrawn, and the operator, 
with a small piece of chewed india-rubber in his mouth, 
exhausts the air, and at the proper moment plasters the 
small hole up with his tongue. When the cupping-horn 
is removed, some cuts are made with a small knife, and 
it is again applied. As a rough appliance, it is a very good 
one, and in great repute everywhere.] 



( 224 ) 



CHAPTEE IX. 

Peace negotiations with Nsama. Geographical gleanings. Curious spider. 
Eeach the Eiver Lofu. Arrives at Nsama's. Hamees marries the 
daughter of Nsama. Flight of the bride. Conflagration in Arab 
quarters. Anxious to visit Lake Moero. Arab burial. Serious illness. 
Continues journey. Slave-traders on the march. Beaches Moero. 
Description of the Lake. Information concerning the Chambeze and 
Luapula. Hears of Lake Bemba. Visits spot of Dr. Lacerda's death. 
Casembe apprised of Livingstone's approach. Meets Mohamad Bogharib. 
Lakelet Mofwe. Arrives at Casembe's town. 

1st August, 1867. — Hamees sends off men to trade at 
Chiwere's. Zihwe is the name for locust here. Nsige or 
Zige and Pansi the Suaheli names. 

A perforated stone had been placed on one of the -poles 
which form the gateway into this stockade, it is oblong, 
seven or eight inches long by four broad, and bevelled off on 
one side and the diameter of the hole in the middle is about 
an inch and a half: it shows evidence of the boring process 
in rings. It is of hard porphyry and of a pinkish hue, and 
resembles somewhat a weight for a digging stick I saw in 
1841 in the hands of a Bushwoman : I saw one at a gate- 
way near Kasonso's. The people know nothing of its use 
except as a charm to keep away evil from the village. 

2nd August. — Chronometer A. stopped to-day without any 
apparent cause except the earthquake. 

It is probably malaria which causes that constant singing 
in the ears ever since my illness at Lake Liemba. 

3rd August. — We expect a message from Nsama every 



1867.] GLEANS TIDINGS CONCERNING THE \Y A KONGO. 225 

day, the new moon having appeared on the first of this 
month, and he was to send after its appearance. 

5th August. — Men came yesterday with the message 
that Hamees must wait a little longer, as Nsama had not 
yet got all the ivory and the goods which were stolen : 
they remained over yesterday. The headman, Katala, says 
that Lunda is eight days from Nsama or Moero, and in 
going we cross a large river called Movue, which flows into 
Luapula ; another river called Mokobwa comes from the 
south-east into Moero. Itawa is the name of Nsama's 
country and people. 

A day distant from Nsania's place there is a hot fountain 
called " Paka pezhia," and around it the earth shakes at 
times : it is possible that the earthquake we felt here may 
be connected with this same centre of motion. 

Qth August. — The weather is becoming milder. An 
increase of cold was caused by the wind coming from the 
south. We have good accounts of the Wasongo from all 
the Arabs, their houses built for cattle are flat-roofed and 
enormously large ; one, they say, is a quarter of a mile long. 
Merere the chief has his dwelling-house within it : milk, 
butter, cheese, are in enormous quantities ; the tribe, too, is 
very large. I fear that they may be spoiled by the Arab 
underlings. 

1th August. — Some of my people went down to Karambo 
and were detained by the chief, who said " I won't let you 
English go away and leave me in trouble with these Arabs." 

A slave had been given in charge to a man here and 
escaped, the Arabs hereupon went to Karambo and de- 
manded payment from the chief there ; he offered clothing, 
but they refused it, and would have a man ; he then 
offered a man, but this man having two children they 
demanded all three. They bully as much as they please 
by their firearms. After being spoken to by my people the 
Arabs came away. The chief begged that I would come 

VOL. i. o 



226 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOUKNALS. [Chap. IX. 

and visit hini once more, for only one day, but it is im- 
possible, for we expect to move directly. I sent the infor- 
mation to Hamees, who replied that they had got a clue to 
the man who was wiling away their slaves from them. My 
people saw others of the low squad which always accom- 
panies the better-informed Arabs bullying the people of 
another village, and taking fowls and food without payment. 
Slavery makes a bad neighbourhood ! 

Hamees is on friendly terms with a tribe of Mazitu who 
say that they have given up killing people. They lifted a 
great many cattle, but have very few now ; some of them 
came with him to show the way to Kasonso's. 

Slaves are sold here in the same open way that the 
business is carried on in Zanzibar slave-market. A man 
goes about calling out the price he wants for the slave, who 
walks behind him ; if a woman, she is taken into a hut to 
be examined in a state of nudity. 

Some of the Arabs believe that meteoric stones are 
thrown at Satan for his wickedness. They believe that 
cannon were taken up Kilimanjaro by the first Arabs who 
came into the country, and there they lie. They deny 
that Van der Decken did more than go round a portion 
of the base of the mountain ; he could not get on the 
mass of the mountain: all his donkeys and some of his 
men died by the cold. Hamees seems to be Cooley's great 
geographical oracle ! 

The information one can cull from the Arabs respecting 
the country on the north-west is very indefinite. They 
magnify the difficulties in the way by tales of the cannibal 
tribes, where anyone dying is bought and no one ever 
buried, but this does not agree with the fact, which also is 
asserted, that the cannibals have plenty of sheep and goats. 
The Kua is about ten days west of Tanganyika, and five 
days beyond it a lake or river ten miles broad is reached ; 
it is said to be called Logarawa. All the water flows 



1867.] ARAB INFORMATION. SINGULAR SPIDER. 227 

northwards, but no reliance can be placed on the statements. 
Kiombo is said to be chief of Ena country. 

Another man asserts that Tanganyika flows northwards 
and forms a large water beyond Uganda, but no dependence 
¦can be placed on the statements of these half Arabs ; they 
pay no attention to anything but ivory and food. 

25th August. — Nsama requested the Arabs to give back 
his son who was captured; some difficulty was made about 
this by his captor, but Hamees succeeded in getting him 
and about nine others, and they are sent off to-day. We 
wait only for the people, who are scattered about the country. 
Hamees presented cakes, flour, a fowl and leg of goat, with 
a piece of eland meat : this animal goes by the same name 
here as at Kolobeng — " Pofu." * 

A fig-tree here has large knobs on the bark, like some 
species of acacia ; and another looks like the Malolo of the 
Zambesi magnified. A yellow wood gives an odour like 
incense when burned. 

A large spider makes a nest inside the huts. It consists 
of a piece of pure white paper, an inch and a half broad, 
stuck flat on the wall ; under this some forty or fifty eggs 
are placed, and then a quarter of an inch of thinner paper 
is put round it, apparently to fasten the first firmly. When 
making the paper the spider moves itself over the surface 
in wavy lines; she then sits on it with her eight legs 
spread over all for three weeks continuously, catching and 
eating any insects, as cockroaches, that come near her nest. 
After three weeks she leaves it to hunt for food, but always 
returns at night : the natives do not molest it. 

A small ant masters the common fly by seizing a wing or 
leg, and holding on till the fly is tired out ; at first the fly 



* Che'fu amongst the Manganja. Any animal possessing strength, has 
the terminal " fu " or " vu ;" thus Njobvu, an elephant ; MVu, the hip- 
popotamus. — Ed. 

Q 2 



228 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS; [Chap. IX. 

can move about on the wing without inconvenience, but it 
is at last obliged to succumb to an enemy very much smaller 
than itself. 

A species of Touraco, new to me, has a broad yellow mask 
on the upper part of the bill and forehead ; the topknot is 
purple, the wings the same as in other species, but the red 
is roseate. The yellow of the mask plates is conspicuous at 
a distance. 

A large callosity forms on the shoulders of the regular 
ITnyamwesi porters, from the heavy weights laid on them. 
I have noticed them an inch and a half thick along the top of 
the shoulders. An old man Avas pointed out to me who had 
once carried five frasilahs ( = 175 lbs.) of ivory from his own 
country to the coast. 

30^ August. — We marched to-day from Chitimba's vil- 
lage after three months and ten days' delay. On reaching 
Ponda, 2| hours distant, we found Tipo Tipo, or Hamidi bin 
Mohamad, gone on, and so we followed him. Passed a fine 
stream flowing S.W. to the Lofu. Tipo Tipo gave me a 
fine fat goat. 

31s£ August. — Pass along a fine undulating district, with 
much country covered with forest, but many open glades, and 
fine large trees along the watercourses. We were on the 
northern slope of the watershed, and could see far. Crossed 
two fine rivulets. The oozes still full and flowing. 

1st September, 1867. — We had to march in the afternoon 
on account of a dry patch existing in the direct way. We 
slept without water, though by diverging a few miles to the 
north we should have crossed many streams, but this is 
the best path for the whole year. 

Baraka went back to Tipo Tipo's village, thus putting his 
intention of begging among the Arab slaves into operation. 
He has only one complaint, and that is dislike to work. 
He tried perseveringly to get others to run away with him ; 
lost the medicine-box, six tablecloths, and all our tools 



1867.] CROSSES THE RIVER LOFU. 229 

by giving his load off to a country lad while he went to 
collect mushrooms : he will probably return to Zanzibar, 
and be a slave to the Arab slaves after being a perpetual 
nuisance to us for upwards of a year. 

2nd September. — When we reached the ford of the Lofu, 
we found that we were at least a thousand feet below Chi- 
timba's. The last six hours of our march were without 
water, but when near to Chungu's village at the ford we 
came to fine flowing rivulets, some ten feet or so broad. 
Here we could see westwards and northwards the long lines 
of hills of denudation in Nsama's country, which till lately 
was densely peopled. Nsama is of the Babemba family. 
Kasonso, Chitimba, Kiwe, Urongwe, are equals and of one 
family, Urungai. Chungu is a pleasant person, and liberal 
according to his means. Large game is very abundant 
through all this country. 

The Lofu at the ford was 296 feet, the water flowing 
briskly over hardened sandstone flag, and from thigh to 
waist deep ; elsewhere it is a little narrower, but not pass- 
able except by canoes. 

4:lh and 5th September. — Went seven hours west of the 
Lofu to a village called Hara, one of those burned by 
Hamees because the people would not take a peaceful mes- 
sage to Nsama. This country is called Itawa, and Hara is 
one of the districts. We waited at Hara to see if Nsama 
wished us any nearer to himself. He is very much afraid 
of the Arabs, and well he may be, for he was until lately 
supposed to be invincible. He fell before twenty muskets, 
and this has caused a panic throughout the country. The 
land is full of food, though the people have nearly all fled. 
The ground-nuts are growing again for want of reapers; 
and 300 people living at free-quarters make no impression 
on the food. 

9th September. — Went three hours west of Hara, and 
came to Nsama's new stockade, built close by the old one 



230 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOUKNALS.. [Chap.. IN.. 

burned by Tipo Tipo, as Hamidi bin Mohained was named 
by Nsania* I sent a message to Nsania, and received an 
invitation to come and visit him, but bring no guns. A, 
large crowd of bis people went with, us, and before we came 
to the inner stockade they felt my clothes to see that no 
firearms were concealed about my person. When we reached 
Nsama, we found a very old man, with a good head and 
face and a large abdomen,. showing that he was addicted to 
pombe : his people have to carry him. I gave him a cloth,. 
and asked for guides to Moero, which he readily granted, 
and asked leave to feel my clothes and hair. I advised him 
to try and live at peace, but his people were all so much 
beyond the control of himself and headmen, that at last, 
after scolding them, he told me that he would send for me 
by night, and then we could converse, but this seems to have 
gone out of his head. He sent, me a goat, flour, and pombe, 
and next day we returned to Hara. 

Nsama's people have generally small, well-chiseled fea- 
tures, and many are really handsome, and have nothing of 
the West Coast Negro about them, but they file their teeth, 
to sharp points, and greatly disfigure their mouths. The 
only difference between them and Europeans is the colour. 
Many of the men have very finely-formed heads, and so have 
the women; and the fashion of wearing the hair sets off their 
foreheads to^advantage. The forehead is shaved off to the 
crown, the space narrowing as it goes up ; then the back 
hair is arranged into knobs of about ten rows. 



* The natives are quick to detect a peculiarity in a man, and give him 
a name accordingly : the conquerors of a country try to forestall them 
by selecting one for themselves. Susi states that when Tipo Tipo stood 
over the spoiFtaken from Nsama, he gathered it closer together and said, 
"Now I am Tipo Tipo," that is, " the gatherer together of wealth." Rumba 
Kumba, of whom we shall hear much, took his name from the number of 
captives he gathered, in his train under similar circumstances ; it might be 
translated, " the collector of people." — Ed. 



1867.] A POLITICAL MARRIAGE. 231 

10th September. — Some people of Ujiji have come to 
Nsama's to buy ivory Avitk beads, but, finding that the 
Arabs have forestalled them in the market, they intend to 
return in their dhow, or rather canoe, which is manned by 
about fifty hands. My goods are reported safe, and the 
meat of the buffaloes which died in the way is there, and 
sun-dried. I sent a box, containing papers, books, and some 
clothes, to Ujiji. 

14ili September. — I remained at Hara, for I was ill, and 
Hamees had no confidence in Nsama, because he promised 
his daughter to wife by way of cementing the peace, but 
had not given her. Nsama also told Hamees to stay at 
Hara, and he would send him ivory for sale, but none came, 
nor do people come here to sell provisions, as they do else- 
where; so Hamees will return to Chitimba's, to guard his 
people and property there, and send on Syde Hamidi and 
his servants to Lopere, Kabuire, and Moero, to buy ivory. 
He advised me to go with them, as he has no confidence in 
Nsama ; and Hamidi thought that this was the plan to be 
preferred : it would be slower, as they would purchase ivory 
on the road, but safer to pass his country altogether than 
trust myself in his power. 

The entire population of the country has received a 
shock from the conquest of Nsama, and their views of the 
comparative values of bows and arrows and guns have 
undergone a great change. Nsama was the Napoleon of 
these countries ; no one could stand before him, hence the 
defeat of the invincible Nsama has caused a great panic. 
The Arabs say that they lost about fifty men in all : Nsama 
must have lost at least an equal number. The people seem 
intelligent, and will no doubt act on the experience so dearly 
bought. 

In the midst of the doubts of Hamees a daughter of 
Nsama came this afternoon to be a wife and cementer of 
the peace! She came riding "pickaback" on a man's 



v 



232 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOUENALS. [Chap. IX. 

shoulders ; a nice, modest, good-looking young woman, her 
hair rubbed all over with nkola, a red pigment, made from the 
camwood, and much used as an ornament. She was accom- 
panied by about a dozen young and old female attendants, 
each carrying a small basket with some provisions, as cas- 
sava, ground-nuts, &c. The Arabs were all dressed in their 
finery, and the slaves, in fantastic dresses, flourished swords, 
fired guns, and yelled. When she was brought to Hamees' 
hut she descended, and with her maids went into the hut. 
She and her attendants had all small, neat features. I had 
been sitting with Hamees, and now rose up and went away ; 
as I passed him, he spoke thus to himself : " Hamees Wadim 
Tagh ! see to what you have brought yourself ! ! " 

15th September. — A guide had come from Nsama to take 
us to the countries beyond his territory. Hamees set off 
this morning with his new wife to his father-in-law, but 
was soon met by two messengers, who said that he was not 
to come yet. We now sent for all the people who were 
out to go west or north-west without reference to Nsama. 

l&h-lSth September. — Hamidi went to Nsama to try and 
get guides, but he would not let him come into his stockade 
unless he came up to it without either gun or sword. Hamidi 
would not go in on these conditions, but Nsama promised 
guides, and they came after a visit by Hamees to Nsama, 
which he paid Avithout telling any of us : he is evidently 
ashamed of his father-in-law. 

Those Arabs who despair of ivory invest their remaining 
beads and cloth in slaves. 

20th September. — I had resolved to go to Nsama's, and 
thence to Moero to-day, but Hamees sent to say that men 
had come, and we were all to go with them on the 22nd.' 
Nsama was so vacillating that I had no doubt but this was 
best. 

Hamees' wife, seeing the preparations that were made 
for starting, thought that her father was to be attacked, 



ori^ESS - - 




1867.] THE ARABS INCENSE THEIR PRAYER-BOOK. 233 

so she, her attendants, and the guides decamped by night. 
Haniees went again to Nsama and got other guides to 
•enable us to go off at once. 

22nd September. — We went north for a couple of hours, 
then descended into the same valley as that in which I 
found Nsama. This valley is on the slope of the water- 
shed, and lies east and west : a ridge of dark-red sandstone, 
covered with trees, forms its side on the south. Other 
ridges like this make the slope have the form of a stair 
with huge steps : the descent is gradually lost as we in- 
sensibly climb up the next ridge. The first plain between 
the steps is at times swampy, and the paths are covered 
with the impressions of human feet, which, being hardened 
by the sun, make walking on their uneven surface very 
difficult. Mosquitoes again ; we had lost them during our 
long stay on the higher lands behind us. 

23rd September. — A fire had broken out the night after 
we left Hara, and the wind being strong, it got the upper 
hand, and swept away at once the whole of the temporary 
village of dry straw huts : Haniees lost all his beads, guns, 
powder, and cloth, except one bale. The news came this 
morning, and prayers were at once offered for him with 
incense ; some goods will also be sent, as a little incense 
was. The prayer-book was held in the smoke of the incense 
while the responses were made. These Arabs seem to be 
very religious in their way : the prayers were chiefly to 
Harasji, some relative of Mohamad. 

24:th September. — Roused at 3 a.m. to be told that the 
next stage had no water, and we should be oppressed with 
the midday heat if we went now. We were to go at 2 p.m. 
Hamidi's wife being ill yesterday put a stop to our march 
on that afternoon. After the first hour we descended from 
the ridge to which we had ascended, we had then a wall 
of tree-covered rocks on our left of more than a thousand 
feet in altitude ; after flanking it for a while we went up, 



234 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chai\ IX. 

and then along it northwards till it vanished in forest. Slept 
without a fresh supply of water. 

25th September. — Off at 5.30 a.m., through the same well- 
grown forest we have passed and came to a village stockade, 
where the gates were shut, and the men all outside, in fear 
of the Arabs ; we then descended from the ridge on which 
it stood, about a thousand feet, into an immense plain, with 
a large river in the distance, some ten miles off. 

26th September. — Two and a half hours brought us to the 
large river we saw yesterday; it is more than a mile wide 
and full of papyrus and other aquatic plants and very 
difficult to ford, as the papyrus roots are hard to the bare 
feet, and we often plunged into holes up to the waist. A 
loose mass floated in the middle of our path ; one could 
sometimes get on along this while it bent and heaved under 
the weight, but through it he would plunge and find great 
difficulty to get out : the water under this was very cold 
from evaporation ; it took an hour and a half to cross it. 
It is called Chisera, and winds away to the west to fall 
into the Kalongosi and Moero. Many animals, as elephants, 
tahetsis, zebras, and buffaloes, graze on the long sloping- 
banks of about a quarter of a mile down, while the ranges 
of hills we crossed as mere ridges now appear behind us in 
the south. 

21th September. — The people are numerous and friendly. 
One elephant was killed, and we remained to take the 
ivory from the dead beast ; buffaloes and zebras were also 
killed. It was so cloudy that no observations could be 
taken to determine our position, but Chisera rises in Lopere. 
Further west it is free of papyrus, and canoes are required 
to cross it. 

28$ September. — Two hours north brought us to the 
Kamosenga, a river eight yards wide, of clear water which 
ran strongly among aquatic plants. Hippopotami, buffalo, 
and zebra abound. This goes into the Chisera eastwards ; 



18G7.] TEEEOK AMONGST THE NATIVE CHIEFS. 235 

country flat and covered with dense tangled bush. Cassias 
and another tree of the pea family are now in flower, and 
perfume the air. Other two hours took us round a large 
bend of this riyer. 

30th September. — We crossed the Kamosenga or another, 
and reach Karungu's. The Kamosenga divides Lopere from 
Itawa, the latter being Nsama's country ; Lopere is north- 
west of it. 

1st October, 1867. — Karungu was very much afraid of us ; 
he kept every one out of his stockade at first, but during 
the time the Arabs sent forward to try and conciliate other 
chiefs he gradually became more friendly. He had little 
ivory to sell, and of those who had, Mtete or Mtema seemed 
inclined to treat the messengers roughly. Men were also 
sent to Nsama asking him to try and induce Mtema and 
Chikongo to be friendly and sell ivory and provisions, but 
he replied that these chiefs were not men under him, 
and if they thought themselves strong enough to contend 
against guns he had nothing to say to them. Other chiefs 
threatened to run away as soon as they saw the Arabs 
approaching. These were assured that we meant to pass 
through the country alone, and if they gave us guides to 
show us how, we should avoid the villages altogether, and 
proceed to the countries where ivory was to be bought; 
however, the panic was too great, no one would agree to 
our overtures, and at last when we did proceed a chief 
on the Kiver Choma fulfilled his threat and left us three 
empty villages. There were no people to sell though the 
granaries were crammed, and it was impossible to prevent 
the slaves from stealing. 

Srd-Ath October. — When Chikongo heard Tipo Tipo's mes- 
sage about buying ivory he said, " And when did Tipo Tipo 
place ivory in my country that he comes seeking it ? " Yet 
he sent a tusk and said " That is all I have, and he is not 
to come here." Their hostile actions are caused principally 



236 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. IX. 

by fear. " If Nsania could not stand before the Malongwana 
or traders, how can we face thern ? " I wished to go on to 
Moero, but all declare that our ten guns would put all the 
villages to flight: they are terror-struck. First rains of 
this season on the 5th. 

10^ October. — I had a long conversation with Syde, 
who thinks that the sun rises and sets because the Koran 
says so, and he sees it. He asserts that Jesus foretold the 
coming of Mohamad ; and that it was not Jesus who suffered 
on the cross but a substitute, it being unlikely that a true 
prophet would be put to death so ignominiously. He does 
not understand how we can be glad that our Saviour died 
for our sins. 

12th October. — An elephant killed by Tipo Tipo's men. 
It is always clouded over, and often not a breath of air 
stirring. 

16th October. — A great many of the women of this district 
and of Lopere have the swelled thyroid gland called goitre 
or Derbyshire neck ; men, too, appeared with it, and they 
in addition have hydrocele of large size. 

An Arab who had been long ill at Chitimba's died yester- 
day, and was buried in the evening. No women were allowed 
to come near. A long silent prayer was uttered over the 
corpse when it was laid beside the grave, and then a cloth 
was held over as men in it deposited the remains beneath 
sticks placed slanting on the side of the bottom of the 
grave ; this keeps the earth from coming directly into 
contact with the body. 

A feast was made by the friends of the departed, and 
portions sent to all who had attended the funeral : I got a 
good share. 

ISth October. — The last we hear of Nsama is that he 
will not interfere with Chikongo. Two wives beat drums 
and he dances to them; he is evidently in his dotage. 
We hear of many Arabs to the west of us. 



1867.] DR. LIVINGSTONE AGAIN VERY ILL. 237 

20th October. — Very ill ; I am always so when I have no 
work — sore bones — much headache ; then lost power over 
the muscles of the back, as at Liemba; no appetite and 
much thirst. The fever uninfluenced by medicine. 

21st October. — Syde sent his men to build a new hut 
in a better situation. I hope it may be a healthful one 
for me. 

22nd October. — The final message from Chikongo was 
a discouraging one — no ivory. The Arabs, however, go 
west with me as far as Chisawe's, who, being accustomed to 
Arabs from Tanganyika, will give me men to take me 
on to Moero : the Arabs will then return, and we shall 
move on. 

23rd October. — Tipo Tipo gave Karungu some cloth, and 
this chief is " looking for something " to give him in return ; 
this detains us one day more. 

When a slave wishes to change his master he goes to 
one whom he likes better and breaks a spear or a bow in 
his presence — the transference is irrevocable. This curious 
custom prevails on the Zambesi, and also among the 
Wanyamwesi ; if the old master wishes to recover his slave 
the new one may refuse to part with him except when 
he gets his full price : a case of this kind happened here 
yesterday. 

25th October. — Authority was found in the Koran for 
staying one day more here. This was very trying; but 
the fact was our guide from Hara hither had enticed a 
young slave girl to run away, and he had given her in 
charge to one of his countrymen, who turned round and 
tried to secure her for himself, and gave information about 
the other enticing her away. Nothing can be more tedious 
than the Arab way of travelling. 

26th October. — We went S.W. for five hours through an 
undulating, well-wooded, well-peopled country, and quan- 
tities of large game. Several trees give out when burned 



238 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. IX. 

very fine scents; others do it when cut. Euphorbia is 
abundant. We slept by a torrent which had been filled with 
muddy water by late rains. It thunders every afternoon, 
and rains somewhere as regularly as it thunders, but these 
are but partial rains ; they do not cool the earth ; nor fill 
the cracks made in the dry season. 

27th October. — Off early in a fine drizzling rain, which 
continued for two hours, and came on to a plain about 
three miles broad, full of large game. These plains are 
swamps at times, and they are flanked by ridges of denu- 
dation some 200 or 300 feet above them, and covered with 
trees. 

The ridges are generally hardened sandstone, marked 
with madrepores, and masses of brown hseniatite. It is 
very hot, and we become very tired. There is no system 
in the Arab marches. The first day was five hours, this 
3^ hours ; had it been reversed — short marches during the 
first days and longer afterwards — the muscles would have 
become inured to the exertion. A long line of heights on 
our south points to the valley of Nsaina. 

2§th October. — Five hours brought us to the Choma Eiver 
and the villages of Chifupa, but, as already mentioned, the 
chief and people had fled, and no persuasion could prevail 
on them to come and sell us food. We showed a few who 
ventured to come among us what we were willing to give 
for flour, but they said, " Yes, we will call the women and 
they will sell." None came. 

Kested all day on the banks of the Choma, which is 
a muddy stream coming from the north and going to 
the south-west to join the Chisera. It has worn itself 
a deep bed in the mud of its banks, and is twenty yards 
wide and in some spots waist deep, at other parts it is 
unfordable, it contains plenty of fish, and hippopotami 
and crocodiles abound. I bought a few ground-nuts at an 
exorbitant price, the men evidently not seeing that it 



1867.] A BAD SPORTSMAN. THE EATEL. 239 

would have been better to part with more at a lower price 
than run off and leave all to be eaten by the slaves. 

oOth October. — Two ugly images were found in huts built 
for them : they represent in a poor way the people of the 
country, and are used in rain-making and curing the sick 
ceremonies ; this is the nearest approach to idol worship 
I have seen in the country.* 

31st October. — We marched over a long line of hills on 
our west, and in five and a half hours came to some vil- 
lages where the people sold us food willingly, and behaved 
altogether in a friendly way. We were met by a herd of 
buffaloes, but Syde seized my gun from the boy who carried 
it, and when the animals came close past me I was power- 
less, and not at all pleased with the want of good sense 
shown by my usually polite Arab friend. 

Note. — The Choma is said by Mohamad bin Saleh to go 
into Tanganyika (? ?). It goes to Kalongosi. 

1st November, 1867. — We came along between ranges of 
hills considerably higher than those we have passed in Itawa 
or JSTsama's country, and thickly covered with trees, some in 
full foliage, and some putting forth fresh red leaves; the 
hills are about 700 or 800 feet above the valleys. This is 
not a district of running rills : we crossed three sluggish 
streamlets knee deep. Buffaloes are very numerous. 

The Katel covers the buffalo droppings with earth in 
order to secure the scavenger beetles which bury themselves 
therein, thus he prevents them from rolling a portion away 
as usual. 

We built our sheds on a hillside. Our course was west 
and 6£ hours. 

2nd November. — Still in the same direction, and in an 
open valley remarkable for the numbers of a small euphor- 



* It is on the West Coast alone that idols are really worshipped in 
Africa. — Ed. 



240 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOUENALS. [Chap. IX, 

bia, which we smashed at every step. Crossed a small but 
strong rivulet, the Lipande', going south-west to Moero, 
then, an hour afterwards, crossed it again, now twenty yards 
wide and knee deep. After descending from the tree- 
covered hill which divides Lipande from Luao, we crossed 
the latter to sleep on its western bank. The hills are 
granite now, and a range on our left, from 700 to 1500 feet 
high, goes on all the way to Moero. 

These valleys along which we travel are beautiful. Green 
is the prevailing colour ; but the clumps of trees assume a 
great variety of forms, and often remind one of English park 
scenery. The long line of slaves and carriers, brought up 
by their Arab employers, adds life to the scene, they are 
in three bodies, and number 450 in all. Each party has a 
guide with a flag, and when that is planted all that com- 
pany stops till it is lifted, and a drum is beaten, and a 
kudu's horn sounded. One party is headed by about a 
dozen leaders, dressed with fantastic head-gear of feathers 
and beads, red cloth on the bodies, and skins cut into 
strips and twisted : they take their places in line, the drum 
beats, the horn sounds harshly, and all fall in. These 
sounds seem to awaken a sort of esprit de corps in those who 
have once been slaves. My attendants now jumped up, and 
Avould scarcely allow me time to dress when they heard the 
sounds of their childhood, and all day they were among the 
foremost. One said to me " that his feet were rotten with 
marching," and this though told that they were not called 
on to race along like slaves. 

The Africans cannot stand sneers. When any mishap 
occurs in the march (as Avhen a branch tilts a load off a 
man's shoulder) all who see it set up a yell of derision ; 
if anything is accidentally spilled, or if one is tired and 
sits down, the same yell greets him, and all are excited 
thereby to exert themselves. They hasten on with their 
loads, and hurry with the sheds they build, the masters 



1807.] ARAB ORDER OP MARCHING. 241 

only bringing up the rear, and helping anyone who may 
be sick. The distances travelled were quite as much as 
the masters or we could bear. Had frequent halts been 
made — as, for instance, a half or a quarter of an hour at 
the end of every hour or two — but little distress would 
have been felt ; but five hours at a stretch is more than 
men can bear in a hot climate. The female slaves held 
on bravely ; nearly all carried loads on their heads, the 
head, or lady of the party, who is also the wife of the Arab, 
was the only exception. She had a fine white shawl, with 
ornaments of gold and silver on her head. These ladies 
had a jaunty walk, and never gave in on the longest march ; 
many pounds' weight of fine copper leglets above the ankles 
seemed only to help the sway of their walk : as soon as they 
arrive at the sleeping-place they begin to cook, and in this 
art they show a good deal of expertness, making savoury 
dishes for their masters out of wild fruits and other not 
very likely materials. 

3rd November.— The ranges of hills retire as we advance ; 
the soil is very rich. At two villages the people did not 
want us, so we went on and encamped near a third, Kab- 
wakwa, where a son of Mohamad bin Saleh, with a number 
of Wanyamwesi, lives. The chief of this part is Muabo, but 
we did not see him : the people brought plenty of food for us 
to buy. The youth's father is at Casembe's. The country- 
people were very much given to falsehood — every place 
inquired for Avas near — ivory abundant — provisions of all 
sorts cheap and plenty. Our headmen trusted to these 
statements of this young man rather, and he led them to 
desist going further. Rua country was a month distant, he 
said, and but little ivory there. It is but three days off. 
(We saw it after three days.) " No ivory at Casembe's or 
here in Buire, or Kabuire." He was right as to Casembe. 
Letters, however, came from Hamees, with news of a de- 
pressing nature. Chitimba is dead, and so is Mambwe. 

VOL. I. R 



242 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOUENALS. [Chap. IX. 

Chitimba's people are fighting for the chieftainship : great 
hunger prevails there now, the Arabs having bought up all 
the food. Moriri, a chief dispossessed of his country by 
Nsama, wished Haniees to restore his possessions, but 
Hamees said that he had made peace, and' would not 
interfere. 

This unfavourable news from a part where the chief 
results of their trading were deposited, made Syde and Tipo 
Tipo decide to remain in Buire only ten or twenty days, 
send out people to buy what ivory they could find, and then 
retire. 

As Syde and Tipo Tipo were sending men to Casembe for 
ivory, I resolved to go thither first, instead of shaping my 
course for Ujiji. 

Very many cases of goitre in men and women here : I see 
no reason for it. This is only 3350 feet above the sea. 

Itli November. — Start for Moero, convoyed by all the 
Arabs for some distance : they have been extremely kind. 
We draw neaivito the mountain-range on our left, called 
Kakoma, and sleep at one of Kaputa's villages, our course 
now being nearly south. 

8t7i November. — Villages are very thickly studded over 
the valley formed by Kakoma range, and another at a 
greater distance on our right ; 100 or 200 yards is a com- 
mon distance between these villages, which, like those in 
Londa, or Lunda, are all shaded with trees of a species of 
Ficus indica. One belongs to Puta, and this Puta, the 
paramount chief, sent to say that if we slept there, and 
gave him a cloth, he would send men to conduct us next 
day, and ferry us across : I was willing to remain, but his 
people would not lend a hut, so we came on to the Lake,, 
and no ferry. Probably he thought that we were going 
across the Lualaba into Kua. 

Lake Moero seems of goodly size, and is flanked by 
ranges of mountains on the east and west. Its banks are 



1867.] LAKE MOEEO. THE " MONDE" FISH.- 243 

of coarse sand, and slope gradually down to the water : out- 
side these banks stands a thick belt of tropical vegetation, 
in which fishermen build their huts. The country called 
Eua lies on the west, and is seen as a lofty range of dark 
mountains : another range of less height, but more broken, 
stands along the eastern shore, and in it lies the path to 
Casembe. We slept in a fisherman's hut on the north 
shore. They brought a large fish, called " monde," for sale ; 
it has a slimy skin, and no scales, a large head, with ten- 
taculee like the Siluridse, and large eyes : the great gums 
in its mouth have a brush-like surface, like a whale's in 
miniature : it is said to eat small fish. A bony spine rises 
on its back (I suppose for defence), which is 2J inches long, 
and as thick as a quill. They are very retentive of life. 

The northern shore has a fine sweep like an unbent bow, 
and round the western end flows the water that makes the 
river Lualaba, which, before it enters Moero, is the Luapula, 
and that again (if the most intelligent reports speak true) is 
the Chambeze before it enters Lake Beniba, or Bangweolo. 

We came along the north shore till we reached the 
eastern flanking range, then ascended and turned south, 
the people very suspicious, shutting their gates as we drew 
near. We were alone, and only nine persons in all, but 
they must have had reason for fear. One headman refused 
us admission, then sent after us, saying that the man who 
had refused admission was not the chief: he had come 
from a distance, and had just arrived. It being better to 
appear friendly than otherwise, we went back, and were 
well entertained. Provisions were given when we went 
away. Flies abound, and are very troublesome ; they seem 
to be attracted by the great numbers of fish caught. The 
people here are Babemba, but beyond the river Kalongosi 
they are all Balunda. 

A trade in salt is carried on from different salt springs 
and salt mud to Lunda and elsewhere. We meet parties of 

R 2 



244 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. IX. 

salt-traders daily, and they return our salutations very cor- 
dially, rubbing earth on the arms. We find our path lies 
between two ranges of mountains, one flanking the eastern 
shore, the other about three miles more inland, and parallel 
to it: these are covered thickly with trees, and are of 
loosely-coherent granite : many villages are in the space 
enclosed by these ranges, but all insecure. 

12th November. — We came to the Kalongosi, or, as the 
Arabs and Portuguese pronounce it, Karungwesi, about 
60 yards wide, and flowing fast over stones. It is deep 
enough, even now when the rainy season is not commenced, 
to require canoes. It is said to rise in Kumbi, or Afar, a 
country to the south-east of our ford. Fish in great num- 
bers are caught when ascending to spawn : they are secured 
by weirs, nets, hooks. Large strong baskets are placed in 
the rapids, and filled with stones, when the water rises 
these baskets are standing-places for the fishermen to angle 
or throw their nets. Having crossed the Kalongosi we were 
now in Lunda, or Londa. 

13th November. — We saw that the Kalongosi went north 
till it met a large meadow on the shores of Moero, and, 
turning westwards, it entered there. The fishermen gave 
us the names of 39 species of fish in the Lake ; they 
said that they never cease ascending the Kalongosi, though 
at times they are more abundant than at others : they are 
as follows. 

Monde ; Mota ; Lasa ; Kasibe ; Molobe ; Lopembe ; Mo- 
toya; Chipansa; Mpifu; Manda; Mpala; Moombo; Mfeu 
Mende; Seuse; Kadia nkololo; Etiaka; Nkomo; Lifisha 
Sambamkaka ; Ntondo ; Sampa ; Bongwe ; Mabanga ; Kise 
Kuanya ; Nkosu ; Pale ; Mosungu ; Litembwa ; Mechebere 
Koninchia ; Sipa ; Lomembe ; Molenga ; Mironge ; N findo 
Pende. 

14th November. — Being doubtful as to whether we were 
in the right path, I sent to a village to inquire. The 



18G7.] THE PORTUGUESE TRAVELLER, DR. LACERDA. 245 

headman, evidently one of a former Casenibe school, came 
to us full of wrath. "What right had we to come that way, 
seeing the usual path was to our left ? " He mouthed some 
sentences in the pompous Limda style, but would not show 
us the path ; so we left him, and after going through a 
forest of large trees, 4J hours south, took advantage of 
some huts on the Kifurwa Eiver, built by bark-cloth 
cutters. 

15th November. — Heavy rains, but we went on, and found 
a village, Kifurwa, surrounded by cassava fields, and next 
day crossed the Muatoze, 25 yards wide, and running 
strongly towards Moero, knee deep. The River Kabukwa, 
seven yards wide, and also knee deep, going to swell the 
Muatoze. 

We now crossed a brook, Chirongo, one yard wide and 
one deep ; but our march was all through well-grown forest, 
chiefly gum-copal trees and bark-cloth trees. The gum- 
copal oozes out in abundance after or during the rains, 
from holes a quarter of an inch in diameter, made by an 
insect : it falls, and in time sinks into the soil, a supply for 
future generations. The small well-rounded features of the 
people of Nsama's country are common here, as we observe 
in the salt-traders and villages ; indeed, this is the home of 
the Negro, and the features such as we see in pictures of 
ancient Egyptians, as first pointed out by Mr. Winwood 
Eeade. We sleep by the river Mandapala, 12 yards wide, 
and knee deep. 

18th November. — We rest by the Kabusi, a sluggish 
narrow rivulet. It runs into the Chungu, a quarter of a 
mile off. The Chungu is broad, but choked with trees and 
aquatic plants : Sapotas, Eschinomenas, Papyrus, tvc. The 
free stream is 18 yards wide, and waist deep. We had to 
wade about 100 yards, thigh and waist deep, to get to the 
free stream. 

On this, the Chungu, Dr. Lacerda died ; it is joined by 



246 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOUENALS. [Chap. IX. 

the Mandapala, and flows a united stream into Moero. The 
statements of the people are confused, but the following is 
what I have gleaned from many. There were some Ujiji 
people with the Casembe of the time. The Portuguese and 
Ujijians began to fight, but Casembe said to them and the 
Portuguese, " You are all my guests, why should you fight 
and kill each other ? " He then gave Lacerda ten slaves, 
and men to live with him and work at building huts, bring- 
ing firewood, water, &c. He made similar presents to the 
Ujijians, which quieted them. Lacerda was but ten days at 
Chungu when he died. The place of his death was about 
9° 32', and not 8° 43' as in Mr. Arrowsmith's map. The 
feud arose from one of Lacerda's people killing an Ujijian 
at the water: this would certainly be a barrier to their 
movements. 

Palm-oil trees are common west of the Chungu, but none 
appeared east of it. The oil is eaten by the people, and is 
very nice and sweet. This is remarkable, as the altitude 
above the sea is 3350 feet. 

Allah is a very common exclamation among all the 
people west of Nsania. By advice of a guide whom we 
picked up at Kifurwa, we sent four fathoms of calico to 
apprise Casembe of our coming : the Arabs usually send 
ten fathoms ; in our case it was a very superfluous notice, 
for Casembe is said to have been telegraphed to by 
runners at every stage of our progress after crossing the 
Kalongosi. 

We remain by the Chungu till Casembe sends one of his 
counsellors to guide us to his town. It has been so per- 
petually clouded over that we have been unable to make 
out our progress, and the dense forest prevented us seeing 
Moero as we wished : rain and thunder perpetually, though 
the rain seldom fell where we were. 

I saw pure white-headed swallows (Psalidoprocne albiceps) 
skimming the surface of the Chungu as we crossed it. The 



1867.] ARRIVES AT CASEMBE'S TOWN. 247 

soil is very rich. Casembe's ground-nuts are the largest I 
have seen, and so is the cassava. I got over a pint of palm 
oil for a cubit of calico. 

A fine young man, whose father had been the Casembe 
before this one, came to see us ; he is in the background 
now, otherwise he would have conducted us to the vil- 
lage : a son or heir does not succeed to the chieftainship 
here. 

21st November. — The River Lunde was five miles from 
Chungu. It is six yards wide where we crossed it, but 
larger further down ; springs were oozing out of its bed : 
we then entered on a broad plain, covered with bush, the 
trees being all cleared off in building a village. When one 
Casembe dies, the man who succeeds him invariably removes 
and builds his pembwe, or court, at another place : when 
Dr. Lacercla died, the Casembe moved to near the north end 
of the Mofwe. There have been seven Casembes in all. 
The word means a general. 

The plain extending from the Lunde' to the town of 
Casembe is level, and studded pretty thickly with red ant- 
hills, from 15 to 20 feet high. Casembe has made a broad 
path from his town to the Lunde, about a mile-and-a-half 
long, and as broad as a carriage-path. The chief's residence 
is enclosed in a wall of reeds, 8 or 9 feet high, and 300 
yards square, the gateway is ornamented with about sixty 
human skulls ; a shed stands in the middle of the road 
before we come to the gate, with a cannon dressed in gaudy 
cloths. A number of noisy fellows stopped our party, and 
demanded tribute for the cannon ; I burst through them, 
and the rest followed without giving anything : they were 
afraid of the English. The town is on the east bank of the 
Lakelet Mofwe, and one mile from its northern end. Mo- 
hamad bin Saleh now met us, his men firing guns of welcome ; 
he conducted us to his shed of reception, and then gave us 
a hut till we could build one of our own. Mohamad is a 



248 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. IX. 

fine portly black Arab, with a pleasant smile, and pure white 
beard, and has been more than ten years in these parts, 
and lived with four Casembes : he has considerable influence 
here, and also on Tanganyika. 

An Arab trader, Mohamad Bogarib, who arrived seven 
days before us with an immense number of slaves, presented 
a meal of vermicelli, oil, and honey, also cassava meal 
cooked, so as to resemble a sweet meat (I had not tasted 
honey or sugar since Ave left Lake Nyassa, in September 
1866) : they had coffee too. 

Neither goats, sheep, nor cattle thrive here, so the 
people are confined to fowls and fish. Cassava is very 
extensively cultivated, indeed, so generally is this plant 
grown, that it is impossible to know which is town and 
which is country : every hut has a plantation around it, 
in which is grown cassava, Holcus sorghum, maize, beans, 
nuts. 

Mohamad gives the same account of the Eiver Luapula 
and Lake Bemba that Jumbe did, but he adds, that the 
Chambeze, where we crossed it, is the Luapula before it 
enters Bemba or Bangweolo : on coming out of that Lake 
it turns round and comes away to the north, as Luapula, 
and, without touching the Mofwe, goes into Moero; then, 
emerging thence at the north-west end it becomes Lualaba, 
goes into Eua, forms a lake there, and afterwards goes into 
another lake beyond Tanganyika. 

The Lakelet Mofwe fills during the rains and spreads 
westward, much beyond its banks. Elephants wandering in 
its mud flats when covered are annually killed in numbers : 
if it were connected with the Lake Moero the flood would 
rim off. 

Many of Casembe's people appear with the ears cropped 
and hands lopped off: the present chief has been often 
guilty of this barbarity. One man has just come to us 
without ears or hands : he tries to excite our pity making a 



1867.] AN AFRICAN COURT FOOL. 240 

chirruping noise, by striking his cheeks with the stumps of 
his hands. 

A dwarf also, one Zofu, with backbone broken, comes 
about us : he talks with an air of authority, and is present 
at all public occurrences : the people seem to bear with 
him. He is a stranger from a tribe in the north, and works 
in his garden very briskly : his height is 3 feet 9 inches. 




( 250 ) 



CHAPTER X. 

Grand reception of the traveller. Casembe and his wife. Long stay in 
the town. Goes to explore Moero. Despatch to Lord Clarendon, with 
notes on recent travels. Illness at the end of 1867. Further explora- 
tion of Lake Moero. Flooded plains. The Eiver Luao. Visits Kab- 
wawata. Joy of Arabs at Mohamad bin Saleh's freedom. Again ill 
with fever. Stories of underground dwellings. 

2-ith November, 1867. — We were called to be presented to 
Casernbe in a grand reception. 

The present Casenibe lias a' heavy uninteresting coun- 
tenance, without beard or whiskers, and somewhat of the 
Chinese type, and his eyes have an outward squint. He 
smiled but once during the day, and that was pleasant enough, 
though the cropped ears and lopped hands, with human 
skulls at the gate, made me indisposed to look on anything 
with favour. His principal wife came with her attendants, 
after he had departed, to look at the Englishman (Moenge- 
rese). She was a fine, tall, good-featured lady, with two 
spears in her hand ; the principal men who had come 
around made way for her, and called on me to salute : I did 
so ; but she, being forty yards off, I involuntarily beckoned 
her to come nearer : this upset the gravity of all her 
attendants ; all burst into a laugh, and ran off. 

Casembe's smile was elicited by the dwarf making some 
uncouth antics before him. His executioner also came 
forward to look : he had a broad Lunda sword on his arm, 
and a curious scizzor-like instrument at his neck for crop- 



1867.] CASEMBE'S CHIEF WIFE. 251 

ping ears. On saying to him that his was nasty work, he 
smiled, and so did many who were not sure of their ears a 
moment : many men of respectability show that at some 
former time they have been thus punished. Casembe sent 
us another large basket of fire-dried fish in addition to 
that sent us at Chungu, two baskets of flour, one of 
dried cassava, and a pot of pombe or beer. Mohamad, who 
was accustomed to much more liberal Casembes, thinks 
this one very stingy, having neither generosity nor good 
sense; but as we cannot consume all he gives, we do not 
complain. 

27th November. — Casembe's chief wife passes frequently 
to her plantation, carried by six, or more commonly 
by twelve men in a sort of palanquin : she has European 
features, but light-brown complexion. A number of men 
run before her, brandishing swords and battle-axes, and one 
beats a hollow instrument, giving warning to passengers to 
clear the way : she has two enormous pipes ready filled for 
smoking. She is very attentive to her agriculture ; cassava 
is the chief product ; sweet potatoes, maize, sorghum, pen- 
nisetum, millet, ground-nuts, cotton. The people seem more 
savage than any I have yet seen : they strike each other 
barbarously from mere wantonness, but they are civil 
enough to me. 

Mohamad bin Saleh proposes to go to Ujiji next month. 
He waited when he heard of our coming, in order that 
we might go together : he has a very low opinion of 
the present chief. The area which has served for building 
the chief town at different times is about ten miles in 
diameter. 

Mofwe is a shallow piece of water about two miles broad, 
four or less long, full of sedgy islands, the abodes of water- 
fowl, but some are solid enough to be cultivated. The bottom 
is mud, though sandy at the east shore : it has no com- 



252 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOUKNALS. [Chap. X, 

nimiication with the Luapula. (28^ November.) The 
Lunde", Chungu, and Mandapala are said to join and flow 
into Moero. Fish are in great abundance (perch). On the 
Avest side there is a grove of palm-oil palms, and beyond 
west rises a long range of mountains of the Rua country 15 
or 20 miles off. 

1st December, 1867. — An old man named Perembe is the 
owner of the land on which Casembe has built. They 
always keep up the traditional ownership. Munongo is a 
brother of Perembe, and he owns the country east of the 
Kalongosi : if any one wished to cultivate land he would 
apply to these aboriginal chiefs for it. 

I asked a man from Casembe to guide me to south end 
of Moero, but he advised me not to go as it was so marshy. 
The Lunde forms a marsh on one side, and the Luapula 
lets water percolate through sand and mud, and so does 
the Eobukwe, which makes the path often knee deep. He 
said he would send men to conduct me to Moero, a little 
further down, and added that we had got very little to eat 
from him, and he wanted to give more. Moero's south end 
is about 9° 30' S. 

Old Perembe is a sensible man : Mohamad thinks him 
150 years old. He is always on the side of liberality and 
fairness ; he says that the first Casembe was attracted to 
Mofwe by the abundance of fish in it. He has the idea of 
all men being derived from a single pair. 

1th December.— -It is very cloudy here; no observations 
can be made, as it clouds over every afternoon and night. 
(8th and 11th December.) Cleared off last night, but inter- 
mittent fever prevented my going out. 

13th December. — Set-in rains. A number of fine young- 
girls who live in Casembe's compound came and shook 
hands in their way, which is to cross the right over to your 
left, and clasp them ; then give a few claps with both hands,. 



1867.] LEAVES CASEMBE'S TOWN. 253 

and repeat the crossed clasp : they want to tell their 
children that they have seen me. 

15th December. — To-day I announced to Casembe our 
intention of going away. Two traders got the same return 
present from him that I did, namely, one goat and some 
fish, meal and cassava. I am always ill when not working ; 
I spend my time writing letters, to be ready when we come 
to Ujiji. (l$th December.) We have been here a month, 
and I cannot get more than two limars : I got altitudes of 
the meridian of stars north and south soon after we came, 
but not limars. Casembe sent a big basket of fire-dried 
fish, two pots of beer, and a basket of cassava, and says we 
may go when we choose. 

lyth December.— On going to say good-bye to Casembe, 
he tried to be gracious, said that we had eaten but little 
of his food ; yet he allowed us to go. He sent for a man to 
escort us ; and on the 22)id December Ave went to Lunde 
Eiver, crossed it, and went on to sleep at the Chungu, close 
by the place where Casembe's court stood when Dr. Lacerda 
came, for the town was moved further west as soon as the 
Doctor died. There are many palm-oil palms about, but no 
tradition exists of their introduction. 

23rd December. — -We crossed the Chungu. Eain from 
above, and cold and wet to the waist below, as I do not 
lift my shirt, because the white skin makes all stare. I 
saw black monkeys at this spot. The Chungu is joined 
by the Kaleusi and the Mandapala before it enters 3Ioero. 
Casembe said that the Lunde ran into Mofwe ; others denied 
this, and said that it formed a marsh with numbers of pools 
in long grass ; but it may ooze into Mofwe thus. Casembe 
sent three men to guide me to Moero. 

24:th December. — Drizzly rain, and we are in a miserable 
spot by the Kabusi, in a bed of brakens four feet high. 
The guides won't stir in this weather. I gave beads to buy 
what could be got for Christmas. 



254 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. X. 

25th Decemler. — Drizzly showers every now and then; 
soil, black mud. 

About ten men came as guides and as a convoy of honour 
to Mohamad. 

27th December. — In two hours we crossed Mandapala, now 
waist deep. This part was well stocked with people five 
years ago, but Casembe's severity in cropping ears and 
other mutilations, selling the children for slight offences, 
&c, made them all flee to neighbouring tribes ; and now, if 
he sent all over the country, he could not collect a thousand 
men. 

[Livingstone refers (on the 15th Dec.) to some writings 
he was engaged upon, and we find one of them here in 
his journal which takes the form of a despatch to Lord 
Clarendon, with a note attached to the effect that it was 
not copied or sent, as he had no paper for the purpose. It 
affords an epitomised description of his late travels, and the 
stay at Casembe, and is inserted here in the place of many 
notes written daily, but which only repeat the same events 
and observations in a less readable form. It is especially 
valuable at this stage of his journal, because it treats on the 
whole geography of the district between Lakes Nyassa and 
Moero, with a broad handling which is impossible in the 
mere jottings of a diary.] 



Town of Casembe, 10th Decemler, 1867. 

Lat. 9° 37' 13" South ; long. 28° East. 

The Eight Honourable The Eakl of Clarendon. 

My Lord, — The first opportunity I had of sending a letter 
to the coast occurred in February last, when I was at a 
village called Molemba (lat. 10° 14' S.; long. 31° 46 r E.), 
in the country named Lobemba. Lobisa, Lobemba, Ulungu 



1867.] DESPATCH TO LOED CLARENDON. 255 

and Itawa-Lunda are the names by which the districts of 
an elevated region between the parallels 11° and 8° south, 
and meridians 28°-33° long, east, are known. The altitude 
of this upland is from 4000 to 6000 feet above the level of 
the sea. It is generally covered with forest, well watered 
by numerous rivulets, and comparatively cold. The soil 
is very rich, and yields abundantly wherever cultivated. 
This is the watershed between the Loangwa, a tributary 
of the Zambesi, and several rivers Arhich flow towards the 
north. Of the latter, the most remarkable is the Chambeze, 
for it assists in the formation of three lakes, and changes its 
name three times in the five or six hundred miles of its 
course. 

On leaving Lobemba we entered Ulungu, and, as we pro- 
ceeded northwards, perceived by the barometers and the 
courses of numerous rivulets, that a decided slope lay in 
that direction. A friendly old Ulungu chief, named Kasonso, 
on hearing that I wished to visit Lake Liemba, which lies 
in his country, gave his son with a large escort to guide 
me thither ; and on the 2nd April last we reached the brim 
of the deep cup-like cavity in which the Lake reposes. 
The descent is 2000 feet, and still the surface of the water 
is upwards of 2500 feet above the level of the sea. The 
sides of the hollow are very steep, and sometimes the rocks 
run the whole 2000 feet sheer down to the water. Nowhere 
is there three miles of level land from the foot of the cliffs 
to the shore, but top, sides, and bottom are covered with 
well-grown wood and grass, except where the bare rocks 
protrude. The scenery is extremely beautiful. The 
" Aeasy," a stream of 15 yards broad and thigh deep, came 
down alongside our precipitous path, and formed cascades 
by leaping* 300 feet at a time. These, with the bright 
red of the clay schists among the greenwood-trees, made 
the dullest of my attendants pause and remark with wonder. 
Antelopes, buffaloes, and elephants abound on the steep 



*256 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOUENALS. [Chap. X. 

slopes ; and hippopotami, crocodiles, and fish swarm in the 
water. Gnus are here unknown, and these animals may 
live to old age if not beguiled into pitfalls. The elephants 
sometimes eat the crops of the natives, and flap their big- 
ears just outside the village stockades. One got out of our 
way on to a comparatively level spot, and then stood and 
roared at us. Elsewhere they make clear off at sight of 
man. 

The first village we came to on the banks of the Lake had 
a grove of palm-oil and other trees around it. This palm- 
tree was not the dwarf species seen on Lake Nyassa. A 
cluster of the fruit passed the door of my hut which required 
two men to carry it. The fruit seemed quite as large as 
those on the West Coast. Most of the natives live on two 
islands, where they cultivate the soil, rear goats, and catch 
fish. The Lake is not large, from 15 to 20 miles broad, 
and from 30 to 40 long. It is the receptacle of four con- 
siderable streams, and sends out an arm two miles broad to 
the N.N.W., it is said to Tanganyika, and it may be 
a branch of that Lake. One of the streams, the Lonzua, 
drives a smooth body of water into the Lake fifty yards broad 
and ten fathoms deep, bearing on its surface duck-weed and 
grassy islands. I could see the mouths of other streams, 
but got near enough to measure the Lo'fu only ; and at a 
ford fifty miles from the confluence it was 100 yards wide 
and waist deep in the dry season. 

We remained six weeks on the shores of the Lake, trying 
to pick up some flesh and strength. A party of Arabs came 
into Ulungu after us in search of ivory, and hearing that 
an Englishman had preceded them, naturally inquired 
where I was. But our friends, the Biiulungu, suspecting 
that mischief was meant, stoutly denied that they had ever 
seen anything of the sort; and then became very urgent 
that I should go on to one of the inhabited islands for 
safety. I regret that I suspected them of intending to 



1867.] DESCRIPTIVE RESUME. 257 

make nie a prisoner there, which they could easily have 
<lone by removing the canoes ; but when the villagers who 
deceived the Arabs told me afterwards with an air of 
triumph how nicely they had managed, I saw that they had 
only been anxious for my safety. On three occasions the 
same friendly disposition was shown; and when we went 
round the west side of the Lake in order to examine the arm 
or branch above referred to, the headman at the confluence 
of the Lofu protested so strongly against my going — the 
Arabs had been fighting, and I might be mistaken for an 
Arab, and killed — that I felt half-inclined to believe him. 
Two Arab slaves entered the village the same afternoon in 
search of ivory, and confirmed all he had said. We now 
altered our course, intending to go south about the district 
disturbed by the Arabs. When we had gone 60 miles we 
heard that the head-quarters of the Arabs were 22 miles 
further. They had found ivory very cheap, and pushed on 
to the west, till attacked by a chief named Nsama, whom 
they beat in his own stockade. They were now at a loss 
which way to turn. On reaching Chitimba's village 
<lat. 8° 57' 55" S. ; long. 30° 20' E.), I found them about 
600 in all; and, on presenting a letter I had from the 
Sultan of Zanzibar, was immediately supplied with pro- 
visions, beads, and cloth. They approved of my plan of 
jmssing to the south of Nsama's country, but advised 
waiting till the effects of punishment, which the Baulimgu 
had resolved to inflict on Nsama for breach of public law, 
were known. It had always been understood that whoever 
brought goods into the country was to be protected ; and 
two hours after my arrival at Chitimba's, the son of Kasonso, 
our guide, marched in with his contingent. It was anti- 
cipated that Nsama might flee ; if to the north, he would 
leave me a free passage through his country; if to the 
south, I might be saved from walking into his hands. But 
it turned out that Nsama was anxious for peace. He had 
vol. i. s 



258 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. X. 

sent two men with, elephants' tusks to begin a negotiation ; 
but treachery was suspected, and they were shot down. 
Another effort was made with ten goats, and repulsed. 
This was much to the regret of the head Arabs. It was- 
fortunate for me that the Arab goods were not all sold, for 
Lake Moero lay in Nsama's country, and without peace no- 
ivory could be bought, nor could I reach the Lake. The 
peace-making between the people and Arabs was, however,, 
a tedious process, occupying three and a half months — 
drinking each other's blood. This, as I saw it west of thi& 
in 1854, is not more horrible than the thirtieth dilution 
of deadly night-shade or strychnine is in homceopathy. I 
thought that had I been an Arab I could easily swallow 
that, but not the next means of cementing the peace — 
marrying a black wife. jSTsama's daughter was the bride, 
and she turned out very pretty. She came riding picka- 
back on a man's shoulders : this is the most dignified con- 
veyance that chiefs and their families can command. She 
had ten maids with her, each carrying a basket of pro- 
visions, and all having the same beautiful features as herself. 
She was taken by the principal Arab, but soon showed that 
she preferred her father to her husband, for seeing prepara- 
tions made to send off to purchase ivory, she suspected that 
her father was to be attacked, and made her escape. I then 
visited Nsania, and, as he objected to many people coming 
near him, took only three of my eight attendants. His 
people were very much afraid of fire-arms, and felt all my 
clothing to see if I had any concealed on my person. 
Nsama is an old man, with head and face like those 
sculptured on the Assyrian monuments. He has been a 
great conqueror in his time, and with bows and arrows was 
invincible. He is said to have destroyed many native 
traders from Tanganyika, but twenty Arab guns made him 
flee from his own stockade, and caused a great sensation in 
the country. He was much taken with my hair and woollen 



1867.] DESCRIPTIVE RESUME. 25Cf 

clothing ; but his people, heedless of his scolding, so pressed 
upon us that we could not converse, and, after promising to 
send for me to talk during the night, our interview ended. 
He promised guides to Moero, and sent us more provisions 
than we could carry ; but showed so much distrust, that 
after all we went without his assistance. 

Nsama's people are particularly handsome. Many of the 
men have as beautiful heads as one could find in an assembly 
of Europeans. All have very fine forms, with small hands 
and feet. None of the West-coast ugliness, from which most 
of our ideas of the Negroes are derived, is here to be seem 
No prognathous jaws nor lark-heels offended the sight. My 
observations deepened the impression first obtained from 
the remarks of Winwood Keade, that the typical Negro is 
seen in the ancient Egyptian, and not in the ungainly forms 
which grow up in the unhealthy swamps of the West Coast. 
Indeed it is probable that this upland forest region is the 
true home of the Negro. The women excited the admiration, 
of the Arabs. They have fine, small, well-formed features :: 
their great defect is one of fashion, which does not extend 
to the next tribe; they file their teeth to points, the 
hussies, and that makes their smile like that of the- 
crocodile. 

Nsama's country is called Itawa, and his principal town 
is in lat. 8° 55' S., and long. 29° 21' E. From the large 
population he had under him, Itawa is in many parts well 
cleared of trees for cultivation, and it is lower than Ulungu, 
being generally about 3000 feet above the sea. Long lines 
of tree-covered hills raised some 600 or 700 feet above these 
valleys of denudation, prevent the scenery from being mono- 
tonous. Large game is abundant. Elephants, buffaloes, 
and zebras grazed in large numbers on the long sloping- 
banks of a river called Chisera, a mile and a half broad. In 
going north we crossed this river, or rather marsh, which 
is full of papyrus plants and reeds. Our ford was an 

s 2 



260 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOUENALS. [Chap. X. 

elephant's path; and the roots of the papyrus, though a 
carpet to these animals, were sharp and sore to feet usually- 
protected by shoes, and often made us shrink and flounder 
into holes chest deep. The Chisera forms a larger marsh 
west of this, and it gives off its water to the Kalongosi, a 
feeder of Lake Moero. 

The Arabs sent out men in all directions to purchase 
ivory; but their victory over Nsama had created a panic 
among the tribes which no verbal assurances could allay. 
If Nsama had been routed by twenty Arab guns no one 
could stand before them but Casembe; and Casembe had 
issued strict orders to his people not to allow the Arabs 
who fought Nsama to enter his country. They did not 
attempt to force their way, but after sending friendly 
messages and presents to different chiefs, when these were 
not cordially received, turned off in some other direction, 
and at last, despairing of more ivory, turned homewards. 
From first to last they were extremely kind to me, and 
showed all due respect to the Sultan's letter. I am glad 
that I was witness to their mode of trading in ivory and 
slaves. It formed a complete contrast to the atrocious 
dealings of the Kilwa traders, who are supposed to be, but 
are not, the subjects of the same Sultan. If one wished 
to depict the slave-trade in its most attractive, or rather 
least objectionable, form, he would accompany these gen- 
tlemen subjects of the Sultan of Zanzibar. If he would 
describe the land traffic in its most disgusting phases 
he would follow the Kilwa traders along the road to 
Nyassa, or the Portuguese half-castes from Tette to the 
River Shire. 

Keeping to the north of Nsama altogether, and moving 
westwards, our small party reached the north end of Moero 
on the 8th November last. There the Lake is a goodly 
piece of water twelve or more miles broad, and flanked on 
the east and west by ranges of lofty tree-covered mountains. 



1867.] DESCRIPTIVE RESUME. 261 

The range on the west is the highest, and is part of the 
country called Eua-Moero ; it gives off a river at its north- 
west end called Lualaba, and receives the River Kalongosi 
(pronounced by the Arabs Karungwesi) on the east near its 
middle, and the rivers Luapula and Rovukwe at its southern 
extremity. The point of most interest in Lake Moero is 
that it forms one of a chain of lakes, connected by a river 
some 500 miles in length. First of all the Chambeze 
rises in the country of Mambwe, N.E. of Molemba. It 
then flows south-west and west till it reaches lat. 11° S., 
and long. 29° E., where it forms Lake Bemba or Bangweolo, 
emerging thence it assumes the new name Luapula, and 
comes down here to fall into Moero. On going out of this 
Lake it is known by the name Lualaba, as it flows N.W. in 
Bua to form another Lake with many islands called Urenge 
or Ulenge. Beyond this, information is not positive as to 
Avhether it enters Tanganyika or another Lake beyond that. 
When I crossed the Chambeze, the similarity of names led 
me to imagine that this was a branch of the Zambesi. The 
natives said, " No. This goes south-west, and forms a very 
large water there." But I had become prepossessed with 
the idea that Lake Liemba was that Bemba of which I had 
heard in 1863, and we had been so starved in the south 
that I gladly set my face north. The river-like prolonga- 
tion of Liemba might go to Moero, and where I could not 
follow the arm of Liemba. Then I worked my way to this 
Lake. Since coming to Casembe's the testimony of natives 
and Arabs has been so united and consistent, that I am but 
ten days from Lake Bemba, or Bangweolo, that I cannot 
doubt its accuracy. I am so tired of exploration without a 
word from home or anywhere else for two years, that I must 
go to Ujiji on Tanganyika for letters before doing any thing- 
else. The banks and country adjacent to Lake Bangweolo 
are reported to be now very muddy and very unhealthy. 
I have no medicine. The inhabitants suffer greatly from 



•262 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. X. 

swelled thyroid gland or Derbyshire neck and elephantiasis, 
and this is the rainy season and very unsafe for me. 

When at the lower end of Moero we were so near Ca- 
sembe that it was thought well to ascertain the length of 
the Lake, and see Casembe too. We came up between the 
double range that flanks the east of the Lake ; but moun- 
tains and plains are so covered with well-grown forest that 
we could seldom see it. We reached Casembe's town on the 
28th November. It stands near the north end of the 
Lakelet Mofwe ; this is from one to three miles broad, and 
some six or seven long: it is full of sedgy islands, and 
abounds in fish. The country is quite level, but fifteen or 
twenty miles west of Mofwe we see a long range of the 
mountains of Eua. Between this range and Mofwe the 
Luapula flows past into Moero, the Lake called Moero okata 
— the great Moero, being about fifty miles long. The town 
of Casembe covers a mile square of cassava plantations, the 
huts being dotted over that space. Some have square 
enclosures of reeds, but no attempt has been made at 
arrangement : it might be called a rural village rather 
than a town. No estimate could be formed by counting 
the huts, they were so irregularly planted, and hidden by 
cassava; but my impression from other collections of huts 
was that the population was under a thousand souls. The 
court or compound of Casembe — some would call it a 
palace — is a square enclosure of 300 yards by 200 yards. 
It is surrounded by a hedge of high reeds. Inside, where 
Casembe honoured me with a grand reception, stands a 
gigantic hut for Casembe, and a score of small huts for 
domestics. The Queen's hut stands behind that of the 
chief, with a number of small huts also. Most of the en- 
closed space is covered with a plantation of cassava, Cureus 
jmrgaris, and cotton. Casembe sat before his hut on a 
square seat placed on lion and leopard skins. He was 
clothed in a coarse blue and white Manchester print edged 



1867.] DESCRIPTIVE RESUME. 203 

with red baize, and arranged in large folds so as to look 
like a crinoline put on wrong side foremost. His arms, 
legs and head were covered with sleeves, leggings and cap 
made of various coloured beads in neat patterns : a crown 
of yellow feathers surmounted his cap. Each of his head- 
men came forward, shaded by a huge, ill-made umbrella, 
and followed by his dependants, made obeisance to Ca- 
sembe, and sat down on his right and left : various bands 
of musicians did the same. When called upon I rose and 
bowed, and an old counsellor, with his ears cropped, gave 
the chief as full an account as he had been able to gather 
during our stay of the English in general, and my ante- 
cedents in particular. My having passed through Lunda 
to the west of Casembe, and visited chiefs of whom he 
scarcely knew anything, excited most attention. He then 
assured me that I was welcome to his country, to go where 
I liked, and do what I chose. We then went (two boys 
carrying his train behind him) to an inner apartment, where 
the articles of my present were exhibited in detail. He 
had examined them privately before, and we knew that he 
was satisfied. They consisted of eight yards of orange- 
coloured serge, a large striped tablecloth ; another large 
cloth made at Manchester in imitation of West Coast native 
manufacture, which never fails to excite the admiration of 
Arabs and natives, and a large richly gilded comb for the 
back hair, such as ladies wore fifty years ago : this was 
given to me by a friend at Liverpool, and as Casembe 
and Nsama's people cultivate the hair into large knobs 
behind, I was sure that this article would tickle the fancy. 
Casembe expressed himself pleased, and again bade me 
welcome. 

I had another interview, and tried to dissuade him from 
selling his people as slaves. He listened awhile, then broke 
off into a tirade on the greatness of his country, his power 
iind dominion, which Mohamad bin Saleh, who has been here 



264 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. X. 

for ten years, turned into ridicule, and made the audience 
laugh by telling how other Lunda chiefs had given me oxen 
and sheep, while Casembe had only a poor little goat and 
some fish to bestow. He insisted also that there were but 
two sovereigns in the world, the Sultan of Zanzibar and 
Victoria. When we went on a third occasion to bid 
Casembe farewell, he was much less distant, and gave me- 
the impression that I could soon become friends with him ; 
but he has an ungainly look, and an outward squint in each 
eye. A number of human skulls adorned the entrance to 
his courtyard ; and great numbers of his principal men 
having their ears cropped, and some with their hands 
lopped off, showed his barbarous way of making his minis- 
ters attentive and honest. I could not avoid indulging a 
prejudice against him. 

The Portuguese visited Casembe long ago ; but as each 
new Casembe builds a new town, it is not easy to fix on 
the exact spot to which strangers came. The last seven 
Casembes have had their towns within seven miles of the 
present one. Dr. Lacerda, Governor of Tette, on the Zam- 
besi, was the only visitor of scientific attainments, and he 
died at the rivulet called Chungu, three or four miles from 
this. The spot is called Nshinda, or Inchinda, which the 
Portuguese wrote Lucenda or Ucenda. The latitude given 
is nearly fifty miles wrong, but the natives say that he 
lived only ten days after his arrival, and if, as is probable, 
his mind was clouded with fever when he last observed, 
those who have experienced what that is will readily excuse 
any mistake he may have made. His object was to accom- 
plish a much-desired project of the Portuguese to have an 
overland communication between their eastern and western 
possessions. This was never made by any of the Portu- 
guese nation; but two black traders succeeded partially 
with a part of the distance, crossing once from Cassange, in 
Angola, to Tette on the Zambesi, and returning with a 



1867.] DESCRIPTIVE RESUME. 265 

letter from the Governor of Mosambique. It is remarkable 
that this journey, which was less by a thousand miles than 
from sea to sea and back again, should have for ever 
quenched all white Portuguese aspirations for an overland 
route. 

The different Casembes visited by the Portuguese seem 
to have varied much in character and otherwise. Pereira, 
the first visitor, said (I quote from memory) that Casembe 
had 20,000 trained soldiers, watered his streets daily, and 
sacrificed twenty human victims every day. I could hear 
nothing of human sacrifices now, and it is questionable 
if the present Casembe could bring a thousand stragglers 
into the field. When he usurped power five years ago, his 
country was densely peopled ; but he was so severe in his 
punishments — cropping the ears, lopping off the hands, and 
other mutilations, selling the children for very slight 
offences, that his subjects gradually dispersed themselves in 
the neighbouring countries beyond his power. This is the 
common mode by which tyranny is cured in parts like these r 
where fugitives are never returned. The present Casembe 
is very poor. When he had people who killed elephant* 
he was too stingy to share the profits of the sale of the 
ivory with his subordinates. The elephant hunters have 
either left him or neglect hunting, so he has now no tusks 
to sell to the Arab traders who come from Tanganyika. 
Major Monteiro, the third Portuguese who visited Casembe,. 
appears to have been badly treated by this man's prede- 
cessor, and no other of his nation has ventured so far since. 
They do not lose much by remaining away, for a little ivory 
and slaves are all that Casembe ever can have to selL 
About a month to the west of this the people of Katanga 
smelt copper-ore (malachite) into large bars shaped like the 
capital letter I. They may be met with of from 50 lbs. to 
100 lbs. weight all over the country, and the inhabitants 
draw the copper into wire for armlets and leglets. Gold is 






266 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. X. 

also found at Katanga, and specimens were lately sent to the 
Sultan of Zanzibar. 

As we come down from the watershed towards Tanganyika 
we enter an area of the earth's surface still disturbed by 
internal igneous action. A hot fountain in the country of 
Nsama is often used to boil cassava and maize. Earth- 
quakes are by no means rare. We experienced the shock: of 
one while at Chitimba's village, and they extend as far as 
Casembe's. I felt as if afloat, and as huts would not fall 
there was no sense of danger ; some of them that happened at 
night set the fowls a cackling. The most remarkable effect 
of this one was that it changed the rates of the chronometers ; 
no rain fell after it. No one had access to the chronometers 
but myself, and, as I never heard of this effect before, I may 
mention that one which lost with great regularity l s *5 
daily, lost 15 s ; another; whose rate since leaving the coast 
was 15 8 , lost 40 s ; and a third, which gained 6 s daily, stopped 
altogether. Some of Nsama's people ascribed the earth- 
quakes to the hot fountain, because it showed unusual com- 
motion on these occasions ; another hot fountain exists near 
Tanganyika than Nsama's, and we passed one on the shores 
of Moero. 

We could not understand why the natives called Moero 
much larger than Tanganyika till we saw both. The 
greater Lake lies in a comparatively narrow trough, with 
highland on each side, which is always visible ; but when we 
look at Moero, to the south of the mountains of Eua on the 
west, we have nothing but an apparently boundless sea 
horizon. The Luapula and Eovukwe form a marsh at the 
southern extremity, and Casembe dissuaded me from en- 
tering it, but sent a man to guide me to different points 
of Moero further down. From the heights at which the 
southern portions were seen, it must be from forty to sixty 
miles broad. From the south end of the mountains of Eua 
(9° 4' south lat.) it is thirty-three miles broad. No native 



1867.] THE POTATO. COTTON. 267 

ever attempts to cross it even there. Its fisheries are of 
great value to the inhabitants, and the produce is carried to 
great distances. 

Among the vegetable products of this region, that which 
interested me most was a sort of potato. It does not belong 
to the solanaceous, but to* the papilionaceous or pea family, 
and its flowers have a delightful fragrance. It is easily 
propagated by small cuttings of the root or stalk. The 
tuber is oblong, like our kidney potato, and when boiled 
tastes exactly like our common potato. When unripe it has 
a, slight degree of bitterness, and it is believed to be 
wholesome ; a piece of the root eaten raw is a good remedy 
in nausea. It is met with on the uplands alone, and seems 
incapable of bearing much heat, though I kept some of the 
roots without earth in a box, which was carried in the sun 
almost daily for six months, without destroying their 
vegetative power. 

It is remarkable that in all the central regions of Africa 
visited, the cotton is that known as the Pernambuco variety. 
It has a long strong staple, seeds clustered together, and 
adherent to each other. The bushes eight or ten feet high 
have woody stems, and the people make strong striped 
black and white shawls of the cotton. 

It was pleasant to meet the palm-oil palm (Elais Gui- 
neaensis) at Casembe's, which is over 3000 feet above the 
level of the sea. The oil is sold cheap, but no tradition 
exists of its introduction into the country. 

I send no sketch of the country, because I have not yet 
passed over a sufficient surface to give a connected view 
of the whole watershed of this region, and I regret that I 
cannot recommend any of the published maps I have seen as 
giving even a tolerable idea of the country. One bold con- 
structor of maps has tacked on 200 miles to the north-west 
end of Lake ISTyassa, a feat which no traveller has ever 
ventured to imitate. Another has placed a river in the 



268 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOUKNALS. [Chap. X. 

same quarter running 3000 or 4000 feet up hill, and named 
it the " New Zambesi," because I suppose the old Zambesi 
runs down hill. I have walked over both these mental 
abortions, and did not know that I was walking on water till 
I saw them in the maps. 

[The despatch breaks off at this point. The year con- 
cludes with health impaired. As time goes on we shall see 
how ominous the conviction was which made him dread the 
swamps of Bangweolo.] 

28-Slst December, 1867. — We came on to the rivulet 
Chirongo, and then to the Kabukwa, where I was taken ill. 
Heavy rains kept the convoy back. I have had nothing but 
coarsely-ground sorghum meal for some time back, and am 
weak ; I used to be the first in the line of march, and am 
now the last ; Mohamad presented a meal of finely-ground 
porridge and a fowl, and I immediately felt the difference, 
though I was not grumbling at my coarse dishes. It is well 
that I did not go to Bangweolo Lake, for it is now very 
unhealthy to the natives, and I fear that without medicine 
continual wettings by fording rivulets might have knocked 
me up altogether. As I have mentioned, the people suffer 
greatly from swelled thyroid gland or Derbyshire neck and 
Elephantiasis scroti. 

1st January, 1868. — Almighty Father, forgive the sins of 
the past year for Thy Son's sake. Help me to be more 
profitable during this year. If I am to die this year pre- 
pare me for it. 

****** 

I bought five hoes at two or three yards of calico each : 
they are 13^ inches by 6^ inches; many are made in 
Casembe's country, and this is the last place we can find 
them: when we come into Buire we can purchase a good 
goat for one ; one of my goats died and the other dried up.. 



1868.] THE LAKE MOERO. 209 

I long for others, for milk is the most strengthening food I 
can get. 

My guide to Moero came to-day, and I visited the Lake 
several times, so as to get a good idea of its size. The first 
fifteen miles in the north are from twelve or more to thirty- 
three miles broad. The great mass of the Kua Mountains 
confines it. Thus in a clear day a lower range is seen con- 
tinued from the high point of the first mass away to the 
west south-west, this ends, and sea horizon is alone visible 
away to the south and west; from the height we viewed it at, 
the width must be over forty, perhaps sixty miles. A large 
island, called Kirwa,* is situated between the Mandapala and 
Kabukwa Rivers, but nearest to the other shore. The natives 
never attempt to cross any part of the Lake south of this 
Kirwa. Land could not be seen with a good glass on the 
clearest day we had. I can understand why the natives 
pronounced Moero to be larger than Tanganyika : in the 
last named they see the land always on both sides; it is 
like a vast trough flanked with highlands, but at Moero 
nothing but sea horizon can be seen when one looks south- 
west of the Rua Mountains. 

At the Kalongosi meadow one of Mohamad's men shot 
a buffalo, and he gave me a leg of the good beefy flesh. 
Our course was slow, caused partly by rains, and partly by 
waiting for the convoy. The people at Kalongosi were 
afraid to ferry us or any of his people in the convoy out of 
Casembe's country ; but at last we gave a good fee, and 
their scruples yielded : they were influenced also by seeing 
other villagers ready to undertake the job ; the latter 
nearly fought over us on seeing that their neighbours got 
all the fare. 

We then came along the Lake, and close to its shores. 



* Kirwa and its various corruptions, such as Shirwa, Chirua, and 
Kiroa, perpetually recur in Africa, and would almost seem to stand for 
" the island."— Ed. 



270 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOUENALS. [Chap. X. 

The moisture caused a profusion of gingers, ferns, and tro- 
pical forest : buffaloes, zebras and elephants are numerous, 
and the villagers at Chukosi's, where we slept, warned us 
against lions and leopards. 

12th January. — Sunday at Karembwe's village. The 
mountains east of him are called Makunga. We went 
yesterday to the shore, and by protraction Rua point was 
distant thirty-three miles. Karembwe sent for us, to have 
an audience ; he is a large man with a gruff voice, but liked 
by his people and by strangers. I gave him a cloth, and 
he gave me a goat. The enthusiasm with which I held on 
to visit Moero had communicated itself to Tipo Tipo and 
Syde bin Alle, for they followed me up to this place to 
see the Lake, and remained five days while we were at 
Casembe's. Other Arabs, or rather Suahelis, must have 
seen it, but never mentioned it as anything worth looking 
at ; and it was only when all hope of ivory was gone that 
these two headmen found time to come. There is a large 
population here. 

13th January. — Heavy rains. Karembe mentioned a na- 
tural curiosity as likely to interest me: a little rivulet, 
Chipamba, goes some distance underground, but is un- 
interesting. 

Next day we crossed the Vuna, a strong torrent, which 
has a hot fountain close by the ford, in which maize and 
cassava may be boiled. A large one in Nsama's country is 
used in the same way, maize and cassava being tied to a 
string and thrown in to be cooked : some natives believe 
that earthquakes are connected with its violent ebullitions. 
We crossed the Katette, another strong torrent, before 
reaching the north end of Moero, where we slept in some 
travellers' huts. 

Leaving the Lake, and going north, we soon got on to a 
plain flooded by the Luao. We had to wade through very 
adhesive black mud, generally ankle deep, and having 



1868.] CROSSES THE LUAO. KABWABWATA. 271 

many holes in it muck deeper : we had four hours of this, 
and then came to the ford of the Luao itself. We waded 
up a branch of it waist deep for at least a quarter of a mile, 
then crossed a narrow part by means of a rude bridge of 
branches and trees, of about forty yards width. The Luao, 
in spreading over the plains, confers benefits on the in- 
habitants, though I could not help concluding it imparts 
disease too, for the black mud in places smells horribly. 
Great numbers of Siluridae, chiefly Clarices Capensis, often 
three feet in length, spread over the flooded portions of 
the country, eating the young of other fishes, and insects, 
lizards, and worms, killed by the waters. The people 
make weirs for them, and as the waters retire kill large 
numbers, which they use as a relish to their farinaceous 
food. 

16th January. — After sleeping near the Luao we went on 
towards the village, in which Mohamad's son lives. It is on 
the Kakoma Biver, and is called Kabwabwata, the village of 
Mubao. In many of the villages the people shut their 
stockades as soon as we appear, and stand bows and arrows 
in hand till we have passed : the reason seems to be that 
the slaves when out of sight of their masters carry things 
with a high hand, demanding food and other things as if 
they had power and authority. One slave stole two tobacco 
pipes yesterday in passing through a village ; the villagers 
complained to me when I came up, and I waited till Mo- 
hamad came and told him ; we then went forward, the men 
keeping close to me till we got the slave and the pipes. 
They stole cassava as we went along, but this could scarcely 
be prevented. They laid hold of a plant an inch-and-a-half 
thick, and tore it out of the soft soil with its five or six 
roots as large as our largest carrots, stowed the roots away 
in their loads, and went on eating them ; but the stalk 
thrown among those still growing shows the theft. The 
raw roots are agreeable and nutritious. Ko great harm 



272 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. X. 

is done by this, for the gardens are so large, but it inspires 
distrust in the inhabitants, and makes it dangerous for 
Arabs to travel not fully manned and armed. 

On reaching the village Kabwabwata a great demonstra- 
tion was made by Mohamad's Arab dependants and Wan- 
yam wesi : the women had their faces all smeared with pipe- 
clay, and lullilooed with all their might. When we came 
among the huts, they cast handfuls of soil on their heads, 
while the men fired off their guns as fast as they could 
load them. Those connected with Mohamad ran and kissed 
his hands, and fired, till the sound of shouting, lullilooing, 
clapping of hands, and shooting was deafening : Mohamad 
was quite overcome by this demonstration, and it was long 
before he could still them. 

On the way to this village from the south we observed an 
extensive breadth of land, under ground-nuts which are 
made into oil : a large jar of this is sold for a hoe. The 
ground-nuts were now in flower, and green maize ready to 
be eaten. People all busy planting, transplanting, or 
weeding ; they plant cassava on mounds prepared for it, 
on which they have sown beans, sorghum, maize, pumpkins : 
these ripen, and leave the cassava a free soil. The sorghum 
or dura is sown thickly, and when about a foot high — if the 
owner has been able to prepare the soil elsewhere — it is 
transplanted, a portion of the leaves being cut off to pre- 
vent too great evaporation and the death of the plant. 

11th January. — The Wanyamwesi and people of Gara- 
ganza say that we have thirteen days' march from this to 
the Tanganyika Lake. It is often muddy, and many 
rivulets are to be crossed. 

Mohamad is naturally anxious to stay a little while with 
his son, for it is a wet season, and the mud is disagreeable 
to travel over : it is said to be worse near Ujiji : he cooks 
small delicacies for me with the little he has, and tries to 
make me comfortable. Vinegar is made from bananas, and 



1868.] INTELLIGENCE CONCERNING TANGANYIKA. 273 

oil from ground-nuts. I am anxious to be off, but chiefly 
to get news. 

I find that many Unyamwesi people are waiting here, on 
account of the great quantity of rainwater in front : it would 
be difficult, they say, to get canoes on Tanganyika, as the 
waves are now large. 

24dh January. — Two of Mohamad Bogharib's people came 
from Casembe's to trade here, and a body of Syde bin 
Habib's people also from Garaganza, near Kaze, they 
report the flooded lands on this side of Lake Tangan- 
yika as waist and chest deep. Bin Habib, being at Ka- 
tanga, will not stir till the rains are over, and I fear we 
are storm-stayed till then too. The feeders of the Marungu 
are not fordable just now, and no canoes are to be had. 

26th and 27th January. — I am ill with fever, as I always 
am when stationary. 

28th January. — Better, and thankful to Him of the 
Greatest Name. We must remain ; it is a dry spot, and 
favourable for ground-nuts. Hooping-cough here. 

30th January. — The earth cooled by the rain last night 
sets all to transplanting dura or sorghum ; they cut the 
leaves till only about eighteen inches of them are left, but 
it grows all the better for the change of place. 

Mohamad believes that Tanganyika flows through Busizi 
to Lohinde. (Chuambo.) 

Seyd Seyd is said to have been the first Arab Sultan who 
traded, and Seyed Majid follows the example of his father, 
and has many Arab traders in his employment. He lately 
sent eight buffaloes to Mteza, king of Uganda, son of Sunna, 
by way of increasing his trade, but it is not likely that he 
will give up the lucrative trade in ivory and slaves. 

Susi bought a hoe with a little gunpowder, then a cylinder 
of dura, three feet long by two feet in diameter, for the hoe : 
it is at least one hundredweight. 

Stone underground houses are reported in Kua, but whether 

VOL. i. T 






274 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. X. 

natural or artificial Mohamad could not say. If a present is 
made to the Eua chiefs they never obstruct passengers. 

Chikosi, at whose village we passed a night, near Ka- 
longosi, and Chiputa are both dead. 

The Mofwe fills during the greater rains, and spreads over 
a large district ; elephants then wander in its marshes, and 
are killed easily by people in canoes: this happens every 
year, and Mohamad Bogharib waits now for this ivory. 

7th to 21st February, 1868. — On inquiring of men who 
have seen the underground houses in Eua, I find that they 
are very extensive, ranging along mountain sides for twenty 
miles, and in one part a rivulet flows inside. In some cases 
the doorways are level with the country adjacent : in others, 
ladders are used to climb up to them ; inside they are said 
to be very large, and not the work of men, but of God. 
The people have plenty of fowls, and they too obtain shelter 
in these Troglodyte habitations. 

23rd February. — I was visited by an important chief 
called Chape, who said that he wanted to make friends with 
the English. He, Chisapi, Sama, Muabo, Karembwe, are of 
one tribe or family, the Oanza: he did not beg anything, 
and promised to send me a goat. 



CHAPTER XI. 

Biot in the camp. Mohamad's account of his long imprisonment. Super- 
stitions about children's teeth. Concerning dreams. News of Lake 
Chowambe. Life of the Arab slavers. The Katanga gold supply. 
Muabo. Ascent of the Eua Mountains. Syde bin Habib. Birthday 
19th March, 1868. Hostility of Mpweto. Contemplates visiting Lake 
Bemba. Nile sources. Men desert. The shores of Moero. Visits 
Fungafunga. Beturn to Casembe's. Obstructiveness of " Cropped-ears." 
Accounts of Fereira and Dr. Lacerda. Major Monteiro. The line of 
Casembe's. Casembe explains the connection of the Lakes and the 
Luapula. Queen Moari. Arab sacrifice. Kapika gets rid of his wife. 

2-ith February, 1868. — Some slaves who came with. Mohamad 
Bogharib's agent, abused my men this morning, as bringing 
unclean meat into the village to sell, though it had been 
killed by a man of the Wanyamwesi. They called out, 
" Kaffir, Kaffir ! " and Susi, roused by this, launched 
forth with a stick ; the others joined in the row, and the 
offenders were beat off, but they went and collected all 
their number and renewed the assault. One threw a heavy 
block of w T ood and struck Simon on the head, making him 
quite insensible and convulsed for some time. He has three 
wounds on the head, which may prove serious. This is the 
first outburst of Mohamadan bigotry we have met, and by 
those who know so little of the creed that it is questionable 
if one of them can repeat the formula: "La illaha ilia 
lahu Mohamad Rasulela salla lahu, a leihi oa Salama." 
Simon recovered, but Gallahs are in general not strong. 

25th February. — Mohamad called on me this morning to 
apologise for the outrage of yesterday, but no one was 

T 2 



276 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. XL 

to blame except the slaves, and I wanted no punishment 
inflicted if they were cautioned for the future. It seems 
plain that if they do not wish to buy the unclean meat they 
can let it alone, — no harm is done. The Wanyamwesi kill 
for all, and some Mohamadans say that they won't eat of it, 
but their wives and people do eat it privately. 

I asked Mohamad to-day if it were true that he was a pri- 
soner at Casembe's. He replied, " Quite so." Some Garaganza 
people, now at Katanga, fought with Casembe, and Mohamad 
was suspected of being connected with them. Casembe 
attacked his people, and during the turmoil a hundred 
frasilahs of copper were stolen from him, and many of hi& 
people killed. Casembe kept him a prisoner till sixty of his 
people were either killed or died, among these Mohamad's 
eldest son : he was thus reduced to poverty. He gave some- 
thing to Casembe to allow him to depart, and I suspect that 
my Sultan's letter had considerable influence in inducing 
Casembe to accede to his request, for he repeated again 
and again in my hearing that he must pay respect to my 
letter, and see me safe at least as far as Ujiji. Mohamad 
says that he will not return to Casembe again, but will 
begin to trade with some other chief : it is rather hard for 
a man at his age to begin de novo. He is respected among- 
the Arabs, who pronounce him to be a good man. He says 
that he has been twenty-two years in Africa, and never saw 
an outburst like that of yesterday among the Wanyamwesi : 
it is, however, common for the people at Ujiji to drink palm 
toddy, and then have a general row in the bazaar, but no bad 
feeling exists next day. 

If a child cuts the upper front teeth before the lower, it 
is killed, as unlucky : this is a widely-spread superstition.. 
When I was amongst the Makololo in 1859 one of Sekeletu's 
wives would not allow her servant's child to be killed for 
this, but feAv would have the courage to act in opposition to 
public feeling as she did. In Casembe's country if a child 



1868.] TYRANNY OF CASEMBE. 277 

is seen to turn from one side to the other in sleep it is 
killed. They say of any child who has what they consider 
these defects " he is an Arab child," because the Arabs have 
none of this class of superstitions, and should any Arab be 
near they give the child to him : it would bring ill-luck, 
misfortunes, "inilando," or guilt, to the family. These 
superstitions may account for the readiness with which one 
tribe parted with their children to ISpeke's followers. Mo- 
hamad says that these children must have been taken in 
war, as none sell their own offspring. 

If Casembe dreams of any man twice or three times he 
jDuts the man to death, as one who is practising secret arts 
against his life : if any one is pounding or cooking food for 
him he must preserve the strictest silence ; these and other 
things show extreme superstition and degradation. 

During his enforced detention Mohamad's friends advised 
him to leave Casembe by force, offering to aid him with 
their men, but he always refused. His father was the first 
to open this country to trade with the Arabs, and all his 
expenses while so doing were borne by himself; but 
Mohamad seems to be a man of peace, and unwilling to 
break the appearance of friendship with the chiefs. He 
thinks that this Casembe poisoned his predecessor: he 
certainly killed his wife's mother, a queen, that she might 
be no obstacle to him in securing her daughter. 

We are waiting in company with a number of Wanyam- 
wesi for the cessation of the rains, which have flooded the 
country between this and Tanganyika. If there were much 
slope this water would flow off : this makes me suspect that 
Tanganyika is not so low as Speke's measurement. The 
Arabs are positive that water flows from that Lake to the 
Victoria Nyanza, and assert that Dagara, the father of 
Itumanyika, was anxious to send canoes from his place to 
L'jiji, or, as some say, to dig a canal to Ujiji. The Wan- 
yamwesi here support themselves by shooting buffaloes, at 



278 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. XL 

a place two days distant, and selling the meat for grain and 
cassava: no sooner is it known that an animal is killed, 
than the village women crowd in here, carrying their pro- 
duce to exchange it for meat, which they prefer to beads 
or anything else. Their farinaceous food creates a great 
craving for flesh : were my shoes not done I would go in 
for buffaloes too. 

A man from the upper part of Tanganyika gives the same 
account of the river from Eusisi that Burton and Speke 
received when they went to its mouth. He says that the 
water of the Lake goes up some distance, but is met by 
Eusisi water, and driven back thereby. The Lake water, 
he adds, finds an exit northwards and eastwards by several 
small rivers which would admit small canoes only. They 
pour into Lake Chowambe — probably that discovered by 
Mr. Baker. This Chowambe is in Hundi, the country of, 
cannibals, but the most enlightened informants leave the 
impression on the mind of groping in the dark : it may 
be all different when we come to see it. 

The fruit of the palm, which yields palm-oil, is first of 
all boiled, then pounded in a mortar, then put into hot 
or boiling water, and the oil skimmed off. The palm-oil 
is said to be very abundant at Ujiji, as much as 300 gal- 
lons being often brought into the bazaar for sale in one 
morning ; the people buy it eagerly for cooking purposes. 
Mohamad says that the Island of Pemba, near Zanzibar, 
contains many of these palms, but the people are ignorant 
of the mode of separating the oil from the nut : they call 
the palm Nkoma at Casembe's, and Chikichi at Zanzibar.* 

No better authority for what has been done or left 
undone by Mohamadans in this country can be found than 
Mohamad bin Saleh, for he is very intelligent, and takes 



* Chikichi nuts have been an article of trade and export for some time 
from Zanzibar. The oil-palm grows wild in Peoiba. 



1868.] NATIVE EAGERNESS FOR CHRISTIANITY. 279 

an interest in all that happens, and his father was equally 
interested in this country's affairs. He declares that no 
attempt was ever made by Mohamadans to proselytize 
the Africans : they teach their own children to read the 
Koran, but them only; it is never translated, and to 
servants who go to the Mosque it is all dumb show. Some 
servants imbibe Mohamadan bigotry about eating, but they 
offer no prayers. Circumcision, to make halel, or fit to 
slaughter the animals for their master, is the utmost ad- 
vance any have made. As the Arabs in East Africa never 
feel themselves called on to propagate the doctrines of 
Islam, among the heathen Africans, the statement of 
Captain Burton that they would make better missionaries 
to the Africans than Christians, because they would not 
insist on the abandonment of polygamy, possesses the same 
force as if he had said Mohamadans would catch more 
birds than Christians, because they would put salt on their 
tails. The indispensable requisite or qualification for any 
kind of missionary is that he have some wish to proselytize : 
this the Arabs do not possess in the slightest degree. 

As they never translate the Koran, they neglect the best 
means of influencing the Africans, who invariably wish to 
understand what they are about. When we were teaching- 
adults the alphabet, they felt it a hard task. "Give me 
medicine, I shall drink it to make me understand it," was. 
their earnest entreaty. When they have advanced so far as 
to form clear conceptions of Old Testament and Gospel his- 
tories, they tell them to their neighbours ; and, on visiting- 
distant tribes, feel proud to show how much they know : in 
this way the knowledge of Christianity becomes widely dif- 
fused. Those whose hatred to its self-denying doctrines has 
become developed by knowledge, propagate slanders; but 
still they speak of Christianity, and awaken attention. The 
plan, therefore, of the Christian missionary in imparting 
knowledge is immeasurably superior to that of the Moslem 



280 ¦ LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. XI. 

in dealing with dumb show. I have, however, been asto- 
nished to see that none of the Africans imitate the Arab 
prayers : considering their great reverence of the Deity, it is 
a wonder that they do not learn to address prayers to Him 
except on very extraordinary occasions. 

My remarks referring to the education by Mohamadans 
do not refer to the Suahelis, for they teach their children to 
read, and even send them to school. They are the descen- 
dants of Arab and African women and inhabit the coast 
line. Although they read, they understand very little 
Arabic beyond the few words which have been incorporated 
into Suaheli. The establishment of Moslem missions among 
the heathen is utterly unknown, and this is remarkable, 
because the Wanyamwesi, for instance, are very friendly 
with the Arabs — are great traders, too, like them, and are 
constantly employed as porters and native traders, being- 
considered very trustworthy. They even acknowledge Seyed 
Majid's authority. The Arabs speak of all the Africans 
as " Gumu" that is hard or callous to the Mohamadan 
religion. 

Some believe that Kilimanjaro Mountain has mummies, 
as in Egypt, and that Moses visited it of old. 

Mungo Park mentions that he found the Africans in the 
far interior of the west in possession of the stories of Joseph 
and his brethren, and others. They probably got them from 
the Koran, as verbally explained by some liberal Mullah, 
and showed how naturally they spread any new ideas they 
obtained : they were astonished to find that Park knew the 
stories. 

The people at Katanga are afraid to dig for the gold in 
their country because they believe that it has been hidden 
where it is by " Ngolu," who is the owner of it. The Arabs 
translate Ngolu by Satan : it means Mezimo, or departed 
spirits, too. The people are all oppressed by their super- 
stitions ; the fear of death is remarkably strong. The 



18G8.] EXTREMES MEET IX SUPERSTITION. 281. 

Wagtails are never molested, because, if they were killed, 
death would visit the village ; this too is the case with the 
small Whydah birds, the fear of death in the minds of the 
people saves them from molestation. But why should we 
be so prone to criticise ? A remnant of our own supersti- 
tions is seen in the prejudice against sitting down thirteen 
to dinner, spilling the salt, and not throwing a little of it 
over the left shoulder. Ferdinand I., the King of Naples, 
in passing through the streets, perpetually put one hand 
into his pockets to cross the thumb over the finger in order 
to avert the influence of the evil eye ! 

On the 6th, Muabo, the great, chief of these parts, came 
to call on Mohamad : several men got up and made some 
antics before him, then knelt down and did obeisance, then 
Muabo himself jumped about a little, and all applauded. 
He is a good-natured-looking man, fond of a joke, and always 
.ready with a good-humoured smile: he was praised very 
highly, Mpweto was nothing to Muabo mokolu, the great 
Muabo ; and he returned the praise by lauding Tipo Tipo 
and Mpamari, Mohamad's native name, which means, " Give 
me wealth, or goods." Mohamad made a few of the ungainly 
antics like the natives, and all were highly pleased, and 
went off rejoicing. 

Some Arabs believe that a serpent on one of the islands 
in the Nyanza Lake has the power of speaking, and is the 
same that beguiled Eve. It is a crime at Ujiji to kill a 
serpent, even thongh it enters a house and kills a kid ! 
The native name for the people of Ujiji is Wayeiye, the 
very same as the people on the Zouga, near Lake Ngami. 
They are probably an offshoot from Ujiji.* 

There are underground stone houses in Kabiure, in the 
range called Kakonia, which is near to our place of detention. 



* A chief named Moene Ungu, who admires the Arabs, sent his children 
to Zanzibar to be instructed to read and write. 



282 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOUKNALS. [Chap. XL 

15th March. — The roots of the Nyunibo or Noombo open 
in four or five months from the time of planting, those 
planted by me on the 6th February have now stalks fifteen 
inches long. The root is reported to be a very wholesome 
food, never disagreeing with the stomach ; and the raw root 
is an excellent remedy in obstinate vomiting and nausea ;. 
four or five tubers are often given by one root, in Marungu 
they attain a size of six inches in length by two in diameter.. 

16th March. — We started for Mpweto's village, which 
is situated on the Lualaba, and in our course crossed the 
Lokinda, which had a hundred yards of flood water on each 
side of it. The river itself is forty yards wide, with a rude 
bridge over it, as it flows fast away into Moero. 

Next day we ascended the Eua Mountains, and reached 
the village of Mpweto, situated in a valley between two 
ridges, about one mile from the right bank of the Lua- 
laba, where it comes through the mountains. It then 
flows about two miles along the base of a mountain lying- 
east and west before it begins to make northing : its 
course is reported to be very winding, this seems additional 
evidence that Tanganyika is not in a depression of only 
1844 feet above the sea, otherwise the water of Lualaba 
would flow faster and make a straighter channel. It is said 
to flow into the Lufira, and that into Tanganyika. 

IStli March. — On reaching Mpweto's yesterday we were 
taken up to the house of Syde bin Habib, which is built 
on a ridge overhanging the chief's village, a square building 
of wattle and plaster, and a mud roof to prevent it being 
fired by an enemy. It is a very pretty spot among the 
mountains. Sariama is Bin Habib's agent, and he gave 
us a basket of flour and leg of kid. I sent a message to 
Mpweto, which he politely answered by saying that he had 
no food ready in his village, but if we waited two days he 
would have some prepared, and would then see us. He 
knew what we should give him, and he need not tell us~ 



1SGS.] MPWETO EEFUSES THE DOCTORS PEESEXTS. 283- 

I met a man from Seskeke, left sick at Kirwa by Bin Ilabib 
and now with him here. 

A very beautiful young woman came to look at us, 
perfect in every way, and nearly naked, but unconscious of 
indecency ; a very Venus in black. The light-grey, red- 
tailed parrot seen on the West Coast is common in Bua, and 
tamed by the natives.* 

19th March.] — (Grant, Lord, grace to love Thee more and 
serve Thee better.) 

The favourite son of Mpweto called on us; his father is 
said to do nothing without consulting him ; but he did not 
seem to be endowed with much wisdom. 

20th and 21st March. — Our interview was put off; and 
then a sight of the cloth we were to give was required. 
I sent a good large cloth, and explained that we were nearly 
out of goods now, having been travelling two years, and 
were going to Ujiji to get more. Mpweto had prepared a 
quantity of pombe, a basket of meal, and a goat ; and when 
he looked at them and the cloth, he seemed to feel that it 
would be a poor bargain, so he sent to say that we had gone 
to Casembe and given him many cloths, and then to Muabo, 
and if I did not give another cloth he would not see me.. 
" He had never slept with only one cloth." " I had put 
medicine on this one to kill him, and must go away." 

It seems he was offended because we Avent to his great 
rival, Muabo, before visiting him. He would not see Syde 
bin Habib for eight days ; and during that time was using 
charms to try if it would be safe to see him at all : on the 
ninth day he peeped past a door for some time to see if 
Bin Habib were a proper person, and then came out : he is 
always very suspicious. 

At last he sent an order to us to go away, and if we did. 



* This bird is often brought to Zanzibar by the Ivory Caravans. 
t The Doctor's birthday. 



-284 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. XI. 

not move, he would come with all his people and drive us 
off. Sariamo said if he were not afraid for Syde bin 
Habib's goods, he would make a stand against Mpweto ; but 
I had no wish to stay or to quarrel with a worthless chief, 
and resolved to go next day. (24:th March.) He abused 
b, native trader with his tongue for coming to trade, and 
sent him away too. We slept again at our half-way village, 
Kapemba, just as a party of salt-traders from Eua came into 
it : they were tall, well-made men, and rather dark. 

2oth March. — Eeached Kabwabwata at noon, and were 
welcomed by Mohamad and all the people. His son, Sheikh 
But, accompanied us ; but Mohamad told us previously that 
it was likely Mpweto would refuse to see us. 

The water is reported to be so deep in front that it is 
impossible to go north : the Wanyamwesi, who are detained 
here as well as we, say it is often more than a man's depth, 
and there are no canoes. They would not stop here if a 
passage home could be made. I am thinking of going to 
Lake Bemba, because at least two months must be passed 
here still before a passage can be made ; but my goods are 
getting done, and I cannot give presents to the chiefs on 
out way. 

This Lake has a sandy, not muddy bottom, as we were 
at first informed, and there are four islands in it, one, the 
Bangweolo, is very large, and many people live on it ; they 
have goats and sheep in abundance : the owners of canoes 
demand three hoes for the hire of one capable of carrying- 
eight or ten persons ; beyond this island it is sea horizon 
only. The tsebula and nzoe antelopes abound. The people 
desire salt and not beads for sale. 

2nd April, 1868. — If I am not deceived by the information 
I have received from various reliable sources, the springs 
of the Nile rise between 9° and 10° south latitude, or at 
least 400 or 500 miles south of the south end of Speke's 
Lake, which he considered to be the sources of the Nile. 



1868.] LIVINGSTONE KESOLVES TO VISIT LAKE BEMBA. 285 

Tanganyika is declared to send its water through north into 
Lake Chowambe or Baker's Lake ; if this does not prove 
false, then Tanganyika is an expansion of the Nile, and so 
is Lake Chowambe ; the two Lakes being connected by the 
Eiver Loanda. Unfortunately the people on the east side of 
the Loanda are constantly at war with the people on the 
west of it, or those of Kusisi. The Arabs have been talking 
of opening up a path through to Chowambe, where much 
ivory is reported ; I hope that the Most High may give me 
a way there. 

11th April. — I had a long oration from Mohamad yester- 
day against going off for Bemba to-morrow. His great 
argument is the extortionate way of Casembe, who would 
demand cloth, and say that in pretending to go to Ujiji 
I had told him lies: he adds to this argument that this 
is the last month of the rains ; the Masika has begun, 
and our way north will soon be open. The fact of the 
matter is that Mohamad, by not telling me of the super- 
abundance of water in the country of the Marungu, which 
occurs every year, caused me to lose five months. He knew 
that we should be detained here, but he was so eager to get 
out of his state of durance Avith Casembe that he hastened 
my departure by asserting that we should be at Ujiji in one 
month. I regret this deception, but it is not to be wondered 
at, and in a Mohamadan and in a Christian too it is thought 
clever. Were my goods not nearly done I would go, and 
risk the displeasure of Casembe for the chance of dis- 
covering the Lake Bemba. I thought once of buying from 
Mohamad Bogharib, but am afraid that his stock may be 
getting low too : I fear that I must give up this Lake for 
the present. 

12th April. — I think of starting to-morrow for Bangweolo r 
even if Casembe refuses a passage beyond him : we shall be 
better there than we are here, for everything at Eabwabwata 
is scarce and dear. There we can get a fowl for one string- 



•286 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. XI. 

of beads, here it costs six : there fish may be bought, here 
none. Three of Casembe's principal men are here, Kakwata, 
Charley, and Kapitenga; they are anxious to go home, and 
would be a gain to me, but Mohamad detains them, and 
when I ask his reason he says " Muabo refuses," but they 
point to Mohamad's house and say, " It is he who 
refuses." 

[A very serious desertion took place at this time amongst 
Dr. Livingstone's followers. Not to judge them too harshly 
they had become to a great extent demoralised by camp 
life with Mohamad and his horde of slaves and slavers. 
The Arab tried all he could to dissuade the traveller from 
proceeding south instead of homewards through Ujiji, and 
the men seem to have found their own breaking-point where 
this disappointment occurred.] 

13th April — On preparing to start this morning my 
people refused to go: the fact is, they are all tired, and 
Mohamad's opposition encourages them. Mohamad, who 
was evidently eager to make capital out of their refusal, 
asked me to remain over to-day, and then demanded what I 
was going to do with those who had absconded. I said, 
" Nothing : if a magistrate were on the spot, I would give 
them over to him." " Oh," said he, " I am magistrate, shall 
I apprehend them ? " To this I assented. He repeated this 
question till it was tiresome : I saw his reason long after- 
wards, when he asserted that I "came to him and asked 
him to bind them, but he had refused:" he wanted to 
appear to the people as much better than I am. 

14th April. — I start off with five attendants, leaving most 
of the luggage with Mohamad, and reach the Luao to spend 
the night. Headman Ndowa. 

15th April. — Amoda ran away early this morning. 
¦" "Wishes to stop with his brothers." They think that, by 



1868.] MEN TIRED OF EXPLORING. 287 

refusing to go to Bernba, they will force me to remain with 
them, and then go to Ujiji : one of them has infused the 
idea into their minds that I will not pay them, and exclaims 
" Look at the sepoys ! " — not knowing that they are paid 
by the Indian Government ; and as for the Johanna men, 
they were prepaid 29?. 4s. in cash, besides clothing. I sent 
Amoda's bundle back to Mohamad : my messenger got to 
Kabwabwata before Amoda did, and he presented himself 
to my Arab friend, who, of course, scolded him : he replied 
that he was tired of carrying, and no other fault had he ; I 
may add that I found out that Amoda wished to come south 
to me with one of Mohamad Bogharib's men, but " Mpamari " 
told him not to return. Now that I was fairly started, I 
told my messenger to say to Mohamad that I would on no 
account go to Ujiji, till I had done all in my power to 
xeach the Lake I sought: I would even prefer waiting at 
Luao or Moero, till people came to me from Ujiji to sup- 
plant the runaways. I did not blame them very severely 
in my own mind for absconding : they were tired of tramp- 
ing, and so verily am I, but Mohamad, in encouraging 
them to escape to him, and talking with a double tongue, 
cannot be exonerated from blame. Little else can be ex- 
pected from him, he has lived some thirty-five years in 
the country, twenty-five being at Casembe's, and there he 
had often to live by his wits. Consciousness of my own 
defects makes me lenient. 

16th April. — Ndowa gives Mita or Mpamankanana as 
the names of the excavations in Muabo's hills, he says 
that they are sufficient to conceal all the people of this 
district in case of war : I conjecture that this implies room 
for ten thousand people : provisions are stored in them, and 
a perennial rivulet runs along a whole street of them. On 
one occasion, when the main entrance was besieged by an 
enemy, someone who knew all the intricacies of the excava- 
tions led a party out by a secret passage, and they, coming 



288 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. XL 

over the invaders, drove theni off with heavy loss. Their 
formation is universally ascribed to the Deity. This may 
mean that the present inhabitants have succeeded the 
original burrowing race, which dug out many caves adjacent 
to Mount Hor — the Jebel Nebi Sarin, Mount of the Prophet 
Aaron, of the Arabs — and many others ; and even the Bush- 
man caves, a thousand miles south of this region. 

A very minute, sharp-biting mosquito is found here: 
the women try to drive them out of their huts by whisking 
bundles of green leaves all round the walls before turning 
into them. 

11 th August. — Crossed the Luao by a bridge, thirty yards 
long, and more than half a mile of flood on each side ; 
passed many villages, standing on little heights, which 
overlook plains filled with water. Some three miles of 
grassy plains abreast of Moero were the deepest parts, 
except the banks of Luao. We had four hours of wading, 
the bottom being generally black tenacious mud. Euts 
had been formed in the paths by the feet of passengers : 
these were filled with soft mud, and, as they could not be 
seen, the foot was often placed on the edge, and when the 
weight came on it, down it slumped into the mud, half-way 
up the calves; it was difficult to draw it out, and very 
fatiguing. To avoid these ruts we encroached on the grass 
at the sides of the paths, but often stepping on the unseen 
edge of a rut, we floundered in with both feet to keep the 
balance, and this was usually followed by a rush of bubbles 
to the surface, which, bursting, discharged foul air of fright- 
ful fsecal odour. In parts, the black mud and foul water 
were cold, in others hot, according as circulation went on or 
not. When we came near Moero, the water became half- 
chest and whole-chest deep ; all perishable articles had to 
be put on the head. We found a party of fishermen on the 
sands, and I got a hut, a bath in the clear but tepid waters, 
and a delicious change of dress. Water of Lake, 83° at 3 p.m. 



18G8.] VISIT TO NYINAKASANGA'S VILLAGE. 280 

18th April. — We marched along the north end of Moero, 
which has a south-east direction. The soft yielding sand 
which is flanked by a broad belt of tangled tropical vege- 
tation and trees, added to the fatigues of yesterday, so 
finding a deserted fisherman's village near the eastern hills, 
we gladly made it our quarters for Sunday (19^). I made 
no mark, but the Lake is at least twenty feet higher now 
than it was on our first visits, and there are banks showing- 
higher rises even than this. 

Large fish-baskets made of split reeds are used in trios 
for catching small fish ; one man at each basket drives fish 
ashore. 

20th April — Went on to Katette Kiver, and then to a 
strong torrent ; slept at a village on the north bank of the 
River Vuna, where, near the hills, is a hot fountain, some- 
times used to cook cassava and maize. 

21st April. — Crossed the Vuna and went on to Ka- 
lembwe's village, meeting the chief at the gate, who guided 
us to a hut, and manifested great curiosity to see all our 
things ; he asked if we could not stop next day and drink 
beer, which would then be ready. Leopards abound here. 
The Lake now seems broader than ever. 

I could not conceive that a hole in the cartilage of the 
nose could be turned to any account except to hold an 
ornament, though that is usually only a bit of grass, but 
a man sewing the feathers on his arrows used his nose-hole 
for holding a needle ! In coming on to Kangalola we found 
the country swimming : I got separated from the company, 
though I saw them disappear in the long grass not a hundred 
yards off and shouted, but the splashing of their feet pre- 
vented any one hearing. I could not find a path going 
south, so I took one to the east to a village ; the grass was 
so long and tangled, I could scarcely get along, at last I 
engaged a man to show me the main path south, and he 
took me to a neat village of a woman — Nyinakasanga— 

vol. i. u 



290 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. XL 

and would go no further. " Mother Kasanga," as the name 
means, had been very handsome, and had a beautiful 
daughter, probably another edition of herself, she advised 
my waiting in the deep shade of the Ficus indica, in which 
her houses were placed. I fired a gun, and when my 
attendants came gave her a string of beads, which made 
her express distress at my " leaving without drinking any- 
thing of hers." People have abandoned several villages on 
account of the abundance of ferocious wild beasts. 

23rd April. — Through very thick tangled Nyassi grass to 
Chikosi's burned village ; Nsama had killed him. We spent 
the night in a garden hut, which the fire of the village had 
spared. Turnips were growing in the ruins. The Nyassi, or 
long coarse grass, hangs over the paths, and in pushing it 
aside the sharp seeds penetrate the clothes and are very 
annoying. The grass itself rubs on the face and eyes dis- 
agreeably : when it is burned off and greensward covers the 
soil it is much more pleasant walking. 

2Mh April. — We leave Chikosi's ruins and make for the 
ford of the Kalungosi. Marigolds are in full bloom all over 
the forest, and so are foxgloves. The river is here fully 100 
yards broad with 300 yards of flood on its western bank ; so 
deep we had to remain in the canoes till within 50 yards 
of the higher ground. The people here chew the pith of the 
papyrus, which is three inches in diameter and as white as 
snow : it has very little sweetness or anything else in it. 
The headman of the village to which we went was out cut- 
ting wood for a garden, and his wife refused us a hut, but 
when Kansabala came in the evening he scolded his own 
spouse roundly and all the wives of the village, and then 
pressed me to come indoors, but I was well enough in my 
mosquito curtain without, and declined : I was free from 
insects and vermin, and few huts are so. 

25th April. — Off early west, and then on to an elevated 
forest land, in which our course was S.S.W. to the great 



1868.] EXCESSIVE POLITENESS OF THE NATIVES. 291 

bend of the rivulet Kifurwa, which enters Moero near to 
the mouth of the Kalungosi. 

26th April. — Here we spent Sunday in our former wood- 
cutters' huts. Yesterday we were met by a party of the 
same occupation, laden with bark-cloth, which they had just 
been stripping off the trees. Their leader would not come 
along the path because I was sitting near it : I invited him 
to do so, but it would have been disrespectful to let his 
shadow fall on any part of my person, so he went a little 
out of the way : this politeness is common. 

21th April. — But a short march to Fungafunga's village : 
we could have gone on to the Muatize, but no village 
exists there, and here we could buy food. Fungafunga's 
wife gave a handsome supper to the stranger : on after- 
wards acknowledging it to her husband he said, "That is 
your village ; always go that way and eat my provisions." 
He is a Monyamwezi trading in the country for copper, hoes, 
and slaves. Parrots are here in numbers stealing Holcus 
sorghum in spite of the shouts of the women. 

We cross Muatize by a bridge of one large tree, getting 
a good view of Moero from a hill near Kabukwa, and sleep 
at Chirongo River. 

2§th April. — At the Mandapala River. Some men here 
from the Chungu, one of whom claimed to be a relative of 
Casembe, made a great outcry against our coming a second 
time to Casembe without waiting at the Kalungosi for per- 
mission. One of them, with his ears cropped short off, asked 
me when I was departing north if I should come again. 
I replied, " Yes, I think I shall." They excited them- 
selves by calling over the same thing again and again. 
" The English come the second time ! " " The second time 
— the second time — the country spoiled ! Why not wait at 
the Kalungosi ? Let him return thither." " Come from 
Mpamari too, and from the Bagaraganza or Banyamwezi ! ! " 
-"The second time— the second time!" Then all the ad- 

u 2 



292 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. XL 

jaceiit villagers were called in to settle this serious affair, 
I look up to that higher Power to influence their minds as 
He has often done before. I persuaded them to refer the 
matter to Casembe himself by sending a man with one of 
mine up to the town. They would not consent to go on to 
the Chungu, as the old cropped-eared man would have been 
obliged to come back the distance again, he having been on 
the way to the Kalungosi as a sentinel of the ford. Casembe 
is reasonable and fair, but his people are neither, and 
will do anything to mulct either strangers or their own 
countrymen. 

30th April. — The cold of winter has begun, and dew is. 
deposited in great quantities, but all the streams are very 
high in flood, though the rains have ceased here some 
time. 

1st May, 1868. — At the Mandapala River. I sent a request 
to Mohamad Bogharib to intercede with Casembe for me for 
a man to show the way to Chikumbi, who is near to Bang- 
weolo. I fear that I have become mixed up in the Lunda 
mind with Mpamari (Mohamad bin Saleh), from having 
gone off with him and returning ere we reached Ujiji, 
whither ostensibly we were bound. I may be suspected of 
being in his confidence, and of forwarding his plans by 
coming back. A deaf and dumb man appears among the 
people here, making signs exactly as I have seen such do 
in England, and occasionally emitting a low unmodulated 
guttural drawl like them. 

3rd May. — Abraham, my messenger, came back, while- 
we were at afternoon prayers, with good news for us, but. 
what made Cropped-ears quite chopfallen was that Casembe 
was quite gracious ! He did not wish me to go away, and 
now I am welcome back ; and as soon as we hear of peace 
at Chikumbi's we shall have a man to conduct us thither.. 
The Mazitu were reported to have made an inroad into 
Chikumbi's country; and it was said that chief had fled, 



.1808.] STORIES RELATING TO REREIRA'S VISIT. 203 

and Casembe had sent messengers to hear the truth. 
Thanks to the Most High for His kindness and influence. 

4th May. — We leave the Mandapala. Cropped-ears, whose 
name I never heard, collapsed at once on hearing the 
message of Casembe : before that I never heard such a 
babbler, to every one passing, man or woman, he repeated 
the same insinuations about the English, and "Mpaniari," 
and the Banyamwezi, — conspiracy — guilt — return a second 
time, — till, like a meddling lawyer, he thought that he had 
really got an important case in hand ! 

The River Chungu we found to be from fifteen to eighteen 
yards broad and breast deep, with at least one hundred 
yards of flood, before we reached the main stream, the Man- 
dapala. The Chungu and the Lundi join in the country 
called Kimbafuma, about twelve miles from our crossing- 
place of Mandapala, and about west of it. The Lundi was 
now breast deep too, and twelve yards broad. 

On reaching Casembe's, on the Mofwe, we found Mohamad 
Bogharib digging and fencing up a well to prevent his slaves 
being taken away by the crocodiles, as three had been eaten 
already. A dog bit the leg of one of my goats so badly 
that I was obliged to kill it : they are nasty curs here, 
without courage, and yet they sometimes bite people badly. 
I met some old friends, and Mohamad Bogharib cooked a 
supper, and from this time forward never omitted sharing 
his victuals with me. 

6th May. — Manoel Caetano Pereira visited Casembe in 
1796, or seventy-two years ago: his native name was 
Moendo-mondo, or the world's leg — " world-wide traveller ! " 
He came to Mandapala, for there the Casembe of the time 
resided, and he had a priest or " Kasise " with him, and 
many people with guns. Perembe, the oldest man now in 
Lunda, had children even then : if Perembe were thirty 
years of age at that period he would now be 102 years 
old, and he seems quite that, for when Dr. Lacerda came 



294 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. XL 

he had forty children. He says that Pereira fired off all 
his guns on his arrival, and Casembe asking him what he 
meant by that, he replied, " These guns ask for slaves and 
ivory," both of which were liberally given. 

I could not induce Perembe to tell anything of times 
previous to his own. Moendo-mondo, the world's leg 
(Pereira), told Dr. Lacerda that the natives called him 
"The Terror!" — a bit of vanity, for they have no such 
word or abstract term in their language. 

When Major Monteiro was here the town of Casembe was 
on the same spot as now, but the Mosumba, or enclosure of 
the chief, was about 500 yards S.E. of the present one. 
Monteiro went nowhere and did nothing, but some of his 
attendants went over to the Luapula, some six miles distant. 
He complains in his book of having been robbed by the 
Casembe of the time. On asking the present occupant of 
the office why Monteiro's goods were taken from him, he 
replied, that he was then living at another village and did 
not know of the affair. Mohamad bin Saleh was present, 
and he says that Monteiro's statement is false : no goods 
were forced from him ; but it was a year of scarcity, and 
Monteiro had to spend his goods in buying food instead of 
slaves and ivory, and made up the tale of Casembe plun- 
dering him to appease his creditors. 

A number of men were sent with Monteiro as an honorary 
escort. Kapika, an old man now living, was the chief or 
one of the chiefs of this party, and he says that he went to 
Tette, Senna, and Quillimane with Monteiro : this honorary 
escort seems confirmatory of Mohamad's explanation, for 
had Casembe robbed the Major none would have been 
granted or received. 

It is warmer here than we found it in the way ; clouds 
cover the sky and prevent radiation. The sorghum is now 
in full ear. People make very neat mats of the leaves of 
the Shuare palm. I got lunars this time. 



1868.] THE LINE OF CASEMBES, CHIEFS OF LUNDA. 295 

9th May. — Eight or ten men went past us this morning, 
sent by the chief to catch people whom he intends to send 
to his paramount chief, Matiamvo, as a tribute of slaves. 
Perembe gives the following list of the Casembes : — 

I. Kanyimbe, came from Lunda, attracted by the 
fish of Mofwe and Moero, and conquered 
Perembe's forefather, Katere, who planted the 
first palm-oil palms here from seeds got in 
Lunda. It is probable that the intercourse 
then set afoot led to Kanyimbe's coming and 
conquest. 

II. KlNYANTA. 
III. Nguanda MILONDA. 

IY. Kanyembo. 

Y. LEKWISA. 
VI. KlRtfKA. - 

VII. Kapumba. 

VIII. KlNYANTA. 

IX. Lekwisa, still alive, but a fugitive at Nsama's. 
X. Muonga, the present ruler, who drove Lekwisa 
away. 

The Portuguese came to Kireka, who is said to have 
been very liberal with presents of ivory, slaves, and cattle. 
The present man has good sense, and is very fair in his 
judgments, but stingy towards his own people as well as 
strangers : nevertheless I have had good reason to be satis- 
fied with his conduct to me. Maiye, not in the list, and 
7, 8, 9, 10 are the children of Kireka. Muonga is said by 
the others to be a slave "born out of the house," that is, 
his mother was not of the royal line ; she is an ugly old 
woman, and greedy. I got rid of her begging by giving 
her the beads she sought, and requesting her to cook some 
food for me ; she begged no more, afraid that I would press 
my claim for provisions ! 



29G LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. XL 

10th May. — I sent to Caseinbe for a guide to Luapula, 
lie replied that lie had not seen me nor given rne any food ; 
I must come to-morrow : but next day he was occupied in 
killing a man for witchcraft and could not receive us, but 
said that he would on the 12th. He sent 15 fish (perch) 
from Mofwe", and a large basket of dried cassava. I have 
taken lunars several times, measuring both sides of the 
moon about 190 times, but a silly map-maker may alter 
the whole for the most idiotic of reasons. 

13th May. — Mohamad Bogharib has been here some 
seven months, and bought three tusks only ; the hunting, 
by Casembe's people, of elephants in the Mofwe has been 
unsuccessful. 

We did not get an audience from Casembe ; the fault 
lay with Kapika — Monteiro's escort — being afraid to annoy 
Casembe by putting him in mind of it, but on the 15th 
Casembe sent for me, and told me that as the people had all 
fled from Chikumbi's, he would therefore send guides to 
take us to Kabaia, where there was still a population ; he 
wished me to wait a few days till he had looked out good 
men as guides, and ground some flour for us to use in the 
journey. He understood that I wished to go to Bang- 
weolo ; and it was all right to do what my own chief had 
sent me for, and then come back to him. It was only 
water — the same as Luapula, Mofwe, and Moero; nothing 
to be seen. His people must not molest me again, but 
let me go where I liked. This made me thank Him who 
has the hearts of all in His hand. 

Casembe. also admitted that he had injured "Mpamari," 
but he would send him some slaves and ivory in reparation : 
he is better than his people, who are excessively litigious, 
and fond of milandos or causes — suits. He asked if I had 
not the leopard's skin he gave me to sit on, as it was bad to 
sit on the ground ; I told him it had so many holes in it 
people laughed at it and made me ashamed, but he did not 



1808.] MPAMAM OUT OF FAVOUR. 207 

take the hint to give me another. He always talks good 
sense when he has not swilled beer or pombe : all the 
Arabs are loud in his praises, but they have a bad opinion 
of the Queen Moari or Ngornbe or Kifuta. The Garaganza 
people at Katanga killed a near relative of Casembe and 
herself, and when the event happened, Fungafunga, one of 
the Garaganza or Banyamwezi being near the spot, fled and 
came to the Mofwe : he continued his flight as soon as it 
was dark without saying anything to anyone, until he got 
north to Kabiure. The Queen and Casembe suspected 
Mpamari of complicity with the Banyamwezi, and believed 
that Fungafunga had communicated the news to him before 
fleeing further. A tumult was made ; Mpamari's eldest 
son was killed ; and he was plundered of all his copper, 
ivory, and slaves : the Queen loudly demanded his exe- 
cution, but Casembe restrained his people as well as he was 
able and it is for this injury that he now professes to be 
sorry. 

The Queen only acted according to the principles of her 
people. " Mpamari killed my son,, kill his son — himself." 
It is difficult to get at the truth, for Mohamad or Mpamari 
never tells the whole truth. He went to fight Nsama with 
Muonga, and was wounded in the foot and routed, and is 
now glad to get out of Lunda back to Ujiji. (16th May.) 
Complete twenty sets of lunars. 

11th May. — Mohamad Bogharib told Casembe that he 
could buy nothing, and therefore was going away, Casembe 
replied that he had no ivory and he might go : this was 
sensible; he sent far and near to find some, but failed, 
and now confesses a truth which most chiefs hide from 
unwillingness to appear poor before foreigners. 

18th and 19th May. — It is hot here though winter ; but 
cold by night. Casembe has sent for fish for us. News 
came that one of Syde bin Habib's men had come to 
Chikumbi on his way to Zanzibar. 



298 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. XI. 

20th May. — A thunder-shower from the east laid the 
dust and cooled the ground : the last shower of this season, 
as a similar slight shower was the finish up of the last on 
the 12th of May. (21st May.) This cannot be called a 
rainy month : April is the last month of the wet season, 
and November the first. 

22nd May. — Casembe is so slow with his fish, meal, and 
guides, and his people so afraid to hurry him, that I 
think of going off as soon as Mohamad Bogharib moves ; 
he is going to Chikumbi's to buy copper, and thence he 
will proceed to Uvira to exchange that for ivory ; but this 
is at present kept as a secret from his slaves. The way 
seems thus to be opening for me to go to the large Lake 
west of Uvira. 

I told Casembe that we were going ; he said to me 
that if in coming back I had found no travelling party, I 
must not risk going by Nsama's road with so few people, 
but must go to his brother Moenempanda, and he would 
send men to guide me to him, and thence he would send me 
safely by his path along Lake Moero : this was all very 
good. 

23rd May. — The Arabs made a sort of sacrifice of a 
goat which was cooked all at once ; they sent a good dish 
of it to me. They read the Koran very industriously, and 
prayed for success or luck in leaving, and seem sincerely 
religious, according to the light that is in them. The use 
of incense and sacrifices brings back the old Jewish times 
to mind. 

A number of people went off to the Kanengwa, a rivulet 
an hour south of this, to build huts ; there they are to take 
leave of Casembe, for the main body goes off to-morrow, 
after we have seen the new moon. They are very particular 
in selecting lucky days, and anything unpleasant that may 
have happened in one month is supposed to be avoided by 
choosing a different day for beginning an enterprise in the 



1868.] SAVAGES ARE NOT WITHOUT DIVORCE COURTS. 290 

next. Mohamad left Uvira on the third day of a new moon, 
and several fires happened in his camp ; he now considers a 
third day inauspicious. 

Casembe's dura or sorghum is ripe to-day : he has eaten 
mapemba or dura, and all may thereafter do the same : this 
is just about the time when it ripens and is reaped at Kolo- 
beng, thus the difference in the seasons is not great. 

2-ith May. — Detained four days yet. Casembe's chief 
men refuse to escort Mohamad Bogharib; they know him 
to be in debt, and fear that he may be angry, but no 
dunning was intended. Casembe was making every effort 
to get ivory to liquidate it, and at last got a couple of tusks, 
Avhich he joyfully gave to Mohamad : he has risen much 
in the estimation of us all. 

26th May. — Casembe's people killed five buffaloes by 
chasing them into the mud and water of Mofwe, so he is 
seeing to the division of the meat, and will take leave 
to-morrow. 

2§th May. — We went to Casembe ; he was as gracious as 
usual. A case of crim. con. was brought forward against an 
Arab's slave, and an attempt was made to arrange the matter 
privately by offering three cloths, beads, and another slave, 
but the complainant refused everything. Casembe dismissed 
the case by saying to the complainant, " You send your 
women to entrap the strangers in order to get a fine, but you 
will get nothing :" this was highly applauded by the Arabs, 
and the owner of the slave heaped dust on his head, as 
many had done before for favours received. Casembe, still 
anxious to get ivory for Mohamad, proposed another delay 
of four days to send for it ; but all are tired, and it is 
evident that it is not want of will that prevents ivory being- 
produced. 

His men returned without any, and he frankly confessed 
inability : he is evidently very poor. 

30th May. — We went to the Kanengwa rivulet at the 



300 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. XL 

south end of Mofwe, which forms a little lagoon there fifty 
yards broad and thigh deep ; but this is not the important 
feeder of the Lagoon, which is from two to three miles 
broad, and nearly four long : that has many large flat sedgy 
islands in it, and its water is supplied by the Mbereze from 
south-east. 

31st May. — Old Kapika sold his young and good-looking 
wife for unfaithfulness, as he alleged. The sight of a lady 
in the chain-gang shocked the ladies of Lunda, who ran to 
her, and having ascertained from her own mouth what was 
sufficiently apparent, that she was a slave now, clapped 
their hands on their mouths in the way that they express 
wonder, surprise, and horror : the hand is placed so that 
the fingers are on one cheek and the thumb on the other. 

The case of the chieftainess excited great sympathy 
among the people ; some brought her food, Kapika's 
daughters brought her pombe and bananas ; one man 
offered to redeem her with two, another with three slaves, 
but Casembe, who is very strict in punishing infidelity, 
said, " No, though ten slaves be offered she must go." He 
is probably afraid of his own beautiful queen should the 
law be relaxed. Old Kapika came and said to her, " You 
refused me, and I now refuse you." A young wife of old 
Perembe was also sold as a punishment, but redeemed. 

There is a very large proportion of very old and very 
tall men in this district. The slave-trader is a means of 
punishing the wives which these old fogies ought never to 
have had. 

Casembe sent me about a hundredweight of the small 
fish Nsipo, which seems to be the whitebait of our country ; 
it is a little bitter when cooked alone, but with ground- 
nuts is a tolerable relish : we can buy flour with these at 
Chikumbi's. 






( 301 ) 



CHAPTEK XII. 

Prepares to examine Lake Bemba. Starts from Casembe's 11th June, 
1868. Dead leopard. Moenampanda's reception. The Eiver Luongo. 
Weird death-song of slaves. The forest grave. Lake Bembo changed 
to Lake Bangweolo. Chikumbi's. The Imbozhwa people. Kombo- 
kombo's stockade. Mazitu difficulties. Discovers Lake Bangweolo 
on 18th July, 1868. The Lake Chief Mapuni. Description of the 
Lake. Prepares to navigate it. Embarks for Lifunge Island. Im- 
mense size of Lake. Peaches Mpabala Island. Strange dream. Fears 
of canoe men. Return to shore. March back. Sends letters. Meets 
Banyamweze. Reviews recent exploitations at length. Disturbed 
state of country. 

1st June, 1868. — Mohamad proposes to go to Katanga to 
buy copper, and invites me to go too. I wish to see the 
Lufra Eiver, but I must see Bemba or Bangweolo. Grant 
guidance from above ! 

2nd June. — In passing a field of cassava I picked the 
pods of a plant called Malumbi, which climbs up the 
cassava bushes ; at the root it has a number of tubers 
with eyes, exactly like the potato. One plant had six- 
teen of these tubers, each about 2 inches long and 1^ 
inch in diameter: another tuber was 5 inches long and 
2 in diameter, it would be difficult for anyone to distin- 
guish them from English potatoes. When boiled they are 
a little waxy, and, compared with our potato, hard. There 
are colours inside, the outer part reddish, the inner whiter. 
At first none of the party knew them, but afterwards they 
were recognised as cultivated at Zanzibar by the name 



302 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. XII. 

" Men," and very good when mashed with fish : if in Zan- 
zibar, they are probably known in other tropical islands. 

4th June. — From what I see of slaving, even in its best 
phases, I would not be a slave-dealer for the world. 

5ili June. — The Queen Moari passed us this morning, 
going to build a hut at her plantation ; she has a 
pleasant European countenance, clean light-brown skin, 
and a merry laugh, and would be admired anywhere. I 
stood among the cassava to see her pass ; she twirled 
her umbrella as she came near, borne by twelve men, and 
seemed to take up the laugh which made her and her 
maids bolt at my reception, showing that she laughs not 
with her mouth only, but with her eyes and cheeks : she 
said, " Yambo" (how are you) ? Ta which I replied, " Yambo 
sana " (very well). One of her attendants said, " Give her 
something of what you have at hand, or in the pockets." I 
said, " I have nothing here," and asked her if she would 
come back near my hut. She replied that she would, and 
I duly sent for two strings of red beads, which I presented. 
Being lower than she, I could see 
!f''%P^r~ that sne na( ^ a n °l e through the 
s^ljjv' cartilage, near the point of her 

Filed Teeth of Queen Moan. slightly aquiline nose ; and a space 
was filed between the two front teeth, so as to leave a 
triangular hole. 

After delay had grown vexatious, we march three hours 
on the 9th, and reach the Katofia Eiver, covered with 
aquatic trees and running into the Mbereze: five yards 
wide and knee deep. 

10th June. — Detained again, for business is not finished 
with the people of Casembe. The people cannot esteem the 
slave-trader, who is used as a means of punishing those who 
have family differences, as those of a wife with her husband, 
or a servant with his master. The slaves are said to be 
generally criminals, and are sold in revenge or as punish- 




1SG8.] BOUND FOR LAKE BEMBA AT LAST. 303 

ment. Kapika's wife had an ornament of the end of a shell 
called the cone ; it was borrowed and she came away with 
it in her hair : the owner, without making any effort to 
recover it, seized one of Kapika's daughters as a pledge 
that Kapika would exert himself to get it back ! 

[At last the tedious delay came to an end and we must 
now follow the Doctor on his way south to discover Lake 
Bemba.] 

11th June. — Crossed the Mbereze, ten yards broad and 
thigh deep, ascending a range of low hills of hardened 
sandstone, covered, as the country generally is, with forest. 
Our course S.E. and S.S.E. Then descended into a densely- 
wooded valley, having a rivulet four yards wide and knee 
deep. Buffaloes and elephants very numerous. 

12th June. — We crossed the Mbereze again twice ; then 
a very deep narrow rivulet, and stopped at another in a 
mass of trees, where we spend the night, and killing an ox 
remained next day to eat it. When at Kanengwa a small 
party of men came past, shouting as if they had done some- 
thing of importance : on going to them, I found that two of 
them carried a lion slung to a pole. It was a small mane- 
less variety, called " the lion of Nijassi" or long grass. It 
had killed a man and they killed it. They had its mouth 
carefully strapped, and the paws tied across its chest, 
and were taking it to Casembe. Nyassi means long grass, 
such as towers overhead, and is as thick in the stalk as a 
goose-quill, and is erroneously applied to Nyassa. Other 
lions — Thambwe, Karanio, Simba, are said to stand 5 feet 
high, and some higher : this seemed about 3 feet high, but 
it was too dark to measure it. 

13th June. — The Arabs distinguish the Suaheli, or Arabs 
of mixed African blood, by the absence of beard and 
whiskers : these are usually small and stunted in the 
Suaheli. 



304 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. XII. 

Birds, as the Drongo shrike, and a bird very like the 
grey linnet, with a thick reddish bill, assemble in very large 
flocks now that it is winter, and continue thus till November, 
or period of the rains. 

A very minute bee goes into the common small holes in 
wormeaten wood to make a comb and lay its eggs, with a 
supply of honey. There are seven or eight honey-bees of 
small size in this country. 

A sphex may be seen to make holes in the ground, 
placing stupified insects in them with her eggs ; another 
species watches when she goes off to get more insects, and 
every now and then goes in too to lay her eggs, I suppose 
without any labour : there does not appear to be any 
enmity between them. We remained a day to buy food for 
the party, and eat our ox. 

1-Wi June. — March over well-wooded highlands with 
dolomite rocks cropping out and trees all covered with 
lichens, the watershed then changed to the south. 

15th June. — Very cold in mornings now (43°). Found 
Moenempanda, Casembe's brother, on the Luluputa, a stream 
twenty yards wide and flowing west. The Moenempanda 
visited by the Portuguese was grandfather to this one, and 
not at the same spot ; it is useless to put down the names of 
chiefs as indicating geographical positions, for the name is 
often continued, but at a spot far distant from the dwelling 
of the original possessor. A slave tried to break out of his 
slave- stick, and actually broke half an inch of tough iron 
with his fingers ; the end stuck in the wood, or he would 
have freed himself. 

The chief gave me a public reception, which was like that 
of Casembe, but better managed. He is young, and very 
handsome but for a defect in his eyes, which makes him 
keep them half shut or squinting. He walked off in the 
jaunty way all chiefs do in this country, to show the weight 
of rings and beads on the legs, and many imitate this 



1868.] CASEMBE'S SHABBY BROTHER. 305 

walk who have none, exactly as our fathers imitated the 
big cravat of George IV., who thereby hid defects in his 
neck : thousands carried their cravats over the chin who 
had no defects to hide. Moenempanda carried his back 
stiffly, and no wonder, he had about ten yards of a train 
carried behind it. About 600 people were present. They 
kept rank, but not step ; were well armed ; marimbas and 
square drums formed the bands, and one musician added 
his voice : " I have been to Syde " (the Sultan) ; " I have 
been to Meereput " (King of Portugal) ; " I have been to 
the sea." At a private reception, where he was divested 
of his train, and had only one umbrella instead of three, 
I gave him a cloth. The Arabs thought highly of him ; 
but his graciousness had been expended on them in getting 
into debt ; he now showed no inclination to get out of it, 
but offered about a twentieth part of the value of the goods 
in liquidation. He sent me two pots of beer, which I care 
not to drink except when very thirsty on a march, and 
promised a man to guide me to Chikumbi, and then re- 
fused. Casembe rose in the esteem of all as Moenempanda 
sank, and his people were made to understand how shabbily 
he had behaved. 

The Lulaputa is said to flow into the Luena, and that into 
the Luongo : there must be two Luenas. 

2'2nd June. — March across a grassy plain southerly to 
the Luongo, a deep river embowered in a dense forest of 
trees, all covered with lichens — some flat, others long and 
thready, like old men's beards, and waving in the wind, just 
as they do on the mangrove-swamp trees on the coast. The 
Luongo here is fifty yards broad and three fathoms deep ; 
near its junction with the Luapula it is 100 yards ; it rises 
here to eight fathoms' depth. A bridge of forty yards 
led us over to an island, and a branch of the river was ten 
yards beyond: the bridge had been broken, some thought 
on purpose, but it was soon mended with trees eighteen to 

vol. i. x 



306 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. XII. 

twenty yards long. "We went a little way beyond, and then 
halted for a day at a rivulet flowing into the Luongo, 200 
yards off. 

23rd June. — "We waited for copper here, which was 
at first refused as payment of debt. I saw now that the 
Luongo had steep clay banks fifteen feet down, and many 
meadows, which must be swimming during the rains. The 
Luena is said to rise east of this. 

[In a private letter Livingstone shows that he had sel- 
dom been more affected by the sufferings of slaves than at 
this time, and it would perhaps be difficult to imagine any 
scene more calculated to excite misery and distress of mind. 

The following incident deals with the firm belief in a 
future state, which enters so largely into the minds of all 
Africans, and which for very lack of guidance assumes all 
the distorted growths of superstition. 

He must be of a thankless spirit who does not long to 
substitute the great vision of future peace afforded by 
Christianity, in lieu of the ghastly satisfaction which 
cheered these men, when he sees by the light of this story 
the capacity that exists for realising a life beyond the 
grave.] 

24£7i June. — Six men slaves were singing as if they did 
not feel the weight and degradation of the slave-sticks. I 
asked the cause of their mirth, and was told that they 
rejoiced at the idea " of coming back after death and 
haunting and killing those who had sold them." Some of 
the words I had to inquire about ; for instance, the meaning 
of the words " to haunt and kill by spirit power ;" then it 
was,. "Oh, you sent me off to Manga (sea-coast), but the yoke 
is off when I die, and back I shall come to haunt and to kill 
you." Then all joined in the chorus, which was the name 
of each vendor. It told not of fun, but of the bitterness 



1SG8.] 



A FOREST GEAYE. 



3i 7 



and tears of such as were oppressed, and on the side of 
the oppressors there was a power: there be higher than 
they! 

Perembe was one of the culprits thus menaced. The 
slave-owner asked Kapika's wife if she would return to 
kill Kapika. The others answered to the names of the 
different men with laughter. Her heart was evidently 
sore : for a lady to come so low down is to her grievous. 
She has lost her jaunty air, and is, Avith her head shaved, 
ugly ; but she never forgets to address her captors with 
dignity, and they seem to fear her. 

25th June. — We went over flat forest with patches of 
brown haematite cropping out ; this is the usual iron ore, 
but I saw in a village pieces of specular iron-ore which had 
been brought for smelting. The Luongo flowed away some- 
what to our right or west, and the villagers had selected 
their site where only well-water could be found : we went 
ten minutes towards the Luongo and got abundance. 

The gardens had high hedges round to keep off wild 
beasts. We came to a grave in the forest ; it was a 
little rounded mound as if the occupant sat in it in the 
usual native way: it 
was strewed over with 
flour, and a number of 
the large blue beads 
put on it : a little path 
showed that it had 
visitors. This is the 
sort of grave I should 
prefer : to lie in the 
still, still forest, and no 
hand ever disturb my bones, 
seemed to me to be miserable, especially those in the cold 
damp clay, and without elbow room; but I have nothing 
to do but wait till He who is over all decides where I 

* 2 




A Forest Grave. 



The graves at home always 



308 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. XII. 

have to lay me down and die. Poor Mary lies on Sliu- 
panga brae, " and beeks foment the sun." * 

Came to the Chando River, which is the boundary be- 
tween Casembe and Chikumbi; but Casembe is over all. 

21th June. — We crossed a flooded marsh with the water 
very cold, and then the Chando itself twelve feet broad 
and knee deep, then on to another strong brook Nsenga. 

2Sth June. — After service we went on up hills to a 
stockade of Banyamwezi, on the Kalomina Eiver, and here 
we built our sheds ; the spot is called Kizinga, and is on 
the top of a sandstone range covered as usual with forest. 
The Banyamwezi beat off the Mazitu with their guns, while 
all the country people fled. The Banyamwezi are decidedly 
uglier than the Balonda and Baitawa : they eat no fish, 
though they come from the east side of Tanganyika, where 
fish are abundant and cheap ; but though uglier, they 
have more of the sense of honour with traders than the 
aborigines. 

29th June. — Observed the "smokes" to-day, the first of 
the season :| they obscured the whole country. 

1st July, 1868. — I went over to Chikumbi, the paramount 
•chief of this district, and gave him a cloth, begging a man 
to guide me to Bangweolo. He said that I was welcome to 
his country ; all were so : I had better wait two days till 
he had selected a good man as a guide, and he would send 
some food for me to eat in the journey — he would not say 
ten days, but only two, and his man would take me to the 
smaller part of the Lake, and leave others to forward me 
to the greater or Bangweolo. The smaller part is named 
Bemba, but that name is confusing, because Bemba is the 
name of the country in which a portion of the Lake lies. 



* The allusion is to Mrs. Livingstone's grave. 

f At one season the long grass which covers the face of the country- 
catches fire. For some three months the air is consequently filled with 
smoke. — Ed. 



1808.] A NAME IS FOUND FOR THE LAKE. 309 

When asking for Lake Bemba, Kasongo's son said to me, 
" Bemba is not a lake, but a country :" it is therefore better 
to use the name BANGWEOLO, which is applied to the 
great mass of the water, though I fear that our English 
folks will bogle at it, or call it Bungyhollow ! Some Arabs 
say Bambeolo as easier of pronunciation, but Bangweolo is 
the correct word. Chikumbi's stockade is 1^ hour S.E. of 
our camp at Kizinga. 

2nd July, 1868.— Writing to the Consul at Zanzibar to- 
send supplies of cloth to Ujiji — 120 pieces, 40 Kiniki ; 
80 merikano 34 inches broad, or samsam. Fine red beads 
— Talaka, 12 frasilas. I ask for soap, coffee, sugar, candles, 
sardines, French preserved meats, a cheese in tin, Nautical 
Almanac for 1869 and 1870, shoes (two or four pairs), ruled 
paper, pencils, sealing-wax, ink, powder, flannel-serge, 12 
frasila beads, 6 of Talaka; added 3 F. pale red, 3 W. 
white. 

3rd July. — The summary of the sources which I have 
resolved to report as flowing into the central line of 
drainage formed by the Chambeze, Luapula, and Lualaba 
are thirteen in all, and each is larger than the Isis at 
Oxford, or Avon at Hamilton. Five flow into the eastern 
line of drainage going through Tanganyika, and five more 
into the western line of drainage or Lufira, twenty-three or 
more in all. The Lualaba and the Lufira unite in the Lake 
of the chief Kinkonza. 

lith July. — I borrowed some paper from Mohamad 
Bogharib to write home by some Arabs going to the coast. 
I will announce my discovery to Lord Clarendon ; but I 
reserve the parts of the Lualaba and Tanganyika for future 
confirmation. I have no doubts on the subject, for I re- 
ceive the reports of natives of intelligence at first hand, 
and they have no motive for deceiving me. The best maps 
are formed from the same sort of reports at third or fourth 
hand. Cold N.E. winds prevail at present. 



310 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. XII. 

6th July. — Divided our salt that each may buy pro- 
visions for himself: it is here of more value than 
beads. Chikumbi sent fine flour, a load for two stout men 
carried in a large basket slung to a pole, and a fine 
fat sheep, carried too because it was too fat to walk the 
distance from his stockade. 

7 th, 8th, and 9th July.- — After delaying several days 
to send our guide, Chikumbi said that he feared the 
country people would say that the Ingleza brought the 
Mazitu to them, and so blame will be given to him. I set 
this down as " words of pombe," beery babble ; but after 
returning from Bangweolo, I saw that he must have been 
preparing to attack a stockade of Banyamwezi in our 
path, and had he given us a guide, that man would 
have been in danger in coming back : he therefore 
preferred the safety of his man to keeping his promise 
to me. I got a Banyamwezi guide, and left on the 
10th July, going over gently rising sandstone hills, 
covered with forest and seeing many deserted villages, 
the effects of the Mazitu foray : we saw also the Mazitu 
sleeping-places and paths. They neglect the common paths 
of the country as going from one village to another, and 
take straight courses in the direction they wish to go, 
treading down the grass so as to make a well-marked route. 
The Banyamwezi expelled them, cutting off so many of 
them with their guns and arrows that the marauders re- 
tired. The effect of this success on the minds of the 
Imboshwa, or Imbozhwas, as Chikumbi's people are called, 
was not gratitude, but envy at the new power sprung up 
among them of those who came originally as traders in 
copper. 

Kombokombo's stockade, the village to which we went 
this day, was the first object of assault, and when we re- 
turned, he told us that Chikumbi had assaulted him on 
three sides, but was repulsed. The Banyamwezi were, 



1868.] KOMBOKOMBO'S HOSPITALITY. 311 

moreover, much too sharp as traders for the Irnboshwa, 
cheating them unmercifully, and lying- like Greeks. Kom- 
bokonibo's stockade was on the Chiberase Biver, which flows 
briskly, eight yards broad and deep, through a mile of 
sponge. We came in the midst of a general jollification, 
and were most bountifully supplied with pombe and food. 
The Banyamwezi acknowledge allegiance to the Sultan 
of Zanzibar, and all connected with him are respected. 
Kombokombo pressed food and drink on me, and when I 
told him that I had nothing to return for it, he said that 
he expected nothing: he was a child of the Sultan, and 
ought to furnish all I needed. 

11th July. — On leaving the Chiberase we passed up 
over a long line of hills with many villages and gardens, 
but mostly deserted during the Mazitu raid. The people 
fled into the forests on the hills, and were an easy prey to 
the marauders, who seem to have been unmerciful. When 
we descended into the valley beyond we came to a strong 
stockade, which had successfully resisted the onset of the 
Mazitu; we then entered on flat forest, with here and 
there sponges containing plenty of water ; plains succeeded 
the hills, and continued all the way to Bangweolo. We 
made a fence in the forest ; and next day .(12th July) 
reached the Bofuba, 50 yards broad and 4^ feet deep, full 
of aquatic plants, and flowing south-west into the Luongo : 
it had about a mile and a half of sponge on each side of it. 
We encamped a little south of the river. 

l?>th July. — On resting at a deserted spot, the men of a 
village in the vicinity came to us excited and apparently 
<lrunk, and began to work themselves up still more by 
running about, poising their spears at us, taking aim with 
their bows and arrows, and making as if about to strike 
with their axes : they thought that we were marauders, 
and some plants of ground-nuts strewn about gave colour to 
*he idea. There is usually one good soul in such rabbles. 



812 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. XII. 

In this case a man came to me, and, addressing his fellows, 
said, "This is only yonr pombe. White man, do not 
stand among them, but go away," and then he placed 
himself between me and a portion of the assailants, abont 
thirty of whom were making their warlike antics. While 
walking quietly away with my good friend they ran in 
front and behind bushes and trees, took aim with bow 
and arrow, but none shot: the younger men ran away 
with our three goats. "When we had gone a quarter of a 
mile my friend told me to wait and he would bring the 
goats, which he did : I could not feel the inebriates to 
be enemies; but in that state they are the worst one 
can encounter, for they have no fear as they have when 
sober. One snatched away a fowl from our guide, that too 
was restored by our friend. I did not load my gun ; for any 
accidental discharge would have inflamed them to rashness. 
We got away without shedding blood, and were thankful. 
The Mazitu raid has produced lawlessness in the country : 
every one was taken as an enemy. 

14th July. — We remained a day at the stockade of 
Moieggea. A Banyamwezi or Garaganza man is settled here 
in Kabaia's district, and on the strong rivulet called Mato. 
We felt secure only among the strangers, and they were 
friendly with us. 

15^ July. — At the village on the south bank of the 
Mpanda we were taken by the headman as Mazitu. He 
was evidently intoxicated, and began to shut his gates with 
frantic gesticulations. I offered to go away ; but others of 
his people, equally intoxicated, insisted on my remaining. I 
sat down a little, but seeing that the chief was still alarmed, 
I said to his people, " The chief objects and I can't stay : "" 
they saw the reasonableness of this, but I could not get 
my cowardly attendants to come on, though one said to 
me, " Come, I shall show you the way : we must speak nice 
to them." This the wise boys think the perfection of virtue: 



1868.] THE MARCH TOWARDS THE NEW LAKH. 313 

speaking nice means adopting a childish treble tone of voice 
and words exactly similar to those of the little Scotch girl 
who, passing through a meadow, was approached by a cow, 
probably from curiosity. To appease this enemy, she said, 
" Oh, coo, coo, if you no hurt me, I no hurt you." I told 
them to come on and leave them quietly, but they remained 
babbling with them. The guide said that there was no 
water in front: this I have been told too often ever to 
believe, so I went on through the forest, and in an hour 
and a half came to a sponge where, being joined by my 
attendants, we passed the night. 

lQth July. — Crossing this sponge, and passing through 
flat forest, we came to another named Meshwe, when 
there, as a contrast, the young men volunteered to carry 
me across; but I had got off my shoes, and was in 
the water, and they came along with me, showing the 
shallower parts. We finished the day's march by crossing 
the Molongosi spongy ooze, with 150 paces of deep water, 
flowing N.E. The water in these oozes or sponges felt 
very cold, though only 60° in the mornings, and 65° at 
midday. The Molongosi people invited us into the village ; 
but the forest, unless when infested with leopards and lions, 
is always preferable, for one is free from vermin, and free 
from curiosity gazers, who in the village think they have 
a right to stare, but in the forest feel that they are not on 
an equality with strangers. 

[It was on the 18th of July, 1868, we see that Dr. Living- 
stone discovered one of the largest of the Central African 
Lakes. It is extraordinary to notice the total absence of 
all pride and enthusiasm, as — almost parenthetically — he 
records the fact.] 

17th and l&th July. — Eeached the chief village of 
Mapuni, near the north bank of Bangweolo. On the 18th 



314 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. XIT. 

I walked a little way out and saw the shores of the Lake 
for the first time, thankful that I had come safely hither. 

I told the chief that my goods were all expended, and 
gave him a fathom of calico as all I could spare : I told 
him that as soon as I had seen and measured the Lake 
I would return north; he replied, that seeing our goods 
were done he could say nothing, he would give me guides, 
and what else he should do was known to himself. He 
gave a public reception at once. I asked if he had ever 
seen anyone like me, and he said, " Never." A Babisa 
traveller asked me why I had come so far ; I said I wished 
to make the country and people better known to the rest 
of the world, that we were all children of one Father, and 
I was anxious that we should know each other better, 
and that friendly visits should be made in safety. I told 
him what the Queen had done to encourage the growth 
of cotton on the Zambezi, and how we had been thwarted 
by slave-traders and their abettors : they were pleased with 
this. "When asked I showed them my note-book, watch, 
compass, burning-glass, and was loudly drummed home. 

I showed them the Bible, and told them a little of its 
contents. I shall require a few days more at Bangweolo 
than I at first intended. The moon being in its last stage 
of waning I cannot observe till it is of some size. 

19th July. — Went down to Masantu's village, which 
is on the shore of the Lake, and by a spring called 
Chipoka, which comes out of a mass of disintegrated 
granite. It is seldom that we see a spring welling out 
beneath a rock : they are covered by oozing sponges, if 
indeed they exist. Here we had as a spectator a man 
walking on stilts tied to his ankles and knees. There are 
a great many Babisa among the people. The women have 
their hair ornamented with strings of cowries, and well oiled 
with the oil and fat from the seeds of the Mosikisi trees. 
I sent the chief a fathom of calico, and got an audience at 



1868.] DESCRIPTION OF LAKE BAXGWEOLO. 315 

once. Masantu is an oldish man ; had never prayed to the 
Great Father of all, though he said the footsteps of "Mungu," 
or Mulungu, could be seen on a part of Lifunge Island : a 
large footstep may also be seen on the rock at the Cham- 
beze, about fifteen inches long. He informed us that the 
Lake is much the largest at the part called Bangweolo. 

The country around the Lake is all flat, and very niuch 
denuded of trees, except the Motsikiri or Mosikisi, which 
has fine dark, dense foliage, and is spared for its shade and 
the fatty oil yielded by its seeds : we saw the people boil- 
ing large pots full of the dark brown fat, which they use to 
lubricate their hair. The islands, four in number, are all 
flat, but well peopled. The men have many canoes, and 
are all expert fishermen ; they are called Mboghwa, but are 
marked on the forehead and chin as Babisa, and file the 
teeth to points. They have many children, as fishermen 
usually have. 

21st July. — Canoe-men are usually extortionate, because 
one cannot do without them. Mapuni claims authority over 
them, and sent to demand another fathom that he may give 
orders to them to go with us : I gave a hoe and a string of 
beads instead, but he insisted on the cloth, and kept the hoe 
too, as I could not afford the time to haggle. 

Chipoka spring water at 9 a.m. 75° 
Lake water at same time 71 



Chipoka spring at -i p.m. 74° 5' 
Lake water at same time 75° 



air 71° 5'; wet bulb 70°. 



No hot fountains or earthquakes are known in this 
region. The bottom of the Lake consists of fine white sand, 
and a broad belt of strong rushes, say 100 yards wide, shows 
shallow water. In the afternoons quite a crowd of canoes 
anchor at its outer edge to angle ; the hooks are like ours, 
but without barbs. The fish are perch chiefly, but others 
similar to those that appear in the other Lakes are found, 



316 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOUKNALS. [Chap. XII. 

and two which attain the large size of 4 feet by lh in 
thickness : one is called Sampa. 

22nd July. — A very high wind came with the new moon, 
and prevented our going, and also the fishermen from fol- 
lowing their calling. Mapuni thought that we meant to 
make an escape from him to the Babisa on the south, because 
we were taking our goats, I therefore left them and two 
attendants at Masantu's village, to assure him. 

23rd July. — Wind still too strong to go. Took lunars. 

24th July. — Wind still strong. 

25th Jidy. — Strong S.E. wind still blowing, but having 
paid the canoe-men amply for four days with beads, 
and given Masantu a hoe and beads too, we embarked at 
11.40 a.m. in a fine canoe, 45 feet long, 4 feet deep, and 4 
feet broad. The waves were high, but the canoe was very 
dry, and five stout men propelled her quickly towards an 
opening in Lifunge Island, on our S.E. Here we stopped 
to wood, and I went away to look at the island, which had 
the marks of hippopotami and a species of jackal on it : 
it had hard wiry grass, some flowers, and a species of 
Capparidaceous tree. The trees showed well the direction 
of the prevailing wind to be south-east, for the branches 
on that side were stunted or killed, while those on the 
north-west ran out straight, and made the trees appear, as 
sailors say, lopsided : the trunks too were bent that way. 

The canoe-men now said that they would start, then that 
they would sleep here, because we could not reach the 
Island Mpabala before dark, and would not get a hut. I 
said that it would be sleeping out of doors only in either 
case, so they went. We could see the island called Eisi 
on our east, apparently a double island, about 15 miles off, 
and the tops of the trees barely visible on Mpabala on our 
south-east. It was all sea horizon on our south and north, 
between Lifunge and Mpabala, and between Lifunge and 
Eisi. We could not go to Eisi, because, as the canoe-men 



1808.] VOYAGE OF DISCOVERY. 317 

told us, tliey had stolon their canoe thence. Though we 
decided to go, we remained awhile to let the sea go down. 
A hammerhead's nest on one of the trees was fully four feet 
high. Coarse rushes show the shoals near the islands. 
Only one shell was seen on the shores. The canoe ships 
much less water in this surf than our boat did in that of 
Nyassa. The water is of a deep sea-green colour, probably 
from the reflection of the fine white sand of the bottom ; we 
saw no part having the deep dark blue of Nyassa, and con- 
jecture that the depth is not great ; but I had to leave oiu* 
line when Amoda absconded. On Kisi we observed a dark 
square mass, which at first I took to be a low hill : it turned 
out to be a mass of trees (probably the place of sepulture, 
for the graveyards are always untouched), and shows 'what 
a dense forest this land would become were it not for the 
influence of men. 

We reached Mpabala after dark. It was bitterly cold, 
from the amount of moisture in the air. I asked a man who 
came to see what the arrival was, for a hut ; he said, " Do 
strangers require huts, or ask for them at night ? " he then 
led us to the public place of meeting, called Nsaka, which 
is a large shed, with planks around and open spaces be- 
tween, instead of walls ; here we cooked a little porridge, 
and ate it, then I lay down on one side, with the canoe-men 
and my attendants at the fire in the middle, and was soon 
asleep, and dreamed that I had apartments in Mivart's 
Hotel. This made me feel much amused next day, for I 
never dream unless I am ill, or going to be ill ; and of 
all places in the world, I never thought of Mivart's Hotel 
in my waking moments ; a freak of the fancy surely, for 
I was not at all discontented with my fare, or apartment, I 
was only afraid of getting a stock of vermin from my 
associates. 

26th July. — I have to stand the stare of a crowd of 
people at every new place for hours : all usually talk as 






318 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. XII. 

quickly as their glib tongues can ; these certainly do not 
belong to the tribes who are supposed to eke out their 
language by signs ! A few indulge their curiosity in sight- 
seeing, but go on steadily weaving nets, or by beating bark- 
cloth, or in spinning cotton, others smoke their big tobacco 
pipes, or nurse a baby, or enjoy the heat of the bright 
morning sun. I walked across the north end of the island, 
and found it to be about one mile broad, I also took bearings 
of Chirubi Island from the eastern point of Mpabala, and 
found from the south-east point of Chirubi that there are 
183° of sea horizon from it to the point of departure of the 
Luapula, Chirubi is the largest of the islands, and contains 
a large population, possessing many sheep and goats. At 
the highest part of Mpabala we could see the tops of the 
trees on Kasango, a small uninhabited islet, about thirty 
miles distant : the tops of the trees were evidently lifted 
up by the mirage, for near the shore and at other parts they 
were invisible, even with a good glass. This uninhabited 
islet would have been our second stage had we been allowed 
to cross the Lake, as it is of the people themselves; it is 
as far beyond it to the mainland, called Manda, as from 
Masantu's to Mpabala. 

27th July. — Took lunars and stars for latitude. 

The canoe-men now got into a flurry, because they were 
told here that the Kisi men had got an inkling that their 
canoe was here, and were coming to take it ; they said to 
me that they would come back for me, but I could not trust 
thieves to be so honest. I thought of seizing their paddles, 
and appealing to the headmen of the island; but aware 
from past experience how easy it is for acknowledged thieves 
like them to get up a tale to secure the cheap sympa- 
thy of the soft-headed, or tender-hearted, I resolved to bear 
with meekness, though groaning inwardly, the loss of two 
of the four days for which I had paid them. I had only 
my coverlet to hire another canoe, and it was now very cold ; 



1868.] LAKE BANGWEOLO. 310 

the few beads left would all be required to buy food in the 
way back, I might have got food by shooting buffaloes, but 
that on foot and through grass, with stalks as thick as a 
goose quill, is dreadfully hard work ; I had thus to return 
to Masantu's, and trust to the distances as deduced from the 
time taken by the natives in their canoes for the size of 
the Lake. 

"We had come to Mpabala at the rate of six knots an hour, 
and returned in the same time with six stout paddlers. The 
latitude was 12' in a south-east course, which may give 24' 
as the actual distance. To the sleeping-place, the Islet 
Kasango, there was at least 28' more, and from thence to 
the mainland " Manda," other 28'. This 24 + 28 + 28 = 80' 
as the breadth from Masantu village, looking south-east. 
It lies in 11° 0' S. If we add on the half distance to this 
we have 11° 40' as the latitude of Manda. The mainland 
to the south of Mpabala is called Kabende. The land's end 
running south of Masantu's village is the entrance to the 
Luapula : the clearest eye cannot see across it there. I 
saw clouds as if of grass burning, but they were probably 
" Kungu," an edible insect, whose masses have exactly the 
same appearance as they float above and on the water. From 
the time the canoes take to go to Kabende I believe the 
southern shore to be a little into 12° of south latitude : the 
length, as inferred from canoes taking ten days to go from 
Mpabala to the Chambeze, I take to be 150 miles, probabh 7 
more. No one gave a shorter time than that. The Luapula 
is an arm of the Lake for some twenty miles, and beyond 
that is never narrower than from 180 to 200 yards, generally 
much broader, and may be compared with the Thames at 
London Bridge : I think that I am considerably within the 
mark in setting down Bangweolo as 150 miles long by 80 
broad. 

AVhen told that it contained four large islands, I ima- 
gined that these would considerably diminish the watery 



320 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOUENALS. [Chap. XII. 

acreage of the whole, as is said to be the case with five 
islands in Ukerewe; but even the largest island, Chirubi, 
does not in the least dwarf the enormous mass of the 
water of Bangweolo. A range of mountains, named Lokinga, 
extends from the south-east to the south-west : some small 
burns come down from them, but no river ; this range joins 
the Kone, or Mokone range, west of Katanga, from which on 
one side rises the Lufira, and on the other the Liambai, or 
Zambesi. The river of Manda, called Matanga, is only a 
departing and re-entering branch of the Lake, also the 
Luraa and Loela rivers — some thirty yards broad — have 
each to be examined as springs on the south of the Lake. 

July 29th. — Not a single case of Derbyshire neck, or of 
Elephantiasis, was observed anywhere near the Lake, con- 
sequently the report we had of its extreme unhealthiness 
was erroneous : no muddy banks did we see, but in the way 
to it we had to cross so many sponges, or oozes, that the 
word matojpe, mud, was quite applicable ; and I suspect, if we 
had come earlier, that we should have experienced great 
difficulty in getting to the Lake at all. 

30th July. — We commenced our march back, being 
eager to get to Chikumbi's in case Mohamad should go 
thence to Katanga. We touched at Mapuni's, and then 
went on to the Molongosi. Clouds now began to cover the 
sky to the Mpanda, which has fifteen yards of flood, though 
the stream itself is only five yards wide, then on to the 
Mato and Moiegge's stockade, where we heard of Chikumbi's 
attack on Kombokombo's. Moiegge had taken the hint, 
and was finishing a second line of defence around his village : 
we reached him on the 1st August, 1868, and stopped for 
Sunday the 2nd : on the 3rd back to the Kofubu, where I 
was fortunate enough to hire a canoe to take me over. 

In examining a tsetse fly very carefully I see that it has 
a receptacle at the root of the piercer, which is of a black 
or dark-red colour ; and when it is squeezed, a clear fluid is 



1868.] DIFFICULTIES AHEAD. 321 

pressed out at its point : the other two parts of the pro- 
boscis are its shield, and have no bulb at the base. The 
bulb was pronounced at the Koyal Society to be only 
muscle, but it is curious that muscle should be furnished 
where none is needed, and withheld in the movable parts of 
the shield where it is decidedly needed. 

5th August, 1868. — Beach Kombokombo, who is very 
liberal, and pressed us to stay a day with him as well as 
with others; we complied, and found that Mohamad had 
gone nowhere. 

7th August. — We found a party starting from Kizinga 
for the coast, having our letters with them; it will take 
five months to reach the sea. The disturbed state of the 
country prevented parties of traders proceeding in various 
directions, and one that set off on the same day with us 
was obliged to return. Mohamad has resolved to go to 
Manyuema as soon as parties of his men now out return : 
this is all in my favour ; it is in the way I want to go to 
see the Lualaba and Lufira to Chowambe. The way seems 
opening out before me, and I am thankful. I resolved to 
go north by way of Casembe, and guides were ready to 
start, so was I ; but rumours of war where Ave were going 
induced me to halt to find out the truth : the guides (Ban- 
yamwezi) were going to divine, by means of a cock, to see 
if it would be lucky to go with me at present. The rumours 
of danger became so circumstantial that our fence was 
needed: a well was dug inside, and the Banyamwezi were 
employed to smelt copper as for the market of Manyuema, 
and balls for war. Syde bin Omar soon came over the 
Luapula from Iramba, and the state of confusion induced 
the traders to agree to unite their forces and make a safe 
retreat out of the country. They objected very strongly to 
my going away down the right bank of the Luapula with 
my small party, though it was in sight, so I resolved to 
remain till all went. 

VOL. i. Y 



322 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. XII. 

loth August. — The Banyamwezi use a hammer shaped 
like a cone, without a handle. They have both kinds of 
bellows, one of goatskin the other of wood, with a skin over 
the mouth of a drum, and a handle tied to the middle 
of it; with these they smelt pieces of the large bars of 
copper into a pot, filled nearly full of wood ashes. The 
fire is surrounded by masses of anthills, and in these there 
are hollows made to receive the melted metal : the metal is 
poured while the pot is held with the hands, protected by 
wet rags. 

15th August. — Bin Omar, a Suaheli, came from Muaboso 
on Chambeze in six days, crossing in that space twenty-two 
burns or oozes, from knee to waist deep. 

Very high and cold winds prevail at present. It was 
proposed to punish Chikumbi when Syde bin Omar came, 
as he is in debt and refuses payment ; but I go off to 
Casembe. 

I learn that there is another hot fountain in the Baloba 
country, called Fungwe ; this, with Kapira and Vana, makes 
three hot fountains in this region. 

Some people were killed in my path to Casembe, so this 
was an additional argument against my going that way. 

Some Banyamwezi report a tribe — the Bonyolo — that 
extract the upper front teeth, like Batoka ; they are near 
Loanda, and Lake Chipokola is there, probably the same 
as Kinkonza. Feeling my way. All the trees are now 
pushing out fresh young leaves of different colours : winds 
S.E. Clouds of upper stratum N.W. 

29th August. — Kaskas began to-day hot and sultry. This 
will continue till rains fall. Kumours of wars perpetual 
and near ; and one circumstantial account of an attack 
made by the Bause. That again contradicted. (31st 
August.) Bain began here this evening, quite remarkable 
and exceptional, as it precedes the rains generally off the 
watershed by two months at least : it was a thunder 



1668.] RAINFALL IN AFRICA. 323 

shower, and it and another on the evening of the second 
were quite partial. 

[As we shall see, he takes advantage of his late experi- 
ence to work out an elaborate treatise on the climate of this 
region, which is exceedingly important, bearing, as it does, 
upon the question of the periodical floods on the rivers 
which drain the enormous cistern-lakes of Central Africa.] 

The notion of a rainy zone, in which the clouds deposit 
their treasures in perpetual showers, has received no con- 
firmation from my observations. In 1866-7, the rainfall 
was 42 inches. In 1867-8, it amounted to 53 inches : 
this is nearly the same as falls in the same latitudes 
on the West Coast. In both years the rains ceased 
entirely in May, and Avith the exception of two partial 
thunder showers on the middle of the watershed, no rain 
fell till the middle and end of October, and then, even in 
November, it was partial, and limited to small patches of 
country; but scarcely a day passed between October and 
May without a good deal of thunder. When the thunder 
began to roll or rumble, that was taken by the natives as 
an indication of the near cessation of the rains. The middle 
of the watershed is the most humid part : one sees the 
great humidity of its climate at once in the trees, old and 
young, being thickly covered with lichens; some flat, on 
the trunks and branches ; others long and thready, like the 
beards of old men waving in the wind. Large orchids on the 
trees in company with the profusion of lichens are seen no- 
where else, except in the mangrove swamps of the sea-coast. 

I cannot account for the great humidity of the watershed 
as compared with the rest of the country, but by the pre- 
vailing winds and the rains being from the south-east, and 
thus from the Indian Ocean : with this wind generally on 
the surface one can observe an upper strong wind from the 

Y 2 



324 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. XII. 

north-west, that is, from the low humid West Coast and 
Atlantic Ocean. The double strata of winds can easily be 
observed when there are two sheets of clouds, or when 
burning grass over scores of square miles sends up smoke 
sufficiently high to be caught by the upper or north-west 
wind. These winds probably meet during the heavy rains : 
now in August they overlap each other. The probability 
arises from all continued rains within the tropics coming in 
the opposite direction from the prevailing wind of the year. 
Partial rains are usually from the south-east. 

The direction of the prevailing wind of this region is well 
marked on the islands in Lake Bangweolo : the trunks are 
bent away from the south-east, and the branches on that side 
are stunted or killed ; while those on the north-west run out 
straight and make the trees appear lopsided. The same 
bend away from the south-east is seen on all exposed situa- 
tions, as in the trees covering the brow of a hill. At 
Kizinga, which is higher than the Lake, the trees are 
covered with lichens, chiefly on the south-east sides, and 
on the upper surfaces of branches, running away horizon- 
tally to or from the north-west. Plants and trees, which 
elsewhere in Africa grow only on the banks of streams 
and other damp localities, are seen flourishing all over 
the country : the very rocks are covered with lichens, and 
their crevices with ferns. 

But that which demonstrates the humidity of the climate 
most strikingly is the number of earthen sponges or oozes 
met with. In going to Bangweolo from Kizinga, I crossed 
twenty-nine of these reservoirs in thirty miles of latitude, on 
a south-east course: this may give about one sponge for 
every two miles. The word " Bog " conveys much of the 
idea of these earthen sponges ; but it is inseparably con- 
nected in our minds with peat, and these contain not a par- 
ticle of peat, they consist of black porous earth, covered 
with a hard wiry grass, and a few other damp-loving plants. 



1868.] THE SrOXGE MINUTELY DESCRIBED. 325 

In many places the sponges hold large quantities of the 
oxide of iron, from the big patches of brown hamiatite that 
crop out everywhere, and streams of this oxide, as thick 
as treacle, are seen moving slowly along in the sponge-like 
small red glaciers. When one treads on the black earth of 
the sponge, though little or no water appears on the surface, 
it is frequently squirted up the limbs, and gives the idea of 
a sponge. In the paths that cross them, the earth readily 
becomes soft mud, but sinks rapidly to the bottom again, 
as if of great specific gravity : the water in them is always 
circulating and oozing. The places where the sponges are 
met with are slightly depressed valleys without trees or 
bushes, in a forest country where the grass being only a 
foot or fifteen inches high, and thickly planted, often looks 
like a beautiful glade in a gentleman's park in England. 
They are from a quarter of a mile to a mile broad, and from 
two to ten or more miles long. The water of the heavy 
rains soaks into the level forest lands : one never sees 
runnels leading it off, unless occasionally a footpath is 
turned to that use. The water, descending about eight feet, 
comes to a stratum of yellow sand, beneath which there is 
another stratum of fine white sand, which at its bottom 
cakes, so as to hold the water from sinking further. 

It is exactly the same as we found in the Kalahari 
Desert, in digging sucking places for water for our oxen. 
The water, both here and there, is guided by the fine sand 
stratum into the nearest valley, and here it oozes forth on 
all sides through the thick mantle of black porous earth, 
which forms the sponge. There, in the desert, it appears to 
damp the surface sands in certain valleys, and the Bushmen, 
by a peculiar process, suck out a supply. When we had 
dug down to the caked sand there years ago, the people 
begged us not to dig further, as the water would all run 
away ; and we desisted, because we saw that the fluid poured 
in from the fine sand all round the well, but none came from 



326 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. XTT, 

the bottom or cake. Two stupid Englishmen afterwards 
broke through the cake in spite of the entreaties of the 
natives, and the well and the whole valley dried up hope- 
lessly. Here the water, oozing forth from the surface of the 
sponge mantle, collects in the centre of the slightly depressed 
valley which it occupies, and near the head of the depression 
forms a sluggish stream; but further down, as it meets 
with more slope, it works out for itself a deeper channel, 
with perpendicular banks, with, say, a hundred or more 
yards of sponge on each side, constantly oozing forth fresh 
supplies to augment its size. When it reaches rocky 
ground it is a perennial burn, with many aquatic plants 
growing in its bottom. One peculiarity would strike any- 
one : the water never becomes discoloured or muddy. I 
have seen only one stream muddied in flood, the Choma, 
flowing through an alluvial plain in Lopere. Another 
peculiarity is very remarkable ; it is, that after the rains 
have entirely ceased, these burns have their largest flow, 
and cause inundations. It looks as if towards the end of 
the rainy season the sponges were lifted up by the water off 
their beds, and the pores and holes, being enlarged, are all 
employed to give off fluid. The waters of inundation run 
away. When the sponges are lifted up by superabundance 
of water, all the pores therein are opened : as the earthen 
mantle subsides again, the pores act like natural valves, and 
are partially closed, and by the weight of earth above them, 
the water is thus prevented from running away altogether; 
time also being required to wet all the sand through which 
the rains soak, the great supply may only find its way to the 
sponge a month or so after the great rains have fallen. 

I travelled in Lunda, when the sponges were all super- 
saturated. The grassy sward was so lifted up that it was 
separated into patches or tufts, and if the foot missed the 
row of tufts of this wiry grass which formed the native path, 
down one plumped up to the thigh in slush. At that time 



1868.] DIFFICULT NATURE OF THE GROUND. 327 

we could cross the sponge only by the native paths, and 
the central burn only where they had placed bridges : 
elsewhere they were impassable, as they poured off the 
waters of inundation : our oxen were generally bogged — all 
four legs went down up to the body at once. When they 
saw the clear sandy bottom of the central burn they readily 
went in, but usually plunged right oyer head, leaving their 
tail up in the air to show the nervous shock they had 
sustained. 

These sponges are a serious matter in travelling. I 
crossed the twenty-nine already mentioned at the end of 
the fourth month of the dry season, and the central burns 
seemed then to have suffered no diminution : they were 
then from calf to waist deep, and required from fifteen to 
forty minutes in crossing; they had many deep holes in 
the paths, and when one plumps therein every muscle in 
the frame receives a painful jerk. When past the stream, 
and apparently on partially dry ground, one may jog in a 
foot or more, and receive a squirt of black mud up the thighs : 
it is only when you reach the trees and are off the sour land 
that you feel secure from mud and leeches. As one has to 
strip the lower part of the person in order to ford them, I 
found that often four were as many as we could cross in a 
day. Looking up these sponges a bird's-eye view would 
closely resemble the lichen-like vegetation of frost on 
window panes ; or that vegetation in Canada-balsam which 
mad philosophical instrument makers will put between the 
lenses of the object-glasses of our telescopes. The flat, or 
nearly flat, tops of the subtending and transverse ridges of 
this central country give rise to a great many : I crossed 
twenty-nine, a few of the feeders of Bangweolo, in thirty 
miles of latitude in one direction. Burns are literally 
innumerable : rising on the ridges, or as I formerly 
termed them mounds, they are undoubtedly the primary 
or ultimate sources of the Zambezi, Congo, and Nile : by 



328 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. XII. 

their union are formed streams of from thirty to eighty 
or 100 yards broad, and always deep enough to require 
either canoes or bridges. These I propose to call the 
secondary sources, and as in the case of the Nile they are 
drawn off by three lines of drainage, they become the head 
waters (the caput Nili) of the river of Egypt. 

Thanks to that all-embracing Providence, which has 
watched over and enabled me to discover what I have 
done. There is still much to do, and if health and pro- 
tection be granted I shall make a complete thing of it. 

[Then he adds in a note a little further on : — ] 

But few of the sponges on the watershed ever dry ; 
elsewhere many do ; the cracks in their surface are from 
15 to 18 inches deep, with lips from 2 to 3 inches apart. 
Crabs and other animals in clearing out their runs reveal 
what I verified by actually digging wells at Kizinga and 
in Kabuire, and also observed in the ditches 15 feet deep 
dug by the natives round many of their stockades, that the 
sponge rests on a stratum of fine white washed sand. These 
cracks afford a good idea of the effect of the rains : the 
partial thunder-showers of October, November, December, 
and even January, produce no effect on them ; it is only 
when the sun begins to return from his greatest southern 
declination that the cracks close their large lips. The 
whole sponge is borne up, and covers an enormous mass of 
water, oozing forth in March and April forming the inun- 
dations. These floods in the Congo, Zambesi, and Nile 
require different times to reach the sea. The bulk of the 
Zambesi is further augmented by the greater rains finding 
many pools in the beds of its feeders filled in February, as 
soon as the sun comes north. 

Mem. — In apparent contradiction of the foregoing, so far 
as touches the sources of the Zambesi, Syde bin Habib 
informed me a few days ago that he visited the sources 



18G8.] SYDE BIN HABIB SPEAKS OF FOUNTAINS. :j-'j 

of the Liambai and of the Lufira. Each comes out of a 
fountain ; the Lufira one is called Changozi, and is small, 
and in a wood of large trees S.W. of Katanga ; the fountain 
of the Liambai is so large that one cannot call to a person 
on the other side, and he appears also very small there — 
the two fountains are just five hours distant from each other. 
He is well acquainted with the Liambai (Leeambye), where 
I first met him. Lunga, another river, comes out of nearly 
the same spot which goes into the Leunge, Kafue (?). 
Lufira is less than Kalongosi up there ; that is less than 
80 or 200 yards, and it has deep waterfalls in it. The 
Kone range comes down north, nearly to Mpnieto's. Mkana 
is the chief of the stone houses in the Baloba, and he may 
be reached by three days of hard travelling from Mpweto's ; 
Lufira is then one long day west. As Muabo refuses to show 
me his " mita," " miengelo," or " mpamankanana " as they are 
called, I must try and get to those of the Baloba of Mkana. 
Senegal swallows pair in the beginning of December. 

Note. — Inundation. 

The inundation I have explained in the note on the 
-climate as owing to the sponges being supersaturated in 
the greater rains, when the sun returns from his greatest 
southern declination, the pores are then all enlarged, and 
the water of inundation flows in great volume even after 
the rains have entirely ceased. Something has probably 
to be learned from the rainfall at or beyond the equator, as 
the sun pursues his way north beyond my beat, but the 
process I have named accounts undoubtedly for the inun- 
dations of the Congo and Zambesi. The most acute of the 
ancients ascribed the inundation with Strabo to summer 
rains in the south ; others to snows melting on the Moun- 
tains of the Moon ; others to the northern wind — the 
Etesian breezes blowing directly against the mouth of the 
river and its current : others, with less reason, ascribed the 



330 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. XII. 

inundation to its having its source in the ocean : Herodotus 
and Pliny to evaporation following the course of the sun. 

1st September, 1868. — Two men come from Casembe — I 
am reported killed. The miningo-tree distils water, which 
falls in large drops. The Luapula seen when the smoke 
clears off. Fifty of Syde bin Omar's people died of small- 
pox in Usafa. Mem. Vaccine vieus. We leave on the 
25th, east bank of Moisi River, and cross the Luongo on the 
28th, the Lofubu on the 1st October, and the Kalongosi on 
the 7th. 

[Dr. Livingstone seems to have been unable to find 
opportunity to make daily entries at this period. All was 
turmoil and panic, and his life appears to have been in 
imminent danger. Briefly we see that on his way back 
from the Lake he found that his Arab associates of the last 
few months had taken up Casembe's cause against the 
devastating hordes of Mazitu, who had swept down on these 
parts, and had repulsed them. But now a fresh complication 
arose ! Casembe and Chikumbi became alarmed lest the 
Arabs, feeling their own power, should turn upon them and 
possess the whole country, so they joined forces and stormed 
Kombokombo, one of the leading Arabs, and with what suc- 
cess we shall see. It is a fair specimen of the unaccount- 
able complications which dog the steps of the traveller, 
where war is afoot, and render life a misery. He writes as 
follows on the 5th October : — ] 

I was detained in the Imbozhwa country much longer 
than I relished. The inroad of the Mazitu, of which 
Casembe had just heard when we reached the Mofwe, was 
the first cause of delay : he had at once sent off men to 
verify the report, and requested me to remain till his 
messengers should return. This foray produced a state 
of lawlessness in the country, which was the main reason of 
our further detention. 



1863.] DISTURBANCES AND COMPLICATIONS. 331 

The Lnbozhwa fled before the marauders, and the Ban- 
yamwezi or Garaganza, who had come in numbers to 
trade in copper, took on themselves the duty of expelling 
the invaders, and this, by means of their muskets, they 
did effectually, then, building stockades they excited the 
jealousy of the Imbozhwa lords of the soil who, instead 
of feeling grateful, hated the new power thus sprung up 
among them ! They had suffered severely from the sharp 
dealing of the strangers already, and Chikumbi made a 
determined assault on the stockade of Kombokombo in 
vain. 

Confusion prevailed all over the country. Some Ban- 
yam wezi assumed the offensive against the Baiisi, who re- 
semble the Imbozhwa, but are further south, and captured 
and sold some prisoners : it was in this state of things 
that, as already mentioned, I was surrounded by a party of 
furious Imbozhwa. A crowd stood within fifteen or twenty 
yards with spears poised and arrows set in the bowstrings, 
and some took aim at me : they took us for plunderers, 
and some plants of grouna-nuts thrown about gave colour 
to their idea. One good soul helped us away — a blessing 
be on him and his. Another chief man took us for Mazitu ! 
In this state of confusion Cazembe heard that my party 
had been cut off: he called in Moenempanda and took the 
field in person, in order to punish the Banyamwezi, against 
whom he has an old grudge for killing a near relative of 
his family, selling Baiisi, and setting themselves up as a 
power in his country. 

The two Arab traders now in the country felt that they 
must unite their forces, and thereby effect a safe retreat. 
Chikumbi had kept twenty-eight tusks for Syde bin Omar 
safely ; but the coming of Casembe might have put it out 
of his power to deliver up his trust in safety, for an army 
here is often quite lawless : each man takes to himself what 
he can. "When united we marched from Kizinga on 23rd 



332 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOUKNALS. [Chap. XII. 

September together, built fences every night to protect 
ourselves and about 400 Banyaniwezi, who took the oppor- 
tunity to get safely away. Kombokonibo came away from 
his stockade, and also part of the way, but cut away by 
night across country to join the parties of his countrymen 
who still love to trade in Katanga copper. We were not 
molested, but came nearly north to the Kalongosi. Syde 
parted from us, and went away east to Mozamba, and thence 
to the coast. 



( 333 ) 



CHAPTER XIII. 

Cataracts of the Kalongosi. Passage of the river disputed. Leeches- 
and method of detaching them. Syde bin Habib's slaves escape. 
Enormous collection of tusks. 111. Theory of the Nile sources. 
Tribute to Miss Tinne. Notes on climate. Separation of Lake 
Nyassa from the Nile system. Observations on Victoria Nyanza. 
Slaves dying. Eepentant deserters. Mohamad Bogharib. Enraged 
Imbozhwa. An attack. Narrow escape. Renewed attack. A parley. 
Help arrives. Bin Juma. March from the Imbozhwa country. 
Slaves escape. Burial of Syde bin Habib's brother. Singular custom. 
An elephant killed. Native game-laws. Rumour of Baker's Expedi- 
tion. Christmas dinners. 

11th October, 1868. — Feom Kizinga north the country is all 
covered with forest, and thrown up into ridges of hardened 
sandstone, capped occasionally with fine-grained clay schist. 
Trees often appear of large size and of a species closely 
resembling the gum-copal tree ; on the heights masukos 
and rhododendrons are found, and when exposed they are 
bent away from the south-east. Animals, as buffaloes and 
elephants, are plentiful, but wild. Rivulets numerous, and 
running now as briskly as brooks do after much rain in 
England. All on the south-western side of Kalongosi are 
subjects of Casembe, that is Balunda, or Imbozhwa. 

It was gratifying to see the Banyamwezi carrying their 
sick in cots slung between two men : in the course of time 
they tired of this, and one man, who was carried several 
days, remained with Chuma. We crossed the Luongo far 
above where we first became acquainted with it, and near 
its source in Urungu or Usungu Hills, then the Lobubu, 



334 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. XIII. 

a goodly stream thirty yards broad and rapid with fine 
falls above our ford, which goes into Kalongosi. 

6th October. — Cross the Papusi, and a mile beyond the 
Luena of forty yards and knee deep ; here we were met by 
about 400 of Kabanda's men, as if they were come to 
dispute our passage at the ford : I went over ; all were 
civil ; but had we shown any weakness they would no doubt 
have taken advantage of it. 

7th October. — We came to the Kalongosi, flowing over 
five cataracts made by five islets in a place called Kabwe- 
rume. Near the Mebamba a goodly rivulet joins it. 

12th October. — We came to the Kalongosi at the ford 
named Mosolo : by pacing I found it to be 240 yards broad, 
and thigh deep at the end of the dry season, it ran so 
strongly that it was with difficulty I could keep my feet. 
Here 500 at least of Nsama's people stood on the opposite 
shore to know what we wanted. Two fathoms of calico 
were sent over, and then I and thirty guns went over to 
protect the people in the ford : as we approached they 
retired. I went to them, and told them that I had been to 
Nsama's, and he gave me a goat and food, and we were 
good friends : some had seen me there, and they now 
crowded to look till the Arabs thought it unsafe for me 
to be among them : if I had come with bared skin 
they would have fled. All became friendly : an ele- 
phant was killed, and we remained two days buying 
food. We passed down between the ranges of hills on 
the east of Moero, the path we followed when we first 
visited Casembe. 

20th and 21st October. — From the Luao I went over to 
the chief village of Muabo, and begged him to show me 
the excavations in his country : he declined, by saying that 
I came from a crowd of people, and must go to Kabwabwata, 
and wait awhile there, meanwhile he would think what he 
should do, whether to refuse or invite me to come. He 



1868.] AEAB KEVENGE. LEECHES. 335 

evidently does not wish me to see his strongholds. All 
his people could go into them, though over ten thousand : 
they are all abundantly supplied with water, and they form 
the storehouses for grain. 

22nd October. — We came to Kabwabwata, and I hope 
I may find a way to other underground houses. It is 
probable that they are not the workmanship of the ances- 
tors of the present occupants, for they ascribe their forma- 
tion invariably to the Deity, Mulungu or Reza : if their 
forefathers had made them, some tradition would have 
existed of them. 

23rd October. — Syde bin Habib came over from Mpweto's ; 
he reports Lualaba and Lufira flowing into the Lake of 
Kiiikonza. Lungabale is paramount chief of Rua. 

Mparahala horns measured three feet long and three 
inches in diameter at the base : this is the yellow kualata 
of Makololo, bastard gemsbuck of the Dutch. 

21th, 29th, and 30th October. — Salem bin Habib was killed 
by the people in Rua : he had put up a tent and they 
attacked it in the night, and stabbed him through it. 
Syde bin Habib waged a war of vengeance all through Rua 
after this for the murder of his brother: Sef's raid may 
have led the people to the murder. 

29th October. — In coming north in September and October, 
the last months of the dry season, I crossed many burns 
flowing quite in the manner of our brooks at home, after 
a great deal of rain ; here, however, the water was clear, 
and the banks not abraded in the least. Some rivulets 
had a tinge of white in them, as if of felspar in disin- 
tegrating granite; some nearly stagnant burns had as if 
milk and water in them, and some red oxide of iron. 

Where leeches occur they need no coaxing to bite, but fly 
at the white skin like furies, and refuse to let go: with 
the fingers benumbed, though the water is only 60°, one 
may twist them round the finger and tug, but they slip 



336 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. XIII. 

through. I saw the natives detaching- them with a smart 
slap of the palm, and found it quite effectual. 

Swifts, Senegal swallows, and common dark - bellied 
swallows appeared at Kizinga in the beginning of October : 
other birds, as drongo shrikes, a bird with a reddish bill, 
but otherwise like a grey linnet, keep in flocks yet. (5th 
December.) They pair now. The kite came sooner than the 
swallows ; I saw the first at BangAveolo on the 20th July, 
1868. 

1st November, 1868. — At Kabwabwata; we are waiting 
till Syde comes up that we may help him. He has an 
enormous number of tusks and bars of copper, sufficient 
it seems for all his people to take forward, going and 
returning three times over. He has large canoes on the 
Lake, and will help us in return. 

2nd November. — News came yesterday from Mpweto's that 
tAventy-one slaves had run away from Syde bin Habib at 
one time : they were Eua people, and out of the chains, as 
they were considered safe when fairly over the Lualaba, but 
they showed their love of liberty on the first opportunity. 
Mpweto is suspected to have harboured them, or helped 
them over the river; this will probably lead to Syde 
attacking him, as he has done to so many chiefs in Eua. 
In this case Mpweto will have no sympathy ; he is so 
wanting in the spirit of friendliness to others. 

3rd November.— Sent off men to hasten Syde onwards. 
We start in two or three days. 

The oldest map known to be in existence is the map 
of the Ethiopian Goldmines, dating from the time of 
Sethos I., the father of Eameses II., long enough before- 
the time of the bronze tablet of Aristagoras, on which 
was inscribed the circuit of the whole earth, and all the 
sea and all rivers. (Tylor, p. 90, quoted from Birch's 
Arcli&ologia, "vol. xxxiv. p. 382.) Sesostris was the first to^ 
distribute his maps. 



1S68.] SYDE BIX HABIB'S TRADING VENTURE. 037 

Sth November.— Syde bin Habib is said to have amassed 
150 frasilahs of ivory = 5250 lbs., and 300 frasilahs of 
copper = 10,500 lbs. With one hundred carriers he re- 
quires to make four relays, or otherwise make the journey 
four times over at every stage. Twenty-one of his slaves 
ran away in one night, and only four were caught again : 
they were not all bought, nor Avas the copper and ivory 
come at by fair means ; the murder of his brother was a 
good excuse for plunder, murder, and capture. Mpweto is 
suspected of harbouring them as living on the banks of the 
Lualaba, for they could not get over without assistance 
from his canoes and people. Mpweto said, " Remove from 
me, and we shall see if they come this way." They are not 
willing to deliver fugitives up. Syde sent for Elmas, the 
only thing of the Mullam or clerical order here, probably 
to ask if the Koran authorizes him to attack Mpweto. 
Mullam will reply, " Yes, certainly. If Mpweto won't 
restore your slaves, take what you can by force." Syde's 
bloodshed is now pretty large, and he is becoming afraid 
for his own life ; if he ceases not, he will himself be caught 
some day. 

Ill of fever two days. Better and thankful. 

[Whilst waiting to start for Ujiji, Livingstone was intently 
occupied on the great problem of the Nile and the im- 
portant part he had taken so recently in solving it : he 
writes at this date as follows : — ] 

The discovery of the sources of the Nile is somewhat 
akin in importance to the discovery of the North- West 
Passage, which called forth, though in a minor degree, the 
energy, the perseverance, and the pluck of Englishmen, 
and anything that does that is beneficial to the nation and 
to its posterity. The discovery of the sources of the Nile 
possesses, moreover, an element of interest which the North- 

VOL. I. z 



338 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chai\ XIIL 

West Passage never had. The great men of antiquity 
have recorded their ardent desires to know the fountains 
of what Homer called " Egypt's heaven-descended spring." 
Sesostris, the first who in camp with his army made and 
distributed maps, not to Egyptians only, but to the Scy- 
thians, naturally wished to know the springs, says Eustathius, 
of the river on whose banks he flourished. Alexander the 
Great, who founded a celebrated city at this river's-mouth, 
looked up the stream with the same desire, and so did the 
Caesars. The great Julius Caesar is made by Lucan to say 
that he would give up the civil war if he might but see 
the fountains of this far-famed river. Nero Caesar sent two 
centurions to examine the " Caput Nili" They reported that 
they saw the river rushing with great force from two rocks,, 
and beyond that it was lost in immense marshes. This was 
probably " native information," concerning the cataracts of 
the Nile and a long space above them, which had already 
been enlarged by others into two hills with sharp conical 
tops called Crophi and Mophi — midway between which 
lay the fountains of the Nile — fountains which it was im- 
possible to fathom, and which gave forth half their water to 
Ethiopia in the south, and the other half to Egypt in the 
north : that which these men failed to find, and that which 
many great minds in ancient times longed to know, has in 
this late age been brought to light by the patient toil and 
laborious perseverance of Englishmen.* 

In laying a contribution to this discovery at the feet of 
his countrymen, the writer desires to give all the honour 
to his predecessors which they deserve. The work of Speke 



* In 1827 Linant reached 13° 30' N. on the White Nile. In 1841 the 
second Egyptian, under D'Arnauld and Sabatier, explored the river to 
4° 42' N., and Jomard published his work on Lirnmoo and the River 
Habaiah. Dr. Beke and Mr. D'Abbadie contributed their share to making 
the Nile better known. Brun Rollet established a trading station in 1854 
at Belema on the Nile at 5° N. lat. 



1868.] CONTEMPORARY EXPLORERS. 339 

and Grant is deserving of the highest commendation, inas- 
much as they opened up an immense tract of previously 
unexplored country, in the firm belief they were bringing to 
light the head of the Nile. No one can appreciate the diffi- 
culties of their feat unless he has gone into new country. In 
association with Captain Burton, Speke came much nearer to 
the " coy fountains," than at the Victoria Nyanza, but they 
all turned their backs on them. Mr. Baker showed courage 
and perseverance worthy of an Englishman in following out 
the hints given by Speke and Grant. But none rises higher 
in my estimation than the Dutch lady Miss Tinne, who, 
after the severest domestic afflictions, nobly persevered in 
the teeth of every difficulty, and only turned away from 
the object of her expedition, after being assured by Speke 
and Grant that they had already discovered in Victoria 
Nyanza the sources she sought. Had they not given their 
own mistaken views, the wise foresight by which she pro- 
vided a steamer, would inevitably have led her to pull up, 
and by canoes to reach Lake Bangweolo's sources full five 
hundred miles south of the most southerly part of Victoria 
Nyanza. She evidently possesses some of the indomitable 
pluck of Van Tromp, whose tomb every Englishman who 
goes to Holland must see.* Her doctor was made a baron — 
were she not a Dutch lady already we think she ought to 
be made a duchess. 

By way of contrast with what, if I live through it. I shall 
have to give, I may note some of the most prominent ideas 
entertained of this world-renowned river. Ptolemy, a geo- 
grapher who lived in the second century, and was not a 
king of Egypt, with the most ancient maps made the Nile 
rise from the "Montes Lunse," between ten and twelve 
south lat., by six several streams which flowed north into 



* Miss Tinne succumbed to the dangers of African travelling before 
Livingstone penned these just words of appreciation. 

z 2 



340 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. XIII. 

two Lakes, situated east and west of each other. These 
streams flowed about west of his river Rhapta, or Eaptus, 
which is probably our Eovurna or Lourna. This was very 
near the truth, but the Mountains of the Moon cannot be 
identified with the Lokinga, or mountains of Bisa, from 
which many of the springs do actually arise. Unless, 
indeed, we are nearer to the great alterations in climate 
which have taken place, as we are supposed to be nearer 
the epoch of the mammoth, aurochs, and others. Snow 
never lay in these latitudes, on altitudes of 6000 feet above 
the sea. 

Some of the ancients supposed the river to have its 
source in the ocean. This was like the answer we received 
long ago from the natives on the Liambai or Upper Zambesi 
when inquiring for its source. " It rises in Leoatle, the 
Avhite man's sea, or Metsehula." The second name means 
the "grazing water," from the idea of the tides coming in to 
graze ; as to the freshness of the Liambai waters, they could 
offer no explanation. 

Some again thought that the Nile rose in Western Africa, 
and after flowing eastwards across the Continent, turned 
northwards to Egypt ; others still thought that it rose in 
India ! and others again, from vague reports collected from 
their slaves, made it and several other rivers rise out of a 
great inland sea. Aclielunda was said to be the name of 
this Lake, and in the language of Angola, it meant the 
" sea." It means only " of" or " belonging to Lunda" a 
country. It might have been a sea that was spoken of 
on a whole, or anything. " Nyassi, or the sea," was another 
name and another blunder. " Nyassi " means long grass, 
and nothing else. Nyanza contracted into Nyassa, means 
lake, marsh, any piece of water, or even the dry bed of a 
lake. The N and y are joined in the mouth, and never 
pronounced separately. The " Naianza " ! — it would be 
nearer the mark to say the Nancy ! 



1868.] INTERESTING DETAILS. 341 

Of all theoretical discoverers, the man who ran in 200 
miles of Lake and placed them on a height of some 
•1000 feet at the north-west end of Lake Nyassa, deserves 
the highest place. Dr. Beke, in his guess, came nearer 
the sources than most others, but after all he pointed 
out where they would not be found. Old Nile played the 
theorists a pretty prank by having his springs 500 miles 
south of them all ! I call mine a contribution, because it is 
just a hundred years (1769) since Bruce, a greater traveller 
than any of us, visited Abyssinia, and having discovered 
the sources of the Blue Nile, he thought that he had then 
solved the ancient problem. Am I to be cut out by some 
one discovering southern fountains of the river of Egypt, of 
which I have now no conception ? 

David Livingstone. 

[The tiresome procrastination of Mohamad and his horde 
was not altogether an unmixed evil. With so many new 
discoveries in hand Livingstone had an opportunity for 
working out several problems, and instituting comparisons 
between the phenomena of Inner Africa and the well-marked 
changes which go on in other parts of the world. We find 
him at this time summing them up as follows : — J 

The subject of change of climate from alteration of level 
has not received the investigation it deserves. Mr. Darwin 
saw reason to believe that very great alterations of altitude, 
and of course of climate, had taken place in South America 
and the islands of the Pacific ; the level of a country above 
the sea I believe he thought to be as variable as the winds. 
A very great alteration of altitude has also taken place in 
Africa ; this is apparent on the sea-coast of Angola, and all 
through the centre of the country, where large rivers which 
once flowed southwards and westwards are no longer able to 
run in these directions : the general desiccation of the country, 



342 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. VIII. 

as seen in the beds of large rivers and of enormous lakes, 
tells the same tale. Portions of the east coast have sunk, 
others have risen, even in the Historic Period. The upper 
or northern end of the Red Sea has risen, so that the place 
of the passage of the children of Israel is now between forty 
and fifty miles from Suez, the modern head of the Gulf. 
This upheaval, and not the sand from the desert, caused the 
disuse of the ancient canal across the Isthmus : it took 
place since the Mohamadan conquest of Egypt. The women 
of the Jewish captivities were carried past the end of the 
Red Sea and along the Mediterranean in ox-waggons, where 
such cattle would now all perish for want of water and 
pasture ; in fact, the route to Assyria would have proved 
more fatal to captives then than the middle passage has 
been to Africans since. It may be true that, as the desert is 
noiv, it could not have been traversed by the multitude 
under Moses — the German strictures put forth by Dr. 
Colenso, under the plea of the progress of science, assume 
that no alteration has taken place in either desert or climate 
— but a scientific examination of the subject would have 
ascertained what the country was then when it afforded 
pasture to " flocks and herds, and even very much cattle." 
We know that Eziongeber was, with its docks, on the sea- 
shore, with water in abundance for the ship-carpenters : it 
is now far from the head of the Elaic Gulf in a parched 
desert. Aden, when visited by the Portuguese Balthazar 
less than 300 years ago, was a perfect garden ; but it is now 
a vast conglomeration of black volcanic rocks, with so little 
vegetation, that, on seeing flocks of goats driven out, I 
thought of the Irish cabman at an ascent slamming the 
door of his cab and whispering to his fare, " "Whish, it's to 
desave the baste : he thinks that you are out walking." 
Gigantic tanks in great numbers and the ruins of aqueducts 
appear as relics of the past, where no rain now falls for three 
or more years at a time. They have all dried up by a change 



1868.] LAKE NYASSA DRAINS SOUTHWAEDS. 343 

•of climate, possibly similar and cotemporaneous with that 
which has dried up the Dead Sea. 

The journey of Ezra was undertaken after a fast at the 
Eiver Ahava. With nearly 50,000 people he had only about 
8000 beasts of burden. He was ashamed to ask a band of 
soldiers and horsemen for protection in the way. It took 
about four months to reach Jerusalem ; this would give five 
and a half or six miles a day, as the crow flies, which is equal 
to twelve or fifteen miles of surface travelled over; this 
bespeaks a country capable of yielding both provisions and 
water, such as cannot now be found. Ezra would not have 
been ashamed to ask for camels to carry provisions and 
water had the country been as dry as it is now. The 
prophets, in telling all the woes and miseries of. the cap- 
tivities, never allude to suffering or perishing by thirst in 
the way, or being left to rot in the route as^African slaves 
are now in a well-watered country. Had the route to 
Assyria been then as it is now, they could scarcely have 
avoided referring to the thirst of the way;Jbut everything 
else is mentioned except that. 

Eespecting this system of Lakes in the centre of Africa, 
it will possibly occur to some that Lake Nyassa may give 
a portion of its water off from its northern end to the Nile, 
but this would imply a Lake giving off a river at both ends ; 
the country, too, on the north-north-west and north-east 
rises to from 4000 to 6000 feet above the sea, and there 
is not the smallest indication that Nyassa and Tanganyika 
were ever connected. Lake Liemba is the most southerly 
part of Tanganyika ; its latitude is 8° 46' south ; the most 
northerly point of Lake Nyassa is probably 10° 56' — 8° 46' 
= 2° 10'. Longitude of Liemba 34° 57' - 31° 57' = 3° 00' 
= 180' of longitude. Of latitude 130' + 180' = 310', two- 
thirds of which is about 206', the distance between two 
Lakes ; and no evidence of fissure, rent, or channel now 
appears on the highland between. 



314 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. XIII. 

Again, Liemba is 3000 feet above the sea. The altitude 
of Nyassa is ^-°-° feet. Tanganyika would thus go to 
Nyassa — down the Shire into the Zambesi and the sea, if 
a passage existed even below ground. 

The large Lake, said to exist to the north-west of Tan- 
ganyika might, however, send a branch to the Nile ; but the 
land rises up into a high ridge east of this Lake. 

It is somewhat remarkable that the impression which 
intelligent Suaheli, who have gone into Karagwe, have re- 
ceived is, that the Kitangule flows from Tanganyika into Lake 
Ukerewe. One of Syde bin Omar's people put it to me very 
forcibly the other day by saying, " Kitangule is an arm of 
Tanganyika!" He had not followed it out; but that 
Dagara, the father of Rumanyika, should have in his life- 
time seriously proposed to deepen the upper part of it, so as 
to allow canoes to pass from his place to Ujiji, is very strong 
evidence of the river being large on the Tanganyika side. 
We know it to be of good size, and requiring canoes on the 
Ukerewe side. Burton came to the very silly conclusion 
that when a native said a river ran one way, he meant 
that it flowed in the opposite direction. Ujiji, in Ruma- 
nyika's time, was the only mart for merchandise in the 
country. Garaganza or Galaganza has most trade and 
influence now. (14th Sept. 1868.) 

Okara is the name by which Victoria Nyanza is known 
on the eastern side, and an arm of it, called Kavirondo, is 
about forty miles broad. Lake Baringo is a distinct body 
of water, some fifty miles broad, and giving off a river 
called Ngardabask, which flows eastwards into the Somauli 
country. Lake Naibash is more to the east than Kavirondo,. 
and about fifty miles broad too : it gives off the River Kidete, 
which is supposed to flow into Lufu. It is south-east 
of Kavirondo ; and Kilimanjaro can be seen from its shores-; 
in the south-east Okara, Naibash and Baringo seem to 
have been run by Speke into one Lake. Okara, in the south* 



/ 



1808.] WAITING FOR THE ARABS TO START. 345 

is full of large islands, and has but little water between 
them ; that little is encumbered with aquatic vegetation 
called " Tikatika," on which, as in lakelet Gumadona, a man 
can Avalk. Waterlilies and duckweed are not the chief 
part of this floating mass. In the north Okara is large. 
Burukinegge land is the boundary between the people of 
Kavirondo and the Gallahs with camels and horses. 

9^ November. — Copied several Notes written at Kizinga 
and elsewhere, and at Kabwabwata resume Journal. Some 
slight showers have cooled the air a little : this is the 
hottest time of the year. 

10th November. — A heavier shower this morning will have 
more of the same effect. 

11th November. — Muabo visited this village, but refuses 
to show his underground houses. 

13th November. — I was on the point of starting without 
Mohamad Bogharib, but he begged me not to go till he had 
settled some weighty matter about a wife he is to get 
at Ujiji from Mpamari ; we must have the new moon, 
which will appear in three days, for lucky starting, and 
will leave Syde bin Habib at Chisabi's. Meanwhile two 
women slaves ran away, and Syde has got only five back 
of his twenty-one fugitives. Mullani was mild with his 
decisions, and returned here ; he informed me that many 
of Syde's slaves, about forty, fled. Of those who cannot 
escape many die, evidently broken-hearted ; they are 
captives, and not, as slaves often are, criminals sold for 
their guilt, hence the great mortality caused by being- 
taken to the sea to be, as they believe, fatted and eaten. 
Poor things ! Heaven help them ! 

Ujiji is the pronunciation of the Banyamwezi ; and they 
call the people Wayeiye, exactly as the same people styled 
themselves on the Biver Zougha, near Ngami. 

[It will be remembered that several of his men refused to 



346 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOUENALS. [Chap. XIII. 

go to Lake Bangweolo with hini : they seem now to have 
thought better of it, and on his return are anxious to 
come back to their old master who, for his part, is evidently 
willing to overlook a good deal.] 

I have taken all the runaways back again ; after trying 
the independent life they will behave better. Much of 
their ill conduct may be ascribed to seeing that after the 
flight of the Johanna men I was entirely dependent on 
them : more enlightened people often take advantage of 
men in similar circumstances ; though I have seen pure 
Africans come out generously to aid one abandoned to their 
care. I have faults myself. 

15th November. — The Arabs have some tradition of the 
Emir Musa coining as far south as the Jagga country. 
Some say he lived N.E. of Sunna, now Mteza ; but it is so 
mixed up with fable and tales of the Genii (Mageni), that 
it cannot refer to the great Moses, concerning whose resi- 
dence at Meroe and marriage of the king of Ethiopia's 
daughter there is also some vague tradition further north : 
the only thing of interest to me is the city of Meroe, which 
is lost, and may, if built by ancient Egyptians, still be found. 

The Africans all beckon with the hand, to call a person, 
in a different way from what Europeans do. The hand is 
held, as surgeons say, prone, or palm down, while we beckon 
with the hand held supine, or palm up : it is quite natural 
in them, for the idea in their mind is to lay the hand on 
the person and draw him towards them. If the person 
wished for is near, say forty yards off, the beckoner puts out 
his right hand on a level with his breast, and makes the 
motion of catching the other by shutting the fingers and 
drawing him to himself: if the person is further off, this 
motion is exaggerated by lifting up the right hand as high 
as he can; he brings it down with a sweep towards the 
ground, the hand being still held prone as before. In 



1668.] TIBED OF WAITING. 047 

nodding assent they differ from us by lifting up the chin 
instead of bringing it down as we do. This lifting up the 
chin looks natural after a short usage therewith, and is 
perhaps purely conventional, not natural, as the other seems 
to be. 

16th November. — I am tired out by waiting after finishing 
the Journal, and will go off to-morrow north. Simon killed 
a zebra after I had taken the above resolution, and this 
supply of meat makes delay bearable, for besides flesh, of 
which I had none, we can buy all kinds of grain and 
pulse for the next few days. The women of the adjacent 
villages crowd into this as soon as they hear of an animal 
killed, and sell all the produce of their plantations for meat. 

17th November. — It is said that on the road to the Great 
Salt Lake in America the bones and skulls of animals lie 
scattered everywhere, yet travellers are often put^to great 
straits for fuel : this, if true, is remarkable among a people 
so apt in turning everything to account as the Americans. 
When we first steamed up the Elver Shire our fuel ran 
out in the elephant marsh, where no trees exist, and none 
could be reached without passing through many miles on 
either side of impassable swamp, covered with reeds, and 
intersected everywhere with deep branches of the river. 
Coming to a spot where an elephant had been slaughtered, 
I at once took the bones on board, and these, with the bones 
of a second elephant, enabled us to steam briskly up to 
where wood abounded. The Scythians, according to Hero- 
dotus, used the bones * of the animal sacrificed to boil the 
flesh, the Guachos of South America do the same when 
they have n© fuel : the ox thus boils himself. 

18th November. — A pretty little woman ran away from her 
husband, and came to " Mpamari." Her husband brought 
three hoes, a checked cloth, and two strings of large neck 

* Ezek. xxiv. 5. 



348 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. XIIL 

beads to redeem lier; but this old fellow wants her for 
himself, and by native law he can keep her as his slave- 
wife. Slave-owners make a bad neighbourhood, for the slaves 
are always running away and the headmen are expected 
to restore the fugitives for a bit of cloth. An old woman 
of Mpmari fled three times ; she was caught yesterday, and 
tied to a post for the young slaves to plague her. Her 
daughter burst into an agony of tears on seeing them 
tying her mother, and Mpamari ordered her to be tied to 
the mother's back for crying ; I interceded for her, and 
she was let go. He said, " You don't care, though Saved 
Majid loses his money." I replied, " Let the old woman 
go, she will be off again to-morrow." But they cannot 
bear to let a slave have freedom. I don't understand 
what effect his long prayers and prostrations towards the 
" Kibla " have on his own mind, they cannot affect the 
minds of his slaves favourably, nor do they mine, though 
I am as charitable as most people. 

19th November. — I prepared to start to-day, but Mohamad 
Bogharib has been very kind, and indeed cooked meals for 
me from my arrival at Casembe's, 6th May last, till we 
came here, 22nd October; the food was coarse enough, 
but still it was food ; and I did not like to refuse his 
genuine hospitality. He now begged of me not to go for 
three days, and then he would come along with me I 
Mpamari also entreated. I would not have minded him, 
but they have influence with the canoe-men on Tanganyika,, 
and it is well not to get a bad name if possible. 

20th November. — Mohamad Bogharib purposed to attack 
two villages near to this, from an idea that the people there 
concealed his runaway slaves ; by remaining I think that 
I have put a stop to this, as he did not like to pillage 
while I was in company : Mpamari also turned round towards 
peace, though he called all the riff-raff to muster, and cara- 
coled among them like an old broken-winded horse. One 



1868.] THE IMBOZHWA ATTACK THE CAMP. 349 

man became so excited with yelling, that the others had to 
disarm him, and he then fell down as if in a fit ; water poured 
•on his head brought him to calmness. We go on the 22nd. 

22nd November. — This evening the Imbozhwa, or Ba- 
bemba, came at dusk, and killed a Wanyaniwezi woman on 
one side of the village, and a woman and child on the other 
side of it. I took this to be the result of the warlike 
demonstration mentioned above ; but one of Mohamad 
Bogharib's people, named Bin Juma, had gone to a village 
on the north of this and seized two women and two girls, 
in lieu of four slaves who had run away. The headman, 
resenting this, shot an arrow into one of Bin Juma's party, 
and Bin Juma shot a woman with his gun. 

This, it turned out, had roused the whole country, and 
next morning we were assailed by a crowd of Imbozhwa on 
three sides : we had no stockade, but the men built one as 
fast as the enemy allowed, cutting down trees and carrying 
them to the line of defence, while others kept the assailants 
at bay with their guns. Had it not been for the crowd of 
Banyamwezi which we have, who shot vigorously with their 
arrows, and occasionally chased the Imbozhwa, we should 
have been routed. I did not go near the fighting, but 
remained in my house to defend my luggage if necessary. 
The women went up and down the village with sieves, as if 
winnowing, and singing songs, and lullilooing, to encourage 
their husbands and friends who were fighting, each had a 
branch of the Ficus indica in her hand, which she waved, I 
suppose as a charm. About ten of the Imbozhwa are said 
to have been killed, but dead and wounded were at once 
carried off by their countrymen. They continued the assault 
from early dawn till 1 p.m., and showed great bravery, but 
they wounded only two with their arrows. Their care to 
secure the wounded was admirable: two or three at once 
seized the fallen man, and ran off with him, though pursued 
by a great crowd of Banyamwezi with spears, and fired at by 



350 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. XIIL 

the Suaheli — Yictoria-cross fellows truly many of them were I 
Those who had a bunch of animals' tails, with medicine, tied 
to their waists, came sidling and ambling up to near the un- 
finished stockade, and shot their arrows high up into the 
air, to fall among the Wanyamwezi, then picked up any 
arrows on the field, ran back, and returned again. They 
thought that by the ambling gait they avoided the balls, 
and when these whistled past them they put down their 
heads, as if to allow them to pass over; they had never 
encountered guns before. We did not then know it, but 
Muabo, Phuta, Ngurue, Sandaruko, and Chapi, were the 
assailants, for we found it out by the losses each of these 
five chiefs sustained. 

It was quite evident to me that the Suaheli Arabs were 
quite taken aback by the attitude of the natives; they 
expected them to flee as soon as they heard a gun fired in 
anger, but instead of this we were very nearly being cut off, 
and should have been but for our Banyamwezi allies. It is 
fortunate that the attacking party had no success in trying 
to get Mpweto and Karembwe to join them against us, or it 
would have been more serious still. 

24:th Novemher. — The Imbozhwa, or Babemba rather, came 
early this morning, and called on Mohamad to come out 
of his stockade if he were a man who could fight, but the 
fence is now finished, and no one seems willing to obey the 
taunting call : I have nothing to do with it, but feel thankful 
that I was detained, and did not, with my few attendants, fall 
into the hands of the justly infuriated Babemba. They kept 
up the attack to-day, and some went out to them, fighting- 
till noon : when a man was killed and not carried off, the 
Wanyamwezi brought his head and put it on a pole on 
the stockade— six heads were thus placed. A fine young- 
man was caught and brought in by the Wanyamwezi, one 
stabbed him behind, another cut his forehead with an axe. 
I called in vain to them not to kill him. As a last appeal, 



1868.] NO QUAETEK WITH THE AEABS. 351 

lie said to the crowd that surrounded him, " Don't kill me, 
and I shall take you to where the women are." " You lie," 
said his enemies ; " you intend to take us where we may be 
shot by your friends ;" and they killed him. It was horrible : 
I protested loudly against any repetition of this wickedness, 
and the more sensible agreed that prisoners ought not to 
be killed, but the Banyamwezi are incensed against the 
Babemba because of the women killed on the 22nd. 

25th November. — The Babemba kept off on the third 
day, and the Arabs are thinking it will be a good thing if 
we get out of the country unscathed. Men were sent off on 
the night of the 23rd to Syde bin Habib for powder and 
help. Mohamad Bogharib is now unwilling to take the 
onus of the war : he blames Mpamari, and Mpamari blames 
him ; I told Mohamad that the war was undoubtedly his 
work, inasmuch as Bin Juma is his man, and he approved of 
his seizing the women. 

He does not like this, but it is true ; he would not have 
entered a village of Casembe or Moamba or Chikumbi as he 
did Chapi's man's village : the people here are simply men of 
more metal than he imagined, and his folly in beginning a 
war in which, if possible, his slaves will slip through his hands 
is apparent to all, even to himself. Syde sent four barrels of 
gunpowder and ten men, who arrived during last night. 

21th November. — Two of Muabo's men came over to bring- 
on a parley; one told us that he had been on the south 
side of the village before, and heard one man say to another 
" mo pige " (shoot him). Mpamari gave them a long oration 
in exculpation, but it was only the same everlasting story 
of fugitive slaves. The slave-traders cannot prevent them 
from escaping, and impudently think that the country 
people ought to catch them, and thus be their humble 
servants, and also the persecutors of their own countrymen ! 
If they cannot keep them, why buy them — why put their 
money into a bag with holes ? 



352 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. XI I L 

It is exactly what took place in America — slave-owners 
are bad neighbours everywhere. Canada was threatened, 
England browbeaten, and the Northerners all but kicked 
on the same score, and all as if property in slaves had 
privileges which no other goods have. To hear the Arabs 
say of the slaves after they are fled, " Oh, they are bad, bad, 
very bad ! " (and they entreated me too to free them from 
the yoke), is, as the young ladies say, " too absurd." The 
chiefs also who do not apprehend fugitives, they too are 
"bad." 

I proposed to Mohamad Bogharib to send back the 
women seized by Bin Juma, to show the Babemba that he 
disapproved of the act and was willing to make peace, 
but this was too humiliating ; I added that their price as 
slaves was four barrels of gunpowder or 160 dollars, while 
slaves lawfully bought would have cost him only eight or 
ten yards of calico each. At the conclusion of Mpamari's 
speech the four barrels of gunpowder were exhibited, and 
so was the Koran, to impress them (Muabo's people) with 
-an idea of their great power. 

'28th and 29th November. — It is proposed to go and force 
our way if we can to the north, but all feel that that 
would be a fine opportunity for the slaves to escape, and 
they would not be loth to embrace it ; this makes it a 
serious matter, and the Koran is consulted at hours which 
are auspicious. 

30th November. — Messengers sent to Muabo to ask a path, 
or in plain words protection from him ; Mpamari protests 
his innocence of the whole affair. 

1st December, 1868. — Muabo's people over again; would 
fain send them to make peace with Chapi ! 

2nd December. — The detention is excessively vexatious to 
me. Muabo sent three slaves as offers of peace — a fine 
self-imposed, but he is on our south side, and we wish to 
go north. 



1868.] NATIVE SUPERSTITIONS. 353 

3rd December. — A party went to-day to clear the way 
to the north, but were warmly received by Babemba with 
arrows; they came back with one woman captured, and 
they say that they killed one man: one of themselves 
is wounded, and many others in danger : others who went 
east were shot at, and wounded too. 

Mli December. — A party went east, and were fain to flee 
from the Babemba, the same thing occurred on our west, 
and to-day (5th) all were called to strengthen the stockade 
for fear that the enemy may enter uninvited. The slaves 
would certainly flee, and small blame to them though they 
did. Mpamari proposed to go off north by night, but his 
people objected, as even a child crying would arouse the 
Babemba, and reveal the flight, so finally he sent off to 
ask Syde what he ought to do, whether to retire by day or 
by night; probably entreating Syde to come and protect 
him. 

A sort of idol is found in every village in this part, it is 
of wood, and represents the features, markings and fashion 
of the hair of the inhabitants : some have little huts built 
for them — others are in common houses. The Babemba 
call them Nhisi (" Sancan " of the Arabs) : the people of 
Kua name one Kalubi ; the plural, Tulubi ; and they present 
pombe, flour, bhang, tobacco, and light a fire for them to 
smoke by. They represent the departed father or mother, 
and it is supposed that they are pleased with the offerings 
made to their representatives, but all deny that they pray 
to them. Casembe has very many of these Nkisi ; one with 
long hair, and named Motombo, is carried in front when he 
takes the field ; names of dead chiefs are sometimes given 
to them. I have not met with anyone intelligent enough 
to explain if prayers are ever made to anyone : the Arabs 
who know their language, say they have no prayers, and 
think that at death there is an end of the whole man, but 
other things lead me to believe this is erroneous. Slaves 
vol. i. 2 a 



354 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOUENALS. [Chap. XIII. 

laugh at their countrymen, in imitation of their masters, 
and will not reveal their real thoughts : one said that they 
believed in two Superior Beings — Reza above, who kills 
people, and Eeza below, who carries them away after death. 

6th December. — Ten of Syde bin Habib's people came 
over, bringing a letter, the contents of which neither 
Mpamari nor Mohamad cares to reveal. Some think, with 
great probability, that he asks, " Why did you begin a 
" war if you wanted to leave so soon ? Did you not know 
" that the country people would take advantage of your 
"march, encumbered as you will be by women and slaves?" 
Mohamad Bogharib called me to ask what advice I could 
give him, as all his own advice, and devices too, had been 
lost or were useless, and he did not know what to do. The 
Banyamwezi threatened to go off by night and leave him, 
as they are incensed against the Babemba, and offended 
because the Arabs do not aid them in wreaking their ven- 
geance upon them. 

I took care not to give any advice, but said, if I had 
been or was in his place, I would have sent or would send 
back Bin Juma's captives, to show that I disapproved of his 
act — the first in the war — and was willing to make peace 
with Chapi. He said that he did not know that Bin Juma 
would capture these people ; that Bin Juma had met some 
natives with fish, and took ten by force, that the natives, 
in revenge, caught three Banyamwezi slaves, and Bin Juma 
then gave one slave to them as a fine, but Mohamad did 
not know of this affair either. I am of opinion, however, 
that he was fully aware of both matters, and Mpamari's 
caracoling showed that he knew it all, though now he 
denies it. 

Bin Juma is a long, thin, lanky Suaheli, six feet two 
high, with a hooked nose and large lips : I told Mohamad 
that if he were to go with us to Manyuema, the whole party 
would be cut off. He came here, bought a slave-boy, and, 



1868.] BIN JUMA THE SLAVE-TRADER. 355 

allowed him to escape ; then browbeat Chapi's man about 
him (and he says, three others) ; and caught ten in lieu of 
him, of which Mohamad restored six : this was the origin 
of the war. Now that we are in the middle of it, I 
must do as Mohamad does in going off either by day or 
by night. It is unreasonable to ask my advice now, 
but it is felt that they have very unjustifiably placed 
me in a false position, and they fear that Syed Majid 
will impute blame to them, meanwhile Syde bin Habib 
sent a private message to me to come with his men to 
him, and leave this party. 

I perceive that the plan now is to try and clear our way 
of Chapi, and then march, but I am so thoroughly dis- 
gusted with this slave-war, that I think of running the risk 
of attack by the country people, and go off to-morrow with- 
out Mohamad Bogharib, though I like him much more 
than I do Mpamari or Syde bin Habib. It is too glaring 
hypocrisy to go to the Koran for guidance while the stolen 
women, girls, and fish, are in Bin Juma's hands. 

8th and 9th December. — I had to wait for the Ban- 
yamwezi preparing food : Mohamad has no authority over 
them, or indeed over anyone else. Two Babemba men 
came in and said that they had given up fighting, and 
begged for their wives, who had been captured by Syde's 
people on their way here : this reasonable request was 
refused at first, but better counsels prevailed, and they 
were willing to give something to appease the anger of the 
enemy, and sent back six captives, two of whom were the 
wives prayed for. 

[At last he makes a start on the 11th of December with 
the Arabs, who are bound eastwards for Ujiji. It is a 
motley group, composed of Mohamad and his friends, a 
gang of Unyamwezi hangers-on, and strings of wretched 
slaves yoked together in their heavy slave-sticks. Some 

2 a 2 



356 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. XIII. 

carry ivory, others copper, or food for the march, whilst 
hope and fear, misery and villainy, may be read off on the 
various faces that pass in line out of this country, like a 
serpent dragging its accursed folds away from the victim it 
has paralysed with its fangs.] 

11th December. — We marched four hours unmolested by 
the natives, built a fence, and next day crossed the Lokinda 
Eiver and its feeder the Mookosi ; here the people belonged 
to Chisabi, who had not joined the other Babemba. We go 
between two ranges of tree-covered mountains, which are 
continuations of those on each side of Moero. 

12th December. — The tiresome tale of slaves running away 
was repeated again last night by two of Mpamari's making 
off, though in the yoke, and they had been with him from 
boyhood. Not one good-looking slave-woman is now left 
of Mohamad Bogharib's fresh slaves ; all the pretty ones 
obtain favour by their address, beg to be unyoked, and then 
escape. Four hours brought us to many villages of Chisabi 
and the camp of Syde bin Habib in the middle of a set-in 
rain, which marred the demonstration at meeting with his 
relative Mpamari; but the women braved it through, wet 
to the skin, and danced and lullilooed with " draigled " 
petticoats with a zeal worthy of a better cause, as the 
" penny-a-liners " say. It is the custom for the trader who 
receives visitors to slaughter goats, and feed all his guests 
for at least two days, nor was Syde wanting in this hospi- 
tality, though the set-in rain continuing, we did not enjoy 
it as in fine weather. 

14th December. — Cotton-grass and brackens all over the 
country show the great humidity of Marungu. Kain daily ; 
but this is not the great rain which falls when the sun comes 
back south over our heads. 

15th December. — March two hours only to the range of 
Tamba. A pretty little light-grey owl, called " nkwekwe," 



1868.] SINGULAR OWL. SLAVES ESCAPE. 357 

was killed by a native as food ; a black ring round its face 
and its black ears gave it all the appearance of a cat, 
whose habits it follows. 

16th to 18th December. — A brother of Syde bin Habib 
died last night : I had made up my mind to leave the 
whole party, but Syde said that Chisabi was not to be 
trusted, and the death of his brother having happened, it 
would not be respectful to leave him to bury his dead alone. 
Six of his slaves fled during the night — one, the keeper 
of the others. A Mobemba man, who had been to the 
coast twice with him, is said to have wished a woman who 
was in the chain, so he loosed five out, and took her off; 
the others made clear heels of it, and now that the grass is 
long and green, no one can trace their course. 

Syde told me that the slaves would not have detained 
him, but his brother's death did. We buried the youth, 
who has been ill three months. Mpamari descended into 
the grave with four others; a broad cloth was held over 
them horizontally, and a little fluctuation made, as if to fan 
those who were depositing the body in the side excavation 
made at the bottom : when they had finished they pulled 
in earth, and all shoved it towards them till the grave was 
level. Mullam then came and poured a little water into and 
over the grave, mumbled a few prayers, at which Mpamari 
said aloud to me, " Mullam does not let his voice be heard ; " 
and Mullam smiled to me, as if to say, " Loud enough for 
all I shall get : " during the ceremony the women were all 
wailing loudly. We went to the usual sitting-place, and 
shook hands with Syde, as if receiving him back again into 
the company of the living. 

Syde told me previously to this event that he had fought 
the people who killed his elder brother Salem bin Habib, 
and would continue to fight them till all their country 
was spoiled and a desolation: there is no forgiveness with 
Moslems for bloodshed. He killed many, and took many 



358 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOUKNALS. [Chap. XIII. 

slaves, ivory, and copper : his tusks number over 200, many 
of large size. 

19th and 20th December. — To Chisabi's village stockade, 
on the left bank of the Lofunso, which flows in a marshy 
valley three miles broad. Eight of Mohamad Bogharib's 
slaves fled by night, one with his gun and wife; a large 
party went in search, but saw nothing of them. 

To-day an elephant was killed, and they sent for the meat, 
but Chisabi ordered the men to let his meat alone : expe- 
rience at Kabwabwata said, " Take the gentle course," so two 
fathoms of calico and two hoes were sent to propitiate the 
chief ; Chisabi then demanded half the meat and one tusk : 
the meat was given, but the tusk was mildly refused : he 
is but a youth, and this is only the act of his counsellors. 
It was replied that Casembe, Chikumbi, Nsama, Merere, 
made no demand at all : his counsellors have probably 
heard of the Portuguese self-imposed law, and wish to in- 
troduce it here, but both tusks were secured. 

22nd December. — We crossed the Lofunso River, wading 
three branches, the first of forty-seven yards, then the river 
itself, fifty yards, and neck deep to men and women of ordi- 
nary size. Two were swept away and drowned ; other two 
were rescued by men leaping in and saving them, one of 
whom was my man Susi. A crocodile bit one person badly, 
but was struck, and driven off. Two slaves escaped by night ; 
a woman loosed her husband's yoke from the tree, and got 
clear off. 

24:th December. — Five sick people detain us to-day ; some 
cannot walk from feebleness and purging brought on by 
sleeping on the damp ground without clothes. 

Syde bin Habib reports a peculiar breed of goats in Eua, 
remarkably short in the legs, so much so, that they cannot 
travel far; they give much milk, and become very fat, but 
the meat is indifferent. Gold is found at Katanga in the 
pool of a waterfall only : it probably comes from the rocks 



1868.] MOKE NEWS CONCERNING THE RIVERS. 359 

above this. His account of the Lofu, or, as he says, West 
Lualaba, is identical with that of his cousin, Syde bin Omar ; 
it flows north, but west of Lufira, into the Lake of Kinkonza, 
so named after the chief. The East Lualaba becomes very 
large, often as much as six or eight miles broad, with many 
inhabited islands, the people of which, being safe from in- 
vasion, are consequently rapacious and dishonest, and their 
chiefs, Moenge and Nyamakunda, are equally lawless. A 
hunter, belonging to Syde, named Kabwebwa, gave much 
information gleaned during his hunting trips ; for instance, 
the Lufira has nine feeders of large size ; and one, the 
Lekulwe, has also nine feeders; another, the Kisungu, is 
covered with "tikatika," by which the people cross it, 
though it bends under their weight ; he also ascribes the 
origin of the Lufira and the Lualaba West, or Lofu, with 
the Liambai to one large earthen mound, which he calls 
" segulo," or an ant-hill ! 

25th December, Christmas Day. — We can buy nothing 
except the very coarsest food — not a goat or fowl — while 
Syde, having plenty of copper, can get all the luxuries. 
We marched past Mount Katanga, leaving it on our left, to 
the River Kapeta, and slaughtered a favourite kid to make 
a Christmas dinner. A trading-party came up from Ujiji ; 
they said that we were ten camps from Tanganyika. They 
gave an erroneous report that a steamer with a boat in tow 
was on Lake Chowambe — an English one, too, with plenty 
of cloth and beads on board. A letter had come from 
Abdullah bin Salem, Moslem missionary at Mtesa's, to 
Ujiji three months ago with this news. 

26th December. — We marched up an ascent 2h hours, and 
got on to the top of one of the mountain ridges, which 
generally run N". and S. Three hours along this level top 
brought us to the Kibawe River, a roaring rivulet beside 
villages. There were no people on the height over which 
we came, though the country is very fine — green and gay 



360 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. [Chap. XIII. 

with varying shades of that colour. We passed through 
patches of brackens five feet high and gingers in flower, and 
were in a damp cloud all day. Now and then a drizzle falls 
in these parts, but it keeps all damp only, and does not show 
in the rain-gauge. Neither sun nor stars appear. 

21th and 28th December. — Remain on Sunday, then march 
and cross five rivulets about four yards wide and knee deep, 
going to the Lofunso. The grass now begins to cover and 
hide the paths ; its growth is very rapid : blobs of water 
lie on the leaves all day, and keep the feet constantly wet 
by falling as we pass. 

29th December. — We kept well on the ridge between two 
ranges of hills ; then went down, and found a partially- 
burned native stockade, and lodged in it ; the fires of the 
TJjiji party had set the huts on fire after the party left. We 
are in the Itande district at the Nswiba River. 

SOth December. — We now went due east, and made a good 
deal of easting too from Mount Katanga on the Lofunso. 
and crossed the River Lokivwa, twelve yards wide, and very 
deep, with villages all about. We ascended much as we 
went east. Very high mountains appeared on the N.W. 
The woods dark green, with large patches of a paler hue. 

31st December. — We reached the Lofuko yesterday in a 
pelting rain; not knowing that the camp with huts was 
near, I stopped and put on a bernouse, got "^et, and had 
no dry clothes. • Remain to-day to buy food. Clouds cover 
all the sky from N.W. The river, thirty yards wide, goes 
to Tanganyika east of this. Scenery very lovely. 



END OF VOL. I. 



LONDON: PRINTED BY WM. CLOWES AND SONS, STAMFORD STREET 
AND CHARING CROSS. 



Albemarle Street, 

December, 1874. 



ME. MUKEAY'S LIST OF WOEKS. 



RECENT WORKS. 

LIFE AND DEATH OF JOHN OF BARNEVELD, 

Advocate of Holland. Including the Primary Causes and Movements of "The 
Thirty Years' War." By J. Lothrop Motley, D.C.L. With Illustrations. 
2 vols. 8vo. 28j. 

ESSAYS CONTRIBUTED TO THE QUARTERLY 

REVIEW. By the late Samuel Wilberforce, D.D., Bishop of Winchester. 
2 vols. 8vo. 21s. 

Contents: — The Naturalist in Sussex and on the Spey — Darwin's Origin of Species — 
Essays and Reviews— The Hawaiian Islands— Aids to Faith — The Church of England and 
her Bishops — Dr. Newman's Apologia — Clerical Subscription — The Gallican Church — Royal 
Authorship — The Church and her Curates — Keble's Biography — The Archbishops of the 
Reformation — East African Slave Trade. 

SCHOOL ARCHITECTURE. Being Practical Remarks on 

the Planning, Designing, Building, and Furnishing of Schoolhouses. By E. R. 
Robson, Architect to the School Board for London. With 300 Illustrations. 
Medium Svo. 3U. 6d. 

THE PERSONAL LIFE AND MINOR WORKS OF 

GEORGE GROTE. By Mrs. Grote and Alexander Bain, LL.D. With 
Portraits. 2 vols. Svo. 26s. 

A BRIEF MEMOIR of the PRINCESS CHARLOTTE of 

WALES. With Selections from her Correspondence and other unpublished 
Papers. By Lady Rose Weigall. Second Edition. With Portrait. Crown 
8vo. 8s. 6d. 

THE SPEAKER'S COMMENTARY ON THE BIBLE; 

with Explanatory and Critical Notes, and a Revision of the Translation. Edited 
by F. C. Cook, M.A., Canon of Exeter. Vols. I. to IV. Medium 8vo. 

HISTORY OF ENGLAND DURING THE REIGN OF 

QUEEN ANNE UNTIL THE PEACE OF UTRECHT, ;i70i-i3. By 
Earl Stanhope. Library Edition, 8vo., 16s. ; Cabinet Edition, with Portrait, 
2 vols., post 8vo., ioj-. 

This work is designed as a connecting link between the conclusion of Lord 
Macaulay's History and the commencement of Lord Mahon's. 

A HISTORY OF ENGLAND, from the Peace of Utrecht to 

the Peace of Versailles, 1713-83. By Lord Mahon. Library Edition, 7 vols., 
8vo., 93J. ; Cabinet Edition, 7 vols., post 8vo., 35^. 

[Continued. 
VOL. I. 2 B 



MR. MURRAY 'S LIST OF W0RKS-«»tf««^_ 
THE TALMUD AND OTHER LITERARY REMAINS 

OF THE LATE EMANUEL DEUTSCH. With a Brief Memoir. 8vo. 12s. 

Contents : — The Talmud — Islam — Egypt, Ancient and Modern — Hermes Trismegistus — 
Judeo-Arabic Metaphysics— Renan's " Les ApStres " — The (Ecumenical Council — Apostolica; 
Sedis — Roman Passion Drama — Semitic Palaeography, Culture, and Languages — Samaritan 
Pentateuch — The Targums — Book of Jasher — Arabic Poetry. 

ROMANO LAVO-LIL; Word-Book of the Romany, or 

English Gipsy Language ; with many pieces in Gypsy, illustrative of the English 
Gypsies. By George Borrow. Post 8vo. 10s. 6d. 

NEW JAPAN ; THE LAND OF THE RISING SUN ; its 

Annals and Progress during the past Twenty Years, recording the remarkable 
Progress of the Japanese in Western Civilization. By Samuel Mossman. 
With Map. 8vo. 15^. 

THE ORIGIN AND HISTORY OF THE FIRST OR 

GRENADIER GUARDS, from Documents in the State Paper Office, War 
Office, Horse Guards, Contemporary History, Regimental Records, &c. By 
Lieut. -Gen. Sir F. W. Hamilton, K.C.B. With Portraits and Illustrations. 
3 vols. Medium 8vo. 63s. 

REMINISCENCES OF FORTY YEARS' SERVICE IN 

INDIA. Including the Caubul Disasters and Captivities in Affghanistan and 
the Punjaub, and a Narrative of the Mutinies in Rajputana. By Lieut. -Gen. 
Sir George Lawrence, C.B. Crown 8vo. 10s. 6d. 

PERSONAL RECOLLECTIONS, FROM EARLY LIFE 

TO OLD AGE, of MARY SOMERVILLE. With Selections from her 
Correspondence. By Her Daughter. With Portrait. Fifth Thousand. 
Crown 8vo. 12s. 

THE LAND OF MOAB. Travels and Discoveries on the 
East Side of the Dead Sea and the Jordan. By Canon Tristram, LL.D. 
Second Edition. With Map and Illustrations. Crown 8vo. 15^. 

LIVES OF THE CHIEF JUSTICES OF ENGLAND, 

from the Norman Conquest to the Death of Lord Tenterden. By Lord 
Campbell. Third Edition. 4 vols. Crown 8vo. 6s. each. 

A HISTORY OF THE ANCIENT WORLD, from the 

Earliest Records to the Fall of the Western Empire, a.d. 455. By Philip 
Smith, B.A. Fourth Edition. With Maps and Plans. 3 vols. 8vo. 31s. 6d. 

RECORDS OF THE ROCKS ; or, Notes on the Geology, 

Natural History, and Antiquities of North and South Wales, Devon, and Corn- 
wall. By Rev. W. S. Symonds, F.G.S. With Illustrations. Crown 8vo., 12s. 

THE NATURALIST IN NICARAGUA; a Narrative of a 

Residence and Journeys in the Savannahs and Forests ; with Observations on 
Animals and Plants. By Thomas Belt, F.G.S. With Illustrations. Post 
Svo. 12s. 

{Continued. 



MR. MURRAY'S LIST OF WORKS-^w. 



BENEDICITE ; or, The Song of the Three Children. Being 

Illustrations of the Power, Beneficence, and Design manifested by the Creator 
in His Works. By G. Chaplin Child, M.D. Tenth Thousand. Post 8vo. 
6s. 

HISTORY OF THE CHRISTIAN CHURCH, from the 

Apostolic Age to the Reformation, 15 17. By Canon Robertson, M.A. 
Fourth Edition. 8 vols. Post 8vo. 6s. each. 

A HISTORY OF THE ROYAL ARTILLERY. Compiled 

from the Original Records. By Major Duncan, R.A. Second Edition. 
With Portraits. 2 vols. 8vo. 30J. 

THE GOTHIC ARCHITECTURE OF ITALY ; chiefly in 

Brick and Marble. Being Notes of Tours in the North of Italy. By G. E. 
Street, R.A. Second Edition. With 60 Illustrations. Royal 8vo. 26s. 

THE GOTHIC ARCHITECTURE OF SPAIN : from Per- 

sonal Observations made during several Journeys. By G. E. Street, F.S.A. 
Second Edition. With 100 Illustrations. Medium 8vo. 30^. 

LECTURES ON THE GEOGRAPHY OF GREECE. By 

Rev. H. F. Tozer, M.A. With Map. Post 8vo. gs. 

HISTORY OF THE MODERN STYLES OF ARCHI- 
TECTURE. By James Fergusson, F.R.S., D.C.L. Second Edition. With 
330 Illustrations. Medium 8vo. 3U. 6d. 

MEMOIR OF WILLIAM ELLIS, Missionary in the South 

Seas and Madagascar. By His Son. With Portrait. 8vo. 10s. 6d. 

SIGNS AND WONDERS IN THE LAND OF HAM; or, 

The Ten Plagues of Egypt, with Ancient and Modern Illustrations. By Rev. 
T. S. Millington. With Woodcuts. Post 8vo. p. 6d. 

PERILS IN THE POLAR SEAS ; True Stories of Arctic 

Adventure and Discovery, for Young Persons. By Mrs. Chisholm. With 
Maps and 20 Illustrations. Post 8vo. 6s. 

FRAGMENTARY ILLUSTRATIONS of the HISTORY 

of the BOOK of COMMON PRAYER, from Manuscript Sources (Bishop 
Sanderson and Bishop Wren). Edited by William Jacobson, D.D., Bishop 
of Chester. 8vo. 5-r. 

SELF HELP. With Illustrations of Character, Conduct, and 
Perseverance. By Samuel Smiles. Small 8vo. 6s. 

CHARACTER. A Companion Volume to "Self Help." By 
Samuel Smiles. Small Svo. 6j-. 

THE TALE OF FRITHIOF. By ESIAS Tegner. Trans- 
lated from the Swedish. By Captain H Spalding. Post Svo. 7-r. 6d. 

{Continued. 



MR. MURRAY'S LIST OF W0RKS-^*w. 



FORTHCOMING WORKS. 

THE SECOND EDITION of the QUARTERLY REVIEW, 

OCTOBER, 1874, containing articles on The Jesuits — The Republic of 
Venice — Bishop Patteson— The Ritual of the English Church, &c, 
&c. 8vo., 6s. [Ready. 

THE DIARY OF H.M. THE SHAH OF PERSIA, during 

his TOUR THROUGH EUROPE in 1873. Translated verbatim from the 
Original. By J. W. Redhouse, Fellow of the Royal Asiatic Society. 
With Portrait. Crown 8vo. 12s. [Ready. 

A JOURNEY through the CAUCASUS to TABREEZ, 

KURDISTAN, down the TIGRIS and EUPHRATES to NINEVEH and 
BABYLON, and across the DESERT to PALMYRA. By Baron von 
Thielmann. Translated from the German by Chas. Heneage. 8vo. 

THE FIFTH VOLUME OF THE SPEAKER'S COM- 
MENTARY ON THE BIBLE. Edited by F. C. Cook, M.A., Canon of 
Exeter. Containing : Isaiah, by the Rev. W. Kay, D.D. ; Jeremiah^ by the 
Dean of Canterbury. Medium 8vo. 

THE COMMUNISTIC SOCIETIES OF THE UNITED 

STATES. From Personal Visits and Observations ; with Particulars of their 
Religious Creeds, Social Practices, Numbers, Industries, and Present Condition. 
By Charles Nordhoff, Author of "Northern California," &c. With 40 
Illustrations. 8vo. 

MEMOIR OF SIR RODERICK I. MURCHISON ; With 

Notices of his Scientific Contemporaries, and of the Rise and Progress of 
Palaeozoic Geology in Britain. By Archibald Geikie, F.R.S., Director of 
the Geological Survey of Scotland. With Portraits. 2 vols., 8vo. 

TROY AND ITS REMAINS ; The Result of Researches and 

Discoveries in the Trojan Plain. By Henry Schliemann. Translated with 
the Author's Sanction. With Maps, Views, Objects of Antiquity, Plans, &c. 
Royal 8vo. 

A DICTIONARY OF CHRISTIAN ANTIQUITIES. The 

History, Institutions, Antiquities of the Christian Church. By Various 
Writers. Edited by Wm. Smith, D.C.L., and Rev. Professor Cheetham, 
M.A. Vol. I., A— J. Medium 8vo. 

This work commences at the point at which the Dictionary of the Bible 
leaves off, and gives an account of the Institutions of the Christian Church from the 
time of the Apostles to the age of Charlemagne. 

THE EARLY HISTORY OF INSTITUTIONS ; in Con- 
tinuation of the Treatise on " Ancient Law." By Sir Henry Maine, K. C.S.I. 
8vo. 

SIX MONTHS AMONG THE PALM GROVES, CORAL 

REEFS, and VOLCANOES of the SANDWICH ISLANDS. By 
Isabella Bird, Author of "The Englishwoman in America." With Illustra- 
tions. Crown 8vo. 

[Continued. 



MR. MURRAY'S LIST OF WORKS-™*)"/*/. 5 



WORSHIP IN THE CHURCH OF ENGLAND. By 

A. J. B. Beresford-Hope, M.P. 8vo. 9.?. [Ready. 

A HISTORY OF ARCHITECTURE IN ALL COUN- 

TRIES, from the Earliest Times to the Present Day. By James Fergusson, 
F.R.S. New and Revised Edition. With 1600 Illustrations. 4 vols. Medium 
8vo. 3 1 s. 6d. each. 

Vols. I. and II.— ANCIENT ARCHITECTURE. [Ready. 

Vol. III.— INDIAN ARCHITECTURE. 
Vol. IV.— MODERN ARCHITECTURE. [Ready. 

THE SONNET ; Its Origin, Structure, and Place in Poetry. 

With Original Translations from the Sonnets of Dante and Petrarch. With 
Remarks on the Art of Translating. By Charles Tomlinson, F.R.S. Post 8vo. 
gs. [Ready. 

THE NICENE AND APOSTLES' CREEDS; Their Literary 

History, together with some Account of the Creed of St. Athanasius. By Canon 
Swainson, D.D., Norrisian Professor of Divinity at Cambridge. With Fac- 
simile. Svo. 

PERCY'S PRACTICAL METALLURGY. Vol. I. Part I. 

Introduction — Fuel, Wood, Peat, Coal, Charcoal, Coke, Refractory Materials, 
Fireclays, &c. New and Revised Edition. With Illustrations. Svo. 

ENGLAND AND RUSSIA IN THE EAST. A Series of 

Papers on the Political and Geographical Condition of Central Asia. By 
Sir Henry Rawlinson, K.C.B. With Map. Svo. 

ETCHINGS FROM THE LOIRE AND SOUTH OF 

FRANCE. By Ernest George, Architect. With 20 Plates and Descriptive 
Text. Folio. 42J. [Ready. 

HANDBOOK TO THE ITALIAN SCHOOLS OF 

PAINTING. Based on the Handbook of Kugler. Originally edited by 
Sir Charles L. Eastlake, R.A. Fourth Edition. Revised and Remodelled. 
By Lady Eastlake. With 140 Illustrations. 2 vols. Crown Svo. 301. 

[Ready. 

HANDBOOK TO THE GERMAN, FLEMISH, AND 

DUTCH SCHOOLS OF PAINTING. Based on the Handbook of Kugler. 
New Edition. Revised and partly re-written. By J. A. Crowe. With 60 
Illustrations. 2 vols. Crown 8vo. 24s - . [Ready. 

THE BOOK OF MARCO POLO, THE VENETIAN: 

Concerning the Kingdoms and Marvels of the East. A new English Version. 
Edited by Col. Yule, C.B. Second Edition, revised. With Maps and Illustra- 
tions. 2 vols. Medium Svo. 42^. [Ready. 

THE DESCENT OF MAN, AND ON SELECTION IN 

RELATION TO SEX. By Charles Darwin, F.R.S. Revised and Cheaper 
Edition. With Illustrations. Crown 8vo. gs. [Ready. 

THE "ROB ROY" ON THE JORDAN, NILE, RED 

SEA, GENESSARETH, Etc. A Canoe Cruise in Palestine, Egypt, and the 
Waters of Damascus. By John MacGregor, M.A. New and Cheaper 
Edition. With Illustrations. Post Svo. p. 6d. [Ready. 

[Continued. 
VOL. I. 2 c 



MR. MURRAY'S LIST OF WORKS-^w. 



THE STUDENT'S EDITION of AUSTIN'S LECTURES 

on JURISPRUDENCE ; or, the Philosophy of Positive Law. Compiled from 
the larger work. By Robert Campbell, of Lincoln's Inn, Barrister-at-Law. 
Post 8vo. 

AN ATLAS of ANCIENT GEOGRAPHY, BIBLICAL 

and CLASSICAL. To illustrate the "Dictionary of the Bible" and the 
"Classical Dictionaries." Compiled under the superintendence of Dr. Wm. 
Smith and Mr. George Grove. With Descriptive Text. Folio, half-bound. 

THE GNOSTIC HERESIES of the FIRST and SECOND 

CENTURIES. By the late Dean Mansel, D.D., Professor of Ecclesiastical 
History at Oxford. With a Sketch of his Life and Character. Edited, with a 
Preface, by Canon Lightfoot. 8vo. ioj. 6d. [Ready. 

THE MOON. Considered as a Planet, a World, and a Satellite. 
By James Nasmyth, C.E., and James Carpenter, F.R.A.S. Second Edition. 
With 24 Illustrations and Woodcuts. 4to. 30^. [Ready. 

LIVES of the ENGINEERS. From the Earliest Times. With 

an Account of their Principal Works : comprising a Histoiy of Inland Com- 
munication in Britain, and the Invention of the Steam Engine and Locomotive : 

CONTAINING : 
I. Embankments and Canals — Vermuyden, Myddelton, Perry, Brindley. 
II. Harbours, Lighthouses, and Bridges — Smeaton and Rennie. 

III. History of Roads — Metcalfe and Telford. 

IV. The Steam Engine — Boulton and Watt. 

V. The Locomotive — George and Robert Stephenson. 

By Samuel Smiles, Author of " Self-Help." New and Revised Edition. With 
9 Portraits and 340 Illustrations. 5 vols. Crown 8vo. "]s. 6d. each. [Ready. 

HORTENSIUS ; an Historical Essay on the Office and Duties 
of an Advocate. By William Forsyth, M.P. Second Edition. With 
Illustrations. 8vo. 12s. [Ready. 

SKETCHES and STUDIES HISTORICAL and DE- 
SCRIPTIVE. By Richard J. King, B.A., Author of the "Handbooks to 
the Cathedrals of England." 8vo. 12s. [Ready. 

MAETZNER'S ENGLISH GRAMMAR. A Methodical, 

Analytical, and Historical Treatise on the Orthography, Prosody, Inflexions, and 
Syntax of the English Tongue. Translated. By Clair J. Grece, LL.B. 
3 vols. 8vo. 36^. [Ready. 

HISTORY of the CHRISTIAN CHURCH ; from the Apos- 

tolic Age to the Reformation. 15 17. By Canon Robertson. New Edition. 
Vols. V. and VI. Post 8vo. 6s. each. (To be completed in 8 vols.) [Ready. 

THE STUDENT'S MANUAL of ECCLESIASTICAL 

HISTORY. By Philip Smith, B.A., Author of " The Student's Old and New 
Testament Histories." Post 8vo. 

THE BEAUTIES of BYRON: being Selections from Lord 

Byron's Poetry and Prose. By a Clergyman. New Edition. With Portrait. 
Fcap. 8vo. y. 6d. [Ready. 

JOHN MURRAY, ALBEMARLE STREET. 







London: Jidbii 'Murray- Albemarle Street. 



