About This File

This file is part of a corpus compiled by Caitlin Matheis (University of Nebraska-Lincoln) for a 2021 computational text analysis project for the One More Voice recovery project (onemorevoice.org). This corpus encompasses a wide range of plain text (TXT) files containing nineteenth- and early twentieth-century literary works centered on Africa by several dozen different British and African writers. Questions about the corpus and project can be directed to Caitlin Matheis (cmatheis2@huskers.unl.edu), the creator of the corpus, and Adrian S. Wisnicki (awisnicki@unl.edu), lead developer for One More Voice.

File Source: Internet Archive, http://archive.org/details/wonderfulstoryug00mull

--------------------------------------

THE 
WONDERFUL STORY 
OF UGANDA. 

BY THE REV. J. D. MULLINS, M.A., 
SECRETARY OF THE COLONIAL AND CONTINENTAL CHURCH SOCIETY; 
JOINT AUTHOR OF "THE MISSIONARY SPEAKER'S MANUAL." 

TO WHICH IS ADDED 
THE STORY OF HAM MUKASA, 
TOLD BY HIMSELF. 

LONDON : 
CHURCH MISSIONARY SOCIETY, 
Salisbury Square, E.C. 
1904. 



PREFACE. 

THE present volume is based on a series of 
articles published in the Church Mis- 
sionary Gleaner oi 1902, which have been partly 
re-written, added to, and brought down to the 
present date. It is not put forward as an 
exhaustive history of Uganda or the Uganda 
Mission, but as an attempt to present the more 
vivid and picturesque scenes of a story which 
has had an exceptionally large element of 
romance. 

The Uganda Mission is rightly regarded as a 
Christian miracle of modern days. A nation 
remotely situated in Central Africa, which 
twenty-five years ago had not received the 
Gospel, and had not even a wTitten language, 
is to-day the home of thirty thousand Chris- 
tians under Christian chiefs ; its language has 
been reduced to writing; the whole Bible, 
translated into their own tongue, has been for 
years in the hands of the inhabitants ; the 
people support their own ministry and even 

V 



preface. 

undertake Missions to the countries round ; 
and they have enriched the roll of martyrs 
with many names. So rapid a transformation, 
though not unparalleled, cannot fail to cause 
amazement. 

The success of the Gospel in Uganda has led 
many to draw hasty analogies from it. Why 
should not other Missions be as successful, 
other Native Christian communities as quickly 
self-supporting, as this ? Such reasoning fails 
to take into account the combination of cir- 
cumstances which has favoured the develop- 
ment of Uganda Christianity. The conquests 
of Suna and M'tesa laid an extensive area 
under one jurisdiction, so that the missionaries 
had not to contend with the petty tribal and 
communal jealousies which have so often 
made the adoption of Christianity by one tribe 
the very reason for its rejection by neighbours 
and rivals ; the Baganda proved to be a race 
more receptive of spiritual truth than the 
stolid, material-minded races nearer the coast ; 
their language presented no unusual diffi- 
culties ; no highly-developed or attractive 
religious system, no heathen literature, no 
organized priestly class existed to oppose the 
Gospel message ; the first converts were drawn 
vi 



preface. 

rather from the upper than the lower classes, so 
that there being no caste or social ostracism 
of Christians, the power of self-support was 
always present ; the modes of life were so 
simple that the cost of living in that fertile 
tropical country was very small ; the v/ise 
firmness exerted at the outset made easy the 
subsequent insistence on self-support ; the con- 
verts included men of capacity for leadership ; 
and European influence other than that of the 
missionaries did not appear upon the scene 
until the Gospel had taken a firm hold upon 
the people. The absence of one or more of 
these elements interposes great obstacles to the 
establishment of flourishing Native Churches 
elsewhere. 

But it is early yet to moralize upon the 
Uganda Mission. It may be that its greatest 
trials have still to come. New Zealand, Tahiti, 
and Madagascar reached in their time quite as 
high a pinnacle of success as that of Uganda 
to-day. 

With the completion of railway and steamer 
communication with the coast the influx of 
Europeans, East Indians, and other aliens, 
which has already begun, is sure to increase. 
The influence of their example has already 
vii 



preface. 

been at work long enough for its effects to be 
gauged ; and so far the Christians have fairly 
stood the test. But the incomers are bringing 
also an intelligence better trained than that of 
the Native, so that there is a danger of his 
falling into the position of the hewer of wood 
and drawer of water for his invaders, or the 
idle pauper living upon their bounty ; while 
these same new-comers will create new wants 
and set the standard of living higher than 
before, so that the Native will be propor- 
tionately poorer. Happily our colonial system 
is now enlightened enough to protect the 
Native from some of the worst evils of Euro- 
pean supremacy, such as the dispossession 
of his lands and an unchecked drink traffic. 
Under God, the development of Industrial 
Missions and education will do much to 
avert the other dangers, while the continu- 
ance of those Christian intercessions which 
have held up the hands of the mission- 
aries in the past will ** avail much" in the 
future. With His blessing we may live to 
see the day when Baganda missionaries 
join hands with the converts on Lake 
Tanganyika, travel northwards till they reach 
other Christian workers from Khartoum, and 
viii 



Ipretace. 

reach out westward to the Missions of the 
Congo. 

The autobiography of Ham Mukasa, trans- 
lated by Archdeacon Walker, is a suitable 
pendant to the sketch of the history of the 
Mission. The style, whether owing to the 
writer or the translator, has a delightful naivete 
and charm and recalls in places the rhythmical 
cadences of the Bible. In part, the life-story of 
Ham Mukasa follows the history of his country, 
with personal touches which are so many side- 
lights on the character of the times in which 
he lived. The latter part contains much self- 
revelation, and one striking passage describes 
the war between the old man " Mukasa " and 
the new man '' Ham " within his soul. 

Ham will be remembered as having come 
to England in 1902 in company with the Kati- 
kiro, Apolo Kagwa, to attend the coronation of 
King Edward VH. 

J. D. MULLINS. 



* 



:* In the production of the Illustrations 
the Publishers acknowledge their indebtedness 
to Mr. C. W. Hattersley, Dr. A. R. Cook, and 
other missionaries for the loan of Photographs. 



IX 



CONTENTS, 



CHAP. PAGE 

I.— How IT ALL BEGAN' I 



II. — Descriptive 

III.— The First Workers in the Field 
IV.— The Blood of the Martyrs 
v.— Times of Persecution . 
VI.— Mwanga Dethroned and Restored 

Again 

VII.— The Beginning of a New Era . 
VIII.— The New Bishop .... 
IX.— The Outbreak of a P'resh Storm 
X.— Peace and Revival .... 
XL— Bloodshed once J^Iore . 
XII.— Peace and Expansion . 
XIII.— The Ever-widening Circle:— 

1. Toro 

2. Usukuma 

3. Bunyoro ..... 

4. Beyond Lake Kioga 

5. On the Slopes of Mount El^ron 

6. Nkole 

X 



16 

21 
30 
39 

51 

58 
65 
73 
80 
96 
105 

127 
138 
146 

155 
164 
166 



Contents. 

fAGE 

The Life of Ham Mukasa. Written by Himself 

and translated by the Yen. Archdn. Walker . 173 



APPENDIX A. 
A Bibliography of Uganda . . . .209 

APPENDIX B. 

Chronology of Uganda and the Uganda 
Mission 214 

APPENDIX C. 
Missionaries to Uganda 221 

APPENDIX D. 

Statistics of the Uganda Mission in Quin- 
quennial Periods 224 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS 



Some Leaders of the Uganda Mission . Frontispiece 
Procession at Queen Victoria Memorial 

Service, Mengo Facing p. 65 

King Daudi and Principal Chiefs . . ,,65 

Baganda Boys Learning to Read . . „ 81 

A Writing-Class, Mengo .... „ 81 

Outside the Book-shop, Mengo . . ,,94 

Selling a Bible in Uganda ... ,,94 

King Daudi Chwa in State ... ,,98 
Apolo Kagwa, Katikiro of Uganda, and 

his Son ,,98 

View of the New Cathedral from Bishop's 

Hill ,,114 

Congregation at the First Service in the 

New Cathedral, Mengo .... ,,114 

An Open-air Dispensary .... » i73 
Ham Mukasa, with Father, Wife, and 

Children j? i73 

Maps: 

Eastern Central Africa .... „ i 
Equatorial Africa, showing Chain of 

Missions across the Continent • . „ 3 



XI I 



Eastern Central Africa. 




Scale of English MiLcs. 



^ 



THE WONDERFUL STORY OF 
UGANDA. 



CHAPTER I. 
HOW IT ALL BEGAN. 

THE story of Uganda begins with a quaint 
map, sent home from Africa by three 
patient German missionaries of the Church 
Missionary Society. 

Mombasa, now in a fair way to become the 
chief seaport of East Africa, was, two genera- 
tions ago, Httle known in Europe, though its 
name is found in EngHsh literature as far back 
as Paradise Lost!^ On a hill near one of the 
many creeks which run inland from Mombasa 
harbour stood the mud-built mission-house of 
Rabai. If only such places would last in that 
tropical climate, that old mission-house might 

* Mombasa and Quiloa and Melind. — Paradise Lost, 
Book xi. 



TLbc Monberful Stor^ of 11l^an^a. 

well have been preserved as the cradle of all 
our geographical knowledge of East and 
Central Africa. 

Ludwig Krapf and John Rebmann took up 
their abode at Rabai in 1846, and began a 
laborious life, which included a long series of 
explorations into the interior. Their investiga- 
tions, undertaken for the spread of the Gospel, 
incidentally revealed to an incredulous Europe 
first the snow mountains of Kilima Njaro and 
Kenia, and later the great lake system of Central 
Africa. The linguistic and missionary labours 
of these men, though of immense value and 
interest, do not come into our present story. 
The *'SIug" iviap. 

To be strictly accurate, their younger com- 
panion, James Erhardt, who joined them in 
1849, rnust be credited with a share in the last- 
named discovery. The two senior men had 
heard from Arab traders tales of a great lake 
which had no end, " although one should travel 
for a hundred days to see the end," and so 
broad that one could not see across from shore 
to shore. Not until after Erhardt came, and 
new information had been gathered, were these 
reports incorporated into a conjectural map, 
which Erhardt and Rebmann constructed. 
2 



1bo\v it all Bcaan. 

The Calwer Missionsblatt of October, iSSS, 
was the first to pubHsh this remarkable 
production. It showed a great inland sea 
stretching across the interior of East Africa for 
hundreds of miles, and looking like a huge slug 
on the empty space. The CM. Intelligencer of 
August, 1856, reproduced the map,* and thus 
attention was drawn to it. The Royal Geo- 
graphical Society then took up the matter. A 
great controversy raged over the " slug " map, 
for many stay-at-home geographers demon- 
strated by argument that no great lakes could 
exist along the line of the Equator. Finally, 
explorers were sent out into the unknown land. 
Speke, Burton, and Grant resolved the vast 
inland sea into a chain of great lakes, and thus 
practically vindicated the missionaries. 

Among the marvels reported by these 
travellers was the existence of a considerable 
kingdom on the more distant shore of the lake 
which they called Victoria Nyanza,f seven 
hundred miles from the coast. Nearly every- 
where else they found petty chiefs, whose rule 
seldom extended beyond a few groups of 

* A facsimile will be found in the History of the 
C.M.S., vol ii. p. 136. 
t The word '• Nyanza " means "lake" or " ?ea." 

3 



TLbc Mon^ertul Storp of TIloant)a. 

villages ; but here was a young king whose 
power was felt over thousands of square miles, 
and w^ho, amidst much oppression and cruelty, 
had developed something like organized govern- 
ment. Thus it was that Europe first heard of 
Uganda and its king M'tesa. 

The Letter In the ''Daily Telegraph." 

For thirteen years after Speke visited Uganda 
in 1862, little was heard of that kingdom. On 
November 15th, 1875, the Bai/y Telegraph 
startled the world with a letter many columns 
long, written by the great traveller H. M. 
Stanley. Mr. Stanley had been sent out the 
year before at the instance of the Daily Tele- 
graph and the New York Herald on a great 
exploring tour. In the course of his journeys 
he had arrived in Uganda, and found its king 
M'tesa developed into a powerful, dignified 
monarch. Full of all that he saw during a 
prolonged stay, Mr. Stanley wrote from its 
capital the glowing description, which appeared 
in the Daily Telegraphy and added a fervent 
appeal for missionaries : — 

'' Oh, that some pious, practical missionary 
would come here ! . . . Such an one, if he can 
be found, would become the saviour of Africa. 
4 



1bow it all IBcQan. 

. . . Now, where is there in all the Pagan 
world a more promising field for a Mission than 
Uganda ? . . . Here, gentlemen, is your oppor- 
tunity : embrace it ! The people on the shores 
of the Nyanza call upon you." 

This appeal to the Christian Churches took 
immediate effect. Three days after its publica- 
tion a letter was received by the Church Mis- 
sionary Society from '^ one who desires to be 
known in this matter as An Unprofitable 
Servant," offering to place £"5,000 at the dis- 
posal of the Committee if they were *' prepared 
at once, and with energy, to organize a Mission 
to the Victoria Nyanza." 

On November 23rd, at a special meeting of 
the Committee, at which Lord Lawrence and 
other leading men were present, it was resolved 
to take up the work. The news of this decision 
quickly produced another gift of ;£'5,ooo, and in 
all ;^24,ooo was soon subscribed. 

The courage of the step taken by the Com- 
mittee is not easily realized by the present 
generation. Thirty years ago African travel 
was still a great undertaking, whose con- 
ditions were known to very few ; Uganda lay 
at the distance of at least seven hundred 
miles from the nearest missionary base ; the 
5 



Zbc Mon^erful Stoti? of XH^anba. 

temper of the chiefs whose territory must be 
traversed was unknown ; communications were 
uncertain, the climate dangerous. Altogether, 
there is no part of the world which could afford 
such a " leap in the dark " to missionary enter- 
prise to-day as did Uganda thirty years ago. 

The First Volunteers and the Start. 

The Committee had issued an appeal for 
men. The first response to be seriously enter- 
tained came from an ex-lieutenant of the Navy, 
George Shergold Smith, who was reading for 
Holy Orders at St. John's Hall, Highbury. 
Lieut. Shergold Smith had seen service on the 
West Coast of Africa, whence he had been 
invalided home. His father. Captain Smith, 
R.N., was present, as a young midshipman, on 
board the cruiser which rescued the young 
slave Adjai, afterwards Bishop Crowther, and 
was at this time the agent in Devonshire of a 
great friend of the Church Missionary Society 
and afterwards its President — Sir John Kenna- 
way. 

The next offer came from a man whose name 

was thereafter to become famous — a young 

Scotch engineer named Alexander Mackay. 

The Rev. C. T. Wilson, a Manchester curate, 

6 



1bovv it all Began. 

Mr. T. O'Neill, an architect, Dr. John Smith, 
a doctor from Edinburgh, another engineer 
named G. J. Clark, and an artisan named 
W. M. Robertson, made up the first party. 
They were joined by a builder from Newcastle, 
Mr. James Robertson, who, being rejected by 
the doctors, accompanied the pioneers at his 
own risk and expense. By the end of April, 
1876, all had sailed for Africa. 

The spirit of these men was shown by the 
utterances of the two first named. 

" Send me out in any capacity," wrote Sher- 
gold Smith in the course of correspondence 
about his offer; "I am willing to take the 
lowest place." 

But he had had experience of command, 
and he knew something of Africa ; so the man 
who was willing to serve was given the chief 
place in the expedition. 

When the little band of missionaries going 
out into the unknown met the Committee to 
receive their instructions and to say farewell, 
the last to make reply, because the youngest, 
was Alexander Mackay. 

" I want to remmd the Committee," said he, 
" that within six months they will probably 
hear that one of us is dead. Yes : is it at all 
7 



Zbc Monbettul Stor^ of XDlgan^a. 

likely that eight Englishmen should start for 
Central Africa and all be alive six months 
after ? One of us at least — it may be I — will 
surely fall before that. . . . When that news 
comes, do not be cast down, but send some 
one else immediately to take the vacant 
place." 

Mackay's prophecy was only too quickly 
fulfilled. The party assembled on the East 
Coast of Africa, and there J. Robertson died 
on August 5th, the first of many lives laid down 
for Uganda. 

The Journey up-Country. 

The party had everything to learn in the 
ways of African travel. It is difficult for us, in 
these days when sportsmen and travellers 
wander over Central Africa so freely, when the 
railway has simplified the journey, when out- 
fitting firms are ready with every imaginable 
article specially constructed for tropical 
countries, to picture to ourselves the blank 
ignorance which prevailed so recently as 1876. 
Even the route was uncertain, and quite a con- 
siderable time was spent by the party in trying 
in vain various openings into the interior. The 
route eventually chosen was that afterwards 
8 



Ibow It all BcQan. 

known as the southern route, which had been 
adopted by some previous travellers. 

Try to picture their position and their ex- 
periences. The first impression is that of heat 
— heat like that of a furnace ; yet a damp heat, 
producing physical exhaustion and mental 
depression. Then the insects force themselves 
upon the notice — insects that fly, insects that 
crawl, insects that bite, insects infesting every- 
thing. On the march, centipedes, snakes, and 
beasts of prey have to be reckoned with. 
Thirst, such thirst as no dweller in temperate 
climates can imagine ; fever and other tropical 
diseases, recurring again and again, and far more 
prevalent when the management of the health 
was less understood than now; the demands 
of petty chiefs for hongo, that is, a sort of black- 
mail, exacted whether the traveller passed or 
stayed ; all these must be added to the picture 
of the march. The prominent feature in the 
scene are the porters, for everything had to be 
carried on men's heads, made up into sixty- 
pound parcels — goods, food, and the cloth which 
served for money. The long, straggling line 
which wound its way along the narrow paths 
often comprised hundreds of men ; some 
deserting, some falling ill and dying, some 
9 



XTbe Monberful Stot^ of 'Qoan^a. 

attacked by robbers. Any day might bring its 
tragedies, and to return along the Hne of march 
would bring before the humane traveller a 
spectacle of horrors. 

A less acute trial, but one always to be 
reckoned with in x\frican affairs, is and was 
that of endless delays. 

When everything is taken into account, it is 
not surprising that the journey of 700 miles, 
which began at the coast on July 14th, 1876, 
should not have ended at the Lake until 
January 29th, 1877. 

The track, an old trade route, passed through 
Usagara, Chigogo, and Unyamyembe to the 
southern end of the Lake, whence the journey 
to Uganda had to be made by canoes or dhows 
coasting round the shore. 

The original design was to have a chain of 
mission posts reaching from Zanzibar to the 
Lake. In pursuance of this plan, Mamboia, 
Mpwapwa, Kisokwe, Uyui, Msalala, and Usam- 
biro were at different times occupied. Circum- 
stances eventually rendered the chain useless ; 
indeed, there were nearly always links missing. 
The Usagara group of mission stations, isolated 
from all the other C.M.S. East African Missions, 
are a survival of that idea. Nassa, the successor 
10 



1bo\v it all JBegan. 

of Usambiro, owes its continued existence to 
other causes. 

The Survivors at the Lake. 

¦ Mackay was prostrated with fever when the 
expedition had reached Mpwapwa,two hundred 
and twenty miles inland, and was peremptorily 
ordered back to the coast. He did not, how- 
ever, return to England, but, having recovered 
on the way, remained near the coast, making 
what preparations he could for the next caravan 
up-country. Amongst other things, he con- 
structed a waggon-road as far as Mpwapwa, 
clearing away obstacles and bridging the ravines. 
It was an extraordinary feat to have been 
accomplished with a few native labourers, and 
in the short space of a hundred days. The 
road was of service for a time, but it was no 
one's business to keep it clear, and after awhile 
the jungle swallowed it up again. 

Mr. Clark was placed in charge of the station 
at Mpwapwa, founded by the party on the way 
up to Uganda, but was afterwards forced by 
ill-health to return home. Mr. W. Robertson 
was invalided home shortly after the party had 
started onwards from Mpwapwa. 

Through waterless deserts and through 
II 



Zbc MonDerful Stor^ of Tll^anba, 

malarious swamps, impeded by /long-o- seeking 
chiefs, and by desertions of porters, the rest of 
the party made their way towards the Lake. 
After more than six months' marching they 
arrived at Kagei on the southern shore of the 
Nyanza. They were now four in number — 
Lieut. Shergold Smith, the Rev. C. T. Wilson, 
Dr. John Smith, and Mr. O'Neill. 

They had brought with them in sections a 
small steam launch, the Daisy. This they put 
together, with infinite difficulty, and Lieut. 
Smith went on to the large island of Ukerewe 
to purchase a dhow * which he heard was there. 
When we remember African delays it is not 
surprising that months slipped by. 

Meanwhile the news of the coming of the 
missionaries reached Uganda, and letters came 
from King M'tesa, urging them to come quickly. 
These letters were written by Dallington Scopion, 
his scribe, a lad who had been brought up in 
Bishop Steere's mission-school at Zanzibar, had 
travelled into the interior with Mr. H. M. 
Stanley, and was left by Mr. Stanley in Uganda. 
It was remarkable that such a lad should be 
able to write intelligible English to " My dear 

* Arab-built sailing vessel. 
12 



1bow it all JBcQmx. 

friend wite men," and should be at hand to act 
as interpreter. 

During this time of waiting, Dr. John Smith 
died of dysentery on May nth, 1877, the second 
of the party to fulfil ^lackay's sombre pre- 
diction. 

Arrival in Ug^anda. 

A date ever to be remembered in the history 
of the Mission is June 26th, 1877, for on that 
day Lieut. Shergold Smith and the Rev. C. T. 
Wilson first set foot in Uganda. 

They had started from Ukerewe, on the far 
side of the Lake, in Xhe Daisy, on Monday, June 
25th, leaving Mr. O'Neill behind. They tried to 
land at an unknown place on the way, but were 
driven off by a shower of stones and arrows 
from hostile Natives. One of the stones severely 
wounded Lieut. Shergold Smith in the left e3'e. 
As the other eye was almost useless, Lieut. 
Smith was rendered almost blind. An arrow 
pierced Mr. Wilson's arm, but without serious 
effects. The boat was pushed off and the 
party escaped. 

No further mishap was encountered, and 
they reached Rubaga, the capital of Uganda, 
on the following Thursday. A deputation of 
13 



TTbe 1KIlon^erful Stor^ ot •QQan^a. 

chiefs met them and conducted them to the 
capital, where, on the following Monday, they 
had an audience of the king. 

Had they brought the Book? 

They approached the reed-walled palace of 
the king through lines of soldiers in white. 
They found the king surrounded by chiefs in 
what Mr. Wilson describes as Turkish costume. 

The king came forward and shook hands with 
them, and motioned them to two seats which 
had been placed for them. 

Letters were read and translated by the lad 
Dallington Scopion, including one from the 
Committee of the Church Missionary Society 
to the king. 

*' At the first pause," wrote Lieut. Smith, 
"the king ordered 2i/eu de joie to be fired, and 
a general rejoicing for the letter ; but at the end, 
where it was said that it was the religion of 
Jesus Christ which was the foundation of 
England's greatness and happiness, and would 
be of his kingdom also, he half rose from his 
seat, called his head musician Tole to him, and 
ordered a more vigorous rejoicing to be made, 
and desired the interpreter to tell us that this 
which we had heard and saw (for all the 
14 



1bow it aU IBcQm. 

assembly were bowing their heads and gently 
and noiselessly clapping their hands and saying 
Nyanzig five or six times) was for the name of 
Jesus." 

After the public audience, a more private 
interview took place, which, in the light of the 
subsequent history of the Mission, may be 
regarded as unconsciously prophetic. 

"After we had gone," writes Mr. Wilson, '' the 
king sent a message to say that he had one word 
which he wanted to say to us, but was afraid to 
do so before the people in the morning. So about 
four o'clock we went up. . . . He said >^^ z£^^«/^^ 
to knoiv ifzve had brought the book — the Bible.'" 

They had indeed brought the Bible. Seldom 
has there been a mission more emphatically a 
mission of the Book. 



15 



XTbe Timonberful Stor^ of XH^an^a, 



CHAPTER 11. 

DESCRIPTIVE 

The Country and the People. 

WHAT was the country to which the mis- 
sionaries had now come ? Uganda is 
a sort of undulating plateau, some four thousand 
feet above the level of the sea, the great Lake 
on which it borders being of lower elevation by 
some hundreds of feet. There is so little 
general slope in the country that the hollows 
are usually swamps, from which the water 
cannot find an exit. With the exception of the 
malaria thus caused, the country is healthy. 
Black-water fever, the bane of tropical Africa, 
was unknown in Uganda until recent years. 
Until quite lately, no missionary has died of 
sickness in the country itself, though the south 
end of the Lake is unhealthy, and has cost 
many lives. 

To the west the country rises towards the 
i6 



Bescrtpttve* 

huge mountain range of Ruwenzori, known to 
the ancients as the " Mountains of the Moon," 
about 20,000 feet high, which, with the lakes 
Albert and Albert Edward Nyanza, forms a 
natural barrier between Uganda and the Congo 
Free State. On the lower slopes of Ruwenzori 
is the kingdom of Toro, whose general elevation 
is much higher than that of Uganda. Bunyoro, 
to the north of Toro, borders on the Albert 
Nyanza, out of which a branch of the Nile flows, 
to be soon joined by another proceeding from 
the Victoria Nyanza. Bukedi and Busoga are 
large districts on the north and east ; Koki and 
Nkole on the south-west. As Mount Ruwenzori 
is the great landmark on the west, so is Mount 
Elgon, beyond Busoga, on the north-east. 
The latter is an extinct volcano, not so high 
as Ruwenzori, and ascends b}^ huge cliff- 
terraces. From Mount Elgon westwards the 
vegetation is luxuriant, and the land is often 
covered with forest. 

The Baganda are a Bantu race, of intelli- 
gence and general capacity far beyond any 
other inhabitants of Central Africa. They 
lived until recently in houses made of reed on 
a framework of wood, with thatched roofs, and 
were clever in constructing quite large buildings, 
17 c 



Ubc Monberful Stor^ of '(rl^an^a» 

like the " cathedral " in Mengo, on this plan. 
The common people wore flowing robes of cloth 
made from bark, and the chiefs a costume 
copied from that of Arab traders. Mackay found 
the Baganda apt pupils at the handicrafts he 
taught them, and Mr. Borup in more recent 
years has turned out capable printers, car- 
penters, brickmakers, and bricklayers. Sir 
H. H. Johnston, H.M. Special Commissioner, 
in his report published in 1901,* described the 
charms and courtesy of the Baganda of to-day, 
while he also pictured in lurid colours the 
bloodshed, the slave-raiding, the vice, and the 
degraded hibare worship (spirit-worship) of the 
old pagan Uganda. The horrible scenes of those 
days colour all the early narratives of both 
missionaries and explorers. Wanton murders, 
for no other reason than that it was the king's 
caprice, were constantly occurring. The king 
would order from time to time that the road- 
tracks should be watched, and all casual way- 
farers seized and put to death. Mutilation 
was a common punishment for crime. In- 
describable debauchery prevailed. The slave- 
trade was rampant. Mackay, for instance, in 

* Issued as a Stale-paper, Africa, No. 7 (1901). 
18 



Bescrtptiv^e. 

a letter to the Times in iS8g, stated that 
2,000 slaves were sold out of Uganda every 
year to Arab slavers, but that there was 
" tenfold greater loss of life and liberty in the 
countries raided on by the Baganda." 

Little is known of the past history of Uganda, 
except that Suna, the father of M'tesa, was a 
great monarch, perhaps the creator of the 
kingdom as it afterwards became known to 
Europeans. Affinities of language and other 
indications point to the Baganda as an off- 
shoot, as has been said, of the great Bantu race, 
whose best known type is the Zulu. 

The government of Uganda, as it existed 
when first discovered, was on a feudal basis. 
The kahaka^ or king, was supreme, and the 
people had a sort of superstitious reverence for 
him, even when he was personally unpopular. 
This explains the influence exerted by the tyrant 
Mwanga even after he was deposed. Surround- 
ing the king was a circle of great chiefs, such 
as the katikiro, or prime minister ; the mujasi, 
or chief executioner ; the gabunga, or admiral 
(in charge of the fleet of canoes) ; the mukweftda, 
or second minister; the sekibobo, the kangao, 
&c. These again had petty chieftains under 
them, and below them were their followers. All 
19 



XTbe Monbertul 5tory ot XHGanba, 

these were in a sense the aristocracy of the 
land. Below them were the Bakopi, or 
peasants, and Bahima, or herdsmen. In the 
neighbouring district of Nkole or Ankole, 
which is w^holly pastoral, the Bahima are the 
predominant race. 

The country was divided up into farms, or to 
use the more frequent but misleading term, 
"gardens," cultivated chiefly by the women. The 
chief food of the country was and is the banana, 
of which several varieties exist, and goat flesh. 
There was no need for severe labour. '' You 
tickle the earth with a hoe and it laughs with a 
harvest " was and is true of Uganda, as of other 
tropical countries. 



20 



Ube fftrst MorF^ers in tbe f ielb. 



CHAPTER III. 
THE FIRST WORKERS IN THE FIELD. 

AFTER about a month at Rubaga, during 
which a mission-house was built by the 
king's order, Lieut. Smith returned to the 
south of the Lake to join Mr. O'Neill, and to 
bring up the rest of the stores. 

It appears that the dhow referred to had 
not been completed, and that it was still in 
process of construction when Lieut. Smith 
returned. Lieut. Smith and Mr. O'Neill care- 
fully surveyed the part of the Lake which was 
near Kagei, as well as some of the neighbouring 

rivers. 

The Tragedy at Ukerewe. 

When the dhow was finished, and they were 
almost ready to start, a sudden quarrel arose 
between Lukongeh, the king of Ukerewe, and 
Songoro, the Arab trader from whom the dhow 
was purchased. The king attacked him, and 

21 



Ube TKHonberful Stor^ of TIl^an^a? 

he fled to the missionaries for protection. 
Lukongeh demanded his surrender. When the 
missionaries naturally refused to give him up, he 
attacked the missionaries' camp on December 
7th, 1877, and killed the whole party except one 
or two Natives. It does not appear that their 
bodies were ever recovered for burial. 

Thus the two leaders of the party, for O'Neill 
was second in command, were taken away at a 
stroke. It was the greatest blow that the 
Mission had yet received. The esteem in 
which Shergold Smith was then held may be 
judged by the fact that a marble bust of him 
was placed by some friend in the Church Mis- 
sionary House. It stands in the lobby near the 
Library. But how few of those who pass by 
it give it a second glance or know anything of 
the man then so highly honoured ! 

Wilson Alone In Ug:anda. 

The news reached the Rev. C. T. Wilson on 
the last day of the year. Hassani, an inter- 
preter, brought the tidings in the Daisy. For 
some time past Mr. Wilson had been in diffi- 
culties for stores, and had not been well supplied 
by M'tesa even with food. Accordingly he 
went back in the Daisy to recover the stores, if 
22 



TLbc first TlUlorl^ers in tbe fftelb. 

possible, and in the hope of meeting Mackay. 
In the latter he was disappointed, and he 
returned alone to Uganda towards the end of 
March. 

Mackay had indeed started with two helpers, 
one of whom, named Tytherleigh, died on the 
way from a strain. Mackay reached the Lake 
on June 12th, 1878, but did not actually arrive 
in Uganda until November of that year. We 
should not omit to mention that another recruit 
named Penrose was killed by Arabs. 

Early in February, 1879, a new party of 
C.M.S. missionaries came up the Nile, helped 
on its way by General Gordon, then Governor 
of the Soudan. It contained the Rev. G. 
Litchfield, Mr. (now Rev.) C. W. Pearson, and 
Mr. Felkin. 

The Coming- of the French Priests. 

One other fact of this period should be re- 
membered. On February 22nd, 1879, two 
years after the first arrival of Shergold Smith 
and Wilson on the Lake, a party of French 
Roman Catholic priests arrived in Uganda, 
sent by the famous Cardinal Lavigerie, of 
Algiers. The priests at once began to act in 
opposition to the English missionaries, and not 
only refused to join in the worship which 
23 



TTbe Xllon^etfitl Story of XH^an^a* 

Mackay conducted at the king's court, but 
denounced him to the king. M'tesa was sorely 
perplexed. " Has every nation of white men 
another religion ? " he asked. 

The line thus taken by the French priests 
was continued, and was the origin of the 
severest troubles which have fallen upon the 
land and people of Uganda. 

The Sham Envoys. 

At the close of 1879, M'tesa sent to England, 
with the Rev. C. T. Wilson and Dr. Felkin, 
who were returning thither, three men of low 
degree, named Namkadi, Kataruba, and Sa- 
waddu, as envoys and bearers of a letter to 
Queen Victoria. The three men were received 
by the C.M.S. Committee and by the Royal 
Geographical Society, and were otherwise made 
much of. On Mtesa's part this was either a 
piece of studied arrogance, flattering his own 
importance, or else a sort of practical joke. 
The men returned to Uganda in the summer of 
1880, and their accounts of their adventures 
were ridiculed. Nothing came of this curious 
" embassy." 

mackay and the Readiner Sheets. 

We have described the beginning of the 
24 



Xlbe jfiret Morfters in tbe f tel^. 

Mission at some length, but must pass rapidly 
over some intervening years. Reinforcements 
came and invalids went home. One party 
which left England in 1882, contained amongst 
others the Rev. J. Hannington,"^ the Rev. R. P. 
Ashe, and the Rev. E. Cyril Gordon. At this 
first attempt Hannington was driven back by 
dysentery and almost lost his life. Ashe, and 
afterwards Gordon, reached Uganda. 

The one name which runs all through the 
early period of the Mission is that of Alexander 
Mackay. Others came and went, but he was 
there throughout. It was a strange com- 
mentary on his speech to the Committee, that 
he alone of the early missionaries remained in 
the field. He exactly fulfilled the ideal sketched 
by Stanley in his letter to the Dai'fy Telegraph, 
He could and did turn his hand to anything, 
and earned the respect of the wayward M'tesa 
by his resourcefulness and skill. 

One mode of work to which he was led has 
set its mark upon the whole history of the 
Mission. After he had mastered the language 
he began to translate portions of Scripture into 

* The whole story of this expedition forms a vivid part 
of the Life of Bishop Hanningt07i^ by the Rev. E. C 
Dawson. 

25 



Ube mon^erful Stori^ of TDloanba* 

it. He possessed a toy press and a small fount 
of type, which he was forced to supplement 
with type cut out by his own hand. With this 
imperfect material he began printing reading- 
sheets and small Scripture portions in Luganda, 
and also in Swahili, the lingua franca of the 
coast. 

The famous »* Mateka." 

The mateka^ or first reading-book, as now 
issued, begins with an alphabet and syllables, 
the Creed, the Lord's Prayer, and the Ten 
Commandments, and a selection of texts 
("Certain words from the Book of God")."^ 
Circulated by tens of thousands, it has been a 
great power for good. The love of the people 
for reading when once the art was introduced 
has been fed by the Word of God, so that in 
no other country has the Bible itself played so 
important a part in evangelization. The ad- 
herents of Christianity were from the beginning 
of the Mission known as " Readers," and 
"reading "was the mark of one who had at 

* It is published by the S.P.C.K. The price in 
England is txi., but the enormous cost of carriage to 
Uganda in the early days, when everything had to be 
carried on men's heads (;^3oo a ton), made it expensive 
in the country itself. 

26 



Ube first Morfters In tbe 3flel^. 

least begun to inquire about the Gospel. 
Before i8go two or three of the Gospels had 
been translated, but the great translator did 
not arise until Mackay had passed away. 

Sembera's Letter and Dumulira's Baptism. 

The work of teaching, preaching, translating, 
and all kinds of manual labour went on. It 
was in October, 1881, that the firstfruits 
appeared. A lad named Sembera, who had 
been coming for instruction, too shy to say 
what he wanted, wrote a little letter and 
brought it himself for Mackay to read. 

" Bwana* Mackay," he wrote, "Sembera 
has come with compliments and to give you 
great news. Will you baptize him, because he 
believes the words of Jesus Christ ? " 

Whilst Sembera and some others were being 
instructed for baptism, a story reached the 
missionaries which cheered while it saddened 
them. A young lad named Dumulira, who had 
begun to '' read," fell ill. In his sickness, he 
begged a friend of his, a follower of the lubare, 
or spirit-worship, to fetch the missionaries to 
see him. The lubare lad refused, so Dumulira 
had no other voice but that of a Gospel which 

* A title of respect, " Master." 
27 



Hbe Mon^ertul Stor^ ot m^m'^a, 

had been lent to him. He grew worse, and 
felt he was dying. He begged the lubare lad to 
bring him some water and to sprinkle it over 
him, in the name of the Father, the Son, and 
the Holy Ghost. Thus was the first convert 
in Uganda baptized before his death by a 
Heathen. 

On March i8th, 1882, the Rev. P. O'Flaherty, 
then with Mackay, baptized Sembera and four 
others. Sembera Mackay, as he was afterwards 
called, became a valued Christian leader. At 
Easter in the same year, Duta, a pupil of 
Mr. C. W. Pearson, was baptized by the 
Universities' Mission at Zanzibar. As the 
Rev. Henry Wright Duta he has become the 
leading native translator. 

A little later a chief named Sebwato was 
baptized by the name of Nikodemo. Nikodemo 
Sebwato, like the other two, became a tower of 
strength to the Native Church. In October, 
1883, twenty-one Baganda Christians were 
admitted to Holy Communion. 

Mackay's App3al to Wl'tesa. 

While the work of teaching went on with 
much encouragement, the efforts of the mis- 
sionaries to touch M'tesa's heart were in vain. 
28 



Zbc first MorF^ers in tbe f iel^? 

The story of an affecting scene, doubtless only 
one amongst many, was recorded at the time. 
Mackaywas at the court, and had pleaded with 
the king to become a Christian: — 

" M'tesa then began with his usual excuses. 

"'There are these two religions,' he said. 
* When Masudi reads his book, the Koran, you 
call it lies ; when you read your book, Masudi 
calls it lies : which is true ? ' 

" I left my seat, and going forward to the 
mat, I knelt on it, and in the most solemn 
manner I said, ' Oh, M'tesa, my friend, do not 
always repeat that excuse ! When you and I 
stand before God at the great day of judgment, 
will you reply to Almighty God that you did 
not know what to believe because Masudi told 
you one thing and Mackay told you another ? 
No, you have the New Testament ; read there 
for yourself. God wdll judge you by that. 
There never was any one yet who looked for 
the truth there and did not find it.' " * 

* CM. Intellige^icer^ Sept., 1883, p. 550. 



29 



Ubc Mont)ertul Stor^ of XIlGan^a, 



CHAPTER IV. 
THE BLOOD OF THE MARTYRS. 

IN October, 1884, M'tesa died. He passed 
away as he had Hved — intellectually, per- 
haps, convinced of the truth of the Gospel, 
but in heart and life a Pagan. Throughout 
his reign the missionaries had endured many 
disappointments, but they enjoyed, on the 
whole, liberty to carry on their work. 

lYIwangra on the Throne. 

They learned the value of his protection 
when his son Mwanga succeeded to the throne. 
Mwanga was a youth of eighteen when he 
became king. " A thoroughly bad man," is 
Sir H. H. Johnston's opinion of him. Fickle, 
vicious, cruel, treacherous, his character showed 
its bad points from the beginning. So long 
as he retained any power he was a baneful 
influence not only on the Mission, but on his 
country. 

30 



XTbe :©loo^ ot tbe /ilbartpts. 

At the end of that year, 1884, the number of 
baptized Christians had increased to eighty- 
eight, and the missionaries in residence were 
Mackay, Ashe, and O' Flaherty. 

Mwanga seems from the first to have Hstened 
to Arab and other Mohammedan advisers and 
the pagan chiefs, who induced him to beHeve 
that the white man would '" eat up " the land. 
Thus fear, rather than religious hatred, though 
the latter no doubt had its influence, incited 
him to violence against the missionaries them- 
selves and all who consorted with them. All 
the three missionaries were in frequent danger 
for their lives. 

The First Martyrs. 

The first outbreak occurred in January, 1885. 
Mackay had obtained the king's leave to go 
across the Lake, and was on his way to the 
shore when the Mujasi, one of the leading 
chiefs, with a large following, seized the lads 
who accompanied Mackay, on the pretence 
that they were attempting to leave the country. 
Appeals to the Katikiro (the Prime Minister) 
were roughly rejected, but some of the lads 
escaped. They told of the horrible fate of the 
rest. Seruwanga, Kakumba, and Mr. Ashe's 
31 



Zbc Monbertul Stor^ of TH^an^a, 

boy, Lugulama, were taken to a place outside 
the capital. To quote Mackay's journal for 
January 31st : — 

" They reported that the three lads were 
then bound alive to a scaffolding, under which 
a fire was made, and they were slowly burnt 
to death. Mujasi and his men mocked them, 
and bade them pray now if Isa Masiya (Jesus 
Christ) would rescue them from his hands. 
The dear lads clung to their Faith, and in the 
fire they sang, * Killa siku tunsifu ' (the hymn 
' Daily, daily, sing the praises')." 

The statement that the lads actually sang in 
the flames is uncorroborated and cannot be 
depended upon. It is more probable that the 
lads sang on the way to the place of execution. 

The first Church Council. 

The missionaries now began to make pre- 
parations in view of the likelihood of their 
being forced to leave the country. They chose 
half a dozen "of the more staid and advanced 
men," of respectable standing among their 
fellows, to be leaders or elders and to con- 
duct services at various centres. This simple 
"Church Council" was the germ of the 
remarkable organization of later years. 
32 



XTbe JSloob of tbe /iDart^rs* 

The little printing press was set to work, 
and 1,000 copies of some Church prayers, 
texts, and hymns were struck off and 
circulated. 

The number of readers increased in spite of 
the peril, and included even some of the 
Mujasi's men. 

** One of these," wrote Mackay, '' was so 
impressed by the behaviour of our dear boys 
under torture of knife and fire that he has 
determined to pray also." By the end of May 
twenty more had been baptized. 

About this period the king became friendly 
for a time, saw Mackay in private, and gave 
the missionaries presents. The work went on 
apace. 

The White Man who had Lost a Thumb. 

A few months later the king grew alarmed at 
the prospect of a German "invasion," and 
rumours of white men who were approaching 
Uganda by the north end of the Victoria 
Nyanza became frequent. Towards the end of 
October the rumours took definite shape. A 
tall middle-aged man who had lost a thumb; 
accompanied by a youth, was said to be 
approaching Busoga, and the king had ordered 
55 D 



Uhc Monbertitl Stor^ of XHaan^a* 

them to be seized, and was determined to kill 
the man. By this the missionaries felt sure 
that the older white man was their Bishop,* 
and waited in sickening suspense for the issue, 
being themselves in extreme danger of their 
lives. On October 30th Mackay wrote in his 
journal : — 

"After dark, Ismail came to tell us that 
messengers had returned from Busoga with 
the tidings that the white men had been killed, 
with all their porters. . . . Oh, night of sorrow ! 
What unheard-of deed of blood ! " 

How had this come about ? 

The Journey of the First Bishop. 

We have already mentioned that the Rev. 
James Hannington was a member of a party 
that went forth in 1882, and was driven back by 
fever. He returned to England, where he 
gradually recovered his health. Then he was 
offered and accepted the arduous post of Bishop 
of Eastern Equatorial Africa. He was conse- 
crated on June 24th, 1884, and sailed in the 
following October. After visiting the coast 

* It turned out that there was no second white man. 
The Bishop's cook, Pinto, was taken for one by the 

Natives. 

34 



Zbc 3B100& ot tbe /iDart^rs, 

stations he set out for Uganda on July 22nd, 
1885. 

The route through Zanzibar, Saadani, and 
Chigogo to the south end of the Lake had by 
this time become thoroughly well known, but 
it involved journeying through very unhealthy 
country infested with black-mailing chiefs, 
and it necessitated a dangerous voyage across 
the Victoria Nyanza in boats or native canoes 
in order to reach Uganda. Krapf had long 
before suggested a more northerly route, so 
as to reach Uganda direct, and the travels of 
Mr. Joseph Thomson among the savage Masai, 
a tribe of fierce nomads, through whose country 
the route lay, had made the district better 
known. 

The northern route obviated most of the 
objectionable features of the southern one, but 
the Masai were supposed to be as a lion in the 
path. Bishop Hannington was thought to be 
fool-hardy for attempting to pass through their 
country. 

The supposed dangers of the route did not out- 
weigh its advantages in Bishop Hannington's 
eyes. He took with him the Rev. William H. 
Jones, an African whom he had just ordained 
dt-acon. All the anticipated dangers of the 
65 



XTbe Mon^ert^U Stor^ ot XHQan^a? 

journey were safely passed, and Hannington's 
real peril was one which could not have been 
foreseen. 

King Mwanga gave heed to the Arab traders, 
who suggested that this white man was coming 
by "the back door" into Uganda, in order to 
'' eat up the land," and so played upon the 
king's fears that he ordered the traveller to be 
arrested as soon as he arrived within the terri- 
tory of Uganda. Unaware of this new danger, 
Hannington had pushed on ahead of the rest of 
the caravan with a small party, and at length 
saw from a hill the waters of the Nile, as it 
leaves the Victoria Nyanza, "about half-an- 
hour's distance " in front of him. Before he 
could reach it, he was suddenly seized by some 
men who had followed him. He was thrust into 
a hut, and kept a close prisoner. His porters, 
forty-six in number, were captured with him, 
but were allowed more Hberty. His captor was 
Luba, a chief of Southern Busoga, under the 
suzerainty of Uganda. 

Messengers were sent to Mwanga for further 
orders. Meanwhile the imprisoned Bishop, 
racked with fever, passed his days in prayer 
and study of his Bible, and writing. His diary, 
marvellously recovered by Mackay a few weeks 

36 



XTbe 3B(oo& ot tbe /llbatt^ts. 

afterwards, contains entries right up to the 
very last. 

The lYIartyrcd Bishop. 

The news which reached Mackay and the 
other Uganda missionaries bore the stamp of 
truth, and was, in fact, of a kind which no 
Native could have invented. According to 
these rumours, so Mackay noted at the 
time: — 

" They kept him aloof from his men and his 
goods, but allowed him his bedding and his Bible 
and one or two other books. He occupied his 
time in writing much. When they were about 
to kill him, he bade them tell the king that he 
had purchased the road to Buganda with his 
life, and that he died for the Baganda." 

The messengers returned from Mwanga with 
orders that the white man was to be put to 
death. He was led out with his porters, and 
speared to death. 

The Ichatood Flag. 

Four of the porters escaped, and carried 
back the news to the rest of the caravan, 
which was waiting, under Mr. Jones's leader- 
ship, a few days' journey behind. Mr. Jones 
lingered on the spot for a time, hoping against 
37 



Ube TKHont)ertul Stor^ of Tll0ant)a» 

hope, and then reluctantly guided the caravan 
back7again. They passed in safety through 
the ^dreaded Masai country, and thus once 
more demonstrated the value of the route. 

It was a melancholy procession which made 
its way at length to the mission stations on the 
coast. At its head was carried a mournful flag 
of blue trade-cloth, which bore in white letters 
the word " Ichabod." * 

Their sorrow made the inscription natural to 
those Africans, but never was motto more mis- 
taken. Indeed, '* the glory " had not departed. 
Hannington did more for Africa by his death 
than in his life. Within a few weeks after the 
news came to England, fifty men had offered 
themselves to the Society for service in the 
mission-field ; and Hannington's name has 
continued ever since to be an inspiration to 
many. 

* This flag is preserved — a sacred relic — in the Church 
Missionary House, SaHsbury Square. 



38 



Zimcs of ipersecutton, 



CHAPTER V. 
TIMES OF PERSECUTION. 

AFTER the murder of Bishop Hannington, 
Mwanga was for a time in dread lest the 
white men on the coast should take vengeance, 
but was soon emboldened to go on in his career 
of crime. The three missionaries, Mackay, 
O'Flaherty, and Ashe, were in frequent danger 
of their lives. For instance, on one occasion 
he sent for Mackay. Before Mackay obeyed, 
the missionaries knelt in prayer. 

Braving^ the Angrer of the King. 

" Very humble," wrote Mr. Ashe, speaking of 
Mackay, " very weak, very childlike he was on 
his knees before God ; very bold, ver}' strong, 
very manly afterwards, as he bore for nearly 
three hours the brow-beating and bullying of 
Mwanga and his chiefs." 

The king tried by threats and promises to 
39 



Ube Mon^erful Storp of 'Clgan^a? 

find out how they had discovered the Bishop's 
murder. *' What if I kill you ? " Mwanga cried. 
"What could Queeni (Queen Victoria) do? 
What could she or all Europe do ? " 

The Roman Catholic, Pere Lourdel, was 
present, and attempted to speak. " If I killed 
them," interrupted the king angrily, ''should I 
spare you ? " 

However, for that time he let them go, 
though repeatedly afterwards he tried by secret 
plots to compass their deaths. Probably 
Mackay's great mechanical ingenuity, which 
the king found useful to himself, had much to 
do with the safety of the missionaries, Roman 
Catholic as well as Protestant. 

The first sheet of St. Matthew's Gospel. 

In this period of strain, within a fortnight 
after the Bishop's murder, the first sheet of the 
Gospel of St. Matthew was printed and circu- 
lated among the converts. The exact date is 
worth recording: it was November 13th, 1885. 
" Times of peril were always printing times," 
Mackay used to say. '' Every proof-sheet," he 
wrote, '' we distribute several copies of among 
our people, and have their corrections and 
emendations before going to press. They take 
40 



Utmes of persecution* 

a deep interest in the work in this way, and are 
proud to have their oivn Gospel." 

The Great Persecution, 

On November 15th, 1885, the king's head 
page, named BaHkudembe Mukasa, a ''reader," 
first with Mackay and afterwards with the 
Roman CathoHcs, was ordered to be burnt 
ahve, but the Katikiro killed him before throw- 
ing his body to the fire. A young chief, named 
Apolo Kagwa, was terribly ill-used by the king, 
but not killed. In later days this lad became 
himself the Katikiro or Prime Minister. 

This outbreak was followed by a lull, but 
throughout this period the Christians assembled 
more or less in secret. 

In the following May the king's fury broke 
out again against all who were known or sus- 
pected to be " readers," and some fifty or sixty 
of the converts were tortured and put to death. 

Thirty-two Burnt Alive together. 

Mackay's own account of its beginning, dated 
June 26th, 1886, is as follows : — 

" It is now a full month since the bloody 

persecution of Native Christians began. Those 

who were at the capital, and best known, were 

of course first arrested. About a dozen were 

41 



TLbc 'Mon^cvtnl Story of XHgan^a. 

butchered at once. Several were mutilated 
(Asiatic manner) afterwards ; many were spearcv 
or otherwise killed in the endeavour to capture 
them in various parts of the country ; while 
thirty-two were burnt alive in one huge pyre, 
after having been kept prisoners over a week. 
Let some of our friends at home fancy them- 
selves exchanging places with us, and see their 
friends with whom they yesterday talked and 
ate, and prayed, to-day ruthlessly seized and 
hacked to pieces almost before their eyes, and 
their members left lying to decay by the road- 
side so as to produce an abominable stench 
for days." 

Roberto's Horrible Death. 

*' At this moment I recall vividly the voice 
and face of a man who came here almost daily. 
Several voyages he made with me in the boat, 
to and from Msalala. He was further a member 
of our Native Church Council. The execu- 
tioners suddenly appeared before his house to 
arrest him, but were afraid to enter. At the 
time he was engaged in holding prayers with 
several lads. These bolted through the thin 
reed wall of the house and escaped. One alone 
remained with him. 

42 



Zimcs ot persecution. 

'* ' Do not be afraid that I will shoot you,' 
cried the Christian ; ' come in and take me.' 

" They bound him and took him, as also the 
friend with him, before the king. 

'''Do you read?' 

"'Yes.' 

" ' Take him and roast him,' was the sum- 
mary sentence. 

" The two were condemned, but one bought 
himself off by getting his friends to pay a 
woman and a cow. Roberto was kept a few 
days in the stocks, and then an arm cut off and 
roasted before his eyes. Next a leg was severed, 
and that also burnt. How much further the 
torture went I do not know ; I only know that 
what was left of the man was committed also 
to the flames. 

" After the massacre the head-executioner 
reported to the king that he had never killed 
men who showed such fortitude and endurance, 
and that they had prayed aloud to God in the 
lire. This caused merriment in the court, the 
king remarking that ' God did not rescue them 
from his power.' " 

It is, of course, impossible to calculate the 
numbers of the martyrs who perished in the 
great persecution, but they were computed to 
43 



Zbc mon^cvtwl Stor^ of TIlgan^a. 

have been at least 200 — not all baptized Chris- 
tians, but adherents of the C.M.S. or Roman 
Catholic Missions. To them must be added a 
still larger multitude who suffered wounds, 
mutilation, or banishment for their faith. 

Dr. Junker, the famous German traveller, 
arrived in Uganda at this period from Bun- 
yoro, and told the missionaries of the whole- 
sale bloodshed which he had noticed on the 
way. It was with difficulty that Mackay 
induced the king to allow Dr. Junker to depart 
in the mission-boat Eleanor. 



The Christians In Hldlngr. 

The majority of the Christians fled into 
hiding-places, as the persecuted Christians of 
Madagascar had done. The missionaries sent 
out a letter of encouragement to them, 
addressed to " People of Jesus who are in 
Uganda." " Our beloved brethren," it ran, 
** do not deny our Lord Jesus, and He will not 
deny you on that great day when He shall 
come with glory. Remember the words of our 
Saviour, how He told His disciples not to fear 
men, who are only able to kill the body." The 
letter quoted i Pet. iv. 12 — 19, words which 
44 



Xrimes of ipersecutton, 

convey a very real and direct message to men 
in daily danger. 

From time to time visitors came to the 
missionaries under the cover of night, some- 
times converts whom they feared had been 
slain, sometimes new inquirers brought in by 
the influence of the heroic deaths they had 
witnessed. More than once the Sacrament of 
Baptism was thus administered, and the words 
of reception acquired an added force : " In 
token that hereafter you shall not be ashamed 
to confess the faith of Christ crucified, and 
manfully to fight under His banner against sin, 
the world, and the devil, and to continue 
Christ's faithful soldier and servant unto your 
life's end." 

The news of the persecution had by this 
time reached the outer world, and roused the 
deepest sympathy. In Tinnevelly the Indian 
converts collected £So, and sent it to the relief 
of their suffering brethren in Uganda. 

IVIackay alone In Ugranda. 

The missionaries at length felt that their 
presence in the country was a danger rather 
than a help to the converts, and sought to with- 
draw. After many insults, Mwanga permitted 
45 



ZTbe Ximonbettul Stor^ of 'Claan^a. 

Mr. Ashe to go, but insisted on keeping 
Mackay, not only because he was so useful, but 
because he looked upon him as a hostage 
against the possible vengeance of the white 
man. 

From August, 1886, until July, 1887, Mackay 
was alone in Uganda, translating the Scrip- 
tures, comforting the Christians, and doing all 
he could to appease the king. In the midst of 
this troublous time the translation of the 
Gospel of St. Matthew was finished, with the 
aid of the Baganda converts, as already 
described. 

The king's anger became gradually disre- 
garded, so that some of the converts were 
able to gather round Mackay again. A signifi- 
cant and touching allusion occurs in a letter of 
Mackay's, written in January, 1887 : — 

" For a couple of months after you left I 
was having a regular houseful of strangers 
every evening. The tin of petroleum arrived 
just in time, as by it I could make a respect- 
able light, and the library became a night- 
school. Late, late, often very late, we wound 
up, and I was often more than exhausted — 
reading, teaching, drugging, &c. By day I got, 
off and on, some translation done." 

46 



TLimcB ot ipersecutton* 

In another letter, on March 6th, he wrote : — 
*' By the grace of our loving Lord I am still 
in the body. . . . Since receiving the mail 
... I have had the consciousness forced upon 
me that our very existence here is mightily due 
to the prayers of you and of all the children of 
God in Europe." 

It is interesting to note that one of the 
young chiefs who were in danger at this time, 
and escaped with life, was Mika Sematimba, 
who afterwards visited England. 

Mackay Expelled. 

In July, 1887, King Mwanga, who had all 
along been much influenced by the advice of 
Arab slave-traders, was counselled by them to 
send Mackay away out of the country. This 
was done, but the king required that another 
missionary should be sent to take Mackay's 
place, and asked for the Rev. Cyril Gordon, 
who was then at the south end of the Lake, on 
account of his name. The request was another 
proof of the magical power of General Gordon's 
influence ; for Mr. Gordon was merely a name- 
sake of the General, and Khartoum is nearly 
a thousand miles away from Uganda. Mr. 
Gordon accordingly went in August, 1887, and 
47 



XTbe Wonderful Stor^ of xa^an^a? 

was alone until April, 1888, when he was joined 
by the Rev. R. H. Walker. 

The Second Bishop and His End. 

We must go back a little, in order to pick 
up some dropped threads. The death of 
Bishop Hannington did not deter the C.M.S. 
Committee from seeking again for a Bishop to 
be at the head of its East Africa Missions. 

The second Bishop was found in an un- 
expected quarter. A graduate of Trinity 
College, Cambridge, had gone out as a mis- 
sionary to India, and had shown such adminis- 
trative capacity that he was made secretary 
of the Bengal Mission. In that important 
position he had yearned for the hfe of a 
simple evangelist, and had obtained leave to 
lay aside his office in order to become an 
itinerant missionary among the Gonds of 
Central India. 

He had not been many months in this con- 
genial labour when the news of Bishop 
Hannington's death reached England. Keen 
eyes had noted the rare combination of 
qualities in Henry Perrott Parker, and so 
he was summoned home from his beloved 
Gonds to become the second Bishop of 

48 



Utmes of persecixtton. 

Eastern Equatorial Africa. He was conse- 
crated in September, 1886, and shortly after- 
wards sailed for Africa. 

After visiting the coast stations, Bishop 
Parker journeyed up to the south end of the 
Lake, by the southern route, calling at the 
Usagara stations on the way. Mr. Blackburn 
was with him. Mr. Douglas Hooper, Mr. 
Deekes, Mr. Ashe, and Mr. Walker were also 
in the neighbourhood of the Lake. Mackay 
had recently arrived, having been replaced in 
Uganda by Mr. Gordon. The mission station 
at Msalala, which had been for years the depot 
for Uganda, had to be abandoned on account 
of the exactions of the local chiefs, and the 
stores were removed to Usambiro. Together 
with Mr. Blackburn, the Bishop made an 
exploring expedition along the great inlet 
known as Speke Gulf, and selected Nassa 
as a site for a mission station, which was 
occupied by Messrs. Hooper and Deekes. 
In the midst of such labours, first Mr. Black- 
burn and then the Bishop were struck down 
with fever. 

The Annual Meeting of the Church Mis- 
sionary Society in May, 1888, was thrilled when 
the Rev. F. E. Wigram, then Hon. Clerical 
49 E 



XTbe Xi^on^ertul Story ot 'ClQan^a. 

Secretary, read out in Exeter Hall a telegram 
just received from Uganda: — 

" Blackburn dead, ill ten days. Bishop 
Parker dead, ten days later ; same sickness, ill 
one day." 

Short as had been his course, he was already 
beloved and honoured by all the workers in 
the Mission. Thus the second Bishop laid 
down his life without reaching Uganda. 



50 



/IDwanga Detbrone^ anb IRestoteD again. 



CHAPTER VI. 

MWANQA DETHRONED AND RESTORED 
AGAIN. 

TT THEN Mr. Walker reached Uganda, as 
^ ^ previously mentioned, he was received 
by the king in great state, and hopes were 
entertained that a change had come for the 
better. The king soon disappointed them. 
He conceived a diabolical plot to get rid of all 
the principal "readers," both Christian and 
Mohammedan, about his court. They were to 
be decoyed on to a small island on the Lake 
and there left to starve. The plot leaked out, 
and the ''readers" declined to fall into the 
trap laid for them. They, in their turn, began 
to plot against Mwanga, and with most 
momentous consequences. 

A Telegram In **The Times." 

On January nth, i88g, an alarming telegram 
51 



from Zanzibar appeared in the second edition 
of the Times: — 

'^A bloody revolution," it began, ** has 
broken out in Uganda, resulting in the over- 
throw and expulsion of Mwanga, the destruc- 
tion of the English and French Missions, and 
the establishment of the temporary supremacy 
of Mohammedan as opposed to Christian 
influence." 

It is not necessary to quote more, since we 
are able to correct and expand its statements 
in the light of later knowledge. The news 
made an immediate sensation in England,* 
and caused the outpouring of much prayer on 
behalf of the Mission. The facts were as 
follows. 

The Christian and Mohammedan '' readers," 
discovering a plot by Mwanga against them, 
had gathered an army and entered the capital 
on August 1st, 1888, by two different roads, 
the Mohammedans bringing with them an 
older son of M'tesa, named Kiwewa, as king. 
Mwanga escaped with his women and his 

* A quarto pamphlet, The Story of the Uganda 
Missio7i, was planned in the Editorial Department at 
Salisbury Square on the following day, and was circulated 
far and wide. The bookstalls alone took 5,000 copies. 

52 



/IDvvanga Detbrone^ anD IRestore^ again. 

pages, and got off by canoe to Magu, on the 
shores of Speke Gulf, where Arab slave-traders 
kept him virtually prisoner. 

Meanwhile the insurgents distributed the 
chief offices amongst the leaders of all parties, 
Apolo Kagwa, for instance, becoming Muk- 
wenda. It was a bloodless revolution. Liberty 
of worship was proclaimed, and for a time the 
Baganda came about the mission station "like 
swarms of bees." 

The lYIohammedans In Power. 

The Arabs and the Mohammedan Baganda, 
however, were dissatisfied, and began to plot 
the overthrow of their Christian allies. It is 
curious that they got up a story that the Chris- 
tians proposed to place a woman on the throne, 
so as to make Uganda like England, in having 
a queen. Never, perhaps, was the far-reaching 
fame of Queen Victoria more unexpectedly 
illustrated. 

Six weeks after the first revolution, on 
October 12th, the Christians were suddenly 
attacked and driven off with much loss, fleeing 
for refuge to Nkole. The victorious Moham- 
medans proceeded to attack the mission stations, 
both French and English. 
53 



Ube Mon^ertul Story of XDlGanba. 

Mr. Gordon and Mr. Walker were dressing 
the wounds of some of the fugitives, when they 
were summoned to the king's enclosure, and 
were thrust with the two French priests, MM. 
Lavinhac and Lourdel, into a miserable hut, 
full of vermin. The Frenchmen had some food 
and blankets, which they generously shared 
with the Englishmen. 
The Adventurous Voyage In the ** Eleanor." 

Some days of anxiety passed by, during which 
the prisoners were taken back to their respective 
stations, and made to look on while everything 
was either stolen or destroyed. Then they 
were robbed of nearly everything they had on 
them, and the whole party of both Missions, 
thirty-nine souls in all, including twenty 
Natives from the French Mission, were put on 
board the C.M.S. mission boat, the Eleanor, 
and sent away. ** We do not want to see a 
white teacher back in Uganda," was the part- 
ing message of their enemies, ** until we have 
converted the whole of Uganda to the Moham- 
medan faith." 

The English and the French priests owed 

much to each other on this adventurous journey. 

They had a little food on board, and some shell 

money. After they had gone a day or two's 

54 



/ll^^van^a 5)etbrone^ an^ 1Restore& a(jatn. 

journey, and were leaving an island at which 
they had called for food, a sudden blow struck 
the boat so violently that two large holes were 
made in the bottom, and she began to fill. It 
was a hippopotamus that had struck the 
Eleanor. The Europeans swam to land, and, 
getting out the one canoe on the island, went 
back to the rescue of their companions, who 
were hanging on to the wreck. All were saved 
except five, and some of the goods were re- 
covered. 

One of the Frenchmen was supposed to be a 
carpenter, but gave up the job of mending the 
hole to Mr. Walker when he found there were 
no proper tools. By means of a piece of board, 
cut with a spokeshave, Mr. Walker plugged the 
leak, and some untwisted rope, soaked in drip- 
ping, served to caulk it. On the third day the 
party, now reduced to thirty-four, ventured 
forth again, and for seventeen days coasted 
along the Lake in this frail vessel, moving on 
slowly by day, and camping every night, until 
they reached the Frenchmen's house at Ukumbi, 
on the south-east of the Lake, where they 
were kindly received. Another day's journey 
brought the Englishmen to Mackay's station 
at Usambiro. 

lb 



Ubc mon^cvtxM Stoti^ of XIl^an^a? 

The Christians In Nkole. 

At the beginning of 1889 the position may be 
summed up as follows. The bulk of the Chris- 
tians were exiles or refugees in the country of 
Nkole, to the number of about a thousand, and 
were led by Nikodemo Sebwato, Mika Sema- 
timba, and others. The Mohammedans in 
Uganda had already deposed and murdered 
their puppet king, Kiwewa, and had placed 
Kilema, another son of M'tesa, on the throne. 
This last change had not been effected without 
a conflict, in which several chiefs who were 
bitter enemies of Christians w^ere killed. As 
for Mackay at Usambiro, he was translating 
and printing and teaching, and filled in his time 
with the construction of a steam-launch, destined 
never to be finished, in which he hoped to 
navigate the Victoria Nyanza. 

Later in the year, Mr. H. M. Stanley, on his 
way back from the rescue of Emin Pasha, came 
upon the Christians in Nkole, and afterwards 
stayed for a while with Mackay at Usambiro. 
He was impressed by the steadfast sincerity of 
the Christians, but his warmest admiration was 
reserved for Mackay. He described both ex- 
periences in his book, lu Darkest Africa* and 
* Vol. ii, pp. 350, 387. 
56 



/IDwanGH Detbronet) an^ IRestoreC) a^ain* 

before a meeting of the C.M.S. Committee, on 
his return home/'' 

lYIwani^a broug^ht back by the Christians. 

Early in the year 1889 Mwanga had made an 
attempt to regain the throne, but only succeeded 
in establishing himself on one of the islands. 
He then made overtures to the Christians, who, 
after coming to Mackay for consultation, joined 
forces with the king they had helped to depose. 
Mwanga also sent to ask for teachers, in re- 
sponse to which Mr. Gordon and Mr. Walker 
went to him. The Protestant force was placed 
under the command of Apolo Kagwa, who 
when the king's army re-entered the capital, 
was made Katikiro ; for the forces were vic- 
torious, and by a bewildering reversal of affairs, 
Mwanga was set on the throne again by the 
very men whom he had persecuted and driven 
out. 

* CM. Intelligencer ioY Xwgusi^ i88y. 



57 



ZTbe Mon^erful Stor^ of XIl^an^a. 



CHAPTER VII. 
THE BEGINNING OF A NEW ERA. 

WHILE Mwanga was still on the island of 
Bulingugwe, assistance had been asked 
from Mr. Jackson, of the Imperial British East 
Africa Company, then in Kavirondo, to the 
north-east of the Lake. This Company had 
been formed for the development of trade with 
East Africa, but included men like the late Sir 
William Mackinnon, Mr. Douglas Mackenzie, 
and others, who were content " to take their 
dividends out in philanthropy." They did 
much for the liberation of the slave, encouraged 
Missions, and, speaking generally, conducted 
themselves as high-minded British merchant- 
venturers. Mr. Jackson sent Mwanga one of 
the Company's flags, which he accepted, and 
thereby placed himself under the protection of 
the Company, though it is by no means certain 
that he fully understood the import of his 
action. 

58 



Zbc :BcQinn\m ot a 1Re\v Era- 

A little later, Dr. Karl Peters, a German 
explorer, whose high-handed proceedings on 
the coast had done much to alarm the native 
mind against the white man, arrived at Mengo, 
and induced Mwanga to sign an agreement with 
him. Dr. Peters was supported by the French 
priests, whose national antipathy to Germany 
was overcome by their hostility to Protestantism. 

An Overruled Treaty. 

The Protestant chiefs objected to the treaty, 
considering that the king was pledged to the 
Company, but so much dissension arose that 
the English missionaries begged them not to 
hold out. The schemes of Dr. Peters were, 
in the end, overruled from Europe. The par- 
tition of Africa between the great European 
Powers had begun, and the delimitation ar- 
ranged by the British and German Govern- 
ments, while allowing Germany access to the 
southern end of the Victoria Nyanza, placed 
the whole of the northern side, including 
Uganda, within the British sphere of influence. 

The Death of lYlackay. 

Meanwhile, news had arrived in England 
which all felt to be a crushing blow. On Feb- 
ruary 8th, 1890, Mackay died of fever, in the 
59 



Ube Mon^ertul %tot^ of IHaan^a* 

midst of his labours at Usambiro. In the 
previous autumn, when Stanley saw him there, 
Mackay was described as "a gentleman of 
small stature, with a rich brown beard and 
brown hair," and looking so well that he 
seemed to have newly arrived from England. 
He had, in fact, been in Africa since the spring 
of 1876. 

The present rapid sketch of the Mission can 
scarcely have made it clear what a tower of 
strength he had become. The young Scotch 
engineer, for whom it seemed at one time that 
the mission-field had no place, had become 
almost another Livingstone. His versatile 
mechanical genius, his linguistic powers, his 
evangelistic zeal, his constancy of purpose, his 
wise leadership, had made his influence felt in 
all the Lake region. 

With all his labours — which seem more than 
any one man could accomplish — he retained a 
love of books. '^ Allah ho Akbar!'' said 
Hassan, his Zanzibari head-man, to Stanley, 
" Books ? Mackay has thousands of books ; 
in the dining-room, bedroom, the church, 
everywhere. Books ! Ah, loads upon loads 
of them ! " His articles in the Church Mis- 
sionary Society's magazines, and elsewhere, 
60 



Ube Beginning ot a IRevv Eva* 

showed that he was not only a missionary 
statesman, with a large outlook upon African 
problems, but contrived to keep abreast of 
affairs at home. 

The devoted spirit of the man was shown in 
the beginning by that speech in the Committee 
Room which we have already quoted. It was 
no mere outburst of the moment, but a spirit 
which burnt in his heart to the end. When it 
was known that he had been driven out of 
Uganda, a personal friend at Salisbury Square 
urged upon him that now was the time for 
him to come home and help to get men to 
re-inforce the Mission. '' But what is this you 
write," he replied — *' * Come home ' ? Surely 
now, in our terrible dearth of workers, it is not 
the time for any one to desert his post. Send 
us only our first twenty men, and I may be 
tempted to come to help you to find the second 
twenty." 

His Last iviessage. 

So in his last public message, written only 
five weeks before his death, which appeared in 
the CM. Gleaner for June, 1890, he wrote of 
the new prospects in Uganda : — 

''You sons of England, here is a field for 
your energies. . . . You men of God who have 
61 



Ube Mont)erful Storp ot lUgan^a. 

resolved to devote your lives to the cure of the 
souls of men, here is the proper field for you. 
It is not to win numbers to a Church, but to 
win men to the Saviour. . . . ' God is a Spirit,' 
and let him who believes that throw up every 
other consideration and come forth to teach 
these people to worship Him in spirit and in 
truth." 

We cannot wonder that the news of his death 
seemed to be a crushing blow to the Mission. 
Men could not peer into the future and see that 
among the recruits who landed at Mombasa in 
that very month (February, 1890) along with 
the Bishop was another layman, whose gifts, of 
a type very dissimilar from those of Mackay, 
were to make him a leader of men, worthy to 
take up the mantle that had fallen from the 
shoulders of the dead pioneer. That layman 
was soon recognized by his brethren as one 
worthy to exercise the highest influence in the 
Mission. 

A Famous Valedictory IVIeetinir* 

While the changes sketched above were fol- 
lowing each other in Uganda, the preparation 
for the new order of things was taking place in 
England. Mr. Ashe and Mr. Douglas Hooper 
were at home to tell of what they knew, and to 
62 



Ubc Beginning of a IRew Era. 

interpret the force and meaning of the news 
which trickled down from the interior to Mom- 
basa, and thence to England. Mackay's letters 
home were read with eager interest. A small 
band of Cambridge men were led to offer them- 
selves through the uncompromising earnestness 
of Douglas Hooper. Their names were G. L. 
Pilkington, G. K. Baskerville, and J. D. M. 
Cotter. 

It happened that about the same period 
Graham Wilmot Brooke and J. A. Robinson 
were electrifying the Church Missionary 
Society's constituency by their plans for 
renouncing the protection of their British 
citizenship, and carrying the Gospel into 
Hausaland with all the risks of native converts. 
A great farewell meeting was held for their 
party on January 20th, i8go, and with them 
were joined the less conspicuous group that was 
destined for East Africa. Exeter Hall was 
taken for the C.M.S. Valedictory gathering for 
the first time, and it was densely crow^ded. 
The present Bishop of Durham, then Principal 
of Ridley Hall, headed a solid phalanx of sixty 
undergraduates from Cambridge, w^ho travelled 
up to London in order to bid farewell to their 
comrades. It is not to be denied that the 
^5 



XTbe Mon^errul Storp ot TIlaan^a. 

dominating personality of Graham Wilmot 
Brooke to a great extent dwarfed the rest, and 
the Hausaland scheme loomed largest in the 
public eye. Yet among the less conspicuous 
group of Uganda missionaries was one at least 
whose life-work would rank amongst the 
highest. 

Three days later Douglas Hooper and his 
party sailed for East Africa, where they were to 
wait on the coast until the way became clear 
for advance. It must be remembered that news 
from the interior travelled very slowly then, 
and not till four months after their arrival in 
Africa did they learn that it was possible to 
advance. During that period of waiting, G. L. 
Pilkington gave promise of his future linguistic 
powers by obtaining a rapid acquaintance with 
Swahili and other coast languages. 



64 




PROCESSION AT QUEEN VICTORIA MEMORIAL SERVICE, 

MENGO. 

(Baganda clergymen, with Bishop Tucker and Archdeacon Walker. leading the procession.) 




KING DAUDI AND PRINCIPAL CHIEFS. 

'I'he two men wearing medals are. the Protestant Regents — the Katikiro (on our 
right) and Zakaria Kisingiri ; the youth in a fancy coat is the Mohammedan Prince, 
cousin of the King ; the man wearing a sash is Prince Mbogo, head of the Moham- 
medan Baganda.) 



Zbc IRew Btsbop^ 



CHAPTER VIII. 
THE NEW BI5H0P. 

MEANWHILE the Rev. Alfred R. Tucker, 
Curate of St. Nicholas's, Durham, an 
Oxford man, an artist, and an athlete, had 
offered himself to the C.M.S. for East Africa, 
and was soon seen to possess the qualities 
which go to make a leader. The Committee 
accordingly invited him to become the head of 
the party which was waiting on the coast, and 
the Archbishop of Canterbury appointed him 
to be Bishop of Eastern Equatorial Africa. 
Bishop Tucker was consecrated on April 25th, 
1890, exactly fourteen years after the solemn 
farewell to the first Uganda party, and sailed 
the same evening for his new diocese. 

He was greeted on his arrival with the 
melancholy news that JMr. Cotter had died of 
fever the day before. Some days previously, 
when Cotter was first seized, Douglas Hooper 
telegraphed asking for reinforcements to be sent 
"by the French mail." The telegram arrived 

65 F 



XLbc Mon^ertul Story ot xaaanba. 

during the C.M.S. Anniversary. For the 
second time in the story of the Uganda Mis- 
sion the Anniversary was broken in upon by 
momentous news. There are doubtless many 
besides the present writer who remember the 
Rev. F. E. Wigram stepping forward during 
the annual service at St. Bride's Church, 
telegram in hand, and appeaHng for recruits. 

The Appeal of a Telegram. 

Such appeals from dangerous fields never 
fail to find a response. To be in time the men 
were bound to start that week. Yet, short as 
the time was, nine offers came, from amongst 
which four men were chosen — Mr. J. W. Hill, of 
Cambridge; Messrs. J. W. Dunn and J. V. 
Dermott, both Islington students ready for 
ordination ; and Mr. F. C. Smith. On the 
following Saturday they all left for Marseilles, 
and they arrived in time to accompany the 
Bishop on his journey from Zanzibar to the 
Lake. 

The tale of losses was not yet complete. In 
July the Bishop was at Saadani, on the main- 
land, ready to go forward, when Mr. Hill died. 
When the weary four months' tramp to the 
Lake was over, and Usambiro had been reached, 
66 



Zbc flew Blsbop- 

Mr. Hunt, an official of the British East Africa 
Company, who had given up his post to join 
the missionary party and accompanied them on 
the journey inland, was taken ill and died. 
Lastly, while the Mission party were waiting 
at Usambiro for the means of crossing the 
Lake, Mr. Dunn was struck down with fever, 
and died on November 20th. 

The rest of the party suffered terribly from 
fever, but were revived by the twenty-three days' 
sail across the Lake to Uganda. Not until 
December 27th, 1890, did the Bishop, with four 
companions, set foot upon the soil of Uganda. 

We have no space to record the incidents of 
that disastrous five months' journey. One fact 
may be noted ; by the time he reached Uganda, 
Mr. Pilkington had already acquired a working 
knowledge of Luganda, chiefly by persistently 
questioning the porters en route, and was able, 
as soon as he landed in the country, to set 
about preparing candidates for confirmation. 

A Bishop at last Reaches Ugranda. 

The Bishop found an " abundant entrance " 
in Uganda. The Christians had built a large 
reed church, begun in the preceding March, 
and opened on Trinity Sunday, 1890. Not so 

67 



Ubc Monberful Story of 1IlGan^a. 

large as its successors, it was a wonderful build- 
ing for the native architects to erect, for it was 
eighty-one feet long by twenty-four broad. It 
was thronged daily by worshippers and learners. 
Some three hundred converts had been 
baptized. 

Bible translation had been carried forward by 
the Rev. E. C. Gordon, with the assistance of 
Henry Wright Duta and Sembera Mackay, so 
that St. Mark's and St. John's Gospels were 
nearly ready, besides parts of the Prayer- 
Book. 

The members of the Native Church Council 
were active in arranging for the instruction of 
inquirers. This institution, started by Mackay 
in the midst of Mwanga's persecutions, as a 
means of preserving the infant Church, proved 
to be the germ of that Church self-government 
and the instrument of that Church self-support 
in which we rejoice to-day. 

Four weeks fully occupied. 

On the day after his arrival, Bishop Tucker 
preached by interpretation in the great church 
to a thousand worshippers, among whom was 
the Katikiro, or prime minister, and has left on 
record his emotion at the sight of their devout 
and earnest demeanour. 
68 



XTbe IRew Btsbop. 

The Bishop had brought up with him a stock 
of Swahili New Testaments, which were eagerly 
bought up at the price of a three months' wage 
by those who understood that language. He 
confirmed seventy candidates ; admitted Mr, 
Gordon and Mr. Baskerville to priests' orders 
on January i8th, 1891 ; carried on negotiations 
with the Roman Catholic missionaries with re- 
gard to matters in dispute ; arranged for Mr. 
Walker to visit Budu and Mr. Gordon Busoga; 
set apart six Baganda as lay evangelists ; and 
then, on January 22nd, left Uganda again for 
the coast. All that he could do for the time 
was done, and the brethren felt with him that 
the wisest course was for him to seek in 
England a further supply of helpers to seize 
the vast opportunities which were unfolding 
themselves. He took with him the Rev. 
Douglas Hooper, so that the Revs. R. H. 
Walker, E. Cyril Gordon, and G. K. Basker- 
ville, with Messrs. G. L. Pilkington and F. C. 
Smith, were left behind. 

The Six Lay Evangrelists. 

The six men who had been set apart as 
lay evangelists were remarkable men. Henry 
Wright Duta, Sembera Mackay, and Mika 

69 



Zlbe TP(Ilon^ertul Stot^ ot 'aGan^a. 

Sematimba all refused chieftainships in order 
that they might give themselves to teaching 
and evangelizing their fellow-countrymen. 

Henry Wright Duta had been one of the 
first inquirers. He was sent out of Uganda 
in 1881 as a punishment for " reading," but was 
allowed to go down to the coast with Mr. 
Pearson, who arranged for him to be taught in 
the school of the Universities' Mission at Zan- 
zibar. Duta remained some time, and was bap- 
tized there in 1882. There, too, he met Mika 
Sematimba, who came down to the coast with 
a caravan somewhat later. Mika was then an 
inquirer of the Roman Catholic Mission, but 
learned from Duta that the Protestants taught 
their followers how to read. Accordingly, \vhen 
he returned Mika attached himself to the 
Enghsh missionaries. Duta, it should be men- 
tioned, was Hannington's ''boy" when he 
went up country for the first time. Sembera 
Mackay, originally a slave from Busoga, had 
been the first to come forward for baptism, 
shyly putting into Mr. Mackay's hand a note 
written by himself (see page 27). 

These three, with Zakaria Kizito, became the 
leaders of the Christians during the times of 
persecution, and some of their doings have 
70 



been recorded already. Zakaria was the man 
who led the band of Christians which so im- 
pressed Mr. H. M. Stanley when he passed 
through Nkole. The other two, Paulo Ba- 
kunga and Yohana Muyira, were less prominent. 
Henry Wright Duta, Zakaria Kizito, and 
Yohana Muyira were afterwards ordained, and 
are still (1903) borne on the list of the Baganda 
clergy. Sembera, best esteemed and beloved 
of them all, was killed in the wars less than 
two years afterwards. 



71 



Ube MonC)ettul Storp ot Tll0ant)a« 



CHAPTER IX. 
THE OUTBREAK OF A FRESH STORM. 



w 



E have seen that in times of danger the 
Protestant and Roman Catholic mis- 
sionaries in Uganda could and did render each 
other many kind offices, and their personal re- 
lations were generally friendly. 

In their work it was very different. It will 
be remembered that from the very first the 
priests who entered Uganda nearly two years 
after the C.M.S. missionaries assumed an an- 
tagonistic attitude towards the latter, opposing 
Mackay even in the presence of the king. Dr. 
R. N. Cust has told the public how he made a 
special journey to Algiers to see Cardinal 
Lavigerie, whose ''White Fathers" the first 
priests were, and pleaded with him not to in- 
troduce religious strife into the country, but 
to transfer his missionaries to some untouched 
portion of the vast heathen lands around. 
72 



XTbe ©utbrea?^ of a jfresb Storm. 

Such, however, is not Rome's policy, and the 
appeal was in vain. 

The Ba-Fransa and the Ba-Inglcsa. 

There was another element of discord. The 
priests were Frenchmen, and French mission- 
aries continually display a tendency to political 
intrigue in favour of their own country. France 
in turn poses as the champion of Roman 
Catholic Missions in general. If any evidence 
of this statement is required, the history of the 
troubles in China in igoi will supply it in 
abundance. In Uganda the followers of the 
French priests formed a French party, " Ba- 
Fransa," as they were called; while by contrast 
the adherents of the Protestant Mission were 
called the '' Ba-Inglesa," the English party. 
The hostility of the priests to the English was 
such as to make them side with the German, 
Dr. Peters, rather than that the English Com- 
pany should possess the country. It is well to 
remember the strong pohtical colour which 
these names show, because the internal strife 
which broke out in Uganda has been assumed 
to be entirely religious, and the English 
missionaries have been ignorantly charged with 
being the aggressors.* 

* Sir Fredk. Lugard says in his little book The Story 
11 



TTbe Mont)ertul Stoi^ of XHaan^a. 

It may be confidently stated that whereas 
the French fathers continually interfered to 
further the interests of their party, the C.M.S. 
missionaries, as a whole, stood aloof from 
political action, contenting themselves with 
their own spiritual work. 

The officers of the Company, Captain (now 
Sir Frederick) Lugard and others, tried to act 
impartial^, and distributed chieftainships and 
provinces to the best of their ability. 

During the whole of 1891 the country was, 
as it were, on the edge of a volcano. The 
animosity between the rival parties was with 
difficulty restrained,* particularly since the 
tenure of the Company was not thought to be 
very secure. The experiences of the mission- 
aries, who lived daily with their lives in their 
hands, can be imagined. Had it been quite 
certain that the Company would continue to 

of the Uganda Protectorate (p. 107) that he brought about 
the change of name from English and French to Pro- 
testant and Roman Catholic ; no doubt with a view to 
avoiding poHtical complications. 

* The wisdom of Mackay's advice from Usambiro, 
dissuading the Protestant Baganda from joining forces 
with the Roman Catholics and urging independent action, 
was abundantly vindicated. See Ham Mukasa's account, 
p. 198. 

74 



Ube ©utbreat? of a fvcsb Stornu 

hold Uganda the terrible outbreaks which 
began in 1892, and cost hundreds of lives, 
might perhaps have been avoided. 

Ugfanda Saved In Exeter Hall. 

The Company was composed of men, not 
only wealthy, but of high philanthropic 
character. Their action in directing the ad- 
vance into Uganda had been influenced by 
generous, no less than by commercial, reasons. 
They soon found, however, that the expense 
was greater than they could afford, and the 
prospect of a commercial return was not im- 
mediate. They were compelled to announce 
their approaching withdrawal. 

The news produced alarm in England. 
Bishop Tucker had by this time arrived home 
and aroused enthusiasm as he went up and down 
the country, telling of what he had seen : the 
present harvest and the promise of far more 
reaping if only enough sowers were forthcoming 
to sow the seed. The prospect of withdrawal 
from the countr}' meant more than for the 
Company never to have entered it. It meant 
the destruction of belief in English good faith, in 
which the missionaries would be involved as well 
as the agents of the Company ; the withdrawal 
75 



XTbe Mon^ertul Stot^ of 'agan^a. 

of the force which had made for peace ; the 
unchaining of anarchy and civil war ; the ruin 
of the Mission; the loss of countless lives. 

The peril was realized. Sir William Mackin- 
non, a leading director of the Company, feeling 
that even the delay of twelve months might 
bring changes which might make the with- 
drawal safer, guaranteed amongst his friends 
half of the £40,000 which was considered to be 
the cost of maintaining the Company in Uganda 
for another year, if the friends of the Church 
Missionary Society would contribute the other 
half. 

Time went on. The message of withdrawal 
had already started on its way when the Anni- 
versary of the Gleaners' Union came. Exeter 
Hall was thronged on the evening of October 
30th, 1891. Bishop Tucker had just finished 
his speech, in which he told his story with 
thrilling power. Then Mr. Stock came to the 
front and told of the danger and the possible 
way of escape. Dozens of stewards sprang up 
and passed along the seats slips of paper printed 
as forms of promise to help. Then boxes went 
round to collect the papers. When they were 
counted, they were found to contain an abun- 
dant answer to the appeal and to the prayers 

76 



XLbc ©utbreaf? of a f resb Storm. 

which had been offered by those who knew. 
One promise was for ;£" 5,000, another for ;f 500. 
" My four freehold plots of land" was written 
on a third slip. The total amount of the 
promises was about ;f8,ooo. The joy at the 
announcement was intense. Within a few days 
/i6,ooo was raised and handed over to the 
Company. 

The withdrawal was cancelled, but not before 
some part of the predicted evil had come 
about. 

The Storm Bursts. 

Captain Lugard had fortified Kampala, one 
of the hills on which Mengo is built, and had 
secured a body of Soudanese, who had been 
with Emin Pasha on the Nile, as hired soldiers 
and police.* With their aid he kept the peace 
between the Ba-Fransa, the Ba-Inglesa, the 
Mohammedans, and the still larger body of 
Heathen who were outside them all. 

The English missionaries strove for peace, 
and Sembera Mackay went once and again 
between the opposing parties, striving to act as 
mediator. On the other hand it seems im- 
possible to acquit Monsignor Hirth, the chief 

* See also below, p. 128. 

77 



Zbc Mouberful Stor^ of mc5an&a. 

French missionary, of intriguing on behalf of 
his party, and of fomenting the troubles by 
his counsels. He had secured the adhesion 
of Mwanga, a stroke which, in view of the 
inveterate and superstitious loyalty of the 
Baganda, was masterly. 

Mengo at this time was like Edinburgh in 
the old days, when Highland chieftains brought 
down their unruly followers, and daily brawls 
took place in the streets. At last, in January, 
1892, the storm burst ; the French party 
attacked the English party, killing Sembera 
Mackay at the first onset. Among all the 
losses of that time none was so mourned as 
his. The attack was turned against Kampala, 
and threatened danger until the officer in 
charge opened fire with his Maxim gun. Then 
the French party took to flight, and did not 
stay until they had reached the Sese Islands, 
taking Mwanga with them. The priests were 
protected by Captain Lugard and placed fdr 
safety in the fort at Kampala. Soon after- 
wards, however, Monsignor Hirth went away 
and joined the fugitives. The war went on 
until Mwanga, who had been a more or less 
unwilling guest of the French party from the 
time when he saw things were going against 

78 



Zbc ©utbreaf? ot a ffvcsb Storm* 

them, escaped and returned to Mengo, declar- 
ing himself a Protestant. 

Then the French party accepted the inevit- 
able and submitted ; and Captain Lugard 
assigned to the priests the large province of 
Budu in which to labour without interference. 
Captain Lugard expressed his surprise and 
pleasure at the tolerance with which this 
proposal was accepted by the English mis- 
sionaries and their Baganda converts. 
" Surely," said the Protestant chiefs, *' we 
cannot coerce the work of God." 



79 



TTbe Mott^ettul Stot^ of m^anba. 



CHAPTER X. 
PEACE AND REVIVAL. 

The Great Reed Cathedral. 

^ I ^HUS was peace restored for a time, and 
-¦- the work of the Gospel went forward. 
The chiefs determined to build a great cathe- 
dral in Mengo to replace the church which 
Bishop Tucker had seen. Though their only 
materials were reeds for the walls, with poles to 
support the roof and grass to thatch it, the 
native builders constructed an erection capable 
of holding four thousand persons. Inside it was 
a forest of wooden pillars. On the opening 
day each person was asked to contribute one 
cowrie shell only, were he rich or poor, so that 
the number present might be known. No 
less than 3,731 cowries were given at the 
service ! 

Reading: Upside Down. 

From the beginning of the Mission, as our 
readers will remember, " reading " had been 
80 



¦Hft... 


J^N 








,...' >^ 


sf<i^^^^^^^l^^^^^^^M 


^ 

is^ 


^•¦-. 


^^^^M 



BAGANDA BOYS LEARNING TO READ, 




A WRITING-CLASS. MENGO, 



peace an^ 1Re\>ivaL 

the mark of one who desired to be attached to 
the rehgion of the missionaries. The Httle 
}natcka, or first reading-book, was circulated 
widely, and yet there were seldom as many 
copies as there were would-be readers. If 
the inateka was scarce, still scarcer were 
the Gospels and other books ; for they were 
few in number, and the long journey from 
the coast made them very dear. 

Thus it came about that each little volume 
had its circle of readers, craning their necks 
forward to catch a sight of the printed page. 
Only the favoured few had the privilege of 
reading the type in the ordinary way. The 
rest had to be content with catching sight of it 
at any angle they could. 

The writer remembers hearing of a Muganda 
who was observed by a missionary to be 
holding his book upside down. **Does it make 
any difference? " he asked, when his supposed 
mistake was pointed out to him. 

A '* reader " could generally be recognized 
by the little cloth or skin bag in which he 
carried his precious books about with him. 

The Great Translator and His Helpers. 

Throughout the troublous years 189 1, 1892, 
81 G 



^be TKaon^erful Stor^ of XH^anba. 

1893, Mr. Pilkington was steadily labouring 
away at translation, a task for which his 
classical training and great linguistic abilities 
marked him out. He had learned Swahili 
during the few months' waiting on the coast, 
and picked up a working knowledge of Luganda 
in the course of the journey up-country ! 

When he landed in Uganda in December, 
1890, the four Gospels had been translated 
by Mackay, the Rev. R. P. Ashe, and the 
Rev. Cyril Gordon ; and St. Matthew's Gospel 
had been printed. 

Pilkington, nearly always with the aid ot 
Henry Wright Duta, and sometimes with that 
of Sembera, Samwili Mukasa, and Nua 
Nakiwafu, set to work at once, and began 
sending home translations with almost in- 
credible speed. By the end of March, 1891, 
when he had been only three months in 
the country, the Acts of the Apostles was 
completed, along with Bible stories, hymns, 
the beginnings of a Luganda grammar, 
and other translations. In less than eighteen 
months more — and those the very months 
during which the missionaries were living in 
daily fear of civil war — Pilkington completed 
the New Testament, together with several 
82 



peace an^ IRevival. 

Books of the Old Testament. Such rapidity 
has never been surpassed, perhaps never 
equalled. In order to appreciate this wonder- 
ful feat, it should be borne in mind that no 
grammars or dictionaries existed, and that in 
a large number of cases the words and ideas 
of the New Testament had no parallel in the 
language of an uncivilized heathen race. 
Besides translating, Pilkington was continually 
revising, being fully alive to the defects of his 
early work. 

Copies of St. Matthew in Luganda, the 
whole New Testament in Swahili (which some 
Baganda understood), and other books began 
to reach Uganda, being mostly carried upon 
men's heads from the coast. For a New 
Testament a thousand cowries, or five weeks' 
food, were given eagerly; in fact, so anxious 
were the people to get copies of any book, 
whatever the price, that the reed walls of the 
house where they were stored threatened to 
give way under the pressure of the crowds. 
It is not needful here to repeat the many 
instances of long journeys undertaken, and 
large sums offered, for copies of the books. 
They are well known to all who have heard 
much of the Uganda Mission, 

83 



trbe Mon^ettul Storp of 'Claan^a, 

Bishop Tucker was in Uganda again from 
December 23rd, 1892, until June 2nd following. 

Some Salient Facts of the Period. 

During that period Sir Gerald Portal, sent up 
as a Commissioner by the British Government, 
took over Uganda temporaril}^ and the Union 
Jack took the place of the Company's flag. 
Bishop Tucker was able to negotiate with Sir 
Gerald Portal on behalf of a settlement of the 
quarrels between the Protestant and Roman 
Catholic Christians. 

Captain Macdonald completed the survey for 
a railway from the coast — a measure destined 
to revolutionize Uganda. 

Bishop Tucker took with him into Uganda 
a reinforcement of six new missionaries. 

In March, 1893, forty Protestant chiefs, 
including nine out of the thirteen great chiefs 
of the country, voluntarily drew up and signed 
a brief but most potent decree : " All we 
Protestant chiefs wish to adopt these good 
customs of freedom. We agree to untie and 
free completely all our slaves. Here are our 
names as chiefs. . . ." Thus at one stroke, 
and without pressure from the English, 
domestic slavery was abolished in Uganda. 

84 



Ipeace anb IRevivaL 

Even now it cannot be said to have been 
abolished in Zanzibar ! 

In the same month the Church Council set 
apart three Baganda teachers for foreign work 
— in Busoga — and held a farewell service for 
them. 

On Trinity Sunday, 1893, six Baganda were 
ordained deacons, the beginning of a native 
ministry. The names of the six were : — 

The Rev. Henry Wright Duta. 
Yairo Mutakyala. 
Yohana Muyiro. 
Zakaria Kizito. 
Nikodemo Sebwato. 
Yonathani Kaidzi. 

The Visit of lYIika Sematimba. 

In March, 1893, the Rev. R. H. Walker, who 
had returned to England on furlough, had an 
interview with the Committee, bringing with 
him Mika Sematimba, a Muganda Christian 
chief. The missionary and his friend were 
a great attraction at meetings that year. The 
writer well remembers the appearance of the 
pair at a meeting of the C.M.S. Younger Clergy 
Union for London. Mika Sematimba, whose 
gentle kindly face attracted every one, pleaded 

85 



XTbe Mon^ertul Stor^ ot 'Cl^anba. 

for more missionaries for Uganda. " And you 
all know Matthew nine thirty-eight," he added. 
Perhaps all did no^ know Matt. ix. 38 by mere 
reference ; but they could not help seeing how 
thorough was the knowledge of this man whose 
Bible (not then complete) was his one book. 

The Apostate, the Tamil's Tract, and the 
Revival. 

In Uganda '* readers " were multiplying, the 
great cathedral was filled with eager throngs, 
native teachers were going out, the Native 
Church Council was gathering power in leader- 
ship — all seemed to be going well. But there 
was a sad lack of reality among many of the 
supposed converts. The missionaries lamented 
inconsistencies and empty professions. 

Towards the end of 1893 a deplorable 
incident occurred. One Musa Yubaganda, 
a '' reader," presented himself before the 
Church authorities and demanded to have his 
name given out as having become a Heathen 
again. 

''Do you know what you are saying?" he 
was asked. 

" Do you think," he answered, ''that I have 
been reading for seven years and do not under- 
86 



peace anb IRcvival 

stand ? Your religion does not profit me at 
all. I have done with it." 

The missionaries were shocked and de- 
pressed by such a confession of failure. It did 
not stand alone. They met for prayer, but no 
immediate answer came. 

In a discouraged mood, Pilkington, whose 
strong personality had given him a leading 
place among his brethren, went on a visit to 
Kome, one of the Sese Islands. He had with 
him a booklet, the translation of a tract by a 
Tamil evangelist named David, on the Holy 
Spirit. He took it up and read it, and as he 
did so he was led to pray for a baptism of the 
Holy Ghost. Marked blessing followed in 
Kome. He came back a changed man, '' filled 
with the Holy Ghost." He told his brethren 
what he had found, and on December 8th, gth, 
and loth a wonderful series of meetings began. 
Christians of old standing found new power 
and holiness ; chiefs came forward and con- 
fessed that hitherto they had been only 
nominal Christians ; and large numbers of 
Heathen were converted. Best of all, Musa 
cmne back. 

That happy time has set its mark upon all 
the subsequent history of the Mission. 

87 



XLbc Monbertttl Stor^ of m^anba. 

The three days' mission was barely over 
when Mr. Pilkington started with the Baganda 
troops who were going on campaign, under 
British officers, against Kabarega, the slave- 
raiding King of Bunyoro. He went as chaplain 
to the Baganda army, and incidentally as 
interpreter. 

A iviarch with Troops, and Its Consequences. 

The people were delighted at his going. He 
wished at first to go without a tent, but the 
Baganda would not hear of it. They allotted to 
him ten porters, and two cows were driven along 
with the marching soldiers to give him milk. 

On the way Pilkington preached to large 
crowds of Baganda, many of whom had never 
been near the capital, and knew nothing of 
Christianity. 

One result of the expedition was to show him 
how little the Gospel had penetrated beyond 
the neighbourhood of Mengo. Two other 
stations, one in Singo and the other in Kyagwe, 
had been opened, and Kavirondo had been 
tentatively occupied, but the country as a whole 
was untouched. 

At Mityana, in Singo, Mr. Fisher, now the 
Rev. A. B. Fisher, had been stationed for a 
88 



peace anb IRevivaL 

few months. He had adopted the plan of 
getting the people to build " reading "-houses — 
synagogi^ as they were called by the people. 
The little group assembHng in each of these 
was taught by a teacher, who was himself 
under the guidance of a more experienced 
worker, the whole being supervised by the 
European missionary. 

The "Synagogues." 

Pilkington saw the advantages of this plan. 
On his return to Mengo he made it the germ of 
a great scheme for covering the land with a 
system of teachers. 

In a few months' time he and Mr. Baskerville 
had planted about 200 of these synagogi ; 131 
teachers had been sent out from Mengo, in 
addition to those more elementary instructors 
who were set to work locally ; and 20,000 
assembled every Sunday to hear the Gospel. 
The first '' dismissal " of teachers took place in 
April, 1894. 

The result was marvellous. Towards the 
end of 1893 there were 170 catechumens ; a 
year later, when the new system had been in 
operation for a few months, there were 1,500 
catechumens, although 800 persons had been 

89 



\ 



XLbc Monberful Stor^ ot IH^anba- 

baptized in the meantime. From this time 
onwards the chief function of the missionaries 
began to be confined more and more to the 
training and superintendence of the teachers. 

At this period certain quaint fictions arose 
amongst the Heathen as to the nature of 
baptism. It consisted, so they supposed, " in 
making a hole in the head and rubbing in a 
powerful medicine, which kills the old heart ; 
and then there comes in its place a new 
religious heart that does not lust for anything." 
Could there be a finer unconscious testimony 
to the reality and depth of the work thus widely 
spread ? 

In the same year, 1894, the great reed 
cathedral was blown down in a storm. No one 
was injured, though Archdeacon Walker, who 
had returned to Uganda, had a narrow escape. 
It was rebuilt, but the event may have helped 
the great scattering abroad. Twenty churches 
sprang up near the capital before it was rebuilt. 

The Coming: of the Ladies. 

It is startling to reflect that the Uganda 

Mission had existed for eighteen years without 

the presence of a woman missionary. The 

reasons are obvious. During the early years of 

90 



peace anb 1Rev>t\?al. 

the Mission communications were uncertain, 
life itself not safe, and the Church Missionary 
Society refused to allow women workers to 
face the risk. 

Now, however, things had changed. The old 
south route to the Lake was abandoned in 
favour of the northern route which Hannington 
had first traversed, a track which was shorter, 
less unhealthy, and less troubled by the 
exactions of petty chiefs. The Masai raiders, 
once the terror of the upland districts, had lost 
their former power to harm. 

The tramp of nearly 700 miles had still to be 
done on foot, with the rare exception of a 
donkey ride if a donkey could be found to with- 
stand the tse-tse fly and the climate. The 
alternative of being carried in a hammock was 
a thing to resort to in case of sickness, but not 
otherwise. All goods had still to be carried 
upon the heads of porters, at enormous cost ; 
and caravans consisted of hundreds of these 
men, practically slaves, marching in single file 
along the narrow winding tracks. 

The 7teed of women's work was as great in 
Uganda as it was anywhere in the mission- 
field. Woman was a chattel and a drudge. 
All the heavy work of the fields was done by 
91 



XTbe Mon^erful Stor^ of XH^anba* 

women, and a man's position was measured 
to a great extent by the number of wives 
whom he possessed to work for him. As 
woman is never degraded without dragging 
man down also, the resulting morality may 
be imagined. A beginning of better things 
had been made by the appointment of six 
Baganda women as deaconesses in 1893. 

The way being now clear for the employment 
of women missionaries, it is needless to say that 
volunteers were forthcoming. From among 
them were chosen five who were considered not 
only physically equal to the toils of the journey 
but fitted to be the pioneers of women's work 
in such a Mission. Their names were Miss 
Furley, Miss Thomsett, Miss Pilgrim, Miss 
Browne, and Miss Chadwick. 

Bishop Tucker and a party of five men, 
among whom was the Rev. Martin J. Hall, went 
up at the same time. There was a farewell 
meeting on May i6th, 1895, and two months 
later the party was on its way inland from 
Mombasa. Unusual pains were taken to 
ensure the safety of the ladies on the journey. 
Dr. Baxter, of Mpwapwa, and Dr. Rattray 
accompanied the party, one or two jinrikshas 
and some donkeys were taken, so as to allow 
92 



peace an^ IRevivaL 

the relief of riding occasionally, and in other 
ways the comfort of the ladies was studied. To 
those w^ho steam along by railway over the 
waterless desert of Taro, and glide up the 
lion-infested slopes of the Athi plains, such 
precautions may seem excessive; but the venture 
was a new one, and the day of the railway had 
not yet come. 

The arrival in Mengo on October 4th was a 
scene of wild excitement. How the Baganda 
women flung themselves on the ladies, how the 
crowds of Baganda, Basoga, and Nubians 
exceeded even those that greeted Sir Gerald 
Portal, Bishop Tucker has recorded fully. 

Years of Expansion. 

Tables of statistics are very repellent things, 
and yet they often put forth, in their cold, 
unimpassioned way, a more effective picture 
than the most glowing eloquence. Here are 
some marvellous figures. For June, 1893, just 
before the Revival, the C.M.S. Report gave 
the following : — 

Native Christian 
Year ending Native Christian Baptisms Adherents, in- 

June ist. Lay Agents, during the year, eluding Catechumens. 

1893 . 36 . 120 . [3,400] 

The last figure is described as "approximate," 

and in the light of later information is obviously 

93 



trbe Mon^erful Stori^ of ^IlQan^a. 

incorrect. Twelve months later the effect of 
Revival begins to be seen : — 

Native Christian 
Year ending Native Christian Bapti'^ms Adherents, in- 

June ist. Lay Ageuts. during the year, eluding Catechumens. 

1894 . 68 . 544 • 1,370 
But it is in the next three years that the 

most wonderful progress is recorded : — 

1895 . 290 . 1,356 . 3,434 

1896 . 410 . 3,521 . 8,094 

1897 . 659 . 4,442 . 12,856 

In 1896 and 1897 the number of the adult 
baptisms was very nearly half of the total 
recorded for the whole of the C.M.S. Missions ! 
Was there ever, in the whole history of 
Missions, so marvellous an example of " leaps 
and bounds " ? After one set back, the 
sanguinary Soudanese mutiny of 1897-98, the 
advance has continued to this present day. 

The BIscuIt-Tin Bible. 

In 1895 Mr. Pilkington and Mr. Baskerville 
took their furlough. Mr. Pilkington devoted 
his time to completing the translation of the 
Bible into Luganda, and carrying it through 
the press. In the autumn of 1897 the work 
was complete, and on October 30th of that 
year, when Bishop Tucker was received by the 
94 




OUTSIDE THE BOOK-SHOP, MENGO, 




SELLING A BIBLE IN UGANDA. 

(The boys in th; foreground are playing the game of BiHolo. 



peace an^ 1Rex>tvaL 

C.M.S. Committee, a copy of the odd, squat 
little volume was placed on the table. 

The book was about three inches broad, and 
of the same thickness. A legend was current 
at the time that this shape had been adopted 
in order to make the Bible fit into one of 
Huntley & Palmer's 2-lb. biscuit tins, which 
were plentiful in Uganda at that period. 
Certainly these tins were used for books, 
because they afforded a protection against 
white ants and other book-loving insects ; but 
the adoption of the shape was accidental and 
temporary. 

That ugly little volume was the result of a 
more rapid translation of the Word of God 
than has ever taken place within the history of 
Bible translation. Fabricius, with his famous 
translation of the New Testament into Tamil 
in the beginning of the eighteenth century, was 
not so quick. And yet rapidity was not 
achieved at the expense of care. Some of the 
diligent labour bestowed upon the version has 
already been told in these pages. More details 
can be found in that interesting work Pilkington 
of Uganda. 



95 



iLbc Mon^evful Storv? of 'ClcJan^a. 



CHAPTER XI. 
BLOODSHED ONCE MORE. 

DURING these j-ears of progress, King 
Mwanga was ill at ease. The British 
power which he had called to his aid had made 
him secure in his kingdom, but it had curtailed 
his privileges. The good old heathen times, 
when he could torture and murder just as he 
liked, were past and gone. Even his less 
horrible vices were to some extent checked. 
To such a man, security and prosperity were 
but poor compensations for the loss of power 
to indulge his love of all things evil. 

Mwanira Breaks Loose. 

At last he could endure it no longer. One 
night in the summer of 1897, Mwanga stole 
away from the capital, cutting an opening 
through the reed walls of the royal enclosure 
so that even the door-keepers should not know 
of his disappearance. No chief of any 

96 



JSloobsbet) once more. 

importance was with him, and his party when 
they reached the Lake shore were not more than 
enough to fill three canoes. 

He fled to Budu, where the Roman Catho- 
lics were in force, and raised the standard of 
revolt. At once the instinctive loyalty of 
the Baganda to the individual who held the 
kingship asserted itself. The native police, 
raised and organized by the British officers in 
Mengo, deserted to Mwanga immediately, and 
the whole force of Heathenism rose to join him. 
He sent messengers throughout the country 
and the tributary States, calling out the people 
to aid him in driving out the Europeans, killing 
the Christians, and restoring the old customs. 

At this crisis the only Natives who could be 
trusted were the Protestant Baganda. With 
their aid Major Ternan, the Acting-Com- 
missioner, was enabled to act with promptitude. 
On July 20th, just a fortnight after Mwanga's 
escape. Major Ternan, with a force of 220, 
chiefly Soudanese, and a large number of 
Protestant Baganda, defeated Mwanga's army 
in Budu and drove him over the German 
border. The German authorities sent him as 
a prisoner to the south of the Lake. 

After again defeating the rebels. Major 
97 H 



XTbe Mon^erful 5tor\? of xngan^a 

Ternan came back to Mengo. On the first 
day of that month a little son was born to the 
absent Mwanga within the royal palace at 
Mengo. The child was called Chwa {'' the 
fly "), and baptized by the name Daudi, or 
David, the mother being a Protestant. 

The Baby Kingr- 

A fortnight later Mwanga was proclaimed an 
outlaw, and little Daudi Chwa was made king 
in his stead. 

The baby was brought out, and placed upon 
the namulondo, the seat of his forefathers, by 
the Mugema, the chief whose prerogative it 
was. "He was arrayed in bark cloth and a 
shield," wrote Archdeacon Walker, " and two 
spears were held over him, and it was 
proclaimed that King Daudi had ' eaten ' 
Uganda." 

A little girl of eight named Yunia Kamwanda, 
also a Protestant, was robed in bark cloth and 
proclaimed as the " king's sister." The two 
Katikiros, Apolo Kagwa, the Protestant, and 
Mugwania, the Roman Catholic, together with 
Zacharia, the Kangao, also a Protestant, were 
named as regents. 

In September, an alarm was raised that the 

98 




KING DAUDI CHWA IN STATE, 




APOLO KAGWA, KATIKIRO OF UGANDA, AND HIS SON. 



JBlooD6be^ once more. 

Mohammedan Baganda were plotting a revolt, 
but the timely seizure of the chiefs implicated 
nipped the plot in the bud. 

In December Mwanga escaped from, the 
Germans and made his appearance in Budu. 
He was again defeated, by Major Ternan's 
successors, but remained at large. 

The Soudanese Mutiny. 

Before Mwanga's second attempt, an event 
of still more terrible importance had occurred. 

Mention has been made of certain Soudanese 
soldiers who were originally brought into the 
country by Captain Lugard and were used as 
mercenaries by successive British officers. 
These men had been marched about in different 
directions and engaged in putting down risings 
until even they, great fighters as they were, 
had grown tired of the life. Added to this 
discontent, the Mohammedan Baganda tried 
to seduce them from their loyalty ; and the 
European officers set over the Soudanese seem 
to have been only imperfectly acquainted with 
their language. 

In the course of the summer of the year 
under notice, 1897, Major Macdonald was 
ordered by the British Foreign Office to 
99 



TLhc Monberful Stor^ ot XIlgan^a. 

conduct an exploring expedition to Lake 
Rudolph and other districts some hundreds 
of miles to the north of Uganda, and to 
take with him 300 Soudanese troops besides 
porters. The muster was made in September 
at a place east of Busoga. Alarmed at the 
prospect before them, and not understanding 
the arrangements which had been made for 
themselves and their families, a part of the 
column mutinied, and seized the fort at Luba's 
in Busoga, capturing and afterwards murdering 
Major Thruston, and two other Englishmen. 
They were soon joined by other Soudanese, 
though some of the garrisons stood firm. 

The position of the British residents was 
now most critical. Mwanga was still threaten- 
ing danger on the south when the mutiny 
broke out in the east. Only the Protestant 
Baganda, some Swahih porters, the British 
themselves, and the few loyal Soudanese stood 
between them and universal massacre. 

The Soudanese at the capital were quietly 
disarmed on October i8th. The male mis- 
sionaries at distant posts and all the ladies 
were recalled to Mengo. A body of Baganda 
under British officers was despatched to 
100 



Bloo^5be^ once more. 

Luba's ; and the missionaries were required to 
send certain of their number to give confidence 
to the Baganda. Dr. Albert Cook had arrived 
in the beginning of the year to begin medical 
mission work in Uganda ; and he and Mr. 
Pilkington were chosen to go, the one as 
doctor, the other as interpreter. 

The siege of Luba's proceeded slowly. The 
fort was surrounded with immense banana 
fields, which not only supplied the mutineers 
with food but made fighting difficult. The 
force commanded by British officers could not 
surround the fort, but attacked it on one side, 
cutting down the bananas to starve out the 
garrison and fighting on as best they could. 
Now and then a sort of pitched battle would be 
fought, and hundreds of Baganda were killed 
or wounded. The losses in the mutiny and 
in Mwanga's rebellion account for the reduction 
in the numbers of Christians between 1897 
and 1898. 

Some Sikh troops were sent for from India ; 
but did not arrive until January, 1898. Their 
coming turned the scale. Henceforward the 
hopes of the mutineers declined. One night 
in January they abandoned Luba's, they were 

lOI 



XTbe Mon^erful Stor^ of "doan^a. 

pursued, and long afterwards the last of them 
perished in the wild country to the north. 



The Death of Pllklngton. 

Early on the morning of December nth, 1897, 
a party of banana cutters were attacked by the 
Soudanese from the fort. The tall vegetation 
hid the mutineers, so that they came up quite 
close without been seen. Mr. Pilkington was 
with a covering party. His " boy," Aloni 
(Aaron) saw the approaching enemy and fired. 
Then the attack began. One man aimed de- 
liberately at Mr. Pilkington, who returned his 
fire. At last Mr. Pilkington was shot in the 
thigh, and a main artery was severed. He fell 
to the ground mortally wounded. 

Aloni saw the change in his face, and said 
to him, " My master, you are dying. Death 
has come." 

" Yes, my child," said the dying man, " it is 
as you say." 

" My master," continued Aloni, " he that 
believeth in Christ, although he die, yet shall 
he live." 

'•' Yes, my child," again answered his master, 
" it is as you say — shall never die." 
102 



:Bloo^5bet) once more. 

His life ebbed away shortly afterwards, and 
he was buried the same evening under a tree 
near the spot \\here Bishop Hannington had 
been murdered twelve years before. Later on 
his body was taken up and buried in the grave- 
yard at Mengo, where Bishop Hannington's 
bones, so strangely recovered, had been laid. 

The news of Pilkington's death came as a 
shock to the Mission, and to all its friends in 
England. How could those unequalled lin- 
guistic powers, that gift for influence and 
leadership, that spiritual force, be spared ? 
Yet God, who took away the first great layman 
from the Uganda Mission at the very moment 
when He was sending out his successor, doubt- 
less ordered this also in His wisdom. His 
great work, the translation of the Bible, was 
done ; the impetus God had used him to give 
to the missionary spirit of the people, and their 
Church organization was in full operation, and 
God called His servant home. 

How the Baganda mourned him! "We all 
shed tears," wrote Henry Wright Duta, " we 
cried our eyes out. Of Pilkington we have 
only the footprints ; but it is difficult to follow 
the footprints when the leader is not there. 
Pilkington has died, but his work has not died ; 
103 



Zbc Monbertul Story of XHaanba. 

it is still with us. He preached to all men the 
Gospel ; Protestants, Roman Catholics, and 
Mohammedans all lamented him when he died, 
because he was beloved by all. . . . His body 
we disinterred from Busoga, and we buried him 
here in Uganda near our church, that we might 
always remember him. If we had known how 
to carve his likeness in stone we would have 
done it ; but the sight of his tomb will suffice 
us." 



104 



peace anb Expansion* 



CHAPTER XII. 

PEACE AND EXPANSION. 

\ ^ /"HEN the Soudanese mutineers broke out 
^ ^ from the Fort at Luba's, all was not 
over. At one time their force was nearer Mengo 
than were their pursuers. Mwanga also, who 
had been driven over the border into German 
territory, reappeared, and was joined by a large 
body of those who loved the old heathen ways. 
Mengo was in great danger, and there were days 
w^hen the white men there planned how they 
should flee to Entebbe and thence across the 
Lake into safety. The danger passed, the 
enemy was defeated, and by the end of February, 
1898, the missionaries were able to begin to go 
out to the nearer out-stations. The mutineers 
were pursued northwards beyond Lake Kioga, 
and gradually dispersed or were captured. 

The End of Mwanga. 

Mwanga and the slave-raiding king Kabarega 
105 



Zhc monberful Story of irigan^a. 

kept up hostilities, but were captured in March, 
1899, taken down to the coast, and banished to 
the Seychelles. As long as Mwanga was at 
large and within reach of Uganda he was a 
danger to the peace of the country, owing to 
the instinctive loyalty of the Baganda to the 
person of the king ; and since his departure the 
public peace has been unbroken. The news of 
his death in 1903 caused no exhibition of feel- 
ing ; he had been forgotten. Before his death 
he was baptized, and gave signs, it is said, of 
true conversion. 

IVIai*veIIous Growth. 

** Then had the churches rest, and were 
multiplied." In the year of the Mutiny the 
number of native teachers was 479 : a year 
later they had risen to 854. The women 
teachers trebled in number, having increased 
from 42 to 126 during the same period. At 
the end of 1899, the numbers had risen to 
1,197 male and 275 female teachers. A year 
later they were 1,688 and 340. At the end 
of 1901 the figures were 1,988 and 420. The 
1902 statistics show a slight falling off, the 
numbers being 1,847 ^.nd 352. When it is re- 
membered that these teachers were supported 
106 



peace anb Expansion. 

by the Natives themselves this rapid increase 
in their numbers becomes amazing. 

During the same period the number of Native 
Christians rose from 14,457 at the end of 1897 
to 38,844 at the end of 1902 — that is, they had 
very nearly trebled in six years ! The native 
communicants numbered 3,343 at the end of 
1897, and 11,143 at the end of 1902, more than 
treble. In 1902, a government census showed 
that there were 1,070 churches for Protestant 
worship, in which the average Sunday attend- 
ance was 52,471. 

This rapidity of growth w^as not solely due 
to an increase within Uganda proper, but to 
the extension of missionary work in Toro, 
Nkole, Bunyoro, Bukedi, and Kavirondo. 

With this increase of converts and native 
teachers the work of the missionaries has 
taken more and more the form of teaching 
the teachers, examining candidates for bap- 
tism, and superintending the work done by 
the Natives. How eager these young student- 
teachers are ! How keenly they question their 
teachers ! And with what zeal do they go 
forth, fresh from their periods of training for 
the season during which they give out what 
they know. 

107 



Zbc mon^cvtnl Stor^ of maan^a. 

Highest of all is the Divinity Class, princi- 
pally conducted by Archdeacon Walker. 

Education and Women's Work. 

Three lines of work are comparatively new, 
and are only beginning to be important, — 
Educational work, as commonly understood ; 
Work amongst women ; and Industrial work. 

The work of giving secular education to 
children began in 1899. Previously, Miss 
Chadwick had given secular education to adults 
and children, the adults being in the majority. 
In 1899, however, Mr. C. W. Hattersley, who 
had previously helped MissChadwick,developed 
classes for children. These have rapidly grown, 
and the chiefs have been foremost in sending 
their children to learn. Mr. Hattersley gives 
astonishing accounts of the sums which these 
young prodigies soon learned to do. Here, for 
instance, is an example of the problems they 
could solve after fifteen months' teaching : — 

'' Forty canoes go to Usukuma to fetch loads, 
each canoe carrying twelve bales, the rate of pay 
for each of which is five rupees plus 200 cowrie 
shells. The Katikiro takes of this one-fifth, the 
chief of the canoes takes one-seventh, another 
under-chief takes one-twelfth part, and the head 
man takes one-twentieth. Each canoe has twelve 
108 



peace an^ Espansioiu 

paddlers. How much does each paddler get when 
the balance is divided amongst them ? One rupee 
= i6 annas, or 64 pice, or 600 cowrie shells." 

This school still stands apart as a sort of High 
School, but the simpler education of children 
has gone on very rapidly. In 1898, 387 boys 
and 265 girls were reported to be under instruc- 
tion, and in 1902 the numbers had reached 7,042 
boys and 5,527 girls. 

Work amongst women as such was not com- 
menced until 1895, when the first five women 
missionaries reached Uganda. It has been less 
necessary than in many heathen countries, 
because women have great freedom in Uganda. 
On the other hand, women were, and to a great 
extent still are, the field labourers of the 
country. However, women teachers were 
gradually trained, and set to teach the classes 
of women inquirers. In places, too. Women's 
Native Church Councils have been formed, which 
have examined candidates for baptism and have 
proved themselves useful in exercising discipline. 
Regular classes for women teachers are now 
held. 

Industrial Work. 

The most striking of new developments has 
been that of industrial training. Its importance 
109 



XTbe MonOetful Stor^ of XIlGant>a, 

is obvious, now that the railway is bringing up 
the Portuguese, the Greek, and the East Indian 
in increasing numbers, and they are settHng in 
the land. The next few years will decide the 
question whether the Native Muganda is to be 
reduced to a mere drudge working for the new- 
comers or to compete with them on equal terms. 
One means of equipping him for the struggle 
is by teaching him the arts and crafts which 
will make him into an intelligent workman. 

The earhcst industrial missionary in Uganda 
was Mackay, who found the Baganda very 
receptive pupils, and, indeed, he gained his 
ascendency over M'tesa to a great extent by 
his many-sided talents. Mr. J. B. Purvis went 
out as an industrial missionary in 1895, and 
erected some missionary buildings, but the 
definite use of industrial mission work as 
such was developed by Mr. K. E. Borup, a 
Canadian of Swedish extraction, who went 
out in 1897, and began by building houses for 
the lady missionaries. In the course of 1899- 
1900 this developed into the training of six 
Protestant lads, sent by the Katikiro, in print- 
ing and carpentry. In May, 1900, Mr. Borup 
and his boys were able to set up, print and 
issue a four- page leaflet called Mengo Notes, 
no 



peace an^ lEjpanston. 

and by August the boys could actually do the 
composition and printing in Mr. Borup's 
absence and with astonishingly few errors. As 
time went on, printing was done in Luganda and 
Lutoro as well as English. Building and car- 
pentering were also carried on. In igoi a great 
development took place. The huge Cathedral, 
built of reeds and thatch on a framework of 
poles, began to show signs of decay, and of the 
work of the white ants. It was soon found to 
be in a dangerous condition, and was con- 
demned. 

The New Cathedral. 

The Katikiro and his brother chiefs decided 
that the new Cathedral must be of brick. New 
bricks had only begun to be used in Uganda at 
all a very few years before, by Mr. Purvis and 
the Roman Catholic missionaries, and no large 
building had been made entirely of this 
material ; nor had so large a building as they 
contemplated ever been built in Uganda. 

Mr. Borup rose to the occasion. He taught 
brick-making. He constructed a huge brick- 
making machine capable of turning out 3,000 
bricks a day. It was made of wood strength- 
ened and the moulds lined with the iron and 
III 



Xlbe Mon^erfiil Stor^ of 'Qoan^a, 

copper which Mackay had used long before. 
It was calculated that at least a million bricks 
would be required. 

How was the material for all these bricks to 
be obtained ? Volunteer labourers were forth- 
coming. The great chiefs, with the Katikiro 
himself at their head, went in state to the clay 
pits, and marched back to the sound of the 
drum, with great balls of clay on their heads, 
to the place where the bricks were to be made. 
Not to be behindhand, the great ladies of the 
country, the princesses and chiefs' wives, went 
in similar fashion into the forest, and carried 
back bundles of brushwood for the brick-kiln 
fires. These examples having shown the 
dignity of labour, the less exalted Baganda 
were ready to do likewise, and voluntary labour 
was abundant. 

Nevertheless, it was plain that much money 
would be needed. How was it to be raised ? 
The chiefs settled the difficulty in their own 
way. Mcngo Notes stated : — 

" The chiefs have had several meetings to decide 
how to raise the money for the paying of the work- 
men, bricklayers, joiners, &c., and have adopted a 
plan we should like to see in use in England. It 
was not asked how much each would give, but how 
112 



peace anb Expansion. 

much would be needed to complete the work, and 
this amount was then divided up amongst them 
according to the position or means of each man, 
and it was arranged that each should give a specified 
amount. This all agreed to, as quite the proper 
thing, the Katikiro and the other Protestant 
Regents' portion being Rs. 500 each {£2)2) ^^- ^^O) 
and the head of each large district (saza) in pro- 
portion. The total cost is estimated at Rs. 10,000 
(about ^660), and of this upwards of Rs. 7,000 is 
already promised, and a good deal of the balance 
will be given in small sums b}- the congregation." 

The plan decided upon was cruciform, the 
length being 206 ft., the width of the nave 
inside 50 ft., the length of the transept no ft., 
the chancel 40 ft. long by 30 ft. wide. The 
walls were to be 20 ft. high, rising to 36 ft. in 
two parts. Eighteen round brick pillars were 
to support the roof of grass thatch. The 
church was to be lighted by seventy-four 
windows and to be entered by ten doors. The 
seating capacity was estimated at 4,000. The 
foundation-stone of the new building was laid 
on June i8th, 1901, by the little king. The 
stone thus used was remarkable. It was a 
large block which had been used to mark the 
grave of Mr. G. L. Pilkington before a marble 
cross arrived from home for the purpose. It 
113 I 



ZTbe Mon^ertul Stor^ of XOLG^nba. 

was in the fitness of things that such a stone 
should become the foundation of the Cathedral. 

The building was used for the first time on 
June 26th, 1902, the day first fixed for the 
coronation of King Edward VII. 

The Rev. Henry Wright Duta has given the 
Cathedral a huge drum, 5 ft. high, whose boom- 
ing sound carries an immense distance. The 
drum is not only as effective as a church bell, 
but far more in keeping with the national 
customs. 

Industrial Developments. 

Since the building of the Cathedral the fashion 
has been set for brick buildings, and several 
others are contemplated, such as a public hall 
and a palace for the king. As a result of the 
building also, brick-fields, worked by Baganda 
alone, are in full work. The lathe which 
Mackay once used has been put into working 
order and used for turning. In fact, all the 
allied trades have taken a firm hold on the 
Baganda. In 1902 a new site was secured for 
the Industrial Mission at Mutungo, a few miles 
from Munyonyo, the " port " of the capital. 

Unfortunately the sleeping sickness broke 
out in Mutungo, and the site was condemned 
after all the buildings had been erected. 
114 




VIEW OF THE NEW CATHEDRAL FROM BISHOP'S HILL. 




CONGREGATION AT THE FIRST SERVICE IN THE 
NEW CATHEDRAL, MENGO 



Ipeace an^ ^Ejpanston. 

In 1903 a project was set on foot for the in- 
dustrial development of Uganda on half-com- 
mercial, half-philanthropic lines, which may 
have a great future. 

New Laws and New Taxes. 

One of the influences which may have 
quickened the desire of the Baganda to earn 
money was the new settlement of the country 
which was made by Sir H. H. Johnston, the 
British Special Commissioner, in 1900. By 
this new scheme stipends were fixed for the 
king and chief officials, and certain lands were 
apportioned for the administration, for the 
king, for the princesses, for the chiefs, for the 
church, and so on. Then a hut tax of three 
rupees was imposed, following a system which 
had been employed by Sir H. H. Johnston in 
Nyassaland. Three rupees is an immense sum 
to a people who reckon in cowrie shells of 
which at least 600 go to the rupee. The Mu- 
ganda, who had nothing to do before, had 
therefore now to bestir himself and earn money 
to pay this tax. Some of the immediate results 
were curious. Mengo Notes recorded : — 

" Where before labour was not easy to get, for 
some months now men have been crowding round 
asking for work, for loads to carry, and bringing all 

115 



trbe Mont)evful Stor^ of m^anba. 

kinds of things for sale. Others not Hke-minded, 
unenUghtened countrymen, tried other methods ; 
a few we heard of (not mere hearsay) actually re- 
verted to an old custom and pawned their children 
for a year or two. . . . The Commissioner offered 
to remit the tax on i,ooo huts for every young 
elephant brought in alive ; that is, Rs. 3,000, or 
;^200 ; for every live young zebra, on twenty 
houses, i.e. £\ ; for a tame zebra, thirty hut taxes 
or £(:> ; for every live pig, one hut tax or Rs. 3 ; 
for every hippopotamus, 100 hut taxes or ^20. In 
a few days after the receipt of this news (news 
spreads in Uganda in a marvellous way), the capital 
and the country seat of government at Entebbe 
seemed hkely to become a sort of menagerie." 

More recently the Rev. G. R. Blackledge 
stated that the hut tax acted like an electric 
shock, moving those who badly needed it and 
making people work who never worked before. 

By the same treaty the Liibiko, a Native 
Council of chiefs and others, was organized, 
combining some of the functions of Parliament 
and of a High Court of Justice. 

Apolo, the Katlkiro. 

The real head of the country, British officials 
excepted, is Apolo Kagwa, the Prime Minister 
or Katikiro. The page-boy who bore the scars 
of Mwanga's rage has developed into a leader 
in war and a ruler in peace whose force of 
116 



peace an^ Bjpansion. 

character and genuine Christianity have made 
him a power for good. 

When he visited England for the abortive 
Coronation of June, 1902, he impressed every- 
one by his dignified bearing and his intelhgent 
interest in all that he saw. He had, of course, 
an audience of the King, being one of the 
Coronation guests. Not less, of course, he 
was presented to the Church Missionary 
Committee, before whom he pleaded that 
200 European teachers might be sent to 
Uganda and the surrounding countries. Such 
a demand coming from an English Chris- 
tian would have savoured of idle extrava- 
gance, but from the Katikiro's point of view 
was reasonable enough. Two hundred Euro- 
pean missionaries spread over Uganda, Toro, 
Bunyoro, Busoga, Kavirondo, and the regions 
northward along the Nile, would not be too 
many to lead effectively the Native Christians 
to the evangelization of all those countries. 
Wledicinc and the Gospel. 

In many Missions the missionary doctor is 
all-important. He is first in the field, he 
breaks down prejudice, allays fears, dispels 
ignorance, and obtains an entry for the Gospel. 
In Uganda the Gospel had already secured a 
117 



Ube X-dlonberful Stor^ of XIlGant)a. 

firm hold before the medical missionary made 
his appearance, and though most valuable, the 
Medical Mission has played a minor part in the 
work in Uganda itself. 

In 1897 arrived Dr. A. R. Cook, the first 
medical missionary destined to remain in 
Uganda. Previously there had been visits, more 
or less prolonged, from Mr. Felkin, Dr. Bax- 
ter, Dr. Rattray and others, but no definitely 
continuous medical work as such. The open- 
ing of the first " Mission hospital," a reed 
house such as all Uganda buildings were then, 
was chronicled within a few months of Dr. 
Cook's arrival, and began with Miss Timpson 
as nurse and chief member of the staff. But 
the wars and mutiny which broke out shortly 
afterwards put an end to all ordinary mission 
work for a time. Dr, Cook went to Luba's, 
in Busoga, where the Soudanese mutineers 
were besieged, with Pilkington, and was occu- 
pied in tending the wounded. He returned 
after a while to Mengo, whither the wounded 
were conveyed in canoes. 

By the end of Februar}^ 1898, the fighting 
had nearly ceased, and, all danger to the capital 
being past, the medical work resumed its 
ordinary aspect. 

118 



B>eace anO Bi:pan9ton. 

In July of that year Dr. Cook went on tour 
with Bishop Tucker to Toro and Bunyoro, 
doing medical work where possible. In the 
following November a ward to accommo- 
date twenty beds was added to the Mengo 
hospital. 

A new hospital was begun in March, iSgg, 
in the form of a double Maltese cross. Mr. 
Borup acted as architect and builder, with 
Dr. Cook's help, and the labour was provided 
free by the Katikiro and other chiefs. The 
new hospital was designed for fifty beds, and 
marked an advance in Uganda architecture. 
In the following September Dr. J. H. Cook 
went out with his wife to reinforce his brother, 
and the work expanded, as the following table 
shows : — 







January- 


-October. 






! 1S97. 


1898. 


1899. 


1900. 


Attendances of out-pa- 










tients at the dispensary- 


12,999 


14,348 


26,385 


33.983 


In-patients . 


113 


240 


451 


511 


Operations . 


192 


1 86 


261 


233 


Visits to the sick in their 










homes 


402 


547 


438 ' 


624 


Shells given by the Na- 










tives (mostly as fees 






1 




for medicine received) 


71,687 




112,543 


308.677 

1 





119 



XTbe Mon^erful Stor^ of XHganDa. 

Some characteristic struggles with the igno- 
rance and obstinacy of the out-patients were 
recorded by Miss Timpson at this time. She 
wrote : — 

" You say, ' My friend, this medicine is very 
strong, you are only to take one pill, morning, 
noon and night, and the supply is to last you three 
days.' 

" After repeating this more than once, you may 
look up and say, ' Well, my friend, do you quite 
understand ? ' 

"The patient will say, '1 did not hear, I was 
listening to what that boy was sa3ang.' 

" This means spending a little more of your time 
upon him only to find that, as you turn to another, 
your patient with the strong medicine is in the 
act of swallowing all the three days' supply at 
once ; 3'ou rush at him to rescue as many of the 
pills from his mouth as you can, but, alas ! some- 
times all have disappeared. 

" Then another will say, ' My sickness is in my 
feet, and I care not for medicine to drink, but I 
want something to rub upon my feet.' 

"You try and explain that if he drinks what is 
prescribed for him he will soon get well, because 
the medicine will relieve the pain ; he looks at you 
kindly, but with pity, and says, ' My friend, my 
wisdom tells me that there is no profit in drinking 
medicine, but only by rubbing the mixture upon 
my feet can I be cured.' 

120 



peace an^ lEjpaneton. 

' You reply, ' Well, well, go away now, and 
drink this as I have told you, and come back in 
three days, then see if you are not better.' 

" At last he leaves you sorrowfully, and still 
unbelievingly, for I have heard him telling a friend 
outside that he cannot make me understand that 
his illness is in his feet." 

More touching is the account of a patient 
who was to be operated upon and was not 
forthcoming at the appointed time. She was 
found among the plantain trees near the 
hospital, praying. 

At the end of igoo the new hospital was 
enlarged by the addition of two extra wards. 
Native helpers, male and female, were by this 
time becoming well trained and useful. 

In April and May, 1901, Dr. A. R. Cook and 
his wife (for he had married his valued helper, 
MissTimpson) itinerated in Bunyoro and Toro. 

In the same year Dr. and Mrs. Bond 
came out for medical work in Toro, but were 
detained in Mengo, and early in 1903 Mrs. 
Bond died. 

On November 28th, 1902, the hospital was 

struck by lightning and burned to the ground. 

The heroic efforts of the Europeans and 

Natives were successful in saving all the 

121 



Ube MonDertul Storp of lIlGanCia. 

patients, but most of the surgical instruments 
were destroyed. 

The Baganda chiefs at once agreed to 
furnish bricks and timber for a new building 
to the extent of ;f 500. *' If God has allowed 
our hospital to perish," remarked the Katikiro, 
" it is to show that we must build a bigger and 
better one." "This is not the loss of the 
English people," said the Baganda, " it is our 
house that has been destroyed, and we must 
give the labour and make the bricks for a new 
building." Doubtless the new building will 
be more substantial and lasting than its pre- 
decessors. 

In this brief survey, not all the names of the 
European and Baganda helpers have been 
mentioned, and the medical work outside 
Mengo has been barely alluded to. 

The Uganda Railway. 

The earlier pages of this volume have given 
our readers glimpses at the hardships of 
African travel. But if those long journeys 
entailed toil and suffering on the missionaries, 
they had much more serious consequences for 
the porters. 

'' Sometimes," writes Mr. A. B. Lloyd, 
122 



peace m^ lErpanslon. 

** when I saw a poor, thin fellow, suffering the 
awful pano^s of hunger, and perhaps with a 
terrible ulcer on each leg, with his heavy load 
on his poor blistered shoulder, I almost wished 
I had no loads at all. And when I saw, as 
alas ! I did sometimes, one of these poor 
creatures fall down from sheer exhaustion, and 
see A. B. L. printed on the box he was carry- 
ing, it made my heart bleed with pity, and I 
felt half guilty. . . . But I could do nothing 
. . . there was no other way but this." 

No long journey or large caravan was 
organized which did not cost suffering and loss 
of life to many Natives, whether from their 
own improvidence as to food, through disease, 
or by the attacks of robbers, hostile Natives, 
and wild beasts. It is a common thing in the 
accounts of the early journeys to find noted the 
discovery of dead or dying porters on the line 
of march. No doubt the missionaries were far 
more humane in the treatment of their porters 
than other travellers or Arab traders, but these 
evils were an inevitable part of the system. 

Worse still, the porterage system was in- 
timately bound up with and fed by the slave 
trade, even if the porters themselves were not 
slaves. 

123 



Uhc MontJcrful Stor^ of XH^an^a. 

These considerations were pleaded by the 
Government, and, doubtless, had their weight 
with Parliament ; and it is an absolute fact that 
no greater blow to the slave trade on the East 
Coast of Africa has been struck than by the 
construction of the Uganda Railway. 

The difficulties of building the line were 
very great. Within the first 150 miles 
the waterless desert of Taro had to be 
traversed. Bishop Tucker has described his 
satisfaction at being able to look out of a rail- 
way carriage window as he was carried past the 
scene of former trying marches. Then the line 
began to mount through the Ukambani country 
and the Athi plains to the great plateau. At 
Nairobi, 326 miles from the coast, an altitude 
of 6,000 ft. had been reached. Further on, 
the line rises to nearly g,ooo ft. above the sea. 
Then it crosses the great Rift valley, twenty or 
thirty miles wide and 2,000 ft. deep. The 
engineering of this sudden drop, with the 
corresponding rise on the other side of the 
Rift, constitutes one of the greatest triumphs 
of the line. At length the Lake is reached, 600 
miles from the coast. 

The engineering difficulties were not the 
only ones which beset the contractors. The 
124 



iC^eace anb ]£jpansion. 

supply of local labourers was insufBcient, and 
the quality bad. Coolies had to be imported 
from India in large numbers, and the com- 
missariat for them presented problems of its 
own. Some districts along the hne were 
terrorized by lions, which carried off quite a 
number of the labourers, and are even said 
to have attacked a railway passenger in his 
carriage. 

The progress of the line was watched by 
friends of the Mission with eager interest, and 
the mileage available for travel recorded almost 
month by month. By the end of igoi the line 
was complete to Kisumu, or Port Florence, on 
Ugowe (now to be called Kavirondo) Bay. 
Interruptions of traffic occurred from time to 
time, either from wash-outs due to torrential 
rains or the attacks of Natives. But the 
railway now carries down to the coast in 
about three days' leisurely travelling those 
who formerly took months in tramping over the 
same ground. 

From Kisumu a service of fair-sized steamers 
now plies across the Lake to Entebbe in 
Uganda, taking about thirty hours over the 
transit. 

The railway has given a death-blow to the 
125 



Zbc Mon^ertul Stor^ ot IHGanba* 

porterage system in that part of Africa, though 
porters are still inevitably requisitioned for 
journeys in Uganda, Toro, and the central 
districts generally. It is proving an increasing 
highway of commerce. 



126 



Ube }Ever:»wi^entnG Circle- 



CHAPTER XIII. 
THE EVER-WIDENING CIRCLE. 

^ I "HE extension of the Mission to the pro- 
^ vinces of Uganda and then to the neigh- 
bouring countries opens out so many separate 
chapters in the story — too many in fact for a 
volume which does not attempt to be an ex- 
haustive history of the Mission. The writer 
has therefore not attempted to describe the 
gradual progress of the work in the outlying 
parts of Uganda or in Busoga, where the con- 
stitution of the country is very similar to that 
of Uganda itself. Toro, Usukuma, Bunyoro, 
the Bukedi country, and Nkole, however, 
possess strongly marked features of their own, 
meriting indeed in due time separate treatises 
in order to do them justice. Some account of 
these extensions is given as a sample of the 
whole. 

I. TORO. 

Some two hundred miles west of !\Iengo, and 
127 



Zbc Mon^erful Stor^ of XH^anba. 

on the east of the mighty mountain mass called 
Ruwenzori, is the country of Toro, similar in 
general character to Uganda, but on a higher 
level. Its people have long acknowledged the 
suzerainty of the Baganda, to w^hom they are 
akin, though they speak a language of their 
own. 

When first heard of in recent history, Toro 
was being ravaged by Kabarega, king of the 
neighbouring country of Bunyoro. In i8gi, 
Captain Lugard, as he then was, found himself 
without a sufficiently strong force wherewith to 
keep order in Uganda for the Imperial British 
East Africa Company ; so he journeyed west- 
ward to the south of the Albert Nyanza and 
enlisted a number of Soudanese living there, 
who had formerly been Emin Pasha's soldiers. 
On the way, he set on the throne the lad Kasa- 
gama, one of the '' royal " family of Toro, who 
was received with acclamation by the people. 
Yafeti, Kasagama's brother, was then in Mengo, 
whether as hostage or not the present writer 
has failed to discover, and had there been 
baptized: ''Yafeti" is the local translitera- 
tion of "Japheth." Capt. Lugard marched 
back with the Soudanese towards Uganda, 
founding forts at intervals and garrisoning 
128 



them with his new soldiers and their followers. 
These forts were intended to protect Toro 
from the slave-raiding Kabarega of Bunyoro. 

It was perhaps at this time that Yafeti had 
two teachers, Marko and Petero, from Uganda, 
to teach the Batoro. 

About eighteen months afterwards, however, 
Lugard having left Uganda, and the attention 
of the other Europeans being absorbed in the 
troubles in Uganda itself, the Soudanese 
ravaged the country they had been set to defend 
in the most barbarous manner. 

In 1894, Yafeti, who had fled to Uganda for 
refuge, being sent back to be chief of the 
province of Mwenzi in Toro, took with him 
Baganda teachers. 

These teachers met with immediate success. 
In his Annual Letter for 1895, the Rev. E. 
Millar wrote, '' The sale [of books] in Toro has 
been very large, over 300 reading-books having 
been sold in one day." This is the more 
remarkable because the books were in Luganda, 
a foreign language to the Batoro, and the 
teachers taught at first in the same foreign 
language. 

Baptism of the Klngr* 

Towards the end of 1S95, Kasagama and his 
129 K 



Zbc Mont)ettul Stor^ of XDlGanba. 

brother were both summoned to Mengo on 
some suspicion from which they cleared them- 
selves. During this visit, on March 15th, 1896, 
Kasagaraa w^as baptized, taking the name of 
Daudi (David). He soon showed himself to be 
a Christian in deed as well as in outward 
semblance. " A remarkably able and intelH- 
gent man, and appears to be full of zeal and 
energy," was Bishop Tucker's verdict on him. 
When King Daudi got back to Toro, he 
changed the name of his capital to Beteriemu, 
or Betelemeyu, that is Bethlehem. 

Bishop Tucker's First Visit. 

Two months later, Bishop Tucker paid a 
visit to Toro and found fifteen Baganda teachers 
there. A thousand Batoro were under instruc- 
tion. On May 8th, 1896, the first baptisms in 
Toro took place. Fifteen souls thus confessed 
Christ Among them was the Namasole or 
Queen-Mother. She took the name of Vikitoliya, 
that is Victoria, and the king's wife was bap- 
tized by the name of Daman. Four days later, 
on May 12th, the first confirmation took place. 
Nine men, one of whom was King Daudi, were 
confirmed. When any difficult matter came 
before him to decide, it was noted that the 
130 



Ube ]£ver=^vt^entnG dtrcle. 

king always asked, " What ought I to do as a 
Christian ? " 

A house for the missionary and a large church 
were commenced at once. Two Baganda 
teachers were retained at the capital and the 
rest placed out at other stations in couples. 

Mr. A. B. Lloyd arrived in the following July 
and began medical work. 

On the Edge of the Pygmy Forest. 

This same year Mr. A. B. Fisher, journeying 
westward beyond the Semliki river to Mboga, 
near the borders of the Congo Free State, found 
a good church holding 150 people, and twenty- 
five men and women able to read the New 
Testament. 

How had this come about ? When the 
Gospel was first preached in Toro, the chief of 
Mboga and some of his people, who happened 
to be in Toro, heard it. Baganda teachers 
were sent amongst them, and a little company 
of " readers " were soon formed. Tabola, the 
chief, was won over again by the lubare priests, 
and became a persecutor. The Baganda teachers 
went into hiding, but were secretly supplied 
with food by the ''readers." 

Tabola' s faith in the lubare priests was soon 
131 



Ubc Mon^ertul Stor^ of XHaanba, 

shaken. He consulted them as to the where- 
abouts of the Baganda teachers, and one of 
their diviners announced that the teachers had 
gone back to Toro. When he found out that 
he had been deceived he burst into a passion, 
denounced the lubare priests, and declared 
that the God of the Christians was a God of 
truth and that He should be his God. 

Then teachers and readers came out from 
hiding, the church was built, and all was 
prosperous. 

Then, early in 1897, Manyuema mutineers, 
rebels from the Congo Free State, raided the 
country, devastating everything, ''and once 
more," to use Bishop Tucker's phrase, " the 
Christians sought refuge in the long grass.' 

The King's Letter. 

In February, 1897, King Daudi of Toro 
dictated to Mr. A. B. Lloyd a letter to ''the 
Elders of the Church in Europe," appealing for 
more teachers. The following are some of its 
most touching sentences : — 

" I praise my Lord very, very much indeed for 
the Words of the Gospel He brought into my 
country, and my brothers, I thank you for sending 
teachers to come here to teach us such beautiful 
words. 

132 



Ubc Bvev*'Wt^etttng Circle- 

'' I therefore tell you that I want very much, God 
giving me strength, to arrange all the matters of 
this country for Him only, that all my people may 
understand that Christ Jesus, He is the Saviour of 
all countries, and that He is the King of all kings. 

" The people of this place have very great hunger 
indeed for the ' Bread of Life.' Many die every 
day while still in their sins, because they do not 
hear the Gospel. The teachers are few, and those 
who wish to read, many. Therefore, sirs, my dear 
friends, have pity on the people in great darkness. 

*' Also, my friends, help us ever}^ day in your 
prayers. I want my country to be a strong lantern 
that is not put out, in this land of darkness." 

In March, as if in answer to his petitions, the 
Rev, J. S. Callis arrived in Toro. He began 
his ministry with bright hopes, but on April 
24th he died at Mwenzi. '' Although so young 
to the work," wrote Bishop Tucker, " he had 
won the affection of the whole country-side." 

** Another Ugranda In Toro." 

At the end of 1897, Mr. Lloyd was in Mengo, 
and passed through the thrilling scenes of the 
siege of the mutineers at Luba's. The Rev. 
T. R. Buckley had taken his place in Toro. 

In July, 1898, the Bishop paid a second visit 
to Toro, and found not only twenty Baganda 
teachers maintained by the Church in Toro, 
133 



XTbe Mon^ertul Stors of tlGanba. 

but forty-five Batoro teachers also similarly 
maintained. Several chiefs had followed the 
example of the king. At the end of that 
year there were 222 baptized Christians, while 
the number of "readers" and adherents was 
very large. " In Toro," wrote the Bishop, '' we 
have to deal with another Uganda." 

The Story of Apolo and Seduraka. 

The Bishop journeyed on to Mboga, which was 
peaceful and prosperous once more. But after 
the Congo mutineers had disappeared further 
trouble had been experienced. The Bishop 
tells the story as follows : — 

'' With the passing of the mutineers came a 
return of prosperity, which received another blow 
by a most unexpected incident. This was nothing 
less than the arrest of Apolo, the principal teacher, 
on a charge of murder. It came about in this way : 
a spear had been left outside the house of a Chris- 
tian woman named Mariamu in a most awkward 
position ; an alarm of some sort was raised outside, 
and the poor woman rushed out, tripped and fell, 
impaling herself on the spear. The whole thing 
was a pure accident. Apolo, however, happened to 
be passing near the spot, and, hearing the groans or 
the poor woman, went to her assistance. Seeing 
her desperate condition, he called some men near by 
to come to his help . On seeing what had happened, 

134 



Ube Bver^wtbenin^ Circle. 

they accused him of murdering the woman. He 
was brought before the chief, who sent the prisoner 
with his accusers to Toro. Owing to the absence 
of the officer in charge of the district, he was kept 
in prison for some time ; but on the arrival of 
Captain Sitwell, he was discharged without even 
the formahty of a trial. 

" It would be impossible for me to speak too highly 
of both Apolo and Seduraka, our two teachers at 
Mboga. The former has suffered much for the 
cause of Christ. He has had false accusations more 
than once made against him ; he has been in the 
chain gang, as well as in prison ; he has been 
beaten, and suffered the loss of all of his property- 
Actually, while in prison, he taught his fellow- 
prisoners to read. He has given up the comforts 
of home, and the comparatively luxurious life in 
Uganda for the isolation and hard living of a 
strange land — and all that he may bear his part in 
the work of evangelizing the Heathen. 

'' Nor is Seduraka one whit behind his brother 
in evangelistic zeal. When he visited Uganda a 
short while since, his friends said to him, ' Surely 
you are not going back to such an out-of-the-way 
place as Mboga ? ' ' Yes, I am,' he said ; and when 
he persisted and commenced to make preparations 
for his journey, they seized and tied him, declaring 
that he was a madman. He managed, however, to 
escape from their clutches, and is now at work at 
his old station. I would that there were many 
such madmen in the world as Apolo and Seduraka. 
^35 



Ube Mon^ertul Storp of m^auDa. 

It is largely owing to their steadfastness and zeal, 
to their courage and fidelity to their iMaster, that the 
work at Mboga has assumed its present dimensions, 
and is so bright with hope for the future." 

During the Bishop's visit, thirteen persons 
were baptized and seven confirmed at Mboga, 
the firstfruits of that neighbourhood ; and some 
tribes actually inhabiting the Pygmy Forest 
asked for teachers. 

In this year, 1898, Mr. Lloyd obtained leave 
to go back to England by way of the Congo, 
and passed through the forest with only a few 
Baganda lads. His most interesting adventures 
are narrated in his book, In Dwarf Land and 
Cannibal Country, 

At the End of the Century. 

The last year of the century left a record of 
wonderful progress in Toro. The baptized 
Christians had increased to 667, besides 332 
catechumens, and the teachers, male and 
female, numbered 126. 

The Bishop visited Toro in December, and 
ordained Apolo Kivebulaya, the brave evan- 
gelist of Mboga. European women missionaries 
made their first appearance in Toro in this 
year, and were received rapturously. 

136 



TLhc E\?er*vvi^ening (Ttrcle. 

The First Pygmy Convert. 

In igoi the Mission made great strides, as 
may be judged by the fact that three men and 
three women missionaries were assigned to it, 
and that when the marking out of church sites 
was undertaken, no less than 165 had been 
assigned to Toro. Classes for women teachers, 
schools for the children, a dispensary, and, in 
fact, all the agencies of a Mission were in full 
working order. The baptized converts had 
doubled since the previous year; they were 
now 1,346, with 600 catechumens. 

At Mboga, the first Pygmy, or, to use the 
correct tribal name, the first of the Babatwa 
was baptized in the person of a lad of twelve 
whose name was Blasiyo Mutwa. 

In 1902. 

In the last year reported on, the baptized 
Christians in Toro had increased to 1,782, with 
427 catechumens, and the teachers numbered 
238. 

In the school the Katikiro himself was to 
be seen, wrestling with elementary arithmetic. 
At first he clung tenaciously to the view that 
twice two made twenty, and that thirteen 
should be written 103 ; and when at length he 
^37 



Zbc TlClonbettul Storp of XDiganba* 

understood the notation, he rubbed his hands 
with delight, exclaiming, " Oh ! what wisdom 
we have ! " 

2. USUKUIYIA. 

The south-eastern corner of Lake Victoria 
is connected with the earliest parts of the 
Uganda Mission story ; for the missionaries 
who toiled along the southern route reached 
the Lake by way of Usukuma, and the stations 
of Msalala and Usambiro successively appear 
in the records of their journeys. The stations 
set up in the country were intended as the last 
links in a chain of Missions leading from the 
coast to Uganda. 

Sad memories grouped round Usukuma in 
those early days. True, the murder of Sher- 
gold Smith and O'Neill took place at Ukerewe 
on the other side of Speke Gulf; but Dr. John 
Smith died at Kagei. 

A Deadly Mission. 

When the rapacity of the chiefs caused the 
abandonment of Msalala, Usambiro was fixed 
on as a site ; and when Bishop Tucker visited 
the station on his first journey to Uganda, he 
found five graves of missionaries there — the 
graves of Mackay, of Bishop Parker, of Black- 
burn, of Hunt, and of Dunn. 

138 



Zhc iBvcv^voit^cnim Circle* 

Mr. Douglas A. L. Hooper opened the 
station at Nassa in January, 1888, and was 
ioined by Mr. D. Deekes in March. Mr. 
Deekes left invalided, and never returned to 
the station. The Rev. J. V. Dermott reached 
Nassa in i8go, but died in 1892. In 1896 the 
Rev. E. H. Hubbard left, on account of health, 
and was accidentally shot whilst on his way 
back to the field. In June of the same year 
Mr. J. P. Nickisson died. Thus the Rev. F. H. 
Wright, who had arrived some few months 
previously, was left alone. Mr. Whitehouse 
arrived in 1897, Mr. Force-Jones in 1898, and 
the Rev. J. W. Purser in 1899 ; but Mr. Force- 
Jones had to retire owing to fever in the latter 
year, and Mr. Wright and Mr. Whitehouse 
came home on furlough in 1900. The Rev. 
Martin J. Hall visited the Mission in 1901, but 
was drowned in a storm on the lake as he was 
returning. Till the Rev. F. H. Wright went 
back to the Mission in 1901 the Natives had 
never seen again one who had left them ! 

The Country and the People. 

When Mr. Force-Jones came home, the 
writer had a conversation with him in which 
Mr. Force-Jones embodied an outline of the 
139 



XTbe Mon^erful Ston? of XHoanba* 

information obtainable about the Mission. 
The following is an extract from it : — 

" ' Our small-scale maps do not convey any notion 
of distances,' I remarked. 'How big is Speke 
Gulf, for instance ? ' 

"'Sixty miles long by twenty broad,' replied 
Mr. Force- Jones, ' but it is narrower at its mouth. 
Kilabello, where I worked for part of my time, 
among the Ba-jita, is on the north shore. The 
kingdom of Shashi lies more inland, and is bounded 
by the River Ruwana, which is a swift-running 
stream all the year round. Usukuma proper is 
south and west of the river.' 

" ' Have the kings you refer to any real influence 
over large areas ? ' I asked. 

'''Certainly,' said Mr. Force-Jones. 'The 
kingdom of Burima, which is called Nassa in 
England, is quite three days' journey across, and 
that of Shashi is still larger. Each is independent 
of the other.' 

" 'The country is thickly populated, I believe ? ' 
said I. 

" ' Yes. Of course there is no means of arriving 
at a trustworthy estimate of the numbers. One 
thing which would make it difficult is the manner 
in which the people live — not in towns or large 
villages, but in endless small hamlets. Each is 
enclosed within a stockade, and contains one 
family and its household — say perhaps fifteen or 
twenty persons.' 

140 



XTbe ]Ev>et«*wt^entno Circle. 

" ' Something like what they call in India " com- 
pounds" ? ' 

" ' I suppose so. It happens in this way. A man 
has a daughter. If a young man wishes to marry 
the girl, and has not enough to pay for her at 
once, he pays down say thirty goats. Then he 
goes to live in his father-in-law's " village " until he 
has paid off the remainder of his debt, at the rate 
of two goats a month. A wife is valued at about 
a hundred goats on an average. When he has 
completed his purchase he leaves his father-in- 
law's village and starts one of his own. The richer 
he gets the more wives he buys, and the bigger 
his village becomes. There are dozens of these 
villages within a short distance of Nassa, though 
perhaps there are not more than a hundred and 
fifty people who live quite close. From Nassa to 
Mwanza there are villages all the way, so near that 
you can always shout from one to another. Some- 
times you may walk for days past an uninterrupted 
string of them, and I have never been more than 
four hours' march without seeing one.' 

" ' How do the people get their living ? ' 

" ' They cultivate sweet potatoes and a coarse 
grain, which the Swahilis call mtama. They make 
a sort of porridge with it. Goats I have just men- 
tioned. They also pasture cattle for the sake of 
the milk and butter. The men drink the skim- 
milk, and the women the butter-milk. They 
seldom kill their cattle, except for such an occasion 
as a wedding, but only eat the beasts that die a 
141 



XTbe Mon^ettul Stor^ of n^anba. 

natural death. I remember a chief who heard we 
were eating beef, and expressed his sorrow for our 
misfortune in losing, as he supposed, one of our 
cows. The same chief afterwards sent us the leg 
of a cow that had died, but we gave it away to 
our people. Fowls are plentiful enough, and very 
cheap — about a halfpenny each. No woman may 
eat a fowl, nor, strangely enough, may a king do 
so.' 

" ' What do you missionaries eat ? ' 

*' ' Chiefly meat and Indian corn. On a journey 
we carry fowls with us in a basket. Your cook- 
boy will, if you do not watch him, carry them head 
downwards, with their legs tied together.' 

'' ' Have you been able to discover any religious 
system amongst the Natives ? ' was my next ques- 
tion. It produced a string of answers here placed 
together as one. 

" ' No. So far as I could ascertain they have no 
idea of the future life, and no gods in the ordi- 
nary sense of the word. They have, however, a 
number of superstitious practices. Devil-huts are 
very common in the villages or in the corn-fields. 
They are made of dried grass, and rather more 
than three feet high. There is nothing in them 
but a little corn or some other offering placed there 
in the morning, and soon picked up by the birds. 

" ' When the Basukuma are going on a journey 
a fowl is killed in the path along which they are 
going, and the entrails are inspected to see if the 
journey will be fortunate. 
142 



TLbc iBvcv^voi^cnim Circle. 

"' The women have a curious custom of curtsey- 
ing to every man just as httle village girls in Eng- 
land do to the vicar or the squire. They say, "It 
is our custom ; we do it to your father." I believe 
that it is in some way connected with spirit or 
ancestor worship. 

" ' There are medicine-men w^ho work with 
charms. For instance, if you want a charm against 
thieves the medicine-man ties a lion's claw on his 
upper arm and mixes a number of herbs together. 
Then he stirs the mixture with the lion's claw, and 
gives you the pot of " medicine." You pour it 
over the entrance to your village, or keep the pot 
somewhere in the village ; and then if any one 
comes to steal you are assured that he will be struck 
with sickness. 

" ' The only superstition involving cruelty is the 
rain-making. Rain falls in our neighbourhood 
with great regularity, and its coming at the end 
of October may be predicted almost to a day. 
Nevertheless, the kings always make medicine to 
bring rain. If the rain does not come at the time 
prophesied, it is given out that a child has stopped 
its coming. So a child is sought for, generally 
one whose top teeth have been cut first, or one 
with a cast in the eye or a hare-lip, and is thrown 
into the lake. Our missionaries have been able to 
prevent this when they have happened to be at 
hand. 

" ' I have never met with hands cut off or any 
such mutilations, which are still seen in Uganda 

143 



Ube Mon^erful Stori^ of xa^an^a, 

as relics of the old heathen time. However, I 
ought to mention that the Natives have no word 
for "murder" as apart from the killing of an 
animal. That fact, perhaps, shows an indifference 
to human life.' 

" ' What is the attitude of the people towards 
the Gospel ? ' I asked. 

" ' The chiefs are friendly and ask for teachers. 
It is not the desire for a white man. They are 
content to have a native teacher.' 
" ' How do you carry on the work ? ' 
" ' We have three stations, Guta and Kilabello 
among the Ba-jita, besides Nassa itself, and we 
have out-stations. We took turns to go to the 
northern stations. We have a staff of ten Ba- 
ganda teachers, six regular Basukuma teachers, 
and other helpers. We fix a centre and then 
itinerate from it. The white missionary teaches 
the native helpers and then they go and reproduce 
what he has said. As a rule they do it very well. 
Most of our Christians know the Bible history 
pretty thoroughly.' 

" ' You place great reliance on teaching ? ' 
'''Yes,' said Mr. Force- Jones, 'some of the 
best results may be traced to it. We are now 
reaping the fruits of teaching by Hubbard and 
Nickisson years ago. In our schools we begin 
with the reading-book, like the Luganda inateka^ 
and then go on to teach the Old and New 
Testament. We have the four Gospels printed in 
Kisukuma.' 

144 



Ube ]E\>er='^vt^ening Circle. 

'* I showed Mr. Force- Jones the picture of the 
church, and asked him to explain it. 

" ' It was built by the Christians,' he said. 
' They wouldn't let any of the Heathen help be- 
cause they wished to show that being a Christian 
didn't make a man lazy. I believe there is no 
other church in Central Africa built of stone and 
by none but Christian labour. The church holds 
about two hundred people, but there is a larger 
church at Nassa which holds six hundred.' 

" ' What type of Christians are they ? ' 

" * Real and true, I trust. We have not had 
more than three backsliders that I can remember. 
Daudi Mbasa, the first convert, refused an impor- 
tant chieftainship and put away a number of wives. 
He is now a teacher. Our Christians are not " rice 
Christians." They live in their own villages, 
among their own people. There are no rich men 
among them, though the king of Nassa's eldest 
son wishes to be a Christian, and all the king's 
sons are '' reading." To show the spirit of our 
people I might tell you of a woman who didn't 
come to Holy Communion for some time because 
she had no offering to put into the basket. After 
a while she came again. Then we found out that 
her husband, who was a Heathen, objected to her 
giving anything that belonged to him, so she 
occupied the middle of the day, when her time was 
her own, in planting and tending ground-nuts, 
which she sold so as to be able to give something 
to God's work.' 

145 L 



Zbc 'Mon^cxtwl Stovv of XTlganba* 

" ' What are the prospects of the Mission ? ' I 
asked. 

'' ' Very bright in comparison with some of the 
coast stations, though of course not so brilliant as 
in Uganda. We are, as I said, beginning to reap 
the fruits of the work of our predecessors. Sunday 
is observed by Heathen and Christians alike round 
the shores of Speke Gulf. We run up the red- 
cross flag to let the people know it is the Sabbath 
Day.' " 

3. BUNYORO. 

The appearances of Bunyoro in the early 
history of the Uganda Mission are usually in 
the light of an unreached kingdom of slave- 
raiders, whose king, Kabarega, was a name of 
terror. We have seen, for instance, how 
Lugard established a line of forts between Toro 
and Bunyoro to restrain the Bunyoro raids. 

In 1894 this bad pre-eminence of Bunyoro 
received a great check, for an army of Baganda 
under British officers drove Kabarega out of 
his kingdom and established forts in Bunyoro 
itself. This was the expedition which Pilking- 
ton accompanied as chaplain, when he learned 
how little the Gospel was known outside 
Mengo. 

In November, 1895, Mr. A. B. Fisher 
itinerated in Bunyoro, made friends with some 
146 



XTbe Ever^wt^entnG Circle. 

of the chiefs, and visited Kawola, the former 
capital of Kabarega, where he stayed ten days. 
He left two of his Baganda '' boys" as teachers 
and found or built a church. 

In October, 1896, the Rev. H. R. Sugden 
passed through Kawola, and reported that the 
work was progressing. 

In September, 189S, a little more attention 
was given to Bunyoro. Three and a half years 
before, probably in the expedition above re- 
ferred to, a little son of Kabarega's, named 
Kiteyimbwa or Kitiamba, together with a sister 
ten years older, had been captured and de- 
tained in Mengo. Early in 1898 the British 
administration selected this boy, now ten years 
old, as king in place of the banished Kabarega, 
and appointed the girl as " queen sister," or 
Lubuga. Both had become '' readers " in 
Mengo. To Mr. H. B. Lewin the two were 
entrusted, and he escorted them to Masindi or 
Busindi, the capital, where they were not very 
favourably received by the chiefs. 

Mr. Lewin described Masindi as consisting 
of the European fort, the king's enclosure, and 
some 500 huts. The people seemed to him 
inferior to the Baganda ; they were clothed in 
skins, and covered all over with charms. The 
147 



XTbe Mon^eltul Story of XDlgan^a, 

most important man in the country was Bya- 
bachwezi, chief of Kawola, a place two marches 
(thirty-five miles) to the west of Busindi. Mr. 
Lewin found that Byabachwezi could read a 
Gospel, and that he had built a church at 
Kawola which had been burned down some 
time previously. 

Mr. Lewin taught the young king and his 
sister and others, and when he went away left 
behind him Tomasi Semfuma, then a lay 
reader, to continue the work. 

In the followmg February, Bishop Tucker 
visited Bunyoro with Mr. A. B. Fisher, and 
baptized the boy king by the name of Yosiya, 
and his sister, who was ten years older than 
himself, by the name of Vikitoliya Miria. Mr. 
Fisher went on with the Bishop to Kawola, 
and was afterwards stationed at Masindi. 
Thus for the first time a European missionary 
was resident in Bunyoro. 

The Superstitions of the Banyoro. 

Mr. Fisher was the first to set down definite 
information about the religion of the Banyoro. 
The following extract gives a short statement 
of his discoveries : — 

'* The Banyoro believed in a great devil, called 
148 



Ube Erer^wl^entna Circle. 

Byachwezi, and his ten angels, called — (i) Nya- 
buzana, (2) Kvomya, (3) Kagolo, (4) Mulindwa, 
(5) Ndaura, (6) Ebona, (7) Mugenye, (8) Mukasa, 
(9) Lubanga, and (10) Namutali. When these 
angels were conoulted, the priest placed on his 
head the crown peculiar to each ; otherwise the 
oracle was dumb. The ritual of devil-worship in 
Bunyoro was most horrible. Propitiation at the 
favourable time was the remedy for every evil or 
disaster. This took the form of (a) human sacrifice, 
{d) cutting with sharp knives, (c) burning with 
fire, and (d) extracting teeth in lower jaw, that 
the life, the blood, the smoke of human flesh, 
and the dedication of human teeth might turn the 
great devil from his stern purpose. The moment 
a baby is born it is scarred with a sharp knife and 
dedicated to the devil. If it has a pain in the head 
or chest and cries, the devil is angry, and the little 
creature is burned with a red-hot iron on the head 
and chest, that the human smoke may drive away 
lubare. When the poor baby's teeth arrive, 
instead of being a cause of delight to the mother, 
she painfully extracts them. Amongst my daily 
patients is a little girl with a deep wound in her 
forehead, caused by her mother firing a blunt arrow 
at the child's head that she might draw the blood 
and cure the pain." 

The superstition of the chiefs may be illus- 
trated by the fact that when Kabarega was 
captured in April, 1899, and the rain held 
149 



Zbc Mon^erful Storp of IHganba* 

off, the chiefs went to Col. Evatt and asked 
him not to withhold the rain any longer. 
''Are not you now our rain-maker," said they, 
" since Kabarega's capture ? " 

Bunyoro as It was. 

Mr. Fisher notes the following curious facts 
about Bunyoro and its king before its con- 
quest : — 

'* The king had about 10,000 cattle and 20,000 
sheep. The cattle were herded in twenty different 
districts of Bunyoro, each herd being of the one 
colour. Special white cows with long horns were 
kept inside the king's enclosure at night, and 
milked before the king. Round the necks of these 
cows were small iron bells, which served to warn 
every one to get quickly out of the way of the cows 
as they went out to feed, under pain of death. 

" Cows in Bunyoro were groomed as horses in 
England. Seven loads of common salt were thrown 
every day into the well from which the cows drank. 
The king's numerous wives were sent out to the 
different cowherds in rotation that they might 
fatten on milk, not being allowed to take any 
exercise. 

" The majority of Kabarega's wives belonged to 
the Bahima tribe, who are considered here the 
royal race. They are tall, possessing European 
features, and are shades lighter than the other 
Natives. They have very polished manners, and 

150 



Ube iBvct^voi^cninQ Circle. 

are also much more intelligent than their neigh- 
bours. Kabarega was particular about his food, 
and lived chiefly upon beef, goat meat, and milk, 
while fowls, sheep, potatoes, and beans were ex- 
cluded from the royal table. He never took any 
exercise, and was consequently very fat. In the 
morning he heard cases and gave judgments, and 
the remainder of the day was spent lounging 
about, surrounded by his wives, who kept away 
the flies, polished his nails, and paid him other 
similar attentions, while they kept up a running 
fire of the boldest flattery. Every one addressed 
him by a word meaning ' there is none greater.' 

" His country was divided into eleven provinces, 
under provincial chiefs, who were directly ap- 
pointed by the king, had power of life and death, 
and could not be put to death themselves. On 
their appointment they were given a curious 
crown called nkom/o, which they wore in silence 
in his august presence once every new moon. 
The crown was in shape like a small beehive, 
covered with red, white, and blue beads, wrought 
in small pyramids round the sides, with a top-knot 
of parrot feathers worked into a small grass ball. 
It was said to contain part of the jaw-bone of a 
previous king. The chin- strap was made of fine 
grass, and weighted with the skin of a long-haired' 
goat peculiar to Busoga.'' 

••Gun-cap's" First Sermon. 

A first reading-book put, some years before, 
151 



XTbe monberful Ston? of IHGan^a. 

into the hands of a young Munyoro, called 
Fatake {" Gun-cap ") from his fiery nature, 
had been the means of his conversion, and he 
was baptized by the name of Mika. Just 
about this time the lad preached his first 
sermon. Said he : — 

"People told me, ' If you become a Christian you 
will lose everything ' ; but what have I lost except 
my evil habits ? They told me I should become 
dumb if I did not worship the devil, but my 
mouth is now wide open. They fled in terror 
from around me as I took the devil and his ten 
angels and burned them with fire, because they 
thought if they stood by they would die with me, 
but here I am alive and talking to you in this 
church. My friends, put 3'ourselves under Jesus : 
He is a good Master. Leave lubare : he is a bad 
master." 

This lad is spoken of by Mr. Fisher as the 
first Munyoro convert. 

The Rev. Nua Nakiwafu was put in charge 
at Kawola in June, 1899. 

At the end of that year there were 1,200 
persons under instruction, twenty-nine baptized 
converts, twenty out-stations, worked by four 
Christian chiefs, two local teachers, and twelve 
Baganda missionaries. 

Mr. Fisher's friend, Byabachwezi, chief of 
15^ 



Uhc iBvcv^m^cnirxQ Circle* 

Bugaya, was amongst those baptized. He took 
the name of Paulo, and married shortly after- 
wards Damari Kalijuka, a bright Christian 
princess. 

Mr. H. H. Farthing joined the Mission at 
Masindi in October, i8gg. In the following 
summer, Mr. Fisher was transferred to Toro 
and the Rev. C. H. T. Ecob took his place. 

It is noted that at this time some Baganda 
teachers began work among the Bakedi at 
Foweira and Fajao, eastward of Masindi to- 
wards the Nile, but the attempt was not long 
continued. A church was built at a place 
called Ngogli, Mr. Farthing moved on to 
Kawola, but went back to Masindi when in 
October, 1900, Mr. and Mrs. A. B. Lloyd arrived 
at Kawola. 

The Founding of Holma. 

About the same period the sub-commissioner, 
Mr. G. Wilson, determined to found a new 
capital at Hoima, on the direct route between 
Albert Lake and Mengo. Thither Paulo Bya- 
bachwezi had already gone to settle. He had 
been made Regent to the King, with the pros- 
pect of being Katikiro later. 

Mr. Lloyd describes a wonderful service held 
i5i 



Ube Monbertul Stori^ ol XHganba* 

on the occasion of a visit from King Daudi 
Kasagama of Toro and several Christian chiefs. 
One after another got up and testified what 
the Gospel had done for them. " The last 
time we came to you here in this country," 
said Petero Kasuju, "we came with shields 
and spears in our hands and hatred in our 
hearts ; now we stand before you with God's 
Word in our hands and His love in our 
hearts." 

Dr. and Mrs. A. R. Cook were present from 
Mengo and did valuable medical work. Lunyoro 
was definitely adopted instead of Luganda 
as the language in which teaching should be 
done. 

In 1900 Mr. Ecob made some interesting 
journeys in the Bukedi country with a view to 
the evangelization of that wild people. 

A New Kingr. 

In 1902 the chiefs went in a body to the sub- 
commissioner and asked that the young King 
Yosiya, who had proved weak and unfit, should 
be deposed, and named another son of Ka- 
barega's whom they wished to see on the 
throne. Their choice had fallen on Andereya, 
a young man of twenty, a zealous Christian, 
154 



Ube JEvcxAVi^cning Circle. 

and possessed of great qualities as a leader. 
The joy of the missionaries was great, for no 
Christian worker had been more constantly 
helpful than he. The Mission had advanced 
so much that teachers' conferences were now 
held. At one of these a great struggle with the 
spirit or devil worship at the Kibere salt mines 
was described. 

Mr. Ecob returned home to England in 
igo2, and the Rev. H. W. Tegart joined the 
Mission, taking up his position at Bugoma, 
nearer to the Toro border than Hoima. 

Mr. Tegart itinerated among the hitherto 
unreached Ba-lega, who live west of Lake Albert, 
which resulted in fifteen Baganda teachers 
being sent to them. His story of his visit should 
be read in his annual letter for igo2. 

At the beginning of 1903 Mr. H. H. Farthing 
died of haematuric fever. 

The total number of Christians in Bunyoro 
at the end of 1902 was 349, including catechu- 
mens, and the total number of native teachers 
115- 

4. BEYOND LAKE KIOCA. 

When the Rev. G. R. Blackledge was at 
home in England in 1900 he described to the 
155 



XTbe Monbertul Stor^ of ngant)a, 

author a strange expedition which he had 
made in the previous year from his Mission in 
North Busoga. 

He had journeyed three or four days unti 
he came to the shore of Lake Kioga, to the 
north-east of his Mission. He crossed in a 
canoe and slept for a night on an island. 
Thence next day he crossed to the main land 
beyond, with his Baganda boys. The strange 
unclothed people, utterly different from Baganda 
or Basoga, crowded round him. Girls thrust out 
their tongues at him to show that they wore 
rings through them, and then showed that 
they could work off the rings if they liked. 

A Terrifying Debate. 

Uncanny as this sight was, Mr. Blackledge 
had to experience one more terrifying. A sort 
of palaver was held, to which a crowd of men 
came fully armed. Mr. Blackledge, through 
an interpreter, invited the Natives to receive 
teachers. 

The discussion was carried on interminably. 
Each debater marched up and down between 
the long lines of men as he spoke, brandishing 
shield and spear to emphasize his words. At 
length the answer was given. " Formerly the 

156 



XTbe Bv>er=*^vi^entn9 Circle. 

Baganda used to make raids upon us. The 
teaching that has made such a change must 
be good. We will receive the teaching." 

The Rev. T. R. Buckley's Visit. 

In January, 1900, the Rev. T. R. Buckley 
paid a longer visit to the country. The writer, 
then editor of the Church Missionary Gleaner, 
had a long conversation with him, which was 
printed in that magazine in May, 1901, 
and part of which is printed here, as a 
convenient way of presenting the facts thus 
elicited : — 

" * I understand you have been in the Bakedi 
country, Mr. Buckley,' I remarked. 

" ' Yes,' he replied ; ' I spent two or three weeks 
amongst them in January last year, when I was 
stationed in tJie province of Bukoba.' 

'' ' Quite near, then,' I suggested. 

" ' That depends on what you call ' near,' he 
answered. ' It took me seven days — four days 
walking and three days in canoes down the Nile 
and across Lake Kioga before I reached Bukedi.' 

" ' I see,' said I, glancing at the map, ' that the 
lake is very curious in shape.' 

" ' Yes,' returned Mr. Buckley. ' The Natives 
regard it as not one lake but three. It is very 
difficult to make out the exact outline, for there 
are a number of floating islands in it, made of 

157 



Zhc Monbertul Stor^ of XIlGan^a» 

vegetable matter, like the sudd which was lately 
cleared away from the Nile south of Khartoum. 
These floating islands had tall papyrus reeds grow- 
ing on them.' 

" ' Before you go any further,' said I, ' 1 should 
like to know how you came to go on this visit.' 

" ' You may remember,' replied Mr. Buckley, 
' that when King Mwanga of Uganda and King 
Kabarega of Bunyoro failed in their rebellion they 
fled to Bukedi, and had to be rooted out from that 
country. After they were captured, Bukedi was 
put under the care of a Muganda chief, named 
Semei Kakungula — ' 

"' A Christian ? ' I asked, interrupting. 

" ' A very earnest Christian,' was the emphatic 
reply, " and an able man. An English officer told 
me that he considered Semei the bravest Native 
he had ever known. Well, Semei went into the 
country with a large body of his men, to police it, 
so' to speak. And my purpose in visiting it w^as to 
reconnoitre, and to see if there were any openings 
for missionary work.' 

" ' Semei w^elcomed you, I suppose ? ' said I. 

" ' You shall judge from what I tell you,' said he. 
' I arrived on a Friday. Semei gathered his men 
together, some hundreds of them, and in twelve 
hours they had built and thatched a large reed 
church, ready for the Sunday. On Sunday I held 
service in it ; there were a congregation of 250 
Baganda, Semei's followers. Fifty of them stayed 
to Holy Communion.' 

158 



Zbc iE\>eiv\vl^emnci Circle* 

" ' By that time you were among the Bakedi, of 
course ? ' 

"* Yes,' replied Mr. Buckley, 'in fact, Semei's 
house was in what had been a Bakedi village. 
Their houses, by the way, are different from those 
of the Baganda. They are round, like bee-hives, 
not of reeds as in Uganda, but of poles intertwined 
with grass, plastered over with mud, and also 
thatched with grass. The roof comes down to 
within four feet of the ground, and the low door is 
not more than about three feet high. Each house 
is about twelve feet in diameter. A man and his 
family would live in each, but when a man gets 
more wives than one — they practice polygamy — he 
builds a fresh hut for each wife. In fact, a village 
seems to consist of the houses of one large family. 
I suppose that if a man got important enough in 
his own e3'es, he would go off and start a new 
village for himself. The goats and fowls lived in 
the houses with the human beings.' 

" ' Then they were not over clean, I expect ? ' 
said I. 

" Mr Buckley smiled. ' When I lived in a 
Bakedi house,' said he significantly, ' I took 
care to put down a thick layer of grass on the 
floor.' 

" Then, resuming his description, he continued : 
' Each village was surrounded b}^ a cactus hedge, 
as a protection against wild animals and enemies. 
Inside the enclosure I noticed a smaller enclosure, 
also of cactus.' 

159 



Ubc Mon^ertul Storp of Xllganba* 

" ' Something connected with worship ? ' was my 
conjecture. 

" * No. You would never guess. I was told it 
was for a man to run into if he saw his mother-in- 
law coming ! I did not discover the origin of this 
custom. In Uganda itself there is a certain dread 
of the mother-in law.' 

" Mr. Buckley proceeded : ' There is another 
curious arrangement in their villages. All the un- 
married girls are sent into one house at night, and 
ashes are sprinkled on the ground outside, so that 
if any of them went out their footmarks would 
betray them. 

" ' All the lads and unmarried men sleep in a 
similar hut outside the village enclosure, perched 
on a platform about eight feet high. In order 
to reach the platform they have to climb up a pole 
which leans against it, and serves as a ladder. 
When the}^ are all shut in, ashes are sprinkled on 
the ground round the platform.' 

" ' Mr. Blackledge once told me,' said I, turning 
to another topic, ' that the girls wore rings through 
their tongues. I understood him to say that they 
would put out the tongue and show the ring 
piercing it, then draw it in, work the ring off, and 
show the tongue again without the ring. Did you 
see anything of that sort ? ' 

" ' I saw plenty of tongues pierced with rings,' 

Mr. Buckley replied, ' but I cannot say I noticed 

the Bakedi girls working their tongue-rings off" and 

on. Of course that is merely an accident. The 

i6o 



Ube i£ver*wi^entna Circle. 

rings must have been clenched through the tongue, 
and if they were not clenched tight it would be 
easy to withdraw them.' 

" ' It is the most extraordinary fashion I ever 
heard of,' I remarked. 

"'Not more extraordinary,' said Mr. Buckley, 
* than some other things I saw. I noticed men 
with holes pierced through the chin of such a shape 
that a hook-shaped piece of bone or ivory could be 
inserted, to which a brass or iron ornament was 
attached. I remember another man who had 
pieces of stick thrust through holes in his lips, so 
big and long that he had to take them out when he 
wished to speak, because they hurt his tongue. I 
have seen holes pierced all round the lips, round 
the edge of the ears and outlining the eyebrows, 
and beads stuck in all the holes ! ' 

" ' You saw nose-rings, I suppose ? ' 

" 'Yes,' said he, 'I saw rings through both sides 
and also through the middle cartilage of the nose. 
Of course they also wore anklets and bracelets. 
They were particularly addicted to rings round the 
upper arm.' 

" ' I expect you saw some oddities in the way of 
head-dress too,' I suggested. 

'' ' A good many,' Mr. Buckley agreed. ' For 
instance, in some cases the men shaved off all their 
hair except a little tuft, and on this then placed a 
little wicker-work basket or hat, about the size of a 
tea-cup ! Then I saw hats of cocks' feathers, stuck 
on with some resinous substance. Then, again, I 
l6l M 



XTbe Mon^ertul Storp of maan^a. 

have seen men who wore iron head-pieces with 
horns sticking out to imitate buffalo-horns.' 

" ' By the way,' -"^aid 1, ' all this time I haven't 
asked you what the people looked like.' 

" ' I thought them a fine race,' he answered. 
* They are quite as tall as the average Englishman, 
well-proportioned, and carry themselves well. I 
never saw such runners as they are.' 

" ' Not very brave, then,' I interjected. 

" ' I don't mean that at all. On the contrary, the 
Baganda used to have a wholesome fear of them. I 
was witness to a scene which showed their bold 
spirit. Whilst I was in Bukedi I took a journe}' to 
a place ten hours distant from Semei's village, with 
an escort. On the way we stopped at a Bakedi 
village, and whilst we were there one of our men — 
not a Christian, and, I am glad to say not a 
Muganda — stole a hoe. The Bakedi were in a 
great rage. One of the Baganda cried out, ' They 
are running for their spears ! ' and picked up his 
gun to fire. I told him to keep quiet. Then I 
asked the Bakedi what was the matter. When I 
understood, I had all the bundles searched. The 
hoe was found, so I ordered the thief to be tied up, 
and made him carry a load, though he was not a 
porter. Then I told the Bakedi that he would be 
tried and punished by his own chief It was a 
trifling incident, but it showed that though the 
Baganda had guns, the Bakedi were not afraid 
of them.' 

" ' You spoke of spears,' I remarked. 
162 



XTbe Bver^wi^eniuG Circle. 

'^ ' They used a light spear for throwing,' 
explained my patient informant, 'and shields made 
of elephant or buffalo hide.' 

" ' And then those hoes,' I went on. ^ do they 
make them ? ' 

" ' No, they obtain those from the Banyoro, who 
work in iron, in exchange for goats and sheep.' 

" ' Then the Bakedi are an agricultural people,' 
was my comment. 

'* ' They till the land and they keep large flocks 
of cattle,' he answered. ' The grain they cultivate 
is a sort of millet, which they call du/o. It is 
coarsely ground and boiled. The tillage is done by 
the men and not by the women, as in Uganda. 
There are no bananas. They don't kill the cattle, 
but only eat the animals that die. They make a 
kind of beer from the millet, by pouring hot water 
over it and letting it ferment.' 

" ' Have they any other occupations ? ' 

" ' They amuse themselves of course. They are 
as fond of drumming as most Africans. Some of 
their drums are four and five feet long, and made 
of crocodile skin. They lay these big drums on 
the ground and beat them with the palm of the 
hand. Smaller drums are beaten with sticks. 
They dance to the accompaniment of the drum- 
ming — a shuffling, stamping sort of dance. They 
fasten dry gourds, with seeds inside, to their ankles 
and legs, so as to make a rattling noise as they dance.' 

" ' You would scarcely have time to find out 
much about their religion,' I suggested. 

163 



XTbe MonDerful Stor^ of IHgan^a. 

" ' Not much. I found out that they believed 
in witchcraft and worshipped evil spirits. Of course 
they use charms. As far as I could ascertain they 
were a strictly moral tribe.' 

" ' How would they receive the Gospel ?' 
" ' Very readily, I think,' was Mr. Buckley's 
reply. ' They asked me to stay and teach them, 
and said they would cultivate land for me. After 
I left them I sent back four or five Baganda 
teachers, and when I last heard the Bakedi were 
coming to be taught. Besides these teachers, when 
I went that ten hours' journey from Kakungulu's 
village, I found that some of the Baganda at the 
outpost were in the habit of gathering the 
Bakedi youths and girls and were teaching them to 
read.' 

" ' Is there much scope for new work ? ' 
"'Indeed there is. No one knows how far the 
Bakedi extend. They say themselves that Bukedi 
is ten days long and ten days wide, but that only 
gives a vague idea of its size. It is certainly 
larger than Uganda and Bunyoro put together. 
I have heard say that they understood the language 
used by the Soudanese who revolted, and the 
Soudanese understood them. If that is true, it 
perhaps shows that they extend a long way down 
the Nile valley.' " 

5. ON THE SLOPES OF MOUNT ELGON. 

In November, 1900, the Rev. W. A. Crabtree 
visited the country. Mr. Crabtree is the most 
164 



tlbe lEver^widentno Circle* 

advanced linguist now in the Mission, and 
soon learned to discriminate between various 
dialects used. At Mpumude, Semei Kakungulu's 
headquarters, now become more important, he 
distinguished a language which he called Teso, 
while in Lower Kavirondo a non-Bantu language 
called Lur was spoken. He found that 
" Bakedi " was a vague term applied to the 
inhabitants, just as people at home use " blacks" 
or " niggers " as a loose designation for coloured 
races. He found the Natives broken up into 
small clans, a system which operates against 
the spread of the Gospel, just as it is found to 
do in Usagara, for instance. He thought it 
more correct to describe the district as Kavi- 
rondo. 

A station was founded at Masaba, on the 
slopes of Mount Elgon, that huge group of 
peaks, rising terrace above terrace, which Sir 
H. H. Johnston so alluringly describes. 

In September, 190 1, the Rev. T. R. Buckley 
and the Rev. W. Chadwick arrived at Masaba, 
and stayed for a time, but afterwards were 
transferred elsewhere. Mr. and Mrs. Crabtree 
continued to remain in Masaba. A station 
named Budaka was opened by Mr. Buckley and 
Mr. Chadwick for a time, but had to be closed 

165 



when Mr. Chadwick was invalided home. 
Even then the missionaries found no less than 
four tribes speaking as many different dialects. 
The number of baptized Christians in the 
district up to the end of 1902 was thirty. 

6. NKOLE. 

In Uganda there is found an inferior race, 
lower than the ordinary peasants and formerly 
enslaved, called the Bahima. They are the 
herdsmen of the country, for the Baganda 
will not touch cattle. These Bahima live 
on milk and the blood and flesh of cattle ; 
they seldom kill the cattle they tend, but eat 
those that die and draw the blood from the 
living animal. They retain a language of their 
own, and are considered to be the descendants 
of a tribe of Asiatic invaders. *' Their facial 
type," says Lugard, " is orthoprognathous, with 
a prominent nasal bone, thin lips, and hair of 
which the structure is identical with that of 
Europeans. Their colour is usually light 
brown, their physique thin and wiry. Euin 
describes them as natural gentlemen. Their 
women are often beautiful. Though slaves, 
they alone were allowed to pare their nails to 
a point and to wear brass on their ankles — the 
prerogatives of the king." 
166 



Ube iBvcvAvibcninQ Circle. 

In Nkole, the race which is thus subject in 
Uganda is the ruHng people. Consequently 
Nkole presents features wholly different from 
those found in Uganda. The women are kept 
secluded, and are veiled when they appear in 
public ; and, generally, the life appears to be a 
sort of blend of the Masai with that of the 
Mohammedan Arab. 

The country is about 8,000 square miles in 
area (i.e. rather larger than Yorkshire), and has 
an estimated population of 300,000. The 
general elevation of the country is higher than 
that of Uganda, and parts are covered with 
forests ; but part is thought suitable for 
European colonization. 

The story of its evangelization is a remark- 
able one. The Christians of Koki had long 
desired to obtain an entrance for teaching into 
Nkole, but were resisted until the beginning of 
1900. Bishop Tucker visited the country in 
December, 1899, and tells the story as follows : — 

Bishop Tucker In Nkole. 

" Certainly our first view of the native capital of 
Nkole was disappointing, to say the least. It is 
little better than a huge cattle-kraal. The king 
and his dependents live inside the kraal with the 
cattle. The lodging of his majesty is not much 

167 



Ube Mont)ertul Storp ot mgan^a, 

better than that of his herds. A thorn homa sur- 
rounds the whole enclosure. Happily our tents 
had been pitched, not inside the king's kraal, but 
in the enclosure of the Katikiro, some three or four 
hundred yards away. The Katikiro is a ' progres- 
sive,' and had built his house after the Uganda 
model. We were therefore fairly comfortable. 

" In a little while a messenger came from the king 
to say that he was about to visit us. We awaited 
his coming with no little interest. 

"Much, humanly speaking, depended on the 
issue of our meeting. Our object, of course, was to 
gain an entrance for the Gospel of Christ into 
Nkole. It was, therefore, our first work to try to 
get permission for our two Koki evangelists to 
remain amongst them to preach and teach the way 
of salvation. 

" We told them how that the Gospel is good for 
both worlds — this and the next — ' having the 
promise of the life which now is, and also of that 
which is to come.' 

" Baguta and the king agreed that no doubt that 
which we told them was true — but — there was 
great hunger in the land, and it would be diflTicult 
to support the two teachers. Would it not be 
better for them to go away and come back again 
in three months' time, when there would be an 
abundance of food ? 

" Our teachers, Andereya and Philipo, both 
agreed that they were prepared to endure a 
little hardness, even a little starvation. Would the 
i68 



XTbe ]Ev>er*\vtbentno Circle* 

king provide them with milk ? — they would be 
content with that. 

" The king was doubtful whether it was possible. 

'' ' What ! ' I exclaimed, ' the king of a great 
country like Nkole unable to supply two men with 
milk twice a day ! ' The thing was impossible to 
imagine. 

" After a great deal of discussion it was agreed to 
receive the teachers and to give them milk morning 
and evening until the food famine w^as over. In 
the meanwhile, food would be sent in from Koki 
from the garden of Andereya. who is a Koki chief. 

" The struggle was a prolonged one. First one 
excuse and then another was brought forward, only 
to be met and combated by our two evangelists. 
They showed an immense amount of intelligence 
and wit in dealing with Baguta, and finall}- gained 
the dav. It was agreed that they should remain, 
and the king would build them both a house in 
which to live and a place in which to teach. 

" So far the victory was won. But the next day 
the struggle was renewed. The king and Baguta 
came to see us in the afternoon, and re-opened the 
question by asking whether it was not possible to 
postpone the commencement of our work until the 
harvest. Inch by inch the ground was fought over 
again until darkness came on and it was agreed 
to let the original arrangement stand — and so we 
parted." 

The ice thus broken, though with difficulty, 
i6g 



Ube MonDertul Stor^ ot XHganba, 

the king and Baguta turned wonderfully to the 
new teaching. In nine months' time a church 
was built and the two were learning to read. 

A Great Charm-burning. 

At the close of the year a Muganda clergy- 
man, the Rev. Aloni Muyinda, visited Nkole, 
without knowing that there were any teachers 
there. He came in for a striking scene. The 
Rev. G. K. Baskerville heard him tell the story 
at a meeting at Ngogwe, and thus repeats it: — 

" After he had been there a few days the Prime 
Minister came, bringing all his charms and fetishes 
to the teacher, saying he wished to give them all 
up. The teacher arranged to bring them up to the 
church, so that every one might see them burnt, as 
many of the peasants think we keep these charms 
in order to benefit ourselves. Arrived at the church, 
the king heard of it, and came himself and gave 
orders for the burning to be in his courtyard, and 
he sat out there with all his big chiefs. The 
people, as soon as the fire was started, began bring- 
ing their charms, and there was soon an almost 
universal moving towards the fire, which was kept 
going half the day. Then the Prime Minister stood 
up and said that he was afraid these people were 
only following his example — they had better think 
over it — he had given up his freely ; but all said 
they did not want any time for thinking, they had 
170 



Ube ]£ver*\viDentnG Circle* 

resolved to be taught. Presently the king, 
Kahaya, himself brought his charms." 

The Rev. J. J. Willis was stationed at 
Mbarara, the capital, at the end of that year. 
He was soon able to report thirteen out-stations, 
one or more in each of the sazas or provinces. 

King Kahaya visited Mengo in the spring of 
igoi, with a train of about 1,400 followers, and 
special teachers were set apart for their in- 
struction. He was much interested in the 
hospital ; and when he heard of operations, he 
wanted Dr. J. H. Cook to perform some 
operation on one of his followers, just to show 
how it was done. But when he saw the septic 
wards and was told what they were for, he ran 
away, from fear. 

The Baptism of the King. 

The Rev. J. J. Wilhs was transferred to 
Entebbe in the following year, and was replaced 
by Mr. E. C. Davies. Two young men were 
the firstfruits of the Mission ; and on Decem- 
ber 7th, 1902, the king was baptized, with the 
Katikiro, their wives, and eighteen others. 
The Rev. H. Clayton thus tells the story:— 

"At 4 p.m. we went up to church for the 
baptismal service, and found the place packed. 
Some, too, were sitting round outside, and there 
171 



Hbe Mont>erful Stoti^ of XDlaant)a. 

must have been quite 700 present. One special 
feature in the service was that now for the first 
time the ladies appeared unveiled in public. Those 
who were going to be baptized had arranged to 
give up covering their heads with bark-cloth, and 
the other ladies present did the same. 

" The king, Kahaya, took the names of Edward 
Sulimani, while his wife was baptized Esther. 
The Katikiro, Mbaguta, chose the name Nuwa, 
and his wife Samali. 

'^ As soon as we came out of church, a messenger 
came to us and said, ' Come and see the king beat 
his drum.' We supposed that it was a way of 
showing his joy, so followed the messenger into a 
court3'ard close by, which we found spread with 
grass. In the centre were four painted drums 
draped with bark-cloth. The Katikiro then told 
us that one of these was the national drum of 
Nkole, and • that from time immemorial it was 
supposed that if the king of the country were to 
beat it disaster would follow ; but that Kahaya, 
now that he was baptized, wished to beat it 
publicly that his people might see that he had 
given up the old superstitions. The king then 
rose from his chair and solemnly beat the drum, 
and the proceedings were over." 

In some of the out-stations there has been a 
chronic difficulty about food, and Roman 
Catholic teachers have induced three chiefs to 
adhere to the " White Fathers." 
172 




MEDICAL ITINERATION: AN OPEN AIR DISPENSARY, 



H 


1 


^^^^^^¦^^^^Q 


¦ 


^K 


^ 


^I^B^^^k^i^BII^B/*^^ IB 


9 


^^^^>^ 
^m'^ 


1 


Pt^%?^ 


B 


1 


] 


P 1 


'^'^^1 


BLjk. 


-^ 


HiH^t4y^. - i^.^ 


j| 



HAM MUKASA, WITH FATHER, WIFE, AND CHILDREN, 



ITbe Xite of Ibam /IDuhasa. 



THE LIFE OF HAM MUKASA. 

Written by Himself and Translated by 
THE Ven. Archdeacon Walker, 

I AM about to write of things I experienced, and 
thoughts that were in my mind when I was a 
child and afterwards as a young man, before 1 
was taught the reHgion of the Lord Jesus Christ — 
up to the present time. 

My Ufe is hke a day — childhood, from the dawn 
to noon, as a young man from the noon to 
evening. And now I am entering on the evening 
period. 

A Child's Thoughts. 

When I was a very small child I thought that my 
father was the king of Uganda, and that there was 
no one of more honour than he. It was merely a 
childish fanc}', for there was a king and there were 
many others of far more honour than my father. 

I used to think, too, that when the evening came 
on the sky came down to the earth, and that 
therefore we were able to see the stars because 
then they were quite close to us. Yet, of course, 
this was not really the case. 
^75 



Ube Xtfe of 1bam /IDuF^asa. 

I used also to think that the king could not die ; 
that the king did not eat food ; that his body was 
not like the bodies of the men he ruled over, but 
that it was like brass, or beautiful beads. Of course 
this, too, was only childish fancy, and when I grew 
older I no longer thought these things, I learnt 
other things. 

Charms for a Chieftainship. 

When I was a lad my aunts gave me charms to 
wear and small pieces of clay to swallow, and a 
medicine called <^z//<?^/, which ensures your obtaining 
a chieftainship from the king. My aunts assured 
me that if I did as they told me, to think of these 
charms and to respect them, that when I grew up 
I should certainly be a chief under the king. 
Of course, this was all nonsense, but I believed it 
fully at the time, and for long afterwards ; in fact, till 
I became a Christian. For years 1 trusted in those 
charms. 

My father taught me that up in the sky there lived 
people with tails, and this I fully believed. Of course, 
I know now it is not so, but I believed it then. I 
know now my father told me lies, but when I was 
a lad 1 did not think my father could say anything 
that was not true. I remained a long time in this 
opinion, for my father and my uncles all said that 
men with tails lived up in the sky. 

How to gro up Into the Sky. 

I was also told that if a man wished to go up 
174 



XTbe %itc of 1bani /llbuftasa. 

into the sky to the gods he should go to the stone 
on which plantain sponges are beaten out, where 
there was a plantain of the kind called gonja, and 
then tie some of the fibre of this gonj'a and say 
thus — " O God \_/udare'], take me — O God, take 
me." And then the}^ told me that if I did this I 
should be able to go up into the skies. But I was 
afraid to try it, because I did not wish to leave my 
father and mother behind me on the earth ; I 
thought it best that we should all be on earth 
together. 

Another thing I used to think was this, that a 
man who became possessed with a spirit of the 
dead could not die, because he was able to rule over 
all kinds of sickness and disease of this world, 
and therefore I was very anxious to become 
possessed with a departed spirit, that I might 
not die like others who have no spirit. But, of 
course, I know now that they die just as other 
people do. 

All these childish notions are the result of beins: 
born in ignorance, and of being with people who 
have no certain knowledge of anj^thing. 

One of ivi'tesa's Paigres. 

When I became older, my father was made a 
chief by the king. His chieftainship was called 
Mujebejo. The king asked my father to give him 
a boy to be one of his pages. So> my father took 
me and gave me to the king, called M'tesa, to wait 
on him. 

175 



XTbe Xite of 1F3am /IDuf^asa. 

I think I must have been about twelve years old 
when I entered the king's household. I found the 
king's court full of the vilest customs, introduced 
by the Arabs and the Turks (the people who came 
from Egypt). 

I was much afraid, for my parents had told me 
not to agree to such things ; for they told me that 
if I did such things I should die at once. But in 
spite of this I was compelled to join with the rest. 

Learnfngr the lYIohammedan Prayers. 

Whilst I was living at the Lubiri [the king's 
household], the king called M'tesa or Mukabya 
ordered everybody to learn to say the Mohammedan 
prayers.^ 

He said, " All of you must become Mohammedans. 
I will have no Heathen." 

So we learnt the Mohammedan prayers, not 
because we wished to learn that religion, but simply 
because the king ordered it : it was only out of 
respect to the law of the king that \ve learnt. 
There were some of us, it is true, who on account 
of that law set to work diligently to learn the 
Mohammedan religion, and some of those very 
men are in Uganda now ; of the others, some have 
died and others have become Christians. 

I never learnt much of the religion, not more 
than about one of the prayers, and I never knew 

*No doubt this refers to the K aiima—'' God is God, 
and Mohammed is the Apostle of God," which is all that 
many ignorant Moslems know. 

176 



TLbc %itc of lbatn /llbuhasa* 

at that time that there was any religious difference 
between the Arabs and the Europeans. 

An Otld Alphabet. 

One day when I was out for a walk, I was 
crossing over to the hill called Rubaga, having just 
come from another hill called Kasubi (or 
Nabulagala) — T had been sent to salute Mwanga, 
who then was only one of the princes — well, when 
I was walking along I met Mr. Ashe, of the C.M.S., 
who had just come from visiting the king (M'tesa). 

Mr. Ashe said to me, " Well, my boy, where are 
you going to ? " 

I replied, " I have been sent with a message." 

Then he asked me, " Do you know how to 
read ? " 

I replied, " Yes, I know a little." 

He then asked me, "What is the little you 
know ? " 

And I said, ''I know Bisimidai." 

When Mr. Ashe heard that he laughed out loud, 
and said, " My lad, come to Natete and I will teach 
you properly. Now do come ; don't forget." 

At that time I never knew that the religion ot 
Jesus Christ and the Mohammedans was not all 
one. Of course, I found it out afterwards, but it 
was after many years. 

Wlr. O'FIaherty's Preaching, 

I remember there was a friend of ours called 
Kidza Lubeli, who lived at Natete because he was 
177 N 



TLbc %iU of tbam /IDu??a5a» 

ill and that he might get medicine for his ulcers, 
and this the ^European missionaries used to give 
him. 

They tried to teach this man the alphabet, which 
was written on a piece of calico. When I went to 
see this man I saw many European things and I 
used to hear many new things which they taught 
in the church. Mr. O'Flaherty (called Bwana 
Felipo) preached about the Last Day that shall 
come on the earth, and how all men will be raised 
from the dead. 

Our friend Kidza used to talk over with us every 
day what we heard, and he used to make fun of 
Mr. O'Flaherty, and this we thought very funny, 
and it made us laugh. 

But there was one thing he said that made us 
much afraid — he said that all the world would be 
burnt up, the trees, the hills, the grass, the ground, 
and everything. This made us afraid, and we used 
to say, " May it happen after we are dead, for then 
what will the fire burn of us ? " But yet we feared 
that saying very much. 

A Wife in a Box. 

One day they told us that Mr. Mackay was 
making a great feast because he was going to marry 
a wife who had been brought from Europe in a 
box. They told us the box had been opened the 
day before, and that now Mr. Mackay wanted to 
make a feast to please the people on account of 
his wife. Possibly it was a Christmas feast he was 
178 



Ube %\tc of t)am /iDul^asa. 

making. But this we did not know at the time. 
We accordingly went to the feast and also to see 
the woman, for we heard she was white. We sat 
on the verandah and waited. 

I was sitting thus when Mr. Ashe came and said 
to me, " Mukasa, come along here." 

So I went with him to the back of the house, 
and he gave me a seat on the verandah behind the 
house. Then they brought me lots of cooked 
plantains and meat and put them down before me. 

Then they said to me, " Let us first go to the 
church and pray." 

So we all went, about five hundred I should 
think in all. It was no motive of religion that 
brought us all there, but merely that we might 
eat the feast and see the European woman. 

Laughlngr at an Inquirer. 

About that time we heard that a lad called Mukasa 
Muganzi Awongererwa had gone to see Mr. Ashe, 
and that when we ate the feast he was there 
with Mr. Ashe. And that was quite true, he 
actually was there. That lad Mukasa is now known 
by the name of Samwili Naganafa (and has 
been ordained a deacon of the Uganda Church). 
At that time though, he was called Muganzi 
Awongererwa, because the king had given him 
that name. Soon after this, this lad called Sam- 
wili went to Natere to live there altogether, and 
became a great friend of Mr. Ashe's. 

We, however, used to laugh at him, saying, 
179 



Zbc %itc ot 1bam /Hbuftasa* 

" They will take him to Europe shut up in a box." 
We know now that he really wanted to be 
taught the Word of God. 

Stealing the Coats. 

It was about that time that I began to learn 
wisdom and to understand things for myself and 
to give up childish things. I did not know any- 
thing of religion as Samwili did. He was older 
than I was. There were some boys who, like my- 
self, were pages of the king, and we used to go out 
and steal the goats that belonged to the king's 
household and also those that belonged to a chief 
called Kibale. (He is still alive ; he is the father 
of the chief called Kago.) 

These goats we used to eat at nights, and the 
skin, the head, and the inside we used to throw away. 
Just at that time the plague broke out and crowds 
of our people died, and it was generally said that 
the reason for their dying was that they had been 
great thieves. People set our houses on fire and 
destroyed them. 

So I ran away and went back to my father and 
remained with him for a very long time, because I 
was afraid to go back to the king's household. I 
never went back till Al'tesa died. 

On a War Expedition. 

I first went to war when M'tesa sent out an 
expedition under his uncle, a man called Ndalike 
(he was the chief at Kasaka, Mr. Fletcher's station, 
i8o 



XTbe Xife of 1bam /IC>u??asa. 

for a long time). I went with my father on this 
expedition and we raided down south-west of 
Uganda, we passed through the country of Uzinja, 
the king of which country was called Kasusula. 

On the march many people died, I think about 
7,000. They died from disease. When we came 
back that same 3'ear king M'tesa died. 

At the time I was in Budu at the house of my 
father, with whom I had gone on this expedition. 
So we set to work and raided and plundered all 
the country round and took the goats of the people 
there. This was the regular custom in Uganda ; 
when the king died everybody plundered their 
neighbour's goods. There was no fear of punish- 
ment, as there was no king to punish us. 
IVIwang^a and his Pages. 

When Mwanga was made king I was still down 
in Budu. My father returned from Budu, so I 
came with him. He had a large number of boys 
that were very evil lads. They used to get drunk 
by smoking Indian hemp, and they persuaded me 
to smoke with them, and then they tried to teach 
me other sins. Had I not left that household I 
am sure T should have learnt the habits of those 
lads and I should have been just like them. How- 
ever, I left and went and lived with my uncle, 
because I was afraid to go to the king's household. 
Mwanga was king at that time and he kept a 
crowd of lads of the worst sort about him, there- 
fore I was afraid to go there, and also because I 
had been so long away in the country. 
181 



Zbc %itc of 1bam /lDu!?asa« 

Mukasa Heglns to learn to read. 

At length I went back to the king's household, 
and I found there a great many men that I knew 
and others that I did not know, all reading. Some 
were reading the Gospels, others the Prayer-Book, 
and others were learning their letters. This caused 
me much surprise. When I, too, began to learn to 
read I learnt the alphabet in two da3^s, the syl- 
lables in about four days. 

The following are the names of those who 
taught me to read : — Nua Mpembe, Musa Mukasa, 
who was killed at Munyonyo, Mikaeli Luzungana 
and Elisa Alegeti, now a chief called Musoloza, 
and a man called Kasi, who has since become a 
Roman Catholic. 

**Set over the Tribute." 

I had not learnt to read properly when king 
Mwanga sent me off to the Uzinja country to 
collect the tribute. We went with a Roman 
Catholic called Nsuigisila, who was afterwards the 
Kangao. A man called Kibunda also went with 
us, and at nights he used to teach us by word of 
mouth and entreat us not to be won over to the 
Roman Catholic faith. 

When we got back from the Uzinja country we 
found the king living at Munyonyo (about seven 
miles from Mengo, near the Lake), so we went down 
to Munyonyo to show him the stuff we had col- 
lected as tribute in Uzinja. The king was very 
pleased with what we brought, and gave the Roman 
182 



TLbc Xite ot 1bam /IDuf?asa. 

Catholic who went with us a chieftainship. He 
gave him the position of Kitagobwa in the country 
of the chief called Kitunzi. 

An Idle Scholar. 

We remained at Munyonyo possibly a year and 
a half after this. During that time religion was 
spreading very rapidly amongst the people. I 
myself was anxious to learn to read the books, 
but I was not diligent in trying to learn. I went 
to live with a lad called Eli Ngili, who now is a 
chief and is called Nafumbambi; this man used to 
teach me to read out of a Swahili Prayer-Book. 
Then I went to live with Walukaga the black- 
smith who was put to death at Munyonyo. I 
made but little progress in reading, because I was 
idle and did not really try. 

Eighty "Readers" Seized. 

Now let me tell you of an awful thing that 
happened. The Christians were very active in 
teaching others, no one thinking that the king 
could ever put men to death for reading, as he 
actually did afterwards and killed many people. 
One day as I was going to see my friend, a Roman 
Catholic called Fuke, who lived in a place called 
Kitebe, as I left the king's house I heard him 
grumbling that so many people had learnt to read. 
On the very next day I heard that the king had 
caught about eighty of the readers and that many 
of them had been put to death. 

183 



trbe Xite of Ibam /IDuftasa. 

Then several of the men who had wished me to 
join them in their wicked practices, because I had 
refused now went and told the king that I was a 
reader. These men wished me to be killed just 
out of spite. I therefore ran away from Mengo 
and hid. Afterwards when I heard that the king 
was looking for me that I might be put to death, 
I ran away with two boys. 

IVIukasa fn hiding;. 

My friend called Yusufu Waswa, who had just 
been made the Kangao in the place of the chief 
who had been killed in Bunyoro, took me in and 
hid me. He let me sleep in his house, but as soon 
as it was midnight he sent me off to his country 
house. He lent me a gun to protect m3'self with 
on the road. 

I went to a place in the country of Bulemezi, 
called Waluleta, and hid on a hill there called Bowa. 
I remained there whilst the king's officers were 
searching for me. Yusufu kept the secret of my 
hiding-place. You must not think that this man 
Yusufu was the man of that name who converted me 
from Heathenism ; he was quite another man. 

I remained in hiding a long time, although I 
could not read properly, for everybody thought I 
had great ability and could read quite well, whereas 
I could not read at all. 

Mukasa comes out of his Hldlng-place. 

After some three months the Kangao came out 
where I was in hiding, and he told me all the news 
184 



Ubc %itc of 1bam /IDu??asa. 

of the capital. He told me that the king had sent 
for my father, and had said to him, " I will forgive 
your son for your sake " ; but the chief added, " I do 
not know if the king reall}' means it." 

So I asked the chief what I should do, and if I 
had not better go and see the king. 

The chief, Yusufu Waswa,the Kangao,said to me, 
" We will go together and see the king." 

So one day we set off for Mengo. I went to see 
my father, and he told me that the king had granted 
me pardon. But I was in two minds about going 
to see the king, for I thought he was deceiving 
me. 

So my father showed me some medicine''' to rub 
on my hands. I took the medicine and applied it to 
m}^ hands, for I was much afraid of my father, and 
at that time I did not know the true religion. 

After a few days I went up to the king's court to 
be introduced to the king. It so happened that the 
public assembly had been called together that the 
king might interview a European who had come 
from Bunyoro-t I remember one thing about that 
European ; he had a ver}- large stomach. 

Then they brought me in before the king, and 
said to the king, "This lad is your slave; he has 
come back." 

The king said, '* I have set him free." 

So I was at Hberty and was no longer an outlaw. 

* i.e. Some substance which would act as a charm, 
t Probably Dr. Junker, the German explorer, who 
visited Uganda about this time. 

185 



OTe Xlte of t)am /lDu??a5a» 

Many of the people were disappointed to hear the 
king say this, for they wished me to be put to death 
because I had refused to join them in their evil 
deeds. 

You must not suppose that I refused to sin on 
religious grounds. I was afraid of the dropsy, for I 
had heard that men who commit certain sins fall ill 
of dropsy, and I had seen many people ill with 
dropsy. 

IVIukasa presented with a Gun. 

After I had been for a long time in the king's 
household as one of the pages, the king made me a 
chief amongst the pages and I became the Sabadu 
of the pages. Then the king gave me a gun ; it 
was only a muzzle-loader. The king was afraid to 
give me a breech-loader, for he said, " The lad is not 
trustworthy ; he will steal the gun ; he is not trust- 
worthy like the others." 

The king gave out a great many guns at that 
time. All the little boys in his household received 
breech-loading rifles. Some of the boys were not 
more than ten years old, some of them only eight 
years old. The big lads like myself were much dis- 
appointed at seeing the smaller boys getting better 
guns than we got. 

God protected me in the king's household and 
kept me from being corrupted. I was like a man 
who has been taught a great deal and yet knows 
nothing for certain. The other lads were much 
afraid of me. They said of me, " He is a great 
reader of religion." 

i86 



^> 



Ube Xlfe of t)am /IDul^asa* 

They said this ot me because I would not join 
with them in their conversation, but used to remain 
silent when I was in their company. 

He hears of the Destruction of Sodom. 

There was a man called Salemani Kibanda, who 
came one day and taught us about the city of Sodom 
and how it was destroyed. That description made 
me feel much afraid. For many days I was in much 
mental distress and could think of nothing but the 
destruction of Sodom. And I then dreamed one 
night that our capital, Mengo, was all on fire, and 
that I could not run away, but kept on falling down. 
For many days I was full of fear about that matter. 
And this led me to wish to be taught. I did not 
wish to be taught openly, but in private. I went to 
the Christians and they taught me. Yusufu 
Waswa, Petero Mpwanyi, Sulemani Musoke, Musa 
Itewala, Eriya and many others all taught me 
diligently. 

IVIwang:a plays Fast and Loose. 

Mwanga, the king, devised a plan by which he 
might kill us as he killed our companions before. 
He suddenly ordered us all to wear heathen charms 
under pain of death. 

He was not able to carry out his threat, because 
many of the chiefs were on the verge of rebellion 
because he had forced them to dig out a pond for 
him, and because he was constantly abusing them, 
taking their wealth from them by force. 

1S7 



XEbe 3Llfe of Dam /IDuftasa* 

When Mwanga found out that his chiefs were 
going to rebel he made great friends of us his boys, 
for he thought that we should fight for him should 
there be a rebellion. Mwanga never had the sense 
to shut one door and make sure of it. He played 
fast and loose with us and the chiefs. He tried to 
win the favour of both sides. He made great friends 
with the chiefs, and then bought many more guns 
and gave them out to us to make us his friends 
against the chiefs. 

A Plan which Failed. 

One day when I was living in the Liibiri (the 
king's household) I saw a Roman Catholic boy 
called Kiwanuka (now he is called Adere) who was 
a great friend of mine. He cam.e up to me and 
said, " Let us leave the countr}-." 

I agreed to do so, but I asked him, ** Where shall 
we go ? " 

He replied, " To Bunyoro, to the court of 
Kabarega." 

He told me that two others would go with us, 
one called Kironae and the other Damulila. Those 
men have since been baptized. Kironae is Marko 
Lwimbazi, and Damulila is Samusoni. 

After I had arranged the matter with my friend 
Adere we made an agreement to meet outside his 
house. I sent my gun across to his house, but my 
friend did not wait for me because he was so much 
afraid of being caught. He thought the king's 
officers would find us out and put us to death. He 
i88 



tlbe Xtfe ot Ibam /IBul^asa. 

left mj^ gun with his slaves, telling them to give it 
to me ; but his slaves took it themselves, and so I 
lost it, for though I looked for the men I could not 
find them. 



Stealthy Visits to the Missionaries. 

I used to go by stealth to Natete to hear about 
religion, but I never understood what they taught 
me. I was very anxious to meet with a man who 
had learnt a great deal. I admired such men very 
much 

My friend Yusufu Waswa, when he saw how 
anxious I was to know about God, said to me one 
day, '' You ought to be baptized.'' 

To this I agreed, and he showed me the passages 
in the baptism^al services that are the answers to 
the questions asked in baptism. So I learnt them 
off by heart. 

Then Yusufu took me to the Christians and told 
them about me. Their names were Sila, Nikodemu, 
and Bartolomayo. 

Tomasi Semfuma, however, was not there. 
When he came and heard about it he vvas very 
angry, and said, "Why bring people hke this 
man into the church to injure it by their sinful 
lives ? " 

He said that because he recognized me as one 
of the lads from the king's household. But when 
he came he was too late, for I had already been 
baptized. 

189 



Zbc Xtfe of 1bam /IDu??asa* 

I made great efforts to be taught, and I bought 
a copy of Genesis in Swahili. I used to keep it at 
the house of Sulemani Musoke. 

A man called SamwiH bought the book for me 
at Natete. He gave 700 shells for it [about Rs. 2]. 
I was too poor to buy a New Testament. 

When the king began to take revenge on me 
for losing my gun, T used to retire in secret and 
spend my time in reading. When I was baptized 
I could only read a very little. I knew the letters — 
that was about all I did know. But God gave me 
more steadfastness than others, and therefore people 
supposed I was far advanced in reading. 

Mwangra boasts what he will do. 

About that time Mwanga, the king, set off on 
an expedition to visit the province of Budu. So I 
set off to go with him, but when we were on the 
road going down to Munyonyo, Mwanga told his 
followers this, " I tell you there are Europeans 
coming to fight with me. They say that their 
leader is that man called Simuli [H. M. Stanley, 
often called ' Stamuli '], who fought with us in the 
country called Nakalanga. They say he has 4,000 
tents for his European soldiers." 

Mwanga then turned to his chief called Mujasi 
and said, " Kapalaga [the man's name], my friend, 
how will this affect us, do you think ? " 

Kapalaga replied, " We will fight them without 
giving in." 

Mwanga then said, " The general sent by 
190 



Ubc %itc of 1bam /lDu??asa^ 

Queeni, when I take him prisoner, shall chop fire- 
wood for my wife." 

He spoke thus foolishly because he was ignorant 
of the strength of the Europeans. 

IVIukasa ^Iven a Cominancl. 

When we got down to Budu Mwanga sent oflP 
an expedition to a large island, far to the south- 
west, called Kome. I went on this expedition in 
the place of the chief of the king's household 
called Sabakaki, though I was only the Sabadii 
in the king's court. I was not sent by the king 
as the others were. I was not educated enough 
to understand religion. I took charge of all the 
king's boys on that expedition, and sought for 
honour in the eyes of men only. I made myself 
appear a very great man, and pretended that I 
knew a great deal, which I did not really know 
at all. We raided right down to Kome, in the 
country of Kigaju, and then we came back. 

IVIwanga refuses to believe a false Charge. 

When we were in Budu, on the way home, 
people came and told me, " They have accused you 
to the king, saying that you sold a man, the son of 
the chief called Sekibobo, and that you got for him 
spades, goats, and bark-cloths." 

But the king refused to believe it. 

He said, " No, no, a man who learns the Euro- 
pean religion, as Mukasa does, is unable to sell a 
man. They accuse him falsely." 
191 



tTbe Xtfe of 1bam /IDuftasa. 

And that was really the case. I had not sold a 
man at all ; he had become lost himself. 

And this reminds me that the people who used 
to read the true religion were upright men. They 
did no wrong deeds, though people used to accuse 
them falsely. 

Another Accusation: iVIukasa's Candour. 

Another time, when I had come back from war, 
the people accused me to the king of stealing the 
plunder taken in war. The chief called Sabakaki 
arrested me. 

But when they told the king he set me free, 
saying, " You have no right to imprison my ser- 
vants unless you are ordered to do so." 

For this I thanked the king. 

I suppose he thought this accusation was like 
the one brought against me of selling the man. 
I suppose the king thought me incapable of steal- 
ing his goods because I followed the new religion. 
As a matter of fact, it was not my religion that 
kept me from stealing, but that I was afraid of the 
consequences if I was caught. I used to think, 
" If I do this, I shall be accused of it to the king, 
and if it is proved against me, even if they do not 
kill me, I shall be put in the stocks for ever." 

I know people thought that it was my fear of 
religion that prevented me from doing wrong. 

Possibly thus God was clearing the ground on my 
heart, with a view of building there a house in 
which He would afterwards come and dwell. 
192 



XTbe Xife of 1bain /Hbul^asa. 

At another time we went on a war expedition 
through Singo. We went as far as LwangiU, in the 
district of Kinyenya. We boys of the king's house- 
hold had a great deal of work to do for the king. 
We had to provide torches to light the king every 
night. 

Now, because I knew in my heart that the king 
did not like me, I made every effort to light the 
king better than any one else did. Thus I tried 
to remove the feeling the king had against me. 

The Wounded Foot. 

But one day a piece of wood ran into my foot. 
The piece of wood was about as large as one of 
the long teeth of a dog. I said nothing about this 
piece of wood, and nobody knew that it had run 
into my foot. I knew no one would pity me, and 
therefore I said nothing about it to any one. 

About a day after this my foot began to fester, 
and I was no longer able to wait on the king, so I 
had at last to tell the other lads when we were 
doing our work that they might help me. But 
those whom I told that they might help me took 
no notice. 

The king became very angry, and scolded all 
the way along the road till we camped for the 
night. When we got into camp the king had us all 
tied up. 

IVIukasa Is Spared Aga.ln, 

The boys all thought when we were tied up that 
it would be Mukasa who would be put to death. 
193 o 



U\)c Xite of ir^am /IftuF^asa. 

But God helped me. I was given into the custody 
of a kind-hearted man called Sajabi. By faith he 
was a Mohammedan, and, though he knew that I 
was a Christian, yet he did no ill to me at all. 

But the lads who were not Christians, in the 
various places where they were put when arrested — 
those in charge of them treated them very badly. 
Even their fellow-religionists, either Mohammedan 
or Heathen, shamefully ill-treated the boys under 
arrest. But I, who was really deserving of ill- 
treatment, remained in peace. This seemed to me 
a most remarkable thing. 

After a time we were called up and set at liberty, 
all of us ; we were nine in number who were tied 
up. And so when we were set at liberty we 
carried torches for the king to light him on the 
road. We used about 200 torches to light us to 
Mengo. On the road the king praised our torches, 
and was pleased with the number of them. And 
when the morning broke we were still on the road ; 
we had not reached Mengo. 

iviwanga Quarrels with the Chiefs* 

The principal cause that led to the king's being 
dethroned was that he quarrelled with a Roman 
Catholic chief called Nyonyintono, and also with 
Kagwa (who is now the Katikiro) who was then a 
chief called Mwanika. The chief called Nyonyi- 
ntono was the Musalosalo. The king also fell out 
with Waswa, who was the Sabadu (under chief) of 
Kagwa, the Mwanika. The king hated these 
194 



trbe %\tc of 1bam /llbuftasa. 

men because the readers used to collect at their 
houses. 

Some eight or nine months after this the king 
devised the plan to put all the readers to death, 
for he saw that religion had taken root again in 
the country. I know that many of the so-called 
readers still kept on many of their old sinful 
habits. 

A Plot to Starve all the Christians. 

The king determined to kill us because, when 
asked how so-and-so was, the answer always was, 
" He is learning the Europeans' religion." 

The king heard this with surprise. 

Besides this, the king had taken a great dislike 
to all the chiefs who were grown-up men, and, in- 
stead of making friends with them, he made friends 
with the boys. These lads were foolish fellows who 
followed every bad custom, and wherever the king 
went with them through his country they took by 
force the people's goats and cows. 

Now it was because of all this that the chiefs 
became jealous and endeavoured to show the king 
that the "readers" had driven out of the country 
the old heathen gods of his ancestors. Therefore 
the old heathen chiefs advised the king to kill all 
of us (the Christians) by leaving us to starve on an 
island. When Mwanga saw that he could not do 
it he came back to Mengo. 

Rebellion Breaks Out. 

When the king saw that we had discovered his 



Zbc Xlte of t)am /IDuftasa* 

plan and his reason for going to Entebbe in order to 
kill us, he got into his canoe and came back by 
water. We all came back by land with Kagwa, a 
Roman Catholic, a chief under the chief called 
Musalosalo ; but Mwanga cam.e back by water with 
Apolo Kagwa and Nyonyintono, who at that time 
was the chief called Musalosalo, a Roman Catholic. 
Both of these men were the chief men in the 
king's household. The king's executioners (Bane- 
bowa) killed many people on their way as they 
took home the king's women. 

So we arranged to give the signal of rebellion by 
firing on the king's executioners if they came to 
interfere with us. We arranged to do this because 
of old time it w as a matter for boasting, if a man 
set on another, to kill the king's executioner. On 
our return to Mengo we only slept one night before 
we all rebelled. We joined with the Mohamme- 
dan Baganda and drove Mwanga from the country. 
The Mohammedans put Mwanga's brother Kiwewa 
on the throne, although we wanted Kalema, another 
brother, to be king. 

Kiwewa and the Chiefs. 

After we had made this man king who called 
himself a Mohammedan, though in reality he had 
no religion at all, he was a poor fool, a Heathen at 
heart, then we divided out the country amongst 
ourselves, and we took the chieftainships. I, Ham 
Mukasa, took the chieftainship called Kiyoza at a 
place called Nsagu. Apolo took the large chieftain- 
196 



Ube Xife of 1bam /Bbitftaea. 

ship of Singo and became Mukwenda. Nyonyi- 
ntono became Katikiro. The principal Moham- 
medan, called Bukulu, became Kimbugwe. Each 
man took the chieftainship that he seemed to fancy. 
The king, Kiwewa, tried to be a Mohammedan 
and a Heathen at the same time. The Moham- 
medans made a plot to kill all of us Christians, but 
it fell through. 

The Christians are Defeated and Flee. 

Upon this they told us plainly that they did not 
intend to join together in governing the country 
with Heathen who followed the Europeans' faith, 
who did not pray the Mohammedan prayers or read 
their book, and who did not kill animals in the 
proper w^ay. So it happened that a month after 
we drove Mwanga away we fought with these 
Mohammedans and were defeated. We all had to 
retire to Nkole (a country to the west of Uganda). 

When we left Mengo we were about 500 in 
number, but when we arrived in Nkole we were 
only 104. Very many of our number turned back 
on the road and for the time became Mohamme- 
dans. 

Mwanffa among: the Roman Catholics. 

Some time afterwards we went across the Lake 
to the French Roman Catholic mission station 
called Bukumbi, where Mwanga was living at the 
time. Mwanga was very glad to see us. We 
found him sleeping on a bedstead made of papyrus, 

IQ7 



Ube %itc of Ibam /Ibul^asa. 

which gave way with him every day ; it gave way 
because it was not strongly tied. They made 
Mwanga sleep on this bedstead that he might learn 
humility by remembering what he had to suffer. 
As a matter of fact, all this happened to Mwanga 
to no purpose. He never learnt to be thankful. 

IVIackay's Shrewd Advice. 

From Bukumbi I went to Usambiro to see Mr. 
Mackay and to take him the letters that I had 
brought from the Christians in Nkole. 

Mackay read these letters and asked many ques- 
tions. He asked me if he knew all the Christians. 
I told him that I thought he knew them all. 

Then he pressed me to entreat the Protestants 
to refuse to combine w^ith the Roman Catholics on 
the expedition on which they were going to attack 
Uganda. "For," said he, "if you join with the 
Roman Catholics, without doubt you will soon fall 
out amongst yourselves and fight one another," and 
this actually happened to us. 

Then we came back with a letter written by 
Mackay to this effect. When Mwanga saw it he 
was very angry and hated us Protestants most 
bitterly. 

I, too, returned from Usambiro feeling much 
annoyed on account of what Mackay had said. We 
all went there hoping to receive some word of 
encouragement, and w^e only received discourage- 
ment and the advice not to attack Uganda. 

We were, in fact, like a child that is refused a 
198 



XLbc %itc ot ir^am /IDuf^asa. 

knife and cries because it cannot have it. Yet it 
would certainly have cut itself had it been given 
the knife. And so it was with us when we had cut 
our fingers ; then we understood that what Mackay 
had said was all true. 

We have a proverb which says, " The ears of a 
snake will only hear the stick.'' The meaning of 
this is that a fool must be taught with the rod. 
And we found this to be true in our case when 
we fell out with the Roman Catholics and fought 
with them. All that Mackay foretold came to pass, 
but we were too foolish to listen to him. 

Mr. Stokes Intervenes. 

Mr. Stokes was at Bukumbi, and he said to the 
Roman Catholics, " Very well, I will take Mwanga 
back to Uganda because all the people there like 
him; and I have lots of guns and powder ; and, 
more than this, my boat is my own ; I can do as 
I hke with it. Other Europeans have nothing to 
do with me." 

At this all the Roman Catholic Baganda rejoiced, 
and we, too, were glad. 

Mr. Stokes told us that he had with him a thing 
that would set Kalema's capital on fire. Perhaps 
the thing he spoke of had not the power he ascribed 
to it, but we quite thought it had, and we told the 
people so. We told them that the European had 
a gun that would destroy everything, and this 
became generally believed. 

So we came back to Uganda with Stokes and 
199 



XTbe Xtfe of Hoam {^xxhasa. 

Mwanga from Sango (the first place we touched at 
in Uganda). Mwanga sent me to the Sese Islands 
to call on all the islanders to revolt from Kalema 
and to follow Mwanga. 

So I set off to the islands, and I captured on the 
way a Swahili from Zanzibar called Alfan. He 
had with him eighty women and sixty boy slaves. 
The people with me wanted to kill the man at 
once, but I refused to allow this, and went off and 
told Mr. Stokes. He refused to kill the man, and 
said I had done right. He said, " You are a sensible 
man. Ham." 

Mr. Stokes was always very fond of me ever 
afterwards right up to the day of his death. 

A Fight with Arabs. 

One day, when we were living on the island of 
BuHnguge, in 1889, we heard that two saiHng boats 
had come from the south of the Lake bringing 
reinforcements for the Arabs. So we set off to look 
for them, and found them at Entebbe, and fought 
them there. 

I told the Basese paddlers in my canoe to go up 
close to the Arabs' boat, but they were afraid, and 
refused to do so. So I said to them, "Very well, 
then, put me ashore." 

So I was taken ashore. Then I, with my ten 
boys, went along the shore towards the boat. But 
one of the Arabs saw me coming, as we were so 
many, and took aim at me and hit me in the knee. 

The bullet broke my leg, and I fell. The boys 
200 



Ube %\tc ot 1bam /iDuftasa. 

carried me back to the canoe, where I lay to watch 
the fight. After a time I saw the sail of the Arabs' 
boat and the ropes of the mast all take fire, and 
then we knew the victory was ours. 



Kept from Sulcldei 

I was then taken to a small island near Entebbe 
called Nfo. Satan took advantage of my illness to 
attack me, but God helped me and kept me from 
committing suicide, as many of the wounded did. 
I have often heard that when the pain becomes 
very great, it makes the wounded man wish to 
destroy himself. But I did not wish to do this as 
others did. My courage kept up, and I never 
desired to destroy m3^self. There was one Christian 
called Galutu — I have forgotten his baptized name 
— who was shot in the thigh, who actually de- 
stroyed himself. He set the house on fire where 
he was lying, and died in the flames. 

When I heard this I felt very sorry for the poor 
man. But at that time I was not strong in the 
faith. I did not pray much to God ; I used to pray 
just now and again, for you must remember I was 
shot before I had been much taught, and before I 
had understood what the kindness of God is like. 

I remained in my tent for fifteen days without 
being able to move out. Two Christian men — 
Misaka Kiutu and Sedulaka Kiali — used to come 
and teach me in Kiswahili. 

I became very ill indeed, near to death, God 
201 



TEbe %iU of 1bam /IDuftasa. 

alone knew that I should live. I was very much 
tempted by Satan during that illness. The Chris- 
tians, however, prayed for me. Those who came 
regularly to see me were Elisa Sentamu, Abeli 
Mukasa, and Sulemani Kibunda. 

They used to come and read the Bible to me, 
and though I used to hear what they read, much 
of it I could not understand unless they explained 
it to me ; but w^hen they explained to me what 
they read, I gained courage and thought much 
about the words from the Bible. 

During that illness I was very much tempted. I 
used to think of most foolish things. Do not suppose 
I thought how it would be with me if I were to die. 
Not that, but thoughts of lust and shame. It was 
not when I was most ill, but when I was getting 
better that I thought of these things, and had it 
been possible I should have done the things I 
thought of; but I had not the opportunity, for those 
Christians I have spoken of above never left me, 
and they saved me. 

I tell you this that you may know I lusted after 
evil things, and the only thing that saved me from 
doing them was that earnest Christian men always 
lived with me in my house. They never for a 
moment supposed that I thought of such things, 
and would have done them had they given me the 
opportunity. Now as I only lacked the opportunity, 
though I did not commit the sins in act, yet I was 
just the same as if I had done them, for it was only 
the fear of what men would sa}- that prevented me. 
202 



Ube Xlfe ot Ibam /iDuftaea. 

I did not fear God then as I have since learnt to 
fear Him. 

In 1 89 1, after we had left Bulinguge and come 
to Mengo, I was tempted very severely, I used to 
want to eat things that I was unable to eat because 
I was too ill, and then when I got better I used to 
eat everything as a sick man would wish to. And 
besides this, I used to long for many things that 
are sinful and shameful for a man that is called a 
Christian to think of. And had I been able to get 
the things I longed for, no doubt I should have 
fallen into great sin. I wanted very much to get 
drunk, and to commit other sins. This latter was 
not knov\'n about me by others, because they were 
secret thoughts that are not visible to the others. 
But the getting drunk was known to all, for I used 
to make the people of my household drink and get 
drunk. 

During the year 1892 I read a great deal by 
myself in the Old Testament. I had a book called 
" Somo lya Kwanza," in the Swahili language, from 
the Universities' Mission in Zanzibar, and this book 
I used to read and then teach it to the boys. In 
an evening, about seven or eight, after we had had 
prayers, I used to teach my boys. 

In Teaching Others You are Taught Yourself. 

Then it was also that I began to feel ashamed of 

the evil things which I used to long to do, because 

I was teaching the bo3's not to do them. And 

this reminds me now that if a man teaches his 

203 



XLbc Xife ot 1bam ^uftasa^ 

companions to do what is right, he will understand 
more and more himself, because the truth reveals 
itself to the man who teaches it more than to the 
man who just remains idle. 

I was very diligent in teaching the boys at nights, 
and in praying for myself. Now, whilst I was in 
this state of mind I thought to myself, '* If I keep on 
drinking the plantain wine all the good thoughts 
will go out of my mind." So I gave it up on No- 
vember 14th, 1892, and I became a teetotaler. 

I used to go every day to the church to be taught, 
because I was still unable to understand things 
properly, although I was in the habit of teaching 
my boys myself ; but, alas ! I did not always under- 
stand myself what I taught them. For whilst I 
taught the boys not to sin my thoughts would 
follow other things, and were often mixed with 
sinful desires. I longed to get drunk again, and to 
commit other sins. And those evil desires very 
nearly pulled me back again to be what I used to 
be. 

Two Helpful FrIendSt 

I had friends to help me. In that 3^ear (1892) I 
made friends with R. H. Walker and R. P. Ashe, 
and they became very fond of me indeed. This 
made me take new courage, and I resolved not to 
go back to my old life, because I thought to myself 
every day, '' What makes these two men so fond of 
me ? It cannot be because they have got anything 
out of me, for I have given them nothing of any 
value." It was quite a puzzle to me. 
204 



Ubc %itc of 1bam /IDuF?asa. 

Mr. Ashe used to teach us from the Book of the 
Revelation of St. John. I did not understand it 
perfectly, but I made a great effort to come regu- 
larly to hear what was taught, although I could not 
understand it, I made up my mind not to fail to 
come to be taught, and to make friends with Mr. 
Walker and Mr. Ashe, because I found that when- 
ever I went there they were very glad to see me. 

Ham' Marriage. 

From the year 1892 right up to 1896 I was 
filled with evil and foolish desires far more than 
with holy ones. It was in 1894 that I thought I 
ought to get married. It was because my friend 
Mr. Ashe said to me, " Ham, you ought to be 
married," and I thought over this until I took my 
wife Hana. This good woman was married to me 
before she knew what I was like. 

I had a hard struggle with her to teach her, but 
she would not understand at all. And this led me 
to think evil of her. 

In the year 1895 I prayed to God to help me, 
and I taught Hana at nights by the light of a lamp. 
She often made me shed tears, because she would 
not look at the book, though I tried to teach her 
every day. 

She used to quarrel with me when there was no 
cause for it ; so I took her aside privately, when 
we were by ourselves alone, and scolded her. 

She said, " I have left off all my evil ways now," 
205 



XTbe Xtte of ITDam /lBu??asa. 

but after a time she went back to those things that 
she said she had left. 

I was in deep distress and sorrow about Hana. 

When I was in this troubled state of mind I 
prayed every day to God that he would change 
Hana's heart. And when I saw that Hana would 
not leave off her foolish and evil life, I felt inclined 
to quarrel with God, because I did not understand 
why He should not hear me, for I saw that God 
did not do for me what I in my prayer asked Him 
to do. 

Now when I was taught every day I heard words 
that seemed as if they were addressed to me per- 
sonally. So I made up my mind to go on praying 
without distressing my mind about things as I had 
formerly done. And in the year 1896 I prayed 
diligently with all my heart, and it was then that 
Hana changed and began to want to hear what I 
taught her, and this gave me fresh courage and 
oy. Then I understood how foolish I had been 
to lose heart and to give up in despair. 

In June, 1896, I first understood that God had 
given me the Holy Spirit to teach me that all those 
things I used to think of and long for would only 
destroy me. They did not grieve me before, but 
now I began to be in great grief about such 
thoughts. 

In the year 1897 I thought much about the 
glory of God, and went over carefully the 
experience of 1896, and this caused me to tremble 
in my heart. 

206 



Xlbe %itc ot 1FDam /IDuf;a5a. 

Then I understood that it was the Spirit of God 
Himself that had taught me to hate sinful thoughts 
and longings. 

The War toetween Ham and IVIukasa. 

And I am thus taught now, for I find that my 
thoughts every moment war against each other ; 
and thus when I am tempted to think evil things, 
then my heart trembles with fear, and I pray 
to God in my heart to give me strength to cast 
out those things that I do not like now but 
which used to give me pleasure. This war that I 
have in my heart is a fight between Mukasa (the 
name I had before I was baptized) and Ham (the 
new name I took on being baptized). So I find 
that Mukasa is daily annoyed that I will not follow 
the natural inclinations of my body. But the new 
man Ham whom God sent to drive out Mukasa 
will not allow Mukasa to come back and reign in 
my body, for God wants Ham to be there by him- 
self, following the habits that come from God which 
He taught Ham to adopt in order to drive out 
Mukasa and his evil habits. Well, then, for this I 
thank God, and rejoice to be called Ham and to 
think that Mukasa no longer rules over me, for he 
sees I like Ham best. I cannot please both, for a 
man cannot serve two masters ; he must hate the 
one and please the other (St. Matt. vi. 24). Now 
when at last I had determined to hate Mukasa and 
all his ways, then I understood many things which I 
had not understood before, and I grew in wisdom 
207 



XTbe Xtfe ot 1bam /iDutiasa* 

as I was daily taught. I quickly understood, and 
was distressed in mind at evil things. 

Like Fertile Soil. 

So now I am like a land which in old time the 
rain never fell upon, and on which no seed ever 
grew ; and now for the first time the rain falls, and 
immediately all the seeds spring and grow which 
had been lying in the soil. The dry soil was my 
hard and stubborn heart ; the rain was the gift of 
the Holy Spirit which softened my hard heart ; 
the seeds that did not grow was my being taught the 
Word of God and not carrying it out in my life ; 
the seed growing was my understanding the Word 
of God and doing it ; for formerly I had no regret 
for sin as I have now. I wanted to do what was 
right, but Mukasa brought me what I did not want 
to do, and I did it. But now love reigns in my 
heart and prevents me from doing what I used to 
do. For this I am thankful, for God is my faithful 
witness, and He knows what I most desire and what 
I hate. Therefore I glorify Him, for He knows 
what is in me that it comes from Him. I am Ham 
the new man. 

The above account I have written to explain 
how I was changed by the grace of God. And I 
pray God to help me, so that I may not fall back 
but that I may have strength given me to change 
others (2 Tim. iv. 8). 



208 



H 3Bll)llograpb^ of IHgan&a, 

APPENDIX A. 
A BIBLIOGRAPHY OF UGANDA.* 

TRAVEL, GEOGRAPHY AND MISSIONS. 

Africa and its Explorers, The Story of. Brown. 1893. 

Cassell. 
Africa Waiting. Thornton. 1897. S.VJLU. {_Oiit of 

Print.'] 
Albert Nyanza. Baker. 1866. Macinillafi. Pp. 50-145. 
Among Swamps and Giants in E. E. Africa. Austin. 

1902. Pea7'so7i. 
British East Africa. McDermott. 1S93. Chapmoji 

a?td Hall. 
British Mission to Uganda in 1893, The. Sir G. Portal ; 

edited by Rennell Rodd. 1894. Anwld. 
Cape to Cairo. Grogan. 1902. Hurst cmd Blachett. 
Central Africa. Long. 1874. Sampson Low. 
Chronicles of Uganda. R. P. Ashe. 1894. Hodder. 
Colonization of Africa. H. H. Johnston. 1899. Cam- 
bridge Press. 
Doctor and his Dog in Uganda, A. A. R. Cook. 1903. 

Religious Trad Society. 
Early Chartered Companies, The. Causton and Keane. 

1896. Arnold. 
Eastern Equatorial Africa r^Iission. 1891. C.M.S. 

(Booklet). 
Eastern Uganda. Hobley. 1902. Anthrop. Inst.., Ldn. 

(A Paper.) 
Egypt, Soudan and Central Africa. Petherick. 1861. 
Emin Pasha in Central Africa. Trans, by Mrs. Felkin. 

1882. Philip. 
Foundation of British East Africa. Gregory. 1902. 

Horace Marshall. 

* Principally from a List printed in Uganda Notes. 
209 P 



B ffiibliOGtapbp of XHgan^a* 

From Mombasa to Mengo. E. M. Furley. C.M.S. 

\_Out of Print.'] 
Gospel in Uganda, The. Baskerville and Pilkington. 

1897. CAf. 5. (Booklet). [Out of Print.'] 
Great Rift Valley, The. Gregory. 1896. Innes. 
Handbook to British East Africa and Uganda. Purvis. 

1900. Swan., Sonnenschein. 
Hannington, James : a History of his Life and Work. 

Dawson. Illustrated. 1887. Seeley. \_Seeley. 

Hannington, Last Journals of Bishop. Dawson. 1888. 
Heart of Africa. Schweinfurth. 1874. Sampson Low. 
In Darkest Africa. Stanley. Illustrations and Maps. 

1890. SaDipson Low. 
In Dwarf Land and Cannibal Country. A. B. Lloyd. 

1900. Fisher Unwi7i. \_Oiit of Pri7itP\ 
In Uganda for Christ (Life of J. S. Callis). Pierpoint. 

1898. Hodder. ^Out of Print.'] 

Journal of the Discovery of the Nile. Speke. 1863. 

Blackwood. [Long??ians. 

Lake Region of Central Africa, The. Burton, i860. 
Land of the Nile Springs, The. Colvile. 1895. 
Mackay of Uganda : Pioneer Missionary. By his Sister. 

1892. Hodder. 
Mountains of the Moon, The. Moore. 1902. Stanford. 
Naturalist in Mid Africa, A. Scott Elliott. 
New Light on Dark Africa. Peters. 1891. Ward^ 

Lock. Pp. 77-A^7. \_Waterlow. 

Notes on Uganda. (Analysis of Reports.) 1893. 
Partition of Africa, The. Keltic. 1895. Stanford. 
Pilkington of Uganda. C. F. Harford. No date. Ma?-- 

shall Bros. [(Chicago. 

Redemption of Africa. Noble. 1899. Revell &^ Co., 
Rise of our East African Empire, The : Early Efforts in 

Nyassaland and Uganda. Capt. Lugard. Illustra- 
tions and Maps. 1893. Blackwood. 
Soldiering and Surveying in British East Africa. 

Macdonald. 1897. Arnold. 
Story of the Life of Mackay (for boys). By his Sister. 

1892. Hodder. 
Story of the Uganda Protectorate, The. Lugard. 1902. 

Horace Marshall. 
Story of Uganda, The. S. G. Stock. 1899. C.M.S 

[Out of Print:] 

210 



Ten Years in Equatoria. Trans, from Italian. 1891. 

Warm. Pp. 15-139. 
Three Years in Savage Africa. Decle. 1898. Methuen. 
Through Masai Land. Thomson. 1885. Sampson Low. 
Through my Spectacles in Uganda (for children). Martin 

Hall. 1898. C.M.S. 
Through the Dark Continent. H. M. Stanley. Portraits 

and Maps. 1878. Sampson Low. 
Toro : Visits to Ruwenzori. Bishop Tucker. 1899. C.M.S. 
Two Kings of Uj^^anda. R.P.Ashe. Illustrated. 1889. 

Sa?npson Low. 
Uganda and Egyptian Soudan. Wilson and Felkin. 1882. 

Sampson Low. Chaps. 7, 8. 
Uganda : Its Story and Its Claim. G. Furness Smith. 

1892. C.M.S. 
Uganda Protectorate, The. Sir Harry Johnston. Illus- 
trations and Maps. 1902. Hutchinson. 
Victoria Nyanza a Field for Missionary Enterprise. 

Hutchinson. 1876. Murray. 
Victoria Nyanza Mission. Compiled from letters. 1878. 

C.M.S. lOut of Print.'] 
Walk across Africa, A. Grant. 1864. Blackwood. 

Pp. 188-301. {^Blackwnod. 

What led to the Discovery of the Nile. Speke. 1864. 

II. BOOKS ON THE LANGUAGE. 

Collections for a Lexicon, Luganda-English and English- 

Luganda. O'Flaherty. 1890. S.P.C.K. [1901. 
Comparative Grammar of Bantu Languages. Torrend. 
Elements of Luganda. Crabtree. S.P.C.K. 
English-Luganda and Luganda-English. Vocabulary. 

Pilkington. 1892. S.P.C.K. 
Handbook of Luganda. Pilkington. 1891. S.P.C.K. 

Ditto Slightly revised. 1901. S.P.C.K. 

Luganda-English and English-Luganda Vocabulary. 

Blackledge. S.P.C.K. [In the Press.] 
Luganda Grammar and Vocabulary. Wilson. 1880. 

S.P.C.K. lOut of Print.] \_Press. 

Luganda Phrase Book. Hattersley. S.P.C.K. \^In the 
Manuel de Langue Luganda. French Mission. 1894. 
Medical Vocabulary. A. R. Cook. S.P.C.K. 
Modern Languages of Africa. Cust. 1883. 
211 



a IBibliograpbs of XIlQan^a* 

III. BOOKS IN LUGANDA. 

Anonya Alaba. (" He that seeks finds.'') Pilkington. 
Arithmetic. Miss Chadwick. [R.T.S. 

Bakabaka be Buganda (Kings of Uganda). Apolo 

Katikiro. 
Church History (Robertson's). H. W. Duta. S.P.C.K. 

[^In the Press.'] 
Engero za Baganda (Folk Lore). Apolo Katikiro. 
Engero za Baganda (Uganda Proverbs). H. W. Duta. 

S.P.C.K. 
Engero za Baganda (Uganda Proverbs Scripturally 

applied). G. L. Pilkington and A. R. Cook. S.P.C.K. 
English Primer. Miss Chadwick. 
Geography. Miss Chadwick. [/« the Press.] 
Holy Bible. New Testament. Portions. 

Commentaries : — 
St. Matthew. H. Mukasa. [Out of Pn?tt.'] 
St. Mark. Clayton. 

St. John. Rowling. S.P.C.K. \_In PreparatmtP] 
St. Luke. Rowling. \_In the Press.] 
Hymn Book. (131 hymns.) 

Life of Mahomet. Baskerville and Y. Kaidzi. S.P.C.K. 
Oxford Helps. Walker. \_Out of Print.] S.P.C.K. 
Pilgrim's Progress (Omutambuze). Gordon. R. T.S. 
Prayer-Book. Portions. 
Prayer- Book. 1900. S.P.C.K. 
Reading Book {Mateka). 
XXXIX Articles : Analysis and Scripture Proofs. 

Rowling. \_Ready for Press.] 
Two Catechisms. 

IV. BOOKS IN LUNYORO. 
Four Gospels and Acts. B. &» B.F.S. 
Hymn-Book. \_In the Press.] 
Lunyoro Grammar. Maddox. 1902. S.P.C.K. 
Prayer-Book. Portions. 1902. S.P.C.K. 

V. BLUE BOOKS AND PARLIAMENTARY 
PAPERS. 

No. 2. 1892. Papers respecting the Proposed Railway 
from Mombasa to Lake Victoria. 
212 



No. 4. 1892. Papers relating to the Mombasa Railway 

Survey and Uganda. 
No. 8. 1892. Papers relating to Uganda. 
Nos. I, 2, 3, 8. 1893. Further papers relating to 

Uganda. 
1893. Report on the Railway Survey. 
No. 2. 1894. Reports by Sir Gerald Portal. 
No. 3. 1894. Map to illustrate above Reports. 
No. 7. 1895. Papers relating to Uganda. 
No. 8. 1895. Report on the Question of Railway Com- 
munication with Uganda. 
1S96. Memorandum relating to the Uganda Railway 

Bill. 
No. I. 1896. Report of Operations against the King 

of Unyoro. 
No. 4. 1897. Report on the Progress of the Uganda 

Railway. 
Nos. 2, 7. 1898. Papers relating to Events in the 

Uganda Protectorate. 
No. 8. 1898. Report on the Progress of the Railway. 
No. 10. 1898. Report on the Soudanese Mutiny. 
Nos. I, 4. 1899. Papers relating to Events in Uganda 

(and Macdonald's Expedition. No. 4). 
No. 5. 1899. Sir G. Molesworth's Report on the 

Uganda Railway. 
No. 6. 1899. Report by the Uganda Railway 

Committee. 
No. 9. 1899. Macdonald's Report on the Expedition 

from the Uganda Protectorate. 
No. 4. 1900. Memorandum relating to the Uganda 

Railway. 
No. 6. 1900. Sir H. H. Johnston's Preliminary Report 

on Uganda. 
No. 7. 1900. Report by the Uganda Railway Com- 
mittee. 
No. 8. 1900. Maps to illustrate Sir H. H. Johnston's 

Report. 
No. 2. 1901. Despatch from H.M. Commissioner re 

Travellers in Uganda. 
No. 6. 1901. Correspondence respecting the Uganda 

Railway. 
No. 7. 1901. Sir H. H. Johnston's Report on the 

Uganda Protectorate. 

213 



Cbtonolog^ of 'Claanba 

No. 8. 1901. Report of the Uganda Railway. 
No. 2. 1902. Instructions to Col. Sadler on 
Appointment as H.M. Commissioner of Uganda. 



APPENDIX B. 



CHRONOLOGY OF UGANDA AND THE 
UGANDA MISSION. 

[The figures in parenthesis refer to the page on which reference 
to the event will be found.] 

1843. Krapf at Takaungu on Coast hears rumours of a 

great lake in Unyamwezi. 

1844. January. Krapf landed at Mombasa. 
1846. Mission started at Rabai, Mombasa (2). 
1848. Rebmann discovered Kilima Njaro (2). 

1855. Rebmann and Erhardt compiled and sent home 

the map of a vast inland sea (2). 

1856. Map exhibited by Royal Geographical Society (2). 

1857. Burton and Speke sent out to Africa via Zanzibar 

(3). 

1858. Speke discovered the Victoria Nyanza (3). 

1 86 1. Speke visited Uganda and Karagwe. Baker dis- 
covered the Albert Lake (3, 4). 
1871. Stanley met Livingstone at Ujiji. 

1873. Livingstone died. Line of steamers established 

between Aden and Zanzibar. 

1874. C.M.S. established freed slave settlement at Frere 

Town, Mombasa. 

1875. Stanley explored Victoria Nyanza, and visited 

King M'tesa in Uganda. Also discovered the 
Albert Edward Lake (4). 

Nov. 15. Stanley's letter appeared in Daily 
Telegraph challenging England to send Mis- 
sionaries to Uganda (4). 

Nov. 18. /5,ooo offered to C.M.S. for a Mission 
to the Lake (5). 

Nov. 23. C.M.S. Committee undertook Uganda 
Mission (5). 

214 



an^ tbe XDiGan^a /ibisaion* 

1876. March 11. Lieut. Shergold Smith sailed for 

Uganda (6). 
May. Rev. C. T. Wilson, O'Neill, Mackay and 

others sailed (6). 
July 14. First start from coast (8). 
July. Robertson died (8). 

1877. Jan. 29. Missionaries arrived at Kagei, south of 

Lake, where Dr. Smith died (12). 
June 30. Two first C.M.S. Missionaries, Lieut. 

Smith and Rev. C. T. Wilson, arrived at M'tesa's 

capital, then Rubaga (13). 
Dec. 13. Lieut. Smith and Mr. O'Neill killed on 

island of Ukerewe (21). 
Wilson left alone in Uganda (22). 

1878. Nov. 6. Mackay reached Uganda (23). 
Reinforcements of Missionaries sent via the Nile 

and Khartoum, with General Gordon's assist- 
ance (23). 

1879. Feb. 16. C.M.S. missionaries Pearson, Litchfield, 

and Felkin arrived at M'tesa's capital (23). 
Feb. 23. Roman Catholic missionaries arrived in 

Uganda (23). 
May. Wilson and Felkin went home with Baganda 

envoys via the Nile (24). 

1880. Envoys returned under care of O'Flaherty. 

1 88 1. O'Flaherty and Mackay alone in Uganda from 

March, 1881, to May, 1883 (27, 28). 

1882. March 18. Five first converts baptized in 

Uganda (28). 
Henry Wright Duta baptized at Zanzibar (28). 
May 17. Hannington, Ashe, and Cyril Gordon left 

England (25). 

1883. Hannington reached Lake and invalided home 

(25). Ashe arrived Uganda, Gordon stayed at 
Msalala. 
Oct. 28. Twenty-one Baganda converts received 
the Lord's Supper (28). 
1883-84. Thomson went through Masai Land, and opened 
the northern route to Uganda (35). 

1884. June 24. Hannington consecrated first Bishop of 

E. E. Africa (34)- 
Oct. 10. M'tesa died and Mwanga succeeded him 
and built his capital at Mengo (30). 

215 



Cbronolooi^ of moait^a 

Eighty-eight baptisms to this date (31). 
German East Africa Company founded. 

1885. Delimitation Treaty signed, British and German, 

at Zanzibar. 
January. Three Christian boys put to death in 

Uganda (31, 32). 
Church Council appointed (32). 
I^Iay. Baptisms to this date, 108. 
July 22. Bishop Hannington started from coast 

for Uganda (35). 
Oct. 31. Bishop Hannington murdered at Luba's, 

Busoga (36, ^7). 

1886. Great persecution in Uganda. At least 60 Chris- 

tians put to death (41). 
August. Ashe left Uganda. Mackay alone (45, 46). 
Oct. 18. Bishop Parker consecrated. Arrived at 

Mombasa (48). 

1887. July 21. ]\Iackay compelled by Arabs to leave 

Uganda. Retired to Usambiro (47). 
August. Cyril Gordon reached Uganda (47). 
Treaty of concession in favour of East African 

Association signed at Zanzibar. 

1888. March 26. Bishop Parker died at Usambiro (49). 
Nassa Mission founded (139). 

April 17. R. H. Walker reached Uganda (47). 

Aug. I . Revolution. Mwanga fled. Kiwewa made 
king (52). 

September. Imperial British East Africa Company 
founded (58). 

Oct. 12. Second Revolution. All Native Chris- 
tians fled to Nkole (53). 

Oct. 19. Missionaries, English and R.C., ex- 
pelled (54). 

October. Third revolution. Kilema (Moham- 
medan) placed on throne (56). 

1889. July. Stanley met Christian exiles from Uganda 

and Zakaria (Regent) in Nkole (56). 
Aug. 28. Stanley and Emin Pasha arrived at 

Usambiro (56). 
Gordon and Walker joined Mwanga and Christians 

at Sese (57). 
October. Mwanga restored to the throne (57). 

1890. Feb. 8. Mackay died at Usambiro (59). 

216 



1S90. February. Dr. Peters (German) reached Uganda 

(59)- 

First Christian Church built at Mengo (67). 

April 25. Bishop Tucker consecrated (65). 

May. Jackson and Gedge (I.B.E.A. Company) 
arrived Uganda (58). 

July I. Treaty of Berlin signed. Spheres of in- 
fluence settled (59). 

Treaty concluded with Uganda by I.B.E.A. Com- 
pany (58). 

Dec. 27. Bishop Tucker, with Pilkington, Basker- 
ville, and F. C. Smith arrived in Uganda (67). 

1 891. Jan. 18. First Ordination and Confirmation 

services. Seventy candidates confirmed (69). 

Jan. 20. Six native lay Readers set apart (69). 

Jan. 21. Bishop Tucker left Uganda (69). 

January. First station in Busoga occupied. 

March. About 2,000 adherents, 200 baptized 
Christians, and 60 communicants in Uganda. 

September. I.B.E.A. Company proposed to with- 
draw from Uganda (75), 

Oct. 30. Appeal at Gleaners' Union Anniversary 
at Exeter Hall on behalf of Uganda, ;/^ 16,000 
raised to help Company to remain (76). 

November. Company countermanded instructions 
to retire from Uganda (77). 

1892. Jan. 24. Civil War in Mengo. Flight of Mwanga 

and French party (78). 
March 4. Parl!amentvoted^2o,ooo towards survey 

for railway from coast to Victoria Nyanza. 
March 30. 'Mwanga returned to capital (78). 
Treaty between Mwanga and Captain Lugard. 
May.' British Government informed by I.B.E.A. 

Company of decision to retire from Uganda at 

end of 1892. 
July 31. Great new church on Namirembe Hill 

opened (80). 
September. Question raised in C.M.S. Committee 

led to deputation to Lord Rosebery, Foreign 

Secretary. 
Sept. 30. Government decided to assist Company 

to prolong occupation of Uganda till March, 

1893. 

217 



1892. Nov. 23. Government announced that a Com- 

missioner was to be sent to Uganda. 
Dec. 9. Bishop Tucker discovered the remains of 

Bishop Hannington at Mumia's, and brought them 

to Mengo for interment. 
Dec. 23. Bishop Tucker arrived at Mengo for 

second time^ with six missionaries (84). 

1893. February. Kyagwe occupied. 

March 17. Sir Gerald Portal, British Commis- 
sioner, arrived at Mengo (84). 

March 21. Mika Sematiniba, with Rev. R. H. 
Walker, had an interview with C.M.S. Com- 
mittee (85). 

April I. Union Jack hoisted at Kampala, in lieu 
of Company's flag (84). 

April. Forty Protestant chiefs signed declaration 
in favour of abolition of slavery (84). 

Singo occupied (88). 

May 28. Six Baganda ordained deacons, ten set 
apart as lay Readers (85). 

June 2. Bishop Tucker left Mengo. 

December. The great Revival in Uganda (87). 

1894. April 12. British Government announced in Par- 

liament assumption of Protectorate over 

Uganda. 
July 14. Four missionaries sail for Uganda via 

the Cape. 
Aug. 27. British Protectorate proclaimed at 

Mengo. 
The Cathedral on Namirembe Hill fell down and 

was re-erected (90). 

1895. April. Sir Edward Grey announced in Parliament 

that Uganda Railway would be constructed, and 

districts between Uganda and Coast be made a 

Protectorate. 
May 18. First party of women missionaries for 

Uganda sailed (92). 
Oct. 4. Bishop Tucker arrived in Uganda for 

third time with ten new missionaries, of whom 

five were ladies (93). 
Division of diocese proposed. 
Two thousand and fifty-two confirmees. 
Execution of C. Stokes, ex-missionary and caravan 
218 



an^ tbe Xll^anba /IlMsston. 

leader to Uganda missionaries, by Belgian 
officer on the Congo. 
Koki occupied. 

1896. March 15. King of Toro baptized (130). 

May. The Ruivenzori steamer, subscribed for 
through Mr. H. M. Stanley and the Record 
newspaper, launched on Lake. 

May 31. (Trinity Sunday.) Three Baganda or- 
dained priests, five deacons, twenty-two licensed 
eslay Readers. 

June 4. Bishop Tucker left Uganda. 

Aug. 8. Chwa born and committed to Katikiro 
to bring up. Christened Daudi (98). 

November. The Uganda Bible completed and 
printed (94). 

1897. Feb. 18. Large party of missionaries arrive in 

Mengo, including Dr. A. R. Cook, first medical 
missionary (118). 

April 24. Rev. J. S. Callis died in Toro (133). 

June. Medical Mission Hospital opened in Men- 
go (118). 

July 6. Mwanga fled from Mengo, and revolted 
against the English (96). 

July 28. Mwanga's army defeated by Major 
Ternan (97). 

Aug. 14. Daudi Chwa placed on the throne (98). 

Sept. 23. Soudanese troops desert Major Mac- 
donald's expedition. Commencement of mutiny 

(99)- 
Fort at Luba's occupied by mutineers (100). 
Oct. 18. Women missionaries recalled to Mengo 

(100). 
Dec. 1 1. Pilkington killed at Luba's, Busoga (102). 

1898. March 9. Rev. E. H. Hubbard died at Mengo(i39). 
March 18. Pilkington's body re-interred at 

Mengo (103). 
May 13. Bishop Tucker arrived at Mengo. 
A. B. Lloyd's journey from Toro to the mouth 

of the Congo {136). 

1899. The education of children, separately from adults, 

began this year in Uganda (108). 
Jan. 29. Four Baganda ordained to priesthood, 
and five to diaconate. 
219 



Cbronolog^ ot 'Clgan^a? 

1899. Feb. 27. Yosiya, the boy King of Bunyoro, 

baptized (148). 
April. Mwanga and Kabarega captured by Lieut. - 

Col. Evatt in Bukedi (105, 106). 
Human sacrifice abolished in Bunyoro. 
Nov. 14 — January, 1900. Bishop Tucker visited 

Budu, Koki, Nkole, and Toro (136, 167). 
December. Teachers planted in Nkole (168, 169). 

1900. Industrial Mission commenced (no). 

March. New Treaty concluded between Sir H. H. 

Johnston and Chiefs. 
May. New Mission Hospital opened (119). 
June 10. Three Baganda ordained to diaconate, 

and two to priesthood. 
Aug. 15. The Rev. Martin J. Hall drowned in 

Lake Victoria (139). 
Punitive expeditions against the Wa-Nandi. 
Dec. 18. Large party of recruits reach Mengo. 
Dec. 21. Apolo Kivebulaya ordained deacon in 

Toro (136). 

1901. Jan. 25. Two Baganda ordained deacons, and six 

priests. 

First Temperance legislation by the Chiefs. 

Great reed Cathedral on Namirembe Hill dis- 
mantled (in). 

June 18. Foundation-stone of new brick cathe- 
dral laid (n3). 

Oct. 13. First Pygmy convert baptized at Kaba- 
role(i37). 

Dec. 20. Construction line of Uganda Railway 
first reached shore of Lake. 

1902. June 17. The Katikiro, being on a visit to 

England, had an interview with the C.M.S. 

Committee {117). 
June 26. New Cathedral at Mengo used for first 

time (n4). 
Nov. 28. Mission Hospital burnt down (121). 
Dec. 2. King and Katikiro of Nkole baptized (171). 

1903. Uganda Railway completed to Lake (125). 

Jan. n. Mr. H. H. Farthing died in Bunyoro (155). 
Jan. 30. Mrs. Bond died in Mengo. 
Feb. 12. The steamer Wt?nfred\d.\inchtdiOTi Lake. 
Feb. 18. Mr. A. W. Kemp died at Nassa. 
220 



/HMsstonaries to XIlgan^a. 



APPENDIX c. 
MISSIONARIES TO UGANDA. 

[Note. — The following is a list of all C.M.S. missionaries who have laboured, or 
are labouring at the present time, in the Uganda Mission. Several of those named 
laboured also in other C.M.S. Missions, but only the years of their service in 
Uganda are here specified. Where a name occurs without " Rev." preceding the 
initials, the missionary was a layman. 

Abbreviations. — The University or College of the missionary is indicated thus : — 
Oxford, "Oxf."; Cambridge, " Camb." ; Dublin, "Dub."; Durham, " Dur." ; 
London, " Lond." ; Church Missionary College, Islington, " Isl." ; in the case of 
ladies trained at "The Willows," Stoke Newington, or "The Olives," South 
Hampstead, the words " Willows " or " Olives " occur after their names; died, 

I.-MALE MISSIONARIES-CLERICAL AND LAY. 

1876. Smith, G. S. Lond. Coll. Div. 1876; killed, 1877. 
Robertson, W. M. 1S76. 

O'Neill, T. 1876; killed, 1877. 

Mackay, A. M. Edin. 1876-90; d. 1890. 

Robertson, J. 1876 ; o'. 1876. 

Smith, J., M.B., CM. Edin. 1876-77 ; d. 1S77. 

Wilson, Rev. C. T., M.A. Oxf. 1876-80. 

1877. Tytherleigh, W. C. 1S77.78 ; d. 1878. 
Sneath, G. E. 1877-79. 

1878. Penrose, W. S. 1878; killed, 1878. 
Stokes, C. 1878-S5. 

Litchfield, Rev. G. Isl. B.A. Dub. 1878-81. 

Pearson, C. W. Isl. 1878-82. 

Felkin, R. W. Medical. 1878-81. 

Hall, Rev. J. W. Isl. B.A. Dur. 1878. 
1880. O'Flaherty, Rev. P. St. Aidan's. 1S80-86; d. 18S6. 

Biddlecombe, A. J. 1880-81. 
1882. Hannington, Rt. Rev. J., M.A. Oxf. 1S82-85; killed, 18S5. 

Ashe, Rev. R. P., M.A. Camb. 1882-88 and 1891-93. 

Gordon, Rev. E. C. Isl. From 1882. 

Wise, C. 1882-87. 
1884. Jeanes, H. W. Isl. 1884-86. 

Roscoe, Rev. J. Isl. From 1884. 

1886. Parker, Rt. Rev. H. P., M.A. Camb. 1886-88; (/. 1S88. 

1887. Hooper, Rev. D. A. L., B.A. Camb. 1887-88. 
Deekes, D. 1887-91. 

Walker, Yen. R. H., M.A. Camb. From 18S7; Archdn. of 
Uganda, 1892. 
1890. Easkerville, Rev. G. K., M.A. Camb. From 1890. 

Pilkington, G.L., B.A. Camb. 1890-97; killed, 1897. 
Tucker, Rt. Rev. A. R., D.D. Oxf. and Dur. Bp. in E. Eq. 
Africa, 1890-99 ; of Uganda, from 1899. 
221 



/[Dissionaries to Xllgan^a. 

1S90. Dermott, Rev. J. V. Isl. 1890-92; d. 1892. 
Dunn, Rev. J. W. Isl. 1890; d, 1890. 
Hill, Rev. J. W. H., B.A. Camb. 1890 ; d. 1890. 
Smith, F. C. Isl. 1890-92. 

Greaves, Rev. G. H. V., B.A. Camb. 1890-91 ; d. 1891. 
Hunt, H.J. 1890; ^. 1890. 

1891. Collins, W. 1891-92. 

Hubbard, Rev. E. H. Isl. 1891-98; d. 1898. 

Wright, G.R.M., M.R.C.S. Eng., L.R.C.P. Lond. Isl. 1891- 

93- 
Crabtree, Rev. W. A., B.A. Camb. Isl. From 1891. 
Giinther, C. A., Lond. Coll. Div. 1891-94. 

1892. Fisher, Rev. A. B. Isl. From 1892. 
Leakey, Rev. R. H., B.A. Camb. From 1892. 
Nickisson, J. P. Isl. 1892-96 ; d. 1896. 
Millar, Rev. E., M.A. Camb. From 1892. 

1893. Rowling, Rev. F. Isl. From 1893. 
Fletcher, T. B. Isl. From 1893. 
Sugden, Rev. H. R., M.A. Oxf. 1893-98. 

1894. Lewin, H. B. Isl. F»om 1894. 
Lloyd, A. B. Isl. Fiom 1894. 

Pike, Rev. A. J., B.A. Camb. 1894-98. 
Blackledge, Rev. G. R. Isl. From 1894. 

1895. Buckley, Rev. T. R., B.A., LL.B., Royal Univ., Ireland. From 

1895- 
Hall, Rev. M. J., B.A. Camb. 1895-1900; d. 1900. 
Purvis, Rev. J. B. Isl. and Dur. 1895-99 ; rejoined 1903. 
Wilscm, Rev. A. Isl. From 1895. 
Wright, Rev. F. H. Isl. From 1895. 

1896. Callis, Rev. J. S., B.A. Camb. 1896-97 ; d. 1897. 
Clayton, Rev. H., M.A. Camb. Isl. From 1896. 
Cook, A. R., B.A. Camb., M.D. Lond. From 1896. 
Tegart, Rev. H. W. Isl. From 1896. 

^.^Weatherhead, Rev. H. W., B.A. Camb. Isl. From 1896. 
Whitehouse, A. Isl. 1896- 1900. 
Wigram, Rev. B. E., M.A. Camb. 1896-98. 

1897. Force-Jones, R. Isl. 1897-1901. 
Hattersley, C. W. From 1897. 

Borup, K. E., Montreal Theo. Coll. From 1897. 
Ecob, Rev. C. H. T. Isl. From 1897. 
Maddox, H. E. Isl. From 1897. 

1898. Skeens, Rev. S. R. Isl. From 1898. 
»899. Casson, Rev. G. H. Isl. From 1899. 

Cook, J. H., M.S., M.B,, Lond. From 1899. 
Farthing, H. H. Isl. 1899-1903; d. 1903. 
Innes, W. G. S. From 1899. 
Purser, Rev. J. W. Isl. From 1899. 
1900. Savile, H. O. Isl. From 1900. 
Davies, E. C. Isl. From 1900. 
Kemp, A. W. Isl. 1900-03; ^. 1903. 
222 



/lIMsslonartes to "ClGanOa. 

1900. Phillips, C. J. From 1900. 

Weatherhead, Rev. H. T. C, B.A. Camb. Isl. From 1900. 
Willis, Rev. J. J., M.A. Camb. From 1900-04. 
Fraser, A. G., B.A. Oxf. 1900. 

1901. Chadwick, Rev. W., B.A. Dub. From 1901. 
Kitching, Rev. A. L., M.A. Camb. From 1901. 
O'Connor, Rev. D. A., B.A. Dub. From 1901. 
Johnson, Rev. T. B., M.A. Camb. From 1901. 
Dillistone, H. G. From 1901. 

Bond, A., B.A., M.D., B.Ch., B.A.O. Dub. From 1901. 

1902. Daniell, Rev. E. S. Isl. From 1902. 
Owrid, T. Isl. From 1902. 

1903. Ladbury, Rev. H. B., M.A. Camb. From 1903. 
Hannington, Rev. J. E. M., B.A. Camb. From 1903. 
Mathers, H. Isl. From 1903. 

II._WOMEN MISSIONARIES. 

1895. Furley, Miss Edith Markham. From 1895. 

Browne, Miss Eleanor E. Willows. 1895-97 (now Mrs. F. 

Rowling). 
Chadwick, Miss Jane Elizabeth. From 1895. 
Pilgrim, Miss Eliza Louise. Nurse. From 1895. 
Thomsett, Miss Mary Susannah. Nurse. From 1895. 

1896. Taylor, Miss Bertha. Willows. 1 896-1 901 (now Mrs. PI. E. 

Maddox). 
Timpson, Miss Kate. Nurse. 1896-1900 (now Mrs. A. R. 

Cook). 
Bird, Miss Gertrude E. Olives. From 1896. 

1899. Pike, Miss Edith Constance. Willows. From 1899. 

Scott, Miss Helen Dorothy Ida. Willows. 1899- 1901 (now 

Mrs. G. R. Blackledge). 
Tanner, Miss Sophie Rose. Olives. From 1899. 

1900. Allen, Miss Annie Emma. From 1900. 

Glass, Miss Annie Beatrice, Newnham Coll., Camb. 1900-01 

(now Mrs. A. G. Fraser). 
Hurditch, Miss Ruth. Olives and Willows. 1900-02 (now 

Mrs. A. B. Fisher). 
Robinson, Miss Annie Henrietta. From 1900. 

1901. Brewer, Miss Ethel Mary. Willows. From 1901. 
Dallison, Miss Beatrice Eleanor. Nurse. Willows. From 1901. 
Thomas, Miss Helen Margaret. Olives. From 1901. 
TurnbuU, Miss Hilda Mary. 1901-04 (now Mrs. H. Clayton). 
Allen, Miss Alfreda Louisa. From 1901. 

Dyke, Miss Theophania Louisa. Willows. From 190 1. 

1902. Baker, Miss Mabel Theodora. From 1902. 

Barton, Miss Kathleen Elizabeth. Olives. From 1902. 

1903. Attlee, Miss Annie Kate. Willows. From 1903. 
Ostler, Miss Marion. Olives. From 1903. 
Jacob, Miss Anna Adeliza. Willows. From 1903. 
Walton, Miss Lucy Olive. Willows. From 1903. 

223 



Q 
S 



to 

Q 
O 

2 
u 
a. 

< 

z 
z 

u 

a 
z 

5 



< 

Q 
Z 
< 

o 

::;) 

u 

c 

O 
H 

CO 

H 
< 
H 

CO 



Scholars. 


1 8 ^ o 


•sjsueuitass 


: 


i 


f 




O 1 00 t^ 


•sXog 


.18 1^ 




1 

•siooqos 


: ; « 


ON 


On 


1. 

•3 


1 1 to uo 


•uajpuHD 


1 O 1 N 




M 1 O ' t^ 
•s^inpv 2 1 JC 


% 


O O m < Ln 


.i 

'u 


O ' t-^ 1 rf 

O i O lo rr 

•rejOT ro : ^ ^ =^. 

i ro rf i 00 
i 1 >-i ' ro 


•sasuinqDaiBQ ! z, 


ro 






i ! 8 8;^ S^ 

1 •pSZndBCT ! r» ^ O^ CO 


le 


•IBIOX 


1 i -o 1 « 


? 

ff 


•r J3 


i vo N i M 


1- 


1 O 1 ON i t^ 

' 1 1 ! '-' 


•ASaaO SAiiBsj | j , j ' 2 J;* 





224 
