About This File

This file is part of a corpus compiled by Caitlin Matheis (University of Nebraska-Lincoln) for a 2021 computational text analysis project for the One More Voice recovery project (onemorevoice.org). This corpus encompasses a wide range of plain text (TXT) files containing nineteenth- and early twentieth-century literary works centered on Africa by several dozen different British and African writers. Questions about the corpus and project can be directed to Caitlin Matheis (cmatheis2@huskers.unl.edu), the creator of the corpus, and Adrian S. Wisnicki (awisnicki@unl.edu), lead developer for One More Voice.

File Source: Internet Archive, http://archive.org/details/whatledtodiscove00spek

--------------------------------------

WHAT LED TO THE DISCOVERY 
OF THE
SOURCE OF THE NILE 

BY 
JOHN HANNING SPEKE 
CAPTAIN H.M. INDIAN ARMY 

AUTHOR OF 'JOURNAL OF THE DISCOVERY OF THE
SOURCE OF THE NILE ' 

WILLIAM BLACKWOOD AND SONS 
EDINBURGH AND LONDON 
MDCCCLXIV 



The Right of Translation is reserved. 



TO 
THE MEMORY OF 

LIEUTENANT-GENERAL SIR JAS. OUTRAM, BART. 

G. C. B. 
WHO FIRST GAVE ME A START IN AFRICA, 

THIS HISTORY 

IS RESPECTFULLY INSCRIBED. 



ADVERTISEMENT. 



In offering this short connected history of my first 
two explorations in Africa, I must state that I have 
been urged to do so by friends desirous of knowing 
what led to the djscovery of the source of the Nile. 
The greater part of it was originally published in 
' Blackwood's Magazine ; ' but that lacked the con- 
nection which I have now given to the conclusion of 
my independent journey to and from the Victoria 
N yanza, which is the great source or reservoir of 
the Nile. The manner in which I traced the Nile 
down from the Victoria N'yanza to Egypt is ex- 
plained in my ' Journal of the Discovery of the 
Source of the Nile.' 

J. H. SPEKE. 



CONTENTS. 



JOURNAL OF ADVENTURES IN SOMALI LAND. 
CHAPTER I. 

INTRODUCTION TO THE JOURNAL. 

PAGE 

Projects and hobbies — Life in India — Lord Clyde and Sir James Out- 
ram — The position and physical geography of the Somali country — 
The Nogal country, and historical sketches — Costume and Customs, 1 

CHAPTER II. 

The voyage — An Akil — The Somali shore — Sultan (Gerad) Mahamed 
Ali — Hidden treasure — The Warsingali — A royal reception — Somali 
appetites — Difficulties and impediments — Sultan tries my Abban or 
protector, ........ 24 

CHAPTER III. 

Yafir Pass — Rhut Tug (River) — The ruins at Kin's city — Abban ap- 
prehends future consequences — Hyenas — The Dulbahantas — Camel- 
drivers' tricks — Briny water — Antelope-shooting — Elephant-hunting 
— Ostrich-hunting — Gazelles — Jealousy and suspicions of the people 
— Rapid decline of property, . . . . .57 

CHAPTER IV. 

Meditations among the tombs — A fracas — The return march — The 
north-east monsoon — Relief from persecution — Interesting animals — 
Gori again — Shooting a woman — Arrival at Aden — Fresh projects — 
Arrangements, ....... 92 

CHAPTER V. 

Aden — Departure — Kurrum — A conclave of sages — Arrangement of 
the expedition — The south-west monsoon — Medical practice — The 
camp besieged — Wounded and captive — A triumphal procession — 
Flight — Return to Aden and to England — Fresh projects there, . 114 



CONTENTS. 



JOURNAL OF A CRUISE ON THE TANGANYIKA LAKE. 



CHAPTER I. 

PAGE 

The Royal Geographical Society— The strange lake on the map— Set 
off— Arrive at Zanzibar— A preliminary excursion— A sail along the 
coast— The Pangani river— A jemadar's trick— Journey to Fuga 
—Adventures— Return to Zanzibar— Scenes there— Objects of the 
expedition— Recruiting for followers— The Cafila Bashi— The start — 
Fevers— Discussions about the Mountains of the Moon and the Vic- 
toria N'yanza — The Tanganyika, . . . ¦ .155 



CHAPTER II. 

Canoes— The crews— The biography of Bombay — The voyage— Croco- 
diles — The lake scenery — Kivira island — Black beetles — An adven- 
ture with one of them— Kasenge island — African slavery, . . 209 



CHAPTER III. 

Leave Tanganyika— Determine to visit the Ukerew6 lake, alias Vic- 
toria N'yanza — Confusion about rivers running in and out — Idea that 
it is the source of the Nile — Arrangements for the journey — Diffi- 
culties — The march — Nature of the country — Formalities at the 
meeting of caravans — A pagazi strike — A sultana — Incidents — Pil- 
lars of granite, ....... 250 



CHAPTER IV. 

First sight of the Victoria N'yanza — Its physical geography — Specula- 
tions on its being the source of the Nile — Sport on the lake — Sultans 
Machunda and Mahaya — Missionary accounts of the geography — Arab 
accounts — Regrets at inability to complete the discovery — The march 
resumed — History of the Watuta — Hippopotamus-hunting — Adven- 
tures — Kahama, ....... 305 



CHAPTER V. 

General character of the country traversed — The huts — The geology — 
Productions— Land of promise — Advice to missionaries — Leave Ule- 
kampuri — Return of the expedition — Register of temperature, . 359 



JOUENAL 



OF 



ADVENTURES IN SOMALI LAND 




Ir/)/,,,/ „,„„/.( >,„„ ./„„., /,iv,-/. 



JOUKNAL 



OF 



ADVENTURES IN SOMALI LAND 



JOUKNAL 



OF 



ADVENTUKES IN SOMALI LAND. 



CHAPTER I. 

INTRODUCTION TO THE JOURNAL. 

PROJECTS AND HOBBIES — LIFE IN INDIA — LORD CLYDE AND SIR 
JAMES OUTRAM — THE POSITION AND PHYSICAL GEOGRAPHY 
OF THE SOMALI COUNTRY — THE NOGAL COUNTRY, AND 
HISTORICAL SKETCHES — COSTUME AND CUSTOMS. 

It was in the year 1849, at the expiration of the 
Punjaub campaign, under Lord Gough, where I had 
been actively engaged as a subaltern officer in the (so- 
called) fighting brigade of General Sir Colin Camp- 
bell's division of the army, adding my mite to the four 
successive victorious actions — Eamnugger, Sadoola- 
pore, Chillianwallah, and Guzerat — that I first con- 
ceived the idea of exploring Central Equatorial Africa. 
My plan was made with a view to strike the Nile 

A 



2 SOMALI COUNTRY. 

at its head, and then to sail down that river to 
Egypt. It was conceived, however, not for geogra- 
phical interest, so much as for a view I had in my 
mind of collecting the fauna of those regions, to 
complete and fully develop a museum in my father's 
house, a nucleus of which I had already formed from 
the rich menageries of India, the Himalaya Moun- 
tains, and Tibet. My idea in selecting the new field 
for my future researches was, that I should find with- 
in it various orders and species of animals hitherto 
unknown. Although Major Cornwallis Harris, Rup- 
pell, and others had by this time well-nigh ex- 
hausted, by their assiduous investigations, all dis- 
coveries in animal life, both in the northern and 
southern extremities of Africa, in the lowlands of 
Kaffraria in the south, and the highlands of Ethi- 
opia in the north, no one as yet had penetrated to 
the centre in the low latitudes near the equator; 
and by latitudinal differences I thought I should 
obtain new descriptions and varieties of animals. 
Further, I imagined the Mountains of the Moon 
were a vast range, stretching across Africa from east 
to west, which in all probability would harbour 
wild goats and sheep, as the Himalaya range does. 
There, too, I thought I should find the Nile rising in 
snow, as does the Ganges in the Himalayas. 

The time I proposed to myself for carrying this 
scheme into operation was my furlough — a lease of 
three years' leave of absence, which I should be- 
come entitled to at the expiration of ten years' ser- 



INTRODUCTION. 3 

vice in India; but I would not leave the reader 
to infer that I intended devoting the whole of my 
furlough to this one pursuit alone. Two of the three 
years were to be occupied in collecting animals, and 
descending by the valley of the Nile to Egypt and 
England, whilst the third year was to be spent in in- 
dulgent recreations at home after my labours should 
be over. 

I had now served five years in the Indian army, 
and five years were left to serve ere I should become 
entitled to take my furlough. During this time I had 
to consider two important questions : How I should 
be able, out of my very limited pay as a subaltern 
officer, to meet the heavy expenditure which such a 
vast undertaking would necessarily involve ? and how, 
before leaving India, I might best employ any local 
leave I could obtain, in completing my already com- 
menced collections of the fauna of that country and its 
adjacent hill-ranges ? * 

Previous experience had taught me that, in the 
prosecution of my chief hobby, I would also solve the 
problem of the most economical mode of living. In 
the backwoods and jungles no ceremony or etiquette 
provokes unnecessary expenditure ; whilst the fewer 

* Without exception, and after having now shot over three quarters 
of the globe, I can safely say, there does not exist any place in the whole 
wide world which affords such a diversity of sport, such interesting ani- 
mals, or such enchanting scenery, as well as pleasant climate and tem- 
perature, as these various countries of my first experiences ; but the 
more especially interesting was Tibet to me, from the fact that I was 
the first man who penetrated into many of its remotest parts, and dis- 
covered many of its numerous animals. 



4 SOMALI COUNTRY. 

men and material I took with me on my sporting 
excursions the better sport I always got, and the freer 
and more independent I was to carry on the chase. I 
need now only say I acted on this conviction, and I 
think, I may add, I managed it successfully ; for there 
are now but few animals to be found in either India, 
Tibet, or the Himalaya Mountains, specimens of which 
have not fallen victims to my gun. Of this the pater- 
nal hall is an existing testimony. Every year after 
the war I obtained leave of absence, and every year I 
marched across the Himalayas, and penetrated into 
some unknown portions of Tibet, shooting, collecting, 
and mapping the country wherever I went. My mess- 
mates wondered how it was I succeeded in getting so 
much leave ; but the reason was simply this, and I 
tell it that others may profit by it : — The Comman- 
der-in-Chief, Sir William Gomm, observing to what 
good account I always turned my leave, instead of 
idling my time away, or running into debt, took great 
pleasure in encouraging my hobby; and his Staff were 
even heard to say it would be a pity if I did not get 
leave, as so much good resulted from it. 

The 3d September 1854 completed my tenth year's 
servitude in India, and on the succeeding day, the 4th, 
I embarked on board one of the P. and 0. Company's 
steamers at Calcutta, and left the Indian shore for 
Aden ; but previously to my departure I purchased vari- 
ous cheap articles of barter, all as tempting and seduc- 
tive as I could find, for the simple-minded negroes of 
Africa. These consisted principally of cheap guns, re- 



INTRODUCTION. 5 

volving pistols, swords, cheap cutlery of all sorts, beads, 
cotton stuffs of a variety of kinds, and sewing material, 
&c. &c. <xc, to the amount of £390 sterling. Arrived at 
Aden, my first step was to visit Colonel Outram, the 
political resident, to open my views to him with regard 
to penetrating Africa, and to solicit his assistance to 
my doing so, by granting introductory letters to the 
native chiefs on the coast, arid in any other manner that 
he could. But to my utter astonishment and discom- 
fiture, with the frank and characteristic ardour which 
has marked him through life, he at once said he would 
not only withhold his influence, but would prohibit 
my going there at all, as the countries opposite to 
Aden were so extremely dangerous for any foreigners 
to travel in, that he considered it his duty as a Chris- 
tian to prevent, as far as he was able, anybody from 
hazarding his life there. This opposition, fortunately, 
only lasted for a time. After repeated supplications 
on my part, the generous kind nature of the Colonel 
overcame him, and he thought of a pretext by which, 
should anything serious happen to me, there would not 
remain any onus on his conscience. 

The Bombay Government at that time had been in- 
duced to order an expedition to be organised for the 
purpose of investigating the Somali country — a large 
tract of land lying due south of Aden, and separated 
only from the Arabian coast by the Gulf of Aden — 
and had appointed three officers, Lieutenant Burton to 
command, and Lieutenants Stroyan and Heme to 
assist in its conduct. To this project Colonel Outram 



6 SOMALI COUNTRY. 

had ever been adverse, and he had remonstrated with 
the Government about it, declaring, as his opinion, the 
scheme to be quite unfeasible. The Somali, he said, 
were the most savage of all African savages, and were 
of such a wild and inhospitable nature that no stranger 
could possibly live amongst them. The Government, 
however, relying on the ability of one who made the 
pilgrimage of Mecca, were bent at least on giving the 
Lieutenant a chance of showing what he could do in 
this even darker land, and he was then occupied in 
Aden maturing his plans of procedure.* 

This, then, was the opportunity the Colonel took 
advantage of, advising me to ask Lieutenant Burton 
to incorporate me in his expedition, at the same time 
saying that, if it was found to be agreeable to Lieu- 
tenant Burton, he would back my application to the 
Indian Government, obtain a cancel of my furlough, 
and get me put on service-duty as a member of the 
expedition. 

Nothing could have suited me better, as it brought 
me on service again, and so saved my furlough leave 
for a future exploration. Lieutenant Burton consented, 
and I was at once installed in the expedition. My 
travelling, mapping,t and collecting propensities, it 

* Lieutenant Burton received ^100 from the Koyal Geographical 
Society to cross Africa from west to east, and whilst attempting that 
journey he got drifted off with the flood of pilgrims to Mecca. See his 
book. 

t I had then mapped Tibet, and had laid down several new districts 
which even to this day have not been trodden by any European but 
myself. 



INTRODUCTION. 7 

was thought would be of service to the ends of the 
expedition ; and by my being incorporated in it, there 
would be no chance of my running counter to it, by 
travelling on its line of march, and possibly giving 
rise to disturbances with the natives. 

Before proceeding further in the narrative of events 
as they occurred, it may be as well, perhaps, to anti- 
cipate a little, and give a general impression of the 
geography, ethnology, history, and other characteris- 
tics of the country under investigation — the Somali 
land — and the way in which it was intended that those 
investigations should be carried out. As will appear 
by the following pages, my experiences were mostly 
confined to the north central parts, in the highlands 
of the Warsingali and Dulbahanta tribes. The rest 
of my information is derived from conversations with 
the natives, or what I have read in some very inter- 
esting pages in vol. xix. of the ' Transactions of the 
Eoyal Geographical Society/ written by Lieutenant 
Cruttenden. 

The Somali country is an elbow of land lying be- 
tween the equator and the 11th degree of north lati- 
tude, which, from its peculiar form, might well be 
designated the Eastern Horn of Africa. The land is 
high in the north, and has a general declination, as 
may be seen by the river system, to the south and 
eastward, but with less easting as we come west- 
ward. 

It is separated from the main body of Africa by the 
river Jub, a large and fertilising stream, which, rising 



8 SOMALI COUNTRY. 

in the mountains of southern Abyssinia, passes be- 
tween the territories of the Gallas on the west and the 
Somali on the east, and debouches in the Indian 
Ocean at the northern extremity of the Zanzibar coast. 
According to Lieutenant Cruttenden's map, there are 
only two other rivers besides this of any consequence in 
the land, — the Webbe (river) Shebeli, or Haines river, 
which is of considerable importance, having a large flow 
of water, trending down a cultivable district of rich 
red soil, and another less important to the eastward of 
these two, called very unfortunately by him the Wadi"* 
Nogal. The proper specific name for this river has 
never, to my knowledge, been given ; but the Jid Ali 
Tug is one of its head branches. It rises in some small 
hills close overhanging the north coast, and runs south- 
easterly into the Indian Ocean, dividing two large ter- 
ritories, called Ugahden, or Haud, on the west, and 
Nogal on the east, mouthing at Eas Ul Khyle. Ugah- 
den is said to be a flat grassy country, of red soil, 
almost stoneless, and having water everywhere near 
the surface. It is considered by the pastoral Somali a 
famous place for keeping cattle, of which by report 
they possess a great abundance, such as camels, ponies, 
cows, and Dumba sheep — a fat-tailed animal, like the 
Persian breed. Game also abounds in this country, of 
which the gazelles and antelopes, I was assured, roamed 
about in vast herds like sheep. 

The Nogal country is the opposite of this, contain- 
ing nothing of any material value in it. The rock- 

* Wadi, river or nullah. 



INTRODUCTION. 9 

formation is all lime, very pure and white like marble, 
which consequently makes the soil white, and, being 
very stony, it is almost barren. The Somali keep cattle 
here, but with much apparent difficulty, being, from 
the scarcity of springs and want of water, obliged to 
march about, following the last falls of rain, to obtain 
fresh herbage for their cattle. My first and greater 
journey gave me an insight into this portion of the 
interior of the country south of Bunder Gori. It was 
very interesting, though not profitable, from its never 
having been visited by any Europeans before. I ob- 
served here two distinct leading features in its physi- 
cal geography. The first is a narrow hill-range, about 
180 miles long and 20 or more broad, which is occu- 
pied by two large tribes — the Warsingali on the east, 
and a branch of the Habr Gerhajis on the west. It is 
situated at an average distance of from 200 yards to 
three or four miles from the sea-shore, separated from 
it by a sandy flat or maritime plain, and, like the line 
of coast, extends from east to west. Immediately due 
south of Bunder Gori, the sea-face, or northern slopes 
of this range, are very steep and irregular, being 
trenched down by deep ravines, which, during the 
rainy season, shed their water across the maritime 
plain into the Gulf of Aden. 

The lower folds on this side of the range are com- 
posed of brown rocks and earth, having little or no 
vegetation upon them, and are just as uninviting in 
appearance as the light-brown hills which fringe the 
coast of Arabia, as seen by voyagers on the Red Sea. 



10 SOMALI COUNTRY. 

Further up the hill, in the central folds of the range, 
this great sterility changes for a warm rich clothing of 
bush-jungle and a little grass. Gum-trees, myrrh, and 
some varieties of the frankincense are found in great 
profusion, as well as a variety of the aloe plant, from 
which the Somali manufacture good strong cordage. 
The upper part of the range is very steep and precipi- 
tous, and on this face is well clad with trees and bush- 
jungle. The southern side of the range is exactly the 
opposite, in all its characteristics, of the northern. 
Instead of having a steep drop of from 6000 to 7000 
feet, it falls by gentle slopes to successive terraces, like 
a giant staircase, to scarcely half that depth, where it 
rests at the head of the high plateau land of Nogal, 
and is almost barren. Nogal, as I have said before, is 
also very barren, only producing trees, such as the 
hardy acacia and jujube, in sheltered places, in the 
valleys or watercourses which drain that land to the 
south-east. I had no means of determining it, but 
should judge this second great geographical feature, 
the plateau of Nogal, by the directions its streams lie 
in, to have a gradual decreasing declination, like all 
the rest of the interior, from the north, where it aver- 
ages an altitude of from 3000 to 4000 feet, down to 
the level of the sea on south and by east. 

According to traditional histories furnished me by 
the natives who accompanied me on the journeys I 
undertook, it appears that the present Somali are of 
rather recent origin, not more than four and a half 
centuries old. About the year 1413, an Arab chief- 



INTRODUCTION. 11 

tain, Darud-bin-lsmail, who had been disputing with an 
elder brother for certain territorial rights at Mecca, 
was overpowered and driven from the Mussulman Holy- 
Land, and marched southwards, accompanied by a 
large number of faithful followers, — amongst whom 
was an Asyri damsel, of gentle blood and interesting 
beauty, whom he subsequently married, — to Makallah, 
on the southern shores of Arabia. Once arrived there, 
this band of vanquished fugitives hired vessels, and, 
crossing the Gulf of Aden, came to Bunder Gori. Here 
they were hospitably received by the then governing 
people, who, for the most part, were Christians — pro- 
bably Gallas and Abyssinians — who, judging from the 
few archaeological remains they subsequently left be- 
hind them, must have lived in a far more advanced 
state of civilisation than the present Somali enjoy. 
Those Christian people were governed by one man, 
Sultan Kin, who had a deputy called Wurrah, re- 
nowned alike for his ferocity of character and his 
ability to govern. 

For some years Darud and his Arab followers led 
a quiet, peaceable life, gaining the confidence of his 
host, and inspiring Kin's subjects with reverence 
for their superior talents. In process of time, by 
intermarriage and proselytising, these Mussulmans 
increased in number, and gained such strength, that 
they began to covet, and finally determined to take 
the country from the race that had preceded them. 
This project, by various intrigues and machinations, 
was easily effected ; and Kin, with all his Christians, 



12 SOMALI COUNTRY. 

was driven back to his native highlands in Ethiopia * 
Darud now was paramount in all this land, and reigned 
until he died, when an only son by his Asyri wife suc- 
ceeded to him. This man's name was Kabl Ullah, who 
had a son called Harti. On succeeding his father, 
Harti had three sons, called respectively, in order 
of birth, "Warsingali, Dulbahanta, and Mijjertaine. 
Amongst these three he divided his kingdom, which 
to this day retains the names. The Mijjertaine dis- 
persed over the eastern portions of the land, the War- 
singali held the central, and the Dulbahantas the 
western territories, t 

Subsequently to this period, an Arab called Ishak 
came across from Southern Arabia and established 
himself forcibly at Meit, and founded the three dif- 
ferent nations who now occupy all the coast-line from 
Eas Galweni on the eastward to Zeyleh on the ex- 
treme west of the Somali country. Ishak, it appears, 
had three wives, who gave in issue three sons, and 
among these three men was divided the whole country 
which he subdued. 

Forming themselves into tribes, the senior or Habr 

* It is questionable whether or not these Christians were driven 
south, fought at Mombas, were repulsed, and since have crossed the 
Nile to where we now find them, under the name of Wahuma. People 
may argue against the possibility of this, as the Wahuma do not keep 
horses ; but the only reason, I believe, why they do not, is simply because 
horses won't live in those rich regions. 

t Lieutenant Cruttenden, in his geographical treatise, describes the 
Darud family as being divided into four tribes, and, in addition to the 
three of which I heard, places the fourth or Murreyhan in his map to 
the southward of the country of Ugahden, lying between his Wadi No- 
gal and the Webbe Shebeli river. 



INTRODUCTION. 13 

Gerhajis, by constant feuds and other causes, are 
much distributed about the country, but mostly 
occupy the hilly grounds to the southward of the 
coast-line ; whilst the Habr Owel, or second in order 
of birth, possess all the coast of Berbera between 
Zeyleh and Kurrum ; and the third, or Habr Teljala, 
hold all the rest thence eastwards to Heis. 

The Somali have been chiefly known to us since 
the time of our taking occupation of Aden, whither 
many of them resort with their wives and families to 
carry on trade, or do the more menial services of por- 
terage and donkey-driving. They are at" once easily 
recognised by the overland traveller by their singular 
appearance and boisterous manner, as well as by their 
cheating and lying propensities, for which they are 
peculiarly notorious ; indeed, success in fraud is more 
agreeable to them than any other mode of gaining 
a livelihood, and the narration of such acts is their 
greatest delight in conversation. They excel as don- 
key-boys even the Egyptians. As may be concluded 
from their history, they are a mixed Ham-Shemitic 
race, but differing considerably from both in their 
general appearance, though retaining certain charac- 
teristics of both these breeds. They are a tall, slender 
people, light and agile as deer ; slightly darker than, 
though much the colour of Arabs, with thin lip, and 
noses rather Grecian when compared with those of 
blacks, but with woolly heads like the true negroes. 
Their natures are so boisterous and warlike, that at 
Aden it has been found necessary to disarm them. 



14 SOMALI COUNTRY. 

When they first arrived there, it was not an unusual 
sight to see the men of different tribes, on the hill- 
sides that form the face of the " crater," fighting 
battles-royal with their spears and shields ; and even 
to this day, they, without their arms, sometimes have 
hot contests, by pelting one another with sticks and 
stones. There is scarcely a man of them who does not 
show some scars of wounds received in these turmoils, 
some apparently so deep that it is marvellous how 
they ever recovered from them. 

Their costume is very simple. The men, who de- 
spise trousers, wear a single sheet of long-cloth, eight 
cubits long, thrown over the shoulder, much after the 
fashion of the Scotsman's plaid. Some shave their 
head, leaving it bare ; others wear the mane of a lion 
as a wig, which is supposed by them to give the char- 
acter of ferocity and courage to the wearer, while 
those who affect the dandy allow their hair to grow, 
and jauntily place some sticks in it resembling the 
Chinaman's joss-sticks, which, when arranging their 
toilette, they use as a comb, and all carry as weapons 
of defence a spear and shield, a shillelagh, and a long 
two-edged knife. The women clothe more extensively, 
though not much so. Fastening a cloth tightly round 
the body immediately under their arms, they allow it to 
fall evenly down to the ground, and effectually cover 
their legs. The married ones encase their hair in 
a piece of blue cloth, gathering it up at the back of 
the head in the fashion of English women of the pre- 
sent day; this is a sign of wedlock. The virgins 



INTRODUCTION. 15 

wear theirs loose, plaited in small plaits of three, 
which, being parted in the centre, allows the hair to 
fall evenly down all round the head like a well- 
arranged mop."* On approaching these fairs, they 
seductively give their heads a cant backwards, with 
a half side-jerk, which parts the locks in front, and 
discloses a pretty little smiling face, with teeth as 
white as pearls, and lips as red as rubies. Pretty as 
they are when young, this beauty fades at once after 
bearing children, and all their fair proportions go with 
it. After that marked peculiarity of female negroes, 
they swell about the waist, and have that large devel- 
opment behind, which, in polite language, is called 
steatopyga. Although they are Mussulmans, none 
wear the yashmac. Beads are not so much in request 
here as in other parts of Africa, though some do wear 
necklaces of them, with large rings of amber. This 
description, however, applies to the Somali in his 
own land. When he comes over to Aden he takes 
shame at his nakedness, dons the Arab's gown and 
trousers, and becomes the merchant complete. * 

In consequence of the poorness of their land, almost 
all the Somali are wandering pastorals, which of itself 
is enough to account for their turbulent natures. The 
system of government they maintain is purely patri- 
archal, and is succeeded to by order of birth generally 
in a regular and orderly manner, attributable, it would 

* The Somali, in their own country, consider the Arab's gown and 
trousers effeminate; so on return to Africa they throw off the Arab 
costume again. 



16 SOMALI COUNTRY. 

appear, to the reverence they feel for preserving their 
purity of blood. The head of each clan is called Gerad 
or Sultan, who would be powerless in himself were he 
not supported by the united influence of all the royal 
family. "When any disturbances or great disputes 
arise, the sultan is consulted, who collects his elders in 
parliament to debate the matter over, and, through 
them, ascertain the people's feelings. Petty disputes 
are settled by the elders without any further reference. 
In most cases war arises from blood -feuds, when a 
member of one clan kills the subject of another, and 
will not pay the recognised valuation of the party in- 
jured, or allow himself to be given up to the vengeance 
of the family who has sustained the loss. In such 
cases as these, whole tribes voluntarily march out to 
revenge the deed by forcibly taking as many cattle 
from the aggressor as the market valuation may 
amount to. 

Thus a war, once contracted, does not subside for 
years, as by repeated deaths among the contending 
parties the balance of blood-money never can be set- 
tled. Moreover, the inflicted punishment seldom falls 
on the party immediately concerned ; added to which, 
in wars of tribes, everybody helps himself to his enemy's 
cattle in the best way he can, and men formerly poor 
now suddenly become rich, which gives a zest to the 
extension of the contest nothing else could produce. 
Indeed, the poorer orders of Somali are only too glad 
to have a good pretext for a fight, as a means of bet- 
tering their condition, by adding a few more head of 



INTRODUCTION. 17 

cattle to their stock. Were this not the case, there 
would be no fighting whatever, as the sultan would be 
powerless to raise an army against the inclination of 
the people. War only ceases when both sides become 
exhausted, and withdraw as by mutual consent. The 
great object in these encounters is to steal away as 
many cattle as possible without risk of person, and such 
feats are boasted of with rapture by those returning 
home with any prize. In the administration of justice 
they consult the Mosaic law, as given in the Koran, 
taking life for life, and kind for kind. 

The northern Somali have no permanent villages in 
the interior of the country, as the ground is not culti- 
vated ; but they scatter about, constantly moving with 
their flocks and herds to any place within their limited 
districts where water is to be found, and erect tempor- 
ary huts of sticks, covered with grass mats ; or, when 
favourable, they throw up loose stone walls like the 
dykes in Scotland. But on the sea-coast, wherever 
there are harbours for shipping, they build permanent 
villages on a very primitive scale. These are composed 
of square mat walls, supported by sticks, and all hud- 
dled together, and partitioned off for the accommoda- 
tion of the various families, near which there are usually 
one or more square box-shaped stone buildings, the 
property of the chief of the place, which are designated 
forts, though there is nothing in their artless construc- 
tion to deserve this name. They are all composed of 
blocks of coralline, cemented together with mortar 
extracted from the same material. 

B 



J 8 SOMALI COUNTRY. 

Like nearly all places within the tropics, beyond the 
equatorial rainy zone, this country is visited by regular 
monsoons, or seasons in which the winds prevail con- 
stantly in one direction ; consequently vessels can only 
come into the harbours of the northern coast when the 
sun is in the south, or during five months of the year, 
from the 15th November to the 15th April, to trade 
with the people ; and then the Somali bring the products 
of their country, such as sheep, cows, ghee, mats made 
by the women from certain grasses and the Daum 
palm, ostrich feathers, and hides, and settle on the coast 
to exchange them in barter with the outer merchants, 
such as Arabs and men from Cutch, who bring thither 
cloths, dates, rice, beads, and iron for that purpose. 

Of all the trading places on the coast, the most im- 
portant is Berbera ; it is, in fact, the great emporium 
of Somali land, and we must call the reader's parti- 
cular attention to it, since it forms the chief point of 
interest in these pages. It is on the same meridian as 
Aden, and only divided from it by the gulf of that 
name. Although it is of such great importance, it is 
only inhabited during the five months of the favour- 
able monsoon, when great caravans come up from the 
rich provinces which lie to its south and south-west, 
the principal ones being those from Ugahden and 
Harar. 

Having now given a general sketch of the country, 
we shall enter upon the objects of the expedition. It 
was obvious, by the lay of the land, that the richest 
and most interesting part of the country must be that 



INTRODUCTION. ] 9 

which lies between the Jub and Webbe Shebeli rivers, 
and it was the most accessible to inspection, as large 
and powerful caravans, travelling southwards through 
Ugahden, much frequent it. Seeing this, Lieutenant 
Burton conceived the idea of waiting until the break- 
ing up of the Berbera fair, when the caravans disperse 
to their homes, to travel by the ordinary caravan route, 
through the Ugahden country to the Webbe Shebeli, 
and on to Gananah, and then to proceed further by 
any favourable opportunity to the Zanzibar coast. 

It was now, however, early October, and fully five 
months must elapse ere we could finally enter on our 
march. In the mean time, Lieutenant Burton, desir- 
ous of becoming acquainted as far as possible with the 
habits of the people we were destined to travel amongst, 
as well as the nature of the country and the modes 
of travelling in this terra incognita, determined on 
making an experimental tour to Harar, a place which 
had never been entered by any European, and was 
said to be inaccessible to them. Harar, as I have said 
before, sends caravans annually to the Berbera fair, 
and therefore comes within the influence of British 
power. Taking advantage of this, Lieutenant Burton 
ordered Heme to go to Berbera whilst he was on this 
expedition, to keep up a diversion in his favour, arm- 
ing him with instructions, that in case he was detained 
in Harar by the Amir of that place, Heme might de- 
tain their caravan as a ransom for the release of his 
party. 

Further, to obtain more accurate knowledge con- 



20 SOMALI COUNTRY. 

cerning the march of the Ugahden caravans, to gain an 
insight into the market transactions of Berbera, and to 
collect cattle for our final march, it was deemed ad- 
visable he should go there. Stroyan, as soon as he 
could manage it, was also to go to Berbera to assist 
him. Thus everybody had a duty to perform during 
this interregnum but myself. 

Dreading the monotony of a station life, I now 
volunteered to travel in any direction my command- 
ant might think proper to direct, and to any length of 
time he might consider it advisable for me to be away. 
This proposition had its effect, as affording an extra 
opportunity of obtaining the knowledge desired, and 
instructions were drawn up for my guidance. I 
was to proceed to Bunder G-ori, on the Warsingali 
frontier, to penetrate the country southwards as far as 
possible, passing over the maritime hill-range, and, turn- 
ing thence westwards, was to inspect tlie Wadi Nogal, 
and march direct on Berbera, to meet Stroyan and 
Heme, at a date not later than the 15th January 1855. 
"Whilst travelling I was to remark upon the watershed 
of the country, plot the route I travelled, keep copious 
notes on everything I saw, and collect specimens of 
natural history in all its branches, as well as observe 
and register all meteorological phenomena, and buy 
camels and ponies for the great future expedition. 

Funds for the expenses of this undertaking were not 
available at that time from the public purse, as the 
Indian Government had stipulated that the whole sum 
they would advance for this great expedition should 



INTRODUCTION. 21 

not exceed £1000, and, for security's sake, had decided 
on paying it by instalments of £250 at a time. I there- 
fore, desirous to render as much assistance as lay 
within my power to further the cause I had embarked 
upon, volunteered to advance the necessary sum from 
my own private resources, trusting to Lieutenant 
Burton's promises in the future for being repaid. 

This project settled, I at once set to work, and com- 
menced laying in such stores as were necessary for an 
outfit, whilst Lieutenant Burton, who had been long 
resident in Aden, engaged two men to assist me on the 
journey. The first was a man named Sumunter, who 
ranked highly in his country, who was to be my Abban 
or protector. The duty of abbanship is of the greatest 
importance, for it rests entirely on the Abban's honesty 
whether his client can succeed in doing anything in the 
country he takes him through. Arabs, when travelling 
under their protection, have to ask his permission for 
anything they may wish to do, and cannot even make 
a march, or purchase anything, without his sanction 
being first obtained. The Abban introduces the per- 
son under his protection to the chief of his clan, is 
answerable for all outrages committed on the way, and 
is the recognised go-between in all questions of dispute 
or barter, and in every other fashion. The second 
man was also a Warsingali,"* by name Ahmed, who 
knew a slight smattering of Hindustani, and acted as 

* This proved a great mistake. By having both men of the same 
tribe for my entire dependence, they invariably acted in concert against 
me like two brothers. 



I 



22 SOMALI COUNTRY. 

interpreter between us. I then engaged two other 
men, a Hindustani butler named Imam, and a Seedi 
called Farhan. This latter man was a perfect Hercules 
in stature, with huge arms and limbs, knit together 
with largely developed ropy-looking muscles. He had 
a large head, with small eyes, flabby squat nose, 
and prominent muzzle filled with sharp-pointed teeth, 
as if in imitation of a crocodile. Farhan told me that 
when very young he was kidnapped on the Zanzibar 
coast by the captain of a small Arab vessel. This cap- 
tain one day seeing him engaged with many other little 
children playing on the sandy seashore, offered him a 
handful of fine fruity-looking dates, which proved so 
tempting to his juvenile taste that he could not resist 
the proffered bait, and he made a grab at them. The 
captain's powerful fingers then fell like a mighty trap 
on his little closed hand, and he was hurried off to the 
vessel, where he was employed in the capacity of 
" powder - monkey." In this position he remained 
serving until full grown, when, finding an opportunity, 
he ran away from his master, and has ever since lived 
the life of a " free-man." 

As a soldier, he had been tried in warfare, and was 
proved valorous and cunning in the art, and promised 
to be a very efficient guard for me. The next thing 
of most importance to be considered was the dress I 
should wear. I first consulted the Colonel (Outram), 
who said he was averse to our going in disguise, think- 
ing that lowering ourselves in this manner would 
operate against me in the estimation of the natives. 



INTRODUCTION. 23 

But this did not suit Lieutenant Burton's plans, who,- 
not wishing to be conspicuous whilst travelling to 
Harar, determined on going there disguised as an 
Arab merchant, and thought it better we should ap- 
pear as his disciples, in accordance with which Heme 
had already purchased his dress, and now I bought 
mine. It was anything but pleasant to the feel. I 
had a huge hot turban, a long close-fitting gown, 
baggy loose drawers, drawn in at the ankles, sandals 
on my naked feet, and a silk girdle decorated with 
pistol and dirk. As an outfit for this especial journey, 
I bought at Aden £120 worth of miscellaneous articles, 
consisting chiefly of English and American sheeting, 
some coarse fabrics of indigo-dyed Indian manufac- 
ture, several sacks of dates and rice, and a large 
quantity of salt, with a few coloured stuffs of greater 
value than the other cloths, to give away as presents 
to the native chiefs. As defensible and other useful 
implements for the scientific portion of the expedition, 
I took rifles, guns, muskets, pistols, sabres, ammuni- 
tion in great quantity, large commodious camel-boxes 
for carrying specimens of natural history, one sextant 
and artificial horizon, three boiling-point and common 
atmospheric thermometers, and one primitive kind of 
camera obscura, which I had made at Aden under the 
ingenious supervision of Heme. 



24 SOMALI COUNTRY. [1854. 



CHAPTER II. 

THE VOYAGE — AN AKIL — THE SOMALI SHORE — SULTAN (GERAD) 
MAHAMED ALI — HIDDEN TREASURE — THE WARSINGALI — A 
ROYAL RECEPTION — SOMALI APPETITES — DIFFICULTIES AND 
IMPEDIMENTS — SULTAN TRIES MY ABBAN OR PROTECTOR. 

On the 18th October 1854, having got all my prepara- 
tions completed, I embarked in an Arab vessel, attired 
in my Oriental costume, with my retinue and kit com- 
plete, and set sail that same evening at 6 p.m. 

The voyage, owing to light and varying breezes, 
was very slow and tedious. Instead of performing 
the whole voyage in three days, the ordinary time, it 
took us nine. According to the method of Arab navi- 
gation, instead of going from port to port direct, we 
first tracked eastward along the Arabian shore three 
successive days, setting sail at sunrise, and anchoring 
regularly at sundown. By this time we were sup- 
posed to be opposite Bunder Heis, on the Somali coast, 
and the Nahkoda (captain) thought it time for crossing 
over the Gulf. We therefore put out to sea at sunrise 
on the morning of the 21st, and arrived the same 
evening, by mistake, assisted with a stiffish easterly 



Oct.] VOYAGE TO BUNDER HEIS. 25 

breeze, at a small place called Kakodah, which, by 
report, contained a small fort, three mat huts, and 
many burnt ones, a little to the westward of Bunder 
Heis. My Abban accounted for the destruction of this 
place by saying it had been occupied surreptitiously 
for a long period by a people called Eheer Dud, who 
sprang from a man called Sambur-bin-Ishak ; but about 
four years ago, the Musa Abokr — a sub-tribe of the 
Habr Teljala, who were the former and rightful owners 
of the place — suddenly returned, took the usurpers by 
surprise, and drove them off by setting fire to the vil- 
lage. The next day, by hard work, tacking up the 
wind, which still continued easterly, we succeeded in 
reaching Bunder Heis, which, like the last place, was 
occupied by the Musa Abokr. There were four small 
craft lying here, waiting for cargoes, under lee of a 
spur of low hills which constituted the harbour; in 
which, fortunately, there was very good fishing to be 
obtained. We were detained here by adverse and 
light winds two days, during which time I went on 
shore and paid my respects to the Akil (chief) of the 
place, who lived in a small box-shaped stone fort, on 
the west flank of the village of Heis, which was very 
small, composed, as usual, of square mat huts, all built 
together, and occupied only by a few women, who 
made mats, collected gums, and stored the produce of 
the interior, as sheep, cows, and ghee, which their men 
constantly brought down to them, for shipping off to 
Arabia. 4 " The Akil's reception was very warm and 

* Akil, plural Okdl — chief or elder. 



26 SOMALI COUNTRY. [1854. 

polite. He offered me everything at his disposal, and 
gave as an honorary present a Dumba sheep and 
a bowl of sour camel's milk, which I thought at the 
time the most delicious thing I ever drank. It is 
sharp and rough, like labourers' cider, and, drunk in 
the heat of the day, is most refreshing. When first 
taken, and until the stomach becomes accustomed to 
it, it operates like medicine, and I on this occasion 
was fairly taken in. The fish we caught were not 
very good, but comical in appearance, and of a great 
variety of the most beautiful prismatic colours, 
changing in tint as different lights and shades 
struck upon them. 

We left Heis on the 25th, with very light and 
unfavourable winds, and tracked along shore to the 
eastward, making very little way. The weather con- 
tinuing the same, on the 26th I forced the Nahkoda, 
much against his will, on at night, as during the 
darker hours the winds were much stronger, and by 
this means we arrived at our destination, Bunder 
Gori on the Warsingali frontier, at sundown on 
the 27th of October. I had now seen the Somali 
shore, and must confess I was much disappointed. 
All that was visible, besides the village mentioned, 
was a sandy tract of ground, the maritime plain, which 
extended in breadth from the sea-shore to some brown- 
looking hills in the background, from a few hundred 
yards to one or two miles distant ; and hills and 
plains — for I could, by my close approximation to 
them, only see the brown folds of the hills near the 



Oct.] VISITS FROM NATIVES. 27 

base — were alike almost destitute of any vegetation ; 
whilst not one animal or any other living creature 
could be seen. 

28£A October. — The Abban would not allow any- 
body to go on shore until certain parties came off to 
welcome us and invite us to land, such being the 
etiquette of the country when any big-wigs arrive. 
After the sun rose we were duly honoured by the 
arrival of many half-naked dignitaries, who tenderly 
inquired after the state of our health, the prosperity 
or otherwise of our voyage, the purpose of our coming 
there, and a variety of other such interesting matters. 
Then again they were questioned by our people as to 
the state of the country, whether in peace or war; 
how and where the Sultan Gerad Mahamed Ali was 
residing ; if rain had lately fallen, and where ; if the 
cattle were well in milk ; — to which it was responded 
that everything was in the most promising order ; the 
cattle were flourishing in the hills, where rain had 
lately fallen, about twenty miles distant from that 
place ; and the sultan, with all the royal family, * 
were there, revelling on milk, under the shade of 
favouring trees, or reposedly basking in the warm 
morning sun — the height of Somali bliss. The 
order was now given to go ashore, and we all moved 
off to a fort which the Abban said was his own pro- 
perty, in Goriat (little Bunder Gori), three miles to 
the westward of Bunder Gori. There were two of 
these little forts near, and a small collection of mat 

* The sultan has four sons. 



28 SOMALI COUNTRY. [1854. 

huts, like those already described, and of the same 
material as all Somali forts and huts. The kit was 
now brought across and placed within the fort I occu- 
pied, all except the salt, which afterwards proved a 
bone of contention between me and the Abban, and 
the sultan was at once sent for. No one could move 
a yard inland, or purchase anything, without his 
sanction being first obtained. 

Although Gerad Mahamed Ali was living only 
twenty miles distant from Goriat, it was not until 
repeated messages had been sent to him, and eleven 
days had elapsed, that he answered the summons by 
his presence. In the meanwhile, having nothing 
better to do during this tedious interval, as no people 
would bring cattle or anything for sale, I took walks 
about the plain, shooting, and killed a new variety of 
gazelle, called Dera* by the Somali, and Salt's ante- 
lopes, here called Sagaro, which fortunately were very 
abundant, though rather wild ; catching fish, drawing 
with the camera, bathing in the sea, luxuriating on 
milk, dates, and rice, or talking and gossiping with 
the natives. 

On one occasion my interpreter came to me with a 
mysterious air, and whispered in my ear that he knew 
of some hidden treasures of vast amount, which had 
been buried not far off, under rocky ground, in such a 
way that nobody had been able to dig them up, and 
he wished that I, being an Englishman, and conse- 

* This gazelle is slightly different from the Dorcas, and, I believe, 
has never been obtained before. 



Oct.] HIDDEN TREASURE. 29 

quently knowing secret arts, as well as hikmat (scien- 
tific dodges), would direct how to search for these 
treasures. By inquiring farther into the matter, it 
appeared that an old man, a miser, who had been 
hoarding all his life, was suddenly taken ill about forty 
years ago, and feared he would die. Seeing this, his 
relatives assembled round him to ask his blessing; and 
the old man, then fearing all his worldly exertions 
would end to no good purpose, asked them to draw 
near that he might tell them where his riches were 
hidden ; but even then he would not disclose the secret, 
until he was in the last dying gasp, when he said, "Go 
to a pathway lying between two trees, and stretch out 
a walking-stick to the full length of your arm, and the 
place where the end of your wand touches is that in 
which my treasures are hidden." The wretched man 
then gave up the ghost, and his family commenced the 
search ; but though they toiled hard for many days 
and weeks, turning up the stones in every direction, 
they never succeeded in finding the treasure, and had 
now given up the search in despair. The fact was, 
they omitted to ask their parent on which side of the 
path it was concealed, and hence their discomfiture. 
At my request the said family came to me, corroborated 
the statements of the interpreter, and begged implor- 
ingly I would direct them how to search for the money ; 
saying at the same time they would work again, if I 
thought it of any use ; and, moreover, they would give 
me half if the search proved successful. I lent them 
some English pick-axes, and went to see the place, 



.30 SOMALI COUNTRY. [1854. 

which certainly showed traces of very severe ex- 
ertions; but the strong nature of the soil was too 
much for them, even when armed with tools, unless 
they were fortunate enough to hit upon the exact 
spot, which they did not, and therefore toiled in vain 
again. 

The Warsingali complained to me sadly of their 
decline in power since the English had interfered in 
their fights with the Habr Teljala, which took place 
near Aden about seven years ago, and had deprived 
them of their vessels for creating a disturbance, which 
interfered with the ordinary routine of traffic. They 
said that on that occasion they had not only beaten 
the Habr Teljala, but had seized one of their vessels ; 
and that prior to this rupture they had enjoyed para- 
mount superiority over all the tribes of the Somali ; 
but now that they were forbidden to transport soldiers 
or make reprisals on the sea, every tribe was on an 
equality with them. 

They further spoke of the decline of their tribe's 
morals since the time when the English took possession 
of Aden and brought in civilisation with them. This 
they in most part attributed to our weak manner in 
prosecuting crime, by requiring too accurate evidence 
before inflicting punishment; saying that many a dis- 
honest person escaped the vengeance of law from the 
simple fact of there being no eyewitnesses to his crime, 
although there existed such strong presumptive evi- 
dence as to render the accusation proved. When speak- 
ing against our laws, and about their insufficiency to 



Nov.] SOMALI JUSTICE. SI 

carry out all governmental points with a strong and 
spirited hand, they never forget to land their own 
sultan's despotic powers and equity in justice. 

Of course no mortal man was like their Gerad Ma- 
hamed Ali. In leading them to war he was like the 
English French/"" and in settling disputes he required 
no writing office, but, sitting on the woolsack, he 
listened to the narration of prosecution and defence 
with his head buried in his hands, and never uttering 
a word until the trial was over, when he gave his final 
decision in one word only, ay or nay, without com- 
ment of any sort. In confirmation of their statements, 
they gave the description of a recent trial, when a boy 
was accused of having attempted to steal some rice 
from a granary ; the lad had put his hand through a 
chink in the door of it, and had succeeded in getting 
one finger, up to the second joint, in the grain ; this, 
during the trial, he frankly acknowledged having done, 
and the sultan appointed that much of his finger 
exactly to be cut off, and no more — punishing the 
deed exactly according to its deserts. This, to Somali 
notions, seemed a punctiliousness in strict equity of 
judicial administration which nothing could excel, and 
they bragged of it accordingly. 

Becoming dreadfully impatient at so much loss of 
precious time whilst waiting here, unable to prepare in 
any way for the journey, I sent repeated messages to 

* In talking of white men or Europeans, the Somali always say Eng- 
lish French, those two branches of the European community being all 
they are acquainted with. 



32 SOMALI COUNTRY. [1854. 

the sultan, demanding his immediate attendance ; but 
it was not until the 6th of November that I heard defi- 
nitely of his approach, and then it was that he was 
coming down the hill. 

On the 7th he came with a host of Akils to Bunder 
Gori, and put up in a Nahkoda's hut. This indignity 
he was obliged to submit to, as he had not cautioned 
the merchants who occupied his forts of his intended 
approach, and now no one would turn out for him. 
Finding him so near me, I longed to walk over to him 
and settle matters personally at once ; but dignity for- 
bade it ; and as he had come with such cautious trepi- 
dation, I feared any over-hastiness might frighten him 
away again. He seemed to observe the same punc- 
tiliousness towards me, so I split the difference by 
sending an embassy by my Abban, assisted by other 
powerful Akils, early the following morning, when they 
held durbar, and my intentions of travelling were fully 
discussed in open court. For a long time the elders on 
the sultan's side were highly adverse to my seeing their 
country, considering no good could possibly arise from 
it, and much harm might follow ; I might covet their 
country, and eventually take it from them, whereas 
they could gain nothing. Hearing this, the Abban 
waxed very wroth, and indignantly retorted he would 
never allow such a slur to be cast upon his honour, or 
the office which he held. He argued he had come 
there as my adviser and Abban ; his parentage was of 
such high order, his patriotism could not be doubted. 
Had he not fought battles by their side, of which his 



Nov.] AN AFRICAN COUNCIL. 33 

scars bore living testimony? and now they wished to 
stigmatise him as a traitor to his country ! The sultan 
must decide it. How could jungle-folk like them know 
anything of the English and their intentions ? 

The sultan listened silently during this discourse, 
which, though written in a few lines, took many hours 
of hot debating, by their turning and turning every 
little particular over and over again ; and finally de- 
cided it in his usual curt and conclusive manner, by 
saying, " The Warsingali were on the most friendly and 
amicable relations with the English ; and as he was 
desirous of maintaining it, he would give me leave to 
travel anywhere I liked within his dominions, and to 
see and examine anything I chose. But out of fear for 
the consequences, as the English would hold him an- 
swerable should any disasters befall me, he could not 
sanction my crossing over his frontier in any direction, 
and more especially into the Dulbahanta country, where 
wars were raging, and the country so unsafe that even 
Warsingali dare not venture there." This announce- 
ment was brought back in high exultation by Sumunter, 
who thought his success complete, and at the same time 
announced to me the sultan's intention of honouring 
me with a visit in the evening, which was duly done. 

He came a little before sunset, with his bare head 
shaven, a dirty coloured tobe thrown over his 
shoulders, and hanging loosely down to his sandaled 
feet.""' He looked for all the world like a patriarch of 

* Tobe, properly thobe, the dress used by Somali of both sexes. It 
consists of a white cloth, eight cubits long, frequently adorned with 

C 



34 SOMALI COUNTRY. [1854. 

the olden times, and passed me, marching in martial 
order in the centre of a double line of men sloping 
their spears in bristling array over their shoulders, all 
keeping step in slow marching order, a scene evidently 
got up in imitation of our soldiers. Not a word was 
spoken, and the deepest solemnity prevailed. On his 
arrival in front of the fort, I drew up my men, and 
fired a salute to give him welcome. This was done in 
right good earnest, by every man cramming his gun 
with powder, to excel his neighbour in a loud report, 
to show the superiority of his weapon ; for such is the 
black man's notions of excellence in a fowling-piece. 
The march concluded, the sultan with his followers 
all huddled together and squatted on the ground out- 
side the second fort, deeply agitated, and not knowing 
what to do, as they evidently dreaded what might fol- 
low. To dissipate their fears, I approached his royalty, 
salaamed, and tried to beguile the time by engaging 
them in conversation. 

Finding that this had rather the opposite effect, I 
then retired, and soon found them all intently wrapped 
up in prayer, prostrating and rising by turns, with 
uplifted hands, and muttering for hours together with- 
out cessation. I then ordered a regal repast to be 
served them of rice swimming in ghee, and dates ad 
libitum. This, notwithstanding their alarm, was de- 
spatched with the most marvellous rapacity, to such 

gaily-coloured edges ; by the men it is worn loosely round the body with 
the end thrown over the shoulder, very much like the Roman toga. 
The women gather it in folds round the waist, where it is confined by a 
string, and both ends are fastened in a knot across the breast. 



Nov.] SOMALI VORACITY. 35 

an alarming extent, that I required to know how many 
men were engaged in eating it. The Abban replied 
that there were only a few : he would not allow many 
to come over here out of a spirit of economy, knowing 
I had not much property to spare, though all the rest 
had wished to come, and were greatly disappointed. 
But these men, as is usual amongst Somali, had pre- 
pared themselves for a feast by several days' pre- 
vious fasting, and each man would, if I allowed 
it, swallow at one meal as much as a sheep's skin 
could contain. As a gun is known by the loudness 
of its report, and ability to stand a large discharge 
of powder, to be of good quality, so is a man's power 
gauged by his capacity of devouring food; it is 
considered a feat of superiority to surpass another 
in eating. 

I have seen a Somali myself, when half-starved by 
long fasting, and his stomach drawn in, sit down to a 
large skinful of milk, and drink away without drawing 
breath until it was quite empty, and it was easy to 
observe his stomach swelling out in exact proportion 
as the skin of liquor decreased. They are perfect 
dogs in this fashion. I may here add, that although 
the Abban in this speech seemed to show so much 
consideration for my property, by several recent tricks 
of his I entertained much suspicion of his honesty; 
and this little address, though uttered plausibly, was 
too common and transparent a trick in the East to 
beguile me. All Orientals have a proverbial habit of 
saving their master's property to leave greater pickings 



36 SOMALI COUNTRY. [ 1854 - 

for themselves, and such I considered was Sumunter's 
dodge now. 

8^ November. — This morning the sultan, having 
now recovered, came to return my salaam of the pre- 
vious evening, when I opened to him the purport of 
my expedition in minute detail : how I wished to visit 
the Southern Dulbahantas, cross and inspect the Wadi 
Nogal, and thence proceed west to meet my friends, 
Stroyan and Heme, at Berbera. He listened very 
attentively and politely, but at the conclusion repeated 
the words I had already heard ; adding that the Dul- 
bahantas had intestine wars; they had been fighting 
many years, and were now in hot strife, dividing the 
government of their country. Not many days since 
a report had arrived that the southern portion of them, 
who occupied the countries about one hundred miles 
due south of Bunder Heis, had had a fight with the 
northern ones, who were living on the same meridian, 
immediately to their northward, and had succeeded in 
capturing 2000 horses, 400 camels, a great number of 
sheep and goats, and had wounded one man severely : 
it was therefore impossible I could go from the north- 
ern division to the southern, for I should be treated as 
an enemy; and that was the only line on which water 
could be found during this, the dry season. Had I 
come here during the monsoon, I might have travelled 
directly in a diagonal line, from the south of the 
mountain-range to the rear of this place, into their, 
the southerners', country, who were the older branch, 
and were now governed by the hereditary and rightful 



Nov.] THE DULBAHANTAS. 37 

chief, Gerad Mahamed Ali, who was on the most 
friendly terms with the Warsingali, and who, being 
an old chief, and well respected by his adherent sub- 
jects, might have granted me a hospitable reception. 

On the other hand, the northern Dulbahantas, who 
were also friendly with the Warsingali, were under no 
control : the Gerad, by name Mahamed Ali also, was 
recently installed in government, and was consequently 
very little respected. He (the Warsingali chief) could 
not, therefore, give his sanction to my going amongst 
them, by which my life would be endangered, and he, 
for permitting it, would be held responsible by the 
English. No arguments of mine would alter the 
decision of the inflexible chief; I therefore changed 
the subject by asking him to assist me in procuring 
camels, by which I might go into the interior, and feel 
my way thereafter. This he readily agreed to, and 
begged permission to return to Bunder Gori to give 
the necessary orders to his subjects. His escort then 
demanded a cloth apiece from me, to be given them 
for their trouble in coming over here ; arguing that, 
had I not required the sultan's attendance, they would 
not have had to come ; — a plausible, but truly Somali 
notion of justice ; they knew their proper master would 
give them nothing for coming to support his dignity, 
but thought I might be softer. 

10th. — The sultan, not able to do business hurriedly 
with his rabble subjects, did not appear again until 
this morning, and then, instead of proceeding at once 
to work, hinted he should like to have the presents I 



38 SOMALI COUNTRY. [1854. 

had brought from Aden for him, as the best method 
of showing our feelings to one another. This was not 
so easily concluded. I portioned out the things that 
were intended for him, and wished he would take 
them at once away and clear the room, thinking, in 
my inexperience of savages, I had only to give, and it 
would be received with a hearty Bism-illah ; but I 
was soon undeceived : the things were taken with a 
grunt of discontentment ; all looked over one by one. 
If a cloth was soiled, it must be changed ; and then 
the measurements began by cubits =18 inches, or 
from the point of the elbow to the tip of the middle 
finger, just as Noah must have done when he built the 
ark. But as all forearms are not of equal length, much 
delay was occasioned by the sultan trying the length 
of his forearm against everybody's in the room, and 
then by measuring every cloth by turn, and remeasur- 
ing them again for fear of mistake ; then they were 
divided into lots, to be disposed of to his wives, and 
children and Akils and servants, and, of course, found 
insufficient to meet everybody's expectations, and I 
must give more. 

Tedious hours passed in this way ; as a final peti- 
tion, the sultan said I must give him for himself a 
gun and my silk turban, as I had given up wearing 
anything on my head, and did not require it : these 
were, after a certain amount of haggling, surrendered, 
on condition that the sultan would exert himself a 
little more energetically on my account. The way he 
handled the musket was very amusing : he had never 



Nov.] FIRST EXPERIENCES OF AFRICAN RAPACITY. 39 

had one in his hands before, and could not get it to 
sit against his shoulder ; and when his people placed 
it for him, he persisted in always cocking the wrong 
eye, which tickled Farhan's fancy so much, that he 
burst into loud roars of laughter. Nevertheless, the 
sultan took things quietly, and would not allow him- 
self to be discomposed, but coolly said the gun would 
be of no use unless I gave him some powder to feed it 
with. This last straw broke the camel's back ; all 
things must have an end, and I promised I would 
give him some after he procured enough camels for 
my wants, but not before. This settled the matter, 
and he walked off, with all the things I had given 
him, as sulkily as if he had been injured. 

Camels were then brought for sale, and purchasing 
commenced. When the sultan was present, he had 
to determine if the prices asked by the sellers were 
reasonable or not, and took for his office as mediator a 
tithe on all purchases; but in his absence, Akils were 
appointed to officiate on the same conditions. This 
system of robbing, I was assured, was the custom of 
the country, and if I wanted to buy at all I must abide 
by it. Cloth was at a great discount on the coast, for 
the men there had, by their dealings with Aden, be- 
come accustomed to handle dollars, and were in conse- 
quence inspired with that superior innate love for the 
precious metal over all other materials, with which all 
men, and especially those newly acquainted with it, 
become unaccountably possessed. No one would be- 
lieve that my boxes could be made for any other pur- 



40 SOMALI COUNTRY. [1854. 

pose than for locking up money; and I was obliged to 
leave them open to inspection before they would sell 
anything for cloth.'* 

The sultan now lived at Bunder Gori, and seldom 
showed himself, promising to come to me every day, 
without the least intention of doing so; and only at 
last, after three days' absence, when I threatened to 
invade his dwelling, did he appear, bringing several 
camels with him : of these I purchased some good ones, 
and sent the rest away: this was the 15th November. 
He then returned home again, and promised faithfully 
he would bring on the morrow a sufficient number of 
camels to carry all my kit. 

16 th. — For the first time the sultan kept his promise 
by returning, but the animals he brought were weak 
and useless, and I could plainly see I was being trifled 
with, and detained here for the mere purpose of being 
robbed in an indirect manner, so that no accusation 
could be laid against any one. Nothing, I may say, 
in all my experiences, vexes the mind so much as feel- 
ing one's self injured in a way that cannot be prevented 
or avenged. Some might take such matters quietly, 
but I confess I could not. Indeed, I stormed and ex- 
postulated with the sultan until he agreed to assist me 
in a move. I had now eleven camels, and wanted 
some five more, but thought it better not to wait; for 

* It may appear strange that these men would not accept anything 
from me in payment except such things as they were accustomed to ; 
and many of the pretty baubles which I brought from Calcutta, and 
considered would allure them by their beauty, proved of no use here as 
a medium of exchange. 



Nov.] AT BUNDER GORI. 41 

as long as I remained in a comfortable dwelling, I 
knew my men would not exert themselves. That day, 
then, packing up what I most required, I started for 
Bunder Gori, and unloaded, after a three miles' march, 
at an old well in rear of the village, selecting as a 
camping-ground the least comfortable place I could 
find, and not allowing the tent to be pitched, though 
the sun-heat was 112 degrees, and the sand was 
blowing in perfect clouds. Some days previous 
to my leaving Goriat, Sumunter induced me to 
give him twenty rupees to hire donkeys for con- 
veying the heavier things over the hills, and repeat- 
edly assured me he had got them, but they never 
came ; and now I asked him to return the money, 
as I had brought it with me as a reserve fund, 
to provide against any possible difficulty, and not 
to be parted with for any ordinary purpose. This 
commenced a series of rows between Sumunter and 
myself: he had made away with the money, and 
could not produce it. The salt also was never forth- 
coming. 

17th. — I could not succeed in making up my com- 
plement of camels. The sultan said he and his men 
must be fed before they could do work, and sat upon 
the date-bags so resolutely I was fain to open them 
that some business might be done. After feasting 
they all dispersed, under pretence of bringing other 
camels, and I went into the town to inspect the place. 
There were five small forts, occupied by merchants, of 
whom one was a Hindi from Cutch, and a large collec- 



42 SOMALI COUNTRY. [1854. 

tion of mat huts, mostly occupied by women. Instead 
of finding a harbour (Bunder), as the name of the 
village implied, the shore was a gradual shelving open 
roadstead, in which two buggaloes were lying at 
anchor, waiting for cargoes, and four small sailing- 
boats were preparing, with harpoon and tackle, to go 
porpoise-hunting for oil. 

IStk — Having made everybody as uncomfortable as 
I could wish, sitting in the sandy open plain, all the 
men were equally desirous with myself for a move on 
the journey; but still I was five camels short, and saw 
no hopes of getting them. The plan then settled was 
to move southwards half-way up the hill, leaving the 
few things still in the fort as they were, until I arrived 
at the camping-place, and could send the animals I 
was taking with me back to fetch them. Having 
now desired the sultan, Sumunter, and Farhan to 
return to Goriat, and leave the rear property in safe 
custody with the fort-keeper, I commenced the march 
across the maritime plain with Ahmed, Imam, a num- 
ber of Somali camel-tenders armed with spear and 
bow, and the sultan's youngest son, Abdullah, to direct 
the way until his father and the other two should 
arrive, which they promised they would do by the 
evening. The track first led us across the maritime 
plain, here about two miles broad, and composed of 
sand overlying limestone, with boulders in the dry 
shallow watercourses, and with no vegetable life save 
a few scrub acacias and certain salsola. This tra- 
versed, we next wound along a deep ravine called 



Nov.] ON THE MARCH. 43 

Tug (river) Tura/* lying between the lower spurs 
of the mountain - range, and commenced a slight 
ascent up its cracked, uneven passage, until we reached 
a halting-place called Iskodubuk. The distance we 
had made was only about five miles from Bunder 
Gori, but the camels were so fatigued by travelling 
over boulders, that we were obliged to unload and 
stop there for the day. The sultan and Abban now 
overtook us to say that the rear things were in safe 
custody in the fort; and, leaving instructions with 
the young Prince Abdullah about the road we should 
follow on the morrow, returned nolens volens back to 
Bunder Gori, saying, as they went away, we might 
expect them at the next camping-ground as soon even 
as we could get there with the camels. A little after 
sunset, some interesting rock-pigeons — very similar to 
the Indian painted bird, which I found there frequent- 
ing ground much of the same nature — lit at some 
pools in the bed of the ravine, and enabled me to 
shoot and stuff several of them. 

19 th. — We got under way in the early morning, and 
commenced ascending the same ravine, when a mes- 
senger from the sultan arrived, and desired we would 
stop until he came. We had scarcely accomplished 
two miles, and the morning was yet young and cool, 
and I strove with every effort in my power to induce 
the men to go a little further forward, but without the 
slightest effect; they were as obstinate as mules, and 

* Tug, in the Somali language, signifies a periodical river, or water- 
course, the same as Wadi in Arabic, and Nullah in Hindustani. 



44 SOMALI COUNTRY. [1854. 

just as unruly. This was a fair specimen of Somali 
travelling; any pretext to save the trouble of moving 
is accounted too precious to be lost. The ground here 
was a little more wooded ; tall slender trees, with thick 
green foliage, grew in the bed of the ravine, in which 
there were some occasional pools of stagnant rain-water, 
and the brown rocky hill-sides were decorated with 
budding bush acacias, which afforded a good repast for 
the weary camels, whose journey over the boulders 
must have been very fatiguing to them. 

2,0th. — As the sultan did not arrive, and the young 
prince would not allow my men to load, I ordered the 
interpreter and Imam to remain where they were, 
whilst I returned to Bunder Gori to see what was the 
matter, and on no account were they to issue any food 
until I came back again. As soon as I had gone two 
or three miles, I found the young prince and all the 
camel-men hastening after me, and entreating me to 
return; they said the sultan was on his way, and 
would arrive in camp in the evening. I complied, 
conditionally that they bound themselves to march in 
the morning whether he came or not. Once again 
in camp, I had my food prepared, and sat savagely 
watching the effect its odour had upon my starving 
men, who, fearing they would get none, formed in a 
body, and came petitioning me to forgive them, as 
they consented to do my bidding for ever after. They 
were then fed. 

21 st. — After loading in the morning, with a great 
deal of beating and thumping, all the camels, save 



Nov.] ASPECT OF THE COUNTRY. 45 

two or three weakly ones, were whipped up a winding 
steep ridge, one of the buttresses of the mountain, 
to a camping-ground, six miles farther on, called Ad- 
hai. Here we were at the station originally assigned 
for the first day's march, and, for the first and last 
time during the whole journey, I pitched the tent. 
The higher we ascended the hill the more abundant 
became the wooding, and green grass for the first time 
was visible amongst the stones. This freshness was 
attributed to a recent fall of rain. Altitude, by boil- 
ing thermometer, 4577 feet. 

22d. — I sent all the freshest camels off to Goriat for 
the remaining property, with orders that everybody 
should return on the following day. At this height 
the temperature of the air was very delightful, the 
range at noon being only 79°. I spent the whole day 
specimen-hunting, and found the rocks were full of 
fossil shells. I killed a new snake or variety of Psam- 
mophis sibilans, and shot an interesting little antelope, 
Oreotragus saltatrix, the " klip-springer " of the Cape 
Colonist, as well as hyraxes and various small birds, 
which we duly preserved. My collections in this 
country were sent by Lieutenant Burton to the Asiatic 
Society's Museum, Calcutta, and have been described 
in their journals by Mr E. Blyth, the Curator. 

23d and 2ith. — Passed without anybody appearing, 
and I was becoming much alarmed at repeated stories 
I heard of the Abban's dishonesty. It then transpired 
that Sumunter was heavily in debt, and one of his 
principal creditors was at Bunder Gori detaining him 



46 SOMALI COUNTRY. [1854. 

there. A pony had been hired for my riding, and on 
this animal I wished to send Imam back, to find out 
the truth of everything, and to return to me the 
following day; but the wicked young prince, Ab- 
dullah, got wind of my intention, and had the pony 
driven away, so that the unfortunate Imam had to 
walk. 

25th. — Still nobody came. I now despatched the 
interpreter on the same mission, and was left alone 
with the young prince and two or three camel-drivers. 
After a little while had elapsed, a number of savage 
hungry -looking men came up the hill and settled 
themselves in my encampment, squatting on the date- 
bags and clamouring for food. The prince and camel- 
drivers joined them, and became so importunate, I 
was obliged to rebuke them with angry demonstration. 
No sooner did they see me vexed than they began 
hovering tauntingly around me, jeering and vociferat- 
ing in savage delight at the impunity they enjoyed in 
irritating me when all alone and helpless. However, 
I stood by the date and rice bags with my gun, and 
prevented anybody coming near me. The prince and 
camel-men now seeing me determined, and no farther 
discomposed by their manoeuvres, came supplicating 
for their daily rations. I gave it them at once, but 
could not satisfy them ; they must have some more 
for all their brothers (meaning the blackguards who 
had just arrived), or they would strike work. This 
stirred my blood ; I took back what I had given, and 
resolutely declined to be passively cajoled out of any- 



Nov.] SOMALI VILLANIES. 47 

thing, let happen what may. They saw I was deter- 
mined not to submit to them ; and suddenly, as if the 
same thought struck every one of them at the same 
instant, they dashed down the hill, flying over the 
bushes and stones in their way, with yells and shouts, 
and, seizing a goat from a neighbouring flock, killed 
and quartered it without a moment's hesitation. At 
this juncture, just as the robbed shepherd came crying 
to me for the price of his goat, Imam arrived from 
Goriat, and tried to reason with him that it was no 
business of mine, and I could not be expected to pay 
it. The injured man then swore he would have jus- 
tice done him at the sultan's hands, and all yelled 
again for dates and rice. As they could not get it, 
the young prince, ever full of boyish tricks, now seized 
up a mussack (water-skin), and said I should have no 
more water until I complied with their demands. The 
others, following his example, picked up as many more 
as they could find, and left but one mussack remain- 
ing. This one I immediately captured, and requested 
Imam to fill from a spring farther down the hill ; but 
the men, thus far outdone, rather than allow it, said 
they would kill him if he dared attempt to go now. 
As Imam showed alarm at their wild threats, I took 
the water-skin myself and walked off to fill it, upon 
which the savages threw themselves out in line, 
flourishing their spears and bows, and declared they 
would kill me if I persisted in going. On I went, 
however, and had just passed through their line, when 
the sultan's eldest son, Mohamed Aul, fortunately 



48 SOMALI COUNTRY. [1854. 

arrived, and rebuked them, together with his brother, 
for allowing me to be ill-treated. Finding Mohamed 
Aul very reasonable and obliging, I begged him to 
send Abdullah away as a nuisance, for I could never 
permit him to eat any more salt of mine. 

Imam now disclosed to me the results of his investi- 
gations at Goriat and Bunder Gori. The Abban, as I 
had heard before, was detained there by a creditor to 
whom he had contracted debts in Aden, and now, in 
part liquidation of them, he had given away all my 
salt, the twenty rupees he took for hiring donkeys, 
several pieces of cloth, and he had changed my good 
rice for bad ; and, knowing Farhan to be cognisant 
of all his villanies, had tried by bribes to induce 
him to desert. The sultan now arrived, and ex- 
cused his long absence, saying that he had lost the 
time in fruitless endeavours to induce Sumunter to 
come with him. He said he had been remonstrating 
with Sumunter, and thought him very culpable in not 
obeying me. Hoping the sultan was in earnest in 
what he said, I now told him of all I had seen and 
heard about Sumunter, and begged he would assist 
me in sending him back to Aden, for no reliance could 
possibly be placed on a man who had proved himself 
so dishonest and unprincipled as he was. The inter- 
preter also thought this would be a good plan, and 
advised my employing the sultan's brother Hasan as 
abban or protector in his stead. However, the sultan 
said he could not undo what the English had done in 
Aden, but said if I wished he would send for Sumunter 



Nov.] A SOMALI TRIAL. 49 

and rebuke him in my presence. I replied that I 
thought he could not get Sumunter to leave Bunder 
Gori, or he should have done so ere this. This 
touched his pride, and he raised his body indignantly, 
and said, "If I command, he must obey." "Then, 
for goodness' sake," said I, " order him with all — all 
my things at once, and lose no more time." 

The following day they all arrived, and Sumunter 
with them, riding on a pony. I felt much incensed as 
the Abban came cringing up to me, and proclaimed 
him in presence of the sultan and all my men a 
traitor and robber, mentioning all his villanies in 
detail, and begging he would leave my camp at once, 
for I could not travel with him. He appeared very 
humble, and denied flatly all the accusations I brought 
against him. Upon this I begged the sultan, flatter- 
ing him with his great renown for administering jus- 
tice, that he would do me justice as his guest. He 
said he was willing to do anything for me if I would 
direct the way in which I wished him to proceed ; 
he did not understand the English law, and I must 
submit to Somali methods. This was agreed to, and 
we all assembled in my tent, and arranged the court 
as follows : — I sat at the gable end of the tent with 
Imam, Ahmed, and Farhan, with Sumunter facing us. 
The sultan mounted on the bales of cloth, and all his 
retainers and princes, and my camel-drivers, sat in a 
group on the ground at his feet. 

In opening the proceedings of the prosecution, I 
first said to Sumunter — 

D 



50 SOMALI COUNTRY. [1854. 

P. Spehe. — " Where is the salt which you confess 
came with us to Goriat, and which you have told me 
daily you would give ; but as yet, though everything, 
you say, is in the camp, it has not arrived ? " 

D. Sumunter. — " I did not bring it because it was 
so heavy, and thought you would not want it." 

P. — " Then why did you not land it at Goriat, and 
give it me there, or why did you even buy it at all at 
Aden if it was of no use ? " 

Z>. — " Because the Nahkoda took it to Bunder 
Gori." 

After a few more questions and answers, and the 
subject was exhausted, the sultan (judge), who had 
been sitting in silence with his head buried in his 
hands, now gave a grunt and motioned us to continue. 

p t — « Where are the bales of cloth which by my 
account and Imam's are missing ? " 

X). — " I did not take them ; somebody else must 

have." 

P. — " They were in your charge, and you are an- 
swerable for them ; besides which, Farhan here knows 
you gave them away." 

Judge. — " Ahem ! " and the prosecution continued. 

p. — « Where are the twenty rupees I gave you for 
hiring donkeys, and which I particularly ordered 
should not be expended for any other purpose ? " 

Sumunter, putting his hand fixedly in his breast, 
said, " I've got them ; they are all right. I will give 
them to you presently." 



Nov.] A SOMALI TRIAL. 51 

Speke. — " No ! give them to me now; I want them 
this instant." 

Sumunter, confused, and fumbling at his pocket, 
much to the delight of all the court, who burst with 
laughter, said, " No ! I've left them at home in Bunder 
Gori, and will give them by-and-by." 

Judge. — " Ahem ! " and the prosecution continued. 

P. — "Why did you change my good rice for bad?" 
(opening and showing the contents of the nearest 
sack). 

D. — " I thought it would not signify : bad rice is 
good enough for the camel-drivers, and I have left 
enough good for your consumption. An old friend 
asked me for it, and I did it to oblige him." 

Judge. — " Ahem ! " and the prosecution continued. 

P. — "Why did you attempt to bribe Farhan to 
leave my service, and say nothing to me about it ? " 

D. — " Farhan is a bad man ; and I was afraid he 
would steal your things." 

Judge. — " Ahem ! " 

Thus ended the prosecution and defence. The 
sultan raised his head, and in answer to my appeal as 
to what judgment he would give, calmly said, he could 
see no harm in what had been done — Sumunter was 
my Abban, and, in virtue of the ship he commanded, 
was at liberty to do whatever he pleased either with 
or to my property. Words, in fact, equivalent to say- 
ing I had come into a land of robbers, and therefore 
must submit to being robbed ; and this I plainly told 



52 SOMALI COUNTRY. [1854. 

him. Further, I even threatened the sultan with a 
pretended determination to return to Aden, where I 
said the matter would be settled at our police court 
without bias or favour. I then desired the interpreter 
to look out for any vessel that would give me a pas- 
sage to Aden, as it was obvious to me Sumunter had 
more power in the land than the sultan. This took 
them all by surprise, abashed the old sultan and his 
family — for they were proud of their strength — and 
induced them to say I need not fear anything on that 
score ; — was the sultan of the Warsingali, indeed, not 
the greatest chief in the land, and, moreover, a great 
ally of the English ? This, of course, was only a feint 
on my part to bring them to a proper sense of their 
duty towards me ; for I had brought letters of recom- 
mendation from the Government at Aden to their 
chief, and knew they would rather do anything than 
let me go back in a huff. 

29 >th. — I had been now nine days waiting here, and 
had taken many walks about the hill-sides, investigat- 
ing the place, and making sundry collections. The 
most interesting amongst these was a small lizard, a 
new species, afterwards named by Mr E. Blyth, the 
Curator of the Asiatic Society, Tiloqua Burtoni, after 
my commandant. The Somali brought a leopard into 
camp, which they said they had destroyed in a cave 
by beating it to death with sticks and stones. They 
have a mortal antipathy to these animals, as they 
sometimes kill defenceless men, and are very destruc- 



Nov.] ZOOLOGY AND BOTANY. 53 

tive to their flocks. Besides the little antelope de- 
scribed, I only saw the Saltiana antelope, and the 
tracks of two other species which were said to be very- 
scarce. Ehinoceroses were formerly very abundant 
here, but have been nearly all killed down with spear 
and bow (they do not use firearms) by the Somali 
hunters, in consequence of the great demand for their 
skins for making shields. Amongst the bush and 
trees there were several gum-producing ones, of which 
the frankincense, I think, ranked first. These gums 
are usually plucked by the women and transported to 
Aden. The barks of various other trees are also very 
useful ; for instance, they strip down the bark of the 
acacia in long slips, and chew it until only fibres re- 
main, which, when twisted in the hand, make strong 
cordage. The acacia bark also makes a good tan for 
preserving leather; but of far greater account than 
this is the bark of a squat stunted tree, like the " ele- 
phant's foot," called by the Somali mohur, which has 
a smooth skin, with knotty-looking warts upon it like 
a huge turnip, reddish inside, with a yellowish-green 
exterior. It has a highly aromatic flavour, and is a 
powerful astringent. When making mussacks, the 
Somali pull a sheep or goat out of his skin; tie its 
legs and tail, where incisions had been made, to make 
it a waterproof bag, and then fill it with bits of this 
bark, chopped up and mixed with water. They then 
suspend it in a tree to dry, and afterwards render it 
soft and pliable by a severe course of manipulation. 



54 SOMALI COUNTRY. [1854. 

The taste of the bark is considered very wholesome, 
and a corrective to bad and fetid water. Besides pos- 
sessing this quality, the mohur is useful as a poultice 
when mashed and mixed with water ; and the Somali 
always have recourse to it when badly wounded. 

During my peregrinations at this place, I often 
dropped bits of paper about the jungle, little suspect- 
ing what would become of them ; and, to my surprise, 
one day the interpreter came to me in some alarm, to 
say that several Dulbahantas had arrived at Bunder 
Gori, and were sharply canvassing amongst themselves 
the probable objects of my visit. I could not be travel- 
ling without a purpose, at so much expense; and they 
thought these bits of paper, which they had carefully 
picked up, conclusive evidence I was marking out some 
spots for future purposes. They abused the Warsin- 
gali for being such fools as to let me travel in their 
country, and said I should never cross over to them. 
This little incident of dropping paper, though fully 
explained to them, was ever afterwards brought up in 
accusation against me, and proved very perplexing. 

30th. — Camp Habal Ishawale. Altitude 5052 feet. 
— We were now all together, and I thought ready to 
march; but the men had first to be paid their hire in 
advance — a monthly stipend of five tobes each. When 
that was settled, many other men, and amongst them 
the sultan's second brother Hassan, coveting my clothes, 
wished to be engaged. Some tedious hours were wasted 
on this subject. The sultan, at the instigation of these 



Nov. -Dec] MARCH CONTINUED. 55 

advocates for service, would have it, if I wished to 
travel according to the custom of the country, I must 
take more men with me as a guard. I, on the other 
hand, neither wanted them nor could afford to pay 
them, as I had been so extensively plundered — but 
wished to exchange Sumunter for his brother, and pro- 
mised high rewards if he would take me through the 
journey. To put an end to the discussion, I struck 
my tent, never to be pitched again, and waited patiently 
until the camels came. It was not until near sundown 
that the camels were ready and the march commenced. 
The sultan then ordered Hassan and the naughty boy 
Abdullah, against my wish, to accompany me on the 
journey; and we set off, leaving two or three loads 
behind to be brought up on the morrow. The march 
was a short one, made to relieve the one beyond ; for 
the spring of water we were now drinking from was 
the last on this side the range. It led us up a gradual 
but tortuous ascent, very thickly clad with strong 
bushes, to a kraal or ring-fence of prickly acacias, 
which was evidently made to protect the Somali's sheep 
from lions, leopards, hyenas, and freebooters suddenly 
pouncing on them. 

We remained here three days, sending the things 
I had brought in relays across the mountain, and 
fetching up the rear ones. The sultan could not lose 
the opportunity afforded by my detention to come again 
and beg for presents, and I gave him a razor to shave 
his head with and make a clean Mussulman of him. 



56 SOMALI COUNTRY. [1854. 

On finding lie could get nothing further from me gratis, 
he demanded that a cloth should be paid to the man 
whom my camel-drivers had robbed of the goat at 
Adhai, and, before retiring, wished me urgently to take 
a letter for him to Aden, petitioning the English to 
allow him to form an expedition by sea, and take retri- 
bution on the Musa Abokr at Heis, who had recently 
killed one of his subjects. 



Dec] MARCH RESUMED. 57 



CHAPTER III. 

YAFIR PASS — RHUT TUG THE RUINS AT KIN'S CITY — ABBAN 

APPREHENDS FUTURE CONSEQUENCES — HYENAS — THE DUL- 
BAHANTAS — CAMEL DRIVERS' TRICKS — BRINY WATER — 
ANTELOPE-SHOOTING — ELEPHANT-HUNTING — OSTRICH-HUNT- 
ING GAZELLES — JEALOUSY AND SUSPICIONS OF THE PEOPLE 

— TROUBLES FROM FORTY THIEVES — RAPID DECLINE OF 
PROPERTY. 

Uh December 1854. — At dawn of clay the last of the 
camels was loaded, and we set out to clamber up to the 
top of the mountain-range and descend on the other 
side to the first watering-place in the interior of the 
country. It was a double march, and a very stiff one 
for the camels. Directly in our front lay an easy, 
flattish ground, with moderate undulations, densely 
wooded with such trees as I had already seen ; but 
beyond it, about three miles from camp, the face of the 
mountain-top, towering to a great height, stood frown- 
ing over us like a huge bluff wall, which at first sight 
it appeared quite impossible any camel could surmount. 
At 9 a.m. we reached this steep, and commenced the 
stiffest and last ascent up a winding, narrow goat-path, 
having sharp turns at the extremity of every zigzag, 



58 SOMALI COUNTRY. [1854. 

and with huge projecting stones, which seemed to bid 
defiance to the passage of the camels' bodies. Indeed, 
it was very marvellous, with their long spindle-shanks 
and great splay feet, and the awkward boxes on their 
backs striking constantly against every little projection 
in the hill, that they did not tumble headlong over the 
pathway ; for many times, at the corners, they fell 
upon their chests, with their hind-legs dangling over 
the side, and were only pulled into the path again by 
the combined exertions of all the men. Like Tibet 
ponies, when they felt their bodies slipping helplessly 
over the precipices — down which, had they fallen, 
they would have met instantaneous and certain death 
— they invariably seized hold of anything and every- 
thing with their teeth to save their equilibrium. The 
ascent was at length completed after an infinity of 
trouble, and our view from the top of the mountain 
repaid me fully for everything of the past. It was a 
glorious place ! In one glance round I had a complete 
survey of all the country I was now destined to travel 
over, and what I had already gone over. 

The pass was called Yafir, and, by the boiling ther- 
mometer, showed an altitude of 6704 feet. It was 
almost the highest point on this range. From a cedar 
tree I cooked my breakfast under, on facing to the 
north I saw at once the vast waters of the Gulf, all 
smooth and glassy as a mill-pond, the village of Bun- 
der Gori, and the two buggaloes lying in its anchorage- 
ground, like little dots of nut-shells, immediately below 
the steep face of the mountain. So deep and perpen- 



Dec] YAFIR PASS. 59 

dicular was it, that it had almost the effect of looking 
down a vast precipice. But how different was the 
view on turning to the south ! Instead of this enor- 
mous grandeur — a deep rugged hill, green and fresh in 
verdure, with the sea like a large lake below — it was 
tame in the extreme ; the land dropped gently to 
scarcely more than half its depth, with barely a tree 
visible on its surface ; and at the foot of the hill, 
stretched out as far as the eye could reach, was a howl- 
ing, blank-looking desert, all hot and arid, and very 
wretched to look upon. It was the more disappointing, 
as the Somali had pictured this to me as a land of 
promise, literally flowing with milk and honey, where, 
they said, I should see boundless prairies of grass, large 
roomy trees, beautiful valleys with deep brooks running 
down them, and cattle, wild animals, and bees in abun- 
dance. Perhaps this was true to them, who had seen 
nothing finer in creation ; who thought ponies fine 
horses, a few weeds grass, and a puny little brook a 
fine large stream. At noon we reloaded, and proceed- 
ed to join the camels and men sent forward on the 
previous day. The track first led us a mile or two 
across the hill-top, where I remarked several heaps of 
stones piled up, much after the fashion of those monu- 
ments the Tibet Tartars erect in commemoration of 
their Lahma saints. These, the Somali said, were left 
here by their predecessors, and, they thought, were 
Christian tombs. Once over the brow of the hill, we 
descended the slopes on the south, which fell gently in 
terraces, and travelled until dark, when we reached a 



60 SOMALI COUNTRY. [1854. 

deep nullah, here called Mukur, in which we found our 
vanguard safely encamped in a strong ring-fence of 
thorn bushes. 

The distance accomplished was seventeen miles; 
the altitude 3660 feet. The two following days 
(5th and 6th) we halted to rest the cattle, whilst I 
went shooting and collecting. There were a great 
number of gazelles and antelopes, some bustard, many 
florikan and partridges, as well as other very interest- 
ing birds and reptiles. These were mostly found in 
ravines at the foot of the hills, or amongst acacia and 
jujube trees, with patches of heather in places. We 
now held durbar* to consult on the plan of proceed- 
ing. It was obviously impossible to march across the 
plateau directly upon the southern Dulbahantas, as 
there was not a blade of grass to be seen nor any 
water on the way beyond the first ten miles from the 
foot of the hills. To go to Berbera, then, I must per- 
force pass through the territories of the northern Dul- 
bahantas; and this was fixed upon. But hearing of 
some "ancient Christian ruins" (left by Sultan Kin) 
only a day's march to the south-eastward, I resolved 
to see them first, and on the 7th made a move five 
miles in that direction to a kraal, called Karrah, 
where we found a deep pool of stagnant water. 

8th. — My kit was now so much diminished that 
we all marched together down a broad shallow valley 
south-eastward, in which meandered a nullah, called 
Ehut Tug, the first wadi I came upon in Nogal. The 

* Durbar — Eastern Court. 



Dec] THE DESERT. 61 

distance accomplished was eight miles when we put 
up in the Kraal of Ehut; for, as I have said before, 
there were no villages or permanent habitations in the 
interior of the Nogal country. All the little wooding 
there is, is found in depressions like this, near the base 
of hill-ranges, where water is moderately near the 
surface, and the trees are sheltered from the winds 
that blow over the higher grounds of the general 
plateau. Ehut is the most favoured spot in the War- 
singali dominions, and had been loudly lauded by my 
followers; but all I could find were a few trees larger 
than the ordinary acacias, a symptom of grass having 
grown there in more favoured times when rain had 
fallen, a few puddles of water in the bed of the nullah, 
and one flock of sheep to keep the place alive. Gazelles 
were numerous, and many small birds in gaudy plum- 
age flitted about the trees, amongst which the most 
beautiful was the Lamprotornis superba, a kind of 
Maina, called by the Somali Lhimber-load (the cow- 
bird), because it follows after cows to feed. 

9 th. — Halt. Kin's City, or rather the ruins of it, I 
was told, lay to the northward of my camp, in the direc- 
tion of the hills, at a distance of about two miles; so I 
proceeded at once to see it, hoping by this means I 
should be able to advance westward on the following 
day. After an hour's walk I came upon those remains 
of which I had heard so much at first on landing in the 
country, as indicative of the great advancement in archi- 
tectural art of Kin's Christian legion over the present 
Somali inhabitants; but I was as much disappointed 



62 SOMALI COUNTRY. [1854. 

in this matter as in all others of Somali fabrication. 
There were five objects of attraction here: — 1. The 
ruins of a (said to be) Christian church ; 2. The site 
and remains of a village; 3. A hole in the ground, 
denoting a lime-kiln; 4. A cemetery; and, 5. The 
ground-lines of a fort. This certainly showed a degree 
of advancement beyond what the Somali now enjoy, 
inasmuch as they have no buildings in the interior, 
though that does not say much for the ancients. The 
plan of the church is an oblong square, 48 by 27 feet, 
its length lying N.E. and S.W., whilst its breadth was 
directed N.W. and S.E., which latter may be considered 
its front and rear. In the centre of the N.W. wall 
there was a niche, which evidently, if built by Chris- 
tians, was intended to point to Jerusalem; and this 
might have been conclusive evidence of its having been 
a Christian house of worship, and consequently of great 
antiquity, did it not unfortunately point likewise in 
the direction of Mecca, to which place all Mohamme- 
dans turn when saying their prayers. Again, I enter- 
tained some suspicion that the walls, which were in 
some parts ten feet high, had not sufficient decay 
to warrant their being four and a half or more cen- 
turies old. But one thing was remarkable at this 
present time — there were no springs or any water 
nearer than my camping place, which could not 
have been the case when this place was occupied; but 
it denoted a certain amount of antiquity, without any 
doubt. The walls of the church were composed of 



Dec] QUESTIONABLE ANTIQUITIES. 63 

limestone rocks, cemented together with a very pure 
white lime. 

The entrance fronted the niche, and was led up to 
by a street of round pebbles, protected on each side by 
semicircular loosely-thrown-up stone walls. There 
was nothing left of the village but its foundation out- 
lines, which at once showed simplicity of construction, 
as well as economy of labour in building. It lay about 
50 yards to the east of the church. One straight wall 
ran down the centre, from which, as supports, ran out 
a number of lateral chambers lying at right angles 
to it. 

To the northward of the church was the cemetery, 
in which, strange to say, if the Somali believe their 
own story, they even at the present time bury their 
dead, and erect crosses at the head of the tombs, in the 
same manner as we Christians do. The kiln was an 
artless hole in the ground, in which there was a large 
collection of cinders, and other debris not worth men- 
tioning. Lastly, the fort, or rather remains of what 
the Somali said had been one, was situated on an 
eminence overlooking the village, and about 70 yards 
to the S.W. of the church. Now, having completed 
my investigations of the ruins, I returned to camp, 
where I was met by the Abban, looking as sulky as a 
bear with a sore head, and frowning diabolically. He 
had been brooding over my late censures, and reflect- 
ing on the consequences his bad conduct would finally 
have upon him, if he could not obtain a pardon from 



64 SOMALI COUNTRY. [1854. 

me. And should he not be able to elicit it by fair 
means, he thought at any rate he would extract it by 
foul, then and there, without condition or any clause 
whatever. This was preposterous. I frankly told him 
exactly what I thought of him, saying I could not for- 
get what had happened; that he had abused the trust 
reposed in him by the English, and I was bound in 
duty to report the whole matter in every detail to the 
Government; but should he discontinue his evil ways, 
and take me safely to my journey's end, I would pro- 
mise him a full pardon as soon as I arrived at Ber- 
bera. This would not answer his purpose — bygones 
must be bygones without any condition whatever, and 
he went to his bed as wrathful as he rose. 

10 th. — I rose early and ordered the men to load, but 
not a soul would stir. The Abban had ordered other- 
wise, and they all preferred to stick, like brother 
villains, to him. And then began a battle-royal; as 
obstinately as I insisted, so obstinately did he persist ; 
then, to show his superior authority, and thinking to 
touch me on a tender point, forbade my shooting any 
more. This was too much for my now heated blood 
to stand, so I immediately killed a partridge running 
on the ground before his face. Seeing this, he wheeled 
about, prepared his pony, and, mounting it, with his 
arms agitated and ready for action, said to the people 
standing by that he would kill me if I dared shoot 
again. I was all this while standing prepared to shoot, 
without understanding a word of what was said, when 
the interpreter rushed towards me pale and trembling, 



Dec] HYENAS. 65 

and implored me not to shoot, but to arrange matters 
quietly. He would not tell me, however, what had 
occasioned the great anxiety his excited manner showed. 
I of course was ready at any time to do anything I 
could to help me on the journey, and again stated the 
terms on which I would grant the man a pardon. At 
this juncture, Hassan, the sultan's brother, who had 
been absent a few days, came and interceded between 
us. I told him everything that had happened, how 
the Abban had even superseded the sultan's order, by 
forbidding me to do what I wished in his country, 
and again begged him to be my Abban in Sumunter's 
stead. This he said he could not do, but gave Su- 
munter a wigging, and desired me to go and shoot 
anywhere I liked. Thus ended this valuable day. 

11 th. — Last night I shot a female spotted crocuta 
hyena (here called Durwa) in the act of robbing. These 
tiresome brutes prowl about at night, and pick up any- 
thing they can find. Their approach is always indi- 
cated by a whining sound, which had prepared me on 
this occasion. She was caught in the act of stealing 
away some leather thongs. The specimen was a fine 
one, but until dissected I could not, from the hermaph- 
rodital form of these animals, determine which sex it 
was that I had killed. We now prepared for the march 
westward, when Hassan said he would go back to near 
the Mijjertaine frontier, where rain had lately fallen, 
and all the Warsingalis had migrated with their cattle, 
to fetch some ponies, which he would bring to me in a 
few days, even before I could arrive at the Dulbahanta 

E 



66 SOMALI COUNTRY. [1854. 

frontier, and begged a gun at parting as Judge's fee 
for his settlement of the Abban question, and as an 
earnest that he would bring the five ponies which I 
wanted. We then got under way, and travelled west- 
ward, bidding Ehut Tug adieu, but every one was stiff 
and formal. Sumunter had not confessed contrition, 
and I had not committed myself to saying that I would 
hush the matter up, assuring him that in duty as a 
public officer I could not, that I was bound to report 
every circumstance, though privately I promised a 
pardon as before. After travelling a little way, we 
emerged from the low land of the valley, and ascended 
a higher track to the normal level of the plateau, which, 
as I have said before, was all bleak and barren, with 
scarcely a tree growing on it, and very stony. Here 
I saw a large troop of ostriches and numberless 
gazelles stalking away out of the line of the caravan's 
march. My men were all highly anxious I should 
shoot them, but I would not, to try what effect it 
would have on the Abban, saying, sport was of second- 
ary importance to me, and I now only wished to finish 
the journey quickly. 

By his detentions I had lost so much time, I de- 
spaired of reaching Berbera agreeably with my in- 
structions, and, moreover, he had not begged my 
pardon, from which I doubted his intention to serve 
me faithfully. This caused a halt. Sumunter and 
all the men alike said, " Of what good is your coming 
here, if you do not enjoy yourself? We all came on 
this journey to reap advantages from serving you, and 



Dec] THE SCENERY. 67 

now if you don't shoot, what may we expect ? " I 
said, Prove to me that I shall not be thwarted again, 
and I will shoot or do anything to create good- 
will. Then appointing three men as Sumunter s ad- 
visers to hold him in restraint in case any wrong- 
headedness on his part should get the mastery of him, 
I begged they would proceed. This proved successful 
for the time. Sumunter wrote me a letter, stating his 
intention of abject servitude, and ratified it by pre- 
senting his spear and shield, through the hands of the 
interpreter, for me to return to him as an acknow- 
ledgment that I would henceforth forgive him; and 
we again proceeded on the journey. 

After travelling ten miles without seeing a single 
habitation or human being of any sort, we arrived at 
a nullah, in which there were several pools of bitter 
spring- water, and some Egyptian geese swimming on 
them. This place was called Barham. On the right 
or northern side of the line of our march was the hill- 
range, about ten miles distant, at the foot of which, in 
the beds of small ravines, grew some belts of the 
jujube-tree and hardy acacias ; but to the south the 
land was all sterile, and stretched away in a suc- 
cession of little flat plains, circumscribed by bosses or 
hillocks of pure white limestone rock, which appeared 
standing unaffected by the weathering which had 
worn down the plains that were lying between them. 
Again these little enclosed plains sank in gentle 
gradation to their centres, where nullahs, like the one 
I was encamped upon, drained the land and refuse 



68 SOMALI COUNTRY. [1854. 

debris to the south and eastward, possibly to join 
eventually the Rhut Tug. 

12th. — At 9 a.m. we were again in motion on our 
westward course, rising by a gentle incline to about 
half-way between Rhut Tug and a second Wadi Nogal 
farther on, called Yubbe Tug. Here, at the water- 
parting between these two large watercourses, was 
the tomb of the great founder of these mighty nations, 
Darud bin Ismail, and an excavated tumulus. There 
were also several bitter springs in the neighbourhood, 
with stone enclosures and numerous flocks of sheep 
tended by Somali. On passing the tomb I scarcely 
remarked it, so insignificant did it appear, whilst the 
Somali paid no homage to it whatever. But the 
tumulus excited more attention, and I was requested 
to examine it. Six years ago, the interpreter said, a 
Somali who wished to bury his wife in it, broke 
through its exterior, and found a hollow compartment 
propped up by beams of timber, at the bottom of 
which, buried in the ground, were several earthenware 
pots, some leaden coins, a ring of gold such as the 
Indian Mussulman women wear in their noses, and 
various other miscellaneous property. 

I was very much struck with the sleekness of the 
sheep, considering there appeared nothing for them to 
live upon ; but I was shown amongst the stony ground 
here and there a little green pulpy-looking weed, an 
ice plant called Buskale, succulent, and by repute highly 
nutritious. It was on this they fed and throve. These 
Dumba sheep — the fat-tailed breed — appear to thrive 



Dec] DULBAHANTA FRONTIER. 69 

on much less food, and can abstain longer from eating, 
than any others. This is probably occasioned by the 
nourishment they derive from the fat of their tails, 
which acts as a reservoir, regularly supplying, as it 
necessarily would do, any sudden or excessive drainage 
from any other part of their systems. 

After crossing over this high land we began 
descending to the westward, and at the completion of 
the twelfth mile dropped into a nullah tributary to the 
Yubbe Tug, made a kraal for protection against hyenas 
close to a pool of water, and spent the night. This 
plain was called Libbahdile (the haunt of lions). * 

13th. — The air was so cold, the men could not be- 
stir themselves until after sunrise, when, to my great 
surprise and delight, without one angry word or 
attempted impediment from the Abban, we were on 
the move at 8 a.m. I now fondly hoped the Abban 
had really turned over a new leaf, but was soon un- 
deceived, and also disappointed. He was married to 
a Dulbahanta woman, and this wife, for he had two 
others, with her family, was residing in that country. 
I was therefore, unawares to myself, travelling directly 
on his home. Hence these three consecutive marches. 
Gradually we descended into a broad valley, down the 
centre of which meandered the Yubbe Tug, or the 
second Wadi Nogal of my acquaintance. This formed 
a natural boundary -line, separating the Warsingali 
from the northern Dulbahanta frontiers. Where we 

* Lions, as well as other large animals, are said to come into the 
Nogal during the rainy season, when water and grass are abundant. 



70 SOMALI COUNTRY. [1854. 

first came upon the nullah it was deep and broad, with 
such steep perpendicular sides that camels could not 
cross it. We therefore turned suddenly northward, 
and followed up its left bank till we turned its head, 
which begins abruptly, and marched five miles to the 
Yubbe Kraals. Had this valley been blessed with a 
moderate quantity of rain, there is no doubt it would 
have been available for agricultural purposes ; and as 
it was, there were more trees growing in the hollow 
here than in any other place I had seen, and several 
flocks and herds were congregated in it. Whilst tra- 
velling to-day the interpreter narrated the circum- 
stances of a fight which the Warsingali had with the 
Dulbahantas about ten years ago in this valley, in 
which it appeared the Dulbahantas were the aggressing 
party, having sent a foraging-party over their frontier 
to lift some cattle. The Warsingali, seeing this, mus- 
tered their forces and repelled the enemy ; but would 
not follow them up, preferring rather to tease them 
into submission than to engender a bloody contest. 
This they effected by exposing all their flocks and 
herds to the view of the Dulbahantas on the bank of 
the impassable nullah, whilst they guarded its head 
and protected their flank by stationing a strong party 
of warriors there. The Dulbahantas, tantalised at 
this tempting yet aggravating sight, for they had not 
strength enough to cope with the Warsingali in full 
force, waited covetously gazing across the nullah for 
some time, and then retired in such great disgust, they 
have never attempted to steal again. 



Dec] DULBAHANTAS' FITtST MESSAGE. 71 

When once ensconced in the new camp, the Abban 
came to me with an air of high importance, to 
announce that we were now on the Dulbahanta fron- 
tier, and that, if I wished to see their land, I must 
allow him to precede me, and pave the way, taking 
the young prince Abdullah with him to magnify the 
purport of his mission, as the Dulbahantas were a ter- 
rible and savage nation, governed, not like the War- 
singalis, by an old and revered chief, but by a young 
sultan whom nobody listened to. Moreover, the Dul- 
bahantas had sent word to say they had heard of my 
marking the Warsingali country out with paper, and 
would not admit me on any consideration. Besides 
which, it was a custom in the country that strangers 
should ask permission to enter through the medium of 
an abban, and as I had acted on that custom in the 
Warsingali country, so also must I do it here. 

I was kept at this station eight days, sometimes 
hearing ominous announcements of the terrible Dulba- 
hantas, sent to frighten me by the Abban, and some- 
times amusing myself in other and various ways. The 
Dulbahantas could not conceive my motive for wish- 
ing to travel in their land; no peddling Arab, even, 
had ever ventured there, so why should I desire to 
go ? Fortunately I had a good deal of employment 
with my gun ; for, besides gazelles, antelopes, a lynx, 
florikans, and partridges, I shot many very beautiful 
little honey-birds, as well as other small birds. Of 
these former the most beautiful was the Nectarinia 
Habessinica. It has an exceedingly gaudy plumage, 



72 SOMALI COUNTRY. [1854. 

that glistens in metallic lustre as the rays of light 
strike upon its various-coloured feathers. This is the 
more remarkable on a warm sunshiny day, when the 
tiny bird, like a busy humble-bee, bowing the slender 
plant with its weight, inserts his sharp curved bill 
into the flower-bells to drink their honey-dew, keeping 
its wings the whole time in such rapid motion as to 
be scarcely distinguishable. 

Without animal flesh I do not know what I should 
have done here. The water was so nitrous I could 
not drink it. To quench my thirst, I threw it in 
gulps down my throat ; and rice, when boiled in it, 
resembled salts and senna. After returning from 
sport one day, the interpreter brought up one of the 
camel-drivers, to be punished for having stolen some 
deer flesh when sent to clean it. He was a Midgar, 
or low-caste fellow, who does not object to indulge in 
cannibalism when hard pressed by hunger. I would 
not decide the case myself, but handed him over, 
much against his wish, to the tender mercies of the 
interpreter and two other men whom the sultan, at 
parting, appointed judges on any sudden occasion. It 
was everybody's interest to make him guilty, and there- 
fore he was condemned to find two sheep, to be killed 
and eaten in the camp. Another case of theft, much 
more vexatious than this, occurred when I first arrived 
here, and turned off some spare camel-drivers, who took 
away all the packing-ropes with them, and I have been 
obliged to employ the remaining men ever since in 
chewing acacia bark into fibres to make new ones. 



Dec] SCARCITY OF WATER. 73 

I was now becoming so much alarmed at the Abban's 
delay and tricks, that I wrote a letter to Lieutenant 
Playfair, Assistant Political Eesident at Aden, com- 
plaining of what he had done, saying I felt very un- 
certain of being able to reach Berbera by the time 
appointed, and requesting him to send a letter of re- 
monstrance to the sultan. This I forwarded by a man 
called Abdie, via Bunder Gori. Prudence would have 
suggested my returning with the letter, for I had now 
received intelligence that the Abban was in his home, 
and after experience gained by the tragedies on the 
coast, I could have expected no good from him. But as 
long as life and time lasted, I was resolved to go ahead. 

It was very remarkable to see the great length of 
time animals in this country can exist, even under 
hard work, without drinking water. In an ordinary 
way, the Somali water camels only twice a-month, 
donkeys four times, sheep every fourth day, and ponies 
only once in two days, and even object to doing it 
oftener, when the water is plentiful, lest the animals 
should lose their hardihood. I do not think antelopes 
could possibly get at water for several months to- 
gether, as every drop of water in the country is 
guarded by the Somali. We were now in " the land 
of honey," and the Somali nomads constantly came to 
me to borrow my English pickaxe for digging it out 
of the ground ; for the bees of this country, instead of 
settling in the boughs of trees, as they do in England, 
work holes in the ground like wasps, or take advan- 
tage more generally of chinks or fissures in the rocks 



74 SOMALI COUNTRY. [1854. 

to build their combs and deposit their wax. It was a 
great treat to get a little of this sweet nutriment, to 
counteract the salts which prevail in all the spring 
waters of the interior. When out shooting specimens, 
I often saw the Somali chasing down the Salt's ante- 
lopes on foot. 

I killed many of them myself right and left, when 
running like hares, with common shot, much to the 
astonishment of the Somali, for they are too small a 
mark for their bow-and-arrow shooting. The little 
creatures cannot stand travelling in the mid-day sun, 
and usually lie about under favouring trees which line 
the watercourses. Knowing this weakness, the cun- 
ning Somali hunter watches him down from feeding 
to his favourite haunts, and, after the sun shines 
strong enough, quietly disturbs him ; then, as he trots 
away to search for another shady bush, they follow 
gently after to prevent his resting. In the course of 
an hour or so, the terrified animal, utterly exhausted, 
rushes from bush to bush, throwing itself down under 
each in succession, until at length it gets captured. 

Somali, from their roving habits of life, are as keen 
and cunning sportsmen as any in the world. They told 
me of many dodges they adopted for killing elephants, 
ostriches, and gazelles, which they do as follows : — If 
an elephant is ever seen upon the plains, a large body 
of men assemble on foot, armed with spears, bows, 
and sharp double - edged knives, with one man 
mounted on a white horse, to act as teaser. This man 
commences by riding in front of the animal, to irritate 



Dec] OSTRICH-HUNTING. 75 

and absorb his entire attention by riding in repeated 
circles just in front of him. When the huge beast 
shows signs of distress by fruitlessly charging on his 
nimble adversary, the footmen rush in upon him from 
behind, and hamstring him with their knives, and 
then with great facility soon despatch him with their 
arrows and spears. 

Ostriches, again, are killed in two ways ; the more 
simple one is by finding out what places they usually 
resort to in search of food, and then throwing down 
some tempting herb of strong poisonous properties, 
which they eagerly eat and die from. The other 
method adopted in catching them is not so easy, but 
is managed with great effect. The ostrich is, as is 
generally known, a remarkably shy bird, and is so 
blind at night it cannot feed. Again, the Somali 
pony, though wonderfully hardy and enduring, is not 
swift ; therefore, to accommodate existing power to 
knowledge of these various weaknesses, the Somali 
provides himself with a pony, and provisions for two or 
three days, and begins his hunt by showing himself at 
such a considerable distance from the birds he has 
formed his design upon, that they quietly stalk off, 
and he, at the same rate, follows after, but never 
draws near enough to scare them out of sight of him. 
At night, the birds stop in consequence of the dark- 
ness, but cannot feed. He, on the other hand, dis- 
mounts to rest and feed with his pony, and resumes 
the chase the following day. After the second or 
third day, when he and the pony are as fresh as ever, 



76 SOMALI COUNTRY. [1854. 

the ostriches, from constant fasting, become so weak, 
he is able to ride in amongst them, and knock down 
one by one as many as may be in the flock. The flesh 
is eaten, and the feathers are taken to the sea-coast 
for transportation to the Aden market. I once saw 
a donkey-load of feathers carried to market that had 
been taken in this way. 

There are two methods, also, of killing gazelles ; the 
more usual one is effected by two men walking into a 
bushy ground to search for them, and when discovered, 
walking in such large circles around them as will not 
scare them ; gradually they draw their circles in, until 
a favoured bush, down wind, is found, which the herd 
is most likely, when once moved, to pass by, and be- 
hind this one of the men stops, with his bow and 
arrows, whilst the second one, without ever stopping 
to create alarm, continues drawing in the circles of cir- 
cumvention until he induces the gazelles to walk up 
to the bush his friend is concealed in, when one or 
more may be easily shot. The other plan for killing 
them is extremely artful, and is done on horseback, 
and therefore on the open plain. Fleet animals, like 
antelopes and gazelles, always endeavour to head across 
their pursuers, no matter in which direction they go. 
The Somali, therefore, taking advantage of this habit, 
when they wish to catch them on ponies, which are 
not half so swift as the gazelles in fair open chase, 
economise their strength by directing their animals' 
heads towards the leading gazelle, and thus inducing 
the herd, as they continue heading on, to describe 



Dec] THE DULBAHANTA WAR. 77 

double the circumference of ground their ponies have 
to traverse. In process of time, the gazelles, by their 
extra exertions, begin to flag and drop, and the hunters 
rush in upon them, and cut them up in detail. 

20th. — To-day the young prince, Abdullah, returned 
to say the Dulbahantas had been conferred with, and 
had shown the strongest objections to my seeing their 
country, enumerating at the same time all their reason- 
ings, such as I had already heard; but added, as a 
great concession on their part, as a particular favour 
they wished to show to my Abban, that I might be 
permitted to advance a little way to the next valley; 
but then only on condition that I would surrender to 
them the whole of my remaining property. 

I now heard more particulars of the Dulbahantas' 
fights, and the manner in which they first originated. 
For full thirteen years they had been disputing amongst 
themselves, and many cabals had sprung out of it. 
Whilst these intrigues were gaining ground, a minor 
chief, named Ali Haram, with a powerful support in 
connections, about five years ago determined on alien- 
ating himself from the yoke of the government, which 
was headed by an old Gerad, called Mahamed Ali, the 
rightful and hereditary chief. Since then the original 
kingdom has been divided into two portions, called 
the Northern and Southern Dulbahantas ; but although 
the northerners declare themselves independent, the 
chief of the south still fights for his lawful rights, and 
at this present time had driven the northerners, with 
all their cattle and stock, to Jid Ali Tug, the next 



78 SOMALI COUNTRY. [1854. 

valley beyond this, which I was now desirous of visit- 
ing. Ali Haram was an old man, and consequently 
incapacitated from taking an active part in these 
tumultuous filibusterings ; he had therefore, since his 
first accession to power, deputed a son called Mahamed 
Ali Gerad to act as Regent in his stead, and this was 
the man of whom the Warsingali spoke to me at 
Bunder Gori so disparagingly. 

21st — I was now preparing to start again west- 
ward, when an order came from the Abban to my men, 
that no property should accompany me, excepting 
what little I felt disposed to part with in presents to 
the Dulbahantas ; as an Akil, by name Husayn Hadji, 
the senior man present at Jid Ali, had decided, as a 
final measure, on seizing everything I brought with 
me immediately I set foot in Jid Ali. Though I had 
had experience enough of the Abban's tricks to see 
that this was merely a farce, though a very useless and 
inconvenient one, I permitted the arrangement rather 
than make a row and retard my progress, and set out 
with the young prince, Hamed, Farhan, and two camels 
and drivers, leaving Imam and the other nine camels, 
with their drivers, behind, to follow as soon as I should 
send back. 

At the western extremity of the valley we came upon 
a small mound of earth, all white and glistening, cov- 
ered with nitre in an efflorescent form, which shone so 
conspicuously in the sun, it could be seen at many 
miles' distance ; from the base of it a clear spring of 
water trickled, so disagreeable in taste that no one, save 



Dec] MULTIPLICATION OF DIFFICULTIES. 79 

Somali, could possibly drink it. Now, emerging from 
the low land, we again left the trees behind us, and 
rose by a well-beaten foot-track to the primary level 
of the country, where stone and bare ground prevailed. 
Each of these elevations and depressions was a mere 
reflection of the other, only varying more or less ac- 
cording to their size ; and as my line was directed due 
west, I always had the mountain-range at even dis- 
tance on the north, whilst every feature on the south 
remained the same. It was monotonous in the extreme. 
At the fifth mile we came upon some springs of bitter 
water, sunk in deep cavities in the earth, from which 
we filled our water-skins, and travelled on till night ; 
when, dark overtaking us, we slipped into a hollow in 
the ground, called Ali, cooked a little rice with the 
water we had brought, and slept it out till morning. 
Distance, thirteen miles. 

22d — As soon as the morning was well aired with 
the sun, and the black men had recovered from the 
torpor which the cold seemed to produce on them as 
it does on lizards and snakes, I struck out for Jid Ali, 
hoping to surprise the Abban, and thereby counteract, 
if possible, his various machinations. But this was 
not to be done. At the thirteenth mile, as we were 
descending in full view of Jid Ali, at a place called 
Birhamir, I was met by the Akil Husayn Hadji him- 
self, who, instead of showing any disposition to hinder 
my approach, was very affable and kind in manner. 
He politely begged me to remain where I was and rest 
the day, and on the morrow he would take me to the 



80 SOMALI COUNTRY. [1854. 

Tug (river) below. He had never felt indisposed to- 
wards me ; but one Galed Ali, an Akil superior to 
himself, was averse to my proceeding further. Unfor- 
tunately for the Somali, their lies are very transpar- 
ent, and they were too fond of uttering falsehoods ever 
to be trusted. I neither believed in the existence of 
Galed Ali, nor in his own kind intentions towards me, 
and therefore begged him to prove it by allowing me 
to pass. This began a long discussion. The wars 
were raging. The Dulbahantas would not let me see 
their country, as they could not see why an English- 
man should wish to travel where even beggars were 
afraid to go ; and then followed a hundred other ex- 
cuses, all of which I rejected as freely as he advanced 
them. 

Then at length, Somali fashion, the true meaning of 
his unwelcome visit transpired. He then said — "Well, 
if you have no fear of anything, and will join us in 
our fight, to represent your nation's disposition in our 
favour, I will give you as many horses as you may 
wish to have, and a free passage to Berbera, as soon as 
it is concluded." This was certainly a tempting offer, 
as I told him ; but I said, Although, as far as I was 
individually concerned, there was nothing which would 
please me better, still, being a servant of the Govern- 
ment, I could not represent anything they had not 
sanctioned ; and, moreover, I was bound to be at Ber- 
bera by a certain date, which I could not if I went 
southwards with them. They argued, There would be 
no delay in finishing the battles, if I merely showed 



Dec] THE WADI N0GAL. 81 

myself as a representative of the English, for the enemy 
would retire before a shot was fired, concluding that 
the opinion of the world was against them. They all 
declared the war had lasted so long, and had been so 
harassing, they wished ardently to put an end to it. 
I told them, in my opinion, it was all their own fault ; 
that they ought never to have commenced the war, for 
the chief they now recognised was a mere usurper — a 
traitor, in fact, who ought to be punished. 

The Abban s mother, Mrs Awado, of whom I knew 
nothing until now, and who was living at Birhamir, 
in a hut close by, then hastened towards us, joined 
our party, and interrupted the conversation by clap- 
ping her hands and beating her knees, exclaiming, 
in wild dismay and terrifying words, " Oh ! why 
have you come to this land, where there are no laws, 
or any respect for life ? You don't know what these 
people are youVe come amongst ! Come with me now 
to my place ; rest the night, and refresh yourself : to- 
morrow morning your Abban will come and conduct 
you safely on your way." This was a climax to the 
day's journey ; the men smelt grub in an instant, and 
hurried off with the old lady to some empty stone en- 
closures (sheepfolds), and at once unburdened and 
" lay-to " for the night. As before, I had many con- 
ferences about the The Wadi Nogal, which Lieu- 
tenant Burton had desired me to investigate, but could 
obtain no satisfactory information. They said there 
were many wadis in Nogal, but the largest one was in 
the Mijjertaine country, where its waters were deep 

F 



82 SOMALI COUNTRY. [1854. 

and large, with extensive forest around it, frequented 
by numerous herds of elephants. Those in advance of 
my line of march, on the road to Berbera, were all 
mere nullahs, like Yubbe Tug, or Jid Ali Tug, and were 
not used for agricultural purposes. However, in the 
southern Dulbahanta country, south by west of this, 
at a distance of five or six marches, there was a 
nullah, with many springs in it, which united in 
certain places, and became a running stream. This I 
now, from subsequent inquiries and inspection of 
Lieut. Cruttenden's map, 4 " suspect is the watercourse 
set down in my instructions as the Wadi Nogal. 
This watercourse, I was assured, bounded the Nogal 
or white stony country on the west, and divided it 
from the Haud or red stoneless country, which is occu- 
pied in most part by the southern Dulbahantas, who 
have "the finest grazing-grounds in the world, and 
possess incalculable numbers of camels and horses 
(meaning ponies), and cows, sheep, and goats ; whilst 
the game which roamed about there covered the 
ground like flocks of sheep/' Of these the largest 
were giraffes, rhinoceroses, and lions, elephants being 
confined to the Mijjertaine country, the Koolies hills 
to the south of Berbera, and the Webbe Shebeli, or 
Haines Eiver.t 

* Unfortunately, when sent on this mission, I was not furnished with 
a chart, and had never seen any works written on the subject. 

f For the advancement of future investigations, I would here notice 
the reported existence of a large reptile like the armadillo — probably a 
Manis — which the Somali think a very remarkable animal. It is said by 
them to be common in Haud, is very slow in motion, has a hard scaly 



Dec] OBSTRUCTIONS. 83 

23c?. — Early in the morning, accompanied by Hu- 
sayn Ali, who opposed me no longer, we commenced 
our descent to the valley of Jid Ali, an expansive flat 
several miles in breadth, fuller and better wooded in 
the north than any place I had yet seen, but tapering 
away to the south and eastwards, until it became lost 
to sight in the barren plateau. After marching a 
mile or so, we found the Abban hastening to meet us, 
in high dudgeon with my men for having advanced 
contrary to his mandates, before he had time to arrive 
and smooth the way ; for now the great impressive 
spell, his influence, which I was to understand could 
alone save me from the terrors of the unruly Dulba- 
hantas, was proved to me of secondary importance, 
and he, consequently, insignificant. This occasioned 
a little delay ; but at last, the Abban becoming recon- 
ciled to this defeat of his projected plans, we were 
permitted to resume the march, and, soon arriving in 
the bed of the valley, encamped near the watercourse 
of Jid Ali Tug, on the meridian of Mai. The water 
in the nullah extended upwards of half a mile, when 
it became absorbed in the thirsty soil. It consisted 
of a chain of pools, connected by little runnels, the 
produce of some bitter springs, and made the country 
green in consequence. Attracted by my dates and 
rice — for I had brought no other property save my 
specimen-boxes and ammunition — many of the Dul- 

exterior coating, invulnerable to their spears, and capable of supporting 
the weight of a man without any apparent inconvenience to the creature 
who bears it. 



84 SOMALI COUNTRY. [1854. 

bahantas forgot their occupations in war, and flocked 
around my camp all day and night, bothering my 
servants incessantly whilst cooking, and begging pre- 
sents from me every moment. I remained here three 
days, trying to negotiate with the head men for per- 
mission to advance, but obtained no practical result. 
They insisted, for even coming thus far, that I should 
give them as many cloths and material as I had given 
to the Warsingali, for they would take no less. When 
told all my worldly goods did not admit of such a 
payment, they quietly said, I had come there against 
their will ; they did not believe me ; and if I did not 
open my boxes to their inspection, they would smash 
them up and help themselves. This was an everyday 
occurrence, which became only insignificant, as it was 
repeated without being carried into execution. Most 
of the time the Abban was away, stopping at his home, 
and no business could be done. I therefore took short 
excursions about the valley shooting, and inspecting 
the various habitations. 

Animals were more abundant, in consequence of 
the greater extent of water ; and I shot gazelles, little 
saltiana antelopes, hares, Egyptian geese, rock-pigeons, 
ducks and teal, and snipe and partridge, besides a 
choice collection of small birds. In one place I 
found a small stone hut, occupied by an old man who 
had once been on a pilgrimage to Mecca, and had 
seen the art of cultivating ground. He was now turn- 
ing his experience to account by growing jowari (a 
species of millet), and effected it with some success ; 



Dec] SUPERSTITIONS. 85 

for he had two small enclosures, which he irrigated 
by cuts from the nullah, that produced grain, which 
grew from eight to nine feet high. He was loud in 
praise of the advantages which he derived from his 
farm, saying it saved his flocks, and assisted him in 
the means of food when his ewes were pregnant, or 
giving lamb. I patronised this farmer, and offered to 
lend him some tools for digging with, when he said he 
did not want that so much as some hints about sow- 
ing, and wished I would send a man to instruct him. 
Farhan, who was with me, delighted at the prospect 
of showing his skill in any manner — for he styled 
himself professor of all things — at once took the hint, 
and bargained to do a day's work, and furnish him 
with some wrinkles for his future guidance, for the 
payment of a goat, which was readily agreed to. 

The people here were highly superstitious, and, like 
all ignorant races, very punctilious in their ceremonies 
of worship. As true Mussulmans, they were constant 
in their time of prayer, and abused my interpreter for 
never saying his. When I made him cut the deer's 
throats a little lower down the throat than their 
canons permit, to save the specimen, they spat on 
the ground to show their contempt, and abused him 
heartily. If I threw date-stones in the fire (the seed 
of paradisiacal food), they looked upon it as a sacri- 
lege. They were also very suspicious. If I walked 
up and down the same place to stretch my legs, they 
formed councils of war on my motives, considering I 
must have some secret designs upon their country, or 



86 SOMALI COUNTRY. [1854. 

I would not do it, as no man in his senses could be 
guilty of working his legs unnecessarily. 

Considering all the northerners were said to have 
been driven up here by the war, I was much surprised 
to see so few habitations or flocks in the valley ; 
all there were consisted in a few kraals scattered 
over the plain, which were constantly moved as soon 
as each plot of ground in turn was eaten up by the 
cattle. In changing ground, these nomads pack up 
everything on their camels, mat and stick, hut and all, 
and placing the wife, with perhaps a baby also, on a 
donkey, march to any unoccupied watering-place they 
can find. Their food is very limited, except in the 
rainy season, when milk prevails : in consequence of 
this, it being now the dry season, my servants ac- 
counted for their increasing appetite for my dates. 
Some of the poorer men are said to pass their whole 
lives without tasting any flesh or grain, but to live en- 
tirely on sour milk, wild honey, or gums, as they may 
chance to come across them, and they are almost 
naked ; but notwithstanding this, disease is scarcely 
known, and excepting in a few cases of endemic oph- 
thalmia, which appears to attack the country periodi- 
cally, at intervals of two or three years, I never heard 
of any. The climate was very delightful at this sea- 
son, and the nights so cold I had to wrap myself well 
up in flannels. But perhaps that which best illustrates 
the healthiness of the country and pleasantness of its 
atmosphere, is the fact that I, although I had no bed- 
stead, but always slept on the ground, never pitched 



Dec] DULBAHANTA TRICKS. 87 

my tent a single day in the interior, and neither wore 
a hat or shoe throughout the journey, save on one or 
two occasions, when, severely stabbed with thorns, I 
put on a sandal. I never knew a moment's illness. 

25th. — This evening, Husayn Hadji, who I now 
found out was brother-in-law to Sumunter, approached 
me as I came in from shooting, and said, "We are 
surprised to see you return alive ; did you not meet 
some armed men when you were shooting ?" I re- 
plied, " No, not one." " Then," said he, " there are 
many men come here, who from the first have forbid 
your coming into this country ; they are under no 
control, but, in open defiance of the Gerad, do and act 
just as they like : indeed, every head man is a Gerad 
here, and those who are strongest carry the day." This 
was the prelude to another farce ; presently the men 
came of whom Husayn Hadji spoke, and, surrounding 
my camp, boisterously demanded to know what I was 
doing in their country against their orders. A violent 
altercation then ensued. They must have all my pro- 
perty given up at once, or they would take it by force ; 
and remained trying to bully me into compliance, 
until I said I would sooner die than give them any- 
thing. Seeing me determined, they then walked off, 
saying I had not one night left to live, for they would 
return and kill me after dark. The place was now 
getting too hot to be pleasant, for the fact was, we 
were so near the watering-place, that my camp offered 
a convenient and tempting lounge for all the idle 
blackguards of the country to assemble at. 



88 SOMALI COUNTRY. [1854. 

26th. — I sent orders back for the rear traps to come 
on as quick as possible, and at the suggestion of my 
servants, who were just as tired as myself of these in- 
cessant provocations, changed camp to a place three 
miles farther up the valley, much more remote from 
water, but nearer to the Abban's home, by which I 
hoped I should be able to get at him easier ; for the 
aggravating wretch, whenever I sent messages to recall 
him, invariably returned plausible excuses, showing 
the necessity of his having stopped away, and as 
repeatedly said he would not fail in coming im- 
mediately ; but at the same time, as the sequence 
showed, never intending to do so. 

It would be useless, as well as painful, to narrate in 
detail all the daily and hourly incidents which occur- 
red in the next few days whilst I was detained here by 
the artful and dishonest machinations of this vile-con- 
ditioned man, from whom I could never get one true 
word, and whose absence, although I was striving to 
induce his coming to me, really seemed a relief. A 
wicked feeling was almost coming over me, which 
made me shudder again when I reflected more calmly 
on what my mind was now dilating. He seemed to 
me only as an animal in satanical disguise ; to have 
shot him would have given me great relief, for I fairly 
despaired of ever producing any good effect upon his 
mind. Again I tried the old scheme of forcing him 
to leave me, and even begged an Akil of the Dulba- 
hantas, offering him large rewards, to be my guide to 
Berbera. This, as might be imagined, provoked a 



Dec] TRY TO GET RID OF SUMUNTER. 89 

severe row. The man I was endeavouring to seduce 
to favour me was one of the gang of forty thieves, and 
as birds of a feather all Dulbahantas nocked together 
to assist the victim of my displeasure ; for Sumunter 
was, by his intermarriage with these northerners, na- 
turalised amongst them. However, I had my wicked 
will, by relating, in presence of all his now rapidly 
congregating friends (a row always brings a crowd), 
the whole of his misdemeanours since he first came 
with me to this country, and threatened him with the 
lasting displeasure of our Government, and ruin to his 
trade at Aden, if he still persisted in his tricks. This 
brought matters home much closer than anybody liked 
to hear, and set all parties cogitating on what course 
had best be followed. I now retired to cool myself 
by shooting, and on returning again was met by the 
Abban, interpreter, and many Dulbahanta Akils, who, 
now trying the conciliating dodge, came to report the 
good news that a victory had been gained by the nor- 
therners, and the southerners were in full retreat to 
their provinces, by which the road to Berbera would 
be open to my proceeding onwards. Moreover, the 
rear traps had arrived at Abi, by which accident 
everything seemed to harmonise. This sounded very 
cheering for the moment, but I soon was damped 
again. 

I wanted to move at once, and lose no time in tak- 
ing full benefit of the opportunity thus offered ; but 
this, like every other proposal that I made, was imme- 
diately checked by a cruel device, as unforeseen as it 



90 SOMALI COUNTRY. [1854. 

was objectionable. Hassan bad not come witb tbe 
ponies he went after from Khut Tug; I must therefore, 
before advancing, send back to the farther frontier of 
the Warsingali to purchase, by bills on Aden, five 
ponies at thirty dollars a-head, to be afterwards given 
away in presents to chiefs on the road for allowing me 
to pass through their territories, and this, at a minimum 
calculation, would occupy a fortnight's time, and even 
then I should have to go single-handed, without a ser- 
vant, instrument, or article of any bulk with me. Of 
course this, as the Abb an knew, I never would consent 
to. On no account would I suffer my being separated 
from my men and property when the time for my re- 
turn to Berbera was so close at hand ; and, moreover, 
without the instruments the journey would be of no 
avail. Row succeeded row when I pushed matters 
closely; the Abban sometimes affected repentance, but 
more often became defiant, and forbade anybody's as- 
sisting me without his entire consent. Such, in fact, 
were the effects of these angry ebullitions of temper 
on the minds of my people, that the young Prince 
Abdullah, fearing to be witness to them any more, 
took his leave and departed home. 

31 st. — At length the rear traps arrived, but one 
camel, having been taken ill on the march this morn- 
ing whilst coming from Abi, was slaughtered to 
"save" his flesh, and devoured by my hungry men. 
As soon as everything had arrived, and the men were 
made aware of my intention to push forward, they 
requested their discharge, affecting fear to enter on a 



Dec] SUMUNTER's MOTHER. 91 

strange land, but in reality seeing I had no cloths left 
to pay them, as afterwards transpired. This defi- 
ciency I visited on the Abban, who, in trying to 
excuse himself for inefficiency in his protectorship, 
meekly said he had been grieved to see the very rapid 
decline of my property, but he could not help it, as 
I had so many thieves in my employment 1 ! ! Mrs 
Awado now came over from Birhamir, bringing a sheep 
and some ghee as a present for me; but I refused tak- 
ing anything from the relative of the Abban, and this 
appeared to grieve her much. She said she had 
heard of all my disputes with Sumunter, her son, and 
had remonstrated with him about them ; he was a 
proud man, and easily led away by vanity. She 
could see his being at variance with me would not 
end to his advantage on his return to Aden, and 
tried coaxing him to journey with me ; but at the 
same time told me he would have to be well upon his 
guard, as in former years he had married clandes- 
tinely with a damsel of the Eheer Hamaturwa, a sub- 
tribe of the Habr Gerhajis, who occupy the hill-range 
overlooking Bunder Heis ; and her loss to those people 
would be avenged at once, if he ever came within 
their power. The Eheer Hamaturwa had heard of 
my intention to journey westwards, and would be in 
readiness to descend upon and intercept our march, 
kill Sumunter, and destroy the whole of us ; indeed, 
they had sent messages to that effect. 



92 SOMALI COUNTRY. ¦ [1855. 



CHAPTER IV. 

MEDITATIONS AMONG THE TOMBS — A FRACAS — THE RETURN 
MARCH — THE NORTH-EAST MONSOON — RELIEF FROM PER- 
SECUTION — INTERESTING ANIMALS — GORI AGAIN — SHOOT- 
ING A WOMAN — ARRIVAL AT ADEN — FRESH PROJECTS — 
ARRANGEMENTS. 

3d January 1855. — During these three days I 
visited a ruined musjid and a cemetery, which, though 
much resembling the one at Rhut in every respect, 
was said to be of more recent origin, and built by 
Mohammedans. On my walking amongst the tombs, 
and inspecting the crosses * at their heads, the inter- 
preter rebuked me for sacrilegious motives, and de- 
sired me to come away, lest the Dulbahantas should 
find it out, and be angry with me. Besides this, I 
daily tried to draw Sumunter, like a badger, from his 
hut, which was four miles distant from my tent, but 
without effect. He and his wife, two dwarf sisters 
(little bits of things, who, the interpreter said, were too 
small to be of any use), and some children, all lived 
together in a small beehive hut, so low that they had 

* From the presence of these crosses, it would appear as though in 
ignorance they had adopted the emblem of their Christian predecessors. 



Jan.] A FRACAS. 93 

to crawl in on all-fours, and so small that it was mar- 
vellous how they could turn round in it. At length 
to-day he arrived in a sullen angry mood, and said, 
haughtily, he was displeased at my trying to force him 
into compliance, as if I had the power to make him 
move unless he chose. It was impossible to keep one's 
temper under such constant provocation ; so I abused 
him vehemently, and warned him off the camp, again 
repeating he had abused his commission, as well as the 
Government authorities who engaged him, — and en- 
treated he would "get away," and let me take my 
chance of proceeding how I could, for his presence 
simply made my position one of purgatory. He 
laughed in scorn, wishing to know if I thought I 
could do anything without him, — and said he had 
only to turn his back an instant, and the Dulbahantas 
were ready to devour me. I still persisted ; and then 
he said, " If you say go once more, I take you at your 
word ; and see you to the consequences." 

My resolution was fixed ; for I plainly saw I could 
not by any possibility be worse off. He now tried 
frightening me by assembling the Dulbahantas to con- 
firm his words, making them say they only permitted 
my residence there out of the love they bore to their 
brother Sumunter, and that they certainly would kill 
me if he once left the place. They did not fear guns. 
The English could not reach them ; besides, their 
fathers had driven Christians from these lands; and if 
an army was to attack them, they would assemble so 
many cavalry, and ride in such rapidity around them, 



94 SOMALI COUNTRY. [1855. 

that their gunners could not take aim in consequence 
of the clouds of dust which this feat would occasion. 
In addition to this, they thought the English only 
efficacious behind walls ; else, why did they not take 
revenge upon the Arabs at Lahej, two years ago, for 
the murder of an officer ? They had often heard of 
the English threatening and preparing to do it, but 
somehow they never carried their intention into execu- 
tion. I treated these vain bombastic words with the 
contempt which they deserved, — but said, I only 
wanted Sumunter to take me on, or otherwise to leave 
me to my fate. They then tried weakening my party 
by bribing Farhan to side with them and leave ; but 
the noble-hearted Seedi disclosed their treachery, and 
gallantly said he would share misfortunes with me, 
and fight, if necessary, to the last extremity. 

Imam, tame -hearted Indian, got in a dreadful 
fright, and implored I would compromise the matter ; 
for by this time all the camels had been driven away ; 
and the Warsingali moved off with Sumunter, saying 
I brought the rupture by my obstinacy on my own 
head, and that as soon as they were out of sight, the 
Dulbahantas would walk in and kill us all in a heap. 
I then loaded all the guns, and, giving one to each of 
the servants, sat on the boxes waiting to see the up- 
shot. I was clearly outmanoeuvred — unable to move 
or get anything — but still was, to use their own ex- 
pression, " obstinate." After proceeding a certain dis- 
tance, the retiring band, with Sumunter at their head, 
sitting fully equipped with spear and shield on his 



Jan.] A FRACAS. 95 

war-steed, came to a halt, and invited the interpreter 
to meet them, presuming, they said, there might be 
some mistake, and therefore they wished to open nego- 
tiations afresh. Sumunter then gave me back my own 
words, saying, "If the Sahib would only say he wished 
me to take him to Berbera, I will give some small pre- 
sents to the Akils of the Dulbahantas as a passport for 
him, and proceed at once ;" for they were only endea- 
vouring to feel my disposition towards them, and did 
not intend desertion, if I was not irredeemably in- 
censed against them. They then came back, and 
work began afresh, by the distribution of presents, 
which, as is usual when no man can bear to see the 
smallest trifle slip from his grasp to be given to an- 
other, was a matter of no small difficulty in adjusting. 
If the Dulbahantas did not succeed in skinning me of 
all my effects, they naturally thought the next tribe 
would ; and a whole day was consumed in wrangling 
and disputing how much they should get. This 
ended by my giving one musket, thirteen tobes, and 
my reserve silk turban ; and now I was at liberty to 
quit Jid Ali. 

11th. — At 10 a.m. we were loaded, and commenced 
the journey westward ; whilst the Abban said he 
would bid his friends adieu at home, and bring five 
horses with him to Biyn Hable, where he would meet 
us on the following day. The track led us across a 
flat alluvial plain, still in the valley, which was well 
covered with a thick growth of acacias, and dry short 
grass, nipped short by cattle. After walking five 



96 SOMALI COUNTRY. [1855. 

miles, we arrived at our destination, not far from a 
well, and made a ring-fence of prickly boughs. 

Here for the last time I boiled the thermometer, to 
ascertain the altitude of the plateau along my line of 
march, and found its average height was 3913 feet : 
the minimum, at Khut Tug, being 3077 feet — and the 
maximum, at Yubbe Tug, 4498 feet. 

The following day two Dulbahantas paid us a visit, 
and demanded to know by whose authority we had 
come upon their grounds ; we were trespassers, and 
must pay our footing. The ground was theirs, and 
they recognised no authority over them. What I had 
given at the last place was no concern of theirs, but I 
must give them also a quantity of cloth equivalent to 
it. This being refused as a preposterous imposition, 
they turned hastily away, and, tossing their heads, 
said, I might soon expect to see them again in larger 
numbers, when they would help themselves. More- 
over, for my satisfaction, they could assure me that a 
number of men, who had learned which road I was 
bent on travelling, were fast gathering on ahead, to 
oppose my advance. In the evening the Abban 
arrived, bringing only two ponies with him. 

17th. — It would be needless to recount all the varied 
incidents of the next five days which were wasted 
here, by the thousand and one stories which the 
Abban produced to fritter away my time near his 
home, and swindle me out of my property. The time 
had now arrived when by appointment I should have 
been at Berbera ; and as I was not then aware at what 



Jan.] INTERRUPTIONS AGAIN. 97 

time the fair usually broke up, I felt much afraid of 
being too late to join my companions. Sometimes 
Sumunter raised my hopes by saying he would cer- 
tainly proceed on a certain date ; and when that day 
arrived, the journey was deferred again, but not with- 
out severe rows, so exactly like the past ones as to 
be unworthy of description. One day we were ready, 
and I was to pass through any people that might fall 
in the way by giving large credits on Aden under his 
security, when the tide was turned again in another 
moment by the arrival of some accomplices, who 
dropped in like unexpected evils, to say the southern 
Dulbahantas had gained a great victory, slaughtering 
men and cattle, and the road to Berbera would be 
thronged with people, so that advance would be im- 
possible for the present. This was a settler to my 
westward march ; and now I thought of escaping 
from this land of robbers by turning northwards, and 
marching over the hills to Bunder Heis, where I could 
either ship off, or march along the coast to Berbera. 

Negotiations were then set on foot with the Eheer 
Hamaturwa, and several of their Akils came at my 
bidding, but were as implacable about obliging a 
stranger as any of their neighbours. The whole dis- 
tance was not three days' travel ; still they said I 
should not see their country, and acknowledged them- 
selves a lawless band, who would take everything from 
me if I ventured there : adding, if the Warsingali 
and Dulbahantas, who were stronger than themselves, 
would only withdraw from me one day, they would 

G 



98 SOMALI COUNTRY. [1855. 

come down at once, and demolish my whole camp. 
They then demanded cloths for the trouble I had given 
them, but, not receiving any, retired in huge disgust. 

18^. — In final despair I faced about, and marched 
north-easterly, by a new route, to reach Bunder Gori 
again, to ship for Aden, as there only could I be cer- 
tain of finding a vessel to convey me over the Gulf. 
After six miles' march across the head of the valley, 
we arrived at Mirhicldo Kraal, on elevated ground, 
and found a large party assembled there. Some of 
them were the Rheer Hamaturwa, with whom I tried 
again for permission to cross their hills, but this time 
by the gap at the head of the valley in front of Bun- 
der Jedid. This they were ready to permit, and give 
security of passage to my people, if I gave them all 
my remaining cloths ; but they thought I should not 
find a vessel there, which settled the question. I had 
no time to lose, and, moreover, should save my cloths 
by continuing on the line I was travelling. For 
though I should have to cross the hills where they 
were occupied by the Habr Gerhajis, in the new way 
my track would pass so near to the Warsingali fron- 
tier, that that tribe would not have strength enough 
to demand anything from me, and passport fees are 
only given in such places to the extent to which they 
can be enforced. 

The other people I met here were some Dulbahantas 
arming for the fight. They said they were 4000 strong 
in cavalry, and were slaughtering sheep wholesale for 
provision on the road. Each man carried a junk of 



Jan.] THE RETURN. 99 

flesh, a skin of water, and a little hay, and was then 
ready for a long campaign, for they were not soft like 
the English (their general boast), who must have their 
daily food ; they were hardy enough to work without 
eating ten days in succession, if the emergency required 
it. Here a second camel was on the point of dying, 
when his flesh was saved from becoming carrion by a 
knife being passed across his throat. 

21 st. — The Abban slipped away on the 19th, when 
I was out specimen -hunting, and would not come 
again till to-day, and then even returned to give his 
wife a last salute, permitting me to advance to a water- 
course called Hanfallal, whilst he would join me on 
the following day. This day we accomplished ten 
miles, and made a kraal about four miles north of our 
old line of march. 

22d. — As the Abban did not keep his promise, and 
none of us knew the road, I now tried to prevail on 
his mother Awado, who was tending her flocks close 
by, to be my guide, which she readily consented to do, 
as she was anxious herself to go to Bunder Gori. The 
water found here was in a circular cleft of limestone, 
sixty feet below the surface, which was so small, only 
one person at a time could descend to it ; and the 
supply was so limited, I was obliged to keep my men 
down there all night, to be the first for drawing in the 
morning. Gazelles were very abundant, and in the 
evening we were visited by a very singular-looking 
canine animal, which unfortunately I could not get a 
shot at. It was a little less in size than the Crocuta 



100 SOMALI COUNTRY. [1855. 

hyena, but inclined rather more, in its general shape, 
to a wolf than a hyena. The body was a pure black, 
like the black Tibet wolf, but the tail was tipped with 
white. I am not aware that this animal has ever been 
described. 

23d. — At the usual starting-hour the Abban arrived, 
with two ponies belonging to his brother-in-law, 
Husayn Ali, but which he tried to pass off as his own, 
being ever very anxious to make me believe he was 
a large stock proprietor, to magnify his importance. 
But, unfortunately for him, the interpreter, who was 
as treacherous a man as any of the breed, although he 
often confounded me by his innate deceit, also peached 
at times upon his brother Sumunter. The Abban, on 
seeing his mother equipped and ready on her donkey 
to go with me, scolded her heartily for presuming to 
undertake the journey without his leave, and sent her 
home faster than she came. We now commenced the 
march, and travelled five miles diagonally across some 
low spurs of hills, and encamped in the evening in a 
broad, deep, dry nullah, at a place called Dalmalle. 
We brought water with us, and fortunate it was so, 
for none could be found anywhere near the camp. 

2ith. — We started early in the morning, ascending 
the hill-range by a steep winding footpath up one of 
its ridges, which, in respect to its barrenness and soil, 
resembled the descent I had from Yafir. After com- 
pleting eleven miles' march, the caravan crested the 
hill opposite Kas* Galweni, travelled a short way on 

* Ras means point or headland. 



Jan.] A ROW WITH THE URUS SAGE. 101 

the flat of the summit, and encamped in the evening 
amongst some thick jungle on its north or seaward 
side, at a kraal called Gobamire. 

Immediately on arriving, as we commenced to un- 
load the camels, a number of men who were occupy- 
ing that district — the Urus Sage section of the Habr 
Gerhajis tribe — seized the camels by their heads, and 
demanded their customary fees, at the same time bois- 
terously gesticulating that they would help themselves 
if their request was not complied with. Farhan en- 
joyed the row in the boisterous characteristic manner 
of a Seedi — began dancing frantically the negro war- 
dance, cocking his gun, and pointing it at everybody 
by turns; whilst Sumunter and the other Warsingali 
began thumping them with their clubs, and swearing 
a fearful vengeance would be wrought upon them by 
their tribe, who were living within an hour or two's 
call, should they not desist. The fact was, my men 
knew their power here, and, guided only by animal 
passions, enjoyed showing it. The poor discomfited 
Urus Sage now slunk off like defeated dogs, or school- 
boys returning from a fight, just wishing to know if 
they were only to be considered in the light of women, 
who could not maintain their own right, and, snarling 
and snapping, threatened they would return again in 
stronger force before the morning. 

We then unloaded, and lay -to for the night. Im- 
mediately on reaching the top of this range, a most 
interesting and novel sight was presented to our view. 
We stepped in one instant from constant sunshine 



102 SOMALI COUNTRY. [1855. 

into constant clouds, and saw what accounted for the 
dense verdure of the north, as well as the extreme 
barrenness of the south side of the hills. For two 
months we had not seen the vestige of a cloud, or felt 
a drop of rain, and now we were at once launched into 
the middle of the "Dairti" or north-east monsoon, 
which had been pouring for some time previously 
against the north face of the mountain, and was arrested 
there by it. It reminded me at once of that marked 
phenomenon with which all travellers in the Himalaya 
Mountains, who spend their " hot- weather " season at 
Chini, on the banks of the Sutlege river, to escape rain, 
must be acquainted, when the clouds of the great 
Indian monsoon envelop all the mountain-range for 
months together on the weather or south-west side, 
and hang suspended on the top of a high hill in sight 
of that place, but never pass over, looking as if the 
mountain was too high to be surmounted by them, 
when trying to reach the dry plateaux of Tibet. The 
clouds were rolling in thick successive volumes at our 
feet, and obscured the view below us. 

25th. — We were detained until noon in consequence 
of the Abban's ponies, which had gone astray, and until 
then could not be found. In the meanwhile the Urus 
Sage came again, and tried to prevent us loading, on 
the same plea as yesterday, but without effect ; but 
when we were starting, a compromise was effected on 
condition they would escort us down the hill and guide 
the way. The road was steep and very slippery, so 
that the camels could hardly get along, and this was 



Jan.] LADY'S FUMIGATIONS. 103 

further increased by the thick strong green jungle- 
bushes, as well as rocks and other difficulties incidental 
to mountain travelling with such large and ungainly 
animals as laden camels. At the fourth mile we 
found a large roomy cave under a rock, and put up for 
the night. Sheep had been kept here, and the place 
was so full of fleas that the ground was literally 
browned with them. I never saw such an astonishing 
quantity congregated in one place ; but we soon dis- 
posed of them by burning certain boughs, which the 
Somali justly said was a specific remedy against 
them. 

26 th and 27th. — During these two days we descend- 
ed by a tortuous winding footpath under no mean dif- 
ficulties, and finally arrived, after twelve miles' march- 
ing, at a place called Hundurgal, situated in the hollow 
of a watercourse which divides the Warsingali from 
the Habr Gerhajis frontiers, and transmits its waters 
to the Gulf at Eas Galweni. During the journey the 
Somali pointed out some of their richest gum-trees, 
of which the finest in order is a species of frankincense, 
called by them Falafala, or Luban Maiti. The gum 
of this tree is especially valued by the Somali women 
for fumigating purposes, which they apply to their 
bodies by sitting over it, when ignited, in the same 
manner as Cashmeres sit over their little charcoal-pots 
to keep themselves warm when resting on their travels. 
They enshroud themselves in a large wrapper, place a 
pot with the burning gum between their legs, and 
allow the perfume to rise to every portion of their 



104 SOMALI COUNTRY. [1855. 

body simultaneously. We gave our guides five cloths 
for escort, and sent them away. 

I was informed by my men that under lee of Kas 
Galweni there is a better harbour than any on the 
whole coast-line, having deep water close in to the 
shore, but, being neutral ground, the Warsingali will 
not allow anybody to occupy it. They do not allow 
the Habr Gerhajis to do so, as they would monopolise 
the trade ; and they will not take it themselves, as 
their sultan sagely remarks it would draw all their 
force to one side of their possessions, and thus leave 
the other exposed to attack from the Mijjertaines. 
Now the Dulbahantas are obliged to come to Bunder 
Gori if they want to traffic with outer nations, but 
were the Habr Gerhajis at Galweni, this custom would 
be drawn from them. 

28^. — The inexpressible delight I felt at snuffing 
the fresh sea-air, and being comparatively free from the 
tyranny of my persecutor Sumunter, was truly inde- 
scribable ; and I felt so impatient to end this useless 
journey, and join my friends for the larger and more 
promising one, I could hardly restrain my spirits. I 
stepped out before the caravan was ready, and began 
the journey alone, when presently a rapid fire, the dis- 
charge of a six-barrel revolver, attracted my attention. 
This was done by the Abban, who said that whilst tra- 
velling there his life was in jeopardy from the Habr 
Gerhajis, in consequence of an old feud he had con- 
tracted with them, on account of which they had for- 
bidden this road to him. He thought to frighten them 



Jan.] AN INTERESTING EAT. 105 

by the report of firearms, but it seemed to have the 
opposite effect, for many men at once gathered around 
the caravan, and for the time prevented its onward 
course. As usual, they wanted me not only to pay for 
travelling in their country, but to liquidate their claim 
on the Abban, as I had brought him there, and only 
out of consideration for the respect they felt towards 
me, they permitted his passage in safety. 

They might as well have tried to skin a flint as ob- 
tain anything from me, and I told them so, for Su- 
munter had fleeced me of all my effects. This parley 
concluded, we travelled on without any further moles- 
tation, and, crossing over the foot of some low spurs, 
arrived at noon in a broad watercourse on the maritime 
plain to eat some breakfast. 

Here I shot and stuffed a very interesting rat, with 
a bushy tail, very much resembling the little gilleri 
squirrel of the Indian plains, but plumper in face and 
body, like a recently born rabbit. I had seen many of 
them in rocks about the hill's side, but until now had 
not secured a good specimen. 4 ' 7 Again at this place I 
saw those large black canine animals with white-tipped 
tail, but could not get a shot : there were three hunt- 
ing together, like jungle dogs in India. After refresh- 
ing ourselves we resumed the march, and travelled 
along the sandy shore eastward to a halting-place called 
Farjeh, completing a march of twelve miles. 

* This interesting little animal has since been compared by Mr 
Blyth, curator of the Asiatic Society, Calcutta, and determined to be a 
new genus, and was named by him Pectinator Spelcei. 



106 SOMALI COUNTRY. [1855. 

29th. — This day we completed our journey by 
marching into Gori, when I again took occupation of 
the old fort. An answer from the Government at Aden 
to my appeal against the sultan and Abban had now 
arrived, and affected Sumunter severely. He was 
ready to sink into the earth, and said to me, " Oh, why 
did you not whip me when I was in fault ? I could 
have borne that well, but writing to the English at 
Aden is more than I can bear. What will be the con- 
sequences now if I return to Aden?" I said I could 
not answer for it, as it was now beyond my control, 
and if he went over there he must take his chance ; 
but I strongly advised his not going at all. " Indeed," 
I said, " I wish you would depart from me at once. 
From the first, I told you I was obliged, by order, to 
write accurate accounts of everything as it happened, 
and the English, as you have often said yourself, are 
remarkable for not telling lies." The sultan, into 
whose hands the letter first went, would not show 
himself, but remained in the distant jungles, although 
I sent repeatedly for him to converse concerning Su- 
munter. 

The buggalow in which I came from Aden was now 
anchored in Bunder Gori. It had made a voyage 
somewhere in the meanwhile, but the captain had been 
afraid to go to Aden in consequence of the salt question, 
in which Sumunter had made him confederate, fearing 
lest I might have since written to the authorities there 
about it. However, I now wanted to hire it again, 
and made sundry overtures to the captain, who at first 



Jan.] ' SHOOTING A WOMAN. 107 

showed a disposition to treat, hoping thereby I should 
forgive him ; but he was finally hindered from doing 
so by the insidious machinations of Sumunter, who 
doubtless was afraid by this means of collecting at 
Aden more witnesses against himself. Sumunter now 
saw his position clearly, and must have felt equally 
with myself it was a great pity the letter of reproof 
from the Brigadier of Aden* did not arrive sooner, and 
keep him on a course of rectitude, for he was obliged 
to return to Aden and take his chance, as there he 
had not only a wife and family, but it was the head- 
quarters of all his mercantile transactions. During 
this time, whilst I was in the old fort, an odd accident 
occurred to an Akil's wife. She was playing with my 
interpreter, who, for a frolic, snatched up one of my six- 
barrelled revolver pistols and gave her chase. Sud- 
denly she darted into the room I was sitting in, bounced 
on a bench and. poked her tail in my man's face. He, 
not knowing the pistol was loaded, pulled at the trigger, 
and discharged the contents of two barrels at once into 
her fleshy projection. In an instant their fun came to 
an end, and great consternation ensued. She thought 
she must die from it, and bolted off home to give up 
the ghost. Her husband now came and clamoured for 
revenge — her value was so-and-so, and my man must 
pay it. The interpreter, hearing this, came crying to 
me, and wished to know if I thought she would die ; 
for should she do so, he, by the laws of the land, would 
have to pay her price. I said I could not tell without 

* Then changed to Colonel Coghlan. 



108 SOMALI COUNTRY. [1855. 

seeing her wounds, but, under any circumstances, the 
bullets ought to be extracted. This appeared to them 
still more alarming than ever. They did not wish me 
to inspect the wounds, and the woman herself was very 
bashful. However, the Sahib was the only surgeon 
present, and votes gave me the practice. It was cer- 
tainly very amusing to witness the struggle between 
virtue and necessity, and the operation was so far satis- 
factory that I succeeded in extracting one of the balls. 
The other ball, however, was so deeply imbedded I 
could not find a probe that would reach it. Fortunately 
it was not fired in a dangerous direction, and the ball 
being small, I thought it would not occasion her any 
serious inconvenience. In short, I set their minds easy 
on that score, though it did not keep their tongues 
quiet from importunate begging. I was now dreadfully 
impatient to get away, but day by day I had to suffer 
disappointment. I was assured by Sumunter he was 
doing everything in his power to facilitate it, and as 
often told by the interpreter, when he had gone away, 
that he was doing nothing of the sort, but, on the con- 
trary, had sent to the interior to get three ponies, 
which would make five with what he had, the comple- 
ment required by Lieutenant Burton, to make a present 
to him on arrival, as a bribe to overlook his faults. I 
besought he would desist from this hopeless speculation, 
as time was now more precious than any other matter. 
Still he persisted, and in a fortnight's time the animals 
arrived, and then, without further trouble, we chartered 
a vessel for thirty-five dollars, twelve times the fare I 



Feb.] ARRIVAL AT ADEN. 109 

paid for coming over, with, the whole vessel to myself ; 
and embarked with eight camels and five ponies on the 
15th February 1855. After five days' sailing we 
anchored in Aden harbour, and no sooner did the 
" let go the anchor " sound, than, Somali fashion, over- 
joyed at my release from three and a half months' 
persecution, I took a header into the sea, and hastily 
swam ashore to hurry off and meet old friends. 

After the first greetings were over, and I had de- 
livered for report all my sketch-notes* of the journey, 
as well as maps and collections, which latter were sent 
to the public museum in Calcutta, a discussion took 
place as to the disposal of the Abban, who, I now found 
out, was not singular in the way of treating his clients, 
for Heme had been writing over complaints constantly 
about his man. I was averse to punishing him, from 
the simple fact of having brought him over ; but my 
commandant thought otherwise, and that he had better 
be punished, if for no other reason than to set a good 
moral example to the others.! 

Against my inclination I was appointed to be Su- 
munter's prosecutor, and with my servants as witnesses, 
a verdict of guilty was speedily effected against him in 
the Aden Police Court. He was then sentenced to 
two months' imprisonment, and to pay the sum of 200 
rupees, or, failing to do that within the given time, he 

* These notes were reported in an Appendix in the ' First Footsteps 
in East Africa,' by Lieutenant Burton, with his other reports of this 
expedition. 

t To say the least of it, this was a very dangerous policy to play with 
a people who consider might right, and revenge to death. 



110 SOMALI COUNTRY. [1855. 

would be further subjected to imprisonment, with 
hard labour, for six months more, and was to be 
banished with his family for ever after the present 
punishment should cease. 

I now advised Lieutenant Burton, after my late 
defeat in travelling, that it would be highly essential 
to the success of the great expedition that we should 
be escorted by some Somali picked from the Aden 
police force, as by this means alone should we have men 
on whom we could depend. He also was aware of this 
fact, from having been successfully taken himself into 
Harar by one of that corps ; but, unfortunately for us, 
there were none to spare. 

Though the Somali are rare blackguards in most 
respects, there are some traits in their character which 
have always won me to them. They love freedom and 
liberty, and enjoy a jolly row, added to which they are 
always in good spirits. In my humble opinion, they 
would make first-rate guerilla soldiers for Aden, if 
armed and trained to shoot with good rifles, and not 
restrained to wearing any particular clothes, or confined 
to steady-marching drills. They have a national anti- 
pathy to the Arabs, their elder brothers, and would 
glory in having scrimmages with them. 

This was the climax of my first proceedings with 
Africa. 

Stroyan and Heme were now both employed at 
Berbera or in its vicinity. The former had been 
making slight excursions inland, shooting, and had 
killed three elephants ; whilst the latter was purchas- 



Feb.] FRESH PROJECTS. Ill 

ing baggage-cattle for the expedition transport. After 
enjoying a short repose in civilised life, I again felt 
restless, and proposed a move to proceed thither in 
order to assist Heme in completing the desired comple- 
ment of animals. This at once met the views of our 
commandant, who, doubting whether Berbera could 
supply a sufficient number of beasts of burden of 
itself, asked me to cross over the Gulf and see what I 
could do at Kurrum, to keep in communication with 
Heme, and as soon as I had got enough, to march with 
them along the sea-shore to Berbera. 

Nothing could have suited me better. I saw before 
me, by this measure, active employment until the 
breaking-up of the Berbera fair. 

A kind friend (Lieutenant Dansey of the Bombay 
army, late Assistant Political Agent of Aden, who 
knew the characters of all the Somali well) offered to 
procure me a man as guide and interpreter who had 
formerly performed, during the time of his appoint- 
ment, some political service in the Somali country, 
with great credit both to his mission and himself. In 
consequence of this he was nicknamed El Balyuz, or 
the Ambassador. 

Balyuz was a clever Hindostani scholar, and, as I 
ultimately found, possessed such honesty of purpose 
and straightforwardness of character, as rendered him 
a perfect rara avis amongst all Somali. He was of 
the Mijjertaine tribe. Travelling in his company, 
after my experiences with Sumunter and Ahmed, 
was verily a luxury. I parted with him at the 



112 SOMALI COUNTRY. [1855. 

termination of the expedition with pure feelings of 
affection. 

Lieutenant Burton now conceived the idea of sup- 
pressing the system of Abbanship, thinking that, as the 
Somali had access to Aden without any impost, Eng- 
lishmen ought to enjoy a corresponding freedom to 
travel in Somali Land. This perhaps was scarcely 
the right time to dictate a policy which would be 
distasteful as well as injurious (in a monetary sense) 
to the people among whom we were about to travel, 
and with whom it was highly essential to our interest 
to be on the most friendly terms.* 

I now applied to the Government for some Somali 
policemen, but unfortunately there were then too few 
hands present to carry on the duties of the office, and 
I could not have them. I therefore engaged, by the 
orders of Lieutenant Burton, a dozen men of various 
races (Egyptians, Nubians, Arabs, and Seedis), to form 
an escort, and armed them with my sabres and muskets. 
They were all raw recruits, and unaccustomed to war- 

* Since this was written I have asked Lieutenant-Colonel Playfair 
his opinion on this matter, and the subjoined is the reply: — "In this 
Lieutenant Burton erred ; and this was the termina causa of all the 
mishaps which befell the expedition. The institution of Abbanage is 
of great antiquity, and is the representative amongst a barbarous people 
of our customs laws, inasmuch as every trader or traveller pays to his 
Abban a certain percentage on the merchandise he buys or sells, and 
even on the food he purchases for his own use. 

"A traveller who hopes for success in exploring a new country must 
accept the institutions he finds in existence ; he can hardly hope, by his 
simple Jiat, to revolutionise the time-honoured and most profitable insti- 
tutions of a people, amongst whom precedent is a law as unchangeable 
as that of the Medes and Persians." 



March.] ARRANGEMENTS. J 13 

fare. Still we could get no others. With a little 
practice they learned to shoot at a mark with tolerable 
accuracy. 

Seven of these men, together with the eight camels 
I brought across from Bunder Gori, were despatched 
direct to Berbera, whilst the remaining five, and some 
ponies I purchased in Aden, remained with me. I 
then took a bag of dollars for purchasing camels ; some 
dates and rice for the consumption of the party ; and 
with the Balyuz and the old servants, Imam the butler 
and Farhan the gamekeeper, all was ready for my 
second adventure on the 20th March 1855. 



H 



114 SOMALI COUNTRY. [1855. 



CHAPTER V. 

ADEN — DEPARTURE — KURRUM— A CONCLAVE OF SAGES — AR- 
RANGEMENT OF THE EXPEDITION — THE SOUTH-WEST MON- 
SOON—MEDICAL PRACTICE — THE CAMP BESIEGED — WOUNDED 
AND CAPTIVE — A TRIUMPHAL PROCESSION — FLIGHT— RETURN 
TO ADEN AND TO ENGLAND — PROJECTS. 

2lst March 1855. — Having engaged a buggalow 
and stowed away all the traps, I embarked in the 
evening, weighed anchor, and set sail. Even before 
we could sail out of the harbour, the first row com- 
menced. The Nakhoda (captain), as is often the case 
in these primitive countries, kept no regular sailors, 
but trusted to finding men desirous of going to their 
country, who would work his vessel for him — all 
Somali being by nature sailors. 

The men he had now on board were of the Habr 
Gerhajis and Habr Teljala tribes, who occupy the 
coast-line near Kurrum, and had waited the oppor- 
tunity of obtaining a passage over there in company 
with me. They were all dreadfully uproarious, and 
would not by any persuasion on my part keep quiet. 
On inquiring from the Balyuz the cause of their vio- 
lent discussions, he informed me they were drawing 



March.] CAMEL-DEALING. 115 

lots to see who should be my Abban, and those of the 
seven foreign servants I had with me. The bare idea of 
eight Abbans was too ridiculous, and their persistency 
made it beyond a joke. I instantly ordered the sails 
* to be hauled down, and had my instructions from 
Lieutenant Burton about Abbans proclaimed to the 
whole crew : that the Balyuz was my Eas Cafila, and 
the other foreigners my protectors. The Somali were 
evidently determined not to be done. If I had been 
allowed to have but one Abban with me, this could 
not have occurred. As it was, I said if they deter- 
mined on wrangling any more, I should 'bout ship 
and settle the difference with them in a less cere- 
monious manner in the harbour. This effectually 
stopped their tongues, and we again proceeded on the 
journey. After two entire days' sailing across the 
Gulf with variable and gentle breezes, we arrived at 
our destination, Kurrum, in safety, on the third even- 
ing, the 24th March, and at once sent some Govern- 
ment letters to the Akils, ordering their attendance, 
and to proclaim publicly the nature of my business, in 
order that camels might be brought for sale. I found 
all the people extremely obliging ; they tried to make 
my residence as comfortable as they could ; showed 
me great deference because I was an Englishman, and 
brought their camels readily, though, of course, as 
might be expected, they were canny in their mode of 
dealing, trying to dispose of their worst animals first, 
and asking prices much above the market tariff. For 
poor animals they asked from four to five and a half 



116 SOMALI COUNTRY. [1855. 

dollars, which, though not a third of the price I paid 
in the Warsingali country, was full price for the finest 
animals at Berbera. Berbera during the fair time is 
undoubtedly the cheapest place to purchase camels in 
of all the coast-line, and the farther you leave it the 
more expensive animals become, increasing in price at 
the same ratio as the extent of distance. Whilst halt- 
ing here I heard of the existence of the Victoria N'yanza. 
The Somali described its dimensions as equal in 
extent to the Gulf of Aden, and further alluded to 
its being navigated by white men. None of the men 
present had been there to see it, though it was cur- 
rently known as a positive fact amongst them. I did 
not believe the story in the light they expressed it, 
supposing they confounded an inland sea with the 
Western or Atlantic Ocean. Colonel Rigby, H.B.M. 
Consul at Zanzibar, tells me he also heard of this lake 
when he was travelling in this country some years 
previously. It is strange this story was never pub- 
lished earlier. The white navigators alluded to are 
evidently the expeditionists who were sent by Me- 
hemet Ali, Viceroy of Egypt, up the White Nile as 
far as Gondokoro, about twelve or fourteen years ago, 
and the Nile and lake have been confounded as one 
water in the transmission of the intelligence, though 
both were seen. 

The minds of the Kurrum people seemed greatly 
discomposed about various rumours which they heard. 
One was that the English intended to suppress the 
slave-trade, and they wished me to tell them if such 



March.] A SOMALI VILLAGE. 117 

was not a fact — saying it would be unjust for us to do 
so, as slaving was an acknowledged right given them 
in the Koran, and handed down by their Eussool 
Mahamed. 

The other bugbear which alarmed them was a re- 
port that the English intended either to take posses- 
sion of Berbera, or that they would give it to Sher- 
marky — a native chief and ally of ours who lives at 
Zeylah. In short, these numerous fears arose from 
Hemes long residence at Berbera. It looked suspi- 
cious seeing him take notes there of everything, and 
they naturally put the worst interpretation on all his 
actions. What could be the use of his watching the 
trade, if our Government did not want to take the 
country? — of watching the slave-trade, if it did not 
mean stopping it? And then the suppression of 
Abbanships was the crowning of all. 

The village of Kurrum consisted of a single fort and 
a large collection of mat huts, all grouped together, 
situated close to the shore. The maritime plain 
consisted of sandy -brown soil, very uninteresting, 
with scarcely any vegetation growing on it, and was 
here only about half a mile broad. The hills in 
the background were very insignificant, not half so 
high as any I had seen, and were dull and brown, 
like those one sees when travelling down the Eed Sea. 
The people say that in their recesses and ravines acacias 
and other gum-trees grow as they do elsewhere. Gum 
only exudes in the dry hot season ; and the confined 
air in the ravines is described as being so hot that 



118 SOMALI COUNTRY. [1855. 

people can hardly stay there, and many of the gum- 
pickers who do, become deaf in consequence of it. 

The water which the villagers used was so brackish 
as to be hardly drinkable. I lived here five days, 
enjoying sour camel's milk, gossiping with the natives, 
and roaming about the place. The difference between 
the life I was now living, attributable principally to 
the sagacity and good-heartedness of the Balyuz, was a 
charming contrast to my wretched existence when with 
the Warsingali. I bought twenty-five camels, at an 
average rate of five and a half dollars a-head, and then 
stopped purchasing, as I heard by letter from Heme 
he had then got nearly sufficient for our requirements 
— that camels were very plentiful at Berbera, and he 
was buying them at a cheaper rate than I could. 

On the 29th March, at 4 p.m., I broke ground with 
all my camels and ponies, and commenced the march 
on Berbera. At sundown, after travelling three miles 
along the sea-shore, we encamped in a water-course 
called Goldera. The water we found here, in a little 
well in its bed, was deliciously sweet — so pleasant 
after the brackish Kurrum wells. No one who had not 
been deprived for a long time of the pure element, can 
conceive the greed with which a man first plunges 
his head into clear sweet water. It is the natural fluid 
for man, and for no other beverage does abstinence 
produce so keen an appetite. 

The following morning, a little after daybreak, the 
caravan was ready, and we soon got under way. 
Travelling with tedious slowness, aggravated by the 



March.] THE MARITIME PLAIN. 119 

dreary monotony of the road and the sandy plain, con- 
stantly crossing dry, shallow watercourses, lined on 
both sides by fringes of stunted acacias or other sal- 
solacious plants, we at last arrived at a hot spring 
of sweet water, called Golamiro, and rested here for 
several hours during the great heat of the mid-day 
sun. When the day became cooler we resumed the 
march, and travelled until after dark to a grazing- 
ground one mile short of Ain Tarad, and there spent 
the night. The farther we travelled westwards, the 
broader became the maritime plain, and the richer its 
clothing of shrubs and grass. Besides the ordinary 
acacias, which were finer and more numerous, there 
were many patches of the bastard cypress and tall 
rank grasses growing on sandy hillocks, in the same 
way as they do in India. The Somali exultingly 
pointed this out as a paradise, replete with every 
necessary for life's enjoyment, and begged to know if 
the ^English had any country pastures like it, where 
camels and sheep can roam about the whole year 
round without exhausting it. 

31 st. — To-day we made a short march, passing 
through Ain Tarad, and encamping on a grazing- 
ground one mile to its westward. The village, as 
usual, was close to the shore, for the convenience of 
shipping. It is not half the size of Kurrum, but 
boasts of a fort of recent construction, with six rusty 
pieces of cannon lying on the sand in front of it. An 
Akil, named Abdie, being chief of the place, is the 
lordly proprietor of these instruments of defence. 



120 SOMALI COUNTRY. [1855. 

On first entering the place he advanced to receive me, 
and politely said, " Had you not dropped so suddenly 
in upon me this morning, it was my intention to have 
welcomed you with a royal salute, for the honour you 
have done, as the representative of the English, in 
paying me this visit." This speech, though showing 
what his feelings were towards me, was obviously a 
matter of simple palaver; for, in the first place, the 
guns could not have possibly been fired without 
occasioning their total destruction ; and it was doubt- 
ful if he possessed any powder. Whilst sitting in his 
village, and drinking a bowl of sour curd — the first 
thing always offered to a visitor — I observed a group 
of old men sitting, in hot discussion on some knotty 
point, under the lee of the fort, and desired the Bal- 
yuz to ascertain the purport of the arguments under 
debate, as by their gesticulations I could plainly see 
it had some connection with my coming here. 

After joining them and listening some time, he re- 
turned to say they were discussing the possibility of 
our expedition ever reaching the Webbe (Kiver) She- 
beli ; to go as far as Ugahden, they thought, was out 
of the question. Hearing this, I went up to them, 
and asked what reasons they had for thinking so. 
They replied openly that the Somali would stop us 
before we got half-way. The Balyuz then interposed, 
saying, " But the British are strong, and can do any- 
thing they like." Hearing this, they laughingly 
replied, " If the Somali came down to fight, and then 
ran away back into the fastnesses of their hills, what 



March.] A CONCLAVE. 121 

would the English do then, who cannot live a day 
without drinking beer and eating meat ? whereas the 
Somali can do very well without anything, seldom 
requiring even water, and not more than one morsel 
of meat, for a whole week together." I concluded the 
argument by saying, " Without any exertion on our 
parts, we could cripple you at once ; we have the sea- 
board in our hands, and at any moment could stop 
your trade, so that neither grain nor clothing would 
ever be supplied you ; besides, if we wished, we could 
take quiet occupation of your hills and watering- 
places, and then what would become of you ? " The 
sages mildly shook their heads, and said the English 
were indeed Shaitans (devils), and that they had never 
looked at their position in that light before. I then 
repaired to the camp, and found the cattle, as usual, 
gone out to graze, under charge of their drivers and 
two soldiers. In the evening, when the animals were 
brought home to be picketed, one pony and one camel 
were found wanting. 

I sent men immediately to track the missing ones 
down, when it was discovered by footprints that 
some savages had singled them out from the herd, 
had driven them gently into a deep ravine, and 
when there out of sight had hurried them off to the 
hills lying beyond the plain. This open plunder on 
the coast, where British authority seemed to prevail, 
was monstrous. I summoned Abdie, as chief of the 
place, told him the whole story, and demanded that 
he should produce the missing animals immediately, 



122 SOMALI COUNTRY. [1855. 

as it was impossible for him not to be cognisant of 
the transaction. He said he did not then know who 
had stolen them, but I might rest satisfied he would 
find out by the morning, and they should be returned 
intact. He assured me he was lord of all he surveyed, 
and his power was infinite within the limits of his 
clan. The same night he brought back the pony, and 
said he would produce the camel in the morning. I 
believed he had played this trick himself to show the 
effect of his power, and so did the Balyuz ; but he 
said he had been obliged to pay ten dollars to the 
thief before he would give it up. I now demanded he 
would produce the thief for trial, suspecting that thief 
to be himself, but he said he could not. This reply 
made the Balyuz knowingly cock his eye. The next 
day, as the camel did not come by noon, I wrote a 
letter to Aden reporting the circumstance, and beg- 
ging some retribution would be taken from the Akil, as 
it was obvious to any man who knows these savages, 
that Abdie could not have been ignorant of one single 
feature in the whole of these transactions. Though 
the loss was small, I did not think it of little import- 
ance, as it remained a precedent, if overlooked, for the 
committal of greater deeds ; and the place, being a 
port, was open to the exaction by blockade of any 
fines — which, without doubt, is the true way to make 
Somali feel. 

During that day and the succeeding one we tra- 
velled along the coast to Siyareh, a small dilapidated 



April.] BERBERA. 123 

fort,* standing alone without any other habitation, as 
if only intended for a traveller's lodge. Near it was 
an old well, said to be of antique construction, sunk 
by the former occupants of the land. As we increased 
our distance westwards, the maritime plain also en- 
larged, and was bounded to the southwards by small 
irregularly-disposed hills, all brown and dreary-look- 
ing as before. To judge from the quantity of vegeta- 
tion, it would appear that water is nearer the surface 
here than elsewhere, though there was none of any 
importance to be seen. These few marches, slight as 
they were, served to prove the stamina of the soldiers, 
and showed the Seedis to have twice the heart and 
bottom of the Egyptians, who succumbed at once to 
the influences of the sun and fatigue of marching. 

3d April. — The caravan broke ground at 2 a.m., 
and, after travelling over much the same ground as 
yesterday, nearly the whole day long without pass- 
ing a single habitation, arrived in the evening at 
Berbera. Here I was warmly met by my com- 
panions, Heme and Stroyan, and began again a social 
life of great enjoyment. Berbera was in the plenitude 

* Siyareh, a fort and small village belonging to the Makahil branch 
of the Habr Awel, is the watering-place of Berbera, and derives a small 
revenue from the boats which touch there en route to, and returning 
from, the Berbera fair. During this year it attained an unenviable 
notoriety as the rendezvous for the slaves intended for export to the 
Persian Gulf. Many of these were free Somali girls, sold by their 
relatives or kidnapped by their friends. Colonel Playfair wrote to me 
that one hundred and forty boys and girls were rescued here in the early 
part of this year by H. M. S. Lady Canning. 



124 SOMALI COUNTRY. [1855. 

of its prosperity. Its market was full of life and 
bustle,' and the harbour was full of native Oriental 
craft. Our camp was pitched on a little rise in the 
land, facing the east and overlooking the fair. Our 
tents, three in number, were formed in line — Stroyan's 
on the right, Heme's in the centre, and mine on the 
left flank nearest the sea, and each about a dozen 
yards apart. Heme had procured his fair share of 
animals, and we mustered from forty to fifty camels 
and six or seven ponies and mules, including those I 
brought. These at night-time were all tethered in 
front of our tents, and guarded by a sentry. During 
the day they were always sent out to graze under an 
escort of soldiers, with Somali archers to look after 
them. The boxes, pack-saddles, and grain were placed 
between the central tent and mine, whilst the dates 
and more precious cloths I kept underneath my tent. 
Including ourselves, servants, guards, and camel-ten- 
ders, we mustered in all about forty souls ; amongst 
these were the two Abbans of Heme and Stroyan, 
who, now matters had gone so far, could not prudently 
be dispensed with ; but my man, the Balyuz, was con- 
sidered chief, or Eas Cafila. 

During the four days succeeding my arrival I in- 
spected the fair and shipping. The marketplace was 
supposed to contain upwards of 60,000 people,"' 5 " Ban- 
yans from Cutch and Aden, Arab merchants and 
Somali, who had been gradually flocking in from 
about the 15th November; and as they arrived they 

* Colonel Playfair thinks 20,000 men nearer the right number. 



April.] BERBERA. 125 

erected mat huts as booths for carrying on their bar- 
tering trade. According to Heme's investigations, 
the Somali took coarse cloths, such as American and 
English sheeting, black and indigo-dyed stuffs, and 
cotton nets (worn by married women generally to 
encase their hair), small bars of iron and steel, as well 
as zinc and lead, beads of various sorts, and dates 
and rice. In exchange for these, they exported slaves, 
cattle, gums of all sorts, ghee, ivory, ostrich-feathers, 
and rhinoceros- horns. 

7 th. — At sunrise this morning a very interesting 
scene took place in the arrival of the great annual 
Harar caravan, — a large body, composed of an aggre- 
gate of numerous small caravans, which all march to- 
gether that their combined strength may give mutual 
support. Down the whole breadth of the plain, like a 
busy stream of ants, they came in single file, one 
camel's nose tied to his leader's tail. Immediately on 
their flanks were Somali, armed with spear and bow, 
the men who tended them and looked after the load- 
ing. Outside them again were occasional detachments 
of men riding ponies, all armed, and guarding the 
caravan from sudden surprise or attack. In this cara- 
van alone there were about three thousand people, as 
many head of cattle, and 500 or more slaves, all driven 
chained together for sale in the market. A little later 
the same morning a second excitement enlivened our 
little camp in the approach of a man-of-war, which 
came sailing up the coast in full sail, looking like a 
giant swan in contrast to the little ducks of native 



126 SOMALI COUNTRY. [1855. 

shipping. It was the Hon. East India Company's 
schooner Mahi, commanded by Lieutenant King, con- 
veying our Captain, Lieutenant Burton, and the com- 
plement of the expedition. Arrived in the harbour, 
we saluted them with our small-arms, and went on 
board to pay respects and exchange congratulations. 
King then gave us a hospitable entertainment, and we 
all repaired on shore. 

The same evening a thundering salute from the 
Mahi was fired, to assure the Somali we were travel- 
ling under the auspices of the British Government, 
and King departed with his vessel. 

Lieutenant Burton now took occupation of the cen- 
tre tent with Heme, and the party was complete. 

We were then severally appointed to our respective 
duties, Lieutenant Burton commanding ; Stroyan chief 
surveyor ; Heme, photographer, geologist, and assist- 
ant-surveyor ; whilst I was to be a Jack-of-all-trades, 
assisting everybody, looking after the . interests of the 
men, portioning out their rations, setting the guards, 
and collecting specimens of natural history in all its 
branches. The central tent was fixed as a place of 
rendezvous for all to flock to in case of any sudden 
alarm. Here I appended my guns and sword, whilst 
my revolver-pistol and dirk were placed within my 
belt by day, or under my pillow by night. I made 
the whole guard sleep with their arms in rear of the 
camp, where it was most likely any attack might be 
expected. As so many men were necessarily brought 
on duty by watching the cattle grazing in the day- 



April.] BEKBERA. 127 

time, I only posted two sentries by night to watch the 
camp — one with the guard in the rear, the other over 
the cattle in front ; whilst we Englishmen and the 
Balyuz occasionally patrolled the camp to see that the 
sentries were on the alert. 

9 th. — On this day the Gugi, or south-west Somali 
monsoon, in opposition to the Dairti, or north-east 
monsoon, commenced in the hills behind our camp, 
and warned us that we should soon have to start 
southwards. The fair had already begun to break. 
Caravan after caravan streamed out of the town, 
wending their way across the plain like strings of ants 
emerging from a hole, and, like the busy habits of those 
little insects, kept the whole maritime plain alive in 
motion. At this time we were daily expecting a ves- 
sel from Aden, which would bring us some letters and 
instruments that were on their way out from England, 
and saw the great Ugahden caravan preparing to leave, 
but were undecided what to do — whether to go with 
them without our things from England, or wait and 
rely upon our strength in travelling alone. The latter 
alternative was unfortunately decided upon, and we 
saw our wonted protector depart upon its journey. 

1 5 th. — Saw the shore and harbour, alike both desti- 
tute of any living thing, save a few diseased and dying 
cattle, and one poor forlorn girl, in whom the small- 
pox had begun to show its symptoms, and who was 
now mercilessly left by her parents, with only two or 
three days' provisions, to die like a dog on the inhos- 
pitable plain. Having suffered from that disease my- 



128 SOMALI COUNTRY. [1855. 

self, and not fearing contagion, I went to her and ad- 
ministered some medicine, which she took without any 
hesitation ; and I hoped to cure her, for she was really, 
barring the blackness, a very pretty creature, but the 
disease was beyond my skill to relieve. I then took 
her to a room in the tomb of an Arab sheikh, gave her 
some rice-water, and bade her keep out of the sun, but 
it was no use. She took fright at the idea of living 
with the dead, and wandered into the desert no one 
knows whither, and was seen no more. So completely 
was Berbera cleared out now, that even the matting 
and sticks which formed the booths, with two or three 
exceptions, were packed on the camels and carried 
away. We were now alone, and nobody came near 
us ; our two Abbans had begged and obtained permis- 
sion to go with their families to their homes in the 
hills close by, in company with the retiring caravans, 
leaving their sons for the time being, as substitutes, 
until we marched past their abodes. 

In this isolated position we felt no alarm for our 
safety, as long at least as we remained upon the sea- 
shore, deeming the Somali would never be so imprudent 
as to attack us in such a vital place to them as Berbera, 
where their whole interests of life were centred, and 
where, by the simple process of blockading, we could so 
easily take retribution in any way we liked. 

So confident were we in this assumption, that we 
did not take the precaution of standing sentry our- 
selves at night, thinking it more prudent to nurse our 
strength whilst here, to be better able to hold out 



April.] TREACHERY. 129 

when it would become necessary after our leaving the 
sea-shore. 

Though Somali are cunning as foxes, they are not 
wise. 

On the 18th April, by a providential coincidence, a 
small Arab vessel came into the deserted harbour to 
see if anything still remained of the fair. In her there 
were several men and four women, Somali, desirous 
of going to their homes. Finding we were the only 
people left, and not daring to travel in that country 
alone, they petitioned us to take them with us. It 
was hard to refuse these poor creatures ; but fearing 
our supply of dates and rice would not hold out with 
so many additional mouths to eat it, we reluctantly 
refused the men. The four women, however, on their 
engaging to do the minor offices of the camp, to bring 
water, and lead the camels, were permitted to remain 
with us. That evening we invited the captain and his 
crew to dine in the camp ; and it was fortunate that 
we did so, as the sequel will show. Shortly after sun- 
down, as we were all sitting in our usual way, on an 
extempore divan in front of the tents, drinking cof- 
fee, telling stories, and enjoying the cool sea evening 
breezes, a challenge was heard by the sentinel placed 
on the rear right of the camp, followed by a sudden 
and rapid discharge of musketry, which took us by 
surprise. I had previously given strict orders that no 
ammunition was to be wasted in firing to frighten, or 
giving false alarms ; therefore, hearing this, I instantly 
ran to the spot to see what was the matter, and found 

l 



130 SOMALI COUNTRY. [1855. 

three men walking quietly into camp, leading ponies 
by their reins, whilst the guard, to intimidate them, 
were firing bullets in the air immediately over their 
heads. My anger knew no bounds. All hopes of 
security seemed annihilated by such direct disobedi- 
ence to all order, and persistence in such a false prin- 
ciple as trying to frighten, which all black men, by a 
sort of natural instinct, invariably endeavour to do. 
I then assembled the men, and in presence of the 
intruders again proclaimed through the Balyuz my 
intention to punish with severity any person who 
might create a false alarm or fire a bullet vacantly 
in the air; directing that, in case of any opposition to 
a challenge, they should fire into, and not over, their 
object. 

I then sent the Balyuz and the three newly-arrived 
men round to the front of the camp, where Lieutenant 
Burton and the other two officers were sitting, to be 
interrogated as to the purpose of their visit. We all 
at first naturally suspected them of being spies sent to 
inspect our dispositions and resources ; but after a long 
palaver with Lieutenant Burton, he concluded that 
their coming there was accidental, and not designed. 
True to their nature as Easterns, who from constant 
practice can forge lies with far greater facility to them- 
selves than they can speak simple truths, bringing in 
with the readiest aptitude the application of immediate 
circumstances to harmonise appropriately in the de- 
velopment of their tale, these men at once made use 
of the circumstance of the arrival of the vessel that 



April.] TREACHERY. 131 

evening, saying they merely came down to ascertain 
if the ship was not full of building material, as it was 
currently reported amongst their clan, the Habr Owel, 
that their old enemy, Shermarkey, the chief of Zeylah, 
was lying with other vessels in the port of Siyareh, 
waiting an opportunity to land at Berbera and take 
occupation of the place by building forts, as he had 
done on previous occasions. This story seemed the 
more probable from the fact that everybody knew 
Shermarkey wished to have the place, and that he 
would at any time have taken it, had it lain within 
his power to do so. 

The more to impose on our credulity, they further 
asked, with an air of indignation, " How could you 
suspect us of any treacherous intentions towards you, 
when you know us to be men of the same tribe as 
your Abbans ? " The palaver over, these wolves in 
sheep's clothing were allowed to sup on dates with our 
men, and depart at their pleasure. 

At the usual hour we all turned in to sleep, and 
silence reigned throughout the camp. A little after 
midnight, probably at one or two A. m., there suddenly 
arose a furious noise, as though the world were coming 
to end : there was a terrible rush and hurry, then came 
sticks and stones, flying as thick as hail, followed by 
a rapid discharge of firearms, and my tent shook as 
if it would come down. I bounced out of bed, with 
pistol and dirk in hand, and ran across to the central 
tent to know what was the matter, and if we were 
to have any shooting. Lieutenant Burton, who was 



132 SOMALI COUNTRY. [1855. 

occupied in trying to load his revolver, replied there 
was : * " Be sharp, and arm to defend the camp." This 
I immediately did, stepping out in front of his tent; 
but though I saw many dusky forms before me, it was 
too dark to discern whether they were friend or foe. 

Whilst standing, in hesitation how to act, stones 
kept whizzing over and around me, and I received a 
blow with one in the inside of my knee, which nearly 
knocked my leg from under me ; it came from the left, 
where I had not been looking. I then ran under lee 
of the fly of the tent to take a better survey, and, by 
stooping low, could perceive the heads of some men 
peeping like monkeys over the boxes. Lieutenant Bur- 
ton now said, " Don t step back, or they will think we 
are retiring." Chagrined by this rebuke at my manage- 
ment in fighting, and imagining by the remark I was 
expected to defend the camp, I stepped boldly to the 
front, and fired at close quarters into the first man 
before me. He was stooping to get a sight of my 
figure in relief against the sky; he fell back at the 
discharge, and I saw no more of him. Proceeding on, 
I saw some more men also stooping; I fired into the 
foremost, and he likewise fell back, but I do not know 
that I hit him. I then fired into a third man at close 
quarters, who also receded, possibly uninjured, though 

* I must here notice, although I have endeavoured to stick as closely 
as possible to the narration of my own story in these pages, that I saw 
Heme, who had been guarding the rear, opposed to the whole brunt of 
the attack, fighting gallantly with his sable antagonists ; and from the 
resolution with which he fired at them, he must have done some 
damage. 



April.] THE ATTACK. 133 

I cannot say. I was now close to the brink of the 
rising-ground, entirely surrounded by men, when I 
placed the muzzle of the Dean & Adams against the 
breast of the largest man before me, and pulled the 
trigger, but pulled in vain; the cylinder would not 
rotate; I imagine a cap had got jammed by the trig- 
ger-guard. In a fit of desperation, I was raising the 
revolver to hit the man in the face with it, when I 
suddenly found my legs powerless to support me, and 
I was falling, grasping for support, and gasping for 
breath, I did not then know why, though afterwards I 
discovered it was caused by the shock of a heavy blow 
on the lungs. 

In another instant I was on the ground with a dozen 
Somali on the top of me. The man I had endeavoured 
to shoot wrenched the pistol out of my hand, and the 
way the scoundrel handled me sent a creeping shudder 
all over me. I felt as if my hair stood on end; and, 
not knowing who my opponents were, I feared that 
they belonged to a tribe called Eesa, who are notorious, 
not only for their ferocity in fighting, but for the un- 
manly mutilations they delight in. Indescribable was 
my relief when I found that my most dreadful fears 
were without foundation. The men were in reality 
feeling whether, after an Arab fashion, I was carrying 
a dagger between my legs, to rip up a foe after his 
victim was supposed to be powerless. Finding me 
naked, all but a few rags, they tied my hands behind 
my back, and began speaking to me in Arabic. Not 
knowing a word of that language, I spoke in broken 



134 SOMALI COUNTRY. [1855. 

Somali, and heard them say they had not killed any 
of the English, and would not kill me. 

The man I had last endeavoured to kill was evidently 
the captain of the gang; he now made me rise, and, 
holding the other end of the rope to which my hands 
were attached, led me round to the rear of the camp, 
taking great precaution not to bring me in contact 
with many men at once, fearing lest they might take 
the law into their own hands, and despatch me against 
his will and authority. Arrived on the interior or 
rear side of the camp, men kept flocking round me, 
and showed a hasty anxiety to stab their spears into 
me; all, doubtless, were anxious for the honour of 
drawing the white man's blood, but none, in my cap- 
tor's presence, dared do it. 

I was now becoming very weak and faint, and 
almost unable to breathe; for the fact was, when I 
was knocked down, it was done with such violence by 
a shillelah on the lung breast, my whole frame was 
stunned by it, so that I could not feel; but now a 
swelling had set in, which, with the tightness of the 
skin drawn over the chest, by my hands being tied 
behind, nearly prevented respiration. I begged my 
captor to untie my hands and fasten them in front. 
He obligingly did so. I then asked for a little water 
and something to lie down upon ; they were both sup- 
plied. Feeling myself somewhat revived, I began a 
rambling conversation with my captor, who sat by my 
side still holding the string, when several other men 
came and joined in the talk. They began a mocking 



April.] AUTHOR IN CAPTIVITY. 135 

tirade in their own language, of which I understood 
but little and could answer less; when an Aden 
donkey-boy (judging from his appearance) came with 
a jeering, sarcastic sneer, and asked me, in Hindustani, 
what business I had in their country, and where I had 
intended going, adding, were I a good Mohammedan 
like themselves, they would not touch me, but being 
a Christian I should be killed. This ridiculous farce 
excited my risible faculties, and provoked a laugh, 
when I replied, Our intentions were simply travelling ; 
we wished to see the country of Ugahden, and pass 
on to Zanzibar. I was a Christian, and invited them, 
if it must be so, to despatch their work at once. On 
the donkey-boy's communicating this to the bystanders, 
they all broke into a rude boisterous laugh, spun upon 
their heels, and went off to open out the property. 
Nothing as yet had been taken away. Several wounded 
men were now brought and placed in a line before me ; 
they groaned, and rolled, and stretched their limbs, as 
though they were in agonies of pain, and incessantly 
called for water, which was readily supplied them. In 
the rear I heard the sound of murmuring voices, the 
breaking of boxes, and ripping of bales of cloth, as 
though a band of robbers were stealthily dividing 
their unlawfully-gotten spoils in silence and fear of 
detection. 

Just then the day began to dawn, and the light 
increased sufficiently to disclose what had been done. 
The tents were down, the property was lying in order 
on the ground, the camels and ponies were still picketed 



136 SOMALI COUNTRY. [1855. 

in their places, and all the robbers were standing look- 
ing on. At this juncture my captor and protector 
gave his end of my string over to the care of another 
man of very mean aspect, ordering him to look after 
me, and see that nobody came to injure me, whilst he 
retired in the direction of the property, and, selecting 
two fine stalwart men of equal proportions with him- 
self, came again in front of me ; then linking arms, and 
sloping spears over their shoulders, they commenced a 
slow martial march, keeping time by singing a solemn 
well-regulated tune, in deep, full, stentorian voices, 
until they completed the full circuit of the camp, and 
arrived again in front of me. This, I imagine, was 
their " Conquering hero comes," the song of victory. 
It was well sung, and had a very imposing effect, 
greatly increased by the dead silence which reigned in 
every other quarter. I felt quite sorry when this act 
was over, and would willingly have had it encored. 
From the orderly manner and regularity with which 
everything was done, I judge this to be a fair sample 
of the manner in which all plundering parties are con- 
ducted. The song and march were no sooner at an 
end than the whole ground became a scene of busy, 
active life. Every man, save the one who was hold- 
ing my string, rushed in a regular scramble upon the 
property, and, like a legion of devils, began tearing 
and pulling at everything in promiscuous confusion, 
to see who could carry most away. Some darted at 
the camels and began pulling them along, others seized 
the ponies and began decamping; others, again, caught 



April.] FEROCIOUS MELEE. 137 

up the cloths, or dates, or rice, or anything they could 
lay hands on, and endeavoured to carry them off. But 
this was not so easy; there were too many men to be 
all satisfied, and those who had least began wrangling 
with their more fortunate competitors, who, on their 
part, not wishing to relinquish anything they had 
obtained, forcibly contested for their rights. 

A more complete and ferocious melee I never wit- 
nessed. The whole ground was a scene of pull devil, 
pull baker, and victory to the stronger. As one man, 
hurrying along, was trailing his cloth behind, another 
rushed at it and pulled him back ; clubs were unspar- 
ingly used, and destruction threatened with spears ; 
what would not easily succumb to pulling, was sepa- 
rated with stabs of the spears or cuts of their knives. 
The camels and ponies were not more easily disposed 
of; by snatching from one hand and snatching from 
another, they were constantly in different people's 
hands. It was a scene very like that of an Indian 
poultry-yard, when some entrails are thrown amongst 
the chickens, and every fowl tries to rob the other. 

Whilst all were intent with deep earnestness in this 
scramble, an alarm was suddenly given that another 
party were coming down the hills to fight and rob 
them of their spoils. The disordered band were in- 
stantly panic-stricken; for a moment or two there was 
the deadest silence; and then everybody, save some 
forty or fifty men who were probably more experienced 
hands, burst across the plain, flying in long jumps, 
and hurrying with all their might towards the hills. 



138 SOMALI COUNTRY. [1855. 

I heard afterwards it was not an unusual practice in 
this land of robbers for one party to get up an attack 
upon a caravan, and then another one, getting wind of 
their design, to project a plan of despoiling them as 
soon as they shall be in such a disconcerted melee that 
they would not be able to act in concert to support 
one another. 

Whilst they were away, three fine-looking men came, 
with some of our soldiers' sabres ; and one, standing 
over me, threatened, with ferocious determination in 
his countenance, to cut me in two. Twice he lifted 
his sword above his head, and brought it down with 
violence to within an inch or two of my side, and each 
time withdrew it, as if suddenly repenting of his pur- 
pose. I stared him earnestly in the face, but neither 
flinched nor uttered any noise. They then left me, 
and went to join the other forty thieves. I conceive 
this demonstration was made with a view of testing 
my pluck, and had I cried or implored for mercy, I 
should inevitably have been killed upon the spot. The 
last and worst scene in this tragedy was now to be 
performed. 

My jailer, who was still holding the string, stepped 
up close to me, and coolly stabbed me with his spear. 
I then raised my body a little in defence, when he 
knocked me down by jobbing his spear violently on 
my shoulder, almost cutting the jugular arteries. I 
rose again as he poised his spear, and caught the 
next prod, which was intended for my heart, on the 
back of one of my shackled hands ; this gouged the 



April.] THE LAST TRAGEDY. 139 

flesh up to the bone. The cruel villain now stepped 
back a pace or two, to get me off my guard, and dashed 
his spear down to the bone of my left thigh. I seized 
it violently with both my hands, and would not re- 
linquish the gripe until he drew a shillelah from his 
girdle, and gave me such a violent blow on my left 
arm, I thought the bone was broken, and the spear fell 
helplessly from my hands. Finding his spear too 
blunt for running me through by a simple job when 
standing still, he now dropped the rope-end, walked 
back a dozen paces, and, rushing on me with savage 
fury, plunged his spear through the thick part of my 
right thigh into the ground, passing it between the 
thigh-bone and large sinew below. 

With the action of lightning, seeing that death was 
inevitable if I remained lying there a moment longer, 
I sprang upon my legs, and gave the miscreant such a 
sharp back-hander in the face with my double-bound 
fists that he lost his presence of mind, and gave me a 
moment's opportunity to run away; which, by the 
Lord, I lost no time in doing, taking very good care, 
by holding my hands on one side, not to allow the 
dangling rope to trip me up. I was almost naked, 
and quite bare upon the feet, but I ran over the shingly 
beach towards the sea like wildfire. The man followed 
me a little way, but, finding I had the foot of him, 
threw his spear like a javelin, but did not strike me, 
for I bobbed, and allowed it to pass safely over my 
head ; he then gave up the chase. Still I had at least 
forty more men to pass through, who were scattered 



140 SOMALI COUNTRY. [1855. 

all about the place, looking for what property they 
could pick up, before I could get safe away. These 
men, seeing the chase, all tried to cut off my retreat. 

However, I dodged them all by turns, running fast 
across them, and bobbing as they threw their spears 
after me, until I reached the shore, when I had the 
satisfaction of seeing the last man give up the pursuit 
and leave me to myself. I was now fast fainting from 
loss of blood, and sat gently on a mound of sand, 
picked the knots which bound my hands open with my 
teeth, and exposed my breast to the genial influences 
of the refreshing sea-breeze, which at sunrise, as this 
was, is indescribably pleasant. But what a gloomy 
prospect was now before me ! ! I was growing weaker 
every minute ; my limbs were beginning to stiffen 
and the muscles to contract, and I thought there was 
no help probably nearer than Ain Tarad ; what was 
to be done ? I could not travel the distance, and I 
must perish miserably by slow degrees, from starvation 
and exhaustion, in the dreary desert; far better, thought 
I, had the spear done its worst, and no lingering would 
have followed. Whilst reflecting in this strain, my 
eyes, wistfully gazing on the few remaining huts of 
Berbera, lit upon some female figures beckoning to 
me, but I could not divine who they were, or what was 
their meaning. 

I rose as a last hope, and hobbled towards them, for 
my right leg was nearly crooked up double, and was 
so weak it could not support the weight of my body 
but for an instant at a time. Drawing nearer, I dis- 



April.] MIRACULOUS ESCAPE. 141 

covered them to be the four women whom we the 
evening before permitted to join our camp. Just then 
I saw some men hurrying from the eastward along the 
shore, endeavouring to meet me. 

These, I soon perceived, were the old Balyuz and 
several of our servants. As soon as they arrived, they 
told me all that had happened. Immediately on the 
outbreak, the soldiers fired their guns, and all but one 
or two at once departed. Stroyan, he supposed, was 
killed at the outset ; Lieutenants Burton and Heme 
had run away with him immediately after I left the 
central tent to fight. The former had been speared in 
the face, the latter had been much bruised with war- 
clubs, and some of our men had received severe sword- 
cuts. After escaping from the fight, Heme took refuge 
in the empty huts of Berbera, and at daybreak sent a 
servant to detain the Ain Tarad vessel, which had so 
providentially come in the previous evening. My com- 
panions were then on board of her, and had sent the 
Balyuz with the men to search for me, and pick up 
anything they could find. 

I was now carried to the vessel, and stretched upon 
the poop in safety, and felt more truly thankful for 
this miraculous escape than words can tell. It is only 
after a deliverance of this kind one fully values or can 
properly appreciate the gift of life. My companions 
seemed downcast and full of sorrow for the sad mis- 
fortune which had so disastrously terminated our long- 
cherished hopes, and had deprived us so prematurely 
of an old and valued friend, especially dear to me, as 



142 SOMALI COUNTRY. [1855. 

he was a thorough sportsman. For courage, daring, 
and enterprise, as well as good-fellowship, there never 
lived a man more worthy of esteem than poor Stroyan. 

Lieutenant Burton had sent a boat's crew off to 
near the site of our camp, a distance of three miles, to 
fetch away anything that might remain there, and 
bring it to us. They found the place deserted, with 
only such things left as the Somali could make no use 
of, and were too cumbersome to carry away; such, for 
instance, as grain, boxes, books, and various scienti- 
fic instruments, which, after being wantonly injured, 
were left scattered on the ground. It appeared, by 
accounts brought back, that many of the men who ran 
off at the first false alarm never ventured back again 
to help themselves from the spoils. They had now 
destroyed about £1500 worth of property, but had 
enriched themselves but very little, for, whilst fight- 
ing, they had destroyed in the scramble nearly every- 
thing of any worth to themselves. When the boat's 
crew returned with Stroyan's body, it was found to 
be too late to sail that evening. 

During the time of waiting, a poor man, with no 
covering on his body, crawled up to the vessel, and 
implored the captain, in the name of Allah — the fakir's 
mode of begging — to give him a passage to Aden. 
His prayer was answered, and he came on board. He 
was a Mussulman, born in Cashmere, and had been 
wandering about the world in the capacity of a fakir ; 
but was now, through hunger and starvation, reduced 
to a mere skeleton of skin and bones. His stomach 



April.] A FAKIR FROM CASHMERE. 143 

was so completely doubled inwards, it was surprising 
the vital spark remained within him. On being asked 
to recite his history, he said, "I was born t in the 
1 happy valley ' of Cashmere ; but reduced circumstan- 
ces led me to leave my native land. When wandering 
alone in some woods one day, I had a visitation, which 
induced me to turn devotee, and wander about the 
world to visit all places of pilgrimage, carrying only a 
bottle and a bag, and ask charity in the name of God, 
who supplies the world with everything, and takes 
compassion on the destitute. At first I travelled in 
India, visiting its shrines and temples, and then deter- 
mined on crossing the sea to see what other countries 
were like. Taking passage at Bombay, I first went to 
Muskat in Southern Arabia, and thence travelled over- 
land to Aden, begging all the way, and receiving kind 
hospitality wherever I spent the night. In Aden I 
remained a while, and by constant begging accumu- 
lated sufficient property to purchase food for a con- 
siderable time, when I again set out, in the name of 
Allah, to see what the Somali Land was like. At 
first I went across to Kurrum, and lived there as long 
as my little stock held out, but I could get no assist- 
ance from the people of the place. The stock ex- 
hausted, I was spurned from every door. At last, 
despairing of obtaining anything on the coast, I 
ventured to see what the interior would produce, but 
I found the Somali everywhere the same ; they were 
mere hywans (animals), with whom no human beings 
could live. A man might travel in Arabia or any 



144 SOMALI COUNTRY. [1855. 

other place in the world, but in the Somali Land no 
one could exist. Finding myself reduced to the last 
stages of life, for no one would give me food, I went 
to a pool of water in a ravine amongst the hills, and 
for the last fortnight have been living there on water 
and the gums of trees. Seeing I was about to die, as 
a forlorn hope I ventured in this direction, without 
knowing whither I was going, or where I should come 
to ; but God, you see, has brought me safely out." 

20th. — This morning we weighed anchor, and in 
two days more arrived in Aden. 

Thus then ended my first expedition, — a signal 
failure from inexperience, and with a loss of £510 
worth of my own private property, which I never 
recovered. I had nothing to show but eleven artificial 
holes in my body. Had we gone straight from Aden, 
without any nervous preliminary fuss, and joined the 
Ugahden caravan at Berbera just as it was starting, I 
feel convinced we should have succeeded ; for that is 
the only way, without great force, or giving yourself 
up to the protection of a powerful chief, that any one 
could travel in Somali Land. Firearms are useful in 
the day, but the Somali despise them at night, and 
consequently always take advantage of darkness to 
attack. Small-shot and smooth-bore guns, on this 
account, would be of far greater advantage as a means 
of defence than rifles with balls; and nothing but 
shot well poured in would have saved us from this 
last attack. We have been often condemned for not 
putting on more sentries to watch ; but had the whole 



Apeil.] AUTHOR CRIPPLED. 145 

camp been in a state of ordinary preparation for war, 
with such cowardly hearts as our men all had, we 
should have been as signally defeated. We now set 
sail from Berbera, all highly disgusted with our defeat ; 
and at Lieutenant Burton's request, we said we would 
go with him again if the Government would allow it. 
On arriving in Aden, I was a miserable-looking 
cripple, dreadfully emaciated from loss of blood, and 
with my arms and legs contracted into indescribable 
positions, to say nothing of various angry-looking 
wounds all over my body. Dansey now gave me a 
room in his house, and bestowed such tender care on 
me as I shall never forget. Colonel Coghlan also, full 
of feeling and sympathy for my misfortune, came over 
and sat at the feet of my bed, with tears in his eyes, 
and tried to condole with me. Fever, however, had 
excited my brain, so I laughed it all off as a joke, and 
succeeded in making him laugh too. The doctors 
next took compassion on me, formed into committee, 
and prescribed, as the only remedy likely to set me 
right again, a three years' leave to England, where, 
with the congenial effects of my native home, they 
hoped I should recover. Lieutenant Burton now sent 
in an estimate of all loss to the Government, and ad- 
vised, as the best plan of taking an effectual revenge 
upon the Somali, in whose territories we were 
attacked (the Habr Owel), that a ship should be sent 
to blockade their coast, with a demand that they 
slould produce for trial in Aden the living bodies of 
tie two men who so cruelly killed our lamented 

K 



146 SOMALI COUNTRY. [1855. 

friend, and so wantonly endeavoured to despatch me. 
Further, that a sum of money equivalent to all our 
aggregate losses should be paid in full ere the block- 
ade would be raised. This was considered the wisest 
method by which, in future times, any recurrence of 
such disasters might probably be avoided. It is 
needless to observe, considering the importance of 
Berbera to the welfare of the Habr Owel, their sub- 
sistence and their existence as a nation depending on 
it, that anything might have been exacted from them 
that we wished to extort, or they could afford to give. 
The Government, unfortunately for our pockets, were 
of a different opinion ; they would have nothing to do 
with money exactions when human blood had to be 
avenged. Moreover, they had been wishing to sup- 
press the slave-trade, and found in this occurrence a 
favourable opportunity to indulge their hobby. They 
therefore established a blockade of all the coast-line 
between Siyareh and Jibal Elmas, demanding, as the 
only alternative by which it would be raised, the sur- 
render of the principal instigators of the outrage on us 
for trial in Aden, of whom the first in consequence was 
Ou Ali, the murderer of Stroyan. When the season for 
the fair arrived, the only vessel present in the Berbera 
harbour was a British man-of-war, and the Habr Owel 
then believed we were in earnest. Until then, it 
appeared, they would not believe it, thinking our trade 
in Aden would suffer by this proceeding as much as 
their own. They were, however, mistaken ; trade 
found an outlet at other places ; and they, by its sup- 



April.] RETRIBUTION. 147 

pression on their grounds, were fast sinking into insig- 
nificance. Seeing this, they showed by urgent prayers 
a disposition to treat on any conditions we might like 
to impose on them, and even sent in for trial to Aden 
a man who showed the scar of a gun-shot wound on 
his back, and at the same time declared their intention 
of forwarding all others to us as soon as they could 
catch them. 

To make the matter short, I shall give intact the 
articles of a treaty which was signed at Berbera on 
the 7th November 1856, between the Honourable 
East India Company on the one hand, and the Habr 
Owel tribe of Somali on the other, as it appears in an 
appendix (D), in a ' History of Arabia Felix or Yemen/ 
by Captain K. L. Playfair, Assistant Political Eesident, 
Aden."* 

* Articles of peace and friendship concluded between the Habr Owel 
tribe of Somali on the one part, and Brigadier William Marcus 
Coghlan, Political Resident at Aden, on behalf of the Honour- 
able East India Company, on the other. 

" Whereas, on the 19th of April 1855 (corresponding with the 1st of 
Shaban 1271), a treacherous attack and murder were perpetrated at the 
port of Berbera by a party of Habr Owel tribe, upon a party of British 
officers, about to travel in that country with the consent and under the 
protection of the elders of the tribe, in consequence of which outrage 
certain demands were made by the Government of India, and enforced 
by a blockade of the Habr Owel coast ; and whereas it has become ap- 
parent that the said tribe has fulfilled these conditions to the utmost of 
its ability, and has prayed to be relieved from the blockade j therefore 
it is agreed, — 

" 1st, That the elders of the Habr Owel will use their best endeavours 
to deliver up Ou Ali, the murderer of Lieutenant Stroyan. 

" 2d, That, until this be accomplished, the sub-tribe Esa Moosa, which 
now shelters, and any other tribe which may hereafter shelter, harbour, 
or protect the said Ou Ali, shall be debarred from coming to Aden. 



148 SOMALI COUNTRY. [1855. 

During my residence in Aden, which lasted three 
weeks, or until the second mail after my arrival took 
its departure for Suez, my wounds healed up in such 
a marvellously rapid manner, I was able to walk at 
large before I left there. They literally closed as 
wounds do in an India-rubber ball after prickings 
with a penknife. It would be difficult to account for 
the rapidity with which my wounds closed, knowing, 
as everybody who has lived in Aden must do, that that 
is the worst place in the world for effecting cures, had I 
not, in addition to a strong constitution which I for- 

" 3d, That all vessels sailing under the British flag shall have free 
permission to trade at the port of Berbera, or at any other place in the 
territories of the Habr Owel ; and that all British subjects shall enjoy 
perfect safety in every part of the said territories, and shall be permitted 
to trade or travel there under the protection of the elders of the tribe. 
In like manner shall the members of the Habr Owel tribe enjoy similar 
privileges at Aden, or in any other part of the British possessions. 

" 4ih, The traffic in slaves through the Habr Owel territories, includ- 
ing the port of Berbera, shall cease for ever ; and any slave or slaves 
who, contrary to this engagement, shall be introduced into the said 
territories, shall be delivered up to the British ; and the commander of 
any vessel of Her Majesty's or the Honourable East India Company's 
navy shall have the power of demanding the surrender of such slave or 
slaves, and of supporting the demand by force of arms, if necessary. 

" bth, The Political Resident at Aden shall have the power to send an 
agent to reside at Berbera during the season of the fair, should he deem 
such a course necessary, to see that the provisions of this agreement are 
observed ; and such agent will be treated with the respect and consid- 
eration due to the British Government. 

"6th, That on a solemn promise being given by the elders of the 
Habr Owel, faithfully to abide by the articles of this agreement, and to 
cause the rest of the tribe to do so likewise, and to deliver up to the 
Political Resident at Aden any party who may violate it, the blockade 
of the Habr Owel coast shall be raised, and perpetual peace and friend- 
ship shall exist between the British and the Habr Owel. 

" Done at Berbera this seventh day of November, one thousand eight 



June.] RETURN TO ENGLAND. 149 

tunately possess, been living for many months pre- 
viously in a very abstemious manner, principally, as 
appears in the body of the journal, on dates, rice, and 
sour curds. 

I now left Aden on " sick certificate," and arrived 
in England in the early part of June 1855. The 
Crimean war was then at its height, and the military 
authorities were beating up for recruits in every corner 
of the land. This summons for war was irresistible. 
I was suffering a little from blindness, brought on 
probably by my late losses and impoverishment of 
blood."' 5. Still I lost no time in volunteering my ser- 

hundred and fifty-six of the Christian era (corresponding with the eighth 
day of Rabea-el-Owel, one thousand two hundred and seventy-two of the 
Hejira). 

(Signed) Mahomed Arra'leh, \ 

„ Ahmed Ali Bookeri, > Ayal Yoonus. 

„ Noor Fa'rrah, ) 

„ Ahmed Gha'lid, \ 

„ Mahommed Wa'is, > Ayal Ahmed. 

„ Muggan Mahommed, ) 

„ Eooblie Hassan, \ 

„ Ateyah Hilde'r, >Makahil. 

„ Farrah Beni'n, ) 

„ Awadth Shermarkie, Ayal Hamood. 

"Signed in my presence at Berbera, on the 7th November 1856. 

(Signed) R. L. Play fair, Assistant Political Resident, Aden. 
„ W. M. Coghlan, Political Resident. 

"Aden, 9th November 1856. 

" Ratified by the Right Honourable the Governor-General of India in 
Council, at Fort William, this 23d day of January 1857. 

(Signed) Canning. 
And Five Members of Council of India." 

* I was first blinded by ophthalmia when a child, which had ever 
since rendered reading a very painful task ; and again I suffered from 
snow-blindness whilst crossing over the Himalavas into Tibet. 



150 SOMALI COUNTRY. 

vices to take part in this great national object, think- 
ing it was a duty, as a soldier, I owed my country, 
and delighting in the prospect of immediate and active 
employment, where, at any rate, I should be in Europe, 
and enjoying the temperature I had come home to 
seek. The Turkish Contingent was then being incor- 
porated, and I was, being an Indian officer, competent 
to serve in it. With an introduction from friends, I 
wrote a letter to Major Graham, an officer appointed 
by the Horse Guards to engage officers for General 
Vivian's contingent, giving him an account of my past 
services, and asking for an appointment with the army. 
He at once closed with me, declaring " I was just the 
sort of man he wanted," and, granting two weeks' 
leave to prepare an outfit, told me to be off. In a 
fortnight more I arrived in Constantinople, and was 
posted to a regiment of Turks, with the commission of 
Captain. The Turkish Contingent was now at Buyuk- 
dere, but was soon ordered to embark in vessels and 
proceed to Kertch in the Crimea. I went with them, 
and remained serving until the close of the Crimean 
war. My commandant, Major Greene, being otherwise 
employed, I, as second in command and Kaimakan of 
the 16th regiment of infantry, took its headquarters 
back, and disbanded them at Constantinople. 

Whilst I was engaged in these parts, and thinking 
there would be no further chance of my being able 
to return to Africa, I had made up my mind, at the 
expiration of the war, to try my hand in collecting 
the fauna of the very interesting regions of the Cau- 



NEW EXPEDITION. 151 

casian Mountains, and had even gone so far as to pur- 
chase guns and equip myself for it. Captain Smyth, 
of the Bengal Army, an old and notorious Hima- 
layan sportsman, had agreed to accompany me, and 
we wrote home to the Eoyal Geographical Society 
to exert their influence in obtaining passports, by 
which we could cross over the range into the Eus- 
sian frontier ; but this scheme was put a stop to by 
Dr Shaw, the Secretary of that Society, writing 
out to say there would be very little hope of our 
being able to obtain the passports we required, and 
that he thought the time ill-advised for working 
in those regions, adding, at the same time, that an 
expedition to explore Africa was again being organ- 
ised under the command of Captain Burton, and ad- 
vising me to join it. By the same mail I received a 
communication from Captain Burton himself, inviting 
me to join him once more in exploring Africa, say- 
ing there would be no expense attached to it, as the 
Home and Indian Governments had each promised to 
contribute £1000. This settled the matter. Without 
a second thought I disposed of my Caucasian equip- 
ments, and, taking a passage to England by the first 
mail, travelled night and day until I again reached 
home, deeming, as I did on the first expedition, that I 
might just as well nurse my furlough for a future 
occasion, — the fact being that I was more of a sports- 
man and traveller than a soldier, and I only liked my 
profession when I had the sport of fighting. 



26 



28 



30 



fo(r[>iidokai*o 

Gran in',- Kill L> !:¦ trict inter 
l>\ the ..\';/{ Catcuraotx 



NOTE 

Gtmdokaro, German Mix-sum Station. 
Cataracts which stopped, the Expedition, sent to 

(Iiskiyit tiie Sources ot'the Nile In ¦¦ M~ahiimed All 

Ehira River X- Jtari KmadonuTieard of through 

the Arabs sinitli ot'the Equator 




L0 






n > Tiiutnnh<^~ SuppoteA <¦> Tim with 



'?/• liio. oi Suuan 



Ca zembe' 



SKETCH MAP OF 

EASTERN AFRICA 

Shewiriq the Various Routes 
travelled by the Expedition. 

J.H.Spefee Ciq>*46^Reg t .3r.l. 



V> - 



V> 



c l'ni/m<jw'<ni 

II ukania 






i bis a 



lied.- lines - 
Dotted lines 



£ xpedidorv Routes. 
Trade tixnites. 




L. 
Nvnasa^ 



NOTE 
Gondokoro. Soman Mi-isitm station 
Catmint* nhuh sta/i/mt tin- F.v/mlition sent tv 
dlsvarer tiir .v.»///vv? nl'tht' Mh'.ln Malimilrtl All 
rjimi Hint Ji linii Kimidam.lamil of through 
tin- bubs south oftheasguator 




Ucans \fbam J£ NovT to 26 Mav\ 



Shearing Oie Varunus Routee 

travellitl by lit,' Expedition! 

J.li.Spekc Cap 1 tfi^Keg* Kl. 

Red tinea — 

Dutifd lines 



¦ ¦.'¦.-..¦ 



JOUKNAL 



OF A 



CEUISE ON THE TANGANYIKA LAKE 



JOUKNAL 



OF A 



CBUISE ON THE TANGANYIKA LAKE. 



CHAPTER I. 

THE ROYAL GEOGRAPHICAL SOCIETY— THE STRANGE LAKE ON 
THE MAP — SET OFF — ARRIVE AT ZANZIBAR— A PRELIMINARY 
EXCURSION — A SAIL ALONG THE COAST — THE PANGANI 
RIVER — A JEMADAR'S TRICK — JOURNEY UP COUNTRY- 
ADVENTURES — RETURN TO ZANZIBAR — SCENES THERE — 
OBJECTS OF THE EXPEDITION — RECRUITING FOR FOLLOWERS 
— THE CAFILA BASHI— THE START — FEVERS — DISCUSSIONS 
ABOUT THE MOUNTAINS OF THE MOON AND THE VICTORIA 
N'YANZA — THE TANGANYIKA. 

On my arrival in England, the first thing I did was 
to visit Captain Burton, and obtain an introduction 
to the Eoyal Geographical Society, under whose aus- 
pices I was about to travel. I next visited the So- 
ciety, and here was revealed to me, for the first time, 
the great objects designed for the expedition in ques- 
tion. On the walls of the Society s rooms there hung 



156 TANGANYIKA LAKE. [1856. 

a large diagram, comprising a section of Eastern 
Africa, extending from the equator to the fourteenth 
degree of south latitude, and from Zanzibar sixteen 
degrees inland, which had been constructed by two 
reverend gentlemen, Messrs Erhardt and Kebmann, 
missionaries of the Church Mission Society of London, 
a short time previously, when carrying on their duties 
at Zanzibar. In this section-map, swallowing up about 
half of the whole area of the ground included in it, there 
figured a lake of such portenous size and such unseemly 
shape, representing a gigantic slug, or, perhaps, even 
closer still, the ugly salamander, that everybody who 
looked at it incredulously laughed and shook his head. 
It was, indeed, phenomenon enough in these days to 
excite anybody's curiosity ! A single sheet of sweet 
water, upwards of eight hundred miles long by three 
hundred broad, quite equal in size to, if not larger 
than, the great salt Caspian. 

Now, to the honour of Admiral Sir George Back be 
it said, a Fellow of the Eoyal Geographical Society, 
and an old explorer himself in the Arctic regions, that 
he had determined in his mind that this great mystery 
should be solved, and that an insight should be gained 
into those interesting regions, concerning which con- 
jectures and speculations had been rife, and which had 
caused so many hot debates for so many ages past 
amongst all the first geographers of the day ; debates 
which, hitherto, nobody had been found energetic enough 
to set at rest by actual inspection of the country. 

Casting about for a man fitted to carry out his 
plans, the Admiral hit upon Captain Burton, who had 



Dec] EPvHAKDT AND REBMANN'S MAP. 157 

recently returned from Constantinople, where lie had 
been engaged with the Bashi-Bazuks ; and it was thus, 
through Sir George's influence in the Royal Geogra- 
phical Society, that Captain Burton had now been 
appointed to the command of this expedition. 

A difference now arose about the Government 
£2000 in aid of the expedition. The Foreign Office 
had paid their £1000, but the India House thought 
Captain Burton s pay ought to be considered their 
share. Finding this was the case I objected to go, as 
I did not wish, for one reason, to put myself under 
any money obligations to Captain Burton ; and, for an- 
other reason, I thought I had paid enough for a public 
cause in the Somali country, without having gained 
any advantage to myself. Captain Burton, however, 
knew nothing of astronomical surveying, of physical 
geography, or of collecting specimens of natural his- 
tory, so he pressed me again to go with him, and even 
induced the President of the Eoyal Geographical So- 
ciety to say there need be no fear of money if we only 
succeeded. I then consented to go, determining in 
my own mind, somehow or other, to have my old 
plans, formed in India, of completing my museum, 
carried into effect, even if, after all, the funds of the 
expedition did not suffice. Captain Burton now gave 
me a cheque for my passage out of the public funds ;* 
but my incorporation with the expedition was not 
quite so easy as had been expected ; for the Govern- 
ment in India at this time were using every endeav- 

* The cheque, I found, after my arrival in England, was not credited 
in my account, so I had, after all, to pay my own passage. 



158 TANGANYIKA LAKE. [1856. 

our in their power to increase their Indo-European 
forces, and had written home to Leadenhall Street an 
urgent desire that no officers should have their leave 
extended, or be placed on duty out of India ; and for 
this reason, the India House authorities, although 
privately evincing a strong disposition to permit my 
going, felt it necessary to withhold their sanction to 
it. I was now between two fires. I had sacrificed 
my Caucasian expedition, and could not speak with 
the authorities in India. So, to cut the matter short, 
with a kind hint from my friend Sir Henry Rawlinson, 
as I had still nearly three years' furlough at my dis- 
posal, I ventured over with Captain Burton by the 
overland route to Bombay, and tried my luck again. 

This time, fortunately, it turned up trumps ; for I 
need only say that the Governor of Bombay at this 
time was Lord Elphinstone, a man whose large and 
comprehensive mind was not only able to discern the 
frown of a pending mutiny looming in the distance, 
but whose quick foresight, backed by a great and 
natural unremitting energy of body, was subsequently 
able to forestall and provide, as far as human powers 
extend, against its thundering outburst. He saw at 
a glance of how much importance to the improve- 
ment of the commercial objects of his presidency 
this exploring expedition was likely to be. The 
Secretary to Government, Mr Anderson, who was 
equally of this view, treated the matter as a great 
national object, and, at the request of Captain Burton, 
drew up an official application to incorporate me in 
the expedition, and sent it to the Government at 



Dec] VOYAGE TO ZANZIBAR. 159 

Calcutta, with the recommendation of his lordship ; 
whilst I, in anticipation of the sanction of the Gov- 
ernor-General, Lord Canning, was permitted to 
accompany Captain Burton to Zanzibar in the Hon. 
East India Company's sloop-of-war Elphinstone, com- 
manded by Captain Frushard, I.N., and commence 
operations at once. 

This vessel had been detached especially on this 
duty to meet Captain Burton's views, that a political 
importance should be given to the mission by our 
arriving in Government official state at the starting- 
point, in order to secure the influence and respect of 
the sultan reigning there. 

After a residence of one week at Bombay, during 
which time I completed our outfit in scientific instru- 
ments and other minor points — for this charge was 
reposed in me, owing to my previous experience in 
those matters — we set sail on the 3d December 1856, 
taking two Goanese cook " boys," by name Valantine 
and Gaetano, with us as servants, and in eighteen days 
landed at our destination, Zanzibar. The kindness of 
Captain Frushard, who shared his cabin with us, as 
well as the constant attentions of his officers, com- 
bined with pleasant weather and a liberal fare, pro- 
vided for us by the Bombay Government in the capa- 
city of political envoys, made the time occupied on the 
voyage fly quickly and very agreeably* 

* I must add here, to show that the generous hospitality of the 
Indian navy was now as strong in force as ever it was, that the ward- 
room officers, not being aware of the intended generosity of the Govern- 
ment to supply us with messing gratis, had laid in an extra store of 
provisions for the purpose of making us their guests. 



160 TANGANYIKA LAKE. [1856. 

Immediately on arrival at the island of Zanzibar, 
we were warmly received and welcomed by our con- 
sul, Colonel Hamerton, an Irish gentleman, and one 
characterised by the true merry hospitality of his 
race. He had been a great sufferer, by the effects of 
the climate operating on him from too long a resid- 
ence in these enervating regions ; but he was, never- 
theless, vivacious in temperament and full of amusing 
anecdotes, which kept the whole town alive. He gave 
us a share of his house, and what was more, made that 
house our homes. His generosity was boundless, and 
his influence so great, that he virtually commanded 
all societies here. Our old and faithful ally, the 
Imaum of Muscat, who, unfortunately for us, had but 
recently died, was so completely ruled by him, that he 
listened to and obeyed him as a child would his father. 

The present ruler of Zanzibar — that is, of the coast- 
line, with all the islands which lie between the equa- 
tor on the southern confines of the Somali country 
and the Portuguese possessions in Mozambique — is 
Sultan Majid, the second son of the old Imaum ; for 
it must be remembered that the Imaum, at his death, 
divided his territories, then comprising Muscat in 
Arabia, and Zanzibar . in Africa, into two separate 
states, giving the former, or Muscat, to his eldest son, 
Sayyid (Prince) Suweni, whilst the latter was be- 
queathed to his favourite, the second son, Sayyid Ma- 
jid, now styled Sultan. Sultan Majid was born of a 
Circassian woman, and in consequence is very light in 
complexion; and, taking much after the inclinations 



Dec] ZANZIBAR. 161 

of his father, is likely to become as great a favourite 
as was the old Imaum. Zanzibar island is the seat of 
government, and consequently the metropolis. The 
town contains about sixty thousand inhabitants of 
all nations, but principally coloured people, of which 
the Suahili, or coast people, living on the opposite 
main, predominate in number, though they are the 
least important. Of the merchants, there are several 
European houses, comprising French, Germans, and 
Americans ; and numerous Asiatics, mostly from 
Arabia and Hindostan, — the Suahili ranking lowest 
of the whole. There are also three consuls, an Eng- 
lish, French, and American, who look after the in- 
terests of the subjects of their respective govern- 
ments. 

We found, considering it would take more than a 
month to organise an expedition, that we had arrived 
here at the very worst season of the year for com- 
mencing a long inland journey — the height of the dry 
season in these regions, when water is so very scarce 
in the more desert tracts of the interior of the con- 
tinent, that travelling, from want of that material 
element, is precarious ; and it was just before the com- 
mencement of the vernal monsoon, or greater rainy 
season, when everything would be deluged. 

Considering this, and giving due deference to the 
opinions of the travelling merchants of this place 
against our organising at once for the interior jour- 
ney to the great lake, Captain Burton bethought him- 
self of gaining a little elementary training in East 

L 



162 TANGANYIKA LAKE. [1857. 

African travelling, by spending the remainder of the 
dry season in inspecting various places on the coast ; 
and, if a favourable opportunity presented itself, he 
felt desirous of having a peep at the suowy Kilimand- 
jaro Mountain, of which the Eev. Mr Rebmann, who 
first discovered it, had sent home reports, and which 
had excited such angry and unseemly contests amongst 
our usually sedate though speculative carpet-geogra- 
phers in England as rendered a further inspection 
highly necessary. 

Now, as the Royal Geographical Society had desired 
us to place ourselves in communication with Mr Reb- 
mann, who was then at his mission-station, Kisul- 
udini, at Rabbai, on a high hill at the back of Mom- 
bas, and to try and solicit him to go with us into the 
interior, where it was thought his experience in the 
native languages would be useful to the expedition, 
— my companion hired a small beden, or half- decked 
Arab vessel, by the month, to take us about wherever 
we pleased; and on the 5th January 1857, having 
engaged a respectable half-caste Arab Sheikh, named 
Said, to be our guide and interpreter, we took leave 
of our host, set sail, and steered northwards, coasting 
along the shores of this beautiful clove island, until 
we left it, and shortly afterwards sighted the still 
more lovely island of Pemba, or " The Emerald Isle " 
of the Arabs — named, doubtless, from the surprising 
verdure of its trees and plants. Here we called in 
at Chak-chak, the principal place, where there is a 
rude little fort and small garrison of Beluch soldiers, 



Jan.] VISIT MR REBMANN. 163 

and a Wali, or governor. Starting the following 
morning, we put to sea again, and in three days — 
sailing against a strong southerly current, aggravated 
by a stiff north-easterly breeze, almost too much for 
our cranky little vessel, and which frightened the 
crew and our little timid Sheikh so much that they 
all lost presence of mind, and with the greatest diffi- 
culty were repressed from " touting ship/' and wreck- 
ing themselves, together with us, on the shores of the 
coast — we harboured in the Mombas creek. 

Mombas on the north, like Kilua on the south, are 
the two largest garrison towns belonging to the Sultan 
on the main shores. They each have a Wali or gov- 
ernor, custom officers, and a Beluch guard ; and have 
certain attractions to the antiquarian in the shape 
of Portuguese ruins. We left our traps here to be 
housed by a Banyan called Lakshmidos, the collector 
of customs,"" and started on the 1 7th January to visit 
Mr Bebmann, beyond the hills overlooking this place. 
It was a good day's work, and was commenced by 
rowing about ten miles up the Rabbai branch of the 
creek we were in, until we arrived at the foot of the 
hills bearing the same name, beyond which his house 
stands. This inlet was fringed with such dense masses 
of the mangrove shrub, on which clung countless 
numbers of small tree - oysters, — adhering to their 
branches in clusters, and looking as though they sub- 

* Banyans are the only class of coloured men who have the ability 
to be accountants. They fill this office properly, and are therefore 
always selected for it. 



164 TANGANYIKA LAKE. [1857. 

sisted thereon after the manner of orchidaceous plants, 
— that we could obtain no view whatever, save of 
the hills towering to the height of some ten hundred 
or twelve hundred feet above us. The water-jour- 
ney over, we commenced the ascent of Rabbai, and, 
soon crowning it by a steep slope, passed into the 
country of the Wanyika, the first true negro tribe of 
my acquaintance, and by a gentle decline passing 
through quiet little villages, we entered, after a walk 
of five miles, the Kisuludini mission-house, and there 
found Mr Eebmann, with his amiable English wife, 
living in their peaceful retreat. They gave us a free 
and cordial welcome and comfortable lodging, and 
supplied us with all the delicacies of a dry Wanyika 
season, for there was now a drought in the land, 
and consequently a famine. So hard were the times 
for the unfortunate negroes, that they were forced 
against their wills to support the bulk of their fami- 
lies by the sale of some of its junior members to keep 
themselves alive. 

And now, according to Mr Eebmann, to aggravate 
their predicament, they were on the eve of a more 
dreadful enemy still than famine, — that of the attacks 
of a marauding party of the barbarous pastoral Masai, 
a neighbouring tribe, who were now out engaged in 
pillaging some of the Wanyika villages, not far from 
this, of the few heads of cattle which they keep as a 
" safety-valve " against the scourge of droughts. The 
oddest thing to me was to see the placid equanimity 
with which Mr Rebmann and his wife coolly delayed 



Jan.] PRELIMINARY EXCURSION. 165 

a day or two, notwithstanding the near proximity of 
this savage band of thieves, to pack up their kit com- 
fortably before leaving the place ; but we were assured 
by the reverend gentleman that the Masai cared but 
little for anything save beef, and they therefore did 
not apprehend rough usage at their hands. The air 
of this high land is cool and pleasant, and the scenery 
from the station overlooking the sea was very pictur- 
esque and serenely beautiful. The Eabbai hills are 
an outlying range running parallel to the coast, or 
more properly, I should say, an abattis, which sup- 
ports a high but slightly depressed flattish interior, 
gently declining westwards. 

After a good night's rest we returned to Mombas, 
housed ourselves in the dwelling appointed for our 
use by Lakshmidos, and had many civilities paid us 
by the Wali (governor) and coloured merchants of the 
place, who brought us fruits and paid us other deli- 
cate little attentions by way of showing their regard. 
The Wanyika having by this time sent to the Mom- 
bas fort for aid to support them against the attacks of 
their enemies, we felt some alarm at the position of 
Mr and Mrs Eebmann, and again returned to Kisulu- 
dini, to see if we could be of any use to them : but 
not so ; they were as fearless as before, and would 
not leave their house until everything had been well 
packed up and sent away.* We now bade them adieu 

* On starting to the rescue, my companion complained of the 
shock his nerves had received since the Somali encounter, and this 
appeared to affect him during the whole of this journey. 



166 TANGANYIKA LAKE. [1857. 

a second time, and returned to our house at Mombas. 
Here we heard that several of the Beluch troops had 
been despatched against the Masai, and that some 
skirmishes had taken place, but they were nothing of 
any material consequence. 

Seeing that there was this little excitement on the 
direct road to Kadiaro and the Kilimandjaro, Captain 
Burton thought it unadvisable to venture on that line, 
the more especially so as he judged the Mombas people 
were not over-well disposed to our travelling into the 
interior. Further, he had heard of fresh attractions 
on the coast, in the shape of ruins, both Portuguese 
and Persian ; — those places from which, in former ages, 
the Portuguese — who had been led there by the ad- 
venturous Yasco de Gama, and were the first Euro- 
pean occupants of these dark lands — were driven 
southwards by the Arabs. Moreover, he heard that 
the mountain of Kilimandjaro was just as accessible 
to us from Tanga or Pangani, a little farther down 
the coast, where there would probably be no war- 
parties standing in our way, as the case was here. 

I, on the other hand, did not see any cause of 
alarm, for I thought we could easily have walked round 
the Masai party ; but I saw various reasons for aban- 
doning the projected plan of looking at the Kilimand- 
jaro. In the first place, it had been already discovered 
by Mr Eebmann ; it was, moreover, rather distant for 
our limited time ; it would require more money than 
our limited funds could admit of; and last, though 
not least, as we had some time to spare, I thought it 



Jan.] GEOGRAPHICAL SPECULATIONS. 167 

would be much more agreeable to spend it in hippo- 
potamus-shooting on the coast, and on what game we 
might find on the hills of Usumbara, if we perforce 
were to go through that kingdom on our way towards 
the Kilimandjaro, an idea that had struck us ; for 
though Usumbara had been traversed formerly by the 
Church missionaries, it was still a maiden country for 
the sportsman. Considering Mombas as a starting- 
point for an excursion into the interior, I can conceive 
no direction more interesting or advantageous for any 
one to embark upon. Dr Krapf has already been as 
far as Kitui, in the country of Ukambani, fourteen 
marches distant only from Mombas, and there he 
heard of a snowy mountain called Kenia, lying pro- 
bably to the northward of and on the same hill-range 
as Mount Kilimandjaro, which most likely separates 
the river-systems of the east from those which flow to 
the westward into the Nile. In confirmation of this 
impression, I would mention the fact that a merchant 
caravan of about two hundred men, whilst we were 
stopping here, arrived from Kitui laden with elephant 
ivories, which they had bartered for American sheeting, 
Venetian beads, and brass wire, &c. &c, in the district 
of Ukambani ; and they described the country in the 
most glowing terms, as possessing a healthy climate, 
pleasant temperature, wholesome water, and an abun- 
dance of provisions, both flesh and grain : they had, 
moreover, camels and donkeys as beasts of burden, 
which alone denotes a great facility for travelling in 
Eastern Africa, where usually men take the place of 



168 TANGANYIKA LAKE. [1857. 

beasts. The Wakambani porters belonging to this cara- 
van, as many as there were, were boisterous, humorous 
savages, who, as they danced and paraded about the 
town, all armed in savage fashion with bows and 
spears and sharp knives, in fact anything but clothes, 
looked as wild as animals just driven from a jungle. 
Noise and dancing seemed their principal delight, and 
they indulged in it, blowing horns and firing muskets 
with a boisterous glee, which showed the strangest 
contrast to the tame Hindus and other merchant 
residents of the place. 

Captain Burton now decided on quitting Mombas ; 
and on the 24th January, after embarking in our little 
beden, we set sail southwards. Following the coast- 
line, we touched at the villages of Gasi, Wasin, Tanga — 
where I had my first flirtations with the hippopotami, 
of which more hereafter — and Tangata, to inspect ruins 
and make inquiries about the interior condition of the 
country. 

The coast-line was one continuous undeviating scene 
of tropical beauty, with green aquatic mangroves grow- 
ing everywhere out into the tidal waves, with the bee- 
tal, palmyra, and other palms overtopping this fringe; 
and in the background a heterogeneous admixture, an 
impervious jungle, of every tree, shrub, and grass, 
that characterise the richest grounds on the central 
shores of this peculiar continent. The little islands 
we passed amongst, and all the reefs that make these 
shores so dangerous to the navigator, whether large or 
small, were the produce of the industrious little coral 



Jan.] THE BANYANS. 169 

insect. The lime with which their cellular beds are 
composed being favourable to vegetable growth, leaves 
it no wonder that the higher grounds and dryer lands 
are thus so densely clothed. The few villages there 
are, bordering on the coast, are poor and meagre- 
looking, but their inhabitants were very hospitable, 
especially where there were any Banyans. Nothing 
could exceed the mingled pride and yearning pleasure 
these exotic Indians seemed to derive from having us as 
their guests. Being Indian officers, they looked upon 
us as their guardians, and did everything they could 
to show they felt it so. Our conversing in their own 
language, and talking freely of their native land, must, 
as indeed they said it did, have felt to them as if after 
a long banishment they were suddenly thrown amongst 
their old and long-lost friends. To us how strange 
did these things appear ! that men so full of life, 
good-breeding, intelligence, and affections — so mean- 
ing and calculating in their conversation, so gentle- 
manly in their behaviour — should live this life of 
utter banishment, amidst these savages, devoid of 
all sympathetic affections, and knowing not even 
what things constitute the commonest business of 
life. And why 1 To make a little money for their 
latter days, when life's enjoyment has passed away. 
Their wretched case would not be so bad, only that, 
from being Hindus, they cannot marry or even bring 
their wives from India with them. It is a position 
even worse than that of hermits. Tanga was the most 
considerable of all the places we visited, being the 



170 TANGANYIKA LAKE. [1857. 

grand terminus of those caravans, which, passing im- 
mediately to the south of the Kilimandjaro, traverse 
the Masai country to Burgenei, near the south-east 
corner of the Victoria N'yanza (Lake).* Here Captain 
Burton again commenced making inquiries about the 
route to Kilimandjaro, and how, if that could not be 
managed, considering the means at our disposal, we 
could march into Usumbara, see the capital Fuga, and 
pay the king, Kimueri, a cursory visit ; but being 
more or less dissuaded from this, evidently, as it 
afterwards appeared, by the timorous inclinations 
rather than from any real difficulties which presented 
themselves to the mind of our Sheikh, Captain Burton 
thought it better to see first what could be done at 
Pangani. 

We arrived in the mouth of the Pangani river on 
the 3d February ; and, immediately on landing, were 
met by all the grandees of the place, who welcomed 
us as big men, and escorted us to a large stone house 
in the town overlooking the river. On the way to 
this domicile, a number of black singers were formed 
in line to serenade us, and they danced and sang in 
real negro peculiarity, with such earnest constancy 
that, although a novel sight, we were glad to be rid of 
them long before they were tired of performing. All 
inquisitive about other people's concerns, the Pangany- 
ites at once eagerly busied themselves to find out 
what our intentions were in coming there, and accord- 

* Caravans have also reached the shores of the N'yanza at 1° S. lat., 
and entered Usoga, rounding its north-east corner. 



Feb.] THE PANGANYITES. 171 

ingly began to speculate on what they could make 
out of us. First the Diwans (head-men) wanted us 
to pay our footing in the town ; but that only pro- 
voking a sharp rebuff, they began a system of " making 
difficulties." To go to the Kilimandjaro we must have 
a large and expensive escort, or nobody would go with 
us. But this we were not persistent in, for two rea- 
sons : in the first place, having frittered away so 
much time at Mombas, and in inspecting ruins on 
the way from it, we had no time left ere the kuzi, or 
little rains precursory to the great monsoon, which 
would shortly set in on the high lands near the Great 
Mountain, would fall and impede our progress ; and, 
in the second, we were short of cash. Next we con- 
templated a flying trip to Fuga, for which alternative 
Sultan Majid had provided us with introductions to 
the king, Kimueri, living there ; and this, of course, 
being known to the people through the medium of 
Sheikh Said, they at once beset our doors to meet 
our proposals and make fresh difficulties. 

King Kimueri's son, who happened to be here on 
his way to Zanzibar, presuming we had presents for 
the king, mildly begged us to give them up to him at 
once, he securing us a passage to his father, — a cool 
request, which, of course, was just as coolly rejected. 
And now everybody, evidently actuated by him, stood 
in our way at every turn. We must not go the straight 
road, as the Wazegura living on the right bank of the 
Pangani river were " out," and in open hostilities with 
the Wasumbara, and would intercept our passage ; and, 



172 TANGANYIKA LAKE. [1857. 

instead, they proposed our going via Tangata, a much 
longer route, but open to us if we only took a sufficient 
number of men, and paid handsomely for the conveni- 
ence. Considering that the value attachable to the 
undertaking would be magnified in our minds in pro- 
portion to the amount of obstacles which had to be sur- 
mounted, difficulty upon difficulty was now conjured 
up and produced as fast as they thought they were 
working upon our inclinations. Sometimes our ad- 
visers would go, and then the opposite. They were 
verily as coy in their advancements and retractions as 
a woman who, in love, gives and takes with a wavering 
man on whom she has set her heart at a time when he 
is fearful of giving way to her little seductive artifices. 
At this perplexing juncture, quite unforeseen by us, 
the jemadar of a small Beluch garrison (Chogue), 
about seven miles up the river, came to pay his 
respects, and by a clever artifice — purely an Ori- 
ental dodge, as anybody who has lived in India will 
readily admit — at once perceiving an advantage to 
be gained by which he might profitably fill his own 
pocket at the same time that he would save ours, and 
give a job to his own Beluches to the prejudice of 
those avaricious Panganyites, offered us an induce- 
ment which was too good not to be at once ac- 
cepted. The plan was simply this : He was to leave 
at once and return to Chogue, and make arrange- 
ments with his guard for our reception there, whilst 
we, feigning abandonment of all our plans, were to 
prepare for a shooting excursion up the river, with 



Feb.] HIPPOPOTAMUS -SHOOTING. 173 

only one servant and our sporting gear with us. This 
trick succeeded admirably, without provoking the 
slightest suspicion on anybody's part. Leaving our 
Sheikh and one "boy" behind to take care of our 
property, we now set sail in a small canoe, on the 6th 
February, and made for Chogue. The river was ex- 
tremely tortuous and filled with hippopotami, who, as 
the vessel advanced up the tidal stream, snorted and 
grunted as if they felt disposed to dispute our pas- 
sage ; but this never happened. Inquisitive in the 
extreme about the foreign intruders, they could not 
resist continually popping up their heads and appar- 
ently inviting us to take a shot, which, as may readily 
be imagined, I lost no opportunity in complying with. 
Whether I killed any or not is difficult to say, for 
as the guns were fired their heads immediately dis- 
appeared, to rise no more, or, if not struck, to peep 
above again some way distant at our stern. To shoot 
hippopotami properly, one must have time to wait for 
the receding of the tide, when, if killed, their bodies 
would be left exposed on the sanely bottom ; or, if in 
deep water, to wait until, being filled with gases, they 
would float by the buoyancy of their bodies. 

There was little to be seen in this voyage of any in- 
terest, for the curtains of mangroves, with palms and 
other trees growing in almost impenetrable denseness, 
veiled in our view to the limits of the stream's breadth. 
As the tide was running out at sunset, we halted for 
its return at Pombui, a small village on the left bank, 
and resumed the journey after midnight. In two 



174 TANGANYIKA LAKE. [1857. 

hours we reached the mooring-place opposite the 
station, Chogue, fastened the canoe, and lay down to 
sleep. Early after dawn, the jemadar, with his guard, 
advanced to meet us, welcomed us with sundry com- 
plimentary discharges of their matchlocks, and escorted 
us to their post. The jemadar's guard was composed 
of twenty-five men, most of whom were here, whilst 
the other few held another fort on the top of a hill 
called Tongue. Volunteers were now called for to 
accompany us, who would carry each his arms, a little 
food, and such baggage as might be necessary — just 
enough to march up rapidly to Fuga, to have a little 
shooting in some favourable jungles near there, and 
return again as soon as possible. There was no diffi- 
culty, as the jemadar foresaw. The Beluches receive 
so little pay from their sultan that any windfall like 
this was naturally welcome ; and out of the little 
garrison five men were readily enlisted ; besides these, 
they supplied four slave - servants, and two men as 
guides. 

With one day's delay in preparing, we left Chogue 
in the evening, and commenced a scrambling journey; 
all the men fully loaded, and ourselves much the same. 

On the morning of the following day, after travel- 
ling by a footpath over undulating country, we 
mounted the hill of Tongue, and put up in the fort. 

Mount Tongue is itself an outlying hill, detached 
from the massive clusters of Usumbara by a deep roll- 
ing valley of broken ground of desert forest, which, 
as we afterwards saw by their numerous tracks, must 



Feb.] ON THE MARCH. 175 

contain, during the rainy season, vast herds of the 
elephant and buffalo, as well as antelopes and lions, 
though but few animals of any kind appeared to be here 
now. Looking south by west from this height over 
the broad valley of the Pangani, I was able to take 
compass bearings on some cones in the Uzegura 
country, belonging to the Nguru hills. The whole 
country below appeared to be covered with the richest 
vegetation, and in the river we could hear the mur- 
muring sound of a waterfall, said by the Beluches to 
be a barrier to the navigation of the river any farther 
inland."* 

1 Oth February. — Early in the morning we bid Ton- 
gue Fort adieu, and, descending by its northern slopes, 
threaded our way, arching round by north to westward, 
through the forests below, until late in the evening 
we arrived within a short distance of a hill called 
Khombora; and here, as the darkness of night was 
closing in, the party by accident divided : some, taking 
a more northerly track — the proper one — soon came 
across a nullah containing water, — the thing we were 
then in search of; whilst we, following on the heels 
of the guide, lost the way, and, coming upon the same 
watercourse lower down the stream, bivouacked for 
the night alongside some green, fetid, stagnant pools, 
in which a host of young frogs were keeping up a 
merry concert. We fired guns, but without avail, the 
distance we were separated by being too great for the 
reports to be heard. 

* See further description of this, page 185. 



176 TANGANYIKA LAKE. [1857. 

Next morning, after following up the nullah for 
some considerable distance, we lit upon the rest of 
the party, sitting by a chain of pools, where they had 
bivouacked like ourselves ; and, mingling together, 
commenced the march. At this time it was discovered 
that the surveying compass had been left behind, and 
I wished to return at once ; but as Captain Burton 
was knocked up, and would not wait for me, the in- 
strument was abandoned. Then, with the party com- 
plete, we passed to the northward of Khombora, by 
an indenture of the ground lying between it and a 
much larger hill, called Sagama, which hill forms the 
south-eastern buttress of the Usumbara masses; and 
opening into the valley of Pangani again, we put up 
at a Wazegura village on its right bank, called Kohode, 
crossing the river by a ferry. Here my companion, 
with all the party — save one exceptional Seedi soldier, 
Mabarak Bombay,''" who knew a little Hindustani, and 
acted as my interpreter — stopped a day, to recover 
from the fatigues of the late harassing march, for 
they appeared thoroughly knocked up, and to revel on 
a feast of milk and flesh which, with great cordiality, 
was supplied them by Sultan Momba, a Wazegura 
chief. We were now fifteen miles distant from the 
compass, and I called on volunteers to forsake these 
festivities and follow me back to get it. It was a 
great trial, and Bombay of all the party was the only 
man who could be induced to go; but he, as will be 
seen in many subsequent parts of this book, was ever 

* See Bombay's history, page 210. 



Feb.] NATIVE HIPPOPOTAMUS - STALKING. 177 

ready to do anything for anybody, and cheerfully 
started off with me. The first thins; which we saw 
after crossing by the ferry was a dead hippopotamus, 
lying on the greensward of the alluvial plain, en- 
circled by a number of savages (Washenzi), all armed 
with bow and arrows, looking wistfully at their pros- 
trate game. The animal was scarcely cold, and lay 
on the ground like a large shapeless hog bristling with 
arrows. It appeared from their statements that these 
savage hunters had been waiting on the plain for 
several hours before daybreak, expecting the animal 
on his retreat from his nocturnal excursions under 
the lee of the Sagama hill, in quest of rank grasses 
and forest-trees growing there, which compose his 
ordinary food, to make for a certain deep place in 
the river, by which means he would have to cross 
the plain exactly where they posted themselves: they 
were not mistaken. The beast advanced at the usual 
time for going to his watery abode, and the savages 
at once surrounded him on the plain ; by firing 
arrows from all sides at once in rapid succession, the 
huge awkward beast knew not which man to set on 
first, and in its constant, fruitless, angry endeavours 
to reach the last assailant, he soon became exhausted, 
and was eventually overpowered. 

We now passed on to the nullah, followed it down 
to the place of bivouac, found the compass, and re- 
turned. In the bed of the nullah there were numer- 
ous pools, both large and small, but all were rapidly 
drying up, and destroying the numerous fish they 

M 



178 TANGANYIKA LAKE. [1857. 

contained ; for as this desiccation increased, and the 
pools became smaller, the fervid sun heated the little 
remaining water to such an overpowering extent, that 
the fish, half suffocated, turned on their backs and 
became an easy prey to the numerous green-and- 
brown- striped iguanas that eagerly thronged their 
brinks for food. As we approached, these horrid- 
looking reptiles hurried off like frightened cats to 
their hiding-places, some bearing fish away in their 
mouths, whilst others, less composed, dropped what 
they had half devoured, to evade us all the more 
readily. This intense fear of man is caused by their 
being the negro's game, who eat them with the same 
kind of pleasure and relish which a Frenchman has 
for frogs. Cheerily did we trip along, for Bombay — 
astonished at my oddities or peculiarities, as he thought 
them, when I picked up a river shell, or dilated much 
on the antelopes and birds we sometimes saw — broke 
into a series of yarns about his former life, and of the 
wild animals with which he was familiar in his father- 
land. He seemed to me a surprisingly indefatigable 
walker, for he joked and talked and walked as briskly 
at the end of thirty miles as he did at starting. As 
the sun was setting we repassed the place where the 
hippopotamus had been slain, but not a vestige of his 
flesh or a bone remained to mark the place — every mor- 
sel had been carried off for food. Ferrying across the 
river, we were heartily met by the boisterous, mirth- 
ful Sultan Momba, who instantly on our landing 
shook us heartily by the hand, commented on our 



Feb.] NATURE OF THE COUNTRY. 179 

walking powers with enthusiastic pride, invited us to 
his palace (grass hut), and gave us a royal repast. 

13th February. — We started early in the morning, 
and after crossing the Pangani, took to the beaten 
track and followed up the valley. Nearly at the out- 
set we passed over the Luangera river, close to its 
junction with the Pangani, by a tree thrown across it. 
The stream, though not broad, is deep and sullen, and, 
by native report, is infested with crocodiles. This 
may easily be imagined, for the Pangani, a much 
rougher, and therefore a less favourable river for 
them, undoubtedly is so. Here, near the junction of 
these two rivers, their united valleys cause a much 
greater expanse of alluvial ground ; and had we turned 
northwards, we might have reached Fuga in two short 
marches, by crossing over a mountain spur called 
Vugiri ; but in consideration of our men, who had to 
carry unusually heavy burdens, we determined to fol- 
low on our course up the valley by a lower and more 
easy road, passing round instead of over this spur. 
With the Vugiri hills overhanging us on the right, 
like a bluff high wall, prettily decked with bush and 
tree, and the boisterous Pangani murmuring on the 
left hand, which now in many places was divided by 
little inhabited islands, we tracked along the valley 
until we reached Pasunga, when we left the river still 
coming from the north-west, and then, turning sharp- 
ly round the extreme western point of the Vugiri 
spur, we entered on a cultivated plain in a direct line 
facing Fuga. Here, on the second day, being over- 



180 TANGANYIKA LAKE. [1857. 

taken by a fierce storm, we put up in some sheds 
outside a village. There were three small cones, called 
Mbara, close to us west by north ; but besides these, 
to the northward, there was nothing save an uninter- 
rupted plain of the densest jungle leading up to the 
Makumbara mountains, about ten miles distant. The 
village itself was enshrouded in a dense thicket, which 
was entered by the narrowest of passages, cut through 
branches for security's sake, and was further protected 
by piles and stakes against the attacks of enemies. 
Everybody here feels an insecurity to life and property, 
which makes people wonder how they ever can be 
happy. Prosperous they are not, and never will be, 
until such time as enlightened men may happen to 
come amongst them to teach their chiefs the art of 
governing. Of all villages the most secure from 
attack seem those that are situated on the river 
islands, where the division of the stream affords a 
natural moat, which no African art can overcome. 

15th February. — After waiting for a few hours this 
morning for the rain to subside, we got under way 
and made straight for Fuga. The first half of the 
journey led us by well - beaten footpaths through 
flat cultivated fields of sugar - cane and bananas, 
tamarind - trees, papaws, and various jungle shrubs, 
filling up the non-arable surface ; and then began a 
steep ascent by rudely-beaten zigzags, to ease the 
abruptness of the hill, on which the capital is situated. 
The whole face of this hill was clothed with large tim- 
ber trees, around which, here and there, entwining their 



Feb.] THE EAST COAST EANGE. 181 

trunks, clung the delicate sarsaparilla vine ; and be- 
neath them flourished, as by spontaneous growth, the 
universal plantain, a vegetable grown in this country 
as we do corn, and, like it also, regarded as the 
staff of life. At length, after a little hard toiling, we 
emerged from this prodigious wooding, and found our- 
selves on a naked, bold, prominent point overlooking 
the whole plain we had left behind, and from which 
we could clearly see its entire dimensions. To the 
northward, as already said, was the Makumbara range, 
a dense compact mass of solid -looking hills, much 
higher than the spur we stood upon, but joining it to 
the north-eastward ; whilst its other extremity shot 
out to the north-westward, until it seemed as though 
it were suddenly cut off by the Pangani river. 

Beyond the river, again, looking across the western 
extremity, but farther back than it, other large hills, 
bedimmed by distance, could be seen tending in a 
south-westerly direction, which in all probability are 
a link of the longitudinal chain, which, as our maps 
will show, fringe the whole of the southern continent 
of Africa.'" The country directly beyond the river 
valley rose into gentle undulations, but on this side all 
was flat and densely wooded, save in one little spot to 

* In future I shall call this fringe or mountain-chain the East Coast 
Eange, in contradistinction to the same hill-formation on the western 
coast of Africa ; for it must be remembered that there are three great 
leading features in the geographical formation of Africa — viz., a low 
exterior belt of land, or margin to the continent, varying in breadth 
according to circumstances, which is succeeded by a high belt of moun- 
tains or rugged ground, separating the lowlands from a high interior 
plateau, lying like a basin within the fringe of hills. 



182 TANGANYIKA LAKE. [1857. 

the north-west of the Mbara cones, where a sheet of 
water or small lake made a bald conspicuous place — 
and here it was, by native report, that elephants and 
other large game abounded. 

Having now completed the survey, we proceeded 
along the shoulder of the hill just ascended, and pass- 
ing by a ferruginous spring, soon arrived unexpectedly 
to its inhabitants at Fuga, the capital of Usumbara, 
and presented ourselves to the astonished Fugaites, 
who naturally began to question what could possibly 
be the meaning of this stolen march on them ; for, 
contrary to the laws of the land, no permission to 
enter their citadel had been asked, and consequently 
no one was prepared to see or receive us. Access to 
the village was strictly forbidden to us strangers, 
until at least the king, whose palace is situated some 
distance from it, had been consulted with in a certain 
form of ridiculous ceremony, which, for politeness' sake, 
we felt ourselves bound to assent to, but in the mean- 
while we took possession of some huts close to it, 
where Mr Krapf, our Church missionary, had some 
years previously, when visiting this place, taken up 
his abode. 

A deputation was now sent with our compliments 
to the king, Kimueri, soliciting an audience ; and just 
before sunset they returned to say we must remain 
where we were for the present, as the king was in doubt 
about our intentions, regarding us with suspicion, as we 
had come through the territories of his enemies, the 
Wazegura, which was tantamount to a hostile decla- 



Feb.] KING KIMUEEI. 183 

ration ; and, moreover, he required leisure for his 
mganga or magic-man to divine what time would be 
propitious for an interview. The old man was in the 
wane of life, being upwards, it was said, of one hun- 
dred years of age, and his people thought he must die. 
Hearing this, Captain Burton, playing with his super- 
stitious credulity, devised a plan by which he at 
once gained access to him. The king was lying on a 
cartel in a small round hut, encompassed on his near 
side by swarthy -looking counsellors, who smoked small 
pipes and sat on low three-legged stools. Sultan 
Majid's introductory letter was now read, and all 
seemed satisfied as to who we were. We then returned 
to our lodgings, and found a bullock and some meal 
of Indian corn and plantains sent as a honorarium 
after us. Next morning, agreeably to promise, at the 
king's direction, a guide came to show us about the 
place, in order that Captain Burton might be able 
to pick some leaves or herbs to make a certain de- 
coction which would insure longevity ; but as none 
such could be found, and the old king had seen 
through the trick, entrance to the " town " was still 
forbidden. 

Whilst wandering about, however, we chanced to 
see a number of negroes turn out and chase down an 
antelope. It was a very small rufous-brown animal, 
much about the size and shape of the Kakur deer of 
the Himalayas ; but what struck me most was, the 
peculiarity of its having, unlike all hitherto known 
African species, four points of horns. In consequence 



184 TANGANYIKA LAKE. [1857. 

of this great novelty, I tried to purchase its head, but 
the greedy savages who caught it, coveting the flesh, 
would not, for any consideration, let me have it, and 
I never saw another killed. Rain poured down in 
torrents at night, and the days remained so cloudy, 
that we felt the kuzi or little monsoon had now fairly 
set in, and the sooner we could get away from the 
high lands so much the better for us. In the even- 
ing (15th February), therefore, we sent our return 
presents to the king, and asked permission to be 
allowed to go. A very civil reply was given, with 
certain additions, for which I could not help admir- 
ing him ; but he would not accept the present, and 
we might go whenever we pleased. 

Thinking to obviate to the best of my ability any 
differences with these benighted but cunning people, 
and to leave as favourable an impression of our visit 
as I could, I advised Captain Burton to distribute 
amongst the ministers those things which had been 
brought for the king, and this accordingly was done, 
but not without considerable debate, and the finally 
reluctant sanction of the king.'" The next morning 
(16th February) saw us descending the heights of 
Fuga, and in a few hours' walk we left the cool con- 
genial air incidental to 4000 or 5000 feet, for the 
hot, damp, morbid, close atmosphere of the jungle 
plains below, in which, as Miss Nightingale would 
sav > y° u could palpably smell a fever. Then folio w- 

* The officers of state cannot receive a present without the sanction 
of the government. 



Feb.] RETURN TO CHOGUE. 185 

ing the old route, we came down to the Pangani ; and 
in three days' travelling along it, as Captain Burton, 
being no sportsman, would not stop for shooting, we 
put up once more at Kohode, with Sultan Momba. 

19th February. — To vary the way and gain a bet- 
ter knowledge of the river, we now determined to 
follow it all the way down to Chogue, which we made 
on the third day, spending the two intervening nights 
at the Wazegura villages of Kiranga and Kizungu. 
The valley, though much varied, was generally con- 
tracted by the closing in of the rolling terminal abut- 
ments of the Tongue hill, on the one side — with 
rising land, and little conical hills almost joining, 
which overhung the river on the right bank in Uze- 
gura, on the other side. We seldom met any people 
on the line of march ; and the land being totally un- 
cultivated, excepting in the immediate vicinity of 
these villages, we felt as though we were travelling 
through a desert wild of dreary jungle — which, indeed, 
it was. No animals, and scarcely any birds, moved 
about to cheer and keep the road alive ; and all was 
silent, save the constant gurgling, rumbling sound of 
the river's waters as they rushed rapidly over boulders 
and often plunged down many little falls in the bed 
of the stream. On passing the point opposite to 
Tongue Fort, we saw the cause which produced the 
sound like a cataract, which formerly we had heard 
when standing on its summit. It was, indeed, a cas- 
cade of considerable dimensions, and would, doubtless, 
be a sight of pleasing grandeur when the river is full. 



186 TANGANYIKA LAKE. [1857. 

In the afternoon of the 22d, as we approached 
Chogue, the little Beluch jemadar, with the rest of 
the guard, turned out to welcome us, and gloat over 
the successful termination of an artful trick he felt 
himself the father of. He spread mats for us to sit 
upon, and brought the universal coffee-pot and some 
sweetmeats as a relish to refresh us and increase the 
triumph ; for the little man, no doubt, thought he 
had gained his prize. 

The next three days were spent in making different 
excursions, shooting hippopotami in the vicinity of 
the outpost ; and on the 26th February we returned 
to Pangani, Captain Burton dropping down the river 
in a canoe, whilst I, to complete the survey of the 
country and to check my former work on the river, 
walked with Bombay to Pombui, ferried across the 
stream there, and came by the right bank down to 
Bueni, on the shore of the Pangani Bay. Here I 
recrossed the river again, and found Sheikh Said 
and my " boy " Gaetano, with all the traps arranged, 
ready at the old house for our reception. Our vessel 
had been discharged at the expiration of the first 
month's engagement, and we were now expecting a 
second one from Zanzibar, to continue the cruise south- 
ward along the shore, and gain a fuller knowledge of 
the various entrepots of caravans. I had by this time 
become much attached to Bombay, for I must say I 
never saw any black man so thoroughly honest and 
conscientious as he was, added to which, his generosity 
was unbounded ; and I thought (as we shall see after- 



March.] MY MAN BOMBAY. 187 

wards proved to be the case) he would turn out a 
most valuable servant for the future journey — a regu- 
lar " Friday." The only difficulty now was how to 
obtain his discharge from the service he was in ; but 
this the jemadar, who followed us down to Pangani 
to receive the wages for the men who accompanied us 
to Fuga, said he would arrange, if Bombay felt willing, 
and would leave a substitute to act for him whilst he 
was away. A compact was accordingly concluded, by 
which Bombay became my servant for the time being, 
at five dollars per mensem, with board and lodging 
on the journey found him. The jemadar now left us, 
with a present for himself and the hire of his men, 
and we were all alone. 

On the 1st March a violent bilious fever attacked 
me, and also floored Captain Burton and Valantine. 
It appeared in the form of the yellow jack of Jamaica, 
and made us all as yellow as guineas ; and had we 
been able to perspire, I have no doubt we should have 
sweated out a sort of yellow ochre which a painter 
might have coveted. In this state we lay physick- 
ing ourselves until the 5th, when a vessel chartered 
by the Consul, and stored with delicacies of all kinds 
by our generous, thoughtful old host for the journey 
southwards, arrived, and took us off. Captain Burton 
being still under the influences of this terrible scourge, 
and very ill, even to absolute prostration, and occa- 
sionally wandering in his mind, he gave up his pro- 
jected plans, and we returned at once to Zanzibar, 
reaching it on the 6th March. 



188 TANGANYIKA LAKE. [1857. 

The Masika, or great vernal rainy season which fol- 
lows up the sun as it passes to the north, broke over 
the island of Zanzibar this year early in April, and 
was expected to last for its normal period of forty 
days. For this to subside we had now to wait here 
as patiently as we could, occupying the spare time so 
forced on us in purchasing an outfit and in preparing 
for the journey. It w T as highly interesting to see here 
at this season of the year, as we well could do, so near 
the equator, the regular systematic procession of the 
wind and rain following up the sun in its northward 
passage. The atmosphere, at this time and place, was 
heated and rarefied by the vertical rays of the sun ; 
that produced a vacuum, which the cold airs of the 
south taking advantage of, rush up to fill, and with 
their coldness condense the heated vapours drawn up 
daily from the ocean and precipitate them back again 
on the earth below. This occurring and continually 
repeating day by day, for a certain time, nearly in 
the same place, fills the air with electric excitement, 
which causes thunder and lightning to accompany 
nearly every storm. The atmospheric air's being 
so surcharged with electricity was palpably felt by 
the nervous system ; at any rate, judging from 
myself, I can only say I experienced a nervous 
sensibility I never knew before, of being startled 
at any sudden accident. A pen dropping from the 
table even would make me jump. Whilst stopping 
here, the Colonel's house was one continuous scene of 
pleasure and festivities. The British Consulate was 



March.] HOSPITALITIES OF THE CONSULATE. 189 

the common rendezvous of all men : Arab, Hindi, 
German, French, or American, were all alike received 
without distinction or any forced restraint. Indeed, 
the old Consul literally studied the mode of making 
people happy ; and Zanzibar, instead of being an 
outlandish place, such as to make one wonder how 
men could exile themselves by coming here, was really 
a place of great enjoyment. The merchants, on the 
other hand, were not less hospitably inclined, and 
constantly entertained and gave very handsome din- 
ners. 

Besides our Consulate, there is a French and an 
American one, and the European merchants were com- 
posed of French, Germans, and Americans, — the dark- 
coloured ones being principally confined to Arabs, 
Hindis, and the Wasuahili, or coast people. Taking 
advantage of the time, especially the evenings, I spent 
most of them in rating the chronometers and getting 
all the surveying instruments into working order ; 
whilst Captain Burton, besides book-making, busied 
himself in making all the other arrangements for the 
journey, such as purchasing Venetian beads, brass wire, 
and American sheetings, &c, which come here in ship- 
loads round the Cape of Good Hope, or in buying 
donkeys for our riding and their transport. Then in 
the cool of the mornings we took social walks or rides 
through the clove plantations, or amongst the palms, 
mango-trees, and orange gardens, treating pine-apples, 
which grew like common weeds on the roadsides, as 
if they were nothing better than ordinary turnips, 



190 TANGANYIKA LAKE. [1857. 

though when placed upon the table they are certainly 
as delicious as any living fruit. The only fine houses 
are those occupied by the Europeans and the Sultan, 
and they front the harbour, which is considered a very 
good one, and is very constantly filled with shipping, 
the Sultan's men-of-war, foreign square-rigged vessels, 
and a host of buggaloes from Aden, Muscat, Catch, 
and Bombay. The back of the town is very much 
like a common Indian bazaar, but there is a hollow 
square in its centre, which nowadays is peculiar to 
this place — it is the slave-market. Immediately after 
every fresh importation, you can see in the early morn- 
ing unhappy-looking men and women, all hideously 
black and ugly, tethered to one another like horses iu 
a fair, and calculating men, knowing judges of flesh 
and limb, walking up and down, feeling their joints 
and looking out to make a bargain. Women, of course, 
sell better than the men, being fitted to more general 
purposes. For a good wife any sum might be given. 
But the saddest sight which came under my observa- 
tion was the way in which some licentious-looking 
men began a cool, deliberate inspection of a certain 
divorced culprit who had been sent back to the mar- 
ket for inconstancy to her husband. She had learnt 
a sense of decency during her conjugal life, and the 
blushes on her face now clearly showed how her heart 
was mortified at this unseemly exposure, made worse 
because she could not help it. 

The amount of information gathered by the expedi- 
tion concerning the interior of Africa at Zanzibar, I 



March.] ZANZIBAR TOPOGRAPHY. 191 

may say was nil, to use Captain Burton's own words, 
in a letter written at the British Consulate, 22d April 
1857, and published in the Proceedings of the Royal 
Geographical Society, page 52 of No. 1, vol. ii., where 
these remarkable words may be found : — " We could 
obtain no useful information from the European mer- 
chants of Zanzibar, who are mostly ignorant of every- 
thing beyond the island. The Arabs and Sawahilis, 
who were averse to, and fearful of, white travellers, 
did give us information, but it was worse than 
none." 

The orders of the Eoyal Geographical Society to 
Captain Burton were these, in short : — " The great 
object of the expedition is to penetrate inland from 
Kilwa, or some other place on the east coast of 
Africa, and make the best of your way to the reputed 
Lake of Nyassa ; to determine the position and limits 
of that lake ; to ascertain the depth and nature of its 
waters and tributaries ; to explore the country around 
it, &c. Having obtained all the information you re- 
quire in that quarter, you are to proceed northwards 
towards the range of mountains marked upon our 
maps as containing the probable sources of the Bahr 
el Abiad, which it will be your next great object to 
discover." 

Bearing these instructions in mind, Captain Burton 
naturally felt desirous of penetrating from Kilwa to 
attack the missionaries' great slug-shaped lake in the 
tail. The reason why Captain Burton was prevented 
from doing so, I shall show again by a reference to 



192 TANGANYIKA LAKE. [1857. 

the same letter. He writes thus : — " The accounts 
formerly made in Europe about the facility of pene- 
trating inland from Kilwa (Quiloa), and the economy 
of travel in that region, are fabulous. The southern 
Sawahili are more hostile to explorers than the in- 
habitants of the northern maritime towns, and their 
distance from the seat of government renders them 
daring by impunity. But last year they persuaded 
the Waginda tribe of the interior to murder a peace- 
ful Arab merchant, in order that strangers might 
be deterred from interfering with their commerce. 
Messrs Krapf and Erhardt, of the Mombas mission, 
spent a few hours at Kilwa, where they were civilly 
received by the governor and citizens, but they were 
sadly deceived in being led to imagine that they 
could make that port their starting-point." " We 
shall probably land at Bagamoyo." 

Now we did land at Kaole, close to Bagamoyo, but 
the route from Kilwa to Nyassa was afterwards safely 
traversed by Dr Boscher, though, after that, Boscher 
was murdered by some thieves in Whiyow.* 

Having said this much, which shows that Captain 
Burton was bent on going by the great caravan road 
to Ujiji, I shall first of all dwell on the nature of the 
men we took with us, what agreements they made, 
and what pays they received. I feel bound to state 
this, as I was called on by the Consul to witness the 
agreements, and much of the journey was performed 

* The murderers of Dr Boscher were sent to Zanzibar by the chief of 
their tribe, and were executed by orders of the Sultan. 



April.] ENLISTING MEN. 193 

by myself alone ; added to which, the funds of the 
expedition fell short, and as soon as it did so, I made 
a compact with Captain Burton that, in the event of 
the Government not paying our excess of expenditure, 
I would pay him the half of all those expenses ; and 
I did so to the extent of £600 after the journey was 
over. 

Our cafila bashi (head of caravan) was Sheikh 
Said, who went with us to Mombas. He said he would 
go with us if we only went to Ujiji on the Tanganyika 
Lake, but he would not go on any other line, as his 
relatives feared some accident might befall him. For 
this he received from Colonel Hamerton 500 dollars ; 
and he was promised, if he succeeded in pleasing us, 
1000 dollars more, and a gold watch, on his return. 
There was a little more difficulty in getting a Beluch 
escort, for the Consul cautioned us that we could not 
expect the Sultan to give one gratis. He asked the 
Sultan, however, for men, and we were told we might 
have them out of his army if they would volunteer. 
The head jemadar then came to make a bargain, and 
we said we would give to each man five dollars a-month, 
besides rations and clothing the same as Bombay got. 
This bait would not take, and we could not get one 
man until the Consul again spoke to the Sultan about 
it. A party then were marched up to the Consulate, 
when, in addition to the pay already offered, they de- 
manded flesh as often as we killed a goat, bullock, or 
sheep, but they would not serve more than six months. 
To this last stipulation, arguing on my Somali experi- 

N 



194 TANGANYIKA LAKE. [1857. 

ences, I stoutly objected, but was overruled both by 
Colonel Hamerton and Captain Burton. The Colonel 
then gave the jemadar of our party a present of 25 
dollars, and to each of the privates 20 dollars, to set 
themselves up for the journey, Further, he promised 
them a handsome reward on their return if they 
served us well, to be paid out of some public fund in 
the same way as he paid Sheikh Said. 

The rest of our escort consisted of some slaves, who 
were furnished us by a Banyan named Ramji. They 
were armed with muskets, and enlisted not to carry 
loads, but to guard us and treat with the native chiefs 
on the line of march, as they were familiar with the 
road to Ujiji, and were friends with the chiefs we 
should find there. Their pay was fixed at 5 dollars 
a -month, half of which they were to keep them- 
selves, and the other half to be given to their master 
in compensation for the loss of their services. Further, 
six months' wages at this rate was to be paid in 
advance, and the remainder when the journey was 
over ; but leaving a clause to the effect that they 
might be discharged at any time, supposing we did 
not require their services further. 

Everybody at Zanzibar did his best to assist us, from 
the Sultan downwards. The European merchants gave 
us most hospitable entertainments on a very grand 
scale, and Mr Oswald, in particular, transported our 
spare boxes to England. Ladha, the customs master, 
was our banker, and found our outfit of beads, brass 
wire, and cloths, which is the circulating medium in 



June.] - CROSS OVER TO KAOLE. 195 

inner Africa instead of money. Colonel Hamerton 
was so anxious for the success of the expedition, that 
he obtained a man-of-war — the corvette Artemise — 
from the Sultan on the 16th June 1857, and accom- 
panied us over to Kaole on the mainland, notwith- 
standing at the time he was dangerously ill. For 
some time we were detained here collecting baggage 
animals to carry our property. All we wanted 
could not be procured, as the bulk of the pagazis (por- 
ters) had been previously hired by the ivory merchant 
traders. However, thirty-six men were sent forward 
to Zungomero by Ladha, and we bought thirty don- 
keys. When all was done that could be done in a 
hurry, we bade the generous old Colonel adieu, as well 
as his medical attendant, Mr Frost, and commenced 
the journey inland on the 27th June— Ladha promis- 
ing to send the rest of our property after us as soon 
as he could find carriage for it. 

I have already published, in my 'Journal of the 
Discovery of the Source of the Nile/ a description of 
the countries we had to pass through to reach Kaze, so 
I shall not trouble the reader with the details on that 
point, contained in my previous publication. Suffice 
it to say that Kaze is a place in the centre of 
Unyamuezi, the Land of the Moon, situated in S. 
lat. 5°, and E. long. 33°. It is occupied by Arab 
merchants as a central trading depot, and is fast 
expanding into a colony. At the time of our starting 
we did not know that, but imagined we should find a 
depot of that sort at Ujiji. Travelling through the 



196 TANGANYIKA LAKE. [1857. 

country of Uzaramo, both Captain Burton and I con- 
tracted fevers. Mine occasionally recurred at various 
intervals, but his stuck to him throughout the jour- 
ney, and even lasted till some time after he came home. 

At Zungomero we overtook the porters that Ladha 
had sent forward. I calculated our rate of expendi- 
ture, found we had not enough for the necessities of 
the journey, and prevailed on Captain Burton to write 
back for more, notwithstanding our Government sub- 
sidy was out ; for I could not brook the idea of fail- 
ure, even though we might have to pay our future 
travelling expenses out of our own pockets. 

I was also shocked here to hear that our good stanch 
friend, Colonel Hamerton, had died shortly after we 
left him. It struck a blow also on the minds of 
Sheikh Said and the Beluches, for they naturally 
thought their security was gone. Sheikh Said, how- 
ever, I must say, very much to his credit, soon shook 
off his fears, and even told the Beluches to do the 
same, for another consul would come who would see 
justice done to them. 

We then left Zungomero and crossed the East Coast 
Eange. During this stage the Beluches one day struck 
for food, as they were disappointed at our not killing 
goats, the fact being that I had supplied our table 
with guinea-fowls. An altercation took place which 
I had to settle, as was invariably the case when any 
difficulties arose in the camp. I managed the matter 
by ordering a march. This brought them to reason, 
for hitherto they thought we should be afraid to go 



Nov.] ARRIVAL AT KAZE. 197 

without them. The consequence was that, finding 
themselves left behind, they forgot their wrath and 
followed us. On the way they found Captain Bur- 
ton lying by the roadside prostrate with fever, and, 
taking compassion on him, brought him into camp. 
They were forgiven ; but another difficulty arose in 
consequence of our donkeys dying faster than their 
loads were consumed, so that we could not have 
proceeded had not some of Ramji's slaves carried 
some loads for us. Our supplies were already too 
short for our journey ; nevertheless, Captain Burton 
said he would pay them if they carried our loads. 

They did so ; but Captain Burton, on my saying we 
should find it difficult to keep faith with them, mildly 
replied, " Arabs made promises in that way, but never 
kept them ; and, moreover, slaves of this sort never 
expected to be paid." I grew angry at this declara- 
tion — for I had seen Tibet ruined by officers not keep- 
ing faith with their porters — and argued the matter, 
but without effect. On arrival at Ugogi, on the west 
flank of the East Coast Range, our cattle were so com- 
pletely done up that we could not have proceeded, 
had it not happened, by the greatest luck in the world, 
we found some pagazis here desirous of going to their 
homes in Unyamuezi. They had been left there by a 
caravan in consequence of a quarrel w T hich originated 
in seduction. This lift took us over the interior 
plateau across TJgogo and Mgunda Mkhali to Kaze, 
where we arrived on the 7th November 1857. The 
Arabs we found collected here were extremely obliging, 



198 TANGANYIKA LAKE. [1857. 

especially one Sheikh Snay, who furnished us with a 
house, looked after our wants, and supplied us with 
much useful information. 

On my opening Messrs Rebmann and Erhardt's map, 
and asking him where Nyassa was, he said it was a 
distinct lake from Ujiji, lying to the southward. This 
opened our eyes to a most interesting fact, for the first 
time discovered. I then asked what the word Uker- 
ewe meant, and was answered in the same way, that 
it was a lake to the northward, much larger than 
Ujiji, and this solved the mystery. The missionaries 
had run three lakes into one. In great glee at this 
I asked Snay, through Captain Burton, whether or not 
a river ran out of that lake ? to which he replied, he 
thought the lake was the source of the Jub river; and 
he strongly advised us, if our only motive in coming 
here was to look at a large piece of water, to go to it 
instead of on to Ujiji. Captain Burton and I argued 
that we thought the lake in question, which was the 
Victoria N yanza, would more likely prove to be the 
source of the Nile, from the simple fact of our know- 
ing the Jub to be separated from the interior plateau 
by the East Coast Range. Time wore on. Our pa- 
gazis all left us, as is usual, on their arriving at their 
homes, and we had to procure more to carry our traps 
on to Ujiji. 

Captain Burton attempted to get porters by giving 
presents to the best two men we had for that purpose, 
but without the least effect. They promised and kept 
us waiting, but never performed. In the mean time 



Nov.] LOCAL INFORMATION. 199 

Captain Burton got desperately ill, whilst I picked up 
all the information I could gather from the Arabs, with 
Bombay as an interpreter."" I heard that the Babisa, 
who live on the west of Nyassa, came to the south- 
east corner of Tanganyika in quest of ivory for the 
Kilua merchants. That caravans sometimes reached 
the Cazembe country by land, crossing the Manungu 
river, and also went to Katata for copper, which is of a 
dark rich red colour, and more prized than the imported 
copper. Some Arabs also went down the Tanganyika, 
disembarked at Manungu, and reached Cazembe. 
Further, I heard from Snay and his associates that the 
Kitangule and Katouga rivers ran out of the Ukerewe 
Lake (Victoria N yanza), and that another river, which 
is the Nile, but supposed by them to be the upper por- 
tions of the Jub river, ran into the N'yanza. Further 
conversation explained this away, and I made them 
confess that all these rivers ran exactly contrary to the 
way they first stated ; as it was obvious, if the N'yanza 
was the source of the Jub, the last river alluded to 
must flow out of the lake instead of into it, as they had 
said. Still more extraordinary than this, I heard from 
Snay that vessels frequented some waters to the 
northward of the equator, which confirmed some 
statement I had heard of the same nature in 1855 
when travelling in the Somali country. I could not 
fix in my own mind exactly what this alluded to ; but 

* To save repetition, I may as well mention the fact that neither 
Captain Burton nor myself were able to converse in any African lan- 
guage until we were close to the coast on the return journey. 



200 TANGANYIKA LAKE. [1857. 

I felt so curious to find out, and so sure in my own 
mind that the Victoria N yanza would prove to be the 
source of the Nile, I proposed going to see it at once, 
instead of going on to Ujiji. The route, however, 
to the northward was said to be dangerous — Usui 
alone would seize all our property — and Captain Bur- 
ton preferred going west. How this even was to be 
managed then seemed very dubious, for not one of 
Kamji's slaves would come near us, and the Beluches 
were so tired of the journey they begged for their 
discharge, crying it was their due, as they had served 
their turn of service. They wanted no pay if we 
wxmld only give them certificates of satisfaction. We 
would not do this ; and then they said, as they saw 
we wanted them, they would not desert us. 

We had now been at Kaze rather more than a 
month, and I thought Captain Burton would die if we 
did not make a move, so I begged him to allow me to 
assume the command pro tern., and I would see what 
I could do to effect a move. Accordingly, as he 
agreed, I made arrangements with Snay, and trans- 
ported half our property to Zimbili, where I prepared 
a house for Captain Burton's reception on the 5th 
December. Three days after he was carried over, and 
he begged me to take account of his effects, as he 
thought he would die. I cheered him up, and found 
the change of air had the effect I desired. Still 
Eamji's men would not come out to camp, so I tried 
with Bombay to see what they had at heart, and then 
it transpired they had not been paid for carrying loads 



Dec] MOUNTAINS OF THE MOON. 201 

on from the East Coast Range to Kaze. In a minute 
I recollected Captain Burton's promise to them, brought 
them into the camp, and paid them their dues. 

Bit by bit we pushed on to Msene, another small 
colony occupied chiefly by Wasuahili, and here we 
ate our Christmas dinner. The country was rich 
in the extreme, and well under rice cultivation. 
Ramji's men were quite in their element here, and 
even Bombay became so love-sick we could hardly 
tear him away. We broke ground on the 10th Janu- 
ary 1858, but not until three days after did the whole 
of our men join us. I saw now we had too many 
mouths to feed ; and as Ramji's men had been hired 
more for show than work, their term of service had 
just expired, and I did not think we should require 
their guns any more, I begged Captain Burton to give 
them a present each, with leave to go to their homes 
— for it must be remembered they possess homes in 
Unyamuezi as well as at Zanzibar. The men craved 
to be allowed to go on with us, but I, more than any 
one else, insisted we ought to get rid of them, for the 
reasons stated above ; and so they were discharged. I 
found we were on a great decline of the country drain- 
ing to the westward ; the soil was deeper and richer, 
and the vegetation proportionately richer as we went 
on with the journey. Shortly we crossed the Mala- 
garazi river in a bark canoe at the Mpete ferry, and 
found that, after having travelled along this decline 
from Kaze about one hundred and fifty miles, we be- 
gan to ascend at the eastern horn of a large crescent- 



202 TANGANYIKA LAKE. [1858. 

shaped mass of mountains overhanging the northern 
half of the Tanganyika Lake, which I am now about 
to describe. 

This mountain mass I consider to be the true 
Mountains of the Moon, regarding which so many 
erroneous speculations have been ventured. I infer 
this because they lie beyond Unyamuezi (country of 
the Moon), and must have been first mentioned to 
geographical inquirers by the Wanyamuezi (people of 
the Moon), who have from time out of mind visited 
the coast, and must have been the first who gave 
information of them. T am the more satisfied of the 
correctness of this view from observing the mission- 
aries' map; for what could have induced them to call 
their great lake, in general terms, the Sea of the Moon, 
except that it lay beyond the country of the Moon \ * 
The mountains form a crescent overhanging the north 
end of the lake, large and deep in the body to the 
north, and tapering to horns as they stretch south- 
wards down the east and west sides of the lake. Our 
line of march, about six hundred rectilinear geographi- 
cal miles, had been nearly due west from Zanzibar. 
Here you may picture to yourself my bitter disap- 

* Another question suggests itself. How did Ptolemy hear of the two 
lakes which he considered were the sources of the Nile ? It is obvious 
he could not have done so by the channel of the Nile, for the Anthro- 
pophagi barred all communication in that direction. Here, however, 
the route from Zanzibar to the Tanganyika Lake and the Victoria 
N'yanza, in all probability, was kept open by the trading " Men of the 
Moon ;" and thus two lakes were heard of situated east and west of 
one another, just in convenient situations to fit on to the two branches 
of Ptolemy's Nile. 



Jan.] THE AUTHOR'S BLINDNESS. 203 

pointment when, after toiling through so many miles 
of savage life, all the time emaciated by divers sick- 
nesses and weakened by great privations of food and 
rest, I found, on approaching the zenith of my ambi- 
tion, the Great Lake in question nothing but mist and 
glare before my eyes. From the summit of the east- 
ern horn the lovely Tanganyika Lake could be seen 
in all its glory by everybody but myself. The fact 
was, that fevers and the influence of a vertical sun 
had reduced my system so, that inflammation, caught 
by sleeping on the ground during this rainy season, 
attacked my eyes, brought on an almost total blind- 
ness, and rendered every object before me enclouded 
as by a misty veil. Proceeding onwards down the 
western slopes of the hill, we soon arrived at the mar- 
gin of the lake, and hired a canoe at Ukaranga to take 
us to Ujiji, the chief place on the lake which Arabs 
frequent. This is a name we had long been familiar 
with, and is the term by which the Arabs in general 
call this lake. This mode of nomenclature is quite 
in accordance with the usual custom of semi-civilised 
people, as we see in Arabia, where the Arabs call the 
Eed Sea by the names of the different ports which 
they frequent. Thus, for instance, at Jeddah, it is 
called by them the Sea of Jeddah, whilst at Suez it 
is the Sea of Suez, &c. &c. The Tanganyika Lake, 
lying between 3° and 8° south latitude, and in 29° 
east longitude, has a length of three hundred miles, 
and is from thirty to forty broad in its centre. The 
surface-level, as I ascertained by the temperature of 



204 TANGANYIKA LAKE. [1858. 

boiling water, is only eighteen hundred feet, and it 
appears quite sunk into the lap of these mountains. 
Its waters are very sweet, and abound with deli- 
cious fish in great variety. The fertility of the 
northern end of the lake surpassed anything we had 
hitherto seen ; but this was not surprising when 
duly considered. The hills, instead of being, as on 
the great plateau we had recently left, outcrops of 
granite, were composed of argillaceous sandstone. 
Eains there lasted all the year round, and the tem- 
perature was very considerable. In consequence of 
this the sides of the lake are thickly inhabited by 
numerous tribes of the true negro breed, amongst 
which the most conspicuous are the Wabembe canni- 
bals, into whose territory no Arabs durst ever venture. 
Bombay, my interpreter, describes them as being very 
dreadful creatures, who are " always looking out for 
some of our sort/' The port we finally arrived at is 
called Kawele, a small village in the Ujiji district. 
Here we landed all our property, and took up our 
abode in a deserted house, which had been left to de- 
cay by some Arab merchants. The Beluch guard 
received a present of cloth ; they seemed very glad the 
land march was at an end. In that respect we felt 
the same as our men ; but we found ourselves in the 
hands of a very ill-disposed chief, called Kannina — 
tyrannical, and, as such savages invariably are, utterly 
unreasonable. A heavy tribute was paid for the advan- 
tages, of this savage monster s protection, and we were 
too short of beads and cloth to search out for and pay 



Jan.] ARRIVE AT UJIJI. 205 

another chief of more moderate inclinations. This 
was a serious misfortune ; for, having once entered his 
dominions and established our headquarters there, 
we could not very well leave them. This was the more 
distressing, as comfort, pleasure, and everything is at 
the mercy of these headsmen's wills, and we were 
destined for a long sojourn here. To war with these 
chiefs is like " cutting off the nose to spite the face." 
Nobody, let his desire be what it may, dares assist 
you without the chief s full approbation ; and Kannina's 
austere government we had occasion to feel from first 
to last. Our first object on arrival was to get boats 
for the survey of the lake ; but here arose a difficulty. 
Hostilities were rife with nearly all the border tribes ; 
and the little cockle-shell canoes, made from the hol- 
lowed trunks of trees, are not only liable to be driven 
ashore by the slightest storm, but are so small that 
there is but little stowage-room in them for carrying 
supplies. The sailors, aware of this defect, fear to 
venture anywhere except on certain friendly beats, 
and therefore their boats were quite unfitted for our 
work. 

This dilemma made us try to hire a dhow or sail- 
ing-vessel, belonging to Sheikh Hamed bin Suleyim, 
living at Kasenge Island, on the opposite or western 
shore, as it was the only boat afloat on these waters 
fitted for carrying provisions and moving about inde- 
pendent of the border clans. On arriving here, we 
were so disabled by sickness — Captain Burton utterly, 
and I suffering from ophthalmia, and a weakness in the 



206 TANGANYIKA LAKE. [1858. 

lower extremities resembling paralysis — that my com- 
panion proposed sending our Eas-cafila, Sheikh Said, 
across the lake to bargain for the dhow, and applied 
to Kannina for the means of transport. At first he 
seemed inclined to treat, though at an exorbitant 
rate ; but when we came direct to terms, he backed 
entirely out. Fortunately we obtained a boat and 
crew from another chief, at the extortionate charge 
of four kitinclis and four dhotis merikani, besides the 
usual sailors' fee. The dhoti is a piece of Ameri- 
can sheeting measuring eight cubits. The cubit is 
still the negro's yard, the same as was adopted at the 
time of the Flood ; they have no other measure than 
that with which nature has provided them — viz., the 
first joint of the arm, or from the elbow to the top of 
the middle finger. These kitindis are a sort of brass- 
wire bracelet worn on the lower arm by the negro 
females, coiled up from the wrist to the elbow, like a 
wax taper circling up a stick or stem. Sometimes 
this wire is reformed and coiled flat out round the 
neck to a breadth of about eight inches, and gives 
the wearer's head much the appearance of John the 
Baptist's standing in the middle of a charger. These 
necklaces are never taken off", so at night, or resting- 
time, the wearer on lying down places a block of 
wood or stone beneath his head, to prevent the wire 
from galling. This concession of the chief was given 
under the proviso that Kannina would not object, 
which, strange to say, he promised not to do ; and 
hopes were entertained of an early departure. How- 



Feb.] DISAGREEABLE CHIEF. 207 

ever, this, like every other earthly expectation in 
these black regions, was destined to be disappointed. 
In the first place, an African must do everything 
by easy stages, nor can he entertain two ideas in 
his head at the same moment. First a crew had to 
be collected, and when collected to be paid, and 
when paid the boat was found to be unseaworthy, 
and must be plugged ; and so much time elapsed, and 
plans were changed. But after all, things, it hap- 
pened, were wisely ordained ; for the time thus wasted 
served to recruit my health, as I employed it in bath- 
ing and strolling gently about during the cool of the 
mornings and evenings, and so gained considerable 
benefit. There is a curious idea here with regard to 
the bathing-place, in fancying the dreaded crocodile 
will obey the mandates of a charm. They plant the 
bough of a particular tree in the water about fifty 
yards from the • shore, which marks the line of safe 
bathing, for within it they say the animal dares not 
venture. At noon, protected by an umbrella, and 
fortified with stained-glass spectacles, I usually visited 
the market-place, with beads in hand, to purchase 
daily supplies. The market is held between the hours 
of 10 a.m. and 4 p.m., near the port, and consists of a 
few temporary huts, composed of grass and branches 
hastily tied together. Most of these are thrown up 
day by day. The commodities brought for sale are 
fish, flesh, tobacco, palm oil, and spirits, different kinds 
of potatoes, artichokes, several sorts of beans, plan- 
tains, melons, cotton, sugar-cane, a variety of pulse 



208 TANGANYIKA LAKE. [1858. 

and vegetables, ivories, and sometimes slaves. Be- 
tween these perambulations, I spent the day reclining 
with my eyes shut. At length, after eighteen days' 
negotiations, improved by these constitutional diver- 
sions and rest, and longing for a change, especially 
one that led across the sea, and afforded the means 
of surveying it, I proposed to go myself, and treat 
directly with Sheikh Hamed. Captain Burton threw 
obstacles in my way at first, saying canoes were not 
safe on such a large lake, but he finally gave in when 
I pressed the advisability of my doing so. This in- 
tention soon reached the ears of Kannina, who, fearing 
that he might thus lose much cloth, threw obstacles 
in the way, and most unjustly demanded as large a 
passport-fee for my crossing as had been given to the 
other chief; which demand we were obliged to com- 
ply with, or the men w T ould not take up an oar. 



March.] CRUISE ON THE TANGANYIKA. 209 



CHAPTER II. 

CANOES— THE CREWS — THE BIOGRAPHY OF BOMBAY — THE VOY- 
AGE—CROCODILES — THE LAKE SCENERY — KIVIRA ISLAND — 
BLACK BEETLES — AN ADVENTURE WITH ONE OF THEM — 
KASENGE ISLAND — AFRICAN SLAVERY. 

3d March 1858. — All being settled, I set out in a 
long narrow canoe, hollowed out of the trunk of a 
single tree. These vessels are mostly built from large 
timbers, growing in the district of Uguhha, on the 
western side of the lake. The seats of these canoes 
are bars of wood tied transversely to the length. The 
kit taken consists of one load (60 lb.) of cloth (Ameri- 
can sheeting), another of large blue beads, a magazine 
of powder, and seven kitindis. The party is composed 
of Bombay, my interpreter ; Gaetano, the Goanese 
cook-boy ; two Beluch soldiers ; one Nakhuda or sea- 
captain, who sometimes wore a goat-skin ; and twenty 
stark -naked savage sailors : twenty-six in all. Of 
these only ten started, the remainder leaving word 
that they would follow down the coast, and meet us 
at a Jchambi (encampment), three miles distant, by 12 
o'clock. The ten, however, sufficient for the occasion, 
move merrily off at 9 a.m., and in an hour we reached 

o 



210 TANGANYIKA LAKE. [1858. 

the rendezvous, under a large spreading tree on the 
right bank of the mouth of the river Kuche. 

The party is decidedly motley. The man of quaint- 
est aspect in it is Sidi Mabarak Bombay. He is of 
the Wahiyow tribe, who make the best slaves in East- 
ern Africa. His breed is that of the true woolly- 
headed negro, though he does not represent a good 
specimen of them physically, being somewhat smaller 
in his general proportions than those one generally 
sees as stokers in our steamers that traverse the 
Indian Ocean. His head, though woodeny, like a 
barber's block, is lit up by a humorous little pair of 
pig-like eyes, set in a generous benign-looking coun- 
tenance, which, strange to say, does not belie him, for 
his good conduct and honesty of purpose are without 
parallel. His muzzle projects dog-monkey fashion, 
and is adorned with a regular set of sharp -pointed 
alligator teeth, which he presents to full view as con- 
stantly as his very ticklish risible faculties become 
excited. The tobacconist's "jolly nigger," stuck in the 

corner house of street, as it stands in mute 

but full grin, tempting the patronage of accidental 
passengers, is his perfect counterpart. This wonder- 
ful man says he knows nothing of his genealogy, nor 
any of the dates of the leading epochs of his adven- 
turous life, — not even his birth, time of captivity, or 
restoration. 

But his general history he narrated to me as fol- 
lows, which I give as he told it me, for this sketch 
may be of interest, presenting, as it does, a good char- 



March.] BOMBAY'S BIOGRAPHY. 211 

acteristic account of the manner in which slave-hunts 
are planned and carried into execution. It must be 
truthful, for I have witnessed tragedies of a similar 
nature. The great slave-hunters of Eastern Africa 
are the Wasuahili or coast people ; formerly slaves 
themselves, they are more enlightened, and fuller of 
tricks than the interior people, whom they now in 
their turn catch. Having been once caught them- 
selves, they know how to proceed, and are consequently 
very cautious in their movements, taking sometimes 
years before they finally try to accomplish their object. 
They first ensnare the ignorant unsuspicious inland- 
ers by alluring and entangling them in the treacherous 
meshes of debt, and then, by capturing and merci- 
lessly selling their human game, liquidate the debt, 
insinuatingly advanced as an irresistible decoy to 
allure their confiding victims. 

Bombay says : " I am a Mhiyow ; my father lived 
in a village in the country of Uhiyow (a large district 
situated between the east coast and the Nyassa (Lake) 
in latitude 11° S,) Of my mother I have but the 
faintest recollection ; she died whilst I was in my 
infancy. Our village was living in happy contentment, 
until the fated year when I was about the age of twelve. 
At that period a large body of Wasuahili merchants 
and their slaves, all equipped with sworcl and gun, 
came suddenly, and, surrounding our village, demanded 
of the inhabitants instant liquidation of their debts 
(cloths and beads), advanced in former times of pinch- 
ing dearth, or else to stand the consequences of refusal. 



212 TANGANYIKA LAKE. [1858. 

"As all the residents had at different times contracted 
debts to different members of the body present, there 
was no appeal against the equity of this sudden de- 
mand, but no one had the means of payment. They 
knew righting against firearms would be hopeless ; so 
after a few stratagems, looking for a good opportunity 
to bolt, the whole village took to precipitate flight. 
Most of the villagers were captured like myself ; but 
of my father, or any other relatives, I never more 
gained any intelligence. He was either shot in en- 
deavouring to defend himself, or still more probably 
gave leg-bail, and so escaped. As soon as this foray 
was over, all the captives were grouped together, and 
tethered with chains or ropes, and marched off to 
Kilua, on the east coast (in latitude 9° S.) Arrived 
there, the whole party embarked in dhows, which, set- 
ting sail, soon arrived at Zanzibar. We were then 
driven to the slave -market, where I was bought by 
an Arab merchant, and taken off to India. I served 
with this master for several years, till by his death 
I obtained my liberation. My next destination was 
Zanzibar, where I took service in the late Irnaum's 
army, and passed my days in half-starved inactivity, 
until the lucky day when, at Chongue, you saw and 
gave me service." 

Shortly after we had encamped under the rendez- 
vous tree, and begun our cooking, some villagers 
brought ivories of the elephant and hippopotamus for 
sale, but had to suffer the disappointment of meeting 
a stranger to merchandise, and straightway departed, 



March.] A STORM. 213 

fully convinced that all Wazungu (or wise, or white 
men) were mere fools for not making money, when 
they had so good an opportunity. Noon and evening 
passed without a sign of the black captain or the re- 
maining men. We were in a wretched place for a 
halt, a sloping ploughed field ; and, deceived by the 
captain's not keeping his promise, were unprepared for 
spending the night there. I pitched my tent, but the 
poor men had nothing to protect them. With the 
darkness a deluge of rain descended ; and, owing to 
the awkwardness of our position, the surcharged earth 
poured off a regular stream of water over our beds, 
baggage, and everything alike. To keep the tent 
erect — a small gable-shaped affair, six feet high, and 
seven by six square, made of American sheeting, and 
so light that with poles and everything complete it 
barely weighs one man's load — I called up the men, 
and for hours held it so by strength of arm. Even 
the hippopotami, to judge by the frequency of their 
snorts and grunts, as they indulged in their devas- 
tating excursions amongst the crops, seemed angry at 
this unusual severity of the weather. Never from the 
15th of November, when the rainy season commenced, 
had we experienced such a violent and heavy down- 
pour. 

Ath. — Halt. The morning is no improvement on 
the night. The captain now arrives with most of the 
remaining crew, fears the troubled waters, and will 
not put out to sea. In consequence of this disappoint- 
ment, a messenger is sent back to Kawele, to fetch 



214 TANGANYIKA LAKE. [1858. 

some fresh provisions and firewood, as what little of 
this latter article can be gathered in its saturated state 
is useless, for it will not burn. During the afternoon 
the remainder of the crew keep dropping in, and at 
nightfall seventeen hands are mustered. 

5th. — At 3 a.m. the sea subsides, and the boat is 
loaded. — To pack so many men together, with material, 
in so small a space as the canoe affords, seems a diffi- 
culty almost insurmountable. Still it is effected. I 
litter down amidships, with my bedding spread on 
reeds, in so short a compass that my legs keep slip- 
ping off and dangling in the bilge-water. The cook 
and bailsman sit on the first bar, facing me ; and be- 
hind them, to the stern, one-half the sailors sit in 
couples ; whilst on the first bar behind me are Bombay 
and one Beluch, and beyond them to the bow, also in 
couples, the remaining crew. The captain takes post 
in the bows, and all hands on both sides paddle in 
stroke together. 

Fuel, cooking-apparatus, food, bag and baggage, are 
thrown promiscuously under the seats. But the 
sailors' blankets, in the shape of grass matting, are 
placed on the bars to render the sitting soft. Once 
all properly arranged, the seventeen paddles dash off 
with vigour, and, steering southwards, we soon cross 
the mouth of the Euche. Next Ukaranga, the last 
village on this line down the eastern shore, lying 
snugly in a bay, with a low range of densely-wooded 
hills about three miles in its rear, is passed by dawn 
of day, and about sunrise the bay itself is lost to sight. 



March.] AN ALARM. 215 

The tired crew now hug a bluff shore, crowned with 
dense jungle, until a nook familiar to the men is en- 
tered under plea of breakfasting. Here all hands 
land, fires are kindled, and the cooking-pots arranged. 
Some prepare their rods and nets for fishing, some go 
in search of fungi (a favourite food), and others collect 
fuel. Gaetano, ever doing wrong, dips his cooking- 
pot in the sea for water — a dangerous experiment, if 
the traditions of Tanganyika hold good, that the 
ravenous hosts of crocodiles seldom spare any one 
bold enough to excite their appetites with such dregs 
as usually drop from those utensils ; moreover, they 
will follow and even board the boats, after a single 
taste. 

The sailors here have as great an aversion to being 
followed by the crocodile as our seamen by a shark, 
and they now display their feelings by looks and mut- 
terings, and strictly prohibiting the use of the cooking- 
pot on that service again. Breakfast ready, all hands 
eagerly fall to, and feast away in happy ignorance of 
any danger, when suddenly confusion enters the camp, 
and, with the alarming cry that foes are coming, all 
hurry-skurry for the boat, some with one thing, some 
with another. The greater part of the kit is left upon 
the ground. A breathless silence reigns for several 
minutes. Then one jumps off and secures his pot ; 
another succeeds him, and then more, till courage is 
gained to make a search, and ascertain the cause of 
the alarm. Sneaking, crawling in the bush, some 
peering this way, others listening that, they stealthi- 



216 TANGANYIKA LAKE. [1858. 

ly move along, until at length a single man, with 
arrow poised, in self-defence I suppose, is pounced 
upon. 

His story of why he came there, who and how 
many are his comrades, what he wants in such a desert 
place, and why he carries arms, though spoken with a 
cunning plausibility, has no effect upon the knowing 
sailors. They proclaim him and his party, some eight 
or ten men, who are clamorously squabbling in the 
jungle at no great distance, to be a rough and lawless 
set of marauders, fearing to come out and show them- 
selves on being challenged, and further insist that 
none ever ventured in such wilds who had not got in 
view some desperate enterprise. In short, it was pro- 
verbially men of their sort who were the general 
plunderers of honest navigators. They therefore seize 
his weapons, cut and break his bow and arrows, and 
let him go ; though some of the crew advocate his 
life being taken, and others, that the whole party 
should be chased down and slaughtered. The sailors 
then return to the canoe, each vaunting his part in 
this adventurous exploit, and bandying congratula- 
tions in the highest spirits. They are one and all 
as proud of this success, and each as boastful of his 
prowess, as though a mighty battle had been fought 
and won. 

On starting again we pass alongside another bluff, 
backed by small well- wooded hills, an extension of the 
aforesaid east horn of the Moon, and cross a little bay, 
when the lazy crew, tired by two hours' work, bear in 



March.] BEAUTIFUL SCENERY. 217 

with the land, and disembark, as they say, to make 
some ropes, or find some creepers long and strong 
enough for mooring this mighty canoe. It is now 
eleven o'clock ; there is more rest than work, a purely 
negro way of getting through the day; three hours 
went in idleness before, and now five more are wasted. 
Again we start, and after crossing a similar small bay, 
continue along a low shelving shore, densely wooded 
to the water s edge, until the Malagarazi river's mouth 
is gained. This river is the largest on the eastern 
shore of the lake, and was previously crossed by the 
caravan on its way from Kaze, in small bark canoes, 
much rougher, but constructed something similarly to 
those of the Americans. Each of these canoes contains 
one man and his load, besides the owner, who lives 
near the ferry, and poles the vessel across. Still to 
the eastward we have the same tree-clad hilly view, 
beautiful in itself, but tiresome in its constant same- 
ness. After a stretch, and half an hour's pipes and 
breathing, we start afresh, and cross the bay into 
which the river debouches. 

Here tall aquatic reeds diversify the surface, and 
are well tenanted by the crocodile and hippopotami, 
the latter of which keep staring, grunting, and snort- 
ing as though much vexed at our intrusion on their 
former peace and privacy. We now hug the shore, 
and continue on in the dark of night till Mgiti 
Khambi,"* a beautiful little harbour bending back 
away amongst the hills, and out of sight of the lake, 

* Khambi — Encampment. 



218 TANGANYIKA LAKE. [1858. 

is reached at 1 1 p.m. Could but a little civilised art, 
as whitewashed houses, well-trained gardens, and the 
like, vary these evergreen hills and trees, and diversify 
the unceasing monotony of hill and dale, and dale and 
hill — of green trees, green grass — green grass, green 
trees, so wearisome in their luxuriance, — what a par- 
adise of beauty would this place present ! The deep 
blue waters of the lake, in contrast with the vegetation 
and large brown rocks, form everywhere an object of 
intense attraction ; but the appetite soon wearies of 
such profusion, without the contrast of more sober 
tints, or the variety incidental to a populous and 
inhabited country. There are said to be some few 
scattered villages concealed in these dense jungles 
extending away in the background, but how the shores 
should be so desolate strikes one with much surprise. 
The naturally excessive growth of all vegetable life is 
sufficient proof of the soil's capabilities. Unless in 
former times this beautiful country has been harassed 
by neighbouring tribes, and despoiled of its men and 
cattle to satisfy the spoilers and be sold to distant mar- 
kets, its present state appears quite incomprehensible. 
In hazarding this conjecture, it might be thought that 
I am taking an extreme view of the case ; but when 
we see everywhere in Africa what one slave -hunt 
or cattle-lifting party can effect, it is not unreason- 
able to imagine that this was most probably the cause 
of such utter desolation here. These war -parties 
lay waste the tracks they visit for endless time. 
Indeed, until slavery is suppressed in Africa, we 



March.] EXTEMPORARY HUTTING. 219 

may expect to find such places in a similarly melan- 
choly state. 

Immediately on arriving here I pitch my tent, and 
cook a meal ; whilst the sailors, as is usual on arrival 
at their camping-grounds, divide into parties, — some 
to catch fish, others to look for fungi, whilst many 
cook the food, and the rest construct little huts by 
planting boughs in a circle in the ground and fasten- 
ing the tops together, leaving the hut in the shape 
of a haycock, to which they further assimilate it by 
throwing grass above ; and in rainy weather it is 
further covered by their mats, to secure them against 
getting wet. As only one or two men occupy a hut, to 
accommodate so large a party many of them have to 
be constructed. It is amusing to see how some men, 
proud of their superior powers of inventiveness, and 
possessing the knack of making pleasant what would 
otherwise be uncomfortable, plume themselves before 
their brethren, and turn them to derision : and it 
appears the more ridiculous, as they all are as stark 
naked as an unclothed animal, and have really nothing 
to boast of after all. 

6th — The following morning sees us under way, 
and clear of the harbour by sunrise ; but the gathering 
of clouds in the south soon cautions the weather-wise 
sailors to desist from their advance. Timely is the 
warning ; for, as we rest on our oars, the glimmer of 
lightning illuminates the distant hills; whilst low 
heavy rolling clouds of pitchy darkness, preceded by a 
heavy gale and a foaming sea, outspread over the whole 



220 TANGANYIKA LAKE. [1858. 

southern waters, rapidly advance. It is an ocean- 
tempest in miniature, which sends us right about to 
our former berth. Some of our men now employ 
themselves in fishing for small fry with a slender rod, 
a piece of string, and an iron hook, with a bait of 
meat or fish attached ; whilst others use small hand- 
nets, which they place behind some reeds or other 
cover, to secure the retreating fish as he makes off on 
being poked out of his refuge on the opposite side by 
a wand held for that purpose in the sportsman's other 
hand. But the majority are occupied in gathering 
sticks and cooking breakfast till 1 p.m., when the sea 
abates, and the journey is resumed. During this por- 
tion of the journey, a slight change of scenery takes 
place. The chain of hills running parallel w T ith the 
shore of the lake is broken, and in its stead we see 
small detached and short irregular lines of hills, 
separated by extended plains of forest, thickly clad 
in verdure, like all the rest of the country. After 
two hours' paddling, we stand opposite the Luguvu 
river, and rest awhile to smoke ; then start again, and 
in an hour cross the mouth of the little river Hebue. 
Unfortunately these streams add nothing to the 
beauty of the scenery ; and were it not for the gaps 
in the hills suggesting the probable course of rivers, 
they might be passed without notice, for the mouths 
are always concealed by bulrushes, or other tall 
aquatic reeds ; and inland they are just as closely 
hidden by forest vegetation. In half an hour more 
we enter a small nook called Luguvu Khambi, very 



March.] DISCOVER NEW SHELLS. 221 

deep, and full of crocodiles and hippopotami. On 
landing, we fire the usual alarm-guns — a point to 
which our captain is ever strictly attentive — cook our 
dinners, and turn in for the night. Here I picked 
up four varieties of shells — two univalves and two 
bivalves — all very interesting from being quite un- 
known in the conchological world. There were num- 
bers of them lying on the pebbly beach. 

7th. — We started at dawn as usual ; but again at 
sunrise, the wind increasing, we put in for the shore, 
for these little cranky boats can stand no sea what- 
ever. Here a herd of wild buffaloes, horned like the 
Cape ones, were seen by the men, and caused some 
diversion : for, though too blind myself to see the 
brutes at the distance that the others did, I loaded 
and gave them chase. Whilst tracking along, I saw 
fresh prints of elephants, which, judging from their 
trail, had evidently just been down to drink at the 
lake ; and sprang some antelopes, but could not get a 
shot. The sea going down by noon, we proceeded, 
and hugged a bluff shore, till we arrived at Insigazi, a 
desert place, a little short of Kabogo, the usual cross- 
ing-point. . Although the day was now far advanced, 
the weather was so promising, whilst our stores were 
running short, that impatience suggested a venture 
for the opposite shore to Kivira, an island near it, 
and which, with the Uguhha heights in the back- 
ground, is from this distinctly visible. This line is 
selected for canoes to cross at, from containing the 
least expanse of water between the two shores, between 



222 TANGANYIKA LAKE. [1858. 

Ujiji and the south end. The Kabogo Island, which 
stands so conspicuously in the missionaries' map that 
hung on the Koyal Geographical Society's walls in 1856, 
is evidently intended for this Kabogo or starting-point, 
near which we now are, and is so far rightly placed 
upon their map as representing the half-way station 
from Ujiji to Kasenge, two places on opposite sides 
of the lake, whither the Arab merchants go in search 
of ivory. For Kabogo, as will be seen by my map, 
lies just midway on the line always taken by boats 
travelling between those two ports — the rest of the 
lake being too broad for these adventurous spirits. 
In short, they coast south from Ujiji to Kabogo, which 
constitutes the first half of the journey, and then 
cross over. 

On the passage I carefully inquired the names of 
several points and places, to take their bearings, and 
to learn the geography of the lake, but all to no 
purpose. The superstitious captain, and even more 
superstitious crew, refused to answer any questions, 
and earnestly forbade my talking. The idea was 
founded upon the fear of vitiating their uganga or 
"church," by answering a stranger any questions 
whilst at sea ; but they dread more especially to talk 
about the places of departure or arrival, lest ill luck 
should overtake them, and deprive them of the chance 
of ever reaching shore. They blamed me for throw- 
ing the remnants of my cold dinner overboard, and 
pointed to the bottom of the boat as the proper 



March.] CROSS THE LAKE. 223 

receptacle for refuse. Night set in with great serenity, 
and at 2 a.m. the following morning (8th March) when 
arriving amongst some islands, close on the western 
shore of the lake — the principal of which are Kivira, 
Kabizia, and Kasenge, the only ones inhabited — a 
watch-boat belonging to Sultan Kasanga, the reigning 
chief of this group, challenged us, and asked our mis- 
sion. Great fraternising, story-telling, and a little 
pipe ensued, for every one loves tobacco ; then both 
departed in peace and friendship : they to their former 
abode, a cove in a small uninhabited island which lies 
due south of Kivira ; whilst we proceeded to a long 
narrow harbour in Kivira itself, the largest of all these 
islands. Fourteen hours were occupied in crossing 
the lake, of which two were spent in brawling and 
smoking. At 9 a.m. the islanders, receiving intelli- 
gence of our arrival, came down the hill of which 
this island is formed, in great numbers, and held a 
market ; but as we were unprovided with what they 
wanted, little business could be done. The chief de- 
sideratum was flesh of fish or beast, next salt, then 
tobacco — in fact, anything but what I had brought 
as market money, cloth and glass beads. This day 
passed in rest and idleness, recruiting from our late 
exertions. 

At night a violent storm of rain and wind beat on 
my tent with such fury that its nether parts were torn 
away from the pegs, and the tent itself was only kept 
upright by sheer force. On the wind's abating, a 



224 TANGANYIKA LAKE. [1858. 

candle was lighted to rearrange the kit, and in a 
moment, as though by magic, the whole interior be- 
came covered with a host of small black beetles, 
evidently attracted by the glimmer of the candle. 
They were so annoyingly determined in their choice 
of place for peregrinating, that it seemed hopeless my 
trying to brush them off the clothes or bedding, for as 
one was knocked aside another came on, and then 
another ; till at last, worn out, I extinguished the 
candle, and with difficulty — trying to overcome the 
tickling annoyance occasioned by these intruders 
crawling up my sleeves and into my hair, or down my 
back and legs — fell off to sleep. Eepose that night 
was not destined to be my lot. One of these horrid 
little insects awoke me in his struggles to penetrate 
my ear, but just too late : for in my endeavour to 
extract him, I aided his immersion. He went his 
course, struggling up the narrow channel, until he got 
arrested by want of passage-room. This impediment 
evidently enraged him, for he began with exceeding 
vigour, like a rabbit at a hole, to dig violently away 
at my tympanum. The queer sensation this amusing 
measure excited in me is past description. I felt 
inclined to act as our donkeys once did, when beset 
by a swarm of bees, who buzzed about their ears and 
stung their heads and eyes until they were so irritated 
and confused that they galloped about in the most 
distracted order, trying to knock them off by treading 
on their heads, or by rushing under bushes, into 
houses, or through any jungle they could find. In- 



March.] A SWARM OF BEETLES. 225 

deed, I do not know which was worst off. The bees 
killed some of them, and this beetle nearly did for 
me. What to do I knew not. Neither tobacco, oil, 
nor salt could be found : I therefore tried melted 
butter ; that failing, I applied the point of a penknife 
to his back, which did more harm than good ; for 
though a few thrusts quieted him, the point also 
wounded my ear so badly, that inflammation set in, 
severe suppuration took place, and all the facial glands 
extending from that point down to the point of the 
shoulder became contorted and drawn aside, and a 
string of boils decorated the whole length of that 
region. It was the most painful thing I ever remem- 
ber to have endured ; but, more annoying still, I 
could not masticate for several days, and had to 
feed on broth alone. For many months the tumour 
made me almost deaf, and ate a hole between the 
ear and the nose, so that when I blew it, my ear 
whistled so audibly that those who heard it laughed. 
Six or seven months after this accident happened, bits 
of the beetle — a leg, a wing, or parts of its body — 
came away in the wax. 

It was not altogether an unmixed evil, for the 
excitement occasioned by the beetle's operations acted 
towards my blindness as a counter-irritant, by draw- 
ing the inflammation away from my eyes. Indeed, it 
operated far better than any other artificial appliance. 
To cure the blindness I once tried rubbing in some 
blistering liquor behind my ear, but this unfortunately 
had been injured by the journey, and had lost its 

p 



226 TANGANYIKA LAKE. [1858. 

stimulating properties. Finding it of no avail, I then 
caused my servant to rub the part with his finger 
until it was excoriated, which, though it proved in- 
sufficiently strong to cure me, was, according to Dr 
Bowman, whom I have since consulted, as good a 
substitute for a blister as could have been applied. 

9th. — The weather still remaining too rough for 
sailing, I strolled over the island, and from its summit 
on the eastern side I found a good view of the lake, 
and took bearings of Ujiji, Insigazi, and a distant 
point southwards on the eastern shore of the lake, 
called Ukungue. Kivira Island is a massive hill, 
about five miles long by two or three broad, and is 
irregularly shaped. In places there are high flats, 
formed in terraces, but generally the steeps are abrupt 
and thickly wooded. The mainland immediately west 
is a promontory, at the southern extremity of the 
Uguhha Mountains, on the western coast of the Tan- 
ganyika ; and the island is detached from it by so 
narrow a strip of water that, unless you obtained a 
profile view, it might easily be mistaken for a head- 
land. The population is considerable, and they live 
in mushroom huts, situated on the high flats and easier 
slopes, where they cultivate the manioc, sweet potato, 
maize, millet, various kinds of pulse, and all the com- 
mon vegetables in general use about the country. 
Poultry abounds in the villages. 

The dress of the people is simple, consisting of small 
black monkey skins, cat-skins, and the furs of any 
vermin they can get. These are tucked under a waist- 



March.] THE ISLANDERS. 227 

strap, and, according to the number they possess, go 
completely or only half-way round the body, the 
animals' heads hanging in front, and the tails always 
depending gracefully below. These monkeys are easily 
captured when the maize is ripe, by a number of peo- 
ple stealthily staking small square nets in contiguous 
line all round the fields which these animals may be 
occupied in robbing, and then with screams and yells, 
flinging sticks and stones, the hunters rush upon the 
affrighted thieves, till, in their hurry and confusion to 
escape, they become irretrievably entangled in the 
meshes. But few of these islanders carry spear or 
bow, though I imagine all possess them. They were 
most unpleasantly inquisitive, and by their stares, 
jabber, and pointings, incessantly wanting me to show 
them everything that I possessed, with explanations 
about their various uses, quite tired out my patience. 
If I tried to get away, they plaguingly followed after, 
so at last I dodged them by getting into the boat. To 
sit in the tent was the worst place of all ; they would 
pull up the sides, and peer under like so many mon- 
keys ; and if I turned my head aside to avoid their 
gaze, they would jabber in the most noisy and dis- 
agreeable manner in order to arouse me. 

10^. — -We quit Kivira early, and paddling S. 25° 
W., make the famous fish-market in the little island 
Kabizia, just in time to breakfast on a freshly-caught 
fish, the celebrated Singa, — a large, ugly, black- 
backed monster, with white belly, small fins, and 
long barbs, but no scales. In appearance a sluggish 



228 TANGANYIKA LAKE. [1858. 

ground-fish, it is always immoderately and grossly 
fat, and at this season is full of roe ; its flesh is highly 
esteemed by the natives. This island is very small, 
with a gradual rising slope from the N.W. extremity ; 
and at the S.E. end assumes the form of a bull's 
hump. There is but one village of twenty odd mush- 
room-shaped huts, chiefly occupied by fishermen, who 
live on their spoils, and by selling all that they can- 
not consume to the neighbouring islanders and the 
villagers on the mainland. Added to this, they grow 
maize and other vegetables, and keep a good stock of 
fowls. I tried every mode of inducement to entice 
the crew away to complete the journey, for the place 
of my destination, Kasenge, w r as in sight ; but in 
vain. They had tasted this to them delicious fish, 
and were determined to dress and lay by a good 
store of it to carry with them. About noon Khamis, 
a merchant from Kasenge, bound for Ujiji, arrived, 
and kindly gave me a long needle to stir up the 
beetle in my ear ; but the insect had gone in so far, 
and the swelling and suppuration of the wounds had 
so imbedded him, that no instrument could have 
done any good. Khamis, like myself, was very 
anxious to complete his journey, and tried every con- 
ceivable means to entice his crew away, but he failed 
as signally as I did. On the mainland opposite to 
this, we see the western horn of these concavely- 
disposed mountains, which encircle the north of the 
lake, and from hence the horn stretches away in 
increasing height as it extends northwards. Its sea- 



March.] ARRIVAL AT KASENGE. 229 

ward slopes are well wooded from near the summit 
down to the water's edge ; but on the top, as though 
strong currents of air prevailed, and prevented vege- 
tation from attaining any height, grass only is visible. 
Westward, behind the island of Kasenge, and away 
to the southward, the country is of a rolling forma- 
tion, and devoid of any objects of interest. 

11th. — The morning wind was too high for crossing 
from Kabizia to Kasenge, but at noon we embarked, 
and after paddling for ninety minutes S. 80° "W., we 
arrived at the latter island, my destination. Sheikh 
Hamed bin Sulayyim, with many attendants and a 
host of natives, was standing ready to receive me. 
He gave us a hearty welcome, took my hand, and led 
me to his abode, placing everything at my disposal, 
and arranging a second house for my future resid- 
ence. These Arab merchants are everywhere the 
same. Their warm and generous hospitality to a 
stranger equals anything I have ever seen elsewhere, 
not forgetting India, where a cordial welcome greets 
any incidental traveller. Hamed's abode, like all the 
semi-civilised ones found in this country, and con- 
structed by the Wasuahili (or coast people), is made 
with good substantial walls of mud, and roofed with 
rafters and brushwood, cemented together with a 
compound of common earth, straw, and water. The 
rooms are conveniently partitioned off for domestic 
convenience, with an ante-room for general business, 
and sundry other enclosures for separating his wives 
and other belongings. On the* exterior of the house 



230 TANGANYIKA LAKE. [1858. 

is a palaver platform, covered with an ample veran- 
dah, under which he sits, surrounded by a group of 
swarthy blacks, gossiping for hours together, or trans- 
acting his worldly business, in purchasing ivory, 
slaves, or any commodities worthy of his notice. The 
dhow I had come for, he said, was lying at Ukaranga, 
on the eastern shore, but was expected in a day or 
two, and would then be at my service. Indeed he 
had sent a letter by Khamis, whom I met at Kabizia, 
offering it to Captain Burton, as soon as he had 
been made acquainted (by native report, I imagine) 
with our desire of obtaining her. He thought, how- 
ever, that there might be some difficulty in forming a 
crew capable of managing her, as this craft was too 
large for paddles, and no natives understood the art 
of rowing, and, moreover, like all Easterns, they are 
not disposed to learn anything that their fathers did 
not know before them. His own men were necessary 
to him, for in a few days he intended marching to 
Uruwa, a territory belonging to Sultan Kiyombo, 
about a hundred miles south-west of this island. 
During that trip, every one of the dhow sailors (who 
are slaves, and the Arabs' gun-bearers) would be in 
requisition. But he thought, if I had patience to 
wait, he might be able to prevail on a few of the 
dhow's present crew, men in his temporary employ, 
to take service with me. My host gave me a full 
description of the lake. He said he had visited both 
ends of it, and found the southern portion both longer 
and broader than the northern. " There are no 



March.] HAMED's STORIES. 231 

islands in the middle of the sea, but near the shores 
there are several in various places, situated much in 
the same way as those we are amongst ; they are 
mere projections, divided from the mainland by shoals 
or narrow channels. A large river, called Marungu, 
supplies the lake at its southern extremity ; and on a 
visit to the northern end, I saw one which was very 
much larger than either of these, and which I am 
certain flowed out of the lake ; for although I did 
not venture on it, in consequence of its banks being 
occupied by desperately savage negroes, inimical to 
all strangers, I went so near its outlet that I could 
see and feel the outward drift of the water." He 
then described an adventure he once had when going 
to the north, with a boisterous barbarous tribe called 
Warundi. On approaching their hostile shore, he 
noticed, as he thought, a great commotion amongst 
the fishing-boats, and soon perceived that the men 
were concocting a plan of attack upon himself, for 
they concentrated forces, and came at his dhow in a 
body of about thirty canoes. Conceiving that their 
intentions were hostile, he avoided any conflict by 
putting out to sea, fearing lest an affray would be 
prejudicial to future mercantile transactions, as stains 
of blood are not soon effaced from their black me- 
mories. He further said he felt no alarm for his 
safety, as he had thirty slaves with guns on board. 
My retrospective opinion of this story — for every- 
body tells stories in this country — is, that Hamed's 
Marungu river more likely runs out of the Tanganyika 



232 TANGANYIKA LAKE. [1858. 

and into the Nyassa, forming a chain of lakes, drained 
by the Shire river into the Zarnbeze ; but I did not, 
unfortunately, argue it out with him. I feel convinced 
also that he was romancing when talking of the 
northern river s flow, not only because the northern 
end of the lake is encircled by high hills — the con- 
cave of the Mountains of the Moon — but because the 
lake's altitude is so much less than that of the adja- 
cent plateau. Indeed, the waters of the lake are so 
low they would convey the impression that the trough 
they lie in has been formed by volcanic agency, were 
it not that Dr Livingstone has determined the level 
of the Nyassa to be very nearly the same as this 
lake ; and the Babisa, who live on the w T est of the 
Nyassa, in crossing the country between the two lakes 
to Luwemba,* cross the MaruDgu river, and yet cross 
no mountain -range there. With reference to the 
time which it would take us to traverse the entire 
lake, he said he thought we should take forty-six 
days in going up and down the lake, starting from 
Ujiji. Going to the north would take eight days, 
and going to the south fifteen. As Hamed had said 
nothing about the hire of the dhow, though he had 
offered it so willingly, I thought it probable that 
shame of mentioning it in public had deterred him 
from alluding to the subject — so begged a private 
conference. He then came to my house with Bombay 
and a slave, a confidant of his own, who could also 

* The Babisa purchase ivory at Luwemba for the Kilua merchants, 
and are met there by the Kaze merchants. 



March.] HAMED's PREVARICATIONS. 233 

speak Hindustani, and was told, through my medium 
Bombay, exactly what things I had brought with me, 
and requested to speak his mind freely, as I had called 
him especially for business, and we were now alone. 
He still remained mute about the price ; but again 
saying I could have his dhow whenever I chose, he 
asked permission to retire, and departed. Puzzled at 
this procedure, I sent Bombay to observe him, and 
find out if he had any secret motives for shirking so 
direct an appeal, and empowered him to offer money 
in case my cloth and powder did not afford sufficient 
inducement. Bombay soon returned as much puzzled 
as myself, unable to extract any but the old answer 
— that I was welcome to the dhow, and that he 
would try and procure men for me. As a hint had 
reached me that Hamed cast covetous eyes on my 
powder-magazine, I tried enticing him to take some 
in part payment for her; but he replied that he did 
not require anything in payment, but would gladly 
accept a little powder if I had any to spare. To this 
I readily assented, as he had been so constant and 
liberal in his attentions to me ever since I landed on 
the island and became his guest, that I felt it was the 
least I could do in return for his generosity. Indeed, 
he was constantly observing and inquiring what 1 
wanted, and supplied everything in his power that I 
found difficult to obtain. Every day he brought 
presents of flesh, fowl, ducks (the Muscovite, brought 
from the coast), eggs, plantains, and ghee (clarified 
butter). 



234 TANGANYIKA LAKE. [1858. 

The island of Kasenge is about one mile long, a 
narrow high ridge of land lying nearly due north and 
south, and is devoid of trees, and only a small portion 
of it is under cultivation. The lake washes its north- 
western end ; the remainder is encircled by a girdle of 
water about eighty yards broad. It appears, from be- 
ing so imbedded in the land, to be a part of the coast, 
to anybody approaching it from the open lake. The 
population is very considerable, more so than that of the 
other ports. They are extremely filthy in their habits, 
and are excessively inquisitive, as far at least as grati- 
fying their idle curiosity is concerned. From having 
no industrial occupations, they will stand for hours 
and hours together, watching any strange object, and 
are, in consequence, an infinite pest to any stranger 
coming near them. In appearance they are not much 
unlike the Kaffir, resembling that tribe both in size, 
height, and general bearing, having enlarged lips, flat- 
tish noses, and frizzly woolly hair. They are very 
easily amused, and generally wear smiling faces. The 
women are better dressed than the men, having a cloth 
round the body, fastened under the arms, and reach- 
ing below the knees, and generally beads, brass neck- 
laces, or other ornaments ; while the latter only wear 
a single goat-skin slung game-bag fashion over the 
shoulder, or, when they possess it, a short cloth tied, 
kilt fashion, round the waist. They lie about their 
huts like swine, with little more animation on a warm 
day than the pig has when basking in a summers sun. 
The mothers of these savage people have infinitely less 



March.] SLAVE-HUNTING. 235 

affection than many savage beasts of my acquaintance. 
I have seen a mother bear, galled by frequent shots, 
obstinately meet her death, by repeatedly returning 
under fire whilst endeavouring to rescue her young 
from the grasp of intruding men. But here, for a 
simple loin-cloth or two, human mothers eagerly ex- 
changed their little offspring, delivering them into 
perpetual bondage to my Beluch soldiers. 

Talking about slaves makes me always feel for this 
unfortunate land, and reflect how foolish are all those 
outer nations who allow the slave trade to go on. 
One quarter of the globe — and that, too, one which 
might, if relieved of this scourge, be of the greatest 
commercial advantage to us, both as a consuming 
and exporting country — is entirely ruined. The hor- 
rors of the "middle passage" are familiar to us by 
report, but they are nothing as compared with what 
happens in the interior of the country when the 
capturing goes on. There whole villages are de- 
stroyed in the most remorseless manner by the slave- 
hunters to obtain their victims, for no one will yield 
so long as he can fight for his freedom. The slave- 
hunters are not merely confined to the coast men, for 
the interior chiefs are as fond of gain as they are, 
and this sets one against the other until the whole 
country is in a flame. It is true that the slaves 
whom the Arab merchants, or other men, have in their 
possession, never forsake their master, as if they dis- 
liked their state in bondage ; but then, when we con- 
sider their position, what pleasure or advantage would 



236 TANGANYIKA LAKE. [1858. 

they derive by doing so % During the slave-hunts, 
when they are caught, their country is devastated, 
their friends and relatives are either killed or are scat- 
tered to the winds, and nothing but a wreck is left 
behind them. Again, they enter upon a life which is 
new to them, and is very fascinating to their tastes ; 
and as long as they do remain with such kind mas- 
ters as the Arabs are, there is no necessity for our 
commiserating them. They become elevated in their 
new state of existence, and are better off than in their 
precarious homes, ever in terror of being attacked. On 
the other hand, foreign slavery is a different thing 
altogether. Instead of living, as they in most part 
do, willingly with the families of the Arabs, men of a 
superior order, and doing mild and congenial services, 
they get transported against their will and inclina- 
tions to a foreign land, where, to live at all, they must 
labour like beasts ; and yet this is only half the mis- 
chief. When a market for slavery is opened, when 
the draining poultice is applied to Africa's exterior, 
then the interior is drained of all its working men. 
To supply the markets with those slaves becomes so 
lucrative a means of gain that merchants would stick 
at no expedient in endeavouring to secure them. The 
country, so full as we have seen it of all the useful 
necessaries of life, able to supply our markets and re- 
lieve our people by cheapening all commodities, is 
sacrificed for the very minor consideration of improv- 
ing Cuba, Arabia, Persia, and a few small islands in the 
Indian Ocean. On the contrary, slavery has only to 



March.] SLAVERY. 237 

be suppressed entirely, and the country would soon 
yield one hundredfold more than it ever has done be- 
fore. The merchants themselves at Zanzibar are aware 
of this, for every Hindi on the coast with whom I ever 
spoke on the subject of slavery, seemed confident that 
the true prosperity of Africa would only commence 
with the cessation of slavery. And they all say it 
would be far better for them if slavery were put down 
altogether than allowed to remain as it is, subject to 
limited restriction ; for by this limitation many incon- 
veniences arise. Those who were permitted to retain 
slaves, have a great and distressing advantage over 
those who have not. The restriction alluded to by 
our Indian subjects at Zanzibar is the result of a most 
unfortunate treaty our Government made with the 
Sultan of that country, wherein slavery was permitted 
to be carried on within certain limits of latitude and 
longitude. The subjects of the Sultan by this means 
trade at a considerable pecuniary advantage over our 
subjects, who, were they English instead of being In- 
dians, would never rest satisfied until they were placed 
on an equal footing with the Arabs and Wasuahili. 
They argue amongst themselves, and very properly, 
that iu consequence of these slave-hunts the country 
is kept in such a state of commotion that no one thinks 
it worth his while to make accumulations of property, 
and, consequently, the negroes now only live for the 
day, and keep no granaries, never thinking of exerting 
themselves to better their condition. Without doubt 
it is mainly owing to this unfortunate influence of 



238 TANGANYIKA LAKE. [1858. 

slavery on African society that we have been kept so 
long ignorant of the resources of Equatorial Africa 
— a vast field of surprising fertility, which would 
be of so much value to Zanzibar and neighbouring 
India, were it only properly developed. But I have 
been digressing, and must again return to Kasenge. 

The village is very large and straggling, and con- 
sists of a collection of haycock-looking huts, framed 
with wood or boughs, and covered over with grass. 
Kasanga's palace is the grandest one amongst them. 
This monarch is a very amiable despot, and is liked in 
consequence. He presented me with a goat and some 
grain, in return for which I gave a hongo (or tribute- 
fee) of three dhotis, two kitindis, and two fundas, 
equal to twenty necklaces of large blue beads. The 
food of these people consists chiefly of fish and fowls, 
both of which are very abundant. All other articles 
of consumption, except a very little grown on the spot, 
are imported from the mainland, and are, in conse- 
quence, dear. The surrounding country, however, is 
very highly cultivated — so much so, that it exports 
for the Ujiji and other distant markets. The Africans 
have no religion, unless Fetishism may be considered 
such. They use charms to keep off the evil eye, and 
believe in fortune-tellers. Their church is called Ugan- 
ga, and the parson Mganga, the plural of which, priests, 
changes to Waganga. The prefixes, U, M> and Wa, 
are used uniformly throughout this land from Zanzi- 
bar, to denote respectively, U, country or place, M, an 
individual, and Wa for plurality, as in tribe or people : 



Makch.] STRUCTURE OF THE LANGUAGE. 239 

thus, Uganga, Mganga, Waganga ; or, Unyamuezi, My- 
amuezi Wanyamuezi. The composition of this latter 
name is worthy of remark, as it differs from the for- 
mer, and therefore must tend to perplex. For instance, 
Uganga is composed of U, place, house, church, 
or country, and ganga, magic; whilst Unyamuezi is 
a triple word, divided into U, country — ya, of — and 
muezi, moon. Then, the language being euphonious, 
an accidental n is thrown in between the u and y to 
tone down the pronunciation. 

13th. — The dhow came in this evening, bringing 
cows and goats, oil, ghee, and other articles of con- 
sumption not found immediately in this neighbour- 
hood. She looked very graceful in contrast to the 
wretched little canoes, and came moving slowly up 
the smooth waters of the channel decked in her white 
sails, like a swan upon " a garden reach." The next 
day Hamed declared himself endeavouring to secure 
some men, but none appeared. The day following he 
told me that the dhow was out of repair, and must be 
mended. And the succeeding day he coupled shifts 
and excuses with promises and hopes, so likely to be 
further deferred, that my patience was fairly upset ; 
and on the 17th, as nothing was settled, we had a 
little tiff. I accused him of detaining me in the hopes 
of getting powder, for as yet his armourer had not 
succeeded in opening my chest, from which I knew he 
wanted some ; at any rate, I could see no other cause 
for his desiring my further stay there, when even 
Bombay had notified his displeasure at these long- 



240 TANGANYIKA LAKE. [1858. 

continued procrastinations. Hamed, however, very 
quietly denied the imputation, declaring that he de- 
sired nothing but what I might frankly give, and con- 
tinued his former kindnesses as though nothing had 
happened. I then begged his counsel as to the best 
mode of proceeding, upon which he advised my re- 
turning to Ujiji, where an Arab merchant called Said 
bin Majid, with many men of the sort I required, was 
reported to be arriving. In the meanwhile, during 
his absence at Uruwa, he would authorise his agent 
to make the dhow over to me whenever I should come 
or send for it. It is needless to say how easily, had 
my hands now been free to act, I might have availed 
myself of this tempting opportunity of accompanying 
Hamed on his journey to Uruwa, and have thus 
nearly connected this line from Zanzibar with the 
Portuguese and Dr Livingstone's routes to Loando 
on the western coast. It would also have afforded a 
more perfect knowledge of the copper mines at Ka- 
tata, a quantity of which comes to Uruwa. Hamed 
describes the roads as easy to travel over, for the track 
lay across an undulating country, intersected by many 
small insignificant streams, running from north to 
south, which only contribute to fertilise the land, 
and present no obstacles whatever. The line is cheap, 
and affords provisions in abundance. It may appear 
odd that men should go so far into the interior of 
Africa to procure ivory, when undoubtedly much is - 
to be found at places not half so distant from Zanzi- 
bar ; but the reason of it is simple. The nearer coun- 



March.] THE ARAB IVORY-TRADERS. 241 

tries have become so overstocked with beads and 
cloth, that ivory there has risen to so great a price, 
it does not pay its transport. Hence every succeed- 
ing year finds the Arabs penetrating farther inland. 
Now, it will be seen that the Zanzibar Arabs have 
reached the uttermost limits of their tether ; for 
Uruwa is half-way across the continent, and in a few 
years they must unite their labours with the people 
who come from Loando on the opposite coast. 

As to obtain the dhow would, in our hampered state, 
have been of much importance — for our cloth and 
supplies were all fast ebbing away — I did not yet 
give in applying for it, and next day tried another 
device to tempt this wily Arab, by offering 500 dol- 
lars, or £100, if he would defer his journey for a short 
time, and accompany us round the lake. This was a 
large, and evidently an unexpected offer, and tried 
his cupidity sorely ; it produced a nervous fidgeti- 
ness, and he begged leave to retire and con the matter 
over. Next day, however, to my great distress, he 
said he was sorry that he must decline, for his busi- 
ness would not stand deferment, but declared himself 
willing to sail with us on his return from Uruwa, 
three months hence, if we could only stay till then."" 

Feeling now satisfied that nothing would prevail 
upon Hamed to let us have the dhow, I wished to 
quit the island and return to Ujiji, but found my 

* I have since heard from Colonel Rigby (Colonel Hamerton's suc- 
cessor) that Hamed and all his slaves were murdered on their journey 
to Uruwa, and their property was seized by the natives. 

Q 



242 TANGANYIKA LAKE. [1858. 

crew had taken French leave, and gone foraging on 
the mainland, where, all grain being so much cheaper 
than at Ujiji, they wanted to procure a supply. I there- 
fore employed the day in strolling all over the island, 
and took bearings of some of the principal features of 
the lake : of Thembue, a distant promontory on the 
western shore, south of this, which is occupied by a 
powerful sultan, and contains a large population of 
very boisterous savages ; of Ukungue, on the east 
shore ; and of the islands of Kivira and Kabizia. I 
could also see two other small islands lying amidst 
these larger ones, too small for habitation. Though my 
canoe arrived on the 20th, bad weather prevented our 
leaving till the 22d, morning, completing twelve days 
at Kasenge. I now took leave of my generous host ; 
and, bidding adieu to Kasenge, soon arrived and spent 
the day at Kabizia, mourning in my mind that I had 
induced Captain Burton to discharge Kamji's slaves, 
for Bombay said they were all sailors, and would have 
handled the dhow in first-rate style. 

23d. — We crossed over to Kivira, and pitched the 
tent in our former harbour. Next day we halted from 
stress of weather ; and the following day also remain- 
ing boisterous, we could not put to sea ; but, to obtain 
a better view of the lake, and watch the weather for 
choosing a favourable time to cross, we changed 
Khambi for a place farther up the island. 

2Uh. — We moved out two miles in the morning, 
but returned again from fear of the weather, as the 
sailors could discern a small but very alarming-look- 



March.] SUPERSTITION, AND ITS REWARD. 243 

ing cloud many miles distant, hanging on the top of 
one of the hills, and there was a gentle breeze. In 
the evening, as the portentous elements still frowned 
upon us, the wise crew surmised that the uganga 
(church) was angry at my endeavouring to carry 
across the waters the goat which the sultan had given 
me, and which, they said, ought never to have left the 
spot it was presented in alive ; and declared their in- 
tention of applying to the mganga (priest) to ascer- 
tain his opinion before venturing out again. As the 
goat had just given a kid, and produced a good supply 
of milk, I was anxious to bring her to Ujiji for my 
sick companion, and told the sailors so ; yet still they 
persisted, and said they would run away rather than 
venture on the water with the goat again. Fearing 
detention, and guessing their motive was only to 
obtain a share in the eating her, I killed both kid and 
mother at once, and divided them amongst my party, 
taking care that none of the crew received any of the 
flesh. At night we sallied forth again, but soon re- 
turned from the same cause that hindered us in the 
morning. And I did not spare the men's feelings who 
had caused the death of my goat in the morning, now 
that their superstitious fears concerning it, if they ever 
possessed any, were proven to be without foundation. 
27th. — We took our final departure from Kivira in 
the morning, and crossed the broad lake again in four- 
teen hours, two of them, as before, being spent in 
pipes and rest. I have now measured the lake's centre 
pretty satisfactorily by triangulation, by compass in 



244 TANGANYIKA LAKE. [1858. 

connection with astronomical observation, and twice 
by dead reckoning. It is twenty-six miles broad at 
the place of crossing, which is its narrowest central 
part. But, alas ! that I should have omitted to bring 
a sounding-line with me, and not have ascertained 
that highly interesting feature — its depth. There is 
very little doubt in my mind that its bed is very 
deep, owing to the trough-like formation of it, and also 
because I have seen my crew haul up fishing-baskets, 
sunk in the sea near to the shore, from very consider- 
able depths, by long ropes with trimmers attached. 
For the benefit of science, and as a hint to future tra- 
vellers, I may mention that, had I brought a lead, I 
might, as if by accident, have dropped it in the sea 
when they were resting — have tapped the bottom, 
and ascertained its depth — whilst the superstitious 
crew would have only wondered in vain as to what I 
was about. 

28^. — We started up coast early, and at 10 a.m. 
put in amongst some reeds opposite the Luguvu river, 
as the wind, rain, and waves had very nearly swamped 
the boat, and drenched us all from head to foot. I 
pitched the tent in the canoe, to protect me from the 
storm, but it only served to keep the wind from blow- 
ing on my wet clothes and chilling me, for wave after 
wave washed over the gunwale, and kept me and all 
my kit constantly drenched through. Three linger- 
ing miserable hours were passed in this fashion ; for 
there was no place to land in, and we could not ven- 
ture forward. The sea abated in the afternoon, and 



March.] HAMED S PREVARICATIONS. 245 

we gained Mgiti Khambi. After a clay's halt, the 
weather being storm}?-, and everything being wet and 
comfortless, we hailed with delight the succeeding 
sunny day, and, making good our time, reached the 
old tree on the right bank of the mouth of the Euche 
by 9 p.m. 

31st. — We arrived at Ujiji by breakfast-time, when 
I disclosed to Captain Burton, then happily a little 
restored, the mortifying intelligence of my failing to 
procure the dhow. This appeared doubly distress- 
ing to him, for he had been led to expect it by 
Khamis, whom I passed at Kabizia, and who had 
delivered Hamed's letter, stating that the dhow was 
at his service. Hamed's manoeuvring with the dhow 
bears much the appearance of one anxious to obtain 
the credit of generosity without incurring the attend- 
ant inconvenience of its reality. Otherwise I cannot 
divine what good his procrastinations and the means 
he took for keeping me near him so long could have 
been to him ; for he made no overtures to me what- 
ever. Bombay now thought, when it was too late, 
that if I had offered to give him 500 dollars' worth of 
cloth, landed at his house, he could not have resisted 
the offer. I give this notice for the advantage of any 
future explorers on the lake. I could not form a true 
estimate of the lake's average breadth, in consequence 
of the numberless bays and promontories that diver- 
sify the regularity of its coast-line ; but I should say 
that from thirty to forty miles is probably near the 
truth. 



246 TANGANYIKA LAKE. [1858. 

We had now no other resource left us but to 
proceed with the investigation of the lake in com- 
mon canoes ; for we could not wait any longer, 
as our supplies were fast on the wane. I was 
sorry for it, as my companion was still suffering 
so severely, that anybody seeing him attempt to go 
would have despaired of his ever returning. Yet he 
could not endure being left behind. Travelling in 
canoes, as I could now testify from my late experi- 
ences, is, without joke, a very trying business to a 
sick man, even in the best weather ; and here we were 
still in the height of the monsoon. Negotiations for 
the means of carrying out our object (of proceeding to 
the north of the lake, surveying it, and ascertaining 
whether Hamed's story about a large river running 
out of it was based upon a true foundation) were 
then commenced, and Kannina was applied to. He 
likewise, it appeared, had a plan in view of carrying 
on some ivory transactions with the Sultan of Uvira, 
governing a district at the northern end and western 
shore of the lake, and agreed to take us there, and 
also show us the river in question. It was settled 
that we should go in two canoes ; Captain Burton, 
with Kannina, in a very large one, paddled by forty 
men at once, and I in another considerably smaller — 
our party to pay all expenses ; and, in fact, to do 
Kannina's business in consideration of his protection. 
This we did do, and no more ; for, after arriving at 
Uvira, nothing could induce him to take us to the 
river at the end of the lake, although the remaining 



April.] RUSLZI RIVER. 247 

distance could have been accomplished in about six 
hours' paddling. His reason, which he must have 
known before, was, that the savages resident there, the 
Warundi tribe, were inimical to his people, the Wajiji. 
This was a sore disappointment, though not so great as 
it would have been had we not ascertained that Hamed's 
story was a mere fabrication. He had never been 
to the north end of the lake, nor had he had the fight 
he described with the natives ; and, moreover, Bombay 
assured both Captain Burton and myself that Hamed 
really meant that the river ran into the lake. Had I 
thought of it, I should then have changed the course 
of the Marungu river on my map, and made it run 
out of the lake, but I did not. Next the sultan's son, 
who visited us immediately on our arrival at Uvira, 
told us that the river, which is named Eusizi, drained 
the high mountains encircling our immediate north, 
and discharged its waters into the lake. I should not 
have been satisfied with this counter-statement alone, 
had I not ascended some neighbouring heights, and 
observed the mountains increasing in size as they ex- 
tended away to the northward, and effectually closing 
in this low lake, which is not quite half the altitude 
of the surface-level of the general interior plateau. 
Although wrong in most respects, Hamed was right 
about the distance the lake's northern end lay from 
Ujiji ; for, properly divided, it takes eight days, the 
time he specified, exactly. On coming up the lake, 
we travelled the first half up the east coast, then 
crossed over to the end of a long island called Ubuari, 



248 TANGANYIKA LAKE. [1858. 

made for the western shore, and coasted up it to 
Uvira. It would have amused any one very much 
to have seen our two canoes racing together up the 
lake. The naked savages were never tired of testing 
their respective strengths. They would paddle away 
like so many black devils — dashing up the water 
whenever they succeeded in coming near each other, 
and delighting in drenching us with the spray. The 
greatest pleasure to them, it appeared, was torturing 
others with impunity to themselves. Because the 
Wazungu had clothes, and they had none, they cared 
not how the water flew about ; and the more they 
were asked to desist, the more obstinately they perse- 
vered. For fear of misapprehension, I must state that 
though these negroes go stark naked when cruising 
or working during a shower of rain, they all possess 
a mantle or goat-skin, which they sling over their 
shoulders, and strut about in when on shore and the 
w 7 eather is fine. 

It is a curious sight, when encamped on a showery 
day, to see every man take off his skin, wrap it care- 
fully up, and place it in his mzigo or load, and stand, 
whilst his garment is thus comfortably disposed of, 
cowering and trembling like a dog which has just 
emerged from a cold pond. 

Now we have done with the Tanganyika Lake, I 
must say for it, that in no part of Africa hitherto 
visited by us had we seen such splendid vegetation 
as covers its basin, from the mountain-tops to its 
shores. To the northward, rain falls all the year 



April.] THE RAINFALL ROUND THE LAKE. 249 

round in frequent showers, but on the southern half 
rain only falls during those six months when the sun 
is in its southern declination. Hence the northern 
half must be richer than the southern ; and the lake 
must owe its existence to the constant inflows from 
the north. 



250 VICTORIA N'YANZA. [1858. 



CHAPTEE III. 

LEAVE TANGANYIKA — DETERMINE TO VISIT THE UKEREWE LAKE, 
ALIAS VICTORIA N'YANZA — CONFUSION ABOUT RIVERS RUN- 
NING IN AND OUT — IDEA THAT IT IS THE SOURCE OF THE 
NILE — ARRANGEMENTS FOR THE JOURNEY — DIFFICULTIES 
— THE MARCH — NATURE OF THE COUNTRY — FORMALITIES 
AT THE MEETING OF CARAVANS — A PAGAZI STRIKE — A SUL- 
TANA — INCIDENTS — PILLARS OF GRANITE. 

On returning to Ujiji after a rather protracted sojourn 
at Uvira, occasioned by Kannina's not completing his 
work so quickly as had been anticipated, we found our 
stock of beads and cloth, which had been left in charge 
of the Kas-cafila, Sheikh Said, and under the protec- 
tion of the Beluches and our Wanyamuezi porters, re- 
duced to so low an ebb that everybody felt anxious 
about our future movements. The Sheikh, however, 
I must add, on a prior occasion, very generously pro- 
posed, in case we felt disposed to carry on the survey 
of the lake, to return to the Arab depot at Kaze, and 
fetch some more African money, to meet the neces- 
sary expenses. I wished to finish off the navigation 
of the lake ; but Captain Burton declared he would 
not, as he had had enough of canoe-travelling, and 
thought our being short of cloth, and out of leave, 



May.] VOLUNTEER TO INSPECT THE N'YANZA. 251 

would be sufficient excuse for him. Though admiring 
so magnanimous a sacrifice on the part of this ener- 
getic Sheikh, it was voted, in consequence of my com- 
panion's failing health, as well as from the delay it 
would occasion, that we should all return at once to 
Kaze, where we expected to meet our reserve supplies. 
This once agreed upon, I then proposed that, after 
reaching Kaze, we should travel northwards to the 
lake described by the Arabs to be both broader and 
longer than the Tanganyika, and which they call 
Ukerewe, after the island where their caravans go 
for ivory — in short, the Victoria N'yanza — for I was 
all the while burning to see it. To this Captain Bur- 
ton at first demurred. He said we had done enough, 
and he would do no more ; but finally gave way when 
I said, If you are not well enough when we reach Kaze 
I will go by myself, and you can employ the time in 
taking notes from the travelled Arabs of all the coun- 
tries round. This was agreed to at last by Captain 
Burton, as he said the journey hitherto had been so 
uninteresting, a month with Sheikh Snay would be very 
necessary to completing his book. Delighted at this 
announcement, I begged for leave to take Sheikh Said 
with me. Captain Burton, however, wanted to keep 
him, as he was a great friend of all the Arabs, and 
could procure him news better than any one else. I 
argued that the road was dangerous, and without him I 
thought I could not succeed, as there was no one else to 
argue with the native chiefs, and bring them to terms 
if they were headstrong. Captain Burton to this ap- 



252 VICTORIA N'YANZA. [1858. 

peal finally gave way, but said I must ask the Sheikh 
myself, as he was not bound to go on any other line 
than the one we were now on. I did ask the Sheikh, 
some time after, at Usenye, and he said he would see 
about it when we reached Kaze. Just as we were 
preparing to leave Ujiji, by great good fortune some 
supplies were brought to us by an Arab called Mo- 
hinna, an old friend whom we formerly left at Kaze, 
and who had now followed us here to trade in ivory. 
Had this timely supply not reached us, it is difficult 
to conceive what would have been our fate, left as we 
should have been with a large amount of non-market- 
able property, and having numbers of people to feed, 
whilst my companion was unable to move without the 
assistance of eight men to carry him in a hammock, 
we being totally without the means of purchase in the 
territory of one of the most inhospitable of all the 
tribes with whom we have had connection. 

This timely supply was one of the many strokes of 
good fortune which befell us upon this journey, and 
for which we have so much reason to be grateful. 
Help had always reached us at the time when least 
we expected it, but when we most required it. My 
health had been improving ever since I first reached 
the lake, and enjoyed those invigorating swims upon 
its surface, and revelled in the good living afforded by 
the market at Ujiji. The facilities of the place giving 
us such a choice of food, our powers in the culinary 
art were tried to their fullest extent. It would be 
difficult to tell what dishes we did not make there. 
Fish of many sorts done up in all the fashions of the 



May.] AFRICAN COOKERY. 253 

day — meat and fowl in every form — vegetable soups, 
and dishes of numberless varieties — fruit-preserves, 
custards, custard-puddings, and jellies — and last, but 
not least, buttered crumpets and cheese, — formed as 
fine a spread as was ever set before a king. 

But sometimes we came to grief when our supply 
of milk was, on the most foolish pretexts, stopped by 
Kannina, who was the only cow-proprietor in the 
neighbourhood. At one time he took offence because 
we turned his importunate wives out of the house, in 
mistake for common beggars. On another occasion, 
when I showed him a cheese of our manufacture, and 
begged he would allow me to instruct his people in 
the art of making them, he took fright, declared that 
the cheese was something supernatural, and that it 
could never have been made by any ordinary artifice. 
Moreover, if his people were shown the way to do it 
one hundred times, they would never be able to com- 
prehend it. He further showed his alarm by forbid- 
ding us any more milk, lest, by our tampering with 
it, we should bewitch his cows and make them all run 
dry. The cattle this milk was taken from are of a 
uniform red colour, like our Devonshire breed ; but they 
attain a very great height and size, and have horns of 
the most stupendous dimensions. 

A year's acclimatisation had by this time produced 
a wonderful effect on all the party ; so that now, with 
our fresh supplies, most of us marched away from 
Ujiji in better condition than we had enjoyed since 
leaving the coast. The weather was very fine, the 
rainy season having ceased on the 15th May; we 



254 VICTORIA N'YANZA. [1858. 

marched rapidly across the eastern horn of the moun- 
tains back to the ferry on the Malagarazi, but by a 
more northernly route than the one by which we came. 

We reached this river in early June, and found its 
appearance very different from what it was on our 
former visit, at the beginning of the monsoon. Then 
its waters were contained within its banks, of no con- 
siderable width ; but now, although the rains had 
ceased here long ago, the river had not only over- 
flowed its banks, but had submerged nearly all the 
valley in which it lies to the extent at least of a mile 
or more. The rains about 5° south latitude had just 
lasted out the six months during which the sun was in 
the south ; and now, as the sun had gone north, the 
rains had gone there also. This was a very important 
fact, by which the rise of the Nile on the other side of 
the axis of this mountain-group might be determined, 
proving, as it does, that whilst rain falls most wher- 
ever the sun is vertical, it is greatly augmented on 
the equatorial regions by these mountains, where also, 
as our maps show, is the rainy zone of the world. 

After crossing the river, we hurried along by a more 
southernly and straighter road than we formerly came 
by, and reached Kaze towards the latter end of June. 
Here Sheikh Snay received us with his usual genuine 
hospitality, arranged a house especially for our use, 
and with him we again established our headquarters. 
This man, when we were formerly detained here to 
form our second caravan on our journey westwards, 
housed us, and carefully attended to our wants. He 
took charge of our kit, provided us with porters, and 









June.] MALAGARAZI IN FLOOD. 255 

finally became our agent. Living with him, sur- 
rounded by an Arab community, felt like living in a 
civilised land ; for the Arab's manners and society are 
as pleasant and respectable as can be found in any Ori- 
ental family. Snay had travelled as much as, or more 
than, any person in this land; and from being a shrewd 
and intelligent inquirer, knew everybody and every- 
thing. It was from his mouth, on our former visit to 
Kaze, that I first heard of the N'yanza, or, as he called 
it, the Ukerewe Sea ; and then, too, I first proposed 
that we should go to it instead of journeying west- 
ward to the smaller waters of Ujiji. He had travelled 
up its western flank to Kibuga, the capital of the king- 
dom of Uganda, and had in his employ men who had 
lived and traded in Usoga. Snay, narrating his own 
experiences, said to me, " I was once three years absent 
on a visit to King Sunna, at his capital (Kibuga) in 
the Uganda kingdom, occupied by a tribe called Wa- 
ganda. Starting from Kaze, it took me thirty-five 
marches to reach Kitangule (bearing N.N.W.), and 
twenty more marches going northwards, with the 
morning sun a little on my right face (probably north 
by east), to arrive at Kibuga. The only people that 
gave me any trouble on the way are the Wasui, situate 
at the beginning of the Karague kingdom ; but that 
was only trifling, as they did not fight, and lasted but 
three or four marches. The Karague kingdom (a moun- 
tainous tract of land, containing several high spurs of 
hill, the eastern buttresses of these Lunae Montes, and 
washed on the flanks by the Ukerewe Sea) is bounded 
on the north by the Kitangule river, beyond which 



256 VICTORIA N'YANZA. [1858. 

the Wanyoro territory (crescent shape) lies, with the 
horns directed eastwards. Amidst them, situate in 
the concave or lake side, are the Waganda, to whose 
capital I went. Anybody wishing to see the northern 
boundary of the lake should go to Kibuga, take 
good presents, and make friends with the reigning 
monarch ; and, with his assistance, buy or con- 
struct boats on the shore of the lake, which is about 
five marches east of his capital. * North, beyond the 
Waganda, the Wanyoro are again met with ; and 
there quarrels and wars were so rife, from a jealousy 
existing among them and the Waganda, that had these 
people known of a northern boundary, I still might not 
have heard of it. On crossing the Kitangule river, 
I found it emanating from Urundi (a district in the 
Mountains of the Moon), and flowing north-easterly. 
The breadth of the river is very great — I should ima- 
gine, some five to six hundred yards — and it contains 
much water, overflowing as the Malagarazi does after 
rains. There are also numerous other little streams 
on the way to Kibuga, but none so great as the Ka- 
tonga river. This, like the rest, comes from the west, 
and flows towards the lake. It has a breadth of two 
thousand yards, is very deep when full, but sinks 
and is very sluggish in the dry season, when water- 
lilies and rushes overspread its surface, and the mus- 
quitoes are very annoying. The cowrie-shell, brought 

* Here is the confusion again of the Nile and the lake as one water. 
The Nile was in reality five marches east of Kibuga, and the boundary 
of the lake one march to its southward. Snay obviously meant it so, for 
it was the river he thought was the Jub, but I did not understand him. 



June.] TRADERS' STORIES AT KAZE. 257 

from the Zanzibar coast, is the common currency 
amongst the more northern tribes; but they are not 
worth the merchant's while to carry, as beads and brass 
(not cloth, for they are essentially a bead-wearing and 
naked people) are eagerly sought for and taken in 
exchange. Large sailing-craft, capable of containing 
forty or fifty men, and manned and navigated after 
the fashion of ocean mariners, are reported by the 
natives to frequent the lake (meaning the Nile at 
Gondokoro). We Arabs believe in this report, as 
everybody tells the same story ; but don't know how 
it happens to be so, unless it is open to the sea. The 
Kitangule river is crossed in good-sized wooden canoes; 
but the Katonga river can only be passed in the dry 
season, when men walk over it on the lily leaves : 
cattle, too, are then passed across in certain open 
spaces, guided by a long string, which is attached to 
the animals' heads." 

Other Arab and Wasuahili merchants have corro- 
borated Snay's statement, as also a Hindi merchant, 
called Musa, whom I especially mention, as I consider 
him a very valuable informant — not only from the 
straightforward way he had of telling his story, but 
also because we could converse with one another 
direct, and so obviate any chance of errors. After 
describing his route to the north in minute detail, 
stage by stage, with great precision, which was to the 
same effect as all the other accounts, he told me of a 
third large river to the northward of the Line, beyond 
Uganda ; this he spoke of as much larger than the 

R 



258 



VICTORIA N'YANZA. [1858. 



Katonga, and generally called the Usoga Kiver, be- 
cause it waters that district. Although he had recently 
visited Kibuga, and had lived with Sultan Mtesa, 
the present reigning monarch in place of Sunna, who 
died since Snay was there, he had no positive or defi- 
nite idea of the physical features of any of the country 
beyond the point which he had reached ; but he pro- 
duced a negro slave who had been to Usoga, and had 
seen the river in question. This man called the river 
Kivira, and described it as being much broader, deeper, 
and stronger in its current than either the Katonga or 
Kitangule river ; that it came from the lake, and that 
it intersected stony hilly ground on its passage to the 
north-west. 

This river Kivira, I now believe (although I must 
confess I did not until I made Snay alter his original 
statement about the direction of its flow, and so proved 
he meant this for his Jub), is the Nile itself. On a 
subsequent occasion, when talking to a very respect- 
able Suahili merchant, by name Sheikh Abdullah bin 
Nasib, about the N'yanza, he corroborated the story 
about the mariners, who are said to keep logs and use 
sextants, and mentioned that he had heard of the Kidi 
and Bari people living on the Kivira river. Now, 
the Bari people mentioned by him are evidently those 
who have long since been known to us as a tribe 
living on the Nile in latitude 5° north and longitude 
32° east, and described by the different Egyptian ex- 
peditions sent up the Nile to discover its source. M. 
Ferdinand Werne (says Dr Beke) has published an 



June.] INFORMATION ON THE N ? YANZA. 259 

account of the second expedition's proceedings, in 
which he took part ; and which, it appears, succeeded 
in getting farther up the river than either of the others. 
" The author states that, according to Lacono, King of 
Bari, the course of the river continues thence south- 
wards a distance of thirty days' journey." This, by 
Dr Beke's computation, places the source of the Nile 
just where I have since discovered the N'yanza's south- 
ern extremity to be — in the second degree south lati- 
tude, lying in the Unyamuezi country."'' 

Here we see how singularly all the different inform- 
ers' statements blend together in substantiating my 
opinion that the N'yanza is the great reservoir or foun- 
tainhead of that mighty stream that floated Father 
Moses on his first adventurous sail — the Nile. It 
must appear marvellous to the English reader how it 
happened that these traders obtained so much and such 
good information to the northward of the equator, and 
especially of the White Nile traders. The reasons are 
these : — For several years these Arabs have not only 
traded with Karague, Uganda, and Usoga, but they 
have had trading -stations in Uddu-Uganda and in 
Karague. The Uganda station has since been broken 
up by order of the king, as the Arabs were interfer- 
ing too much with his subjects. In Karague, on the 
contrary, they still have establishments ; and as they 
cannot go into Unyoro themselves, they have induced 
the Wahaiya and Waziwa to bring them ivory from 
that country and from Kidi, in exchange for which 

* See Dr Beke's paper on < The Sources of the Nile,' printed 1849. 



260 VICTORIA N'YANZA. [1858. 

they give beads. These Zanzibar merchants are very- 
inquiring men, and have learnt a great deal from this 
source. Far more, however, they have learned from 
the King of Karague, who is much respected by all 
the surrounding kings, and is continually exchanging 
presents and news with them. The King of Unyoro, 
for instance, whose territory extends to Madi, once 
sent him a present of beads and coral ornaments which 
must have come up the Nile, for at the same time the 
sailing-vessels on the Nile were heard of, and orna- 
ments of that nature were never brought into the 
country from the Zanzibar side. Omitted in these 
accounts was a statement of Musa's I did not believe 
at first concerning the rise of the Nile, which was this : 
The natives had told him when the N'yanza (Nile) 
rose, it tore up and floated away islands. Further, 
Abdullah told me of a wonderfully high and steep 
mountain beyond Karague — doubtless the Mf umbiro — 
being constantly covered with clouds ; and I heard 
from him of a salt lake — doubtless the Little Luta 
Nzige — which had some connection with the N'yanza. 
These details were, however, so obscurely given, I 
feared to place them on my map at that time. 

I began the formation of the new caravan for ex- 
ploring Northern Unyamuezi immediately after our 
arrival, but found it difficult to do things hurriedly. 
There was only one man then at Unyanyembe who 
knew the coast language, and would consent to act as 
my Kirangozi ; * and as he had come all the way 

* Kirangozi — leader of a caravan. 



June.] FORM A NEW CARAVAN. 261 

from Ujiji with us, lie required a few days to arrange 
things at his home, in a village some distance off. 
Whilst he was absent the Arabs paid us daily visits, 
and gave many useful hints about the journey in pro- 
spect. One hint must especially be regarded, which 
was, to take care, on arrival at the lake, that I did not 
enter the village of a certain sultan called Mahaya, to 
whose district, Muanza, at the southern extremity of 
the lake, they directed me to go. This precautionary 
warning was advanced in consequence of a trick the 
sultan had played an Arab, who, after visiting him in a 
friendly way, was forcibly detained until he paid a ran- 
som; an unjust measure, which the Arabs pointedly ad- 
vert to as destructive to commercial interests. Further, 
the Arabs had learnt from travellers just arrived from 
Usukuma that the whole route leading to the N'yanza 
was in a state of commotion, caused by civil wars, and 
therefore advised me to go as strongly armed as possible. 
To lose no time whilst the Kirangozi was away — 
for I had a long business to do in a very short 
space — I intimated to Sheikh Said and the Beluch 
guard my intention of taking them with me to the 
lake, and ordered them to prepare for the journey by 
a certain date. Said demurred, saying he would give 
a definite answer about accompanying me before the 
time of starting, but subsequently refused (I hear, as 
one reason), because he did not consider me his chief."* 

* Sheikh Said has since declared, in " the most solemn manner, that 
Captain Burton positively forbade his going." This happened when we 
were at Usenye, and immediately after I first asked the Sheikh. 



262 VICTORIA N'YANZA. [1858. 

I urged that it was as much his duty as mine to go 
there ; and said that unless he changed his present 
resolution, I should certainly recommend the Govern- 
ment not to pay the gratuity which the Consul had 
promised him on condition that he worked entirely to 
our satisfaction, in assisting the expedition to carry 
out the Government's plans. 

The Jemadar of the Beluch guard, on seeing the 
Sheikh hold back, at first raised objections, and then 
began to bargain. He fixed a pay of one gora or 
fifteen cloths per man, as the only condition on which 
I should get their services ; for they all declared that 
they had not only been to Ujiji, the place appointed 
by Sultan Majid and their chief before leaving Zanzi- 
bar, but that they had overstayed the time agreed 
upon for them to be absent on these travels — namely, 
six months. I acceded to this exorbitant demand, 
considering the value of time, as the dry season had 
now set in, and the Arabs at this period cease travel- 
ling to Zanzibar, from fear of being caught by droughts 
in the deserts between this place and the East Coast 
Range, where, if the ponds and puddles dry up, there 
is so little water in the wells that travelling becomes 
precarious. 

Further, I had not only to go through a much 
wilder country than we had travelled in before, two 
and a half degrees off, to discover and bring back full 
particulars of the N'yanza, but had to purchase cattle 
sufficient for presents, and food for the whole journey 
down to the coast, within the limited period of six 



June.] ENLISTING MEN. 263 

weeks. Eamji's slaves all came back to us here, and 
begged we would take them into our service again. I 
wanted to do so, as Snay not only strongly advised me 
to have as strong an escort as possible, but thought that 
their knowledge of treating with native chiefs would be 
of the greatest value to me. Captain Burton, however, 
would not listen to my request, as he insisted they 
would only prove of more expense than profit to the ex- 
pedition ; but instead, he employed them himself, after 
I had gone, in repairing our damaged property, and in 
laying in supplies for our future journey home. I 
regretted the loss of these men the more, as they all so 
warmly volunteered to go with me. The Arab depot 
now came into play to satisfy this sudden and unex- 
pected call upon our store of cloths. There were ten 
Beluches fit for service, and for each of them a gora 
was bought at the depot, at a valuation of ten dollars 
each, or a hundred the lot. In addition to this they 
received an advance of fifteen maunds of white beads 
in lieu of rations — a rate of 1 lb. per man per day for 
six weeks. The Kirangozi now returned with many 
excuses to escape the undertaking of guiding me to 
the lake. He declared that all the roads were ren- 
dered impassable by wars, and that it was impossible 
for him to undertake the responsibility of escorting 
me in so dangerous a country. After a good deal 
of bothering and persuading he at length acceded, 
and brought fifteen pagazis or porters from his own 
and some neighbouring villages. To each of these 
I gave five cloths as hire, and all appeared ready; 



264 VICTORIA N'YANZA. [1858. 

but not so. Bombay's Seedi nature came over 
him, and lie would not move a yard unless I gave 
him a month's wages in cloth upon the spot. I 
thought his demand an imposition, for he had just 
been given a cloth. His wages were originally fixed 
at five dollars a-month, to accumulate at Zanzibar 
until our return there ; but he was to receive daily 
rations the same as all the other men, with an occa- 
sional loin-cloth covering whene.ver his shukka might 
wear out. All these strikes with the Beluches and 
Bombay for cloth were in consequence of their having 
bought some slaves, whose whims and tastes they 
could not satisfy without our aid; and they knew 
these men would very soon desert them unless they 
received occasionally alluring presents to make them 
contented. But finessing is a kind of itch with all 
Orientals, as gambling is with those who are addicted 
to it ; and they would tell any lie rather than gain 
their object easily by the simple truth, on the old 
principle that " stolen things are sweetest." Had Bom- 
bay only opened his heart, the matter would have 
been settled at once, for his motives were of a superior 
order. He had bought, to be his adopted brother, a 
slave of the Wahha tribe, a tall, athletic, fine-looking 
man, whose figure was of such excellent proportions 
that he would have been remarkable in any society; 
and it was for this youth, and not himself, he had 
made so much fuss and used so many devices to ob- 
tain the cloths. Indeed, he is a very singular character, 
not caring one bit about himself, how he dressed or 



July.] BOMBAY AND HIS " BROTHERS. 265 

what he ate ; ever contented, and doing everybody's 
work in preference to his own, and of such exemplary 
honesty, he stands a solitary marvel in the land : he 
would do no wrong to benefit himself — to please any- 
body else there is nothing he would stick at. I now 
gave him five cloths at his request, to be eventually 
deducted from his pay. Half of them he gave to a 
slave called Mabruki, who had been procured by him 
for leading Captain Burton's donkey, but who had, in 
consequence of bad behaviour, reverted to my service. 
This man he also designated " brother/' and was very 
warmly attached to, though Mabruki had no qualifica- 
tions worthy of attracting any one's affections to him. 
He was a sulky, dogged, pudding-headed brute, very 
ugly, but very vain; he always maintained a respect- 
able appearance, to cloak his disrespectful manners. 
The remainder was expended in loin-cloths, some 
spears, and a fez (red Turkish cap), the wearing of 
which he shared by turns with his purchased brother, 
and a little slave -child whom he had also purchased 
and employed in looking after the general wardrobe, 
and in cooking his porridge dinner, or fetching water 
and gathering sticks. On the line of march the little 
urchin carried Bombay's sleeping-hide and water-gourd. 
Before my departure from Kaze, Captain Burton 
wrote the Eoyal Geographical Society to the following 
effect : — " I have the honour to transmit a copy of a 
field-book with a map, by Captain Speke. Captain 
Speke has volunteered to visit the Ukerewe Lake, of 
which the Arabs give grand accounts." 



266 VICTORIA NYANZA. [1858. 

9th July 1858. — The caravan, consisting of one 
Kirangozi, twenty pagazis, ten Beluches as guard, 
Bombay, Mabruki, and Gaetano, escorting a kit suffi- 
cient for six weeks, left Kaze to form camp at noon. 
The Beluches were all armed with their own guns, 
save one, who carried one of Captain Burton's double 
rifles, an eight-bore by W. Kichards.""" I took with me 
for sporting purposes, as well as for the defence of the 
expedition, one large five-bore elephant-gun, also lent 
by Captain Burton ; and of my own, one two-grooved 
four-gauge single rifle, one polygrooved twenty-gauge 
double, and one double smooth twelve-bore, all by 
John Blissett of High Holborn. The village they 
selected to form up in was three miles distant on 
the northern extremity of this, the Unyanyembe dis- 
trict. 

I commenced the journey myself at 6 p.m., as soon 
as the two donkeys I took with me to ride were caught 
and saddled. It was a dreary beginning. The escort 
of Beluches who accompanied me had throughout the 
former journeys been in great disgrace, and were in 
consequence all sullen in their manner, and walked 
with heavy gait and downcast countenances, looking 
very much as if they considered they had sold them- 
selves when striking such a heavy bargain with us, 
for they evidently saw nothing before them but drudg- 
ery and a continuance of past hardships. The nature of 

* Captain Burton started with two huge elephant-guns, one double 
rifle, one pea-rifle, one air-gun, two revolving pistols, and a cross-bow, 
all of which he used for display to amuse the Arabs. 



July.] ON THE MARCH. 267 

the track increased the general gloom ; it lay through 
fields of jowari (holcus) across the plain of Unyan- 
yembe. In the shadow of night, the stalks, awk- 
wardly lying across the path, tripped up the traveller 
at every step ; and whilst his hands, extended to the 
front, were grasping at darkness to preserve his equi- 
librium, the heavy bowing ears, ripe and ready to drop, 
would bang against his eyes. Further, the heavy 
sandy soil aided not a little in ruffling the temper ; 
but it was soon over, though all our mortification did 
not here cease. The pagazis sent forward had de- 
posited their loads and retired home to indulge, it is 
suspected, in those potations deep of the universal 
pombe (African small-beer) that always precede a 
journey, hunt, or other adventure — without leaving 
a word to explain the reason of their going, or even 
the time which they purposed being absent. 

10th July. — The absence of the pagazis caused a 
halt, for none of them appeared again until after dark. 
The Beluches, gloomy, dejected, discontented, and ever 
grumbling, form as disagreeable a party as it was ever 
the unfortunate lot of any man to command. 

llih. — We started on the journey northwards at 
7 a.m., and, soon clearing the cultivated plain, bade 
adieu to Unyanyembe. The track passed down a 
broad valley with a gentle declination, which was 
full of tall but slender forest-trees, and was lined on 
either side by low hills. We passed one dry nul- 
lah, the Gombe, which drains the regions westward 
into the Malagarazi river, some pools of water, and 



268 VICTORIA N'YANZA. [1858. 

also two Wasukuma caravans, one of ivory destined 
for the coast, and the other conveying cattle to the 
Unyanyembe markets. Though the country through 
which we passed was wild and uninhabited, we saw no 
game but a troop of zebras, which were so wild that 
I could not get near them. After walking fifteen 
miles, we arrived at the district of Ulekampuri, and 
entered a village, where I took up my quarters in a 
negro's hut. My servants and porters did the best 
they could by pigging with the cattle, or lying in the 
shade under the eaves of the huts. 

Up to this point the villages, as is the case in all 
central Unyamuezi, are built on the most luxurious 
principles. They form a large hollow square, the 
walls of which are the huts, ranged on all sides of it 
in a sort of street consisting of two walls, the breadth 
of an ordinary room, which is partitioned off to a con- 
venient size by interior walls of the same earth-con- 
struction as the exterior ones, or as our sepoys' lines 
are made in India. The roof is flat, and serves as a 
store-place for keeping sticks to burn, drying grain, 
pumpkins, mushrooms, or any vegetables they may 
have. Most of these compartments contain the fami- 
lies of the villagers, together with their poultry, brew- 
ing utensils, cooking apparatus, stores of grain, and 
anything they possess. The remainder contain their 
flocks and herds, principally goats and cows, for sheep 
do not breed well in the country, and their flesh is not 
much approved of by the people. What few sheep 
there are appear to be an offshoot from the Persian 



July.] NATIVE SHEEP AND CATTLE. 269 

stock. They have a very scraggy appearance, and 
show but the slightest signs of the fat-rumped propor- 
tions of their ancestors. The cows, unlike the noble 
Tanganyika ones, are small and short-horned, and are 
of a variety of colours. They carry a hump like the 
Brahminy bull, but give very little milk. In front of 
nearly every house you see large slabs of granite, the 
stones on which the jowari is ground by women, who, 
kneeling before them, rub the grain down to flour with 
a smaller stone, which they hold with both hands at 
once. Thus rubbing and grinding away, swaying 
monotonously to and fro, they cheer the time by 
singing and droning in cadence to the motion of their 

bodies. 

The country to the east and north-east of this vil- 
lage is said to be thinly peopled, but, as usual, the 
clans are much intermixed, the two principal being 
Wakimbu and Wasagari. I here engaged a second 
guide or leader for five shukkas (small loin-cloths) 
merikani, as a second war, different from the one 
we had heard of at Kaze, had broken out exactly 
on the road I was pursuing, and rendered my first 
leader's experience of no avail. The evening was 
spent by the porters in dancing, and singing a song 
which had been evidently composed for the occa- 
sion, as it embraced everybody's name connected 
with the caravan, but more especially Mzungu (the 
wise or white man), and ended with the prevailing 
word amongst these curly-headed bipeds, "Grub, Grub, 
Grub!" It is wonderful to see how long they will, 



270 VICTORIA NYANZA. [1858. 

after a long fatiguing march, keep up these festivities, 
singing the same song over and over again, and danc- 
ing and stamping, with their legs and arms flying 
about like the wings of a semaphore, as they move 
slowly round and round in the same circle and on the 
same ground ; their heads and bodies lolling to and 
fro in harmony with the rest of the dance, which is 
always kept at more even measure when, as on this 
occasion, there were some village drums beating the 
measure they were wont to move by. 

12th. — The caravan got under way by 6 A.M., and 
we marched thirteen miles to a village in the southern 
extremity of the Unyambewa district. Fortunately 
tempers, like butterflies, soon change state. The great 
distractor Time, together with the advantage of dis- 
tance, has produced such a salutary effect on the 
Beluches' minds, that this morning's start was accom- 
plished to the merry peals of some native homely ditty, 
and all moved briskly forward. This was the more 
cheering to me because it was the first occasion of 
their having shown such signs of good feeling as sing- 
ing in chorus on the line of march. The first five 
miles lay over flattish ground, winding amongst low 
straggling hills of the same formation as the whole 
surface of the Unyamuezi country, which is diversi- 
fied with small hills composed of granite outcrops. 
As we proceeded, the country opened into an extensive 
plain, covered, as we found it at first, with rich culti- 
vation, and then succeeded by a slender tree-forest, 



July.] A SCRIMMAGE. 271 

amongst which we espied some antelopes, all very 
wary and difficult of approach. 

At the ninth mile was a pond of sweet water, the 
greatest luxury in the desert. Here I ordered a halt 
for half an hour, and made a hearty breakfast on cold 
meat, potted Tanganyika shrimps, rozelle jelly, with 
other delicacies, and coffee. The latter article was 
bought from the Kaze merchants. Towards the close 
of the journey a laughable scene took place between 
an ivory caravan of Wasukuma and my own.* On 
nearing each other, the two Kirangozis or leaders 
slowly advanced, marching in front of the single-file 
order in which caravans worm along these twisting 
narrow tracks, with heads awry, and eyes steadfastly 
fixed on one another, and with their bodies held 
motionless and strictly poised, like rams preparing for 
a fight, rushed in with their heads down, and butted 
continuously till one gave way. The rest of the cara- 
van then broke up their order of march, and commenced 
a general melee. In my ignorance — for it was the 
first time I had seen such a scrimmage — I hastened to 
the front with my knobbed stick, and began reflecting 
where I could make best use of it in dividing the 
combatants, and should no doubt have laid on if I only 
could have distinguished friend from foe ; but both 
parties, being black, were so alike, that I hesitated 
until they stopped to laugh at my excited state, and 

* Sukuma means north, and the Wasukuma are consequently north- 
men, or northern Wanyamuezi. 



272 VICTORIA N'YANZA. [1858. 

assured me that it was only the enactment of a 
common custom in the country when two strange 
caravan-leaders meet, and each doubts who should 
take the supremacy in choice of side. In two minutes 
more the antagonists broke into broad laughter, and 
each went his way. 

The villages about here are numerous, and the 
country, after passing the forest, is highly cultivated, 
and affords plenty of provisions ; but unfortunately as 
yet the white beads which I have brought have no 
value with the natives, and I cannot buy those little 
luxuries, eggs, butter, and milk, which have such a 
powerful influence in making one's victuals good and 
palatable ; whereas there is such a rage for coloured 
beads, that if I had brought some I might purchase 
anything. 

13th. — The caravan started at 6.30 a.m., and after 
travelling eight miles over an open, waving, well- 
cultivated country, stopped at the last village in 
Unyambewa. The early morning before starting was 
wasted by the pagazis "striking" for more cloth, and 
refusing to move unless I complied with their demand. 
I peremptorily refused, and they then tried to wheedle 
me out of beads. In demanding cloth, they pretended 
that they were suffering from the chilling cold of night 
— a pretence too absurd to merit even a civil reply. 
I then explained to my head men that I would rather 
anything happened than listen to such imposture as 
this ; for did the men once succeed by tricks of this 
sort, there would never be an end to their trying it on, 



July.] A SULTANA. 273 

and it would "ultimately prove highly injurious to 
future travellers, especially to merchants. On the 
route we had nothing to divert attention, save a 
single Wasukuma caravan proceeding southwards to 
Unyanyembe. A sultana called Ungugu governs this 
district. She is the first and only female that we have 
seen in this position, though she succeeded to it after 
the custom of the country. I imagine she must have 
had a worthless husband, since every sultan can have 
as many wives as he pleases, and the whole could never 
have been barren. I rallied the porters for pulling up 
after so short a march, but could not induce them to 
go on. They declared that forests of such vast extent 
lay on ahead that it would be quite impossible to 
cross them before the night set in. In the evening I 
had a second cause for being vexed at this loss of time, 
when every mile and hour was of so much importance; 
for by our halt the sultana got news of my arrival, and 
sent a messenger to request the pleasure of my com- 
pany at her house on the morrow. In vain I pleaded 
for permission to go and see her that moment, or to do 
so on my return from the N'yanza ; her envoy replied 
that the day was so far spent I could not arrive at 
her abode till after dark, and she would not have the 
pleasure of seeing me sufficiently well. He therefore 
begged I would attend to the letter of her request, and 
not fail to visit her in the morning. 

The lazy pagazis, smelling flesh, also aided the 
deputy in his endeavours to detain me, by saying that 
they could not oppose her majesty's will, lest at any 

s 



274 VICTORIA NYANZA. [1858. 

future time, when they might want again to pass 
that way, she should take her revenge upon them. 
Though this might seem a very reasonable excuse, I 
doubt much, if their interests had lain the opposite 
way, whether they would have been so cautious. 
However, it was not difficult to detect their motives 
for bringing forward such an urgent reason against me, 
as it is a custom in this country that every wealthy 
traveller or merchant shall pay a passport-fee, accord- 
ing to his means, to the sultan of the country he 
travels through, who in return gives a cow or goat as 
a mark of amity, and this is always shared amongst 
the whole caravan. 

lith. — The sultana's house was reported to be near, 
so I thought to expedite the matter by visiting 
her in person, and thus perhaps gain an after- 
noon's march : otherwise to have sent the Jemadar 
with a present would have been sufficient, for these 
creatures are pure Mammonists. Vain hope, trying to 
do anything in a hurry in Negroland! I started early 
in the morning, unfortified within, and escorted by 
two Beluches, the Kirangozi, three porters, Bombay, 
and Mabruki. The necessary presents were also 
taken: these consisted of one barsati,"* one dhoti 
merikani,t and one shukka kiniki.^ This last article 
was to be kept in reserve, to throw in at last and close 
with, as further demands beyond what is given are 

* Barsati — a coloured cloth. 

f One dhoti = 2 shukkas ; 1 shukka = 4 cubits, or 2 yards, meri- 
kani (American sheeting). 
X Kiniki — a thin indigo-dyed cloth. 



July.] VISIT TO THE SULTANA. 275 

invariably made. After walking six miles over a 
well-cultivated plain, I felt anxious to know what 
they meant by " near," and was told, as usual, that the 
house was close at hand. Distrustful, but anxious to 
complete the business as speedily as possible (for to 
succeed in Africa one must do everything one's self), 
I followed the envoy across one of the waves that 
diversify the face of the country, descended into a 
well-cultivated trough-like depression, and mounted a 
second wave six miles farther on. 

Here at last, by dint of perseverance, we had the 
satisfaction of seeing the palisadoed royal abode. We 
entered it by an aperture in the tall slender stakes 
which surround the dwellings and constitute the pali- 
sadoing, and after following up a passage constructed 
of the same material as the outer fence, we turned 
suddenly into a yard full of cows — a substitute for an 
anteroom. Arrived there, the negroes at once com- 
menced beating a couple of large drums, half as tall 
as themselves, made something like a beer -barrel, 
covered on the top with a cow-skin stretched tightly 
over, by way of a drum-head. This drumming was 
an announcement of our arrival, intended as a mark 
of regal respect. 

For ten minutes we were kept in suspense, my eyes 
the while resting upon the milk-pots which were being 
filled at mid-day, but I could not get a drop. At the 
expiration of that time a body of slaves came rushing 
in, and hastily desired us to follow them. They led 
us down the passage by which we entered, and then 



276 VICTORIA N'YANZA. [1858. 

turned up another one similarly constructed, which 
brought us into the centre of the sultana's establish- 
ment — a small court, in which the common negro 
mushroom huts, with ample eaves, afforded us grate- 
ful shelter from the blazing sun. A cow-skin was 
now spread, and a wooden stool set for me, that 
I might assume a better state than my suite, who 
were squatted in a circle around me. With the usual 
precaution of African nobles, the lady's-maid was first 
sent to introduce herself — an ugly halting creature, 
very dirtily garbed, but possessing a smiling contented 
face. Her kindly mien induced me, starving and 
thirsty as I was after my twelve miles' walk, to ask 
for eggs and milk — great luxuries, considering how 
long I had been deprived of them. They were soon 
procured, and devoured with a voracity that must 
have astonished the bystanders. 

The maid, now satisfied there was nothing to fear, 
whether from ghost, goblin, or white face, retired and 
brought her mistress, a short stumpy old dame, who 
had seen at least some sixty summers. Her nose was 
short, squat, and flabby at the end, and her eyes were 
bald of brows or lashes ; but still she retained great 
energy of manner, and was blessed Avith an ever- 
smiling face. The dress she wore consisted of an old 
barsati, presented by some Arab merchant, and was if 
anything dirtier than her maid's attire. The large 
joints of all her fingers were bound up with small 
copper wire, her legs staggered under an immense 
accumulation of anklets made of brass wire wound 



July.] ROYAL CURIOSITY. 277 

round elephant's tail or zebra's hair ; her arms were 
decorated with huge solid brass rings, and from other 
thin brass wire bracelets depended a great assortment 
of wooden, brazen, horn, and ivory ornaments, cut in 
every shape of talismanic peculiarity. 

Squatting by my side, the sultana at once shook 
hands. Her nimble fingers first manipulated my 
shoes (the first point of notice in these barefooted 
climes), then my overalls, then my waistcoat, more 
particularly the buttons, and then my coat — this latter 
article being so much admired, that she wished I 
would present it to her, to wear upon her own fair 
person. Next my hands and fingers were mumbled, 
and declared to be as soft as a child's, and my hair 
was likened to a lion's mane. " Where is he going ? " 
was the all-important query. This, without my un- 
derstanding, was readily answered by a dozen voices, 
thus : " He is going to the Lake, to barter his cloth 
for large hippopotami teeth." Satisfied with this plau- 
sible story, she retired into privacy, and my slave, 
taking the hint, soon followed with the hongo (present 
or tax), duly presented it, and begged permission in 
my name to depart. But as she had always given 
a bullock to the Arabs who visited her, I also must 
accept one from her, though she could not realise the 
fact that so scurvy a present as mine could be intended 
for her, whose pretensions were in no way inferior to 
those of the Unyanyembe Sultan. An Arab could not 
have offered less, and this was a rich Mzungu ! 

Misfortunes here commenced anew : the bullock she 



278 VICTORIA NYANZA. [1858. 

was desirous of giving was out grazing, and could not 
be caught until the evening, when all the cattle are 
driven in together. Further, she could not afford to 
lose so interesting a personage as her guest, and volun- 
teered to give me a shakedown for the night. I begged 
she would consider my position — the absolute neces- 
sity for my hurrying — and not insist on my accep- 
tance of the bullock, or be offended by my refusing 
her kind offer to remain there, but permit our imme- 
diate departure. She replied that the word had gone 
forth, so the animal must be given ; and if I still per- 
sisted in going, at any rate three porters could remain 
behind, and drive it on afterwards. To this I reluc- 
tantly consented, and only on the Kirangozi's promise 
to march the following morning. Then, with the 
usual farewell salutation, " Kuahere, Mzungu," from 
my pertinacious hostess, I was not sorry to retrace my 
steps, a good five hours' walk. We re-entered camp 
at 7.20 p.m., which is long after dark in regions so 
near to the equator. All palaces here are like all 
the common villages beyond Unyamuezi proper, and 
are usually constructed on the same principle as this 
one They consist of a number of mushroom-shaped 
grass huts, surrounded by a tall slender palisading, 
and having streets or passages of the same wooden 
construction, some winding, some straight, and others 
crosswise, with outlets at certain distances leading into 
the different courts, each court usually containing five 
or six huts partitioned off with poles as the streets are. 
These courts serve for dividing the different families, 



July.] ASPECT OF THE COUNTRY. 279 

uncles and cousins occupying some, whilst slaves and 
their relatives live in others. Besides this they have 
their cattle-yards. If the site of the village be on 
moist or soft ground, it is usual, in addition to the 
palisading, to have it further fortified by a moat or 
evergreen fence. 

15 th. — We left Unyambewa at 7 A.M., and reached 
a village in the Ibanda district, having marched seven 
miles over flat ground, growing fine crops in some 
places, with the remainder covered by the usual slen- 
der forest-trees. The road was very good and regular. 
In the afternoon the three porters arrived with the 
sultana's bullock, and were attended by her nephew 
and managing man, and by some of her slaves as 
drivers. The nephew asked first for more presents 
in her name ; as this was refused, he requested 
something for the drivers. I gave them a cloth, and 
he then pleaded for himself, as he had sacrificed so 
much time and trouble for me. I satisfied him with 
one fundo of beads (a bunch of beads sufficient to form 
ten khetes or necklaces), and we parted : a full khete 
is a string of beads double the length of the fore-arm, 
or sufficiently long to encircle the neck twice. The 
Beluches, finding that nothing but the coarsest grains 
were obtainable with the white beads they had re- 
ceived, petitioned for and obtained a shukka, but 
under the proviso of their always assisting me to urge 
on the lazy porters. This they not only agreed to do, 
but also declared themselves willing to execute any 
orders I might give them : they looked upon me as 



280 VICTORIA N'YANZA. [1858. 

their Ma, Bap (mother and father, a Hindostani ex- 
pression, significant of everything, or entire depend- 
ence on one as a son on his parents), and considered 
my interests their interests. 

16 th. — We started at 6 a.m., and travelled eleven 
miles to Ukamba, a village in the district of Msalala, 
which is held by a tribe called Wamanda. The first 
four miles lay over the cultivated plain of Ibanda, till 
we arrived at the foot of a ridge of hills, which, gra- 
dually closing from the right, intersects the road, and 
runs into a hilly country extending round the western 
side of the aforesaid plain. We now crossed the range, 
and descended into a country more closely studded 
with the same description of small hills, but highly 
cultivated in the valleys and plains that separate them. 
About twelve miles to the eastward of Ukamba live a 
tribe called Wasongo, and to the west, at twenty miles' 
distance, are the Waquanda. To-day was fully veri- 
fied the absolute futility of endeavouring to march 
against time in these wild countries. 

The lazy pagazis finding themselves now, as it were, 
in clover, a country full of all the things they love, 
would not stir one step after 11 a.m. Were time of 
no consequence, and coloured beads in store, such tra- 
velling as this would indeed be pleasant. For the 
country here, so different from the Ujiji line, affords 
not only delightful food for the eyes, but abounds in 
flesh, milk, eggs, and vegetables in every variety. The 
son of the Msene Sultan, who lives between Unyan- 
yembe and Ujiji, and became great friends with us when 



July.] MARKETING AND FASHIONS. 281 

travelling there, paid me a visit to-day. He caught 
me at work with my diary and instruments, and being 
struck with veneration at the sight of my twirling 
compass and literary pursuits, thought me a magician, 
and begged that I would cast his horoscope, divine the 
probable extent of his father's life, ascertain if there 
would be any wars, and describe the weather, the 
prospects of harvest, and what future state the coun- 
try would lapse into. The shrewd Bombay replied, 
to save me trouble, that so great a matter required 
more days of contemplation than I could afford to give. 
Provisions were very dear when purchased with white 
beads, for they were not the fashion, and the people 
were indifferent to them. I paid him one loin-cloth 
for four fowls and nine eggs, though, had I had col- 
oured beads, I might have purchased one hen per 
khete (or necklace). Had this been a cloth- wearing 
instead of a bead-decorating nation, I should have ob- 
tained forty fowls for one shukka (or loin-cloth), that 
being the equivalent value with beads, equal, accord- 
ing to Zanzibar money, to one dollar. It is always 
foolish to travel without an assortment of beads, in 
consequence of the tastes of the different tribes vary- 
ing so much ; and it is more economical in the long-run 
to purchase high-priced than low-priced beads when 
making up the caravan at Zanzibar, for every little 
trader buys the cheaper sorts, stocks the country with 
them, and thus makes them common. 

IV f th. — This day, like all the preceding ones, is de- 
lightful, and worthy of drawing forth an exclamation, 



282 VICTORIA N'YANZA. [1858. 

like the Indian Griff's, of "What a fine day this is 
a^ain ! " We started at 7 a.m., and travelled thirteen 
miles, with fine bracing air, so cold in the morning 
that my fingers tingled with it. We were obliged 
here to diverge from the proper road via Sarenge, to 
avoid a civil war — the one before alluded to, and to 
escape which I had engaged the second guide — be- 
tween two young chiefs, brothers of the Wamanda 
tribe, who were contending for the reins of govern- 
ment on the principle that might ought to give the 
right. Our new course led us out of the Msalala 
into the Uyombo district, which is governed by a 
sultan called Mihambo. He paid me a visit and pre- 
sented a sheep — a small present, for he was a small 
chief, and could not demand a hongo. I gave in 
return one shukka merikani and one shukka kiniki. 
Here all the people were very busily engaged in their 
harvest, cutting their jowari, and thrashing it out with 
long sticks. 

The whole country lies in long waves, crested with 
cropping little hills, thickly clad with small trees and 
brushwood. In the hollows of these waves the culti- 
vation is very luxuriant. Here I unfortunately had 
occasion to give my miserable Goanese cook-boy a 
sound dressing, as the only means left of checking his 
lying, obstinate, destructive, wasteful, and injurious 
habit of intermeddling. This raised the creature's 
choler, and he vowed vengeance to the death, second- 
ing his words with such a fiendish, murderous look, 
his eyes glistening like an infuriated tiger's, that I felt 



July.] AN ALBINO. 283 

obliged to damp his temerity and freedom of tongue 
by further chastisement, which luckily brought him to 
a proper sense of his duty. 

18^. — We left at 7 a.m., and travelled ten miles to 
Ukuni. The country still continues of the same rich 
and picturesque character, and retains daily the same 
unvarying temperature. On the road we met a party 
of Wayombo, who, taking advantage of the Wamanda 
disturbances, had lifted some forty or fifty head of their 
cattle in perfect security. I saw two albinos in this 
village, one an old woman with greyish eyes, and the 
other young, who ran away from fright, and concealed 
herself in a hut, and would not show again although 
beads were offered as an inducement for one moment's 
peep. The old lady's skin was of an unwholesome 
fleshy-pink hue, and her hair, eyebrows, and eyelashes 
were a light yellowish white. This march was short- 
ened by two pagazis falling sick. I surmised this ill- 
ness to be in consequence of their having gorged too 
much beef, to which they replied that everybody is 
sure to suffer pains in the stomach after eating meat, 
if the slayer of the animal happens to protrude his 
tongue and clench it with his teeth during the process 
of slaughtering. At last the white beads have been 
taken, but at the extravagant rate of two khetes for 
four eggs, the dearest I ever paid. 

19 th. — The caravan proceeded at 6 a.m., and after 
going eight miles re-entered the Msalala district's fron- 
tier, where we put up in a village three miles beyond 
the border. The country throughout this march may 



284 VICTORIA N'YANZA. [1858. 

be classed in two divisions, one of large and exten- 
sively cultivated plains, with some fine trees about; 
and the other of small irregularly-disposed hills, the 
prevailing granitic outcrops of the region. There is 
no direct line northwards here, so we had to track 
about, and hit upon the lines between the different 
villages, which enhanced our trouble and caused much 
delay. At this place I witnessed the odd operation of 
brother-making. It consists in the two men desirous 
of a blood-tie being seated face to face on a cow's 
hide, with their legs stretched out as wide to the front 
as their length will permit, one pair overlapping the 
other. They then place their bows and arrows across 
their thighs, and each holds a leaf : at the same time 
a third person, holding a pot of oil or butter, makes 
an incision above their knees, and requires each to put 
his blood on the other's leaf, and mix a little oil with 
it, when each anoints himself with the brother-salve. 
This operation over, the two brothers bawl forth the 
names and extent of their relatives, and swear by the 
blood to protect the other till death. Ugogo, on the 
highway between the coast and Ujiji, is a place so full 
of inhabitants compared with the other places on that 
line, that the coast people quote it as a wonderful in- 
stance of high population ; but this district astonished 
all my retinue. The road to-day was literally thronged 
with a legion of black humanity so exasperatingly bold 
that nothing short of the stick could keep them from 
jostling me. Poor creatures ! they said they had come 
a long way to see, and now must have a good long 



July.] FRESH DELAYS. 285 

stare ; for when was there ever a Mzungu here be- 
fore ? 

20th. — We broke ground at 6 a.m., and after travel- 
ling through high cultivation six miles, were suddenly 
stopped by a guard of Wamanda, sent by Kurua, a 
sultan of that tribe, and chief of the division we were 
marching in. Their business was to inform us that if 
we wished to travel to the Lake, the sultan would give 
directions to have us escorted by another route, as his 
eldest brother was disputing the rights of government 
with him along the line we were now pursuing ; and 
added, that our intentions would be only known to 
him by the part we might choose to take. These con- 
stant interruptions were becoming very troublesome ; 
so, as we were close to the confines of these two mal- 
contents, I was anxious to force our way on, and agreed 
to do so with the Beluches. But the tiresome, lazy, 
flesh-seeking pagazis saw a feast in prospect by the 
sultan's arrangement, and would not move an inch. 
Further, the Kirangozi requested his discharge if I was 
otherwise than peacefully inclined. The guard then 
led us to Mgogua, the sultan's village, a little off the 
road. 

Kurua is a young man, not very handsome himself, 
but he has two beautiful young wives. They secured 
me a comfortable house, showed many attentions, and 
sent me a bowl of fresh sweetmilk, the very extreme of 
savage hospitality. In the evening he presented me 
with a bullock. This I tried to refuse, observing that 
flesh was the prime cause of all my hindrances ; but 



286 VICTORIA N'YANZA. [1858. 

nothing would satisfy him ; I must accept it, or he 
would be the laughing-stock of everybody for inhospi- 
tality. If I gave nothing in return, he should be 
happy as long as his part of host was properly fulfilled. 
Salt, according to the sultan, is only to be found here 
in the same efflorescent state in which I saw it yester- 
day — a thin coating overspreading the ground, as 
though flour had been sprinkled there. 

21 st. — Halt. I gave the sultan, as a return present, 
one dhoti merikani and six cubits kiniki, what I thought 
to be just the value of his bullock. His kindness was 
undoubtedly worthy of a higher reward, but I feared 
to excite these men's cupidity, as there is no end to 
their tricks and finesse whenever they find a new 
chance of gain, and I now despaired of accomplishing 
my task in time. However, Kurua seemed quite 
happy under the circumstances, and considered the 
exchange of hongo a bond of alliance, and proclaimed 
that we were henceforth to be brothers. He then said 
he would accompany me back to Unyanyembe, on my 
return from the Lake, and would exchange any of his 
cows that I might take a fancy to for powder, which 
I said I had there. The quantity of cattle in Msalala 
surpasses anything I have seen in Africa. Large 
droves, tended by a few men each, are to be seen in 
every direction over the extensive plains, and every 
village is filled with them at night. The cultivation 
also is as abundant as the cattle are numerous, and the 
climate is delightful. To walk till breakfast, 9 a.m., 
every morning, I find a luxury, and from that time 



July.] ROYAL REVENUES. 287 

till noon I ride with pleasure ; but the next three 
hours, though pleasant in a hut, are too warm to be 
agreeable under hard exertion. The evenings and 
the mornings, again, are particularly serene, and the 
night, after 10 p.m., so cold as to render a blanket 
necessary. But then it must be remembered that all 
the country about these latitudes, on this meridian, 
33° east, is at an altitude of from 3500 to 4000 feet. 
My dinner to-day was improved by the addition of 
tomatos and the bird's-eye chili — luxuries to us, but 
which the negroes, so different from the Indians, 
never care about, and seldom grow. 

The cotton-plant is as fine here as at Unyanyembe' 
or Ujiji, and anything would grow with only the 
trouble of throwing down the seed. It is a great pity 
that the country is not in better hands. From all I 
can gather, there is no fixed revenue paid to these sul- 
tans ; all their perquisites are occasional hongos received 
from travellers ; a percentage on all foreign seizures, 
whether by battle or plunder ; and a certain part of 
all windfalls, such as a share of the sportsman's game- 
bag, in the shape of elephants' tusks or flesh, or the 
skins of any wild animals ; otherwise they live by the 
sweat of the brow of their slaves, in tilling their 
ground, tending their cattle, or trafficking for them in 
slaves and ivory. It seems destined that I should 
never reach the goal of my ambition. To-day the 
Jemadar finds himself too unwell to march, and two 
other Beluches say the same. This is an effectual ob- 
stacle ; for the guard declares itself too weak to divide, 



288 VICTORIA N'YANZA. [1858. 

and the sultan blows on the fire of my mortification by- 
saying that these are troubled times, and advises our 
keeping all together. He says that his differences 
have been going on these five years with his eldest 
brother, and now he wishes to bring them to a crisis, 
which he proposes doing after my return, when he will 
obtain powder from me, and will have the preponder- 
ating influence of Arab opinion brought to bear in his 
favour by the aid of their guns — an impressive mode 
which Africa has of proving right in its own way. 

22d. — After much groaning and grumbling, I got 
the sick men on their legs by 7 a.m., and we marched 
eight miles to Senagongo, the boma'* (palisade) of 
Sultan Kanoni, Kurua's second brother. These two 
younger brothers side together against the eldest. 
They are all by different mothers, and think the father s 
property should fairly be divided among them. It is 
a glaring instance of the bad effects of a plurality of 
wives ; and being contrary to our constitutional laws 
of marriage, I declined giving an opinion as to who 
was right or wrong. 

To avoid the seat of war my track was rather tor- 
tuous. On the east or right side the country was open, 
and afforded a spacious view ; but on the west this 
was limited by an irregularly-disposed series of low 
hills. Cultivation and scrub-jungle alternated the 
whole way. The miserable Goanese, like a dog slink- 
ing off to die, slipped away behind the caravan, and 

* Boma — a palisade. A village or collection of huts so fortified is 
called so also. 



July.] A BELUCH TRICK. 289 

hid himself in the jungle to suffer the pangs of fever 
in solitude. I sent men to look for him in vain : 
party succeeded party in the search, till at last night 
set in without his appearing. It is singular in this 
country to find how few men escape some fever or 
other sickness, who make a sudden march after living 
a quiet stationary life. It appears as if the bile got 
stirred, suffused the body, and, exciting the blood, 
produced this effect. I had to admonish a silly Beluch, 
who, foolishly thinking that powder alone could not 
hurt a man, fired his gun off into a mass of naked 
human legs, in order, as he said, to clear the court. 
The consequence was, that at least fifty pairs got 
covered with numerous small bleeding wounds, all 
dreadfully painful from the saltpetre contained in the 
powder. It was fortunate that the sultan was a good 
man, and was present at the time it occurred, else a 
serious row might have been the consequence of this 
mischievous trick. 

23d. — Halt. We fired alarm-guns all night to no 
purpose ; so at daybreak three different parties, after 
receiving particular orders how to scour the country, 
were sent off at the same time to search for Gaetano. 
Fortunately the Beluches obeyed my injunctions, and 
at 10 a.m. returned with the man, who looked for all 
the world exactly like a dog who, guilty of an indis- 
cretion, is being brought in disgrace before his master 
to receive a flogging ; for he knew I had a spare 
donkey for the sick, and had constantly warned the 
men from stopping behind alone in these lawless coun- 

T 



290 VICTORIA N'YANZA. [1858. 

tries. The other two parties adopting, like true East- 
erns, a better plan of their own, spent the whole day 
ranging wildly over the country, fruitlessly exerting 
themselves, and frustrating any chance of my getting 
even an afternoon's march. Kanoni very kindly sent 
messengers all over his territory to assist in the search : 
he, like Kurua, has taken every opportunity to show 
me those little pleasing attentions which always render 
travelling agreeable. These Wamanda are certainly 
the most noisy set of beings that I ever met with : 
commencing their fetes in the middle of the. village 
every day at 3 p.m., with screaming, yelling, rushing, 
jumping, sham-fighting, drumming, and singing in one 
collective inharmonious noise, they seldom cease till 
midnight. Their villages, too, are everywhere much 
better protected by bomas (palisading) than is usual in 
Africa, arguing that they are a rougher and more war- 
like people than the generality. If shoved aside, or 
pushed with a stick, they show their savage nature by 
turning fiercely like a fatted pig upon whoever tries to 
poke it up. 

2Uk — The march commenced at 7 a.m.; and here 
we again left the direct road, to avoid a third party 
of belligerent Wamanda, situated in the northern ex- 
tremity of the Msalala district, on the highway between 
Unyanyembe and the Lake. On bidding the sultan 
adieu, he was very urgent in his wishes that I should 
take a bullock from him. This I told him I should 
willingly have accepted, only that it would delay my 
progress; and he, more kindly than the other chief, 



July.] KANONl's KINDNESS. 291 

excused me. Finding that none of our party knew the 
road, he advanced a short way with us, and generously 
offered to furnish us with a guide to the Lake and 
back, saying that he would send one of his own men 
after us to a place he appointed with my Kirangozi. 
I expressed my gratitude for his consideration, and 
we parted with warm regard for one another. Un- 
fortunately, Bombay, who is not the clearest man in 
the world in expressing himself, stupidly bungled the 
sultan's arrangement, and we missed the man. 

To keep the pagazis going was a matter of no little 
difficult} 7 ; after the fifth mile they persisted in enter- 
ing every village that they came across, and, throwing 
down their loads, were bent upon making an easy day's 
work of it. I, on the contrary, was equally persistent 
in going on, and neither would allow the Beluches to 
follow them, nor enter the villages myself, until they, 
finding their game of no avail, quietly shouldered their 
loads and submitted to my orders. This day's journey 
was twelve miles over a highly-cultivated, waving 
country, at the end of which we took up our abode in 
a deserted village called Kahama. 

25th. — We got under way at 7 a.m., and marched 
seven and a half hours, when we entered a village in 
the district of Nindo, nineteen miles distant. After 
passing through a belt of jungle three miles broad, we 
came upon some villages amidst a large range of culti- 
vation. This passed, we penetrated a large wilderness 
of thorn and bush jungle, having sundry broad grassy 
flats lying at right angles to the road. Here I saw a 



292 VICTORIA N'YANZA. [1858. 

herd of hartebeests, giraffes, and other animals, giving 
to the scene a truly African character. The tracks of 
elephants and different large beasts prove that this 
place is well tenanted in the season. The closeness of 
the jungle and evenness of the land prevented my 
taking any direct observations with the compass ; but 
the mean oscillations of its card showed a course with 
northing again. This being a long stage, I lent my ass 
to a sick Beluch, and we accomplished the journey, 
notwithstanding the great distance, in a pleasant and 
spirited manner. This despatch may in part be attri- 
butable to there being so much desert, and the beloved 
" grub " and the village lying ahead of us luring the 
men on. 

26th. — "We broke ground at 7 A.M., and, after pass- 
ing the village cultivation, entered a waterless wilder- 
ness of thorn and tree forest, with some long and broad 
plains of tall grass intersecting the line of march. 
These flats very much resemble some we crossed when 
travelling close to and parallel with the Malagarazi 
river ; for the cracked and flawy nature of the ground, 
now parched up by a constant drought, shows that 
this part gets inundated in the wet season. Indeed, 
this peculiar grassy flat formation suggests the prox- 
imity of a river everywhere in Africa ; and I felt 
sure, as afterwards proved true, that a river was not 
far from us. The existence of animal life is another 
warranty of water being near : elephants and buffaloes 
cannot live a day without it. 

Fortunately for my mapping, a small conical hill 



July.] NATIVE CHARACTERISTICS. 293 

overtopped the trees in advance of our track, at twelve 
miles from the starting-point. We eventually passed 
alongside of it, and travelled on six miles farther to a 
village in the cultivated plain of Salawe, a total dis- 
tance of eighteen miles. The whole country about 
here was covered with harvest- workers, who, on seeing 
my approach, left off work and followed me into the 
village. As nothing proves better the real feelings and 
natural propensities of a nation than the impulsive 
actions of the children, I will give a striking instance, 
as it occurred to me to-day. On seeing a child 
approach me, I offered him a handful of beads, upon 
which the greedy little urchin snatched them from my 
hand with all the excited eagerness of a monkey. He 
clenched tight hold of them in his little fists, and, 
without the slightest show of any emotions of grati- 
tude, retired, carrying his well-earned prize away with 
a self-satisfied and perfectly contented air, not even 
showing the beads to his parents or playmates. I 
called Bombay's attention to this transaction, and con- 
trasted it with the joyful, grateful manner in which 
an English child would involuntarily act if suddenly 
become possessed of so much wealth, by hurrying off 
to his mamma, and showing what fine things the kind 
gentleman had given him. Bombay passed on my 
remark, with a twelvemonth's grin upon his face, to 
his inquiring brother Mabruki, and then explained the 
matter to his sooty friends around, declaring that such 
tumma (avaricious) propensities were purely typical 
of the Seedi's nature. 



294 VICTORIA N'YANZA. [1858. 

At the usual hour of departure this morning, the 
Kirangozi discovered that the pagazis' feet were sore 
from the late long marches, and declared that they 
could not walk. To this the Jemadar replied that the 
best asylum for such complaints was on ahead, where 
the sahib proposed to kill some goats and rest a day. 
The Kirangozi replied, " But the direct road is blocked 
up by wars : if a march must be made, I will show 
another route three marches longer round." " That/ 7 
answered the Jemadar, " is not your business : if any 
troubles arise from marauders, we, the Beluches, are 
the righting men — leave that to us." At last the Kir- 
angozi, getting quite disconcerted, declared that there 
was no water on the way. " Then," quoth the ener- 
getic Jemadar, " were your gourds made for nothing ? 
If you don't pack up at once, you and my stick shall 
make acquaintance." The party was then off in a 
moment. 

On the way we met some herdsmen driving their 
cattle to Unyanyembe, and inquired from them the 
state of the road. They said that the country beyond 
a certain distance was safe and quiet, but corroborated 
the Kirangozi's statement as to warriors being in the 
immediate neighbourhood, who came and visited this 
place from the west, where is the northern extremity 
of the Msalala district. Several varieties of antelopes 
were seen, and the Beluches fired at an ostrich. As 
in the last place, no milk could be obtained, for the 
people, fearing the Wamanda, had driven off their 
cattle to the northward. It is evident, from the 



July.] NATIVE COSTUMES. 295 

general nakedness of the people, that cloth or beads do 
not find their way much here, which is accounted for 
by so few merchants ever coming this way. Hardly 
a neck here is decorated, and they seldom wear any- 
thing but the common goat-skin covering, hung over 
the shoulder by a strap or string like a game-bag, 
which covers only one hip at a time, and might as well 
be dispensed with as far as decency is concerned ; but 
at night they take it off, and spread it on the ground 
to protect themselves from the cold and moisture of 
the earth. This district is occupied by a tribe called 
Waumba ; to the east of it, thirty miles distant, are 
the Wanatiya, and thirty miles westward the Wazinza 
tribes. 

27th. — At 6 a.m. we crawled through the opening 
in the palisading which forms the entrances of these 
villages, and at once perceived a tall, narrow pillar of 
granite, higher than Pompey's at Alexandria, or Nel- 
son's Monument in Charing Cross, towering above us, 
and having sundry huge boulders of the same compo- 
sition standing around its base, much in the same 
peculiar way as we see at Stonehenge, on Salisbury 
Plain. This scene strikes one with wonderment at 
the oddities of nature, and taxes one's faculties to 
imagine how on earth the stones ever became tilted up 
in this extraordinary position ; but farther on, about 
five miles distant, we encountered another and even 
higher pillar, that quite overtopped the trees and every- 
thing about it. This and the former one served as 
good station-marks for the journey, the latter being 



296 VICTORIA N'YANZA. [1858. 

visible at eight miles' distance. After the first eight 
miles, which terminates the cultivated district of Sala- 
we, the track penetrated a waterless desert of thorn 
and small tree-forest, lying in a broad valley between 
low hills. As the sick Beluch still occupied my steadier 
donkey Ted, I was compelled to mount the half-broken 
Jenny — so playful with her head and heels that neither 
the Sheikh nor any other man dared sit upon her. The 
man's sickness appears to be one of those eccentric 
complaints, the after-effects of African fevers : it was 
attended with severe pain, and swelling extending over 
the stomach, the right side, the right arm, and the 
right half of the neck, depriving him of sleep and re- 
pose. In every position, whether sitting, lying, stand- 
ing, rising up, or sitting down, he complained of 
aching muscles. I purchased a goat and sheep for the 
men for one dhoti merikani. 

28th. — Halt. This stoppage was for the restoration 
of wounded feet, the pagazis' being all blistered by the 
last four long marches. I now slaughtered and gave 
the two purchased animals to the men, as no one 
grumbled at my refusing the last bullock, a recognised 
present for the whole party, though nominally given 
to the Sahib. These people, like the Arabs, and all 
those who have many wives, seem to find little enjoy- 
ment in that domestic bliss so interesting and beauti- 
ful in our English homes. Except on rare occasions, 
the husband never dines with his wife and family, 
always preferring the exclusive society of his own sex : 
even the boys, disdaining to dine with their mothers, 



July.] APPEARANCE OF THE COUNTRY. 297 

mess with the men ; whilst the girls and women, hav- 
ing no other option, eat a separate meal by themselves. 

2dih. — We started at 6 a.m., and marched thirteen 
miles to a village at the northern extremity of the dis- 
trict. The face of the country is still very irregular, 
sometimes rising into hills, at other times dropping 
into dells, but very well cultivated in the lower por- 
tion ; whilst the brown granite rocks, with trees and 
brushwood covering the upper regions, diversify the 
colouring, and form a pleasing contrast to the scene ; 
added to this, large and frequent herds graze about 
the fields and amongst the villages, and give anima- 
tion to the whole. Amongst the trees, palms take 
a prominent part. Indeed, for tropical scenery, there 
are few places that could equal this ; and if the tra- 
veller, as he moves along, surrounded by the screech- 
ing, howling, inquisitive savages, running rudely about 
and boisterously jostling him, could only divest him- 
self of the idea that he is a bear baited by a yelping 
pack of hounds, the journey would be replete with 
enjoyment. 

Crossing some hills, the caravan sprang a covey of 
guinea-fowls, and at some springs in a valley I shot 
several couple of sand-grouse, darker in plumage than 
any I ever saw in Africa or India, and not quite so 
big as the Tibet bird. The chief of the village offered 
me a bullock ; but as the beast did not appear until the 
time of starting, I declined it. Neither did I give 
him any cloth, being convinced in my mind that these 
and other animals have always been brought to me by 



298 VICTORIA N'YANZA. [1858. 

the smaller chiefs at the instigation of the Kirangozi, 
and probably aided by the flesh-loving party in gene- 
ral. The Jemadar must have been particularly morti- 
fied at my way of disposing of the business, for he 
talked of nothing else but flesh and the animal from 
the moment it was sent for, his love for butcher-meat 
amounting almost to a frenzy. The sandstone in this 
region is highly impregnated with iron, and smelters 
do a good business ; indeed, the iron for nearly all the 
tools and cutlery that are used in this division of 
Eastern Africa is found and manufactured here. It is 
the Brummagem of the land, and has not only rich but 
very extensive ironfields stretching many miles north, 
east, and west. I brought some specimens away. 
Cloth is little prized in this especially bead country, 
and I had to pay the sum of one dhoti kiniki for 
one pot of honey and one pot of ghee (clarified 
butter). 

30 th. — The caravan started at 6 A.M., and travelled 
four miles northwards, amidst villages and cultivation. 
From this point, on facing to the left, I could discern 
a sheet of water, about four miles from me, which ulti- 
mately proved to be a creek, and the most southern 
point of the N yanza, which, as I have said before, the 
Arabs described to us as the Ukerewe Sea." r "We 
soon afterwards descended into a grassy and jungly 

* This, I maintain, was the discovery of the source of the Nile. Had 
the ancient kings and sages known that a rainy zone existed on the 
equator, they would not have puzzled their brains so long, and have 
wondered where those waters came from which meander through up- 
wards of a thousand miles of scorching desert without a single tributary 



July.] FEEDERS OF THE N'YANZA. 299 

depression, and arrived at a deep, dirty, viscid nullah 
(a watercourse that only runs in wet weather), drain- 
ing the eastern country into the southern end of the 
creek. To cross this (which I shall name Jordan) was 
a matter of no small difficulty, especially for the don- 
keys, whose fording seemed quite hopeless, until the 
Jemadar, assisted by two other Beluches, with blows 
and threats made the lazy pagazis work, and dragged 
them through the mud by sheer force. This operation 
lasted so long that, after crossing, we made for the 
nearest village in the Uvira district, and completed a 
journey of eight miles. The country to the eastward 
appeared open and waving, but to the north and far 
west very hilly. The ground is fertile, and the flocks 
and herds very abundant. Hippopotami frequent the 
nullah at night, and reside there during the rainy sea- 
son ; but at this, the dry half of the year, they retreat 
to the larger waters of the creek. Ehinoceroses are 
said to pay nightly visits to fields around the villages, 
and commit sad havoc on the crops. The nullah, run- 
ning from the south-east, drains the land in that direc- 
tion ; but a river, I hear, rising in the Msalala district, 
draws off the water from the lays we have recently 
been crossing, to the westward of our track, where its 
course lies, and empties it into the creek on the oppo- 
site side to where the nullah debouches. 

31 st. — On hearing that a, shorter track than the 
Sukuma one usually frequented by the Arabs led to 
Muanza, the place Sheikh Snay advised my going to, 
I started by it at 8 a.m. ; and after following it west- 



•300 VICTORIA N'YANZA. [1858. 

ward down the nullah's right bank a few miles, turned 
up northwards, and continued along the creek to a 
village, eight miles distant, at the farther end of the 
Urima district, where we took up our quarters. The 
country has a mixed and large population of smiths, 
agriculturists, and herdsmen, residing in the flats and 
depressions which lie between the scattered little hills. 
During the rainy season, when the lake swells and 
the country becomes super-saturated, the inundations 
are so great that all travelling becomes suspended. 
The early morning was wasted by the unreasonable 
pagazis in the following absurd manner. 

It will be remembered that, on starting from Un- 
yanyembe, these cunning rascals begged for cloth as a 
necessary protection against the cold. This seemed 
reasonable enough, if they had not just before that re- 
ceived their hire in cloth ; for the nights were so cold 
that I should have been sorry to be as naked as they 
were ; but their real motive for asking was only to 
increase their stock for this present occasion, as we 
now shall see. Two days ago they broke ground with 
great difficulty, and only on my assuring them that I 
would wait at the place a day or two on my return 
from the Lake, as they expressed their desire to make 
a few halts there, and barter their hire of cloth for 
jembes (iron hoes), to exchange again at Unyanyembe, 
where those things fetch double the price they do in 
these especially iron regions. Now, to-day these dis- 
sembling creatures, distrusting my word as they would 
their own brethren's, stoutly refused to proceed until 



Aug.] SIGHT THE n'yanza. 301 

their business was completed, — suspecting I should 
break my word on returning, and would not then wait 
for them. They had come all this way especially for 
their own benefit, and now meant to profit by their 
trouble. Fortunately, the Jemadar and some other 
Beluches, who of late had shown great energy and zeal 
in promoting my views, pointed out to them that they 
were really more bound to do my business than their 
own, as they had engaged to do so, and since they 
could never have come there at all excepting through 
my influence and by my cloths ; further, if they bought 
their hoes then, they would have to carry them all the 
way to the Lake and back. The Kirangozi acknow- 
ledged the fairness of this harangue, and soon gave 
way; but it was not until much more arguing, and the 
adoption of other persuasive means, that the rest were 
induced to relinquish their determination. 

1st August. — This day's march, commenced at 6 A.M., 
differs but little from the last. Following down the 
creek, which, gradually increasing in breadth as it 
extended northwards, was here of very considerable 
dimensions, we saw many little islands, well-wooded 
elevations, standing boldly out of its waters, which, to- 
gether with the hill-dotted country around, afforded a 
most agreeable prospect Would that my eyes had 
been strong enough to dwell, unshaded, upon such 
scenery ! but my French grey spectacles so excited the 
crowds of sable gentry who followed the caravan, and 
they were so boisterously rude, stooping and peering 
underneath my wide-awake to gain a better sight of 



302 VICTORIA NYANZA. [1858. 

my double eyes, as they chose to term them, that it 
became impossible for me to wear them. I therefore 
pocketed the instrument, closed my eyes, and allowed 
the donkey I was riding to be quietly pulled along. 
The evil effects of granting an indulgence to those who 
cannot appreciate it, was more obvious every day. To 
secure speed and contentment, I had indulged the 
pagazis by hiring double numbers, and giving 'each 
only half a recognised burden ; but what has been the 
return ? Yesterday the pagazis stopped at the eighth 
mile, because they said that so large a jungle was in 
our front that we could not cross it during daylight. 

I disbelieved their story, and gave them to under- 
stand, on submitting to their request, that I was sure 
their trick for stopping me would turn to their own 
disadvantage ; for if my surmise proved true, as the 
morrow would show, I should give them no more in- 
dulgence, and especially no more meat. On our arri- 
val to-day there was a great hubbub amongst them, 
because I ordered the Jemadar and Kirangozi, with 
many of their principal men, to sit in state before me ; 
when I gave a cloth to the soldiers to buy a goat with, 
and, turning to the Kirangozi, told him I was sorry I 
was obliged to keep my word of yesterday, and, their 
story having proved false, I must depart from the 
principle I had commenced upon, of feeding both 
parties alike, and now they might feel assured that I 
would do nothing further for their comfort until I 
could see in them some desire to please me. The 
screw was on the tenderest part : a black man's belly 



Aug.] BEAUTIES OF THE SCENE. 303 

is his god ; and they no sooner found themselves de- 
prived of their wonted feast, than they clamorously 
declared they would be my devoted servants ; that 
they had come expressly to serve me, and were will- 
ing to do anything I wished. The village chief offered 
me a goat ; but as it came at the last moment before 
starting, I declined it. 

To-day's track lay for the first half of the way over 
a jungly depression, where we saw ostriches, florikans, 
and the small Saltiana antelopes ; but as their shyness 
did not allow of an open approach, I amused myself 
by shooting partridges. During the remainder of the 
way, the caravan threaded between villages and culti- 
vation lying in small valleys, or crossed over low hills, 
accomplishing a total distance of twelve miles. Here 
we put up at a village called Ukumbi, occupied by the 
Walaswanda tribe. 

2d. — We set out at 6 a.m., and travelled thirteen 
miles by a tortuous route, sometimes close by the 
creek, at other times winding between small hills, the 
valleys of which were thickly inhabited by both agri- 
cultural and pastoral people. Here some small peren- 
nial streams, exuding from springs by the base of these 
hills, meander through the valleys, and keep all vege- 
table life in a constant state of verdant freshness. The 
creek still increases in width as it extends northward, 
and is studded with numerous small rocky island-hills 
covered with brushwood, which, standing out from 
the bosom of the deep-blue waters, reminded me of a 
voyage I once had in the Grecian Archipelago. The 



304 



VICTORIA NYANZA. 



[1858. 



route also being so diversified with hills, afforded fresh 
objects of attraction at every turn; and to-day, by 
good fortune, the usually troublesome people have 
attended more to their harvest-making, and left me to 
the enjoyment of the scenery. My trusty Blissett 
made a florikan pay the penalty of death for his teme- 
rity in attempting a flight across the track. The 
day's journey lasted thirteen miles, and brought us 
into a village called Isamiro. 



Aug.] FIRST VIEW OF THE N'YANZA. 305 



CHAPTER IV. 

FIRST SIGHT OF THE VICTORIA N'YANZA — ITS PHYSICAL GEO- 
GRAPHY — SPECULATIONS ON ITS BEING THE SOURCE OF THE 
NILE — SPORT ON THE LAKE — SULTANS MACHUNDA AND 
MAHAYA — MISSIONARY ACCOUNTS OF THE GEOGRAPHY — 
ARAB ACCOUNTS — REGRETS AT INABILITY TO COMPLETE 
THE DISCOVERY — THE MARCH RESUMED — HISTORY OF THE 
WATUTA — HIPPOPOTAMUS - HUNTING — ADVENTURES — KA- 
HAMA. 

August 3d. — The caravan, after quitting Isamiro, began 
winding up a long but gradually inclined hill — which, 
as it bears no native name, I shall call Somerset — 
until it reached its summit, when the vast expanse of 
the pale-blue waters of the N yanza burst suddenly 
upon my gaze. It was early morning. The distant 
sea-line of the north horizon was defined in the calm 
atmosphere between the north and west points of the 
compass ; but even this did not afford me any idea of 
the breadth of the lake, as an archipelago of islands 
(vide Map, Bengal Archipelago), each consisting of a 
single hill, rising to a height of 200 or 300 feet above 
the water, intersected the line of vision to the left ; 
while on the right the western horn of the Ukerewe 

u 



306 VICTORIA N'YANZA. [1858. 

Island cut off any farther view of its distant waters to 
the eastward of north. A sheet of water — an elbow 
of the sea, however, at the base of the low range on 
which I stood — extended far away to the eastward, 
to where, in the dim distance, a hummock-like eleva- 
tion of the mainland marked what I understood 
to be the south and east angle of the lake. The 
important islands of UkereVe and Mzita, distant 
about twenty or thirty miles, formed the visible north 
shore of this firth. The name of the former of these 
islands was familiar to us as that by which this 
long-sought lake was usually known. It is reported 
by the natives to be of no great extent ; and though 
of no considerable elevation, I could discover several 
spurs stretching down to the water's edge from its 
central ridge of hills. The other island, Mzita, is of 
greater elevation, of a hog -backed shape, but being 
more distant, its physical features were not so dis- 
tinctly visible. 

In consequence of the northern islands of the Ben- 
gal Archipelago before mentioned obstructing the view, 
the western shore of the lake could not be defined : a 
series of low hill-tops extended in this direction as far 
as the eye could reach ; while below me, at no great 
distance, was the debouchure of the creek, which enters 
the lake from the south, and along the banks of which 
my last three days' journey had led me. This view 
was one which, even in a well-known and explored 
country, would have arrested the traveller by its peace- 
ful beauty. The islands, each swelling in a gentle 



AUG.] SPECULATIONS AS TO THE NILE. 307 

slope to a rounded summit, clothed with wood between 
the rugged angular closely-cropping rocks of granite, 
seemed mirrored in the calm surface of the lake ; on 
which I here and there detected a small black speck, 
the tiny canoe of some Muanza fisherman. On the 
gently shelving plain below me, blue smoke curled 
above the trees, which here and there partially con- 
cealed villages and hamlets, their brown thatched 
roofs contrasting with the emerald green of the beau- 
tiful milk-bush, the coral branches of which cluster in 
such profusion round the cottages, and form alleys 
and hedgerows about the villages as ornamental as 
any garden shrub in England. But the pleasure of 
the mere view vanished in the presence of those more 
intense and exciting emotions which are called up by 
the consideration of the commercial and geographical 
importance of the prospect before me. 

I no longer felt any doubt that the lake at my feet 
gave birth to that interesting river, the source of 
which has been the subject of so much speculation, 
and the object of so many explorers. The Arabs' tale 
was proved to the letter. This is a far more extensive 
lake than the Tanganyika ; " so broad you could not 
see across it, and so long that nobody knew its length."'"" 
I had now the pleasure of perceiving that a map I had 
constructed on Arab testimony, and sent home to the 

* This magnificent sheet of water I have ventured to name Victoria, 
after our gracious Sovereign. Its length was not clearly understood by 
me, in consequence of the word Sea having been applied both to the 
Lake and to the Nile by my local informants ; and there was no recent 
map of the Nile with the expedition by which I might have been guided. 



308 VICTORIA N'YANZA. [1858. 

Eoyal Geographical Society before leaving Unyan- 
yembe, was so substantially correct that in its general 
outlines I had nothing whatever to alter. Further, 
as I drew that map after proving their first statements 
about the Tanganyika, which were made before my 
going there, I have every reason to feel confident of 
their veracity relative to their travels north through 
Karague, and to Kibuga in Uganda. 

When Sheikh Snay told us of the Ukerewe, as he 
called the N yanza, on our first arrival at Kaze, pro- 
ceeding westward from Zanzibar, he said, " If you 
have come only to see a large bit of water, you had 
better go northwards and see the Ukerewe ; for it is 
much greater in every respect than the Tanganyika ; " 
and so, as far as I can ascertain, it is. Muanza, our 
journey's end, now lay at our feet. It is an open, 
well-cultivated plain on the southern end, and lies 
almost flush with the lake ; a happy, secluded-looking 
corner, containing every natural facility to make life 
pleasant. After descending the hill, we followed along 
the borders of the lake, and at first entered Mahay a's 
Palace, when the absence of boats arousing my suspi- 
cions, made me inquire where the Arabs, on coming 
to Muanza, and wishing to visit Ukerewe, usually 
resided. This, I heard, was some way farther on ; so 
with great difficulty I persuaded the porters to come 
away and proceed at once to where they said an Arab 
was actually living. It was a singular coincidence 
that, after Sheikh Snay's caution as to my avoiding 
Sultan Mahaya's Palace, by inquiring diligently about 



Aug.] ARAB HOSPITALITY. 309 

him yesterday, and finding no one who knew his name, 
the first person I should have encountered was him- 
self, and that, too, in his own Palace. The reason of 
this was, that big men in this country, to keep up 
their dignity, have several names, and thus mystify 
the traveller. 

I then proceeded along the shore of the lake in an 
easterly direction, and on the way shot a number of 
red Egyptian geese, which were very numerous ; they 
are the same sort here as I once saw in the Somali 
country. Another goose, which unfortunately I could 
not kill, is very different from any I ever saw or heard 
of : it stands as high as the Canadian bird, or higher, 
and is black all over, saving one little white patch 
beneath the lower mandible. It was fortunate that I 
came on here, for the Arab in question, called Mansur 
bin Salim, treated me very kindly, and he had retainers 
belonging to the country, who knew as much about 
the lake as anybody, and were of very great assistance. 
I also found a good station for making observations 
on the lake. It was Mansur who first informed me of 
my mistake of the morning ; but he said that the evil 
reports spread at Unyanyembe about Mahaya had no 
foundation ; on the contrary, he had found him a very 
excellent and obliging person. 

To-day we marched eight miles, and have concluded 
our journey northwards, a total distance of 226 miles 
from Kaze, which, occupying twenty-five days, is at 
the rate of nine miles per diem, halts inclusive. 

Uh. — Early in the morning I took a walk of three 



310 VICTORIA N'YANZA. [1858. 

miles easterly along the shore of the lake, and, ascend- 
ing a small hill (which, to distinguish it, I have called 
Observatory Hill), took compass bearings of all the 
principal features of the lake. Mansur and a native, the 
greatest traveller of the place, kindly accompanied me, 
and gave me every obtainable information. This man 
had traversed the island, as he called it, of Ukerewe 
from north to south. But by his rough mode of de- 
scribing it, I am rather inclined to think that instead 
of its being an actual island, it is a connected tongue of 
land, stretching southwards from a promontory lying 
at right angles to the eastern shore of the lake, which, 
being a wash, affords a passage to the mainland during 
the fine season, but during the wet becomes submerged, 
and thus makes Ukerewe temporarily an island. 

If this conjecture be true, Mzita must be similarly 
circumstanced. Cattle, he says, can cross over from 
the mainland at all seasons of the year, by swimming 
from one elevation of the promontory to another ; but 
the Warudi, who live upon the eastern shore of the 
lake, and bring their ivory for sale to Ukere'we, usu- 
ally employ boats for the transit. A sultan called 
Machunda lives at the southern extremity of the 
Ukerewe, and has dealings in ivory with all the Arabs 
who go there. One Arab at this time was stopping 
there, and had sent his men coasting along this said 
promontory to deal with the natives on the mainland, 
as he could not obtain enough ivory on the island 
itself. Considering how near the eastern shore of the 
lake is to Zanzibar, it appears surprising that it can 



Aug.] OBSERVATIONS ON THE LAKE. 311 

pay men to carry ivory all the way round by Unyan- 
yembe. But the Masai, and especially those tribes 
who live near to the lake, are so hostile to travellers, 
that the risk of going there is considered too great to 
be profitable, though all Arabs concur in stating that 
a surprising quantity of ivory is to be obtained there 
at a very cheap rate. 

The little hill alluded to as marking the south-east 
angle of the lake, I again saw ; but so indistinctly, 
though the atmosphere was very clear, that I imagined 
it to be at least forty miles distant. It is due east of 
my station on Observatory Hill. I further draw my 
conclusions from the fact, that all the hills on the 
country are much about the same height — two or 
three hundred feet above the basial surface of the 
land ; and I could only see the top of the hill like a 
hazy brown spot, contrasted in relief against the clear 
blue sky. Indeed, had my attention not been drawn 
to it, I should probably have overlooked it, and have 
thought there was only a sea horizon before me. On 
facing to the W.N.W., I could only see a sea horizon ; 
and on inquiring how far back the land lay, was as- 
sured that, beyond the island of Ukerewe, there was 
an equal expanse of it east and west, and that it would 
be more than double the distance of the little hill 
before alluded to, or from eighty to one hundred miles 
in breadth. * 

On my inquiring about the lake's length, the man 
faced to the north, and began nodding his head to it ; 

* I now think the breadth is over one hundred miles. 



312 VICTORIA N^YANZA. [1858. 

at the same time lie kept throwing forward his right 
hand, and, making repeated snaps of his ringers, en- 
deavoured to indicate something immeasurable ; and 
added, that nobody knew, but he thought it probably 
extended to the end of the world. To the east of the 
Observatory, a six hours' journey, probably fourteen or 
fifteen miles, the village of Sukuma is situated, and 
there canoes are obtainable for crossing to Ukerewe, 
which island being six hours' paddling, and lying due 
north of it, must give the firth a breadth of about 
fifteen miles. 

Whilst walking back to camp, I shot two red geese 
and a florikan, like those I once shot in the Somali 
country. This must have been a dainty dish for my 
half-starved Arab companion, who had lost all his pro- 
perty on first arriving here, and was now living on 
Mahaya's generosity. It appears that nine months 
ago he was enabled, by the assistance of Mahaya, to 
hire some boats and men at Sukuma, and had sent his 
property, consisting of fifteen loads of cloth and 250 
jembis or hoes, by them to Ukerewe, to exchange for 
ivory. But by the advice of Mahaya, and fearing to 
trust himself as a stranger amongst the islanders, he 
did not accompany his merchandise. Sultan Ma- 
chunda, a man of the highest character by Unyan- 
yembe report, on seeing such a prize enter his port, 
gave orders for its seizure, and will now give no 
redress to the unfortunate Mansur. All Mahaya's 
exertions to recover it have proved abortive : and 
Mansur has therefore been desirous of taking his 



Aug.] AN UNFORTUNATE ARAB. 313 

revenge by making an attack in person on Ukerewe, 
but the "generous" Mahaya said, "No; your life is yet 
safe, do not risk it ; but let my men do what they can, 
and in the meanwhile, as I have been a party to your 
losses, I will feed you and your people ; and if I do 
not succeed in the end, you shall be my guest until 
I can amass sufficient property to reimburse your 
losses." 

Mansur has all this time been living, like the slaves 
of the country, on jowari porridge, which is made by 
grinding the seed into flour and boiling it in water 
until it forms a good thick paste, when master and 
man sit round the earthen pot it is boiled in, pick out 
lumps, and suck it off their fingers. It was a delicious 
sight yesterday, on coming through Muanza, to see 
the great deference paid to the sick Beluch, Shadad, 
mistaken for the great Arab merchant (Mundewa), 
my humble self, in consequence of his riding my don- 
key, and to perceive the stoical manner in which he 
treated their attentions ; but, more fortunate than I 
usually have been, he escaped the rude peeping and 
peering of the crowd, for he did not, like his employer, 
wear "double eyes" (spectacles). 

During the last five or six marches, the word Mar- 
abu (Arab), instead of Mzungu (European), has usually 
been applied to me ; and no one, I am sure, would 
have discovered the difference, were it not that the 
tiresome pagazis, to increase their own dignity and 
importance, generally gave the clue by singing the 
song of "the White Man." The Arabs at Unyan- 



314 VICTORIA N'YANZA. [1858. 

yembe had advised my donning their habit for the 
trip, in order to attract less attention : a vain precau- 
tion, which I believe they suggested more to gratify 
their own vanity by seeing an Englishman lower him- 
self to their position, than for any benefit that I might 
receive by doing so. At any rate, I was more comfort- 
able and better off in my flannel shirt, long togs, and 
wide-awake, than I should have been, both mentally 
and physically, had I degraded myself, and adopted 
their hot, long, and particularly uncomfortable gown. 

Sultan Mahaya sent a messenger to say that he was 
hurt at the cavalier manner in which I treated him 
yesterday ; and, to show his wounded feelings, gave an 
order to his subjects that no man should supply me 
with provisions, or render me any assistance during 
my sojourn at Muanza. Luckily my larder was well 
supplied with game, or I should have had to go sup- 
perless to bed, for no inducement would prevail on the 
people to sell anything to me after the mandate had 
been proclaimed. This morning, however, we settled 
the difference in the most amicable manner, thus : 
previous to my departure for Observatory Hill, I 
sent the Jemadar, the Kirangozi, and a large deputa- 
tion of the Beluches and pagazis, to explain away the 
reason of my having left his house so rudely, and to 
tender apologies, which were accompanied, as an ear- 
nest of good-will, with a large hongo, consisting of one 
barsati, one dhoti merikani, and one gora kiniki, as 
also an intimation that I would pay him a visit the 
next day. This pleased him excessively ; it was con- 



Aug.] RECEPTION BY THE SULTAN. 315 

siclered a visit of itself; and he returned the usual 
bullock, with a notification that I must remain where 
I was, to enable him to return the compliment I had 
paid him, for he intended walking out to see me on 
the morrow. 

5 th. — As my time was getting short, I forestalled 
Mahaya in his intentions, and changed ground to 
the Palace, a rural-looking little place, perched on a 
small rocky promontory, shrouded by green trees, 
facing the N.W. side of the lake. Mahaya received 
me with great courtesy, arranged a hut comfortably, 
and presented a number of eggs and fresh milk, as he 
had heard that I was partial to such fare. He is a 
man of more than ordinary stature, a giant in minia- 
ture, with massive and muscular but well-proportioned 
limbs : he must number fifty years or more. His 
dress was the ordinary barsati ; his arms were set off 
by heavy brass and copper ornaments encircling the 
wrists, and by numberless sambo, or thin circles made 
from the twisted fibres of an aloetic plant, on each of 
which a single infi, or white porcelain bead resembling 
a little piece of tobacco-pipe, was strung ; these ranged 
in massive rows down the whole of his upper arm. 
Just above his elbow-joints sat a pair of large ivory 
rings. On his forehead two small goat or deer horns 
were fastened by thin talismanic ornaments of thong 
for keeping off the evil eye ; and, finally, his neck was 
adorned with two strings of very coarse blue beads. 
Mahaya has the fame of being the best and most just 
sultan in these quarters, and his benign square counte- 



316 VICTORIA N'YANZA. [1858. 

nance, lit up with a pleasing expression when in con- 
versation, confirms this opinion, though a casual 
observer passing by that dark, broad, massive face, 
still more darkened by a matting of short, close, and 
tightly -curled-up ringlets, would be apt to carry away 
a contrary impression.* 

Before leaving Kaze I notified my intention of 
visiting Ukerewe, supposing I could do so in three or 
four days, and explained to my men my wishes on 
this point. Hearing this, they told both Mahaya and 
Mansur, in direct terms, that I was going, and so 
needlessly set them to work finessing to show how 
much they were in earnest in their consideration of 
me. However, they have both been very warm in 
dissuading me from visiting Ukerewe, apparently 
quite in a parental way, for each seems to think him- 
self in a measure my guardian. Mahaya thinks it his 
duty to caution those who visit him from running into 
danger, which a journey to Ukerewe, he considers, 
would be. Mansur, on the other hand, says, as I have 
come from his Sultan Majid, he also is bound to ren- 
der me any assistance in his power; but strongly 
advises my giving up the notion of going across the 
water. I could get boats from Sukuma, he said, but 
there would be great delay in the business, as I should 
have first to send over and ask permission from 
Machunda to land, and then the collecting men and 
boats would occupy a long time. 

* Mahaya said he was of Wahinda extraction, or from the princes 
of the Wahuma ; but this I do not believe, for his features bore the 
strongest possible testimony against him. 



Aug.] NEGRO MANOEUVRING. 317 

As regards the collection of boats taking a long 
time, these arguments are very fair, as I know from 
experience ; but the only danger would consist in the 
circumstance of the two sultans being at enmity with 
each other, as in this land any one coming direct from 
an enemy's country is suspected and treated as an 
enemy. This difficulty I should have avoided by 
going straight to Sukuma (where the boats, I am 
inclined to think, usually do start from, though all 
concur in stating that this is their point of departure), 
and there obtaining boats direct. However, I told 
them that I should have gone if I had found boats 
ready at once to take me across ; but now I saw the 
probability of so much delay, that I could not afford 
to waste time in trying to obtain boats, which, had I 
succeeded in getting, I should have employed my time 
not in going to Ukerewe, but to the more elevated and 
friendly island of Mzita, this being a more suitable 
observatory than the former. These negroes' manoeu- 
vres are quite incomprehensible. If Mahaya had 
desired to fleece me — and one can hardly give a des- 
potic negro credit for anything short of that — he 
surely would have tried to detain me under false hopes, 
and have thus necessitated my spending cloths in his 
village ; while, on the contrary, he lost all chance of 
gaining anything by giving advice which induced me 
to leave him at once, never to return again to see him. 

At my request, Mahaya assembled all his principal 
men, and we went into a discussion about the lake ; 
but not a soul knew anything about its northern 



318 VICTORIA N'YANZA. [1858. 

extremity, although people had sometimes travelled in 
canoes, coasting along its shores by the Karague dis- 
trict to as far, I believe, as the Line.* His wife, a 
pretty crummy little creature of the Wanyoro tribe, 
came farther from the north than anybody present, 
and gave me the names of many districts in the 
Uganda country, which, she says, lies along the sea- 
shore. She had never heard of there being any end 
to the lake, and supposed, if any way of going round 
it did exist, she would certainly have known it. It is 
well known that there is no communication between 
the east and west shores of the lake, excepting by a 
few occasional canoe-parties coasting along the southern 
end, because the waters are so very broad they dare 
not venture.t That there can be no high mountain- 
range intersecting the N'yanza from the watercourses 
which we hear of north of the equator, as some people 
have supposed, is evident from the numerous accounts 
given of the kingdom of Uganda being so flat and 
marshy from the equator to 2° or 3° north latitude ; 
whilst I must have seen any, did they exist, on the 
south side of the equator, being only 150 miles from 
it when standing on its southern shore. Now, judging 
from all the information given us by the several 
Egyptian expeditions and missionaries sent up the Nile, 
who came across small hills in 4-^° north latitude and 

* The King of Uganda has sent presents by boat to Machunda, Sultan 
of Ukerewe, coasting along the western shore of the lake. Mtesa told 
me this himself, and asked me if I knew Machunda personally. 

f The Waganda also send boats for salt to the Bahari (Lake) Ngo, 
at the north-east corner of the lake. 



Aug.] SPECULATIONS ON THE NILE. 319 

32° east longitude, which are intersected by the Nile in 
the same way that the East Coast Eange is intersected 
by the interior plateau rivers (Lufiji and Kingani), as 
we saw on our passage inwards from Zanzibar ; and 
further, by the Arabs telling us that all the country 
on the same meridian, from the Line up to the second 
parallel north latitude, is flat and full of watercourses; 
and then again, by knowing the respective heights of 
the N yanza on the one side, being nearly 4000 feet, 
and the Nile's bed in latitude 5° N., or beyond the 
small hills alluded to, being under 2000 feet, — it 
would indeed be a marvel if this lake is not the foun- 
tain of the Nile.""" The reason why those expeditions 
sent up the Nile have failed in discovering the N yanza, 
is clearly attributable to the important rapids which 
must exist in consequence of this great variation of 
altitude between the north end of the N yanza (which, 
let us suppose, is on the equator) and the position, in 
4° 44/ north latitude, at which the expeditions and 
missions arrived, the rise of the river being 2000 feet 
in 300 miles. 

Indeed, by all accounts of the country lying between 
the N'yanza, as seen by the Arabs in Uganda, and let 
us say Gondokoro, a mission station on the Nile, in 
north latitude 4° 44', which was occupied by two 
Austrian missionaries, Knoblecher and Dooyak, we 
find it is somewhat analogous to what we observed 
between the low Mrima or maritime plain in front of 

* On my return to England I constructed a map representing this 
view, and lectured on the same in presence of Captain Burton, who 
then raised no objections to what I said. 



320 VICTORIA N'YANZA. [1858. 

Zanzibar, and the high interior plateau, divided from 
one another by the East Coast Eange, which is of gran- 
itic formation, the same in its nature exactly as those 
which they describe, and intersected by rivers so rapid 
and boisterous that no canoes can live upon them ; as, 
for instance, we found the Kingani and Lufiji rivers 
were when passing over the East Coast Kange. There 
the land dropped from 2000 or more feet to less than 
300 in the short distance of 100 miles. 

I will now proceed to give, first, the missionary 
account in 4° 44/ N., and then the Arab one in 2° N. — 
a debatable bit of ground, extending over 2° 44', or 
160 English miles. Talking of the missionaries, 
" these two men," says Dr Petermann, " kept an annual 
hygrometrical and meteorological register with great 
precision and scientific regularity."* They had various 
instruments with them ; they fixed their station, Gon- 
dokoro, at 4° 44' north latitude by astronomical obser- 
vations, and determined the altitude of the Nile's bed 
to be only 1605 feet above the sea, by numerous good 
barometrical observations. . . . Gondokoro is sur- 
rounded on three sides by small granitic hills, ranging 
about 2000 feet high, which are intersected by the Nile 
coming from the south, as the king of the Bari coun- 
try says, from 200 to 300 miles ; " which is equivalent 
to saying from the N yanza, as it lies exactly on the 
place he directs us to. 

* In England geographers doubted this ; and after it was printed, Dr 
Petermann had reason to change his opinion. However, Knoblecher 
was not far wrong, as I have since made the latitude of Gondokoro 
4° 54' north. 



Aug.] METEOROLOGY OF THE COUNTRY. 321 

As the Arabs do not keep thermometers, scientific 
instruments, or properly distributed months and sea- 
sons, I must say for them that from 2° to 6° south lati- 
tude we found the mean temperature in the hottest 
month, August, to be only 80°; that Uganda must be 
quite 4000 feet above the sea, to be higher than the 
lake which it borders ; that the rainy season is during 
our winter months, but most so in the spring; and that 
the rivers, as we see by the Malagarazi, increase more 
after than before that date ; that as the movement of 
the rains tends from the southward to the northward, 
advancing with the sun, the same influence that swells 
the Malagarazi would also affect the Uganda rivers, as 
they rise merely on opposite sides of the axis of the 
same mountains. The Arabs say, as we also have 
found it, "that thunder accompanies nearly all the 
storms, and the lightning there is excessive, and so 
destructive that the King of Uganda expresses the 
greatest dread of it — indeed his own palace has been 
often destroyed by lightning. The Kitangule and 
Katonga rivers are affected by the rainy season in the 
same proportion as the Malagarazi, and flow north- 
easterly towards the lake.* There the Kivira (island) 
river (Nile) of which they bring information, flows some- 
where to the northward, and is not a slow sluggish 
stream like the other two, but is rapid and boisterous, 
showing that the country drops to the northward." 
Now here, in 3° north latitude, where this river is said 
to flow with such great rapidity, I think will be found 

* The rising of the Katonga still puzzles me. 
X 



322 VICTORIA N'YANZA. [1858. 

the southern base-line of those small hills, 2000 feet 
high, lying to the south of Gondokoro, as the mission- 
aries describe them ; though these hills, to any one 
looking at them from the northern side, where the 
land is low, might appear a barrier to the waters of 
the lake lying beyond them. This idea would not 
occur to any one standing on the southern side, where 
the land is nearly, if not quite, as high as these hills 
themselves. Indeed, from the levels given, the two 
countries about Kibuga* (Palace of Uganda) and 
Gondokoro may be described as two landings, with 
the fall between them representing a staircase formed 
by the hills in question. The country in latitudes 2° 
and 5° north is therefore terraced like a hanging gar- 
den.t 

The N'yanza, as we now see, is a large expansive 
sheet of water, flush with the basial surface of the 
country, and lies between the Mountains of the Moon 
(on its western side), having, according to Dr Krapf, 
snowy Kaenia on its eastern flank. Krapf tells us of 
a large river flowing down from the western side of 
this snowy peak, and trending away to the north-west 
in a direction, as will be seen by the map, leading 
right into my lake. Now, returning again to the west- 
ern side, we find that the N yanza is plentifully sup- 
plied by those streams coming from the Lunae Montes, 
of which the Arabs, one and all, give such consistent 

* Kibuga means palace. 

f There are three cataracts between the N'yanza and Gondokoro : 1. 
from Kipon Falls to Urondogani ; 2. from Karuma Falls to Little 
Luta Nzige ; 3. from Apuddo to near Gondokoro. 



Aug.] NORTHWARD EXTENT OF THE LAKE. 323 

and concise accounts ; and the Sowings of which, being 
north-easterly, must, in course of time and distance, 
commingle with those north-westerly ofT-flowings, be- 
fore mentioned, of Mount Kaania. My impression is, 
after hearing everybody's story on the matter, that 
these streams enter at opposite sides of the lake, on 
the northern side of the equator, and are consequently 
very considerable feeders to it. To help at once in 
the argument that the N yanza exists as a large sheet 
of water to the north of the equator, I will anticipate a 
story recorded in my diary, by adverting to it before its 
order of succession. On the return to Unyanyembe, a 
native of Msalala told me that he had once travelled 
up the western shore of the N yanza to the district of 
Kitara, or Uddu-Uganda, where, he says, coffee grows, 
and which place, by fair computation of the distances 
given as their travelling rates, I believe to be in about 
1° north lat. To the east of this land, at no great 
distance from the shore, he described the island of 
Kitiri as occupied by a tribe called Watiri, who also 
grow coffee ; and there the sea was of such great 
extent, and when winds blew was so boisterous, 
that the canoes, although as large as the Tanganyika 
ones (which he had also seen), did not trust themselves 
upon it. 

The lake has the credit of being very deep, which I 
cannot believe. It certainly presents the appearance of 
the temporary deposit of a vast flood overspreading a 
large flat surface, rather than the usual characteristics 
of a lake or inland sea lying in a deep hollow, or shut 



324 VICTORIA N'YANZA. [1858. 

in, like the Tanganyika, by mountains.* The islands 
about it are low hill-tops, standing out like paps on 
the soft placid bosom of the waters, and are precisely 
similar to those amongst which I have been travelling ; 
indeed, any part of the country inundated to the same 
extent would wear the same aspect. 

Its water appears, perhaps owing to the disturbing 
influence of the wind, of a dirty- white colour, but it is 
very good and sweet, though not so pleasant to my 
taste as the very clear Tanganyika water. The na- 
tives, however, who have wonderfully keen palates for 
detecting the relative distinctions in such matters, 
differ from me, and affirm that all the inhabitants pre- 
fer it to any other, and consequently never dig wells 
on the margin of the lake ; whereas the Tanganyika 
water is invariably shunned, nobody ever drinking it 
unless from necessity ; not so much because they con- 
sider it to be unwholesome, as because it does not 
quench or satisfy the thirst so well as spring -water. 
Whether this peculiarity in the qualities of the waters 
is to be attributed to the N'yanza lying on a founda- 
tion chiefly composed of iron, or whether the one lake 
is drained by a river, whilst the other is not, I must 
leave for other and superior talents to decide. 

Fish and crocodiles are said to be very abundant in 
the lake ; but with all my endeavours to obtain some 



* Captain Burton, by way of having a special Lunse Montes of his 
own, calls these mountains a "mass of highlands, which, under the 
name of Karagwah, forms the western spinal prolongation of the Lunar 
Mountains." See his i Lake Regions,' vol. ii. p. 144. 



Aug.] ZOOLOGY OF THE COUNTRY. 325 

specimens, I have succeeded in seeing only two sorts 
— one similar to those taken at Ujiji, of a perch-like 
form, and another very small, resembling our common 
minnow, but not found in the Ujiji market. The 
quantity of mosquitoes on the borders of the lake is 
perfectly marvellous ; the grass, bushes, and every- 
thing growing there, are literally covered with them. 
As I walked along its shores, disturbing the vegeta- 
tion, they rose in clouds, and kept tapping, in dozens 
at a time, against my hands and face, in the most dis- 
agreeable manner. Unlike the Indian mosquito, they 
are of a light dun-brown colour. The Muanza dogs are 
the largest that I have yet seen in Africa, and still are 
not more than twenty inches high ; but Mahaya says 
the Ukerewe dog is a fine animal, and quite different 
from any on the mainland. There are very few 
canoes about here, and those are of miserable construc- 
tion, and only fitted for the purpose they turn them 
to — catching fish close to the shore. The paddle the 
fishermen use is a sort of mongrel between a spade 
and a shovel. The fact of there being no boats 
of any size here, must be attributed to the want of 
material for constructing them. On the route from 
Kaze there are no trees of any girth, save the calabash, 
the wood of which is too soft for boat -building. 
I hear that the island of Ukerewe has two sultans 
besides Machunda, and that it is very fertile and 
populous. Mahaya says, "All the tribes, from the 
Wasukuma (or Northern Wanyamuezi, Sukuma mean- 
ing the north), along the south and east of the lake, 



326 VICTORIA N'YANZA. [1858. 

are so savage and inhospitable to travellers, that it 
would be impossible to go amongst them unless ac- 
companied by a large and expensive escort/' 

6 th. — As no further information about the lake 
could be gained, I bade Mahaya and the Sheikh adieu, 
leaving as a token of recollection one shukka merikani 
for the former, one dhoti kiniki for his wife, and a fun- 
do of beads for the poor Arab, and retraced my steps 
by a double march back to Ukumbi. Whilst passing 
alongside the archipelago, I shot two geese and a 
crested crane. What a pity it seemed I could not 
pluck the fruit almost within my grasp ! Had I had 
but a little more time, and a few loads of beads, I 
could with ease have crossed the Line, and settled 
every question which we had come all this distance 
to ascertain. Indeed, to perform that work, nobody 
could have started under more advantageous circum- 
stances than were then within my power — all hands 
being in first-rate condition and health, and all in the 
right temper for it. But now a new and expensive 
expedition must be formed, for the capabilities of the 
country on the eastern flank of the Mountains of the 
Moon, and along the western shores of the N'yanza, 
are so notoriously great that it is worthy of serious 
attention. My reluctance to return may be easier 
imagined than described. I felt as much tantalised 
as the unhappy Tantalus must have been when un- 
successful in his bobbings for cherries in the cherry- 
orchard, and as much grieved as any mother would 
be at losing her first-born, and resolved and planned 



Aug.] ON THE RETURN. 327 

forthwith to do everything that lay in my power to 
visit the lake again. 

7 th. — We made a march of fourteen miles, passing 
our second station in Urima by two miles, partly to 
avoid the chief of that village, a testy, rude, and dis- 
agreeable man, who, on the last occasion, inhospitably 
tried to turn us out of a hut in his village, because we 
would not submit to his impudent demand of a cloth 
for the accommodation — a proceeding quite at variance 
with anything we had met in our former receptions ; 
and we resisted the imposition with a pertinacity equal 
to his own. Besides this, by coming on the little extra 
distance, we arrived at the best and cheapest place for 
purchasing cows and jembies. 

8 th. — Halt. I purchased two jembies for one shukka 
merikani, but could not come to any terms with these 
grasping savages about their cows, although their 
country teems with them, and they are sold at won- 
derfully cheap prices to ordinary traders. They would 
not sell to me unless I gave double value for them. 
The fauna of this country is most disappointing. 
Nearly all the animals that exist here are also to be 
found in the south of Africa, where they range in far 
greater numbers. But then we must remember that 
a caravan route usually takes the more fertile and 
populous tracks, and that many animals might be 
found in the recesses of the forests not far off, although 
there are so few on the line. The elephants are finer 
here than in any part of the world, and have been 
known to carry tusks exceeding 500 lb. the pair in 



328 VICTORIA N'YANZA. [1858. 

weight. The principal wild animals besides these are 
the lion, leopard, hyena, fox, pig, Cape buffalo, gnu, 
kudu, hartebeest, pallah, steinboc, and the little ma- 
doka, or Saltiana gazelle. The giraffe, zebra, rhino- 
ceros, and hippopotamus are all common. The game- 
birds are the bustard, florikan, guinea-fowl, partridge, 
quail, snipe, various geese and ducks, and a very dark- 
coloured rock-pigeon or sand-grouse. The birds in 
general have very tame plumage, and are much more 
scarce, generally speaking, than one finds in most 
other countries. 

The traveller on entering these agricultural districts 
meets with a treatment quite opposite to what he does 
from the pastoral tribes, such, for instance, as the So- 
mali, Grallas, Masai, &c. &c. Here they at once hail 
his advent as a matter of good omen, or the precursor 
of good fortune, and allow him to do and see what- 
ever he likes. They desire his settling amongst them, 
appreciate the benefits of commerce and civilisation, 
and are not suspicious, like the plundering pastorals, 
of every one coming with evil intentions towards 
them. The Somali, about as bad a lot as any amongst 
the rovers, will not admit a stranger into their coun- 
try, unless accompanied by one of their tribe, who 
becomes answerable for the traveller's actions, and 
even with this passport he is watched with the eyes 
of Argus. Every strange act committed by him, no 
matter how simple, absurd, or trifling, is at once de- 
bated about in council, and always ends to Viator's 
disadvantage. 



Aug.] THE PASTORAL AND AGRICULTURAL TRIBES. 329 

They add to everything they see or hear, by conjur- 
ing up the most ridiculous phantoms ; and the more 
ridiculous they are, the more firmly do they at last 
believe in them themselves. The worse their grounds 
are, the more jealously do they guard against any- 
body's seeing them; and woe betide any one who 
should frequent any particular spot too often : he is 
at once set down as designing a plot against it, to 
fortify the place and take it from them ; this idea is 
their greatest bugbear. Among that tribe blood shed 
by any means — by the stealthy knife or in fair fight — 
is deemed meritorious and an act of heroism. No one 
is ever sure of his life unless he has force to carry him 
through, or can rely on the chief of the clan as his 
pillar of safety. This latter plan is probably the safer 
one, for, as the old adage goes, " There is honour 
amongst thieves ;" so with these savages it is a matter 
of importance to their honour and dignity, according 
to their quaint notions of rectitude, to protect their 
trust to their utmost ; whereas, on the contrary, were 
that trust not reposed in them, they would feel justi- 
fied in taking any liberties, or act in opposition to any 
of those general laws which guide the conduct of civil- 
ised men. 

I would not, however, desire the African agricultu- 
ral people to be considered models of perfection. In- 
dividually, or in small bodies, the mass of them are 
very far from being so, for they would commit any 
excesses without the slightest feelings of compunction. 
The fear of retribution alone keeps their hands from 



330 VICTORIA N'YANZA. [1858. 

blood and plunder. The chiefs and principal men, if 
they have no higher motives, keep their different tribes 
in order, and do not molest travellers without good 
cause, or from provocation, as they know that protect- 
ing the traveller is the only way in which they can 
keep up that connection with the commerce of the 
coast which they all so much covet. It may be 
worthy of remark that I have always found the 
lighter-coloured savages more boisterous and warlike 
than those of a dingier hue. The ruddy black, fleshy- 
looking Wazaramo and Wagogo are much lighter in 
colour than any of the other tribes, and certainly have 
a far superior, more manly and warlike independent 
spirit and bearing than any of the others.*"" 

9 th. — We started early, and crossed the Jordans by 
a ferry at a place lower down than on the first occa- 
sion. After leaving the low land, we rose up to the 
higher ground where we had first gained a sight of 
the N'yanza's waters, and now took our final view. To 
myself the parting with it was a matter of great re- 
gret; but I believe I was the sole sufferer from disap- 
pointment in being obliged to go south, when all my 
thoughts or cares were in the north. But this feeling 
was much alleviated by seeing the happy, contented, 
family state to which the whole caravan had at length 
arrived. Going home has the same attraction with 
these black people that it has with schoolboys. The 

* There are exceptions to the rule in the instance of the Waganda, 
who are of an earth-red colour ; for these men never fight excepting in 
overpowering numbers. 



Aug.] HARMONY IN THE CARAVAN. 331 

Beluches have long since behaved to admiration, and 
now even the lazy pagazis, since completing their 
traffic, have lighter hearts, and begin to feel a fresh- 
ness dawn upon them. We soon entered our old vil- 
lage in Nera, having completed fourteen miles. Here 
the chief, who had travelled up the western shore of 
the N'yanza, assured me that canoes like the Tan- 
ganyika ones were used by the natives, and were made 
from large trees which grew on the mountain-slopes 
overlooking the lake. The disagreeable-mannered Wa- 
sukuma (or north men) are now left behind ; their 
mode of articulation is most painful to the civilised 
ear. Each word uttered seems to begin with a T ; hu 
or T'ha, producing a sound like that of spitting sharply 
at an offensive object. Any stranger with his back 
turned would fancy himself insulted by the speaker. 

The country throughout is well stocked with cattle, 
and bullocks are cheap, two dhotis, equal to four dol- 
lars, being the price of a moderate-sized animal ; but 
milch cows are dear, in consequence of the great de- 
mand for sour curd. Sheep and goats sell according 
to their skins ; a large one is preferred to a shukka, 
equal to one dollar ; but a dhoti, the proper price of 
three small goats, is scarcely the value of the largest. 
The bane of this people is their covetousness. They 
do not object to sell cheaply to a poor man, yet they 
hang back at the sight of much cloth, and price their 
stock, not at its value, but at what they want, or think 
they may get, obstinately abiding by their decision to 
the last. Cattle are driven from this to Unyanyembe, 



332 VICTORIA N'YANZA. [1858. 

and consequently must be cheaper here than in those 
more southern parts : still I could not purchase them 
so well ; indeed, a traveller can never expect to buy 
at a reasonable rate in a land where every man is a 
sultan, and his hut a castle — where no laws regulate 
the market, and every proprietor is grasping. Bombay 
suggests that to buy cattle cheap from the Washenzi 
(savages), you should give them plenty of time to con- 
sider the advantages and disadvantages of the transac- 
tion, for their minds are not capable of arriving at a 
rapid conclusion ; but friend Bombay forgets that, 
whilst waiting to beat them down a cloth or two, four 
or five are consumed by the caravan in waiting. 
The women, especially the younger ones, are miserably 
clad here ; a fringe, like the thong kilt of the Nubian 
maidens, made of aloe fibres, with a single white bead 
at the end of each string, is the general wear ; it is 
suspended by a strap tied round the waist. Hanging 
over the belly, it covers about a foot of ground in 
breadth, but not more than seven or eight inches in 
depth. The fibrous strings, white by nature, soon turn 
black, and look like India-rubber, the effect of butter 
first rubbed in, and then of constant friction on the 
grimy person. The dangling, waving motion of this 
strange appendage, as the wearer moves along, re- 
minded me of the common fly-puzzler sometimes 
attached to horses' head-stalls. Amongst a crowd of 
fifty or sixty people, not more than two or three have 
a cloth of native make, and rarely one of foreign manu- 
facture is to be seen. Some women have stood before 



Aug.] NATIVE COSTUMES. 333 

me in the very primitive costume of a bunch of leafy 
twigs. 

But far worse clad than these are the Wataturu, a 
tribe living to the eastward, and the Watuta, living to 
the westward of this place, besides the Warori and 
others. 

Of the first mentioned, the Wataturu, a people 
living a little to the northward of Turu, I have only 
seen a few males, and they were stark naked. The 
Wataturu despise any one who is weak enough to 
cover his person, considering that he does so only to 
conceal his natural imperfections. Their women are 
currently reported to be as naked as the men, but I 
did not see any of them, and cannot vouch for it. 

The Watuta, on the other hand, require a special 
notice, because they are the naked Zulu Kafirs whose 
peculiar costume, if such it may be called, has caused 
so much risibility at the Cape of Good Hope. In 
the very first instance, I am inclined to believe these 
Watuta were Cushites, who migrated from the shores of 
the Caspian Sea, across Arabia and the Red Sea, to 
Abyssinia. There, mixing with the negro aborigines, 
they became in process of time woolly-headed. Later 
still, they broke off from the parent stock, lost their 
original name, and took instead that of Masai. By 
some unaccountable means they then separated from 
the Masai and migrated south to the Cape of Good 
Hope; here they appear to have changed their name to 
Kafir, from which a branch of the tribe were called 
Zulu Kafirs. These Zulu Kafirs becoming restless, after 



334 VICTORIA N'YANZA. [1858. 

a time migrated again to the west of the Nyassa, and 
there settled with their flocks and herds, devastating 
the Babisa's country. From thence again they have 
been migrating in detachments north, up the east 
side of the Tanganyika Lake. Whilst doing so they 
came at Fipa on the Wapoka, another offshoot of the 
Cushite-Abyssinians, who, crossing the Nile, took the 
name of Wahuma, and have spread as far down south 
as Fipa, where their name, in course of time, had 
changed from Wahuma to Watusi, and from Watusi 
to Wapoka, in the same way as the Watuta had 
changed their name from Masai to Kafir and Zulu 
Kafir, and again from that to Watuta. Now, these 
Watuta are still pushing northwards, fighting, plun- 
dering, and conquering wherever they go. They have 
knocked the Watusi out of the southern hills of 
Urundi, overlooking the Tanganyika Lake, and have 
spread to the southern limits of Usui, devastating the 
countries en route, in the same way as they have done 
on the west of the Nyassa. Strange as it may appear, 
neither these Watuta nor the Watusi know anything 
of their common origin. They are very different in 
physical form and appearance from one another ; for, 
whilst the Watusi alias Wahuma retain their Abys- 
sinian type, the Watuta alias Zulu Kafirs are much 
more like the Somali and Masai — thus, I think, show- 
ing that the Wahuma have detached themselves at 
a later period than the Kafirs from the parent 
stock. The Wahuma are certainly the finer-looking 
people of the two, but the Watuta are rougher in 



Aug.] FUTURE TRADE. 335 

nature. Both, however, are strictly pastoral, though 
the Wahuma in the equatorial regions affect to main- 
tain large kingdoms." 5 ' 5 " 

It is to be hoped that India, when once aroused to the 
advantages of dealing more extensively with this coun- 
try, will never lose sight of the fact that the negro as 
well as more enlightened man can detect the difference 
between good and poor stuffs ; that the nation which 
makes the strongest stuffs will be considered to be the 
honestest; and the more lasting the material, the more 
readily it will be taken. In sending cloths great care 
should be taken that every piece be of the same length, 
and always evenly divisible by cubits, or eighteen-inch 
measure. If the Lion and the Unicorn, figuring on the 
outside of each piece — Than or Gora, as it is called 
respectively in India and Africa — were security of its 
being English manufacture, and, by being so, sure to 
be of uniform quality and size, much respect would be 
given to it ; and " Shukka Anglesi " (English shukka) 
would soon take the place of " merikani," which are by 
different mills, and of different lengths and qualities. 
The only reason for the negro taking a large goat-skin 
in preference to a shukka, is because it is stronger. 

On coming here I had the misfortune to make my 
donkey over to Bombay, to save his foot, which had 
been galled by too constant walking; for though 

* The history of the Wahuma has been given in l The Discovery 
of the Source of the Nile.' The Watuta also have been alluded to, for 
they were fighting on my line of march. I heard then of the arrival of 
a recent detachment from the west of the Nyassa, and subsequently I 
heard they had invaded Usui 



336 VICTORIA NYANZA. [1858. 

unable to ride, he was too proud to say nay, and was 
therefore placed upon it, carrying the gun consigned 
to his charge, Captain Burton's smooth elephant. 
Now Bombay rode much after the fashion of a sailor, 
trusting more to balance and good -luck than skill 
in sticking on ; and the consequence was, that with 
the first side-step the donkey made he came to 
the ground an awkward cropper, falling heavily on 
the small of the stock of the gun, which snapped short 
ofi^ the piece being thus irredeemably damaged. At 
first I rated him heartily, for this was the second of 
Captain Burton's guns which had been damaged in my 
hands. I then told Bombay of the circumstances which 
led to the accident to the first gun. It occurred whilst 
hippopotamus-shooting on the coast rivers opposite to 
Zanzibar ; and as Bombay had a little experience in 
that way to relate, we had long yarns about such sport, 
which served to improve our Hindustani (the language 
I always conversed with him in), as well as to divert 
our useless yet unavoidable feelings of regret at the 
accident, and also killed time. 

One day, when on the Tanga river near its mouth, 
I was busily engaged teasing hippopotami, with one 
man, a polesman, in a very small canoe, just capable 
of carrying what it had on board, myself in the bows, 
with my 4 -bore Blissett in hand, while Captain Bur- 
ton's monster elephant-gun, a double-barrelled 6-bore, 
weighing, I believe, 20 lb., was lying at the stern in 
the poler's charge. 

The river was a tidal one, of no great breadth, and 



Aug.] hippopotamus-hunting, 337 

the margin was covered by a thick growth of the 
mangrove shrub, on the boughs of which the sharp- 
edged shells of the tree-oyster stuck in strings and 
clusters in great numbers. The best time to catch the 
hippopotamus is when the tide is out and the banks 
are bared, for then you find him wallowing in the 
mud or basking on the sand (when there is any), 
like jungle-hog, and with a well-directed shot on the 
ear, or anywhere about the brain-pan, you have a good 
chance of securing him. I especially mention this, as 
it is quite labour in vain, in places where the water is 
deep, to fire at these animals, unless you can kill them 
outright, as they dive under like a water-rat, and are 
never seen more if they are only wounded. I, like 
most raw hands at this particular kind of sport, began 
in a very different way from what, I think, a more 
experienced hunter would have done, by chasing them 
in the water, and firing at their heads whenever they 
appeared above it ; and even fired slugs about their 
eyes and ears, in hopes that I might irritate them suf- 
ficiently to make them charge the canoe. This teas- 
ing proved pretty successful; for when the tide had 
run clean out, only pools and reaches, connecting by 
shallow runnels the volume of the natural stream, re- 
mained for the hippopotami to sport about in ; and 
my manoeuvring in these confined places became so 
irritating, that a large female came rapidly under 
water to the stern of the canoe, and gave it such a 
sudden and violent cant with her head or withers, that 
that end of the vessel shot up in the air, and sent me 

Y 



338 VICTORIA N'YANZA. [1858. 

sprawling on my back, with my legs forced up by the 
seat — a bar of wood — at right angles to my body ; 
whilst the poler and the big double gun were driven 
like a pair of shuttlecocks, flying right and left of the 
canoe high up into the air. 

The gun on one side fell plump into the middle of 
the stream, and the man on the other dropped, post 
first, on to the hippopotamus's back, but rapidly scram- 
bled back into the canoe. The hippopotamus then, as 
is these animals' wont, renewed the attack, but I was 
ready to receive her, and as she came rolling porpoise- 
fashion close by the side of the canoe, I fired a quarter 
of a pound of lead, backed by four drams of powder, 
into the middle of her back, the muzzle of the rifle 
almost touching it. She then sank, and I never saw 
her more ; but the gun (after lying on the sandy bot- 
tom the whole of that night), I managed, by the aid 
of several divers, to find on the following day. 

Bombay says that on one occasion, when coming 
down the Pangani river in a canoe with several other 
men, an irritated hippopotamus charged and upset it, 
upon which he and all his friends dived under water 
and then swam to the shore, leaving the hippopotamus 
to vent his rage on the shell of the canoe, which he 
most spitefully stuck to. This, he assures me, is the 
proper way to dodge a hippopotamus, and escape the 
danger of a bite from him. On another occasion, when 
I was hippopotamus-hunting in one of the boats of the 
Artemise, in an inlet of the sea close to Kaole, I chased 
a herd of hippopotami in deep water, till one of the 



Aug.] ADVENTURES WITH HIPPOPOTAMI. 



339 



lot, coming as usual from below, drove a tusk clean 
through the boat with such force that he partially 
hoisted her out of the water ; but the brute did no 
further damage, for I kept him off by making the men 
splash their oars rapidly whilst making for the shore, 
where we just arrived in time to save ourselves from 
sinking. 

The day previous to this adventure, I bagged a fine 
young male hippopotamus close to this spot, by hitting 
him on the ear when standing in shallow water. The 
ivory of these animals is more prized than that of the 
elephant, and, in consequence of the superior hardness 
of its enamel, it is in great requisition with the dentist. 
Hippopotami are found all down this coast in very 
great numbers, but especially in the deltas of the 
rivers, or up the streams themselves, and afford an 
easy, remunerative, and pleasant sport to any man 
who is not addicted to much hard exercise. The Pan- 
jani, Kingani, and Lufiji rivers are full of them, as well 
as all the other minor feeders to the sea along that 
coast. If these animals happen to be killed in places 
so far distant from the sea that the tidal waters have 
not power to draw them out to the ocean depths, their 
bodies will be found, when inflated with gas, after de- 
composition, floating on the surface of the water a day 
or two afterwards, and can easily be secured by the 
sportsman, if he be vigilant enough to take them before 
the hungry watchful savages come and secure them, 
to appease their rapacious appetites. Mussulmans 
will even eat these amphibious creatures without cut- 



340 VICTORIA N'YANZA. [1858. 

ting their throats, looking on them as cold-blooded 
animals, created in the same manner as fish. 

The following day, 10th August, we made a halt to 
try our fortune again in purchasing cows, but failed 
as usual ; so the following morning we decamped at 
dawn, and marched thirteen miles to our original 
station in Southern Nera. Here I purchased four goats 
for one dhoti merikani, the best bargain I ever made. 
Thunder had rumbled, and clouds overcast the skies 
for two days ; and this day a delicious cooling shower 
fell. The people said it was the little rains — chota 
barsdt, as we call it in India — expected yearly at this 
time, as the precursor of the later great falls. 

As Seedi Bombay was very inquisitive to-day about 
the origin of Seedis, his caste, and as he wished to 
know by what law of nature I accounted for their 
cruel destiny in being the slaves of all men, I related 
the history of Noah, and the dispersion of his sons on 
the face of the globe ; and showed him that he was of 
the black or Hametic stock, and by the common order 
of nature, they, being the weakest, had to succumb to 
their superiors, the Japhetic and Semitic branches of 
the family ; and, moreover, they were likely to remain 
so subject until such time as the state of man, soar- 
ing far above the beast, would be imbued by a better 
sense of sympathy and good feeling, and would then 
leave all such ungenerous appliances of superior force 
to the brute. Bombay, on being made a Mussulman 
by his Arab master, had received a very different 
explanation of the degradation of his race, and nar- 



Aug.] ARAB THEORY OF THE NEGRO. 341 

rated his story as follows : — " The Arabs say that 
Mahomet, whilst on the road from Medina to Mecca, 
one day happened to see a widow woman sitting be- 
fore her house, and asked her how she and her three 
sons were ; upon which the troubled woman (for she 
had concealed one of her sons on seeing Mahomet's 
approach, lest he, as is customary when there are three 
males of a family present, should seize one and make 
him do porterage), said, ' Very well ; but Fve only two 
sons/ Mahomet, hearing this, said to the woman, 
reprovingly, ' Woman, thou liest; thou hast three sons: 
and for trying to conceal this matter from me, hence- 
forth remember that this is my decree — that the two 
boys which thou hast not concealed shall multiply and 
prosper, have fair faces, become wealthy, and reign 
lords over all the earth ; but the progeny of your 
third son shall, in consequence of your having con- 
cealed him, produce Seedis as black as darkness, who 
will be sold in the market like cattle, and remain in 
perpetual servitude to the descendants of the other 
two." 

12th. — We returned to our former quarters, the vil- 
lage of Salawe ; but I did not enjoy such repose as on 
the former visit, for the people were in their cups, and, 
nolens volens, persisted in entering my hut. Some- 
times I rose and drove them out, at other times I 
turned round and feigned to sleep ; but these man- 
oeuvres were of no avail ; still they poured in, and one 
old man, more impudent than the rest, understanding 
the trick, seized my pillow by the end, and, tugging 



342 VICTORIA N'YANZA. [1858. 

at it as a clog pulls at a quarter of horse, roused me 
with loud impatient "Whu-hu" and "Hi, Ins," until 
at last, out of patience, I sent my boots Avhirling at 
his head. This cleared the room, but only for a mo- 
ment : the boisterous, impudent crowd, true' to savage 
nature, enjoying the annoyance they had occasioned, 
returned exultingly, with shouts and grins, in double 
numbers. 

The Beluches then interfered, and, in their zeal to 
keep order, irritated some drunkards, who at once be- 
came pugnacious. On seeing the excited state of these 
drunkards, bawling and stepping about in long, sud- 
den, and rapid strides, with brandished spears and 
agitated bows, endeavouring to exasperate the rest of 
the mob against us, I rose, and going out before them, 
said that I came forth for their satisfaction, and that 
they might now stand and gaze as long as they liked; 
but I hoped, as soon as their legs and arms were tired, 
that they would depart in peace. The words acted 
with magical effect upon them ; they urgently requested 
me to retire again, but finding that I did not, they took 
themselves homewards. The sultan arrived late in the 
evening, he said from a long distance, on purpose to 
see me, and was very importunate in his desire for my 
halting a day. As I had paid all the other sultans the 
compliment of a visit, he should consider it a slight if 
I did not stay a little while with him. On the occa- 
sion of my passing northwards he had been absent, 
and could not entertain me ; so I must now accept a 
bullock, which he would send for on the morrow. A 



Aug.] ABUNDANCE OF GAME. 343 

long debate ensued, which ended by my giving him 
one shukka merikani and one dhoti kiniki. 

13 th. — Travelling through the Nindo Wilderness 
to-day, the Beluches were very much excited at the 
quantity of game they saw; but though they tried 
their best, they did not succeed in killing any. Troops 
of zebras, and giraffe, some varieties of antelopes roam- 
ing about in large herds, a buffalo and one ostrich, 
were the chief visible tenants of this wild. We saw 
the fresh prints of a very large elephant ; and I have 
no doubt that by any sportsman, if he had but leisure 
to learn their haunts and watering-places, a good 
account might be made of them — but one and all are 
wild in the extreme. Ostrich-feathers bedeck the 
frizzly polls of many men and women, but no one has 
ever heard of any having been killed or snared by 
huntsmen. These ornaments, as well as the many 
skulls and skins seen in every house, are said to be 
found lying about in places where the animals have 
died a natural death. 

lith. — We left, as we did yesterday, an hour before 
dawn, and crossed the second broad wilderness to Ka- 
hama. At 9 a.m. I called the usual halt to eat my 
rural breakfast of cold fowl, sour curd, cakes, and eggs, 
in a village on the south border of the desert. As the 
houses were devoid of all household commodities, I 
asked the people stopping there to tend the fields to 
explain the reason, and learnt that their fear of the 
plundering Wamanda was such that they only came 
there during the day to look after their crops, and at 



344 VICTORIA N'YANZA. [1858. 

night they retired to some distant place of safe retreat 
in the jungles, where they stored all their goods and 
chattels. These people, in time of war, thus putting 
everything useful out of the way of the forager's pry- 
ing eyes, it is very seldom that blood is spilt. This 
country being full of sweet springs, accounts for the 
denseness of the population and numberless herds of 
cattle. To look upon its resources, one is struck with 
amazement at the waste of the world : if instead of 
this district being in the hands of its present owners, 
it were ruled by a few scores of Europeans, what an 
entire revolution a few years would bring forth ! An 
extensive market would be opened to the world, the 
present nakedness of the land would have a covering, 
and industry and commerce would clear the way for 
civilisation and enlightenment. 

At present the natural inert laziness and ignorance 
of the people is their own and their country's bane. 
They are all totally unaware of the treasures at their 
feet. This dreadful sloth is in part engendered by the 
excessive bounty of the land in its natural state ; by 
the little want of clothes or other luxuries, in conse- 
quence of the congenial temperature ; and from the 
people having no higher object in view than the first- 
coming meal, and no other stimulus to exertion by 
example or anything else. The great cause, however, 
is their want of a strong protecting government to 
preserve peace, without which nothing can prosper. 
Thus they are, both morally and physically, little 
better than brutes, and as yet there is no better 



Aug.] CLIMATE AND DISEASES. 345 

prospect in store for them. The climate is a para- 
dox quite beyond my solving, unless the numerous 
and severe maladies that we all suffered from, 
during the first eight months of our explorations, 
may be attributed to too much exposure ; and even 
that does not solve the problem. To all appearance, 
the whole of the country to the westward of the East 
Coast Eange is high, dry, and healthy. No unpleasant 
exhalations pollute the atmosphere ; there are no ex- 
tremes of temperature ; the air is neither too hot nor 
too cold; and a little care in hutting, dressing, arid 
diet should obviate any evil effects of exposure. Springs 
of good water, and wholesome food, are everywhere 
obtainable. Flies and mosquitoes, the great Indian 
pests, are scarcely known, and the tsetse of the south 
nowhere exists. During the journey northwards, I 
always littered down in a hut at night ; but the ticks 
bit me so hard, and the anxiety to catch stars between 
the constantly-fleeting clouds, to take their altitudes, 
perhaps preying on my mind, kept me many whole 
nights consecutively without obtaining even as much 
as one wink of sleep — a state of things I had once before 
suffered from. But there really was no assignable 
cause for this, unless weakness or feverishness could 
create wakefulness, and then it would seem surprising 
that even during the day, or after much fatigue, I rarely 
felt the slightest inclination to close my eyes. Now, 
on returning, without anything to excite the mind, and 
having always pitched the tent at night, I enjoyed 
cooler nights and perfect rest. Of diseases, the more 



346 VICTORIA N'YANZA. [1858. 

common are remittent and intermittent fevers, and 
these are the most important ones to avoid, since they 
bring so many bad effects after them. In the first 
place, they attack the brain, and often deprive one of 
his senses. Then there is no rallying from the weak- 
ness they produce. A little attack, which one would 
only laugh at in India, prostrates you for a week or 
more, and this weakness brings on other disorders : 
cramp, for instance, of the most painful kind, very 
often follows. When lying in bed, my toes have 
sometimes curled round and looked me in the face ; at 
other times, when I have put my hand behind my 
back, it has stuck there until, with the other hand, I 
have seized the contracted muscles, and warmed the 
part affected with the natural heat, till, relaxation 
taking place, I was able to get it back. Another nasty 
thing is the blindness which I have already described, 
and which attacked another of our party in a manner 
exactly similar to my complaint. He, like myself, 
left Africa with a misty veil floating before his eyes. 

There are other disorders, but so foreign to my 
experience that I dare not venture to describe them. 
For as doctors disagree about the probable causes of 
their appearance, I most likely would only mislead if 
I tried to account for them. However, I think I may 
safely say they emanate from general debility, pro- 
duced by the much-to-be-dreaded fevers. 

15 th. — The caravan broke ground at 4 p.m., and, 
completing the principal zigzag made to avoid wars, 
arrived at Senagongo. Kanoni, followed by a host of 



Aug.] A WARM RECEPTION. 347 

men, women, and children, advanced to meet the cara- 
van, all roaringly intoxicated with joy, and lavishing 
greetings of welcome, with showers of " Yambo, Yambo 
Sanas " (" How are you ? " and, " Very well, I hope ?") 
which we as warmly returned : the shakings of hands 
were past number, and the Beluches and Bombay 
could scarcely be seen under the hot embraces and 
sharp kisses of admiring damsels. When recovered 
from the shock of this great outburst of feelings, Kan- 
oni begged me to fire a few shots, to apprise his ene- 
mies, and especially his big brother, of the honours paid 
him. No time was lost : I no sooner gave the order 
than bang, bang went every one of the escort's guns, 
and the excited crowd, immediately seeing a supposed 
antagonist in the foreground, rushed madly after him. 
Then spears were flourished, thrust, stabbed, and with- 
drawn ; arrows were pointed, huge shields protected 
black bodies, sticks and stones flew like hail ; then 
there was a slight retreat, then another advance — 
dancing to one side, then to the other — jumping and 
prancing on the same ground, with bodies swaying 
here and bodies swaying there, until at length the 
whole foreground was a mass of moving objects, all 
springs and hops, like an army of frogs, after the first 
burst of rain, advancing to a pond : then again the 
guns went off, giving a fresh impulse to the exciting 
exercise. 

Their great principle in their warfare appears to 
be, that no one should be still. At each report of the 
guns, fresh enemies were discovered retreating, and the 



348 VICTORIA N'YANZA. [1858. 

numbers of their slain were quite surprising. These, 
as they dropped, were, with highly dramatic action, 
severally and immediately trampled down and knelt 
upon, and hacked and chopped repeatedly with knives, 
whilst the slayer continued showing his savage wrath 
by worrying his supposed victim with all the angry 
energy that dogs display when fighting. This tri- 
umphal entry over, Kanoni led us into his boma, and 
treated us with sour curd. Then, at my request, he 
assembled his principal men and greatest travellers to 
debate upon the N yanza. One old man, shrivelled by 
age, stated that he had travelled up the western shores 
of the N'yanza two moons (sixty days) consecutively, 
had passed beyond Karague into a country where 
coffee grows abundantly, and is called Muanye. He 
described the shrub as standing between two and three 
feet high, having the stem nearly naked, but much 
branched above ; it grows in large plantations, and 
forms the principal article of food. The people do not 
boil and drink it as we do, but eat the berry raw, 
with its husk on. The Arabs are very fond of eating 
these berries raw, and have often given us some. 
They bring them down from Uganda, where, for a 
pennyworth of beads, a man can have his fill. 

When near these coffee plantations, he (our informer) 
visited an island on the lake, called Kitiri, occupied 
by the Watiri, a naked lot of beings, who subsist 
almost entirely on fish and coffee. The Watiri go 
about in large canoes like the Tanganyika ones ; but 
the sea-travelling, he says, is very dangerous. In de- 



Aug.] INFORMATION ON THE N'YANZA. 349 

scribing the boisterous nature of the lake, he made 
a rumbling, gargling noise in his throat, which he 
increased and diversified by pulling and tapping at 
the skin covering the apple, and by puffing and blow- 
ing with great vehemence indicated extraordinary 
roughness of the elements. The sea itself, he said, 
was boundless. Kanoni now told me that the Muin- 
gira Nullah lies one day's journey N.N.W. of this, and 
drains the western side of the Msalala district into 
the southern end of the N'yanza creek. It is therefore 
evident that those extensive lays in the Nindo and 
Salawe districts which we crossed extend down to this 
periodical river, which accounts for there being so many 
wild animals there : water being such an attractive 
object in these hot climes, all animals group round it. 
Kanoni is a dark, square, heavy-built man, very fond 
of imbibing pombe, and, like many tipplers, overflow- 
ing with human-kindness, especially in his cups. He 
kept me up several hours to-night, trying to induce me 
to accept a bullock, and to eat it in his boma, in the 
same manner as I formerly did with his brother. He 
was much distressed because I would not take the 
half of my requirements in cattle from him, instead of 
devoting everything to his brother Kurua; and not 
till I assured him I could not stay, but instead would 
leave Bombay and some Beluches with cloth to pur- 
chase some cows from his people, would he permit of 
my turning in to rest. It is strange to see how very 
soon, when questioning these negroes about anything 
relating to geography, their weak brains give way, and 



350 VICTORIA N'YANZA. [1858. 

they can answer no questions, or they become so eva- 
sive in their replies, or so rambling, that you can make 
nothing out of them. It is easily discernible at what 
time you should cease to ask any further questions ; 
for their heads then roll about like a ball upon a wire, 
and their eyes glass over and look vacantly about as 
though vitality had fled from their bodies altogether. 
Bombay, though, is a singular exception to this rule ; 
but then, by long practice, he has become a great geo- 
grapher, and delights in pointing out the different 
features on my map to his envying neighbours. 

16th. — We came to Mgogua this morning, and were 
received by Kurua with his usual kind affability. 
Our entrance to his boma was quiet and unceremoni- 
ous, for we came there quite unexpectedly — hardly 
giving him time to prepare his musket and return our 
salute. Though we were allowed a ready admission, 
a guinea-fowl I shot on the way was not. The super- 
stitious people forbade its entrance in full plumage, so 
it was plucked before being brought inside the palis- 
ade. Kurua again arranged a hut for my residence, 
and was as assiduous as ever in his devotion to my 
comforts. All the elders of the district soon arrived, 
and the usual debates commenced. Kurua chiefly 
trades with Karague and the northern kingdoms, but 
no one could add to the information I had already 
obtained. One of his men stated that he had per- 
formed the journey between Pangani on the east coast 
of Africa and the N'yanza three times, in about two 
months each time. The distance was very great for 



Aug.] A SHAM FIGHT. 351 

the little time it took him ; but then he had to go for 
his life the whole way, in consequence of the Masai, 
or Wahuma, as some call them, being so inimical to 
strangers of any sort that he dare not stop or talk any- 
where on the way.* On leaving Pangani, he passed 
through Usumbara, and entered on the country of the 
warring nomadic race, the Masai ; through their terri- 
tories he travelled without halting until he arrived at 
Usukuma, bordering on the lake. His fear and speed 
were such that he did not recognise any other tribes 
or countries besides those enumerated. 

Wishing to ascertain what number of men a popu- 
lous country like this could produce in case of an 
attack, and to gain some idea of savage tactics, I pro- 
posed having a field-day. Kurua was delighted with 
the idea, and began roaring and laughing about it with 
his usual boisterous energy, to the great admiration of 
all the company. The programme was as follows : — 
At 3 p.m. on the 17th, Kurua and his warriors, all 
habited and drawn up in order of battle, were to oc- 
cupy the open space in front of the village, whilst my 
party of Beluches, suddenly issuing from the village, 
would personate the enemy and commence the attack. 
This came off at the appointed time, and according to 
orders the forces were drawn up, and an engagement 
ensued. The Beluches, rushing through the passages 

* The Wahuma are a link between the Masai and the Kafirs, so far as 
I can judge of the common origin of this migratory pastoral race. The 
ethnologist ought to look well into this matter, and treat it without re- 
gard to change of language or names, as time will efface and create both 
anew. 



352 VICTORIA N'YANZA. [1858. 

of the palisaded village, suddenly burst upon the 
enemy, and fired and charged successively ; to which 
the Wamanda replied with equal vigour, advancing 
with their frog-like leaps and bounds, dodging and 
squatting, and springing and flying in the most wild 
and fantastic manner ; stabbing with their spears, 
protecting with their shields, poising with bows and 
arrows pointed, and, mingling with the Beluches, 
rushed about striking at and avoiding their guns 
and sabres. But all was so similar to the Sena- 
gongo display that it does not require a further descrip- 
tion. The number of Kurua's forces disappointed me, 
— I fear the intelligence of the coming parade did not 
reach far. The dresses they wore did credit to their 
nation — some were decked with cock-tail plumes, 
others wore bunches of my guinea-fowl's feathers in 
their hair, whilst the chiefs and swells were attired in 
long red baize mantles, consisting of a strip of cloth 
four feet by twenty inches, at one end of which they 
cut a slit to admit the head, and allowed the remainder 
to hang like a tail behind the back. Their spears 
and bows are of a very ordinary kind, and the shield 
is constructed something like the Kafir s, from a long 
strip of bull's hide, which is painted over with 
ochreish earth. The fight over, all hands rushed to 
the big drums in the cow-yard, and began beating 
them as though they deserved a drubbing: this "sweet 
music" set everybody on wires in a moment, and 
dancing never ceased till the sun went down, and the 
cows usurped the revelling-place. Kurua now gave 



Aug.] BUYING COWS. 353 

me a good milch cow and calf, and promised two more 
of the same stamp. Those which were brought by the 
common people were mere weeds, and dry withal ; 
they would not bring any good ones, I think, from 
fear of the sultans displeasure, lest I should prefer 
theirs to his, and deprive him of the consequent 
profits. My chief reason for leaving Bombay behind 
at Senagongo was, that business was never done when 
I was present. For, besides staring at me all day, the 
people speculated how to make the most of the chance 
offered by a rich man coming so suddenly amongst 
them, and in consequence of this avariciousness offered 
their cattle at such unreasonable prices as to preclude 
the transaction of any business. 

18 th. — Halt. My anticipations about the way of 
getting cows proved correct, for Bombay brought 
twelve animals, which cost twenty-three dhotis meri- 
kani and nine dhotis kiniki. Kurua now gave me an- 
other cow and calf, and promised me two more when 
we arrived at the Ukumbi district, as he did not like 
thinning one herd too much. I gave in return for his 
present one barsati, five dhotis merikani and two dhotis 
kiniki, with a promise of some gunpowder when we 
arrived at Unyanyembe, for he was still bent on going 
there with me. Perhaps I may consider my former 
obstruction in travel by Kurua a fortunate circum- 
stance ; for though the eldest brother s residence lay 
directly in my way, he might not possess so kind a 
nature as these two younger brothers. 

Still I cannot see any good reason for the Kirangozi 

z 



354 VICTORIA n'yANZA. [1858. 

abandoning the proper road : there certainly could be 
no more danger on the one side than on the other, and 
all would have been equally glad to have had me. It is 
true that I should have had to pass through his ene- 
mies' hands to the other brother, and such a course usu- 
ally excites suspicion ; but, by the usual custom of the 
country, Kurua should have been treated by him only 
as a rebellious subject, for though all three brothers 
were by different mothers, they are considered in line 
of succession as ours are, when legitimately begotten 
by one mother. Some time ago the eldest brother 
made a tool of an Arab trader, and with that force on 
his side threatened these two brothers with immediate 
destruction unless they resigned to him the entire 
government, and his rights as senior. They admitted 
in his presence the justness of his words and the folly 
of waging war, as such a measure could only bring 
destruction on all alike ; but on his departure they 
carried on their rule as before. 

Bombay, talking figuratively with me, considers 
Kurua's stopping me something like the use the 
monkey turned the cat's paw to ; that is, he stopped 
me simply to enhance his dignity, and gain the minds 
of the people by leading them to suppose I saw justice 
in his actions. Pombe-brewing, the chief occupation 
of the women, is as regular here as the revolution of 
day and night, and the drinking of it just as constant. 
It is prepared from bajeri and jowari (common millets) : 
the first step in the manufacture is malting in the same 
way as we do barley; then they range a double street of 



Aug.] POMBE- BREWING. 355 

sticks, usually in the middle of the village, fill a number 
of pots with these grains mixed in water, which they 
place in continuous line down the street of sticks, and, 
setting fire to the whole at once, boil away until the 
mess is fit to put aside for refining : this they then do, 
leaving the pots standing three days, when fermenta- 
tion takes place and the liqour is fit to drink. It has 
the strength of labourers' beer, and both sexes drink 
it alike. This fermented beverage resembles pig- wash, 
but is said to be so palatable and satisfying — for the 
dregs and all are drunk together — that many entirely 
subsist upon it. It is a great help to the slave-masters, 
for without it they could get nobody to till their 
ground ; and when the slaves are required to turn the 
earth, the master always sits in judgment with lordly 
dignity, generally under a tree, watching to see who 
becomes entitled to a drop. 

In the evening my attention was attracted by small 
processions of men and women, possessed of the Phepo, 
or demon, passing up the palisaded streets, turning into 
the different courts, and paying each and every house 
by turns a visit. The party advanced in slow funereal 
order, with gently springing, mincing, jogging action, 
some holding up twigs, others balancing open baskets 
of grain and tools on their heads, and with their bodies, 
arms, and heads in unison with the whole hobbling- 
bobling motion, kept in harmony to a low, mixed, 
droning, humming chorus. As the sultan's door was 
approached, he likewise rose, and, mingling in the 
crowd, performed the same evolutions. 



.356 VICTORIA N'YANZA. [1858. 

This kind of procession is common at Zanzibar : 
when any demoniacal possessions take place among 
the blacks, it is by this means they cast out devils. 
While on the subject of superstition, it may be worth 
mentioning what long ago struck me as a singular 
instance of the effect of supernatural impression on 
the uncultivated mind. During boyhood my old 
nurse used to tell me with great earnestness of a won- 
derful abortion shown about in the fairs of England 
— a child born with a pig's head ; and as solemnly 
declared that this freak of nature was attributable to 
the child's mother having taken fright at a pig when 
in the interesting stage. The case I met in this coun- 
try was still more far-fetched, for the abortion was 
supposed to be producible by indirect influence on the 
wife of the husband taking fright. On once shoot- 
ing a pregnant doe waterboc, I directed my native 
huntsman, a married man, to dissect her womb and 
expose the embryo ; but he shrank from the work 
with horror, fearing lest the sight of the kid, striking 
his mind, should have an influence on his wife's future 
bearing, by metamorphosing her progeny to the like- 
ness of a fawn. 

19 th. — We bade Kurua adieu in the early morning, 
as a caravan of his had just arrived from Karague, 
and appointed to meet at the second station, as march- 
ing with cattle would be slow work for him. Our 
march lasted nine miles. The succeeding day we 
passed Ukumbi, and arrived at Uyombo. On the way 
I was obliged to abandon one of the donkeys, as he 



Aug.] EXPENSE OF TRAVELLING. S57 

was completely used up. This made up our thirty- 
second loss in asses since leaving Zanzibar. My load 
of beads was now out, and I had to purchase rations 
with cloth — a necessary measure, but not economical, 
for the cloth does not go half as far as beads of the 
same value. I have remarked throughout this trip, 
that in all places where Arabs are not much in the 
habit of trading, very few cloths find their way, and 
in consequence the people take to wearing beads ; and 
beads and baubles are the only foreign things much 
in requisition. 

As remarks upon the relative value of commo- 
dities appear in various places in this diary, I shall 
endeavour to give a general idea how it is that I have 
found this plentiful country — quite beyond any other 
I have seen in Africa in fertility and stock — so com- 
paratively dear to travel in. The Zanzibar route to 
Ujiji is now so constantly travelled over by Arabs and 
Wasuahili, that the people, seeing the caravans approach, 
erect temporary markets, or come hawking things for 
sale, and the prices are adapted to the abilities of the 
purchasers ; and at such markets our Sheikh bought 
for us, and transacted all business. It is also to be 
observed that where things are brought for sale, they 
are invariably cheaper than in those places where one 
has to seek and ask for them ; for in the one instance 
a livelihood is the consequence of trade, whereas in the 
other a chance purchaser is treated as a windfall to be 
made the most of. Now this line is just the opposite 
to the Ujiji one, and therefore dear; but added to 









358 VICTORIA N'YANZA. [1858. 

those influences here, the sultans, to increase their own 
importance whilst having me their guest, invariably 
gave out that I was no peddling Arab or Msuahili, but 
a great Mundewa, or merchant prince of the Waz- 
ungu (white or wise men), and the people took the 
hint to make me pay or starve. Then again, not 
having the Sheikh with me, I had to pay for and 
settle everything myself; and from having no variety 
of beads in this exclusively bead country, there was 
great inconvenience. 

Kurua now joined us, and reported the abandoned 
donkey dead. A cool shower of rain fell, to the satis- 
faction of every thirsty soul. It is delightful to 
observe the freshness which even one partial shower 
imparts to all animated nature after a long-continued 
drought. 



Aug.] GENERAL ASPECT OF THE COUNTRY. 359 



CHAPTER V. 

GENERAL CHARACTER OF THE COUNTRY TRAVERSED — THE HUTS 
— THE GEOLOGY — PRODUCTIONS — LAND OF PROMISE — ADVICE 
TO MISSIONARIES — LEAVE ULEKAMPURI — RETURN OF THE 
EXPEDITION — REGISTER OF TEMPERATURE — WAGES AND 
KIT. 

2iih August. — During the last four days we have 
marched fifty-eight miles, and are now at our old vil- 
lage in Ulekampuri. As we have now traversed all 
the ground, I must try to give a short description, 
with a few reflections on the general character of all 
we have seen or heard, before concluding this diary. 

To give a faithful idea of a country, it is better that 
the object selected for comparison should incline to 
the large and grander scale than to the reverse, other- 
wise the reader is apt to form too low an idea of 
it. And yet, though this is leaning to the smaller, I 
can think of no better comparison for the surface of 
this high land than the long sweeping waves of the 
Atlantic Ocean ; and where the hills are fewest, and 
in lines, they resemble small breakers curling on the 
tops of the rollers, all irregularly arranged, as though 
disturbed by different currents of wind. 



360 VICTORIA N'YANZA. [1858. 

Where the hills are grouped, they remind me of a 
small chopping sea in the Bristol Channel. That the 
hills are nowhere high, is proved by the total absence 
of any rivers along this line, until the lake is reached ; 
and the passages between or over them are everywhere 
gradual in their rise ; so that in travelling through the 
country, no matter in which direction, the hills seldom 
interfere with the line of march. The flats and hol- 
lows are well peopled, and cattle and cultivation are 
everywhere abundant. The stone, soil, and aspect of 
the tract is uniform throughout. The stone is chiefly 
granite, the rugged rocks of which lie like knobs of 
sugar over the surface of the little hills, intermingled 
with sandstone in a highly ferruginous state ; whilst 
the soil is an accumulation of sand the same colour as 
the stone, a light brownish grey, and appears as if it 
were formed of disintegrated particles of the rocks 
worn off by time and weathering. Small trees and 
brushwood cover all the outcropping hills ; and palms 
on the plains, though few and widely spread, prove 
that water is very near the surface. Springs, too, are 
numerous, and generally distributed. The mean level 
of the country between Unyanyembe and the lake 
is 3767 feet; that of the lake itself, 3750. The 
tribes, as a rule, are well disposed towards all stran- 
gers, and wish to extend their commerce. Their 
social state rather represents a conservative than a 
radical disposition ; their government is a sort of semi- 
patriarchal-feudal arrangement ; and, like a band of 
robbers, all hold by their different chiefs from feeling 



Aug.] NATURAL PRODUCTIONS. 3G1 

the necessity of mutual support. Bordering the south 
of the lake there are vast fields of iron ; cotton is also 
abundant, and every tropical plant or tree could grow ; 
those that do exist, even rice, vegetate in the utmost 
luxuriance. Cattle are very abundant, and hides are 
found in every house. On the east of the lake ivory is 
said to be very abundant and cheap ; and on the west 
we hear of many advantages which are especially wor- 
thy of our notice. The Karague hills overlooking the 
lake are high, cold, and healthy, and have enormous 
droves of cattle, bearing horns of stupendous size ; and 
ivory, fine timber, and all the necessaries of life, are to 
be found in great profusion there. Again, beyond the 
equator, of the kingdom of Uganda we hear from 
everybody a rapturous account. That country evi- 
dently swarms with people who cultivate coffee and 
all the common grains, and have large flocks and herds, 
even greater than what I have lately seen. Now if 
the N'yanza be really the Nile's fount, which I sincerely 
believe to be the case, what an advantage this will be 
to the English merchant on the Nile, and what a field 
is opened to the world, if England does not neglect 
this discovery ! 

But I must not expatiate too much on the merits 
and capabilities of this part of inner Africa, lest I mis- 
lead any commercial inquirers ; and it is as well to 
say at present, that the people near the coast are in 
such a state of helplessness and insecurity, caused by 
the slave-hunts, that for many years, until commerce, 
by steady and certain advance, shall in some degree 



362 VICTORIA N'YANZA. [1858. 

overcome the existing apathy, and excite the popula- 
tion to strive to better their position by setting up 
strong constitutions to protect themselves and their 
property, no one need expect to make a large fortune 
by dealing with them. That commerce does make 
wonderful improvements on the barbarous habits of 
the Africans, can now be seen in the Masai country, 
and the countries extending north-westward from 
Mombas up through Kikuyu into the interior, where 
the process has been going on during the last few 
years. There even the roving wild pastorals, formerly 
untamable, are now gradually becoming reduced to 
subjection ; and they no doubt will ere long have as 
strong a desire for cloths and other luxuries as any 
other civilised beings, from the natural desire to equal 
in comfort and dignity of appurtenances those whom 
they now must see constantly passing through their 
country. Caravans are penetrating farther, and going 
in greater numbers, every succeeding year, in those 
directions, and Arab merchants say that those coun- 
tries are everywhere healthy. The best proof we have 
that the district is largely productive is the fact that 
the caravans and competition increase on those lines 
more and more every day. I would add, that in the 
meanwhile the staple exports derived from the far 
interior of the continent will consist of ivory, hides, 
and horns ; whilst from the coast and its vicinity the 
clove, the gum copal, some textile materials drawn 
from the banana, aloe, and pine-apples, with oleaginous 
plants such as the ground-nut and cocoa-nut, are the 



Aug.] NATURAL PRODUCTIONS. 363 

chief exportable products. The cotton plant which 
grows here, judging from its size and difference from 
the plant usually grown in India, I consider to be a 
tree cotton and a perennial. It is this cotton which 
the natives weave into coarse fabrics in their looms. 
Kice, although it is not indigenous to Africa, I believe 
is certainly capable of being produced in great quan- 
tity and of very superior quality ; and this is also the 
case with sugar-cane and tobacco, both of which are 
grown generally over the continent. There is also a 
species of palm growing on the borders of the Tan- 
ganyika Lake, which yields a concrete oil very much 
like, if not the same as, the palm-oil of Western Africa; 
but this is limited in quantity, and would never be of 
much value. Salt, which is found in great quantity 
in pits near the Malagarazi river, and the iron I have 
already spoken about, could only be of use to the 
country itself in facilitating traffic, and in maturing 
its resources. 

These fertile regions have been hitherto unknown 
from the same cause which Dr Livingstone has so ably 
explained in regard to the western side of Africa — the 
jealousy of the shortsighted people who live on the 
coast, who, to preserve a monopoly of one particular 
article exclusively to themselves (ivory), have done 
their best to keep everybody away from the interior. 
I say shortsighted ; for it is obvious that, were the re- 
sources of the country once fairly opened, the people 
on the coast would double or triple their present in- 
comes, and Zanzibar would soon swell into a place of 



364 VICTORIA N'YANZA. [1858. 

real importance. All hands would then be employed, 
and luxury would take the place of beggary. 

I must now (after expressing a fervent hope that 
England especially, and the civilised world generally, 
will not neglect this land of promise) call attention 
to the marked fact, that the missionaries, residing for 
many years at Zanzibar, are the prime and first pro- 
moters of this discovery. They have been for years 
past doing their utmost, with simple sincerity, to 
Christianise this negro land, and promote a civilised 
and happy state of existence among these benighted be- 
ings. During their sojourn among these blackamoors, 
they heard from Arabs and others of many of the facts 
I have now stated, but only in a confused way, such 
as might be expected in information derived from an 
uneducated people. Amongst the more important dis- 
closures made by the Arabs was the constant reference 
to a large lake or inland sea, which their caravans were 
in the habit of visiting. It was a singular thing that, 
at whatever part of the coast the missionaries arrived, 
on inquiring from the travelling merchants where they 
went to, they one and all stated to an inland sea, the 
dimensions of which were such that nobody could give 
any estimate of its length or width. The directions 
they travelled in pointed north-west, west, and south- 
west, and their accounts seemed to indicate a single 
sheet of water, extending from the Line down to 14° 
south latitude — a sea of about 840 miles in length, 
with an assumed breadth of two to three hundred 
miles. In fact, from this great combination of testi- 



Aug.] MISSIONARY PROSPECTS. 365 

mony that water lay generally in a continuous line 
from the equator up to 1 4° south latitude, and from 
not being able to gain information of there being any 
land separations to the said water, they very naturally, 
and I may add fortunately, put upon the map that mon- 
ster slug of an inland sea which so much attracted the 
attention of the geographical world in 1855-56, and 
caused our being sent out to Africa. The good that 
may result from this little, yet happy accident, will, I 
trust, prove proportionately as large and fruitful as the 
produce from the symbolical grain of mustard-seed ; 
and nobody knows or believes in this more fully than 
one of the chief promoters of this exciting investiga- 
tion, Mr Eebmann. From these late explorations, he 
feels convinced, as he has oftentimes told me, that the 
first step has been taken in the right direction for the 
development of the commercial resources of the coun- 
try, the spread of civilisation, and the extension of our 
geographical knowledge. 

As many clergymen, missionaries, and others, have 
begged me to publish what facilities are open to the 
better prosecution of their noble ends in this wild 
country, I would certainly direct their attention to the 
Karague district, in preference to any other. There 
they will find, I feel convinced, a fine healthy coun- 
try ; a choice of ground from the mountain-top to the 
level of the lake, capable of affording them every com- 
fort of life which an isolated place can produce ; and 
being the most remote region from the coast, they 
would have less interference from the Mohammedan 



366 VICTORIA N'YANZA. [1858. 

communities that reside by the sea. But then, I 
think, missionaries would have but a poor chance of 
success unless they went there in a body, with wives 
and families all as assiduous in working to the same 
end as themselves, and all capable of other useful 
occupations besides that of disseminating the Gospel, 
which should come after, and not before, the people 
are awake and prepared to receive it. As that coun- 
try must be cold in consequence of its great altitude, 
the people would much sooner than in the hotter and 
more enervating lowlands, learn any lessons of indus- 
try they might be taught. To live idle in regard to 
everything but endeavouring to cram these negroes 
with Scriptural doctrines, as has too often been and 
now is done, is, although apparently the straightest, 
the longest way to reach the goal of their desires. 

The missionary, I think, should be a Jack-of-all- 
trades — a man that can turn his hand to anything ; 
and being useful in all cases, he would, ,at any rate, 
make himself influential with those who were living 
around him. To instruct him is the surest way of 
gaining a black man's heart, which, once obtained, can 
easily be turned in any way the preceptor pleases, as 
is the case with all Asiatics : they soon learn to bow 
to the superior intellect of the European, and are 
as easily ruled as a child is by his father. * 

* Since writing this, as I have had more insight into Africa by tra- 
velling from Kaze to Egypt down the whole length of the Nile, I would 
be sorry to leave this opinion standing without making a few more re- 
marks. Of all places in Africa, by far the most inviting to missionary 
enterprise are the kingdoms of Karague, Uganda, and Unyoro. They 



Aug.] march resumed. 367 

25th. — We left Ulekampuri at 1 a.m., and marched 
the last eighteen miles into Kaze under the delightful 
influence of a cool night and a bright full moon. As 
the caravan, according to its usual march of single file, 
moved along the serpentine footpath in peristaltic 

are extremely fertile and healthy, and the temperature is delight- 
fully moderate. So abundant, indeed, are all provisions, and so pro- 
lific the soil, that a missionary establishment, however large, could 
support itself after the first year's crop. Being ruled by kings of 
the Abyssinian type, there is no doubt but that they have a latent 
Christianity in them. These kings are powerful enough to keep up 
their governments under numerous officers. They have expressed a 
wish to have their children educated ; and I am sure the missionary 
need only go there to obtain all he desires on as secure a basis as 
he will find anywhere else in those parts of Africa which are not 
under the rule of Europeans. If this was effected by the aid of an 
Egyptian force at Gondokoro, together with an arrangement for putting 
the White Nile trade on a legitimate footing between that station and 
Unyoro, the heathen would not only be blessed, but we should soon 
have a great and valuable commerce. Without protection, though, I 
would not advise any one to go there. 

Now, for the use of commercial inquirers, I may also add, that 
it may be seen in my 'Journal of the Discovery of the Source of 
the Nile,' that the kings of these three countries were all, more or 
less, adverse to my passing through their countries to the Nile ; 
but they gave way, and permitted my doing so, on my promising to 
open a direct trade with this country and theirs by the channel of 
that river. I gave them the promise freely, for I saw by the nature of 
the land, subjected as it is to frequently recurring showers of rain all 
the year round, that it will be, in course of time, one of the greatest 
nations on the earth. It is nearer to Europe than India ; it is far more 
fertile, and it possesses none of those disagreeable elements of discon- 
tent which have been such a sharp thorn in our sides in India — I mean 
a history and a religion far anterior to our own, which makes those we 
govern there shrink from us, caused by a natural antipathy of being 
ruled by an inferior race, as we are by them considered to be. These 
countries, on the contrary, have no literature, and therefore have 
neither history nor religion to excite discontent should any foreigners 
intrench on their lands. By this I do not wish it to be supposed that I 
would willingly see any foreign European power upset these Wahuma 



368 VICTORIA N'YANZA. [1858. 

motion, firing muskets and singing " the return," the 
Unyanyembe villagers, men, women, and children, 
came running out and flocking on it, piercing the air 
with loud shrill noises, accompanied with the lullabooing 
of these fairs — which, once heard, can never be mis- 

governments ; but, on the contrary, I would like to see them maintained 
as long as possible, and I seriously trust some steps may speedily be 
taken for that most desirable object. Should it not be so, then in a 
short time these kingdoms will fall into the hands of those vile ruffian 
traders on the White Nile, in the same way as Kaze has been occupied 
by the Arabs of Zanzibar. To give an instance of the way it most 
likely will be effected, I will merely state that the king of Unyoro 
begged me repeatedly to kill some rebel brothers of his, who were then 
occupying an island between his palace and the Little Luta Nzige. I 
would not do it, as I thought it would be a bad example to set in the 
country ; but some time afterwards I felt sorry for it, for on arrival in 
Madi, where I first met the Nile traders, I found that they were in 
league with these very rebels to dethrone the king. The atrocities 
committed by these traders are beyond all civilised belief. They are 
constantly fighting, robbing, and capturing slaves and cattle. No 
honest man can either trade or travel in the country, for the natives 
have been bullied to such an extent that they either fight or run away, 
according to their strength and circumstance. That a great quantity 
of ivory is drawn from those countries I must admit, for these traders 
ramify in all directions, and, vying with one another, see who can get 
most ivory at the least expense, no matter what means they employ to 
obtain their ends. 

At the same time, I have no hesitation in saying that ten times as 
much merchandise might be got at less expense, if the trade were pro- 
tected by government means, and put on a legitimate footing. Those 
countries teem with cattle. The indigenous cotton is of very superior 
quality. Indigo, sugar-cane, coffee, tobacco, sesamum, and indeed all 
things that will grow in a tropical climate, may be grown there within 
3° of the equator, in luxurious profusion, and without any chance of 
failure owing to those long periodical droughts which affect all lands 
distant more than 3° from the equator. 

When I was sailing down the Nile, I could not help remarking to all 
the pashas I visited how strange it appeared that men so civilised as 
they were should be living in such a barren, hot, and glaring land as 
Egypt, when the negroes on the equator were absolutely living in the 



Aug.] METEOROLOGY OF THE COUNTRY. 369 

taken. The crowd was composed in great part of the 
relatives of my porters, who evinced their feelings to- 
wards their adult masters as eagerly as stray deer do 
in running to join a long-missing herd. The Arabs, 
one and all, came out to meet us, and escorted us into 

richest and pleasantest garden in the world, so far as nature has made 
the two countries. 

Now, though I have dwelt so markedly on the surprising fertility of 
Uganda and Unyoro in particular, I do not wish it to be supposed that 
I consider those countries alone to be exclusively rich, for I believe there 
is a continuous zone of fertility stretching right across Africa from 
east to west, affected only by the nature of the soil. In advancing 
this argument, I hold that the greatest discovery I have made in Africa 
consists in my positive knowledge regarding the rainy system of Africa ; 
and to exemplify it irrespectively of my meteorological observations, I 
will state emphatically that as surely as I have determined the source 
of the Nile to lie within 3° of the equator, and that it cannot emanate 
from any point farther south, because all the lands beyond that 
limit are subject to long periodical droughts — so certain am I that 
the Tanganyika is supplied from the same source, or rainy zone, though 
draining in the opposite direction. Again, to its west also, from the 
same source of supply, the head-waters of the Zambezi take their origin. 
Still farther west, the fountains of the Congo must have their birth. 
Again, farther west still, the Chadda branch of the Niger can alone be 
thus supplied, and the same must be the case with the Gaboon river. 

To carry this argument still farther, I would direct attention to the 
periodical conditions of the Blue Nile and Niger rivers. Both of 
these rivers rise in high mountains on the coast-range, at about 10° 
north latitude, but on opposite sides of the continent. They are con- 
sidered large rivers, but only in consequence of their great floodings, 
when the sun, in his northern declination, brings the rains over the 
seats of their birthplaces ; for when the sun is in the south they shrink 
so low that the waters of the Blue river would never have power to 
reach the sea were they not assisted by the perennial stream of the 
White Nile. 

The most important exploring expedition that any one could under- 
take now, would be to cross Africa from east to west, keeping close to 
the first degree of north latitude, to ascertain the geological formation 
of that parallel. Within the coast-ranges, in consequence of the great 
elevation of the land, the temperature is always moderate, and it is 

2 A 



370 VICTORIA N'YANZA. [1858. 

their depot. Captain Burton greeted me on arrival 
at the old house, and said he had been very anxious 
for some time past about our safety, as numerous re- 
ports had been set afloat with regard to the civil wars 
we had had to circumvent, which had impressed the 
Arabs as well as himself with alarming fears. I 
laughed over the matter, but expressed my regret that 
he did not accompany me, as I felt quite certain in 
my mind I had discovered the source of the Nile. 
This he naturally objected to, even after hearing all 
my reasons for saying so, and therefore the subject was 
dropped. Nevertheless, the Captain accepted all my 
geography leading from Kaze' to the Nile, and wrote 
it down in his book — contracting only my distances, 
which he said he thought were exaggerated, and of 
course taking care to sever my lake from the Nile by 
his Mountains of the Moon. 

It affords me great pleasure to be able to report the 
safe return of the expedition in a state of high spirits 
and gratification. All enjoyed the salubrity of the 
climate, the kind entertainments of the sultans, the 
variety and richness of the country, and the excellent 
fare everywhere. Further, the Beluches, by their ex- 
emplary conduct, proved themselves a most efficient, 
willing, and trustworthy guard, and are deserving of 

proved to be much more healthy than any of those parts of Africa sub- 
jected to periodical seasons. Next to this scheme, I would recommend 
this fertile zone to be attacked from Gondokoro on the Nile, and from 
Gaboon (the French port) on the equator. The Gondokoro line, being 
known to a considerable extent, is ready for working, and only requires 
government protection to make it succeed ; but the other line from 
the Gaboon should first be inspected by a scientific expedition. 



Sept.] DISTANCE TRAVERSED. 371 

the highest encomiums ; they, with Bombay, were 
the life and success of everything, and I sincerely 
hope they may not be forgotten. 

The Arabs told me I could reach the N'yanza in 
fifteen to seventeen marches, and I returned in six- 
teen, although I had to take a circuitous line instead 
of a direct one. The provisions, too, just held out. 
I took a supply for six weeks, and completed that 
time this day. The total road-distance there and back 
is 452 miles, which, admitting that the Arabs make 
sixteen marches of it, gives them a marching rate of 
more than fourteen miles a-day. 

The temperature is greater at this than at any other 
time of the year, in consequence of its being the end 
of the dry season ; still, as will be seen by the annexed 
register of one week, the Unyamuezi plateau is not 
unbearably hot. 

Thermometer hung in a passage of our house showed — Morning, Noon, and 
Afternoon respectively — 

6 a.m. 9 a.m. Noon. 3 p.m. 6 p.m. 
73° 75° 84° 86° 84°. Mean temperature during first week 

or seven days of September 1858. 
71° ... ... 88° ... Extreme: difference, 17° of variation 

during 12 hours of day. 

Thermometer suspended from ridge-pole of a one-cloth tent pitched in a 

close yard : — 
6 a.m. 9 a.m. Noon. 3 p.m. 6 p.m. 

65° 85° 108° 107° 80°. Mean temperature. 

63° ... ... 113° ... Extreme : difference, 50° of variation. 

List of Stores along this Line. 
Rice is grown at Unyanyemb6, or wherever the Arabs settle, but is not 
common, as the negroes, considering it poor food, seldom eat it. 



Animal. 

Cows, sheep, goats, fowls, don- 
keys, eggs, milk, butter, honey. 

P.S. — Donkeys are very scarce; 
only found in a few places in the 
Unyamuezi country. 



Vegetable. 
Rice, jowari, bagri, maize, manioc, 
sweet potatoes, yams, pumpkins, 
melons, cucumbers, tobacco, cotton, 
pulse in great varieties, chilis, bengh- 
ans, plantains, tomatoes, sesamum. 



372 VICTORIA N'YANZA. [1858. 

The Quantity of Kit taken for this Journey consisted of— 

9 Gorahs merikani; 1 Gorah or piece of American sheeting, = 15 cloths of 

4 cubits each. 
30 Do. Kiniki ; 1 Gorah Kiniki, a common indigo-dyed stuff, = 4 cloths 

of 4 cubits each. 
1 Sahari, a coloured cloth. ) These cloths are more expensive, being of 

1 Dubuani, do. [ better stuff, and are used chiefly by the 

2 Barsati, do. ) sultans and other black swells. 
20 Mamids white beads = 70 lb. 

3 loads of rice grown at Unyanyembe by the Arabs. 

Expenditure for the Journey from 9th July to 25th August 1858. 

Value. 
10 Beluches' wages, 150 shukkas, or 4 cubits apiece merikani, = lOOdols. 

Do. rations, given in advance, 30 lb. white beads, . = 5 
15 Pagazis' wages, 75 shukkas merikani, . . . = 50 

26 Men, including self, rations, 60 lb. white beads, . = 10 

2 Pagazis, extra wages, 7 shukkas of merikani and kiniki 

mixed, ..........= 5 

6 Sultans' hongos or presents, 22 shukkas of merikani and 

kiniki, mixed, . . . . . . . . = 16 

Do. do. do. 2 barsatis, . . . = 2 



Total expenditure 188dols. 

Or £39, 3s. 4d. 

The Indian Government also very generously authorised me to pay, on 
my last expedition, those poor men who had carried our property down 
from Kaze to Zungomgro ; but unfortunately for them, as well as for our 
own credit, I could not find one man of the lot. 



THE END. 



PRINTED BY WILLIAM BLACKWOOD AND SONS, EDINBURGH. 



.. 



i 



^ 






