About This File

This file is part of a corpus compiled by Caitlin Matheis (University of Nebraska-Lincoln) for a 2021 computational text analysis project for the One More Voice recovery project (onemorevoice.org). This corpus encompasses a wide range of plain text (TXT) files containing nineteenth- and early twentieth-century literary works centered on Africa by several dozen different British and African writers. Questions about the corpus and project can be directed to Caitlin Matheis (cmatheis2@huskers.unl.edu), the creator of the corpus, and Adrian S. Wisnicki (awisnicki@unl.edu), lead developer for One More Voice.

File Source: Internet Archive, http://archive.org/details/mykaluluprincek02stangoog

--------------------------------------

MY KALULU, 
PRINCE, KING, AND SLAVE: 
A Story of Central Africa. 

BY 
HENRY M. STANLEY, 
AUTHOR OF "HOW I FOUND LIVINGSTONE."

WITH ILLUSTRATIONS. 

LONDON: 
SAMPSON LOW, MARSTON, LOW, AND SEARLE, 
CROWN BUILDINGS, 188, FLEET STREET. 
1873.

(All Rights Reserved.)

t 

2S/. c. 2 J. 






I • 



LONDON : 

rsiKTKD BT WILLIAM CLOWSS AHD SONS, STAVFOBO STRRET, 

AND CHABIKO CROSS* 



THIS LITTLE VOLUME 



gtlritattli 



TO ALL THOSE WHO HAVE AIDED IN THE SUPPRESSION OF 
SLAVEItT ON THE EAST COAST OP AFRICA, 



Br HENRY M. STANLEY. 



PREFACE. 



For the satisfaction of those who are always wondering 
"What on earth ever induced Mr. So-and-so. to write 
or publish such a book," and those who " fail to see 
what earthly reason " I had in view in the production 
of this little volume, I quote Prior's lines, and by 
simply changing one little word I furnish them with a 
clear and explicit reason : 

Authors, ^ all the world agrees, 
Write half to profit, half to please ; 
Matter and figure they produce ; 
For garnish this, and that for use ; 
And in the structure of their feasts 
They seek to feed and please their guests." 

This book has been written for boys ; not those little 
darlings who are yet bothering over the alphabet, and 
have to be taken to bed at sundown, and who, when 
they awake, put civilised and respectable families into 
confusion with their cries ; nor those little dunces, who 
look at all books with awe, and who begin to scratch 
their heads as soon as one is mentioned ; nor yet those 
boys who cannot read, though they are tall and strong ; 
but for those clever, bright-eyed, intelligent boys, of all 



VI PREFACE. 

classes, who have begun to be interested in romantic 
literature, with whom educated fathers may talk with- 
out fear of misapprehension, and of whom friends are 
already talking as boys who have a promising future 
before them. These boys are the guests for whom I 
have provided a true Afric feast. The feast provided 
for them is not over rich, because Africa is not far 
enough advanced yet to furnish delicacies, such as 
puddings, cakes, confections, &c. ; but what there is of 
it, plain rice and curry, dried meat of game, wild fruits 
of piquant flavour, &c., is healthy and good for such as 
you, and taken once in a while, between your own 
regular banquets, you might thrive and be better for 
it. " And though I say it myself as shouldn't say 
it," as Mrs. Gamp says, " you might find worse food 
nor this." 

* My Kalulu ' is a romance based upon knowledge 
acquired during my journey in search of Dr. Living- 
stone, which began in 1871 and terminated in 1872. 
Within six weeks after my return from Africa I had 
written the book entitled ' How I found Livingstone.' 
I had to work hard, because pressing engagements 
came on thick and fast ; and now that the storm and 
stress of that short period of my life are over, I wonder 
how I got through it so well as I did. A great many 
people complained that the book was bulky; that, in 
fact, there was too much of it. So are newspapers too 
large, and contain a great deal more reading matter 
than any one man cares to read. In a book of travels 



PREFACE. Til 

sonre readers prefer the adventures, the incidents of the 
chase ; others prefer what relates to the ethnography 
of the country ; others, geography ; others dip into it 
for matters concerning philology. The person who 
reads the whole book through is one interested in the 
subject, or is attracted to it by its style. 

For those boys, and young, middle-aged, and old 
men, who found my first book rather heavy, I beg to 
offer something lighter, fresher — a romance. When 
the customs and ceremonies of the Watuta have been 
read a pretty fair idea of the customs of the peoples 
around Lake Tanganika will have been obtained. The 
geography here described is correct. In any map of 
Africa published by Stanford or Keith Johnston, the 
reader may soon find the south-eastern corner of Lake 
Tanganika, and the great plain country stretching east 
of this is Ututa. 

As a traveller, I dared not venture upon improba- 
bilities. Everything written herein is possible, nay, 
much of the book contains facts which I have witnessed 
myself, or which have come to my knowledge. 

I will just explain a few things here. The ceremony 
of the magic drink took place t^bout two miles from 
Tabora, when Khamis bin Abdullah and his son Khamis, 
the same as are here described, and several other Arabs 
of wealth and influence, fell victims to their own reck- 
less courage, slain by the hands of Mirambo and his 
northern Watuta allies. 

The story of the drowning of the poor women and 



Till PBEFACE. 

children in the Eungwa Eiver was given me by little 
Kaluln, who accompanied me from Central Africa to 
^England, as a scene of terror which he remembered h.e 
had witnessed, and could never forget. 

The battle of Kwikuru is described from the fatal 
day of Zimbizo, when nearly two thousand five hundred 
Arabs were routed by King Mirambo. 

The Arab youth Selim stands for the son of ono 
Mohammed, who was captured by the Warori, ani 
subjected to many indignities, and much o^ his story- 
was related to me by Sheikh Thani, my friend. 

Some features, in Kalulu's character were taken from 
Simba, King of Kasera, son of Mkasiwa, the great and 
powerful King of Unyanyembe, as related to me by 
the gigantic Asmani, my guide, who knew him well, 
and was never tired of praising him. 

The giant Simba represents Asmani himself, with a 
better character however. 

Moto represents his friend and constant companion, 
the wiry, sinewy fellow, who believed Asmani was the 
best man that ever lived. 

I had in view, when I wrote this book, the idea that 
I might be able to describe more vividly in such a book 
as this than in any other way the evils of the slave- 
trade in Africa — how it begins, how it is conducted, 
and how it sometimes ends. 

So it will be seen that I have woven fact with fiction ; 
and if my readers are pleased with the weaving of the 
circumstances into the romance * My Kalulu, Prince, 



little 

ca t'j 



id 
.dred 

one 

and 
torj 

roiD 
an<i 

bj 
rell, 

lia 

on, 
the 

lat 

lOl 

re- 
id. 



a; 



PREFACE. IX 

King, and Slave,' the author will consider himself 
sufficiently rewarded for this his first essay i^ fiction. 
Should it turn out as I hope it will, I can assure those 
iftterested in Kalulu, that some day, if I live, I shall 
attempt to take him back to his own country, through 
numberless adventures, incidents, and scenes, in the 
hope that he shall enjoy his own again. But if I have 
failed in this venture, then Kalulu must stop at Zanzi- 
bar, where the reader may fancy him, if he likes, 
eating mangoes and oranges, until I fetch him out. 
" I have said it." 

THE AUTHOR. 
London, 

September 20, 1873. 



P.8. — On my return to England after a residence of some months in 
Spain, 1 was not less surprised than gratified to find that the Lord 
Maijor and Corporation of the City of London had forwarded to my 
publishers a very beautifully illuminated and handsomely framed copy 
of a Vote of Thanks which had been previously voted to me. My hurried 
and wandering life has prevented my personally a^cknowledging this act 
of generous consideration, although it has touched me deeply. Partly to 
gratify, I trust, an excusable vanity, and partly because I know that 
many of my American friends will be pleased to see it, the accompanying 
woodcut representation of it has been prepared. 



CONTENTS. 



CHAPTER 1. I'AGE 

The Beautiful Ainina, Sheikh Amer's Wife — Arabs in Consulta- 
tion — The Country of Eua — Beautiful Women of Rua — The 
Consul's Son— Selim and Isa are permitted to join the Expedi- 
tion — Ludha Damha offers to lend Money — Selim tells his 
Mother — 8elim*s Manliness aroused — Selim argues with his 
Mother — The Expedition sets sail for Bagamoyo . 7 . . . 1 



CHAPTER II. 

Bidding Farewell — Amina's Farewell to Selim — Selim in Tears — 
Simba's Feats of Strength — ^Moto's character described — ^Little 
Niani, the boy, called Monkey — ^Moto meets Elephants— Moto's 
daring Adventure — A Narrow Escape — The Story of Moto — 
Kisesa prepares to Attack — The King's Son, Kalulu — ^What 
Prince Ealulu said to Moto — Simba praises Moto .... 25 

CHAPTER III. 

The United Arab Host — The Council — The Lesser Council — 
What an Arab Boy thinks of being a Slave— What Selim thinks 
of Slavery — Sarcastic Isa — Little Niani is ill-treated — Selim 
and his Father — Beautiful Scenery — The Land flowing with 
Milk and Honey— Is it right or wrong to own Slaves? — The 
fearful Crocodile — Narrow Escape from Death-«-The Reward of 
Selim's Courage — Simba on the Alert — The Reward of Simba's 
Fidelity — The dead Marauder— The fierce Warori — The Arab 
Council— Is it War or Peace ? — I i is War 52 



XU CONTENTS. 



CHAPTER IV. 

PAGE 

Khamis's Address to the Arabs — Proposals for Attack on Kwikuru 
— Simba splits the Gate from Top to Bottom — The Warori 
Chief shot — Death of Kbamis bin Abdullah — Amer bin Osman 
pierced by an Arrow — Selim made Prisoner — Selim brutally 
lashed by Tifum — The three Arab-boys brought before Ferodia 
— Selim refuses to drink or dance — Abdullah refuses to be 
called a Slave — ^Flight of Sultan bin Ali — Division of the Spoils 
—The Magic Drink : MutUation of the Dead— The Chant of 
the Magic Doctors. 94 



CHAPTER V. 

Simba and Moto's Midnight Halt in the Forest — ^Moto's Plan for 
saying Selim— Simba and Moto made Prisoners at Katalam- 
bula's Village — They are brought before the King — ^Kalulu 
recognises Moto — The King gives each of them a Wife — Kalulu's 
Personal Appearance — The great African Giantess — The Mar- 
riage Song— Conclusion of the Marriage Festivities .... 124 



CHAPTER VI. 

Suflferings of Selim, Abdullah, and Mussoud — In the Slave Gang 
— Isa seized with Small-pox — Isa left behind to die — Selim's 
Prayer — Selim proposes to escape — Selim's Preparation — Selim's 
Escape — The Roar of the King of the Forest — Selim shoots a 
Lion — Selim shoots an Antelope — He suflfers from Hunger — He 
falls fainting to the ground — Selim's Despair — His Reflections 
— He gives himself up to die H4 



CHAPTER VII. 

Ferodia*s Triumphal Approach — His Reception by Katalambula — 
The King praises Ferodia— Abdullah is given to Kalulu— 
Abdullah meets with Simba and Moto— Kalulu*s plan of search 
for Selim— A Gun found— Selim found — The senseless form of 
Selim carried to the Village— Selim recovers — Kalulu frater- 
nises with Selim— Kalulu's Friendship for Selim 176 



CONTENTS. Xlll 



CHAPTER VIII. 

PACK 

Ceremony of Brotherhood — Ceremony of Blood-drinking — Selim 
brought into Ferodia's Presence— Simba to the Bescue — The 
Warning to Kalulu — Kalulu speaks for Selim — Where is Para- 
dise? — Selim and Abdullah are clothed — Down the Liemba — 
The Hippopotamus — Overboard — ^Figliting the Crocodile — ^How 
' Kalulu fought the Crocodile — Securing the Eiver-horse . . . 200 

CHAPTER IX. 

Selim — Happy Days — The Lover's Song — The Magic Doctor 
Soltali— Kalulu proposes to hunt Elephants — Preparations for a 
Dance — The Hunting Song — ^The Elephant Hunters set out — 
The Scenes on the March— The Hunters' Camp— Ten Elephants 1 
— ^Kalulu addresses the King Elephant — The King Elephant 
dies — Selim's conduct in the field — Kalulu is astonished at 
Selim*s prowess 228 

CHAPTER X. 

Kalulu's Grief— The Burial Song — ^Kalulu becomes King — ^Long 
live King Kalulu ! — Kalulu's Oration — Selim asks permission to 
depart — ^I'he Dissatisfied Minority — ^Ferodia's Ambition — Tifum 
the Wicked and his Advice — Ferodia* visits Kalulu — The 
treacherous Guests 259 

CHAPTER XI. 

King Kalulu is a Prisoner— Poor Kalulu ! — The Magic Doctor is 
burnt — Kalulu is told to prepare for Death — The night follow- 
ing Soltali*s Execution — The Mouse assists the Lions — The End 
of Tifum the Wicked — ^Is this Murder? — Niani calls it "Jus- 
tice '* — Safe ! and Free ! — Selim pleads to Kalulu — Selim wants 
Kalulu to go home with him — Simba the Giant pleads — The 
Head of Tifum the Wicked—They intend going to Ujiji . . 282 

CHAPTER XII. 

Morning in the African Forest — Buffalo — The successful Stalk- 
ing—Plenty of Beef— Little Niani's Story— The end of Niani's 
Story — Simba adopts Niani as his Son — The Torments of a 
Jungle— Jungle and Plain — The Journey and its Fatigues — The - 
Lion — Tho Lion despoiled of his Mane — A Cornfield — ^A chance 
of Escape 312 



XIV CONTENTS. 



CHAPTER XIII. 

PAGR 

Down the Biver — The Lake at Last — Selim describes the Lake's 
Beauties — ^Kalulu answers Selim — ^ELalulu does not believe in 
Belim's Sky-spirit— The Journey on the Lake — Selim shoots a 
Zebra — Selim*s furious Bide on a Zebra — Selim Safe! — The 
Tempest on the Lake — Slaves again 840 

CHAPTEB XIV. 

The Slave Hunters meditate another Attack — A True Picture of 
the Slave Trade— The Liundated Plain — ^A Terrible Catastrophe 
— ^The Joys of Liberty — Simba fights with a Leopard — ^Ealulu 
sympathizes with wounded Simba — Ealulu shows Abdullah the 
art of making a Fire — ^Niani punishes the Dead Leopard — How 
a Mtuta Chief fights — Ealulu victorious — Simba thinks Ealulu 
a Hero — Spearing the Lepidosiren — How a True Son of the 
Forest acts — ^What Ealulu found in the Arabs' Camp — Ealulu is 
kidnapped 1 — A Victim of an Atrocious Deed ...... 363 

CHAPTER XV. 

The alarm of Ealulu's &iends — ^The search for Ealulu — O Ealulu, 
Ealulu ! — Shall we never more see Ealulu ? — Only trees, trees, 
trees — Ealulu is Lost ! — The march to Unyanyembe — Why come 
ye in this guise, children ?— Among friends at last ! — Selim and 
Abdullah in Arab Costume — The " Lion Lord's " City — ^Homo 
again ! — Selim embraces his Mother — ^Ealulu discovered ! — 
The Slave Market : How much for Ealulu ? — Ealulu restored 
to his Friends — Ealulu introduced to Abdullah's Mpther — 
My Ealulu! 397 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS, 



Kalulu ...... 


Frontispiece 


City of London Testimonial 


. to face potge 


ix 


On the Strand near Zanzibar . 


• i> 


4 


Selim 


• » 


10 


SiivfBA AND Family . . . . 


• >> 


31 


TiCKLiNa AN Elephant 


• » 


38 


Besoue from a Crooodile . 


>» 


76 


The Magic Drink 


' • j» 


122 


• 
A Negro Marriage . 


• >» 


141 


SEIilM AND THE LlON . 

• 


• j> 


163 


Selim discovered 


» 


190 


Upset by a Hippopotamus . 


• • i> 


221 


"Young Kalulu is here!" 


• • j» 


251 


A Lion shot at Midnight . 


»i 


334 


Carried off by a Zebra . . . 
Fight with a Leopard 




354 
373 



MY KALULU 



r 



» 



CHAPTEE I. 

The Beautiful Amina, Sheikh Amer's Wife — ^Arabs in Consultation — 
The Country of Rua — Beautiful Women of Rua — ^The Consul's 
Son — Selim and Isa are permitted to join the Expedition — Ludha 
Damha offers to lend Money — Selim tells his Mother — Selim's 
Manliness aroused — Selim argues with his Mother — The Expe- 
dition sets sail for Bagamoyo. 

About four miles north of the city of Zanzibar, and 
about half a mile removed from a beautiful bay, lived, 
not many years ago, surrounded by his kinsmen and 
friends, a noble Arab of the tribe of Beni-Hassan, — 
Sheikh Amer bin Osman.* 

Sheikh Amer was a noble by descent and untarnished 
blood from a long line of illustrious Arab ancestry ; he 
was noble in disposition, noble in his large liberal 
charity, and noble in his treatment of his numerous 
black dependents. 

Amer's wife — his favourite wife — was the sweet 
gazelle-eyed daughter of Othman bin Ghees, of the 

* Amer bin Osman means, Amer, son of Osman. 



2 MY KALULU. 

tribe of the Beni-Abbas. She was her husband's 
counterpart in disposition and temper, and was quali- 
fied to reign queen of his heart and harem for numerous 
other virtues. 

Though few Arabs spoke of her in presence of her 
husband, or asked about her health or well-being — as it 
is contrary to the custom of the Arabs — still the friends 
of Amer knew well what transpired under his roof. 
The faithful slaves of Amer never omitted an opportu- 
nity to declare the goodness and many virtues of 
Amina, Amer's wife. 

A young European, chancing to ride on one of Prince 
Majid's horses by the estate of Amer, one afternoon, 
casually obtained a glance at the sweet face of Amina, 
which made such an impression on his mind that he 
continually dwelt upon it as on a happy dream. 
Some of this young European's phrases deserve to 
be repeated in justice to the Arab lady whom he so 
admired. "She was the most beautiful woman my 
eyes ever rested upon. I felt a shock of admiration 
as I caught that one short view of her face. I 
felt a keen regret that I could see no more of the 
exquisite features of her extraordinary face. If I 
were a painter,' I know I should be for ever en- 
deavouring to preserve a trace of the divine beauty of 
that Arab woman ; my brush would ever hover about 
the eyes in a vain hope that I could transmit to canvas 
the marvellously limpid, yet glowing look of her eyes, 
or near the finely chiselled lips, tinting them with 
the rubiest of colours, or ever trying to imitate the 
pure complexion, yet always despairing to approach 



THE BEAtTTIPUL AMTNA, SHEIKH AMER*S TVIFE. 3 

the perfection, one glance indelibly fixed on my 
memory." 

Around Amer's large roomy mansion grew a grove of 
orange and mangoe trees. The fields of his estate 
numbered many acres, well tilled and planted with 
cinnamon, cloves, oranges, mangoes, pomegranates, 
guavas, and numerous other fruit-trees ; they produced 
also every variety of vegetable and grain known on the 
Island of Zanzibar. By dint of labour, and personal 
exertion, and superintendence of the proprietor the 
estate was considered to be one of the most flourishing 
on the island. A sacrifice of a large amount of ready 
money had so improved and embellished the mansion, 
that the oldest inhabitant who remembered Osman, 
Amer's father, hardly recognised it as the house of 
Osman. A large marble courtyard, in the centre of 
which stood a handsome fountain of the same costly 
stone, was one of the many additions made to the house 
by Amer after the demise of his father. Marble 
troughs outside the mansion had also been erected for 
the use of the Moslemised slaves, that they might 
wash their feet and hands before Attending the prayers 
in the mesdjid* of the mansion, which were rigidly 
observed with all the ceremonies usual in Moslem 
temples. 

Amer, the son of Osman, had but one son, called 
Selim, by his favourite wife Amina. Not less dear to 
him was this boy than was his wife. In the boy's 
handsome features, large glowing black eyes, and clear 

* Chapel or chuich. 



4 HY KALULU. 

complexion he saw what he had received from his lovely 
mother, and in the boy's graceful vigorous form he 
recognised himself^ when at his age he looked up to 
his father Osman as the paragon of all men upon 
earth. 

Selim's age, when this story begins, was a few months 
over fifteen ; and it is at the usual evening symposium, 
which takes place near the even sloping beach of the 
little bay in front of Amer's mansion, that we are first 
introduced to one of the heroes of our story. 

It is near sunset, and a group composed of Amer bin 
Osman, Khamis bin Abdullah — a wealthy African trader 
just returned from the interior of Africa, with an' im- 
mense number of ivory tusks and slaves — Sheikh Mo- 
hammed, a native of Zanzibar, a neighbour and kinsman 
of Amer ; Sheikh Thani, son of Mussoud, an experienced 
old trader in Africa ; Sheikh Mussoud, son of Abdullah, 
a portly, fine-looking Arab of Muscat ; Sheikhs Hamdan 
and Amran, also natives of Zanzibar, though pure- 
blooded Arabs — were seated on fine Persian carpets 
placed on the beach, near enough to the pretty little 
wavelets which were rolled by the evening zephyrs up 
the snowy sand to hear distinctly their music, but still 
far enough from them to avoid any dampness. 

Close to this group of elderly and noble-looking 
Arabs was another consisting of young people who 
were the sons or near relatives of each of the Arabs 
above-mentioned. There were Suleiman and Soud, 
nephews of Amer bin Osman, gaudily- dressed youths ; 
there was Isa, a tall dark-coloured boy, son of Sheikh 
Thani ; there were Abdullah and Mussoud, two boys of 



ARABS IN CONSULTATION. 5 

fourteen and twelve years respectively, sons of Sheikh 
Mohammed, whose complexions were as purely white 
as black-eyed descendants of Ishmael can well be ; and 
lastly, there was the beloved son of Amer, son of 
Osman — Selim, whose appearance at once challenged 
attention from his frank, ingenuous, honest face, his 
clear complexion, his beautiful eyes, and the promise 
which his well-formed graceful figure gave of a perfect 
manhood in the future. 

Selim was dressed in a short jacket of fine crimson 
-cloth braided with gold, a snowy white muslin dis- 
dasheh, or shirt, reaching below the knees, bound 
around the waist by a rich Muscat sohari or check. 
On his head he wore a gold-tasseled red fez, folded 
around by a costly turban, which enhanced the appear- 
ance of the handsome face beneath it. 

While all eyes are directed west at the dark-blue 
loom of the African continent away many miles beyond 
the greyish- green waters of the sea of Zanzibar, Amer, 
son of Osman, remarks to his friends in a musing tone : 

" I have sat here, close to my own mangoes, almost 
every evening for the last twenty years looking towards 
that dark line of land, and always wishing to go nearer 
to it, to see for myself the land where all the ivory and 
slaves that the Arab traders bring to Zanzibar come 
from." 

Directing his eyes towards Khamis bin Abdullah, 
Amer continued : 

" And never has the desire to leave my house and 
travel to Africa been so strong as this evening, when 
thou, Sheikh informest me that thou hast brought with 



6 ^ MY KALULU. 

thee 500 slaves and 800 frasilah* of ivory from Ufipas 
and Marnngu. It is wonderful! Wallahi! Five 
hundred slaves if they are tolerably healthy are worth 
at least 10,000 dollars, and 800 frasilah of ivory are 
worth, at 50 dollars the frasilah, 40,000 dollars, nearly 
half a lakh of rupees altogether, and all this thou hast 
collected in five years' travels. Wallahi ! it is wonderful ! 
By the Prophet ! — blessed be his name — I must see the 
land for myself. I shall see it, please God !" and as 
he finished speaking he began to wipe his brow vio- 
lently, a sign with him that he was excited and deter- 
mined. 

" What I have spoken is God's truth," said Khamis 
bin Abdullah, "and Allah knows it. But there are 
many more wonderful countries than Marungu and 
Ufipa. Eua, several days further toward the setting 
of the sun, is a great country, and few Arabs have been 
there yet. Sayd, the son of Habib, has been to Eua, 
and much further ; he has been across to the sea of the 
setting sun, and has married a wife from among the 
white people who live at San Paul de Loanda. Sayd is 
so great a traveller, I should fear to say what land he 
has not seen. Mashallah ! Sayd, I believe, has seen all 
lands and all peoples. He says that ivory is used in 
Eua by the Pagans as we use wooden stanchions or 
posts to support the eaves of our houses, that ivory 
holds their huts up, and he believes great stores of it 
are known to the savages, where some of their great 
hunters have killed a large number of elephants, and 
have left the ivory to rot, not knowing how valuable it 

* A frasilah is equiyalent to 35 lbs. in weight. 



THE COTTNTBY OP RUA. 7 

IS, or where a great herd of elephants have perished 
from thirst or disease. However the knowledge came 
to these people, or whatever the canse which left such 
a store of ivory in that country, Sayd, the son of Habib, 
is certain that there is an unlimited quantity of this 
precious stuff in Eua, and that we can make ourselves 
richer than Prince Majid, our Sultan, if we go in time, 
before the report is common among the Arabs. What 
money I have made this time on my last trip is so 
small, compared to what I might have realised, that I 
mean to try my fortune again in Africa shortly, Insh- 
allah! — ^please God! I intend going to Eua, and if 
thou, Amer bin Osman, hast a mind to accompany me, 
I promise thee that thou wilt not repent it." 

" Amer bin Osman," replied Amer, " goes not back 
on his word. By my beard, I have said I shall go, and, 
if it be God's will, I shall be ready for thee when thou 
goest. But tell us, son of Abdullah, what of the Pagans 
of Eua, and those lands near the Great Lakes ? Do 
they make good slaves, and do they sell well in our 
market ? Yet I need hardly ask thee, for I have two 
men whom I purchased when young, about twenty 
years ago, who I believe are more faithful than any 
slave born in my house." 

" Good slaves !" echoed Khamis. " Thou hast said it. 
Finer people are not to be foilnd, from Masr to Kilwa, 
than those of Eua and the lands adjoining. And clever 
slaves, too ! Those Pagans make the best spears, find 
swords, and daggers found in Africa. Indeed, some of 
their work would shame that of our best Zanzibar 
artificers* Near a place called Kitanga — where that 



8 MY KALULU. 

is I don't know, but Sayd, the son of Habib, can tell — 
there is a hill almost entirely of pure copper, and from 
this hill the people get vast quantities of copper, which 
they work into beautiful bracelets, armlets, anklets, and 
such things. Nothing to be seen in Muscat even can 
equal the work the son of Habib has witnessed." 

" Mashallah !" cried Amer, delighted ; " thou makest 
me more and more anxious to go to the strange land. 
A hill of copper! — pure copper! The Pagans must 
really be a fine people, and rich, too. If it were only 
possible to catch two or three hundred slaves of the 
kind thou speakest of, I might be able to laugh in the 
face of that dog of a Banyan Eamji, and old Ludha 
Damha himself could not hold his head higher than I 
could then. I owe the dogs a turn, for the heavy usury 
they exacted of me when I needed much ready money 
to make my courtyard and fountains. But the women, 
noble Khamis, thou hast said nothing of them. Tell 
us what kind of women are seen in those rich lands." 

" Ah, yes, do tell us of the women," chimed in two 
or three others, who had not yet spoken. 

" I have seen but one of the women of Eua," an- 
swered Khamis, " and she was the wife of the son of 
Sayd, the son of Habib, a tall, lithesome girl of sixteen 
years or so. Her lower limbs were as clean and well- 
made as those of an antelope. She walked like the 
daughter of a chief. Her eyes were like two deep 
wells of shining moving water. Her face was like the 
moon, in colour and form. Oh ! the colour was almost 
as clear and light as thy son Selim's, Amer. She was 
beautiful as a Peri-banou — God be praised 1" 



BEAUTIFUL WOMEN OP KUA. 9 

" Thy tongue runs away with thee, Khamis," cried 
Amer, in a slightly offended tone, " or hast thou im- 
bibed too much of the strong drink of the Nazarenes, 
for the celebration of thy late success ? Light-com- 
plexioned women, of the colour of my son Selim's face ! 
Where art thou, Selim, son of Amer, pride of the Beni- 
Hassan? Thou chiefs son by birth and blood, and 
apple of thy father's eye ! Come hither." 

" Behold me, my father, I am here," said Selim, who 
had bounded lightly to his feet, and now stood before 
his father, after kissing his right hand for the affec- 
tionate terms lavished on him. 

" Speak, son of Abdullah ; behold, my boy, and regard 
his colour, which is like unto that of rich cream. Is he 
not as white as any Nazarene ? and wilt thou repeat 
what thou hast said about the Pagan wifq of Sayd's 
son ?" 

" Khamis, the son of Abdullah, debauches not himself 
with the strong drink of the foolish Nazarenes. I lie 
not. I said I have seen a daughter of the Warua whom 
Sayd's son Jias taken for wife, and she is almost as light 
in colour as thy son, Selim, and far lighter than the 
face of the boy, Isa, son of Sheikh Thani." 

" Wonderfiil ! Wallahi !" echoed the group. " It is 
most wonderful. We shall all go to obtain wives from 
the Warua." 

" Then, kinsmen and friends," cried Amer, " Khamis 
speaks the truth, and speaks of wonderful things. Is 
it agreed that we go to Kua with the son of Abdullah, 
to get ivory, slaves, and copper, and light-coloured 
wives ?" 



10 MT KALULU. 

" It is," they all replied, so deeply impressed were 
they with what Ehamis had said. 

" I am glad to hear it, my friends," said Khamis ; " but 
ye must now agree, before we break up, as the sun is 
fast setting, upon the day of departure. I cannot wait 
long, because I am nearly ready, but I am willing to 
wait a few days, if ye will all promise to be ready by 
the new moon, twenty-four days from this evening. 
Ye must also promise to take as many of your slaves as 
ye can, that we may make a strong party. Tell me, 
Sheikh Amer, how many of thy people armed canst 
thou take with thee ?" 

"Who? — ^I? I can take two hundred well-armed 
servants, besides my two faithful fundis, Simba and 
Moto, as they are called by the slaves, who are worth 
an army by themselves, and " 

" Let me go, my father," cried Selim, seating himself 
on the carpet close to his father's knees, and looking up 
to his face with eager, entreating eyes, " I can shoot. 
Thou knowest the new gun which thou didst send for 
to London, in the land of the English, and which the 
good balyuz* taught me how to use. The balyuz told 
me the other day that I would be able to shoot better 
than he could, by-and-by. I can shoot a bird on the 
wing already with it. Grive thy consent, and let me 
accompany thee, father. I will be both good and brave, 
I promise thee." 

" Hear the boy !" said Amer, admiringly. " A true 
Bedaween could not have spoken otherwise. But jvhy 
dost thou wish to leave thy mother, child, so soon ?" 

? Balyuz is an Arabic word for consul, or rather ambassador. 



THE consul's son. 11 

" My mother will regret me, I kuow, but I am now 
strong and big, and it is not good for me to remain in 
the harem all my life. I must quit my mother some 
time, for work which all men must do." 

" And who gave thee such ideas, son Selim ? Who told 
thee thou wert too big to remain with thy mother ?" 

" The other day I went out with Sulieman, son of 
Prince Majid, and the young son of the American 
balyuz — I can't pronounce his name — to shoot wild 
birds. The young American boy, who is smaller than 
I am, and already thinks himself a man, though he is 
no bigger than my hand, laughed at me ; and when I 
asked him why he laughed, he said to me, 'Truly, 
Selim, thou appearest to me to be like a little girl 
whose mother bathes her in new milk every day to 
preserve her complexion. I cannot understand the 
spirit of an Arab boy which contents itself with look- 
ing no further out-doors than within sight of a mother's 
eyes.' These are the words he spoke to me within 
hearing of Sulieman, Majid's son, who also laughed at 
me, while I felt my cheeks were red with shame, they 
tingled so." 

" Tush, boy ! What is it to thee what the thoughts 
of a forward Nazarene lad are ? Thou art not of his 
race or kin. But I must own to ye, my friends," said 
Amer, turning to the elders, " that the youths of the 
Nazarenes* are bolder than ours, though they do not 
possess higher courage or loftier spirit than oiir own 
children. Who would have thought that such large 
independence could hide within the little body of the 

? Nazarene is the Arabic term for Christian. 



12 MY KALULU. 

American balyuz's son? That small child cannot be 
twelve years old, yet he talks with the wisdom of a 
man. All the Nazarenes are wonderful people — won- 
derful ! Who are stronger, richer than the Nazarenes 
of England ?" 

" Ah, but, father," said Selim ; " do you not think 
the Nazarenes are accursed of God, and of the prophet 
Mohammed — ^blessed be his name ? The American boy 
told me the Arabs are wicked, and are accursed of God. 
Said he to me that same day in hearing of the Sultan's 
son, as if he was not a bit afraid of the consequences, 
' The Lord God makes his anger known against the 
Arabs by refusing knowledge and the gifts of under- 
standing unto them, because they are wicked, because 
they go forth into Africa with armed servants a-plenty 
to destroy and kill the poor black people, and to take 
slaves of parents and children, whom they bring to 
Zanzibar to sell for their own profit.' Is he not an 
unbeliever, father ?" 

" Peace, Selim ; let not thy tongue utter such words 
against the true believers, though they may have been 
said by a young dog like that. ' Cast them away from 
thee entirely, and let not thy father hear thee utter 
aught against thine own race and kindred. To the 
unbelievers God has said, * Woe unto them ; they shall 
be the prey of the flames.' " 

" But, father, thou art not offended with me ? Thou 
hast not yet given thy consent to my going with thee 
and my kinsman." 

" Dost thou know, my child, that the Pagans are 
fierce, that they have great spears aud knives, and will 



SELm AND ISA PERMITTED TO JOIN THE EXPEDITION. 13 

cut that slim neck of thine, and perhaps eat *thee 
without compunction ?" asked Amer, smiling. 

" I fear them not," answered Selim, tossing his head 
back proudly. " When did a son of the great tribe of 
Beni-Hassan show fear ? and shall I, the son of a chief 
of that tribe — the son of Amer bin Osman — look upon 
the faces of the Pagans with fear in my heart ?" 

" Then thou shalt go with me, were it only for those 
last words. But fear not, Allah will care for thee," 
said Amer, solemnly laying his broad hand on his son's 
head. 

" Let us end this before the sun sets," said Khamis 
impatiently, watching the descent of the sun. " How 
many men canst thou take with thee. Sheikh Thani ?" 

"Thani has a son — Isa," answered that worthy 
trader. Thani is poor compared to Amer, but he can 
call round him fifty well-armed slaves, who will stand 
by him to the death." 

"That is answered well, and Isa is a likely lad, 
though his skin is dark ; but he has the soul of an 
Arab father in him. I see we shall have a glorious 
company ; and thou, Mussoud ?" said Khamis, to that 
florid-faced' chief, who was proud of his intensely black 
and handsome beard, " How many canst thou muster ?" 

"About the same as my friend Thani," replied 
Mussoud, caressing his beard. "All my people are 
Wahiyow, docile, and good; and, if cornered, brave. 
They will follow me anywhere." . 

" Good again !" ejaculated Khamis, evidently pleased. 
" And thou. Sheikh Mohammed ?" he asked of the chief 
so named, who had a terrible reputation in the interior 



14 IfY KALULU. 

among the Wafipa and Wa-marnngn, and of whom 
many tribes stood in awe,-« how many of thy people 
wilt thou take to Africa this time ?" 

"Well," said Mohammed, in a deep voice, which 
resembled the bellow of a wild buffalo, " for such a 
grand project as this I think I can take one hundred 
men from my estate ; my head men can take charge of 
the rest with Eashid, my brother, very well. I shall 
also take these young lions — ^AbduUah and Mussoud — 
with me, to teach them how to catch slaves and claw 
them, as I have done often." 

" Thanks, father," replied the grateful youths, who 
as soon as they had said these words looked up 
slyly to Selim, who smiled appreciatingly at his boy- 
friends. 

" Sultan, son of Ali," said Khamis, " thou art a 
strong and wise man. Wilt thou be one of us ?" 

Sultan, son of Ali, was a man of about fifty, or 
perhaps fifty-five, of strongly-marked features, who 
had keen black eyes. Strong and wise, as Khamis 
bin Abdullah had said he was, indeed no one looking at 
him would doubt that he was one of the best specimens 
of a hardy Bedaween chief that ever came to Zanzibar. 
Besides, Sultan had been an oJKcer of high rank in the 
army of Prince Thouweynee of Muscat, who had often 
eulogised Sultan for his daring, obstinacy, forethought, 
and skill in handling his wild cavalry. He was still, 
as might be seen, in the prime of mature manhopd, 
which age had not deteriorated in the least. 

Sultan answered Khamis readily. " Where my dear 
friend Amer bin Osman goes, I go. Shall I remain at 



LUDHA DAMHi OFFERS TO LEND MONEY. 15 

» 

Zanzibar eating mangoes when Amer, my kinsman, is in 
danger ? No ! Son of Abdullah, thou mayest count 
me of thy party for good or for evil, and I can raise 
eighty slaves to shoulder guns for this journey." 

" Good, good," the Arabs said, unanimously. 
" Where the stout son of Ali goes, the road is straight 
and danger is not known." 

" Well," said Khamis bin Abdullah, " we have now 
four hundred and eighty men promised ; I will take 
with me a hundred and fifty men with guns, and I 
dare say Sheikhs Hamdan and Amram and a few other 
friends will bring the force up to seven hundred. Isa, 
son of Salim, Mohammed son of Kashid, Eashid bin 
Sulieman, tall young men, and kinsmen to me, have 
already agreed to follow my fortunes. A large number 
of Arabs is always better than a few. I have one thing 
more to say before we rise to prayers — the sun is just 
sinking, I see — Ludha Damha, the collector of customs, 
has told me that if a strong party went with me he 
would let us have any amount of ready money at 50 
per cent, annual interest, which is half the usual price 
he asks — the old dog! — and if any of you desire money, 
go to him for your outfit, for I will speak to him 
to-morrow morning and give hitn your names." 

" That is well-spoken, by my beard," said Mohammed. 
" I was thinking that we could not raise money under 
100 per cent, interest from the Banyan usurer." 

"Very well, indeed," added Amer bin Osman. 
Ludha Damha must be sure of a speedy return to let 
his money go so cheap. My mind is now perfectly 
made up ; and, friends, the sun has set and we must 



16 MY KALtJLU. 

to prayers." Saying which Amer rose — a signal which 
the Arabs readily understood. 

After the usual salaams, courtesies, and benedictions 
had been uttered, the Arabs departed each to his own 
home, at a slow and dignified pace, while Amer and 
his son Selim retired into the mesdjid of their own 
mansion. 

When Amer and Selim had ended their evening 
prayers, and had left the mesdjid or church belonging 
to the mansion, Selim asked, pulling at his father's 
robe : 

" Father, I see my mother at the lattice ; may I go 
and tell her that I am to go with you to Africa?" 

" Ah, poor Amina ! I forgot all about her," said 
Amer, stopping and speaking in a regretful tone. 
"Selim, my son, this is sad. Amina will never permit 
thy departure. It would break her heart." 

" But I must go sometime from home, father. , Why 
not now ? With whom can I be safer than with thee ? 
I am not going with strangers, nor am I leaving my 
kindred. I am going with thy kindred, thy household, 
and thyself. What can my mother object to ?" 

" Thou art right, Selim — thou art right ! She can- 
not object. Our slaves, our kindred are going — but — 
but — poor Amina, she will be left alone. Go, Selim, 
tell her kindly. It will pain her." And Amer turned 
shortly away, as if he had sudden and important 
business in another direction. 

Selim, on the other hand, bounded lightly away, 
arrived at the great carved door of the mansion, ran up 
the broad stairs, and made his way to the harem, or 



BELIM TELLS HIS MOTHER. 17 

the women's apartments, where Amina reigned queen 
and mistress. 

Few boys of Selim's age could have approached their 
mother with the earnestly-respectful manner with which 
Selim approached Amina. I doubt even if the Queen 
of England's children ever observed such courteous 
respect towards their august parent as Selim observed 
now, and as most well-bred Arab boys do observe 
always toward their parents. 

Selim left his slippers outside, and lifting the latch 
quietly, walked in with bare feet, and, approaching his 
mother, kissed her right hand, and then her forehead, 
and at her invitation seated himself by her side, and 
suddenly remembering the all-important secret he had 
to communicate, looked up to his mother, with his 
handsome features all aglow. 

" Mother, canst thou tell me what I have come to 
say to thee ?" 

Amina looked for an instant fondly on her son, and 
then answered with a smile— 

" No, my son. Hast thou anything very important 
to tell me ?" 

" Very important, mother," and he pursed his lips as 
if he would retain it for a long time before imparting 
it, and as if it were worth some trouble of guessing. 

" I wish thou wouldst not task my skill of divination 
too much. Thy face tells me thou art happy with it, 
but it does not assure me that I shall be equally happy. 
I divine only on the Kuran, and though thy face is 
innocent and without guile, yet it is more difficult to 
read than the Kuran. Tell it me, Selim, I pray thee,'* 





18 MY KALULU. 

" Then, my mother, I am going with my father to 
Africa !" 

"To Africa, child! To Africa! Where is that? 
Thon dost not mean the mainland, surely ?" 

" Yes, I mean far away into the interior of the 
mainland," replied Selim, still looking at his mother 
smilingly. 

" To the interior of Africa !" cried the poor woman 
in dismay, her face assuming the hue of sickness. 
" Why, what can thy father want in Africa ? — he was 
never there before. What can he want there now ?" 

" He is going to Africa with Khamis bin Abdullah, 
Sheikhs Mohammed, Thani, Mussoud, Sultan, Amran, 
Hamdan, and many others, to a far country called Bua, 
to buy ivory and slaves, and come back rich." 

" Going to Africa ! To get rich ! Oh, Allah !" cried 
out Amina, in accents of unfeigned surprise, mixed 
with emotion. " And thou art going with him — thou, 
a child ? Art thou going to get rich too ?" 

" I am to accompany my father and kinsmen, not to 
get rich, but to see the world, and learn how to be a 
man, to shoot lions, and leopards, zebras, and elephants, 
with my new English gun." 

"Cease thy prating, child; thy tongue runs at a 
fearful rate. Thou shoot lions and lepoards ! Thou ! 
Why thou art but a baby, but lately weaned ! Thou 
and thy father must be dreaming !" said Amina sharply, 
and with an attempt at a sneer. 

It was a brave attempt on the part of a nearly heart- 
broken woman, who would fain suppress the cry of 
anguish that struggled to her lips, but as she said the 



selim's manliness aroused. 19 

last words, one glance at Selim's face showed to her that 
such tactics, would never answer. The eaglet had 
been taught that wings were made to fly with. The 
boy had been rudely laughed at, and his latent manli- 
ness aroused, by the son of the American consul, who 
had sneered at him. Selim had found that a head was 
on his shoulders which teemed with daring thoughts ; 
that he had arms to his shoulders, and legs to his body, 
made on purpose, as it were, to execute such thoughts 
as the head conceived. With the culmination of such 
knowledge fled unregretfuUy the pleasant days of the 
harem, the memories of his romps with the girls, days 
upon days of effeminate life. 

Achilles was found out by the sight which he ob- 
tained of some war weapons. Selim had found out that 
he was a boy by a sneer. Charming as was his mother's 
coMpan,. lipp J aa ke had been wii M. feminme pU,- 
mates, proud as he had been of his golden tassels and 
embroidery, fond as -he had been of being loved and 
embraced as an entertaining young friend by little 
girls of his own age — all these experiences became 
inane and stupid compared to the overpowering con- 
sciousness he felt that he was a boy, and might in 
time become a strong man. A man ! perish all other 
thoughts and memories, feelings, and reminiscences 
save those which tend to lead him to the goal of man- 
hood, which he has set himself to reach by a journey to 
Africa, to the land of cannibals and lions, leopards 
and elephants, to the land of adventure, undying fable, 
and song. 

" Mother," said Selim, removing his turban and fez, 



20 MY KALTJLU. 

as if his head-dress compressed the grand thonght 
which filled his brain, " my childhood is passed. I have 
been thoroughly weaned from all things belonging to 
a child. I am now a strong boy, and in five years I 
shall be a man. Allah made the world, and made it to 
grow. It has been growing ever since it was made. 
Allah made infants; infants grow if they live; they 
become boys — boys become men. When I was an infant 
I had no understanding nor strength. Thou, my mother, 
didst point out to me my nourishment. I flourished 
on it, and in time was weaned. In a little time my 
strength availed me to put my owiT food into my own 
lips. I flourished on that food, and I became stronger 
still. Later I understood language, and answered thee 
with childish love and affection. I romped in the 
harem, and was happy. Then I was permitted to go 
out of doors unattended by my female attendant. I 
bathed in the sea. I learned to swim, and acquired 
games which boys learn one from another. I learned 
to ride on horses ; I learned to shoot, and day by day I 
was getting stronger in body and limb, and with my 
strength has begun to grow my thoughts. These 
thoughts are thoughts of manhood, of duty ; and the 
business of life, which I am beginning to learn, is 
serious. Mother, dear mother, my health required, 
when I was strong enough to enjoy out-of-door life, 
that I should run about and leap. Mother, my 
happiness demands that my thoughts should be hu- 
moured as my strength was. I find I am made of 
two parts — body and mind. Neither may be longer 
neglected — ^both must be humoured, or I die. If my 



8ELIM ARGUES WITH HIS MOTHER. 21 

body is not exercised out in the open air— if I be im- 
prisoned in a harem, I shall become dwarfed. I shall 
not grow. If my mind is not exercised by seeing, and 
talking with many people — if I see no more than my 
mother and my mother's slaves — my mind cannot grow. 
I shall know nothing, and I shall become a fool. I, 
the son of Amer, the son of Osman, will be sneered at. 
It may not be, dear mother. I must go away, and learn 
the lesson of a man's life." 

" But, my dear son," said Amina, entreatingly, for 
she had been astonished and amazed at the amount of 
logic which the boy, to her surprise, had put forth in 
his statement. " Consider, thou art yet young, and 
that thou mayst wait awhile yet before journeying 
to that horrid land of negro savages. What canst 
thou find there to learn ? Seeing lions and leopards, 
and elephants and ugly crocodiles, will not ripen thy 
mind. Surely thou art cruel to think of leaving me 
alone here — both my lord Amer and my son at one 
time !" 

" Nay, my mother, what I shall see in Africa will be 
new and strange. The sight of new and strange things 
is like the lessons which the good Imam used to give 
me at school from the Kuran. Every day I shall see 
something new, and every day I shall grow in wisdom 
and experience ; and my mind will be enriched by each 
new thing, and in time will become a store of wisdom, 
to be applied to my advantage in affairs of life. Thou 
art surprised that I talk so, mother. I have been 
talking with wise white men. The consuls, who know 
everything, have been dropping strange ideas to me 



22 MY KALULtJ. 

every day, not because I asked them, or that they 
dropped them for my benefit. Being permitted to play 
with their children, I have been in their presence while 
they were conducting their business, and the amount 
of wisdom the white men know is wonderful. Great 
thoughts — too great for me to understand — dropped 
from their mouths — from one to another — just as those 
pearls which thou dost play with are passed from thy 
right hand to thy left." 

" It is well, my son. I have heard thee through. 
Thou art already older by many years than I took thee 
to be yesterday. Thou mayst tell my lord Amer how 
Amina received thy news. I will have something more 
to tell thee, before thou goest to Africa," and Amina 
arose to leave the apartment for another, humbly, and 
with her head bowed down. 

" My mother," cried Selim, springing up, and seizing 
her hand, which he conveyed respectfully to his lips, 
" be not offended. It is not my doing, but Allah's, and 
Allah's will be done !" 

" Ay, truly ! Allah's will be done !" said the poor 
mother, embracing him, but with more restraint than 
usual. 

We are now compelled to leave each of the Arabs 
engaged to accompany Khamis bin Abdullah to Eua in 
search of ivory and slaves to make his preparations as 
he best knows how. It is not our duty to peer too 
closely into the small details of this business of prepara- 
tion. It absorbs all one's time, and we feel sure if 
we troubled them to give us too minute an account of 
the manner in which they get along, some impatient 



THE EXPEDITION SETS SAIL FOU BAGAMOYO. 23 

expressions might escape to our regret. Therefore we 
think it better to leave each Arab alone, to the cunning 
of his own devices, to his calculations, and purchases, 
to his ever-recjirring vexations, to the fatigue and 
anxiety which belong to the task of fitting out ; 
merely observing, as we pass by, that each Arab pur- 
chases such beads, of such colours, as he thinks proper, 
such cloth as he deems suitable for his market, so much 
powder and lead as will sufficiently provide his men 
for the defence of his goods, should such be ever neces- 
sary, so many guns as he has men, such luxuries in the 
shape of crackers and potted sweets, sugar, tea, and 
cofifee, as the chief of the caravan deems it necessary to 
take. ^* Nothing in excess, but enough of every neces- 
sary thing," is the golden rule adopted by all people 
about penetrating Central Africa. 

The Arab chiefs and their followers, though they 
generally take a long time to prepare a caravan, were 
in this instance, however, much to our pleasure, punctual 
to the day named, and at the beginning of the new 
moon of the sixth month of the year of the glorious 
Hegira 128-, or the year of our Lord and Saviour Jesus 
Christ 186-, the ships containing the expedition and 
the vast amount of stores requisite for the consumption 
of a large and imposing caravan for about three years, 
set sail in the morning from the open harbour of 
Zanzibar, for the port of Bagamoyo, on the mainland, 
distant twenty-five miles. 

Let us wave our snowy handkerchiefs to the travellers, 
for we have one or two young friends who accompany 
them. Let us wish them a cheery hon voyage, and a 



24 MY KALULU. 

happy issne out of their enterprise, if it so happen that 
the Lord of Moslems and Christians looks down upon 
its purpose with fayourable eye. Let us at least bear 
them good will until they have forfeited our good 
opinion by acts contrary to Christian charity and the 
good will to all men which that most loying God-Man, 
Jesus, preached unto us. 



BIDDING FABEWELL. 25 



CHAPTER n. 

Bidding Farewell — Andna's Farewell to Selim — Selim in Tears — 
Simba's Feats of Strength — Moto's Character described — Little 
Niani, the boy, called Monkey — ^Moto meets Elephants — ^Moto's 
daring Adventure — A narrow Escape — The Story of Moto — Kisesa 
prepares to attack — The King's son, Ealulu — ^What Prince Kalulu 
said to Moto — Simba praises Moto. 

On the fifteenth day of the sixth month, the members 
of the last caravan, nnder the command of Am'er bin 
Osman, were taking farewell of their friends, who had 
arrived at Bagamoyo from Zanzibar that morning for 
last words. 

It was a most affecting scene, as all such must be 
when young men are about to sever themselves from 
their connections for the first time, and fathers and 
husbands are commending to the care of the good God 
those whom they are about to leave behind, perhaps for 
ever. 

Who knows how many of these stalwart and stout- 
hearted people will return to those from whom they are 
now almost tearfully withdrawing? Will the brave 
and noble Amer son of Osman, who is now bending over 
his beautiful wife, in earnest conversation, ever come 
back? He appears so strong and robust in health; 
two hundred well-appointed servants of his household 



26 MY KALULU. 

are round about him ; his Arab companions, with their 
powerful retinue, who have gone before him to Sim- 
bam wenni, we may be sure, will be faithful to him. Yet 
who can insure his return? And thus doubt, fear, 
and anxiety alternate in his wife Amina's eyes, as 
she raises them appealingly, regretfully, towards his 
own. 

" Yes, Amiiia, please God, I shall come back within 
two years, with so much ivory, and so many slaves, as 
will make me the richest man in Zanzibar. Ihshallah ! 
Inshallah !" said Amer, in a sanguine tone. 

" Amina, say thy farewell to Selim, the pride of the 
Beni-Hassan. He will some day return to Oman, 
a rich and powerful chief. Dost thou not think he 
looks a warrior in his marching dress ? But hasten, 
or we shall have nothing but women's tears, which 
perhaps will drown us before we begin our journey." 

As Amer turned away after a still but fervent 
embrace, Amina turned to Selim, with a look' which 
revealed the love her maternal heart bore him, and so 
steadfastly did she regard him, that it seemed she was 
fixing a Ufe-long picture of his features in her memory 
which time would in vain attempt to efface. 

" Thou, Selim," she said, drawing him nearer to her, 
" thou joy of my heart, and jewel of my eyes ! Thou 
art really about to depart ! Thou to leave thy mother's 
heart desolate ! What joy is left for me — ^my son and 
lord both going ? Wilt thou not let thy mother's voice 
plead, and prevail with thee, Selim ? Look, Selim, on 
that dancing sea ! Beyond the narrow strait lies the 
Zanjian isle! Over its fair shores the geiitle winds 
waft the perfumes of citron and orange! The sweet 



AMINA^S FAREWELL TO SELIM. 27 

scents of the jasmine flowers, the cinnamon and clove 
vie with the fragrance of the orange ! Eare odours and 
sweet strains of bnlbul lull the senses into perfect 
felicity ! The sweet air is pregnant with fragrance ! 
Where canst thou meet with a land so fair, my Selim ? 
Wilt thou leave thy mother, these delights, these joySj 
for the cruel heat, and thirst, and jungle-thorn of 
negro-land? Oh, Selim! Oh, Selim! Wilt thou leave 
thy mother, the orange-groves, the palms, the cool 
fountains, for scorching days and arid plains? The 
road is long — oh, so long — for weeks, months, and years 
it lies to the west! Stay one moment longer, my 
Selim, and let thy mother read thee what the Kuran's 
sacred page, which I've divined, reveals. Eemember, 
it is the sure decree of Fate, to which God has affixed 
his own heavy seal. Hear these words, and stay with 
me: — 

A day wiU come, a day of saddest woe, 
A day when Arabs meet the savage foe, 
And Arabs vainly cry for strength and might, 
And vainly strive to save themselves by flight. 

It is a day of woe, a day of doom, 
A day surcharg'd with black and bitter gloom ; 
And sons shall mourn for Arab fathers slain. 
And Arab wives shall shed their tears like rain. 

Wilt thou stay with me now ? No ! Proud boy, shun 
the death and misery which wait this venture ! Despise 
not the warning of Allah ! Why wilt thou, oh Selim, 
shake, thy head so stubbornly ? Speak." 

" Dearest mother, it may not be. If Fate decrees 
my death and misery, then why should I try to escape 
its sure laws by remaining behind ? If death awaits my 



28 MY KALTJLU. 

father, Selim's place is by Amer's side, to die as becomes 
the son of an Arab chief. But these are but trivial fears 
of thine, my mother. Why shonldst thou fear for me ? 
Am I not with my father, the brave Amer son of 
Osman ? Have I not my gun and long-sword ? What 
can the Pagan dogs do against all the great Arabs, and 
my father's kinsmen, when Ehamis bin Abdullah, and 
Amer bin Osman lead? Trust in Allah, mother. 
Believe me, I shall return to thee, tall and strong, with 
plenty of ivory and slaves to make thee rich — to hang 
such jewels on thy neck as befits a chiefs wife. Hark ! 
the horn of the guide sounds the signal of departure. 
My father is impatient, and I must go to him. Em- 
brace me, mother, and bless me ere I go." 

Amina, seeing persuasion useless, needed no command 
for such an affectionate duty. A full mother's love rose 
responsive to the call of her son, but her son's im- 
patience rendered the embrace, though fervid, short. 

" Allah go with thee, my boy !" cried the mother. 

" And with thee also, for ever !" responded Selim. 

They were parted at last, one to join his father, who 
was striding forward with, his caravan, the other to 
turn to a friend's house, to sob and weep, and think of 
the loved ones now fast retiring towards the west. 

For a long time father and son were silent.^ Amer 
strode on quickly, with an impassive countenance, 
whence all expression was banished save firmness, and 
a lofty air of determination. 

Selim, thorough son of a thorough Arab, with his 
head bent down mechanically followed his father's foot- 
steps, and allowed the strange birds to rise, and sing, 
and fly unheeded about him, the sun to sink unheeded 



\ 



SELBI m TEABS. 29 

to the west, and the twilight to approach, without 
seeming to be at all conscious that he was marching 
to that grand, fabulous, awful heart of Africa, about 
which he had heard so much, and which he had craved 
in his heart of hearts to see. 

The silence was unbroken until the caravan had 
halted on the banks of the Kingani, then Selim re- 
covered himself, and a copious flood of tears caused by 
a feeling of tender melancholy which came over him at 
the thought that he had really and actually left the 
pleasant happy home for that sable, ominous, forested 
land that stretched deathly still across the river. 

The father turned as he heard the deep sobs of his 
boy, and on approaching him laid his hand kindly on 
his bead, and said : 

"What !'in tears, my son? Art thou sorry thou hast 
left thy home — eh, Selim ?" 

" No, father, I am not sorry, but home seemed so 
beautiful as I thought of it, compared to that still dark 
land beyond. There are nothing but black-looking 
forests across the river, even the sky looks black and 
desolate, and my heart seems to have caught some of 
its desolation." 

" The forest looks sombrous and dark, my son, 
because night approaches," said Amer, tenderly. " That 
bjack-looking sky which hastens from the east is but 
the counterpane earth draws about it before folding its 
arms to sleep. When <we shall have crossed the river 
we will camp, and in the tent, which thou wilt learn to 
love as thy home, thou wilt forget thy present misery ; 
and in the morning, when earth is wide awake, and the 
Bun comes out as gay as a bride from the east, and the 



30 MY KALULXr. 

birds have all left their nests and fill the air with their 
joyous songs, and the fleet-footed antelope browses in 
the open glades, thou wilt wonder that thou couldst 
find it in thy heart to weep." 

" Oh, father, I shall weep no more. See, my eyes 
are already dry;" and Selim raised a brave face towards 
his father, which was tenderly kissed. 

The caravan was soon across the river, and every 
man and woman was engaged in cutting down young 
trees and branches to form a stockade, a duty not to 
be omitted by well-conducted caravans in Africa. 

When this was done the people gathered within the 
camp and prepared their evening meal. The tents 
were all disposed in a circle, with their doors open 
towards the centre, where stood Amer bin Osman's 
tent. Close by the master's tent, on either side, were 
two or three of the most faithful slaves, who were 
styled fundis, or overseers, to whom were given the 
orders for the conduct of the caravan by the chief. 

Over these overseers, for their fidelity and peculiar 
qualities, were placed two men, who are intended to 
figure conspicuously in this narrative; their names 
were Simba (Lion) and Moto (Fire). Where Amer bin 
Osman the chief went Simba and Moto followed. To 
these two Amer was as dear as their own hearts, and 
the boy Selim was their delight; his slightest wish 
was law to these faithful creatures, who looked upon 
him as though he were something immeasurably 
superior to them, as though he belonged to some 
higher world of which they had no comprehension. 

Simba was a giant in form, and a lion, as his name 
denoted, in strength and courage. He was originally 



SlUBA AND FAMILY. 



simba's feats of strength. 31 

from Urundi, a large country bordering the north- 
eastern part of Lake Tanganika. He was the son of a 
chief, and was captured when a boy in battle when 
Moeni Khheri's father sided with the Wasige against 
Makala, a quarrelsome king living in the northern dis- 
tricts of Urundi. Being a chiefs son he of 'course 
belonged to the Wahuma, a superior race of bronze- 
coloured people who formerly migrated from Ethiopia, 
and from whom only chiefs are selected in the countries 
of Urundi, Euanda, Uganda, and Karagwah. 

Simba was now in the prime of manhood, and he had 
lived in the household of Amer bin Osman for twenty 
years, for Amer, after his arrival at Zanzibar, within a 
year of his capture, had purchased him, and seeing 
him to be docile and good-tempered, though uncom- 
monly strong, had almost adopted him as his son. 

Some of Simba's feats of strength bordered on the 
marvellous. Taught by the young kinsmen of Amer 
the use of the long, sharp sword of the Arabs,-and being 
apt, he had acquired a terrible proficiency with it. He 
had often walked up alongside of a full-grown goat, 
and had with one well dealt blow halved the animal 
from head to tail. Many of his negro admirers verily 
believed he could perform the same feat upon an ass, 
so extraordinary was his strength, but he had never 
attempted it, as the experiment was too costly for his 
means. He had once carried a three-year-old bullock 
on his back half way around the plantation of his 
master, Amer. He had often taken one of the largo 
white donkeys of Muscat by the ears and by a sudden 
movement of his right foot, had prostrated the animal 
on his back ; and once, upon an extraordinary occasion, 



32 MY KALULU. 

had actually carried twelve men on his back and 
shoulders and chest around his master's house, to the 
intense wonder of a large crowd of spectators. He 
could toss an ordinary man ten feet high into the air, 
and catch him as easUy as an ordinary man would 
catch a small child. But manifold were the stories 
related with awe of the feats of strength performed by 
the brave lion-hearted Simba, chief overseer of Amer 
bin Osman's caravan. By measurement he stood six 
feet and five inches in his bare feet, and from shoulder 
to shoulder he measured thirty-two inches. 

Moto, or " fire," could not have been better desig- 
nated. His name, which his master had given him, had 
been bestowed upon him for his peppery, irascible 
temper. He was from Urori, as almost any one ac- 
quainted with the peculiarities of the various tribes in 
Central Africa would have sworn. A small wiry frame, 
indicating cat-like activity, strength, indomitability, 
capable of enduring great fatigue, characterised the 
form of Moto. He had also been brought to Zanzibar 
when a child by a slave-trader, and from a mere caprice 
had been purchased for twenty dollars by Amer. But 
his master had never regretted the purchase, for next 
to Simba, Amer bin Osman' preferred Moto. To serve 
his master Moto would have thrown himself into the 
fire or leaped into the sea. He was a great hunter, he 
could track the soft velvet foot of the leopard upon a 
rock, could tell what animal had broken a blade of 
grass if a single hair but adhered to it, could stalk an 
elephant and tickle his belly with a straw without 
letting the enormous brute know what deadly foe in- 
truded on his presence ; and a man slightly inclined to 



MOTO'S CHARACTER DESCRIBED. 33 

exaggeration, and not at all noted for his veracity, de- 
clared by this and by that, that Moto had at one time 
dragged himself into a jungle after a lion, and, finding 
the lion asleep, had from sheer bravado walked noise- 
lessly np to him and stepped over his body before he 
shot him through the head. 

K you knew Moto as well as his own best friends 
knew him, you would describe him as being as brave as 
a lion, active as a cat, keen-eyed as the fish-eagle, hot 
as pepper, as hardy as an ass, and faithful as a dog. If 
you will add that he was a little vain, and never disposed 
to resent any kind friend boasting of his prowess, you 
will have a perfect picture of Moto the Mrori. 

The first night on the road with some caravans is not 
very lively; the people are engaged either in thinking 
of the joys they have left behind them, or they are shy, 
and are sounding one another's qualities before making 
advances. But in the camp of Amer bin Osman there 
was no regret at parting from Zanzibar, since the great 
master and little master were with them, and every 
man knew his fellow and mate ; thus there was no dis- 
ruption of friendships, associations, and congenialities. 
Most of those who were married had their wives with 
them ; those who were not married had their intimate 
friends and saw time-endeared faces around them. 
They were all of one household. It was like unto the 
migration of an entire settlement. 

One glance within the huts and at the squatting forms 
informed you that they were all happy — if not happy, 
contented. No eyes like the coal-black, the pure well 
of jet undefiled, of the native African, when the fire- 
light is reflected in their quick sparkles, can so well 

D 



€4 MY KALTTLU. 

represent merriness. Those people with those spark- 
ling eyes were merry ; they were interesting each other 
with their trite stories of very trite lives ; but when 
a peal of laughter louder than usual startled the camp 
and rang through the forest, you may be sure it was 
either at a story of hearsay or at something that Simba 
or Moto had been saying. 

Such a laugh was heard, and instantly all eyes and 
mouths were uplifted, and ears seemed to be quickened, 
to catch a few words of the story that had caused an 
interested group to so loudly vent their delight. 

The interested party of laughers were seated around 
a miniature bonJGlre, which Simba and Moto had 
kindled some thirty feet or so from the chief's tent. 
Selim had lately arrived before it, and Simba had 
rolled a mighty log behind his young master and had 
asked him to be seated, himself seated on the ground, 
attentive and alert to please him ; and Moto, not to be 
outdone in assiduity by Simba, had just begun to draw 
from the recesses of his memory, or from the cells of his 
imagination, one of his best stories, when a ludicrous 
incident occurred and Selim had laughed heartily. 
Their young master had laughed, and of course when 
he laughed Simba laughed ; then seeing Simba laugh 
Moto laughed ; and, as real genuine laughter is con- 
tagious, all hands laughed, and the outer circle, the 
entire caravan, smiled sympathetically. 

Moto had commenced his story thus : " One day, when 
I was in the caravan of Kisesa — (Abdullah bin Nasib — 
you know Kisesa is a great friend of my master Amer, 
and if Kisesa liked to have me accompany him. Master 
Amer would never say * No/ It is in his caravan as 



UTTLE NIANI — THE BOY CALLED MONKEY. 35 

fundi I finished my education as a hunter) — travelling 
through Ukonongo, I " 

" Have you been to Ukonongo, Moto ?" asked Selim. 

" Oh, yes, and much farther. Well, I was saying, 
I " 

" But, Moto," broke in Selim again, " Ukonongo is 
the best <;ountry for shooting, is it not?" 

" At certain seasons only. In the dry season, yes. 
Then all kinds of game travel to the neighbourhood of 
the Cow Eiver, and shooting is plenty then, but for 
elephants give me Kawendi. I was just going to say, 
I " 

"But, Moto," broke in a naked youngster called 
Niani,* or the Monkey, a nepljew of Moto, " are there 
lions in Kawendi ? because " 

But he was not permitted to finish, as Moto sprang 
up furious, with his kurbash (a hippopotamus hide 
whip) in hand. Niani noticed the movement, and with 
the activity of his namesake, took a flying leap over 
the fire, and alighted in a huge dish half full of rice 
that was slowly simmering over some hot embers. 
There was a loud shriek, and clots of hot rice splashed 
in all directions, several falling on the nude shoulders 
of the group, which started them all to their feet. 
Then Selim laughed heartily at the catastrophe. Simba 
followed, then Moto stayed his hand and laughed, and 
the laugh was taken by all, and this was the cause of 
that which startled the camp and drew our attention. 

" That is what some people get for interrupting a 
good story," said Moto, sententiously addressing unfor- 
tunate Niani, who was rubbing his scalded feet and 

? Niani is a KisawahiU tenn for monkey. 



36 2CY KALULTT. 

moaning piteonsly in a low tone ; but the words wero 
said as more of a hint to Selim. 

" Well, go on, Moto ; I will not disturb yon another 
time," said Selim. 

"Ah, I did not mean you, dear master," replied 
Moto. " You may disturb me as often as you like." 

" Well, well, go on with your story, and let it be a 
good one," urged Selim. 

" All right, master. Well, I had just said that I was 
in the caravan of Eisesa, travelling through Ukonongo, 
when that little monkey Niani interrupted me, and so 
got » 

" No, no, Moto, it was I that interrupted you ; but 
go on with your story, and never mind poor Niani ; he 
has got his punishment, and you punish me too by not 
telling me the story," asked Selim. 

" Yes, yes, Moto, go on !" said the deep-voiced Simba. 
" Do you not hear the young master ask you ? Heh, 
what is the matter with the man to-night ?" 

" Oh, well, if you are all going to interrupt me, the 
story will last from here to Eua," said Moto in a care- 
less tone. 

" Moto," said Selim, " I will never disturb you any 
more — there's my hand on my promise." 

Moto's pride and vanity being gratified by this ready 
promise of Selim, cleared his throat, and commenced 
this time in earnest, as follows : 

" We were travelling through Ukonongo, and had 
reached Sultan Mrera's village, when Eisesa asked me 
to go to the forest along the river to look for game, 
adding that if I brought a Eudu antelope to the camp 
he would give me four yards of cotton cloth. 



MOTO MEETS ELEPHANTS. 37 

"After a good breakfast of rice and curry, wliicu 
Kisesa sent me from his table to make me strong, I 
started. It was then about noon, and the sun was very 
hot, though once in the forest it would be cool enough. 
In a short time I was by the river, a crooked little 
stream of delicious and clear water. I walked along, 
looking to the right and left constantly for hours, when 
just about two hours before sunset, I heard a hollow 
sound, as though the earth was shaking ; but I knew, 
after listening, that the sound was caused by a herd of 
elephants walking in file along the hard-baked road, 
and that they were approaching the stream to drink. 

"In a moment I was down on^my face like a dead 
man. The grass was about two 'feet high, and very 
thick, so that I was quite safe, if I did not stir, and I 
am too old a hunter not to know what to do in the 
neighbourhood of elephants. As the elephants passed 
by I lifted my head up cautiously, and counted them. 
Two — four — six — eight — ten enormous beasts, who 
tossed their trunks aloft, as if they were masters of 
the forest, and knew it. Careless and conMent, they 
passed on, and I wriggled out until I was some distance 
away ; then I jumped up and leaped across the stream, 
and on all fours crept across a deep bend of it ; then 
lying flat along the ground, I moved forward towards 
a great tree, a baobab, that stood between me and them. 
If the elephants had all stood in a row drinking from 
the river I could never have come up to them unseen, 
but one greedily thirsty fellow was standing in the 
middle of the stream, almost touching the baobab tree 
with his side, so that he completely hid me from the 
others. 



38 MY KALULU. 

" I thought that Eisesa, though he had not told me 
to shoot elephants, would not mind my bringing him 
two great ivory tusks, which would be worth at Zan- 
zibar 500 dollars, since he had come to Ukonongo to 
get ivory, and that if he gave me four yards of cloth 
for a Kudu antelope, that he would give many more 
yards of cloth for 500 dollars worth of ivory. 

" This thought gave me confidence to proceed, and 
imperceptibly I was drawing nearer and nearer to the 
monster near the baobab. After a few minutes, which 
seemed to me to be hours, I was lifting myself to my 
feet, girding my loins tighter, and preparing myself for 
a run for life. But just at the moment I ought to have 
fired, a mischievous idea came into my head ; the hind 
quarters of the brute were so close to me that I thought 
it would be great fun, and a good story to tell after- 
wards if I tickled the brute^s tail. Cutting a long 
straw, I extended the point towards the tail, and then 
traced a line across the leg to the belly. It was deli- 
cious to watch the flurry of the short tail and the 
circles it described, and to watch the brute half lean- 
ing against the tree, and rubbing it with his pon- 
derous form. When this play had lasted a short time, 
I brought down my gun, and pointing it about three 
inches or so behind the left fore leg, on a level with 
the position of the beast, I fired. The elephant sprang 
forward, and by doing so disclosed to the astonished 
eyes of the others my retreating form, which, I assure 
you, was bounding over the low bushes and grass tops 
as if I were an antelope. 

" The elephants got over their surprise in a second, 
then a wild snort of rage greeted my ears, and I knew 



MOTO'S DABING ADVENTUBB. 89 

by the crash of bashes and splash of water that they 
were after me. Never an antelope bounded over the 
plains of Ukonongo, when chased by a lion, as I 
bounded then ; never a timid quagga's fleet feet carried 
him away from the hunters as my feet carried me over 
that ground. But it seemed to me for a time as if it 
were of no use — the awful crashing got nearer and 
nearer, and as I turned my head to measure the dis- 
tance the foremost was from me, I saw the lord of the 
herd was but thirty paces from me. He seemed to 
tower up to three times his usual height, and to swell 
out into proportions three times as vast as his natural 
size; his great ears stood straight out as flat as a 
board, as if they were wings, and his eyes were like 
coals of fire ; his trunk was lifted up, as you sometimes 
see the deadly forest snake before it strikes his victim ; 
his head was stretched out, as the head of a girafle 
when chased by a beast of prey, and the two long, 
mighty, gleaming teeth seemed awful just then. His 
eyes caught a glance of mine as I turned them towards 
him, and that instant he uttered another snort of rage, 
which was as fearful as the war-horn of the Watuta. 
But it gave me greater speed ; if I ran before, I now 
flew ; yet closer and closer the monster came. I sup- 
pose he was about fifteen feet from me when the 
tricks of the elephant hunters of Urori came to my 
mind. I had noticed that though the big elephant was 
the foremost, he was also the outermost on my right — 
the other elephants were to my left, and they seemed 
to be following the lord of the herd rather than any 
particular object. In an instant after observing this, 
I shot out straight to the right from the direction I 



40 MY KALULTT. 

was first going as hard as my feet and legs would take 
me. The elephants passed on, the rushing sound of 
their feet going through the grass was like unto the 
wild pepo of Ugogo, accompanied by thunder, when it 
comes sweeping over the plain, with a moan and a 
rush, whirling and tossing bushes, and even small trees 
about sometimes, and darkening the air with what it 
tears from the earth. 

" I had got fifty yards away before the elephants 
could turn about. Only an instant, however, they 
stopped. They caught sight of me again, and with 
loud, furious snorting again they charged in a mass. 
I am a pretty swift runner as you all know, but the 
best of us seem to crawl compared to the speed of an 
elephant for the first few hundred yards. The ele- 
phants, especially one or two of the foremost, were 
gaining on me rapidly; the stubborn grass whipped 
my legs severely as I ran, and was a sore distress to I 

me, but the thick hide of my pursuers was proof against * 

it. A little distance off before me, and to the left, was 
a clump of brushwood. I thought if I could gain it, I | 

would be comparatively safe, as I could find somewhere 
to hide. In a few moments I reached it, and looking I 

sharply about, I discovered, a little distance off, half 
hidden by grass and brush, a hole in the ground, which 
I knew to be that of the wild boar. I thought it 
would be a capital place to hide, provided the boar 
was out of his hole, and in a second I was on my face f 

crawling backwards into it. I had barely crawled in 
when I heard the elephants' thunder overhead, and at 
the same instant I heard a deep grunt behind me, and 
immediately after I was shot out of that hole, like a 



A NARROW ESCAPE. 41 

bullet out of a gun, and I lay on the ground a few 
paces from it like a dead man. I had just conscious- 
ness enough to know that I had been grievously 
wounded in one of my hams by the furious owner of 
the underground excavation in which I found shelter ; 
that the boar had darted off in the direction the 
elephants had taken, then I lost all knowledge of 
everything for many hours. 

" When I recovered it was night. And soon I heard 
shots in the distance, fired at regular intervals, and 
thinking perhaps that they were my friends looking 
for me I fired my gun, which was immediately answered 
by another. By firing thus every few minutes I suc- 
ceeded in guiding them to where I lay, for I found 
myself unable to move. 

" When my friends found me, and were acquainted 
with my condition, they lifted me on their shoulders 
and bore me to the camp, where I lay unable to move 
for a,bout three weeks. The marks that savage boar 
gave me I have yet, and shall have to my dying day. 
I have spoken." 

"Well, what became of the elephant you shot?" 
asked Seliin, when Moto had concluded his graphic and 
interesting story. 

"He was picked up next day, about two hours' 
distance from the place where I had shot him. His 
trail was easily known by his bloodl Kisesa made 
quite a sum of money from that elephant, as the tusks 
were as large as any that were ever seen." 

" How many cloths did Kisesa give you ?" asked 
Selim. 

" Only forty." 



42 KY EALULU. 

" Only forty ? That was a good deal, was it not ?" 
asked Selim. 

" Forty cloths for what brought him three hundred 
at Zanzibar ! Do you call forty cloths a great deal ?" 
asked the offended Moto. 

" But you forget, Moto," said Selim, " that you were 
a slave in the employ of Eisesa ; that the gun you car- 
ried was his, that the powder and shot you used to shoot 
the elephant with were his, that the clothes you then 
wore were given you by him, that the food which gave 
you strength was purchased with his money, that the 
men who carried you from the forest to the camp were 
his slaves, that the men who looked after you when you 
were sick and wounded were his men, that the man 
who found the elephant dead belonged to Kisesa, and 
that without Kisesa's aid you would have died in the 
jungle, perhaps, and never have seen the elephant again. 
What do you say now, Moto ?" asked Selim. 

" You are right, young master, as you are always," 
said the humiliated Moto, which remark was echoed 
and applauded by everybody around the camp fire. 

" But, now," said the hitherto quiet Simba, " tell us 
about that battle Kisesa had with the Warori — your 
own people — and how you saved the king's son." 

"Ay, do tell us that. It must be an interesting 
story," said Selim. " I shall sleep all the better for it 
this first night of my life in Africa." ^ 

" Well, when my friend Simba asks and my young | 

master commands me, Moto is always ready," said i 

Moto, adding a huge log to the already cheerful fire- 
pile. " It is not such a long time ago but what I can 
remember every detail of it. It may have happened 



THE STORY OF MOTO. 43 

three or four years ago ; Eisesa was then in TJnyan- 
yembe. He was mortally offended with the Arab chief 
Sayd bin Salim, the Wali of the Sultan of Zanzibar at 
TJnyanyembe, and most of the Arabs took sides with 
Kisesa, as they knew he was a brave, powerful, and rich 
chief, who might defy even the Sultan of Zanzibar if he 
chose to do so. 

" When Sayd bin Salim requested the Arabs to assist 
him in fighting the black chief of Eahama in XJgolo, 
Kisesa refused to go, and most of the other Arabs did 
the same, as they said that Eahama was but a small 
village and that the son of Salim had soldiers enough 
paid by the Sultan of Zanzibar to do that kind of 
fighting. Now the son of Salim, though he knows how 
to govern Arabs and keep the peace with peaceful 
merchants, has neither head nor heart for fighting. (It 
takes Eisesa to do that work.) So two or three weeks ' 
after Sayd bin Salim had gone to the war we were not 
at all astonished to see the Wali come back well beaten 
by Eahama; and Eisesa and the other Arabs had a 
good laugh at him. 

" When soon after the war with Urori broke out, and 
Sayd bin Salim was requested to call every Arab to the 
war, Sayd bin Salim refused ; but said that if Eisesa 
desired to go, he, as king's governor of TJnyanyembe, 
would empower Eisesa to lead the Arabs to war, and 
make him chief of the army. Eisesa accepted at once, 
and the principal Arabs at once volunteered to go with 
him. Within a very few days Eisesa left TJnyanyembe 
with nearly a thousand men for TJrori, so that TJnyan- 
yembe looked like a deserted place. 

"I think it was on the twentieth day — I am not 
sure — of the march, that after travelling through 



44 MY KALULU. 

Unyangwira and Kokoro we came near Kwikuru, the 
capital of Urori. We slept on our arms that night 
until about the eighth hour, when at a given signal we 
all crept through the bushes for about an hour, and by 
the moonlight we saw just ahead of us the boma (pali- 
sade) of the king's village. I assure you we did not 
stop long to look at it, for our horns gave the signal 
and we all ran for the boma. Quick as a flash of 
powder in the musket-pan, as you may say, the men of 
Kisesa were at the palisade, and had their guns pointed 
at the village through the bars ; but not a gun was 
fired, as Kisesa knew how to make war. 

'^ Ejsesa blew ,his horn, and a voice from the village 
shouted out to ask who we were, and what we wanted. 

" Our chief replied, ' Come out to fight, for Kisesa is 
at your gates.' 

"'Kisesa!' said the voice, in an astonished tone. 
* Kisesa ! it cannot be Kisesa from Unyanyembe !' 

" ' It is Kisesa, and no other man. I am Kisesa, and 
I have come to kill you.' 

" The man said then, ' Kisesa has been in a hurry to 
die to come so soon to Kwikuru, the capital of the King 
of Urori. Does Kisesa usually fight in such a hurry ? 
It has been our custom to talk first before we fight. 
What does Kisesa mean ?' asked the King, for it was 
he, though we could not see him, as he took care not to 
let himself be seen. 

" ' Thou art a dog, and a son of a dog !' answered 
Kisesa. 'Hast thou not been making war upon our 
merchants, killing them in the forest for the sake of 
their ivory ? Hast thou not been mutilating their 
young sons by cutting off their right hands? Hast 
thou not been beating the prisoners with sticks until 



KBESA PBBPABES TO ATTACK. 45 

many of them have died under the torture ? Hast thou 
not asked for Kisesa, the great Arab warrior, that thou 
mightest flay him alive and make clothes of his skin 
to cover thy nakedness ? Lo ! Kisesa is here at thy 
gates ; come and take his skin.' 

" * Kisesa, thou hast done well to come to me before 
I came for thee. Kisesa, thou art a good man, but I 
will flay thee alive nevertheless, and thou shalt know 
what it is to come to the gates of Mostana, like a thief 
at night. They told me thou wert brave. Is it brave 
to do what thou hast done ? My young son Kalulu, 
who is but a child, is more than a match for thee. 
Halt where thou art until daylight, that we may at 
least see him who is said to be brave, but is but a night 
prowler !' 

" ' Mostana, if that be thy name,' said Kisesa, ' I will 
wait for thee until vthe sun appears in the east. Thou 
shalt then look on my face and die. I have spoken.' 

" So we all laid down close against the palisade out- 
side. Every fifth man was to stand watch while the 
others slept. As soon as the sun appeared in the east, 
over the tops of the trees, the horns of Kisesa were 
heard, calling us all to be ready ; and at the same time 
the drums of Mostana were heard. I had been sleep- 
ing soundly, and I now looked in between the posts of 
the palisade to see what kind of a place we were about 
to attack. It was a large village, circular, like all in 
XJrori, but the palisades were strong, and but lately 
put up. There were scores of huts inside, but what 
struck me as something very uncommon in XJrori was 
an inner enclosure (like that in the King's village at 
Unyanyembe), which surrounded Mostana's quarters, 



46 )[7 KALTTLXr. 

BO that he could from the inside hold out as long as we 
conld outside if we were not more nnmerons or better 
armed than he. 

" We were not long before we were at it like lions, 
shooting into one another's faces, or as near them 
as the defences wonld permit. It was evident that 
Mostana was getting the worst of the fight, for we were 
far more numerous and had better gnns, and farther 
apart from each other, while Mostana's people were 
crowded together, and every ballet that went in 
through the palisade wounded or killed some one, and 
the cries of the women and groans of the wounded 
were frightful. 

"After shooting at each other for an hour Kisesa 
gave notice to have the two gates opened, and into 
these we poured in crowds, and as fast as we got in we 
took advantage of the huts that were outside the king's 
quarters. Then, working ourselves gradually, shooting 
as we went, we sprang at the other palisade, and 
putting our guns through, fired into the crowds. I 
assure you the scene was horrible ; the people dropped 
to the ground as fast as we could count them, so that 
in a short time the few that were left began to cry for 
mercy, shouting ' Aman ! Aman !' The gates of the 
inner defences, or the King's quarters, were broken 
open at once, and Kisesa's men bounded in, making 
such noise that might be heard a day's march from the 
village. They fired their guns, they hooted, they 
shouted, they sang. Were they not victors ? I was 
carried in with the crowd which poured in towards the 
King's house. Old Mostana — ^he was not very old 
either — was fighting to the last, firing his arrows so 



THE king's SOK — KALTJLU. 47 

fast into the crowd that many of Kisesa's men, even 
while they were singing the songs of victory, feU dead,' 
pierced to the marrow with the deadly arrows which 
flew unerringly from his bow. At his side was a young 
lad, yonnger by three years than Master Selim is ; he 
was tall, straight, and slender as one of the light 
assegais he threw so dexterously and quickly into the 
crowds who were pressing onward towards the Bang. 
Kisesa himself was with us, and on seeing the match- 
less spirit and bearing of the boy, he shouted, 'Kill 
Mostana, but save the boy. Fifty cloths to him who 
brings me Kalulu alive.' I am a Mrori, and I loved 
that boy for his bravery the first time I saw him, and 
I determined to save him if possible for Kisesa and at 
the same time get the fifty cloths. A shield belonging 
to one of Mostana's men lay on the ground ; I snatched 
it up, and defending my body with it, I cried out to 
Kalulu in Kirori that I was his friend and wished to 
save him. The boy, surprised for a moment, desisted, 
but seeing me advance hurriedly towards him, and 
fearing that I only wished to do him harm, he hurled 
another light spear at me. So true was the boy's aim, 
he hit the centre of the shield and pinned my hand to 
it, and at the same moment I saw his father fall across 
the threshold of his house. I heard the boy give one 
wild shriek, and then saw him disappear inside; but 
darting forward, heedless of the pain in my arm, I 
arrived at the door of the house, only in time, however, 
to see him escape by another door, that led outside of 
the royal quarters. I saw him take ia hasty look, and, 
as if the coast was clear and no danger to be appre- 
hended, shoot off like an arrow, and the head-dress of 



48 MY KALULU. 

fish-eagle feathers he wore streamed behind him 
straight, so swift were his feet. I permitted him to 
spring to the palisade, but before he could well clear 
himself of its tall posts I laid hold of his feet ; but not 
for long, however. As the fiery lad clung with one hand, 
he used the other in threatening to strike me, and the 
spears of the Warori are sometimes dangerous. When 
I released him, quicker than the black leopard of the 
jungles of Kawendi, or the ever-jumping monkey of 
Sowa, he sprang over the posts, and picking himself up, 
he raced away for liberty as if for life. But I am a 
Mrori too, and I am not to be outdone by a boy, even 
though he were sired by Mostana ; so snatching the 
assegai, which hitherto had pinned my hand to the 
shield, I tossed the shield over to the other side, and 
sprang after it myself. It did not take long for me to 
catch the fugitive ; he had just entered the belt of wood 
when I caught hold of his arm and bade him, in the 
Kirori tongue, not to run away from a friend. He 
turned round to me with such a look in his large eyes — 
eyes that truly were like unto those of the young 
Kalulu, his namesake, which, as it bounds over the low 
brush or grass clumps in the plains of Urori and Ubena, 
seems never to touch the ground as it leaps lightly and 
swiftly away from the cruel hunter. Perhaps it is 
because I am a Mrori that I was rather partial to the 
son of Mostana, captive of my bow and of my spear, 
but when I saw those large, soft, pleading eyes turned 
up to me, I wept for him who was a king's son yester- 
day, and to-day was Moto's slave. 

" ^ You are a Mrori,' said the boy, ' and will you 
make Mostana's son a slave to those robbers ?' 



WHAT PEINOB KALULU SAID TO MOTO. 49 

" ' My lord, the Arabs are not robbers ; they are rich 
merchants trading, for ivory, who, when angered by 
wrong done to them, band together to fight. Mostana 
is dead ; the Arab chief, Kisesa, wants yon for himself. 
"Will you submit ?' 

" ' You are not a Mrori ; no Mrori warrior would 
talk of submitting to be the slave of an Arab dog, how- 
ever great or rich he is. Mostana has warned me often 
how it would all end. But Kalulu, his son, will never 
be a slave. Listen, my brother.* I was born in that 
village; I first drew breath within that palisaded 
enclosure; there I first learned to lisp "baba," 
"mama;" there I first learned to distinguish friend 
from foe, light from darkness, good from evil ; there I 
first learned how to handle the spear and the bow, how 
to throw the war-hatchet and the knob-stick ; under 
those trees I have sucked at my mother's paps, and 
when older have listened to the elders of the village and 
counsellors of my father relating the traditions of my 
great warrior tribe ; in those fields now green with 
corn I have played with friends of my own age — with 
Luhambo, Lotaka, Borata Natona, Kahirigi, and others ; 
in the pleasant stream which is now before us I have 
bathed and caught the great fat fish ; in this forest I 
have chased the honey-bird, and searched for the sweet 
treasures the wild bees stored for me; here the 
antelope and fleet zebra invited me to the chase ; even 
the very trees seem to know me, and recognise me 
as belonging to this portion of earth. But now Mos- 
tana, my father, is dead, my village will be burnt, my 

* All strangers are addressed in "Urori " as brothers. All trayellen 
are bailed as brothers. 

B 



50 .ICY KALrLU. 

Idns men are either dead or bound captiYes, the fields 
will be left desolate, and what I have hitherto known as 
home will become a wilderness. Yet for all this, when 
Cruelty wonld eyen panse before going farther, I am 
pleading to a Mrori for the only thing left for me to 
ask — ^my liberty! Mrori, speak; must I ask twice for 
that which was never yours to give ? Will you not let 
me depart to my uncle, to remember the friendly Mrori 
who scorned to take advantage of a boy ?' 

" * Gro in peace, my lord, go in peace : I did but try 
you. Moto is your friend, and if you can remember 
Moto when you live happily amongst your uncle's tribe, 
Moto will ever be grateful.' 

'^ ' Is Moto your name ?' he said delightedly, taking 
my hand, while his eyes danced with joy. ' Then let the 
Warori of my uncle's tribe ever remember your name 
with pleasure. Katalambula, my uncle, shall remember 
your name for future benefit, should we ever meet 
again. Ealulu has spoken.' 

" He embraced me as if I were his father, and then 
snatching his weapons and the shield which I gave him, 
he turned away and, light as the jumping antelope,* 
bounded away from sight. 

'^ Gome, my friends, the night is far spent, let us 
retire," said Moto, when he had ended his really in- 
teresting story. 

'^ What, Moto ! I am surprised that you let the fellow 
go, when you might have got fifty cloths for him," said 
Selim. 

"And I am not," said Simba, " for I know Moto, and 
it is for that I love him as my brother. Why, he was 

^ The springbok. 



SDfBA PBAISES MOTO. 51 

a king's son I Should Moto take that from Ealuln which 
was not his to take ? Ah, Moto ! thou art good as 
the yellow metal which all the rich Arabs at Zanzibar 
love so much, and which the Banyan women love to 
hang on their yellow breasts. Master Selim, you know 
not what it is to be a slave ; pray Allah that you never 
wUl know," said Simba as he rose and yawned. 

"la slave! you are dreaming, Simba. An Arab 
cannot be a slave, but a black man was born to be an 
Arab's slave," replied Selim, with some tartness in his 
tones. 

" Well, well, we will talk of this another time," said 
Moto quietly, " eh, Simba, my brother ? Master, the 
journey is far to-morrow; before the sun rises, your 
father has said, we must be on the road to Simbam- 
wenni. It is now late. Good night, young master." 

" I shall go to my father's tent to dream of Mostana's 
son, Kalulu," said Selim, recovering his temper, saying 
which, he walked away. • 



52 XT SALT7LU. 



CHAPTER m. 

The United Arab Hoat— The Council— The Leaser Council— What an 
' Arab Boy thinks of being a Slave — ^What Selim thinks of Slavery 
— Sarcastic Isa — Little Niani is ill-treated — Selim, and his 
Father— Beautiful Scenery — The Land flowing with Milk and 
Honey — ^Is it right or wrong to own Slaves ? — ^The fearful Croco- 
dile—Narrow Escape from Death — The Beward of Selim's Courage 
— Simba on the Alert— The Beward of Simba's Fidelity— The 
dead Marauder — The fierce Warori — The Arab Council — ^Is it 
War, or Peace ?— Is it War ? 

The next morning the caravan of Amer bin Osman was 
afoot at an early hour, all hands feeling in a more 
excellent mood, if possible, than they were when they 
retired to sleep. They shouted, they sang merrily, and 
enjoyed themselves in much the same manner that all 
caravans do, when fresh and cheery they start on a 
trading campaign. 

On the tenth day, on coming from under the shadows 
of the great scarps of the Uruguru range, the walled town 
of Simbamwenni lay before them, and on a green grassy 
slope, trending to the Eiver XJngerengeri, were the white 
tents and the huts of the caravans they were to join. 

As is customary in Africa, the new comers made 
their presence known to their friends by repeated dis- 
charges of musketry, which brought out the Arabs and 
their people by the hundreds. 

The greeting which Amer bin Osman received from 
his friends was warm and cordial. The chiefs all 



THE X7NITED ABAB HOST. 53 

embraced him after the manner and custom in yogue 
amongst the Arabs, "while their followers were not a 
whit less expressive to Amer's people. SeUm was 
received with extraordinary cordiality by the younger 
Arabs, some of whom were of his own age, and after 
interchanging the long list of greetings customary in 
Arab countries, they all adjourned to Ehamis bin 
Abdullah's tent, who had by acclamation been elected 
chief of the expedition, where in a short time dishes of 
curried chicken and rice, kabobs, and sweets of various 
kinds, with nice biscuits, were served as a substantial 
repast for the hungry travellers. 

Though conversation was animated and varied enough 
before Amer and his son Selim had satisfied their 
hunger, it did not touch upon the object of the ex- 
pedition, but simply as to what events had transpired 
during the journey from the coast to Simbamwenni ; 
but when the repast was ended, and the dishes were 
cleared, Khamis bin Abdullah broached the subject 
near and dear to each heart just then — the future 
journey or route of the expedition, 

" The great question, Amer bin Osman, about which 
we have been attempting to decide," said Khamis, " is, 
shall we take the road to Mbumi, in Usagara, and skirt 
the Mukondokwa mountains to reach Uhehe, and strike 
a straight line to XJrundi, thence to Marungu, south of 
the Tanganika, for Bua, or shall we follow the old road 
through Marenga M'Eali and XJgogo to Unyanyembe, 
thence to Ujiji, and across the Lake Tanganika to Bua ? 
I should like to have thy opinion, for thou art a man 
of age and experience, though thou hast never been to 
this land before." 



54 MY KALI7LU. 

" Allah knows," responded Amer bin Osman, " that I 
know very little of this country. If thon dost not wish 
to decide thyself, as chief, which is the best road, I should 
like to hear from thee, or others, about the differences 
between the two roads, and the kind of countries which 
they traverse." 

" Well," said Khamis bin Abdullah, deliberately, " if 
I were by myself I should prefer the old road, but there 
are some here of my friends who know the country as 
well as I do, who think we are strong enough to be able 
to march along the southern road. 

" K we," continued he, " take the old road we shall 
have the Wagogo to pay tribute to, or fight, as we like, 
between here and Rua; but if we take the southern 
road, those thieves, the Wahehe, will have to be looked 
after closely when going through their country ; then 
we have the Warori, a more powerful people than the 
Wagogo, to meet, whom we must make friends or fight ; 
then beyond Urori we have the Watuta, a tribe related to 
the Warori, who speak their language and are more than 
the Warori, whom we shall be obliged to pacify or make 
war against, just as we feel, and beyond the Watuta 
is a straight road to the ivory country of Rua. I will 
admit that the southern road is by three or four months 
the shortest, but I cannot admit that it is the safest." 

" And what do my friends think of the two roads ? 
What does Sultan bin Ali say ?" asked Amer. 

" I say," replied old Sultan, " that it would be far 
more prudent in us to take the northern road. The 
Wagogo are far more mischievous and insolent than any 
I know, but we need not fear them if we are wise, and 
do not provoke war." 



THE COUNCIL. 55 

" Well, if Sultan bin Ali and Khamis bin Abdullah 
think that the northern road is the best, I would prefer 
to be guided by their judgment; but what do the 
majority of the chiefs think of it ?" asked Amer, direct- 
ing his glance to the others who had not yet spoken of 
this matter to him. 

Said Khamis : " There are ten chiefs of us, including 
thyself; seven of us are for the southern road, and thou, 
and I, and Sultan bin Ali are for taking the northern 
road." 

"Yes," said Sheikh Mohammed, "for this reason. 
We are over 600 strong, all armed with guns. It is 
true we shall have to pay tribute to the Warori and the 
Watuta, and may experience some trouble from the 
Wahehe, who are dogs and sons of dogs ; but the tribute, 
if we pay any, will not be much, and will be cheaper in 
the end than the three months we would lose on the 
southern road; besides, we save the cloth we would 
have to pay the Wagogo, who are insolent besides 
being extortionate. Three months on the road cost us 
altogether about 900 doti, or fifteen bales of cloth. Put 
the Warori tribute against the Wagogo, and we have fif- 
teen bales of cloth, out of which we can pay the tribute 
to the Watuta. It is evident we effect a saving, besides 
gaining three months time." 

" That is a very good way of putting it," said Amer, 
" but what dost thou say, Khamis, about the comparative 
safety of the two roads ? Is there more danger to ba 
apprehended from the Warori and the Watuta than we, 
a trading caravan, would care to meet ?" 

" That is the view we should take of the matter, and 
not of the little cloth we should save," responded 



56 MY KALULU. 

Ehamis. " Experience tells me to ayoid the Warori, if 
possible, but above all the Watuta. The Warori are braye 
and strong, and sometimes very dangerous ; but I have 
always heard the Watuta were dangerous, that they are a 
fierce tribe who live by robbing caravans, and I should 
not like to undertake to decide for the southern road 
without the concurrence of every chief here present." 

" Well, thou hast my consent if thou dost require it, 
and if God pleases he can guide us in safety through any 
tribe in Africa. Far be it from me to disagree with 
those who know better than I what roads to take, and 
what will best serve our interests," said Amer. 

" And if thou dost require mine for thy decision," 
said old Sultan bin Ali, " I shall not deny the right of 
any of the other chiefs to have as much a voice in the 
caravan as I have ; so now, friend Ehamis, thou hast 
the liberty to agree or disagree, and hast a right to 
decide whether thou wilt lead us through Urori or 
through Ugogo to the ivory country." 

" I have only one voice in the matter, and if ye are 
all of one consent that it is better for us to march by 
the southern road, and still of one mind that I shall lead 
ye, I have nothing more to say," responded Khamis. 
We are, we are," they all replied. 
Very well, the march begins to-morrow," said 
Ehamis bin Abdullah, " at one hour before sunrise. We 
follow the old road as far as Mbumi, when we shall turn 
south." 

The newd was soon communicated through the host 
of followers, and each knot and group had their own 
opinions, which they discussed with, as much acumen 
and wisdom as their superiors had evinced. 









THE LESSEE COUNCIL. 57 

But not to lose sight of onr friends Simba and Moto, 
let us listen to what they have to say concerning the 
unusual line of route about to be adopted. 

It is night. The camp fires are blazing by the score ; 
huts are ranged around the immense circle, which is 
more than 500 feet in diameter, and scores of huts dot 
the centre of the circle, with their doors opening accord- 
ing as the taste, fancy, or caprice of the builders sug- 
gested. The huts of the Arab chiefs are arranged in a 
line close to one another, but still far enough to insure 
the privacy and exclusion which every Arab so much 
loves for the female portion of his household. 

Near the tent of Amer bin Osman are seated before the 
usual fire-pile the faithful slaves Simba and Moto with 
the fundis of the other Arabs ; and on carpets of Oman 
manufacture are placed Selim, the son of Amer, Khamis, 
the young son of Khamis bin Abdullah, the leader, Isa, 
the son of Sheikh Thani, and Abdullah and Mussoud, 
brothers, aged fourteen and twelve respectively, the 
sons of Sheikh Mohammed. 

We hear Selim's voice first, as we pay him this atten- 
tion for personating the hero of this veracious romance. 

Said he : " Well, Simba ; — ah, Isa, you do not know what 
a treasure Simba is ; he is so great, so wise, so strong ! — 
what do you think of the southern road ? do you think 
we shall see more fun ?" 

"My young master, I fear so," answered Simba, 
while at the same time he never lifted his head, so 
apparently intent was he in keeping his flint-lock 
musket clean — a favourite occupation with Simba. 

" Tou fear so !" said Isa, in a tone of surprise. "What, 
you fear that we shall see some fun ! Fie, Simba ! did 



58 MY KAIitTLXT. 

you not hear your young master say you were brave 
and strong, and why should you fear we should have 
some fun ?" he asked, in a sneering tone. 

Simba, turning his wise and large eyes upon Isa, said : 
" Ah, Master Isa, you are a boy, and cannot understand." 

" Hear the slave !" shouted Isa, laughing boisterously 
at Simba's solemnity. " Hear the man !" he repeated. 
" Isa, son of Mohammed, is a boy and cannot under- 
stand — and cannot understand what — will you tell me, 
brave Simba ?" he asked. 

'^ You cannot understand, child, that what may be 
fun to some people will be sorrow to others ; that we 
may meet with fun of a kind that neither you nor 
any of us will much like," said Simba, still rubbing 
away at the already excessively clean gun, and looking 
graver than before. 

"Why, what is the matter with you to-night?" 
asked Selim of Simba. 

" The truth is, master, I do not like the course the 
Arabs have taken. I think they have been too hasty in 
adopting the southern road. None knows it better than 
friend Moto, and if the great masters had asked of 
Moto something about the road, my mind would be 
more easy concerning you and the great master Amer." 

"What do you know of it, Moto?" asked Selim. 
" Speak, and tell us all you know." 

" What Simba says is truth," replied Moto. " The 
Warori are bad, bad, bad, and the Watuta are worse — 
very bad — and I think we shall have very serious times 
of it." 

" How serious ?" asked Selim again. 

" I mean that we are very likely to have war with 



WHAT AN ABAB BOY THINKS OF BEINa A SLAVE. 59 

them. Ever since Abdullah bin Nasib or Kisesa had 
that battle with Mostana, the Warori have been wicked. 
They have Arab slaves now. They formerly used to 
kill their prisoners or torture them, but now they treat 
them in the same way that the Arabs treat the Warori 
chiefs— they make slaves of them." 

" Make slaves of Arabs !" shouted young Khamis, a 
sinewy youth of sixteen, and brave as the bravest of men. 
"You lie, cur dog; you lie, slave!" he added furiously. 

" Ah, Master Khamis," said Moto, deprecatingly, " if 
they are slaves, it was not I who made them slaves ; but 
I speak the truth." 

" A Bedaween ! — a free Bedaween, who owns no 
master — a slave ! Moto, you are a liar ; it is impossible. 
A Bedaween cannot live in slavery." 

" But there are slaves with the Warori, and some are 
Arabs. I swear it," he added solemnly. 

"Then for my part," said young Khamis, "I am 
glad that my father has taken this road. The torments 
of Eblis light on the unbelieving dogs ! An Arab a 
slave ! Then let every Mrori look to himself should he 
fall into my power, for, by Mohammed's holy name, I 
will torture the reptile to death." 

" Hold, young master," said the deep-voiced Simba, 
halting a moment in his work, and raising himself to 
his fullest height, which, as the firelight danced on his 
gigantic form, seemed to add vastness to that which 
was vast already. " Listen to me, Khamis, young son 
of Khamis bin Abdullah ; the Warori are bad, as you 
heard Moto say, but the Warori are men, and I have 
heard a good Nazarene, one of the white men at Zanzi- 
bar, say that all men are equal. If the Warori are 



60 MY KALXTLU. 

men, and are lords of their own soil, and if Arabs 
trouble them, or will not do them justice, what great 
wrong are the Warori guilty of if they fight ; and if 
they catch Arabs prisoners in war, why should they 
not treat them as the Arabs would treat the Warori ? 
Answer me that." 

" Why, Simba," asked the eldest of the sons of Mus- 
soud, " do you know what the sacred Euran says ? I 
remember what the good Imam has told me often : 

* Verily the fruit of the trees of Al Zakkum shall he the 
food of the unbelievers, as the dregs of oil shall it boil in 
the heUies of the damned, like the boiling of the hottest 
water. When ye encou/nter the u/nbelievers strike off their 
heads until ye have made a great slaughter among them, 
and bind them in bonds, and either give them a free dis- 
mission aftenvards or exact a ransom, until the war shall 
have laid down its arms^ And in another place the 
Euran says, according to the holy and learned Imam, 

* And as to those who fight in defence of Ood's true religion, 
Ood wUl not suffer their works to perish ; he wUl guide 
them, and will dispose their heart aright ; and he wiU lead 
them into paradise, of which he hath told them" 

" There, Simba," said Isa, triumphantly, "what do you 
think now of slaves and true believers ? Do you not think 
it right for us to take and capture those who waylay ns, 
and make them slaves for their perfidy and savagery ?" 

" I think the same as before," answered Simba. " I 
do not know the Euran so well as Abdullah, it is true, 
but I know that the same God who gave you sense and 
feeling gave the savages of Urori some sense and feel- 
ing as well ; but I should like to know what my young 
master Selim's thoughts are upon these subjects." 



1 



WHAT SEUM THINKS OF SLAYEBY. 61 

" To tell you the simple tmth would be to tell you 
that I never thought much of these things/' answered 
Selim, in a mild tone. " My father has slaves, and my 
relations own a great number. They are all well 
looked after, and I have never heard that they were 
much astonished at their condition. I have seen 
slaves punished and killed ; but they had done wrong, 
and they deserved their punishment. Neither my 
father nor my relations ever gave me to suppose that 
by keeping slaves they were committing wrong, and 
you surely cannot expect me, who am but a boy and 
the son of my father, to say anything against my 
elders. Whatever Amer bin Osman does is right ; at 
least, so I have heard men say, and shall I, his son^ 
judge him ?" 

" Bravely spoken," said the impetuous Khamis, 
" Bravely said, my brother Selim ; but, instead of speak- 
ing to Simba as thou hast done, thou shouldst have 
taken thy kurbash (whip) to him, and taught the dog to 
watch the doorstep of his master, and not be teaching 
the son of Amer." 

" You are over hasty, Khamis," replied Selim, in a 
deprecating tone. " Simba is good and true to me and 
to my father's household. My father loves him, and I 
love him, black though he be, as if he were my brother. 
Simba and Moto are worth their weight in the yellow 
metal which our women love to adorn their necks with ; 
yet, did it depend on my voice, a thousand times their 
weight of gold would not purchase them." 

Both Simba and Moto were so affected at this that 
they both fell on their knees, and crawled up to their 
young master to embrace his feet, thus testifying the 



62 h; kalulu. 

great love they bore him ; but Selim would not permit 
this, and said : 

" Nay, my good Simba, and you, Moto, rise. I think 
you men, not slayes, and you need not kiss my feet to 
show me how much you love me. You are my friends, 
and I shall ever esteem you as such." 

"My good young master," said Simba, in a voice 
broken with emotion, " we are your servants, and we 
are proud of it. Are we not, Moto ?" 

" Indeed, we are," said Moto. 

" What Arab tribe can boast » lad of your years 
with so much beauty and heart ? Your eyes, young 
master, are blacker than the richest, ripest singwe 
(a species of wild plums) of Urundi, and as large 
as those of the sportive kalulu (young antelope); 
and when they are covered with your eyelids, we 
have often compared them while you were asleep, and 
Moto and I watched you, to the lotus which hides its 
beauty at eve from the fell touch of night. And your 
flesh, though not white like the bloodless pale children 
of the white races, is like the warmer colour of ivory, 
and beautiful and clear as the polished ivory ornaments 
of my people in Urundi : your limbs, clean and shapely, 
are firm and hard as ivory tusks. You are like a young 
palm-tree in beauty and strength. He is a happy man 
who calls you son, and your mother laughs for joy in 
her sleep when she dreams of you. Your slaves are 
proud to call you master." 

"Amen, and amen," responded Moto, while tears 
descended his cheeks. " Simba has- spoken nothing but. 
the truth ; he never utters lies. Master Selim knows 
what Simba and Moto say they mean. Evil cannot 



.X 



SAHCASTIO ISA. 63 

approach him while we are near, nor can danger Inrk 
unseen. Books shall not wound his feet, neither shall 
thorns prick his tender skin. K the journey is long 
Simba is as strong as a camel, and Moto is fleet of foot 
as the zebra, and enduring as the wild ass of Unyam- 
wezi. Moto has spoken." 

" Eh, Khamis, and thou, Isa, hear and understand," 
said Selim, smiling. "Where is the Arab who does 
not love the Nedjid mare, which partakes of his food, as 
the wife of his bosom ? But in Simba and Moto I have 
two faithful friends. I have a camel, a zebra, and an 
ass, and you tell me to beat them, Khamis. Fie, boy !" 

" Boy, indeed ! I am older than thou, and taller and 
stronger. Thou art a child, or thou wouldst not 
believe the fulsome words of these lying knaves. I 
have seen the world more than thou hast, and I assure 
thee on my head I never saw the black man yet who 
could keep his hands from stealing and his evil tongue 
from lying. I — Khamis, the son of Khamis, the son of 
Abdullah — know whereof I am speaking." 

" What a dear little child he is, to be sure !" laughlBd 
Isa. " Is it Selim, the son of Amer, whose eyes are 
like the singwe of Urundi, and whose limbs are like 
ivory ? Eh, Khamis, my brother ? Is Selim, the son 
of Amer, turned a girl, ^that his ears court such music ? 
And if thou art of the complexion of ivory, what are 
we, I wonder — I, Isa, son of Mohammed, and Khamis, 
son of Khamis ?" 

While Selim was blushing crimson from shame at the 
mocking words of Isa, little Abdullah spoke up, and 
said, much to everybody's amusement except Isa's : 

" Why, Isa^ dost thou mean to say that Selim is not 



64 MY KALULU. 

good-looking ? I have often heard my father, Sheikh Mo- 
hammed, say he wished I was as good-looking as Selim 
the son of Amer, though he thought I was every bit as 
good. And, Isa — now — don't be angry. I — I don't 
think thee good-looking at all. Thou art almost as 
black as Simba, and " 

" Liar !" thundered Isa, directing a blow at Abdullah, 
which was happily warded by Elamis, who, though 
ever ready to lift the whip against stupid slaves, was 
averse to see an Arab beaten. Isa, however, darting 
behind Ehamis aimed another blow at Abdullah ; but 
Abdullah, probably seeing that he was very angry, and 
would strike a serious blow, took to his heels running 
round the fire, chased by the infuriate Isa. As Isa passed 
near one side of the fire, Niani, the little negro boy 
called Monkey, who had hitherto been very quiet, see- 
ing a chance to assist Abdullah, who had praised Selim, 
thrust his foot forward; and Isa, too much occupied 
in watching the manoeuvres of Abdullah, struck his shins 
against the obstacle, and came heavily to the ground. 

A shout of laughter greeted his fall ; but the amuse- 
ment of Selim was soon changed to real concern as he 
saw that Isa had quickly recovered himself, and had 
sprung upon Niani, and catching hold of him by the 
throat and legs, was carrying him to the great log-fire, 
to warm him, as he said. 

Niani struggled and screamed, but in vain. Isa's 
ears were closed against a little slave's cries, and he 
would probably have made good his threat had not 
Selim, Khamis, and Mussoud, aided by Simba and 
Moto, interfered, and cried out, " Enough, enough, son 
of Mohammed. Be not wrathful with a little slave." 



LITTLB NIANI IS ILL-TREATED. 65 

As Arabs dislike to see scuffling, or at least always 
interfere in cases of this kind, it is not to be wondered 
at Ehamis taking the part of Niani, or Simba and 
Moto exerting their manhood to prevent cruelty ; but 
Niani was not released scot-free ; he received several 
energetic slaps and kicks, which accelerated his de- 
parture to a safer distance. 

This incident broke up the meeting. Simba and 
Moto withdrew to their mats on each side of their 
master Amer's tent. Ehamis, Isa, and Mussoud re- 
tired to their respective parents' tents, and Selim 
entered the tent of Amer bin Osman. 

Sheikh Amer was seated on his mat in the tent, 
writing by the light of a single tallow candle on a large 
broad sheet of stiflf white paper ; but as Selim entered 
he put his papers by, and bending on his son an earnest 
and melancholy look, said : 

" My son, light of my soul and joy of my heart, come 
to me, and do thou sit by me that I may feel thy cheery 
presence. Dost thou know that my soul feels heavy 
to-night, as if some great affliction was about to visit 
me ?" 

" And what, my father," replied the boy, bending a 
loving look on him, " couldst thou fear ? Art thou 
not surrounded by kind friends and servants who love 
thee as their father ?" 

" Nay^ my son, it is not fear that I feel, but a vague 
foreshadowing of evil which none can feel save those 
who have much to lose. On whose head the evil will 
fall I know not, nor do I know from what direction the 
evil may come j but that evil is nigh in some indistinct 



66 MY KALIXLU. 

shape or another my soul knows, and it is that which 
has cast this passing cloud over it. But let us speak 
of other subjects. I have been occupied in writing 
letters to Zanzibar to my friends, telling them of the 
new route these wayward companions of ours have 
adopted, and giving directions about the disposition of 
my property. Thou knowest, Selim, my child, how I 
have always loved thee and treated thee, for thou art 
my hope and joy, and I may not hide it from thee. 
Should accident happen to me it will be well for me to 
warn thee now that thou hast an uncle from whom 
may Allah guard thee. He is a deep, designing man, 
though he is my brother. Should I die, thy uncle will 
endeavour to do thee harm, and it is against him I 
wish to guard thee." 

" But, father Amer, what harm can my uncle do me, 
and why should he wrong me, who have never done him 
wrong in word, or thought, or deed?" asked Selim, 
surprised at the tone of his father's voice and this 
revelation. 

• " Thou art but a child of tender years and but little 
aware of the amount of wickedness in this world. Thy 
uncle is an avaricious man, who would rob thee of thy 
birthright could he do it, and I believe him to be bad 
enough to injure thee in some covert way if it were 
possible. My property amounts to about fifty thou- 
sand dollars in slaves and land, and if I die, this pro- 
perty, by right of thy birth as eldest son, is thine 
wholly, and under no condition or restraint. Wert 
thou and thy mother to die it would become the pro- 
perty of my brother Bashid, who is a cunning and 
tinscrupulous man." 



SELIM, AND HIS FATHER. 67 

" Thou dost surprise me, my father ; but thou art 
well, and in good hopes of a long life. I hope thou wilt 
live a thousand years ; I am happy only in being thy 
son," answered Selim. 

" I know it, my son ; and if ever a dutiful child 
made the years of his father seem light, I have that 
child in thee, but it is well to be provident for those 
whom we love. For the rest, the will of God be done. 
There is another subject I wished to converse with thee 
upon, and that is thy marriage. Dost thou know 
Leilah ?" 

"What! Leilah, the daughter of Khamis bin Ab- 
dullah ?" asked Selim. 

" The same," answered Amer. 

" Surely, I know her. Have we not played together 
when we were children, and, now I bethink me, she is 
the loveliest girl at Zanzibar." 

" It is well," said Amer. " Leilah, the daughter of 
Khamis bin Abdullah is wedded to thee, and the settle- 
ments are made between friend Khamis and myself. 
Should evil happen to me — which God forefend — on thy 
return to Zanzibar, if thou art of age, seek thou 
Khamis or, in Khamis's absence, his kinsmen, and claim 
thou thy wife according unto the custom of thy tribe. 
I have prepared this future for thee that thou mayst 
not, like the degenerate Arabs at Zanzibar, seek a wife 
among strangers to thy race and tribe, and bring dis- 
grace upon the name of my father Osman. Thy kins- 
men are proud and belong to the pure Arab race, and 
they would not think well of my memory if I had 
neglected to warn thee of thy duty to me and the tribe 
of which Osman was so loved. Bear thou my words m 



68 MY KALULU. 

tliy mind, write them upon the tablets of thy heart, 
and obey. Dost thou promise ?" 

" As God liveth, and as thy soul liveth," responded 
Selim earnestly, " to hear is to obey. I shall cherish 
as a holy thing thy wish." 

" Then do thou retire and rest. These papers are to 
be committed to the care of two of my servants, who 
will return to Zanzibar to-morrow, when they will, upon 
arrival, present them to the Imam. God shield thee 
from evil, and may He avert it always from all of us," 
said Amer, as he resumed his work. 

" Amen and amen !" replied Selim ; and, after em- 
bracing his father, he quietly retired to his carpet to 
sleep the sleep of the innocent and young. 

At early dawn next morning the horns of the several 
kirangozis, or guides, of the respective caravans blew 
loud and cheerily, calling on all to prepare for the 
march. 

Before an hour had elapsed, the tents had been 
struck and folded, and each carrier, bearing his burden 
of cloth or beads (which were to be used for barter 
for ivory with the tribes in the far interior, or 
were, in the meanwhile, to purchase food as the caravan 
journeyed) or bearing the beds, and carpets, and 
rugs, cooking utensils, and despatch-boxes, was follow- 
ing his leaders as he stepped out briskly for the 
march. 

The Arab chiefs remained behind to bring up the 
rear, and then, giving their rifles in charge to their 
gun-bearers or favourite slaves, followed on the road 
their caravans had taken. 

The country before them broke out into knolls and 



I 



BEAUTIFUL SCBNEBY. 69 

tall cone-like hills, whose slopes were covered with here 
and there patches of dense jungle, or nourished young 
forests whose umbrage formed a most grateful shade 
during the heat of day. 

Soon they had passed the healthy, breezy hills which 
are but offshoots of the Uruguru range, and the land 
now sloped before them into the low, flat basin of the 
Wami river, which during the rainy season becomes 
one great swamp. 

But the season, at the time our travellers passed 
over the Makata Plain — as the basin is called — was 
soon after the effects of the violent monsoon had dis- 
appeared, in July, when the land presents an unusually 
bleached appearance ; the grass is crispy, ripe, and ex- 
tremely dry, the ground is seamed with ugly rents and 
gaps, and the rivers. Little Makata and Mbengerenga, 
are but little better than small rivulets. The caravans 
were therefore enabled to cross the breadth of the 
Makata Plain within two days, and arrived at Mbumi in 
TJsagara on the evening of the second day. 

From Mbumi, in the same order as before, avoiding 
the Mukondokwa Valley, the steep passes of Eubeho, 
and the desolate, forlorn-looking plains of Ugogo, the 
lengthy file of men-carriers, soldiers, and slaves- 
skirted the eastern end of the Mukondokwa range, and 
on the third day from Simbamwenni, arrived in a 
country which differed materially in aspect from that 
which they had just left. Mountains of a loftier alti- 
tude, in peak upon peak, in tier upon tier, range upon 
range, met the eye everywhere. Green trees covered 
their slopes in an apparently endless expanse of vege- 
tation. The sycamore, the tamarind, the be^^utiful 



70 MY KALTJLU. 

mimosa and kolqnal vied with each other in height 
and beanty, while a thousand other trees, shrnbs, 
plants, and flowers aided to give verdancy and fresh- 
ness to the scene. 

Down the hard, steep, rocky beds of granite and 
sandstone, with here and there basalt and porphyry, 
flint, and quartz, foamed the sparkling streams, which, 
when encountered on an African jonmey, give zest to 
the travel and add something to the pleasures of 
memory. A deep gaping fissure in a high jutting wall 
of rock, through which bubbled the clear water in 
volumes, or a great towering rock, with perpendicular 
walls, to which clung, despite the apparent impossi- 
bility, ferns, and plants, and moss, thick and velvety, 
or a conical hill, which ambitiously hid its head in 
clouds, were scenes to be treasured up when the march 
should hereafter become monotonous through excessive 
sameness of feature. 

When they were in camp and had rested, our young 
friends went into raptures over the bold beauty of 
mountain scenery, and Selim, and Abdullah, and Mus- 
soud were constantly heard uttering their exclamations 
of admiration. Selim especially, imbued as he was 
with the religious faith of his father, was filled with a 
loftier feeling than that youthful glow and exhilaration 
which his companions felt. Had he the power, he 
would like to have poured out his soul in fervid verse 
about tie grandeur, the indescribable beauty of Nature 
in her wildest and most prolific mood. But being 
as yet a boy, in whom the poetic instinct and feeling 
is strong, he said to his father, one day, as the scenery 
was unusually picturesc^ue : 



THE LAND FLOWING WITH MILK AND HONEY. 71 

" Hast thou ever, my father, during these days of 
travel over these great mountain-tops, thought that 
Palestine, the promised land, must be something like 
this ? The land flowing with milk and honey. Why, 
honey is already plentiful here — we need but the cows 
to furnish milk ; but if milk means the richness of 
earth, the never-dying fertility of the soil, look but 
once on this view now before us, and tell me, think you 
Palestine can be richer than this ? Why, I feel — I do 
not exactly know what — but it is something that if I 
have never been good or thankful to Allah for his good- 
ness to men, that I could be good for ever in future. 
Do you understand this feeling, father Amer, or is it 
singular in me?" 

" No, it is not singular, my dear son ; but go on, tell 
me what is in thy mind," replied Sheikh Amer, himself 
gazing on the revealed might of Nature. 

" I have also a feeling — as if I knew it for the first 
time — that this earth is large, very large, that it is 
immense, without limit or boundary, and that, conse- 
quently, God, who made all this, must be truly great. 
With the mountain air which I now inhale I seem to 
have imbibed something purer, more subtle ; yet that 
thing is capable of giving me more expansion. Why 
was it that, before coming to these mountains, I never 
thought upon this subject ? Why was it that, before 
to-day, I had no one thought of what might happen to- 
morrow, beyond what might happen to our caravan, or 
beyond what I should see on the road? Yet at this 
moment, though my eyes seem to rest upon this view 
of loveliness, I know I do not look upon its details or 
any particular object, but they seem to drink it all with 



72 MY KALULU. 

one look, and more, infinitely more, than is contained in 
the area before me. I seem to have eyes in my mind 
which haye a keener sight, more extended vision, greater 
power than the eyes of my head, which can see so far, 
and no further. Tet to the sight of the inner eyes, 
which see not, yet can see a thousand times vaster 
scene, a thousand times greater prospect is revealed. 
Hills, dales, mountains, plains, valleys, forests, rivers, 
lakes, seas, all lovely, and lovelier than what we see 
now, are comprehended within the scope of my hidden 
and unseen eyes. What is this new sight or feeling, 
my father ? Canst thou tell me ? " 

" Ah, my child, it is simply the awakening of the 
hitherto latent mind ; or thought, exercised by but a 
faint experience, has been touched by Nature, and 
begins to dawn," replied Amer. " God had endowed 
thee with the power of thought and of mind when he 
gave thee life. It was impossible that it could remain 
for ever hidden. The hour that a child begins to exer- 
cise his mind seeth him advanced a step nearer to 
manhood. It will kindle and expand as thou growest 
in years, and in each day's march 'thou wilt find fresh 
food for it. It remains with God and thine own nature 
to improve it with every breath of air thy lungs inhale. 
By diligently reading the Kuran and studying the pre- 
cepts of Mohammed — blessed be his name ! — thou wilt 
so protect that thought pure from evil as the tiny germ 
God implanted in thy breast at thy birth." 

" But tell me, father, one thing — it is difierent from 
that which thou hast been just telling me," asked 
Selim. " Thou knowest Simba and Moto are thy slaves. 
Is it right, or is it not, to own slaves ? " 



IS IT RIGHT OB WRONG TO OWN SLAVES? 73 

" It is right, certainly, my son. The Knran sanc- 
tions it, and it has been a custom from of old with our 
race to own slaves. What has prompted thee to sucka 
question? Is it another sign of the growth of thy 
mind ?" his father asked, with a smile. 

" I know not," replied Selim, bending his head like 
one who hesitated to speak his mind or was unable to 
comprehend the drift of his own thought. " But thou 
knowest Simba and Moto are good ; they love thyself 
and me exceedingly, and as I know better than others 
that thou art just, and lovest justice for its own sake, 
wouldst thou think it right to retain thy slaves in 
bondage if they thought it injustice to 4;hem ? " 

" Ha ! where is it possible thou couldst have gained 
such ideas, child ? But, never mind, since thy thoughts 
run so wild, I will answer thee," replied Amer. " No, 
it is not right in me, or any living man, to retain a 
slave in his possession, if the slave thinks it injustice, 
or if his slavery galls him ; neither is it fair that, after I 
have purchased him with my money, I should give him 
his liberty for the mere asking ; but strict justice would 
demand that I set a price of money on his head, or a 
term of labour equivalent to the money I paid for him ; 
and, on the payment of such money, or on the conclusion 
of such labour, that he be for ever freed from bondage. 
So says the Euran, and such is our law, and such has 
been my practice, and I would advise thee to do likewise 
when the time shall come." 

" I thank thee, my father ; it is all clear to me now. 
But stop ! barken to that sound ! What may that be ? 
Can it be the hyaena ? " 

" Yes, the hyaenas are out early this evening. They 



74 MT KALULXT. 

are linngry ; but, Selim, my son, haste to tell Simba and 
Moto to set the tent on that flat piece of ground near 
that great tree, and bid them to be sure to tnrn the door 
of the tent to-day towards the east." 

" Yes, my father ;" and Selim, the fleet-footed youth, 
agile as a young leopard, leaped over several bushes, as 
he ran to do his parent's bidding. 

The camp was situated on a limited terrace or shelf 
of ground rising above a body of water which more 
resembled a long narrow lake than a river. Yet it was 
the river Lofu, or Bufu, as some call it, which in the 
dry season, like many an African river, loses its cur- 
rent, and becomes a series of long narrow pools, which 
in some places may be compared to lakes for their 
length, according to the nature of the ground wherein 
these depressions are found. K the ground is rocky, or 
of clayey mud, the water is retained , instead of being 
absorbed, in which swarm multitudes of the sUwrus, or 
bearded mud-fish. Wherever mud-fish are abundant, 
crocodiles, the great fish-eating reptiles of the African 
water, are sure to be found ; and wherever crocodiles are 
found one is almost sure to find the hippopotamus, the 
behemoth of Scripture ; not because crocodiles and hip- 
popotami hanre any affinity with each other, but because 
the soil, which retains the water during the hot days of 
the droughty season, is almost sure to produce in the 
vicinity of the pools abundance of rich grass and tall 
cane, the food of the hippopotamus. 

About two hours before sunset, soon after camp- 
ing, Selim, accompanied by Simba and two other men, 
named Baruti and Mombo, sallied out of the camp with 
his faithful rifle on his shoulder to hunt for game. 



THE FBABPUL GBOGODILE. 75 

The party travelled towards the upper end of the 
narrow lake the caravan had camped by. Matete cane, 
spear, and tiger grass, in profusion, grew near this end, 
and beyond lay a thin jungle, the borders of which 
touched the water line. It was to this jungle they 
directed their steps, for Simba had judged that it was 
a promising place for such sport as Selim desired. 

When the party arrived in the jungle they found the 
place so delightfully cool, that they could not resist the 
inclination to rest awhile and cool themselves after the 
labour and toil of going through the long grass. 

Simba and Selim sought the deeper shade of a mam- 
moth and far-spreading tamarind tree, while Baruti 
sought a place about thirty yards from the tamarind, 
and Mombo, fatigued with the long journey over the 
mountains that day, reclined under a young mimosa 
near the water's edge. 

The coolness of the retreat, the silence which pre- 
vailed, and the weariness which had come over their 
tired frames soon induced sleep. 

They had not been in this condition long, before the 
reader, had he or she been there surveying the scene, 
might have heard the faintest sound of a ripple on the 
water, and have seen a crocodile's head stealthily rise 
above the surface, the eyes, cold and fixed, gazing over 
the slightly protuberant nose, to the spot where Mombo 
lay. A few minutes the crocodile thus lay still as a 
heavy sappy log, more than three-fourths buried in the 
water, but almost imperceptibly the heavy body became 
buoyant, until the lengthy form, with great ridgy scales 
marking the line of its spine, lay half uncovered. With- 
out a movement of the long powerful tail, and with but 



76 MY KALTJLU. 

the faintest motion of his heavy, broad, short legs, he 
propelled himself towards the shore. 

A minute he rested there, still as death. One could 
not have sworn that it was an animal, though one 
might have been sure, provided no one suggested a 
cause for doubt. He then lifted his long head, but 
with the same cautious movement which always charac- 
terises this stealthy, cowardly creature of the African 
deeps, then his enormously long body, until he re- 
sembled a huge log, propped up by four short pins — 
the legs appeared so. out of proportion. Anybody at 
first glance would have seen that in the great, un- 
wieldy form lay tremendous power. The trunk of the 
largest elephant that was ever born would not equal 
in size that long tail, which seemed, on account of its 
length and weight, slightly bent towards the ground 
at the tip. 

Having again halted, he moved forward silently, with 
a slightly waddling motion ; and as he approached the 
sleeping form of Mombo, his movements were as slow 
and cautious as those of a leopard before springing 
upon its prey; but the monster made one hurried, 
convulsive movement forward, the lower jaw was run 
under the sleeping man's leg, and the upper jaw came 
down with a sound like a well-oiled and sound steel 
spring, and the crocodile swung the limp, warm body 
around, as a man would swing a cat by the tail. But 
this swinging movement proved to be poor Mombo's 
salvation, for he was thus swung against a strong 
young tree, to which he now clung with the strong 
tenacity of a man who clings for life, while he gave 
vent to the full power of his lungs in cries so alarming 



KABBOW ESCAPE FBOM DEATH. 77 

and shrill that they were heard at the camp of the 
caravans two miles off. Selim, Simba, and Barnti 
realised the scene in an instant ; they saw the great 
reptile, horrible and hideous as a nightmare, tugging 
violently at the leg of the unfortunate man, whose 
screams pierced their ears, and whose arms almost 
cracked as he held on with such a fierce grip to the 
strong young sapling, and they saw that had it not 
been for its fortunate proximity to him they had never 
seen Mombo more. 

Simba was the first to recover himself, for Selim and 
Baruti stood as men transfixed. 

" Now, master," said he, " your gun — quick ! or he 
will run away. Aim at once ; but be cool, or you will 
kill Mombo. Aim just at his throat, as you see his 
head lifted up. There, son of Amer, you have slain the 
brute ! Ah ! he is trying to escape. Hyah ! on, Baruti ; 
your speao man ! Eun ! come with me, and catch hold 
of his tall. Two of us can hold him, I think, or delay 
him at least until he dies. There — take that, you 
beast !" he shouted as he hurled his broad-bladed spear 
full through his side, behind the fore leg, into his vitals, 
which stretched the monster lifeless after one or two 
convulsive efforts. 

Baruti, encouraged by Simba's powerful voice, which 
roared through the wood in accents so cheery, had 
at first boldly dashed at the crocodile's tail ; but re- 
ceiving a tremendous thwack on his side from the 
mighty tail, which was swung about as though it were 
a well-handled flail — which almost fractured every rib 
in his body — now stood by, looking fearfully punished 
and sore. 



78 MY KALULU. 

When the monster had ceased to breathe, Selim and 
Simba, attracted by the inoans of Mombo, hastened to 
him to examine his condition. 

" Poor fellow !" said Selim. " See Simba, the leg is 
stripped to the bone. What a savage reptile the croco- 
dile is ! Do you think Mombo will live,' Simba ? For 
after this I should not like to see him die ; it would 
seem as if my big bullet had done no good after all." 

" He will live, Inshallah ! Inshallah ! (Please God ! 
Please God !) Mombo will live to jbell the story to his 
children on the island when he is an old man and past 
work. You know the hakim (doctor) with us is wise 
and learned, and, Inshallah ! Mombo, after a few days, 
will be all right. Sho! Mombo die? No, master; 
Mombo will live to laugh at this. But we must carry 
him to the camp that the hakim may dress his wounds. 
Come, Baruti, man — cease your cries. Take your 
hatchet and cut young straight trees down while I 
prepare some rope whereon Mombo may be carried. 
You, young master, may cut a piece of the crocodile's 
tail to show your father Amer, who will be proud of 
what you have done." 

They all three set to work. Baruti cut two young 
trees, which he barked. Simba made use of the bark 
as rope, and in a short time a comfortable bed had been 
made, on which Mombo was carefully lifted, and ,in a 
few moments, Selim having secured his trophy, the 
three friends set out briskly on their return to camp. 

Young Selim, who had "bagged" his first game, 
was highly gratified by the praise bestowed on him by 
his father and his father's people, and the braggart 
Isa was the only one of his boy-fellows who refused to 



THE BEWARD OF BELIM*S COURAGE. 79 

say a kind word in commendation of the feat. Noble 
young Khamis, on the other hand, did not stint his 
appreciation of it, and yonthful Abdullah and Mus« 
soud hung about Selim as though he were some sud- 
denly-discovered hero. The chieftain Khamis bin 
Abdullah, the noble leader of the united caravans, took 
from his waist a gold-hafted curved dagger as a token 
of his esteem, and Sheikh Mohammed presented him 
with a crimson silk sash to put around his waist. 
Sultan bin Ali, the patriarch of the expedition, who 
was the very type of a venerable Arab chief, gave him 
out of his treasure a red fez-cap with a golden tassel, 
and Sheikh Mussoud gave him a Muscat turban of a 
rich cherry pattern, so that Selim, before night, was 
arrayed in costly garments. 

The slaves among themselves did Selim honour by 
praising him around the camp-fires, and Halimah, the 
black woman-cook of Amer bin Osman, as she turned 
\her ugali (porridge), declared, by this and by that, 
that Selim was the noblest, sweetest lad she had ever 
seen. 

Selim would have slept that night the sleep of 
those who do praiseworthy actions, had he not been 
awakened at midnight by a loud shriek from one of his 
father's slaves, whose right cheek was completely ripped 
off by a prowling hysena. The disturbance in the dead 
hour of night alarmed some of the younger slaves, but 
they were calmed by the wise and experienced Moto, 
who said sententiously that " the hyaena is a cowardly 
brute, who would run away at the sight of a child in 
the daytime, and who could only fight sleeping or dead 
men." 



80 MY KALULU. 

After these incidents^ which occurred at the stagnant 
pools of the Lofu, the caravans continued^ their march 
uninterruptedly until they arrived among the Wahehe, 
a tribe of predatory people who live south of the great 
arid plain country of •?Ugogo. 

The first night, before going to sleep after their 
arrival in Uhehe, the kirangozi of Khamis bin Ab- 
dullah rose up at the command of his master — and 
spoke out in a loud voice to the united caravans : 

" Words, words, words ! Listen, ye children of the 
Arabs, sons of the great chiefs, Ehamis bin Abdullah, 
Amer bin Osman, Sultan bin Ali, the Sheikhs Mussoud, 
Abdullah, Bashid, Hamdan, Thani, and Nasib ! Open 
your ears, ye people of Zanzibar ! Ye are among the 
Wahehe. Ye are in the land of thieves, and night- 
prowlers. Be wary and alert, my friends ; sleep with 
one eye open ; let not your hands forget your guns. 
When ye meet the prowling Wahehe in your camps at 
night, shoot and kill all such. Do ye hear ?" 

" We do," was answered by six hundred voices. 

" Do ye understand ?" he again asked. 

" Yes," they all replied. 

" It is well ; the kirangozi Kingaru, slave of Khamis 
bin Abdullah, has spoken." 

For two days they travelled through Uhehe without 
molestation, but on the evening of the third day Sheikh 
Amer commanded his tent-pitchers to set his tent close 
against the hedge of brush and thorn (which always 
surrounds a camp in Africa when it is procurable), for 
the convenience of his household, the members of which 
could thus by a slight gap pass in and out freely to the 
pool to get water or to procure wood for the fire, with- 



8IMBA ON THE ALEKT. 81 

« 

ont being compelled to traverse the length of the 
camp. 

A couple of hours before dawn, when people sleep 
heaviest, and their slumbers are supposed to be soundest, 
Simba, who always slept lightly at night, because of 
the responsible cares which a just and faithful con- 
science ever imposed on him, was awakened by the 
crushing of a twig. He never stirred, but continued 
his regular breathing as before, and compelled his ears 
to do their duty to the utmost. After a little time his 
quickened hearing was rewarded by the sound of a 
human foot pressing softly, yet heavily, the ground 
near him. The gap, left imprudently open, which 
fronted the tent door of Amer bin Osman, was that to 
which his cautious gaze was directed. By the light of 
the stars, which shine in Africa with unusual light, he 
saw the very faintest resemblance to a human figure, 
which held in one hand something darker than its own 
body, yet not so long, and in the other a long staff, at 
one end of which there was a cold glimmer of faint 
light, or reflection of light, which he supposed at once, 
and rightly,' to be a spear. That human figure was 
that of an intruder. A friend had never stood so long 
in that gap, or advanced so stealthily. A wild beast 
would have advanced with as much circumspection and 
caution — why not a human enemy ? The instincts of 
both man and beast are the same in the silence of night, 
when about to act hostilely. 

Simba still lay seemingly unconscious of duty — ^un- 
conscious of the danger which menaced the occupants 
of his master's tent ; but could that human enemy have 
seen through the gloomy mist of night those large. 



82 MY KALULH. 

watchful eyes of the recamhent form stretched abnost 
within reach of him, he had snrely hesitated hefore 
advancing another step towards that open tent-door. 

All seemed still, and the figure bent down and 
moved in a crawling posture towards the open door, 
wherein lay Selim and his father, unconscious of the 
dangerous presence of an armed intruder. But Simba's 
eyes were not idle, though silent. What thing on 
earth does its work so quietly as the eye ? They fol- 
lowed the crawling form unwinkingly, until it had half 
entered the open door ; then Simba raised his head, 
finally his body, upright to its full gigantic height. 
The feet of the daring intruder were within tempting 
reach of those long muscular arms if he but stooped, 
and Simba knew it. He stood up one short second or 
so, as if he summoned threefold strength with the lung- 
ful of air he but halted to inhale ; then quickly stooping, 
he caught hold of the robber's feet, and giving utter- 
ance to a loud triumphant cry, swung him two or three 
times around his head, and dashed his head against the 
great fiat stone on which, a few hours before, the woman- 
cook, Halimah, had ground her master's corn, and then 
tossed him lifeless over the hedge of the camp as carrion! ! 

In an instant, as it were, the camp was awake, and 
fires burned brightly everywhere. The cause of the 
disturbance was soon made known all over the camp, 
and curious men came rushing by the score to the 
scene of the tragedy, to gaze upon the victim of his 
own savage lust for plunder or murder. Amer bin 
Osman, when he heard the explanation of Simba, took 
a torch, and followed by Selim and others, went to gaze 
upon the dead man. One look satisfied him that the 



THE BEWABD OF SIMBA's FIDELITT. 83 

man was a Mhehe, who had armed himself with a long 
oval-shaped shield, broad-bladed spear, and battle-axe, 
for a desperate enterprise. 

When Amer raised his head, he seemed to be study- 
ing what the intention of the man might have been, 
and he retraced his steps backwards to the tent-door, 
and looked in, as if to consider what might have been 
done, or stolen, had he succeeded in his attempt. 
Then, looking at Selim's pale face, who had also arrived 
at the same opinion as his father, a grateful look stole 
over his features ; he said to his son with a smile : 

" Well, boy, thou hast to thank Simba for thy safety, 
for thy head lay uncomfortably near that door ; and 
hadst thou awakened, thy life had not been worth 
much. What hast thou to say to Simba, Selim ?" 

The boy turned his large bright eyes upon Simba's 
face, which glowed with honest pride and affection, and 
then they measured the giant limbs, the tremendous 
arms, and the broad heaving chest, and to his father's 
question propounded another, which rather startled his 
father : 

^^ Simba is a great strong man, but whom dost 
thou value more, father — thy son Selim or ^thy slave 
Simba?" 

" Why, son of mine, what a question ! Art thou not 
the child of my loins, and of my dear Amina ? and have 
I ever failed in my love for thee ?" 

" Never — no, never, dear father ; but Simba has given 
thy son back again to thee, else had I been dead. Has 
Simba paid thee full valuation for the purchase-money 
thou didst pay for him when he was a child ?" 

" Simba is good ; but had I lost thee, I had surely 



84 MY KAXULU. 

lost all. Thou hast said it, my child. Simba is free, 
and is no longer a slave of Amer bin Osman." 

"Simba!" cried Selim, "good Simba, do you hear 
the words of my father ? Yoti are a man, and no longer 
a slave !" 

Simba at first did not seem to comprehend the full 
meaning of the words addressed to him, but as the 
words of the boy whose life he had saved were re- 
peated to him, a proud smile lit his features, and as he 
tossed his head back, while his nostrils dilated, he said : 

" A slave ! It is an ugly word ; but Simba, of the 
Wahuma, of XJrundi, was in his own mind never a slave, 
so the word troubled him. Simba might long ago have 
been free, had he wished it, but he loved his master, 
Amer, and Sheikh Amer's son ; so he remained their 
servant, and while being their servant he never forgot 
that he was a man. Simba is grateful to Amer and his 
son Selim, and while he remembers that he is free, 
Simba will be happy only in remembering also that he 
is their servant ;" saying which, he bent his knee and 
kissed the right hand of father and son. 

" Ah, Simba, my friend !" cried Selim, " I shall call 
thee friend in future, and thou shalt say ' thou ' to me, 
and I ' thou * to thee, as my father and I say to each 
other ; and if thou art grateful, Selim has also a heart, 
and can feel." 

"Then, boys," said Amer, breaking in upon this 
interchange of compliments, " to bed, and sleep your 
sleep out. Let a watch be kept, lest the Wahehe 
robbers come to avenge the dead dog of a thief, and 
upon the first appearance of anything suspicious, sound 
the alarm instantly." 



THE DEAD MABAUDEB. 85 

The night passed without farther alarm or dis- 
turbance of any kind, and at the usual hour of the 
morning the signal horns aroused the camp for the 
fatigue of another day's march. 

As the caravans were about leaving their camp, a 
group of Wahehe strolled up carelessly, similarly armed 
to the one who had met his fate so suddenly at the 
hands of Simba. As they were advancing towards the 
central gate of the camp, their quick eyes caught sight 
of the dead body of their comrade, and hastening 
towards it, they regarded it with wonder depicted on 
their faces. On stooping down to examine the head, 
they found it elongated into a hideous, formless shape, 
and not being able to contain their surprise^ they 
questioned as to why and how it all came about. 

Said Moto, who had keenly noted these signs, and 
had approached the group to answer their expected 
queries, " Ah, my brothers ! some men are bad, very 
bad, and fools. What could have possessed this man to 
try and rob a caravan of 600 armed souls, I cannot say, 
unless it was the evil spirit. Do you see that big man 
with the great battle-axe in his belt, and a long ivory 
horn slung to his shoulder ? That big man caught this 
thief in the tent of Amer bin Osman : he seized him by 
the feet, and whirling him around, he brought his head 
down flat on that stone." 

" Eyah ! eyah !" said the astonished Wahehe. He 
must be the evil spirit himself; but all thieves should 
die, and if, as you say, this man was caught at night in 
the camp, he has earned his death." 

" Say you so, my brothers ?" said Moto ; " then it is 
well. But listen to me; if the wind came to steal in 



86 MY KAIiULU. 

OTir camp that big man would know it. He seems 
never to sleep, never to rest ; he could smell a Mhehe 
at night afar off." 

" Eyah, eyah, ey — eyah ! ! He must be the evil 
spirit." Saying which they departed, muttering to 
themselves and looking very mnch crestfallen. 

The caravans journeyed on for several days after the 
incidents just related without meeting anything worthy 
of note in these pages. The western part of XJhehe is 
very uninteresting ; one march follows another through 
the same triste scenery. A long reach of country to 
the right and the left, covered with short ripe grass, 
dotted with a ragged clump of thorn-bush here and 
there, or a solitary baobab stem, unbending in its vast 
girth and thickness of twigs, along met the wearied 
eyes of the travellers. The Wahehe, the southern 
Wagogo, mixed with a stray Wakimbu family or two, 
permitted such a large caravan to pass without molesta- 
tion, so that the march was getting exceedingly mono- 
tonous. But when, after crossing an unusually arid 
plain of some extent, they saw before them a long line 
of white rocky bluffs, the people began to whisper 
among themselves that " beyond those bluffs lay the 
lands of the populous Warori, who are mostly shep- 
herds, and will not, if in the mood to quarrel, regard 
our numbers or strength." 

It was the tenth week of the departure of the 
Arabs from Simbamwenni when the above-mentioned 
bluffs were crossed, and the pastoral country of the 
Warori extended far before them in a succession of 
wooded hollows, bare uplands, and jungle-covered plains. 

Those who knew Moto, the slave of Amer bin Osman, 



THE HEBOE wabosi. 87 

were startled at the remarkable physical resemblance 
he bore to the majority of the shepherds and yillagerSy 
who grouped themselves along the road to wonder at 
the wealth of the Arab cararans, and to make their 
rustic comments upon what they did not understand. 

The Warori, however, did not seem disposed to dis- 
pute Iheir advance, but stood contentedly gazing at 
the strange sight of some of the whiter faces among 
the Arabs. For instance, Khamis bin Abdullah and 
his son Khamis, Amer bin Osman and his son Selim, 
and the boys Abdullah and Mussoud. This paleness 
of complexion became often a matter of eager specula- 
tion, and as those* who, fortunately or unfortunately, 
possessed white faces passed by, the straining of eyes 
and the narrow scrutiny were amusing to witness, and 
afforded Selim m^re especially some discomfort at first. 
The shepherds and villagers furthermore willingly 
bartered whatever the Arabs wished for red beads and 
American domestic. Milk, butter, and eggs were 
plentiful, which, to the Arab boys, were rare treats 
after the dry heat and desolate aspect of Western 
Uhehe. The arms which these shepherds carried were 
far more formidable than anything they had hitherto 
seen in the hands of savages. Their bows were longer 
and heavier, and their arrows longer and more cruelly 
barbed, and besides a lengthy broad-bladed spear, 
which resembled a broad Boman sword fastened to a 
staff, and half a dozen lighter spears — assegais — and a 
battle-axe, they carried a knife which might be likened 
to a broadsword for length and breadth. 

On the sixth day after their entrance into Urori, the 
caravans came within sight of a large palisaded village 



88 MT KALULCT. 

called Ewikuru, or the capital. It contained abont 
eight hundred huts, strongly protected by a lofty fence 
of hard red wood. This village was protected on one 
side by a stream of considerable magnitude. On the 
other side of the village was a grove of fine trees 
situated from it a distance of about 1000 yards. Into 
this grove the Arabs marched to encamp. 

Kwikuru, or the capital, was a good distinction awarded 
to the village, or town rather, for its size and impor- 
tance ; for, next to Simbamwenni, it was the most popu- 
lous place they had found in Africa. Cattle grazed by 
the thousand a little distance off from the grove, 
attended by watchful and well-armed herdsmen. The 
lowing of the cows, and the bleating of the sheep and 
goats, and the braying of a few large donkeys, were 
welcome sounds to travellers, to whom such sights in 
Africa were rare. And the long extent of well-tilled 
ground, in which grew the Indian corn, the manioc, the 
holciia sorghum, the sugar-cane, and plantain, with 
abundance of vegetables and melons, enhanced the 
pleasure the Arabs' people naturally felt, unaccustomed 
as they were, since leaving Zanzibar, to feast their eyes 
upon such scenes. 

Late in the afternoon, after the Arab chiefs had, with 
commendable caution, constructed a dense hedge of 
bush and branches around their camp, they called a 
meeting to discuss the measures they should take to 
open friendly communication with the formidable 
citizens of Kwikuru. 

When they were all assembled, the leader Khamis 
said to them : 

"My friends, we are at last in Urori, where I 



THE ARAB OOUNGIL. 89 

suspect we shall have to conduct ourselves differently 
from what we have been accustomed to. I mean that 
I fear that tribute may be exacted by the King, and I 
have called you here to advise prudence, and to ask 
you to use tact in all your dealings with them. We 
may have to pay a heavy tribute, for this King is 
evidently powerful and rich, and a mean present of 
cloth I expect he will refuse." 

" Khamis," said Sultan bin Ali, " thou hast done well 
to advise us upon this beforehand. "What amount of 
cloth dost thou think will suffice this man's greed? 
We may be liberal, for we can afford it, but we have 
not one doti (four yards) of cloth too much." 

The chief answered, "I do not know as yet what 
amount will suffice, but let us begin prudently, for in 
that course is wisdom. I suggest that six doti be made 
up ; two doti (eight yards) of Joho cloth for the King, 
two doti of light checks for his wife, one doti of Muscat 
check with the red and yellow borders for his eldest 
son, and one doti of good Kaniki (blue cotton) for the 
principal elder." 

" That idea seems excellent to me," said Sultan bin 
Ali, " and Amer, thou hast a cunning slave called 
Moto, a Mrori, I believe; let him and another good 
man take the cloths to the King with words of friend- 
ship from us, that we may pass through the country in 
tranquillity and peace with all men." 

This advice meeting the approbation of all the chiefs, 
Moto, accompanied by the kirangozi of Khamis bin 
Abdullah, who was learned in all the languages of 
Eastern Central Africa, sallied out of the camp in the 
direction of Kwikuru, while the Arabs sat in the tent 



90 HY KALUX.V. 

of their leader, hospitably entertained with the best 
that the larder conld famish. 

An hour had barely elapsed before Moto and the 
kirangozi, or gnide, returned to the camp ; and going 
directly to the principal tent, kneeled before the door 
and said to the Arabs : 

" Salaam Aleikom !" (Peace be nnto you.) To which 
greeting the Arabs responded with one voice : 

" Aleiknm Salaam !" (And nnto you be peace.) 

"Well, Moto, speak," said Ehamis. "Why, you 
have brought the present back! You have been 
unsuccessful ?" 

" These are the King's words, which he commanded 
me to tell you : * Why have you come to my country ? 
Know you not that there is enmity between the Warori 
and the children of the Arabs ? Mostana, the great 
chief whom the cruel traders slew, was my friend ; and 
can I forget his death with such a contemptible present 
as that which you have brought to me ? Geo slaves, 
and tell your masters that, unless they send me fifty 
bales of cloth, and fifty guns, with twenty barrels of 
gunpowder, they must return the way they came.' 
These, my masters, are the words which Olimali bade 
us tell you." 

A deep silence followed this declaration of the King 
of Kwikuru, and the Arabs instinctively looked at one 
another in surprise and dismay. 

Sheikh Mohammed, the black-browed Arab, resolute 
and determined as he always was, first broke the silence 
with the question, directed to Moto : 

"Have you regarded well this village of Olimali?" 

" I have, master," said Moto. 



IS IT WAB, OB PEACE? 91 

" Is it strong ? Speak, for I respect your opinion, 
Moto." 

"It is strong, master, much too strong for ns to 
attack it with onr people. I£ the Warori come out of 
their village they could not take this camp while our 
men remained within. 

"That is well spoken, Moto," replied Mohammed; 
and turning to Sheikh Khamis, he asked : 

" Hast thou decided what to do, son of Abdullah ? " 

" Mashallah ! my friend, can I decide upon so import- 
ant a subject as giVing away thy property to tHs greedy 
infidel ? ])iay his soul perish in Al Hotamah ! Does he 
think that cloth, and guns, and powder grow in the 
jungles of Africa ? But this is serious, and we must 
set on our heads the caps of wisdom and understanding 
to consider the determination of Olimali. Speak, friends, 
Arabs of Muscat and chiefs of Zanzibar, my ears are 
open." 

Out spoke Amer bin Osman : " Do you think, Moto, 
if we offered half he would accept ?" 

" No, master, I do not. I think Olimali desires war 
and not peace, and if he thought you would send fifty 
bales of cloth, he would ask for fifty more. I heard the 
people talk, as I left the King's presence, of war. My 
ears are very sharp." 

" War !" shouted Mohammed, " then war he shall 
have, and I shall have the pleasure to put light through 
his body with my good Shiraz sword;" and Sheikh 
Mohammed looked as fierce as his threat. 

" Peace, Mohammed, my friend," said Sultan bin Ali. 
"It is not everyone who trusteth in his sword flourisheth. 
I think there are more ways of tiding over this evil 



92 XT KALULC. 

hoar than by war, even if we ^rere doably strong with 
men and gnns. Let ns act pnidently in the hour of 
danger," * 

"Snltan bin Ah is right" sud Sheilh Tbani. 
" Bather let ns try all pacific measaree first, aad let 
war be the last lesonrce. We have slaves, and women, 
and tittle ones in the camp, besides mnch property. 
We must remember this before we act hastily." 

" Thani has spoken well, and with nuderstapding ; 
and I propose that we send forty good cloths and forty 
ordinary clothB, besides an odd gun or two, with half a 
keg of powder to Olimali by Hoto and the Hrangozi, 
who will speak him fairly and with dne respect," said 
the leader, Ehamis. 

" I do not go again," said Moto. " What I have seen 
in the village, and what my ears have heard are no 
light things, and I wonld ask permission from my master 
to remain." 

"Well, never mind, any man will do who has a 
smooth tongne and fair speech," said Ehamis. " Let 
the kiraugozi choose whom he will take, and let him go 
with the cloth." 

A man was readily fonnd, who, ignorant of the 
danger, had no reason to refuse to go npon the errand 
which the always bold Moto had refused. 

Dnt oven as the gnide and his companioD were leav- 

iiiir the camp Moto saw he had acted wisely, for 

e being driven towards the village with 

ditioQ than the time of day warranted ; 

a tongne, not wishing to alarm the camp 

. the movemeofs of the kirangoti and hia 



rr IS wab! 93 

companion with exceeding interest nntil they had arrived 
at the gate, where they were halted ; and after a short 
panse^ he saw the two men returning towards the camp. 

Proceeding to the gate of the camp, he there awaited 
the arrival of the kirangozi, and when he was near 
enough Moto quietly asked of him : 

" Is it peace, or war ? " 

" War ! " 

He needed to hear no more, for he had been certain 
of it, and he went directly to his friend Simba to com- 
municate the news, who received it with surprise. 

" War, Moto ? Then our fears, my friend, have turned 
out true, and it is because of the battle which thou wert 
in with Eisesa against Mostana, eh ? " 

" Yes, Simba ; and wouldst thou believe it ? I saw two 
or three fellows eye me pretty hard, and it was for that 
I refused to go the second time ; for if they had known 
to a certainty that I was in that battle thou wouldst 
never have seen Moto again, friend Simba." 

During the greater part of that night the Arabs sat 
in council, debating how to proceed ; but not agreeing, 
they separated for the night, not, however, without 
posting sentinels all around the camp under the charge 
of Sheikh Thani. 



94 JIT KiLvva. 



CHAPTEE IV. 

Khamis's Address to the Arabs — ^Pwposals for Attack on Kwikuru — 
Simba splits the Gate from Top to Bottom— The Warori Chief 
shot — ^Death of Ehamis bin Abdullah — Amer bin Osman pierced 
by an Arrow — Selim made Prisoner — Selim brutally lashed by 
Tifum — The three Arab-boys brought before Ferodia — SeUm 
refuses to drink or dance — ^Abdullah refuses to be called a Slave 
— Flight of Sultan bin Ali — Division of the Spoils — ^The Magio 
Drink : Mutilation of the Dead— The Chant of the Magio Doctors. 

The yonng people who have been fortunate in buying 
this book may not have experience of the battle-field, and 
therefore may not know what the feelings and thoughts 
of those who are about to stake their liye^ against the 
lives of others for the victory in the bloody contest are. 
The feeling is the same in all men, whether white or 
black, though some natures are so constituted that they 
are enabled to hide feelings which some say partake 
largely of fear. But I deny that such indicate fear, 
though, left to themselves, they might create fear. In 
the Arab camp, as report and rumour had been busy at 
the camp-fires, a feeling of dread predominated in all 
minds, but had there been one chief of resolution, with 
power unlimited over all, a few words of cheer had done 
wonders in improving the tone of their minds. 

Khamis bin Abdullah was a brave man; no man 
might deny that ; but his bravery was undisciplined ; it 
was uncultivated ; it was the bravery of a wild but 



EHAMIS'S ADBBESS TO THE ABABS. 95 

noble heart. He had not seen so many battle-fields 
that he could afford to smile at the declaration of Oli- 
mali ; he had not the experience of war which would 
haye satisfied him that, however large and numerous the 
force of Olimali was, he had resources enough in him- 
self to defeat them all. Ehamis bin Abdullah could 
die himself, but he could not bring others to look upon 
death with calmness and courage. So that, despite the 
high-spirited courage of his race, which he eminently 
possessed, the truth must be told without any disparage- 
ment to himself; a feeling of depression, some undefined 
dread, remained settled in his breast, though his outer 
aspect, his mien, or behaviour, did not betray this. 

As it was with Khamis, so was it with the other 
chiefs. Amer bin Osman was as brave as a lion, but he 
could not depend upon his people as he could depend 
upon himself personally, and this thought created the 
dread, and doubt, and apprehension of something un- 
definable, which all the chiefs at this critical moment 
felt. 

Sheikh Mohammed, Sultan bin Ali, and the rest 
were as brave as any living men. Had there been only 
one hundred Arabs, a doubtful issue of the war would 
never have been entertained; but there were only 
twelve Arabs and six hundred black men; and how 
long would the black men stand together ? 

At sunrise, another meeting was called, and the Arab 
chiefs, with their sons, hastened to the council. 

Ehamis, the leader, when all had been seated, said : 

" My friends, the last words of Olimali, according to 
my kirangozi, were that the Arabs need not try to 
tempt him to forego his revenge, but that we must pre- 



96 MY KALULU. 

pare for war. We can easily prepare for war, for we 
are always ready ; but we must endeavour to sustain 
each other by friendly counsel and cheering words; 
for in a fatal issue to us of this war we know what 
the fate of us true believers will be. We can hold out 
in our camp against four times the number that Oli- 
mali may bring against us. We are weak, however, 
in this country, because we have no friends to supply 
us with food, and it is not a little that will suffice to 
feed six hundred souls. The men had no food yester- 
day, they have none to-day ; they cannot hold out long 
in the camp against hunger. In this case what do you 
propose ?" 

Sultan bin Ali spoke and said, " Our answer has been 
given to us, and there is no longer any doubt of what 
we have to do. We must fight, but how fight is the 
question. Shall we await here in the camp the coming 
of the infidel savages, or shall we sally out of the 
camp and attack them in their boma (palisade) ?" 

Sheikh Mohammed answered, " We cannot remain in 
the camp to starve and eat each other ; we must go out 
and get cattle, while a few of us stop inside here to 
strengthen the camp with branches. I would suggest 
also that a trench be dug all around the camp, and the 
earth thrown against the hedge as a parapet. Walla^i ! 
I have seen such things done in Unyanyembe, and the 
enemy beaten." 

"Mohammed's words are well spoken," said Amer 
bin Osman. " I would advise eleven of us sally out 
with our men, and one Arab remain with one hundred 
men, who will stir themselves to strengthen the de- 
fences with our cloth bales and baggage ; and if we 



PEOPOSALS FOR ATTACK ON KWIKUBU. 97 

have to fall back, we shall find a strong place ready for 
ns.. We can harry those infidels ; though they may be 
hidden behind triple rows of palisades, some of our 
bullets will reach them. Thanks to Allah ! we have 
enough ammunition with us." 

"Very good indeed," said Sheikh Thani, a wiry, 
cautious old man, who had had much experience in 
Africa ; " but supposing we are beaten in our attack 
upon the palisades of Kwikuru, we shall not be any 
better off than we were before, but worse; our men 
will get disheartened, and starvation will stare us in 
the face. I propose that five hundred men, divided 
into two parties, make for the gates as quickly as pos- 
sible, and break open everything with all the speed we 
can. It is only in this way that we can succeed." 

"The oldest among ye have spoken," said the 
leader Khamis, "and ye have spoken well. But I 
have been in Urori before, and know the customs of the 
Warori. If we succeed in taking this village of Kwi- 
kuru, we cannot hope to be permitted to march through 
this country any more ; but as soon as we take it we 
must strike along the road to Unyanyembe. It is 
useless for me to tell ye that I advised ye at first 
not to take the Urori road. I shall not quarrel with 
ye about that now, but will try to do my best for our 
general safety. If we succeed in destroying Olimali 
and his people, we must begin our march north to 
Unyanyembe to-night, for in two days the fugitives 
will carry the news from one end of the country 
to another." 

" Excellently spoken, bravo Khamis," said Amer bin 
Osman. "Thou hast a wise head, and art a worthy 

H 



98 MY KALT7LU. 

leader. Do thou, with thy men and other chiefs, attack 
one gate, and I, with my men and other chiefs, will 
attack the other gate, and whosoever takes a gate first, 
let him blow on his horn once. I advise now that 
whatsoever we may have we shall eat, and that after 
we break our fast we sally out." 

" Praised be Allah for his goodness ! Let us eat ; 
then fight T' all shouted. 

In half an hour breakfast had been despatched, and 
every chief sallied out with his men under his respec- 
tive flag, except Sultan bin Ali, who was left with one 
hundred men to prepare the camp for defence in case 
of failure. 

Simba and Moto had also had their little council 
together; and as they marched by the side of Amer 
bin Osman, various signs might have been seen by the 
observer to pass between them, accompanied by many 
ominous shakings of the head. 

A deep silence prevailed near the village ; not a soul 
was seen, not a dog was heard to bark ; but the sun 
shone as usual with its summer heat, and the sky was 
perfectly cloudless and beautiful in its azure purity. 

But little did the approaching Arabs and their fol- 
lowers heed the beauty of the sky, the brilliancy of the 
day, or the heat of the sun. 

When they had advanced within 300 yards of the 
village, the force under Amer bin Osman separated 
from that of Khamis bin Abdullah, and marched at a re- 
spectful distance from the village towards the southern 
gate, and when he had gained his position, at a precon- 
certed signal both forces began their firing, advancing 
rapidly as they fired 



SIMBA SPLITS THE GATE PBOM TOP TO BOTTOM. 99 

The village stirred not; not a sign of life was 
visible for some time, until the Arabs had approached 
within fifty yards ; then clouds of arrows were seen to 
issue from the village, and furious yells were heard, 
which seemed to rend the sky. Numbers of the Arab 
followers fell pierced to the core by the arrows ; but 
the animated shouts of their chiefs spurred them on 
towards the palisade. 

In a few moments, after repeated discharges of mus- 
ketry, the Arabs gained the outer defence of the vil- 
fage, and, intruding their guns between the tall posts, 
were soon firing right in the faces of the astonished 
but not dismayed people of Olimali. But at this 
juncture, a long blast on a deep-sounding horn was 
heard from the interior, simultaneously with a shorter 
and shriller sound which proceeded from the southern 
gate. The shriller horn belonged to Amer bin Osman, 
and was blown by Moto ; but what did the bass horn 
from the interior of the village mean ? But there was 
no time to lose in conjecture. 

Amer bin Osman had advanced with resistless impe- 
tuosity towards the southern gate, and the gigantic 
Simba had, with one blow of his heavy axe, split the 
gate from top to bottom, and, giving it a strong push 
with his foot, had sent it flying open, through which, 
accompanied by his master Amer and Selim, who 
carried his rifle, he had bounded into the interior, firing 
his musket with the utmost rapidity. 

Amer's followers, animated by the valour of their 
master and the immense strength of Simba, now became 
as brave as lions, and vied with each other in noise and 
bravery. Not being able to make their way rapidly 



100 MY KAXULU. 

enough by the gate, which was thronged by the 
besiegers, they climbed over the palisades like monkeys, 
and little Niani's agility might have astonished his 
namesake. Abdullah, Mussoud, and Isa were with 
their parents, Sheikhs Mohammed and Hamdan, and 
they crept through the gate much behind Selim and 
his father Amer, owing to the press of besiegers. 

So quickly had Simba gained the gate and destroyed 
it, that all the fugitives were not able to enter the inner 
inclosure which surrounded the king's quarters, and a 
body of them, numbering about fifty, under the leader- 
ship of the king's eldest son, now stood with their 
backs to the palisades, resolutely confronting Simba 
and his companions, with heavy spears in their hands. 

Simba, at this time before a foe on whom he could 
exert the full power of his arm, became transformed 
into the embodiment of a black Mars, the god of war. 
He was no longer the humble and obedient servant of 
Sheikh Amer and the true friend of Selim. He was 
more; he was their irresistible leader. In his eyes 
glowed the ardour of fierce battle ; the terrible savage 
spirit of the Warundi, hitherto constrained for faithful, 
though menial, service, had burst its trammels, and 
he now stood, with uplifted musket,— confessed— the 
bronze Achilles of the war. His fierce eye caused the 
doomed fugitives to quail with cowardly dread ; and 
when aimed at him, the heavy spears of the Warori 
fell harmless at his feet. Giving vent to the hitherto 
latent passion of the savage's soul in a loud bellowing 
cry, he sprang forward, and the rapidity with which 
he dealt his blows with his clubbed musket awed even 
the warrior soul of his Arab chief. But not for long 



THE WARORI CHIEF SHOT. 101 

did Amer pause to regard even the prowess of Simba. 
Calling to his followers, he raised hi^ long two-edged 
sword, and darted at the enemy, plying the weapon 
best known to him and his race with a power which 
elicited as much admiration as Simba's strength ol 
arm and dexterity of stroke had done. 

Eendered desperate by the knowledge of their situ- 
ation, the remaining Warori, headed by their chief, 
made a rush towards their enemies and used their 
heavy spears with frantic energy. In front of the 
Warori chief stood Selim, firing and loading his rifle 
with a coolness and method which would have won 
applause from his father's people had the combat- 
ants not been so busily engaged. He was in the 
act of re-loading when the desperate rush of the 
Warori was made, and their chief stood with uplifted 
spear above him ; but well was it for him that the 
watchful eye of Moto was on him, else had our story 
been ended here, ere it is hardly begun. When it 
seemed that Selim could not have been saved, and he 
stood expectant of the blow which would have ended 
his young life there and then, he saw the chiefs head 
fall back with a cruel jagged wound in the temple, 
through which the bullet of Moto had sped home. 

The Warori no longer resisted when they saw their 
chief fall, and attempted to fly, but the force of Arabs 
was too numerous ; they fell dead to a man. 

Khamis bin Abdullah had also been successful. 
Cheered by the news which the horn of Amer con- 
veyed, he soon effected an entrance, and, accompanied 
by his followers, he had entered the village, and almost 
fjimilar scenes awaited him, though not so sanguinary. 



102 MY KALULU. 

When they had sncceeded in forcing the onter in- 
closure, they had still a hard struggle before them to 
conquer the village ; but they, no doubt, would have 
done so had not a new enemy come upon the field. 

Unknown to the Arabs, a few miles west of the 
village was stationed a large body of Watuta, whose 
chief had been sent by Katalambula, brother of the 
dead Mostana, to pay his respects to his brother's 
friends, and to renew " assurances of his esteem and 
consideration " for them, as the old letters used to say. 

This body of Watuta was one thousand strong, and 
as soon as the Arab caravans hove in sight, Olimali 
had despatched messengers to Ferodia, the Watuta 
chief, telling him of his intentions, and bidding him 
hasten to the neighbourhood to watch events, and to be 
ready for the signal, as he intended to attack the 
Arab camp. But the attack of the Arabs upon his 
village had caused him to give the signal earlier than 
he had at first anticipated, and the easy entrance of 
the Arabs into the outer village had been partly effected 
through the connivance of this wily chief, though in 
the loss of warriors and in the death of his eldest son 
he had paid dearly for his treachery. 

While the Arabs and their followers now devoted 
their attention to the attack upon the inner inclosure, 
which was vigorously defended, the major number of 
the Watuta had risen, in response to the deep-sOunding 
war-horn of the Warori, from among the corn-fields to 
the west of the village and camp of the Arabs, and 
had hurried to the rescue. 

They came upon the outer inclosure just as the Arabs 
commenced their attack upon the inner palisade, and 



DEATH OF KHAMIS BIN ABDULLAH. 103 

the first time the Arabs knew of their presence was 
when they were first fired upon before and behind. 

The followers of the Arabs, before so valiant, now 
became panic-stricken, and they simultaneously made 
a rush for the gates, whilei the defiant yells of the 
savages completely drowned their cries ; but the cun- 
ning Watuta had closed the gates, or had so barricaded 
them that egress was impossible. They now saw 
nothing but death staring them in the face — savages 
in front, savages behind; both parties defended by 
palisades, while they stood exposed between, to be shot 
to death in their tracks. It was useless for the Arab 
leaders to attempt to encourage them, for one after 
another of these brave men fell and died. Khamis 
bin Abdullah fell, pierced by a dozen arrows, and his 
son, the noble young Khamis — the proud-spirited 
young Arab — fell also across the body of his father at 
the hands of the people whom he so much despised. 
Mussoud, and Thani, and Amram died also bravely, 
and one after another of their followers fell to rise no 
more, until those who were left threw down their guns 
crying " Aman, aman !" (Mercy, mercy !) upon seeing 
which the Watuta and Warori desisted from further 
murder, to make slaves of those who cried for quarter. 

The force under Amer bin Osman, Sheikh Mohammed, 
and Hamdan, and the other chiefs, fared as badly. 
They were engaged in vigorously attacking the inner 
defence in front of them, when they heard a loud 
gurgling shriek issue from Sheikh Mohammed, who had 
been pierced in the nape of the neck from an arrow 
behind, and on turning to see whence it came, they 
were dismayed to find an enemy of another tribe 



104 



MY KALULU. 



behind them. Moto, on seeing them, shouted " The 
Watuta ! the Watuta ! Olimali has betrayed us into 
their hands." Simba, hearing the words of Moto, 
desisted from further attack, and came to Amer bin 
Osman, counselling him to fly with him, and handing 
him a shield to cover his body, which, from the dress he 
wore, was a prominent mark. Moto also held a couple 
of shields before Selim, while Abdullah and Mussoud 
were ordered to do the same. 

" Fly !" said the astonished Apaer — " fly ! Ah, Simba, 
my friend, had we wings, we might fly. See you not 
the gate is closed ?" 

" The gate is closed, I know, great master, but 
Simba's arm is strong, and I will force it open." 

" No, Simba, I cannot fly to be butchered like a bul- 
lock outside. I shall meet my fate here. Ha ! do 
you hear that ? See ! the savages are within. Khamis 
bin Abdullah is dead! Save my boy Selim, for his 
mother's sake ! Ho, my son, come to me ! One embrace 
before we part for ever ; but, my son, remember, I shall 
meet thee in Paradise !" 

The father and son were united in a fervent embrace 
when Amer received an arrow in the back from within 
the inner inclosure, which caused him to fall, with his 
son in his arms, to the ground. The arrow had been 
driven by a strong hand, for the point projected in 
front and slightly wounded Selim in the chest, the 
blood of father and son commingling in one stream. 

"Brave Simba and faithful Moto, where are ye? 
Save my boy !" cried Amer, looking up with glazed 
eyes at the two who bent over him, heart-stricken 
with sorrow. " Save my darling Selim ! Save him for 



AMER BIN OSMAN PIERCED BY AN ARROW. 105 

the love I bore you ! Ah, Selim, my son, kiss thy 

mother for thy fa Amina !— Sel Ah !" — and 

the great soul of Amer hastened upward to the Judg- 
ment Seat. 

Simba and Moto, when they saw their master had 
breathed his last, stretched his form out evenly, and, 
placing a cloth reverently over his face, caught hold 
of Selim, and pressing the heart-broken boy to the 
ground, close by the body of his father, said to him : 

" Lie still, young master. Nay, but you must. Your 
father commanded us to save you, and we will ; but you 
must do what we advise you. Think of your mother, 
of many happy days yet in store for you. Lie still as 
death, and they will take you to Katalambula's village, 
and there you will meet us. Here, Abdullah ! Mus- 
soud ! Isa ! lie down here, alongside of Selim. What, 
all the chiefs dead already ! Wallahi ! but this is a 
sad day for the Arabs at Zanzibar !" 

Having given these instructions to the Arab boys, 
which had been given in much less time than we have 
taken to record them, Simba and Moto also fell to the 
ground, but retaining their spears and shields in their 
hands. 

By this time the Watuta were within the village, 
crowing triumphantly over their success ; but Ferodia, 
the chief, after giving orders to bind the captives, has- 
tened away with nearly all his force to attack the camp, 
which, under old Sultan bin Ali, held out still against 
the force that had been detached to attack it. 

While the few remaining Watuta were binding the 
captives, Simba and Moto rose to their feet, and, using 
their spears right and left, soon cleared a passage to 



106 MY KALXJLU. 

i\e gate, before the astonished savages could recover 
their senses. 

Once outside the gate, Simba and Moto exerted their 
powers to the utmost, and by their extraordinary speed 
soon left their pursuers far behind. • 

Finding it useless to pursue the runaways, the 
Watuta began to examine the wounded, and especially 
the Arabs, whom they surveyed with astonishment. 
The group formed by Amer bin Osman, Selim his son, 
Abdullah, Mussoud, and Isa, attracted them most for 
their rich dresses. They began to strip the bodies, but 
their astonishment was very great when they perceived 
Isa sit up and fold his hands, asking for mercy. 

Suspecting that others shammed death, they laid 
hold of Selim, and he also sat up ; then Abdullah and 
Mussoud, and they also sat up, looking very sheepish, 
or like guilty people caught doing a mean action. 
Angry at the cheat, as they imagined, to have been 
practised upon them, they snatched the cloth from the 
face of the dead body of Amer bin Osman ; but there 
was no mistaking him— he was dead. 

Some were for slaying the boys at once ; but the 
majority interposed, and said in an inquiring tone, 
" Why slay boys, when you can make slaves of them ?" 
which shortly met general approbation. 

Upon agreeing to this, they began to strip Isa, who ' 
shortly found himself as naked as when he was born ; 
but being extremely dark of colour, there appeared 
nothing remarkable about him to attract any special 
attention, and he was taken at once to the other cap- 
tives, where he was firmly bound with strips of green 
bark. 



SELIM MADE PBISONEB. 107 

They then laid violent hands on the others, on Selim, 
Abdullah, and Mussoud ; and despite their struggles and 
tears, they were soon denuded of their finery and of their 
rich embroidered -dress. When they saw the pale and 
clean colour of their bodies, the fierce Watuta gathered 
about them, and wondered what strange beings these 
were who were all over white, while they themselves 
were all black. They looked at the wound in Selim's 
chest, and on pressing it saw the red blood flow, which 
only increased their astonishment ; for how could people 
with white skins have red blood ? But Selim's proud 
heart- was rebelling against the indignity of being 
stared at as a curious specimen of humanity, and he had 
endeavoured to hide his blushes with his hands ; but 
when they pulled them down, and ordered him to show 
his tongue and teeth, and began to feel the muscles of 
his arms and legs, then he could bear no more ; and 
flinging himself across the dead body of his father, he 
wept aloud, and prayed to God that he might die. Ab- 
dullah and Mussoud were as yet too terrified to do more 
than cry silently ; and they were accordingly led away 
and bound without resistance. They then took hold 
of Selim to tie him, but he would not rise; and, an- 
gered at what they deemed his stubbornness, two 
warriors brought the shafts of their spears full upon 
his body, which had well-nigh broken the high courage 
of the young Arab ; for so great was the pain his pride 
suffered, and so indescribable were his emotions, that 
he lay like one stunned. 

While the boy lay fainting in the hot sun amid the 
dead and the blood, the chief of the party in charge of 
the prisoners, casting his eyes around, saw a whip of 



108 MY KALULU. 

• 

hippopotamus hide in the waist-cloth of one of the 
dead fundis, or overseers, of the Arabs. This pliant and 
formidable whip the chief — a man of stern and forbid- 
ding aspect, whose name was Tifnm (pronounced Tee- 
foom), — Tifum Byah, or the " Wicked Tifum," and who 
was evidently a traveller — handled like a man who 
knew its uses, for he made it fly about his arm in 
black circles, and made it hiss its menace in the ears of 
the sorely-tried Selim. 

" Proud Arab boy, arise ! Tifum Byah speaks but 
once, else you will feel the pains of this whip, with 
which your cursed race torture the backs of your 
slaves. Many days lie between here and TJtuta, and 
you will suffer more than this ere you see our plains. 
Arise ! No ? then words are light as air, and seldom 
go into the ears of the stubborn ;" and as he spoke, he 
lashed the prostrate youth with all his might, while the 
shrieks which the pain elicited at last from him were 
responded to by the mocking laughter of the brutal 
crowd, who pointed at the marks which the whip made 
in high glee. 

When Tifum fancied he had punished him enough, 
he ordered the boy to be assisted up to his feet and 
bound ; and when this was done Tifum lowered his face 
to Selim's, and said, " Mark my words, child of the 
pale race ! You shall be Tifum's slave, to hoe his field 
and bring him wood, and water. You shall nurse 
his children, be a herdsman of his cattle, and I will 
break your heart, and make your ears open to his 
slightest breath. Do you hear me, white face ?" 

So strong was the nauseous and hateful repugnance 
he felt towards this man that Selim could not repress 



SELIM BRUTALLY LASHED BY TIFUM. 109 

the expression of the loathing that filled him, and 
almost unconsciously he spat in his face, which was 
instantly retaliated by Tifum with a tremendous box 
on the ear, which prostrated the boy once more across 
the dead body of Amer, where he lay like one deprived 
of life, and not all the brutal lashing which the almost 
lifeless form received evoked one groan from him ; and 
it was in this unconscious state that he was carried to 
where the other prisoners stood huddled together like 
frightened sheep. 

Then, directing his attention to the dead bodies of 
the Arabs, these were ordered to be denuded of their 
clothing, and to be laid in a row together. Sheikhs 
Khamis, Amer, Abdullah, Mussoud, Thani, Hamdan, 
Mohammed, Amram, and young Khamis, and two 
others of lesser note — an honourable company truly, 
even in death ! 

There seemed to have penetrated into the brain of 
the unconscious Selim some idea of what was about to 
occur ; for as soon as the dead had been gathered 
together, he raised his head and sat up, with his eyes 
fixed upon the dishonoured bodies of his father and his 
father's friends, which were laid side by side. He 
heeded not the taunts of the Warori who had collected 
to menace and insult the prisoners, and feast their 
curiosity with a sight of the noble dead ; he heeded not 
the groans of his boy-companions Isa, Abdullah, and 
Mussoud, nor the wailing of the little slave Niani, 
who had been born on his father's estate, and who was 
now crying his eyes out for the loss of his master 
Amer, and for the more pitiable condition of his young 
master Selim ; he heeded not the hot sun which was 



110 3fft KALtTLU. 

blistering his back with its fierce heat, nor the scores 
of flies which troubled his numerous wounds ; he sat 
heedless of all, with his great eyes fixed sadly on the 
remains of his father. 

But night was approaching, and Ferodia had not yet 
returned. Volleys of musketry were heard incessantly 
all the afternoon; but as the sun set the musketry 
ceased, and Ferodia returned with all but a few of his 
people, when it was reported that the camp still held 
out, but that in the morning all the fighting men of 
Olimali and Ferodia would take the camp at a rush. 
Until then he had left a few of his men to watch it, lest 
they might abscond at night and take away the most part 
of the great wealth which must be stored within the 
camp. The losses of the Watuta had been excessively 
heavy, as, when Ferodia darted out with his victorious 
men, it was expected that the camp would have sur- 
rendered at once ; but it seems that Sultan bin Ali had 
so well fortified it that it was almost impregnable, and 
that the Watuta had been punished severely. 

The Warori of. the village of Kwikuru had prepared 
food in a great quantity for the warriors of Ferodia, 
who were too much engaged with satisfying their 
ravenous hunger to display much interest in prisoners 
whom they knew were secure; and when they had 
finished, they had so gorged their stomachs with food 
and pombe, that they were too indolent to stir. But 
when Tifum, who was obsequious enough to Ferodia, 
though cruel to his subordinates, had told the latter of 
the interesting character of the white slaves, as he 
called the three Arab boys, and how he had found 
them shamming death, he commanded him to bring 



THE THBEE AEAB BOYS BROtTGfiT BEFORE FERODIA. Ill 

them before him and Olimali that they might be 
amused. ^ 

Tifam hastened out obedient to his chiefs mandates, 
and, arriving before the prisoners, searched for the • 
Arab boys, who had already forgotten their misery in 
a deep sleep. Finding that they were in a too un- 
interesting condition to amuse his master, he had 
several gourds full of water brought to him, which he 
threw over them to cause them to cast off the disposi- 
tion to sleep. This being done, he led them to the 
presence of his chief. 

Ferodia was holding forth to Olimali upon the pro- 
spects of the great riches they should share with each 
other on the morrow when the young prisoners were 
ushered before him. By the dim light which the 
torches gave out, they appeared much more pallid and 
strange in a land where white people had never been 
seen ; indeed, one might say they were rather alarm- 
ing ; and it is no wonder that Ferodia started as the 
three were pushed towards him. 

But, quickly recovering himself, as he remembered 
who they were^ he burst out into a laugh, saying, 
" Ah, I remember, these are the Arab youths thou didst 
speak to me of, Tifum. This pombe, Olimali, is strong. 
I think it has made me light-headed," — speaking these 
words aside to the Mrori chief. 

Then attentively fixing his gaze upon the prisoners, 
and looking them all over, he said, half to himself, 
" What strange people these Arabs are — all white ! 
Their hides are as white almost as the yolk of eggs 
but how came the tallest one, I wonder, to have so 
many wounds ?" 



112 MY KALULU. 

** Tifum," said Ferodia, aloud, " what ails this tallest 
lad ? These wounds are not the younds of arrows." 

Tifum, bending his back almost double, said, "My 
ohiof, this boy is as stubborn as an ass. When I re- 
membered the cruelties the people of this boy have 
practised upon those of our colour, my blood boiled 
within me, and when I told him to arise and be bound 
like the other prisoners, he spat in my face, and I 
flogged him." 

" Pah, pah, Tifum ! he but acted as the Watuta boys 
would have done ; but lay not thine hand on him 
again, I take him for my slave. The boy is half dead 
already. Here," said he, addressing Selim, "drink 
this," handing him a good ladleful of sparkling pombe ; 
" it will put life in thy dull veins." 

Selim shook his bead and curled his lips in scorn, 
and looked at the half-inebriated chief with contemp- 
tuous indifference. 

The chief regarded him for a moment in silence, with 
the cup still stretched, and then said, " Thou art right, 
Tifum ; no Mtuta boy would have had the courage to 
refuse a cup of pombe from a chief, nor regard his 
future master with such a look. He is a fool, and 
stubborn as an ass, truly. But I will tame him, or I 
will kill him. How Kalulu, the nephew of Katalam- 
bula, will wonder at him ! Why, he must be of the 
same age as Ealulu ; but Ealulu is taller and stronger ; 
but I doubt if he has this lad's high courage, though 
he is proud as if he were already king of the Watuta. 
Kalulu would act differently from this youth if he were 
in his place ; he would have taken the pombe and then 
me as soon as he had the opportunity. Ah ! 



8ELIM REFUSES TO DRINK OR DANCE. 113 

Ealulu is a true Mtuta. But here I am with the cup 
still in my hand. If this boy will not drink it, perhaps 
the others will. Here, you !" addressing himself to 
Abdullah, " drink, young one. No ? And you refuse 
it, too ? Well, you smallest one," to Mussoud. " Not 
even you ? Strange youths ! Dost thou speak their 
language, Tifum ?" 

" A little, my chief." 

" Ask this tallest one why will he not take this cup 
of pombo from the hand of Ferodia, chief of the Watuta 
warriors." 

" Boy," said Tifum, addressing Selim, " Ferodia, 
chief of the Watuta warriors, demands to know why 
you will not accept the drink at his hands." 

" Then tell thy master," said Selim, without evcL 
turning his eyes towards the man, "that I may not 
accept anything in kindness from his hands, since he 
gives it to me while he believes me to be a slave. Tell 
him I am not his slave, and never shall do his bidding 
save under constant compulsion." 

When Tifum had communicated this to his chief, 
Ferodia burst into another loud laugh ; then said : 

" This boy is verily proud ; but, Tifum, ask him to 
dance." 

" Dance !" said Selim, when the order was communi- 
cated to him — " Dance ! when my heart is breaking, 
when my father lies dead and dishonoured before yonder 
gates ! Sooner would I die than obey 1" 

" Then tell him to sing," shouted Ferodia, laughing. 

" Sing !" replied Selim. " How long, oh Allah ! shall 
I suffer these tortures? Sing! As well might you 
ask the dead to sing !" 



114 MY KALULU. 

" What, will he do nothing, then ? I will wait until 
the marks of thy rough hand have been cured, when I 
will make marks of my own on that hide of his," said 
Fercdia, with a wrathful glance in his eye. "But 
where is that whip of thine, Tifum ?" 

" Here, my chief, at the door of the house," said 
he, rising to fetch it. 

" Give it me." And giving Selim a severe stroke with 
it across his shoulders, he ordered him to stand back, 
and Tifum to cut the bonds of the boys Abdullah and 
Mussoud. 

Then, commanding the youths to be brought before 
him, he told Tifum to tell Abdullah to dance and 
Mussoud to sing. 

For awhile Abdullah hung down his head in con- 
fusion, not seeming to understand or to realise that he^ 
the son of Mohammed, was actually required to dance 
by the slayer of his father; while Mussoud looked from 
Abdullah to the chief Ferodia's face in quite a foolish 
way. 

"Ask him, Tifum," said Abdullah, in a trembling 
voice, " if Ferodia understands what he requires of 
me. 

" Why need I ask him? Do I not tell you that he 
commands you to dance, and the other slave to sing ?" 

" Slave !" shouted Abdullah, recovering quickly firm- 
ness of tone in his voice. " Slave ! Lying dog ! Do 
you call my brother a slave ? Am I a slave ?" 

" What does he say ?" thundered Ferodia. 

"He says he is not a slave, and calls me a liar. 
They are all asses and sons of asses," replied Tifum. 
** Verily, though they own hundreds of black slaves at 



ABDULLAH REFUSES TO BE CALLED A SLAVE. 115 

Zanzibar, they don't seem to know that the chance of 
war has made them slaves." 

" Tell him, Tifum, that I say he is a slave, he and his 
brother ; that they shall be my slaves ; that they shall 
do whatever I bid them, and if not, that I will punish 
them until they do. Ferodia speaks." 

"Do you hear and understand, asses and sons of 
asses ?" asked Tifum of Abdullah and Mussoud. " Do 
ye hear, children of the Arabs ? Ferodia the chief tells 
you that you shall be his slaves to do his bidding, and 
if you do not, he will punish you. Listen to the chiefs 
words, and obey him." 

" We are Arabs," said Abdullah, proudly tossing, his 
head back, while his chest seemed to dilate with the great 
thought. " We are Arabs, and children of the Arabs of 
Muscat. A chief of the free Bedaween was my father 
Mohammed, and I am his son Abdullah. The desert 
wind is not freer than our never-conquered race, and 
every child of that race is free. We, therefore, cannot 
be slaves. Ferodia has lied." 

" Tell him, Tifum, that I will beat him until he is 
bleeding on this floor — until he confesses himself my 
slave." 

" Ferodia says he will beat you, Abdullah, if that be 
your name, until you bleed on this floor." 

" Tell him from me he may beat me until I die, but 
he cannot make me a slave. Has he not slain my 
father, and has he not dishonoured me by causing me 
to stand naked before him ? Can he punish me more ? 
He is a strong man — you call him a chief; he has in 
his hand a whip ; he says he will use it. I am but a 
child, but he cannot make me a slave. See, I go to 



116 MY KALULD. 

him nearer, and turn my back to him. I will not cry, 
though he tear my flesh ;" and the indomitable young 
Arab walked up nearer to the chief, looked at him in 
the eye for a second, then slowly turned his bare back 
to him, and with bended head and folded arms waited 
for the blow. 

Ferodia, though a chief and a Mtuta warrior, was a 
true savage ; he had never heard of that rare quality 
which belongs to races civilized and semi-civilized, and 
is called magnanimity, or a generous forbearance to a 
conquered foe. He beheld the defenceless boy who was 
fully in his po#er standing within reach of the lash he 
held in his hand, — that delicate youth with the fair and 
faultless skin, on which an angry blow had never de- 
scended, which a whip had never dishonoured,— and the 
savage could not restrain his instincts of cruelty or 
the delight to torture and rend which is the instinct 
of wild men as well as of wild animals. So, when 
Tifum explained to him what Abdullah had said, and 
what he meant by thus turning his back to him, 
Ferodia, as though it were an every-day matter in 
which no principle was involved, lifted his whip, and as 
he saw the tender flesh shrink and redden, and then 
bleed and gape, it but kindled the desire to hurt ; but 
a powerful antidote and corrective, — even subjugator, 
you may say, — was the resolute passiveness and deter- 
mined silence of his victim ; and without being aware 
himself of what lessened the power of his blows, and 
weakened his anger, and finally conquered the desire to 
torture, his arm was stayed, and still the boy stood up, 
now confronting him, with the same steady gaze and heroic 
mien, to ask the astonished savage with a curling lip : 



FLIGHT OF SULTAN BIN ALI. 117 

" Well, have you made me a slave now ? Am I more 
a slave than before ?" 

" Stand aside, fool, else I will do thee a greater harm ; 
and thon, Tifum, away with them, treat them as slaves ; 
and when we are on the road, give them loads to carry. 
Since they think it such a terrible thing to be naked, 
let their nakedness be seen of men and women, and if 
they suflfer through it, so much the better. Slaves were 
made to suffer. Are my words nothing ? Shall these 
baby-faces beard me before my own people ?" So say- 
ing, Ferodia threw his whip from him, and drowned 
his further reflections in a mighty gourd-bowl full 
of strong pombe ; and as he sighed his content, all 
traces of anger vanished ; and as he observed his friend 
Olimali had long ago measured his length upon the 
clay floor of the hut, he laughed heartily ; but the 
fumes of the pombe he had already drunk were rapidly 
conquering the conqueror — even Ferodia, chief of the 
Watuta. 

The first news Ferodia and Olimali received, when 
they had recovered in the morning from their drunken 
stupor, was not calculated to content them. This was 
the flight of Sultan bin Ali and his men by night from 
the camp, with but two or three bales of cloth, so that 
a party flying for their lives, and so lightly laden, were 
not easily to be overtaken, and could not be done before 
they would reach a country friendly to the Arabs. 
Still, when the two chiefs, after venting a few angry 
expletives, came to reflect, to converse, and turn over 
coolly, calmly, and deliberately the news, it was found 
not to be so bad after all — rather the reverse ; until, 
finally, it was settled that the news was the best that 



118 ' MY KAttJLtT. 

could be heard of what might concern them, and they 
felt accordingly very gratified. 

Four hundred bales of cloth and beads, one hundred 
kegs of powder, a vast number of bullets, rugs, carpets, 
counterpanes, feather pillows, richly embroidered caps, 
knives, looting-glasses, despatch-boxes, a few guns, 
kettles, cups and saucers, sugar, cofiee, tea, spices, 
curry, and numberless little things which go to make 
the miscellaneous sum-total of the plunder of a large 
and wealthy caravan — in short, the sum of fifty thou- 
sand silver dollars would not have covered the cost price 
of the articles found in the Arabs' deserted camp. 

In the possession of these articles, what a dilSterence 
had been made within twenty-four hours in that small 
area contained within the compass of a square half 
mile, a spot in Africa that might be covered by a pin's 
point on an ordinary school-map of the world ! How 
much noise, confusion, blowing of gunpowder, did the 
fact of possession comprehend ! How many lives had 
been destroyed ! What noble men had died ! How much 
misery had been created ! And on such a very small 
spot in this world, that no one would ever have heard of 
it, had I not been elected the historian of the battle of 
Kwikuru ! Yet who will dare deny my right and duty 
to relate truly and clearly how it all happened — what 
dashing bravery Simba showed ; how Khamis bin Ab- 
dullah and his lion-hearted son and the noble Amer 
bin Osman died ; how our proud, high-spirited heroes, 
the Arab youths, Selim, Abdullah, and Mussoud, endured 
their sad misfortunes — to illustrate the high and noble 
principles involved in all these things, and to point 
with bold finger the moral which adorns this chronicle ? 



DIVISION OF THE SPOILS. 119 

Happy are ye, my young readers, if j'our eyes fall 
upon these few pages ; for ye shall be counted as those to 
whom a new world of human life has been revealed, 
where exist passions and joys so akin to our own that 
none may be so blind as not to perceive our relationship 
to them ! 

Putting by moralising for the present, let us glance 
at the incidents which transpired on the news of the 
desertion of the Arab camp becoming generally known. 

Ferodia and Olimali became exceedingly elated when 
the rich store of plunder was described to them. They 
rubbed their hands, like two children rejoicing glee- 
fully over a nice Christmas present ; they laughed, and 
giggled, and said so many tender silly things to one 
another, that the historian of these events finds his 
patience too exhausted to relate them. 

Trusty men were at once despatched to the camp to 
superintend the removal of the riches to Kwikuru, and 
when they were all conveyed into the inner inclosure 
and exhibited to the view of the chiefs, they could 
barely realise that they were the actual possessors of 
all this immense wealth until they had peered into 
every box, and felt over and over again the texture of 
the gaudy cloths before them. The palisade was lined 
by men, women, and children, who endeavoured to 
thrust their over-large heads for such intentions through 
the narrow spaces between the poles. Their cries of 
admiration were irrepressible. They hummed, and 
ha\^d, and heyed, and coughed their immeasurable 
satisfaction. 

The division of the spoils was made with religious 
justice. Ferodia retained half of everything, and to 



120 MY KALULU. 

Olimali, his friend and ally, was given the other half. 
But their respective halves were so large, that there was 
no room for quarrel, and the most ambitious African 
could never have dreamed of such abundant store as 
had now fallen into the hands of these fortunate chiefs. 
When Ferodia, assisted by ten favourite head men, had 
reckoned up, after much mental calculation, how much 
cloth he had, he could only express it by saying that 
there were belonging to him one hundred hundreds of 
dotis and sixty hundreds of dotis of cloth, including all 
kinds ; or, as we should say, with our expressive terms, 
there were 16,000 doti, or 64,000 yards. 

Ferodia caused his warriors to be drawn up in line. 
Though a few had been killed, still there were enough 
men in the line to warrant the statement that there 
were 900 men where originally there had been 1000 
of them. To these warriors the head men delivered 
six doti each of mixed cloth, which left in Ferodia's 
possession 10,600 dotis. The odd 600 were for himself 
and his head men and doctors of magic — himself, 
as may be supposed, retaining the lion's share. The 
remaining 10,000 dotis, and the beads and other 
things, were for the king Katalambula and his prospec- 
tive heir. Prince Kalulu. 

The 10,000 dotis of cloth were made into 200 light 
portable bales containing fifty dotis each, which weighed 
about forty pounds. The beads were distributed for 
the like purpose, as well as the fifty barrels of powder, 
&c. &c. 

The distribution having taken place, and each warrior 
made perfectly satisfied with hi& share, there remained 
one more duty to perform — a religious duty — which 



THE MAalO DBINK — MtJTlLATtOH OV THE DEAD. 121 

might not be neglected long, and tliis was the religions 
ceremony of making each warrior magically strong 
in arm and limb, by giving him to drink of the con- 
SGcrated drink. 

This ceremony took place the evening of the day- 
after the battle. First, fires werer lighted around a 
large circle outside the boma, or outer palisade of 
Kwikuru, with only one entrance left for the passage of 
the sacrificial bodies of the dead Arabs. The bodies, 
being all denuded of their clothing, were laid diametri- 
cally across the circle. Then earthen, tin, and copper 
pots full of water, with" some millet flour in each, were 
placed over the fire, and then small bottle gourds (with 
numbers of small pebbles in them), two for each magic 
doctor, were prepared and placed near the heads of the 
bodies. Everything being thus ready, the magic doctors 
took their sharp knives in their hands and began their 
work. To the sound of a low crooning song, or rather 
chant, the words of which could not be distinguished, the 
knives were set to work on the bodies of their enemies, 
first in cutting the tips of each nose, then the lower lip, 
then the fiesh under the chin, then the ears and the eye- 
brows, which, when ended, they conveyed to the pots over 
the fires. Continuing their work, the nipples of the 
breasts were then cut, the muscles of their arms and legs^ 
and, lastly, the whole of the flesh covering the abdomen, . 
which they took and placed in the pots over the fire. 
Then the hearts were extracted, and, finally, the fat of 
the entrails of each body. After this mutilation and 
disfigurement of the dead, the head of each body was 
cut off and placed on the end of pointed poles, to be 
borne around the camp during the ceremonial song. 



122 MY KALXTLTT. 

Within half an hour the water had boiled sufficiently, 
and the magic doctors, taking the wonderful gourds 
filled with pebbles in their hands, began to shake them 
to the tune of a monotonous chant, in the chorus of 
which the warriors, bearing the heads aloft on poles, 
joined, marching slowly as they sang around the circle. 
The wbrds ran thus, as well as they may be translated : 

oil, the horrible, fearful battle, 
Where warriors slew and were slain. 
Where dead lay unnumbered, and wounds were made, 
Till the field ran red with blood that was shed 

In the horrible, fearful battle. 

Chorus, With the blood that was shed 

In the horrible, fearful battle. 

Ferodia the chief, Ferodia the strong, 

Tlie lion and leopard in war, 
Tifum Byah, Maro, and Wafanyah, 
Great chiefs of the unconquer*d Watuta, 

In the horrible, fearful battle, 
Chorus. In the horrible, fearful battle. 

They heard the loud note, the war-horn's note, 

Olimali, their friend, was distress'd ; 
They rose from the bush, they rose from the ground. 
They rush*d to Kwikuru, and hemm'd them round. 

For a horrible, fearful battle. 
Chorus, For a horrible, fearful battle. 

The Arabs and blacks who came from afar. 

Who came from near the sea, 
To give the Warori and Watuta, 
King Olimali and Ferodia, 

A horrible, fearful battle. 
Chorus, A horrible, fearful battle. 

Warori were brave, the Watuta were strong, 

'Gainst those who came from afar. 
The Arabs lie dead by hundreds around ; 
They will hear never more the war-horn's sound, 

For a horrible, fearful battle. 
Chorus, For a horrible, fearful battle. 



THE CfiAKT OF TSfi MAGlO DOCTORS. l23 

Then, drink, warriors ! drink the tme magic drink ! 

The strength of your enemies slain ! 
Drink of the blood, of the fat, and the heart, 
Drink to commemorate before we part, 

The horrible, f^trful battle. 
Chorus. Before we part 

The horrible, fearful battle. 

Then, drink, warriors I drink the true magic drink f 

The strength of your enemies slain ! 
Be strengthened in heart, in limb, and in arm. 
Be strong, be swift, be wise, and safe from harm 

In each horrible, fearful battle. 
Chorus. And safe from harm 

In each horrible, fearful battle. 

When this chant was over, which has been rendered 
into English as faithfully as possible, the poles on 
which the ghastly trophies had been placed were planted 
in the ground before each gate of the village. But the 
young Arabs were spared this fearful scene, as they had 
been sent ahead with the loads, escorted by a strong 
guard. Then, the ceremony over, the chief Ferodia 
embraced in a loving manner his friend Olimali, and 
departed to the sound of booming horns and drums, and 
a general grateful look from the young women of 
Kwikuru — he and his warriors. 

At sunset they camped in a forest, through which 
the road led towards the south-west. 



Hi itt EALirtO. 



CHAPTEE V. 

Simba and Moto's Midnight Halt in the Forest — Moto's Plan for saving 
Selim — Simba and Moto made Prisoners at Katalambula's Village 
— They are brought before the King— Kalulu recognises Moto — 
The King gives each of them a Wife — Kalulu's Personal Ap- 
pearance — The great African Giantess — The Marriage Song — 
Conclusion of the Marriage Festivities. 

Simba and Moto were men as capable of enduring 
fatigue as the Watuta were, as good runners also ; so 
that even had their enemies pursued them with a 
greater determination than they showed, the two men 
might have laughed securely, as night would soon have 
shrouded them with its friendly mantle. 

For a long time, however, the two held on their way, 
raising their eyeff every now and then toward the 
bright Southern Cross, which shone so clearly, and 
pointed their future road so plainly. They travelled 
with their figures half-profile to the Cross, or in a 
south-westerly direction. But at midnight the two 
halted in the denser portion of the forest ; and there 
they built two fires and prepared their resting-places 
with leaves and tender twigs ; and having done so, they 
breathed a long sigh of relief, sat down, and gradually 
their eyes lost the eager, intelligent look in vacancy. 

But after a while Simba said in a deep, low voice, 



STMBA AND MOTO's MIDNIGHT HALT IN THE FOREST. 125 

half to himself and half to Moto : " Wallahi ! but this 
has been a sad day for ns. That large and costly 
caravan and the brave men and leaders are. gone. It 
was but last night I stood at their tent-door, looking 
at my noble master Amer and his friend Ehamis, and I 
was thinking that there never lived finer and nobler- 
looking men. Ah, Arab sheikhs ! where are ye now, 
chiefs of Zanzibar ?" Then, raising his head, he said, 
" Answer me, thou black, blackest night ! Answer me 
if ye can, oh twinkling stars ! Answer me, dark and 
dread silence ! Shall I never see dear master again ? 
Moto, where dost thou think Amer is now ?" 

To which Moto answered : " Amer, the noblest of his 
tribe, the worthiest master that ever lived, the man 
with the kind heart and liberal hand, is not dead — he 
sleepeth." 

" Sleepeth ! Ah, would it were so ! then this great 
heaviness of sorrow within me would vanish. But 
what meanest thou, Moto ?" 

" Hast thou forgotten already the words of our noble 
master, the son of Osman, how that he said to us 
often, a man cannot die ; the body may remain on the 
ground to moulder, and rot, and become dust, but the 
life that was in him cannot die ? Hast thou never 
heard him mention the word Soul — that unseen, unfelt 
thing, which is as light as air, yet is the most im^ 
portant part of a man ? For a long time I laughed at 
Amer's words in my secret heart, but when I heard all 
the Arabs say the same thing, and the Nazarenes at 
Zanzibar say it also, I was obliged to believe, though I 
could not tell what the soul was like, or who had seen 
it, or if anybody had ever seen it. But now Amer's head 



126 MY KALULU. i 

lies low on the ground and a cruel wound has found 
his kind heart, I shall keep thinking of his words, and 
believe in them ; and I believe truly that Amer's soul 
looks down upon us through this darkness from 
above." 

" I remember me now much the same thing," said 
Simba, " though my sorrow of heart had blinded my 
memory. Is it not a happy thought, Moto, that master 
Amer is not quite, quite dead, and that we shall see 
him again?" 

" Yes, very happy. Thou knowest, Simba, that he 
cannot be dead with us either, for we shall carry him 
in our memories like a valued treasure, and will never 
cease talking of him when we are together." 

" Ah ! thou hast a good memory, Moto ; but who, 
thinkest thou, is the happiest — master Amer, up above 
there, or young master Selim, a prisoner ?" 

" Oh, Simba ! while I was beginning to think myself 
happy, thou hast made my heart black with sorrow, by' 
making me think of what that boy must suflfer. If it 
were not for his future good I would never have left 
him. Amer is happiest in Paradise, but Selim, his son, 
living on earth, must be miserable." 

" It is just as I thought also," said Simba. " Poor 
child ! Do you not remember how pretty he looked 
when he hinted to his father, that perhaps Simba would 
like his freedom? How his eyes, always beautiful, 
seemed filled with softness, and love, and gratitude to 
me ? Ah, Selim, young master of everything that 
Simba has, it will go hard with some of these savage 
Watuta if they harm thee !" 

" They will not harm Selim or the Arab boys ; they 



MOTO'S PLAl^ FOB SAVING SELIM. 127 

will keep them as curiosities, unless some of them have 
seen Arabs before going about to buy slaves, in which 
case I pity them all," said Moto. 

"Moto," shouted Simba, raising himself up, "art 
thou revenging thyself on me for making thed unhappy 
with the mention of him ? Speak. Selim a slave ! 
That petted, tender Arab boy a slave ! Answer me, 
Moto." 

" It is as I tell thee ; if any of the Watuta under- 
stand, as we do, what the word Arab is, all the Arab 
boys will be made slaves, and be beaten like dogs," 
answered Moto. 

" We are not obeying master Amer by running away 
from the camp of the Watuta. He told us to save his 
son Selim. I am going back ;" and Simba snatched his 
spears and gun. 

" Fool !" said Moto. "We cannot save him from the 
Watuta by going into their camp. We can only do it 
by finishing as we have begun. We must go to Eata- 
lambula's village and see Kalulu. He only can save 
Selim and ourselves." 

" Well, I believe thou art right," said Simba. " Let 
us go to sleep, and at dawn let us be off to see this 
Kalulu." Saying which, he lay down between the fires, 
but sleep did not visit his eyes for some time afterwards. 

For fifteen days they marched long and far towards 
the south-west without any incident worthy of notice. 
Now and then they left the forest occasionally, to follow 
a road leading to some village and obtain information 
as to the whereabouts of the village of Katalambula of 
those people whom they might meet, with little danger 
to themselves. 



128 MY KALULU. 

On the sixteenth day of their flight they came to a 
large plain, extremely populous and rich. The dun- 
coloured tops of huts arose ahove the tall corn and 
millet everywhere. At midday they came to a deep 
river flowing north-west, which the people called 
Liemba. On the opposite side of the river they were 
also told was Eatalambula's village. 

They were rowed across, for which Simba paid the 
canoe-man with a couple of arrows, having no other 
means of paying him. Then, following the right bank 
of the river for a few minutes, by fields of splendid 
corn, they came in sight of the village. 

It was substantially built ; and was constructed in 
the same manner as the Kwikuru of Olimali, except 
that the king's quarters were flat-roofed tembes, sur- 
rounding a square of large dimensions, where the king 
kept his cattle and goats, and two or three donkeys, 
which were preserved more as curiosities than for any 
use that were made of them, and where he himself lived 
with his numerous family of women; for, strange to 
say, Katalambula, with all his wives, had never been 
able to obtain a son. 

The principal gate was, as usual, decorated with the 
only trophies savages respect or regard, viz., glistening 
white skulls of their enemies. 

When Simba and Moto arrived near the gate, the 
former's gigantic height of body and breadth (rf 
shoulders soon attracted attention, and drew crowds 
towards him of curious gazers. 

" Health unto you," was his greeting to them. 

" And unto you, strangers !" they replied. " Whence 
come you ?" they then asked. 



BIMBA AND MOTO PRtSONEES OB* KATALAMBULA. 1^9 

" We are travellers," said Moto, " who have heard 
of King Eatalambula, and have desired much to see 
Utnta's king." This was said in good Kirori, which, 
excepting a few words, is the same as Kituta. 

" Your words are well, strangers. You are Warori ?" 
a chief, who now made his presence known, asked 
them. " Though your garb is diflferent, and the punc- 
tures on the cheek and forehead are wanting." 

" I am a Mrori," answered Moto, " but my companion 
is not ; he is a stranger from a far land." 

" Then do the Warori carry guns nowadays ? And 
how is it that you wear such fine clothes ?" he asked, 
regarding them suspiciously. 

" We were successful in hunting, and shot an ele- 
phant, whose teeth we sold for cloth and two guns." 

" And where did you meet elephants ?" 

" On the frontier, near XJrori." 

" And where did you meet the Arabs ?" 

" In Ututa, two days from Urori." 

" Did you ask them where they were going ?" 

" They were going to Uwemba." 

" Perhaps you can tell us where they came from ?" 

" From Ubena." 

"Strangers," said the chief, "you are liars. No 
Arabs have been in this country for a long, long time. 
You are our prisoners, and must come before the King 
in our company ;" and, as he spoke, the men that had 
gathered near rushed at them and disarmed them. 

In a short time they found themselves within the 
inner square ; and under a large sycamore in the centre 
was seated, on a dried mud platform, raised two feet 
above the ground, and which ran around the tree like a 

E 



130 MY KALTJLTT. 

circular sofa, covered with kid and goatskins, and over 
these skins of wild beasts, an old white-haired man, 
whom, by the deference paid to him, the prisoners knew 
was King Katalambnla. 

The King had on his head a band of snowy white 
cloth, and his dress was a long broad robe of crimson 
blanket cloth. He was a kindly-looking old man, and 
he was evidently at the time being much amused with 
something that a tall young lad of sixteen, or there- 
abouts, was saying ; but as the group of warriors guard- 
ing Simba and Moto entered the square, the old man 
looked up curiously, and when they drew nearer he 
demanded to know what the matter was. 

" My sultan, my lord," said the principal man to 
whom we were first introduced at the gate, " these men 
are suspicious characters. To every question I asked 
them they replied with a lie; wherefore we brought 
them to you to judge.''' 

"Speak, strangers, the truth. Who and what are 
ye?" 

The quick eye of Moto had seen the young lad stand- 
ing by Katalambula when he entered, and he suspected 
that he was the object of his search, the young friend 
of bygone years. 

" Great king," said Moto, " I did lie ; but to you I 
will give the truth. I am a Mrori, who was taken 
when a child by the Arabs of Zanzibar. Tears after 
that time, when I was a man, I accompanied an Arab 
chief, called Kisesa, to Unyanyembe ; but soon after 
arriving, he declared war against the Warori, and " 

" Kisesa !" said the young lad, advancing towards him 
with the stride of a young lion. "War against ihe 






THEY ABE BBOUaHT Bfil'OltE TSE KING. 131 

Warori 1" he added again, with an angry glitter in his 
eyes. 

"Yes, yonng chief," said Moto, humbly; "and I 
accompanied Eisesa to this war. After a long march 
we came before a village near TJtuta, governed by " 

" By whom ?" asked the young chief. " Tell me his 
name — quick, dog !" 

Mostana," said Moto, deliberately. 
Mostana!" shrieked the boy, and the word was 
echoed in a tone of surprise by all. 

" Yes, Mostana was his name," said Moto, ^unheeding 
the menacing looks or the angry murmurs which arose 
from all sides, but hurrying on with his story. " We 
took the village after a short time, though Mostana's 
men fought well, and numbers of our people were 
killed. Mostana's men were nearly all killed, and 
those who were left were made slaves, according to the 
custom of the Arabs." 

" Yes, that is true," said Katalambula. " Those cruel 
people make clean work of it when they fight, but 



j> 



"Were they all made prisoners?" asked the boy 
chief, in a curious tone. 

" All, except one, and " 

" And his name was ?" 

" Kalulu !" replied Moto, in a clear tone. 

Again rose a murmur of astonishment from aU sides, 
but, apparently heedless that he had said anything 
very strange, Moto continued : 

" Yes, Kalulu, the son of Mostana, was standing by 
his father's side, when Kisesa, observing him, said he 
would give fifty pieces of cloth to whoever would takd 



132 MY KALULIJ. 

him alive. On hearing that, my soul felt a feeling of 
pity for him, as yon mnst remember I was a Mrori ; 
and, though I liked the Arabs, I conld not kill my own 
people at their bidding, nor did I like to see snch a 
brave boy as Mostana's son in danger of being made a 
slave by Eisesa. So, on hearing the oflFer made by 
Kisesa, I snatched up a shield and rushed forward to 
whisper to him to follow me, but the boy thought pro- 
bably that I was about to kill him, as he put a spear 
clean through my shield and pinned my arm to it." 

A loud cry of admiration greeted this, while the boy 
already advanced nearer to Moto and regarded him 
affectionately ; but Moto heeded nothing of this, but 
continued : 

" Seeing me still advance, the boy sprang back just 
as his father fell dead by a bullet from some gun 
behind me. I hastened after the boy, saw him look 
cautiously around, and spring over the palisade ; but I 
was right behind him ; and when he was a little distance 
off in the forest I chased him at my best speed, and 
soon came up to him. I explained to him who I was, 
and why I chased him, and told him I was his friend ; 
upon which he told me that he was going to his uncle, 
a great king in Ututa, and that if ever we met again 
he .would be my friend." 

As Moto finished this part of his story, the boy chief 
sprang forward and embraced Moto, saying : 

" Dost thou not know me ? I am Kalulu ! And thou 
art my friend Moto 1 I shall keep my promise, and the 
King must thank thee," said Kalulu, as he drew Moto 
forward towards Eatalambula. 

As they heard these words from Kalulu, the chiefs 



KALULU EECOGNISES MOTO. 133 

t 

( 

and elders clapped their hands, and saluted Moto, 
while the King took hold of Moto's right hand and 
said: 

"Kalulu has told me the story which related how 
the Kirori slave would not take him when he might 
have done so ; and though I never expected to see the 
man, I promised him that if any of my people met him 
and they should bring him to me, I should be his 
friend ; that he should have one of my daughters for 
wife, and that I would bestow on him anything else he 
asked, for Kalulu is as dear to me as though he were 
my son. Speak, Moto, arid tell me what I can do for 
thee." 

Then Moto, after a seat had been given to him, 
repeated briefly the story which we have already given 
to the readers, while murmurs of approbation at the 
wonderful good fortune of Ferodia rose from every 
side ; then, when these had subsided, Moto said : 

" Oh, Kalulu, if what I have done for thee deserves 
kindness at thy hands, and if thou wert sincere when 
thou didst promise to be my friend, speak to the great 
King of the Watuta for me, and let him give my young 
master Selim, the Arab slave, as well as the three other 
slaves their freedom, and let them depart to their own 
land, and to the friends who will mourn for them." 

"Kalulu has already given his promise to thee, 
Moto. Kalulu is the friend of thy friends, and the 
enemy of thy enemies. Katalambula, the King, hears 
my words, and will do this kindness for thee for what 
thou hast done for me. Speak, great King," said 
Kalulu, advancing to him as he spoke. 

" Ah, Kalulu !" said the King Katalambula, " thou 



134 MY KALULU. 

knowest not what thou askest, but I will do for thee 
what may be done. I can intercede with Ferodia for 
them, but I may not command him. Those Arab 
youths are the slaves of Ferodia; but if he is willing to 
exchange for them, I will give him two female slaves 
for each of the Arab boy-slaves. Will that content 
thee, Kalulu ?" 

" I will wait until he comes here. I will then give 
thee my answer. But I think thou givest way too 
much to Ferodia in all things; he likes me not too 
well, because I stand between him and thy favour. If 
I were king of the Watuta, I should give Ferodia a 
lesson." 

" Tush, boy ! be not too hasty with thy tongue. 
Ferodia is chief in his own right of a large tract of 
country. Dost thou wish me to take that from him 
which he has won by his spear and his bow?" asked 
Katalambula, slightly frowning. 

" He has not won by himself, with his sword and his 
spear, the battle against the Arabs. Eight hundred of 
the ten hundred warriors he has with him are thine, 
taken from thy country. Wilt thou that he shall 
choose for himself what he shall please to reserve, or 
wilt thou choose what he shall have and what thou 
wilt keep ?" 

"Boy, boy, Ferodia is the chief warrior of the 
Watuta ; he knows every art of war. He has never been 
beaten in the battle, either by the Wabena, or the 
Warungu, or the Wawemba, or any other ; and though 
I have furnished him with men, he has always given me 
the greater and the most valuable share. Why wilt 
thou, who art but a boy, tell me these things concern- 



THE Kma aivEB each op them a wipe. 135 

ing Ferodia? Be patient; I will ask him when he 
comes for these slaves for thee. But had it not been 
for the good deed this man did for thee, I should have 
ordered Ferodia to roast them all alive. Go thou, 
rather, and do thy duty towaris these travellers ; give 
them food and drink ; and when they have rested, give 
each a house. Then let my daughter Lamoli be given 
to Moto for wife ; and to this tall man give one of my 
female slaves for wife. Xatalambula has spoken." 

While the King was speaking he was evidently 
getting more peevish, for he was old and soon tired ; so 
Kalulu refrained from taxing his patience further, and 
beckoning to Moto and Simba, he walked away with his 
guests, leaving the King to be assisted by his chiefs to 
his quarters. 

When young Kalulu arrived at^ his own house, or 
rather room — for the entire square was surrounded 
but by one house — he again embraced Moto, and pro- 
mised to leave no stone unturned until he had secured 
the freedom of the Arab boys. "But," said Kalulu, 
" it is well for them that you are my friend, as I do 
not think I can ever forgive the Arabs for murdering 
my father ; and the King finds it very hard to do this 
thing for you, because in Mostana he lost a brother ; 
and those of our tribe who have travelled far to hunt 
and kill elephants always come back with tales of their 
cruelty. I fear if Ferodia insists on their being slaves 
my uncle will not resist him ; for, but for you, nothing 
would please him better than to torture them, and I 
should have liked it too." 

" Oh, Kalulu," said Moto, " you do not know Selim. 
He would never have treated a man badly, neither did 



136 MY KALULU. 

his father. Simba and I "were proud to be slaves of such 
a man as Amer bin Osman, and we were proud to call 
Selim our young master. Do you know that Selim is 
just your age, though you are taller than he is, and 
you are thinner than he was ; though, poor boy ! he will 
be thin enough when he comes here. But how you 
have grown, Kalulu ! yet you cannot be more than 
sixteen years old !" 

" I do not know how old I am," Kalulu said, laugh- 
ing. "I was little when I saw you, or you would 
never have caught me. But I must do what the King 
has commanded me to do." And Kalulu darted out, 
spear in hand, his ostrich plumes trailing over his head 
far behind. 

Perhaps here would be a fit place to intercalate a 
description of the native youth whose name forms the 
title-page to this strange historical romance. 

Since ancient Greece displayed the forms of her noblest, 
finest youth in the Olympian games, and gave her 
Phidias and Praxiteles models to immortalise in marble, 
all civilised nations have borrowed their ideas of manly 
beauty from the statues left to us by Grecian and 
Eoman sculptors, because civilised nations seldom can 
furnish us with models to compete with the super- 
excellent types designed by Greece. While American 
and English sculptors go to Eome to play with marble 
and plaster, and borrow for their patterns of an athlete 
or perfect human form, the vulgar, low, and uncouth 
lazzaroni of Eome, the centre of Africa teems with 
finer specimens of manhood than may be found in this 
world ; such types as would eveu cause the marble forms 
of Phidias to blush, 



KALULU'S PERSONAL APPEARANCE. 137 

Kalulu was one of the best specimens which the 
ancient sculptors would have delighted to imitate in 
stone. His face or head may not, perhaps, have kindled 
any very great admiration, but the body, arms, and 
limbs were unmistakably magnificent in shape. He 
had not an ounce of flesh too much, yet without the 
tedious training which the modern athlete has to 
undergo, and following nothing but the wild instinct of 
his adopted tribe, he was a perfect youthful Apollo in 
form. The muscles of his arms stood out like balls, 
and the muscles of his legs were as firm as iron. There 
was not one of the tribe of his age who could send a 
spear so far, or draw the bow with so true and steady 
aim as he, or could shoot the arrow farther. None had 
such a springy, elastic movement as he, none was so 
swift of foot, none followed the chase with his ardour, 
none was so daring in the attack ; yet with all that 
constant exercise, the following of which had given 
him these advantages, his form lost nothing of that 
surpassing grace of movement and manly beauty for 
which he was styled by me, just now, a perfect youthful 
Apollo. 

If I give him such praise for his elegance of form 
and free graceful carriage, I may not continue in the 
same strain in the description of his face. Ealulu was 
a negro, but his colour was not black by any means, it 
was a deep brown or bronze. His lips were thick, and, 
according to our ideas, such as would not lend beauty to 
his face ; his nose was not flat, neither was it as correct 
in shape as we would wish it ; but, with the exception of 
lips and nose, one could find no fault with his features. 
His eyes were remarkably large, brilliant, sparkling, 



138 MY KALULU. 

and black as the blackest ink, while the whites of his 
eyes were not disfigured by. the slightest tinge of 
unhealthy yellow, nor seamed with the red veins 
common to negroes of older growth. His ears were 
small and shapely, and, strange to say, the lobes were 
not as yet distorted out of all form with the pieces of 
wood or gourd-necks, which, unhappily, with the 
Watuta, are too common among their ear ornaments. 
His ears were simply decorated with two Sungomazzi 
beads,* one to each ear, each bead suspended by a piece 
of very fine brass wire. His hair, though woolly, hung 
below his shoulders in a thousand fine braids, adorned 
with scores of fine red, yellow, and white beads. His 
ornaments, besides those already mentioned, consisted 
of three snow-white ostrich plumes, fastened in a band 
which ran around his head, and which, besides holding 
the plumes, served to hold his hair ; a braided necklace, 
ivory bands above each elbow, and ivory bracelets, and 
broad bead- worked anklets. 

While the author has been endeavouring to portray 
Kalulu, that the reader may become ac(5[uainted with 
his excellence, the youthful hero had hastened to bring 
Lamoli to her husband ; and he now appeared on the 
threshold of the door with his cousin, who at once 
pleased Moto as much as the King expected she would. 
We will say this, however, in passing, that though she 
was not by any means the loveliest of her sex, she was 
neither ugly, toothless, nor old ; nor was she young, 
pretty, or one calculated to charm our fastidious tastes. 
But Moto did not refuse her; on the contrary, he 

* These beads are as large as a pigeon's egg, and are either of 
ooloured {)orc6lain or coloured glass. 



THE GBEAT AFRICAN GIANTESS. 139 

thonght it a high honour to marry the daughter of a 
king, and became lavish in his praise, with which Lamoli 
was not at all displeased. 

Haying performed this marriage according to the 
customs of the Watuta, Kalulu remembered that he had 
still another marriage on his hand, and at once asked 
Simba what kind of a wife he fancied. Simba was not 
at all displeased with the idea of another wife, though 
he and Moto had each a wife at Zanzibar, who had 
borne them children; and he at once replied that 
Kalulu might choose for him. After an absence of 
only a few minutes, Kalulu returned with a young 
woman who might have drawn crowds in London and 
New York, as the " Great African Giantess." 

As he saw the gigantic couple together, Kalulu 
clapped his hands in high glee, and danced about 
them as if he were about to receive a magnificent gift, 
and laughed as he burst into a mock rhapsody. 

" Lo, Kalulu has seen strange things ! he has seen 
two trees drawn together from a great distance! he 
has seen them walk together arm-in-arm ! ! Behold 
how the trees, the sycamore and the mtambu, the 
great baobab, and the mbiti, how they nod their 
heads, and are pleased ! ! For they rejoice that two 
great trees are married, and a forest of young trees 
will soon sprout up. As they move, the ground shakes 
and the huts reel. Verily this is a great day ; both the 
ground and the huts have been guzzling pombe — they 
are drunk, rejoicing over the marriages Kalulu, the 
future King of the Watuta, has performed ! 

" Lamoli, my sweet cousin, daughter of Katalambula — 
of Katalambula the ^eat King — ^was sorrowing for a 



• t « 



•Ji, ^t'M'py <1*J* ^ aiBiL znxiL j:js: — 

>\ \\\ (tiu Hra -hid cvaiie. Iia :9[ir :=!:^. - 

'(. ^\«4t iMv lnotid ; ft&d i2> "ittti T.^iTh. ..r- 

>-4 iho t^toui King — Cc^zzii A JiLsi/jLiL. 

« >u.4U' K>t- LamolL 

..^v-a ! t.^uuoli ! weep no iE.:r* : :~ 

i x'Hv ho«i m)m ear to ear, *ili I 

. * . nvk' ilu» joy welling from :lj 
. •- . ^t'^»^^»*^s from a roei* 

>o tha( the unmarried 
.^ .xivr thee: so tier 

* ' • 

-^' . r .nbfh themselyes 

. .jt^ir ornaments. 

i«o5 of man 



•- i 









140 MY KALULU. 

husband. She was thirsting, like a pool in the middle 
of the plain in a long summer. She, the flower of 
Katalambula's household, was sick for a husband. But 
the day came — ah, happy day! A man from afar — 
from the island in the sea — ^he came, he saw me, I 
knew him. He was my friend ; and in him Katalam- 
bula — ^Katalambula the great King — found a husband 
for his daughter — a mate for Lamoli. 

" Ah, Lamoli ! Lamoli ! Lamoli ! weep no more ; but 
laugh until thy mouth reaches from ear to ear, and I, 
Kalulu, thy cousin, can see the joy welling from thy 
throat, like living water springing from a rock ! 
Laugh, Lamoli, sweet Lamoli ! so that the unmarried 
women of all Ututa may hear and envy thee ; so they 
may rend their bosoms with rage, or crush themselves 
to death with the over-weight of their ornaments. 
Laugh, Lamoli, sweet Lamoli ! until every foot of man 
and woman moves to the sound of thy happy laughter ! 
And thou, tall woman of Ututa ! do thou laugh and 
sing, until all the tall trees of Ututa will become jealous 
of thee ! we then may have rain. And thou, Simba, 
tall man from afar, well named the Lion ! roar for joy, 
and thou wilt hear the wild lions of the forest roar in 
concert with thee, and each will be roused to fury> 
roaring for their loving mates. But enough; be 
happy, and raise warriors for your tribes. Kalulu is, 
not a singer ; he is a young warrior, who is learning 
how to throw the spear and shoot with the bow. The 
singers are coming with drums to do you honour, for 
such are the King's commands." 

While Kalulu had been thus employing himself, a 
Qompany of drummers, eight in number, two tumblers,— • 



THE MABEIAaE SONG. 141 

or, as we should call them, two mountebanks, — and fifty 
couples of young men and women had formed them- 
selves in a circle ; and as Ealulu ceased speaking, the 
Magic Doctor, or Mganga, as the natives called him, 
raised his voice and sang the marriage song, while he 
danced in an ecstatic manner as he sang. I should 
also say, before giving the song, that the smallest 
drums only accompanied his voice, while the great 
drums thundered together when the chorus was given 
by the dancers. The words were, as near as they can 
be translated : 

We sing the happy marriage song, 
We sound the drum, and beat the gong 

In honour of Lamoli ! 
She is the daughter of a king, 
Yet she spent her days in \7eeping, 
Being left alone and sorrowing. 

Poor sorrowing Lamoli I 
Chorus. Oh, Lamoli 1 
Poor Lamoli I 
Sorrowing Lamoli 1 

A day has come, ah, happy day I 
That brought a stranger in the way 

Of sorrowing Lamoli ! 
Long ago the stranger did a deed, 
A friendly deed, in time of need. 
Which won for him the lover's meed. 

Sweet Lamoli ! 
Chorus, Oh, Lamoli ! 

Sweet Lamoli ! 
Charming Lamoli 1 

This stranger sav'd, young Kalulu 
From cruel bonds at Kwikuru. 

The good stranger I 
Kalulu swore to this brave man, 






142 MY KALULTJ. 

As long as life-blood in him ran, 
To praise the name to every man 

Of this brave stranger 1 
Chorus, Oh, stranger 1 
Good stranger I 
Brave stranger ! 

This man has come to 'Tata Land, 
This man who sav'd with friendly hand 

Our young Ealulu ! 
Shall we deny him our faint praise ? 
Shall we refuse him wedlock lays? 
Shall we not wish him happiest days ? 

Whosav*dKalulu? 
Chorus. Oh, Kalulu 1 

Young Kalulu I 
Brave Kalulu I 

Our great King heard the stranger's name. 
And nearer to him the stranger came. 

To Katalambula 1 
He said, " I've known this story long, 
A Mtuta's memory is strong. 
I love the good and hate the wrong," 

Said Katalambula ! 
Chorus, Oh, Katalambula ! 
Good Katalambula ! 
Great ELatalambula I 

Give him house, give him home. You boy I 
Give him pombe and food. Give him joy ! 

Give him Lamoli I 
Brave man I take the pride of our race ; 
Take the dearest girl with the loveliest face. 
Live in the shade of our kingly mace 

With good Lamoli I 
Chorus. Oh, Lamoli I 
Good Lamoli I 
Sweet Lamoli ! 

We sing the happy marriage song. 
We sound the drum and beat the gong 

For joy with Lamoli. 






OONCLTTSION OF THE MARRUGE FESTIVITIES. 143 

Now a wife, no longer weeping, 

No more to spend her days in monming, 

She will be for ever laughing, 

Happy Lamoli t 
Chorus, Oh, Ijamoli ! 

Charming Lamoli I 
Happy Lamoli ! 

The mnsic accompanying this song was slow and 
sweet, worthy of the great occasion on which it was 
given. During the chorus, the dancing became more 
lively, and each man and woman lifted the voice high, 
which created a grand and majestic volume of sound, 
while the drums were beaten with a terrific vigour. 
The festivities lasted" all the day and night, until sun- 
rise next morning ; but during the night they were 
better attended, nearly a thousand souls joining in the 
song and chorus. Kalulu and many others were hoarse 
from over-exertion of voice, when they retired next 
morning to rest. 

Having brought Simba and Moto to their temporary 
home and through their difficulties, let us now with- 
draw from this scene for a while, and see how it fares 
with the Arab boy-slaves and Ferodia's caravan. 



14.4 Mir KALttLO. 



CHAPTEE VI. 

Suflferings of Selim, Abdullah, and Mussoud — Tn the Slave Gang— 
Isa seized with Small-pox — ^Isa left behind to die — Selim's Prayer 
— Selim proposes to escape — Selim*s Preparation — Selim's Escape 
— The Eoar of the King of the Forest — Selim shoots a Lion — 
Selim shoots an Antelope — ^He suffers from Hunger — He falls 
fainting to the ground — Selim's Despair — His Reflections — Ho 
gives himself up to die. 

Although the caravan started the day after the de- 
parture of Simba and Moto, it conld not of course travel 
so fast as two fugitives ; so that the journey, which only 
occupied a few days with our two friends, lasted nearly 
a month with Ferodia's caravan. 

Ferodia, the chief of the Watuta caravan, had besides 
four Arab slaves — three of whom were perfectly white 
—nearly three hundred black slaves, who had been 
captured in the battle of Kwikuru. If the report was 
spread abroad that he possessed so many slaves, as 
would undoubtedly be the case, he would soon be visited 
by traders from Unyanyembe and from Kilwa, and per- 
haps, if he waited long enough, from Tette, on the 
Zambezi river ; so it was for his advantage to travel 
slowly, not only that the rumour might have time to 
spread, but also to give the human cattle plenty of 
time to recover from their wounds. 

The marches were, therefore, commenced at six 



SUFPEBINGS OP SBLIM, ABDULLAH, AND MUSSOUD. 145 

o'clock in the morning, and seldom lasted longer tlian 
noon, as the first part of the country through which 
he now travelled was extremely populous and rich, 
and each chief was friendly to him and his men ; but 
after the tenth day he neared the debatable ground, 
consisting of extensive tracts of forest and jungle, 
lying between Urori and XJtuta, and inhabited by no 
living being, except wild beasts. From the farthest 
westerly point of this debatable tract, there were three 
long marches, or say ninety miles, to Katalambula's 
country. 

Having explained so much, let us glean what may 
be interesting to the general reader of the incidents of 
this march relating to the slaves. 

Besides suffering intensely from the heat, Selim, 
Abdullah, and Mussoud suflfered excessively from the 
loads which they were compelled to carry, and which 
chafed their tender shoulders frightfully. For the first 
three days they went entirely naked, as it must not 
be supposed that, because the Watuta were rich in 
clothes, they possessed one yard too much, or that they 
could have dispensed with a yard for the comfort of 
slaves. 

Slaves are cattle, are supposed too often to be able to 
live like cattle, and^ are therefore treated like cattle. 
So these three hundred slaves were chained — for chains, 
it must be confessed, were part of the plunder which 
the Watuta had found in the Arab camp — by twenties ; 
an iron collar ran around the neck of each adult, while 
the boys, Selim, Abdullah, Mussoud, Isa, and the 
negro boys, among whom, it must be remembered, was 
our mischievous Niani, or the monkey, and others, 

L 



146 HT KALXJLU. 

were tied by ropes around the waist, about six feet 
apart, the tallest first. Of the adult slaves there were 
fifteen herds, or gangs of twenties, each gang being 
superintended by a sub-chief or a trustworthy warrior, 
and there was one gang of boys which were looked after 
by Tifum Byah. 

I have already said that the slaves were cattle. The 
word cattle must be understood by the reader in its 
most literal sense. Decency was therefore out of the 
question. If one needed to wash his face in camp, the 
whole gang, accompanied by the chief, were obliged to 
march out for the convenience of this one. If from 
any cause a man required to fall out of the line, there 
was a halt and a constant worrying of the unfortunate 
wretch until the caravan had been overtaken. If one 
needed a drop of water all had to stop. In all gangs 
and crews of slaves there is always one calling for 
something or requiring something more than his fel- 
lows ; and this to the others is a source of vexation, 
because the chief who has charge is soon irritated if 
such a proceeding is carried too far, and he is not slow 
to avail himself of the rod to quicken the footsteps of 
the lagging gang. 

In the boy's gang, Isa was one of those who con- 
tinually required to halt, and all the boys suffered in 
consequence, especially Selim, whose file-leader was the 
lagging and unfortunate Isa. 

Niani saw through the trick of Isa in a very short 
time, and no doubt he would have remained silent 
about it, had he not seen that his young master Selim 
suffered through it. For two or three days of the 
march Niani held his peace, but when Selim received 



IN THE SLAVE GANG. 147 

a more than nsnally severe beating from Tifum Byah, 
Niani exploded, and told the chief, to his surprise, that 
he was whipping the wrong boy, that it was Isa who 
"v^as the cause of the stoppage ; whereupon Isa received 
a severe punishment with the ever-ready kurbash (hip- 
popotamus-hide whip). While Selim had been whipped 
Isa had never expressed any great sympathy with him, 
but when he was punished himself his cries and groans 
were dreadfully long and loud, and in the camp he was 
constantly bewailing his hard lot, and alWays threaten- 
ing that supple-minded and tough-bodied little negro 
Niani for his expose of him. 

On the evening of the fifth day after their arrival at 
camp, Niani, who knew how to like and how to hate, 
said aloud to Selim, as soon as he had an opportunity, 
that he would much prefer if Selim took his waist-cloth. 
Selim refused it upon the ground that he would have 
none left for himself. 

" Oh, but. Master Selim," said Niani, " I am but a 
little nigger ; no one wiU mind me. I wanted to give 
it to you before, but I did not like to offer my cloth to 
you, because it is dirty." 

" Anything is better than nothing. I will take it 
with thanks, since you say you don't want it ; but won't 
you keep a little of it for yourself? " 

"Not an inch," said- Niani, resolutely. "I don't 
want a cloth anyhow — never did want it ; besides that 
is the cloth you gave me that night I tripped Isa, and 
cruel Isa was going to put me on the fire." 

Selim then rose up to put this filthy piece of torn 
cotton cloth around his waist ; but as he was about to 
put it on, he saw his friends Abdullah and Mussoud 



148 MY KALULU. 

looking wistfully up ; and their colour, as well as his 
own, made them look all too nude for a country where 
all skins were black. Without saying a word he mea- 
sured the cloth in three equal pieces, and tore it into 
three equal strips, one of which he presented to Ab- 
dullah, another to Mussoud, and the other he reserved 
for himself. The two boys rose up, blushing gratefully, 
and Abdullah said to Selim : 

" Thy heart is as soft as fine gold. The cloth is not 
six inches wide, but I feel more grateful to thee than 
ever I did when I received fine daoles (rich gold- worked 
cloth) at the hand of my father, Mohammed, whom may 
God preserve ! A pure heart like thine will not long 
go unrewarded at the hand of Allah." 

" Thou mightest have given me a piece," said Isa 
to Selim, in a complaining tone. 

" How can you talk so. Master Isa ? " asked Niani. 
" Tour skin is as black as mine ; sure, you look as 
though you were clothed already. You should be 
happy in having a black skin, instead of wanting a 
piece out of nothing." 

" A truce to your insolence, Niani, or I will come 
and break every bone in yonr body," said Isa, angrily, 

" Tou had better not, Isa, because I am a slave of 
Ferodia, the Mtuta chief; and if you kill me, Ferodia 
^11 kiU you," answered Niani, 

" Well, then, hold your tongue, and don't torment 
me. I am sick of life already, and sick in mind and 
body," said Isa. 

" Dost thou suffer much, Isa ? " asked Selim. 

" Indeed I do. My head aches as if it would split, 
and all down my back run sharp pains. They are not 



ISA SEIZED WITH SMALL-POX. 149 

the pains which that savage dogTifum made, but some- 
thing else. I think there is something serious the 
matter with me/' moaned poor suffering Isa. 

"I hope not," said Selim. "Cheer up, Isa, my 
friend; we have only to reach Eatalambula to have 
rest. This march cannot last for ever." 

" I shall never reach the country of the accursed 
Watuta," said Isa. " My illness is too serious." 

" Why, what can the matter be with thee, my 
friend ? " 

" Don't start, Selim, and don't curse me when I tell 
you that I have the jederi {the small-pox)." 

" The small-pox ! What' makes thee think that ? " 
Selim asked. 

"I have seen it often enough, and have seen the 
men die on the road from it, and I fear I shall die too," 
said Isa, mournfully. 

The next morning Isa was very much worse, and it 
was obvious to every one that the boy had it very badly, 
but he was not permitted to halt or to be carried. Slaves 
are not carried : there are no means of carrying sick 
slaves in Africa, and so he was driven along with 
the rest; but about ten o'clock, after four hours' 
march, as they were approaching a forest, the sick lad 
became delirious, and he began to reel like a drunken 
man, and after a short time the load fell from his 
head, and as Tifum came up raging furiously at this 
weakness, Isa fell across his bale with his eyes half 
protruding from their sockets, and his tongue hanging 
out. But Tifum had no sense of kindness in his heart; 
so he began to flog the unfortunate wretch with all 
the force that an unnatural cruelty alone could have 



150 MY KALULU. 

impelled, trntil SeHm, unable longer to bear the dis- 
gusting sight, hurled the load he carried on his head 
full at the head of the savage ruffian, and while he was 
down he snatched the whip from his hand, and began 
to belabour him with all his might until he was over- 
thrown himself on the ground by the infuriated Tifum, 
and belaboured in his turn until Tifum was obliged to 
desist lest he might kill him. 

Cutting the rope which joined the prostrate bodies of 
the boys, the one insensible from violence, the other 
from a deadly sickness, he called for a gourdful of 
water, and pouring it on Selim's head^ soon restored 
him to consciousness. Then the refined cruelty of the 
slave traders, and the utter abomination of the inhuman 
traffic, began to be exhibited. Trembling with rage and 
merciless hate, he called for the long, heavy, wooden 
yoke, which, furnished with two prongs a little apart 
from each other, is used for the most refractory slaves. 
When green, this yoke-tree weighs about thirty pounds, 
but dry it generally weighs about twenty pounds. One 
of these tree-yokes had been prepared but a few days 
before, so that it could not be much reduced in weight 
from what it weighed originally. This was the clumsy, 
heavy instrument of torture with which Tifum designed 
to encumber Selim's body. 

After the neck of the half-unconscious lad was placed 
between the prongs, the ends of the prongs were drawn 
together by means of a strong cord, so that the head 
remained firmly imprisoned, while the huge unwieldly 
tree of the yoke sloped behind him about ten feet ofiP 
from his shoulders. 

In order to avoid employing a guard to carry the tree, 



ISA LEFT BEHIND TO DIE. 151 

the end was lifted up and tied to Abdullah's shoulders 
and arm. 

When things had thus been prepared for the con- 
tinuance of the march Tifum proceeded to the dying 
Isa, and seeing it was hopeless to expect further work 
from him, as the look of death was already on his face, 
the savage fiend bestowed a kick on the body, and 
swishing his kurbash warningly, gave the hint to Selim, 
who was now the file leader, to proceed. In a short 
time the caravan was out of sight, while the unfortunate 
Isa was left in the middle of the road to gasp his last, 
unseen, unwept, and unhonoured. 

On the twentieth day of the march it was found that 
little Mussoud was attacked with the small-pox. Kum- 
bers of the slaves had already perished from tHs fell 
disease ; for as fast as they fell from the ranks and could 
not rise again, despite repeated applications of the staff 
of a spear, or a rod, or a kurbash, they were left to 
die the miserable death of deserted sick where they 
fell, and not one thought was ever directed to them 
again. 

Thus when Mussoud became sick, the alarm of his 
brother Abdullah and his friend Selim was extreme. 
They requested permission to share the burden of Hs 
load by having it tied to the yoke-tree with which Selim's 
neck was still furnished, but the slight request was 
refused, and when the latter's eyes again flashed a 
dangerous light, Tifum, who saw that he had a stub- 
born soul to deal with, replied with another dose of 
vigorous lashing on the boy's shoulders until they were 
one mass of weals and bruises. 

Selim uttered not a word nor moan ; he was getting 



152 MY KALULU. 

to be past all feeling of bodily pain, though his heart 
was keenly alive and sensitive. While plodding along 
in this manner nnder the burning sun, no sound break- 
ing the soft shuffling sound of the tramp of naked feet 
of the slaves, except a low moan now and then from 
poor little Mussoud, and Tifum had retired to vent his 
spite upon those in the rear, it struck him as a sudden 
idea that he was being punished more cruelly than the 
others because, despite the fine religious education he 
had received, he had of late, since he had been in 
bondage, forgotten the God of his fathers, whom Amer 
had counselled him so often never to forget. His con- 
science was not a whit more hardened ; the reason of 
this neglect was the delicacy he felt in approaching his 
God with unwashed hands and feet ; but now he de- 
termined to avail himself of the first opportunity of a 
halt, and prepare himself for prayer. 

After repeated prayers from the sick boy Mussoud 
to Tifum to give him one little halt to rest, it was at 
last granted ; more, however, to give Tifum an oppor- 
tunity to light his pipe than for the sake of the sick 
boy. ^ 

No sooner had Tifum turned his back, than Selim 
bent down and began to scrape together the dry, white, 
sandy dust from the road, and to rub his feet, and 
hands, and face, and body with it, as if he were wash- 
ing himself ; then turning his face to the north-east, 
in the direction of Mecca, he began his prayer in a 
whisper : 

" Oh, Thou who art the light of heaven and earth, 
whom all creatures praise, unto whom all things bo- 
longeth, thou bounteous, wise, and compassionate God ! 



SELm's PRAYEB. 153 

be gracious and merciful to one of the true believers, 
who now standeth before Thy footstool. 

" Thou art great, Thou art holy. Thou art almighty, 
Oh God ! and unto those who inyoke Thee Thou hast - 
promised, through Thy prophet Mohammed, blessed be 
his name ! to be attentive and to lend assistance. 

" Thou all-knowing and gracious God ! avert from me 
the torments of Jehenna, which I suffer at the hands 
of these infidel savages. 

" The unbelievers have laid cruel hands upon me, a 
true believer, and a son of a true believer. Lo ! th^y 
have bound me like unto a sheep about to be slaugh- 
tered ; they have laid their whips upon me, the cruel 
thongs have cut into my bones, and with their sharp 
spears have they gashed me. 

" Thou Powerful and Self-sufficient God ! Thou hast 
promised to protect the fatherless and the orphan, and 
to be solicitous for him, and to punish those who oppress 
him. 

" Thou compassionate and loving God ! let the or- 
phan's cries take the form of prayers, and suffer them 
to ascend unto Thee before Thy footstool, and do Thou 
bow down Thine head, and let them penetrate Thine 
ear. 

" Thou one, only, and eternal God ! hearken com- 
passionately unto my prayers, and rescue me from the 
unbelievers. 

" Thou Lord of men. King of men, and God of men ! 
save me from mine enemies, by the promise Thou hast 
given unto all true believers through Thy holy apostle 
Mohammed, and be Thy heart softened toward the 
orphan, and hear his prayers." 



154 JiY KALULU. 

When Selim had finished this nrgent, sincere appeal 
to his God, he prostrated himself to the earth, and then 
rose refreshed in body and spirit. 

Turning to Abdullah, who had been attending to his 
brother, he said : 

" Abdullah, my friend, I feel refreshed and strong. 
I have a bright idea in my head." 

" I have seen youvpray, Selim, and have wished that 
I could pray, too ; but my heart is too bitter for prayer. 
I feel as if I could curse all men, and myself, and die. 
Poor Mussoud's days are numbered, I fear : and if he 
dies, I do not care what becomes of me." 

" But, my dear friend, the Ktiran says : * When thou 
art in distress pray to thy God and He will hear thee ; 
His ear is open to the oppressed.' " 

" I know it, Selim, but I cannot pray now. I fear I 
should curse God for permitting his faithful to be 
treated as we have been. Listen to the moans of my 
brother, and think of his being left to die all alone in 
the road, because, if he cannot march, they will not let 
me remain with him !" But what is thy bright idea, 

Selim r; 

" My idea is to run away to-night, and go to the 
depths of this forest. Far better to die there than 
lead this life so wretched. If one of these people can 
trust himself in the forest, why may I not do so? 
They have not been able to kill me with all the weight 
of their cruelties. The forest were far kinder than 
these inhuman Watuta." 

" And my brother, what of him T 

" We will take him with us ; and when we are alone, 
safe from our pursuers, we will be able to nurse him. 



6ELm PROPOSES TO ESCAPE. 155 

We will build ourselves a strong little hut near some 
nice stream, where we shall be safe and quiet; and 
while you are watching your sick brother, I will take 
my spear and go out to gather wild fruit and honey. 
But, hush ! Here comes Tifum. Help Mussoud to his 
feet, and let him hold up until to-night." 

Just then the stern signal to march was given, and 
the boys turned industriously and submissively to their 
bales; and Mussoud feeling relieved by the rest, the 
caravan set out at its usual pace. 

About noon they halted in the forest, and, knowing 
that no danger from men was to be feared in the forest, 
the Watuta were heedless of the usual boma or brush 
fence around the camp. 

'The bpy-gang being tied together, were of course 
insepiarable, and Abdullah, in his usual place, sat next 
to Selim, as they munched their roasted Indian corn or 
their half -boiled holcus grains. Mussoud was accustomed 
to sit next to Selim, but owing to his illness he was placed 
outside the camp, as all the Watuta knew this disease was 
contagious, and what danger lay to the whole unvacci- 
nated camp by the dread presence of the small-pox. 

At night they were still together, Selim and Ab- 
dullah. Inside the circle of the camp were men seated 
in circles near the fire, discussing various topics. Out- 
side the camp, in the deep, deep night was perfect 
silence ; not a sound broke upon the ear, save now and 
then the uneasy growl of the hysena. 

" Well, Abdullah," said Selim, " the night has come, 
and thou must decide what thou wilt do." 

"Dear Selim, I cannot go and leave my brother. 
Poor Mussoud will not live till to-morrow morning. I 



156 MY KALCTLU. 

am afraid he is very ill to-night. His head was so hot, 
and he did not seem to know me. If thon goest away I 
shall be alone of us all. Poor Isa is dead already ; Mns- 
sond is dying ; and thou "^vilt be gone ; and I shall be 
alone." 

" Well, Abdullah, if thou dost not go, I shall. I am 
tired of this life. I wish to die. I am not afraid of 
death, but it shall never be said that Selim, the son of 
Amer, died like an ass in the road, to be spurned by 
the foot of that dog Tifum, like poor Isa was. If I am 
to die, let me die like an Arab, with none but my God 
to pity my wretchedness, with none but the birds of 
the air around my bed. Do me this favour, Abdullah, 
friend of my heart. If Mussoud still lives in the 
morning, tell him Selim is gone, and give him one kiss 
for me ; and before thou goest to sleep thou must give 
me one, for when thou wakest up in the morning, Selim, 
the son of Amer, will be gone. The lashing of this 
clumsy yoke around my neck is already loose ; it only 
requires a second to be free." 

" I thank thee, Selim, for this thought of my brother. 
I wish thee God's peace and blessing. If I live after 
this hard march, I shall dream and ever think of thee, 
and shaU sometimes whisper thy name in my prayers, 
that the angels may carry it to thy ear, and that some 
memory of Abdullah, thy friend, may be preserved in 
thy heart. Thou art a true Arab, son of Amer, a true 
friend ; thy soul is a jewel, brighter and purer than the 
diamond. On the road to thy home look up at night 
to those seven stars whifch thou seest together, and say 
to thyself, ' Abdullah thinks of me. Poor Abdullah !' 
May the holy Mohammed take thee to thy mother, and 



-J 



SELm's PBBPARATION. 157 

vihen thou art welcomed back to thy friends, think of 
my mother, and bear to her the kindly remembrance of 
her son. Selim, dear friend, I am about to compel my- 
self to sleep, that I may be ready for my morrow's 
work. See ! I kiss thee with the kiss of lasting friend- 
ship, and, since thou goest, be strong with Abdullah's 
faith that Allah will save thee !" 

They then both lay down, and, after a few uneasy 
tossings, Abdullah fell asleep, while Selim also lay down 
to plan out his march. Suddenly he remembered the 
parting words of Simba and Moto, and wondered to 
himself how he had not thought of them before, as they 
would have enabled him to bear up with a little more 
patience and fortitude the trials he had undergone. 
But they came not too late ; he felt that with such 
friends as those he was not alone in the world, and he 
resolved on leaving the camp to strike south, then wait 
a day in the woods, and afterwards strike off through 
the forest until he came near to a village in Ututa, and 
then lie in wait for some one who would direct him to 
Katalambula. A cruel thought came across his mind 
once, to stab Tifum with his own spear, but he in- 
stantly rejected it as unworthy of an Arab a^d the son 
of Amer bin Osman. 

The hours passed by, but* not wearily, as Selim's 
thoughts had been busy. All slept soundly, and the 
fires also seemed to have fallen into drowsiness, for 
nothing but dull red embers marked the places where 
the fires stood. 

He muttered a short prayer to God for courage and 
strength, and the lashings of the cruel yoke fell apart, 
and he drew his head through, free. Free ! not yet. 



158 MY KALULTJ. 

He stood up silently, walked straight to a tree de- 
liberately but noiselessly, chose a couple of spears, a 
gun, a powder horn, and a cartouche box, and began to 
withdraw as stealthily as he had advanced. 

It seemed an age to him, the time before he began 
to congratulate himself that he was safe ; for so precious 
were the articles in his possession, and so rich seemed 
the prospect of freedom. 

A few long strides brought him from tree to tree, 
and the more he counted of these trees the more certain 
was he of safety. Tree after tree was passed, their tall 
thick columns — taller and thicker by night — formed a 
denser rampart between him and his enemies, an im- 
penetrable protection against pursuit. 

Finally, he was free ! Free he felt, freely he walked, 
freely he thought, and the new idea, as it settled in his 
mind, seemed to fill him to strangling, it had such 
power of expansion ; the lungs were more inflated, the 
stride became firmer, the head assumed a prouder air, 
and the back of him straightened rigid! 

He was impelled forward, fatigue seemed to fly 
from him, an eager urgency of movement seemed to 
have come upon him ; he was walking against time for 
freedom ! 

An endless number of dark solemn trees were passed, 
countless numbers of acres in front, behind, and around 
him, of this tree-covered upland, and still it remained 
night. To darkness there seemed no end, nor did he 
want it to have end ; he wished it would ever remain 
night and his enemies ever sleep. 

But though the night was long, and friendlily shel- 
tered him with its kind mantle of impenetrability, 



beum's esoape. 159 

throngli which a fugitive was not visible, it had an end, 
for all things have an end ; bnt Selim and the Watuta 
camp were far apart ! 

Daylight — a dull grey mantle seemingly, which night 
had put on for a fickle change — appeared, but greyer 
and greyer it came through the foliage above ; it then 
came pale, and then a steely blue. A streak of silver 
light shot athwart his path ; the foliage was a bright 
green, and the leaves moved responsively, gently sigh- 
ing to the morning wind! 

How cool, how fresh it was ! How newly-born seemed 
the world, while the hum of busy insect life told him 
there were other creatures, after their rest, rejoicing in 
the new light of day! 

It became full day, for the sun, a round globe of 
living fire, or like a fiery balloon, surged upward light 
and airily. But oh ! with what different feelings he 
gazed upon it now. Yesterday it was hateful with its 
dry heat and blister, and its thirst-begetting warmth ; 
to-day it was like a huge lamp hoisted up to the sky to 
light the dim and lengthy aisles of the forest. There 
was no heat nor thirst in its appearance, nothing but 
strengthful vigour and cheery light ! 

At noon, Selim came to a quiet pool in the forest; 
the lotus flowers rose like yellow cups above its surface, 
while the leaves lay languidly flat. All around the 
rim the pool was garnished with these water flowers of 
Africa ; and, so decked, it looked like a great shallow 
dish adorned with a pictured border I 

How delicious did the water taste ! How cool and 
tranquil the spot! What deep silence pervaded the 
forest at noon ! How soothing to the fugitive soul ! 



160 MY KALULU. 

A little distance off he espied a large baobab, which 
had a hole in its body. Walking to it and looking in, 
he saw the hole led to a large hollow in the tree, as 
, large as a small chamber. He crept in, for it was 
empty, and there he laid down to rest, and finally he 
slept. He had escaped, and was safe ! 

It was night when he awoke ; he must have slept 
eight or ten hours ; there were no means of knowing 
how many. It was evidently a hard task to wake up, 
for after the first movement indicating life, he lay still, 
and tried to compel the sodden brain to recover its 
duty, and the eyes to aid it by piercing that thick 
darkness of the natural chamber in which he found 
himself. Bit by bit, the senses resumed the old order 
of things. Mind stirred up, and gave its master to know 
that he had run away from a most cruel slavery. Ah ! 
yes ! and, the keyword touched, all became clear. 

"The Watuta! — that torturing yoke-tree, and the 
sleepless nights it caused me ! my galled shoulders, my 
wealed back, my racking head ! that monster Tifum ! 
that fierce man-animal whom pity never touched ! that 
pariah dog-face, repulsive in its animal malignity! 
those thick lips which uttered such horrible blas- 
phemy! that always-ready whip! Who can forget 
him? May the foul mother who bore him, and her 
fouler son, perish like one of those whose fate will be Al 
Hotamah ! 

" All is clear to my mind now. I am free ! Arise, 
my soul, for further freedom ; the dark night is kinder 
than day. The wilderness will take more pity on me 
than man. Shake thyself, son of Amer, thy mother is 
patiently waiting for thee ; thy kinsmen at Zanzibar 



THE ROAR OF THE KING OF THE FOREST. 161 

still look for thee. Courage, my heart, there is nothing 
to fear." 

He rose to his feet and looked out. '^ Is that a beast, 
or is it my timid fancy which creates such a shape ? 
Hush, that was a step ! a slow, stealthy step of padded 
feet; no man alone in the wilds would walk on all 
fours. Hush, but a moment. Ah ! what is it ?" 

For just then an unearthly laugh — terrible in its 
satiric wildness of tone — rang through the forest. It 
was startling for a moment, because it was unexpected, 
and fearful, because it seemed to challenge all the deni- 
zens of the wilds. " "What beast can it be ? 

" Ah ! I remember now. Moto has told me of it. 
It is only a hyaena, and the hungry fellow has 
scented a prey. Not yet, my friend, can I be thine. 
Selim is safe from thy jaws. He must see Zanzibar 
first, before any of thy species can eat him. Oh 
God !^ " 

The satiric laugh of the hyaena was succeeded now by 
a roar which echoed through the forest, and another 
and another succeeded it, which almost deafened the 
lad with its volume and power. No animal but the 
dread king of the forest could have emitted such sounds, 
and there is nothing more startling than the first 
sudden bellowing outburst of his lungs — it is so deep, 
so protracted; but, as if he expends the concen- 
trated power of his lungs in the first roar, the others 
which succeed it come out in short, gasping, rasping 
sounds, which seem to chase one another as they peal 
through the forest in quick succession. Though the 
first sudden outburst is startling, even appalling, when 



162 MY KALTJLU. 

unexpected, a certain feeling of admiration qnickly suc- 
ceeds the first fear, at the yolume and the force of it, 
and at the echoes which it wakes np. 

" It is a lionl" said Selim to himself when he had re- 
gained his bewildered senses ; '^ the king of beasts. I 
have often desired to see thee and to hear thee, but I 
may not venture too near thee, as I fear thy claws and 
thy cavernous mouth. Halt where thou art until 
dawn, my friend, and I will look at thee well, but just 
now I will remain here. Ah, that is right ; thou comest 
nearer, but I have a gun, and there is a bullet in it, 
lion, so thou hadst better keep a respectful distance. 
The window through which I look at thee is too small 
for thee to enter ; besides, king of beasts, I need no 
companion like thee in this small chamber with me. 
How my bones would crack under thy strong jaws, and 
what a delicious morsel thou wouldst deem me. The 
hulwah* of Muscat were as nothing to it ; the honey of 
thy native wilds were bitter compared with my flesh, 
and bones, and warm blood. Nay, I beseech thee keep 
thy distance, lion. If thou art hungry catch that 
laughing devil of a hyaena ; but me, poor me, thou wilt 
surely not harm me 1" 

But the lion had advanced nearer to the tree: he 
had also scented a prey, and while he knew that the 
prey was contained within the tree, he was doubtful 
whether he could obtain the wherewithal to satisfy his 
hunger, and this was why he advanced roaring. 

Arriving at the foot of the tree he halted, and stood 
looking up at the tempting morsel. As if he heard and 
understood the low-spoken words which the Arab youth 

* A species of sweets made in Muscat, Arabia. 



BELDi SHOOTS A LIOK. 163 

addressed to him, he uttered another terrific roar. This 
caused Selim to draw in instinctively and seize his gun, 
but at the same instant the lion's form came bounding 
in at the hole through which Selim had entered, where 
he clung tenaciously with his claws, and endeavoured 
to drag himself in. Then Selim, with his heart in his 
mouth at the dreadful presence, put the muzzle of the 
gun against the lion's head and fired, and the monster 
fell dead outside. 

Selim, finding it dangerous to leave his friendly 
shelter, resolved to remain where he was until morning, 
and after he had listened^ a long time at the aperture 
of the tree, and became satisfied that the lion was dead, 
he laid down again on the floor of bis natural chamber, 
and, happily for one in his situation, fell asleep once 
more. 

About two hours after dawn he awoke, and imme- 
diately going to the window, he looked down, and 
when he saw the dead lion stretched stiff at the foot 
of the tree, he said to himseK : 

"He would have it; he would not listen to me. 
liike Tifum he revelled in his strength, and was con- 
scious of his might, and, like him, he wished to rend 
and tear me, but I have a gun, and I would that Tifum 
came after me, so that I could give him the same answer 
I gave this Uon." 

As he spoke, he placed his spears outside, then hid 
gun, then went out himself, and, taking his weapons 
up, he stood by the body of the lion. 

The following thoughts, though unexpressed, ran 
through his mind : 

" Behold ! how strong this lion was early last night 



164 MY KALULU. 

— how proud his pace as he roamed through the silent 
forest looking for his prey ! All the animals ran from 
before him, and left him lone in his proud strength. 
As if they knew his power, the echoes submissively sent 
his voice pealing through the long colonnades 'of the 
forest, like the heralds trumpeting the approach of a 
king. His eyes pierced the darkness and searched the 
night, his nostrils scented prey and blood, and he came 
and stood before me, the relentless tyrant of the 
wilderness! His great, flaming eyes glowed red 
with rage, his nostrils dilated wide as he thought of 
his hunger and the prospective feast; he pawed the 
ground and whirled his tail in fury, and tossing his 
mane back impatiently, he sprang at me and met his 
death. 

" Now, how weak ! An unarmed infant might play 
with his mane and pull at his great teeth. There lies 
no more danger in him ; and as he is, so may all my 
enemies be ! Farewell, thou lion ! I would have pre- 
ferred thou were not so unclean. My hunger is now 
sharp, and woe befall the hoofed animal I meet, but 
thee I may not eat." 

Then Selim, shouldering his gun and spears, having 
observed the sun, and found out the direction he in- 
tended to go, strode on, looking keenly to the right 
and left for any game that might promise him relief 
from the gnawing pangs of hunger he began to feel. He 
had been now thirty-six hours without food, for he had 
disdained to steal the rations of his comrades, as he 
might have done, knowing from experience that the 
slave who lost his rations or consumed them before 
the next distribution of food was very apt to suffer, as 



SFJ.TM SHOOTS AK ANTELOPE. 165 

none of his fellows, having nothing too much for him- 
self, could find charity enough in his own destitution 
to share with him. 

Thirty-six hours is a long period for a growing 
boy to be without food, and Selim began to feel it. 
There were none of those wild fruit trees, so common 
in TJkonongo, and Kawendi, and Usowa, the mbembu, 
the singwe (the wild wood-peach and plum) ; no wild 
grape nor nux vomica fruit, as in the south-eastern 
forests of Urori. The long, extensive plain south of 
the Cow Eiver seems to have made two zones, different 
from each other, of Southern Unyamwezi and South- 
western Urori. The trees in this forest were more 
adapted for building purposes ; but had Selim under- 
stood the ways of wild life in the forest, had he been 
anything but the tenderly-nurtured and pampered 
youth from Zanzibar, even here he might have found 
plenty of eatable roots. There was no lack of these 
about him ; the roots of those long, slender, primate- 
leafed plants, on which he trod, he would have found to 
be as nutritious as the yams of Zanzibar. But the 
boy was innocent of this knowledge, and so he kept on, 
seldom looking on the ground, except when he began 
to feel disheartened. 

As it was approaching sunset, however, he espied a 
small antelope crouching behind the bushes about fifty 
yards from him. Lifting his gun, with a prayer for 
success, he fired, and the animal, after making two or 
three convulsive leaps, fell wounded on its side. Hur- 
rying up, he caught it as it was about to rise to its 
feet, and using one of his spears as a knife, looked 
towards the north-east, in the direction of Mecca^ and 



166 MY KALULU. 

uttering his fervent "Bismillah" — (in the name of 
God !) the pious youth cut its throat. 

Then, proceeding with the work of preparing the 
meat, he cut off the head, skinned the animal, and 
extracted the inward parts, which he left for the 
hyaBnas, while the eatable portions he conveyed to the 
fork of a great tree, where he intended to rest that 
night. 

Hastily collecting some dry leaves, twigs, and sticks, 
he conveyed these also to the fork of the tree, and with 
the aid of some powder, he succeeded, after much 
patient work, in making a fire, over which he placed 
whole pieces of the antelope to roast, or rather to 
warm, for his ravenous hunger would not permit him 
to wait for the roast. 

Had Selim understood the art of travelling, he would, 
of course, have cut the meat into thin strips, and- have 
dried them slowly over the fire, and by this means have 
furnished himself with sufficient food for two or three 
days. But not knowing the art, he had placed all the 
pieces over the fire at once, believing, doubtless, like 
many other hungry people, that he could eat them all 
at one meal. Before, however, he had eaten half of one 
leg, he felt gorged ; and feeling tired, put out the fire, 
raked all the ashes away, and when the fire-place had 
cooled somewhat, he laid himself down, with his legs 
coiled, and went to sleep. 

In the morning, before starting on his journey again, 
he ate the other half of the leg, out of which he had 
formed his supper, and tying the other three legs to- 
gether, he descended the tree and resumed his march. 

During that day he was more bent upon walking 



HE SUFFERS FROM HUKGER. 167 

than Hpon anything else ; consequently he made a good 
day's march. At night, when he began to eat his 
supper, perched, like the night before, in the fork of a 
great tree, he perceived the meat was tainted, but as 
he had no other means of gratifying his hunger, he 
suppressed the rising nausea, and contentedly ate the 
ill-smelling meat. 

In the morning the meat swarmed with maggots, 
and he tossed it from him with disgust, and, without 
breakfast, resumed his journey. During the morning 
he travelled, at noon he rested ; and for a couple of 
hours in the afternoon he contrived to hold on, until, 
faint with hunger, he was compelled to halt and go to 
sleep supperless also. 

Another day dawned, and Selim, descending from 
his perch, resolutely determined upon prosecuting his 
journey. The forest was unusually silent 8tnd deserted ; 
not an animal crossed his path; a few kites alone 
hovered above. Hour after hour he dragged his 
weakened legs along till the sun was sinking over 
the western horizon. He had seen no water on 
this day, and thirst sharply and severely attacked his 
frame. 

And still another day dawned. Hunger and thirst 
had made great inroads on his strength, and had begun 
to sap his resolution. If he had but known that a few 
hours ahead of him lay the cornfields of the Watuta 
villages, or if he had but known that only a mile north 
of the line he traversed lay the road over which Fero- 
dia's caravan had travelled two days before ! But en- 
veloped round about by the great forest, to which there 
seemed to be no end, he knew nothing, — tiny mite that 



168 MY KALULU. 

he was, alongside of one of those straight-stemmed 
and towering trees, — beyond the thin line of vision 
which his low stature permitted him. Could he only 
have seen one foot above those trees, he had been safe, 
and could have directed his steps whither he desired. 
But he could barely see the sky, so dense was the 
foliage and so closely did each tree's branches embrace 
the other. How hard it is to strive to attain the end 
of the interminable! What a seeming waste of 
strength is it to ever work and work to span the 
infinite ! How disheartening it is to one to feel that 
he can never live to see the end of the endless ! In- 
terminable, infinite, and endless seemed this forest to 
the wearied, hungry, and thirsty Selim. He strained 
his eyes ever in his front, hoping that every low swell 
of the ground would enable him to see something 
encouraging; he looked in all directions for anything 
bearing the semblance of a Uving creature, of beast, or 
fowl; he looked upwards, striving to gain a glimpse of 
the serene face of heaven, which, in his present state of 
mind and body, would have afforded him momentary 
relief. Had he been more experienced in African 
travelling he would have known how to procure water ; 
he would have known that in any one of those hollows 
a few hours' excavation with a pointed stick would 
have procured him water, and that if there were not 
roots to satisfy a craving stomach, then the land 
would be poor indeed. Knowing nothing, however, of 
these things, he wasted the precious hours in resting, 
and then plunging nervously on his way, until his body 
was obliged to confess its weakness and his starved legs 
refused to go. When much time was thus wasted, 



HE FALLS FAINTING TO. THE GROUND. 169 

again lie wonld rise to again fall ; and, finally, he fell 
fainting to the ground. Poor boy ! he was paying 
dearly for the desire of his father to increase his riches 
by the bartering of cloth and flimsy beads for human 
creatures ! 

After a fainting fit, which lasted some minutes, he sat 
up, but was too weak to remain long even in that con- 
dition, and he fell back ; and while thus prostrate, with 
his eyes upward, thought was busy with the pleasures 
he had been obliged to leave, and the more his body 
suffered the more his thoughts loved to revel in the 
luxurious scenes he had known. Groaning from sheer 
agony of body, he cried aloud : 

"Ah, for one sight of the foaming wave of the 
Zangian Sea, which curled at morn into graceful 
wreaths like liquid flowers as the monsoon gently 
kissed it ! One glance, if nothing more, of the snowy 
strand whereon I have sported often with my play- 
mates, little Suleiman, and Isa, and Abdullah before we 
plunged gaily into the foam and spray with which 
each moment the sea drenched the margin of the 
island. How oft, as nude I lay stretched on the warm 
sandy shore, the great sun descending towards the 
continent, have I watched the great ships idly rocking 
on that sea which in its deep dissolving bosom of blue 
depths reflected as a mirror the spotless azure of the 
sky ! Happy days ! Memory recalls so much that a 
thousand years would never obliterate. My dear 
father's happy household gathered under the shade of 
the towering mangoes, whose rich fruit, golden, and 
purple, and brown, hung so temptingly over my head ; 
the evening zephyr wind gently brushing by the light 



170 MY KALIJLU. 

leaves as it rustled through from one tree to another 
with its welcfome whispers, bending, as it flew, the tops 
of the kingly cocoa and the fragrant cinnamon, wafting 
the rich green bough of the orknge, whose precious 
fruit was as a balm to my soul. Now could I but feel 
one in my fevered hand ! What ample wealth does not 
my mind bring before my sickened eyes ! The amber- 
coloured stalk of the sugar-cane and its luscious juice ; 
dark green leaves of orange and mangoe ; great cocoa- 
nuts, with their nutritious milk; the brilliant pome- 
granate, with its sweet soothing odour and tlurst- 
assuaging pippins ; the soft, rich guava, with its health- 
giving meat ; the lime, with its yellow, golden fruit, at 
the mere sight of which fever and thirst are forgotten ; 
and melons, whose deep green skins cover such crisp, 
sweet treasures. Ah ! there is no place on earth to me 
like the beautiful island of Zanzibar. It is blessed by 
the beneficent God with Eden's wealth. Streams laugh 
with gladness and murmur with joy. Fresh, healthy 
winds blow over it, laden with the fragrance of earth's 
dearest and best treasures. God has blessed it with 
abundance, and has caused its warm bosom to heave 
with triumph. Lo ! its gardens pass by me one after 
another ; happy homes stand in their midst ; the pride 
of my race sit happy under the shade of their orange 
trees, surrounded by their dependents, whose faces 
seem kindled with the quiet rapture which fills them. 
Trees and flowers, houses and gardens, men and women, 
hills and valleys, the sea and streams, — all of Zanzibar,^ — 
come nearer to the unhappy and forsaken son of great 
Amer bin Osman. 

" Come nearer, nearer stilly to your kinsman Selim, 



selim's despair. 171 

Let me embrace ye before my destiny is accom- 
plished ! 

" No ! no ! Ah, ye are unkind ! Graze in pity upon 
my' abject condition ! Look down upon me, ye that 
are elated with pleasure. Mark my surroundings! 
This great, silent wilderness of forest, to which there 
is no end ; it stretches from sunset to sunrise, from sea 
to sea ; it excludes light and air ; it smothers the earth 
with its limitless length and breadth. Through its 
thick, heavy drapery of leafage — I may not breathe, 
neither be warmed, by ever a single sun-ray. 

" Hark to the storm of wind sweeping over the tops 
of the giant trees ! How it expends its might in at- 
tempting to open even a slight gap, that one of the 
true believers might see a glimpse of heaven before he 
dies ! But it may not be. Nature took ages to build 
this rampart and construct this impregnable palisade, 
and the baffled tempest retreats, and leaves me hope- 
less and despairing. 

" The air is pregnant with deadly vapours ; gigantic 
trees, fallen from extreme age, lie prone on the ground, 
infested by myriads upon myriads of creeping things ; 
withered branches strew the ground thickly, and their 
leaves, long since dead, lie damp and sappy, reeking 
with every insect abomination. From afar, like the 
indistinct and distant sound of thunder, is borne to my 
ears, after traversing aisles upon aisles, the hungry 
lions' roar, suggestive of what may happen if relief 
comes not early to the lonely Arab boy; and my quick- 
ened hearing catches strains of a still fiercer meaning, 
the voice of the leopard calling to his mate, mingled 
with the growls of the hysBua, 



172 KY KAliTJLU. 

" Ah, cruel chance, that my fresh young life should 
be thus beset with dangers which menace it. What 
sin has my infancy committed that my youth must be 
punished so severely? What wrong have these boy- 
hands performed, that their owner merits death ? 
What guile has ever my childhood's heart conceived 
for which my youth must pay the penalty? What 
crime has ever my brain meditated, that I must be reft 
of my life at so early an age? Nonq — none. I but 
ever acted as I knew how ; not wantonly, not recklessly, 
but just as instinct and nature, untutored, impelled 
me to. 

"I would my father had never felt the power of 
manhood, or met my mother. I would my mother's 
womb, with its embryo, had withered up; then had 
I not been born to encounter such evil days. From 
the evil day Khamis bin Abdullah kindled in my 
father's breast knowledge of his comparative poverty 
I date the birth of my misfortune; from that time 
hard and evil days innumerable have I seen ; mis- 
chance has succeeded mischance, danger succeeded 
danger, one suffering has produced another. 

"I saw my parent die as became the chief of his 
tribe. The friendly shields, which endeavoured to 
shelter him from harm, averted not the death which 
sought his lion heart; his companions in arms fell 
thickly around him in heaps upon heaps of unnumbered 
dead ; while I stood alone, first to wonder at the strange 
phase of nature — death, then to mourn for the great 
loss that had befallen me, then to suffer torture like 
that to those who visit Eblis, and, finally, to wish that 
I had never seen the light which animates the earth. 



HIS BEI'LEOTIONS. 173 

or had died upon that fatal field of battle. I, the son 
of great Amer, was made a slave by those hideous 
Watuta, who are but monstrous apes, was stripped of 
my clothing to have my modest youth shocked by the 
unbelievers' rude gaze. When, blushing at their imper- 
tinence, I resented the rough behaviour, they bound 
and scourged me, and they laughed and mocked me as 
the tortured flesh gave way and hung in gory tatters, 
and the red blood dyed my limbs crimson. Probed and 
pricked by their spears, they drove me to the journey 
amongst a herd of other slaves, while the relentless 
sun streamed its rays upon my naked and defenceless 
body, and I thought that all the agony of the damned 
was not to be compared to that which I suffered. Ah, 
the suffering that followed! The long, long days of 
marching, which seemed to be interminable, the pro- 
tracted pains from thirst, the weary, leaden limbs that 
refused to be moved at my command, the long, long, 
immeasurable road, the poor victims that fell never to 
rise again, whom, nevertheless, I envied for their 
eternal relief from misery and poignant pain. Their 
stolid faces upturned to heaven, blank and unmeaning ; 
the unwinking eyes, that must have once reflected 
domestic joys, gaped wide, but were dim and glazed, 
and nothing more on earth would ever cause them to 
cover that horrible, steady gaze on emptiness and 
vacancy ; the greedy vulture might peck at them, the 
kites might satiate themselves on their entrails, the 
hyflBua might gorge himself on their flesh, yet those 
once sensitive eyes would never wink their discontent. 
This is death ! It is real death. It is the death which 
threatened me until, rendered desperate by the keen 



174 MY KALULU. 

terrors which filled me one night, I deserted that ever- 
moving caravan, to find myself after a time in this 
strait, and the terror of death has followed me hither. 
Every thought, and moan, and cry speaks of it. . For 
ever present is the fearful sight of death ; it is in this 
stagnant, oppressive air which I breathe ; and the tomb 
which God has raised above my head — ^in these lofty 
columns, bearing far up their leafy roof — I see. 

" Fit tomb for an Arab chiefs son. A sultan of the 
Arab tribes might envy me mine. But where are the 
mourners ? There should be my kindred weeping 
hot tears over Selim's early death. My mother, with 
her maids, should be present to wash my limbs ere 
shrouding them with snowy shash.* There should be 
my playfellows to chant a dirge over my early de- 
parture from this life ; and the holy Imam to repeat 
the prayers for the dead. There should be my kins- 
men to dig my grave, and women to weep. But I am 
alone, to die without bidding farewell to my friends, — 
to die without taking with me to that other world that 
last enduring look of love from all who esteemed me, 
which must ever thrill the souls of those who leave 
sympathising friends behind. Then come and wel- 
come, cruel, cruel Death ; wreak thy will on me ; my 
limbs are already chained to that earth of which they 
are a portion ; thou hast hedged me around with thy 
terrors and affrighted my soul long enough ; thou hast 
advanced and receded, as though it were child's play ; I 
have alternately felt strong and faint, felt brave and 
weak. I may not balk thee longer ! 

" Farewell, happy island, with thy purling streams, 

* Fine bleached domestic, or cotton cloth. 



HE GIVES mMSEUP XJP TO DIE. 175 

thy orange groves, thou home of my happy childhood, 
home of my kindred ! 

" Farewell, thou solemn earth ; aye, bend thine head 
with shame for the frown with which thou hast regarded 
thy innocent child ! 

" Farewell, thou monster Death ! Thou tyrant ! I 
am conquered ; and I — I must — yield. I come, father, 
dear fa — ther ! !" 



176 MY KALtfLU. 



CHAPTER Vn. 

Ferodia's Triumphal Approach— Hia reception by Eatalambula— The 
King praises Ferodia — Abdullah is given to Ealulu — Abdullah 
meets with Simba and Moto — Kalulu's plan of search for Selim — 
A Gun found — Selim found — The senseless form of Selim carried 
to the Village— Selim recovers — Kalulu fraternises with Selim — 
Kalulu's Friendship for Selim. 

On the twenty-ninth day after the battle of Ewikuru, 
Ferodia, the chief of the Watuta, made his triumphant 
entrance to Katalambula's village. Messengers had 
arrived the night before at the King's house to an- 
nounce the approach of the victorious chief; and when 
next morning, near noon, a great cloud of dust was 
perceived on the left bank of the river, then the women, 
posted on every advantageous point for a good view, 
began the glad lu-lu-lu-ing, and the welcome tones, 
when heard by the Watuta, were answered by them with 
a shout which might have been heard at the great lake 
into which the Liemba ran. 

Long before Ferodia had emerged from the leafy 
corn-fields on the left bank of the river, the vicinity 
of the great gate of Katalambula's village was thronged 
by a multitude of men, women, and children gathered 
from the rich plain around, who were the brothers, 
cousins, nephews, wives, sisters, and children of the 



ferodia's triumphal approach. 177 

warriors whose return was now so enthusiastically, nay, 
frantically, welcomed. Two thousand voices sounded 
the happy "lu-lu-lu;" four thousand hands were clapped 
together ; four thousand legs, brown and black, and 
black and brown, danced, leaped, moved, and wriggled 
as the emotions of their owners moved them. 

And Ferodia was all this time slowly approaching, 
while the drums, with tremendous thunderous volume 
of tone, ushered him into the presence of the assembled 
multitudes. Note him well as he approaches. What 
civilised monarch ever acted the triumph he felt so 
well as Ferodia ? What civilised king ever possessed 
that gait ? What actor could have imitated Ferodia ? 
Mark his steps, his lion strides, with his legs en- 
cumbered with one hundred rings of fine wire. Watch 
how negligently he lays his arms, heavy with broad 
ivory wristlets, on the shoulders of the supple-bodied 
youngsters, who are jealous of this high honour conferred 
on them. Note the toss of his head with its wealth 
of braids ! It is the majesty of triumph impersonified. 
Happy men would those actors be who could but imitate 
that regal air ! 

The procession is in the following order, as it ap- 
pears before the gate and the multitude. Two hun- 
dred warriors in front of Ferodia, file after file, each 
head adorned with feathers in huge, dancing, waving 
tufts, each man solemnly marching through the gate 
into the quadrangular square surrounded by the King's 
quarters to occupy one side of the square in line. Then 
Ferodia himself, supported by two stalwart young war- 
riors, one on each side. Then two hundred warriors, 
each warrior's face surrounded by the black, stiff hairs 

N 



178 MY KALULU. 

of the zebra's mane, stripped entire with the hide &om 
the zebra's neck, which gives each warrior a fierce 
appearance, much fiercer than the black bearskin caps 
give to English hussars. Then the adult captives in 
gangs of twenty, bearing the plunder Ferodia had 
taken from the Arabs. Then the boy captives, at the 
head of whom was Abdullah, whose white face and 
body obtained universal notice. Then five hundred 
warriors bringing up the rear, each head decorated 
according to the caprice of its owner, with feathers, 
and red, white, and blue cloth. 

The nine hundred warriors were formed around the 
square, while the captives, after depositing their loads 
near the great tree in the centre of the square — the 
cloth bales by themselves, the beads in a separate pile, 
the boxes by themselves, the kettles, pots, pans, and 
miscellaneous goods by themselves, the powder barrels 
and bullets by themselves, and the guns by themselves 
— formed a circle around the tree. 

Katalambula was seated on his mud bench or sofa, 
which was garnished on this occasion with over a score 
of lion and leopard skins. In his hand was a short 
rod, to the end of which was neatly fixed a girafie's tail, 
with which he negligently whisked the flies from his 
face. 

The multitude which we first saw outside the gate 
had climbed upon the roofs of the square tembes, and 
looked down now intent upon the warriors, the slaves, the 
plunder, and the king, seated with Kalulu and the 
grey-headed elders and councillors of the tribe under 
the tree. 

Ferodia stood with spear in hand alone in the centre 



HIS RECEPTION BY KiTALAMBULA. 179 

of the inner circle formed by the ring of slaves, and 
close to the great heaps of spoil he had taken from 
the camp of the Arab traders. His attitude was nn- 
mistakeably grand, and spoke the proud chieftain. A 
broad robe of crimson blanket cloth, which trailed to 
the ground, was tied in a knot over his left shoulder, 
leaving his right shoulder free. There was a dead 
silence ; not a word was heard from the warriors or 
from the multitudes. Then the mild voice of Katalam- 
bula was heard, saying: 

" Ferodia, we have expected thee. We have heard of 
thy great success ; how thyself and the Watuta warriors 
have triumphed over the Arab traders. Speak, our 
ears are open." 

Then Ferodia replied: "0 King, and ye elders of 
our tribe ! I was sent by Katalambula to bear presents 
to his friends, the Warori chiefs ; and, as I had con- 
cluded, I was thinking of returning to Ututa, when 
Olimali sent word to my camp that the Arabs — the 
traders from the sea-had come to his cotintry with 
an immense store of cloth and beads. He said they 
were of those who had slain Mostana thy brother, 
Katalambula." 

" Eyah ! Eyah !" greeted the speaker from the king 
and his elders, in which Kalulu joined. 

Lifting his voice higher, and adopting a more ener- 
getic strain, while his spear was used to describe 
gestures, Ferodia continued : 

" When I heard the words of Olimali, the King of 
the Warori, I became as a hungry lion, even as a roar- 
ing lion before his prey. I said aloud, * Lo, Malungu 
(the Sky-spirit, or God) has put the Arabs into my 



180 MY KALXTLU. 

hands, even the slayers of Mostana, thy brother. I 
will arise and avenge Katalambnla and Mostana's sou 
on them. I will make strong drink from their bodies, 
and give their entrails to the fowls of the air, and 
their heads I will raise before Olimali's gate to the 
terror of all other Arabs who come, and murder, and 
steal, and make slaves, from near the sea.' " 

" Eyah — eyah !" shouted the multitude. 

" When the morning came, the Watuta warriors were 
in the bush and in the corn. They heard the horn of 
Olimali, they heard the noise of the Arabs' guns, they 
heard the shouting and the battle, and, at my signal, 
the Watuta warriors rose as one man. They came 
with the swiftness of arrows, like the flash of a bright 
spear. We saw the foe in the village of Olimali, we 
hemmed them round, we closed the gates, and we 
began to slay. Before our arrows and spears the foe 
fell in numbers, in heaps, until those that were left 
cried aloud for mercy, and fell on their knees. Then 
we made slaves of hundreds of men and boys, and 
bound them captives for Katalambula. We took guns, 
and powder, and bullets ; we gathered a heap of wealth, 
of fine cloth and beads. Of the cloth, and beads, the 
guns, and powder, and lead, I have given half to Oli- 
mali, the King of the Warori. Then each Mtuta 
warrior received his due, six cloths to each man ; the 
Watuta chiefs received their due, and Ferodia took a 
share. Fifty slaves died on the road to Ututa, two 
Arab slaves died, and one white Arab ran away to die 
in the forest. We have two hundred and fifty men- 
slaves, and seventeen boy-slaves left, one of whom is 
the son of an Arab chief. The cloth, and the beads. 



THE KINa PRAISES rERODIA. 181 

and the other plunder from the Arabs lie before you in 
these heaps. King, and ye elders of the tribe, I 
have spoken." 

" Eyah ! eyah !" burst out in applausive accents amid 
clapping of hands and lu-lu-ing from all the people. 

Then Katalambula spoke and said, "0 Ferodia, 
great chief and warrior ! thou art like a right arm to 
me ; thou art a very lion in war. Who is stronger than 
thou in the battle ? The Wabena, the Wasowa, the 
Wakonongo, and even the Wajiji, have felt thy spear. 
Verily thou hast spread the name of the Watuta and 
the renown of Katalambula to the ends of the earth. 

" Let the people hear, and let the elders open their 
ears. What king has a warrior like Ferodia? He 
goeth forth with empty hands, but returneth full. He 
goeth from the village poor, and returneth rich. His 
warriors are beggars when they depart from us, but 
they return with Merikani, and Kaniki, fine Sohari, and 
Joho cloth, and their nakedness is hidden under heaps 
of finery. Who is like unto Ferodia ? Were not our 
maidens in tears when he and his warriors left us ? 
Lo, and behold, they are now laughing, and their hearts 
dance for joy. Were not our children hungry when he 
departed ? Lo, and behold, they cry no more, for their 
bellies are full. Katalambula — even I — was poor, 
whereas who is to be compared to me now in wealth ? 
Verily thou art great and good, Ferodia, and Kata- 
lambula is pleased with thee. I have spoken." 

Then Katalambula got up and examined the slaves, 
while Ferodia walked by his side and commented on 
such as exhibited extraordinary qualities ; and in going 
around the circle, the King came to the boy-gang, and 



182 MY KALTJLIT. 

when he came to Abdullah -he could barely contain 
himself for delight and gratified curiosity. 

" Verily," said he, " the Arabs are strange people, 
and this is one of that race. Strange people; all 
white V 

Katalambnla put out his finger to touch' the pale 
skin of Abdullah, and he instantly drew it back as if 
the skin had bitlen him, laughing at himself for his 
timidity. But, encouraged by Ferodia, he placed his 
hand on his shoulders, and marvelled at their softness ; 
and then toyed with the boy's hair, remarking that it 
felt like goat's hair. Then the boy was obliged to open 
his mouth while Katalambula peered down his throat, 
as if he were in search of some hidden treasure, or as if 
he expected something w6uld jump out, since the white 
boy was such a wonderful creature. 

" But what are you going to do with him ?" asked 
Eatalambula. 

" It is for the King to command," said Ferodia, in an 
insinuating tone. 

"Well, I will give him to Kalulu; but I thought 
there were three of them ; or were there four ?" 

" Only three white," said Ferodia ; " one died on the 
road, a little fellow, and the tallest ran away, about 
five days from here." 

" Why did he run away ?" asked the King. 

"Because he was a fool, and the son of a fool," 
responded Ferodia. " I never saw such a stubborn ass ; 
his mouth was full of words, but his back had no work 
in it ; therefore he preferred to die in the woods, as he 
cannot live. Yet had he spirit enough for two warriors, 
and he would have made a fine slave by-and-bye." 



ABDULLAH IS GIVEN TO KALtJLU. 183 

" Who art thou speaking of, Ferodia ?" asked young 
Kalulu. 

" Now, hold thy tongue,, boy, and do not thou inter- 
fere with the affairs of men ; but rather see how good 
Ferodia, thy uncle, is to thee ; he has given thee that 
white slave for a playmate. Take him, cut loose his 
bonds, and teach him to be a warrior." 

"Nay, let Ferodia answer me," persisted Kalulu, 
" and I will then see about the white slave. Who is he 
that has run away ?" 

" If thou must know," said Ferodia, looking on Kalulu 
kindly, " 'twas a young Arab slave, about thy age, who 
ran away. He was the son of a chief, and I half suspect 
he was driven to run away by Tifum's unkindness." 

" Tifum Byah !" cried Kalulu ; " no wonder he ran, 
Ferodia ; Tifum has not a gentle hand ; but I will see 
thee again, uncle. I must look after my white slave 
now, and teach him to eat first." 

And Kalulu, leaving the King and Ferodia to pursue 
their examinations into their property, turned to Ab- 
dullah with a curious look, and then, taking his spear, 
he proceeded to cut the rope around his waist ; then^ 
beckoning to the astonished Arab boy, he walked away 
towards his own quarters, followed by him. 

When he had Abdullah in his own apartment, all to 
himself, he again turned to take a look at him, and 
silently surveyed him from head to foot. Then, walking 
up to him, he stood with his back to Abdullah's, and, 
putting his hand over his head, he seemed desirous of 
knowing whether he was taller than him ; and having 
satisfied himself, he turned round to him again, and, 
smiling, said to him in Kituta — the language of Ututa : 



184 MY KALUL0. 

" Son of an Arab, canst thou speak Kituta ?* No ? is 
that what thou meanest by shaking thy head ? Canst 
thou speak Kirori? No, again? Kibena, perhaps? 
No ? Canst thou speak Kinyamwezi ? No ? Then what 
language dost thou talk ? But, never mind, thy head 
must think of thy belly now ; I will go fetch thee some 
food. Sit down on this bullock-hide until I return." 
And Ealulu vanished, having pointed to the hide on 
which he desired Abdullah to seat himself. 

Presently he returned with a female slave bearing 
some roast kabobs (small pieces of meat), rice, honey 
pombe, or native beer, and a thick porridge ; and point- 
ing to the food and to his mouth, he intimated to him 
his desire that he should fall to and eat; which Abdullah, 
casting a grateful look on him, was not slow to under- 
stand and to avail himself of. 

After watching the Arab boy eat for some moments, 
he left the hut again, but soon returned with two men, 
whose faces immediately attracted Abdullah's attention 
and made him cease eating from surprise. When he 
opened his mouth to speak, he ejaculated — 

" Simba ! Moto ! how came you here ?" 

" Abdullah ! poor boy !" 

The two men having spoken, Abdullah sprang to his 
feet, and, throwing his arms first around Simba's neck, 
then around Moto's, he embraced and kissed them both, 
and shed floods of tears from joy, while Kalulu, looking 
at them all, smiled with fraternal pleasure. 

" I am not alone, then, as I thought ; I have still some 

* Ki placed before Tuta means, the language of Tata ; U, the coun- 
try of Tuta ; TFa, people of Tuta ; M, a man of Tuta, This rule is the 
same with other African names. 



ABDULLAH MEETS WITH SIMBA AND MOJO. 185 

friends left," sobbed Abdullah. "I thought all had 
left me." 

" Nay, weep not, Abdullah," said Simba. " Allah is 
good. Tell me, son of Mohammed, where are Selim, 
and Mussoud, and Isa ?" 

" Ah ! Simba ; eyil days have been our fate ever since 
we came to TJrori. Isa died of the small-pox soon 
after starting for XJtuta ; then, some days afterwards, 
Mussoud, my dear little brother, fell ill of the same 
disease and died ; and Selim " 

" Yes, tell us where he is !" said Moto, eagerly. 

"The same night that Mussoud was dying, Selim 
asked me to go with him to the forest ; he said he could 
not live longer, while Tifum was beating him all the 
time ; and to see the men and boys die on the road, and 
left to be eaten by beasts of prey, sickened his soul. I 
could not go while the fate of my little brother was 
uncertain, but I gave Selim my prayers, and after I 
had fallen asleep he must have gone, for he was not by 
my side when I awoke, and his yoke-tree was empty. I 
think he took with him a gun and some spears, for the 
Watuta who lost those things made a great noise about 
their loss." 

" Eun away !" said Simba and Moto, looking at one 
another blankly. " Selim gone ! but, Abdullah, did he 
tell you which way he was going after he would leave 
you?" 

" He said he intended to try to get to Zanzibar, but 
while I was dropping to sleep, or whether I dreamed it 
or not I can't say, I thought I heard him mutter some- 
thing about you, and Moto, and Katalambula." 

" Ay, that's it. more likely," said Moto. " He re- 



186 IIY KALULU. 

membered onr warning. The boy, if he is not here 
now, must be in that forest still. Did he say, Ab- 
dullah, whether he would go north or south first ?" 

" Oh, south, because the camp was on the southern 
side of the road, and our part of the camp was the 
most southerly ; so it was easy for him to slip away 
unperceived." 

" And how many days from here, Abdullah, is the 
spot from whence Selim disappeared ?" 

" We came here in six or seven days — I forget the 
exact number," answered the boy. 

All this time, Kalulu looked from one to the other ; 
and seeing the looks of anxiety and uneasiness on the 
faces of his friends, he asked Moto what the matter 
was, upon which Moto explained that his young master 
was missing — he for whose sake he had sought out 
himself and Katalambula. 

Then he asked what Moto purposed doing, and was 
answered that he did not know, but would consult with 
Simba ; upon which Kalulu promised that, whatever they 
did, he would assist them. 

Simba and Moto, sometimes assisted by Abdullah, 
consulted together for a few minutes, at the end of 
which Moto informed Kalulu that they had decided 
that it was their duty to hunt up their young master, 
who was by this, perhaps, perishing from hunger, or was 
captured again by some other tribe of the Watuta. 

Young Kalulu had expected this would have been 
the answer ; for, being sharp-witted, and knowing how 
great was their affection for their young master, he 
could have divined nothing else. And he replied that, 
if his assistance was wanting, he was ready with his 



KALULU'S PLAN OP 6EAECH FOR SELIM. l87 

influence to promote anything necessary for the restora- 
tion of Selim to his friends. " For," said he, " since I 
have seen what the Arabs are face to face, I begin to 
like them. At least, I think I shall like this one and 
Selim; besides, my uncle has already given me this 
one for a slave, and he will give me the other one, if I 
can catch him. But, Moto, they both shall be thine 
when thou wilt demand them from my hands." 

When this was translated into Eisawabili, the language 
of Simba, by Moto, Simba said to Moto : 

" Tell the young chief that if he can get fifty men 
from Katalambula, on the pretence that he has heard 
there are elephants in the forests, we can start at 
once, and by spreading out through the woods, either 
find him ourselves there, or hear some news of him, or 
rescue him from those who have already got him." 

After expressing his approval of the scheme, Moto 
conveyed it by translation to Kalulu, who replied im- 
mediately that he would set about it at once ; and while 
saying it, he left the hut. 

In half an hour he returned, and informed Simba 
and Moto that the men were outside the gate waiting 
for them, though it was unusual to start on a hunting 
expedition without the ceremony of the magic doctors. 
" However," he added, " I have explained that it shall 
be done at the village nearest the forest, where.we shall 
arrive to-morrow at noon if we travel well. So come 
on, Moto ; I want to do something too, or Ferodia will 
be on everybody's tongue, and Kalulu's name will never 
be heard ; besides, I want to see this young master of 
thine, and see if he is as good as you say he is." 

While he had been talking, Simba and Moto had 



188 MY KALULU. 

snatched up their guns and declared themselves ready, 
and Kalnla, after giving orders to have Abdullah sleep 
in his hut, and to be well fed and looked after, accom- 
panied by Simba and Moto, hastily left the hut. 

Kalulu was very proud as he showed his friends his 
warriors, and was sure that with such people the lost 
Arab boy would be found. Then, putting himself at 
their head, with his friends next to him, he rapidly 
led the way along which Ferodia had arrived from 
Urori. 

As it was noon when they started, they could continue 
their march until late at night, which they did ; and a 
couple of hours before dawn next morning found them 
en route again. 

At noon, as Kalulu had said, they saw. the forest 
darkening the western horizon ahead ; but between 
them and the forest was a village, whose corn-fields 
were then reached, situated about a mile south of the 
road, from which Simba supposed it would be best to 
spread out, and keep a sharp eye for anything that 
promised to furnish a clue of him for whom they were 
about to search. 

They soon came to the village, and when the in- 
habitants recognised Katalambula's adopted son, they 
manifested great delight, and immediately set ab6ut 
furnishing him and his men with the best they had, 
consisting of bananas, and porridge, beans, and rice, 
and pombe. 

1!he chief of the village was very assiduous to please 
Kalulu, and sat down close to him, imparting local 
news ; and, as he began to impart it, he remembered 
an incident which had occurred that morning, which 



A GUN rOUND. 189 

was, that one of his men, searching for wild honey, a 
couple of hours off in the forest, had found a gun. 

" A gun ! " said Moto. 

" A gun ! " echoed Kalulu. 

" Yes, a gun ; and the medicine was in it — the medi- 
cine powder and bullet — for when the man who f6und 
it was playing with it, boom ! it went, almost killing him 
with fright." 

"Yes, yes, that's very funny; very funny," said 
Moto, trying to curb his impatience; "but did your 
man find nothing else near it ?" 

"Nothing else, my brother. What do you mean? 
Was not the finding of a gun strange enough in a forest 
which, for aught I know, never saw one before ? Can 
many more miracles happen to us like this ?" • 

" But, my brother," urged Moto, with anger in his 
tones, " how could the gun have come there if some one 
had not left it ?" 

" The Mienzi Mungu (Good Spirit) placed it there 
for me. It was not many days ago since my father, the 
chief, died ; and when I had put him in the ground 
deep, and covered him with earth, I collected all his 
property in a heap, and thanked the Mienzi Mungu, 
who had been so kind to me, and prayed to him to 
make me rich and strong. The good Mienzi Mungu 
has heard my prayers, and has sent this gun, with 
its strong medicine, from the skies, for me." 

" Chief, be silent," said Kalulu, holding up his hand ; 
" the heir of Katalambula commands thee. Enowest 
thou the spot where thy man found this wonderful gun ?" 

" My lord, thy slave is silent when Kalulu speaks, I 
know not the place, but my man must know." 



190 MY KALULU. 

The man was called, and when he was asked if he 
had searched the vicinity for farther treasures, he 
replied that he had not, as he had harried away with 
what he had foand to his chief. He was then told to 
prepare himself to accompany Kalala and his men to 
the spot where he had foand the marvelloas treasare. 

Within two hoars they had arrived, and stood ander 
a tree in a dense part of the noble forest. The trees 
grew aroand thickly, with many towering columns, 
supporting a mass of leafage, impenetrable to glare of 
sun or the white light of day. 

On the man pointing the exact spot to Kalulu, Moto, 
and Simba, the warriors of Eatalambula were formed 
in line, and one half was ordered to march northward, 
each distant from his fellow fifty paces, and the other 
half was ordered to step out, with their faces to the 
south, in like manner. The men having thus been 
posted in skirmishing order, were then ordered to front 
towards the east and march forward, observing closely 
everything strange they might see. 

The men had not advanced far — not more than two 
hundred yards — when one of them gave a shout, which 
instantly attracted the attention of aU. He was seen 
pointing with excited motions at some object lying on 
the ground. Simba uttered a roar of joy, when, bound- 
ing upward to catch one glimpse of the object, he 
perceived it to be the pale-coloured and apparently 
inanimate body of his young master. Moto, also, 
labouring under no less joyful excitement, shot forward 
with the speed of an arrow, and Kalulu's light and 
graceful form was seen cleaving the air as he sped wita 
nimble feet towards Simba. The men soon shared in 



SELIM FOUND. 191 

the excitement, and came running up to know the 
cause ; and, among the first, was seen the peasant who 
had found the gun in this same forest, little dreaming 
that its owner lay so near. 

But the joy of the leaders was soon turned to sorrow. 
The giant Simba stood nerveless and speechless at the 
head of the body, Kalulu looked on with deep sympathy 
on his face, at the side, while Moto threw himself on 
his knees with clasped hands, at the feet, keen anguish 
written in every line of his face. The positions of the 
others, as they came up one by one to obtain a view of 
the prostrate form of the boy, indicated sorrow, mixed 
with curious awe ; but that of the man through whose 
aid the body had been discovered was the most re- 
markable. . 

When he had approached the curious object which 
attracted such attention and elicited such shouts, he 
stood stock still, as if he had been suddenly petrified ; 
but seeing that the pale object bore the semblance of a 
man, and that it remained motionless, he advanced 
slowly on tiptoe, while his face underwent remarkable 
changes as his emotions moved him. 

" What is it ?" he asked of the nearest man to him. 
" Is that the Mienzi Mungu who left the gun ?" 

" No," answered the man, shortly, " this is not the 
Mienzi Mungu, thou fool ; 'tis but an Arab boy, who 
has died from hunger," he added, proudly, and with the 
compassionate tone of one who pitied such woeful 
ignorance. 

An Arab boy !" he uttered. " What is that ?" 
He is one of the white people who live in the 
middle of the sea," the warrior answered. 






' 



192 MY KALULU. 

" Well, what makes him so white ? Is his skin like 
the shell of an egg ? Is he hard or soft to the touch ?" 
he asked again, with a strange curiosity. 

" Art thou afraid of a dead boy ? Go to the body 
and feel it, fool." 

The peasant smiled foolishly as he was thus rebuked ; 
but presently he was seen to crawl towards the body 
and timidly put Us hand on the boy's chest to feel it ; 
but he suddenly removed it with a cry. 

'^ He is not dead ! His skin is soft, and I felt it 
move !" 

Moto and Kalulu sprang and knelt down by the 
boy's side, and a joyful sparkle was seen in Simba's 
eyes as he also bent down and placed one hand within 
that of the motionless boy, and the other on the chest. 
Moto felt the head, to see if there was internal warmth 
in it, and Kalulu seemed desirous of knowing the truth 
by reading it in the eyes of Simba and Moto with his 
own. 

" He lives ! my young master Selim lives ! Allah be 
praised !" cried Simba fervently. 

" But he will not live long if we don't carry him 
away to put something into him," said Moto, anxiously 
and hurriedly. Dost thou see Simba, how thin he is ? 
he is nothing but skin and bone — and look here, 
Simba ! Wallahi ! what sheitan (bad man, fiend) has 
done this ? See the bruises on his shoulders, and — 
turn him over on his side — there ! — look at his back, 
Simba !" 

"Moto," answered that great and tender-hearted 
giant, " Tell me, what could have done this ? Is it a 
man ? A man ? — no ! No man could have wounded and 



BENSELESS FOBM OF SELIM GABBIED TO THE YTLLAGE. 193 

striped that back so, because Selim — ^poor innocent 
Selim ! — could have done nothing to deserve it. This is 
the work of a pure mshensi (savage), and I will tear 
out that man's heart, so help me Allah ! But let us 
bear him quickly but gently to the village — and, Moto, 
ask Ealulu to send the man back running to tell the 
people to have some very thin ugali (porridge) boiled 
in goat's milk ready by the time we reach there." 

The order was given by Kalulu immediately, and 
Moto, laying hold of his shoulder-cloth, which he had 
thrown away from him at the first burst of excitement, 
began to spread it out on the ground. Simba aided 
Moto then to lift the wasted form of their young 
master on the cloth, groaning from sheer sorrow and 
grief at the thought of what he must have suffered, 
and murmuring to himself, " Selim will tell me if he 
lives, and if he dies, little Abdullah will t6ll me, and 
then, you sheitan, you mshensi dog ! I will treat you in 
the same way as you treated Selim — sure, sure." 

When the senseless form of Selim had been placed 
on the cloth, Simba and Moto took hold of each corner 
of it at the head while two other men were ordered by 
Ealulu to take hold of each corner at the feet, and in 
this manner they proceeded on their return to the 
village. 

When the party arrived at the village, they found the 
inhabitants loudly and excitedly discussing the strange 
events that had occurred, and the report which Kalulu's 
messenger, the peasant, had made concerning the dis- 
covery of a white boy, nearly dead from hunger, in the 
forest. The report that a white boy had been foxmd 
created an unprecedented surprise and excitement ; no^ 

o 



194 MY KALULU. 

stranger news could have been given in a village where 
white people had never been heard of or dreamed of 
before; the wildest imagination could not have pro- 
duced any shape or human figure so wonderful. A boy 
all white ! white skin — as white as the yolk of an egg ! 
They might have imagined black men with horns, or 
black men with two heads, six arms, and as many legs 
as a centipede, or any other monstrosity ; but a white 
boy, with skin so soft and smooth that the slightest 
pressure with the finger produced an impression on it, 
— this was wonderful and excelled all tradition. No 
wonder, then, that when the party which bore the white 
boy was seen advancing, the people made a general rush 
to see the curiosity. 

But Ealulu, warned by Moto, had thought of this ; 
and his warriors had been so skiKully arranged that the 
excited people found themselves balked; and Moto, 
Simba, and the other two men bore their burden into 
an empty hut which the village chief, at Ealulu's com- 
mand, showed them. 

The ugali, or porridge, which had been prepared, was 
then taken by Simba, and while Moto gently forced the 
mouth of the boy open, Simba, with a small wooden 
paddle, which he had soon scooped out into a shallow 
spoon, began to drop some of the nourishing gruel into 
the open mouth. The effect was almost instantaneous, 
although to the anxious Simba it appeared a long time ; 
the open lips closed and a slight movement of the 
throat was observed. Again the lips opened, and the 
watchful Simba poured a few more drops of the warm 
and grateful restorative, and soon, as fast as he poured, 
the thirsty mouth received it, with other agreeable 



J 



SELIM RECOVEBS. 195 

effects which the friends were quick to perceive. Kalulu, 
who knelt at Selim's head, pointed Simba to the minute 
beads of perspiration which had formed on the pre- 
viously dry forehead, and Moto, placing his hand on the 
chest, gladdened the ears of all with the news that the 
heart throbbed quicker and stronger. 

Presently, Selim heaved a sigh, and the eyelids, 
hitherto closed, opened, revealing the lustrous orbs 
which give light and the sense of seeing to the body. 

" Ay, what eyes ! so large and beautiful !" ejaculated 
Kalulu, with wonder. 

" Hush — sh," said Simba, warningly, as he bent his 
ears to the lips which now were whispering words 
which brought the tears to Simba's eyes. 

** And sons shaU mourn for Arab fathers slain. 
And Arab wives shaU shed their tears like rain." 

" Poor boy !" said Simba ; " he repeats the words his 
mother said before son and mother parted." And then 
in a louder tone he said, '^ Selim, young master, dost 
thou know me ?" 

The head turned round, and the eyes of his young 
master rested on him full, with the light of intelligence 
in them. 

" Ah, Simba ! Is it thou ?" asked Selim, in a faint 
but glad voice. 

" Yes, I — thy slave Simba. Praised be Allah for his 
goodness ! my master knows his slave." . 

"Where am I?" Selim then asked. "I have had 
such a fearful dream. I thought I was dying from 
thirst and hunger. But this is not that awful forest I 
saw. I am in a house, and Simba is at my side. How 
ia'this, Simba?" 



196 Mt KALULtf* 

** Dost thon not know Moto^ master ?'* asked Moto, 
who had risen to his feet. 

*' And thon too, Moto, here ? Then I am happy. I 
am not alone, as I dreamed I was." 

"No, master, thou art not alone; but take some 
more of this," said Simba, as he industriously stirred 
the porridge. " It i^ good for thee, and thou wilt be 
quite strong by-and-bye." 

And Selim obediently opened his mouth and per- 
mitted himself to be fed without demur, though his 
eyes worked and looked about to aid his mind in 
resolving the remarkable change of circumstances 
which had taken place since he fell down in the forest 
from fatigue, hunger, and thirst. 

When the gruel was exhausted and he had eaten his 
fill, Selim found his strength much recovered, his mind 
firmer, and he asked Simba to tell him how this change 
had come about. Simba related briefly all the facts 
already known to us, to Selim's infinite surprise and 
joy ; and Selim, in answer to a question from Simba, 
related what occurred to him, from the time Simba and 
Moto disappeared at Ewikuru to the time he laid down 
as he thought to dieu 

Kalulu came round now, and kneeled in front of 
Selim, and Simba introduced him as the adopted son of 
the King, who had been so good to Moto, and as the 
young chief through whose aid they had been enabled 
to discover him. 

Selim lifted his hand, and grasped Ealulu's fervently, 
and asked Moto to tell him how grateful he felt to him 
for his kindness^ which was no sooner done than Ealulu 
said* 



KALULU rRATBRNISES WITH BELDf. 197 

^^ Let the son of the Arab chief eat, and rest, and get 
strong. Let neither hunger nor thirst approach him. 
Ealnln is his brother. With Ealulu my white Arab 
brother may tread the forest glades in safety ; for the 
forest is kind to Ealulu ; the trees nod their tall heads 
to him as a friend, the birds make music for him, and the 
honey-bird finds sweet treasures for him. The forest is 
full of beauty and richness, and Ealulu's heart is glad 
when he can roam through it alone. Neither the lion 
nor the leopard harm him, and the wild boar starts i^ 
fear when Ealulu is near him. Get well, my brother, 
get strong, and fear harm no more." 

To which Selim answered, while grateful tears filled 
his eyes : 

'^ The voice of Ealulu sounds in my ears as the living 
waters of a fountain in the ears of a thirsty man. My 
soul responds to his kind words as the closed petals of 
the lotus to the warm light of day. Fear and distrust 
fly from me as the gloom of night and early mist 
before the sunshine. When the heart is tranquil and 
sadness does not disturb the mind, a man sees joy in 
all things ; even the sombre forest is reft of its terrors, 
and becomes beautiful, the ground is found to be 
clothed with sweet grass and pretty flowers. The 
waving grain and tasseled corn does not bend more 
easily to the breeze than a man's heart does to his 
emotions ; the dark past will be forgotten by me, alid 
with Ealulu as a brother I shall find beauty in all 
things, music in birds, pleasure in the fields, joy in 
sunshine and night." 

Ealulu replied : " Thy voice, my white brother, 
makes Ealulu glad. His heart grows under its plea- 



198 MY KALTJLU. 

sant sounds, and is moyed like the foliage by the 
soughing breezes. I will teach thee what the Sky- 
spirit has taught the children of the Watuta, and thou 
shalt teach me what the Sky-spirit has taught the pale- 
faced children of the Arabs. Thou shalt show me what 
the great sea is like whose waters are salt, and to what 
it is like when the angry pepo (storm) blows on it ; 
and I will show thee the brown Liemba, where, among 
the thick matete brake, hides the long-nosed mamba 
(crocodile), and where the hippopotamus loves to bathe 
his great body. I will show thee the pretty islands, 
silent as the night in their loneliness, which are 
guarded by scores of crocodiles, for me to roam when 
I like. I will teach thee how to hunt the swift ante- 
lope and the leaping spring-bok; how to pierqe the 
thick hide of the pharo (rhinoceros) ; how to laugh at 
the fierce bellow of the wild buflfalo ; and how a Mtuta 
boy meets the lion. Eat and get strong. But tell 
me, my brother, how comes thy back so scarred and 
wealed ?" 

"Kalulu, my brother, thy words have made me 
strong already. Heed not my bruised body ; thy words 
are a medicine for it. The music of thy voice has 
healed my sores. I feel them no more." 

" Nay, but tell me the name of the man who made 
them. Was it Ferodia ?" 

" No. Ferodia has not struck me ; it was the man 
they call Tifum Byah." 

"Tifum Byah! the cruel dog; but never mind, I 
will stripe his back for him." 

'^ Nay, please trouble him not, for my sake, Ealulu ; 
the dark days are over." 



KALULU'S FRIENDSHIP FOR SELIM. 199 

" Well, we shall see," said Kalulu. " But now we 
will leave thee to sleep and rest. We shall stay two 
days here, when then wilt be strong enough to be 
carried before Eatalambula. I marvel at the friend- 
ship I bear thee ; but Moto was good to me, and when 
he told me thou wert his master, I loved thee then. 
Now I love thee for thyself. The Watuta know how to 
love and hate, how to like and dislike." 

Then, turning to his warriors, who had crowded into 
the hut, Ealulu said, '' Gome, let us leave Moto and 
Simba with the pale-faced boy ; they will watch him." 



200 I VX KALULU. 



» 



CHAPTER Vin. 

Ceremony of Brotherhood — Ceremony of Blood-Drinking — Selim 
brought into Ferodia's presence — Simba to the Rescue — The 
Warning to Kalulu— Kalulu speaks for Selim — ^Where is Para- 
dise?— Selim and Abdullah are clothed — Down the Liembra — 
The Hippopotamus — Overboard — Fighting the Crocodile — How 
Kalulu fought the Crocodile — Securing the River-horse. 

On the third day after his discovery in the forest by 
his friends Simba, Moto, and young Kalulu, Selim was 
sufficiently strong to begin his journey to the village 
of Katalambula. Had Kalulu not assured him of his 
friendship, and that he would be a brother to him, 
it is doubtful that Selim would have looked upon the 
idea of meeting Ferodia and his obsequious servant 
Tifum Byah — to whose tyranny he owed so much misery 
— again with pleasure. But" it was agreed .between 
Kalulu and Selim that the ceremony of brotherhood, of 
which he had heard much before, should take place 
the evening before they arrived at Katalambula's 
village. 

The party travelled by easy stages, and on the fifth 
day of the journey, the day set apart for the ceremony 
of brotherhood, they found themselves close to the 
Liemba stream, at a village called Elisari, distant but 
eight miles from the capital of Katalambula. 

Here the author may remark,. for the benefit of the 



CEREMONY OP BROTHERHOOD. 201 

younger readers, that a close brotherhood among men 
or boys, unrelated by blood, birth, or marriage, is in no 
way singular. I need but mention David and Jonathan, 
Achilles and Patroclus, Damon and Pythias, as examples 
among men ; and what boy of any nation, in any public 
school, has not some friend who is as dear to him as a 
born brother? It arises from a similarity of disposi- 
tions generally, from the desire to relieve ourselves 
from little anxieties, and to have some one in whom 
we have thorough confidence. There were two things 
singular about this ceremony of brotherhood about, to 
be enacted between Selim and Kalulu. First, was the 
ceremony of blood-drinking connected with it; and, 
secondly, was the fact that a Moslem boy — a true be- 
liever — was about to become a brother with a Pagan 
boy-an unbeliever-and to drink his blood. For it 
is expressly prohibited by the Kuran that blood shall 
be drunk by the true believer ; next, it is expressly 
prohibited that a true believer shall make any such close 
friendship with an infidel. Jut it may be argued for 
poor Selim that he was yet but a young boy ; that he 
was driven .by necessity to this as the best method of 
assuring his freedom and safety from re-capture, and 
this the Kuran, whose laws are not cruel, permits when 
there is necessity; and it might be said that Selim 
was, perhaps, not aware of the Kuran's prohibition in 
this small matter; otherwise, I doubt that a boy so 
generally pious would have erred against the law of the 
Prophet consciously. 

On Kalulu's side, nothing could be said against the 
ceremony. It was a common custom with his tribe, 
when any of them met anybody they liked better than 



202 MY KALULU. 

another, to go through the ceremony. Sometimes the 
chiefs did it with neighbouring chiefs, to strengthen 
their alliance from motives of policy, for the same 
reason that European monarchs contract — or rather 
did, for it has lost long ago its former significance — 
advantageous alliances among themselves for their sons 
and daughters. Ealulu wished the ceremony to proceed, 
because he had a strong liking for Selim, bom of 
gratitude to Moto ; because Selim was of his own age ; 
because he had pleasant ways with him, and friendship 
having grown out of the accidental circumstances under 
which they met, he desired to assure himself, with the 
ardour of a boy, that real friendship existed between 
them. Once his brother by this ceremony, no one of 
his tribe could injure Selim ; and Ferodia and Tifum 
Byah might storm and fret in vain, for the ceremony 
of brotherhood with Kalulu could not be disregarded. 
We shall see, however, what came of it. 

At sunset; Ealulu was asked to seat himself side by 
side with Selim on the ground, which he did, taking 
hold of Selim' s right hand, each with his profile half 
turned to the other. Simba was the master of the cere- 
monies on this occasion, who held a knife with all the 
solemnity of one who was about to offer a sacrifice to 
some horrid deity who delighted in the blood of youths. 
Moto stood by as a supernumerary, and to interpret the 
words of Simba for Kalulu. The people of Kisari had 
also come to witness the ceremony. 

Simba advanced as the sun was setting, knife in hand, 
while the two boys retained each other's right hands, 
and said to Ealulu : 

" Art thou willing to be a brother to Selim, to be 



CEREMONY OP BLOOD-DRINKINa. 203 

more than a friend to him, to share what then hast 
with him, to defend him against all enemies to the 
best of thy power, and to stand by him until death ?" 

Kalulu answered, " I am." 

" With what wilt thou seal thy word ?" 

" With the blood of my right arm." 

" And what wilt thou give him as a sign ?" 

" I will give him a sheep." 

" Art thou willing further to drink his blood, that 
his blood may pass unto thee, that the bond of eternal 
brotherhood may be made strong and sure ?" 

" I am." 

Then turning to Selim, Simba asked : 

"Art thou, Selim, willing to accept Kalulu as a 
brother, to be more than a friend to him, to share what 
thou hast with him, to defend him to the utmost of 
thy power against all enemies, and to stand by him to 
the death ?" 

Selim answered, " I am." 

" With what wilt thou seal thy promise ?" 

" With the blood of my right arm." 

" And what wilt thou give him as a sign ?" 

"I will give him my gun." 

" Art thou willing, further, to drink his blood, that 
his blood may pass unto thee, that the bond of eternal 
brotherhood may be made strong and sure ?" 

" I am." 

" Then let it be done !" Simba said ; and with that 
he made a small incision in the arm of each, and as 
the blood began to flow, he shouted, "Drink!" and 
immediately the youths seized each other's right arms, 
and left their right hands free, and putting their lips 



204 MY KALULU. 

to the wounds, sacked a small quantity and swallowed 
it, and the ceremony was concluded by a fraternal 
embrace. During the exchange of presents which fol- 
lowed, men, women, and children shouted and clapped 
their hands ; and the youngest of them, in the exube- 
rance of their childish hearts, kicked up their heels and 
danced, as they do upon most great occasions in Africa. 

The next morning, a little before noon, the party 
arrived at the capital. Selim's arrival caused a great 
sensation ; but Ealulu immediately took him and his 
two friends, Simba and Moto, into his own hut, where 
Selim, to his great joy, met Abdullah, who was quite 
recovered from the severe punishment he had received 
and the fatigues he had undergone. The meeting 
between the two Arab boys was very affecting, as they 
could understand each other's feelings and interpret 
them faithfully one to the other. 

After a short time, Simba and Moto left the two boys 
to themselves and retired to their own hut, while 
Kalulu, after seeing Selim attended to and supplied 
with food, started for the King's house to acquaint the 
King with the events which we have just detailed. 

It was not long after the two Arab boys were left 
alone that a rustling of many feet was heard at the 
door, not noisy, but hurried, and somewhat alarming ; 
and immediately there stood before the astonished boys 
the form and malevolent face of Tifum Byah, his former 
tyrant, accompanied by other warriors, armed with 
spears and knob-sticks. 

" Oh, ho ! hee, hee !" shouted Tifum, with a wicked 
leer on his face. " This is my runaway slave. Ha, ha ! 
thou art caught like a sneaking jackal in a trap. GomCi 



fiKTitM BEOUGHI t^O FEBOBIA'b PBESSKGE. 205 

my pale-faced slave, you must follow me;" and he 
advanced and laid a rough hand upon his shoulder. 

" Why with you ?" asked Selim. 

" Come, no words. Perodia, the chief, calls." 

" But I am now Kalulu's brother," said Selim, at- 
tempting to release himself from his grasp, " and I 
am no longer a slave." 

" You the brother of Kalulu ! Since when came 
you to be the brother of Kalulu, you son of an ass ?" 

"Since yesterday; and if you do not let me go, 
Kalulu will punish you for 'entering his hut." 

"Well see about that. Warriors, bear him to 
Ferodia !" said Tifum, turning to his companions. 

And Selim was borne away, despite his remon- 
strances, to Ferodia's presence, who happened to be 
seated under the tree in the middle of the square. 

" Here is the runaway," said Tifum, laying a heavy 
hand on Selim's shoulder, to Ferodia. 

"Ha! pale-faced dog!" shouted Ferodia, angrily. 
" What made you run away ? Did you think to better 
yourself by doing so ? Speak." 

" I am not a dog !" retorted Selim in a passion ; for 
he was getting desperate at the prospect of another 
lease of such cruel bondage as he had experienced. 

I am not a dog, but you are a dog." 
Eyah, eyah! hear him! A slave insults Ferodia 
the chief!" cried the obsequious Tifum. "Fool, do 
you know what you say ?" 

"Silence, pariah!" thundered Selim, more passion- 
ately. " I defy you ! — I spit on you ! You are dirt. 
Do your worst, great chief — the Arab boy will not 
bend to you'" ^ -.. . , ^ 






206 MY KALULU. 

As the boy uttered these words, showing more spirit, 
and such anger, and bitter contempt as none of the 
Watutu ever had witnessed before, both Ferodia and 
Tifum were struck speechless for a moment ; but Ferodia 
broke the silence at last with fiery accents, saying : 

" Tifum, dost thou hear me ? Lay that stubborn ass 
down on his face and cut his back for me with thy 
whip. Beat, beat, and spare not." 

But Selim waited to hear no more. Ferodia had but 
begun his cruel order when the latent Bedouin spirit of 
resistance electrified him. His arm felt surcharged with 
the impulse to strike, and his hand, weighted with hate, 
was shot full in the face of Tifum, who reeled as if he 
had been struck with a knob-stick. Then with a light 
bound he sprang from the circle, sending a mocking 
laugh into Ferodia's ears as he flew towards the King's 
house, which had been pointed out to him on his first 
arrival, shouting " Kalulu ! Simba, to me ! To me, 
Simba ! Kalulu !" 

He had reached the threshold of the King's house 
when he felt an arm on his shoulder. He turned 
around ; it was Tifum ! Bage had given the man a 
quickened sense and speed to his feet, even superior 
to the fear which hurried the feet of Selim away. The 
strong hand crushed the weakened frame of the youth 
to the ground for the execution of the cruel sentence 
of Ferodia, and his brain was fast whirling with the 
terror which possessed him, when he heard a shout — a 
roar of rage — behind him, and at the same time the 
force with which he was being compelled to the ground 
relaxed. Simba was seen bearing down upon the party 
•with irresistible power. He saw for an instant how 



SDIBA TO THE BESOTJE. 207 

the gigantic form of his friend and protector dilated, 
as he had seen it in the battle of Ewiknrn ; he saw 
the powerful muscular arms, with their wealth of sinew 
and muscle, and the eyes glowing with the ferocity of 
a beast of prey : only an instant, for Simba was before 
Tifum, face to face with the monster who had striped 
the son of Amer, and there was no time to think 
before he saw Tifum's body in the air, nor time to 
utter the thought of pardon which he wished to say, 
before he saw the man dashed with the force of a 
cannon ball against the body of warriors who had 
hurried up to lend assistance to Tifum — laying half a 
dozen of them prostrate on the ground. 

Ferodia had seen the giant form of Simba hurrying 
to the rescue of the white slave, and comprehending at 
a glance that something would happen, he snatched his 
spear and started after him. But he had never imagined 
that such a thing as he saw could have been done by 
living man ; and the wonder of it all paralysed his arm, 
which tingled but a moment before to send his spea^ 
through the man's body. While Ferodia thus stood, 
lost in wonder at such human power, three new-comers 
had appeared on the scene — ^Moto, who had hurried 
after Ferodia, and stood behind him, seemingly care- 
less and unconcerned; Ealulu and Katalambula, the 
King, who appeared on the threshold, the former of 
whom had dragged Selim behind him. 

Eatalambula, though old and on the verge of in- 
firmity, could demean himself royally enough upon 
occasions ; and this was one of them evidently ; for he 
advanced and stood before Simba and Ferodia, spear in 
hand, with a bearing seldom witnessed. 



208 MY tltULtJ. 

*^ What means this^ Ferodia ? " he asked in a cool, 
quiet tone. 

'^ It means, King, that I sent Tifam to catch that 
runaway slave who deserted me in the great forest ; that 
the slave ran towards thy house, and Tifum ran after 
him, only to meet with this man, who caught up Tifum 
as if he had been a piece of wood, and sent him flying 
against those warriors of mine, who are now picking 
themselves up." 

" Indeed ! Who art thou ? Oh, I remember, thou 
art the friend of the stranger who saved Kalulu in 
Urori ! Thou art very strong." 

Then turning toward the group which had been pros- 
trated, he asked if any of them had been hurt. One 
replied that he felt a pain in the chest, another that he 
could not breathe ; one felt his head swim, another a 
pain in the abdomen ; one felt a lump in his throat, 
another replied that he had a sore back ; while Tifum 
declared he felt bruised all over, and all looked at Simba 
with terror. 

Ferodia now advanced, and made as if he would lay 
a hand on Selim ; but Kalulu interposed his slight form 
with a drawn bow and fixed arrow in his hand, and a 
dangerous glitter in his eyes. 

" Keep away, Ferodia ; or, by the grave of Mostana 
my father, I will send this arrow through thy body." 

" What ails thee, boy ? Is not one white slave enough 
for thee, that thou wouldst deprive me of the other ? 
I made him captive with my bow and spear at Olimali's 
village. Stand aside." 

" Go away, I tell thee ! This * slave ' of thine is 
now my brother. The blood ceremony has been made. 



THE WARNINa TO KALULU. 209 

Who injures him injures me ; and I am Ealulu, adopted 
son of Eatalambula." 

"Well, if he is thy brother, keep him; but give 
me the other white slave in his place," replied 
Ferodia. 

" Thou hast given him to my father. My father has 
given him to me. I am too poor in white slaves to be 
able to give thee any. I have but one slave, for the 
other is my brother." 

" Katalambula," said Ferodia, "this is injustice. 
White slaves are not caught every day. I must have 
one of them." 

"We may not disregard the laws of brotherhood, 
Ferodia," said the King, mildly. " When Kalulu made 
the white boy his brother Jbe made him a Mtuta, and all 
the Watuta are free men. Thou gavest me the other, 
and I gave him to Kalulu. It is not oiir custom to 
return gifts, thou knowest, Ferodia. But take thou 
three Wabena men at my hand inste.ad, and be friends 
with Kalulu." 

No, no, no I" said Ferodia, in a burst of anger. 

Thou art unjust, Katalambula, to one who fought for 
thee with such success, and brought thee so much 
wealth. I depart at once ; and thou," said he warningly 
to Kalulu, " do thou beware of me ; eagle's wings have 
been clipped ere now, and young lions tamed. Ferodia 
is king over his own tribe." 

" Ferodia," said Kalulu with a sneer, " I fear thee 
not. I know thee for a bad man; and were it not for 
my father thou shouldst not leave this village, for I 
should garnish the gate with thy skull," 

"Peace, boy!" cried Katalambula, "and do not 






210 ' MY KALXJLU. 

make bad worse with thy saucy tongue. And thon, 
Ferodia, heed him not ; remember, he is but a yonng 
boy. Bnt it is thon who art nnjnst, not I. Hast thou 
not received a fourth of all thou didst bring me ? Hast 
thou forgotten the slayes, the cloth, the powder, and 
guns I gave thee? Whose were the warriors with 
whom the battle was won at Kwikuru ? Who sent thee 
there but I ? Go home if thou must, and peace be with 
thee." 

Ferodia left the party, but not before he had again 
menaced Kalulu, which menace that young chief re- 
turned with interest. Within an hour he had departed 
from the village with his warriors, slaves, and property, 
breathing revenge and hatred, fuming and storming at 
the slaves, and sarcastically bitter to the bruised and 
discomfited Tifum Byah. 

Katalambula was angry also with Ealulu ; but the 
latter, though forward enough when Ferodia, of whom 
he was intensely jealous, was concerned, knew the ways 
of the old man well ; and, unmindful of his frowns, he 
went up and embraced him, and accompanied him 
towards his house. 

" Oh, my uncle, and father !" cried Kalulu, " why 
dost thou not say a kind word to my white brother ? 
Is he not a handsome brother ? Look at his eyes ; they 
are like the young kalulu when it looks at the hunter 
in fear. Speak to him, ah, do. Think of that horrid 
Tifum Byah beating him ! I am so sorry I did not 
drive an arrow through him. He is a wicked man, 
verily, and is properly named Byah. He would cut my 
head off readily if Ferodia commanded him. 

" And thou art the new brother of my boy Kalulu, 



KAIiULU SPEAKS FOE SELpi. 211 

art thou, pale-faced boy ? " asked Katalambula, stopping 
in front of Selim. 

" Kaluln has been very good to me," said Selim, look- 
ing up gratefully towards that youth. " He has been 
pleased to call me his brother." 

" Yes," said Katalambula. " Kalulu is a good boy — a 
good boy — he loyes the old King, too. I believe he has 
a kind heart for those he loves, but he is hot, hot as 
fire, when anybody crosses him. Take care he does not 
kill and eat you," he added, smiling, and passing on 
towards his house. 

" But, father," said Kalulu in a whisper, " thou seest 
he is naked, except that rag. He is the son of an Arab 
chief, and is not accustomed to our ways. Thou art 
rich in cloth. Canst thou not give him something to 
cover his nakedness ?" 

" What need he cover his nakedness, boy ? He looks 
fair and clean enough without anything. He is not a 
girl. I am sure' if I had a white skiii I would rather 
be naked to show it," chuckled the old man, looking at 
Selim. 

" But, father, he has told me himself that he feels 
ashamed of being without cloth. His people never go 
out unless they are covered from head to foot. It is 
against their custom, and there is a book written by the 
Sky-spirit, which tells them not to be without clothes." 

" Well, well, do as thou wilt. Give him four doti 
(sixteen yards), and let him cover himself from head to 
foot if he wants to, though I think it all foUy, all non- 



sense." 



"Thou art good, very good, father," cried the de- 
lighted Kalulu, leaping about the old man. 



212 MY KALTJLU. 

" Ah, yes, I know I am good," replied Eatalambula, 
" especially when I let thee have thy own way. There, 
go now. I am sleepy and tired." 

Ealnlu left the old man, and, proceeding to the store- 
room, extracted the four doti he was permitted to take ; 
one of blue cotton, one of white, one coloured barsati, 
and one fine sohari, which he rolled into a bundle, and 
covered with a goatskin, and conveyed to his hut, where 
he found Simba, Moto, Abdullah, and Selim. 

When he had seated himself, he asked Selim : 

" What book is that thou wert talking of to me yes- 
terday ? " 

" It is the Kuran," replied Selim, " written by a holy 
man, sent by the Sky-spirit to tell men how to conduct 
themselves on earth, so they may enter the good place 
called Paradise." 

" What is the Sky-spirit like ? " 

^'No man, since that great man, has seen him ; he is 
a spirit, and cannot be seen," replied Selim. 

" Why do the pale-faces obey a thing that cannot be 
seen ? " 

" Because the holy man, Mohammed, who wrote his 
words down, has given us all we want to know. The holy 
man saw him, and wrote his words faithfully down." 

" Is Mommed alive now ? " asked Kalulu. 

" Oh no ! He has been dead ever so long, many, many 
years. So many as one hundred sultans of Ututa have 
lived and died since Mohammed — not Mommed — died," 
answered Selim. 

" Where is this Paradise to which the good men go ? 
I am good. Shall I go to Paradise ?" asked Ealulu, with 
a smile. 



WHERE IS PARADISE? 213 

" Paradise is away, up, far, far above the clouds. No 
man is permitted to go there except he is a true 
believer, who believes in God, Mohammed, and the 
Kuran." 

" And where shall I go when I die ?" 

" If thou diest without believing, thou shalt go to 
the place which is reserved for such as were ignorant, 
and were not taught the true word. It is far from 
Paradise." 

" Hum! it is not as good as Paradise, then ?" asked 
Kalulu. 

" No." 

" The Sky-spirit is wicked," said Kalulu. " He sends 
a holy man called Mommed to tell good words to the 
white peoples, and prepares a nice place for them. 
For it is easy to believe, when people are taught what 
to believe. But the black peoples, they see no holy 
man. Nobody comes to tell them anything ; but be- 
cause they are ignorant they are sent to a bad place. 
Bah ! the Sky-spirit is very wicked ; he is unjust ; I 
don't want to see himj because I shall not die ; I won't 
die." 

Selim had here a fine chance to delivet a sermon, and 
make a proselyte, but he was too young to take advan- 
tage of the opportunity ; besides, he did not want to 
make his new brother angry or more rebellious than 
sheer ignorance made him already. 

" But, Selim, tell me ; why do thy people wear clothes? 
Why do you not go about without clothes, as we do ?" 

" Because it is wrong ; it is i:iot decent. The good 
book says ' Thou shalt restrain thine eyes, and do no 
immodest action.' It is immodest to expose the person. 



214 HY KALULU. 

Beasts are clothed with fur and hair, fowls with feathers; 
men cover themselves with clothes. Is man so poor 
that when he sees all things clothed — the rocks with 
earth, the earth with trees, the trees with foliage, the 
beasts of the forest with hair and fur, the birds with 
feathers, the fish with scales, that he himself who owns 
all these things shall have nothing ?" 

" Well, Selim, thou shalfr not be immodest any more 
while thou art with me. I have brought thee and 
Abdullah cloth. Am I not good now, and shall I not 
go to Paradise ?" 

"Thou shalt have all things, Kalulu, when thou 
wilt become a true believer," answered Selim, clapping 
his hands with joy and gratitude at Ealulu's delicate 
kindness. " What dost thou say, Simba ? and thou, 
Moto? Abdullah? We shall be sons of Arabs, and 
true believers now, eh ?" 

" I shall be so proud of these clothes, I will not know 
myself," said Abdullah, as he folded around his body a 
brand new shukkah (two yards) with the skill of one 
who knew the art of wearing shukkahs. Another 
shukkah was thrown over his shoulders, while a piece 
of snowy cloth, a foot wide and a yard long, was folded 
around his head, and he stood up to be admired, his 
pleased and sparkling black eyes mutely inviting his 
friends to express their pleasure at the transforma- 
tion. 

"Why, Abdullah!" exclaimed Simba. "Wallahi! 
but thou lookest better in the negro costume of Zan- 
zibar than thou didst in the braided gold jacket and 
embroidered shirt of Sheikh Mohammed's son; and 
thou too, Selim. I think I see my young master once 



SELIM AND ABDULLAH ABE CLOTHED. 215 

more himself. Fine sohari and fine barsati in Utnta ! 
Who would believe it ?" 

" Ay," said Moto, " my young master and Abdullah, 
having covered themselves, will forget their misery and 
vexation, and grow fat and happy. After this I shall 
always look out for young chiefs in danger, to help 
them, hoping they will all turn out to be as good as 
Kalulu has been." 

" Now that we are all so happy and good, I proposo 
to my new brother Selim and my white slave Abdullah, 
who is now no more a slave than I am, that we take a 
canoe to-morrow, and go down the Liemba to spear hip- 
popotamus and crocodiles; for you must see the Watuta 
at home in their sports, and we must, by and-bye, go to 
the great forest several days south of where thou wert 
found, Selim, to have a grand elephant hunt. What 
do ye say, Selim — Abdullah ?" 

" I shall be delighted," answered Selim. 
And I too," responded Abdullah. 
Then it is settled ; eh, Simba and Moto ?" 

" Yes," those faithfuls replied. 

At dawn, the time prescribed, the party set out for 
the river, two warriors accompanying them, bearing the 
paddles for the canoe. Simba and Moto carried their 
guns, Kalulu carried the one given him by Selim at the 
brotherhood ceremony, besides his spear, while Selim 
and Abdullah carried guns which Kalulu had procured 
thorn from the King's store-room, with the King's 
permission. 

Arriving at the river, the party found a large number 
of idlers there already, who had collected to see their 
young chief and his white slaves, as Selim and Abdullah 






216 MY KALULU. 

were called, set off. Some of them wondered that 
Ealolu should so soon take his slaves away on a pleasure 
excursion, but they said nothing, the majority of them 
thinking that he took them with him as gun-bearers. 
Several of the Watuta offered to accompany Kalulu in 
his canoe, but he waived them off peremptorily, saying 
he had enough with him. 

Soon after Ealulu had taken his seat in the stern 
with Selim and Abdullah, Simba, Moto, and the two 
warriors, taking each a paddle, shot the canoe into mid- 
river; then with dexterous strokes they pointed her 
head down stream, to the music of a boatman's song. 
Each man industriously plied his paddle, and Katalam- 
bula's village receded from view. 

This mode of journeying the two Arab boys, having 
nothing to do but to sit down and enjoy the scenery, 
thought much preferable to the continual march 
of the caravan ; and the contrast was certainly great 
to that bitter experience they had endured on the 
journey from Kwikuru in Urori to Katalambula with 
the heavy-handed and callous-souled Tifum. They 
looked on with delight at the brown river and the tiny 
billows of brown foam which the stout canoe made 
with her broad bow ; at the dense sedge and brake of 
cane which lined the river's banks, wherein, now and 
then, was heard a heavy splash, as the drowsy crocodile, 
alarmed by the approaching crew, leaped into his liquid 
home ; at the great tall trees which now and then were 
passed, out of which the canoes of the Watuta are 
made ; at the enormous sycamore, with its vast globe of 
branch and leaf, affording grateful shade to beast and 
bird; at the brown cones, the habitations of men, 



DOWN THE LIEMBA. 217 

encircled by their strong palisades ; at the grain-fields, 
which shimmered an.d waved gaily before the tepid 
Bouthern wind ; and at lengthy, straight, far-reaching 
vistas of river and w;ooded banks which were revealed to 
them as they glided down the Liemba. 

" Happy hour !" thought Selim. " Would it might 
last ever, or at least until I reached my own home and 
mother at Zanzibar !" 

" Hail, joyous day !" thought Abdullah. " Give joy 
to all men, as I have joy. Be still joyous, to-morrow 
and the day after, until mine eyes shall once more rest 
on the blue waves of the Indian Sea." 

The two boys looked into each other's eyes ; the look 
was interpreted aright by each, and tears crept into 
the corners of their eyes, and rolled down their faces in 
still drops— still as the joy which caused them. 

About two hours before noon the canoe touched an 
island ; and, disembarking, the party proceeded to select 
a. nice place to rest for an hour, and to refresh themselves 
with the lunch, consisting of dried meat, smoked fish, 
and, a potful of cold porridge they had brought with 
them. 

Just as the hour had transpired, a hoarse, deep bellow 
was heard close by, which caused the entire party to 
start to their feet and glide to the edge of the island, 
whence they saw a herd of hippopotami quietly enjoy- 
ing the cool deep waters near a place where the river 
began a sharp curve at the other end of the island. 

" Good !" cried Kalulu ; " one — three— five hippo- 
potami! Now for sport. My white brother, canst 
thou swim ?" he asked Selim. 

"Yes; why?" 






218 MY KALULU. 

" Because, if thou cannot, 'twere better that thou 
shouldst stay here. Can Abdullah swim ?" 
Very well," replied Abdullah for himself. 
Then come on to the canoe at once. But stop ; ye 
both had better doflf your shoulder-cloths, and roll 
the lower cloths far up the hip; ye may haye to 
swim, for a hippopotamus sometimes charges on the 
canoe, or kicks it viciously, and then down ye go to the 
bottom. If it should happen this time, dive down to 
the bottom of the riyer at once, and make off under the 
water towards the island. The hippopotamus is very- 
apt to cut a man in two if he catches him. The animals 
are now coming up the river ; we wiU wait for them, 
and when they have gone above us a little way we can 
sally out from our hiding place, and give it to them. 
Do ye understand ?" 

" Perfectly," both answered ; while Simba and Moto, 
rolling their cloths tight around their hips and loins, 
nodded their approval of what Kalulu had said. 

Having done what the ^age young chief had advised, 
Selim and Abdullah accompanied him to the canoe; 
Simba and Moto took their paddles in their hands, 
while the two warriors, who were famous for their 
harpooning, prepared the instrument which they in- 
tended to drive into the first animal nearest to them. 

This instrument was similar in shape to the harpoons 
which whalers use for destroying the whales, except 
that it was not half as neat or sharp. It had a long, 
heavy staff, and had once been used to pound corn into 
flour by some woman, as was evident by its close grain 
and polish, showing that it was hard and heavy, and 
had been of frequent use. To its pointed end was a 



THE HIPPOPOTAMUS. 219 

broad, heavy, and barbed spear, well sharpened and 
polished, around the handle of which was fastened the 
end of a long rope, of native manufacture, made of the 
bark of the baobab tree. 

While the harpooneers were quietly preparing them- 
selves, Kalulu pointed the two Arab boys through a 
thin edge of cane which hid the boat from the approach- 
ing animals, as they came up slowly and unsuspectingly 
abreast of the place where they lay. 

What magnificent beasts they were ! What splendid 
and powerful necks they had! The best prize-bull 
ever fattened on English grass might have been ashamed 
of his breadth of neck had such as these been exhibited 
side by side with him. Unaware of the danger that 
lay in wait for them, they came up to breathe quickly 
and boldly, and by so doing exposed nearly all their 
heads and necks. On the backs of their powerful necks 
the colour was that of a bright reddish yellow, which 
also tinged their heads over the eyes and the ears, and 
broad patches of this colour were also seen on the 
cheeks. In appearance the head bore a striking simi- 
larity to the head of a large and powerful horse ; espe- 
cially did the bold and prominent eyes, the short pointed 
ears, and noble curve of neck aid the comparison ; but 
at the nose it was more like that of an ox. 

The name of this enormous and apparently unwieldy 
animal, by which he is known to us, is hippopotamus, 
from the Greek words — hippos, a horse ; potamos, a 
river. Had the Greek travellers been better acquainted 
with the appearance of this animal they might have 
called it river-cow, or river-hog. It is only when his 
head is half submerged that we can correctly designate 



220 MY KALULU. 

him as a river-horse. Once we see his nose and moutli, 
we are apt to call him a river-cow ; but when he is 
once well out of the water, and we see his heavy body 
and short legs, we would say immediately that he was 
more like an over-fat hog than either cow or horse. The 
hippopotamus has four equal toes on each foot, inclosed 
in hoofs. 

The unwary beasts rose and sank not many feet from 
the canoe for the last time while they were abreast of 
the canoe ; and, at the word given by Kalulu, Simba and 
Moto dipped their paddles, and sent the boat into the 
stream bow forward, the harpooneer entrusted with the 
duty of striking standing rigid with uplifted weapon, 
ready for the blow. 

A minute thus he stood, and all eyes were fixed 
expectant, when at the bow rose the monstrous head 
and neck of a bull hippopotamus, and at the same 
moment the harpoon was shot straight and deep into 
his neck, while the bright blood gushed upward in 
streams. The stricken animal sounded immediately, 
while the water was lashed into foam by his struggles, 
and sooli the canoe was moving up the river at terrific 
speed, while the water rose in high, brown waves at the 
bow. Presently the speed slackened, and the canoe 
began to float down the stream. 

" Pull back ! pull back !" shouted the harpooneer, and 
at the same time he tossed the buoyant gourd, to which 
he had fastened the end of the rope hitherto attached 
to the boat by a round turn around a cleat, into the 
water. Eesponsive to the cry, Simba and Moto dashed 
their paddles into the water ; but they were too late, 
for they felt the boat lifted up bodilv out of the water, 



OVERBOARD ! 221 

and the crew, losing their equilibrium, staggered on one 
side, which completely turned the canoe over, and pre- 
cipitated them into the water. 

The three boys, Kalulu, Selim, and Abdullah, in- 
stinctively, as they felt the canoe lifted out of the 
water, rose to their feet with their guns in their hands, 
and when it was assumed beyond doubt that it would 
turn over, sprang into the water in different directions, 
and dived to the bottom, dragging themselves toward 
their island beneath, by clutching the tenacious mud. 
For some time the wounded hippopotamus remained 
master of the field, and no enemy appearing in sight, 
he sank, uttering a horrible bellow as he disappeared 
out of sight. 

Immediately after, Selim appeared above the surface, 
more than twenty yards from the scene of the disaster, 
and swimming vigorously towards the island, which he 
soon gained in safety. Then appeared Abdullah, about 
ten yards from the bank ; Ealulu close to the shore, 
with Simba, and Moto, and the two warriors close to 
him. In a second they stood on the shore, Kalulu minus 
his gun, but having his sharp spear in his hand ; the 
two warriors had also retained their spears, while 
Simba and Moto had their guns in their hands, and 
their long broad knives in their waists. 

As soon as they had regained the shoi^e, and stood on 
dry land, the party began to cheer the youthful 
straggler, Abdullah, and to encourage him to greater 
exertions. He was within five yards of the bank, and 
Simba and Moto were already stretching their guns to 
him to grasp, when suddenly Abdullah's smiling face 
assumed a look of terror, and a wild, thrilling shriek 



222 Mr KALULU. 

was uttered by him, which was silenced instantly by 
the brown waters closing over his head ; and the calm, 
placid river flowed on, and no swimmer was seen dis- 
turbing its surface. 

For the shortest possible instant, all hands seemed 
turned into stone ; not a sound nor a breath was heard, 
until Kalulu was heard uttering the terrible and awful 
word, " mamba !" — crocodile. 

Simba and Moto then breathed, and confused murmurs 
were heard from all. " Save him !" cried Selim ; " oh, 
save poor Abdullah !" 

There was no need to utter the prayer ; for young 
Kalulu had divested himself of his wet loin-cloth, had 
broken the staff of the spear he held short off, close to 
the sharp head, and with the latter grasped firmly in 
his hand, had plunged head-foremost, unconscious, as 
it were, of the imminent danger of the hazardous 
undertaking, into the water, where Abdullah was last 
seen. 

Kalulu's feet had but disappeared beneath the water, 
when Simba and Moto, dropping their guns, divested 
themselves of their loin-cloths, and, grasping their 
long heavy knives, sprang in likewise, and the river, 
disturbed for but a short second, flowed on as before, 
with its silent, still flow. 

It seemed an age to Selim, who stood on the bank 
with clasped hands, and cowering form, a prey to the 
keenest anxiety for the fate of all his friends, who had 
disappeared beneath the treacherous face of the river. 

Yet thirty seconds could not have passed before the 
deep, brown water was again disturbed, this time in a 
violent manner, while it began to be slightly discoloured 



FTGHTma THE CROCODILE. 223 

with blood, and the crocodile's tail shot suddenly above 
the surface, lashing the water into foam, and imme- 
diately after, Abdullah's head ; then Kalulu, Simba, and 
Moto simultaneously appeared above, making for the 
shore with all haste. As they reached the shbre, 
Kalulu was seen supporting, with his hand beneath the 
hip, the body of Abdullah, who seemed to have lost 
consciousness. The ready hands of the two warriors 
dragged the almost lifeless body, as it reached the bank, 
and laid it carefully a few feet from the river, on the 
ground, while Kalulu, wringing his long braids clear of 
water, and drawing the draggled ostrich feathers from 
his head, uttered a ringing peal of laughter, and then 
said in a triumphant tone to Selim : 

" We were too much for the mamba, Selim. He did 
not get my slave Abdullah this time !" 

" Ah, thou art so brave, so good, Kalulu !" while 
grateful tears ran down his cheeks, as he sprang foi;- 
ward to embrace the young hero. " I shall never, never 
forget thee ! I would not miss thy friendship for the 
world ! Thou hast twice saved me — once from death, 
and another time from the hands of the cruel Tifum. 
Thou hast still more increased my love for thee, my 
brave brother, by rescuing Abdullah from the jaws of 
that horrid mamba. How shall I thank thee, my 
Kalulu ? How shall I praise thee ? Thou art swifter 
than an eagle, braver than a lion, comelier than any of 
the sons of men ! Thine eyes are more tender than a 
gazelle's to thy friends, fiercer than the greedy 
leopard's, when it scents the blood of its prey, to thy 
enemies. Thou art tall as a palm-tree, straight as the 
hardened shaft of a spear, grace breathes in every 



224 MY KALUIiU. 

movement of thy limbs. Thou hast saved the life of 
my playmate — even the life of Abdullah, the Arab boy. 
The dark grey waters had closed over his young head, 
his voice had been silenced in the deep, when thou, 
Kalulu, didst leap in — a true hero ! — to do battle with 
the scaly monster in behalf of Abdullah, my friend, and 
playmate of my happy childhood. I saw the waters 
hiss and foam, as the monster battled with thee for his 
prey. The victory was given to thee ; Allah made thine 
arm strong, thine heart brave ; for Abdullah, my friend, 
was brought back from death to life, from the dark 
waters to the sunlight, from the grave to the light of 
day. Kalulu! if a fatherless boy is beloved by 
Allah, my prayer shall go up to God night and day 
for thee ; if a true believer may intercede with Heaven, 
then wilt thou be blessed, and the soul of Abdullah's 
dead father shall cry for thee before the holy footstool 
of Allah!" 

" Ah, Selim !" replied Kalulu, embracing him in 
return, " has Kalulu, the son of Mostana, pleased thee ? 
then is Kalulu rewarded. Kalulu is thy brother, and 
his heart is soft towards Selim, and to the Arab boy, 
for thy sake. Thou art good — there is no guile in 
thee. Kalulu is also good, but he has seen wicked 
men; and when a wicked man draws nigh to him, 
Kalulu's heart is black, and bitter, and his spear comes 
quickly to his hand. His eyes search out the good ; 
they found the good in thee, and Kalulu's heart went 
to thee as thou didst lie like an antelope stricken to 
death in the forest. I shall love all Arabs for thy 
sake for ever. There shall be bad blood no more 
between us. For as good as thou art am I good, and 



sow KALULU FOUaST THE CROCODILE. 225 

as I am good, so art thou. Where I shall be, there 
ehalt thou be, and where thou wilt be, there shall I be, 
until thou canst return in safety to thine own land. 
And when thou goest, do thou but remember thy 
brother Kalulu, and but whisper his name, then our 
Sky-spirit shall send the wind to bear thy whisper to 
me. Come, let us see how poor Abdullah fares." 

Proceeding to the spot where the still unconscious 
form of Abdullah lay, they found that the crocodile 
had snatched the young swimmer by the right leg, just 
below the knee,i\rhere his cruel sharp teeth had pierced 
to the bone, leaving ugly marks behind him. 
" How didst thou find the crocodile, Kalulu ?" 
" Oh, I sprang to the place where I saw thy friend 
sink, and by good luck I came upon the crocodile^s 
back. The crocodile having dragged the boy down, let 
go of his leg, and laid on top of him. When the 
crocodile felt me on his back, he turned round 
savagely, but without leaving his prey. I had no time 
to stop talking with him, or to ask him to give me 
Abdullah back, because I knew he wouldn't; and 
besides, I didn't go to ask him, for it is very close 
down there, and there is no air. So I felt for his fore- 
leg, and while I stabbed him behind, I felt my two 
friends, Moto and Simba, who perhaps thought that I 
was the crocodile, though my hide is not quite so 
rough as the hide of him. When the fellow felt the 
keen point of my spear in his heart, he rolled off 
Abdullah, and began to kick and lash with his tail in a 
dreadful way, and losing my spear, I caught hold of 
Abdullah by the leg, and came up. That's how it 



was." 



Q 



^ 



226 MY KALULU. 

" And what didst thou, too, Simba ?" asked Seliiu, 
turning to his friend. 

" When I went down, I caught hold of Moto's hand, 
and diying, I touched Kalulu, but I knew at once that 
he was not the crocodile, for his skin is as soft as a 
child's ; the next minute I got hold of the crocodile's 
leg, though he was kicking and laying about him 
furiously, and I let go Moto's hand, who got hold of 
another leg. I buried my knife in the crocodile's 
belly several times, and he swam away, leaving his 
inside dragging after him, while I came up to find 
Kalulu, Abdullah, and Moto right close to me. I 
think the crocodile has got more than he thought he 
would get, and that he will leave Abdullah alone in 
future." 

" Do you think Abdullah will come to soon ?" 

" Oh yes," replied Simba ; " he has swallowed a little 
too much water, or he has fainted from the pain. See 
now, Master Selim, he breathes ! There, his eyes are 
open !" 

Abdullah had only fainted, as Simba said, and 
this was the reason why the crocodile had so soon 
released his hold of his leg, and had lain on him. 
When he opened his eyes, Abdullah gave a long sigh, 
and asked where he was, to which a cheery answer was 
returned; and presently he talked, and discussed the 
event calmly, but not before he had endeavoured to kiss 
the feet of his saviour, which Kalulu had too much 
manliness to accept ; but he knelt down by him and 
embraced him, while Abdullah availed himself of the 
opportunity, and kissed his forehead. 

Abdullah having in a measure recovered, the two 



SECURING THE KlVEil-HORSE. 227 

warriors were sent to hunt after the canoe, which 
fortunately was found, stayed in its progress hy the 
reeds, at a point of the island projecting into the 
current ; and, to their great joy, close to the canoe was 
the gourd to which was fastened the harpoon rope. 
Giving vent to a loud halloo, Simba, Moto, and Kalulu 
rushed towards them, and by their united aid they 
dragged the body of the dead hippopotamus to shallow 
water, and setting vigorously to work, they soon loaded 
their canoe with the luscious flesh, it being a food 
highly prized by the tribes of Central Africa. 

By the time this work was despatched, it was night, 
and the hunters, lifting the wounded Abdullah into the 
canoe, and having a clear course up the river towards 
home, they started on their return journey, feeling as 
proud as men who have been successful in a dangerous 
exploit only can feel. They sang over and over again 
exciting hunting and boat songs with vociferous 
chorus, until midnight, when the fishermen's fires, near 
Katalambula's village, gladdened their eyes and made 
them rejoice as home-returned wanderers generally do. 



228 MY KALULtf. 



CHAPTER IX. 

Selim — ^Happy Days — The Lover's Song — The Magic Doctor Soltali — 
Ealulu proposes to hunt Elephants — ^Preparations for a Dance — 
The Hunting Song — The Elephant Hunters set out — The Scenes 
on the March— The Hunters* Camp— Ten Elephants !—Kalulu 
addresses the King Elephant — The King Elephant dies — Selim's 
Ck)nduct in the Field— Kalulu is astonished at Selim's Prowess. 

Selim was now happy ; and next to being able to reach 
his own Zanjian Isle, and revisit the scenes of his 
childhood, and romp, as of yore, with the playmates of 
his youth, and enjoy walks through the orange-groves 
with young Abdullah, he could not have chosen for 
himself a more tranquil life than that which he now 
enjoyed with his friend and new brother, Ealulu. 

For the bright Liemba Eiver was beautiful, though 
brown; its crisp little wavelets, where they washed 
over stone and pebble in the shallower parts, had music 
for him, though he never forgot that horrible scene 
near the island, when "fche smiling face of Abdullah 
changed into one of horror and sank down into the 
depths, with his shriek echoing through the woods. 

The banks of the Liemba became for him a frequent 
resort, for Ealulu had made it generally known to all 
that he was his brother, and no Mtuta under the Eing 
Eatalambula might molest him. Hence, he wandered 
where he pleased, finding charms in the wild woods, 
and in the depths of waving grain, in the peaceful. 



SELIM. 229 

still life that reigned aronnd, in the music of the birds, 
and even in the harsh cries of paroqu^ets. 

The Selim, the brother of Kalulu, was not the Selim 
of Zanzibar, but was the product of him, refined and 
pure from the fiery crucible of the unusual hardships 
he had endured. It was the same boy, but not the 
same heart. He, whom we knew at Zanzibar, the gay, 
light-hearted, sunny youth, playing with the females in 
the harem and his playmates on the beach, but ever 
listening in wonder to the great, wise words and say-^ 
ings of white men, was changed for the dreamy boy 
with the poet's heart, who chose solitudes, forests, and 
the depths of tall corn-stalks to indulge in reverie, 
which we are too apt to ascribe to melancholy. Perhaps 
it was melancholy, a tender, soft melancholy, engen- 
dered by many reminiscences of a mournful nature, 
crowding together in the mind of a boy who had 
sufiered much, but who had seen but few years. There 
was the death of a loving father and loving kinsmen, the 
tragic fate of Isa and Mussoud, the most narrow escape 
he had himself from death, and poor Abdullah's narrow 
escape from a horrible fate. These were not the best 
kind of subjects to dwell in the mind of a boy of Selim's 
years ; but what aided to soften all these, and did much to 
lighten his burden, was his present position, the tender 
friendship of Kalulu, the company of the gentle Ab- 
dullah, the calm tranquillity of the life he was now en- 
joying, and the consciousness — which his perfect trust 
in the goodness of God created — that there was a God 
above, who was both good and great, and who would 
bring him in his own good time out of all trouble. 

For many days Abdullah suffered from the wounds 



230 MY KALULU. 

which the crocodile's sharp teeth had made in his leg. 
High fever set in, during which time he was attended 
by Simba, and Moto, Ealnln, and Selim. 

All sport was at an end for Selim and Ealulu while 
their friend Abdullah was thus suffering. Nothing of 
enjoyment was thought of, nothing could be thought of 
but their poor young patient, whose constitution was 
battling vigorously against the fever which threatened 
often to terminate his life. 

And what a time poor Abdullah had ! Instead of 
the soft, silken counterpane and feathered bolsters, 
and the fragrance of lime and orange of his own com- 
fortable home at Zanzibar, here were a mud-hut, low 
roof of straw and mud, a goatskin for his bed, a low 
door of cane-stalks, through which the white sun- 
light streamed hot and glaring, voices of a thousand 
rats for music, and the bad smells caused by the inde- 
cent habits of savages, for the perfume of ripe orange 
and cinnamon. All these aggravated the fever and 
created hideous dreams at night. For food he had a 
thin gruel, which Simba made for him to the best of 
his ability ; for drink, the muddy water of the Liemba 
or some pombe-beer. Despite these, however, his con- 
stitution triumphed; the fever left him, and the 
wounded leg, carefully bathed each morning by Simba, 
began to heal. 

When convalescent, Abdullah would leave his hut at 
evening, pale and thin as a ghost, leaning on the arm 
of his true friends, Kalulu and Selim, to enjoy the mild 
air, and to listen to the songs of the Watuta, and the 
sonorous music of the drums. The sight of the pale 
and thin Arab boy touched the heart of many a ma- 



HAPPY DAYS. 231 

ternal bosom, and many were the expressions of condo- 
lence which he received from them. He often heard 
these dark-faced women ntter expressions which he had 
never thought at Zanzibar could ever be uttered by 
black women ; and he was rapidly beginning to learn 
that women are the same all over the world, whether 
they are white or black, and that human love and kind- 
ness belong as much to the black as to the white, and 
are as often practised. And the outcast, despised 
negro race were rising daily in his estimation. Neither 
was Selim indifferent to the tones of sympathy he 
heard from them ; not only did Kalulu win his friend- 
ship more and more each day, but the whole negro 
race was being admitted into his brotherhood. 

These were really happy days. Abdullah was im- 
proving each day, and Selim was fast becoming as 
joyous a companion as Ealulu could desire. Inspired 
by the invigorating sound of the drums, and the lively 
chorus, he was compelled to leave the side of Abdullah 
and join in the dance. A favourite song of the Watuta 
was the boatmen's song, which seamed interminable ; 
but the chorus was so pretty, and had such a sweet, 
pathetic melody, that Selim joined with pleasure in it 
for its pathos. 

The first and second verses ran somewhat in this 
strain :— 

Down the brown Liemba, 

The home of fierce Mamba,^ 

We are gliding. 

With sudden stroke and song 

The boat is sent along, 

Swiftly gliding. 

^ Crocodiles. 



232 BIY KALULU. 



We fear uo fierce mamba 
in the deep Liemba 

WMle we are gliding ; 
Nor bush nor thickest brake, 
Nor foe that would us take — 



Swiftly gliding." 



The fifth, seventh, and eighth verses are descriptive 
of the scenery on the Liemba : — 

By waving fields of grain, 
' With song and loud refrain, 

We are gliding ; 
While women hoe the com 
Till eve from dewy morn — 

Swiftly gliding. 

Lo! Isleoflhata, 
Blest Isle of Liemba, 

By which we are gliding. 
The isle was long ago 
Blest by great Moshono — " 

Softly gliding. 

Near that tree on yon plain 
Died Moshono in pain, — 

We are gliding — 
Burnt by dread Warungu, 
Who fear no Malungu — 

Softly gliding. 

The ninth verse is somewhat superstitious : — 

Sole on that lofty rock 
Lives Moshono's sacred cock. 

We are gliding. 
Now, boatmen, here cease to row, 
Bad luck, to hear no crow ! — 

Softly gliding. 

As I have said, the boat song is almost interminable ; 
it describes every view on that beautiful river, each 
tradition that gi;rrounds the hills, and memorably sites 



THE lover's song. 233 

of battles fought and victories won ; for it is thus that 
our history was kept before writing was known to us. 

Another songj which was a favourite with the young 
men and maidens of Eatalambula's village, describes 
what love-making is known to the Watuta. For this 
reason only is it valuable, as illustrative of the mqde of 
marriage. The following verses are sufficient as an 
example :— 

Canst thou love me as I love thee ? 
Wilt thou not come and live with me ? 
My father talked with thine to-day, 
Thy father did not tell hun " Nay." 

I Said he, *^ Bring me two score of sheep ; 

Bring me pombe in pots thus deep ; 
Bring me ten goats of the best class, 
Thy son may take my pretty lass." 

I've built my hut of sedgy cane, 
The well-thatched roof keeps out the raiiu 
The floor is spread with river sand, 
The latch waits lifting by thy hand. 

Thy husband calls, do not delay ; 
Come to his house ere end of day ; 
Put now thy hand in mine and come, 
Come to Kiranga's heart and home. 

Selim and Abdullah heard numbers of these during 
the period of the latter's convalescence, and were con- 
stantly amused by them. To sit under the great tree 
in the centre of the square, to hear the music of the 
drums, to hear the songs sung, and to see the people 
dance, was like going to a theatrical entertainment 
with us. Kalulu often sat with them, but not for long ; 
the exhilarating influence of the music produced such 
an effect on his feet and legs, that while listening to it 
he fomxd himself unable to restrain them* 



234 MY KALULU. 

As Abdullah got better and became able to move 
about during the day, Kalulu used to take him and 
Selim to the great Maganga, or magic doctor, to enjoy 
the conversation of the wise man of the tribe. 

This doctor must have been at least eighty years old, 
for he remembered Katalambula as a child, and knew 
Mostana, Kalulu's father, and remembered the " great, 
great" King Loralamba, father of Katalambula and 
Mostana. This was very old history to Kalulu, who 
could not conceive the number of years that had elapsed 
since Loralamba's death, though the time could only 
have been between forty and fifty years. The doctor, 
whose name was Soltali, knew any amount of things 
that no other man knew. He remembered the time 
when the Northern Watuta, who now live north of the 
Malagarazi Eiver, separated from the Southern Watuta, 
over whom Katalambula was chief ruler, for some pique 
that the younger brother had against Loralamba. He 
remembered many wars that had taken place between 
the Watuta and Wabena, and remembered well the 
incident of which the boatmen sang as they travelled 
down the Liemba, viz., the burning of Moshono, a 
great doctor, who lived on the island of Ihata. The 
Warungu came in great numbers, and were conquer- 
ing wherever they went, until they came opposite 
Ihata. Then their cattle died, and their warriors 
died of a horrible disease which Moshono punished 
them with. Finally, however, they got across the 
river and landed on the island ; the village was 
taken, and Moshono was carried to the plain oppo- 
site the island, and burnt alive near a great tree. 
But it seemed m if the Sky-spirit heard the words of 



THE MAGIO DOCTOR SOLTALI. 235 

Moshono, and stirred up the Watuta — all ; every man who 
could bear a sword and spear — against the Warungu, and 
a few days after, the Watuta, under Loralamba, rushed 
on their camp at night, and there was an exceeding great 
slaughter. Only a few Warungu escaped, and since 
then they had settled quietly in their own country, 
south of the Lake Liemba, many days' march from 
Katalambula's. 

Soltali was rich in this history, which, alas ! is never 
destined to see the light ; a history that were a man 
disposed to vn:ite it for the mere love of giving it to 
the world, and instructing it in the past life of this 
obscure corner of the world, might enlighten the 
learned of all countries in much that concerns the 
great races of Central Africa. 

Soltali's hut was a veritable museum ; but it bore a 
striking resemblance to the rich men's houses in Eng- 
land and America in this respect. What ducal castle 
or baronial hall is there, in England, but has its collec- 
tion of deer, antelope, and buffalo horns ; its stuffed 
lions ; its tigers, &c. &c. ? What rich man's house is 
there in America which has not some trophy of its 
master's hunting prowess? Soltali had his trophies, 
though, owing to his pitiable ignorance of taste, book 
knowledge, &c., &c., his trophies were not arranged as 
a Schwartzenberg of Austria or a Duke of Sutherland 
arrange theirs. There were horns upon horns of ante- 
lope, kudu, hartebeest, black buck, spring-bok, gems- 
bok, gnu, buffalo, and rhinoceros, and tusks upon tusks 
of polished ivory. But the great store of curiosities 
that he set the greatest value upon consisted of tails of 
elephants, horns of giraffes, eyelids of zebras, tusks of 



236 MY KALULU. 

boars, paws of lions, nose-hairs and whiskers of leopards, 
claws of eagles, beaks of bustards and kites, wings of 
. ostriches, scales offish, dried eyes of ibis; all wrapped 
np in pieces of goatskin, each separate the one from the 
other. He had a great number of little gourds, filled 
with the calcined heads of the yarions animals he had 
ever killed, and smaller gourds, like phials, filled with 
the burnt brains of men whom he had killed in war. 
There were so many brains of Warungu, Wabena, 
Wasowa, Wakawendi, Wawemba, Warori, Wanyamwezi, 
Wamwite, Wakanyara, Wakokoro, and a number of 
other smaller tribes ; for in his prime, when he fought 
side by side with Loralamba, the " great, great " King, 
Soltali's spear was heavy, sharp, and sure. 

Poor, ancient Soltali ! who shall sing thy praises ? 
Who shall tell the wide, wide w6rld all the deeds done 
by thy mighty hands ? Where is the Homer who shall 
arise and sing of thy prowess? Homer, and Virgil, 
and Tasso, De Ercilla, and Camoens are dead, and we 
haye none left capable of conyeying thy name to future 
generations. But be content, old man; this page, at 
least, of this little book will tell .a few of the growing 
generation of true-hearted American and British youths, 
that such a man did once liye as thee, oh, Soltali ! and, 
perhaps, in an obscure corner of the British Museum, 
thyself and wondrous museum of monstrosities shall, 
embodied as it were in this page, rest a few years until 
they become a heap of dead, unintelligible dust ! 

At the end of about two months, Abdullah was so far 
recoyered as to be able to go about alone, without the 
aid of any of his friends ; but he had an unconquerable 
antipathy to the banks of the Liemba, The brown 



KALULU PROPOSES TO HtTNT ELEPHANTS. 237 

waters of this river, in which he was so very near- 
being engulphed, inspired him with a nauseous aversion, 
. having something of the effect of tartar emetic on his 
stomach, and he never dared, as Selim often did, to 
wander along its banks alone. When he became tired 
of the village he walked to the fields, or the gardens, 
where the pot-herbs, the lentiles, the pig-nuts, and the 
beans grew. Neither forest nor solitude charmed Ab- 
dullah ; the company of the nursing women, or the 
workers in the field, was far preferable. 

One day, Ealulu proposed to Selim, and Simba, and 
Moto, that they should get up a party to make a grand 
elephant hunt, and, as an apology, said to Selim : 

" I should have asked thee long ago, were it not that 
I knew thou wouldst not come; but Abdullah is so 
much better that he travels about the village as if he 
had never been bitten by a crocodile." 

" To hunt elephants I will surely come with thee. I 
have got my gun, which I saved from the Liemba, and 
I should like to try a shot at an elephant. Moto is a 
great hunter, and he shall teach me how to tickle the 
tail and hams of one ; thou hast never heard him tell 
the story. Oh, it is such an incredible one! but he 
never tells a lie to me." 

" Does Moto say he tickled the tail of an elephant ? 
if it is true, he has done more than old Soltali himself. 
Soltali has done some wonderful things with elephants 
too, but he never did anything like this. However, we 
shall see how he acts before a real wild elephant. We 
shall watch him — eh, Selim ?" 

" Oh, I shall have my eyes on him, depend on it ; 
but when shall we go, Kalulu ?" 



238 MY KAltTLTJ. 

"At daybreak to-morrow. To-night Soltali must 
sing the elephant hunting-song of the hunters, and 
must give each of the hunters a charm, since he is too 
old to accompany us. I shall take fifty men with me, 
so that we can make a strong party. If Ferodia catches 
us in the woods he would make short work of us, and 
my head would not remain long on my shoulders if he 
caught me ; for then he knows he would be king." 

" Why, thou art not going near his country, surely ! 
because I would rather stop here, if thou art. I want 
to see no more of Ferodia," said Selim in alarm. 

" Be at ease, my brother. I go not near him with 
the best fifty men that the Watuta can count. I go in 
a difierent direction, south-east; he lives south-west, 
south of the Liemba Lake." 

" All right ; but really thou didst frighten me. My 
back fairly tingles at the thought of Tifum, and Tifum 
is with Ferodia." 

" Yet, my brother, thou didst hit him a blow in the 
face, and Moto — cunning man — said he saw it, and said 
it was well done." 

" I wish the blow had gone through his head, then 
my mind would be at ease, for that man is my bane — 
my Afrit.* Even when I am at Zanzibar I shall think 
of that man." 

" There, enough, my brother ; I will put one of my 
barbed arrows through his throat the first time I see 
him, for thy sake* Go and prepare thy gun, and 
bullets, and medicine powder, and to-night thou must 
attend to the song of the doctor, or thou shalt have bad 

* Afrit is a bad spirit \iith the Moslems. 



J^feiSPABATIONS FOR k t)AKCfi. 239 

luck with us in the hunt." And Kalulu turned away 
with light bounding steps, which soon carried him away 
from his Arab brother. 

At night — probably at the hour of nine with us, the 
moon being up — a long, low, rumbling roll of the largest 
goma brought the destined hunters, together with 
Kalulu, Selim, Simba, and Moto, running and chasing 
each other towards the drum stand. There were ten 
drums, and a boy for each, ascending in height fromthe 
smallest to the biggest drum ; so that the boy who beat 
the smallest drum must have been about ten years old, 
and the boy who beat the largest drum was a sturdy 
youth of twenty, or thereabouts. 

Pots full of pombe and plantain- wine were ranged a 
little distance off, from which the dancers and the 
singers could regale themselves when they felt disposed. 
For the eve of a hunting party's march is considered a 
great event, second only to the return of a successful 
party with plenty of ivory. 

The hunters formed a select circle round the drum- 
mers and the pombe pots ; a larger circle, made by 
about three hundred people — men, women, boys, and 
girls — surrounded the hunters. 

Each hunter had on a capricious head-dress. One 
tall fellow was very conspicuous by wearing a pair 
of buffalo horns; another had a rhinoceros horn on 
the top of his head; another had his head draped 
with a piece of zebra skin, which gave him quite 
a remarkable appearance by moonlight; one had a 
zebra crest, which made him appear as if he wore a 
Greek helmet ; another had a goatskin over his head. 
Kalulu wore three magnificent snowy ostrich plumes 



240 Ml? KALXjLtr* 

on his head. Selim wore a turban. Simba and Moto 
also wore turbans. One fellow, next to Moto, wore 
an enormous black earthen pot on his head ; another 
had a broad, wooden dish ; but it would be wearying to 
enumerate all the strange things they wore. 

The drummer boys struck up an interlude, which 
was a verse from the boatmen's song — the chorus, 

We are gUding, 
Softly gliding, 

seemingly giving them immeasurable enjoyment as 
they lingered over the word " gliding." While they 
were busy with feet and lungs, moving about in a circle, 
a sudden silence prevailed; — the great Soltali, the 
greatest elephant hunter and doctor of magic of the 
age, arrived upon the scene. 

A loud murmur of approbation greeted the extra- 
ordinary old man. The most remarkable of all head- 
dresses was on the head of Soltali, for he had the skin 
of an elephant's trunk, the base of the trunk fitting 
his head, as if it had grown there, while the trunk, 
filled with grass, was stiff enough to stand perfectly 
erect, though perhaps it was stiff enough without. 
The weight of this must have been considerable ; but 
the ridiculous vanity of men causes them to do strange 
things sometimes, and this act could have been nothing 
else than absurdest vanity. Hanging around the old 
man's neck was a string of giraffe tails, whose hairs 
were blacker than ink. On his arms he wore wristlets 
and armlets of pure white ivory. In each hand he 
carried a gourd half full of pebbles, which he rattled 
every now and then with a horrible noise. 

He first, after he entered the inner circle, walked 



THE HTTNTING SONG. 241 

around three times, staring at each man, rattling his 
gourds alternately, as he passed round ; then walking 
to the centre, while the bass drum began to hum and 
murmur its deep sounds, he began to move his body to 
the right and left, each hunter sighing deeply in sym- 
pathy with the now fast rising murmur of all the 
drums in concert. Loud and louder beat the drums, 
until the noise was deafening, and the voices of the 
singers became a demoniac din ; then lower and lower 
descended the voices and the drum-sounds, until nothing 
was heard but the pacific and low murmur of the bass 
drum and the low sighs of the dancers. 

Then Soltali opened his mouth and sang, in the 
heroic vein, of his doings in the elephant hunt in the 
far southern lands, the streamy land of the Wama- 
rungu, in the hot swampy lands of the Wawemba, and 
on the broad plains of XJtuta ; of his mishaps and 
fortunes, his narrow, hairbreadth escapes, and his won- 
derful adventures, out of which the author of the 
present history might make his fame and fortune were 
he gifted with the power to translate into some kind of 
verse what Soltali said. 

Though demurring somewhat at the necessity of 
translating at all what the old man said, the author 
feels compelled to give the gist of the charge he gave 
the hunters concerning their conduct when they should 
meet an elephant. He spoke authoritatively and well, 
and it is a pity that a better translator is not at my 
side to assist me in the translation of some of the 
Kituta polysyllables. 

*^ Let the warrior Watuta and the hunters bold 
Heed and mark weU the words of the Mganga old ; 

B 



1 



242 MY KALULU. 

Let them behold these charms, these trophies of my might 

Each of them reminds me of many a hard fight. 

Should ye meet the elephant alone in a plain, 

Seek not too hastily to give him the death pain. 

Singly let none at^k him — 'tis an miequal fight ; 

For the elephant is strong, the embodiment of might ; 

But surround him coolly, and carefully all. 

Be ready to obey your leader's slightest call ; 

Then charge on him, all shouting, and charge with your spears ; 

Let the stoutest and best of you aim behind his ears. 

Watch well the unfortunate on whom he turns round I 

He must run this and that way, and oft change his ground ; 

Te others must tease him, and inyite him yoiu: way. 

Hamstring him, and spear him, and do what ye may. 

Beware of his front ! range on his sides and his rear. 

Go all together, and let each man heave a sure spear. 

Fast as he veers round, hasten at right angles away 

To 'scape the elephant's first charge is no child's play. 

For his stride is so long he swallows the ground : 

One stride of lus is as long as a hunter's bound. 

After a while he will get tired — heed well what I say. 

He is never so dangerous as when standing at bay ; 

For the hunter too often thinks he is dead game. 

And advances too near him, too eager for fame ; 

But be ye guided by me, and stand off afar, 

And your good hunt so well done, ye will not mar. 

Let the elephant bleed, let him fall to the ground, 

Let him gladden your ears with his £bJ1's heavy sound ! 

Then think of the Mganga, the words he has said ; 

Be sure that his services to you are well paid ! 

Then will ye succeed in your hunt on the plain. 

Succeed without loss, and succeed without pain !" 

The author may not attempt further translations 
from the speech, or song rather, of this old Mganga 
or magic doctor, the Kituta polysyllables haying tasked 
his powers to the utmost ; but from his knowledge of 
hunting in Africa, he feels bound to admit that the old 
man had a sound head on his shoulders ; and the band 
of hunters haying heard his lengthy chant to the 



THE ELEPHANT HUNTERS SET OUT. 243 

end, declared that they felt eternally grateful to him. 
On the conclusion of his chant, he delivered to each 
hunter a small portion of whitish powder, which we, 
who have been in his museum, feel confident consisted of 
burnt brain, mixed with wood ashes. But this charm, 
consecrated by the magic doctor, could not fail to render 
each hunter highly successful in his enterprise. 

The pombe, or beer, next attracts the attention of 
the singers, and each singer incontinently sets to the 
agreeable task of guzzling, where the author leaves 
them until the morrow — the Kituta polysyllables and 
the pombe having fairly upset him for the time.' 

In the morning, at daybreak, without any of the 
formalities of muster or calling the roll, Ealulu, Selim, 
Simba, and Moto, left the village by the principal gate, 
followed by about fifty strong active young warriors, 
not one of whom could have been over thirty years old. 
The horn of the leading hunter sounded merrily as he 
blew his ringing blasts of adieux, while the party dived 
into the depths of the gigantic corn-stalks, and their 
friends at the village listened long and attentively, 
until the horn could be no longer heard. 

Ealulu had a couple of broad-bladed spears, and 
half-a-dozen assegais, much lighter than spears, with 
long flexible shafts, besides a bow and a quiver pack-full 
of arrows, which was slung over his shoulders. 

Selim, radiantly happy, walked next to Ealulu, as 
the i)ath was so narrow that but one could walk at a 
time on the smooth, hard road, and carried his own 
gun — the " gun from London," which Ealulu had found 
among the plunder, with its own special ammunition. 
It was probably a fine ^' Joe Manton " as the barrels were 



244 *- MY KALXJLU. 

of fine steel, short, of large bore, and a heavy price 
had been paid for it by Amer bin Osman through his 
Bombay agent. It was one of those fortunate accidents 
that occur sometimes. Olimali might have had the 
gun, had not Ferodia, seeing its great beauty and su- 
periority, specially reserved it for a present to Eata- 
lambula ; and the king not caring, or not having any 
use, for it, had placed it among his treasures in his 
store-room; and Selim, accompanying Ealulu to the 
store-room, as a privileged brother, to pick out a gun, 
suddenly saw the beautiful little masterpiece of the 
English gunmaker, which his father had presented him 
with, and with which he had shot the greedy crocodile 
on the Lofu, while his sharp teeth were lacerating his 
slave Mombo's leg. Could anything have been more 
fortunate ? *' Impossible !" thought Selim, as he had 
hastened to secure it, with the ammunition and the 
percussion caps. " Impossible !" thought he now, as 
he strode on after Kalulu, laughing and chatting gaily, 
and sometimes turning round to Simba and Moto with 
a gay remark, which permitted them to see his bright, 
happy face and sparkling eyes. 

Simba had his own bright-barrelled gun, which he 
had as yet never parted with, besides a ponderous spear, 
which might have made Goliath of G-ath faint with the 
carrying of it. 

Behind Simba strode nimble-footed Moto, who also 
had his own gun, besides a couple of long keen-pointed 
spears. 

Behind Moto strode the Watuta hunters, one after 
another, some of them armed with shields, besides 
their handfuls of spears and quivers full of arrows. 



THE SCENES ON THE MARCH. 245 

Merriness is what distinguishes the conduct of all 
hunting parties, whether white or black, while on the 
way to the chase or the hun:t. Pleasures unlimited are 
anticipated, and happy sport is expected, and this anti- 
cipation and expectation are what produce so many 
good jokes, and wit, and fun, and raillery, or, as the 
English call it, " chaflf," when the hunting-field has not 
yet been reached and all feel bright and fresh. The 
hours that precede the chase or the hunt form the 
fiower-time which men's minds love to remember and 
dwell upon for the unalloyed happiness which it fur- 
nished. 

It is needless to describe in detail the ground the 
party traversed. Once out of the corn-fields, the pas- 
toral plains spread before them, where young Watuta 
boys were seen indulging in the excitement of a mimic 
battle or hunt while they tended their fathers' flocks. 
Here and there were little tracts of x cultivation where 
women were at work hoeing the corn; and as they 
passed some isolated village, near the gate, under the 
trees, sat the nursing mothers, luUabying their babes to 
sleep, or the snowy crisp-haired elders sat on short 
three-legged stools retailing to each other the expe- 
riences of their lives, dwelling with fondness on some 
particular episode of their generally uneventful lives ; 
while chubby, abdominous little children listened in 
wonder at what they heard, as chubby, abdominous 
little boys of white men's lands do when a particularly 
interesting tale is told. 

Beyond the plains and corn-fields, the cultivated tracts 
and villages, heaved into view the dark blue line of 
fbrest — that forest which Selim knew, where he suf- 



246 MY KALULtT. 

fered, where he fainted, and laid unconscious. Finally, 
the party entered it, and they were involved in its 
twilight gloom. 

A week's, marching through the forest brought the 
party to the elephant hunting-grounds of the Watutu. 
The broad tracks, pounded and pressed, trodden com- 
pact and smooth as an asphalte pavement by the ele- 
phants' broad, heavy feet, indicated too clearly that this 
was a common resort for the ponderous beasts. 

Lengthy sinuous hollows, overgrown with thicket 
and shrub, tufted grass, and tall cane, spoke of clear 
but stagnant water being plentiful here, their ridges, 
clad with dense brush, ran in serpentine directions, 
and separated these swampy hollows from each otheif. 
Overhead were the leafy crowns of gigantic columnar 
trees, forming as they met close together a thorough 
shade for the locality, under which, undisturbed by any 
enemy, the elephant might cool himself during the 
fervid noon. 

Pressing further on out of this swampy region, they 
came, about sunset, to a thin jungle, where here and 
there rose a giant baobab, the monarch of all woods. 
Choosing one of these great trees, whose foliage was 
denser than ordinary, the party proceeded to cut down 
the smaller trees and brush, to form a brush fence 
around their camp, for the centre of which they chose 
this great baobab. They built the fence solid, secure, 
and high, as an efficient protection against wild beasts 
and nomadic freebooters. They then erected their huts 
—placing four short pronged poles in the ground, one 
at each corner of a square of six feet ; then two taller 
poles dividing the square into halves ; over these two 



TSE StrnTBE's CAMP. 247 

taller poles and the two shorter poles on each side 
they laid transreree poles, which rested in the forks ; 
and over these again they laid laterally light sticks, 
sloping down each side, which they covered over with 
long grass, and in a short time they had a perfect 
miniature hoase. There were other kinds of houses 
or hnts being constructed ; but tho following illustra- 
tion will beat describe the architectural knowledge of 
the Watntn. 



After GonBtmcting their bats, some roamed into the 

woods to hunt for wild fruit, others to look for flat 

' stones to grind their corn npon, others to procure sticks 

to make their flres with, others to get water ; while 

others, again, econred and prepared their pots to boil 



243 • MY KALULlt. 

their porridge in. There were about fifteen huts in 
the encampment, some huts having as many as fiye for 
a mess, others only three, while others had but two. 
It is a noteworthy fact in African camps that, where 
the mess is large, the more important of the party are 
together ; or that the most popular are those who prefer 
each other's society to that of any of the rest ; though 
in each large mess one may be sure that one of the 
members has been admitted only for the sake of 
utilising his services ; and his folly and ignorance, or 
cowardice and unworthiness, are forgiven and borne 
with, so long as he is industrious and not idle. 

Thus in Ealulu's mess were Selim, Simba, Moto, and 
an ignorant and timid fellow, who was only too glad to 
be near the great, and who industriously strove to 
please them for the sake of the patronage which he 
received for his labour. Kalulu, of course, as chief, 
could command the services of all if he chose to do so, 
but none would have worked as well as the timid fellow 
who voluntarily offered to cook for him. 

After the suppers were cooked and eaten, and their 
limbs were somewhat rested, and earth had drawn its 
sable mantle, chequered with the diamonds of heaven, 
over its head, and the dark foliage of the baobab began 
to be peopled with formless shapes and shadows, and 
the fires burned bright, and cast their tongued flames 
with splutter, and hissing, and crackling, the disposi- 
tions of each began to be exhibited. They squatted 
around a blazing pile, listening to an exciting tale of 
adventure, or a funny story, which makes men's sides 
almost explode with laughter. What can be more 
enjoyable ? Nothing. People, for the time, forget every- 



thing but the interesting present. Not one in such a 
position can be left to himself; for his little world is 
before him, and he must be drawn into its vortex 
of pleasantry and enjoyment, and forget what he sel- 
fishly thinks belongs to himself. 

The desire of slumber came on by-and-bye, and each 
man crept into his hut, and on his own little pile of 
straw or leaves, drowned in kindly, healthy sleep, forgot 
not only himself, but his neighbours, his friends, and 
his tribe. 

At dawn, five of the likeliest fellows were sent by 
Kalulu to reconnoitre the vicinity and the open, 
swampy ground near which they had camped, and 
where they had obtained their water for cooking the 
night before. 

They had not been gone fifteen minutes before one 
of them returned, who, with a warning finger, imposed 
silence, and whispered the words " Kumi tembo " — ten 
elephants ! 

You might have seen then how quickly the look^ of 
indifierence were changed into one of exciting interest, 
how eyes danced gladly, and sparkled at the joyful 
news ; how Ealulu's hunter-soul kindled into raptures, 
and how Moto and Simba looked significantly at one 
another, and how Selim even felt a throb and a warm 
glow stealing over him. 

Moto advanced to Kalulu, and reminded him of the 
advice given by Soltali to hunt one at a time, and said 
that while he and his warriors should single out one, it 
would be better that those armed with guns, viz., he 
and Simba, and Selim, should engage another, and so 
kill two. Ealulu at once acceded to the proposal. 



250 MTf KAttJLtT. 

The hunters, as soon as they got outside of the homa 
or camp, deployed in a long line, while Selim, Moto, 
and Simba stole quietly and quickly away on their own 
venture, in a direction considerably to the left of the 
Watuta hunters. All the natives had denuded them- 
selves entirely; Selim and his two friends had but 
girded their cloths about their loins. 

The natives thus deployed, and ready at a signal, 
moved forward silently, and soon they were joined by 
the four remaining scouts, who, ensconced behind the 
bushes, had continued to watch the elephants, who were 
seen slaking their thirst at a pool, and playfully tossing 
the water over their backs. 

As the hunters emerged from this jungle into the 
cleared space near the pool, the elephants turned short 
round to look at the strange intruders, who were thus 
boldly appearing in their presence. 

The hunters stopped also with one accord to survey 
the ponderous animals they had come to kill. What a 
sight this was ! Ten such noble beasts, clothed with 
bluish-grey hides, with uplifted trunks, and great 
ears standing out straight in array before those fifty 
naked pigmies, who, had they not their sharp spears 
and their barbed arrows, would no more have dared to 
approach these magnificent creatures than they would 
have climbed up to the highest tree and jumped oflf, 
expecting to be able to fly. 

They stood thus a minute opposed to each other ; 
then Kalulu advanced to the front in the absence of 
the magic doctor, as the chief hunter, and with uplifted 
spear in hand, chanted the death-song of the elephant 
he chose should be killed. This was a picture also 



m 
to. 
ni 
he 

Q- 

at 



KALT7LIT ADDBESSES THE tXsa ELEPfiAKT. 251 

worthy of a great artist — the warriors in the fore- 
ground, the slight and nude form of the yoning chief 
in the centre, with his ostrich plumes waving above 
his head, as his body oscillated from side to side while 
he sang ; and fronting him, about thirty feet oflf, a 
monster elephant, with his herd behind him, all looking 
astonished at the scene. 

The words ran after this fashion : — 

" Thou monarch of beasts, thou king of the woods, 
Thou dangerous beast in thy angry moods, 
Thou elephant strong, thou form of great might, 
Behold Kalulu before thee for fight ! 
I've come firom the green groves of Liemba, 
From the country of old Loralamba, 
With magic from Soltali Mganga,* 
The surest and best of his Uganga.f 
Then look at that sun, look at the pool 
In which thou didst revel, and think so cool ; 
Look on that forest, and look on this grass. 
The sweetest and best of this wide morass ; 
No more shalt thou see the sun or the pool, 
No more shalt thou revel in waters orol. 
No more shalt thou walk in the forest's snade, 
No more shalt thou delight in forest glade, 
No more shalt thou daintily feed on the grass 
Of the plain, or jungle, or this morass 1 
Soltali the Mganga cannot lie : 
Young Kalulu is here ! prepare to die !" 

As he finished his song his head was violently thrown 
back, the right arm was drawn to its length, and the 
bright spear-head, flashing once, twice, white sunglints, 
was buried deep in the elephant's chest. A loud shout 
greeted the brave effort ; and at the instant the elephant 
felt the keen sharp iron in him, he uttered a loud 

^ Magic Doctor. t Magic Medicine. 



252 MY KALULTT. 

trumpet-note of rage, and charged, clearing at one 
bound several strides of a man. 

" Be off, Kalulu, thou brave prince of the Watuta ! 
Hie away young hero ! Stay not to count thy steps, 
thou dusky chief ! Spring out, my boy ; run as thou 
didst never run before ! Impel thy haunches on — lift 
thy feet clear from the ground ; out with thy chest — 
set thy head far back! Let thy lungs inhale free the 
rushing air ! Beware of a stumble, else the tale is 
ended ! Ha ! well done — at right angles now ! So ; see 
the elephant charges the empty air, and runs headlong 
after vacancy! Now, warriors, is our time, with a 
whoop, and the shrill cry of the Watuta !" 

Such were the words that could be distinguished 
from the noise and tumult produced by the charge. 
Twenty spears had been launched into the elephant's 
body to distract his attention, and had it not been for 
Soltali's good advice to " turn at right angles away," 
the elephant would soon have overtaken the daring 
young chief; but, by his dexterous and easy movement 
to the right, the monster had charged on far ahead 
before he became aware that his enemy had escaped 
him. 

When he turned round he found the hunters like a 
cloud about him ; he found himself isolated from his 
herd ; the other elephants having charged in another 
direction in fury and fright to meet an enemy in 
another guise, and with diflferent weapons. While the 
elephant seemed to take this all at a glance, a loud 
report was heard, which sounded like a volley of fire- 
arms ; but he, unheeding the sound, charged again, with 
irresistible power, at his nearest foe, only to be foiled 



THE KING ELEPHANT DIES. 253 

once more by the ever-evading, ever-shifting figures of 
his remorseless enemies. Again and again he charged, 
only to receive new wounds, an additional shower of 
spears and barbed arrows, which tormented him cruelly ; 
until, fatigued with the unusual speed, faint from loss 
of blood, he stood stock still, confronting his enemies, 
defiant and still dreadful, though the spears and arrows 
in his body might have been counted by hundreds. 
Heedful of the prudent counsel of old Soltali, the 
Watuta drew back, but still surrounding him, awaiting 
his fall. They had not to wait long, before they saw 
his body oscillate from side to side, and the left knee 
bend, as if he were getting weak ; then he staggered 
forward, rose up again, and finally rolled on his aide^ 
dead, crushing the spears in his side like straws in his 
fall. 

Leaving the Watuta to indulge in their self-glorifica- 
tion, let us proceed to see how the other three, Selim, 
Simba, and Moto, fared. 

Moto, as the three left the Watuta, drew alongside 
of Selim, and whispered some words in his ears, how to 
conduct himself, to reserve his fire, and to fire at the 
last elephant which would pass him, aiming behind his 
ears, which, of course, would be standing straight out, 
giving him an ample opportunity and a good target to 
fire at. Selim, faithfully promising, was placed behind 
a tree at the furthest end of the cleared ground in the 
neighbourhood of the pool. Simba chose one a few 
yards ofi", further still to the left, and Moto another 
tree twenty yards to the left of Simba ; and in this 
position they waited the denouement. 

Selim could see the swaying form and nodding 



254 MY KALULU. 

plumes of Ealuln, could hear the death-song, and with 
his finger on the two triggers of his gun, which was 
heavily loaded specially for this purpose, stood behind 
his tree waiting. Soon he saw Ealulu launch his spear, 
saw the i^harge and flight, heard the deafening noise, 
and while his heart palpitated fast, and his pulses 
throbbed, and his ears tingled, came the affrighted 
animals of the herd, charging in fear and fury by him. 
Obediently he waited, according to orders, until the 
last elephant was passing his position, then, stilling the 
heart's palpitation and the wildly beating pulse, full of 
trust and confidence in the powers of his English gun, 
he deliberately aimed behind the elephant's ears, and 
fired both barrels at once. The concussion knocked him 
down ; but, while falling, he saw his elephant stumble 
and fall on his head in a motionless heap, stone dead. 

Picking himself hastily up, and snatching his gun, 
he stayed a moment to take in how matters stood ; and 
finding the elephants in full flight, two limping lag- 
gards behind, and Simba and Moto following, he began 
to load his gun again with equally heavy charges as 
those he had in it previously ; and having placed the 
caps carefully on, and taking a glance of pride at the 
game he had " bagged," he ran after Simba and Moto. 
His two friends he found firing, running, and loading 
as fast as they could ; not a very hard task when the 
animals were so badly wounded. His nimble feet soon 
carried him nearer them, and after dodging and running 
as he had been directed to, as he was pursued by one or 
the other of the elephants, he had the satisfaction at 
last of seeing both stand still. Betreating a little 
distance from view, he took a circuit round, and then 



selim's conduct in the field. 255 

returned, taking advantage of every tree, and by great 
caution succeeded in coming behind a large tree at the 
distance of twelve paces from one of them. Lifting his 
gun, already cocked, to his shoulders, he took aim 
again behind the ears, and fired the two barrels once 
more, which was met with the same fatal result, 
for the elephant, after beating the air with his forelegs 
for a short time, swayed pitifully, and fell over, 
dead. 

But Selim had no time to make these observations, 
for the other elephant turned short round and charged 
at the tree. Selim stood his groxmd until the tree had 
almost been reached, when, dropping the gun on the 
ground, he started off for another tree, the elephant in 
hot pursuit after him. To the right, to the left, for- 
wards and backwards, from tree to tree, Selim ran, 
until the elephant, to his astonishment, suddenly 
stopped, the hind-legs doubled under him, the fore-legs 
bent, and his head came to the ground heavily, and in 
this kneeling position the poor elephant breathed his 
last. 

Selim had his gun brought to him by Simba, who 
lavished praises, almost fuTsome, on his bravery and 
accuracy of shooting, in which Moto, who now came up, 
joined with heart and spirit. Simba, while he embraced 
his young master, would have it that Selim was the 
best elephant hunter known ; there never was such an 
Arab boy before, who shot two elephants dead one after 
another. '^ And thou must consider, Moto," said he, 
apologetically, '' Selim is but sixteen ; if he shoots two 
elephants, one after another, when he is sixteen, what 
will he do when he is a grown man ^" 



256 MY KALULU. 

"True," answered Moto, "when he is double his 
age he will shoot four one after another. Selim is a 
great hunter truly. I wonder what the Watuta have 
done. Whisht ! hear their cries ! Their elephant is 
dead. We must go to see them. Or do thou stop with 
Selim to watch these whilst I go to tell them what our 
young master has done. Say, Simba, how much money 
would the ivory of these three elephants bring at 
Zanzibar, dost thou think ?" 

" I know not. How many frasilah dost thou think 
there are in the three ?" asked Simba. 

" Somewhere about twelve, I shonld say ? Twelve 
frasilah of ivory at 50 dollars the frasilah (35 lbs.) 
would make how much ?" asked Moto. 

" I don't know — plenty, I suppose," said Simba ; " but 
Selim knows." 

" Twelve fifties will make 600 — six hundred dollars," 
answered Selim. 

"Six hundred dollars! What a pity we cannot 
carry it to Zanzibar !" said Moto. " I shall be back 
directly." 

Moto bounded away lightly towards the pool, and in 
a short time in the middle of the plain beyond he saw 
the Watuta in a group cutting and slashing at the dead 
elephant, with noise and excitement enough to frighten 
every elephant for miles around. 

When he approached, the Watuta gathered about 
him, and Ealulu pointed exultantly at the dead beast 
into which he had driven the first spear, and Kalulu 
then asked what luck they had had. 

Moto answered : " Selim has killed two, and I have 
killed one." 



KALTTLU IS ASTONISHED AT SELIM's PROWESS. 257 

" Selim killed two !" echoed Kalulu, with surprise. 
« What ! little Selim my brother ?" 

" The same," answered Moto. 

" Eyah, eyah !" murmured the group, while Kalulu 
seemed lost in astonishment, and could not utter a word 
more. 

" Selim stands waiting to shew them to his brother, 
Kalulu," said Moto. 

" Oh, I shall come. Why Selim is a hero, a lion, an 
elephant ! Is he not, Moto ?" 

" He is a brave young Arab, and the son of an Arab 
chief," answered Moto. 

When the young chief started off, all but a few 
Watuta, who remained to extract the tusks, followed 
him to see the wonderful three dead elephants. 

In the same position in which he had jfirst fallen lay 
Selim's first prize, with his tusks half buried in the ground. 
Kalulu gazed at the wide wound in his head, put his 
fist into it until it was buried up to the wrist, and then 
turned to Moto with wondering eyes, and said : 

" Kalulu has seen dead men in his father's village, 
pierced to the heart with the leaden balls which the 
rifles of Kisesa threw, but what gun is this that makes 
such big holes in the elephant's head ?" 

Then Moto told him that Selim had fired the two 
barrels of the gun at once, at such a short distance 
from the elephant, that the two big bullets went into 
the head as one, and that this was the reason there 
was such a big hole, which quite satisfied the young 
chief. 

Leaving ten men to extract the tusks, Kalulu pro- 
ceeded to where Selim and Simba stood, close to the 

s 



258 MY KALULXJ. 

former's second prize; and here, again, Kalnlu saw 
the wide rent and savage wound in the same spot as 
that found in the first elephant. 

Kalulu sprang on Selim's neck, and embraced him 
warmly, while the Watuta gazed at Selim as on one they 
had neyer seen before, with surprise and unlimited 
admiration. 

By eyening the tusks had all been extracted from 
the elephants, and great portions of the meat were 
carried to camp, especially the feet, the hearts, and 
livers, and ribs, where, before blazing fire-pileSy the 
meat was set to roasting, while the adventures of the 
day were rehearsed over and over, with new additions 
each time, nntil midniglit of that eventful day came 
and sealed all eyes in deep slumber. 

They moved further south, and in less than two 
weeks the party had killed twenty elephants, which so 
loaded them with ivory, that they were obliged to 
return towards home, unable to carry more. 



KAITTLU'S GEIEF. 259 



CHAPTEE X. 

The burial Song— EaltQn beoomes King— Long live King Ealoln— 
Ealuln's Oration — Selim asks permission to depart — ^The dis- 
satisfied Minority — Ferpdia's Ambition — ^Tifam the Wicked, and 
his Adyice— Ferodia visits Ealulu — ^The treacherous Guests. 

After a march of two weeks without a single incident, 
they arrived at Katalambula's village, to hear the sad 
news that the King had died the day before, and that 
everybody was mourning for him. 

This was a great shock for Kalulu, for the King had 
loved him dearly, and the young chief bore him great 
affection in return. 

When at first the news was conveyed to him, he 
seemed to be suddenly stricken dumb, his face assumed 
a livid hue, and he trembled all over. Then, giving 
vent to his sorrows in a long, sad cry of sorrow, he 
hastened to the King's house, where the doctors were 
found attending the corpse, and at once threw himself 
on the body, uttering the most doleful lamentations, 
crying, " Awake, thou King ! thou chief of the Watuta, 
awake ! Behold me, thy son, Kalulu, returned from the 
chase I Open thine ears, Katalambula ! Listen to 
the voice of thy son ! Open thy eyes, Katalambula ! 



260 MY KALULU. 

stretch out thine hand, and feel the form of him thou 
didst so love ! Speak, Eatalambula ! Say, whither 
hast thou gone, that thy voice may no longer be heard, 
nor thy ears may longer hear Kalulu's voice? Ka- 
lulu, the child of thy brother Mostana, calls unto thee ! 
Gome out with me, Katalambula ! Gome out under 
the tree ! come and tell Kalulu of thy prowess when 
thou wert young ! Ah ! Eatalambula, I shall die if 
thou wilt not wake up !" and thus he kept calling on 
the dead, until he found his cries and tears were of no 
avail. He rose then, and went to his hut, and closed 
the door, and on his rugged bed, his tears flowed 
silently and swiftly, until it seemed as if his soul would 
melt in tears. 

When near sunset, the grave being ready, under a 
hut erected over it at the corner of the square, and the 
ceremony of burial was about to begin, Kalulu came 
out of his hut to do honour to the body of Eatalambula. 
All the Wa-mganga* from the neighbouring villages were 
gathered together ; all the elders, the councillors, and 
principal itien of the tribe were assembled, until the 
great square of the capital was crowded with warriors, 
women, and children. In order that the ceremony, 
might be allowed to proceed in due form, they had 
arranged themselves around a large circle, having the 
great tree for its centre. In this circle were assembled 
the doctors of magic and the chief mourners, and near 
them were the fattest, finest bulls that could be pro- 
cured, black in colour and without a single blemish, 
which were to be killed over Eatalambula's grave ; near 
by, also, were enormous earthenware pots of pombe 

* Wa-mganga — pluial of mganga — magio doctors. 



THE BtJBIAL SONG. 261 

(beer) and plaintain wine, which were to be poured 
over the grave as a libation to his manes. 

The drummers were in their places, the wa-mganga 
(doctors) were ready, painted and striped with white 
chalk all over, with the gourds, half-filled with pebbles, 
in their hands ; and the chant began. 

The author, in order to do something like justice to 
the pathetic death-song of the King, finds himself com- 
pelled to give as literal a translation as possible. The 
tune was most mournful, the chorus most pathetic, 
being drawn out into a long, sweet-toned wail; and 
the voices of the women and children, mingling with 
the deeper voices of the warriors, were effectively im- 
pressive : 

The son of Loralamba,* 
The conqueror of Uwemba,' 
The Sultan of Liemba,^ 

Is dead ! 
The brother of Mostana, 
The \?ise8t Manyapara,* 
The King of the Watuta, 

Is dead ! 
Chorus. Is dead 1 

Oh, he is dead I 

He who fought Wamarungu,' 
llie great lord of Kwikuru,^ 
The wise son of Malungu/ 

Is dead I 



^ Loralamba, father of Katalambula and Mostana. 

* Uwemba, a country bordering Lake Tanganika. 

' Liemba, the river which sometimes gives its name to a portion of 
Ututa. 
^ Manyapara is a Eituta term for councillor, wise elder. 

* People of Marungu. 

* The capital. 
' Sky-spirit. 

\ 



262 MY KALULU. 

He who slew Tamaniro, 
Chief of the Wakhokoro,* 
By the river Ambenuro, 

Is dead ! 
Chorus. Is dead I 

Ob, he is dead I 

Who iriumph'd o'er Eansala, 
Near the Mount Amboella, 
In the land of EJnyala,^ 

Is dead ! 
Chorus. Is dead 1 

Oh, he is dead ! 

The uncle of Kalulu, 
The sire of Koranilu 
And pretty Imamulu, 

Is dead ! 
He who married Lamoli, 
The daughter of Soltali, 
By the woman Zimbili, 

Is dead ! 
Chorus. Is dead 1 

Oh, he is dead 1 

The lord of Mohilizi, 
And the land from Kufizi' 
To the Biver Zambezi,^ 

Is dead ! 
The bravest, wisest Mwenni," 
Of the tribe of Meroeni, 
The dauntless Simbamwenni,^ 

Is dead ! 
Chorus. Is dead I 

Oh, he is dead ! 



* A tribe north of Urori. 

^ A small country south-west of Ututa. 

* A river. 

* Known as Chambezi. 
' Lord. 

* Lion lord, or Lion king. 



THE BURIAL SONG. 263 

He was fear'd by Wagala,^ 
By the fierce Wazavila,* 
Was great Eatalambula, 

Who is dead ! 
But the mighty Mtuta,' 
Bravest of the Watuta,* 
The Sultan of Ututa^ 

Is dead! 
Chorus, He is dead f 

Oh, he is dead 1 

Ah I the King we did adore, 
We shall see hid face no more, 
And our hearts are sad and sore, 

For he is dead ! 
Kindest, best, and wisest King, 
On thy head the dust we fling. 
And in sorrow do we sing, 

Our lord is dead ! 
Chorus, Our lord is dead ! 

Alas I our lord is dead ! 

O King ! why didst thou thus die ? 
Deep in the graye thou must lie, 
While we will for ever cry. 

Our chief is dead I 
O'er him pour libative wine. 
O'er him slay the fattest kine. 
O'er him make the magic sign. 

For our King is dead I 
Chorus, For our King is dead I 

Alas! our King is dead 1" 

When the chant was ended, the body was laid on a long, 
broad piece of stiff bark, and four wa-mganga (doctors) 
carried it to the grave, where it was laid on the right 
side, with the King's shield, spears, bow, and quiver 
of arrows. A pot, full of millet-flour, mixed with water 

* People of TJgala. 

' People of ^za Vila — a scattered tribe north of Ututa. 
' A man of Ututa. 

* The people of Ututa. 



264 MY KALULU. 

was placed, closely covered, by the head, and the stiff 
piece of bark, which served to convey the body to the 
grave, was placed over the body ; then the plaintain 
wine was poured over this, the black bnlls were brought 
up and slaughtered, the blood pouring into the grave ; 
then the earth was scraped in and stamped close 
and hard; and, finally, ten potfuls of pombe were 
poured over the grave, and the ceremony was over. 

Then the elders, the councillors, and the doctors 
gathered together under the great tree, and began to 
discuss the question who should be King. A large 
number proposed that Ferodia should be sent for, as he 
was a relative of the King ; but the majority, though 
small, were for Elalulu, who, not only was nephew of 
Eatalambula, but adopted son, and the choice of the 
old King. Besides, Kalulu was a brave lad, and would 
in time be a greater warrior than Ferodia, perhaps 
greater than Katalambula, and the equal of Loralamba. 
His youth was full of promise, and lie had already won 
everybody's regard for his amiability and good heart, 
said they. Whereupon the discussion grew fierce; 
those for Ferodia threatened to leave Katalambula's 
tribe and go over to him, and would return with spear 
and sword to cut Kalulu's head off. Finally, when all this 
was at its greatest height, and wordy dissension came 
near ending in bloodshed, Soltali rose, and, by his elo- 
quence, succeeded in calming the turbulent and winning 
over to Kalulu's side several of the adherents of Ferodia^ 
until there remained but a small, contumacious minority 
for the latter. 

While the majority waited for the messengers sent 
to inform Kalulu of the honour conferred on him, the 
minority rose and departed out of the village, mutter- 



KALXTLt BECOMES KING. 265 

ing threats, and promising to return with Ferodia, who 
would punish all with a terrible vengeance. 

Ealulu received the deputation, and when told its 
mission, rose at once and followed them to Soltali. This 
old man — the principal magic doctor of the tribe — was 
not only one of the chief councillors, or chief manya- 
para — to give the technical Kituta term — but had also 
had the honour of having Eatalambula for his son-in- 
law, as the King had taken his daughter Lamoli for 
wife, and Moto's wife, Lamoli, was granddaughter to 
Soltali. But, aside from this relationship to Kalulu, 
the old man dearly loved the amiable prince, and 
rejoiced that he was now permitted to inform Kalulu 
that he was elected King. 

Some of the dowa, or uganga (the millet-flour mixed 
with water, a most potent medicine or charm), was 
placed near Soltali, and as Kalulu stood before them in 
the now bright moonlight, graceful as a dusky Gany- 
mede, the magic doctor rose, while the elders and coun- 
cillors sat around, and, taking some of the potent medi- 
cine in his hand, he touched the boy's forehead, each 
cheek, nose, mouth, and chin, crying in a loud voice : 
" Be thou King ! Be thou brave ! Be thou strong ! Be 
thou good ! And let all thy enemies run before thee !" 

In succession each elder rose, dipped his hand in the 
medicine, and touched Kalulu's forehead with it, saying, 
" Be thou King ! Be thou brave ! Be thou strong ! Be 
thou good ! and let all thy enemies run before thee !" 

Then the warriors were summoned by the drums to 
the square, and all the women and children gathered 
also, and old Soltali, the high priest and magic doctor, 
sang to them the new King's good qualities, his birth, 



266 MY KALULtT. 

his troubles, his arrival at Eatalambnla's village, the 
joy of the old King ; how Kalulu became henceforth as 
his son to him ; and how Eatalambula had solemnly 
sworn that Ealulu was his choice for his successor to 
him, Soltali; what Kalulu had already done towards 
winning fame ; ending with a solemn injunction to all 
that they should honour and serve Kalulu as they had 
served his father, so that the glory of the Watuta 
would become known to all nations, and their bravery 
be sung in all the corners of the earth. 

N.B. — The author extracts such portions of the chant 
as he deems most interesting ; but refuses positively to 
disfigure any more of his chapters with the uncouth 
Edtuta polysyllables ; and refuses, furthermore, to touch 
upon such ceremonies as have verse or chorus in them, 
however interesting they may be; for he finds his 
patience sadly exhausted with being compelled con- 
tinually to render into barbarous rhyme words which 
grate on his sensitive ears : 

The hero and lion chief, Loralamba, 

King of Liemba and the streamy Wemba, 

Lord of all the pasture lands of broad TJsango 

From West Urori to far Ukonongo, 

Whom the unnumbered tribes of Tuta and Sowa, 

From hilly Lobisa to the lake-land Itawa, 

Obey'd without scruple, him who in each campaign 

Had slain his foes by hundreds on each hill and plain, 

When dying, bequeathed his youngest son Mostana 

The lands of Eori from Wiwa to Eantana, 

While to his eldest son, our King, Katalambula, 

He gave all wide tJtuta, including Kinyala. 

Our King died heirless, but in Rorijs Kwikuru 

His brother Mostana was blest with Kalulu. 

When, years ago, the Arabs feU 'pon Kantana, 

Destroyed Kwikuru, and slew brave Mostana, 

Young Kalulu came, and sought his father's brother. 



LONG LIVE KING KALULU ! 267 

And in our King, his nncle, he found a father. 
Ye recall the day when the King this orphan met ; 
How on his head our King's iufirmed hands were set ; 
How fondly he clasp'd the youth to his aged hreast. 
And, in endearing accents, bade him there find rest 
Ye know what delight this boy has since to him been, 
And the King's paternal love ye have also seen. 
Oft have ye heard the King make mention of his name, 
As one born to win a hero's long-enduring fame. 
'Tis needless to rehearse the deeds already done 
By the stout arm of dead Mostana's princely son ; 
They are known to all the Watuta tribes around. 
And all our most ambitious youths his praises sound. 
Morula. King of Ubena, fell by his hand, 
So died the false and cruel chief of Bemba land. 
The rebel Bongo, tribal chief on Ghuma plain. 
Fell by Kalulu's spear, was by Kalulu slain. 
When the Arab boy sank in the deep waters brown, 
Gripped by the greedy crocodile, and sank deep down. 
Who divd to rescue him ? Who but young Kalulu? 
Who but the noblest, bravest son of Malungu I 
The King swore to me, — the Mganga Soltali, 
I, — who to him wedded my daughter Lamoli, 
'* None shall rule as King over Tuta's Kwikuru 
But brave Mostana's son, my princely ELalulu 1" 
Now in council, your priests and elders do maintain 
That o'er the Tuta tribes none may aspire to reign 
Save brave Mostana's son, and the choice of Malungu. 
We now proclaim him King. Long live King Kalulu I 

The warriors gave a great shout^ the drums thundered, 
and all the warriors, the women, the children, the 
doctors, the councillors, and elders cried " Long live 
King Kalulu !" 

When silence prevailed, Kalulu stood up before the 
people, and while the body swayed and the hands made 
gestures, according as his emotions governed him, the 
young King might, by a stretch of fancy, have been 
taken for a demi-god visiting a favoured people, teach- 



268 MY KALULU. 

ing them the ways of the wise, and urging them to 
abandon savage habits. While all listened intently 
and admiringly, the elected cHef spoke as foUows :- 

" Warriors of the Watuta, and ye elders and coun- 
cillors ! Ye have elected me King, because I, the son of 
Mostana, was beloved by Katalambula, and because he, 
being heirless, said to Soltali, ' Since I have no son, 
Kalulu shair reign in my stead, when I am laid in the 
ground.' Eatalambula has gone to his fathers ; he was 
old, he was weighed down with ^the burden of years, 
and loaded with honours; he is no more; the cruel 
earth covers him. The King is dead, but ye have 
chosen me to fill his place. I am young, I have not 
seen many moons, and I am not yet a full warrior. 
How, then, shall I fill Katalambula's place? I will 
tell you. Katalambula was good ; he loved the good 
and hated the wrong. So do I love the good and hate 
wrong. Katalambula was just. As Katalambula was 
just, so shall I be. When Katalambula was young, he 
was strong, he was brave, he was a lion in war. When 
I shall be a full warrior, I shall be strong, I shall be 
brave, I shall be a lion in war. Katalambula was 
wise. Ah ! I am young, I am not wise ; but I have 
Soltali, Katalambula's friend, with me. I have the same 
elders, the councillors, and the magic doctors; their 
wisdom they will give me when trouble comes, and by 
their wisdom shall I be wise. There is peace in the 
land to-day; the Watuta are rich and prosperous. 
There is no sickness amongst the people, neither is 
there disease in the herds, or in the flocks. But the dark 
days may come, whe^i a strong enemy shall come upon 



KALULU'S ORATION. i2()9 

the land ; yet not before Ealnln shall know it. Sickness 
may come ; bnt who can prevent the bad spirits that 
visit ns with baleful disease and thin our warriors, and 
make us poor in flocks and herds ? Yet Ealulu shall 
be ready with his sacrifices and his potent medicine to 
soften the hearts of the bad spirits. It is well. The 
Watuta love Kalulu ; they have made him their King, 
When the time comes, and necessity demands, Ealulu 
will die for the Watuta. I have spoken." 

Having finished his Oration, Ealulu retired from 
amongst the people, and went into his own hut, where 
he found Selim and Abdullah, Simba and Moto, con- 
versing upon the events of the last two days. 

The four rose to receive him courteously, and offered 
him a clean ox-hide to sit upon, and began to condole with 
him upon the loss of the Eing who loved him so much. 

" Ah ! yes, he was a dear, good man. My going out 
and coming in he watched like a lioness her whelps. 
He was proud of me, too ; for he said I had the eyes of 
Loralamba, his father, and carried my head like him. 
He often said that I should make the Watuta a great 
nation, greater than it was in the time of Loralamba. 
He told me, a little before I went away after the ele- 
phants, how to behave myself when I should become 
King, and advised me to travel with a great many 
warriors all around Ututa, and see for myself how 
great my country is, and who pay the tribute and who 
do not ; because, he said, when Eings forget their people 
their people forget who is their Eing, and set up for 
themselves. Then quarrels begin, and war follows, and 
tribes rise against one another, and a nation becomes 
weak. I mean to follow his advice ; and when th<e next 



270 MY KAXTJLU. 

moon is full, begin the journey. Say, Selim, how 
wouldst thou like it ?" 

" Oh, Kalulu ! thou art King now of all this great 
nation, thou art rich and powerful ; there is none like 
unto thee in all the lands of Africa. Thousands of 
warriors are ready to do thy bidding ; armies of great, 
strong, fierce men are under thy feet. If thou wilt but 
move that little tongue of thine, there is war every- 
where ; men will begin to hate one another and to lust 
for each other's blood ; villages will be destroyed, and 
whole tribes shall be known no more. Thou, who art 
•but a boy like me, art dreadful in thy sudden power. 
But a few days ago, under the tree where the dead 
elephant lay, thou didst embrace me, thou didst say all 
manner of kind things unto me. Wilt thou do Selim a 
favour, Kalulu ?" 

" Will I do thee a favour ? Oh, Selim ! dost thon 
think that, because I am King of the Watuta, I can 
forget our brotherhood ? Dost thou think that Kalulu's 
friendship changes like the antelope, which roameth 
about for the sweet grass, now here, now there ? No ; 
Kalulu's friendship is like the water of a river, always 
flowing in the same direction, true and constant. Ask 
me anything thou wilt, and I will give it thee ! Dost 
thou want a wife ? Take pretty Imamalu, and if she 
is not enough, take Koranilu ; and if thou wouldst like 
another, ask for her, and thou shalt have her. Dost 
thou need a gun? Ask for as many as thou wilt. 
What is it thou wouldst ask ?" 

" I would ask," answered Selim, " that, now thou art 
King, thou wilt permit Abdullah, Simba, and Moto, and 
myself to depart to our own land." 



8ELIM ASKS PERMISSION TO DEPART. 271 

"Depart!" echoed Kalulu, "and leave me alone! 
What has Kalulu done nnto thee or thy friends, that 
thou wouldst leave him ?" 

"Nay, my brother — if thou wilt permit me to call 
thee by that name still — thou hast done nothing of 
wrong unto us," replied Selim. " Thou hast been too 
good, if anything. What should we have done with- 
out thy friendship ? But thou must remember, Kalulu, 
we left our own land to trade for ivory and slaves. We 
came as far as TJrori, intending to go to Eua, on 
the other side of Lake Tanganika ; but at Kwikuru of 
Olimali the caravan was destroyed, our fathers and 
friends were killed, others were made slaves along with 
ourselves. But we were happy in finding a friend in thee. 
We were released from slavery, and in my master f 
found a brother. But, Kalulu, at Zanzibar, Abdullah 
and I have mothers, who are sorrowing for us. I have 
a rich estate, and plenty of money waiting for me; 
Simba and Moto have wives and children. If Kalulu 
permits us to go, would it be well for us to remain 
here?" 

"Ah! poor Katalambula is dead, he has been but 
just buried ; and now Selim wants to go away, and leave 
me. What evil spirit is this, that makes me suSej: so ? 
What have I done, that all should leave me? Why 
should I suffer, when all other men are happy ? I wish 
I were in Katalambula's place, and he in mine. Thou 
wilt not want to go at once, Selim, wilt thou ? Surely, 
thou wilt have pity upon me, and remain a few moons 
longer; then I myself — though I know I shall die — 
will take thee with a thousand warriors to where thou 
wilt find thyself safe, and among thy friends." 



272 MY KALULU. 

" Oh, Kalulu, I did not mean to go away at once. I 
meant after one moon. Wilt thou not let me go after 
one moon, my brother ? Think of my poor mother, 
what she must suffer all this time! It is this that 
makes me wish I had the wings of an eagle, to fly to 
her, and tell her how safe and happy I have been with 
thee. It is this only which could make me wish to 
leave thee so soon after thy great loss." 

" Then, Selim, let it be as thou wilt. Kalulu has not 
the bad heart to keep a son from a mother; sooner 
would his own heart burst in his own body, than my 
brother should suffer. Thou hast said thou hadst 
intended to have gone to Eua for ivory and slaves. No 
need to go so far. I have here two hundred of the Arabs' 
people Ferodia took at Kwikuru. They shall be thine, 
and each man shall be loaded with ivory, one hundred of 
which shall be thy portion, and the other hundred for 
Moto, and Simba, and Abdullah. Art thou satisfied ?" 

"Satisfied!" said Selim, in a wondering tone. — 
"Satisfied! I should be worse than dead clay, if I 
were not. Nay, thy kindness must have some reward ; 
for the same Sky-spirit whicH has touched thy heart 
with soft kindness towards me, has now touched mine : 
I shall stay two moons with thee, and I then shall ask 
thee to let me go. But thou art so good, Kalulu ; I 
shall never meet thy like again, when I depart from 
theCj" and Selim wept grateful tears, as he threw him- 
self upon the neck of the noble young savage, while 
Abdullah, in a transport of joy, kissed the generous 
chiefs feet; nor was Simba or Moto backward in 
expressing their admiration of Kalulu's generosity. 

They spent many hours together, until late in the 



THE DISSATISFIED MINORITY. 273 

night, consulting about what should be done in the 
meantime, and how a new amusement should be fur- 
nished for almost every day ; after which they retired, 
each to his bed to sleep, with their hearts full of peace 
and love towards one another. 

• We will now leave the young King and his friends to 
their pleasures, while we note what became of the 
minority who expressed themselves so strongly against 
the election of Katalambula's choice for King, and who 
departed before the ceremony of election and appoint- 
ment began, muttering threats. 

These threats were by no means idle. They were 
made by men who had accompanied Ferodia to Urori, 
and fought at Kwikuru, and who were rewarded so 
handsomely by him during the distribution of cloth. 
They were warriors who paid respect to courage and 
success, and to them Ferodia was a hero far more 
deserving of the chief authority over the tribe than a 
boy, who, however promising he might be, had not yet 
distinguished himself more than any other boy would 
have done, placed in the same position. 

Ferodia was a chief, who, were he King, might be 
able to make each warrior rich in cloth, in ivory, in 
slaves, and cattle ; while with Kalulu as King, many 
years must elapse before he would think of venturing 
upon a war unprovoked. 

When they left the village, and were safe outside, 
these feelings found expression, and, consulting and 
advising with each other, they were not long in coming 
to the conclusion that their interest lay in proceeding 
at once to Ferodia's country, a week's march south- 
west, and acquaint him with their hopes and desires, 

T 



274 MY KALULU. 

and invite him to proclaim himself King, trith the aid 
of all malcontents, and friends, and to march upon 
Kalnln's village and depose the boy-king. This duty 
of self-interest they at once set about executing, by 
commencing their march for Ferodia's country. 

Within a week they made their appearance before 
Ferodia's village, and when they told their errand, they 
were at once introduced before the chief, who sat under 
a tree, similar to the one at Eatalambula's, obsequious 
and villainous-faced Tifum the Wicked standing by his 
side. 

" Peace be unto ye, my brothers," said Ferodia, 
rising, and hurrying to embrace each one in succession, 
and, as is the custom in Ututa and in all the lands ad- 
joining Lake Tanganika, rubbing their elbows first, 
then their arms, then their shoulders, and then falling 
on their necks, slapping them on the back gently with 
the disengaged right hand, muttering continually as he 
rubbed each part, " Wake, wake, wake, waky " — Health, 
health, health, and peace. 

Finally, after going through the ceremony of greet- 
ing, like an assiduous old diplomat that he was, he 
asked : 

" Whence come ye, Djy brothers ? and what is yonr 
purpose ?" 

The chief of the party of chiefs, who was the spokes- 
man, answered, "Why should we come thus far, O 
Ferodia, if it were not to greet thee as King of all the 
Watuta ? Katalambula, the great King, is dead. He 
is no more. There is nothing left of him. He is ia 
the ground. The Watuta tribes have now no leader, 
no chief, no king ; they are like unto the flocks on tho 



FERODIA*S AMBITION. 275 

plain, bleating for the shepherd that cannot be found. 
They are going astray after one who is not old enough 
to be their shepherd. They have elected the boy 
Ealulu, who is but a child, and is not yet a warrior. 
He is like unto an infant just weaned, who seeketh the 
pap refused him. Katalambula being dead, Kalulu is 
drowned in tears; verily, he has lost his head from 
sorrow, for he is but a child, and has lost his friend and 
father, and knoweth not what to do. Wherefore, we 
came unto thee, Ferodia, to ask thee to be our shep- 
herd, our leader, our king. Say, what is thy answer ?" 
" Ferodia answered softly : " The words thou hast 
spoken are words of truth, my brother. Katalambula 
being dead, the Watuta have lost their leader. Kalulu, 
in truth, is but a child — but a child completely spoiled. 
Any of my boy slaves were fitter to be king of the war- 
like Watuta than he. Who is Kalulu ? He is not a 
matuta, he is not a warrior, he is not the son of 
Katalambula, he has not won the right to carry a spear, 
save as a burden. He is a Mrori, the son of Mostana, 
one of a stranger tribe. Katalambula being dead, 
the Watuta have no leader. But who has a better 
right to fill his place than I, Ferodia ? Who won his 
battles for him, but I, Ferodia ? Who conquered the 
Wabena, the Wumarungu, the Wakonongo, the Wan- 
yam wezi, the Wasowa, the Waka wendi, and the Warimba, 
but I, Ferodia ? By my fame I have won the right to 
succeed him who is dead. By my courage in the field, 
there is none fitter to take his place. By my victories, 
I have deserved the honour. Verily, thy words ar^ 
words of truth, my brother, and thou makest me glad 
with thy wise remarks." 



*i76 My kalulu. 

" Speak, Ferodia, chief, when wilt thoti that we go 
and punish Soltali, and those who have chosen another 
in thy place ?" asked the spokesman of his visitors. 

Whereupon a council was called, to which all the 
chiefs and all the great warriors, the doctors, the 
councillors, even all those who had authority were 
invited. 

The discussion was lively, and had a newspaper 
reporter who understood Kituta polysyllables been 
there, I doubt not he would have been as much edified 
as he would be elsewhere amongst councils. " How is 
Katalambula's village to be taken ? How is Kalulu to 
be ousted out of his right ? How are the warriors in 
the village to be brought to submission to Ferodia, if 
they have made Kalulu king ?" were the questions to 
be answered. 

One chief suggested that Ferodia should visit Kalulu, 
and offer him the hand of friendship, and in the night 
rise up and slay ; another, that Kalulu should be invited 
for a grand elephant hunt : when in the woods the young 
King might be easily disposed of; another, that he should 
be invited to Ferodia's country, to celebrate his coming 
to power, when he could be poisoned by the doctors — 
in short, all things were suggested to aid the daring 
conspirators to deprive Kalulu of his rights. 

" Tifum, what dost thou advise ? Thou art cunning 
as a phizi (hyaena), chary of thy speech as the flying- 
cat is of its form, wise as a lord of an elephant herd, 
but cruel as the sable leopard, which letteth not go 
whatever it seizes upon. Thou art invaluable to me, 
Tifum ; therefore speak, and give thy chief counsel," 
said Ferodia. 



TIFUM THE WICKED, AND HIS ADVICE. 277 

Being commanded to speai, Tifum the Wicked rose 
and said : 

" Words, words ! Who is like unto Fcrodia in wisdom ? 
He searches the heart, and penetrates to the hidden 
and unspoken thoughts. Ferodia knows that Tifum 
the Wicked can give him counsel, and he forthwith 
commands him to speak. Who is like unto Ferodia in 
the battle? He rages about the war-field, seeking 
the strong arm and the brave with whom he may 
measure his strength. His feet lift him from point to 
point, swift as the swiftest quagga in the forest. He 
springs aloft with his ever-thirsty spear, seeking to 
drink the blood of the strongest. When his voice is 
heard his foes stand abashed, as if the roaring lion had 
come into the fight. I, Tifum the Wicked, have seen 
him oft in the war, and Tifum knows whereof he speaks. 
Ferodia the chief commands Tifum to give him counsel. 
My counsel is this, chief. Katalambula's village is 
strong — the warriors are many — the palisade is lofty 
and close, and the villages round about are more than 
can be counted. Ferodia's tribe is small and weak ; it 
is like a handful of sand compared to the sand of all 
the plain. Alone, we may not venture on a war with 
all the Watuta. Let us, then, send messengers to the 
people of Kinyala, whose chief Katalambula killed, 
and who are yet resentful. To the chiefs of Marungu, 
and to those of Itawa by the lake. Let us send good 
words to Mohilizi and to the band of Wazavila, who 
live but a few days' off, and with all these toget^her, and 
with the aid of these discontented chiefs of the Meroeni 
tribe, we may hope to make a successful war. The 
plain is this : Let Ferodia take with him all th^ warrior^ 



278 MY KALULU. 

of his own tribe, and with them proceed to Kalulu, 
and if he asks why we have come, say, * We are come 
to ofiEer thee our congratulations. Art then not our 
King ? "Wherefore we have come to serve thee.' Then 
Ferodia, with one hundred of his best warriors, shall 
go in unto the village and make friends with all, and 
be assiduous to please Kalulu, while the rest shall re- 
main outside until the tenth night, when the hillmen 
from Amboella, the men from the soft pasture lands, 
the leas, and the meadows of the lake-land Itawa, when 
those of the fierce tribe of the Wazavila, the strong 
men of Urungu, and the tall men of Mohilizi, shall 
have been gathered together — then on the tenth night, 
while the warriors of Ferodia shall seize on Kalulu 
and some upon Soltali and other elders, some shall 
come to the gates, and stand there until it is time for 
those outside to act ; then, when all is ready, let all 
rush in and slaughter and kill. In the morning, when 
the Watuta shall hear that Ferodia has conquered, 
they wiU be afraid, and will come to him in a body, 
as one man, and be faithful to him, as they were to 
Katalambula. But Kalulu must die — ^there can be 
no peace while he lives ; and if it pleases Ferodia, let 
it be my task to wring off that young cock's head. 
chief, these are the words of Tifum the Wicked." 

" Good, good !" all shouted enthusiastically; and even 
Ferodia was as loud as any in ' his approbation. The 
excellent advice of Tifum was acted upon; and the 
messengers were at once despatched in all directions, to 
rouse the subdued tribes and to enlist all the discon- 
tented to rally to Ferodia's standard, and to bid them 
all march by way of the great forest, and by night 



FEBODIA. VISITS KALULU. 279 

through the corn-fields as near as possible to Katalam- 
bula's village, and to be outside the village near the 
morning after the tenth night. 

Ferodia, selecting his warriors, out of which he again 
selected a chosen hundred — men of mettle and might, 
unscrupulous, and quick with their spears — ^proceeded 
the next morning for Katalambula's village, the Kwi- 
kuru of Ututa, while the discontented of the tribe of 
Meroeni hastened, by day and by night, to make ready 
their men for the great and momentous struggle. 
Tifum had with him as bearers several of the boy slaves 
which were captured at Kwikuru of TJrori, and who 
had endured the fatigues of the march with Selim and 
Abdullah ; and among these was found the little negro 
boy Niani, who had so mysteriously disappeared from 
our view and our knowledge. These were not in bonds 
now ; they had come to be entrusted by their new 
masters for their docility and weakness; and Niani 
had come to be quite a favourite with Tifum, who 
recognised the little fellow's shrewdness and deftness 
of hands. 

Ferodia, as he drew near Kwikuru, left the larger 
number of his warriors, and all the slaves and servants 
behind; and, taking with him only the choice hundred 
warriors, advanced upon the capital of the Watuta, and 
made his appearance before the gates, where, coming 
in the guise of friendship to congratulate the new 
King, he was heartily received, and admitted to the 
great square. 

Kalulu was disposed at first, when he was informed 
of Ferodia's arrival, to be resentful, and his mind 
was crowded with suspicious thoughts ; but Ferodia's 



280 MY KALULU. 

excessive courtesy and amiability, the warmth of his 
greeting and congratulations, soon disarmed the mind 
of the ingenuous youth, and, as well as he was able, 
he replied kindly, and tendered the hospitalities of the 
village. 

To Tifum's greeting Kalulu gave a cold and haughty 
nod ; but Tifum was a diplomat of the first water, and, 
as needs must when needs drive, Tifum excelled Tifum's 
self in deceptive cordiality and genuflective graciosities. 
He was smiling and chatting now with Ealulu, and 
anon with Selim, who he declared had wonderfully 
improved; that he was now but a little less hand- 
some and but a little shorter in height than Kalulu 
the new King, who was sure, by-and-by, to become a 
greater King than his grandfather Loralamba. 

He went up also to Simba, who had so bruised his 
body some time ago, and so purred and fondled that 
giant that Simba's repugnance became so strong that 
he told him to desist, that Arabs were not accustomed 
to carry their greetings with strangers in such a fami- 
liar way. But nothing could upset Wicked Tifum's 
equanimity and plans ; he roared with laughter, and 
slapped his thighs so loudly that Moto began to think 
Tifum had lost his mind. 

Tifum, however, while Moto made the remark, caught 
sight of the sweet, pale face of Abdullah, and at once 
darted upon him; and, despite Abdullah's struggles, 
embraced the lad as if in him Tifum had found a lost 
son ; but when he released him finally, Abdullah, while 
his face blushed crimson at this indignity, slapped 
Tifum full on the cheek ; but the heroic Tifum did not 
mind that in the least ; he only laughed louder than 



THE TREACHEB0U8 GUESTS. 281 

ever, though Abdullah thought he detected a fierce 
blaze of anger in his eyes. 

However, Ferodia and Tifum were inside Kwikuru, 
and the time interyening between their entrance into 
it and the night appointed for the consummation of 
their enterprise passed quickly and quietly enough. 
On the tenth morning Tifum communicated to Ferodia 
the gratifying intelligence that their friends were in 
the neighbourhood distributed among the villages of 
the tribe of Meroeni, three hours' distance. 

The tenth day passed tranquilly, and the night 
came. Not a single breath of suspicion had been 
uttered, though among themselves Ealulu and his 
friends expressed strong misgivings ; but this was set 
down to their dislike to the ambitious Ferodia, and his 
cunning, intriguing, cruel parasite, Tifum the Wicked. 
Ah ! could Kalulu have but known what devilish plans 
were lurking unseen in his village — what plot was 
hatching— what evil hung over him, how quickly had 
he sounded the cry of alarm, how different would he 
have acted ; how he would have sprung as a leopard 
into their midst, and torn the conspirators into pieces ! 
But neither Kalulu nor his friends dreamed of anything 
of all this evil, and drowsiness stole over their bodies, 
and gentle, unsuspicious slumber pressed their eyelids, 
and stilled their minds into unconsciousness. / 



282 MT EALXTLU. 



CHAPTER XI. 

King Kalulu is a Prisoner — ^Poor Kalulu ! — ^The Magio Doctor is burnt 
— ^Kalulu is told to prepare for Death — The night following Sol- 
tali's Execution — The Mouse assists the Lions — The End of Tifum 
the Wicked— Is this Murder?— Niani calls it " Justice "—Safe ! 
and Free 1 — Selim pleads to Ealulu — Selim wants Ealulu to go 
home with him — Simba the Giant pleads — ^The Head of Tifum the 
Wicked — ^They intend going to Ujiji. 

About three hours before dawn a body of thirty men, 
under the leadership of Ferodia,made their appearance in 
the square outside of their sleeping quarters, the garish 
moonlight reveaUng them visibly clear. At the same 
time an equal number issued from the dark, cavernous 
doors of the tembe, and, after a whispered consultation 
with the first party, proceeded stealthily across the 
square to where Soltali lived ; while forty men, dividing 
themselves into two parties, hastened towards the gates. 
Ferodia, seeing all at their posts, waited a short time, 
until he saw numbers of dark forms glide into the 
square, and until he was told that the warriors were 
pouring in by the two gates ; he then proceeded towards 
the door of Kalulu's hut, and, after taking a quiet survey 
of the sleeping forms of Ealulu, Selim, and Abdullah, 
beckoned to Tifum and the warriors behind him, and 
suddenly sprang in with a piercing cry of triumph 
upon the prostrate alnd unconscious young King, while 
Tifum sprang upon Selim, and another warrior upon 
Abdullah. 



KINa KAJLXJLU IS A PBISONEB. 283 

Warrior after warrior poured in, and in a short time 
the three boys found themselves, while yet not quite 
recovered from their sleep, bound and helpless prisoners. 
In the meantime the war-cry of the Watuta, sounded 
first by Ferodia, was caught up by all the warriors in 
the square, and was immediately echoed by each new 
comer, while crowds had hastened to the hut occupied 
by Simba and Moto, but only to find these wary men 
prepared for a resolute struggle. Neither Simba nor 
Moto, however, had had time to load their guns ; they 
could only club them and crush each skull as it ven- 
tured into the darkened hut ; but the roof was too low 
for Simba to exert the full power of his strong arm, so 
that, finally, numbers prevailed, and Simba and Moto 
found themselves at last prisoners, bound hand and 
foot. 

In a short time Ferodia found himself master of the 
village. The plan had been too well devised, too skil- 
fully carried out, to fail. And each surprised warrior, 
when that first dreadful cry awoke him from his dreamy 
sleep, only awoke to find himself in the power of foes 
relentless and desperate. Every soul in the village was 
in the power of Ferodia, so that he found himself in the 
morning with over five thousand slaves — for prisoners 
of war are always slaves in Central Africa. 

The chains found in the storeroom of the King, which 
came formerly from the Arab camp near Kwikuru, in 
Urori, were of use now, and into the strong iron collars 
attached to them the necks of Kalulu, the two Arab 
boys, and the most refractory of the captured warriors, 
were placed ; but as there were no locks, or they could 
not be found, the eyes of the folding iron crescents, 



284 anr kalulu. 

which folding together formed the collars, were simply 
tied together firmly, while the hands of the captives 
were tightly bound behind. When all were secured 
with their hands in inexorable bonds behind their backs, 
they were marched outside by gangs, under chiefs, of 
ten and twenty warriors. Then the ivory, the cloth, 
the guns, the powder and bullets, and everything of 
value, were brought forth and distributed amongst the 
warriors and conveyed outside at a safe distance from 
the village. 

After all these things had been done the torch was 
applied to every tembe, and in an inconceivably short 
space of time the whole village was wrapped and en- 
circled by the tongues of destroying flames ; the straw, 
and the oil and butter found stored in the huts, and the 
resinous, gummy substance of the wood which formed 
the rafters and palisade, adding intensity to the flames, 
which were speedily devouring all. 

While the village — the scene of so much merry- 
making, and fun, and innocent frolic, scene of the 
ceremonies, the rejoicings, which have found place in 
our history — was thus being ruthlessly destroyed, being 
rapidly reduced to black ashes, to be as a thing in our 
memories alone, to become only as a tradition for those 
unborn, the great sun arose as usual in the east with 
his usual splendour and grateful benignity to light the 
second epoch of misery through which Kalulu, Selim, 
and Abdullah passed, and to guide the footsteps of the 
enslaved King and Watuta on their way to slavery. 

Ah ! ye, my young readers, surrounded by a halo of 
kindness and love, by the bloom, the brightness, and 
the happiness of a civilized life, with which Heaven has 



POOB KALUtu! 2S5 

favoured you, can ye imagine the deep, indescribable 
misery in which the high-spirited young King found 
himself when he thoroughly realised the vast change 
in his condition that one short night had made in his 
existence ? Assist me, then, with your imaginations ; 
describe him to your own satisfaction, with his feelings 
all in one wild riot, with his confused senses struggling 
to picture himself as not having fallen to this state, 
endeavouring to draw one ray of brightness out of the 
dark gloom^ which environed him, and say for him, 
" God — the good, beneficent, all-seeing God — pity the 
poor prince and King!" And the author shall say, 
" Amen, and Amen !" 

Once cleared of the immediate neighbourhood, the 
captives were divided. The Wa-marungu, with their 
gangs of slaves, chose one road, towards Ferodia's vil- 
lage; the tribe of Meroeni chose another, with their 
slaves ; the Wazavila chose another ; while Ferodia, 
with five hundred warriors driving before them the 
gangs in which were found those in whom we have 
become interested, struck for the forest where Kalulu 
discovered Selim. Ferodia did not trouble the young 
King nor his friends, nor did Tifum venture near them ; 
they both satisfied themselves from the rear that they 
were safe. 

After they had made a wide detour for many days 
through the forest, and come to a place where there 
was no road nor any signs of its being inhabited, and 
having completely baffled pursuit had such been ever 
made, and when they had made their camp, Ferodia 
drew near to the gang where Kalulu and his friends 
were found. 



nT 



286 » MY KALTTLU. 

Kalulu, as he saw his hated enemy approach, grotmd 
his teeth in rage, and foamed at the mouth like one 
suddenly stricken with madness, while Ferodia burst 
into a laugh and teased him to further exhibitions of 
fury, saying : 

" That is right, my little crow-cock, shake thy wings, 
fan the air with them, and utter a lusty crow, that the 
fish-eagles, whose screams I hear from yonder swamps, 
may try and yie with thee. I have wrung a boastful 
cock's head ere this, and Tifum has too. Hast thou 
not, Tifum ?" 

" That have I done, my King !" answered that servile 
follower, who was close behind him. 

" Thou hearest, Kalulu, what Tifum says ;" and, 
turning to Tifum, he asked, " Dost thou think, Tifum, 
thou couldst wring Kalulu's neck for me, and do it 
deftly and neatly ?" 

" Try me, King, nothing could please me better," 
answered Tifum, with a significant glance at Kalulu. 

" Kalulu's neck is slender, not much thicker than a 
grass stalk. Thou canst easily do it, I think, if thou 
wilt bury thy hand in those long, gay braids of his. 
Thou shalt try thy hand on him to-morrow." Ad- 
vancing closer to him, he struck the boy in the chest 
with the butt of his spear. " Dost thou hear, boy !" 
But he did not retreat quickly enough, for the lithe 
form of Kalulu shot out and flung itself against him, 
and the boy's teeth were buried in Ferodia's neck, and 
he had surely strangled him had not Tifum, lifting his 
spear, struck him a mighty blow full on the spinal 
column, which almost paralysed Kalulu. 

" Thou fiend, and leopard's whelp, thou shalt die by 



a?HE MAGIC DOCTOR IS BURKT. 287 

torture to-morrow at break of day; meantime thou 
shalt see Soltali burning for daring to make thee King 
of the Watuta, and while he is burning thou shalt be 
stretched until thy limbs crack ; and thus saying, the 
angry chief strode away, rubbing his neck and fuming 
with passion, and gave orders that a fire should be built 
near a large tree, and that old Soltali should be brought 
forth. 

In a few minutes a great fire was sparkling and 
roaring at the foot of the central tree in the camp, and 
old Soltali was brought forth before Ferodia. 

" False mganga, seest thou yon tree and that fire ?" 
asked Ferodia. 

" I see it, Ferodia," answered the old man. 

" There shalt thou burn, and thy accursed ashes shall 
remain there to blacken and curse that tree, under 
which perished a false magician. Ho, Tifum ! quick. 
Bring Kalulu here first, stretch him on this ground, 
with his face turned towards the magician, and let us 
see if Soltali's black art will save Kalulu from the pain 
he sufiers, or himself from the fire." 

Kalulu was at once brought forth, and though he 
bit, and struggled, and kicked, he was pressed to the 
ground by overwhelming numbers, and four men tied 
cords to his limbs and began to draw them, until it 
seemed as if the young body would be torn asunder ; 
after which the cords were fastened round pegs driven 
deep into the ground. 

Then the brutish Ferodia used the staff of his spear 
on his body, and, taunting him, bade him look up and 
see the false mganga, who had made him King, burning 
in the fire. 



288 Mt KALULtJ. 

The gang to which Selim, Abdullah, Simba, and 
Moto were chained was brought up and huddled to- 
gether close to Kalulu. Soltali was dragged to the 
fire, and was tied to the tree; and the fire was 
pushed close to his feet, and new wood piled on it, and 
the smoke began to rise, and presently changed into 
fiame. 

Then Soltali, finding the flames begin to scorch and 
burn him, raised his right hand and shouted out with 
all the strength of his feeble voice, saying : 

" Hearken, thou Ferodia, and ye savage Watuta. Ye^ 
think to triumph now, and make Ferodia king ; but the 
will of the Sky-spirit must be done. Soltali had not 
made Kalulu king had it not been his will; Soltali 
obeyed but the voice of the Sky-spirit. Thou hast 
triumphed only for a time, Ferodia. Kalulu shall be 
king, must be king. Thou shalt see a bitter end, 
Ferodia, to which my suiBferings may not be compared ; 
and thou, Tifum, shalt have thy head taken from oflf thy 
body, and the kite and the vulture shall pick out thine 
eyes. Moshono, who was burnt by the Wa-marungu, 
calls to Soltali. Soltali goes before thee, Tifum; and 
thou shalt follow me, Ferodia. I come, great Mo- 
shono, I come. Mosh " 

Before he could utter the last word Soltali's aged head 
fell upon his breast, while still the flames leaped up 
and embraced him with their fiery arms, until, finally, 
the green bark cords which bound him shrivelled up 
and snapped beneath" the weight of the superincumbent 
mass, and Soltali's body fell forward, while the sparks 
were shot up and the flames blazed anew. The warriors 
hastened to pile up wood, but Selim and Abdullah 



KALULU IS TOLD TO PBEPABE FOR DEATH. 289 

turned their faces away, unable to bear the horrid 
scene. 

Ferodia turned to Kalulu and said, " T6-morrow thou 
shalt die, as sure as Soltali has died. To-night lie 
where thou art, and when the sun rises be thou pre- 
pared to follow him, Tifum shall try his hand on 
thee." 

" Ah, Ferodia, thou hast heard the voice of the good 
Soltali. The Sky-spirit has said I shall be king. Look 
to thyself, for I shall kill thee yet. Thou robber, cut- 
throat, and coward, dost thou hear me ?" cried Kalulu. 

" Talk away, and crow, my little cockling. Talk as 
long as thou canst, if it give thee any comfort. Nay, 
thou mayst burst thyself with talking if thereby thou 
wilt ease thyself, but to-morrow Tifum shall cut thy 
head off,, and I will get strong medicine out of it. I 
have said it." 

So saying Ferodia walked away, but Tifum could not 
refrain from going up to Ealulu. He encircled his 
neck with his hand, and, giving it a gentle pressure, 
said : 

" Ah, Kalulu, to-morrow my knife shall sever that 
head of thine from thy body. The pain will soon be 
over, for Tifum's knife is sharp, and I will sharpen it 
still more, Kalulu, to-night, so that thou mayst suffer 
but little pain. Am J not good, Kalulu ? I shall boil 
those cheeks of thine with my porridge, and think as I 
eat them how often they were patted by the silly old 
King Katalambula. Sleep in peace to-night, Kalulu. 
Sleep well, for it will be thy last night's sleep. Fare- 
well !" 

" Stay, Tifum Byah, stay one moment," cried Kalulu 

u 



290 MY KALXTLXJ. 

gently, as if he dearly loved the wretch. " Didst thou 
hear Soltali's words ?" 

" Ay, certainly I did. Am I deaf?" asked Tifum. 

" Dost thon not fear the fate Soltali promised thee ?'* 
asked Ealulu, with mock earnestness. 

" I fear a mad old man's ravings ! Tifum the Wicked 
fear what Soltali said ! Bah, bah ; sleep, Kalulu, go to 
sleep." 

'' But stay one moment and hear me. Ealulu shall 
be King over the Watuta, and he will take thy head off 
surely, and give it to the Eituta dogs. Come here and 
bend thy head, closer, I wish to tell thee something," 
said Ealulu, as he nodded with his head. " There, so ! 

How dost thou like " but that moment Ealulu 

buried his sharp teeth in Tifum's cheeks, and held on 
with the tenacity of a bull-dog, while Tifum, uttering a 
shrill cry of pain, could only release himself by clutch- 
ing the boy's neck and strangling him to unconscious- 
ness. Tifum's face bore a frightful wound, for the 
teeth, filed into a point in front, according to the 
customs of the Ututa, had bitten a piece clean out^ 
leaving the cheek-bone exposed, which quite spoiled 
what beauty he had for ever. 

As he felt the havoc made in his cheek the man 
uttered a frightful howl, and seized a spear-staff and 
began to belabour the unconscious boy. He probably 
would have beaten him to' death had not Ferodia ap- 
peared and ordered him to desist, and to reserve his 
revenge for the morrow, when he might take it in full. 

It was difficult to restrain the infuriated man, while 
his whole head tingled with the most exquisite pain ; 
but then Ferodis^ was King, and a Eing's commands 



THE NIGHT FOLLOWINa SOLTALl's EXECUTION. 291 

must be obeyed even though his whole body ached, and 
he at last turned away moaning over his wound. 

Soltali, the Mganga, was more feared when dead than 
when alive, it seemed, for while his body was being 
rapidly consumed the people had begun to move their 
camp a few yards off, none daring to erect his hut near 
the awful ashes of the magician, and as night came, with 
its sombre shades filling the whole forest with almost 
palpable darkness, and thick, dark, formless shadows, 
it was noticeable that they still further retreated from 
the death tree, and whispered to each other their belief 
that Soltali's spirit was in the tree, with great angry 
eyes of fire, looking down at the camp. Thus the 
mortal ashes of the old doctor, whom they had so 
cruelly murdered, were left alone by the superstitious 
people, and Kalulu, helplessly stretched near by, was 
the only living being within fifty yards of the dread 
embers which covered the remains of Soltali. 

Tifum the Wicked, too much engrossed with the 
pain of his wound, had seen nothing of this movement, 
for he had retired to his hut, with his head close to the 
door to breathe the cool air of the night. In his hut 
were the spoils from Katalambula's village, which his 
own particular slaves had carried for him. Among 
these were two bales of cloth, ten fine ivory tusks, a 
keg of powder, a bag of bullets, three or four ' guns, 
and, singular as it might seem, was Selim's gun, the 
Joe Manton which Sheikh Amer had purchased for his 
son, through his Bombay agent. This accident may be 
attributed to Tifum's cupidity, who had appropriated 
this gun as his own, on seeing that it was of a superior 
class to all others, as well as the belt, which contained 



292 MY KAIATLV. 

a large supply of ammunition. Ferbdia would very 
probably have appropriated such a fine weapon for 
himself had he not been so occupied with the extent 
of his success and fortune. 

The night grew deeper and more sombre. Melan- 
choly sounds were heard at intervals through the forest, 
and the superstitious warriors ascribed these to the 
restlessness of the spirit of Soltali, consequently they 
huddled into their huts, forgot the cravings of their 
stomachs, and sought in the cosy warm huts a tempo- 
rary oblivion from their fears and superstitious troubles, 
and, as the night got still more aged, even moaning 
Tifum became tranquil and slept. 

When the camp had become as still as though no 
five hundred warriors with strong lungs and a healthy 
capacity for noise within them slept in that darkness, 
Niani's light, active, boyish form, who hitherto has been 
unnecessarily neglected, began to move from the neigh- 
bourhood of a fire where, along with other slaves, he had 
curled himself to rest, but not to sleep, in the direction 
of the slave-gang to which his master, Selim, Abdullah, 
gigantic Simba, and Moto belonged. The pale-coloured 
forms of the two Arab boys were clearly discernible, 
and choosing the tallest, he crept up to him, and gently 
placing his hand over the mouth of Selim, *whom he 
rightly judged it to be, he bent his head low down to 
his ear, 

" I am Niani, your slave ; be still, master. I have 
come to save you, for I have heard Tifum swear that 
to-morrow you shall die with Kalulu. Hush ! I have 
my knife. I shall cut your bonds, and those of your 
friends, and we shall all go away far.*' So saying Niani 



THE MOUSE ASSISTS THE UOKS. 293 

released his hand, and with his knife parted the bark 
rope that fastened the iron collar, and in a second 
Selim felt his neck free from the ignominious chain. 

Niani crept to Abdullah, and performed the same 
kindness for him upon the express condition that he 
should lie still until, the hint was given to rise. From 
Abdullah Niani crept to Simba, and told that wondering 
giant who he was, and why he was there. Simba 
understood at once, and slightly turned over that Niani 
might cut the bonds which confined his hands behind 
his back, and raised his head that he might be released 
from the collar. Moto's turn came next, and in a short 
time he was also free. Each head was now touched, 
and they at once rose and followed Niani past the 
sleeping forms, by the fires, and past the open huts 
confidently, but still quietly, until they came behind 
the fatal tree at whose base lay the ashes of poor old 
Soltali* 

" Now, Master Selim, speak, what is to be done ?'* 
asked little Niani in a low voice. 

" Let Simba and Moto answer ; but we must not go 
without Kalulu, for rather than go without him I will 
go back and die with him." 

" I don't intend to go either without him," said Ab- 
dullah. " I would count it a deed worthy of paradise 
to die with him, and by his side. Here, give me the 
knife, I will go and cut his bonds.*' 

" No, no, master," said Simba, " I want to go back 
for a particular purpose, besides rescuing Kalulu. Thou, 
Moto, stay here, and if any alarm is made, then do thou 
run east, and in the morning turn south. Here, Niani, 
come with me. Give me that knife." 



294 HY KALTTLU. 

They both disappeared on the other side of the tree, 
and Simba, crawling on his hands and knees, followed 
by Niani, made towards where Kalulu lay stretched in 
anguish of body and mind. When he had advanced 
sufficiently near, Simba whispered the boy's name with 
a warning — " Hush !" 

Simba was presently close to Ealulu ; and, after in- 
forming him of his purpose, soon freed him from his 
painful position, and Ealulu sat up, though feeling 
almost too sore and cramped to move. 

Simba waited patiently for the first feeling of numb- 
ness to wear away, then whispered to him : 

" Kalulu, dost thou remember Soltali's words? Sol- 
tali said that Tifum's head should be taken from off his 
body. I am going to take it now. Wilt thou come ?" 

The instant these words were suggested all feeling 
of soreness vanished, and the boy sprang up and was 
about to shout his gladness, when the big hand of 
Simba was placed over his mouth, and he whispered : 

" Nay, not a word, not a breath, as thou dost value 
our lives. Our friends are behind that tree ; they are 
waiting for us. Thou must obey me now, if success is 
what thou dost hope for." 

Ealulu clasped his hand, and understood at once what 
was necessary, and followed Simba, who was preceded 
by Niani, without further remark. 

When near Tifum Byah's hut Niani, who was as 
cunning as the nature of the mammal from whom he 
derived his name, stopped, and pointed silently to the 
hut, which stood alone and removed a good distance 
from any other that was inhabited. 

Simba turned to Ealulu, and, handing him the knife 



THE END OF TIFim THE WICKED. 295 

which he had receiyed from Niani, whispered to him : 
^'Stay here silent as a dead tree, nntil thou dost 
hear my signal," to which a nod of the head only was 
given for reply. 

" Now, Tifum the Wicked," whispered the resolute 
mind of Simba to itself, " it is either I or thou ; I think 
thou. Selim's stripes have to be paid for with thy blood ; 
if not Selim's, then Kalulu's wrongs. But how can I 
ever pay thee for all ? Sheikh Amer, my master ; poor 
Isa ; little Mussoud ;" and the busy mind fanned itself 
into a white heat of an^er, and churned the deep hate 
into a white foam of fury ; and the Nemesis, in the form 
of this mighty, big-muscled man, stood over him, Tifum 
the Wicked. The great form bent, and suddenly drooped, 
with two great bony, sinewy hands clutching the sleep- 
ing man's throat, crushing, compressing bone, gristle, 
sinew, and vein into a soft, yielding, pulpy mass, until 
there was no breath of life nor power of motion left in 
him. 

All had been done so quietly — the deed of stern ven- 
geance so quickly, coolly executed, that Kalulu started 
with surprise as he heard the signal ; he could hardly 
believe it to have been consummated, yet he advanced 
determinedly, as if his help was to be needed. Think 
of Simba needing help for such an ordinary creature as 
Tifum. 

"Cut it off!" said Simba, and Kalulu, nothing loth, 
bent down and severed the head off without one re- 
morseful pang, and the body of Tifum was headless ; and 
the prediction of Soltali had become thus soon verified. 

Simba and Kalulu were about to move off, when Niani 
stepped up and whispered : 



296 MY KALULtr. 



It 



The guns in his hut !" 

Ah, true," and Simba turned round and gave Niani 
a couple of guns, to Kalulu he gave one, he reserved 
one for himself, then went into the hut, found the 
powder keg, the load of bullets and ammunition ; 
snatched a bow, a quiver full of arrows, a couple of 
spears, and a long Arab sword, which Tifum had also 
appropriated, and with the booty, too valuable to be 
measured at a money value for such an expedition as 
he now proposed to himself, he withdrew as silently 
as he had come. 

Once at the tree th^ guns were distributed, one to 
Abdullah, one to Moto, the "Joe Manton" to Selim, 
who hugged it to his heart, while Simba retained 
another. To Kalulu he gave a spear with the bow, and 
a quiver full of arrows. Niani got another spear, while 
he also received the precious powder-keg to carry. 
Simba carried the bullets and sword. Kalulu still 
carried the ghastly load, but nothing was said to any of 
the others of the deed that was done. Simba merely 
said " Come," and the five followed him obediently. 

" Four hours more of night till dawn," said Simba, 
after they had got a little distance off. "We must 
march south. Come." 

In a hard, dry, trackless forest, when once a fugitive 
escapes it becomes impossible to find him. Had Kalulu 
not taken the precaution to strip himself of his cloth, 
and place the head of Tifum in it, it is probable that the 
fugitives might have been pursued ; but there was no 
clue to the direction they had taken, for five hundred 
warriors had trodden the ground all around while hunt- 
ing for fruit, or sticks, or water for cooking, the day 



IS THIS MtTRBER? 297 

before, even if the hard drouthy ground might have re- 
ceived the impression of a few men's naked feet. And 
the natural questions the warriors would ask themselves 
and each other in the morning would be, " Which way 
have they gone ? Is it north, south, east, or west ? or 
any other of the lesser or intermediate points?" to 
which, of course, no definite answer could be given ; 
while the more superstitious would say, "Ah! it is 
Soltali who has taken them away !" and would fear to 
leave their fellows. 

Simba, Moto, and Ealulu knew this, and though they 
journeyed fast, they journeyed confidently. But, as each 
of the party was busy with his own thoughts, no words 
were exchanged until it was grey morning, and day had 
more power to pierce the gloom of the forest than the 
old moon, which but faintly showed them their way 
before morning, when Selim saw some mysterious bundle 
in Ealulu's hand, and asked him what it was. 

" Don't ask now, Selim, my brother, we must march," 
said !Kalulu, and nothing more was said until at nine 
o'clock they stopped at a swamp to refresh themselves 
with water, when Kalulu setting down his bundle to 
drink, jbhe cloth fell off one side, and exposed the head 
of a man. 

"Allah!" ejaculated Selim, profoundly astonished; 
"what is this?" and Abdullah also cried out in asto- 
nishment the same words. 

" What should it be, my brothers, but the head of 
Tifum the Wicked ?" asked Kalulu. 

" But this is murder, is it not ?" asked Selim, aghast 
at the unsightly and livid head. 

" Murder !" echoed Simba ; " I think not, young 



298 MY KALULU. 

master. It may be with thy people, but with us 
Washensi — Pagans — it is justice. It was I that 
strangled him, Ealulu cut off his head. Was Tifum 
not going to cut off Kalulu's head ? — and perhaps thine, 
for he hated thee enough, Allah knows." 

" Yes," said Niani, " I heard Tifum swear he would 
do it." 

" Well, but he did not do it, and I am sorry, Simba, 
thou hast thus needlessly taken life," said Selim, with 
difficulty repressing a shudder. 

" Selim, son of Amer, permit Simba, the Mrundi, to 
ask thee if thou hast already foi^gotten thy dead father, 
thy kinsmen, thine own miseries ? Say, where is Isa ? 
Where is little Mussoud ? How was Abdullah treated ? 
What became of Kalulu, thy friend ? Where is Soltali ? 
What has become of the village of Katalambula ? I tell 
thee, young master, that if an Arab boy can so soon 
forget these, I, a Mrundi, cannot; and were Tifum 
the Wicked possessed of a thousand lives, I would 
take a life of his at every opportunity. What sayest 
thou, Moto, my friend ? Have I not said well ?" 

" Quite right, my brother Simba, I should have done 
the same ; and I am only sorry it fell to thy lot to take 
his life, because I should like to have taken it myself," 
answered Moto promptly. 

"What sayest thou, Kalulu?" asked Simba of the 
young chief. 

" Here is my answer," answered Kalulu, pointing to 
the head, which he picked up and tossed into the air, 
smiling as the head fell on its nose. 
, " What sayest thou, Abdullah ? thou who art an 
Arab, and the son of an Arab ?" asked Simba. 



NIANI CALLS IT "JUSTICE." 299 

" The Kuran says : * And if thy enemy depart not 
from thee, and offer thee peace, and restrain his hand 
from warring against thee, take him and kill him where- 
soever thou dost find him, for over him Ood has granted 
the true believer a manifest power.* Since the prophet 
Mohammed (blessed be his name) speaks on thy side, 
Simba, far be it from Abdullah, son of Sheikh Mo- 
hammed, to say thou hast done wrong in this fearful 
thing. I think thou hast done right," answered Ab- 
dullah gravely. 

" Then, if the Kuran says so, I, Selim, son of Amer, 
am convinced thou hast done right," said Selim, as 
he hastened up, and, with an apologetic look, begged 
Simba's pardon. 

" I, Niani, the mtuma (slave) of Selim, the son of 
Amer, do pronounce that Simba did right," cried the 
little negro, with an assurance which made all smile, 
and for a moment forget their previous mood. 

"But what art thou going to do with the head, 
Kai^lu ?" asked Selim. 

"I am going to take medicine from it," replied 
Kalulu, " to make my arm strong against Ferodia, 
when we get to the camp>" folding it up in the cloth 
again as he spoke. 

" Ah, don't, Kalulu, for my sake," pleaded Selim with 
earnest eyes; "don't, it is bad; only the lowest and 
most degraded do that. Cast the ugly thing away, and 
let it be food for the fowls of the air and the beasts of 
prey." 

" It has been the custom of the Watuta to do such 
things, and if I do not do it Kalulu will never be king," 
replied the young chief, resolutely moving forward. 



300 MY KALtJLU. 

^' It has been the custom of the Warundi too, and of 
all the tribes aronnd here that I have met/' said Simba. 
'^ Let Ealulu do as he will with it, young master." 

'^But thou art a Moslem, Simba; thou ^t not a 
Mrundi infidel now;" urged Selim, whose feelings 
reyolted at such a degraded idea. 

'' Aj, I am a Moslem in name, but a Mrundi in heart, 
master ; and when I think of all that Tifum the Wicked 
has done, and would have done, I myself should like to 
take medicine from it," replied Simba, with a vengeful 
look. 

" But Simba," said Abdullah, " the Kuran says we 
' are forbidden to eat that which dieth of itself y and 
hlood, and swine's flesh, and that on which the name of 
any heside Ood hath been invoked, and that which hath 
been strangled.^ " 

" Al Forkan " (the Kuran) " is a holy book, Simba, 
that may not be disregarded, and he that turneth his 
back to it shall surely perish," added Selim. 

" I am not going to eat Tifum's head ; the Warundi 
do not eat men. They only take medicine from them ; 
but if the good book says it is wicked, I give you my 
word I shall not do it," responded Simba. " But let us 
march, we have no time to talk," and setting the 
example, by vigorous strides, he induced the little 
party to strain themselves to keep up with him; and 
from this time until sunset there were few words ex- 
changed, except a remark now and then upon some 
exceptional feature of the forest through which they 
were travelling. 

At sunset the fugitives were obliged to halt, and 
seeing a dense jungle clump before them, they sought 



SAF£ ! AND KBEE ! 801 

an opening which led to it, which they presently dis- 
covered, narrow and a little inconyenient, hut' it led 
them into a delicious and secure resting-place. The 
camp, which they now intended to make, was surrounded 
by an impenetrable hedge, about fifty feet thick and 
about twelve feet high, of thorn and cactus, aloetic 
plants, convolvuli, all interlacing, embracing, twining 
round each other, each leaf, or twig, or branch armed 
at all points with a myriad thorns, through which a 
boa-constrictor might in vain attempt to pass, a man 
never, were he armed in triple steel, least of all a 
rude savage ; while inside was soft, green, silken grass, 
and a small circular depression in its centre like a 
" bufialo- wallow," which contained water. Could any- 
thing have been more tempting than this ? Surely not. 
Had the most cunning Moto devised the best protection 
he could, he had never conceived anything more for- 
midable against naked man or beast! And the two 
Arab boys laughed merrily, and rubbed their hands 
together, as they thought how secure they were. 

Simba, who had asumed the leadership, as though 
leadership was an everyday thing to him, looking 
around, said : 

" We are safe. No Watuta can find us here, but we 
are short of food, and boys become hungry soon. In 
the morning we must look for food, as we journey 
south. What dost thou think, Moto? is this forest 
likely to last much longer ?" 

"I know not, friend Simba. I should think not; 
but the minute it becomes thinner and more open we 
shall see game," replied that clever woodsman, with so 
much confidence that Selim, Abdullah, and Niani began 



302 MY KALTJLU. 

to smack their lips, as if they already tasted the luscious, 
juicy meat of fat game. 

" Simba, I know this forest well," cried Ealulu ; " but 
before I say anything about it, I must know where thou 
dost intend to go." 

"Ah! where?" asked Simba, looking at Mote, and 
speaking in a tone which was more of a doleful echo 
than a question. 

. " Where ?" said Moto, in the same tone, looking at 
Simba. 

"I must know," said Ealulu. "We are far from 
pursuit now. Ferodia might as well look for the honey- 
bird, hiding his head in a hole, as look for us. Speak, 
Simba and Moto, where do ye both intend to go ?" 

" Answer thou, young chief," replied Simba and 
Moto, together. 

" I ? Well, let it be so," he answered. " I mean to 
return towards the east, through the forest, and then 
turn up north and west, and seek out every man left of 
my tribe, and make war against Ferodia. Make war 
on the traitorous thief, until every man that lifted 
spear in his cause shall be even as this carrion is" 
(pointing to the chilled head of Tifuni). " War, until 
all my enemies shall fall, and be utterly destroyed as 
the dry grass of the summer is destroyed by a fire. 
That is what I intend beginning to do at sunrise 
to-morrow ;" and as the young chief said the last few 
words he sprang to his feet, and dashed his spear deep 
into the now unoflfending head of Tifum the Wicked, 
and his whole body quivered with the fury that 
animated him. 

While he was thus imagining that he had already 



SELm PLEADS TO KALULU. 303 

his enemies low at his feet, he felt a soft touch on his 
shoulder, and as he turned his head around he saw the 
gentle, winning face of Selim turned up to him with 
pleading eyes, and heard him say : 

" Kalulu, thou art still the King of the Watuta to 
us ; sit down quiet by my side, like, my brother Ab- 
dullah and little Niani here, and listen to what thy 
brother Selim has to say." 

The friendship he entertained for Selim came to the 
aid of the Arab boy, and this, together with the kindly 
tones and sympathising eyes turned towards him, com- 
pletely subdued him, and he sat down, and for the first 
time, to our knowledge, Ealulu wept. Selim's tender 
heart could not bear the proud young chiefs tears, and 
he also wept out of sheer sympathy. 

" Kalulu," said Selim, when he had conquered this 
feeling, and could command firmness of voice, " when 
I was dying of hunger in the forest thou didst 
come to my aid, and, pitying me, a friendship grew 
in thy heart towards me, and when I opened mine 
eyes, and saw thy large black eyes rest on me with so 
much pity, so much love in them for me, who until then 
was as one doomed to die a lingering death, was as 
an outcast from Nature, I learned to love thee as my 
brother. The blood ceremony was made, and I gladly 
became a brother to thee. When I was in the village, 
and I felt Tifum's heavy hand on me, with the cruel 
order of Ferodia ringing in my ears, thou didst 
again come like a good angel to my aid ; and in my 
heart I blessed God and thee. When Abdullah 
struggled in the dark waters, and the greedy crocodile 
snapped him by the leg, and drew him down out of 
sight, down into the depths, I cried out in my agony. 



304 MY KALULU. 

^ Oh, save him I' and thou, ever our good angel, didst 
leap into the depths, and far out of sight thou 
didst grapple with the monster, and in a short time 
didst hring him — ^Abdullah — back to life and to his 
friend. When thou wert made king, and thou hadst 
power of life and death over an immense multitude of 
warriors given unto thee, I did ask thee for permission 
to go to my own home at Zanzibar, to lift the veil of 
sorrow from my mother's eyes, and thou didst promise 
to give me wealth, and abundance, and men under thine 
own command to protect me on the way. But eyil 
days came. Ferodia, like a thief in the night, came 
with a great number of men ; they took thy power from 
thee, made thyself, and ourselves, and thy people 
prisoners and slaves. They bound thee, and made 
thee — a king — also a slave ; and until last night thou 
wert in bonds, and yesterday thou wert beaten like the 
meanest, and to-day's sun was to rise on thy corpse. 
But Niani — good Niani, whom I believed to be created 
only for mischief and fun — rose in the night, and 
delivered us all from the power of Ferodia ; and we are 
all here safe from our enemies, and free once more. 
Allah be praised for ever !" 

Kalulu was sobbing violently, and Selim, when he 
heard his sobs, could hardly refrain from joining him, 
but, conquering the feeling with an effort, he continued : 

" Kalulu, my brother, it is but a little thing that I 
am going to ask of thee, yet if thou wilt but grant it 
me, thou wilt make Selim happy — ay, happier even 
than when thou didst whisper the sweet words in my 
ear — * Thou art free ! Thou art my brother !' I fear 
to ask it of thee, lest thou wouldst hurt me with a 
refusal." 



SELIM WANTS KALULU TO GO HOME WITH HIM. 305 

" Speak, Selim ; what can Kalulu do for thee ? Have 
I not told thee long ago thou hast but to command me. 
Yet what have I to give thee? Was not Kalulu a 
slave yesterday ? Ha ! ha ! what has a slave to give ?" 
and the young chief laughed bitterly. 

" Thou hast more to give me than ever thou didst 
possess, Kalulu. Wilt thou promise it me what I shall 
ask." 

"Thou art but mocking me; but I give thee my 
promise, and a promise is not broken lightly by a 
Mtuta chief," Kalulu answered. 

" Then listen, my brother ! At Zanzibar I have 
a beautiful home ; and all around it are trees, great 
trees, like those in the forest, heavy with yellow globes 
of sweetness, called oranges, others borne down with 
great fruit larger than the matonga {Nv>x vomica) of the 
forest, which are sweeter than honey, and are called 
mangoes ; and there are tall trees, called palms, which 
bear nuts large as thy head, full of milky wine, so 
refreshing when thou art thirsty, that thou wilt recall 
the time when thy mother suckled thee, and laughed at 
the greediness of her bright, baby boy; and there are 
numbers of others, which give both fruit to fill a man's 
spirit with delight, and others to give perfume, which, 
when a man inhales it, his senses become suffused with 
pleasure ; and as for the vegetables whict my fields 
and gardens furnish, there is nothing in all Ututa, or 
the lands adjoining, to compare with them. There are 
squashes, and pumpkins, and melons, blue and purple 
egg-plants, cucumbers, chick-peas, and beans, yams, 
sweet potatoes, white and yellow tomatoes, and. plain- 
tains, and bananas, and numbers of things thou dost 

X 



306 MY KALULU. 

* 

not dream of. And then my house — ah! there is 
nothing like it in all Negro-land ; it is as high as the 
tallest tree, and as large almost as the great square of 
thy Tillage, all of white stone; the floors, instead of 
being of earth or of sand, are of white stone, smooth 
and shining as the stillest, whitest water thou hast ever 
seen ; and the beds are of down and of finest, whitest 
cloth, which when thou dost rest thy body upon them 
will cause thee to sleep and forget all troubles ; and 
from the upper doors, which we call windows in Arab 
land, thine eyes rest upon the great blue sea, and the 
laughing waves, which murmur of love, and beauty, 
and pleasure all the day. It is to this beautiful home 
I invite thee, my brother. It is to these scenes of holy 
love, and God's beauty, which He has given to me, that 
I wish to take thee ; and to my dear mother, who will 
be to thee as she is to me ; who will love thee for what 
thou hast done for her child, as she loves her own son ; 
to my beautiful mother, whose face is as white as yon 
white cloud, and as beautiful as the moon, I wish thee 
to come. Say, Kalulu, wilt thou come, and share my 
sweet mother's love with me ? Say, wilt thou come, 
and let me show thee the wonders of Zanzibar ?" 

Ealulu answered not ; he never ceased sobbing while 
Selim spoke ; he seemed loth to give the answer in the 
affirmative, yet he remembered his promise, and he 
remembered it was Selim who was asking him a favour. 
A few seconds, therefore, passed in this silence ; but 
when it was finally broken it was by Simba's deep 
voice, who said : 

"Those are wise words, young chief, that Master 
Selim has spoken. Neither Moto nor I could have 



SIMBA THE GIANT PLEABS. 307 

thought of them ; but the boy's heart has spoken wiser 
words than Simba and Moto's heads together could 
have spoken. Young chief, thou shalt yet be King of 
Ututa ; but it will be better first that thou goest to 
Zanzibar, where thine eyes may see strange things, and 
thy head learn wisdom. I, Simba, a servant of Selim, 
could not have invited thee to Zanzibar, because Simba 
has but a very little hut, not bigger than a camp-cote, 
where the hunter has to coil himself up like a serpent. 
My hut would then have been no place for the King of 
the Watuta ; but Master Selim has got a big house, 
bigger than any king's house in Negro-land ; he has 
numbers of servants, cattle, goats, donkeys, gardens, 
fields, and fruit-trees, and his riches are beyond my 
knowledge. Oh ! I see light and hope now, young 
chief. I know what is best for aU of us. I know how 
thou, by going to Zanzibar, may come to Ututa a 
greater king than Loralamba even. I'll tell thee how. 
Through the aid of Selim thou wilt become acquainted 
with numbers of rich Arabs, whom thou wilt like when 
thou wilt know them better. They are good men at 
heart, though some are bad, as there are bad men 
everywhere. This acquaintance will benefit thee and 
them, for after thou shalt have rested a year or two at 
Zanzibar, thou wilt be able to induce them to come 
with thee to thine own country, when for their aid to 
set thee in thy rights, thou wilt be able to give them 
back the Arab slaves Ferodia took at Kwikuru, and 
give them ivory in abundance; and they will make 
thee rich in cloth and fine things : thou wilt by that 
time, through the knowledge of such things obtained 
at Zanzibar, be able to judge of what is good, and what 



308 MT EALULU. 

is bad ; thou wilt be able to build thy villages strong 
against every attack of evil men, to conquer Ferodia, 
and every tribe round about, to make thy country 
great; so there will be none other like unto it ; so that 
thy name and glory be sung in all the comers of the 
earth. To be a great king thou must teach thyself 
and learn ' many things ; and this thou canst do by 
going to Zanzibar. I have said it." 

Then Kalulu, impulsive youth that he was, sprang up 
and cried, '^ Enough, Selim, thou hadst almost per- 
suaded me ; but Simba has conquered me. I shall go 
to Zanzibar, I shall learn how to be a great king, and I 
shall come back to XJtuta a strong, big man like thou, 
Simba; then let Ferodia look to himself. Let him 
live upon the fatness of the land. Let him enjoy his 
gains until Kalulu comes back, then by Soltali's ashes, 
by the grave of Mostana, by the black ruins of £ata- 
lambula's village, I shall have fullest revenge. I have 
spoken." 

" Good — good — good," cried all at once, and Selim 
sprang up and embraced him, while Simba and Moto 
took each a hand and shook it eagerly, while little 
Niani jumped and hopped about as though he were a 
real monkey, whereas he was only a monkey in name, 
and Abdullah, after Selim released him, insisted also 
upon the same right to embrace him, and promised 
upon the Kuran to come back with him to Watuta and 
see him righted. There was such joy in the little 
camp, closed in by that impenetrable jungle hedge, 
such as we are certain was never seen before, and never 
will be seen there again. 

" There is one other little thing I should like to see 



THE HEAD OP TIPUM THE WICKED. 309 

Ealulu do/' said Selim, Bmiling, but looking on the 
ground neyertheless. 

" What ? anything else for me to do ? Well, I will 
do it. Speak/' replied Ealulu, lifting Selim's head up 
with his hand so that he could see his face. 

'^ Thou art so good, Ealulu, to promise me so many 
things before thou knowest what it is I am going to 
ask. Thou knowest that I am very timid and fearful, 
and I could not sleep to-night quietly with that ugly 
head so near me, and " 

Ealulu rose immediately, and taking hold of the 
head by the hair, he tossed it into the middle of the 
jungle hedge, where, rolling through a little, it re- 
mained fixed in the forks of a thornbush situated 
exactly in the middle of the hedge, where it was more 
effectively buried safer from all living creatures than 
were it buried ten feet deep in the ^arth. 

" Good — good," cried Abdullah and Selim, really 
more rejoiced and feeling safer from Tifum than they 
liked to confess. 

"Now," said Simba, when each person's feelings 
were calmed, " let us talk of other matters. Ealulu, 
thou knowest this country. How can we get away to 
Zanzibar ?" 

" But where is Zanzibar ?" asked Ealulu, surprised. 

" It ought to be east directly from here, just where 
the sun rises every morning," answered Simba. 

" I can show the way to Urori ; but what lies beyond 
Urori I do not know," said Ealulu. 

" We are too small a party to be able to go through 
Uhehe alone," said Simba. "That won't do. What 
do you suggest, Moto ?" he asked of his friend. 



310 MY KALTJLU. 

" If I were anywhere on the track of the traders," 
answered that wise and cautious old hunter, " I would 
soon find out. If I were in Marungu or in tJsowa I 
could soon tell. Did I not hear thee say, Ealulu, that 
there lay a lake, a large body of water somewhere about 
here ?" 

'^ Yes, Lake Liemba ; there is no end to it. It runs 
towards the north," replied Kalulu. 

'' Lake Liemba ! Liemba !" said Moto to himself, 
like one trying to remember whether he had ever 
heard the name before. "I never heard of Liemba 
that I know of. I have been on Lake Tanganika several 
times in going from Ujiji to " 

" Ujiji !" said Kalulu, in a surprised tone. " Ujiji ! 
I never heard the Watuta travellers talk about the 
Tanganika ; but I have always heard that Ujiji was 
on Liemba, not far from Usowa, but further up." 

" Wallahi !" shouted Moto. " Then Lake Tanganika 
is only another name for Lake Liemba, for Ujiji is on 
Lake Tanganika, and Usowa is only a few days south 
of Ujiji. First after Ujiji there is Kawendi ; then we 
come to Usowa ; and after that is Uwemba — no, not 
Uwemba — Ufipa; and after Ufipa, Uwemba; then we 
always went straight to Marungu." 

"If thou canst go from Ujiji to Marungu, then," 
said Kalulu, " or to Wemba or Usowa, the road is easy, 
if thou knowest the road from Ujiji to Zanzibar." 

"Ah! don't I?" answered Moto, in a triumphant 
tone. " I will find the road from Ujiji to Zanzibar. I 
have travelled the road five times from Ujiji to Zan- 
zibar, and I ought to know it. I have been guide to 
Sayd bin Hashid from Unyanyembe to Ujiji ; but there 



THEY INTEND GOING TO UJUI. 311 

is a bettor and nearer road to Zanzibar from Fipa to 
Usowa ; then to Ukorongo and Unyanyembe." 

" Well, then," said Simba, " what we hiave got to do 
is to reach this lake, whence it is easy to reach Ufipa 
or Usowa, an4 from thence to Unyanyembe, after which 
it will be easy to get to Zanzibar." 

" I know the road to the Lake," said Kalnln, " for I 
was on the lake some moons ago. It ought to lie just 
where you saw the sun set to-night about twenty days' 
march from here. But between us and this lake is 
Ferodia's country. We should go a week further this 
way (pointing to the south), then turn round and go 
up, slowly towards the lake." 

" Ngema — Ngema" (good, good), all cried delighted. 

" To-morrow we will continue the journey south, and 
after a week we will pick our way toward this lake, 
and Inshallah ! we shall see Zanzibar within five moons 
from now," said Simba. 

" And to-jnorrow we shall get food — Inshallah !" said 
Moto. 

" Inshallah, Inshallah !" all the Moslems cried. 

They now proceeded to divide their ammunition, the 
powder and the bullets for Simba and Moto and Ab- 
dullah ; while Selim, on inspecting his cartridge-bag, 
found a box with a thousand caps and one hundred 
buUet-s for his "Joe Manton." Ealulu employed 
himself in examining the string of his bow; while 
Niani, seeing everybody else examine his weapon, 
thought he might as well follow their example, and 
began to look at the blade of his spear in a wise 
manner, and delighted everybody with the news that 
it was sharp. 



312 UY SALX7LU. 



CHAPTER Xn. 

Morning in the African Forest — Buffalo— The sacoessful Stalking^ 
Plenty of Beef— Little Niani's Story— The end of Niani's Story— 
Simba adopts Niani as his Son — The Torments of a Jungle — 
Jungle and Plain — ^The Journey and its Fatigues — The lion— 
The Lion despoiled of his mane — A Cornfield — A Chance of 
Escape. 

As the sky began to flush and brighten, and to be 
suffused with colour as it heralded the uprising sun, 
our party of travellers, cosily asleep in their camp, 
began to yawn and to stretch their limbs until they 
were finally awake, and sat up. 

There were no tents to pack, there were no loads to 
prepare for the journey ; there was nothing for them 
to do but to shake off the grass and doft earth on which 
they had slept from their bodies, leave the camp, and 
march. This they did. 

Nothing is so delightful as an African forest at 
break of day, where there is no high grass dripping 
with dew, no cane with its sword leaves to slash you wet 
with a showering rain as you pass under, nothing but 
the soft brown leaf-mould on the ground into which the 
feet sink as into a thick Persian carpet, thus giving 
you ample opportunities to observe the beauty of a 
forest at early morn, without inconvenience or anxiety 
OA the score of your health, The forest, with its count- 



MORNING IN THE AFRICAN FOREST. 313 

less trees, each loaded with its wealth of leaves and 
twigs, seems in the first grey opaque light before sun- 
rise to have been planted, fall grown, and decked with 
light green « leaves during the chaos of night, as they 
stand in their several positions row upon row in numbers 
untold, all wonderfully silent and still, awaiting the 
issue of the morning. And while they stand thus appa- 
rently labouring under excitement, though outwardly 
still as death, in the grey light and opacity through 
which the trees were first seen, there suddenly dart 
myriads of bright sheets of brilliant whiteness, which 
soon alternate with some of the hue of p9*le gold-and- 
yellow, and unconsciously the brilliant sheets of colour 
of glory have become indistinguishable in the general 
light of day which has at last come. Then, in harmony 
with the advent of the glorious day, the trees seem to 
recover from their astonishment, and their leaves begin 
to rustle and whisper to each other their gentle com- 
ments on the great change which the sun has wrought ; 
and from afar, borne by the breath of the wind to the 
human ears bent on listening, comes the low murmur 
of wakened life, the songs of birds, the fish-eagle's and 
paroquet's discordant cries, the hum of busy termites 
at work, the murmur of lady-birds, the whir of gad- 
flies and tsetse, the startling '' crick " of crickets ; and, 
away, almost at your feet, rushes the frightened land- 
rail uttering a piercing cry, and above your head flies 
the guinea-hens which, unknown to you, had roosted on 
the tree-bough just above, with an assumed terror, 
which provokes your smile ; and presently the hyaena 
is heard uttering his last farewell howl as he hies to 
his den to shun the honest sunlight, and the lion sends 



814 ^ aiY KALULU. 

his last farewell roar, filling the forest with its awful 
sound, and the yonng fawns and horned antelope are 
seen browsing on the sweet fresh grass, which is decked 
with many a minute head, and the elands and the kudu, 
the sable buck and hartebeest, blue-buck and zebra, are 
beheld munching and chewing in the glades with might 
and main, as if they had a task to fulfil before the end 
of some set time, which we may take as a warning that 
we have also our appointed work, and must be up and 
doing. 

This beautiful transformation from the gloam of the 
morning to the full burst of day was seen and enjoyed 
by the most poetical of our travellers, as they marched 
as rapidly as their waning strength would permit them 
after thft tireless forms of Simba and Moto. 

They had marched an hour, and the whole forest, 
which to them was a world, was all aglow with insect 
life, when Simba suddenly halted, with his finger point- 
ing towards an open country bounded by hills in the 
far distance, and said in a whisper, " Mbogo " (buffalo). 

The excitement became general, and the question 
which first came to each lip was, " Where are they ?" 
but following the direction towards which Simba's 
finger pointed, they were able to discern with difficulty 
three or four black specks in a portion of the open 
country which apparently was the same Ututa plain 
which had bounded the forest to the right all the time. 
Simba, Moto, Selim, Abdullah, and Ealulu, at once and 
instinctively struck for the open plain, followed by 
Niani, who, with his single spear, looked as important 
as one could well be, and who seemed to think that all 
the buffaloes would eventually fall beneath his hand. 



BTJFTALO. 315 

Arriving on the edge of the forest, Simba, in order to 
make sure of one of them, separated bis forces, each 
about forty yards from the other, with instructions to 
crawl towards the animals and surround them on all 
but the windward side ; to make no noise, and to wait 
for a low whistle to rise up and fire. After each of 
them had promised faithfully for the commonweal to 
obey such injunctions, which were also impressed on 
their minds emphatically by the hunter Moto, the 
laborious task of working their way towards the animals 
began. 

Fortunately the wind was from the westward, so 
they were not compelled to make any detour to avoid 
tainting the air, and between the buffaloes and them- 
selves rose several low hummocks, ancient ant-hills 
deserted long ago, and now covered with dense tall 
yellow grass. The plain was also covered with the 
same tall grass, but at their base grew the young 
herbage — signs of the coming spring and rainy season 
now fast advancing-which probably was that upon 
which the buffaloes fed. 

To our people it was a serious matter to fail, as their 
hungering stomachs could not sustain their bodies 
much longer in their march, without replenishment soon ; 
besides, the excitement of the escape from cruel bondage 
had vanished, so that it became a vital necessity to 
obtain food. This strong, urgent necessity probably 
compelled their caution, and taught each person the art 
of stalking much sooner than they had any idea could 
be learnt before. 

Steadily they advanced, crouching close beneath the 
grass-heads, hiding behind the numberless hummocks 



316 MY KALULU. 

which rose in their front at intervals, behind the tall 
mysterious palms whose fan-like leaves kept up an un- 
ceasing rustle, and waving as the hreeze swayed them 
up and down, and blew them with a startling noise 
against the tall trunks. 

Nearer, step by step, they crawled with bated 
breath, and crowds of anxious thoughts running 
through their heads, lest the slightest error or alarm 
might be made by some awkward companion, every 
now and then lifting their heads up to note the pro- 
gress they made, or the position of the massive and 
fierce brutes whom they intended to attack. 

Kalulu, more experienced than any other, had found 
his task much lighter than either Simba or Moto, least 
of all the Arab boys, his lithe, sinewy form had pene- 
trated through the grass with the ease of the young 
antelope, from which he derived his name, and had 
found it no difficulty whatever to stalk the buffaloes ; 
so that, long before his companions had gained their 
several positions, he had ventured as near a buffalo bull 
as prudence would suggest, and one of his arrows was 
already resting on the string which his practised hand 
would surely send home into the animal's flanks on the 
first sound of the signal. 

In a few minutes, Simba having kindly waited for his 
friends, Kalulu heard the whistle, and as he stood up 
he took a second's survey of the field. Moto was far 
to the right of Simba, Simba was next to Kalulu, 
Abdullah was a few yards behind him, on his left, with 
his gun pointed at the same animal he had chosen. 
Selim was the furthest on the left, about thirty or forty 
yards from a young bull buffalo. This was taken in at 



THE SUCOESSFtJL STiXKING. 817 

one glance, and probably Simba and Moto had taken 
the same precaution. The next second Ealnln's bo^ 
twanged. Selim's rifle and the muskets of Simba and 
Moto were heard together, and there was confusion and 
momentary dismay among the animals, as they heard 
the startling reports of the fire-arms. The lord of the 
little herd, in whose side Kalulu's arrow was buried up 
to the feathers, had already lowered his head, and was 
preparing for a charge, when Abdullah's gun rang out 
sharp and loud, close behind, it seemed to Kalulu, who 
instinctively bent his head, and the formidable bull 
reeled under the stroke of th0 bullet, which was flattened 
in the centre of his head hut only for a moment; 
for, after uttering a frightful bellow, he lowered his 
h^ad again, and came down, tearing the earth, towards 
the active young chief. 

Pooh ! the brute might as well have charged upon 
smoke, as upon the young Mtuta ; for a single bound 
took him to one side, clear out of danger, and as the 
buffalo passed by, exposing his flanks, Kalulu drew his 
bow until it was almost double, and sent a barbed 
arrow clean through his heart, which rolled him over 
and over in the agonies of death. Thus Kalulu won 
the first prize. 

Simba and Moto had been engaged with the same 
animal, which two bullets well aimed soon settled for 
ever. Selim, on the other hand, had broken a leg, just 
at the shoulder, of the buffalo to which he was opposed, 
and with his second barrel had sent a shot through the 
body, which so sickened the young bull, that he could 
do no more than roar painfully, and vomit blood, sure 
signs of his fast-approaching doom. Before he could 



318 MY KALTTLtT. 

reload hig gun, the buffalo staggered, fell on his knees, 
and rolled over, still and dead. 

Little Niani had in the meantime been skulking 
behind a tree, watching with a critical eye the battle, 
and now as he saw it terminated he advanced from his 
place of security, and gave a shout of triumph, and 
made as much noise, as though he, single-handed, had 
laid the three buffaloes low ; but, for the good deed 
that he had so lately done, nobody cared to dispute his 
assumption, and all laughed merrily as they saw him 
dance on the body of Kalulu's bull. Not for long, how- 
ever, for human stomachs were calling for food, and 
spear-blade, and knife were therefore set industriously 
to work to carve out the finest pieces of beef. Simba 
and Moto each carved out a hind-leg of rosy, juicy 
beef, at the sight of which the saliva ran out of their 
mouths like water, and Niani, as he saw the rich 
chunks which Kalulu, with the aid of Abdullah, ex- 
tracted from his game, almost drowned himself with 
swallowing his saliva. 

When each was loaded down with beef, the party 
returned to the forest again, straight towards the east, 
for its gloomiest recesses, where they might remain in 
security, while they cooked and ate, should any enemies 
have heard the reports of their guns. 

In about an hour they reached a secure place, a 
similar clump of jungle almost to that wherein they 
had slept so cosily the night before. A fire was soon 
made with the aid of their muskets, by Simba and 
Moto, while the boys, under the direction and example 
of Kalulu, employed themselves in preparing slender 
rods, pointed, with which they pierced small pieces of 



PLENTY OF BEEF. 319 

beef, to plant around the fire for a speedy broil. In 
their great hurry to allay their gnawing hunger, too, 
they threw several thin slices into the hottest part of 
the fire, which no sooner were warmed than they were 
extracted again and eaten with a relish and satisfac- 
tion which the poor stomachs alone could have properly 
described had they the same power of speech as they 
had of digestion. 

While they were thus eating, a glance at the fire 
showed a regular palisade of slender sticks, on which 
numberless pieces of meat were impaled, and Simba and 
Moto having thus satisfactorily arranged the cooking 
of the rations, began to make other preparations for 
the same purpose on a more extensive scale, while 
Abdullah and Niani were detailed to procure wood, and 
keep up a regular scorching fire, as the march was to 
be resumed after noon. The men selected four sticks 
with prongs, which they planted at each corner and 
outside the beefy-palisade, and laying two slender poles 
lengthwise, with their ends resting in the forks of the 
upright sticks, and over these poles they laid shorter 
sticks crosswise, and apart from each other, which 
structure, when completed, had somewhat the appear- 
ance of a gridiron. On this platform were laid long 
strings of meat, and the object of their preparations 
was soon explained to Selim, who in this knowledge 
perceived where he had been at fault, when he escaped 
from Ferodia on the march to Katalambula's village. 

It was really wonderful how much these heroes of 
ours managed to eat. The palisade on which the 
kabobs were roasting, and hissing, and spluttering, was 
rapidly disappearing before the voracious attacks of the 



320 HY KALX7LU* 

gourmands. Some hand was constantly stretched out 
to take and uproot i}he defences round the fire^ and 
fingers were incessantly employed in extracting from 
the sticks the juicy and luscious pieces, and one mouth 
or another was continually opened to receive, while the 
jaws of all were perpetually grinding meat with their 
lips emitting a chorus of " auch," " auch," " tlap," 
'^ tlap." Though there has been an omission to men- 
tion that, over the body of each buffalo, before its 
throat was cut, the blessing of God was invoked, it 
must not be taken for granted that such pious sons of 
Islam as Selim and Abdullah were, could have done 
such a deed without going through the grateful 
ceremony which the Kuran has enjoined on all true 
believers. And in the feeling of plenitude which was 
at last felt, they found their reward. My young 
readers who have never experienced the pangs of 
hunger and thirst will have perhaps some difficulty in 
comprehending the fierceness of appetite and voracity 
which these children of nature exhibited. 

About two o'clock in the afternoon, the meat was 
taken from the platform, " done brown," and was bound 
into a light bale of provisions for each person, with 
bark rope, and with a perfectly satisfied feeling, the 
party sallied out, and continued the journey south. 

At sunset they encamped near a pool of water, and 
after surrounding themselves with a stout brush fence, 
they set to work upon some more meat, with an enjoy- 
ment and gusto few can realize outside of those who 
have gone through similar experiences. Jokes were 
freely made; Simba uttered his dry, crisp remarks, 
which set them all laughing. Then, when the supper 



LITTLE inANl'S STORY. 321 

was over, and Moto had taken out from some extra- 
ordinary recess of his loin cloth a leaf of tobacco, and 
some lime, and handing a bit to Simba, who received it 
with joyful gratitude, and placed it in his mouth, with 
a pleasure which lit his face up. Moto called out to 
Niani for a story. Little Niani was taken aback by 
this, and blushed as much as he could blush, for his 
face seemed to burn, and tingle, as he felt the high 
honbur conferred on him. He answered, he did not 
know how to tell a story. But Moto having explained 
to him that he only wished to know what had become 
of him after he left Katalambula's village, Niani said: 

" Oh, it is soon told. Tifum the Wicked, after we 
came to Katalambula's, took me to his own hut, and 
made me wait on him, fetch water, and light his pipe 
for him, and when Ferodia left Katalambula's that 
night, when he was angry because Simba and Kalulu 
would not let him take Master Selim with him, I 
was marched off by Tifum. On the road, Tifum beat 
me several times, and once threatened to cut my head 
off, if I did not hurry my steps. I was sorry, and I felt 
as if I did not care much what he would do to me, since 
I was parted from Master Selim, who was always so 
good to me. One of the Arab slaves was caught as he 
was trying to run away, and Ferodia ordered him to be 
killed. He was thrown on the ground by six men, and 
while one man drew his head back by the hair, another 
with a knife that was not sharp, began to cut his head 
off. The blood of that poor man spouting up in the 
faces of the cruel men, while his body was shaking, and 
moving about as he tried to breathe, I shall never 
forget ; and if only for that savage work of Tifum, who 

Y 



822 MY KALX7LU. 

stood by laTLghing, I think Tifnm the Wicked has been 
served right. Nothing else happened on the road, 
except that every day some poor slave was badly used, 
and beaten nntil he died. I think that more than 
twenty people died on the road. We got at last to 
Ferodia's village, which is not near so big as Eatalam- 
bula's was, though he has plenty of cows, and sheep, 
and goats. Tifum had four wives, all ugly and cruel, 
and when Tifum told them to make use of me, those 
bad women treated me worse than he had done ; they 
pulled my hair, pinched my ears and face, slapped me 
on the back, made me run after water, to tend their 
goats, and bring them back at night. Indeed, they 
nearly killed me, while Tifum laughed as if he enjoyed 
it. I then thought it better to be very good, and do my 
work quick, which, when Tifum saw, he took me away 
from them, and made me work for him only; but he 
was all the time saying he would cut my throat some 
day, and eat me — end he used to open his mouth so 
wide ! I think I could have jumped down into it, if I 
tried hard. I heard him say often, too, how sorry he 
was he did not have one of the white slaves — meaning 
Master Selim and Master Abdullah — the Pagan dog! 
for he thought he could have been much more thought 
of by his people if he had one of them. Then we 
heard, one day, that Eatalambula was dead, and Ealulu 
was king, which made Ferodia fearfully angry, and say 
how he would chop up into little bits everybody who 
helped him ; and the next day, after plenty of talk, he 
took a great number of people with him, and came 
towards Katalambula's. Tifum took'me with him, and 
made me carry his spears, and bag of rice, and a 



THE END OP NIANl's STORY. 323 

gonrdful of water. I was thinking all the time I would 
tell Simba and Moto what Perodia was going to do, if 
I could only get in ; but at the village of the tribe of 
Meroeni, Tifum left me behind, by orders of Ferodia, 
and I knew I could not help you. The night it was all 
to take place I tried again, but I could not ; and in the 
morning we all left for Katalambula's, only to find the 
warriors of Ferodia masters of the village. You know 
the rest. I saw you all slaves, and I came very near 
crying when I saw it; but I stopped it, for fear" of 
Tifum. But all the time I was thinking, and thinking 
how I could help you all, but I was afraid. Then that 
night in the forest, after Soltali was burnt, I heard 
Tifum swear that in the morning he would cut Kalulu's 
head ofi", and, whether Ferodia liked it or not, he would 
then cut off Master Selim's head. I became angry 
then. Yes, you may laugh ; but my heart was black, 
and once or twice I looked at Tifum's knife hungrily, 
and I thought how I should like to bury it in his black 
neck ; but no ; I waited until after Tifum had eaten his 
supper, and I heard him groan in pain, and I thought 
he would never stop; but he did at last, and went 
asleep. Then I got up, with Tifum's knife in my hand, 
and came to you. Master Selim. And now you know 
all that Niani knows." 

" Ngema toto, Toto nwema, sana " (Good child, very 
good child), cried Moto ; but Simba stretched out his 
long, strong arm, and laid hold of Hiani and lifted him 
up, and hugged the little mite — until he was almost 
hidden by the great, strong arms — close to his mighty 
breast, and poured into his ear such endearing terms 
that poor little Niani had never heard before, that 



324 mr kalultt. 

made his eyes water after a singnlar manner, which he 
could not very well have explained but that he felt a 
great big Inmp in his throat, which seemed as if it 
wonld choke him. 

Selim, his son, dear young master, who was so yery 
superior to him, and all whom he had ever seen, his 
Master Selim, who had such a beautiful mamma at 
Zanzibar — ^his Master Selim, whom he had seen dressed 
in gold and silver raiment, in the beautifullest clothes 
of blue and red silk, and whitest linen, Niani saw look- 
ing at him with eyes full of kindness, and a smile on 
his face, — for which he would have gone through the 
hottest fire, — with a look which went straight into him, 
and kindled within him a feeling akin to idolatry, and 
heard the sweetest words which were ever uttered in 
his hearing from him. '^ Gome to me, come near Selim, 
Niani;" and the little black waif, who hitherto had 
been neglected and allowed to grow wild unnoticed by 
a single kind human eye, was clasped by his young 
master and kissed ! 

"My own mamma shall thank thee, Niani," said 
Selim, resting his hand, upon his head. " Thou dost 
remember her, dost thou not, Niani ?" 

" Ah, when shall I forget her, master, or you ?" said 
Niani; while from under the half-closed eyes and 
bowed head rolled the tears in streams down his 
cheeks. 

" Nay, Niani, thou shalt not say ' you' to me more ; 
say ' thou,' because thou art no longer my slave — thou 
shalt be more ; thou shalt be my friend. Selim has no 
slaves around this fire. Neither Simba nor Moto are my 
slaves; they are my friends, and now thou art also one." 



SIMBA ADOPTS NIANI AS HIS SON. 325 

" Yes, but Master Selim, Simba and Moto are big, 
and I am little and bad, and some day, perhaps, I shall 
do something wrong, and you will be no longer ' my 
friend." 

" And when that day comes," responded Selim, " I 
shall remember a little boy who crept through a camp 
of wicked people in the dead of night, while all others 
were afraid of Soltali's ghost, and came and delivered 
his master Selim from the sharp knife of Tifum, and 
the memory of that deed shall be sure to make me say, 
" Forgive Niani, for the sake of that he did to thee. 
Forgive him for the life he gave back to thee." 

" Niani will always try to be good, because he loves 
his Master Selim," the little fellow said. 

" So be it," answered his master. 

" And I," said Abdullah, " want to be Niani's friend ; 
and he must say 'thou' to me, and when we reach 
Zanzibar, Niani will find how grateful an Arab boy 
can be." 

Simba said : '^ Niani must look upon me as his father 
from this evening, because he has neither father nor 
mother of his own. Master Selim, Abdullah, and 
Moto are his friends ; and when Niani is big like me, 
Master Selim will give him a wife and garden, and a 
home, and he will grow up with plenty of little Nianis 
around him." 

This set them all laughing, and the idea pf little 
Niani having plenty of other little Nianis, lasted as a 
good joke until it was time to sleep. 

The fire was allowed to die out; but through the 
gloom of night in the dark forest, with the broad, 
shadowy boughs swaying softly over the sleepers, the 



326 MY KALULU. 

everlasting stars, the sonthem cross, glittering Orion, 
and bright, shining Canopns, searched them out, but 
they never looked down from their exalted heights on 
a camp in Central Africa, where were purer fellowship, 
or greater human kindness than that which those sleep- 
ing forms contain within them towards one another. 

The march of our party was continued the next day 
and for six days more toward the south without having 
once emerged from the forest. They saw plenty of 
game, and almost every day bagged something for the 
larder ; btit they always kept a surplus of dried meat 
by as a provision for exigencies. 

On the seventh day after the scenes just detailed 
above, Kalulu thought they might now turn west, and 
after going in that direction for three days, might 
slowly point their faces toward the north-west, or alter 
their direction towards Lake Liemba, as circumstances 
permitted.* 

The genial shade and tranquillity of the "primeval 
forest was soon exchanged after they turned their faces 
west for the intolerable heat and vexation of a low, thorny 
jungle. Their nostrils became offended with the fetid 

? The real direction in which onr people journeyed may be foxmd 
by any reader cnrious enough to wish to know if he wiU examine the 
map of Central Africa as published in the book ' How I Found Living- 
stone,' when the reader will be able to locate easily the scenes laid 
here. He wiU find that the countries are laid down with a fidelity 
which generally belongs to standard geographical works, that no 
liberties are taken with the habits, the customs, or the true ethnology 
of the great country of XJtuta, or with the geography of Central 
Africa, neither with the probabilities of a life in that far region. The 
chain of circumstances, as here portrayed, alone belong to the romantic 
and the fictitious, and this fact the author would fain impress np^tu 
the minds of his readers. 



THE TOBMENTS OF A JUNaLE. 327 

rank exhalations of the cactaceons and aloetic plants, 
and black gummy bushes, armed with many a horrid 
thorn, which struggled with each other for place and 
air with the wanton luxuriance and spontaneous growth 
which belongs to tropical plants. These loaded the air 
with a pungent, acrimonious odour, which set them all 
coughing, and when they impatiently rubbed the tor- 
mented organs of respiration, they but added to their 
discomfort, for their hands had unconsciously rubbed 
against some leaves as they passed through, and com- 
municated a burning sensation to their noses and lips 
like that which cayenne pepper provokes. Long 
creepers, armed upon all sides with ridges of thorn, 
evoked many an impatient word, as at an unlucky 
moment they stumbled against these, and were held 
fast to the great and severe wounding of the epidermis, 
and pendulous arms, overhanging the road which they 
traversed, caught them fast often with their crooked 
and sharp thorns by the skin of the throat, causing 
severe and painful wounds. These pains and penalties, 
which the jungles of that region impose upon the un- 
lucky travellers who are compelled to travel through 
them, were but a few of the inconveniences and dis- 
comforts which our friends suffered. The whole ground 
seemed strewn with the opened kernel of a seed thorn, 
which is armed outside with as many straight, sharp 
thorns as there are^quills in a porcupine's back. Fancy 
men with naked feet walking over a ground strewn with 
miniature porcupines, and you will agree with me that 
the pain and torment would be as great almost as 
walking over hot embers. At least such were the 
opinions of our friends, as they were compelled, while 



328 MY KALULIT. 

their faces were wrinkled with pain, to stop every other 
minute to extract the vile thorn kernels which had 
wounded their feet. 

Apart from these miseries of the jnngle were those 
which the heated and cracked earth furnished. The 
red, drouthy ground was full of wide and unsightly 
seams, rugged rents, which gaped open to receive the 
incautious foot, and many a stumhle and cry was elicited 
from the unwary Arab boys, who, instead of watching 
against these mischances, permitted their eyes to rove 
over the inhospitable scene. 

And over all these shone the sun with a true tropic 
fervour, where, untempered by the slightest breeze, 
with no' friendly tree intervening with its thick foliage 
between their heads and the full power of the sun, 
their nude bodies seemed destined to be baked while 
they yet had the power of locomotion. These several 
things, the heat of the sun, the hot vapour from the 
earth surging upward like steam, the prickly bush 
and the frequent stumblings, engendered a violent 
thirst which they all began to feel, while the perspi- 
ration streaming from their bodies added more and 
more to its intensity. 

Ah ! they may well think with regret of the grateful 
shade which the luxuriant forest aflforded ; they may 
well say that they wished that the forest had lasted 
for ever, for it furnished many a pool of clear 
water, the freshness of which the pale yellow lotus 
flowers, languidly resting on its surface, seemed to 
enhance. They may well think of the joyous chorus 
which the gorgeously-feathered birds gave out inces- 
santly from morn until evening ; they may well think 



JUNGLE AND PLAIN. 329 

with regret of all the pleasures which the primeval 
woods furnished, which they have now exchanged for 
the steamy plain and acrid jungle. But the road to 
home and comfort lies through many a jungle yet, 
and these" inconveniences ye have to suffer, my friends, 
if ye ever think to embrace the friends who await ye 
at Zanzibar ! 

At sunset they came to a shallow pool, whose consis- 
tence was that of liquid mud of a chalky colour. The 
vicinity showed that it was a frequent resort for such 
animals as were benighted in the inhospitable plain on 
their way to more northern pasture-grounds, and that 
its colour and unsavoury taste had been caused by the 
thirsty beasts plunging into its middle in their hurry 
to assuage the thirst which consumed their vitals. But 
little recked our thirsty heroes for the colour or the 
unsavoury taste of the water so long as it relieved in 
the slightest degree the pangs which tormented them. 

Continuing their journey towards the west the next 
day, one of the annoyances which troubled them the 
day before abated. The jungle had disappeared, and 
in its place stretched a treeless plain before them, 
which was covered with tall and bleached grass of the 
last summer's growth. This plain, when they had 
travelled many hours towards its centre, and took a 
survey around, they found to be an oval depression, as 
the jungle which they had left in the morning appeared 
to be on much higher ground than that on which they 
now stood, and Kalulu expressed his opinion that they 
had begun to descend towards the lake-land of 
southern Liemba, in which opinion Simba and Moto 
concurred. 



330 MY KAXULU. 

As they advanced still further to the west, the 
country began to heave upward on the horizon, though 
they seemed to descend into a yet lower level. Pre- 
sently walking became a task of difficulty. The firm 
close ground over which they had travelled, and the 
dense pasture-grass changed into a tall sedge which 
formed tussocks, separated and isolated from each other, 
which they had to span with long strides, and which 
shook beneath their weight, as they sprang from one 
tussock to another. 

After two hours of this fatiguing work they came to 
a black spongy ooze, which appeared firm enough on 
the surface, but as soon as it felt their weight it ad- 
mitted them up to their waists into the depths of the 
putrid composition of wet grass and sedgy mould, over 
the surface of which trickled many a miniature stream 
of oily slime. The sword leaves of the pubescent reed 
and sedge slashed and cut their bodies as though razors 
had been lightly drawn across them, and the blood 
streamed down their chests and limbs. They pre- 
sented a miserable spectacle as they finally emerged 
from the swampy fen, and felt the firm ground 
under their feet once more, for they were spattered 
all over with clots of black mud, which, under the 
sun's heat, were rapidly baked, and formed a filthy 
grey encrustation. 

But heedless of all this they urged their steps until 
they had reached the ridgy horizon, which, ever since 
morning, had loomed greyishly blue before them. As 
it was night when they had reached this elevation, they 
rested here, completely worn out with the dire march of 
the day, and so great was their fatigue that they did not 



THE JOURNEY AND ITS FATIGUES. 331 

pay much heed to the thirst they otherwise would have 
suflfered from. 

Long before day on the third morning they were on 
the way again, looking with dismay at the extensiye 
plain which waved and heaved before them like a sea, 
and throughout all its prospect promised no ameliora- 
tion of the fatigue and pain they had endured the day 
before. Away, as far as the vision could command, the 
land rose in successive ridges, of a whitish hue, which 
they knew to be the result of the dry and parched 
grass which clothed them. It was through such an 
inhospitable country the march of the third day west- 
ward took them. 

On the fourth morning Ealulu chose a broad ridge 
which ran north-westerly, and led the way along its 
spine, whence they obtained views of all around. Now 
and then the travellers dipped into hollows, but regained 
rising ground as oft as they could, and towards night 
they yfeie gratified by observing dark mountainous 
masses in the distance, which they were told would be 
reached in about twelve hours' march the next day. 

The night of the fifth day verified the prediction of 
Kalulu, for they found themselves at the base of a 
conical hill, near a stream of pure water, close by a 
bamboo jungle, whose vivid green leaves afibrded a 
grateful contrast to the bleached grass, through which 
daily grew into greater importance the noisy but 
clear rivulet, which brawled over pebbles and gravel 
bottom to the impetuous stream thundering down 
rocky slopes, past granite and basaltic pinnacles, in 
foamy sheets and curved round bends, with moan and 
wail, until it gained the level lea, where it flowed tran- 



332 ' MY KALULU. 

quilly on towards its eternity. They plunged through 
leafy woods, where the sycamore was in its glory and 
towered aloft in an enormous glob^, acknowledged king 
of trees ; through bamboo jungles, through park lands 
of unusual beauty, by conical hills, and along the base 
of ridges of gray rock, defiling through deep ravines, 
until they finally came to a verdant champaign dotted 
here and there with noble trees, where the swards were 
as soft as velvet. And all these days they had been 
descending slowly but surely towards the lake they 
were in search of, and the vigorous young grass which 
now gladdened their eyes informed them that they were 
not far from it. They formed their camp, warmed 
their last morsel of dried meat, and comforted each 
other, that in such a land they need not be long looking 
for game. 

About midnight they were roused from their slumbers 
by the roar of a lion, apparently very near them, and 
Moto said, as soon as he could collect his faculties : 

" What did I tell ye ? I knew such a country as this 
must be full of game, and the roar of that beast con- 
firms it, for a lion is never found except where there is 
food for him, but, Selim, thou must be ready with thy 
rifle, for if the fellow is very hungry he will try to take 
one of us." 

" I see him," whispered Kalulu. " There ! look at 
him; do ye not see that dark form slowly moving 
past that big tree now ? There ! he stops and looks 
towards us !" 

" Hush !" whispered Simba, " he is coming. Be ready 
and sure with thy gun, young master !" 

" Shall I fire now ?" asked Selim in a low tone. 



THE UOK. 333 

"No, no, no," replied Moto. "Wait until I give 
the word. Pooh, yonng master, then must drive thy 
ball through and through his head. It will never do to 
wound him." 

The sound of the pulsations in their bodies might 
almost have been heard, as still as the tree stem under 
whose leafage they were crouching, they waited the 
ferocious and powerful thief and prowler who ranges 
at will, seeking whom he may devour, throughout the 
long night in the game lands of Africa. Fortunate 
was it for some of them that he signaled his presence 
in the forest with that first loud roar, for had he but 
crept to them, unwarning, as he was now doing, what a 
terrible confusion he had thrown the panic-stricken 
people into ! Not a sound was heard as he neared them. 
It was only by the approaching bulk and dark loom of 
him they knew he was advancing; but presently he 
again stopped, and they heard the soft brushing of the 
grass, probably made with his tail, as he twirled and 
tossed it about wantonly, and through the gloom they 
saw two specks of luminous light, shine like miniature 
lanterns, by which Selim was able to take aim. The 
hand of Moto lightly resting on the Arab-boy's shoul- 
ders, warned him and restrained him from firing. 

For a moment the lion stood surveying the creatures 
he knew to be crouched under the tree. He then was 
seen to move to the left, as if he were about to make a 
circuit round them, but at every step he took Selim 
turned his gun, resting on his knee, at him, completely 
covering him. Suddenly he halted and confronted 
them, and a loud appalling roar broke on their startled 
ears, terrible enough in its volume and sound to 



334 MY KAliULTT.. 

unnerve the stontest, and which caused little Niani audi 
Abdullah to shrink behind Simba and Moto, who in tlii 
meantime had prepared their guns lest Selim's nerva 
might fail him at the critical and trying moment. Tbd 
form of the lion, now fearfully plain, came to the eartl^ 
with an almost imperceptible downward movement, ani 
each second as it passed, while he waited for the coso^ 
mand, was freighted with keenest anxiety to Selinu 

Kalulu warned M'oto that the beast was preparing fyjt 
a spring. Then Moto bade all be ready, and the woti 
" Piga" (fire) was heard, sharp and peremptory, and HhiB 
three guns simultaneously belched flame and fire, lit vf^ 
the form of the then uprising lion, and a savage erf 
and dull heavy thud upon the earth announced to theM' 
anxious souls that the lion's spring was cut short, an4i 
that he was either dying or was dead. 

They hastily raked the hot embers together, anl^ 
throwing straw on it, soon blew it into a bright hlBLSStf' 
which threw a light over the late scene of terror, anlT" 
showed the lion's form stretched on its right side, ml^^ 
its left fore-paw, vainly beating the air, and the opendJ^* 
jaws, the gleaming white teeth, and protruding tongotif 
and the head almost split asunder, where two bulletf ' 
had entered home to the brain, and robbed him of tli# 
cruel life which only endured to rend and devour prey* 

" Ah ha, lion ! thou greedy beast," cried Niani, ho]^ 
ping about as light as a young springbok. " Thou didsfc 
think to eat Niani, thou cruel one. Father Simba^ 
rightly (jailed *lion,' and Master Selim, and friend 
Moto have given thee as good as thou didst intend to 
have given me. He will roar no more, will he, chief ?" 
he suddenly asked Ealulu. 



THE LION BESPOILED OF HIS MAKE. 335 

" No, little one," responded that more decorons and 
dignified youth ; " he will haunt the forest no more, nor 
startle the antelopes with his roar during the gloom of 
night. Thou mayst sleep in peace now, Niani." 

" Ay," added Selim, " and dream of the sweet and 
sugared hulwa (sweetmeats) and dates of Muscat, and of 
the pretty jackets with silver lace on them, he is going 
to get from me at Zanzibar." 

" Yes, and the red fez with the gold tassel which 
his friend Abdullah will give him," said that Arab youth. 

" And he must not forget the little wife and lots of 
Nianis he is going to get by-and-by," added Simba, 
as he walked forward closer to the dead Simba, after 
whom he was named. 

" He will do there until morning," said Moto. " Let 
us continue our sleep, or do ye all go to sleep while I 
watch, because this carrion may bring others in search 
of him," which good advice was soon adopted, and after 
some little time had passed all, except Moto, had 
resumed their slumberi. 

As the horizon was greying in the east Moto awoke 
his companions, who set at once to work to make a fire 
to warm themselves after the chilly night-dew. Kalulu 
cut qS the claws of the lion, which he gave to Simba, 
Moto, and Selim, while the fourth paw's claws he offered 
to Abdullah, and when refiased by him he reserved for 
himself. 

Simba also stripped the splendid furry mane from the 
lion's neck and cut it into six equal strips, which he 
divided amongst his companions, and then suggested 
that the journey be continued, and that each should 
keep a bright look-out for game. 



336 MY KALtJLU. 

Within an hour Simba saw a kudu, and leaving his 
companions alone, he proceeded after it, and in a few 
moments the crack of his gun was heard, and his friends, 
with infinite satisfaction, said that his shot was effec- 
tive, and, running up to him, were just in time to hear 
him utter his " Bismillah " (in the name of God), and 
to see him draw his knife to sever the throat of the 
fine animal. 

Moto, while the juicy steaks were broiling over red 
coals, and the jaws of his companions were already hard 
at work, proposed that after the long march they should 
rest that day and strengthen themselves with meat ; 
but Simba and Kalulu were for prosecuting the journey 
until they should get a sight of the Lake Liemba, and 
after hearing Kalulu's reasons Selim concurred in the 
proposition, though Abdullah and Niani sided with 
Moto, pleading their fatigue. 

They rested until noon, however, and by this time 
Niani and Abdullah felt so strengthened with the meat 
they had eaten and digested, that they declared them- 
selves strong enough to march a month longer, which 
statement was received with pleasure by all. 

The same champaign spread out on either side of 
them as they continued their journey, as beautiful as 
when it first was revealed to them, and in the far 
distance they saw herds upon herds of buffalo, giraffe, 
and antelope feasting on the rich grass. 

Here and there, to vary the monotony, rose a clump 
of mimosa, or a tall tamarind, or a silk cotton tree, or 
a group of stately palmyra, adding grace and beauty to 
the picture, and now and then they passed a low 
thicket of brush and thorn. 



A oornpield! 337 

Above,- over their heads, soared the kite and the 
bustard, the vulture and the hawk, searching with keen 
eyes for prey, while the smaller birds made the groves 
and the thickets and the lordly trees merry with their 
chirping song. 

There was such repose and tranquillity, and a feeling 
of perfect security in the scene, that the Arab boys 
wished it would last until it was replaced by the happier 
scenes of Zanzibar. Poor youths ! well they might wish 
it, after the disagreeabilities of travel they had encoun- 
tered in all shapes during their short stay in Africa, 
But to make even this pleasant view one of horror, to 
transform its peaceful .aspect into one ominous and fatal 
to them, it needed but fifty warriors of Ferodia to 
make their appearance before them, and how quickly 
were it all changed, and to make even the jungle and 
treeless plain a paradise compared to it ! 

Kalulu ventured a remark that evening, as they were 
comfortably collected around the camp-fire, that he did 
not think such a beautiful and rich country could be 
without inhabitants somewhere in the neighbourhood. 
At least, said he, he had always found it so, and he 
thought that on the morrow, or the next day, they 
must see signs of cultivation and population, as they 
must be rapidly nearing the lake. 

The next morning, after they had journeyed a few 
hours, Simba, who was in advance, cried out that he 
saw a cornfield, which sent a momentary feeling of 
terror into the minds of his younger companions ; but, 
habituating themselves to the sight of it, they became 
reassured, as they remembered that Ferodia must be 
far away, and that possibly the people had never heard 

z 



338 MY KALUIiU. 

of a man who had made himself a bugbear to them by 
his ferocious disposition and cruel character. 

In an hour or so, after skirting the cornfield, they 
came to a river, brown and deep, and about twenty 
yards wide, flowing towards the north, and while they 
were hugging the thick tall spear-grass which grew 
along the bank, Niani uttered. a low cry, and pointed 
with his finger towards something that was hidden 
near the bank. Kalulu retraced his steps quickly to 
observe what had escaped his eyes, and he saw a canoe 
with four paddles in it ! 

He was not long in imparting the tidings, and the 
party drew together for a whispered consultation ; but 
Moto advised strongly that they should not expose 
themselves, but that they should retreat at once into 
the first thicket, a piece of prudent counsel which was 
acted upon as soon as intimated. 

They found, about two hundred yards away from the 
object of their surprise and concern, a suitable place in 
a dense bush, wherein they crouched down, after they 
had posted Niani to observe narrowly from the entrance 
for any suspicious object, for a discussion about their 
future movements. 

" Who do you think these people are, Kalulu ?" asked 
Simba. 

The young chief answered that he thought the tribe 
was that of the Wa-liemba, and that the canoe belonged 
to a party of hunters from the village, who were out 
looking for game. 

Moto then suggested that they should wait until 
near midnight and get into the canoe and float down 
the river. Simba and Kalulu concurred, and thought it 



A CHANCE OF ESCAPE. 339 

would be a good thing, and an easy way of reaching 
the lake ; but Selim and Abdullah strongly demurred 
to the proposition, as the act would be one of hostility 
against a tribe that so far had done nothing to them, 
besides being dishonest. Simba and Moto, however, 
aided by Kalulu, brought such powerful arguments to 
bear against the two Arab boys that they were silenced. 
They were, said they, escaping from a land where every 
man's hand was raised against them; where a small 
party like their own only invited attack from those who 
felt themselves strongest, against whom, however skilful 
they managed their movements, they could not expect 
to be always able to cope successfully. Prudence and 
safety suggested to them this means to avoid trouble 
and recapture, and if they did not avail themselves of 
this happy opportunity, they might, perhaps, in a few 
hours, be cursing their squeamishness and irresolution, 
while lamenting their fate in bonds more cruel than 
any they had undergone while in Ferodia's power. 
Before such considerations Selim and Abdullah sub- 
mitted to the superior judgment and craft of Moto and 
Simba, and said no more, though to each other they 
regretted that such a step had to be taken. 

Night came, without anything alarming having 
occurred, and Niani was called from his watch, and 
whatever they said among themselves until the hour of 
departure was said so low that no one could have heard 
their voices even had some straggler by accident been 
outside the bush. 



8-iO HY EALULU. 



OHAPTEE Xm. 

Down the Biver— The Lake at Last — Selim describes the Lake's 
Beauties — Ealulu answers Selim — ^Kalulu does not believe in 
Selim's 8ky-spirit — The Journey on the Lake — Selim shoots a 
Zebra — SeUm's furious ride on a Zebra — Selim safe — ^The Tempest 
on the Lake — Slaves again. 

The time to make a bold stroke towards regaining a 
country where they might meet friends came about 
three hours after darkness had fallen upon the earth. 
No sound had been heard to cause alarm: the bull- 
frogs growled inharmoniously among the wild spear- 
grass; the bull-crocodile woke the echoes with his 
hoarse roar; the black ibis had long ago hushed its 
harsh screams. It was surely time to be astir, for at 
this time of night peaceful Africans or weak parties 
seldom yenture out of their villages. 

They soon found the canoe, and without exchanging 
a word the men and boys cautiously got in, and Simba 
and Moto, each taking a paddle, drove the boat out 
until it reached the flood, and silently dipping their 
paddles in the water they guided their boat to the 
opposite side, and under the lee of the tall grass and 
mangrove trees impelled her along noiselessly. 

They came abreast of the village, and they rested on 
their paddles ; they passed it, and the work was resumed 
with caution. Once beyond the fields, Ealulu and Selim 



DOWN THE BIVER. 341 

each took a paddle, and the increased muscle soon sent 
her swiftly gliding down. They were now passing 
through an uncultivated tract, and Simba exerted his 
giant strength, and Moto his sinew and muscle to the 
work, and the rapid progress they were making was 
seen by the swift flight of trees and. branches and tall 
cane by them. 

The stars, in bright galaxies and shiny myriads, lit 
their course, the river flow aided them, and the rapid 
rate at which they went exhilarated them. They were 
probably going down the river at the rate of five miles 
an hour, thus paddling with the current ; nine hours of 
such work would put them out of reach of danger by 
morning, even should they be pursued ; and provided 
they paddled on unseen by the natives no trace would 
be left behind by them. 

This was a happy and expeditious way of travelling 
towards home, thought our people. The longest day's 
march was nothing compared to the number of miles 
that may be travelled down stream, for even should 
they rest awhile the friendly current still conveyed 
them down towards their destination. So, blessing 
your stars, and your fortune, glide on my heroes, glide 
down until morning ! 

The day dawned and revealed their surroundings, 
prominent hills, all crowned with tall trees, with 
slopes descending rapidly to the river's edge, a straight 
course before them; the current swifter; sometimes 
racing past the rocks with the speed of a rapid, and 
not a sign of cultivation about them anywhere. Cheered 
by the auspicious outlook they bent to their paddles 
with will and vigour. 



342 MY KALULXT. 

Beyond the hill-country, the river broadened and 
became sluggish in its flow ; tall matete cane towered 
above them to the height of bamboo. This also was 
cheering, for except fishermen no tribe cares to live in 
such a sickly neighbourhood. After resting a short 
time and recruiting their strength with a breakfast of 
dried meat, they continued their course. Low, sandy 
islands rose in mid-stream, covered with reeds, on 
which lay, basking in the morning sun, several croco- 
diles, who rushed to their liquid homes at hearing the 
sound of the paddles, and on seeing the intruding canoe. 
On our friends rowed, past mangroves and groups of 
Eschinonienw, which flung their random roots out in 
all directions; past sandy isles and patches of sand- 
bars; through narrow channels, along which they 
raced, whither they knew not, whither they cared not, 
so they took them to the inland sea they were in 
search of. 

At noon our party halted in the depths of a mangrove 
swamp, and went to sleep in the bottom of the canoe. 
In the dark night they woke thoroughly refreshed, and 
tasked their powers of digestion with some more beef, 
and then paddled out to the stream once more. Another 
night was passed under the beamy stars and dark blue 
sky, while mild breezes bathed their hot brows, and tall 
cane gently nodded their heads as a token of farewell, 
and the leaves sighed their regrets at the evanishing 
canoe. The water broke in wavelets against her side, 
and formed a foamy wake behind. The bull crocodile 
sonorously roared, and the bull hippo, at his banquet of 
tiger grass, uttered his deep base bellow, which strange 
noises the startled night caught up and pealed across 



THE LAKE AT LAST ! 343 

the swampy fens and morasses, rousing the indignant 
and. protesting frogs. Still silent sat the rowers, ut- 
tering no words, speechless as shadows; while the 
canoe cleft the murky-faced river, glided swiftly under 
the nodding reeds and sombrous mangrove, and halted 
not for frog or crocodile. 

And morning came ; and as the rising sun began to 
drive the mist of night away — lo ! the lake at last ! 
Liemba's lake! And the hitherto speechless rowers 
burst into a triumphant shout and an enraptured 
" Ah !" as they thought the goal was won. 

Let each reader fancy to himself the expanding view 
of the silver grey waters of the lake; its miniature 
waves lifting their snowy crests as they felt the force 
of the gentle gale ; the sun reflected a thousand times 
as, rising above the eastern horizon, it slanted over the 
heads of the joyous rowers and mirrored itself in the 
tiny waves and troughs. On the left, the lake-shore 
studded with many a hummock cone and blue hill, and 
between each the shadowy forest glades ; and along tlie 
margin of the shore a strip of white sand, laved by 
whiter foam. And now the canoe is quite out of the 
river current, and points up the lake, with glorious 
scenery awaiting it on the right, brown rock moun- 
tains receding from the water's edge to lofty altitudes, 
while their slopes contiguous are enriched with tier 
upon tier of luxuriant and green mimosa, and tamarind 
of darker green. This was the prospect which greeted 
them after their venturesome flight with a canoe be- 
longing to other people, after rowing over one hundred 
miles in twenty-five hours, down the river. 

But they were not safe yet ; their pursuers might be 



S44 Wi JtALtTLtT. 

behind them, and it behoved them to row far and long 
before they could be said to be quite out of danger. 
Selim and Kalulu were relieyed by Abdullah and Niani, 
Simba and Moto were tireless. 

They followed the right shore of the lake for over 
eight hours ; but at the end of that time they drew in 
shore under the lee of an island situated in the middle 
of a snug picturesque bay, and hiding their boat deep 
among the reeds, disembarked at last on the island to 
shake each other by the hand, to enjoy in full the 
happy thoughts and the serenity of mind which the 
knowledge of their secured freedom had created within 
them. 

" Ah, Kalulu, we are safe !" cried Selim in a transport 
of joy, as he drew the young chief to his side and sat 
down to rest with him. 

" ¥es, my brother, we are safe for the present ; but 
Zanzibar is yet far, is it not ?" 

" Yes, about five months ; but I think, after we reach 
Usowa we need fear nothing more. Moto tells me the 
people are kind to the Arabs. But say, is not this 
beautiful ?" asked Selim. 

" Yes ; but let us go to the top of the island, whence 
we can see all around," said Kalulu ; " and we can 
sleep in safety, and have the breeze to cool us much 
better than below here." 

In a few minutes they had gained the highest point 
of the island, and sitting under the shade of a far- 
spreading mimosa, Selim, having taken at a glance the 
unusual beauties of the scene, proceeded to point them 
out to his companion one after another, saying : 

" Follow me, Kalulu, and let me point out to thee 



BELIM DESGBIB£S THE LAKERS BEAUTIES. 345 

what I consider pretty. Look at the water of Liemba, 
so beautiful, so clear, so deep ; and, does it not shame 
the sky with its blueness where it is deep ? And look 
at the shores dotted with the little hills ! They stand 
apart from each other, as if each was the abode of some 
spirit. They also image themselves in the deep water, 
as if they wished to see, as our vain women do, how 
pretty they look. Are they not pretty? Seest thou 
not how each hill is like a Kituta hut ; but, unlike the 
straw with which the Watuta thatch their houses, the 
great Sky-spirit has thatched these with beautiful trees, 
and sent the lake winds to make music among the 
leaves and branches. And look between the hills, 
Kalulu; follow the winding valleys with thine eyes, 
until they rest where the valleys are lost in those grey 
mountain folds. If thou wert close to any of those 
valleys, thou wouldst hear the brooks sing and laugh 
as they race over rock and pebble towards the deep 
Liemba." 

After a little while he continued, more seriously : 
" The music of the trees and the music of the brooks 
mingling together speak to us children of the Arabs of 
the goodness of the Sky-spirit. If thine hearing was 
fine enough, and we two were under those trees of the 
valley yonder, thou wouldst be able to hear the voice pf 
my mind and heart sing in sympathy with the brook 
and the trees ; and just as my heart sings out of sym- 
pathy with their voices, so do the birds sing. Hast 
thou never thought how pretty and sweet sound the 
songs of birds, Kalulu? I have often, when in the 
mangoe grove near my father's house, seated on a 
carpet of young and tender grass, watched a little bird 



346 MY KALULU. 

coming with a graceful, easy flight, and listened to it 
singing as it flew. I haye watched it turning its little 
head ahout so cunningly to see if I was there, and I 
haye seen it looking for a comfortable twig to rest upon, 
and when it was satisfied I haye heard it utter a won- 
drous melody, and this it seemed to do by simply open- 
ing its mouth and erecting its head, and I could not 
imitate it, try how I might. But though my voice 
failed, my heart joined with it in song ; and if all the 
little singing birds sang together, my heart could sing 
as free, as clear as they. 

" Hark, Kalulu ! dost thou not hear the deep lake 
sing ? No ! I hear it, and understand its song. Look 
at the minute wayes the zephyr rolls on the beach. 
Listen to the sound of them as they gather themselyes 
up like long bales of white cloth, and rush to laye the 
sand. That is music to me, and while it sings I think 
of the deeper, sweeter music which the sea of Zanj 
makes at eye of day, which it made while my father 
and his kinsman sat near the foamy wayes to watch 
the sun felling towards the sunset land. Wouldst thou 
belieye it, dear Kalulu, the yoices of those tiny wayes 
sounding in my ear like the sighs of departing friends 
make me better and purer, more like a child of great 
Allah, the pure Sky-spirit, who made both thee and I, 
and all mankind. They make 'me better, because the 
gentle thought of loye to all men fills my mind ; they 
make me purer, because they draw me nearer to God. 
I haye at this moment no hateful, unkind feeling 
towards any man. To eyen Ferodia I bear no ill-will. I 
forget — I haye a wish to forget — what misery he caused 
me and mine. For what am I in the presence of Allah, 



KALULXT ANSWERS SELIM. 347 

whom I see in yon great mountains of grey rock, in 
yon boundless forests, in those far-reaching valleys, in 
those tall hills, in those wavelets, in the deep, deep 
water below us, and that immense roof of cloud and 
vapour-so vast, so far above us, above which the golden 
throne of Allah rests." 

Ealulu had all this time been listening with wonder 
to Selim, whom he regarded as talking magic ; for the 
truth was, that Selim's feelings were so wrought upon 
by the beauty of the scene and the gratitude he felt for 
his escape from the tribe whose canoe his companions 
had taken that his face had assumed a beatified look, 
which the more practical Kalulu could not comprehend, 
unless he supposed he was talking magic. Magic powers 
and gifts Kalulu could understand and appreciate. 
When he recovered his speech Kalulu said : 

" Selim, my brother, thy voice kindles in me a wish 
that I were born an Arab's son. Yet for all I have 
listened to thee, I fail to see the beauty thou sayest 
thou dost see. I fail also to hear the song or music of 
the Sky-spirit, or of the brook, or of the trees, or of the 
waves. But I am not one of the Arabs. I am of 
Urori, and now a Mtuta and a king. I am the son of 
Mostana, the Kirori king, whom Kisesa the Arab slew. 
I have lived in the sunshine of Urori and Ututa. I 
have seen the forests of both countries, and have roamed 
over their plains. I have chased the antelope and the 
buffalo, hunted the quagga and the giraffe. I have 
searched for honey in the woods, and followed the honey- 
bird wheresoever he led me. I have trapped wild birds 
and guinea-fowl in the jungle. I have been in valleys, 
and bathed in the streams that ran through them. I 



348 MY KALULU. 

have climbed steep rocks and high monntains, camped 
on the hills many and many a night ; but I never heard 
music in any of these things. 

" Music !" continued Kalulu. " What tribe loves 
music better than the Warori and the Watuta. Our 
mothers, seated under the shade of plantain or tama- 
rind, sing us to sleep while we suck. They sing of 
cornfields, of labour, of gliding down rivers, of war, 
of great kings long since dead, and of festal days. 
But they never sing of birds, or of the music of the 
water. We never hear such music as thou dost hear. 
Before we have barely learned to walk, our little feet 
keep step to the sounding *goma' (drum) of the village, 
and our hands begin a-clapping with the chorus. When 
we are great boys we drum and sing all day under the 
shade, and at night during the large moon we often 
continue the dance and song until the morning. Our 
women, while they hoe in the field, sing; and while 
they gather the sticks for the evening fire, or pound the 
grain into flower, and while they cook for their lords, 
they sing. The warriors sing always before they go 
out on the hunt, before the battle, at the marriage, at 
a death, and at a burial, they sing. They are ever 
singing, and so am I when I may. I love to sing. But 
none of our warriors ever said that waters sing, or that 
trees, or leaves, or branches sing. Thou mightst as well 
have told me that the cattle, when they low, sing ; or 
that kids when they bleat, or that the hyeena when he 
growls, or that the jackal when he hungrily yelps, or 
that the lion when he roars. Dost thou call the roar 
of the mamba, or the bellow of the hippopotamus, or 
the screaming cry of the quagga, or the shrill neigh of 



KALULU DOES NOT BELIEVE IN SELIm's SKY-SPIRIT. 349 

the zebra, singing ? Hast thon heard the furious bellow 
of the buffalo, or the rageful trumpet of the elephant 
when he charges, or the grunt of the wart-hog, or the 
warning snort of the eland, or the noise of the rhino- 
ceros when he plunges at his foe ? Would the children 
of the Arabs say any of these sang ? If thou sayest 
that birds when they chirp, the wind when it moans, 
the leaves when they rustle, or the waters when they 
splash and roll over the beach, do sing, then why not 
say that the noises of the animals are their songs ?" 
After a short breathing spell Kalulu continued : 
"Ah! Selim, my brother, thy Sky-spirit and mine 
are not the same. Thine teaches thee nothing but 
lies. Lo ! he is afraid to show himself, or perhaps, like 
the Watuta warriors, he loves to bask in the sun on his 
throne of gold ; perhaps he loves his ' pombe ' (beer) like 
our chiefs. If, as thou sayest, he lives above the clouds, 
it must be very hot above there, and great heat makes 
people lazy. Why does he not come down and show 
himself ? Our Sky-spirit comes often to visit us. He is 
one day like a bird, with white wings ; the next he is like 
a big raven. One day he is a roaring lion, another day 
he is like a leopard. The Mganga calls unto him with 
his medicine and gourd, and he either makes us strong 
in war, or gives us abundance of cloth, beads, and 
elephant teeth. He kills us, if he is angry, with a bad 
disease; sends strong tribes, and stirs their hearts 
against us, while he makes our hearts faint and our arms 
weak ; but he never lies. When a good magic doctor 
asks him he always answers, and his words come to pass." 
After another pause, Ealulu continued once more. 
*^ Thou sayest that thy Sky-spirit made thee and me, and 



850 MT KALITIiXr. 

all men. Perhaps he did make thoe and the Arabs, for 
thou and they are white; bnt he did not make the 
Warori or the Watuta. We are black, bom of black 
mothers, and sired bylblack fathers. Hast thou seen 
the kidling by the side of its dam ? or the yonng fawn 
frisking by the side of its mother ? Even as the kidling 
and the yonng fawn came to this world, came the chil- 
dren of the Watnta and Warori. Then didst tell me 
once that the good Arabs go when they die to a beauti- 
ful place called Paradise. Perhaps they do, for they are 
white, and have been favoured by thy Sky-spirit. But 
good or bad, Warori and Watuta, when they die, go to 
the ground, into the deep grave, and there are no more 
words from them, because they have no breath ; they 
are ended. That is what the magic doctors, and those 
who know, have told me, and there is no untruth in 
what I say." 

" Oh ! E!alulu, my brothwr, thou art now like those 
who cannot see, because there is no light in their eyes, 
or like those who do not hear, because their ears are 
stopped. There is no doubt that God, the Sky-spirit, 
made the sky like a curtain round about us, and that He 
made the earth like a bed spread out for us to live in, 
und, though thou art black. He made thee as well as He 
made me. He made the birds, the trees, the rocks, the 
valleys, and the hills ; He hath caused the rain to fall 
in its proper season, and all the fruits and corn of the 
earth to grow for us, each in its own good time. There 
is no lie in all this, it is truth as clear as yon mountains. 
Thou art now like a child in the knowledge of these 
things, but when thou wilt reach Zanzibar, and shall 
have learnt our language, thou wilt know the truth of 



THE JOUBNEY ON THE LAKE. 351 

what I speak. Thy mind is now like the troubled 
clouds of the morning, which are yet dark and gloomy, 
but through them all comes the sun, and the black 
clouds vanish before his bright glory ; so will the dark- 
ness which now covers thy mind, and hides the light, 
for when thou canst talk, and understand what I say, 
the truth will shine through it all, ai^d the darkness 
will be no more. Enough for the present;, let us rest 
and sleep, that we may be ready for our journey to- 
night," and Selim lay down, and Kalulu, after trying 
in vain to penetrate the meaning of all his brother's 
words, and to see the promised light before the fulfil- 
ment of time, finally lay down, and forgot all about the 
wonderful Sky-spirit in a deep slumber. 

They were wakened by Simba's voice, who stood like a 
colossal shadow-being of the spirit-land above them, 
for so his figure appeared to their half-dreamy senses. 
But a vigorous shake of both by his heavy hand soon 
dispelled the half-formed dreams, and informed them 
that it was night, and that their friend Simba was 
urging them to be up and away. 

Lightly they descended the hill and stepped into their 
dear little canoe, and presently the isle of Mimosas, on 
which they had rested, was but a dim configuration of 
a low hill, and, receding still further, it became lost in 
the general gloom of night. 

The canoe was far enough from shore not to be de- 
layed by any fishing-boats ; the deep water was all about 
them, and the lofty, far-upheaving, beaming heaven 
above them, with its countless myriads of ever-blinking 
lights, lighting them, poor wanderers, on their way. 

Kalulu, to wile away the time and to cheer his 



852 MT KALULU. 

companions, atruck up, in a low voice, the boat song 
of the Liemba, with the chorus 

" We are gliding, 

Swiftly gliding/' 

And, in the quicker, throb-like impulsion of the canoe 
which followed, Kalulu knew that the song and music 
had the desired effect on the crew. 

Morning came again, and keen eyes searched the 
shore for habitations, but, assured that there were none, 
the crew advanced perceptibly nearer ; and Simba, per- 
ceiving an opening between two low hills, Jidvised that 
they should row for it, and try their hands on game, as 
provisions had run very low. 

A happier place could not have been chosen, for all 
around was clear of cane and rank grass, which gene- 
rally bordered the lake shore near the river mouths ; 
and instead of this swampy vegetation rose a thin forest, 
in which there were numbers of fruit-trees, ripe black 
singwe — an oval fruit of the size of a plum, but which 
has a more piquant flavour than our plums — and yellow 
mbembu — a stone fruit, in shape like a small peach ; 
but though I call it the forest peach from this likeness, 
its flesh breaks off like a pear's, even when ripest, but 
its taste is a mixture of the peach and the pear — to 
which our party rushed, like the half-starved creatures 
they were. 

Having refreshed themselves with handfuls of the 
delicious fruit, Ealulu proposed that he and Selim 
should venture out in one direction, while Moto and 
Abdullah should go in another, to look for game; 
meantime Simba and Niani to look after the canoe. 
The proposition was agreeable to all. 



BELIM IHOOTS A 2EBBA. 858 

iLalulu and Selim chose a nortli-east direction, Moto 
and Abdullah selected a south-east route. 

The first couple, with whom we have most to deal, 
struck out boldly, Kalulu armed with his spear, and 
bow, and arrows, Selim with his English " Joe Manton," 
which had often before distinguished itself on many a 
hunting field. Thickets were passed by, as well as the 
thin forest, without meeting with a single head of 
game ; but suddenly the thin forest gave way to a bit 
of park land, that is, an open country sprinkled with 
a few noble trees here and there, with its face slightly 
rolling, thus forming an agreeable prospect compared 
to what a flat ground would have furnished. In the 
distance, say at a hundred yards off from the thin forest 
they were about leaving, the two boys saw a herd of 
noble zebra engaged in play, in nibbling each other's 
necks, or, with ears drawn back, were playfully kicking 
at each other. Selim flung his rifle-barrel into the 
hollow of his left hand, and aimed at a perfectly regal 
animal, kingly in his pride and beauty, regal in shape 
and size, who, foremost of the herd, had seen the in- 
truders, and who, with an erect head and noble mien, 
was engaged in surveying them. 

Crack went the rifle, and the magnificent beast 
rolled on his side, while the herd, uttering their alarm 
and sorrow in shrill neighs, scampered off to a safer 
distance to scrutinize the intruders, who with merry 
laugh and light bounds hastened to secure their 
game. 

The wounded zebra lay still, and Selim, thinking it 
dead, could not help laying down his rifle, quite forget- 
ful of the Moslem's duty of severing its throat and 

2a 



354 MY KAI.ULU. 

letting out the blood, to survey the beautiful beast. It 
was so beautiful he could not help going to it, and 
striding the back, taking hold of the mane, and saying 
to Kalulu : 

" Ah, what a fine horse he would make ! how I wish 
that such an animal as this would carry me to Zanzi- 
bar," and as he said this, while Selim was on his back 
imitating the movements of a rider, the zebra rose to 
his feet so quick that the boy had no time to throw 
himself oflf, and bounded after the herd with the swift- 
ness of lightning. 

Kalulu uttered a cry of horror; but, recovering 
quickly, he drew his bow and sent an arrow deep into 
the flanks of the fleeing animal. 

This wound but spurred the furious and frightened 
beast, with his strange rider, to quicker speed. Kalulu 
heard the glad neighing of the zebra herd as they 
greeted the approach of their lord ; he saw them sur- 
round him, then looking suspiciously at the rider ; saw 
them, while furiously galloping over the park land, run 
at the boy with open mouth and drawn ears ; saw them 
frantically kicking their heels about to the right and 
left ; and, while his heart stood still with fear for his 
white brother's safety, he saw the herd, still chasing 
the ridden zebra, vanish in the forest beyond. 

Then, waking from the stupor of fear and surprise, 
Kalulu noted the direction the herd had taken, he 
hastened back to the bivouac, where Simba and Niani 
sat waiting the return of the hunters, and breathlessly 
informed the astounded giant that Selim had galloped 
away on the back of a zebra into the forest, and urged 
him to take his gun and follow him; and, without 



SiSLiM*S FtJBIOUS BlDE ON A ZEBRA. 355 

Waiting to see the effect of his words, he bounded oflf 
again in pursuit of the flying herd. 

Niani uttered a cry of sorrow, but Simba, after wait- 
ing a second to tell him not to stir from his concealment, 
ran after Kalulu. Overtaking him, they both stood for 
a moment under the tree where the zebra had lain 
apparently dead. Kalulu pointed to the direction the 
herd had taken, and without more words the two, Simba 
and Kalulu, braced themselves for a run. 

Thq soft ground showed the pursuers the traces of 
the hoofs which had been fiercely struck deep into the 
ground, as the flanking animals outside of the herd had 
charged at the rider of their lord ; at the base being 
who had audaciously usurped a seat no living man had 
a right to claim. The pursuers noted these things as 
they ran, and could well have described the fury of the 
herd, as they saw their noble king thus ignominiously 
treated. What ! they ! free rovers of the virgin forest 
and plain, the untamed creatures of the wilds, whose 
gorgeous backs and splendid hides had never been defiled, 
within the memory of the oldest zebra, by the bestrid- 
ing limbs of any man, to see their noble lord insulted ! 
No wonder when such thoughts filled them, that their 
eyes flashed and their crests bristled, and their flow- 
ing tails erected, and their hoofs struck deep with 
frantic energy into the yielding turf. Then they 
thought of what Selim's feelings must be, surrounded 
thus by the indignant creatures, charging, and biting, 
and kicking at him, eyes kindled with honest rage, as 
they ranged around their monarch — their open nostrils 
glowing like fire, and emitting their hot, steamy breath, 



S56 inf jKALXjLtJ. 

while he struck right and left, and shouted to fend 
them off. 

On continued the pursuers, with increased speed, 
as they thought of the great danger their young friend 
was in, with their heads resting on their shoulders, 
and their faces cutting the tepid breeze, and their 
mouths wide open to inhale the air in short, quick 
draughts, for the lungs that rapidly exhausted it, 
with their hands fanning the wind, and their chests 
rising and subsiding with each breath they took, and 
the hips urging and impelling the lagging feet, which 
fain would have spurned the ground. 

On, on, my brave, faithful friends ! take no heed to 
yourselves ; think not of your growing weariness, or of 
future pain. Let your livers ache, and the overtasked 
lungs feel exhausted ! Let your heads throb, and your 
limbs be fatigued ; your friend is in need ! Be not dis- 
couraged. See the large clots of blood that stain the 
sheeny grass ; the zebra monarch must yield to fate, 
despite his royal body-guard. His life wanes fast, as 
ye may note by the red blood which dyes the ground. 
On, on, my gallant souls ! Speed on, my agile Kalulu ! 
Confess no fatigue ; for thou art a son of the forest, 
and rightly named after the swift-footed fawnling. On, 
on, my brave Simba ! one effort more ; let it not be 
said that a boy shamed thee ! Ha ! behold ! What 
said I? Yonder lies your prize stretched on the 
ground! And see, here is Selim himself advancing 
towards ye ! The Arab boy is then safe. 

Simba and Kalulu were so tired after their long run, 
which had lasted an hour, that they were compelled to 
throw themselves on the ground, while the throbbing 



SELIM SAFE ! 357 

hearts beat wildly, and their lungs laboured hard and 
fast ; but finally, though their heads yet ached with 
pain, they were tranquil enough to hear Selim's story, 
which was, in the main, described above, though when 
the zebra staggered and fell, Selim said that he leaped 
down, and ran behind a tree, while the herd, neighing 
shrilly, disappeared in the forest, and left their 
monarch alone to his fate. 

After a short time Simba and Kalulu were so far 
recovered, as to be able to rise up to cut up some of 
the zebra that had given them so much trouble and 
anxiety; then, loaded with meat, they began to retrace 
their steps along the «ame road they had ran so fast in 
pursuit of him whom they now heard laughing as he 
told some points of the story. 

At sunset they arrived at the tree whence the un- 
equal race began, where they found Selim's rifle, which 
he had unwisely left on the ground, and proceeding to 
their bivouac, were all heartily welcomed by Moto and 
Abdullah, who had killed a young buffalo cow, whose 
generous meat was already cooking on the wooden 
platform we have in another chapter described. 

They rested that night in the same spot, where they 
were so secure from molestation, to enjoy the abun- 
dance Nature had furnished them, and to relieve them- 
selves from the strain the arduous labour of flight had 
imposed upon them the last few days. 

Continuing their journey at sunrise, they hugged the 
shore, which they had thus a chance to observe more 
closely. They could see the waves of the surf break 
on the rocks at the foot of hills rising above them, or 
playfully toss themselves in wanton glee on the shingly 



\ 



358 ^. MY KALULU. 

or the sandy beach, their curling caps becoming white 
foam as they met resistance in the firm land ; and at 
each hollow between the hills they could note the lazy 
jillets dribble through the tiny sandy furrows into the 
lake ; or watch how the greater streams that continu- 
ally discharged themselves by every avenue to the 
great lake, came sailing round the bends of their course 
from under the sunless gloom of embracing mangrove 
bough and cane ; or look in wonder at the remarkably 
lofty matete, which they ever and anon passed, whose 
each stalk was furnished with many a rapier-like leaf, 
which rustled gently before the wind, and showed a 
sheen and glister which the finest silk they had ever 
seen could not rival; or glance with curious eyes at 
their stalks below, when they came in contact with the 
black earth that nourished such profuse vegetation, 
and see how, one after another, these receded to rayless 
shadow and all-pervading darkness, in which, however, 
their ears detected the movements of busy feet, the 
quick pattering on the earth, the signals and low 
triumphant cries of the birds, which seek shelter and 
have their being in such gloomy recesses — from the 
sleek-looking diver to the active little kingfisher ; from 
the crested crane, or the towering pelican, to the 
pretty white paddy-birds. 

They passed many and many a bold cape and low- 
land, whereon grew wild plaintains, whose broad fronds 
offered an impervious protection against the noonday 
heat, which nourished scores and scores of wild guinea- 
palms, and dark green tamarinds, and tall trees, too, 
from whose stems the natives excavate their canoes, 
and umbrageous sycamores and wide- spreading mi- 



THE TEMPEST ON THE LAKE. 359 

mosa. All these headlands and lowlands, head-capes, 
and far in-reaching bays and creeks, where sported 
the hippopotami, and lazily floated the crocodile in his 
enormous length — yea, all were beantiful. 

Then the lake contracted; the two shores came 
nearer, and a strong current carried them safely towards 
the north, and to a lake of still greater size and extent. 
They continued along the right shore of the lake, con- 
gratulating themselves that they were now in the sea 
of Ujiji. Now and then they passed villages, which 
they took good care to avoid, and at night they rested 
on the shore in the deepest recesses of a cane-brake, 
or on some lonely island far removed from any habita- 
tion ; day after day they continued their journey un- 
molested ; and each person of the party now came to 
think that Usowa would certainly be reached in safety. 

But on the sixth day after they had entered the 
great lake a storm arose, accompanied by lightning and 
a great downpour of rain, and the furious waves arched 
their white crests, and were driven wilder and higher 
above their heads by the angry wind ; while the canoe 
which had carried them so long became tossed about 
and pelted by the maddened water, until it seemed as 
if they must all perish. Simba and Moto manfully 
laboured at their paddles, and endeavoured to direct 
her head to the shore, but the strong wind laughed at 
their efforts, and blew her on before it, and the waves 
dashed their heads against it, and drove it on — now on 
their topmost crests, and now into the engulfing 
troughs which opened to receive it as it was precipi- 
tated down to them. The lightning played in all 
directions, the heavens seemed rent with the deafening 



362 MY KALULU. 

The sky soon cleared up, the wind went down, and 
the waves abated, and the captors became more lively 
in their behaviour; but fearing that some aid might 
come to their captives in some shape by the lake, at 
sunset they broke camp, and started for the interior, 
but not before their miserable slaves had been tied 
together by the neck, with stout thongs of green hide. 

The general direction they travelled was east, but the 
caravan filed by bends and curves so numerous, that it 
was with great difficulty Moto could settle in his mind 
in which direction they were going. 

At midnight they bivouacked in the depth of a forest, 
and warriors were detailed to watch the captives, but 
the latter were so fatigued with the exertions of the 
day, that such precautions were needless. They had 
soon fallen asleep, despite the unpleasant thongs that 
encircled their necks, or the more unpleasant bonds 
which confined their hands behind them. ' 



THE SLAVE HUNTEBS MEDITATE ANOTHEB ATTACK. 363 



CHAPTEE XIV. 

The Slave Hunters meditate Another Attack — A True Picture of the 
Slave Trade — The Inundated Plain — ^A Tenible Catastrophe — 
The Joys of Liberty— Simba fights with a Leopard — Kalulu 
syinpathizes with wounded Simba — ^Kalulu shows Abdullah the 
Art of making a Fire— Niani punishes the Dead Leopard — How 
a Mtuta Chief fights— Kalulu victorious — Simba thinks Kalulu 
a Hero — Spearing the Lepidosiren — How a True Son of the Forest 
acts — What Kalulu f^und in the Arabs' Camp — Kalulu is kid- 
napped I — ^A Victim of an Atrocious Deed. 

The unfortunate captives were wakened rudely at sun- 
rise by smart taps applied to them by the warriors 
with the butts of their spears. Kalulu felt yery much 
like resenting this rough behaviour ; but Moto entreated 
him, as he saw him raise his flashing eyes, not to urge 
them to greater violence, as, whether he liked it or not, 
he was compelled to bear it. 

They were soon on the road, for savages and slaves 
take but little time to make ready for their journey. 
After they had marched a little while, Moto heard the 
warriors nearest him talk of an attack Gasema had 
determined to make upon a village some time during 
that night, as he had found out that most of the fight- 
ing men had gone south on a hunting expedition, 
leaving only a few able men to guard it, while there 
were numbers of women and children within. The 
village belonged to an isolated tribe of the Northern 
Wabemba, sometimes called Bobemba. 

Towards the decline of day the Wazavila halted in 



864 MY KALULU. 

a thick grove ; and as they would not permit the cap- 
tiyes or their own people to kindle fires, all were com- 
pelled to eat the grains of Indian corn doled out to 
them unroasted — a task which the stoutest jaws would 
find excessively hard. In the meantime it was noticed 
how the warriors sharpened their spears, and critically 
examined the strings of their bows, and made other 
preparations for war upon the defenceless village of the 
Wabemba, which must have been near, else why all 
their preparations ? 

About three hours after darkness, after leaving 
twenty men to guard Kalulu and his companions, the 
Wazavila, to the number of one hundred and fifty, 
started to put their murderous purpose into effect. 

Though Kalulu, Selim, and their friends listened 
keenly for the sounds of the strife, they heard nothing ; 
but at the end of a couple of hours they saw a red 
blaze over the tops of the trees to the south, and they 
knew that the work of the devil was being enacted, or 
that it had been consummated, and that fearful glare 
of fire seen against the sky was only the final com- 
pletion of the craven and wicked deed. About mid- 
night the fiends returned with about two hundred and 
fifty women and children, and a few old men, the 
ablebodied having perished to a man, as they after- 
wards found out, in the defence of their homes. The 
order to march was given, and through the pathless 
jungle and forest the Wazavila urged their slaves with 
spear, blade, and shaft, so they might be far out 
of reach before the vengeful Wabemba came on their 
trail. 

The morning rose and found them still tramping on 



A d?RtTE PICTUREl 01* lHA feLAVfi tBAtJE. 365 

in a direction considerably north of east, and showed 
the scene with all its horrors to the sympathizing 
Selim and Abdullah, though to Kalulu, Simba, and 
Moto such scenes were not new. 

On this and the following days, for nearly a fort- 
night, the two Arab boys had this accursed evil of 
Africa brought yividly before their minds, and they saw 
to its fullest extent the immeasurable yastness of the 
sin and crime of which the Wazavila freebooters were 
guilty. They had wantonly attacked an unoflfending 
village, and reduced to servitude and misery the poor 
people, whose homes had been fired, the flames of 
which had made the sombre night lurid with the red 
glare, and had exhausted themselves among smoking 
embers and the scorched bodies of the men who had 
lost their lives in disputing the advance of the Waza- 
vila assassins and midnight robbers, who had stealthily 
entered this village to make the night hideous and awful 
with their crimes. 

Step by step, through that pathless jungle and forest, 
which seemed interminable, did the poor people moisten 
the ground with their bloody sweat ; step by step did 
they vent their miseries in hot tears, in groans, which 
were answered by vicious blows on their backs from 
their relentless captors. Each day saw an infant, which 
had been until then full of promise of lusty life, laid 
down by the side of the path cold and dead ; for the 
mother, under the load of her miseries and privation, 
could not sustain the young life with her emptied 
breasts, and too often for detailed redtal, she herself 
resignedly knelt and died by her starved oiTspring. 
Too often, alas ! did the wretched mother, lacking 



366 MY KALULU. 

proper sustenance, first fall dead in her tracks, with 
her little baby vainly sucking at the chilled breast, while 
a blank look of hopelessness stole over his little face 
as he wonderingly looked after the departing caravan, 
and trembled with an unexplained horror at the dread 
silence and loneliness of the forest. No mourner was 
left behind to bewail the fate of these hapless ones; only 
the moaning winds sang their monotonous requiems 
until the voracious hyaena and the hungry jackal came 
to consume that which had become as a blight and 
ugly spot on nature. 

Nothing was better calculated to cure Selim and 
Abdullah of the desire of ever making money by buying 
and selling slaves than these scenes, even if the unut- 
terable wretchedness of their own condition had not 
taught them the full meaning of the term "slave" 
before this. 

Day by day every good feeling within them was 
shocked; for day by day new victims to human lust 
of gain were left cold and stretched in death along the 
road — old and young seemed to perish alike from the 
same cause — starvation and fatigue. Neither the 
patriarch nor the child was absolved from the dire 
fate. 

About the fifteenth day they came to a populated 
plain, where the Wazavila, by the sale of two slaves, 
obtained sufficient food to distribute a week's rations to 
each man of the caravan ; and in order that their human 
cattle might recuperate somewhat, they rested in the 
plain two days. The Wazavila had still nearly one 
hundred and seventy slaves, over eighty having perished 
since the night of the attack, 



1?HE IKXmi)Al?ED PLAIN. 367 

When they continued their march the direction which 
they took was nearly due north, as they were now about 
a hundred and forty miles due east of the Sea of Ujiji, 
the great lake in whose troubled waters Kalulu and his 
companions came so near to an untimely end. During 
nearly the whole march rain had fallen, and the plain 
through which they now traversed added by its marshy 
character to increase the fatigue of marching. 

In two days the plain had sensibly declined to a 
lower level, and the water rushing from the higher 
ground had inundated the whole of that part of it they 
now traversed to the depth of about six inches; in 
some places it was still deeper. This portion of the 
plain the Wazavila told Moto was called Eikwa ; and 
from general conversation that he heard, he knew that 
shortly they might expect to see a river called the 
Eungwa, which every year during the rainy season 
flooded its banks. It was for the purpose of giving 
their starved slaves strength to cross this terrible 
plain that the Wazavila had halted two days, as it 
required a long day's march to traverse the inundated 
part and to cross the river, on the other side of which 
was higher ground ; while, had they been compelled to 
travel to the eastward, three days would not have 
sufficed to get over the swampy plain. 

Moto communicated his opinions to Simba, declaring 
that he thought the time to try to make their escape 
had arrived. It would probably be night, or nearly so, 
by the time they would reach the river, and, in order 
to save their slaves from drowning, the Wazavila would 
be compelled to free them. Simba coincided with 
Moto, and they passed the word +o their friends to 



368 My 4ALULTJ* 

hold themselves ready for any contingency that might 
arise. 

"What little strength the wearied women and children 
had gained hy their two days' rest was soon exhausted 
in the passage of the Bikwa swamp. The qnagmiry 
road, trodden into tenacious paste by the long file of 
human beings ahead, soon rendered travelling by those 
behind them a work of unconquerable difficulty, and 
some unfortunate woman or child was momentarily 
struggling for life in the muddy waste, never to rise 
again. And as t^e day rapidly passed away, and no 
signs of the river were yet seen, the anxiety of the 
Wazavila became evident. But a little after sunset, 
as the dying day was being rapidly exchanged for 
night, the head of the caravan arrived at the ford of 
the Eungwa, which river, as was expected, was empty- 
ing an immense volume of water to spread out and 
inundate the plain. 

Two or three warriors cautiously ventured into the 
stream to ascertain its depth and force. As soon as 
they got in it was evident, by the efibrt they made to 
keep their feet, and by its depth, which rose up to the 
tops of their shoulders at times, that the crossing 
of the river would be attended with appalling loss of 
human life. 

Our party were close to the bank when this experi- 
ment was made, watching it with intense interest, and 
as soon as the warriors had safely crossed, Moto asked 
a warrior to cut the bonds which bound his hands 
behind his back, that he might have a chance to save 
his life. As this was but fair, the warrior complied 
with his request, and released his hands, as well as those 



A TEBBIBLE CATASTROPHE. 369 

of his companions, and then generously severed the 
thongs which bound the party neck to neck. 

Simba led the way into the water ; and, being tall 
and strong, he took Selim by one hand, and Abdullah 
by the other, into the raging flood. Moto took Niani, 
Kalulu, lightly touching his lee shoulder, was able to 
ayail himself of Moto as a breakwater, and at the same 
time assist him with Niani. When Simba reached the 
middle of the river the feet of both Arab boys were 
swept from under them, and the same happened to 
little Niani, while Kalulu could with difficulty keep his 
feet — so strong was the flood. 

It was a long and anxious task, even for Simba and 
Moto ; but they finally emerged on the bank in the 
darkness, and sat down, apparently worn out. 

Closely following Simba's party were about twenty 
of the warriors, each leading a woman or a child by 
the hand ; but the first of these warriors happened to 
be unfortunate, for the woman he led, feeling herself 
unable to resist the flood, uttered a terrible cry of 
alarm, and sprang forward, and, being swept against 
the abnost submerged head of the warrior, carried him 
down with the rapid current. The warrior dived to 
release himself from the woman, and swam bravely 
for the shore — two of the warriors on the shore along- 
side of Simba's party running down the bank to assist 
their companions. 

The cries and screams of the drowning woman threw 
the women and children then in the stream into a 
panic, and so confused the men leading and assisting 
them, that they staggered and allowed themselves to 
recede downwards, step by step, which soon took them 

2 B 



370 MY KALULU. 

into deep water, and the men themselves had to begin 
strnggling for their lives, while the poor women and 
children were carried down, far beyond aid, by the im- 
petuous current, uttering their drowning cries, which 
were heard far above all, until they ceased to struggle, 
and were silenced by the watery grave they had found. 

Casema's voice was heard commanding that every two 
warriors should lead a woman between them, and 
while the shouts and the screams of the terrified 
females announced that this course had begun to be 
tried, Simba nudged Moto as a sign to be ready, and to 
seize the bows and arrows of the two men, who had 
gone down the bank, while he himself would snatch the 
spear of the warrior who was still standing by as a 
sentry over them. Moto conveyed the intimation to 
Kalulu and the other three to hold themselves ready, 
and hinted back to Simba to begin. 

Quick as a lightning's flash, Simba rose, and snatch- 
ing the spear on which the warrior leaned, lifted him 
high in the air, and tossed him head foremost into the 
river before he could litter a cry. Meantime, Moto had 
collected the three bows, and three quivers full of 
arrows ; and each, taking hold of one another by the 
hand, ran from the bank before a single alarm could be 
given. 

Our friends were far out on the plain before a chorus 
of shrill cries for help announced that another calamity 
had taken place at that awful ford; and were it only for 
being relieved from witnessing the many more calamities 
that must take place before all those living could reach 
the hither bank, they conceived that they had just 
cause to congratulate themselves. 



THE JOYS OP LIBERTY. 371 

Once clear out of sound of the disastrous ford, Moto 
suggested that they should strike to the north-west, 
lest, by going too far to the north, they might fall 
across more of the predatory Wazavila, a suggestion 
that Simba thought prudent and thoughtful. 

Kalulu breathing free again, after his escape a second 
time from slavery, felt light as air, and was for the 
moment as happily disposed as he could well be, while 
Selim and Abdullah felt in their hearts an overflowing 
gratitude to Allah for his protection and deliverance 
from vile bondage, and breathed prayers to him to con- 
tinue in his care of them. 

Long before morning dawned, they felt that the 
character of the country was changed; for rounded 
shadows heaving upwards gave them an idea that hills 
were becoming frequent, and that these they saw were 
but the vanguard of some range they were approaching. 
The morning and its welcome light confirmed this 
opinion ; for before them rose a majestic ridge of moun- 
tains, clothed from top to base with greenest verdure. 

Prudence counselled them to seek the mountains by 
the most unlikely way, and they accordingly adopted 
the precaution, and were soon scaling a steep slope, 
overgrown with the feathery bamboo. From the emi- 
nence they attained, they turned their eyes to note the 
plain they had left, which was now spread out before 
them in one grand prospect, while it spoke or revealed 
nothing of the misery and sorrow which they knew 
existed in some part of it, among the human beings 
driven to hopeless bondage by the cruel Wazavila. 
Unable to dwell upon its false and treacherous beauty, 
they turned towards the mountains, which, so far, had 



372 MY KALULU. 

nothing of the ominous or fatal in its features for 
them. 

The sun seemed a long time coming out, they 
thought, as they looted towards the east ; hut then it 
was the rainy season throughout Central Africa, which 
had been heralded in by that awful storm on the sea of 
Ujiji, and out of which they had escaped to experience 
the privations of bondage ; and the lowering mist and 
humid fog hovering over the crag-bound ridges above 
them was the result of the rains that had lately sub- 
merged the Eikwa Plain throughout its length and 
breadth. 

About noon, after they had lost themselves in the 
deep folds of the mountains, our party rested to recover 
their strength, and to aid the recovery more rapidly by 
grinding some of their corn rations between their jav^s. 
Simba thought this very dry eating, since they were 
free, and expressed a decided objection to remain much 
longer without meat, which, in his opinion, was the 
only food fit for a free man. Kalulu agreed with him 
in all he said, and volunteered to accompany any man 
in a search for game, whic^h, he said, ought to be plen- 
tiful in such solitudes. Whereupon Simba agreed to 
accompany him; but since he did n6t know much 
, about a bow, he would take his spear, which he could 
throw as well as any other man, while Kalulu could 
take a bow and his quiver of arrows. 

Matters being thus arranged, Moto promised to be 
very good, and look after the boys, and see that they 
got into no mischief during the absence of Simba and 
Kalulu, upon which Simba thanked him, and bade him 
surely expect something within an hour. 



Oal, 1- 










8IMBA FIGHTS WITH A LEOPAEB. 373 

Ealulu held three arrows in his left hand, and his 
bow in his right, and descending a deep ravine which 
opened shortly into a mountain valley of exquisite 
beauty, he was gratified to observe a solitary eland 
lying under a tree, with a splendid pendulous dew-lap, 
moving about as it erected its head to chew the cud 
and to enjoy in that solitude the sweet repast of grass 
it had lately eaten. Simba stood hid behind a tall tree, 
while Kalulu, master of the art he was now practising, 
began to move through the grass towards it with the 
ease of a snake. For a moment <the young chief debated 
within himself when to send his arrow, but finally 
arrived at a conclusion ; for he drew his bow, and drove 
an arrow behind the fore-shoulder, which, penetrating 
through, pierced the heart, and after one or two spas- 
modic bounds into the air, the eland stretched himself 
on the ground, dying. 

Ealulu turned round to beckon to his companion, 
when he saw with surprise that Simba had broken his 
spear short, and, after stripping himself, had rolled hig 
loin-cloth around his left hand, and raising his 
shortened spear, had put himself into an attitude of 
defence against something. 

He at once bounded forward to assist his friend, 
when at the first step he took he saw a leopard spring 
upon Simba with a terrific cry. Uttering a cry of 
horror — but nothing daunted by the ferocity of the 
animal — ^he placed a barbed arrow on the string of his 
bow, and came up close to the combatants just as he 
witnessed Simba thrusting his left hand into the 
leopard's mouth, and driving his spear repeatedly into 
his side. The animal's claws were buried in the left 



374 MY KALULU. 

hip and knees of Simba, which he was viciously tearing ; 
but his jaws were rendered useless by thick folds of 
cloth which Simba had thrust into his mouth at the 
first onset of the brute. It was well that Simba was 
such a powerful man, else the shock of the onset would 
have knocked him down, when it would have become 
doubtful work to save his throat from the gleaming 
fangs. 

Kalulu stayed only to take in these observations, and 
then stepped deliberately nearer, and drove an arrow 
through him ; and without waiting to watch the results, 
drove another, and still another, while Simba drove his 
spear several times deep into his heart, and exerting 
his strength when he felt the claws relax, he brought 
his right leg forward, and turning the animal's back on 
it, pressed down his head with his left hand, and drew 
the sharp spear blade twice across the throat, almost 
severing the head. Then the animal, yielding to 
superior strength and weapons, fell off, shivered once 
or twice, and lay extended lifeless — dead. 

Poor Simba was most grievously wounded ; for the 
claws had penetrated deep into his hip, while the knee- 
bone was bare. 

"Ah!" sighed he, as he heard the expressions of 
sympathy from his young friend, " if I had only some 
of that eland thou didst shoot, Ealulu, in me yesterday, 
to-day I should have bent that beast Rouble, as easily 
as I would fold a piece of cloth. But grain-food ! who 
can be strong after feeding on grain-food for sixteen 
days ? Give grain to asses, but meat for men !" 

'* See here, Simba. Do thou rest thyself under this 
tree, while I go and bring our friends here. It is far 



KALULU SYMPATHIZES WITH WOUNDED SIMBA. 375 

easier for them to come here than for us to carry the 
eland to them. Thou mayest take my cloth to wrap 
round thy wounds. I don't need cloth while thou art 
thus." So saying, the generous, sympathizing youth 
hastened to inform his friends of the accident that had 
happened to Simba, which they received with surprise 
and consternation. 

Selim and Abdullah, who had been indebted so often 
to the power that lay in Simba's arm, as soon as they 
heard of the wounds which their champion had re- 
ceived, now hastened to him to offer their services. 

" Speak, Simba ! Oh ! the frightful beast !" said 
Selim, as his eye caught sight of the mangled and 
gashed leopard. " Speak ! art thou much hurt ?" 

Simba was reclining under the tree, looked slightly 
troubled with his pains ; the cloths he had taken to 
staunch the blood were lying on the wounded hip and 
knee, by no means pleasant to look at. The two boys, 
seeing these things, judged immediately that Simba's 
case was very grave — that he was going to die ; and, 
not knowing what else to do, they began to cry, to 
sound the praises of their dear friend, and lament his 
sudden " taking off." 

Simba, however, answered them as quickly as he 
could subdue a pang of pain, and command language. 

"Nay, weep not, young masters. Simba is but 
slightly wounded — flesh wounds — nothing more. No, 
no, Simba is not going to die ; he must see his wife 
and children, and Selim in his home again, before he 
can die. But — Master Abdullah !" 

" Yes, Simba, what is it ?" 

" Dost thou really like big Simba ?" 



376 , ,.^- MY KALULU. 

" Oh, Simba, how canst thou ask ? Thou hast suc- 
ceeded my father Mohammed in my affections. Bemem- 
ber the Liemba and the crocodile. I can never forget 
that awful moment, for the scars on my leg remind* me 
of it daily." 

"I thought thou didst like Simba a little; but 
wouldst thou be very sorry if Simba died to be left 
in this valley to be eaten by the hyeBna and the jackal, 
Abdullah r 

" Don't, don't, Simba, for Allah's sake, ask any such 
thing. Thou hast said thou art not going to die, then 
why torment me ?" 

" Yes ; but I might die if Master Abdullah did not do 
me one favour, for " 

"Speak; command me, Simba — anything, every- 
thing," urged Abdullah. 

" If Master Abdullah would only make a little fire, 
and Master Selim cut a little meat from that fine eland 
that lies dead by that tree yonder, Simba might eat 
meat and live." 

"Thou shalt have meat, Simba," cried Abdullah, 
before thou canst count one hundred," and he bustled 
about, ran here and there; collected bunches of dry 
grass, leaves, twigs, sticks ; brought a good-sized log 
or two of dead wood, between which a fire should be 
built ; while Selim, after taking the spear which had 
probed the leopard's heart, had run towards the dead 
eland, and was slashing and carving great chunks of 
meat. 

Abdullah had his pile of wood ready, but he now 
turned with a puzzled expression towards Simba, and 
said* 



KALTTLU SHOWS ABDULLAH THE ART OF MAKTVa A FIBE. 877 

" Here is the wood ; but where and how can we get 
fire ? Our guns are in the bottom of the sea !" 

Kalulu, Moto, and Niani had come up by this time, 
and Moto, after examining the wounds of his friend, 
turned round to Abdullah and said : 

"Kalulu will help thee, Abdullah, to get fire; he 
does not need a musket-pan or powder." 

Abdullah was curious to know how, for he had always 
seen a musket-pan used, though he had wondered often 
when a slave with the Wazayila how the natives ob- 
tained a fire ; but he had never seen the process. 

Kalulu, however, proceeded to show Abdullah how 
the Watuta obtained fire by other means than a musket- 
pan. Selecting a piece of stiff, dry bark, he placed it 
between his feet on the ground, and sprinkled it with a 
little sand, which he first rubbed dry and warm between 
the palms of his hands. He now chose the strongest 
arrow in his quiver, and, cutting off the feathers and 
the notch, he pared the end until it was level. Then 
gathering some dry leaves and grass straw on the 
sanded bark, rested the end of his arrow in the centre, 
and began to twirl the arrow round with the palms 
of his hands with a steady downward pressure. In a 
short time smoke was seen to issue, and, continuing the 
operation, two or three sparks of fire shot out among 
the straw and leaves, which, being blown, was soon 
nursed into flame. 

" That is how the Watuta obtain their fire," said 
Kalulu to Abdullah, with an air of superiority, which 
the latter thought was quite pardonable, since Kalulu 
did really produce a fire on which meat might be cooked 
for the benefit of his friend Simba 



378 MY KALULU. 

" Selim ! Selim ! SeUm !" cried Kalulu, " haste 
hither with the mftat." 

Abdullah, in his impatience to see Simba's jaws at 
work, reiterated the cry, " Selim ! Selim ! Selim ! 
come with the meat, come quick." 

" Coming !" was the answer which that industrious 
young Arab gave, as he turned his face toward the group 
with a shoulder of eland meat on his back. 

"Now, Niani, haste to get more. Think of poor 
Simba, thy father, sufferiAg for want of it ; there's a 
good boy, bring plenty," said Abdullah ; while in the 
meantime Kalulu had chosen an arrow-blade, and with 
it was preparing the slender sticks to impale the meat 
when it would be cut into kabobs for broiling, and Moto 
had bound Simba's wounded knee with bandages made 
out of Kalulu's loin-cloth, and had staunched the blood 
that had been pouring from the wounded hips. Moto 
also set to work at erecting a shed, which might shelter 
the whole party, and made a luxurious bed of grass and 
leaves on to which his friend was assisted. 

Kalulu then, while the meat was broiling, and the 
most pressing duties of the camp had been performed, 
turned to skin the leopard, whose hide, he thought, 
would make an admirable loin-covering for himself. 

Simba, after he had managed to eat as much of the 
eland as any two ordinary men would have eaten, 
began to feel his strength returned to him, and said : 

"Ah! there is nothing like meat for medicine, after all. 
It makes a man look kinder towards his fellows, and if 
he has his stomach full there is nought that he cannot 
bear. If I had always plenty of meat in me I would as 
soon fight a leopard every day as not ; and if I had a 



NIANI PUNISHES THE DEAD LEOPABD. 379 

good knife I would be willing to fight a lion rather than 
run away from him." 

Such sentiments, noble and worthy of the great man 
who spoke them, met with hearty approbation from his 
repleted friends, and Moto was of the opinion that after a 
stomachful of good meat he might also, if hard pressed, 
do damage to either a leopard or a lion. Selim, follow- 
ing suit, suggested that he, being but a boy, ought to 
have his English gun in his hand before he could 
be expected to fight a lion or a leopard; while Ab- 
dullah and Niani gravely expressed their fears that if 
they met either of those beasts of prey they would 
think of climbing some tall tree before doing anything 
else. 

Kalulu, after skinning the leopard, proceeded to 
spread the hide out on a piece of spongy sward for the 
sun to dry it, putting a number of small pegs around to 
stretch it. The leopard, being denuded of his splendid 
dress, was not so much an object of fear to little Niani 
as it had been ; it was no more fearful than a skinned 
dog would have been, though the canine teeth still 
looked formidable. But knowing the injury it had caused 
Simba during life, he could not help seizing the broken 
spear-shaft, and belabouring the dead brute with it in 
a vicious manner, which no doubt the leopard would 
have resented, could he have felt the blows showered 
on him. Having taken his fill of this mild revenge, 
Niani seized it by the tail and dragged it far out of 
sight. 

The valley wherein these adventures occurred would 
have been deemed by our friends exceedingly pretty at 
any other season, but almost every other moment the 



380 MY KALTTLTT. 

wind drifted great dense masses of rain-cloud across 
its face, which completely blurred its beauty, and added 
more volume to the streams that constantly poured 
down the slopes from above. 

Safe, however, for the time under their shed, they 
could contemplate their little annoyances with liberal 
philosophy, and could readily adapt themselves to tho 
circumstances without great sacrifice of comfort. 

Simba was too sore to move for two days, but on tho 
third day they broke their miniature encampment, and 
continued their journey through the mountains in a 
direction nearly north-west. 

Tropical mountains are always grand, but during the 
rainy season their grandeur is enhanced. Why ? Be- 
cause wherever you turn your eyes you see some pin- 
nacle, or crag, or summit buried in the angry clouds, 
which are a dirty grey, and ragged at the edges, but are 
an impenetrable mass behind of inky blackness, as if 
the night had been gathered and compressed into an 
enormous black ball ready to be hurled upon the valleys 
and plains by some vengeful fury. These black balls 
of clouds, poispd upon the topmost mountain, are a 
feature in Central Africa ; they seem to stand a moment 
in their precarious position, when a furious wind, which 
flurries everything in its way, tears along with a mighty 
sound, reaches the monstrous ball, lifts it up a moment 
above the mountains, and then hurls it upon the quiet 
sunlit valleys with thunder-crash and lightning, and 
great floods of rain. 

These were of daily, sometimes hourly, occurrence, 
while our travellers journeyed slowly to where they con- 
ceived friends might be found. Owing to Simba's 



HOW A MTUTA CHIEP FIGHTS. 381 

"wounds, their progress was necessarily slow, and this 
gave them ample opportunities to watch the phenomena 
we have described. 

At the end of a week they were not forty miles from 
the Bungwa Plain, and at the termination of that period 
Simba declared he felt as strong and as well as ever, 
and the eighth day he led the way as formerly, and 
twenty-five miles were marched. 

This day's journey brought the travellers to a long, 
straight, narrow valley, which was converted through 
alluvial deposits and vegetable mould of centuries into 
a quagmire of extraordinary profundity. On the oppo- 
site side of the oozy valley to that on which they stood, 
there was some cultivation, and in a circular jungle 
they descried a few huts, probably a village. On their 
side the ground rose up gradually to an ancient clear- 
ing, from which disused roads ramified in all directions, 
which were a sufficient evidence that at one time the 
country was well populated. 

They were striking up one of these roads leading to 
the old clearing, called Tongoni in the language of 
Zanzibar, when an arrow whistled close to Simba's ear, 
followed by another and another. 

Kalulu's trained ear detected the sound at once, and 
casting his eyes hastily around he saw a group of men 
wearing cloth round their loins, hidden in a thick bush; 
how many men he could not tell, nor did he wait to 
count them, but shouted to his friends : 

" Up, up ! Simba — Moto — up, my brother! up, Niani! 
run towards that peak beyond the clearing. I will fol- 
low you. I shall stop to bring these fellows out, and to 
show them how a Mtuta and a chief can fight." 



382 MY KALXJLXJ. 

" No," said Simba, " we will not go up without you. 
Come with us, Kalulu." 

" Fear not for me, but think of the Arab boys and 
yourselves. They cannot catch me. Go on to the 
peak. Go, Selim, Abdullah ; Kalulu begs of you." 

"Let him be, Simba," said Moto; "Kalulu knows 
what he is about ;" and without waiting to see whether 
Simba followed him, he snatched hold of Selim's hand 
and ran with him up the hill. Simba followed with 
Abdullah and Niani before him. 

As soon as he saw his friends start oflf, Kalulu limped 
most painfully towards a tall tree that stood near him, 
and crawled as if he were grievously wounded behind it. 
But the minute he felt himself safe behind the tree, he 
fixed an arrow in his bow, while he held three others in 
his left hand. 

Kalulu had not to wait a second before six men came 
from behind the bush and rushed towards his hiding- 
place, until they had come within about fifty yards 
from the tree, when they surrounded it, and one of 
them seeing him, hurled his spear at him. The spear 
fell short, about a yard from the feet of Kalulu, but the 
boy never made any sign of movement. Encouraged 
by his silence, another spear was hurled at him, which 
just missed his body, for it fell quivering at his side, 
not six inches from him. Then an assegai, or a long 
javelin came, and grazed the bark above his head, and 
still no answer, from which they surmised that he was 
wounded too much to make any reply ; but immediately 
one of them, bolder than the rest, made a forward leap 
to advance towards him, Kalulu drew his bow and sent 
an arrow through his chest, and before the others could 



--1 



KALULU VIOTOBIOUS. 383 

seek shelter again he had shot another through his 
side. Then, snatching the two spears and assegai 
which had been thrown at him, the young chief uttered 
the Kitutu war-cry and bounded, light as an antelope, 
through the thin jungle. 

On seeing the lad run the others rose from their 
shelter and gave chase. On reaching the top of the 
rising ground, Kalulu threw himself behind a thick bush 
of thorn and waited, with eyes and ears on the alert, 
and fingers on his bow-string, until catching sight of 
the foremost he took a deliberate aim at him and 
pierced his throat with an arrow ; and, before a sound 
could have been uttered by the dying man, he had 
fixed his arrow again and was aiming at a fourth, when 
the fellow turned about to run, but too late to escape 
the arrow which, following him, buried itself up to the 
feathers in his back. 

Emerging from his hiding-place, he retraced his 
steps, deliberately took up the arms, the bows and 
arrows and spears of the two last he had slain, and 
seeing the two remaining in full flight, turned round, 
and sought his companions, who were anxiously waiting 
for him on the summit of the peak. 
¦ In a few moments he had come up with them, and 
they listened in wonder to his tale, how he had slain 
four of their enemies, to which his trophies bore ample 
testimony. 

Simba began accusing himself of cowardice, and 
everything else that was bad, when the young chief 
stopped him, and said : 

" Not so, Simba ; thou art big and a good target for 
an arrow ; but I am small and thin, and if there had 



384 MY KALULXJ. 

been twenty I could, by being prudent, have escaped 
easily. None of these people like to come out to the 
open to fight, and so long as there was but one to fight 
they would never have chased anybody else ; and by 
dodging through the bushes, shooting the most forward 
of them, I could have so thinned them that when they 
reached us on this peak they would not have been able 
to take us without losing many more men, and perhaps 
losing alL If we all had been together those fellows 
might have killed two or three of us, and whom cotild 
we have spared? — Selim? Abdullah? Niani? No, 
Simba ; thou seest that I could not have acted other- 
wise." 

" I saw that when you told us to go," said Moto. 
" Who of us knows much about arrows ? Master Selim 
and Master Abdullah know nothing ; Niani is too small 
even if he did know. Simba says he don't, and I am 
sure I know but very little compared to a man who all 
his life has shot with nothing else but his bow. Now, 
with a gun " 

" Ah, yes ; if we had but three or four guns," sighed 
Simba, " thou wouldst not have been left alone, Kalulu." 

"If I had only my English gun here now, — two 
barrels, — always true — not one of those men would 
have escaped," remarked Selim. 

" But, my brother, surely only two have escaped as 
it is," replied Kalulu, laughing ; " and they are too 
scared to trouble us any more, I think, though it is 
time for us to be off before others from the village on 
the other side of the valley come after us. Here is a 
spear for thee, Moto ; and a spear also for thee, Simba. 
I will keep one spear, and Selim and Abdullah may 



81MBA THINKS KJlLVLV A HEBO. 385 

keep the bows and arrows. We shall have something 
for Niani by-and-by, perhaps." 

" I hope not," said Simba, " before we get amongst 
friends." 

This feat of Kalulu's in killing four men raised him 
highly in Simba's estimation, and the consequence of it 
was that he came to pay great deference to him, far 
greater than he ever had paid to him before ; for 
thus far, except that he showed himself capable of 
bearing great fatigue, could run well, was lithe and 
strong for his age, he had looked upon him as a boy 
merely. Now, howeyer, as he turned to seek the deep 
woods, on the ridge leading from the peak to the low 
range of hills beyond, he furtively eyed him from head 
to foot, and then shook his head, muttering to himself.- 

" What is the matter, friend Simba," asked Kalulu, 
" that thou dost eye me so, and shake thy head ?" 

" Thou hast a quick eye, Kalulu ; and it is as true as 
thy wrist and arm. I have been thinking," he said in 
a low voice, "that when thou art a few years older 
thou wilt be almost as strong as I am now, and that 
when thou returnest to thy country, Ferodia will be 
sorry for what he has done, for he will find thee a very 
lion in his way." 

" Thou mayst well say that, Simba," said Moto. 
" The little boy who pinned my arm to the shield I 
held when Kisesa attacked his father's village, is 
improved wonderfully. Wallahi ! ifc he kills four men 
now when he is but a boy, how many will he kill when 
he is a man. Ferodia will wish that he had never 
thought of being king." 

" Wait, my friends, wait ! Wait a few moons only ; I 

2 






386 MY KALULTT. 

•will Bhow you what Kalulu can do. Killing four men 
is nothing. I have killed chiefs and many men in our 
wars, as Soltali said in his song. Ferodia shall see 
Salulu's face again ; but I do not think it will be as 
his slave." 

" I wonder," said Moto, " what country this is ; and 
what tribe did that village belong to. Hast thou any 
idea, Simba ?" 

Not I ; I never was here before." 
Dost thou know, I think those were Wazavila too. 
They are scattered everywhere about this country since 
they were driven from their own by Simba, son of 
Mkasiwa, of Unyanyembe. Ah! that chief is such 
another as thou art, Simba. A lion by name and a 
lion in war. He has been the only one able to punish 
these thieves of Wazavila. ' 

" In what direction is his country ? dost thou know ?" 
asked Simba. 

"It ought to be north of where we are — two or 
three days yet. He is chief of a country called 
Kasera ; but we ought to come to the Unyanyembe 
road^ that goes from XJsowa and Fipa, before we reach 
Kasera." 

That night our friends camped near the base of a 
reddish range of mountains, by the side of a small 
stream, and in the morning they breasted the most 
feasible part of the range, and made their way with 
considerable difficulty through a tangle of bamboo, tiger 
grass, and thorn bush. 

Emerging out of the depths of a stony ravine, they at 
last stood upon the topmost height of the red mountain 
range, the colour of which they perceived came from 



SPEARlNa THE LEPID08IREK. 387 

the vast quantities of hsBmatite of iron, of which the 
mountains principally consisted. 

By using their observation, they were also enabled to 
ascertain that this range was the watershed of the 
Eungwa Eiver, for it ran so far east and west that no 
springs issuing into the plain of the Eungwa could rise 
further north of this range, for as far as they saw north 
the country trended north and west, while south of the 
range on which they stood the country trended west 
and south. Moto took this as a good sign of their 
approaching Unyamwezi, and raised the spirits of his 
friends considerably by delivering this as his opinion. 
He also advised that they should now bend their steps 
east of north. 

After a very long march that day, they camped near 
a lengthy but shallow pool in a forest several leagues 
to the north-east of the red range. Kalulu thought 
that, from the numbers of birds about — of fish eagles, 
cranes, pelicans, hornbills, kingfishers, ducks, and 
curious geese armed with spurs on their wings, that 
there must be fish in the pool, and accordingly took 
his spear and stationed himself near it. In a very 
short time he saw a movement in the muddy water, 
and darting the spear straight for it, brought out of 
the slimy depths a specimen of the Lepidosiren, or a 
bearded mud-fish, weighing about ten or twelve pounds. 
His success was hailed with delight by his half-famished 
comrades, who, though they had bagged a small ante- 
lope since the eland, had been much stinted in their 
meat rations lately. Each member at once constituted 
himself a harpoonist; but, excepting Simba and Moto, 
no luck met the efibrts of the others, as they could 



388 MY KALtLTJ. 

never throw their spears straight downwards, the spear 
always swerving to one side when near the bottom, 
owing to the over-firm hold with which they held their 
spears. But the success of Kalulu, Simba, and Moto 
proved ample to furnish the entire party with suflScient 
for a good supper and breakfast. 

They found the meat of the mud-fish very good, 
though very fat ; but being half starved, their stomachs 
were not over delicate. 

Continuing their march next day at sunrise, they 
came to a park-land, agreeably diversified with noble 
sycamores, and islets formed by dense growths of 
aloetic plants and thorn-bush ; and about noon they 
came to a well-tramped road, which, after noticing its 
direction, Moto declared would take them to the 
Unyanyembe road. 

Inspired by this news, whixjh certainly, after all they 
had gone through, was well calculated to produce joyous 
emotions within them, they tramped along this road at 
a rapid rate, and visions of home, though still far away, 
came vividly to the minds of the Arab boys, and they 
unconsciously pictured their mothers looking out of the 
lattice-windows of their homes, ever-gazing towards 
the continent and ever-wOndering where their absent 
boys were. 

A couple of hours before sunset they arrived in a thin 
forest. They formed their camp, and surrounded it 
with brushwood to guard against beasts of prey, and 
proceeded to warm what fish they had left. It was 
such a very small morsel for hungry men that Kalulu 
proposed that he should sally out with his bow and 
endeavour to pick up something more. He was strongly 



HOW A TBUB SON OP THE FOREST ACTS. 389 

dissuaded not to go by Simba and Moto ; even Selim 
and Abdullah begged him to remain with them, as they 
could well afford to be without more food until morn- 
ing ; but Kalulu laughed merrily, and told them not to 
be alarmed, he could take good care of himself. Seeing 
that he was determined, they said no more. 

As Kalulu left the little camp,, he threw out, for a last 
remark, that they might expect him shortly back with 
something fit to eat. He chose the road before him — 
the road that his companions would have to take next 
morning. He looked keenly to the right and the left, 
searched every suspicious place, and allowed nothing to 
escape him. The thin forest thinned once more to a 
small plain sprinkled with dwarf ebony and a species 
of blue gum-thorn. Numbers of ant-hills also dotted 
the plain, whose grey tops presented a strong contrast 
to the young grass of the plain. Beyond this loomed 
a forest thickening again; it was but ten or twelve 
minutes walking ; success might meet him there, he 
thought, and he proceeded towards it, arriving there 
by smart walking a few minutes earlier than he an- 
ticipated. 

He still marched on, hoping that something might 
meet his eye which might be broiled over a comfortable 
fire, and enliven the little society of wanderers with 
whom he found himself ; and thus arguing with himself, 
he proceeded still further. Suddenly he saw smoke. 
There is nothing specially dangerous in smoke, he 
thought ; but what smoke could this be in the forest ? 
There was no cultivation about, therefore it cculd not 
be a village. What was it ? Kalulu was a true son of 
the forest — a true hunter; his instincts were on the 



890 MY KALULU. 

alert. The cnrioTis phenomenon of a smoke in the 
forest daring the rainy season must be explained. 
What could it be ? 

He began to glide from tree to tree, from clump to 
clump ; now crouching behind a wart-hog's mound, that 
that beast had raised above its burrow, then wriggling 
along the grass like a snake, and presently leaping up 
with the activity of a leopard, until he drew nearer to 
the smoke, so near that he heard voices. 

" Voices !" The very fact of a human voice being 
heard in the forest, except his own, had something por- 
tentous in it ; for had not all voices lately been those of 
enemies ? He was ten times more cautious now ; and 
something like a half-regret for venturing hither came 
into his mind. Why had he come so far at all ? Why 
had he not listened to his brother Selim and his friends, 
who begged him not to go out ? 

He watched from behind the tree, and saw people ; 
men wearing cloth round their heads, long cloth clothes 
leading down to their feet, like those (he heard from 
Selim often) the Arabs used at Zanzibar. He listened ; 
and while trying to distinguish the language heard 
words such as Selim, Abdullah, Simba, Moto, and Niani 
used. The language was not of the interior of Africa 
around Ututa, nor Uzivila, nor Uwemba, surely ; and 
thesp people going about the camp in white cloths and 
long white clothes were not natives. He had never 
heard of any natives wearing such clothes. They must 
be Arabs ! Did not Moto tell him that they were on 
the Unyanyembe road, and that they might meet an 
Arab caravan going to Ffpa, or catch up an Arab 
caravan going to Unyanyembe from Fipa. Of course 



J 



WHAT KALULU FOUND IN THE ARABS' CAMP. 391 

these were Arabs ; people of Simba, and people of Selim, 
Moto, Abdullah, and Niani! They were his friends, 
since he was a brother of Selim ! 

What should he do ? Should he go back at once and 
gladden the hearts of his friends with the good news ? 
Ah ! the suggestion came near being acted upon ; but 
it was not, for immediately it was replaced by another, 
" Why not go to them, make thyself known, and they 
will be good to thee for Selim's sake ?" 

Poor boy ! Innocent youth ! He judged all Arabs 
to be good, like Selim and Abdullah, and he stepped 
out of his hiding-place and walked deliberately to the 
camp. He was soon seen, addressed, and invited to 
come up to them. 

" Hi, Ndgu ! njo (Hello, my brother ! come here.") 

This was a fair beginning, to call him " my brother," 
the English reader will think. Not at all; it is an 
ordinary hail to a stranger, in the same way that 
"Rafiki," my friend, is. But Kalulu advanced, and 
many men — probably thirty — hurried to meet him. 
Three men, apparently chiefs of the party — but they 
were not white, like Selim or Abdullah — were talking 
together as he came up to them. 

The oldest of them — marked with the small-pox, a 
man with very small eyes — who had a light bamboo 
cane in his hand, turned towards him, and asked him 
who he was, where he came from, what he was doing in 
the forest all alone, to which Kalulu answered as well as 
he was able in broken Kisawhili — the coast language — 
smiling all the time, and wishing he would testify some 
pleasure at seeing him. The man turned round to his 
companions, and talked with .them rapidly a language 



392 TklY KALULIT. 

he did not understand, but it was horribly guttural. It 
was Arabic; and as the harsh words were heard Ealula 
almost shuddered. The man with the stick pointed to 
Ealulu often, the others nodded, apparently agreeing 
with what tho pock-marked, small-eyed chief said. 

The chief Arab — he was not an Arab, but a half- 
caste, half-negro, half-Arab — sat down and pointed to 
Ealulu to seat himself by him. This, thought Kalulu, 
was friendly ; and in pure guilelessness he asked him : 

" Are ye Arabs ?" 

"Certainly. Mashallah! What did you take us 
for ?" replied the chief. 

" I don't know. I thought ye were Arabs, but I was 
not sure." 

Then Kalulu looked round, more at home. In one 
corner of the camp he saw a large gang of slaves, 
chained and padlocked safe. No chance of running for 
any of those, he thought. Simba could not break that 
chain, nor any of the strong iron padlocks which confined 
each collar. 

He was about to ask another question, when, without 
warning, without the least suspicion having been raised 
in his mind, he was pounced upon by half-a-dozen men 
from behind and disarmed. The slave-gang was brought 
up close to him, an iron collar was handed to the chief, 
who encircled the young neck of Kalulu with it, slipped 
an iron loop over the folding crescents, introduced a 
strong padlock into a staple after it, locked it, and then 
stood up to survey his captive. He nodded to the men 
who had hold of him. They released him, and the boy 
stood up, and the captor and captive looked at each 
other. 



A 



KALULU IS KIDNAPPED ! 393 

" Did ye not tell me ye were Arabs ?" 

" We are Arabs," answered the chief, laughing at his 
simplicity. 

"Then if ye are Arabs, what does this violence 
mean ?" 

" It means yon are my slave.'^ 

"Slave! I a slave?" 

" Certainly, and worth over fifty dollars at Zanzibar." 

"la slave ! Do you know Selim ?" 

" Selim ? What Selim ? I know plenty of Selims." 

" My Selim. Only my Selim. A white Arab boy, of 
my size ?" 

" What of him ?" 

" He is my brother." 

" Your brother ! A white Arab boy your brother. 
Dog of a pagan !" 

" The blood ceremony was entered into between us. 
I am the King of the Watuta." 

" You a king of the Watuta ! Ha ! ha ! ha ! We 
have plenty of kings with us. Do you see that woman 
before you ? She is a queen in Uwemba. Kings sell 
well. If you were king of all the devils, and brother 
to all the Arab Selims, you are my slave now, and 
the likeliest, best looking I ever had. I will not part 
with you under one hundred dollars. Wallahi ! There, 
go. Men, take them away. Strike camp. Ho for the 
sofari" (journey.) 

" But listen, chief, I am not your slave. Let me go. 
Simba and Selim will be angry with you if you keep 
me. Let me go^ chief. Oh ! let me go to the camp ; 
it is right close here." 

" Silence ! No words, not one word. You are my 



394 MY KALULU. 

slave. Arabs know how to keep slaves. For the bad 
slaves there is a yoke-tree, besides chains. Be wise, 
and keep silence. You shall go to Zanzibar with that 
chain around your neck ; if you are bad, you shall go 
with the yoke-tree around your neck. For those slaves 
who talk too much we have sticks. Be wise, I tell you. 
Drive the gang on, men." 

Kalulu was desperate ; the blood rushed to his head ; 
he got furious. His senses and feelings were one wild 
riot. He could not describe how or why he leaped 
with frantic energy at the villain. He was possessed 
with fury. He therefore Struck at him, caught hold of 
him, tried to beat his brains out with his chain, and 
would have done it, no doubt, or so bruised his features 
that they would ^ave become undistinguishable ; but 
he now had to deal with clever men, who knew what 
the spasmodic, despairing energy of slaves newly cap- 
tured was. Before he had given the man more than 
three blows he was dragged oflf, kicked, pounded, cuflfed, 
bruised, and almost strangled. Then a systematic 
flogging took place ; such a flogging that a villanous 
half-caste, enraged, would be likely to give, while he 
fought with all his might, and gave half-a-dozen of 
them work enough to hold him. When the punish- 
ment was over, he was not left to meditate upon his 
position, but was marched off in the direction of 
Unyanyembe, the last of the slave gang ! 

The Arabs were about making what they call a " tifi- 
kesa " — that is, an evening journey — in order to reach 
water before noon next day, by which time they would 
probably have made a march of ' thirty miles. They • 
had camped deep in the woods, about half a mile from 



( 



--^^ 



A VICTIM OP AN ATBOCIOUS DEED. 395 

the road. Had it not been for the smoke of their fires, 
Kalulu would never have seen them, probably. When 
once their fires went out it would be difficult for any- 
body to know that a slave-gang had been there, or that 
such a cruel deed as the kidnapping of Ealulu had ever 
taken place. If the Arabs but continued their journey 
until noon, and started again at night, and left no trace 
behind, how would it be possible for those who would 
seek Kalulu to find a trace of him ? 

What a change of feeling came over the outraged 
youth ! What a sudden and complete transformation 
was this ! He left a camp of Arabs to enter another. 
In one, he was beloved, esteemed, idolised ; in the other, 
he was a slave, beaten like a dog, chained! In one 
camp the Arabs were good, kind, brotherly; in the 
other, they were robbers, kidnappers, enslavers, villains. 
In one camp he esteemed, he admired, he loved; in 
another, he brooded over his injuries, and he hated with 
all the hate with which one wronged is able to hate. 

If he was treated so harshly at the beginning of his 
slavery ; if he was the victim of such damnable atro- 
city as that which he had sufi'ered, by what rule or 
system could be measured that which he would have to 
sufier before he reached Zanzibar ; and at Zanzibar, with 
that iron collar perpetually about his neck, how could he 
ever advantage himself? Would there ever be an end 
to the indescribable misery he suffered now ? Had he 
parted for ever from freedom and friendship ? Would 
there ever be hope for him more ? 

These were the thoughts that filled his mind as he 
was marched off to slavery with that infiexible iron 
collar about bis neck, and the horrid chain swinging 



396 MY KALULU. 

from one side to the other, with that long file ol slaves 
before him, and the long file of flinty kidnappers behind 
him. 

Ah ! poor Kalulu ! Thou art but one of the thou- 
sands upon thousands of wretched men, women, and 
children who have trodden that road to its present 
hardness and smoothness ; whose wild delirious thoughts 
have never found speech as thine have ; whose hopeless 
looks have never been portrayed in any book ; whose 
silent prayers have never seen the light, nor have been 
rehearsed in any hall where kind Christian men and 
women would hear them and commiserate their suflFer- 
ings; whose indescribable agonies have never been 
touched upon by a kindly pen ! But go thou on to 
slavery, as the thousands who have gone before thee, 
until English readers shall meet with thee again ! 



The alabm of KAXutitr's FBi£ia>s. 397 



CHAPTEE XV. 

The alarm of Ealulu's friends — The search for Ealulu — Ealulu, 
Ealulu I — Shall we never more see Kalulu ? — Only trees, trees, 
trees — ^Ealulu is Lost ! — The march to Unyanyembe — Why come 
ye in this guise, children? — Among friends at last! — Selim and 
Abdallahin Arab Costume — The Lion Lord's City — Home a^in ! 
— Selim embraces his Mother— Ealdlu discovered! — The Slave 
Market. How much for Ealulu ? — Ealulu restored to his Friends 
— Ealulu introduced to Abdullah's Mother — My Ealulu 1 

Eeturning to the camp of our friends, we find the sun 
has set, and darkness is settling fast over the earth. 
Simba stands at the gate of the camp with an anxious 
face, for his young friend Kalulu has not yet returned. 
Moto, Selim, and Abdullah are just within waiting, 
and listening eagerly for the slightest sound of foot- 
steps. 

" What can be the matter with the boy ? Dost thou 
think he could get lost, Moto ?" asked Simba. 

" No ; Kalulu could not lose himself if he tried. Hq 
has slain something, and is coming with a heavy load 
of meat, so as not to make two journeys. It takes the 
like of Kalulu to know how to kill game." 

" I wish he had not gone away," said Selim, " be- 
cause it would be a pity if he came to harm when we 
are so close to friends." 
» " What harm can happen to him about here, except 
from a lion or a leopard ? But if he met either beast 
I would set Kalulu against him. There are plenty of 



398 MY KALULU. 

trees about here for him to climb up, and I should like 
to see the monkey that would excel him in climbing," 
said Moto. 

Still the night grew deeper and deeper, and the 
anxiety of the friends increased. 

" What road did he take ; dost thou know, Moto ?" 
asked Simba. 

"I think he took the Unyanyembe road; but he 
may have gone after something in the forest. K he 
saw any game he would not be likely to remain in the 
road. He would go after it, of course," replied 
Moto. 

"Well, I am going to look for him. Wilt thou 
come? The boys can keep a good fire up to let us 
know where the camp is," said Simba. 

" What a soft fellow thou art, Simba ! Dost thou not 
know that in the night we can do nothing to hunt him 
up, when he may be anywhere but in the place where 
we are looking for him ? If we had a gun we might 
signal him ; but by going out in this darkness we would 
only tire ourselves to no purpose. If Kalulu has been 
taken too far away by following an antelope or some- 
thing else, the boy has a thousand ways of passing the 
night. He could sleep in a tree bough, in a hollow 
tree, or in the burrow of a wild boar, just as well as he 
could sleep in the camp. I am no hunter like Kalulu, 
yet I could do it, for I have been lost many times in 
the woods. What we must do, is to sleep in the camp 
to-night, and the first thing at daybreak we two shall 
go different roads, and wake all the country round with 
our cries." 

" Thou art wiser than I am, Moto, yet it is very 



^--^ 



THE SEARCH FOB KALULTJ. 399 

hard. If any harm comes to him, I shall always accuse 
myself for a poor silly fellow who did not know how to 
take care of a boy. I am sorry I did not stop him, for 
something tells me harm has come to him. I would I 
knew where he was. I would soon see whether a good 
friend at his back could help him or not. We shall 
rest here until daybreak, and may Allah grant that we 
find him !" 

" Amen, and amen," responded the Arab boys fer- 
vently. 

At break of day Simba woke his friends. He had 
not slept a wink, though he had lain down. With a 
heart that had palpitated violently at every sound, he 
had lain listening acutely to every noise that broke the 
silence. It might have been a light-footed antelope, or 
the rustling of a fan palm, or the fall of a branch, or the 
shuffling feet of a hyaena, yet each of these, as he heard 
it, had inspired a momentary hope that it was the foot- 
step of the returning Kalulu. 

Simba was impatient to be off and to use his strong 
lungs ; and when the sun was up, he was brusque in 
speech to Moto, when he said : 

"Come, man, art thou never going to stir? Let 
us be off. Which way wilt thou take, south or 
north ?" 

" Oh, any road will do for me ; do thou take the south, 
I will walk towards the north, and let each of us strike 
towards the east. We must be back by noon, for if 
Kalulu is not here by then, and neither of us have 
found hiifi, then he is " 

"What, Moto?" said Selim, now really alarmed. 
" Oh, do not say he is lost ! We must find him. We 



400 MY KALULU. 

cannot give him np. I will go along the TJnyanyembe 
road as far as I can, and return here by noon." 

" Young master," said Simba, " don't go away from 
this camp, I beg of thee. To lose Kalulu is as much as 
I can bear ; but if thou art lost too, then may all the 
bad things of this earth happen to me, I do not care 
how soon." 

" But, dear good Simba, it is now day. I cannot be 
lost, for I will not leave the road. Whilst thou and Moto 
go north and south, I will take the eastern road, and 
after going two hours on the road, I shall return along 
the road to the camp. Who knows what has happened 
to my brother Kalulu ? He may be wounded, and I 
may find him waiting for us. He has done enough for 
me ; I ought to risk something on my part for him. I 
shall go, Simba— there. Abdullah and Niani shall stay 
in the camp to watch." 

" Well, well, as thou wilt. Thou art master here, 
and wherever I be. Come, Moto, let us be off." 

" Now, Simba," said Selim, running up to him, 
" thou art angry with me. Seest thou not it is but my 
duty to search for him ? Is it nothing, what Kalulu 
has done for me all these months ? Be good, Simba, as 
thou hast always been to me. Let me go without 
feeling that thou art offended with me." 

*' Nay, go, my young master, and Allah go with thee. 
Simba knows not much about Allah ; but Simba, while 
he looks for Kalulu, will pray to him to be kind to 
thee, and look after thy safety. Come, Moto, let 
us go." 

" God be with thee, Simba, and with thee, Moto," 
cried Selim, as he turned to depart. 



J 



KALTTLU, KALtJLU ! 401 

" And with thee also," replied Simba and Moto, as 
they strode off in their several directions. 

Soon AhduUah and Niani, left alone in the camp, 
heard the shouts at intervals of each of their friends as 
they wandered off, — 

" Ealuln ! Kalu— lu ! Ka— luuu— luu !" was the 
cry they heard repeated until the sounds were lost hy 
distance. 

Selim strode on, uttering the name of his lost friend 
over and over. He made the thin forest ring with its , 
liquid sounds until he fancied that every tree lent its 
aid to cry out the sweet name. 

" Kalulu — Kalulu — Ka — luu — luu — u !" was 
uttered on the desolate plain among the dwarf ehony 
and blue gum. The thick forest beyond was reached, 
and here again the stunted woods re-echoed to the 
name of " Kalulu." There was no reply. There was 
not the slightest trace of any Kalulu in the grim 
solitude. The forest was as calm and silent as though 
no one had ever ventured within its gloom since it 
grew. He looked down on the road; the road was 
smooth and compact, though now and then he thought 
he saw traces of human toes ; but there were so many 
of them, one person could never have made so many 
marks with the toes of his feet. Was it not the road 
on which caravans journeyed to Unyanyembe ? 

After he had gone many miles through the forest, 
Selim began to retrace his steps towards the camp, but 
still shouting the beloved name of "Kalulu;" but 
there was no reply to it, and sorrow, alarm, and gloom 
settled down on his heart, and in this state he reached 

2 D 



402 MY KALULTT. 

the camp, a little before noon, to wait the arrival of 
Simba and Moto. 

His friends soon returned, as unsuccessful as he, 
without having seen the slightest trace of him whom 
they now began to lament as a lost friend. 

The sorrows of Kalulu's friends were deep. Selim 
wept copious tears, and all his imagination could not 
lighten the gloom he felt over the fate of his friend and 
adopted brother, who had been so good to him ; no 
fancy could alleviate for one instant the overwhelm- 
ing misery that the unexplained absence of Kalula 
now caused. Continually he asked himself what could 
have befallen him, but all in vain. He had gone 
away in the full vigour of his youth ; his lithe, slender, 
but sinewy form seemed so indurated and so protected 
against all mischances by the clever head to plan, 
the muscular arm to execute, and the clean-shaped 
limbs and swift feet to run, that he appeared in- 
vulnerable. And he had gone away smiling, but since 
then there was no clue, and his imagination and fancy 
were paralysed. 

Selim turned to Moto, and asked : 

" Oh, if thou canst give me the slightest hope that I 
shall see Ealulu again, I will bless thee ?" 

" I can't think of anything* A lion may have 
followed him and sprang on him, and carried him away 
bodily — though it is unlikely. A buffalo may have 
gored him, and left him dead. Savage men may have 
found him and made him a captive ; though as this is a 
* polini * (a wilderness) I don't see how men could be 
here. Thou knowest what he has done already, how 
quick and cunning he was with his arm and feet. He 



SHALL WE NEVER MORE SEE KALULXJ ? 403 

was a true son of the forest ; and if danger and death 
overtook him, it must have been very sudden." 

" What dost thou think, Simba ?" asked Selim. 

" I can't think of anything, young master, except 
that he is not here, and we don't know what has 
become of the brave young chief without whose aid 
none of us would have been so far on our way home ;" 
and the generous-hearted man wept aloud, and his 
weeping had a sad effect on all. 

"And shall we see—never more see Kalulu?" sobbed 
Abdullah; "never more see him who saved me from 
the jaws of the monster in the Liemba, who freed us 
from bondage, who was our friend and brother, who 
has been everything to us, the kindest, best, the noblest 
Pagan child that ever breathed ?" 

" He who saved me from death in the forest, who 
made me his brother, and stood by me through many 
troubles — who on my Srccount threatened Ferodia, and 
from that lost his kingdom — with whom I have roamed 
through plain and forest, and have talked so often with 
as a brother — the dearest and best brother I can ever 
have I" cried Selim. 

" Stay, young masters, do not give way to such tears. 
Kalulu may not be lost. He may return to the camp 
this afternoon. I am going out now to look for him 
again, and to see if I cannot get something for us to 
eat," cried Moto. " Meantime, hope ; stranger things 
than his return have happened." 

The boys and Simba looked their gratitude, as, next 
to Kalulu, they knew that Moto was the best woodsman 
of the party. Moto strode off in the direction of the 
Unyanyembe road. 



401 MY KALULtJ. 

At night he returned, bringing on his back a fat 
young antelope, and news which made all start. 

Said he, while he and Simba turned to prepare some 
of the meat : " I went along the same road that master 
Selim went this morning. I crossed a * mbuga * (small 
plain), and came to a thick forest. Soon after entering 
the wood I saw on the left-hand side of the road a 
yellow heap of earth which a wild boar had made 
above his burrow. I went up to it, and what do ye 
think I saw ? — the marks of two feet of a boy. They 
were small and narrow, not broad and large, like 
a man's foot — Simba's or mine — would be. They 
must have been Kalulu's. He had jumped on that 
yellow mound, for the toes had sunk deeper in than the 
heels. I went on, where the leaves had been disturbed, 
but all marks were soon lost. However, I went further 
on in that direction, and in about half an hour I came 
to a camp, not fenced round, but where fires had been 
kindled. The ashes below the surface were slightly 
warm. If Kalulu is anywhere, I feel sure that Kalulu 
is with those people. But who are those people ? Are 
they Waruga-ruga (bandits)? Are they Wanyam- 
wezi ? Are they natives ? Are they Arabs ? This is 
a ' polini ' (wilderness) ; there is no village near here. 
Where have those people gone to ?" 

" Let us go on, then, and find out ; let us follow this 
road until we come to some village where we can ask T* 
said Simba. 

" Yes, yes," said Selim, let us go." 

" I am ready now," said Abdullah. 

** Wait, young master, and thou, Simba. Eat first 



ONLY TREES, TREES, TREES. 405 

as much as ye can, then we can go," said Moto, in the 
tone of one who knew what he was ahout. 

In an hour a full meal had been despatched, and 
about an hour before sunset they started towards 
Unyanyembe ; but before they reached the camp which 
had excited Moto's attention it was dark, and prudence 
insisted on them stopping there. 

All kinds of suggestions were made as to Kalulu's 
fate, and they fondly called up, by retrospective glances 
at the past few months, all they knew concerning 
Kalulu, all he had done, his amiability, his kindness of 
heart, and the generous character of the young chief, 
until each sighed for morning. 

There was but little sleep that night, and the next 
morning they were early afoot on the road. The 
narrow path which they trod led to Unyanyembe, and 
had been tramped to hardness and compactness. It 
ran around bushes ; sometimes it went straight ahead ; 
then it made great curves like a lengthy brown serpent. 
There seemed no end to the road or to the forest. It 
was ever woods, woods, woods, in their front — woods to 
the right of them, woods to the left of them, woods 
behind them, and not a sign of cultivation or of popu- 
lation anywhere. Only trees, trees, trees. Trees of 
all kinds — the candelabra kolqual, the prickly cactus, 
spear-leafed aloes, thorn bushes, gummy woods, silk- 
cotton trees, sycamores, mimosa, plane, or the silvery 
chenar, tamarinds, wild fruit-trees, but no fields or 
villages. 

Darkness coming on at fall of day, they sought a 
place to make their camp. 

Another day dawned, and again they were on the 



406 MY KALULU. 

road; the forest thinned into park-land — the park- 
land gave place to a sterile bit of chalky-coloured plain 
— the plain was succeeded by a thin forest — the thin 
forest by a jungle — the jungle by a plain again, and 
still there was no sign of living man or of men. They 
seemed to be the only inhabitants living in the world. 
Yet the road still ran before them in serpentine curves 
and long, straight stretches. 

At night they rested again near a broad river. They 
were eking out their meat as much as they could, and 
at dawn they continued their march. At noon they 
saw fields of young corn, and beyond the yellow tops 
a village, and when they came to it they saw natives 
standing outside the gate. 

" Ho, my brothers, health to ye !" cried Moto. 

** Health, health to ye !" was the response. 

" What country is this ?" 

" Manyara." 

" Manyara !" cried Moto, astonished. 

" Yes, and Ma-Manyara is king." 

" Why, then, Unyanyembe is not far from here ?" 

" About nine days oflf." 

" Was not that the Gombe Eiver we passed ?" 

" Yes, if you came from Ukonongo along the road." 

" We did. We have been hunting, and have had a 
misfortune on the road. We are going to Unyanyembe. 
What news ?" 

" Ah ! Good news. Manwa Para is dead." 

" Dead, is he ? Have ye seen a caravan lately going 
by here towards Unyanyembe ?" 

" No — none for many days." 

" Health, health to ye, my friends !" 



KALULu IS lost! 407 

" Health, health !" was the response. 

Our friends strode on until they got beyond the cul- 
tivation and were deep in the forest again, when Moto 
turned round and said : 

" Kalulu is lost !" 

" Lost ! Oh, Moto ! must we give him up for ever ?" 
asked Selim. 

"I fear so. I thought that caravan belonged to 
Arabs. If they were Arabs they would have come this 
way, and those people at the gate would have seen 
them. But I think now that camp belonged to the 
. Waruga-ruga (bandits). And where have they gone to ? 
Are they from Ugala or Ukonongo ? Were those people 
Wazavila or wild Wanyamwezi ? They were not Arabs, 
or they would have come this way. We are too far 
away to go back, and we might hunt for Kalulu years 
and years among the tribes about here without finding 
him. The bandits kill all men as soon as they catch 
them, if they cannot make slaves of them. They are 
never seen. They are everywhere, but nowhere when 
ye desire to see them. No ; Kalulu is lost, and unless 
we want to lose ourselves, we must go on to Unyan- 
yembe." 

This was a sudden shock to the Arab boys and to 
Simba. They had nourished a lively hope that their 
friend might be found, but they were now sternly told 
that their friend was " lost." 

" Poor Kalulu !" said Selim. " He is not lost to me. 
I will build him up — from his feet to his head, with 
all his fine high courage, quick, generous temper, and 
his warm heart, in my memory, where he shall dwell 
as the noblest and best I have ever met. Until I die 



408 MY KALULU. 

I shall remember him as the truest friend and kindest 
brother." 

"And so shall I, Selim," said Abdullah. "Thou 
and I shall often talk of him as one to whom there was 
no equal in worth. When we meet our mothers, we 
shall remember his name as one without whom they 
never would have seen us again, and our mothers shall 
bless him. His memory shall be to me like a plant 
nightly watered by the dew of heaven, never to die, and 
whenever I hear his name mentioned I will pray that 
I may be like him. For Kalulu's sake, all black people 
who call me master shall be well treated, and shall 
never be abused." As he said these words, little 
Abdullah wept copiously, as the worth of his friend 
rose so vividly before him. 

" And I make a vow," said Selim, " for my brother's 
sake, never to purchase a slave for my service while I 
live ; and when I die my slaves shall all be free. No 
black man in my service shall have cause to regret that 
I met with Kalulu in Africa ; but they shall rejoice, 
and know that their treatment is due to Kalulu alone, 
that they may sing his praises under my palms and 
mangoes." 

" AUah be with ye both ! " cried Simba. " If all 
Arabs were like ye, the Arab name would become be- 
loved throughout all the tribes of the Washensi." * 

"Ay, so it would," said Moto; "so it would; and 
the people of our race and colour would not be bought 
like sheep and goats, and driven with sticks to the 
market to be sold. A great wrong is done by the 
Arabs every day in this country, and it is no wonder 

* Pagans. 



THE MARCH TO UNYANTEMBE. 409 

that the tribes treat them badly when they can. Tifum 
treated Masters Selim and Abdullah cruelly, because he 
heard that they did the same to the black people. We, 
thou, and I, Simba, should not have been so good as 
we are had any other than Sheikh Amer bin Osman 
been our master." 

" I believe thee, Moto," replied Simba. " "We would 
not be going back to Zanzibar either, if noble Amer's 
son was other than he is. Master Selim is the best 
Arab living. Prince Madjid's sons are worthless, com- 
pared to my young master. But let us go to Unyan- 
yembe, before some evil overtakes Selim and Abdullah, 
and we have no hope of pleasure left to us more," 

Moto started at the suggestion of evil to his young 
master, and at once put his best foot forward, until 
they came to a plain, where he strove to obtain an 
additional supply of meat, and was so successful with 
his arrows, that he brought down a zebra. 

The march to Unyanyembe lasted fifteen days longer, 
owing to the lack of the cheery presence of Kalulu, and 
to the frequent stoppages they had to make to procure 
food, and to nourish their strength ; but on the morn- 
ing of the sixteenth day, the well-known features of the 
hills around the Arab settlements greeted the eyes of 
Moto and Simba, who had seen them before. To their 
left rose the table hill of Zimbili, at their base were the 
Arab houses of Maroro, and stretching nearer to them, 
was the fertile basin of Kwihara ; and soon rose before 
them the Arab houses of Sayd bin Salim, Abdullah bin 
Sayd, Sheikh Nasib, and of the redoubtable Kisesa. 
But passing by these, and walking rapidly along a road 
which led through Kisiwani, and between two hills 



410 MY KALULU. 

which separate Kwihara from the larger settlement of 
the Arabs, the great tembes of Tabora greeted them, 
each surrounded by plantains and pomegranate trees. 

Upon asking some of the people who were passing 
from Tabora to Kwihara — and who stared at Selim and 
Abdullah as if they had never seen Arabs before — who 
lived at Tabora, they were given a long list of names, 
and among these was the name of Sultan bin Ali ! 

" Where does he live ?" asked Selim. 

" Yonder, by that big tree. The first tembe ye 
come to." 

Selim and Abdullah gave a shout of joy, in which 
they were joined by Moto, Simba, and Niani, and as they 
passed on, Selim proposed that they should break in upon 
the old man suddenly, who would no doubt be found on 
his verandah, chatting with half-a-dozen other Arabs. 

In a few minutes — minutes that were never counted, 
but which glided by swiftly — they found themselves 
pushing their way through crowds of well-dressed 
Zanzibar slaves, who looked upon the Arab boys with 
surprise, mingled with awe, but who made way for them 
immediately, but eyeing them as if they had never seen 
Arabs. 

Selim and Abdullah passed on, however, and came at 
last before the spacious tembe. They saw the white* 
bearded Sheikh, seated with his back to the wall, leaning 
on a pillow which was covered with gay print. On 
each side of him sat several other Arabs. All started 
up as they saw the strange Arab boys, undressed and 
naked, with the exception of ragged pieces of dirty 
cloth about their loins, walk up to them, and heard the 
unmistakable Arabic of Muscat, as the boys said : 



WHY COME YE IN (THIS aXJISE, CHILDREN? 411 

" Salaam Aleekum !" (Peace be to ye.) 

"Aleekum Salaam!" (and unto ye be peace), re- 
sponded the startled Arabs, rising to their feet. 

" Are ye Arabs, children ?" said the old Sultan bin 
Ali, gazing at them sternly. 

" We are children of the Arabs of Muscat," answered 
Selim, with a tremulous voice. 

" How is it, then, in the name of Allah," said the 
aged Sheikh, " that ye come in this guise, naked, into 
the presence of true believers ?" 

" Our fathers gje dead. They were rich merchants 
of Zanzibar. They were slain in battle, and we, their 
sons, were made slaves. After many months we have 
escaped — praised be Allah for his mercies ! — and have 
sought ye, our kinsmen." 

" Slain in battle !" echoed the Sheikh. " Who are 
ye ? In what battle were your fathers slain ?" 

" This," said Selim, pointing to Abdullah, " is Ab- 
dullah, son of Sheikh Mohammed bin Mussoud ; I am 
Selim, son of Amer, son of Osman ; thou art Sultan, the 
son of Ali, my kinsman and friend." 

" Oh, blessed be the compassionate God ! Praised be 
the Lord of all creatures — the most merciful, the King 
of the Judgment-day !" cried the aged Sultan, as he 
rushed to Selim and Abdullah, and brought them 
together, and embraced them both at once, and kissed ' 
their foreheads, and would not release them for a 
moment, but continued to pour his kisses on their 
faces, and endearing terms into their ears, while hot 
tears poured down his cheeks as he said, looking at 
them with a memory which carried him and them to 
that fatal day in Urori, ^* And thou art Selim, the son 



412 MY KALULU. 

of noble Amor, my kinsman ! and this is Abdullah, son 
of Mohammed ! Ah, wondrous are the ways of God, 
and merciful is He to true believers ! I see Amer and 
Mohammed in your eyes, children; how came I to 
forget that fatal day of Kwikuru ? But enter, children. 
Enter, in the name of the Most High. Amer's kinsman 
cannot forget his duties to Amer's son !" 

But the other Arabs could not permit Sultan, son of 
Ali, to take the boys away without being permitted to 
embrace them, and while scalding tears fell down their 
cheeks, they cried out, " Blessed is the Most High, 
the merciful and compassionate God !" and poured 
their congratulations into the ears of the escaped 
captives. 

Before quite going in at the door of the tembe, Selim 
turned to Sheikh Sultan and said : 

" Sultan, son of Ali, let not the son of Amer be called 
ungrateful. Lo ! here are my friends. Thou hast not 
thanked them for what they have done to us. This is 
Simba, and this is Moto ! Dost thou not know them ?" 

" Ah, who does not know Simba and Moto ?" said the 
old man, as he rushed at them and gave them a warm 
embrace, and kissed, out of pure gratitude, those rugged 
and dusky men of Africa. " Enter, men, in the name of 
God. Command the kinsman of Amer, what ye will 
eat, and drink. But who is this little fellow — thy son, 
Simba?" 

"No, Sheikh Sultan; he is Niani, Master Amer's 
slave." 

" Is he the little fellow who used to play tricks upon 
Isa, son of Thani, Selim ?" 

" The same." 



AMONG FRIEKDS AT LAST ! 413 

" Come, child, to an old man's arms !" said he, as he 
caught him up, and gave him a warm kiss. 

Simba, and Moto, and Niani found themselves em- 
braced by the other Arabs in turn, and Sultan bin Ali's 
slaves, hearing who they were, came rushing up by the 
dozen to embrace their friends, whom they had given 
up as lost for ever, on that fearful day, when four 
hundred Arabs and their people met with such a sad 
fate. 

But Sultan bin Ali, seeing them thus engaged, turned 
to his slaves, and bade them prepare the best at once 
for food, and then ushered Selim and Abdullah to his 
own cosy, carpeted room, and, inviting them to rest a 
moment, hastened out again to an Arab of middle age, 
named Soud bin Sayd, who was seated on his verandah, 
and said to him : 

" Soud bin Sayd, thou hast two sons of the same age 
as these boys. Hasten, my friend, bring two dresses 
for these children — the best thou hast— name thy price 
for them, but bring them." 

" Do not name price. Sheikh, thou hast them. I will 
but mount thy riding-ass and be back before thou canst 
say, Bismillah !" and the good-hearted man hurried off 
as he said it. 

Then Sultan bin Ali called to his barber, and bade 
him bring his basin and razors directly to him, then 
joined the youngs Arab boys, who had been weeping 
continually for joy, fast locked in each other*s arms. 

The barber soon came, and Sultan told him to shave 
off the boys' hair, which was grown almost to their 
shoulders. Before the depilatory process was com- 
pleted, Soud bin Sayd had returned with two complete 



414 MY KAIiULTT. 

dresses — shirts, handsome embroidered dishdashehs 
(robe), and embroidered skull-caps, two fine blue cloth 
damirs (jackets), wide-flowing linen drawers, and 
slippers. 

Then, excusing the barber of the kind-hearted Soud, 
Sultan ushered the boys into the lavatory with their 
new dresses, where there was abundance of water, soap, 
and towels for them; and after telling them, when 
dressed, to come out to him and his friends on the 
verandah, he closed the door on them, and joined the 
Arabs, who were still in a high state of excitement, 
consequent upon the unexpected appearance of the 
Arab boys, and their marvellous escape from slavery. 

" Sultan, son of Ali," said Soud bin Sayd, " this is a 
great day." 

" Thou mayst well say so. How rejoiced the widows 
of Amer and Mohammed will be, and Leila, who is to 
be Selim's wife when he gets old enough ! My friends, 
ye must join me in eating the noon-day meal with the 
poor children, that they may feel that they are among 
kinsmen and friends once more. Poor boys ! what they 
must have suffered ! But there is a great deal to be 
told yet ; we shall hear their story presently. I am 
glad ye are here to welcome them with me.'* 

" It is wonderful I — wonderful ! I feel impatient to 
hear all they have to say," said a swarthy-faced young 
Arab of about twenty-five. 

Within half-an-hour the two Arab boys, Selim and 
Abdullah, came from their room, dressed, and so 
changed they could barely be recognized as the wild- 
looking, long-haired boys who had so electrified the 
old man with their unpresentable appearance* Selim 



SELIM AND ABDULLAH IN ARAS COSTUME. 415 

came first, Abdullah behind, the Arabs rising respect- 
fully as they came near, the former advancing to Sheikh 
Sultan, with his handsome face all aglow at the change 
he felt in him, took hold of the old man's right hand, 
and raised it respectfully to his lips, and went on to 
the other Arabs to do the same to them, but they would 
not permit this, but saluted him on the cheek, as well 
as Abdullah. 

The Sultan bin Ali invited the boys to the seat of 
honour near him, and had pillows brought for them, so 
they would not feel chilled by contact with the wall, 
and invited Selim to tell his story, with which he at 
once complied, and gave them a succinct but brief 
account of all that happened to them from the battle- 
day to their appearance at Unyanyembe. He never 
had such an attentive audience before in his life. 
The Arabs were deeply interested in it, and often broke 
out into exclam&tions, which showed the two Arab boys 
that they were really amongst friends at last. Kalulu 
received great praise, and Sultan bin Ali expressed his 
fears that the boy was either murdered or carried into 
hopeless captivity and slavery. 

Presently food was brought in such quantities that 
made the hungry boys stare ; one dish was expressly 
for Simba, Moto, and Niani, who were called from 
among their friends to partake of it. Water was poured 
over each person's right hand, and as Selim and Ab- 
dullah saw the great dish of snowy rice, and the dish of 
curried meat, they could not help uttering one great 
long sigh of satisfaction. Sultan assisted the boys to 
the best portions, placed more curry over their rice 
than he placed over any other, though he did not 



416 MY KALULIT. 

neglect his guests. Then hulwa (sweetmeats) and sweet 
cakes were brought, with honey, and the boys were 
continually urged to eat, until they at last declared 
that they had had enough. 

The next day the two Arab boys were taken to all 
the tembes .of Tabora, Kwihara, and Maroro, where 
they were heartily received by everybody, and were 
invited to feasts, which followed one another in quick 
succession, until, at the end of a month, Selim and 
Abdullah had fed so well that they got quite rotund 
in figure, and appeared none the worse for their priva- 
tions. 

After two months' stay at Unyanyembe, Selim and 
Abdullah were placed in charge of Soud bin Sayd, who 
was bound for the coast with a caravan consisting of 
two hundred slaves, loaded with ivory. Sultan bin Ali 
and a dozen other Arabs accompanied Selim and 
Abdullah as far as Kwikuru, three miles from Tabora, 
and after fervently blessing them, and wishing them all 
sorts of success, and a long-lived happiness, parted from 
them with saddened faces. 

Tura, on the frontier of TJnyamwezi, was reached 
within five days, and crossing the wilderness of Tura 
they merged in New TJkimbu. Within three weeks 
afterwards they were travelling through arid Ugogo, 
which they passed safely in two weeks; then the 
friendly wilderness of the Bitter Water — Marenga 
M^kali — burst upon their view, and the next day, after 
a march of thirty miles, they were defiling by the cones 
of Usagara. 

Continuing their march, ten days more brought 
them to the Makata Plain, and on the eighth day after 



THE " LION lord's " CITY. 417 

leaving Usagara they camped near Simbamwenni, or 
the " Lion Lord's " city, which both Selim and Abdullah 
remembered as the scene where Niani had a disagreeable 
incident with Isa. Poor Isa ! he is dead. 

After a rest of two days at Simbamwenni, the cara- 
van of Soud bin Sayd continued its march, and on the 
seventieth day from Unyanyembe the Arab boys, Selim 
and Abdullah, and their friends, Simba, Moto, and 
Niani, looked at the sea of Zanj, from the ridges behind 
Bagamoyo, and pointed out its ever-smiling azure face 
to one another with emotions too great for utterance. 
They feasted their eyes on it until they lost sight of it, 
as they plunged into the depths of the umbrageous 
groves and gardens of the sea-coast town of Bagamoyo, 
into the streets of which they presently emerged, to be 
welcomed, as wanderers generally are, with glad cries, 
embraces, smiling countenances, and hearty claspings 
of the hand. 

The next day Soud bin Sayd embarked his caravan 
in two Arab ships, and accompanied by the young Arabs 
and their friends he had the anchor hoisted, and the 
lateen sails sheeted home, and the ships began to move, 
as they felt the influence of the continental breeze, 
towards Zanzibar, across the strait which separates 
Zanzibar from the mainland. 

" Moving towards home ! — glorious thought !" cried 
the enraptured Selim, as he turned towards his friend 
Abdullah, and fell on his neck overpowered by his 
feelings. 

" Home !" said Abdullah, " at last ! We have been 
frequently tried, Selim, but we have been taught good 
lessons. Thanks be to Allah ! 'He has been but trying 

2 E 



418 MY KALULU. 

ns, to make ns better and purer, and I mean to profit 
by what I have learned. Wilt thou, Selim ?" 

" With the help of God, I will," he replied. 

"Dost thou know wh^t chapter of the Knran fits 
our case better than any other, Selim ?" asked Abdullah. 

"Which?" 

" That entitled the Bbightness, wherein the Prophet, 
blessed be his name ! says : ' By the sun in his meridian 
sphndawr, hy the shades of nighty thy Lord hath not 
forsaken thee, neither doth He hate thee. Did He not 
find thee an orphan, and did He not take care of thee ? 
And did He not find thee wandering in error, and haHh 
He not guided thee into the truth ? And did He not find 
thee needy, and hath He not enriched thee f Wherefore 
oppress not the orphan, nor repulse the beggar, hut declare 
the goodn^ess of thy Lord.' " 

"Beautiful!" said Selim; "oppress not the orphan 
may mean oppress not the slave. He found us fatherless, 
and He took care of us. He found us needy, ailing, 
perishing in the wilderness, and He hath enriched us. 
Praised be God, the one God, the eternal God, He be- 
getteth not, neither is He begotten ; and there is not 
any one like Him." 

" Amen ! and Amen 1" responded Abdullah. " There 
is only one God, who is God, and Mohammed is His 
Prophet." 

" Amen ! and Amen !" exclaimed Simba and Moto, who 
were as powerfully affected by their present and coming 
happiness as were either Selim or Abdullah. 

The shores of Zanzibar at. last were seen to rise from 
the sea, like an emerald set in the centre of a circular 
sapphire, and the lovely isle was hailed by vociferoufl 



HOME AGAIN ! 419 

shouts by the wanderers, while their hearts beat faster 
and faster. They neared the shore steadily, and each 
point became an object of interest, and every well- 
remembered house received due attention. Finally, the 
ships rode in the harbour, and Selim, and Abdullah, 
and their friends, bidding a kindly farewell to Soud bin 
Sayd, after inviting him to come and see them, got into 
a boat called by the kind Arab, and were rowed ashore. 

As they stand at last on the island where both of 
these boys were born, on the threshold of their own 
homes, how much money would, we wonder, induce 
them to return to Africa without ever having seen their 
homes ? Judging from their faces, we should think the 
world would not be sufficient, not even to induce them 
to return to Bagamoyo. What bright, joyous faces 
they wore ! What flashing eyes ! Men turned round 
in the streets to look at them, and talked to their com- 
panions, with smiles, about their looks. They saw 
several whom they knew, but they were too impatient, 
so near home, to stop to talk to any one, and they 
paced determinedly towards home; they passed the 
Arab, the Hindoo, the Negro quarter; crossed the 
bridge, and were among the gardens of the rich Arabs. 
Once outside the city, the capital of the island, they 
broke into a run ; but as they drew near their homes 
they sobered down, became exceedingly agitated, and 
pale in the face. 

Abdullah suddenly shouted, "There, Selim, is my 
home ! As thou hast to pass it, come with me." 

Selim consented, and accompanied his friend to the 
door, gave him one last embrace, bade him come round 
and see him soon ; and then bounded off towards his 



420 MY KALULU. 

own stately mansion, accompanied by Simba, Moto, and 
Niani. 

He saw the mangoe trees, the orange groves, the 
cinnamon and the slender clove trees. Soon he saw the 
honse itself, looming large and white between the 
trees ; he saw the latticed windows, which he had often 
pictured to himself in the depths of the African wilder- 
ness ; he saw the cupola of the Arab temple, which his 
father, Amer, had erected; he saw the walls of the 
courtyard ; he cast one glance at the blue sea, and the 
spot consecrated by happy associations, where his father 
and kinsmen had often sat, gazing upon the sea ; and 
then burst through the door of the courtyard, dashed 
breathlessly across it, and through the great carved 
door of the mansion, up the stairs, and into the harem, 
where he saw a woman seated on the divan, near the 
lattice, looking out. One penetrating glance assured 
him that she was Amina, his mother ! She looked up 
and saw her son, Selim! returned to her heart and 
love ! from Negro-land. 

Let us drop a kindly veil over the solemn and affect- 
ing meeting of mother and son, feeling assured that the 
joy of both was indescribable ; that they interchanged 
the most endearing phrases; that they embraced each 
other as loving mother and loving son, long parted, 
would ; that while he sat by her side he poured into 
her ears the sad tale of woe, bereavement, suffering, pri- 
vation, difficulty, disappointment ; the account of the 
marvellous adventures, hair-breadth escapes; of true 
friendships formed ; the sacrifice, the courage^ and the 
constancy of one whom he could never forget, Ealulu ; 
and that his mother gave him an account of all that 



SELIM EMBBACE6 HIS MOTHEB. 421 

she had endured for the last two years ; how his uncle 
had attempted to manage the estate himself, but she 
would not permit him, knowing his character; how 
eyerything had prospered during his absence ; how rich 
he was ; and how, with Leila's portion, which Khamis, 
her father, had given her, he might consider himself 
one of the richest men on Zanzibar Island. But she 
begged of him not to think of marrying yet, as he was 
not yet eighteen— a mere boy— to which Selim gave 
his promise. 

What wonderful things they had to tell each other ! 
ttings which do not concern the world to know, but 
concerned both mother and son; which they appre- 
ciated, and enjoyed, and could repeat, and laugh mer- 
rily over together, without caring one jot what the 
world outside thought. 

On the third day after his arrival at Zanzibar Selim, 
accompanied by his factor, a smart, shrewd, clever, 
honest Hindoo Mahometan, by Simba, Moto, and 
Niani, went towards the city to purchase clothes for 
his faithful servants and their families. On the way 
he turned to Abdullah's home and called out to him to 
ask if he would like to go with him. Abdullah was 
only too happy, and forthwith appeated outside, dressed 
in the very height of Arab fashion, and as gay as 
could be. 

Arriving within the city, the factor drew for Selim's 
use the sum of two hundred dollars, and then, before 
making any purchases, Selim called upon the sons of 
the Zanzibar Sultan, his old playmates, who warmly 
greeted him, and who detained him to hear his story 
about his sufferings and escape from slavery, all of 



422 MT EAIiULU. 

which the factor had already known from Selim and his 
mother. Several other friends living in the neighbour- 
hood of the Sultan's palace, were called upon, all of 
whom expressed the greatest surprise and pleasure at 
seeing him. 

Selim, accompanied by his friends, was about crossing 
to Shangani Point, when they suddenly came upon the 
slave-market, crowded with the miserable beings about 
to be oflfered to the highest bidders. The buyers were 
there in considerable numbers, stout, portly Arabs, and 
well-to-do half-castes, besides Mohammedans from India, 
who bought for other people, all of whom were examin- 
ing critically the subjects to be sold. These " subjects " 
were of all ages, and of both sexes, almost entirely 
nude. Hardly one of themi had a healthy look, mostly 
all appeared half-starved and sick. There had lately 
been several importations from Kilwa, Mombasah, 
Whinde, Saadani, and Bagamoyo, which had eluded the 
searching eyes of the British cruisers and the agents 
of the British consulate. But here they were almost 
under the windows of the house over which the flag of 
England waved, examples bi human suffering, subjects 
of human brutality ; the most hapless-looking beings, 
the most woe-begone " human cattle " that the sun had 
ever shone upon. 

Selim was about departing^ disgusted with the brutal 
scene, when, casting a last look at the auctioneer, he saw 
the face of the slave whom he was about to sell. With 
a frenzied look and pale face he said to the factor, to 
Abdullah, and his other friends : 

" Come this way — come this way— quick, for Allah's 
sake," drawing the factor away after him until he was 



KAXULU DISCOVERED ! * 423 

hidden from the auctioneer's gaze behind a group of 
sightseers. 

" What is the matter, Selim ?" asked Abdullah. "Art 
thou sick?" 

" Sick ! No ; but listen all of ye. Do ye see yon 
slave about to be sold now ?" 

" Yes," answered all. 

" Then that slave, as sure as Allah id in heaven, is 
my adopted brother Kalulu !" 

" Kalulu !" exclaimed the startled friends. 

" Yes, Kalulu !" 

" Wallahi, he is !" exclaimed Moto in an excited tone. 
" There is not another here present who can hold his 
head like that, be he Arab or African. He is the King 
of the Watuta ! I swear it ;" and as he said that he 
was about to rush oflf, followed by Simba, when Selim 
shouted, " For Allah's sake, don't stir !" 

" Why ? He is not a slave," shouted Simba. " He 
has been stolen by that Arab caravan, which travelled 
by night, because the chiefs feared the day, like thieves. 
Moto, thou wert right. I see it all now. Wallahi ! but 
I will break the back of the thief, even if the Sultan 
of Zanzibar cuts my head off. Let me go, Selim !" 

" Silence, Simba," said the factor. Thou wilt draw 
attention to the young master. I see what Selim wants. 
He wants me to go and buy him. Ah, ha ! Africa has 
taught thee cunning, Selim !" 

" Yes, go," said Selim. " Offer anything ; but don't 
let him be bought by anybody else. Give a thousand 
dollars for him, but bring him to me. We will wait 
thee here." 

" Fear not ; but there is one thing thou hast not 



424 MY KALULtT. 

observed, Selim. I know I shall get him cheap. Dost 
thou not see that he is handcuffed ? He is dangerous. 
Simba, be thou ready. "Watch me nod my head, do not 
stir until I do so, then go to him and catch him. ,When 
I have paid the money he becomes Master Selim's slave. 
And thou, Selim, keep guard over this big fellow, or he 
will ruin the game I am going to play. Abdullah, Moto, 
do ye hear ?" asked the factor. 

" We do ; we understand," they answered. 

From their position they could observe everything 
without being seen. They saw the factor make his way 
to the front among the buyers. They heard the 
auctioneer, a sturdy, strong- voiced fellow, conspicuous 
from an enormous turban he wore round his head, bellow 
out: 

" Ho, Arabs, children of Zanzibar, and ye rich men, 
look up! Here is a priceless slave from Ututa. He 
calls himself King of Ututa (a laugh from a bystander). 
Kings command high prices. (" They make very bad 
slaves !" shouted Selim's factor.) I am going to run this 
fellow high. (" No you won't ; " Selim's- factor.) Look at 
him well. Watch his eyes ; they are living fire. See 
the pose of his head. Observe his limbs ; clean and 
well-shaped as a Nedjed mare's. Look at his chest ; 
there's wmd, there's hard work there. (" Very little 
work, plenty of wind to run ;" Selim's factor.) Just take 
a glance at his teeth ; there, — open boy. No, dog ! take 
that (buffeting him). Look at his hair ; it hangs below 
the shoulders. Believe me, no slave was ever offered in 
this market to equal him. Offer ; an offer, Arabs. Bich 
men, who require a good slave, make an offer for the 
best slave ever brought to Zanzibar." 



THE SLAVE-MARKET. HOW MUCH FOR KALULU ? 425 

" Say, auctioneer, why is lie handcuflfed ? did he try 
to murder his master ? And why is the chain ahout 
his neck ? Has he tried to run away ? " asked Selim's 
factor. 

" Silence ! " thundered the auctioneer. " An offer is 
what I want." 

" Two dollars ! " shouted the factor, smiling sardoni- 
cally. 

" Two dollars ! ! Only two dollars ! for this unequalled 
slave. Man, look at him, and offer a hundred." 

" Five dollars ! " shouted a bystander. 

" Five dollars ! Five, five, five, five, five." 

" Six !" shouted the factor. 

" Six dollars ! Six, six." 

" Ten dollars ! " from a bystander. 

" Twenty dollars !" shouted the factor. 

" Twenty dollars. Come, bid up. Only twenty, 
twenty, twenty, twenty. Who goes beyond twenty ?" 

" Twenty-five !" shouted the bystander. 

"Thirty dollars! He is worth more, but he is a 
devil. I can see that by his eye." 

" Thirty, thirty, thirty, thirty. Bid up. Only thirty ! 
He is worth more. Bid up, Arabs. Thirty, thirty, 
thirty. Going, — going, — going, — gone !" and the auc- 
tioneer nodded to the factor. 

The factor walked up, counted thirty dollars in 
American gold to the auctioneer, who laughed as he put 
the money in his pouch, and said : 

" My friend, this slave will murder thee the first time 
he catches thee asleep. Be wary of him ; I should hate 
to hear some morning that thy throat is cut from ear to 
ear. 



426 MY KAIiULU. 

"Fear not for me, my friend. I have seen worse 
than he is tamed. Belease his neck from the chain. Let 
go his hands." 

" Art thou mad ?" asked the auctioneer. 

" Not at all. Let him go free," replied the factor. 

The necknchain slipped off, and the hands were about 
to be freed, when the factor nodded to Simba, who 
sprang through the bystanders like a very lion, and 
while the hands. were being freed, uttered, with hia 
deep voice, the magic name — 

" Kalulu !" 

The slave, still on the stand, turned round at the 
sound of the word. He saw the unmistakable face of 
Simba, and behind him, advancing slowly, two Arab 
boys, well-dressed, whom he did not know, but he 
recognized Moto and Niani. He reeled as one struck, 
but the great strong arms of Simba were round him ; 
they lifted him up from the stand, carried him on the 
run towards the two Arab boys, and he was placed face 
to face with the tallest of them. 

" See, Kalulu, dost thou not know Selim ? " asked 
Simba. 

The astonished boy looked at the face one moment. 
He saw him advance^ with his old smile towards him, 
and he sprang at him, and thus it was how the two 
friends had met after so many months. Abdullah, 
Simba, Moto, Niani, were embraced one after another, 
to' the astonishment of the bystanders, who could not 
conceive how such Arab boys could degrade themselves 
so low as to hug a slave that a few minutes ago was in 
chains, and sold for the cheap sum of thirty dollars ! 

Are not all bystanders in all parts of the world 



KALULU BESTOBED TO HIS FBIENDS. 427 

always wondering why such and such things happen ? 
Is not the world for ever in a maze, and deeming many 
things of like nature to be incomprehensible ? When 
was the world not shocked at an exhibition of nature ? 

But our friends paid no heed to the surprise of the 
bystanders or to their remarks ; they left the market- 
place arm in arm, and proceeded towards a shop where 
" long clothes " were sold. An Arab shirt thrown over 
him, and a piece of white cloth folded around his head, 
made a wonderful change in Kalulu. Then Selim gave 
orders to the factor to purchase the best clothes he 
could get for Kalulu, blue cloth jacket, embroidered 
cap, and embroidered shirt, linen drawers, crimson fez 
with long blue tassel> and slippers, besides a Muscat 
shash and Arab dagger, over and above what he had 
intended to purchase for him, to which the factor pro- 
mised to pay implicit attention. 

Selim turned to Ealulu and said : 

" In two or three days, Kalulu, thou wilt be as well 
dressed as any son pf an Arab in Zanzibar ; but now I 
must show thee my mother and my home. When we 
are outside the city thou canst tell us thy story." 

In half an hour they were in the country; and 
Kalulu, when requested to begin, said : 

" I went out to look for game, and coming to the 
forest I saw smoke, and men wearing Arab clothes. I 
went to their camp when I found they were Arabs, not 
thinking they could act as they did. They spoke me 
fair at first ; but while I was seated alongside of the 
chief his men sprang on me, and they chained me. I 
struggled hard at first, but they hurt me and abused 
me as if they meant to kill me. We travelled that 



428 MY KALULU. 

night through the forest, and every night until we 
came to Unyanyembe, where we were kept in a house 
in a dark room. After a few days we began another 
journey, which ended at this sea. On coming to the 
island the chief put me to work in the field ; but they 
could not get me to work. They beat and beat me 
every day ; but I would not work, and the chief, finding 
he could do nothing with me, sent me with many more 
to be sold. That is the story." 

'^Dost thou know that thou art my slave now, 
Kalulu ? But when I was a slave of thine thou didst 
set me free and protect me by making me thy brother. 
I do the same to thee now. Thou art free, and I shall 
be a brother to thee, and my mother shall be thy 
mother," said Selim. 

" And mine too, Kalulu," said Abdullah ; " Selim 
shall not keep thee all to himself. My mother wants to 
see thee. And here we are at my mother's house, to 
which I ask thee to come now." 

In a few moments they were at the door, and Ab- 
dullah invited Selim and Kalulu to walk in. They were 
led up a flight of stairs, and presently stood in an ante- 
chamber. Leaving their slippers outside, Abdullah 
ushered his two friends into a spacious saloon, close to 
the walls of which ran a luxurious divan, covered with 
soft silken <;arpeting, the like of which Kalulu had 
never dreamed of before; the floor was also covered 
with Persian carpets of great thickness. 

^' Ah, Kalulu, my house is not so grand as Selim's ; 
but it is better than most Arab houses," said Abdullah. 
" Stay here a moment until I go to prepare my 
mother." 



kalutjU introduced to Abdullah's mother. 429 

Abdullah was not gone long before he returned with 
his mother, whose face was veiled by a thin muslin 
gauze, but who, on seeing that the stranger was but a 
boy, threw off the veil and advanced towards him, and 
began to thank him in the sweetest tones he ever 
heard. She also told him to make the house his home 
whenever he liked, or whenever Selim could spare him, 
and after saying all that was required of her to say by 
her son, she vanished into her own room. 

After his mother had gone, Abdullah said: "Thou 
seest, Ealulu, that our women have customs different 
from thine. Wert thou a man, thou shouldst never 
have seen her face ? Yet thou art such a big boy now, 
my mother is even afraid of thee. However, whatever 
my mother failed to tell thee, her son says. Thou art 
welcome : come early or late, thou must consider all 
my mother or I have at thy service. These are the 
words of my mother and of myself." 

"Thou hast done with Kalulu for the present, 
Abdullah. Come thou with us to my mother," said 
Selim. 

"Nay, Selim; my brother Kalulu must eat in my 
house, and then we shall go together with thee." 

"Our noon-meal is ready. Gome thou and eat 
with us. I want Ealulu to see my mother. Gome, 
Abdullah, we can return and take the evening meal 
with thee." 

Seeing Selim was urgent, and really anxious, Ab- 
dullah, being but a boy, consented, though it was 
against Arab custom; but he was consoled by the 
reflection that the principal meal was to be eaten with 
him ; and bidding SeUm stay a moment, he went back 



430 MY KALULU. 

to his mother, and informed her that they should have 
guests for the evening meal ; then returning, he sallied 
out with Selim and Ealulu. Simba, Moto, and Niani 
were at the door waiting for them, and together they 
proceeded to Selim's house. 

If Kalulu was impressed with the grandeur of Ab- 
dullah's house, he was much more so with the splendid 
appearance of Selim's. The shining white marble of 
the courtyard, the spaciousness, cleanliness, and order 
that prevailed; the well-dressed slaves, that came 
forward assiduous to please ; the broad stairs, the 
carved portals, and the roomy entrance-hall, took away 
the young chiefs breath almost with surprise. He was 
speechless with astonishment, and he mentally com- 
pared his own miserable clay-floored hut with this 
grandeur. He looked for Simba and Moto, but found 
they were stopping at the door ; they were excluded 
from above, whither he was ascending, and Kalulu 
reflected upon this. 

The ante-chamber was passed, at the door of which 
Selim and Abdullah left their slippers, and they ad- 
vanced into a grand and spacious saloon, larger than 
the one at Abdullah's house, more superbly furnished, 
with numbers of curious things which Sheikh Amer 
had collected through his Bombay agent. 

Selim turned round to Kalulu and asked : 

" How does the young King of XJtuta like his brother 
Selim's house?" 

" Thou art greater than I, my brother. I have had 
thousands of warriors who would have done my slightest 
bidding ; but I am the flrst King of Ututa who ever 
saw a house like this. I have had plenty of ivory, and 



MY KALULU ! 4oJ 

COWS, and sheep, and goats that could not be counted 
for number, but I never had a house like this." 

" By-and-by, Kalulu, when we are all men and 
strong, we shall take thee back to XJtuta and see thee 
righted in thy own; thou having seen these things, 
thou wilt be able to do likewise. But thou and I have 
much to learn yet. We are boys, and wp cannot fight 
Ferodia ; but until we are men, rest with Abdullah and 
me at Zanzibar ; make my house thy own. Stay here ; 
I go to Call my mother, Amina, whom thou must like." 

" I shall like everything that thou dost like, Selim," 
answered Kalulu, seating himself on the divan as he 
spoke. 

Selim knocked at the door of his mother's apart- 
ments, who came to the door. Her son respectfully 
saluted his mother's right hand, and led her into the 
room ; but when she saw a stranger and a black man, 
she drew back, and said : 

" Who is this, my son ; and what dost thou mean by 
bringing a slave into a place where none but Arabs are 
admitted ? And I have left my veil behind. Fie, boy !" 

" Nay, dear mother, this is only a boy ; and he is not 
a slave, he is my brother," answered Selim, smiling, as 
he beckoned Ealulu to advance, who looked somewhat 
awed at the transcendent beauty of Selim's mother. 

" Thy brother ! How, hast thou two mothers ? My 
lord, Amer, never told me he had other wives than 
those who live in this house. What folly is this, Selim, 
my son ? Who is this boy ?" 

"Dost thou not know, mother? Canst thou not 
guess ? Behold my brother, my Kalulu !" 

" Kalulu !" echoed his mother, and immediately she 



432 MY KALULU. 

recovered her smiles, and walking up to him, she poured 
into Ealnlu's ears all a fond mother could say to one 
whom she considered as her dear son's saviour and 
deliverer, and she ended with saying : 

" This house is at thy service. Command anything 
thou dost wish, and thou shalt be obeyed. I also, who 
am Selim's mother— who for so long mourned him as 
dead — know how to be grateful. Simba, Moto, and 
little Niani, who shared his troubles with him, have 
already been rewarded with houses and gardens, and 
Selim is continually sounding their praises to me. But 
to thee, knowing as I do that thou hast suffered much, 
I shall be as a mother ; and thou shalt be my Ealulu," 



THE END. 



LOWDOX: PRINTED BT Wn-LIAH CLOWES AND SOKS , STAMFORD SlWOn 

AND CHABCiG CR068. 



Crown Buildings f i88, Fleet Street, 

Z^ndon, October, 1873. 

SAMPSON LOW, MARSTON & CO.'S 

ANNOUNCEMENTS FOR THE 
COMING SEASON. 



THE AUTHORIZED VERSION OF THE 

FOUR GOSPELS. 

WITH THE WHOLE OF THE 

MAGNIFICENT ETCHINGS ON STEEL, 

AFTER THE 

DRAWINGS BY M. BIDA. 



iii^^^ ^j^ HE drawings, etchings, and engravings have been twelve vears in 
preparation, and an idea of the importance of this splendid work 
may be gathered from the fact that upwards of twelve hundred and 
fifty thousand francs, or fifty thousand pounds, have been expended 
on its production, and it has obtained for MM. Hachette the Diplome 
d'Honneur at the Vienna Exhibition. 

The English edition will contain the whole of the 132 steel etchings, and in 
addition some very exquisite woodcut ornaments. 

The Gospel of St. Matthew will contain 41 Steel Etchings. 
The Gospel of St. Mark „ 24 „ 

The Gospel of St. Luke „ 40 „ 

The Gospel of St. John ,, 27 „ 

Size, large Imperial quarto. 

It is intended to publish each Gospel separately, and at intervals of from 
six to twelve months : and in order to preserve uniformity, the price will in 
the first instance be fixed at ;^3 y. each volume. This uniformity of price 
has been determined on the assumption that {)urchasers will take the whole 
of the four volumes as published ; but, as it will be seen that the Gospels of 
St, Matthew and St. Luke contain more etchings and more letterpress 
than St. Mark and St. John, and are therefore proportionately more costly 
in production, it must be understood that at the expiration of three months 
from the first issue of each of these two volumes, the price (if purchased 
separately) will be raised to four guineas. This extra charge will, however, 
be allowed at any time to all bona fide purchasers of the four volumes. 

The Gospel of St. John, appropriately bound in cloth extra, price ;^3 3*., 
will be the first volume issued, and will be ready for publication shortly. 

Specimen pages of text and etchings may be seen on application to any 
bookseller in town and country, who will be happy to register the names of 
subscribers, either for each Gospel separately, or for the whole of the Gospels 
as published. 



Sampson Low and Cg.^s 




IMPOR TA NT A NNO UNCEMENT. 

DR. SCHWEINFURTH'S TRAVELS AND 

DISCOVERIES IN CENTRAL 

AFRICA. 

From 1868 to 1871. 

Translated by Ellen E. Frewer. With an Introduction by 

WiNwooD Reads. 



ESSRS. Sampson Low & Co. have the pleasure of slating that 
they have completed arrangements with the celebrated African 
Traveller, Dr. Georg Schweinfurth, for the exclusive right to 
publish his new work, entitled — 

THE HEART OF AFRICA. 

OR, THREE years' TRAVELS AND ADVENTURES IN THE UN- 
EXPLORED REGIONS OF THE CENTRE OF AFRICA. 

This is uiKjuestionably, in a scientific point of view, one of the most valua- 
ble contributions to a knowledge of the Natural History, Botany, Geography, 
and River System of Central Africa that has ever appeared ; but its chief 
interest will consist in the personal adventures of the author amongst un- 
known tribes, an 1 wanderings in lands hitherto unexplored. The Doctor 
carries his reader into a veritable wonderland, full of peculiar customs, and 
where his experiences have been of the most eventful nature. The district 
explored embraces a wide tract of country extending southward from the 
Meschera on the Bahr el Ghazal, and betwixt the loth and 3rd degrees of 
north latitude. 

The present work cannot fail to be of most unusual interest to general 
readers ; inasmuch as it will include adventures in an unknown country 
amongst cannibals and pygmies, the discovery and exploration of twenty-two 
hitherto quite unknown rivers, the wonderful land of the Monbuttoo, his re- 
ception by King Munza, horrible cannibalism, fights with natives and struggles 
with wild animals, adventures on rivers, on mountains, and in jungles ; and, 
in short, experiences of the most novel and startling kind that could be 
imagined in an unknown and savage country. 

The work will form two volumes, demy 8vo., ofupwardsof 500 pages each, 
and will be illustrated by about 130 woodcuts from drawings made by the 
author — comprising figures of different races of men ; animals, domestic and 
wild ; remarkable fish and snakes ; varieties of trees, plants, and fruits ; 
landscapes ; forest scenery ; watered plains ; episodes of the journey ; canni- 
bal feasts and dances ; fording rivers ; villages and huts ; night encamp- 
ments ; meetings with chieftains ; weapons of war, &c. &c. ; with maps and 
plans. 

_ // is Proposed that the work shall be published in England and America 
(in English), and in the respective languages of Germany^ France^ Russia^ 
Jtalyt dr*c., simultaneously^ and arrangements are now in Pt ogress /or this 
purpos.' ; and the Publishers hope to have it ready for publication during 
the present Autumn, 



List of Publications, 



SPECIAL NOTICE. 
New Story for Youths by H. M. Stanley. 
"MY KALULU," PRINCE, KING, AND SLAVE. 

A Story front Central Africa. 

BY HENRY M. STANLEY, 

Author of '' How I found Livin^^stone." 

Crown 8vo., about 430 pp., with numerous Graphic Illu&trations, after Ori- 
ginal Designs by the Author. Cloth, ^s. 6d. [In October. 



For the convenience of those who did not care to pay so high a price as 2X*. 
for the original Edition cf Mr. Stanley's ^rr/ great IVork, it is now 
offered^ in a neiu and elegant binding^ with a reznsed Introductory Chap- 
ter, at los. 6d. In this form and at this price it wilt form an excellent 
School Prize or Christmas Present. 

HOW I FOUND LIVINGSTONE. 

Including Travels, Adventures, and Discoveries in Central Africa, and 
Four Months^ Residence with Dr. Livingstone. 

BY H. M. STANLEY. 

Numerous Illustrations by Mr. J. B. Zwecker, Mr. John Jellicoe, and 
ether Artists, from Mr. Stanley s own Sketches, with Maps of Route. Phy- 
sical Features, &c. Twelfth Thousand. New issue, in new binding, gilt 
edges, extra cloth, 10s. 6d. [Now reeMy^ 

Magnificent Work on the Pottery of all Ages and all Nations. 

HISTORY OF THE CERAMIC ART: 

Descriptive and Analytical Study of the Potteries of all Times 

and of all Nations. 

BY ALBERT JACQUEMART. 

Author of the "Historv of Porcelain," "The Wonders of 

Ceramic," &c. 

Two hundred Woodcuts by H. Catenacci and J. Jacquemart, 12 Stecl- 

?late Engravings by Ji'LES Jacquemart, and 1,000 Marks and MoncgramF. 
'ranslated by Mrs. Bury Palliser. In z vol., super royal 8vo., of about 
700 pp., cloth extra, gilt edges, 42*. [Nearly ready. 

In One Volume, Demy Bvo., cloth extra, price about 16s. 

THE LAND OF THE WHITE ELEPHANT; 

SIGHTS AND SCENES IN SOUTH EASTERN ASIA. 

A Personal Narrative of Travel and Adventure in Farther India, embracing 
the countries of Burma, Siam, Cambodia, and Cochin-China {iBji-fs). 

BY FRANK VINCENT, Jun. 

With Map, Plans, and numerous Illustrations. 

[Nearly ready. 



Sampson Low and Co!s 



New Works by the celebrated French Writer^ Jui;,ES Verne. 

I. 
THE FUR COUNTRY; OR, SEVENTY DEGREES 

NORTH LATITUDE. 

By JULES VERNE. Translated by N. D'ANVERS. 

A Story of remarkable Adventures in the Northern Regions of the Hudson's 
Bajr Territory. Crown 8vo. with upwards of 80 very graphic full-page Illus- 
trations. Cloth extra. Uniform in size and style with Twenty Thousand 
Leagues under the Sea." Price loj. 6d. [In October, 

2. 

FROM THE EARTH TO THE MOON; AND A 

TRIP ROUND IT. 

By JULES VERNE. Translated by L. P. MERCIER. 

With numerous characteristic Illustrations. Crown 8vo. Uniform in size 
and price with the above. Cloth, gilt edges, lor. (>d. \Reeuly. 

3- 

AROUND THE WORLD IN EIGHTY DAYS. 

By JULES VERNE. 

Square crown 8vo. With numerous Illustrations. Uniform in size and style 
with ** Meridiana," by the same author. Price ^s. td. [Nearly ready. 

One Vol.y Demy Svc, cloth, with numerous woodcuts and a map. 

THE WILD NORTH LAND: 

The Story of a Winter Journey with dogs across Northern North America. 

BY CAPTAIN W. F. BUTLER, 

Author of "The Great Lone Land." \In November. 

A WHALING CRUISE TO BAFFIN'S BAY AND 
THE GULF OF BOOTHIA. 

With an Account of the Rescue, by his Ship, of the survivors of the Crew of 

the "Polaris." 

BY CAPTAIN MARKHAM, R.N. 

One Volume, demy 8vo., with Map and Illustrations, cloth extra. 

Now Ready f in One Volume, demy %vo. , with Maps and Illustrations, 

cloth extra, i6s. 

THE THRESHOLD OF THE UNKNOWN 

REGION. 
BY CLEMENTS R. MARKHAM, C.B., F.R,S. 

Secretary of the Royal Geographical Society. [Now ready.. 



List of Publications, 



IN PREPARA TION FOR PUBLIC A TION IN DECEMBER, 

In Two Volumes^ Royal 8z/0., cloth extras numerous Woodcuts^ Ma^s^ and 

Chromolithographs. 

THE SECOND NORTH GERMAN POLAR EX- 
PEDITION IN THE YEARS 1869-70. 

Of the Ships " Germania " and " Hansa/' under command of 

Captain Koldeway, 

Edited and Condensed by H. W. BATES, Esq., 

Qf the Royal Geographical Society. 

Important Work on Peru, 

TWO YEARS IN PERU ; WITH EXPLORATION 

OF ITS ANTIQUITIES. 

BY THOMAS J. HUTCHINSON, F.R.G.S., F.R.S.L., F.A.I , 

Map by Daniel Barrera, and numerous Illustrations. In z vol., demy 
8vo., cloth extra. \In the press. 

New Work on Morocco, 

ADVENTURES IN MOROCCO, AND JOURNEY 

SOUTH THROUGH THE OASES OF 

DRAA AND TAFILET. 

By dr. GERHARD ROHLFS. Edited by WINWOOD READE. 

I vol., crown 8vo., Map and Portrait of the Author, cloth extra. 

[/« the press. 

Magnificent Work on China, 
ILLUSTRATIONS OF CHINA AND ITS PEOPLE. 

BY J. THOMSON, F.R.G.S. 

Being Photographs from the Author's Negatives, printed in permanent Pig- 
ments by the Autotype Process, and Notes from Personal Observation. 
%* The complete work will embrace 200 Photographs, with Letterpress 

Descriptions of the Places and People represented. In four volumes, im- 

ferisJ 4to., price ;^3 3J. each volume. The First Volume, containing Fifty 
*hot'ographs, was published in the Spring ; and the Second Volume, contain- 
ing Photographs as below, is now ready. 

Subscribers ordering the Four Volumes at once will be supplied for £\o xos. 
half of which to be paid on receipt of Vol. I., and balance on completion of 
the Work. Non-Subscribers' price is £-^ 3J. a Volume. 

VOLUME III. is in active preparation, and will be Published before 

Christmas. 



Sampson Lou and Co. 



A most beautiful Christmas Present. 
WOMAN IN SACRED HISTORY. 

BY MRS. HARRIET BEECHER STOWE. 

Illustrated with 15 chromo-lithographs and about 200 pages of letterpress 
forming one of the most elegant and attractive Volumes ever published. 
Demy 4to., cloth extra, gilt edges, price 25J. [/« November. 

NEW WORK BY THE REV. E. H. BICKERSTETH. 
One Volume square 8vo. . with Numerous very beautiful Engrxz-ings^ uni- 
orm in Character -with t/ie Illustrated Edition 0/ Hebers Hymtis^ &»c., 
price -js. td. 

THE REEF, AND OTHER PARABLES. 

By the Rev. E. H. Bickersteth, M. A., Author of "Yesterday, To-day, 
and for Ever," &c. [Nearly Ready. 

CARL WERNER'S NILE SKETCHES, 

Painted from Nature during his Travels through Egypt. Facsimiles of 
Water-colour Paintings executed by Gustave W. Seitz, with Descriptive 
Text by Dr. E. A. Brehm and Dr. Dumichen. Third Series. Imperial 
folio, in Cardboard Wrapper, J^-^ los. 

Beautiful Work for Winter Evenings. Dedicated, by Permission, to 
His Royal Highness, Prince Leopold. 

ILLUSTRATED GAMES OF PATIENCE. 

By the Lady Adelaide Cadogan. Twenty-four Diagramsiu Colours, with 
Descriptive Text. Foolscap 4to., cloth extra, gilt edges, iis. td. 

THE ROYAL PASTRY AND CONFECTIONERY 

BOOK 

(Le livre de Patisserie). By Jules Gouffe, Chef de Cuisine of the 
Paris Jockey Club. Translated from the French and adapted to English 
use by Alphonse Gouffe, Head Pastrycook to Her Majesty the Queen. 
Illustrated with 10 large Plates printed in Colours, and 137 Engravings on 
Wood, after the Oil Pamtings and Designs of £. Ron j at. Royal 8vo., cloth 
extra. [/« the Press. 

Important New Work by Professor Guyot. 

PHYSICAL GEOGRAPHY. 

By Arnold Guvot, Author of " Earth and Man." In i Volume, large 410., 
128 pp., numerous coloured Diagrams, Maps and Woodcuts, price los. 6d., 
strong boards. 

HISTORY OF THE AMERICAN AMBULANCE, 

Established in Paris during the Siege of 1870-71. Together with the De- 
tails of its Method and its Work. By Thomas W. Evans, M. D., D. D. S., 
Ph. D., President of the American International Sanitary Committee, &c. 
Author of " La Commission Sanitaire des Etats Unis : son Origine. son 
Organisation et ses Resultats," &c. In i Volume, Imperial 8vo., with nu- 
merous Illustrations, cloth ext», price 35^. [Now Ready. 



List of Publications, 



Preparing for ^nbluation. in one handsome small ^to.y cloth gilt edges ^ 

price 15^. 

PHYNNODDERREE, AND OTHER TALES: 

Fairy Legends of the Isle of Man. By Edward McAloe. To be profusely 
Illustrated with upwards of 120 Engravings on Wood. 

THE POSTHUMOUS WORKS AND UNPUB- 
LISHED AUTOGRAPHS OF NAPOLEON III. 

IN EXILE. 

Collected and arranged by Count de la Chapelle, Coadjutor in the last 
Works of the Emperor at Chislehurst. i Volume demy 8vo., cloth extra, 
14J. [Now Ready. 

RECOLLECTIONS OF THE EMPEROR 

NAPOLEON I. 

During the First Three Years of his Captivity on the Island of St. Helena 
Including the time of his Residence at her father's house, " The Briars." 
By Mrs. Abell (late Miss Elizabeth Balcombe). Third Edition. Revised 
throughout with additional matter by her daughter, Mrs. Charles John- 
stone. I Volume, demy 8vo. With Steel Portrait of Mrs. Abell, and 
Woodcut Illustrations. Cloth extra, gilt edges, 10s. 6d. [Now Ready. 

ENGLISH MATRONS AND THEIR PROFESSION; 

With some Considerations as to its Various Branches, its National Value, 
and the Education it requires. By M. L. F., Writer of " My Life, and what 
shall I do with it," "Battle of the Two Philosophies," and "Strong and 
Free." Crown 8vo., cloth extra, "js. 6d. [Now Ready. 

" All States among which the regulations regarding women are bad, en- 
joy scarcely the half of happiness."— Aristotle. 

Special Notice. — The long-desired Map to Mr. King's Work has now 
been added, and also a Chapter of entirely new matter. (Dedicated to 
Professor Tyndal.) 

MOUNTAINEERING IN THE SIERRA NEVADA. 

By Clarence King. Crown Svo. Fourth and Cheaper Edition. Cloth 
«xtra, with Map and Additional Chapter, 6*. [Nearly Ready* 

A CHRONICLE OF THE FERMORS; HORACE 

WALPOLE IN LOVE. 

By M. F. MAHONy (Matthew Stradling), Author of " The Misadventures of 
Mr. Catlyn," "The Irish Bar-sinister," &c. In 2 Volumes, Demy Svo., with 
Steel Portrait. [In the Press. 

MILITARY LIFE IN PRUSSIA. 

First Series. The Soldier in Time of Peace. Translated (by permission of 
the Author) from the German of *F. W. Hacklander. By F. E. R. and H. 
£. R. Crown 8vo., cloth extra, 9;. [Now Ready. 



3 Sampson Low aud CoJs List of Publications. 

University Local ExofttinatioHS, 

ST. MARK'S GOSPEL. 

With Explanatory Notes. For the Use of Schools and Colleges. By Georgb 
BowKKR, late Second Master of the Newport Grammar School, Isle of 
Wight X Volume, foolscap, cloth. \In Preparation, 

NEW NOVELS. 

Victor Hitgds New Novel. 
IN THE YEAR '93 (QUATRE-VINGT TREIZE). 

Three Volumes, crown 8vo. [/« Preparation, 

This work, which will be published simultaneously in France, England, 
and America, is said to surpass in style and dramatic iz^erest anything that 
Victor Hugo has yet produced. 

New Work by the A uthor of** Lorna Doone. " 

ALICE LORRAINE; 

A Tale of the South Downs. Three Volumes, crown 8vo. [/« Preparation,. 

IN THE ISLE OF WIGHT. 

Two Volumes, crown 8vo., cloth, 21s. {Now Ready. 

BETTER THAN GOLD. 

By Mrs. Arnold, Author of " His by Right," " John Hesketh's Charge," 
** Under Foot," &c. In 3 Volumes, crown 8vo., 31J. td. \Jn the Press. 

New Work by Main Friswell, Author of ** The Gentle Life," &»c. 

OUR SQUARE CIRCLE. 

Two Volumes, crown 8vo., cloth, 21J. [In the Press, 

New Work of Fiction by Georgiana M. Craik. 

ONLY A BUTTERFLY. 

One Volume, crown 8vo., cloth, lor. td. [Now Ready. 

ARGUS FAIRBAIRNE ; OR, A WRONG NEVER 

RIGHTED. 

By Henry Jackson, Author of " Hearth Ghosts," &c. Three Volumes^ 
crown 8vo., cloth, 31J. 6d. [In the Press. 

New Volume of the John Halifax Series ofGirli Books. 

MISS MOORE. 

By Georgiana M. Craik. Small post 8vo., with Illustrations, gilt edges, 
^#. [Nearly Ready. 



Crown Buildings, i88, FUet Street^ 

London, October, 1873. 

9 Ltet of 1Boofe0 

PUBLISHING BY 

SAMPSON LOW, MARSTON, LOW, & SEARLE. 




ALPHABETICAL LIST. 
BBOTT J. S. C.) History of Frederick the Great, 

with numerous Illustrations. 8vo. iL xs. 

About in the World, by the author of "The 
Gentle Life." Crown 8vo. bevelled cloth, 4th edition. 6s. 

Adamson (Rev. T. H.) The Gospel according to St. 

Matthew, expounded. 8vo. X2s. 
Adventures of a Young Naturalist. By Lucien Biart, 

with Z17 beautiful Illustrations on Wood. Edited and adapted by 
Parker Gillmore, author of "All Rotuid the World,** ** Gun, Rod, and 
, Saddle," &c. Post Svo. cloth extra, gilt edges, new edition, ^s, 6d. 
"The adventures are charmingly narrated." — Athenteum. 

Adventures of a Brownie. See Craik, Mrs. 

Adventures on the Great Hunting Grounds of the World, 

translated from the French of Victor Meunier, with engravings, and 
edition, ^r. 

" The book for all boys in whom the love of travel and adventure is 
strong. They will find here plenty to amuse them and much to instruct 
them besides." — Times. 

Alcott, (Louisa M.) Aunt Jo's Scrap-Bag. Square i6ino. 
Little Men : Life at Plutnfield with Jo's Boys. 



By the author of " Little Women." Small post Svo. cloth, gilt edges, 
3X. 69?. Cheap edition, cloth, is. \ fancy boards, \s. 6d. 

Little Women. Complete in i vol. fcap. 3J. 6d, 

Cheap edition, 2 vols, cloth, 2j. ; boards, \s. 6d. each. 

Old Fashioned Girl, best edition, small post Svo. 

cloth extra, gilt edges, y. 6d. ; Low's Copyright Series, is. 6d. ; cloth, 



as. 



The Guardian says of " Little Women," that it is—" A brieht. cheerful, 
healthy story — with a tinge of thoughtful gravity about it which reminds 
one of John Bunyan. The Athetuxum. says of Old- Fashioned Girl" — 
" Let whoever wishes to read a bright, spirited, wholesome story, get 
the ' Old Fashioned Girl ' at once." 



lo Sampson Low and Co's 

Alcott (Louisa M.) Shawl Straps. Small post 8to. Cloth 

extra, gilt edges, 3; . 6d, 

¦ Work, a Story of Experience. 2 vols. cr. 8vo. 21J. 

AUston (Captain). See Ready, O Ready. 

Alexander (Sir James E.) Bush Fighting. Illustrated by 

Remarkable Actions and Incidents of the Maori War. With a Map, 
Plans, and Woodcuts, i vol. demy 8vo. pp. 328, cloth extra, its. 

" This book tells the story of the late war in New Zealand, with its 
many desperate encounters and exciting personal adventures, and tells 
that story well," — Naval and Military Gazette. 

" This is a valuable history of the Maori war." — Standard. 

Alexander (W. D. S.) The Lonely Guiding Star. A 

Legend of the Pyrenean Mountains and other Poems. Fcap. 8vo. 
cloth. 5^. 

Athong the Arabs, a Narrative of Adventures in Algeria, by 
G. Naphbgvi, M. D., a. M. ^s. 6d. 

Andersen (Hans Christian) The Story of My Life. 8vo. 

JOS. 6d. 

Fairy Tales, with Illustrations in Colours by E. V. B, 



Royal 4to. cloth, z/. ss. 

Andrews (Dr.) Latin-English Lexicon. 13th edition. 

Royal 8vo. pp. 1,670, cloth extra. Price i8j. 

The superiority of this justly-famed Lexicon is retained over all others 
by the fulness of its Quotations, the including in the Vocabulary Proper 
Names, the distinguishing whether the Denvative is classical or other- 
wise, the exactness of the References to the Original Authors, and by the 
price. 

" The best Latin Dictionary, whether for the scholar or advanced 
student. " — Spectator. 

" Every page bears the impress of industry and care." — AtAenautm, 

Anecdotes of the Queen and Royal Family, collected and 
edited by J. G. Hodgins, with Illustrations. New edition, revised by 
John Timbs. ^r. 

Angell (J. K.) A Treatise on the Law of Highways. 8vo. 
• 1/. 5*. 

Arctic Regions (The). Illustrated. See Bradford. 

German Polar Expedition. See Koldeway. 

Explorations. See Markham. 

Around the World. See Prime. 



List of Publications, 1 1 



Art, Pictorial and Industrial, Vol. i, i/. lu. 6^. Vols. 2 
and 3, i8j. each. 

Atmosphere (The). See Flammarion. 

Aunt Jo's Scrap Bag. See Alcott. 

Australian Tales, by the ** Old Boomerang." Post 8vo. 51. 

RACK-LOG Studies. ^<r-f Warner. 

Baldwin (J. D.) Prehistoric Nations. i2mo. 

Ancient America, in notes of American Archaeology. 




Crown 8vo. xo*. 6d. 

Bancroft's History of America. Library edition, vols, i to 9, 
8vo. 5/. &r. 

History of America, Vol. X. (completing the Work.) 



8vo. I2J. [Intheprtss. 

Barber (E. C.) The Crack Shot. Post 8vo. 8j. 6^. 

Barnes's (Rev. A.) Lectures on the Evidences of Christi- 
anity in the 19th Century. lamo. 7^. td. 

Bamum (P. T.) Struggles and Triumphs. Crown 8vo. 

Fancy boards, zr. td. 

Barrington (Hon. and Rev. L.J.) From Ur to Macpelah; 

the Story of Abraham. Crown Svo., cloth, 5^. 

THE BAYARD SERIES. Comprising Plea- 
sure Books of Literature produced in the Choicest 
Style as Companionable Volumes at Home and 
Abroad. 

Price 2J. 6d. each Volume, complete in itself, printed at th^ Ckiswick Press, 
bound by Bum,Jlexible cloth extra, gilt leaves, with silk Headbands 
and Registers. 

The Story of the Chevalier Bayard. By M. De Berville. 
De Joinville's St. Louis, King of France. 

The Essays of Abraham Cowley, including all his Prose 
Works. 

Abdallah ; or, the Four Leaves. By Edouard Laboullaye. 



12 Sampson Low and CoJs 



Table-Talk and Opinions of Napoleon Buonaparte. 

Vathek : An Oriental Romance. By William Beckford. 

The King and the Commons : a Selection of Cavalier and 
Puritan Song. Edited by Prof. Morley. 

Words of Wellington : Maxims and Opinions of the Great 
Duke. 

Dr. Johnson's Rasselas, Prince of Abyssinia. With Notes. 

Hazlitt's Round Table. With Biographical Introduction. 

The Religio Medici, Hydriotaphia, and the Letter to a 
Friend. By Su: Thomas Browns, Knt. 

Ballad Poetry of the Affections. By Robert Buchanan. 

Coleridge's Christabel, and other Imaginative Poems. With 
Preface by Algernon C. Swinburne. 

Lord Chesterfield's Letters, Sentences and Maxims. 

With Introduction by the Editor, and Essay on Chesterfield by M. De 
St. Beuve, of the French Academy. 

Essays in Mosaic. By Thos. Ballantyne. 

My Uncle ToSy; his Story and his Friends. Edited 
by P. Fitzgerald. 

Reflections ; or, Moral Sentences and Maxims of the Duke 
de la Rochefoucauld. 

Socrates, Memoirs for English Readers from Xenophon's 
Memorabilia. By Edw. Levien. 

Prince Albert's Golden Precepts. 

A suitable Case containing iz volumes, price 31X. 6d. ; or the Case separate. 

Price 3J. (nl. 

Extracts from Literary Notices. 

"The present series— taking its name from the opening voltune, which 
contained a translation of the Knight without Fear and without Reproach 
—will really, we think, fill a void in the shelves of all except the most 
complete English libraries. These little square-shaped volumes contain, 
in a very manageable and pretty form, a great many things not very easy 
of access elsewhere, and some things for the first time brought together. 
— Pall Mall Gazette. ** We have here two more volumes of the series 
appropriately called the * Bayard,* as they certainly are ' sans reproche.' 
Of convenient size, with clear typography and tasteful binding, we know 
no other little volumes which msuce such good gift-books for persons of 
mature age.'* — Examiner. " St. Louis and his companions, as described 
by Joinvflle, not only in their glistening armour, but in their every-day 
attire, are brought nearer to us, become intelligible to us, and teach us 
lessons of humanity which we can learn from men only, and not from saints 
and heroes. Here lies the real value of real history. It widens our minds 
and our hearts, and gives us that true knowledge of the world and of 
human nature in all its phases which but few can gain in the short span 
of their own life, and in the narrow sphere of their firiends and enemies. 
We can hardly imagine a better book for boys to read or for men U> 
ponder over.*' — Times. 



List of Publications, 13 

Beecher. (Henry Ward, D. D.) Life Thoughts. Complete 

in X vol. xamo. ax. 6d. 



Sermons Selected. i2mo. 8j. 6d, 



Norwood, or Village Life in New England. 

Crown 8vo. 6s. 

(Dr. Lyman) Life and Correspondence of. 2 vols. 

post 8vo. x/. IS. 

Bees and Beekeeping. Bj the Times' Beemaster. Illustrated. 
Crown 8vo. New Edition, with additions. 25. 6d. 

Bell (Rev. C. D.) Faith in Earnest. iSmo. is, 6d. 

Blanche Nevile. Fcap. 8vo. dr. 

Bellows (A. J.) The Philosophy of Eating. Tost 8vo. 

js. 6d. 

How not to be Sick, a Sequel to Philosophy of 

Eating. Post Bvo. 7«. 6d. 

Bickersteth's Hymnal Companion to Book of Common 
Prayer. 

ThefolUrofing EdtiioHS are now ready : — 

'• ^ 

Na X. A Small-type Edition, medium 32mo. doth limp o 6 

No. X. B ditto roan limp, red edges . . x o 

No. X. C ditto morocco limp, gilt edges . . a o 

No. a. Second-size type, super-royal samo. cloth limp . . to 
No. a. A ditto roan limp, red edges . . a o 

No. 2. B ditto morocco limp, gilt edges . . 30 

No. 3. Large-type Edition, crown Bvo. cloth, red edges . . a 6 
No. 3. A ditto roan limp, red edges ..36 

No. 3. B ditto morocco limp, gilt edges . . 56 

No. 4. Large-type Edition, crown 8vo. with Introduction 

and.Notes, cloth, red edges 36 

No. 4. A ' ditto roan limp, red edges ..46 

No. 4. B ditto morocco, gilt edG:es . . 6 6 

No. 5. Crown 8vo. with accompanying Tunes to every 

Hymn, New Edition 30 

No. 5. A ditto with Chants 40 

No. 5. B The Chants separately x 6 

No. 6. Penny Edition. 

Fcap. 4to. Organists* edition. Cloth, yj. 6d, 

\* A liberal allowance is made to Clergymen i$tiroducing 

the Hymnal. 

Thb Book op Common Prayer, bound with The Hymnal Com- 
panion. 3ama doth, <^. And in various superior bindings. 



14 Sampson Lmv and Co^s 

Benedict (F. L.) Miss Dorothy's Charge. 3 vols* 31J. &/. 
Biart (L.) Adventures of a Young Naturalist. (See 

Adventures. ) 

Bickersteth (Rev. E. H., M.A.) The Master's Home- 
Call ; Or, Brief Memorials of Alice Frances Bickersteth. 3rd 
Edition. 32010. cloth gilt. ix. 

" Thsy recall in a touching manner a character of which the religious 
beauty has a warmth and grace almost too tender to be definite." — The 
Guardian. 

The Shadow of the Rock. A Selection of Reli- 
gious Poetry. i8mo. Cloth extra, zf. td. 

Bigelow (John) France and Hereditary Monarchy. 8vo. 3x. 
Bishop (J. L.) History of American Manufacture. 3 vols. 

8vo. 3/. SJ. 

(J. p.) First Book of the Law. 8vo. i/. u. 

Bits of Talk about Home Matters. By H. H. Fcap. 8vo. 

cloth gilt edges, y. 
Black (Wm.) Uniform Editions : 
. Kilmeny : a Novel. Small Post 8vo. cloth, dr. 

In Silk Attire. 3rd and cheaper edition, small post 

8vo. ts. 

** A work which deserves a hearty welcome for its skill and power ia 
delineation of character."— .S'a/wnAi^' Review. 

" A very charming book." — Pall Mall Gazette, 
** As a story it is all absorbing." — Spectator. 

A Daughter of Heth. nth and cheaper edition. 



crown 8vo., cloth extra. 6f. With Frontispiece by F. Walker, A.R.A. 

" If humour, sweetness, and pathos, and a story told with simplicity 
and vigour, ought to insure success, ' A Daughter of Heth ' is of the 
kind to deserve it. ' — Saturday Reinew. 

*' The special genius of the book is the conception of such a character 
as Coquette's." — Spectator. 

"An inviting title, agreeable writing, humour, sweetness and a fresh 
natural style are combined." — Pall Mall Gazette. 

** I he ' Daughter of Heth ' is a novel of real power and premise." — 
Standard, 

Black (C. B.) New Continental Route Guides. 

Guide to the North of France, including Nor- 
mandy, Brittany, Touraine, Picardy, Champagne, Burgundy, 
Lorraine, Alsace, and the Valley of the Loire ; Belgium and Holland ; 
the Valley of the Rhine to Switzerland ; and tne South- West of 
Germany, to Italy by the Brenner Pass. Illustrated with numerous 
Maps and Plans. Crown 8vo., cloth limp. 8f ¦ td. 

- Guide to Normandy and Brittany, their Celtic 



Monuments, Ancient Churches, and Pleasant Watering- Places. lUiu- 
trated with Maps and Plans. Crown 8vo., cloth limp, ar. 6d. 



List oj FublicaticnSu 15 

Black (C. B.) New Continental Route Guides. 

Guide to the North-East of France, including 

Picardy, Champagne, Burgundy, Lorraine, and Alsace ; Belgium and 
Holland ; the Valley of the Rhine, to Switzerland ; and the South- West 
of Germany, to Italy, by the Brenner Pass, with Description of 
Vienna. Illustrated with Maps and Plans. Crown 8vo., cloth limp. 

Paris, and Excursions from Paris. Illustrated 

with numerous Maps, Plans, and Views. Small post 8vo. cloth limp, 
price 2f . 6d. 

Guide to the South of Prance and to the North 



of Italy : including the Pyrenees and their Watering- Places ; the Health 
Resorts on the Mediterranean from Perpignan to Genoa ; and the towns 
of Turin, Milan, and Venice. Illustrated with Maps and Plans. Small 
post 8vo., cloth limp, 5*. 

Switzerland and the Italian Lakes. Small post 8vo. 



price 2f . 6d. 



Blackburn (H.) Art in the Mountains : the Story of the 

Passion Play, with upwards of Fifty Illustrations. Svo. laf. 

Artists and Arabs. With numerous Illustrations. Svo. 

7 J. 6d. 

Harz Mountains : a Tour in the Toy Countxy. 



With numerous Illustrations. X2S. 

Normandy Picturesque. Numerous Illustrations. 



8vo. 16s. 

Travelling in Spaip. With numerous Illustrations. 

8vo. its. 



Travelling in Spain. Guide Book Edition i2mo. 

The Pyrenees. Summer Life at French Watering- 



Places. 100 Illustrations by Gustavb Dorb. Royal Svo. z8f. 

Blackmore (R. D.) Loma Doone. New edition. Crown, 
8vo. dr. 

" The reader at times holds his breath, so graphically yet so simply 
does John Ridd tell his tale . . . . ' Loma Doone ' is a work of real 
excellence, and as such we heartily commend it to the ^M\>)ic.**— Saturday 
Review. 

Cradock No well. 2nd and cheaper edition, dr. 

. Clara Vaughan. Revised edition. 6j. 

Georgics of Virgil. Small 410. 4r. 6d, 

Blackwell (E.) Laws of Life. New edition. Fcp. y*6d, 
Boardman's Higher Christian Life. Fcp. is. 6d, 
Bonwick (J.) Last of the Tasmanians. Svo. i6f. 



1 6 Sampsofi Law and CoJs 

Bonwick (J.) Daily Life of the Tasmamans. 8vo. izr. 6d. 
¦ Curious Facts of Old Colonial Days. i2ino. doth. 



Book of Common Prayer with the Hymnal Companion. 

33mo. doth. 9</. And in various bindinj^s. 

Books suitable for School Prizes and Presents. (Fuller 
description of each book will be found in the alphabet) 

Adventures of a Youngs Naturalist, js. 6d. 

on Great Hunting^ Grounds. 5^. 

Allcott's Aunt Jo's Scrap-bag. 3^ 6d. 

Old Fashioned Girl. 3*. 6d. 

Little Women. 3*. 6d. 

Little Men. y. 6d. 

Shawl Straps. 3; . 6d. 

Anecdotes of the Queen, ^r. 
Atmosphere (The). By Flammarion. 301. 
Bickersteth (Rev. £. H.) Shadow of the Rock. as. 6d. 
Butler's Great Lone Land. 7;. 6d. 

Cradock Nowell. 6*. 

Clara Vaughan. 6*. 

Bayard Series (See Bayard.) 

Blackmore's Loma Doone. 6s. 

Changed Cross (The), as. td. 

Child's Play. 7^. &/. 

Christ in Song. 5r. 

Craik (Mrs.) Adventures of a Bro^vnie. 51. 

Little Sunshine's Holiday. 4X. 

Craik (Miss) The Cousin from India. 4X. 
Dana's Corals and Coral Islands, aif . 

Two Years before the Mast, fa, 

Davies's Pilgrimage of the Tiber. x8f. 

De ^Vitt (Mad.) An Only Sister. 4J. 

Erkmann-Chatrian's, The Forest House. 3^. 6d, 

Faith Gartney. 3^. td. cloth; boards, z^. 6d, 

Favell Children (The). 45. 

Favourite English Poems. 300 Illustration, aif. 

Franc's Emily's Choice. 5/. 

•^— — Marian. 5*. 

— Silken Cord. 5*. 

-^— Vermont Vale. 5*. 

i^— Minnie's Mission. 41. 



List of Publications. 1 7 



Books for School Prizes and Presents, continued. 
Gayworthys (The), y. &/. 
Gentle Life, (Queen Edition), xor. 6d, 
Gentle Life Series. (JSee Alphabet). 
Getting on in the World. 6f. 
Glover's Light of the Word. ax. &/. 
Hayes (Dr.) Cast Away in the Cold. 6s. 
Healy (Miss) The Home Theatre. 3^. 6d. 
Henderson's Latin Proverbs, tos. 6d. 
Hugo's Toilers of the Sea. jos. 6d. -j 

• t» tf »» 6s, 

Jack Haxard, by Trowbridge, y. 6d. 
Kingston's Ben Burton, y. 6d, 
Kennan's Tent Life. 6s. 

King's Mountaineering in the Sierra Nevada. 6s. 
Low's Edition of American Authors, is. 6d. and ax. each. 33 

Vols, published. See Alphabet under Low. 
Lyra Sacra Americana. \s. 6d, 
Macgregor (John) Rob Roy Books. {See Alphabet) 
Marigold Manor, by Miss Waring. 4X. 
Maury's Physical Geography of the Sea 6s. 
Parisian Family, y. 
Phelps (Miss) The Silent Partner, y. 
Picture Gallery British Art. xax. 

Sacred Art. lax. 

Ready, O Ready. By Captain Allston, R.N. y. 6d, 
Reynard the Fox. zoo Exquisite Illustrations, ys. 6d. 
Sea-GuU Rock. 79 Beautiful Woodcuts. 7s. 6d. 
Stanley's How I Found Livingstone, azx. 
Stowe (Mrs.) Pink and White Tyranny, y. 6d. 
Old Town Folks. Qoth extra 6s. and ax- 6d. 

Minister s Wooing. 5X. ; boards, zx. 6d. 

— Pearl of Orr's Island. 5x. 
My Wife and I. 6x. 

Tauchnitx's German Authors. See Tauchnitz. 
Tayler (C. B.) Sacred Records, ax. 6d. 
Titcomb's Letters to Yoimg People, ix. 6d. and 2X. 
Twenty Years Ago. 4X. 
Under the Blue Sky. yx. 6d. 
Verne's Meridiana. 7X. 6d. 

Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Sea. zox. 6d. 

Whitney's (Mrs.) Books. See Ali^abet. 

Bowles (T. G.) The Defence of Paris, narrated as it was 
Seen. 8vo. z4X. 



1 8 Sampson Low and CoJs 

Boynton (Charles B., D.D.) Navy of the United States, 

with Illustrations of the Ironclad Vessels. 8vo. 2 vols. 2^ 

Under the Special Patronage qf Her Most Gracious Majesty the Queen, 
the Duke 0/ Argyll, the Marquis of Lorn, &'c. 

Bradford (Wm.) The Arctic Regions. Illustrated with 

Photographs, taken on an Art Expedition to Greenland. With Descrip- 
tive Narrative by the Artist. In One Volume, royal broadside, 25 inches 
by 20, beautifully bound in morocco extra, price Twenty-five Guineas. 

Bremer (Fredrika) Life, Letters, and Posthumous Works. 

Crown 8vo. xos. 6d. 

Brett (E.) Notes on Yachts. Fcp. dr. 

Bristed (C. A.) Five Years in an English University. 

Fourth £ iition. Revised and Amended by the Author. Post 8vo. 10s. 6d, 

Broke (Admiral Sir B. V. P., Bart., K.C.B.) Biography 
o£ i/. 

Brothers Rantzau. See Erckmann Chatrian. 

Browning (Mrs. E. B.) The Rhyme of the Duchess May. 

Demv 4to. Illustrated with Ei^ht Phqtographs, after I>raiwings by 
Charlotte M. B. Morrell. ais. 

Burritt (E.) The Black Country and its Green Border 
Land : or. Expeditions and Explorations round Birmingham^ Wolver- 
hampton, kc. cy Elihu Burritt. Second and cheaper edition. Post 
8vo. 6s. 



A Walk from London to Land's End. With Illus- 
trations. 8vo. 6s. 

Yhe Lectures and Speeches of Elihu Burritt. 
Fcp. 8vo. cloth, 6s. 

Burroughs (John). See Wake Rohin. 

Bush (R. J.) Reindeer, Dogs, and Snow Shoes : a Journal 

of Siberian Travel. 8vo. i2J. 6d. 
Bush Fighting. See Alexander (Sir J. E.) 
Bushneirs (Dr.) The Vicarious Sacrifice. Post 8vo. yj.fidl 
. Sermons on Living Subjects. Crown 8vo. cloth. 

7^ . 6d. 

, Nature and the^Supematural. Post 8vo. 3J. 6d. 

Christian Nurture. 31. 6d^ 

. . Character of Jesus. 6d, 

., The New Life. Crown 8vo. 3J. 6d. 



List of Pubiicaiums. 1 9 



Butler (W. P.) The Great Lone Land ; an Account of the 

Red River Expedition, z869*x87o, and Subsequent Travels and Adven 
tures in the Manitoba Country, and a Winter Journey across the Sas- 
katchewan Valley to the Rocky Mountains. With Illustrations and 
Map. Fifth and Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo. cloth extra, ^s. 6d. 
(The first 3 Editions were in Svo. cloth, xts.) 

The Tifms says : — " He describes easily and forcibly. He has a sym- 
pathy with the beautiful as well as a sense of the ridicidous. But his 
prejudices and his egotism are merely the weaknesses of a frank, hearty 
nature, and we have a personal liking for him when we take leave of him 
at the end of his wanderings" 

"The tone of this book is altogether delightful and refreshing." — S^c- 
tator. 

"The impression left on the mind by his narrative is one of profound 
interest." — Morning Post. 

"This is one of the freshest and most interesting books of travel that 
we have had the pleasure of reading for some timtf past." — Examiner. 

" There is a delightful breeziness and vigour aoout Captain Butler's 
style of writing." — Leeds Mercury. 

" His fascinating volume .... not only exciting, but instructive 
reading."— Pa// Mall Gazette. 

" Captain Butler writes with rare spirit." — Nonconformist. 



ALIFORNIA. ^i^Nordhofr. 

Carlisle (Tbos.) The Unprofessional Vaga- 
bond. By Thomas Carlisle (Haroun Alraschid), with 
Sketches from the Life of John Carlisle. Fcap. Svo. 
Fancy boards, is. 

Changed Cross (The) and other Religious Poems. 2s. 6d, 

Child's Play, with 16 coloured drawings by E. V. B. An 
entirely new edition, printed on thick paper, with tints, js. 6d. 

Chefs -d'ceuvre of Art and Master-pieces of Engraving, 

selected from the celebrated Collection of Prints and Drawings in the 
British Museum. Reproduced in Photographv by Stephen Thompson. 
Imperial folio. Thirty-eight Phbtographs, cloth gilt. 4/. z^r. 6d. 

China. See Illustrations of. 

Choice Editions of Choice Books. New Editions. Illus- 
trated by C. W. Cope, R.A., T. Creswick, R.A, Edward Duncan, 
Biricet Foster, J. C Horsley,A.R.A, George Hicks, R. Redpave, R.A., 
C Stonehouse, F. Taylor, George Thomas, H. J. Townshend, E. H. 
Wehnert, Harrison Weir, &c. Crown Svo. cloth, 5^. each ; mor. xos. td. 




Bloomfield's Farmer's Boy. 

Campbell's Pleasures of Hope. 

Cundall's Elizabethan Poetry. 

Coleridge's Ancient Mariner. 

Goldsmith's Deserted Village^ 

Goldsmith's Vicar of Wakefield. 

Gray's Elegy in a Churchyard. Wordsworth's Pastoral Poems. 



Keat's Eve of St. Agnes. 
Milton's I'Allegro. 
Rogers' Pleasures of Memory. 
Shakespeare's Songs and Sonnets. 
Tennyson's May Queen. 
Weir's Poetry of Nature. 



30. Sampson Law and Co!s 

Christ in Song. Hymns of Immannel, selected from all Ages» 
with Notes. By Philip Schaff, D.D. Crown 8vo. toned paper, 
beautifully printed at the Qiiswick Press. With Initial Letters and 
Ornaments and handsomely bound. New Edition* 5/. 

Christabel. See Bayard Series. 

Christmas Presents. See Illustrated Books. 

Chronicles of Castle of Amelroy. 4to. With Photogiaphic 

Illustrations. 2/. sf. 

Clara Vaughan. See Blackmore. 

Coffin (G. C.) Our New Way Round the World. 8vo. I2x. 

Commons Preservation (Prize Essays on), written in compe- 
tition for Prizes offered by Henry W. Peek, Esq. 8vo. 141. 

Compton Friars, by the Author of Mary Powell, Cr. Svo. 
doth, zor* (id. 

Courtship and a Campaign; a Story of the Milanese Volun- 
teers of 1866, under Garibaldi. By M. Dalin. 3 vols. cr. Svo. axx. 

Cradock Nowell. See Blackmore. 

Craik (Mrs.) The Adventures of a Brownie, by the Author 
of " John Halifax, Gentleman." With numerous Illustrations by Miss 
Patbrson. Square cloth, extra gilt edges, sr. 

A Capital Book for a School Prize for Children from Seven to Fourteen. 
Little Sunshine's Holiday (fonning Vol. l. of the 



John Halifiuc Series of Girls' Books). Small post 8vo. 41. 

John Halifax Series. See Girls' Books. 

— Poems. Crown, cloth, 5^. 



(Georgiana M.) The Cousin from India, forming 

VoL a. of John Halifax Scxies. Small post Svo. 4r. 

Without Kith or Kin. 3 vols, crown Svo., 31 j. ^. 

Hero Trevelyan. 2 Vols. Post Svo. 2IJ. 



Craik's American Millwright and Miller. With numerous 

Illustrations. Svo. x/. is. 

Cruise of << The Rosario. See Markham (A. H.). 
Cummins (Maria S.) Haunted Hearts (Low's Copyright 

Series). x6mo. boards, u*. (id, ; cloth, sf. 

Curtis's History of the Constitution of the United States. 

a vols. Svo. a4f . 




List of Fublicatiom* 2 1 



ALTON (J. C.) A Treatise on Physiology and 
Hygiene for Schools, Families, and Colleges, with 
numerous Illustrations. 7X. td, 

Dana (R. H.) Two Years before the Mast and 
Twenty-four years After. New Edition, with Notes and Revi»ions. 
zama 6r. 

J>ana (Jas. D.) Corals and Coral Islands. Numerous 

Illustrations, charts, &c. Royal 8vo. cloth extra. 2». 

" This handsome book is of a kind unfortunately too rare. An eminent 
traveller and naturalist has here endeavoured to present a popular account 
of a subject in which he has been one of the foremost investigators. . . . 
Professed eeolonsts and zoologists, as well as general readers, will find 
Professor Danas book in every way worthy of their attention." — The 
Atheiutuntf Qct. 12, 1872. 

" That his work is likelv to be more popular than most accounts of the 
corals and coral {wlypes that we have seen, we have no doubt whatever." 
— Saturday Review. 

J>arley (Felix O. C.) Sketches Abroad with Pen and 

Pencil, with 84 Illustrations on Wood. Small 4to. ^s. 6d. 

Daughter (A) of Heth, by Wm. Black. Eleventh and Cheaper 

edition, z voL^crown 8vo. 6s. 

Davies (Wm.) The Pilgrimage of the Tiber, from its 
Mouth to its Source ; with some account of its Tributaries. 8vo., with 
many very fine Woodcuts and a Map, cloth extra. .x8«. 

" £t terram Hesperiam venies, ubi Lydius arva 
Inter opima viriim leni fluit agmine Tibris." 

Virgil, Mn. II., 781. 

Devonshire Hamlets ; Hamlet 1603, Hamlet 1604. I Vol. 

8vo. 7^. 6d. 

De Witt (Madame Guizot). An Only Sister. Vol. V. 
of the "John Halifax" Series of Girls' Books. With Six Illustrations. 
Small post 8vo. cloth. 4^. 

Dhow-Chasing. See Sulivan. 

Draper (John W.) Human Physiology. Illustrated with 
more than 300 Woodcuts from Photographs, &c Royal 8vo. cloth 
extra, z^ 5^. 

Dream Book (The) with 12 Drawings in facsimile by £. V. B. 

Med. 4to. z/. zzj. 6d, 

Duer's Marine Insurance. 2 vols. 3/. 3^. 

Duplais and McKennie, Treatise on the Manufacture and 
Distillation of Alcoholic Liquors. With numerous Engravings. 
8va 2/. af . 

:Duplessis (G.) Wonders of Engraving. With numerous 
Illustrations and Photographs. 8vo. zax. 6d» 



22 Sampson Low and CoJs 

Dussauce (Professor H.) A New and Complete Treatise 
on the Art of Tanning. Royal Svo. 2/. us. 

General Treatise on the Manufacture of Vinegar, 




8vo. x/. XX. 

NGLISH Catalogue of Books (The) Published 
during 1863 to 187X inclusive, comprising also the Important 
' American Publications. 

This Volume, occupying over 450 Pages, shows the Titles 
of 32,000 New Books and New Editions issued during Nine 
Years, with the Size, Price, and Publisher's Name, the Lists of Learned 
Societies, Printing Oubs, and other Literary Associations, and the Books 
issued by them ; as also the Publisher's Series and Collections — altogether 
forming an indispensable adjunct to the Bookseller's Establishment, as- 
well as to every Learned and Literary Club and Association. 30s. half- 
bound. 

%* The previous Volume, 1835 to 1862, of which a very few remain oa 
sale, price 2/. 5*. ; as also the Index Volume, 1837 to 1857, price i/. 6*. 

Supplements, 1863, 1864, 1865, ^. 6d, each ; 1866,. 




1867 to 1872, 5^. each. 

Writers, Chapters for Self-improvement in English* 

Literatiure ; by the author of "The Gentle Life.'* 6s. 

Erckmann-Chatrian, Forest House and Catherine's 

Lovers. Crown Svo 3^. 6d. 
The Brothers Rantzau : A Story of the Vosges. 

2 vols, crown 8vo. cloth. 21*. 

AITH GARTNEY'S Girlhood, by the Author of 
"The Gayworthys." Fcap. with Coloured Frontispiece. y.6d. 

Favourite English Poems. New and Extended 
Edition, with 300 illustrations. Small 4to. six. 

Favell (The) Children. Three Little Portraits. Crown i2mo. 

Four Illustrations. Cloth gilt. 4r. 

" A very useful and clever story." — yohn Bull. 
Few (A) Hints on Proving Wills. Enlarged Edition, sewed- 

xs. 

Fields (J. T.) Yesterdays with Authors. Crown 8vo. lay. 6d, 

Fleming's (Sandford) Expedition. See Ocean to Ocean. 

Flammarion (C.) The Atmosphere. Translated from the 
French of Camille Flammarion. Edited by James Glaishbr, 
F.R.S., Superintendent of the Magnetical and lileteorological Depart- 
ment of the Royal Observatory at Greenwich. With xo beautiful 
Chromo-Lithographs and 81 woodcuts. Royal 8vo. cloth extra, bevelled 
boards. 30;. 



List of Publications, 2 3 

Franc (Maude Jeane) Emily's Choice, an Australian Tale. 
I vol. small post 8vo. With a Frontispiece by G. F. Angas. 5*. 

Marian, or the Light of Some One's Home. Fcp. 

3rd £dition, with Frontispiece. 5J. 

Silken Cords and Iron Fetters. 5^. 

Vermont Vale. Small post 4to., with Frontispiece. 5j. 

Minnie's Mission. Small post 8vo., with Frontis- 



piece. 4J. 




Frey (H.) The Microscope and Microscopical Tech- 
nology. 8vo. illustrated. 3or. 

Friswell (J. H.) See Gentle Life Series. 
One of Two. 3 vols. i/. i u. 6</. 



AYWORTHYS (The), a Story of New England 
Life. Small post 8vo. y. 6d. 

Gems of Dutch Art. Twelve Photographs from 

finest Engravings in British Museum. Sup. royal 4to. cloth 
extra. 25;. 

Gentle Life (Queen Edition). 2 vols, in i. Small 4to. los, dd, 

THE GENTLE LIFE SERIES. Printed in 
Elzevir, on Toned Paper, handsomely bound, form- 
ing suitable Volumes for Presents. Price 6s. each; 
or in calf extra, price los, 6d. 

I. 

The Gentle Life. Essays in aid of the Formation of Cha- 
racter of Gentlemen and Gentlewomen. Tenth Edition. 

" His notion of a gentleman is of the noblest and truest order. A 
little compendium of cheerful philosophy." — Daily News. 

" Deserves to be printed in letters of gold, and circulated in every 
house."— CAfl!»«^*r* Journal. 

II. 

About in the World. Es.says by the Author of ''The Gentle 

Life." 

" It is not easy to open it at any page without finding some happy 
idea." — Morning Post, 



24 Sampson Low and CoJs 



III. 

Like unto Christ. A New Translation of the " De Imita- 
tione Christi " usually ascribed to Thomas k Kempis. With a Vi^ette 
from an Original Drawing by Sir Thomas Lawrence. Second Edition. 

" Evinces independent scholarship, and a profound feeling for the 
original " — Nonconformist. 

"Could not be presented in a more exquisite form, for a more sightly 
volume was never seen." — Illustrated London News. 

IV. 

Familiar Words. An Index Verborum, or Quotation Hand- 
book. Affording an immediate Reference to Phrases and Sentences 
that have become embedded in the English language. Second and en- 
larged Edition. 

"The most extensive dictionary ot quotation we have met with." — 
Notes and Queries. 

"Will add to the author's credit with all honest workers.**— -fijr»- 
fniner. 

V. 

Essays by Montaigne. Edited, Compared, Revised, and 

Annotated by the Author of "The Gentle Life.** With Vignette Por- 
trait. Second Edition. 

" We should be glad if any words of ours could help to bespeak a lai|^ 
circulation for this handsome attractive book ; and who can refuse his 
homage to the good-humoured industry of the editor.*' — Illustrated 
Times, 

VI. 

The Countess of Pembroke's Arcadia. Written by Sir 

Philip Sidkev. Edited, with Notes, by the Author of "The Gentle 
Life." Dedicated, by permission, to tne Earl of Derby. 7^. 6d. 

" All the best things in the Arcadia are retained intact in Mr. Fris- 
well's edition. — Examiner. 

VII. 
The Gentle Life. Second Series. Third Edition. 

" There is not a single thought in the volume that does not contribute in 
some measure to the formation of a true gentleman." — Daily News. 

VIIL 

Varia: Readings from Rare Books. Reprinted, by per- 
mission, from the Saturday Review^ Spectator, &c 

" The books discussed in this volume are no less valuable than they 
are rare, and the compiler is entitled to the gratitude of the public 
for having rendered their treasures available to the general reader.'* — 
Observer. 

IX. 

The Silent Hour: Essays, Original and Selected. By 

the Author of "The Gentle Life." Second Edition. 

"All who possess the 'Gentle Life* should own this volume."— 
Standard. 



List of Publicatums. 2 5 



X. 

Essays on English writers, for the Self-improvement of 

Students in English Literature. 

"The author has a distinct purpose and a proper and noble ambition to 
win the young to the pure and noble study of our glorious English 
literature. To all (both men and women) who have neglected to read 
and study their native literature we would certainly suggest the volume 
befwe us aft a fitting introduction." — Exafminer. 



XI. 

Other People's Windows. By J. Hain Friswell. Second 

Edition. 

"The chapters are so livelv in themselves, so mingled with shrewd 
views of human nature, so full of illustrative anecdotes, that the reader 
cannot fail to be amused." — Morning Post, 

XII. 

A Man's Thoughts. By J. Hain Friswell. 



German Primer; being an Introduction to First Steps in 
German. By M. T. Prbu. %s. 6d. 

Getting On in-the World ; or, Hints on Success in Life. 
By William Mathews, LL.D. Small post 8vo., cloth extra, bevelled 
edges. 6s. 

Girdlestone (C.) Christendom. i2mo. 3^. 

Family Prayers. i2mo. is, 6d, 

Glover (Rev. R.) The Light of the Word. Third Edition. 

z8mo. ar. 6d, 

Goethe's Faust. With Illustrations by Konewka. Small 4to. 
Price lor. 6d. 

GoufTi^ : The Royal Cookery Book. By Juljcs Gouff^, 

Chef-de-Cuisine of the Paris Jockey Club ; translated and adapted for 
English use by Alphonsb Gouff^ head pastrycook to Her Majesty the 
Queen. Illustrated with large plates, beautifully printed in colours, to- 
gether with x6x woodcuts. 8vo. Coth extra, gilt edges. 2/. u . 

Domestic Edition, half-bound, ioj*. 6d. 

*' By far the ablest and most complete work on cookery that has ever 
been submitted to the gastronomical world." — PaU Mall Geizette. 

The Book of Preserves ; or, Receipts for Preparing 

and Preserving Meat, Fish salt and smoked, Terrines, Gelatines, Vege- 
tables, Fruits, Confitures, Syrups, Liqueurs de Famille, Petits Fours, 
Bonbons, &c. &c. By Jules Gouffe, Head Cook of the Paris Jockey 
Club, and translated and adapted by his brother Alphonse Gouffe, 
Head Pastrycook to her Majesty the Queen, translator and editor of 
" The Royal Cookerv Book. x vol. royal 8vo., contaimng upwards of 
Receipts and 34 Illustrations, xos. 6^. 



36 Sampson Lew and Go's 

Girls' Books. A Series written, edited, or translated by the 
Author of " John Halifax." Small post 8vo., cloth extxa, fr. each. 

X. Little Sunshine's Holiday, 
a. The Cousin from India. 

3. Tvirenty Years Ago. 

4. Is it True. 

5. An Only Sister. By Madame Guizot Db Witt. 

Qough (J. B.) The Autobiography and Reminiscences of 

John B. Gough. 8vo. Cloth, los. 6d. 

Great Lone -Land. See Butler. 

Grant (Rev. G. M.). See Ocean to Ocean. 

Greenleaf 's Law of Evidence. 3 vols. 84J. 

Guizot's History of France. Translated by Robert Black. 
Royal 8vo. Numerous Illustrations. Vols. I. and II., cloth extra, each 
24^. ; in Parts, u. each (to be completed in about twenty parts). 

Guyon (Mad.) Life. By Upham. Third Edition. Crown 
8vo. 6s. 



Method of Prayer. Foolscap. is» 




ALL (E. H.) The Great West; Handbook for 

Emigrants and Settlers in America. ^ With a large Map of 
routes, railways, and steam communication, complete to pre- 
sent time. Boards, is. 

Harrington (J.) Pictures of Saint George's Chapel, Wind- 
sor. Photographs. 410. 63J. 

Harrington's Abbey and Palace of Westminster. Photo- 
graphs. 5/. 5f . 

Harrison (Ag^es). See Martin's Vineyard. 

Harper's Handbook for Travellers in Europe and the 

East. New Edition. Post 8vo. Morocco tuck, x/. is. 
Harz Mountains. See Blackburn. 
Hawthorne (Mrs. N.) Notes in England and Italy. Crown 

8vo. xof. td. 

Hayes (Dr.) Cast Away in the Cold; an Old Man's Story 
of a Young Man's Adventures. By Dr. I. Isaac Hayes, Author of 
"The Open Polar Sea." With numerous Illustrations. Gilt edges, 6s. 

The Land of Desolation ; Personal Narrative of Ad- 
ventures in Greenland. Numerous Illustrations. Demy 8vo., cloth 
extra. i\s. 



List of PublicaHans, 27 

Hazard (S.) Santo Domingo, Past and Present; With a 

Glance at Hayti. With upwards of One Hundred and Fiftv beautiful 
Woodcuts and Maps, chiefly from Designs and Sketches by tne Author. 
Demy 8vo. cloth extra, i&r. 

Extract from the notice in Spectator^ March 22nd. — '' This is a book 
that, in view of the St. Domingo Loan and the New Samana Bay 
Company, will prove peculiarly interesting to English readers." 

Cuba with Pen and Pencil. Over 300 Fine Wood- 
cut Engravings. New edition, 8vo. cloth extra, i^r . 

" We recommend this book to the perusal of our readers." — 
Spectator. 

** Mr. Hazard has completely exhausted his subject." — Pali Afall 
Gazette. 

Hazlitt (William) The Round Table; the Best Essays of 
William Hazlitt, with Biographical Introduction (Bayard Series). 
as. 6d. 

Healy (M.) Lakeville; or. Shadow and Substance. A 

Novel. 3 vols. x/. lis. 6d. 

A Summer's Romance. Crown 8vo., cloth- loj. 6d. 

The Home Theatre. Small post Svo. y. 6d. 

Henderson (A.) Latin Proverbs and Quotations; with 
Translations and Parallel Passages, and a copious English Index. By 
Alfred Henderson. Fcap. 4to., 530 pp. los*. 6d. 

" A very handsome volupie in its typographical externals, and a very 
useful companion to those who, when a quotation is aptly made, like to 
trace it to its source, to dwell on the minutiae of its application, and to 
find it illustrated with choice parallel passages from English and Latin 
authors. " — Times. 

** A book well worth adding to one's library." — Saturday Review. 

Hearth Ghosts. By the Author of • Gilbert Rugge.' 3 Vols. 

x/. \\s. 6ei. 

Heber's (Bishop) Illustrated Edition of Hymns. With 

upwards of xoo Designs engraved in the first style of art under the 
superintendence of J. D. Cooper. Small 410. Handsomely bound, 
js. 6d 

Higginson (T. W.) Atlantic Essays. Small post 8vo. 

cloth, dr. 

Hitherto. By the Author of ** The Gayworthys." New Edition. 
cloth extra. 3^. 6d. Also in Low's American Series. Double Vol. 2; . 6d. 

Hofmann (Carl) A Practical Treatise on the Manufac- 
ture of Paper in all its Branches. Illustrated by One Hundred and 
Ten Wood Engravings, and Five large Folding Plates. In One Volume, 
4to, cloth ; about 400 pages. 3/. X3«. 6d. 

Hoge — Blind Bartimseus. Popular edition, is. 

Holland (Dr.) Kathrina and Titcomb's Letters. See Low's 
American Series. 



/*0 



Sampson Low and Co.*s 



Holmes (Oliver W.) The Guardian Angel ; a Romance. 

3 vols. x6f. 
(Low's Copyright Series.) Boards, u. 6d. ; cloth, 2s. 



Autocrat of the Breakfast Table. i2mo. ix. ; Ulus- 

tiated edidon, y, 6d. 

The Professor at the Breakfast Table. 3X. 6iL 

Songs in Many Keys. Post 8vo. 'js, 6d. 

Mechanism in Thought and Morals. i2mo. is. 6d. 



Home Theatre (The), by Mary Healy. Small post 8vo. 

Homespun, or Twenty Five Years Ago in America, by 
Thomas Lackland. Fcap. 8vo. 7s. 6d. 

Hoppin (Jas. M.) Old Country, its Scenery, Art, and 
People. Post 8va 7*. 6d. 

HoweU (W. D.) Italian Journeys. i2mo. cloth. Sx. 6d. 

Hugo's Toilers of the Sea. Crown 8vo. dr. ; fancy boards, 
as. ; cloth, as. 6d. ; lUustrated Edition, xos. 6d. 

Hunt (Leigh) and S. A. Lee, Elegant Sonnets, with 
Essay on Sonneteers. 2 vols. 8vo. z8x. 

Day by the Fire. Fcap. dr. 6d. 

Huntington (J.D., D.D.) Christian Believing. Crown 8vo. 

Hymnal Companion to Book of Common Prayer. See 

Bickersteth. 

C£, a Midsummer Night's Dream. Small Post 

8vo. y, 6d. 

Illustrations of China and its People. Bv J. 

Thomson, F. R.G.S. Being Photographs from the Author^s 
Negatives, printed in permanent Pigments by the Autotype Process, 
and Notes from Personal Observation. 

*#* The complete work will embrace aoo Photographs, with Letter- 
press Descriptions of the Places and People represented. In Four 
Volumes, imperial 4to., price 3/. 3^. each Volume. The First Volume, 
containing Fifty Photographs, is now ready. 

Subscribers ordering the Four Volumes at once will be supplied for 
xo/. los., half of which is to be paid on receipt of Vol. I., and Muanoc on 
completion of the work. Non-subscribers' price is 3/. 3^. a Volume. 

** In his succeeding volumes, he proposes to take us with him north- 
ward and westward ; and if the high promise held out in the present 
instalment of his book be fulfilled in them, they will together form, from 
every point of view, a most valuable and interesting work. The photo- 
graphs are excellent : .... artistically, they are all that can be desired. 
Accompanying each b a full, and what is somewhat unusual in books 
rdating to Chma, an accurate description of the scene or objects repre- 
sented. — A thefutum. 




List of Fublkations. 29 

L_ ' 

^Illustrated Books, suitable for Christmas, Birthday, or 
Wedding Presents. (The full titles of which will be found 
in the Alphabet.) 

Adventures of a Younf Naturalist, ^s, 6d, 

Alexander's Bush Fighting^. z6r. 

Anderson's Fairy Tales. 35^. 

Arctic Regions. Illustrated. 25 eumeas. 

Art, Pictorial and Industrial. Vol. I. 31X. 6d. 

Blackburn's Art in the Mountains. 12s, 

Artists and Arabs. 7s. 6d, 

— >-— Harx Mountains, xar. 

Normandy Picturesque. x6f. 

Travelling in Spain. x6*. 

The Pyrenees, i&r. 

Bush's Reindeer, Doss, &c. 12s. 6d. 

Butler's Great Lone Land. 7;. 6d. 

Chefs d'CEuvre of Art. 4/. X4x. 6d, 

China. Illustrated. 4 vols. 3/. 3^ . each vol. 

Christian Lyrics. 

Davies's Pilgrimage of the Tiber. x8f. 

Dream Book, by E. V. B. aix. 6d. 

Duplessis' Wonders of Engraving, xu. 6tL 

Favourite English Poems. 3i«. 

Flammarion's The Atmosphere. 30^. 

Fletcher and Kidder's Brazil, x&r. 

Goethe's Faust, illustrations by P. Konbwka. xor. 6d. 

GoufTe's Royal Cookery Book. Coloured plates. 421. 

Ditto. Popular edition. 10*. 6a, 

Book of Preserves. 10*. 6d, 

Hazard's Santa Domingo. z8x. 

Cuba. 15J. 

Heber (Bishop) Hymns. Illustrated editicm. 7«« 6d. 

Markham's Cfruise of the Rosario. xts. 

Milton's Paradise Lost. (Martin's plates). 3/. X3«. 6d, 

My Lady's Cabinet, ns. 

Ocean to Ocean, xor. 6d. 

Palliser (Mrs.) History of Lace. 2x«. 
Historic Devices, &c. au. 

Peaks and Valleys of the Alps. 61. 6s. 

Pike's Sub-Tropical Rambles. xZs. 

Red Cross Knight (The), au. 

Sauxay's Wonders of Glass Making. X2S. 6d. 

Schiller's Lay of the Bell. X4r. 

St. George's Chapel, Windsor. 

Sulivan's Dhow Chasing. x6s. 

The Abbey and Palace of TVestminster. 5/. 51. 

Viardot, Wonders of Sculpture, xns. 6d. 

Wonders of Italian Art. laj. 6d. 

"Wonders of European Art. la*. 6d. 

Werner (Carl) Nile Sketches, a Series, each 3/. xos. 

Index to the Subjects of Books published in the United 
Kingdom during the last ao years. 8vo. Half-morocco. xL 6s. 

Innocent. By Mrs. Oliphant. 3 Vols. Crown 8vo cloth. 

3Xf . 6if. 




30 Sampson Low and CoJs 

In the Tropics. Post 8vo. 6s, 

In Silk Attire. See Black, Wm. 

Is it True ? Being Tales Curious and Wonderful. Small post 
8vo., cloth extra. 4X. 

(Forming vol. 4 of the " John Halifiuc " Series of Girls' Books.) 



ACK HAZARD, a Story of Adventure by J. T. 
Trowbridge. Numerous illustrations, small post 3X. 6d. 

John Halifax Series of Girls' Books. See Girls' 
Books. 

Johnson (R. B.) Very Far West Indeed. A few rough 

Experiences on the North-West Pacific Coast. Cr. 8vo. cloth, xof. 6tL 
New Edition — the Fourth, fancy boards, or. 

*' Variety and adventure abound in his book, which is written too 
with never-flagging spirit." — Atheiutum, 



AVANAGH'S Origin of Language. 2 vols, crown 

8vo. x/. xs. 

Kedge Anchor, or Young Sailor's Assistant, by 

Wm. Brady. 8vo. xSf. 
Kennan (G.) Tent Life in Siberia. 3rd edition, dr. 

" We strongly recommend the work as one of the most entertaining 
volumes of travel that has appeared of late years." — Athetueum, 

" We hold our breath as ne details some hair-breadth escape, and 
burst into fits of irresistible laughter over incidents full of humour.— 
Spectator, 

Kent (Chancellor) Commentaries on American Law. 

xxth edition. 4 vols. 8vo. 4/. xor. 

Kilmeny. See Black (Wm.) 

King (Clarence) Mountaineering in the Sierra Nevada. 

crown 8vo. Third and Cheaper Edition, cloth extra. 6s. 

The Times of Oct. aoth says : — "If_ we judge his descriptions br 
the vivid impressions they leave, we feel inclined to give them very high 
praise. 

*• A fresh and vigorous record of varied kmds of adventure, combined 
with vivid pictures of mountain scenery^ and with glimpses of wild life 
among Indians, Mexicans, and Califomians, will commend itself to most 
readers. *' — The A thetueum 

Kingston (W. H. G.) Ben Barton, or Bom and Bred at 
Sea. Fcap. with lUustratioiis. jr. 6d, 





List of PttbUccUtans* 3 1 

Koldeway (Captain) The Second North- German Polar 
Expedition in the year 1869^x870 of the ships *' Germania " and 
** Hausa," under Command of Captain Koldeway. Edited and 
Condensed by H. W. Bates, Esq., of the Royal Geographical Society. 
I vol. demy 8vo., numerous Woodcuts, Maps, and Cluromo-Lithographs 
— In the Press. 



AKEVILLE. ^^^Healy. 
Land of the White Elephant. 5<r Vincent. 
Lang (J. D.) The Coming Event. Svo. I2j. 

Lascelles (Arthur) The Coffee Grower's Guide. Post Svo. 

Lee (G. R.) Memoirs of the American Revolutionary 
War. Svo. 16*. 

Like unto Christ. A new translation of the " De Imitatione 
Christi," usually ascribed to Thomas k Kempis. Second Edition. 6f . 

Little Men. See Alcott. 

Little Preacher. 32mo. is. 

Little Women. See Alcott. 

Little Sunshine's Holiday. See Craik (Mrs.) 

Livingstone (Dr.), How I Found. See Stanley. 

Log of my Leisure Hours. By an Old Sailor. Cheaper 
Edition. Fancy boards. 3f. 

Longfellow (H. W.) The Poets and Poetry of Europe. 

New Edition. Svo. cloth, i/. xj. 

Loomis (Elias). Recent Progress of Astronomy, Post 8v«. 

7*. (d. 



Practical Astronomy. Svo. lar. 



Low's Copyright and Cheap Editions of American 
Authors, comprising Popular Works, reprinted by arrange- 
ment with their Authors : — 

1. Haunted Hearts. By the Author of " The Lamplighter." 

2. The Guardian Angel. By " The Autocrat of the Breakfast Table." 

3. The Minister's Wooing. By the Author of " Uncle Tom's Cabin." 

4. Views Afoot. Bjr Bayard Taylor. 

5. Kathrina, Her Life and Mine. By J. G. Holland. 

6. Hans Brinker : or, Life in Holland. By Mrs. Dodgb. 



32 Sampson Low and CoJs 

Ijom's Cheap Copyright Editions, amdnaui-' 

7. Men, IVomcn, and Ghosts. By Miss Phblk. 

8. Society and Solitade. By Ralph Waldo F.Minri<w. 
^ Hedfed In. By Eloabbth Phblps. 

10. An Old-Pashioncd GirL By Louisa Ifi. Alcott. 

11. Faith Gartn^. 
la. Stowe's Old Town PoQes. as: 6tL\ dodb, 3c 

13. Lowell's Study VITindows. 

14. My Smnmcr in a Garden. By Chaklbs Dun.ay W. 

15. Pink and IVhite Tyranny. By Mis. Srowa: 
i6l IM^e Gills. By Mis. Whjtnst. 

17. Little Men. By Miss Alcott. 

18. Lrittle Women. By Miss Alcott. 

19. Lrittle MTomen Wedded. (Fononv the Sequd to "Littfe 



Wonai.'7 
aoL Back-L<^ Studies. By Chaotjs Dcolzy Waxmbi^ AuAor of 
" My Summer in a Gardco." 

" Tbis is a deligfadal \x)dk.'—AttmMtie M^mtkly. 

21. Timothy Titcomb*s Letters to Yoong Pecqile, Single and 



%* Of this fiunoos fittle work npvaids of 90^000 have been sold in 
America akme at four times the present price, viz. \k. 6d. flemibJe fimcy 
boanis ; ar. doth 



Hitherto. By Mis. T. D. WiimraT. Doable Volnme. ar. 6^ 
6acy flexible boards. 
%* Tbis Copyright voik was fiist poMishcd in this couittry in 3 vols, 
at 3U. 6(£. : aftersards in i toL at ^ It is now issned in the above 



23. Farm Ballads, by WilL Carieton, price ONE SHILLING. 

The GtutrdimM. says of **¦ Little Women," tbat it is *'a bri^t, eheerfol, 
healtby story — ^vitb a th^e of thoagfatfnl graidty about it -nick reminds 
ooeof John Banyan. Meg going to Vanity Fair is a **ar*«^ written with 
great clcvemess and a pleasant bumoar." 

The Aiketuntm sajs cf " Old-Fadiiooed Girl" : " Let whoever wishes 
to read a bright, spirited, wholesome stoiy get the ' Old-Fashioned Giil' 
at ODoe." 

*^* " We may be allowed to add, that Messrs. Low's is the ' Autlwr's 
edition.* We do not commonly make these annoancements^ hot 
one is boond to defeat, as far as be can, the effbtts of those 
persons who proclaim with much nnction the sacred dnty of not 
an .\merican anthor get his proper share of profits."— >Sjla rt!g/ tfr, JauL 4, 
1873. 

Each vohmke complete in itself price ix. 6tL enaakdled flerible cover ; 
ar. doth. 

Low's Montbly Bulletin of American and Foreign Pobli- 

lorwanied jcgwlany. Sulwciiptiosi ss> 6s. per . 



Low's Minion Series of Popular Books, u. each : — 

The Gates Ajar. (The original Eagfish F.dition 

Who is He? 

The Little Preacher. 

The Boy Mlasionaiy. 



List of Puhlicatwns. 33 

Low (Sampson, Jun.) The Charities of London. For the 

the year 1872. is. 

Ludlow (FitzHugh). The Heart of the Continent. Svo. 

doth. X4X. 
Lunn (J. C.) Only Eve. 3 vols. 31J. dd. 
Lyne (A. A.) The Midshipman's Trip to Jerusalem. 

With illustration. Third Edition. Crown 8vo., cloth. \os. (ul. 



Lyra Sacra Americana. Gems of American Poetry, selected 

- . - - - Cl£ 

6d. 



— — _ — — _ _ — J ^ _, 

and arranged, with Notes and Biographical Sketches, by C. D. Clevb- 
LAND, D.D., author of the " Milton Concordance." xSmo. 4f. 



J^JII^ AC ALPINE; or, On Scottish Ground. A Novel. 

)[ ^ vols, crown 8vo. ^is. 6d, 

Macgregor (John,) " Rob Roy " on the Baltic. 

Third Edition, small post Svo. 2j. 6d. 

A Thousand Miles in the " Rob Roy " Canoe. 



Eleventh Edition. Small post, Svo. ax. ttL 

Description of the " Rob Roy " Canoe, with 

plans, &C. IS. 

The Voyage Alone in the Yawl "Rob Roy." 



Second Edition. Small post, Svo. 51. 

March (A.) Anglo-Saxon Reader. Svo. 7^. 6d, 



¦ Comparative Grammar of the Anglo-Saxon Lan- 

guage. 8V0. X2J. 

Marcy, (R. B.) Thirty Years of Afmy Life. Royal Svo. 

xar. 



Prairie and Overland Traveller. 2j. 6d. 



Marigold Manor. By Miss Waring. With Introduction by 
Rev. A. Sbwsll. With Illustrations. Small Post Svo. 4X. 

Markham (A. H.) The Cruise of the " Rosario " amongst 

the New Hebrides and Santa Cruz Islands, exposing the Recent Atro- 
cities connected with the Kidnapping of Natives in the ^outh Seas.. By 
A. H. Markham, Commander, R.N. Svo. cloth extra, with Map'and 
Illustrations. x6s. 

*' The crew of the * Rosario ' were sent out from England in that 
wretched tub the ' Megaera.' Captain Markham's account of the cruise 
is pleasantly written." — Standard. 

'* We trust, therefore, that it may be generally read." — Athettaum. 

c 



34 Sampson Law and Co's 

Markham (C. R.) The Threshold of the Unknown Region. 

Demv 8vo. with Maps and Illustrations. [In thefreu* 

*, The object of this Work is to pve the ptiblic a correct knowledge 
of the whole fine of frontier separating the known from the unknown 
region round the North Pole. 

Marlitt (Miss) The Princess of the Moor. Tauchnitz Trans- 

- lations. 

Marsh (George P.) Man and Nature. 8vo. 15^. 

Origin and History of the English Language. 



8vo. z6r. 

Lectures on the English Language. 8vo. 15^. 



Martin's Vineyard. By Agnes Harrison. Crown 8vo. cloth, 
zor. fid. 

Matthews (Wm.) See Getting on in the World. 

Maury (Commander) Physical Geogfraphy of the Sea and 
its Meteorology. Being a Reconstruction and Enlargement of his former 
Work ; with illustrative Charts and Diagrams. New Edition. Crown 
8va 6f. 

Mayo (Dr.) See Never Again. 

McMullen's History of Canada. 8vo. i6x. 

Mercier (Rev. L.) Outlines of the Life of the Lord Jesus 

Christ. 3 vols, crown 8vo. Z5f. 

Meridiana See Verne. 

Milton's Complete Poetical Works ; with Concordance hy 
W. D. Cleveland. New Edition. 8vo. xu. ; morocco z/. zx. 

— Paradise Lost, with the original Steel Engravings of 
John Martin. Printed on large paper, royal 4to. handsomely bound. 
3/. Z3*. 6ar. 

Miss Dorothy's Charge. By Frank Lee Benedict, Author 

of *' My Cousin Elcnor." 3 vols crown 8vo. y.s. 6d. 

Missionary Geography (The); a Manual of Missionary 
Opeiations in all parts of the World, with Map and Illustrations. Fcap. 
y. id. 

Monk of Monk's Own. 3 vols. 3i.r. 6d, 

Montaigne's Essays. See Gentle Life Series. 

Morgan's Macaronic Poetry. i6nio. 12s, 

Mother Goose's Melodies for Children. Square Svo., cloth 
extra. 7^. 6d. 

Mountain (Bishop) Life of. By his Son. 8vo. los. 6d, 

My Summer in a Garden. See Warner. 

My Cousin Maurice. A Novel. 3 vols. Cloth, 31J. 6d, 




List of Publications, 35 

My Lady's Cabinet. Charmingly Decorated with Lovely 

Drawing and Exquisite Miniatures. Contains Sieventy-five Pictures set 
in Frames, and arranged on Twenty-four Panels, thus representing the 
Walls of a richly adorned Boudoir. Each page or panel interleaved with 
Letterpress sufficient to explain the Subjects of the Drawings, and give 
the Names of the Artists. Printed on royal 4to., and very handsomely < 
- bound in cloth, i/. is. 

*' The fittest ornament for a Lady's Cabinet which this season has pro- 
duced. " — A thttueutn. 

** Forms an excellent pretty book for the drawing-room table." — Pall 
Mall Gazette. 

** A very pretty idea, carried out with much taste and elegance." — 
Daily News. 

My Wife and 1. See Mrs. Stowe. 



EVER Again: a NoveL By Dr. Mayo, Author of 
" Kaloolah." New and Cheaper Edition, in One Vol., small 
post 8vo. 6s. Cheapest edition, fancy boards, 2J. 

" Puts its author at once into the very first rank of 
novelists." — The Athenautn. 

New Testament. The Authorized English Version ; with the 
various Readings fix>m the most celebrated Manuscripts, including the 
Sinaitic, the Wtican, and the Alexauidrian MSS., in English. With 
Notes by the Editor, Dr. Tischbndorf. The whole revised and care- 
fully collected for the Thousandth Volume of Baron Tauchnitz's Collec- 
tion. Cloth flexible, gilt edges, %s. td. \ cheaper style, &r. ; or sewed, 
\s. 6d. 

Nordhoff (C.) California : for Health, Pleasure, and Resi- 
dence. A Book for Travellers and Settlers. NumerQus Illustrations, 
8vo., cloth extra, zzr. 6d. 

Nothing to Wear, and Two Millions. By William 

Allbn Butler, r*. 
Nystrom's Mechanics Pocket Book. lOf. 6^. 



CEAN to Ocean. Sandford Flemingfs Expedition 
through Canada in 1872. Being a Diarv kept during a 
Journey from the Atlantic to the Pacific with the Expedition 
of the Engineer-in-Chief of the Canadian Pacific and Inter- 
colonial Railways. By the Rev. Gborgb M. Grant, of 

Halifax, N.S., Secretary to the Expedition. With Sixty Illustrations. 

Demy 8vo., cloth extra, pp. 372. 10s. 6el. 

Old Fashioned Girl. See Alcott. 

Oliphant (Mrs.) Innocent. 3 vols. Crown Svo. cloth. 

3». 6d, 

Only Eve. By Mrs. J. Calbraith Lunn. Three Vols, 
post 8vo. doth. 3 IX. 6dr. 




36 Sampson Low and Co,*s 



Other Girls (The). S^ Whitney (Mrs.) 

Our American Cousins at Home. By Vera, Author of 

" Under the Red Cross." Illustrated with Pen and Ink Sketches, by 
the Author, and several fine Photographs. Crown 8vo, cloth. 91. 

Our Little Ones in Heaven. Edited by Rev. H. Hobbins. 
With Frontispiece after Sir Joshua Reynolds. Second Edition. 
Fcap. y. 6d. 



ALLISER (Mrs.) A History of Lace, from the 

Earliest Period. A New and Revised Edition, with upwards 
of 100 Illustrations and coloured Designs, i vol. 8vo. z/. is. 

** One of the most readable books of the season ; permanently 
valuable, always interesting, often amusing, and not inferior in all the 
essentials of a gift book." — Times. 

Historic Devices, Badges, and War Cries. Svo. 




ti. IS. 

Paper Manufacture. See Hofmann. 

Parsons (T.) A Treatise on the Law of Marine Insurance 
and General Average. By Hon. Theophilus Parsons, s vols. Svo. 
3/- 3*- 

Parisian Family. From the French of Madame GuizoT De 
Witt ; by Author of " John Halifax.*' Fcap. 5J. 

" The feeling of the story is so good, the characters are so clearly 
marked, there is such freshness and truth to nature in the simple inci- 
dents recorded, that we have been allured on from page to page without 
the least wish to avail ourselves of a privilege permitted sometimes to the 
reviewer, and to skip a portion of the narrative." — Fa/i McUl GeuetU. 

Peaks and Valleys of the Alps. From Water-Coloiir Draw- 
ings by Elijah Walton. Chromo lithographed by J. H. Lowes, with 
DcMrnptive Text by the Rev. T. G. Bonnev, M.A., F.G.S. Folio, 
half-morocco, with 21 large Plates. Original subscription, 8 guineas. A 
very limited edition only now issued. Price 6 guineas. 

Phelps (Miss) Gates Ajar. 32mo. 6d, ; 4//. 

Men, Women, and Ghosts. i2mo. Sewed, u. 6«/. 



cloth, M. 

Hedged In. i2mo. Sewed, is» 6d, ; cloth, 2s, 

Silent Partner. 51. 



Phillips (L.) Dictionary of Biographical Reference. 8yo. 

z/. I IX. 6d. 

Phillips' Law of Insurance. 2 vols. 3/. y. 

Picture Gallery of British Art (The). Twenty beautiful and 
Permanent Photographs after the most celebrated English Painten. 
With Descriptive Letterpress. One Volume, demy 4to. cloth extra, 
gilt edges. i2«. 



List of Fuhlicaiions. 3 7 

Picture Gallery of Sacred Art (The). Containing Twenty 

very fine Examples in Permanent Photography after the Old Masters. 
With Descriptive Letterpress. Demy 410. cloth extra, gilt edges, xu. 

Pike (N.) Sub-Tropical Rambles in the Land of the 

Aphanapteryx. In i vol. demy 8vo. x8f. Profusely Illustrated from 
the Author's own Sketches, also with Maps and valuable Meteorological 
Charts. 

" Rarely have we met with a book of travels more enjoyable, and few 
have been written by a sharper or closer observer. To recapitulate a 
tithe of the heads of the information he provides would exhaust the 
limits of the longest paragraph, and we must content ourselves with saying 
that he has left very little indeed to be gleaned by his successors in the 
task of bringing home to the English mind what a wealth of beauty 
and novelty there is to be found on the island." — The standard. 

Pilgrimage of the Tiber. See Davies (Wm.). 

Plutarch's Lives. An Entirely New and Library Edition. 
Edited by A. H. Clough, Esq. 5 vols. 8vo. 3/. 3J. 

" ' Plutarch's Lives ' will yet be read by thousands, and in the version 
of Mr. Clough." — Quarterly Review. 

"Mr. Clough's work is worthy of all praise, and we hope that it will 
tend to revive the study of Plutarch.** — Times. 

Morals. Uniform with Clough's Edition of ** Lives of 



Plutarch." Edited by Professor Goodwin. 5 vols. Svo. 3/. 3*. 

Poe (E. A.) The Works of. 4 vols. 2/. 2J. 

Poems of the Inner Life. A New Edition, Revised, with 
many additional Poems, inserted by permission of the Authors. SmaU 
post Svo., cloth. 5J. 

" These books (Palgrave's and Trenche's) are quite beyond the range 
of the ordinary compiler, and praise similar in character, if not in degree, 
may be awarded to the careful Editor of the little volume before us.'* — 
spectator. 

Polar Expedition. See Koldeway. 

Poor (H. V.) Manual of the Railroads of the United 

States for 1873-4 ; Showine: their Mileage, Stocks, Bonds, Cost, 
Eaminccs, Expenses, and Organisations, with a Sketch of their Rise, &c. 
I vol. 8vo. •2.\S. 

Portraits of Celebrated Women. By C. A. St. Beuve. 

z2mo. ts. 6d. 

Preces Veterum. CoUegit et edidit Joannes F. France. Crown 
8vo., cloth, red edges. 5;. 

Preu (M. T.) German Primer. Square cloth. 2s. 6d, 
Prime (L) Fifteen Years of Prayer. Small post 8vo., cloth. 

3*. td. 

(E. D. G.) Around the World. Sketches of Travel 

through Many Lands and over Many Seas, 8vo., Illustrated. 14^. 




3^ Sampson Low and CoJs 

Publishers' Circular (The), and General Record of British 
and Foreign Literature ; giving a transcript of the title-page of every 
work published in Great Britain, and every work of interest published 
abroad, with lists of all the publishing houses. 

Published regularly on the ist and Z5th of every Month, and forwarded 
post free to all parts of the world on payment of &r. per annum. 

Queer Things of the Service. Crown 8vo., fancy boards. 

as* 6d, 



ASSELAS, Prince of Absrssinia. By Dr. John- 
son. With Introduction by the Rev. William West, Vicar 
of Nairn. (Bayard Series), as. 6d, 

Ready, O Ready ! or These Forty Years : A book for 

Young Fellows. By Captain Allston, R.N. Small post 8vo., cloth 
extra. 3J. 6d. 

Recamier (Madame) Memoirs and Correspondence of. 

Translated from the French, and Edited by J. M. Luystkr. With 
Portrait. Crown 8vo. 7*. 6d. 

Red Cross Knight (The). See Spenser. 

Reid (^V.) After the War. Crown 8vo. lox. 6d. 

Reindeer, Dogs, &c. See Bush. 

Reminiscences of America in 1869, by Two Englishmen. 

Crown 8vo. 7J. 6d. 

Reynard the Fox. The Prose Translation by the late Thomas 
RoscoE. With about 100 exquisite Illustrations on Wood, after designs 
by A. J. Elwes. Imperial z6mo. cloth extra, js. 6d. 

"Will yield to none either in the interest of its text or excellence of its 
engravings. " — Standard. 

A capital Christmas book." — Globe. 
" The designs are an ornament of a delightful text." — Times, Dec. 24. 

Rhyme of the Duchess May. See Browning. 
Richardson (A. S.) Stories from Old English Poetiy. 

Small post Svo., cloth. 5s, 

Rochefoucauld's Reflections. Flexible cloth extra. 2x. 6d, 

(Bayard Series.) 

Rogers (S.) Pleasures of Memory. See ** Choice Editions 
of Choice Books." 5;. 

Romance (The) of American History. By Prof. De Vere. 

Crown Svo. cloth. 6*. 

ANDEAU (J.) See Sea-GuU Rock. 

SANTO DOMINGO, Past and Present. See 
Hazard. 

Sauzay (A.) Marvels of Glass Making. Nu- 
merous Illustrations. Demy Svo. xar. 6d, 




List of Publications. 39 

¦ - - - - ¦ - - — 

Schiller's Lay of the Bell, translated by Lord Lytton. With 

42 illustrations after Retsch. Oblong 410. i\s. 

School Books. See Classified. 

School Prizes. See Books. 

Sea- Gull Rock. By Jules Sandeau, of the French Aca- 
demy. Translated by Robert Black, M.A. With Seventy-nine 



very beautiful Woodcuts. Royal z6mo., cloth extra, gilt edges, js. 6d 

the most roUickine 
fun, the most harrowing scenes of suspense, distress, and hair-breadtn 



A story more fascinating, more replete with the most roUickins 



escapes from danger, was seldom before written, publi^ed, or read."- 
Athefutum. 

'It deserves to please the new nation of boys to whom it is presented." 
— Times. 

" The very best French story for children we have ever seen." — 
Standard. 

" A delightful tKsX"— Illustrated London News. 

** Admirable, full of life, pathos, and fun. . . . It is a striking and 
attractive book." — Guardian. 

" This story deserves to be a great favourite with English boys as well 
as with French." — Saturday Revievu. 

" Can be recommended alike for the graphic illustrations and admir- 
able subject-matter." — John Bull. 

" Is quite a gem of its kind. It is beautifully and profusely illus- 
trated." — Graphic. 

" A finely illustrated and beautifully adorned volume." — Daily News. 

Seaman (Ezra C.) Essays on the Progress of Nations 

in civilization, productive history, wealth, and population ; illustrated by 
statistics. Post 8vo. \os. 6d. 

Sedgwick, (J.) Treatise on the Measure of Damages. 8vo. 

x/. i8f. 

Shadow of the Rock. See Bickersteth. 

Shakespeare's Songs and Sonnets, selected by J. Howard 
Staunton ; with 36 exquisite drawings by John Gilbert. See 
*' Choice Series." 5*. 

Shawl Straps. See Alcott. 

Sheridan's Troopers on the Borders. Post 8vo. *js, 6d. 

Sidney (Sir Philip) The Countess of Pembroke's Arcadia, 

edited, with notes, by the author of " Gentle Life," js, 6d. Large paper 
edition. 12s. 

Silent Hour (The), Essays original and selected, by the author 
of "The Gentle Life." Second edition. 6s, 

Silent Partner. See Phelps. 

Silliman (Benjamin) Life of, by G. P. Fisher. 2 vols. 

crown 8vo. i/. 4J. 

Simson (W.) A History of the Gipsies, with specimens of 

the Gipsy Language, xof. 6d. 

Smiley (S. F.) Who is He ? 32mo. u. 



40 Sampson Low and Co^s 

Smith and Hamilton's French Dictionary. 2 vols. Cloth, 

9 If. : half roan, 32x. 
Snow Flakes, and what they told the Children, heautifullj 

printed in colours. Cloth extra, bevelled boards. 5J. 

Socrates. Memoirs, from Xenophon's Memorabilia. By 

E. Lbvibn. Flexible cloth, rts. 6d. Bayard Series. 

Spayth (Henry) The American Draught -Player. 2nd 

edition. x2mo. i2j. 6d. 

Spenser's Red Cross Knight, illustrated with 12 original 

drawings in facsimile. 4to. xl. ss. • 

SpofiFord (Harriet P.) The Thief in the Night. Crown 8vo., 

cloth. 5r. 

Spray from the Water of Elisenbrunnen. By Godfrey 

Maynard. Small Post 8vo. Fancy Boards. 2f. 6d. 

St. Cecilia, a modem tale of Real Life. 3 vols, post 8vo. 
3 If. 6d> 

St. George's Chapel, Windsor, or 18 Photographs with de- 
scriptive Letterpress, by John Harrington. Imp. 4to. tys. 

Stanley (H. M.) How I Found Livingstone. Including 

Travels, Adventures, and Discoveries in Central Africa. Illustrations, 
Maps, &c. 8vo. cloth, a if. 

Steele (Thos.) Under the Palms. A Volume of Verse. By 
Thomas Steele, translator of "An Eastern Love Story." Fcap. 8vo. 
Cloth, 5J. 

Stewart (D.) Outlines of Moral Philosophy, by Dr. McCosh. 
New edition, xamo. 3;. 6d. 

Stone (J. B.) A Tour with Cook Through Spain; being a 

Series of Descriptive Letters of Ancient Cities and Scenery of Spain, and 
of Life, Manners, and Customs of Spaniards. As Seen and Enjoyed in 
a Summer Holiday. Illustrated by Photographs produced by the Auto- 
type Process. Crown 8vo. cloth. 6s. 

Stories ol the Great Prairies, from the Novels of J. F. 

Cooper. With numerous illustrations. 5;. 

Stories of the Woods, from J. F. Cooper. 5^. 

Sea, from J. F. Cooper. 5^. 

Story without an End, from the German of Carove, by the 
late Mrs. Sarah T. Austin, crown 4to. with 15 exquisite drawinfi;s by 
E. V. B., printed in colours in facsimile of the original water colours, 
and numerous other illustrations. New edition. 7*. 6d. 

square, with illustrations by Harvey. 2s. 6d, 



of the Great March, a Diary of General Sherman's 

Campaign through Georgia and the Carolinas. Numerous illustrations. 
x2mo. cloth, ^s. 6d, 



List of Publications, 41 

Stowe (Mrs. Beecher). Dred. Tauchnitz edition. i2mo.. 31. 6^. 

Geography, with 60 illustrations. Square cloth, 4r. 6rfl 

House and Home Papers. i2mo. boards, ix. ; cloth 

extra, ^s. 6d, 
Little Foxes. Cheap edition, u. ; library edition, 4J. 6d. 

Men of our Times, with portrait. 8vo. 12s. 6d. 



Minister's Wooing. 5J. ; copyright series, is, 6d, ; 

cloth, 3j. 

Old Town Folk. 6s. Cheap Edition, 2J. 6d, 



•* This story must make its way, as it is easy to predict it will, by its 
intrinsic merits." — Times. 

" A novel of great power and beauty, and something more than a 
mere novel — we mean that it is worth thoughtful people's reading. . . 
It is a finished literary work, and will well repay the reading." — Literary 
Churchman. 

Old Town Fireside Stories. Clotli extra, y. bd. 



My Wife and I ; or, Harry Henderson's His- 
tory. Small post 8vo, cloth extra, ds. 

She has made a very pleasant book." — Guardian. 

From the first page to the last the book is vigorous, racy, and 
enjoyable." — Daily Telegraph. 

Pink and White Tyranny. Small post 8yo. 3j. (yd. 






Cheap Edition, is. 6d. and 2s. 

Queer Little People, is. ; cloth, 2s, 

Religious Poems ; with illustrations. 3J. 6d. 

Chimney Comer, is, ; cloth, is. 6d, 

The Pearl of Orr's Island. Crown 8vo. 5j. 

Little Pussey Willow. Fcap. 2j. 



(Professor Calvin E.) The Origin and History of 

the Books of the New Testament, Canonical and Apocryphal. 
8vo. Zs. 6d. 



42 Sampson Low and Co.^s 

STORY'S (JUSTICE) WORKS: 

Commentaries on the Law of Agency, as a Branch 
of Commercial and Maritime Jurisprudence. 6th Edition. 
8vo. x/. xis. 6d, 

Commentaries on the Law of Bailments. 7th Edition. 

8vo. x/. I If. 6d. \ 

Commentaries on the Law of Bills of Exchange, 
Foreign and Inland, as administered in England and America. 
4th Edition. 8vo. xl. iis. 6d, 

Commentaries on the Conflict of Laws, Foreign 

and Domestic, in regard to Contracts, Rights, and Remedies 
and especially in regard to Marriages, Divorces, Wills, Successions 
and Judgments. 6ui Edition. 8vo. i/. ly. 

Commentaries on the Constitution of the United 

States ; with a Preliminary Review of the Constitutional History 
of the Colonies and States before the adoption of the Constitution. 
3rd Edition. 2 vols. 8vo. 3/. 3^. 

Commentaries on the Law of Partnership as a branch 
of Commercial and Maritime Jurisprudence. 6th Edition, 
by E. H. Bennett. 8vo. i/. iij. 6d. 

Commentaries on the Law of Promissory Notes, 

and Guarantees of Notes and Cheques on Banks and Bankers. 6th 
Edition; by E. H. Bennett. 8vo. xl. xxs. 6d. 

Commentaries on Equity Pleadings and the Inci- 
dents relating thereto, according to the Practice of the Courts of 
Equity of England and America. 7th Edition. 8vo. xl. xxs. 6d. 

Commentaries on Equity Jurisprudence as admi- 
nistered in England and America. 9th Edition. 3/. y. 

Treatise on the Law of Contracts. By Willtam 
W. Story. 4th Edition, 2 vols. 8vo. 3/. 3*. 

Treatise on the Law of Sales of Personal Property. 

3rd Edition, edited by Hon. J. C. Perkins. 8vo. x/. xxs. 6d. 

Sub-Tropical Rambles. See Pike (N.) 

Suburban Sketches, by the Author of "Venetian Life." 
Post 8vo. dr. 

Sullivan (G. C.) Dhow Chasing in Zanzibar Waters and 

on the Eastern Coast of Africa ; a Narrative of Five Years' Expe- 
riences in the suppression of the Slave Trade. With Illustrations from 
Photographs and Sketches taken on the spot by the Author. Demy 8vo, 
cloth extra. x6s. Second Edition. 

Summer in Leslie Goldthwaite's Life, by the Author of 

" The Gayworthys," Illustrations. Fcap. 8vo. 3*. 6ii. 

Swiss Family Robinson, i2mo. 3^-. 6d, 




List of Publications. 4 3 



AUCHNITZ'S English Editions of German 

Authors. Each volume cloth flexible, 2S. ; or sewed, if. 6d, 
The following axe now ready : — 

On the Heights. By B. Aubrbach. 3 vols. 
In the Year '13. By Frit2 Reutbr. x vol. 
Faust. By Gobthb. z vol. 
Undine, and other Tales. By Fouqu^ x voL 
L'Arrabiata. By Paul Hbysb. x vol. 

The Princess, and other Tales. By Hbinrich Zschokke. x vol. 
Lessing's Nathan the Wise. 

Hacklander's Behind the Counter, translated by Mary Howitt. 
Three Tales. By W. Hauff. 
Joachim v. Kamern ; Diary of a Poor Young Lady. By M. 

Nathusius. 
Poems by Ferdinand Freiligrath. Edited by his daughter. 
Gabriel. From the German of Paul Hbysb. By Arthur Milman. 
The Dead Lake, and other Tales. By P. Hbysb. 
Through Night to Light. By Gutzkow. 
Flower, Fruit, and Thorn Pieces. By Jban Paul Richtbr. 
The Princess of the Moor. By Miss Marlitt. 
An Egyptian Princess. By G. Ebbrs. 3 vols. 
Ekkehard. By J. V. Schbffeu 

Tauchnitz (B.) German and English Dictionary, Paper, 
xs. : cloth, IS. 6d. ; roan, 2s. 

French and English. Paper is, 6d. ; doth, 2J. ; 



roan, as. 6d, 

Italian and English. Paper, i j. 6d, ; cloth, 2J. ; 

roan, zs. td, 

Spanish and English. Paper, is, 6d, ; cloth, 2s,; 



roan, as. 6d. 



New Testament. Cloth, 2j. ; gilt, 2j. 6d, See New 

Testament. 

Tayler (C. B.) Sacred'Records, &c., in Verse. Fcap. 8vo, 

cloth extra, as. 6d. 

** Devotional feeling and sentiment are the pleasing characteristics of 
the Rector of Otley's charming and elegant little volume of poems. . . . 
Flyency, fervour, and ready command of rhyme— criticism must will- 
ingly accord to the Rev. C. B. 1 ayler . . . attractive and lovable little 
volume of verse." — Morning Post, 



44 Sampson Low and Co^s 

Taylor (Bayard) The Bye ways of Europe ; Visits by Unfre- 
quented Routes to Remarkable Places. By Bayaju) Taylox, autliar 
of "Views Afoot." 2 vols, post 8vo. id*. 

Story of Kennett. 2 vols. i6j. 

Hannah Thurston. 3 vols. i/. 41'. 

Travels in Greece and Russia. Post 8vo. 7/. 6</. 

Northern Europe. Post 8vo. Cloth, 8j. dd. 

Sgypt *^d Central Africa. 

Beauty and the Beast. Crown 8vo. ioj. 6^. 

A Summer in Colorado. Post 8vo. *js, 6d. 

Joseph and his Friend. Post 8vo. ioj. 6d, 

Views Afoot. Enamelled boards, is. 6d, ; cloth, 2s. 



See Low's Copyright Edition. 

Tennyson's May Queen ; choicely Illustrated from designs by 
the Hon. Mrs. Boylb. Crown 8vo. See Choice Series, y. 

Thomson (J.) See Illustrations of China. 
Thomson (Stephen). See Chefs-d'CEuvre of Art. 
Thomson (W. M.) The Land and the Book. With 300 

Illustrations. 2 vols. z/. if. 

Threshold of the Unknown Region. See Markham. 

Timothy Titcomb's Letters to Young People, Single and 
Married. (Low's American Series). Vol. xxi. is. 6d. boards ; us. cloth. 

Tischendorf (Dr.) The New Testament. See New Testa- 
ment. 

Tolhausen (A.) The Technological Dictionary in the 

French, English, and German Languages. Containing the Technical 
Terms used in the Arts, Manufactures, and Industrial Affairs generally. 
Revised and Augmented by M. Louis Tolhausen, French Consul at 
Leipzig. This Work will be completed m Three Parts. 

The First Part, containing French-German-English, crown 8vo. 2 rols. 
sewed, 8f . ; i vol. half roan, 9^. 

The Second Part, containing English-German- French, crown 8ro. 
2 vols, sewed, Bj. ; i vol. bound, gs. 

_ A Third Part, containing German-English-French, is also in prepara- 
tion. 

%* The First Half of Part I. sewed. 41. 

Townsend (John) A Treatise on the Wrongs called 
Slander and Libel, and on the remedy, by civil action, for these 
wrongs. 8vo. xl. xos. 



List of Pubiications. 45 

Tuckermann (C. K.) The Greeks of To-day. Crown 8vo. 

cloth, ^s. 6d. 

Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Sea. See Verne. 

Twenty Years Ago. (Forming Volume 3 of the John Halifax 
Series of Girls' Books). Small post 8vo. ^. 

Twining (Miss) Illustrations of the Natural Orders of 
Plants, with Groups and Descriptions. By Elizabeth Twining. 
Reduced from the folio edition, splendidly illustrated in colours from 
nature. 2 vols. Royal 8vo. 5/. ss. 

Unprofessional Vagabond. See Carlisle (T.) 



ANDENHOFF'S (George), Clerical^ Assistant. 

Fcap. y. 6d. 

Ladies' Reader (The). Fcap. 5j. 




Varia ; Rare Readings from Scarce Books, by the author of 

" The Gentle Life." Reprinted by permission from the " Saturday Re- 
view," " Spectator," &c 6*. 

Vaux (Calvert). Villas and Cottages, a new edition, with 

300 designs. 8vo. 15^. 

Verne (Jules), Meridiana : Adventures of Three English- 
men and Three Russians in South Africa. Translated from the French, 
With numerous Illustrations. Royal i6mo. cloth extra, gilt edges. 
7*. 6d. ^ 

"This capital translation of M. Verne's last wild and amusing story is, 
like all those by the sanie author, delightfully extravagant, and full of 
entertaining improbabilities. . . . The illustrations are not the least 
amusing part of M. Verne's book, and certainly the reader of 'Meri- 
diana' will not fail to have many a hearty laugh over it." — Morning Post. 

** There is real merit here in both the narrative and the woodcuts."— 
NortA Brituh Daily Mail. 

*' Eminently readable." — Daily News. 

** One of the most interesting books of the season. .> . . Ably trans- 
lated "- -Graphic. 

"Jules Verne, in 'Meridiana,* makes the account of the scientific pro- 
ceedings as interesting as the hunting and exploring adventures, which is 
saying a good Aca\."—AihetueurK. 

Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Sea. Trans- 
lated and Edited by the Rev. L. P. Mercier, M.A., with Z13 very 
Graphic Woodcuts. Large Post 8vo. cloth extra, gilt edges, zo; . 6d. 

Uniform with the First Edition of " The Adventures of a Young Natu- 
ralist." 

" Boys will te delighted with this wild story, through which scientific 
truth and most frantic fiction walk cheek by jowl. . . . It is an ex- 



46 Sampson Law and Co^s 



cellent boys' book. We devoutly wish we were a boy to enjoy it." — 
Times, Dec. 34. 

" Full of the most astounding submarine adventures ever printed.** — 
Morning Post, 

** Illustrated with more than a hundred ensravings that make the hair 
stand on end, and published at a low price. If this book, which is trans- 
lated from the French, does not ' go/ boys are no longer boys. . . . 
Grave men will be equally borne along m the grasp of the accomplished 
author." — Standard. 

Very Far West Indeed. See Johnson, 

Viardot (L.) Wonders of Italian Art, numeroas photo- 
graphic and other illustrations. Demy 8vo. X2S. 6d. 

Wonders of Painting, numerous photographs and 




other illustrations. Demy 8vo. 12s. 6d. 

Wonders of Sculpture. Numerous Illustrations. 

Demy 8vo. lar. 6d 

Vincent (F.) The Land of the White Elephant: Sights 

and Scenes in South-£astem Asia. A Personal Narrative of Travel and 
Adventure in Farther India, embracing the countries of Burmah, Siam, 
Cambodia, and Cochin China, 1871-2. With Maps, Plans, and numer- 
ous Illustrations. 8vo. cloth extra. [In thtpreu. 



AKB ROBIN; a Book about Birds, by John 
Burroughs. Crown 8vo. 5«. 

Warner (C. D.) My Summer in a Garden. 
Boards, \s. 6d. ; doth, zr. (Low's Copyright Series.) 

—^— Back-log Studies. Boards \s, 6d. ; cloth 2s. (Low^s 
Copyright Series.) 

We Girls, ^-fl? Whitney. 

Webster (Daniel) Life of, by Geo. T. Curtis. 2 vols. 8to. 

Cloth. 36*. 
Werner (Carl), Nile Sketches, Painted from Nature during 

his travels through ^Sypt- Facsimiles of Water-colour Paintings 
executed by Gustav W. Sritz ; with Descriptive Text by Dr. E. A. 
Brehm and Dr. Dumichen. Imperial folio, in Cardboard Wrapper. 

3/. I Of. 

Contents of the Second Series :— Banks of the Nile near 
Achmins— Coffee-house at Cairo— Money broker in Esneh— Tombs of 
Kalifs of Cairo— Assuan— The Temples of Luxor. 

*tf^ Part I., published last year, may still be had, price £z 'or* 



List of Publications, 47 

Westminster Abbey and Palace. 40 Photographic Views 
with Letterpress, dedicated to Dean Stanley. 4to. Morocco eztn, 

Wheaton (Henxy) Elements of International Law. New 

edition. [/» tkej^reat. 

When George the Third was King. 2 vols., post 8to. 2Ix. 
Where is the City ? i2mo. cloth, dr. 
White (J.) Sketches from America. 8vo. 12s, 

White (R. G.) Memoirs of the Life of WiUiam Shake- 
speare. Post 8vo. Cloth, xor. 6d, 

Whitney (Mrs. A. D. T.), The Gayworthys. Small post 

8vo. 31. 6d. 

Faith Gartney. Small post 8vo. 3^. 6d. And in Low's 



Cheap Series, is. 6ii. and as. 

Hitherto. Small post 8vo. y» 6d. and 2s, 6d. 



Summer in Leslie Goldthwaite's Life. Small post 

8vo. y. td. 

The Other Girls. Small post 8vo., cloth extra, y. 6«. 



We Girls. Small post 8vo. 3J. 6d, Cheap Edition^ 

u. 6d. and 2f . 

Whyte (J. W. H.) A Land Journey from Asia to Europe. 

Crown 8vo. X2J. 

Wills, A Few Hints on Proving, without Professional 
Assistance. By a Probate Court Official. Fourth Edition, 
revised and considerably enlarged, wirh Forms of Wills, Residuary 
Accounts, &c. Fcap. 8vo, cloth limp. zj. 

Woman's (A) Faith. A Novel By the Author of " Ethel." 
3 vols. Post 8vo. 31J. 6d. 

Wonders of Sculpture. See Viardot. 

Worcester's (Dr.), New and Greatly Enlarged Dictionary 

of the English Language. Adapted for Library or College Refer- 
ence, comprising 40,000 Words more than Johnson's Dictionary. 4to. 
cloth, 1,834 pp. Price 31J. 6d. well boiud ; ditto, half mor. 2/. 2f. 

" The volumes before us show a vast amount of diligence ; but with 
Webster it is diligence in combination Mrith fancifulness,— with Wor- 
cester in combination with good sense and judgment. Worcester's is the 
soberer and safer book, and may be pronounced the best existing English 
Lexicon. " —A thenteum. 



48 Sampson Low and Co.'s Publications. 

Words of WeUingtoi 
and Refleclioni of th 
Lctien, ud Speeches (I 

Work ; s Story of Experience. By Louisa M. Alcott. 
Imvoli. Crown Svo. lu. cloth. 

Young (L.) Acta of Gallantry; giving a detail of eveiy act 
hi which Ihc Silver Medal of the Roynl Humane Society hu bcoi 
gcmwd during llie lul Fony-one yean. Crowo Svo., cloth. 71. id. 



- _ is manrfiulKTBi tn fnducr Black, Cora 

ltd, VMtl. Sky Blv. S>a Crttt, Pansy, ami Cefyinf 
B/act Juts, IH ilaxJs/nm Four SlalliHgi ufajardi. 



MoTlct^Thii liule appiralua conlains a chemical product unknown in 
tin uii. The compoMlion, which poiKocs renmikable colouiing pn^rties, 
i> loluble in cold water : hut. by a peculur artangcment in Ihe inlenor, the 
walsr dumlfii^ ths product can only become, ai it were, saturated with it, 
but without dilutinj tte material orconvetting it into pulp ot syiup. 

Uia degree ••( density, it remaini slable, wilbogt precipitate, and the liquid, 
always limpid, constitutes an Itik of a doubly wperiot chaiacter, rivalling ui 



/ 



