About This File

This file is part of a corpus compiled by Caitlin Matheis (University of Nebraska-Lincoln) for a 2021 computational text analysis project for the One More Voice recovery project (onemorevoice.org). This corpus encompasses a wide range of plain text (TXT) files containing nineteenth- and early twentieth-century literary works centered on Africa by several dozen different British and African writers. Questions about the corpus and project can be directed to Caitlin Matheis (cmatheis2@huskers.unl.edu), the creator of the corpus, and Adrian S. Wisnicki (awisnicki@unl.edu), lead developer for One More Voice.

File Source: Internet Archive, http://archive.org/details/mydarkcompanions00stan

--------------------------------------

MY DARK COMPANIONS 
AND 
THEIR STRANGE STORIES 

BY 
HENRY M. STANLEY, D.C.L., ETC. 
AUTHOR OF "IN DARKEST AFRICA," "HOW I FOUND LIVINGSTONE," 
ETC., ETC. 

WITH NUMEROUS ILLUSTRATIONS 

NEW YORK 
CHARLES SCRIBNER'S SONS 
1893 



THE NEW YORH 

PUPl'IC ! IBRA^Y 



ASTOft LENOX. 
TIL-DEM FC: 

O 



COPYRIGHT, 1S03, BY 
CHARLES SCRIBNER'S SONS 



Press of J. J. Little & Co. 
Astor Place, New York 






CONTENTS 



PA<;E 

THE CREATION OF MAN 4 

THE GOAT, THE LION, AND THE SERPENT . . 29 

THE QUEEN OP THE POOL. 41 

THE ELEPHANT AND THE LION 60 

KING GUMBI AND HIS LOST DAUGHTER ..... 75 

THE STORY OP MARANDA 92 

THE STORY OF KITINDA AND HER WISE DOG . . . .98 

THE STORY OP THE PRINCE WHO INSISTED ON POSSESSING 

THE MOON 105 

How KTMYEHA BECAME KING OF UGANDA .... 120 

THE LEGEND OF THE LEOPARDESS AND HER TWO SERVANTS, 

DOG AND JACKAL 153 

A SECOND VERSION OP THE LEOPARD AND THE DOG STORY . 178 

THE LEGEND OF THE CUNNING TERRAPIN AND THE CRANE . 188 

THE LEGEND OF KIBATTI THE LITTLE, WHO CONQUERED ALL 

THE GREAT ANIMALS 210 

THE PARTNERSHIP OF RABBIT AND ELEPHANT, AND WHAT 

CAME OF IT 232 

THE ADVENTURES OF SARUTI 247 



> 



CONTENTS 



PAGE 

THE BOY KINNENEII AND THE GORILLA ..... 265 

THE CITY OF THE ELEPHANTS ....... 282 

THE SEARCH FOR THE HOME OF THE SUN .... 299 

A HOSPITABLE (JOHILLA 310 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS 

PAGE 
" HE STEALTHILY APPROACHED FROM TREE TO TREE " Frontispiece 

" O MOON, LIST TO THY CREATURE BATETA ! " . . .12 

"THEN HE LIFTED HIS VOICE, AND CRIED OUT ALOUD UP- 
WARD" 17 

"THE MOON CAME DOWN TO THE EARTH . . . AND BORE 

THEM TO HIMSELF " 24 

"SERPENT, WAKE UP; LION is RAGING FOR A FIGHT WITH 

YOU" 33 

"FIXED HIS FANGS IN THE RIGHT EYEBROW OF LION" . . 35 

"CONVEYED IT TO THE VILLAGE" 39 

" MUNU, THE PRIDE OF IZOKA, WAS KILLED" . . . .54 
" THE SENTENCE WAS EXECUTED AVITHOUT Loss OF TIME " . 58 
" ' WELL ! WHAT DO YOU WANT?' HE ASKED" . . .65 

" DROVE ONE OF HIS TUSKS THROUGH HIS ADVERSARY'S 

BODY " 68 

"HOW DID ALL THIS HAPPEN?" 71 

"'DELIVER IT TO ME,' ANSWERED THE PARROT" ... 78 

"SENT HER AWAY DOWN THE RlVER " 81 

"MIAMI WAS ILL AND WEAK AND SAT AT THE DOOR " . . 85 

" SWAM DOWN OPPOSITE THE VILLAGE " 95 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS 



PAGE 

"HE TURNED, AND RAN INTO THK WOODS " .... 103 

"TnE WOMEN KNEADED THE BREAD" ... . 112 

" IN THE NIGHT FLOATED DOWN THE AKUWIMI " . . . 114 

" CONVERTED INTO MONKEYS " . 117 

KlMYERA SETTING OUT FOR UGANDA 133 

Kl.MVEKA ASKING FOR WATER . 137 

KlMYERA CLAIMING THE TlIHOXE OF GANDA . . . 147 

" DOG . . . SET IP A PITEOUS HOWL " . . . 165 

" DOG FLED LIKE THE WlND " 170 

"CAME POURING FROM THEIR HOUSES WITH DREADFUL 

WEAPONS" ... 176 

" LEOPARD SAW ONE PLACE WHICH HE COULD LEAP OVER " . 181 

" SOKO PERFORMED HIS PART EXPEDITIOUSLY " . . . 201 

" HOLD HARD, TERRAPIN!'" .... . 205 

"POOR Miss CRANE WAS FAST ASLEEP" 208 

"BROTHER LEOPARD WILL HOLD ME AND MINE GUILTLESS," 

ETC. 215 

" IT IS I, KlBATTI THE LITTLE, FROM UNYORO " . . 226 

KILLING KING RHINOCEROS 230 

" I AM PROUD TO HAVE MET YOU, RABBIT " . . . . 238 

"A POWERFUL CROWD BEHIND THE Cow" .... 240 

" FLED AWAY AS FAST AS THEIR LEGS WOULD CARRY THEM" 243 

" RUTUANA LAID HIS STICK ACROSS HIS ClIEST "... 250 

"TRIED TO JUMP UP AFTER THE LEOPARD" . 255 

"FELT ii rs NOSE SEIZED" . 263 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS xi 



PAGE 

HE LIFTED THE WOMAN AND IIRIl BASKET AND TROTTED AWAY 269 

"HE WOULD ROAR IN FURY, AND RACE ABOUT THE VILLAGE" 279 

DUDU AND HIS WIFE MEET A YOUNG LlON . . 285 

DUDU AND SALIMBA INTRODUCED TO KING ELEPHANT . . 291 

"THE VILLAGE WAS ENTIRELY BURNED'' .... 301 

"NONE OF THOSE WHO WERE HIGH UP ON THE MOUNTAIN SlDE 

WERE LEFT ALIVE " 307 

THE FATHER OF THE GORILLAS ADDRESSING HIS KINSMEN . 315 



MY DARK COMPANIONS 

THE nightly custom of gathering around the 
camp fire, and entertaining one another with stories, 
began in 1875, after Sabadu, a page of King 
Mtesa, had astonished his hearers with the legend 
of the "Blameless Priest." 

Our circle was free to all, and was frequently 
well attended ; for when it was seen that the more 
accomplished narrators were suitably rewarded, 
and that there was a great deal of amusement 
to be derived, few could resist the temptation to 
approach and listen, unless fatigue or illness 
prevented them. 

Many of the stories related were naturally of 
little value, having neither novelty nor originality ; 
and in many cases, especially where the Zauzi- 
baris were the narrators, the stories were mere 
importations from Asia ; while others, again, were 
mere masks of low inclinations. I therefore had 
often to sit out a lengthy tale which had not a 
single point in it, 

But whenever a real aborigine of the interior 
undertook to tell a tale of the old days, we were 



.vr DARK < ".V/MT/O v> 



sure to bear -omethinu' new and striking: the lan- 
LTiian'e Became more (plaint, ami in almost every 
tale there was a distinct moral. 

The following legends are th- choicest and mo->t 

^ 

curious of those that were related to me durinir 
seventeen years, and which have not been hitherto 
published in anv of mv books of travel. Faithfully 

-L * i 

a^ I have endeavoured to follow the unsophisti- 
cated narrators it is impossible for me TO repro- 
duce the simplicity of style with which they were 
iriven. or to describe the action which accom- 

s_ 

panied them. I take my cue from the African 
native. He told, them with the view of pleasing 
his native audience, after much solicitation. He 
was unused to the art of public speaking, and never 

-L 1 

dreamed that he was exposing himself to criti- 
ci<m. Ib- wa- also shy. and somewhat indolent, or 
tired perhaps, and would prefer listening to nth- s 
rather than speak himself, but though protest- 
ing- strongly that his memory was defective, and 

* * 

that he could not remember anything, he yielded 



at last for the sake of peace, and good-fellowship. 
As the>e few. now about to be published, are not 
wholly devoid of a certain merit a- examples <>f 
Central African lore, and oral literature. I have 
thought it best to consider my-elf only as a 
translator and to render them into English with 
a- dir-ct and true a version a- possible. 

I beirin with the Ovation of Man nieivh f"i- 



INTRODUCTION 



preference, and not according to the date on 
which it was related. The legend was delivered 
by Matageza, a native of the Basoko,* in Decem- 
ber, 1883. He had been an assiduous attendant 
at our nightly circle, but hitherto had not opened 
his mouth. Finally, as the silence at the camp 
fire was getting somewhat awkward, Baruti, one 
of my tent-boys, was pressed to say something; 
but he drew back, saying that he never was able 
to remember a thing that was told to him, but, 
added he, "Matageza is clever; I have heard him 
tell a long legend about the making of the first 
man by the moon." 

All eyes were at once turned upon Matageza, 
who was toasting his feet by a little fire of his 
own, and there was a chorus of cries for " Mata- 
geza ! Matageza ! " He affected great reluctance 
to come forward, but the men, whose curiosity 
was aroused, would not take a denial, and some 
of them seized him, and draped him with loud 

Oo 

laughter to the seat of honour. After a good 
deal of urging and a promise of a fine cloth if the 
story was good, he cleared his throat and began 
the strange legend of the Creation of Man as 

O O 

follows : 

* The Basoko are a tribe occupying the right bank of the Aruwimi 
river from its confluence with the Congo to within a short distance of 
tin- rapids of Yambuya, and inland for a few marches. 



THE CREATION OF MAN* 




N the old, old time, 
all this land, and 
indeed all the whole- 
earth was covered 
with sweet water. 
But the water dried 
up or disappeared 
somewhere, and the 
grasses, herbs, and 
plants began to 
spring up above the 
ground, and some grew, in the course of many 
niooiis, into trees, great and small, and the water 
was confined into streams and rivers, pools 
and lakes, and as the rain fell it kept the 
streams and rivers running, and the pools and 
lakes always fresh. There was no living thing 
moving upon the earth, until one day there sat 
by one of the pools a large Toad. How long he 
had lived, or how he came to exist, is not known ; 
it is suspected, however, that the water brought 
him forth out of some virtue that was in it. In 
the sky there was only the Moon glowing and 

* Republisht-d through the courtesy of the Editor and Proprietors 
of the "Fortnightly Review." 



THE L' It K AT ION OF MAN 



shilling on the earth there was but this one Toad. 
It is said that they met and conversed together, 
and that one day the Moon said to him : 

" I have an idea. I propose to make a man and 
a woman to live on the fruits of the earth, for I 
believe that there is rich abundance of food on it 
tit for such creatures." 

" Nay," said the Toad, " let me make them, for 
I can make them fitter for the use of the earth 
than thou canst, for I belong to the earth, while 
thou belongest to the sky." 

" Verily," replied the Moon, " thou hast the 
power to create creatures which shall have but a 
brief existence; but if I make them, they will have 
something of my own nature ; and it is a pity that 
the creatures of one's own making should suffer and 
die. Therefore, O Toad, I propose to reserve the 
power of creation for myself, that the creatures may 
be endowed with perfection and enduring life." 

" Ah, Moon, l)e not envious of the power which 
I share with thee, but let me have my way. I will 



give them forms such as I have often dreamed of. 



The thought is big within me, and I insist upon 
realising my ideas." 

" An thou be so resolved, observe my words, 
both thou and they shall die. Thou I shall slay 
myself and end utterly ; and thv rivatures can but 
follow thee, beins* 1 of such frail material as thou 

O 

canst give them." 



MY DARK COMPANIONS 



" Ah, tliou art angry now, but I heed thee not. 
I am resolved that the creatures to inhabit this 
earth shall be of rny own creating. Attend thou 
to thine own empire in the sky." 

Then the Moon rose and soared upward, where 
with his big, shining face he shone upon all the 
world. 

The Toad grew great with his conception, until 
it ripened and issued out in the shape of twin 
beino-s, full-grown male and female. These were 

O ' O 

the first like our kind that ever trod the earth. 
The Moon beheld the event with ra;e, and left 

O ' 

his place in the sky to punish the Toad, who had 
infringed the privilege that he had thought to 
reserve for himself. He came direct to Toad's pool, 
and stood blazingly bright over it. 

" Miserable," he cried, " what hast thou done ? " 
" Patience, Moon, I but exercised my right and 
power. It was within me to do it, and lo, the 
deed is done." 

" Thou hast exalted thyself to be my equal in 
thine own esteem. Thy conceit has clouded thy 
wit. and obscured the memory of the warning I 

/ o 

gave thee. Even hadst thou obtained a charter 
from me to attempt the task, thou couldst have 
done no better than thou hast done. As much as 
thou art inferior to me, so these will be inferior to 
those I could have endowed this earth with. Thy 
creatures are pitiful things, mere animals without 



THE CREATION OF MAN 



sense, without the gift of perception or self- 
protection. They see, they breathe, they exist ; 
their lives can be measured by one round journey 
of mine. Were it not out of pity for them, I would 
even let them die. Therefore for pity's sake I 
propose to improve somewhat on what thou hast 
done : their lives shall be lengthened, and such 

o 

intelligence as malformed beings as these can 
contain will I endow them with, that they may 
have guidance through a life which with all my 
power must be troubled and sore. But as for thee, 
whilst thou exist my rage is perilous to them, 
therefore to save thy kin I end thee." 

Saying which the Moon advanced upon Toad, 
and the fierce sparks from his burning face were 
shot forth, and fell upon the Toad until he was 
consumed. 

The Moon then bathed in the pool, that the heat 
of his auger might be moderated, and the water 
became so heated that it was like that which is in 
a pot over a fire, and he stayed in it until the 
hissing and bubbling had subsided. 

~ o 

Then the Moon rose out of the pool, and sought 
the creatures of Toad : and when he had found 
them, he called them unto him, but they were 
afraid and hid themselves. 

At this sight the Moon smiled, as you sometimes 
see him on fine nights, when he is a clear white, 
and free from stain or bin IT, and he was pleased 



,s .)/)' 7M 7,'/f COMPANIONS 

that Toad's creatures were afraid of him. " Poor 
things," said he, " Toad has left me much to do yet 
before I can make them fit to be the first of earthly 
creatures." Saying which he took hold of them, 
and bore them to the pool wherein he had bathed, 
and which had been the home of Toad. He held 
them in the water for some time, tenderly bathing 
them, and stroking them here and there as a pot- 
ter does to his earthenware, until he had moulded 
them into something similar to the shape we men 
and women possess now. The male became dis- 
tinguished by breadth of shoulder, depth of chest, 
larger bones, and more substantial form ; the female 
was slighter in chest, slimmer of waist, and the 

O 

breadth and fulness of the woman was midmost of 
the body at the hips. Then the Moon gave them 
names ; the man he called Bateta, the woman 
Hauna, and he addressed them and said : 

" Bateta, see this earth and the trees, and herbs 
and plants and grasses ; the whole is for thee and 

J- O 

thy wife Hanna, and for thy children whom Hauna 
thy wife shall bear unto thee. I have re-made 
thee greatly, that thou and thine may enjoy such 
things as thou mayest find needful and fit. In 
order that thou mayest discover what things are 
not noxious but beneficial for thee, I have placed 
the faculty of discernment within thy head, which 
thou must exercise before thou canst become wise. 
The more thou prove this, the more wilt thou be 



THE CREATION OF MAN 9 

able to perceive the abundance of good things 
the earth possesses for the creatures which are to 
inhabit it. I have made thee and thy wife as per- 
fect as is necessary for the preservation and enjoy- 
ment of the term of life, which by nature of the 
materials the Toad made thee of must needs be 
short. It is in thy power to prolong or shorten it. 

Some things I must teach thee. I o;ive thee first 

~ ~ 

an axe. I make a fire for thee, which thou must 
feed from time to time with wood, and the first 
and most necessary utensil for daily use. Observe 
me while I make it for thee." 

The Moon took some dark clay by the pool and 
mixed it with water, then kneaded it, and twisted 
it around until its shape was round and hollowed 
within, and he covered it with the embers of the 
fire, and baked it ; and when it was ready he 
handed it to them. 

"This vessel," continued the Moon, "is for the 
cooking of food. Thou wilt put water into it, and 
place whatsoever edible thou desirest to eat in the 
water. Thou wilt then place the vessel on the 
fire, which in time will boil the water and cook 
the edible. All vegetables, such as roots and 
bulbs, are improved in flavour and give superior 
nourishment by being thus cooked. It will be- 
come a serious matter for thee to know which of 
all the things pleasant in appearance are also 
pleasant for the palate. But shouldst thou be 



10 MY DARK COMPANIONS 

long in doubt and fearful of barm, ask and I will 
answer thee." 

Having given the man and woman their first 
lesson, the Moon ascended to the skv, and from 

*J ' 

his lofty place shone upon them, and upon all the 
earth with a pleased expression, which comforted 
greatly the lonely pair. 

Having watched the ascending; Moon until he 

O o 

had reached his place in the sky, Bateta and 
Harm a rose and travelled on by the beautiful 
light which he gave them, until they came to a 
very large tree that had fallen. The thickness 
of the prostrate trunk was about twice their 
height. At the greater end of it there was a 

hole, into which thev could walk without bend- 

/ 

ing. Feeling a desire for sleep, Bateta laid his 
fire down outside near the hollowed entrance, 
cut np dry fuel, and his Avife piled it on the 
fire, while the flames grew brighter and lit the 

O O 

interior. Bateta took Hanna by the hand and 
entered within the tree, and the two lay down 
together. But presently both complained of the 
hardness of their bed, and Bateta, after pondering 
awhile, rose, and going out, plucked some fresh 
large leaves of a plant that grew near the fallen 
tree, and returned laden with it. He spread it 
about thickly, and Hanna rolled herself on it, and 
laughed gleefully as she said to Bateta that it 
was soft and smooth and nice ; and opening 



THE CREATION OF MAN 11 

her arms, she cried, " Come, Bateta, and rest by 
my side." 

Though this was the first day of their lives, the 
Moon had so perfected the unfinished and poor 
work of the Toad that they were both mature 
man and woman. Within a month Hanna bore 
twins, of whom one was male and the other female, 
and they were tiny doubles of Bateta and Hamia, 
which so pleased Bateta that he ministered kindly 
to his wife who, through her double charge, was 
prevented from doing anything else. 

Thus it was that Bateta, anxious for the com- 
fort of his wife, and for the nourishment of his 
children, sought to find choice things, but could 
find little to please the dainty taste which his 
wife had contracted. Whereupon, looking up to 
Moon with his hands uplifted, he cried out: 

" O Moon, list to thy creature Bateta ! My 
wife lies languishing;, and she has a taste strange 

o o' o 

to me which I cannot satisfy, and the children that 
have been born unto us feed upon her body, and 
her strength decreases fast. Come down, O Moon, 
and show me what fruit or herbs will cure her 
longing." 

The Moon heard Bateta's voice, and coming out 
from behind the cloud with a white, smiling face, 
said, "It is well, Bateta ; lo ! I come to help 
thee." 

When the Moon had approached Bateta, he 



MY IfAL'K COMPANIONS 



showed the golden fruit of the baiiaua which 
was the same plant whose leaves had formed the 
first bed of himself and wife. 




"(I AIOUX. LIST TO THY CREATURK BATK'I'A !" 

"O Bateta, smell this fruit. How likest thou 
its fragrance ? " 



THE CREATION OF MAN 13 

u It is beautiful and sweet. O Moon, if it be 
as wholesome for the body as it is sweet to smell, 
my wife will rejoice in it." 

Then the Moon peeled the banana and offered it 
to Bateta, upon which he boldly ate it, and the 
flavour was so pleasant that he besought per- 
mission to take one to his wife. When Hauna had 
tasted it she also appeared to enjoy it ; but she 
said, " Tell Moon that I need something else, for 
I have 110 strength, and I am thinking that this 
fruit will not give to me what I lose by these 
children." 

Bateta went out and prayed to Moon to listen 
to Hanna's words - - which when he had heard, 
he said, " It was known to me that this should be, 
wherefore look round, Bateta, and tell me what 
tliou seest moving yonder/ 1 

" Why, that is a buffalo. 11 

" Rightly named," replied Moon. " And what 
follows it ? " 

"A goat." 

" Good again. And what next ? r 

" An antelope." 

"Excellent, Bateta; and what may the 
next be ? " 

"A sheep.' 1 

"Sheep it is, truly. Now look up above the 
trees, and tell me what thou seest soaring over 
them. 11 



14 MY DARK COMPANIONS 

" I see fowls and pigeons." 

" Very well called, indeed," said Moon. " These 
I give unto thee for meat. The buffalo is strong 
and fierce, leave him for thy leisure ; but the goat, 
sheep, and fowls, shall live near thee, and shall 
partake of thy bounty. There are numbers in the 
woods which will come to thee when they are 
filled with their grazing and their pecking. Take 
any of them either goat, sheep, or fowl bind it, 
and chop its head off with thy hatchet. The blood 
will sink into the soil ; the meat underneath the 
outer skin is good for food, after being boiled or 
roasted over the fire. Haste now, Bateta ; it is 
meat thy wife craves, and she needs naught else to 
restore her strength. So prepare instantly and 
eat." 

The Moon floated upward, smiling and benig- 
nant, and Bateta hastened to bind a goat, and 
made it ready as the Moon had advised. Hauua, 
after eating of the meat which was prepared by 
boiling, soon recovered her strength, and the 
children throve, and grew marvellously. 

One morning Bateta walked out of his hollowed 
house, and lo ! a change had come over the earth. 

' O 

Right over the tops of the trees a great globe of 
shining, dazzling light looked out from the sky, 
and blazed white and bright over all. Things that 

O O 

he had seen dimly before were now more clearly 
revealed. By the means of the strange li^ht 

J O O 



THE CREATION OF MAN 15 

up ill the sky lie saw the difference between that 
which the Moon o-ave and that new brightness 

O O 

which now shone out. For, without, the trees and 
their leaves seemed clad in a luminous coat of 
light, while underneath it was but a dim reflection 
of that which was without, and to the sio;ht it 

O 

seemed like the colder light of the Moon. 

And in the cooler light that prevailed below the 
foliage of the trees there were gathered hosts of 
new and strange creatures ; some large, others of 
medium, and others of small size. 

Astonished at these changes, he cried, " Come 
out, O Hanua, and see the strange sights without 
the dwelling, for verily I am amazed, and know 
not what has happened." 

Obedient, Hanna came out with the children and 
stood by his side, and was equally astonished at 
the brightness of the lio'ht and at the numbers of 

O O 

creatures which in all manner of sizes and forms 
stood in the shade ranged around them, with their 
faces towards the place where they stood. 

" What may this change portend, O Bateta ? r 
asked his wife. 

" Nay, Hanua, I know not. All this has 
happened since the Moon departed from me." 

" Thou must perforce call him again, Bateta, and 
demand the meaning of it, else I shall fear harm 

O 

unto thee, and unto these children." 

" Thou art right, my wife, for to discover 



10 J/r DARK COMPANIONS 

the meaning of all this without other aid than 
my own wits would keep us here until we per- 
ished." 

Then he lifted his voice, and cried out aloud 
upward, and at the sound of his voice all the 
creatures gathered in the shades looked upward, 
and cried with their voices ; but the meaning of 

O 

their cry, though there was an infinite variety of 
sound, from the round, bellowing voice of the lion 
to the shrill squeak of the mouse, was : 

"Come down unto us, () Moon, and explain the 
meaning of this great change unto us; for thou 

O O o 

only who madest us can guide our sense unto the 
right understanding of it.' 1 

O O 

When they had ended their entreaty unto the 
Moon, there came a voice from above, which 
sounded like distant thunder, saying, " Rest ye 
where ye stand, until the brightness of this new 

\] 

light shall have faded, and ye distinguish my 

O O v 

milder light and that of the many children which 

O 

have been born unto me, when I shall come unto 
you and explain." 

Thereupon they rested each creature in its own 
place, until the great brightness, and the warmth 
which the strange light gave faded and lessened, 

o O O 

and it was observed that it disappeared from view 
on the opposite side to that where it had first 
been seen, and also immediately after at the place 
of its disappearance the Moon was seen, and all 




s 



a 
_ 
o 



D 
O 



a 

a 



a 

wj 




a 

a 



THE CREATION OF MAS 19 

over the sky were visible the countless little lights 

*> 

which the children of the Moon gave. 

Presently, after Bateta had pointed these out to 
Haima and the children, the Moon shone out 
bland, and its face was covered with gladness, and 
he left the sky smiling, and floated down to the 
earth, and stood not far off from Bateta, in view of 
him and his family, and of all the creatures under 
the shade. 

" Hearken, O Bateta, and ye creatures of prey 
and pasture. A little while ago, ye have seen the 
beginning of the measurement of time, which shall 

O O 

be divided hereafter into day and night. The time 
that lapses between the Sun's rising and its setting 
shall be called day, that Avliich shall lapse between 
its setting and re-rising shall be called night. 
The light of the day proceeds from the Sun, but 
the light of the night proceeds from me and from 
my children the stars ; and as ye are all my 
creatures, I have chosen that my softer light shall 
shine during the restful time wherein ye sleep, to 
recover the strength lost in the waking time, and 

O O 

that ye shall be daily waked for the working time 
by the stronger light of the Sun. This rule never- 
ending shall remain. 

" And whereas Bateta and his wife are the first 
of creatures, to them, their families, and kind 
that shall be born unto them, shall be given pre- 
eminence over all creatures made, not that they are 



20 MV DARK COMPANIONS 



r, or swifter, but because to them only Lave 
I given understanding and a gift of speecli to 
transmit it. Perfection and everlasting life had 
also been given, but the taint of the Toad remains 
in the system, and the result will be death, death 
to all living things, Bateta and Hanna excepted. 

O O / -L 

In the fulness of time, when their limbs refuse to 
bear the burden of their bodies and their marrow 
has become dry, my first-born shall return to me, 
and I shall absorb them. Children shall be born 
innumerable unto them, until families shall expand 
into tribes, and from here, as from a spring, man- 
kind will outflow and overspread all lands, which 
are now but wild and wold, ay, even to the farthest 
edge of the earth. 

"And hearken, O Bateta, the beasts which thon 
seest, have sprung from the ashes of the Toad. On 
the du\ that he measured his power against mine, 
and he was consumed by my fire, there was one drop 
of juice left in his head. It was a life-germ which 
soon grew into another toad. Though not equal in 
power to the parent toad, thoii seest what he has 
done. Yonder beasts of prey and pasture and fowls 
are his work. As fast as they were conceived by 
him, and uncouth and ungainly they were, I dipped 
them into Toad's Pool, and perfected them out- 
wardly, according to their uses, and, as tliou seest, 
c.-ich specimen has its mate. Whereas, both thou 
and they alikt have the acrid poison of the toad, 



THE CREATION OF .If AX 21 

thou from the parent, they in a greater measure 
from the child toad, the mortal taint when ripe 
will end both man and beast. No understanding 
nor gift of speech has been given to them, and 
they are as inferior to thyself as the child toad was 
to the parent toad. Wherefore, such (Dualities as 
thou mayst discover in them, thou mayst employ 
in thy services. Meantime, let them go out each 
to its own feeding-ground, lair, or covert, and grow 
and multiply, until the generations descending from 
thee shall have need for them. Enough for thee 
with the bounties of the forest, jungle, and plain, 
are the goats, sheep, and fowls. At thy leisure, 
Bateta, thou mayst strike and eat such beasts as 
thou seest akin in custom to these that will feed 
from thy hand. The waters abound in fish that 
are thine at thy need, the air swarms with birds 
which are also thine, as thy understanding will 
direct thee. 

"Thou wilt be wise to plant all such edibles 
as thou mavest discover pleasing to the palate 
and agreeable to thy body, but be not rash in 
assuming that all things pleasant to the eye are 
grateful to thy inwards. 

" So long as thou and Hanna are on the earth, I 
promise thee my aid and counsel ; and what I tell 
thee and thy wife thou wilt do well to teach thy 
children, that the memory of useful things be not 
forgotten for after I take thee to myself, I come 



22 Mr l>.\/,'/\ COMPANION 

no more to visit man. Enter thy house now, for 
it is a time, as I have told thee, for rest and sleep. 
At the shining of the greater light, thou wilt 
waken for active life and work, and family care 
and joys. The beasts shall also wander each to 
his home in the earth, on the tops of the trees, 
in the bush, or in the cavern. Fare thee well, 
Bateta, and have kindly care for thy wife Hanua 
and the children." 

The Moon ended his speech, and floated up- 
ward, radiant and gracious, until he rested in his 
place in the sky, and all the children of the Moon 
twinkled for joy and gladness so brightly, as the 
parent of the world entered his house, that all 
the heavens for a short time seemed burning. 
Then the Moon drew over him his cloudy cloak, 
and the little children of the Moon seemed to get 
drowsy, for they twinkled dimly, and then a dark- 
ness fell over all the earth, and in the darkness 
man and beast retired, each to his own place, ac- 
cording as the Moon had directed. 

A second time Bateta waked from sleep, and 
walked out to wonder at the intense brightness of 
the burning light that made the day. Then he 
looked around him, and his eyes rested upon a 
noble flock of goats and sheep, all of whom bleated 
their morning welcome, while the younglings 
pranced about in delight, and after curvetting 
around, expressed in little bleats the joy they felt 



THE CREATION OF MAN 23 

at seeing their chief, Bateta. His attention was 

o 

also called to the domestic fowls; there were red 
and white and spotted cocks, and as many col- 
oured hens, each with its own brood of chicks. 
The hens trotted up to their master cluck, cluck, 
clucking the tiny chicks, following each its own 
mother cheep, cheep, cheeping while the cocks 
threw out their breasts and strutted grandly be- 
hind, and crowed with their trumpet throats, " All 
hail, master." 

Then the morning wind rose and swayed the 
trees, plants, and grasses, and their tops bending 
before it bowed their salutes to the new king of 
the earth, and thus it was that man knew that his 
reign over all was acknowledged. 

A few months afterwards, another double birth 
occurred, and a few months later there was still 
another, and Bateta remembered the number of 
months that intervened between each event, and 
knew that it would be a regular custom for all 
time. At the end of the eighteenth year, he per- 
mitted his first-born to choose a wife, and when 
his other children grew up he likewise allowed 
them to select their wives. At the end of ninety 
years, Hanna had born to Bateta two hundred and 
forty-two children, and there were grandchildren, 
and great-grandchildren, and countless great-great- 
grandchildren, and they lived to an age many 
times the length of the greatest age amongst us 



24 



r DARK 



now-a-days. When tliey were so old that it he- 
came a trouble to them to live, the Moou came 




"THE MOON CAME DOWN TO THE EARTH . . . AND BORK THEM TO 

HIMSELF." 



do\vii to the (-'Milli MS IK- had promised, and )><>re 
them to himself, and soon after the first-born twins 



THE CREATION OF MAN 25 

died and were buried in the earth, and after that 
the deaths were many and more frequent. People 
ceased to live as long as their parents had done, 
for sickness, dissensions, wars, famines, accidents 
ended them and cut their days short, until they at 
last forgot how to live long, and cared not to think 
how their days might be prolonged. And it has 
happened after this manner down to us who now 
live. The whole earth has become filled with 
mankind, but the dead that are gone and forgotten 
are far greater in number than those now alive 
upon the earth. 

Ye see now, my friends, what mischief the 
Toad did unto all mankind. Had his conceit been 
less, and had he waited a little, the good Moon 
would have conceived us of a nobler kind than we 
now are, and the taint of the Toad had not cursed 
man. Wherefore abandon headstrong; ways, and 

o / 

give not way to rashness, but pay good heed to 
the wise and old, lest ye taint in like manner the 
people, and cause the innocent, the young, and the 
weak to suffer. I have spoken my say. If ye 
have heard aught displeasing, remember I but tell 
the tale as it was told unto me. 

" Taking it as a mere story," said Baraka, " it is 
very well told, but I should like to know why the 
Moon did not teach Bateta the value of manioc, 
since he took the trouble to tell him about the 
banana." 



26 MY DARK COMPANIONS 

" For the reason," answered Matageza, " that 
when he showed him the banana, there was no one 
but the Moon could have done so. But after the 
Moon had given goats and sheep and fowls for his 
companions, his own lively intelligence was suffi- 
cient to teach Bateta many things. The goats 
became great pets of Bateta, and used to follow 
him about. He observed that there was a certain 
plant to which the goats flocked with great greed, 
to feed upon the tops until their bellies became 
round and large with it. One day the idea came 
to him that if the goats could feed so freely 
upon it without harm, it might be also harmless 
to him. Whereupon he pulled the plant up and 
carried it home. While he was chopping up the 
tops for the pot his pet goats tried to eat the tuber 
which was the root, and he tried that also. He cat 
up both leaves and root and cooked them, and after 
tasting them he found them exceedingly good 
and palatable, and thenceforward manioc became a 
daily food to him and his family, and from them 
to his children's children, and so on doAvn to us." 

" Verily, that is of great interest. Why did you 
not put that in the story ?" 

" Because the story would then have no end. I 
would have to tell you of the sweet potato, and 
the tomato, of the pumpkin, of the millet that was 
discovered by the fowls, and of the palm oil nut 
that was discovered by the dog." 



THE CREATION OF MAN 27 

" Ah, yes, tell us how a dog could have shown 
the uses of the palm oil nut." 

" It is very simple. Bateta coaxed a dog to 
live with him because he found that the dog 
preferred to sit on his haunches and wait for the 
bones that his family threw aside after the meal 
was over, rather than hunt for himself like other 
flesh-eating beasts. One day Bateta walked out 
into the woods, and his dog followed him. After 
a long walk Bateta rested at the foot of the 
straight tall tree called the palm, and there were 
a great many nuts lying on the ground, which 
perhaps the monkeys or the wind had thrown 
down. The dog after smelling them lay down and 
began to eat them, and though Bateta was afraid 
he would hurt himself, he allowed him to have his 
own way, and he did not see that they harmed 
him at all, but that he seemed as fond as ever of 
them. By thinking of this he conceived that they 
would be no harm to him ; and after cooking them, 
he found that their fat improved the flavour of his 
vegetables, hence the custom came down to us. 
Indeed, the knowledge of most things that we 
know to-day as edibles came down to us through 
the observation of animals by our earliest fathers. 
What those of old knew not was found out later 
through stress of hunger, while men were lost in 

O O ' 

the bushy wilds. 1 ' 

When at last we rose to retire to our tents and 



28 MY DARK COMPANIONS 

huts, the greater number of our party felt the 
sorrowful conviction that the Toad had imparted 
to all mankind an incurable taint, and that we 
poor wayfarers, in particular, were cursed with an 
excess of it, in consequence of which both Toad 
and tadpole were heartily abused by all. 



THE GOAT, THE LION, AND THE 

SERPENT 




ARUTI, which trans- 
lated means " gun- 
powder," envied 
Matageza the 
" piece '' of a dozen 
gay handkerchiefs, 
with whicli he had 
been rewarded for 
his excellent story, 
and one evening while he served dinner, ventured 
to tell me that he also remembered a story that 
had been told to him when a child among the 
Basoko. 

" Very well, Baruti," I replied, " we will all meet 
to-night around the camp fire as usual, and accord- 
ing to the merits of your story you will surely be 
rewarded. If it is better than Matageza's, you 
shall have a still finer piece of cloth ; if it is not 
so interesting, you cannot expect so much." 

" All right, sir. Business is business, and 
nothing for him that can say nothing." 

Soon after the darkness had fallen the captains 
of the expedition and the more intelligent men 



30 MY DARK COMPANIONS 

began to form the evening circle, and after we had 
discussed the state of the night, and the events of 
the day, I called out to Baruti for his story, when, 
after telling us what a great time had elapsed since 
he had heard it, and how by searching into the 
recesses of his memory he had at last remembered 
it, he delivered the story of " The Goat, the Lion, 
and the Serpent," in the following manner :- 

A Goat and a Lion were travelling together one 
day on the outskirts of a forest, at the end of 
which there was a community of mankind com- 
fortably hutted within a village, which was fenced 
round with tall and pointed stakes. The Goat 
said to the Lion : 

" Well, now, my friend, where do you come from 
this day ? " 

" I have come from a feast that I have given 
many friends of mine to the leopard, hyena, wolf, 
jackal, wild cat, buffalo, zebra, and many more. 
The long-necked giraffe and dew-lapped eland were 
also there, as well as the springing antelope." 

" That is grand company you keep, indeed," said 
the Goat, with a sigh. " As for poor me, I am 
alone. No one cares for me very much, but I find 
abundance of grass and sweet leafage, and when I 
am full, I seek a soft spot under a tree, and chew 
my cud, dreamily and contentedly. And of other 
sorrows, save an occasional pang of hunger, in my 
wanderings I know of none." 



THE GOAT, THE LION, AND THE SERPENT 31 

" Do you mean to say that you do not envy me 
my regal dignity and strength ? r 

" I do not indeed, because as yet I have been 
ignorant of them." 

" What ? Know you not that I am the strong- 
est of all who dwell in the forest or wilderness? 
that when I roar all who hear me bow down their 
heads, and shrink in fear ? " 

" Indeed, I do not know all this, nor am I very 
sure that you are not deceiving yourself, because I 
know many whose offensive powers are much more 
dangerous, my friend, than yours. True, your teeth 
are large, and your claws are sharp, and your roar 
is loud enough, and your appearance is imposing. 
Still, I know a tiny thing in these woods that is 
much more to be dreaded than you are ; and I 
think if you matched yourself against it in a 
contest, that same tiny thing would become victor." 

" Bah ! ' ; said the Lion, impatiently, " you anger 
me. Why, even to-day all who were at the feast 
acknowledged that they were but feeble creatures 
compared with me : and you will own that if I 
but clawed you once there would be no life left in 



you." 



it. 



What you say in regard to me is true enough, 
and, as I said before, I do not pretend to the 
possession of strength. But this tiny thing that 
I know of is not likely to have been at your 
feast.' 



32 MT DARK COMPANIONS 

" What may this tiuy thing be that is so 
dreadful ? " asked the Lion, sneeringly. 

" The Serpent," answered the Goat, chewing his 
cud with an indifferent air. 

" The Serpent ! ' said the Lion, astounded. 
" "What, that crawling reptile, which feeds on mice 
and sleeping birds that soft, vine-like, creeping 
thing that coils itself in tufts of grass, and branches 
of bush ? " 

" Yes, that is its name and character clearly." 

" Why, my weight alone would tread it until it 
became flat like a smashed egg." 

" I would not try to do so if I were you. Its 
fangs are sharper than your great corner teeth or 
claws." 

" Will you match it against my strength ? ' : 

" Yes." 

" And if you lose, what will be the forfeit ? ' : 

u If you survive the fight, I will be your slave, 
and you may command me for any purpose you 
please. But what will you give me if you lose ? ' : 

" What you please." 

" Well, then, I will take one hundred bunches 
of bananas ; and you had better bring them here 
alongside of me, before you begin." 

;; Where is this Serpent that will fight with 
me ? " 

" Close by. When you have brought the bana- 
nas he will be here, waiting for you." 



THE GOAT, THE LION, AND THE SERPENT 33 

The Lion stalked proudly away to procure the 
bananas, and the Goat proceeded into the bush, 
where he saw Serpent drowsily coiled in many 
coils on a slender branch. 

"Serpent," said the Goat, "wake up. Lion is 
rasing for a fio;ht Avith you. He has made a bet of 

t ) <_} ^J / 

a hundred bunches of bananas that he will be the 




SERPENT, WAKE UP ; LION is RAGING FOR A FIGHT WITH YOU. 



victor, and I have pledged my life that you will 
be the strong one ; and, hark you, obey my hints, 
and my life is safe, and I shall be provided with 
food for at least three moons." 

" Well," said Serpent, languidly, " what is it 

that you wish me to do ? ' 
* 



34 MY DARK COMPANIONS 

" Take position on a bush about three cubits 
high, that stands near the scene where the fight is 
to take place, and when Lion is ready, raise your 
crest higli and boldly, and ask him to advance near 
you that you may see him well, because you are 
short-sighted, you know. And he, full of his con- 
ceit and despising your slight form, will advance 
towards you, unwitting of your mode of attack. 
Then fasten your fangs in his eyebrows, and coil 
yourself round his neck. If there is any virtue left 
in your venom, poor Lion will lie stark before long." 

" And if I do this, what will you do for me ? " 

" I am thy servant and friend for all time." 

"It is well," answered the Serpent. "Lead the 
way." 

Accordingly Goat led Serpent to the scene of 
the combat, and the latter coiled itself in position, 
as Goat had advised, on the leafy top of a young 
bush. 

Presently Lion came, with a long line of servile 
animals, bearing one hundred bunches of bananas; 
and, after dismissing them, he turned to the Goat, 
and said : 

"Well, Goatee, where is your friend who is 
stronger than I am ? I feel curious to see him." 

O 

" Are you Lion ? " asked a sibilant voice from 
the top of a bush. 

" Yes, I am ; and who are you that do not 
know me ? " 



-*" 



.: . ..'-_ -. iJJ 

^i""?^*?-- *;.*->-" 






t-jS'itSi-'i 



'*,-*. :'*> 

^ifr> 



\w> xm ^ 

^m^^^m\ 



' 
















FIXED HIS FANGS IN TUB RIGIIT EYEBROW OF LION. 



THE GOAT, THE LION, AND THE SERPENT 37 

" I am Serpent, friend Lion, and short of sight 
and slow of movement. Advance nearer to me, 
for I see yon not." 

Lion uttered a loud roaring lauo;h, and went 

O O ' 

confidently near the Serpent who had raised his 
crest and arched his neck so near that his breath 
seemed to blow the slender form to a tremulous 
movement. 

" You shake already," said Lion, mockingly. 

"Yes, I shake but to strike the better, my 
friend," said Serpent, as he darted forward and 
fixed his fangs in the right eyebrow of Lion, and 
at the same moment its body glided round the 
neck of Lion, and became buried out of sight in 
the copious mane. 

Like the pain of fire the deadly venom was felt 
quickly in the head and body. When it reached 
the heart, Lion fell down and lay still and dead. 

" Well done," cried Goat, as he danced around 
the pile of bananas. "Provisions for three moons 
have I, and this doughty roarer is of no more value 
than a dead goat." 

Goat and Serpent then vowed friendship for one 
another, after which Serpent said : 

" Now follow me, and obey. I have a little 
work for you." 

" Work ! What work, O Serpent ? " 

" It is light and agreeable. If you follow that 
path, you will find a village of mankind. You will 



38 MY DARK COMPANIONS 

there proclaim to the people what I have done, and 
show this carcase to them. In return for this they 
will make much of you, and you will find abun- 
dance of food in their gardens tender leaves of 
manioc and peanut, mellow bananas, and plenty of 
rich greens daily. True, when you are fat and a 
feast is to be made, they will kill you and eat you ; 
but, for all your kind, comfort, plenty, and warm, 
dry housing is more agreeable than the cold damp 
jungle, and destruction by the feral beasts." 

" Nay, neither the work nor the fate is grievous, 
and I thank you, O Serpent ; but for you there 
can be no other home than the bush and the tuft 
of grass, and you will always be a dreaded enemy 
of all who come near your resting-place." 

Then they parted. The Goat went along the 
path, and came to the gardens of a village, where 
a woman was chopping fuel. Looking up she saw 
a creature with grand horns coming near to her, 
bleating. Her first impulse was to run away, but 
seeing, as it bleated, that it was a fodder-eating 
animal, with no means of offence, she plucked some 
manioc greens and coaxed it to her, upon which 
the Goat came and spoke to her. 

" Follow me, for I have a strange thing to sh<>\v 
you a little distance off." 

The woman, wondering that a four-footed animal 
could address her in intelligible speech, followed ; 
and the Goat trotted gently before her to where 



THE GOAT, THE LION, AND THE SERPENT 39 

Lion lay dead. The woman upon seeing the body, 

stopped and asked, " What is the meaning of this ? " 

The Goat answered, " This was once the king of 

beasts ; the fear of him was upon all that lived in 




"CONVEYED IT TO THE VILLAGE. 



the woods and in the wilderness. But he too often 
boasted of his might, and became too proud. I 
therefore dared him to fight a tiny creature of the 
bush, and lo ! the boaster was slain." 
" And how do you name the victor ? " 



40 MY DARK COMPANIONS 



" The Serpent." 

" Ah ! you say true. Serpent is king over all, 
except man," answered the woman. 

" You are of a wise kind," answered the Goat. 
" Serpent confessed to me that man was his 
superior, and sent me to you that I might become 
man's creature. Henceforth man shall feed me 
with greens, tender tops of plants, and house and 
protect me ; but when the feast-day comes, man 
shall kill me, and eat of my flesh. These are the 
words of Serpent." 

The woman hearkened to all Goat's words, and 
retained them in her memory. Then she unrobed 
the Lion of his furry spoil, and conveyed it to the 
village, where she astonished her folk with all 
that had happened to her. From that day to this 
the goat kind has remained with the families of 
man, and people are grateful to the Serpent for 
his gift to them ; for had not the Serpent com- 
manded it to seek their presence, the Goat had re- 
mained for ever wild like the antelope, its brother. 

" Well done, Baruti," cried Chowpereh. " That 
is a very good story, and it is very likely to be a 
true one too. Wallahi, there is some sense in 
these pagans after all, and I had thought that 
their heads were very woodeny." It is needless 
to say that the sentiments of Chowpereh were 
generally shared, and that Baruti received the 
new dress he so well deserved. 



THE QUEEN OF THE POOL 




ASSIM was a sturdy 
lad from the Basoko 
country, and a chum 
of Barati. As yet 
he had never related 
to us a legend, 
though he loved to 
sit near the fire, and 
listen to the tales 
of the days of old. 
This silence on his 
part was at last remarked, and one night he was 
urged by all of us to speak, because it was unfair 
that those who frequented our open-air club should 
be always ready to receive amusement, and yet 
refuse to contribute their share to the entertain- 
ment. This kind of argument pushed home, 
brought him at last to admit that he owed the 

O 

party a debt in kind, and he said : 

Well, friends, each man according to his nature, 
though there are so many men in the world they 
differ from one another as much as stones, no two 
of which are exactly alike. Here is Baruti here. 



42 MY DARK COMPANIONS 

who never seems to tire of speech, while I find 
more pleasure in watching his lips move up and 
down, and his tongue pop out and in, than in using 
my own. I cannot remember any legend, that is 
the truth ; but I know of something which is not 
fiction, that occurred in our country relating to 
Izoka--a woman originally of Umaue, the big 
town above Basoko. Izoka, the Queen of the 
Pool, as we call her, is alive now, and should you 
ever pass by Umane again, you may ask any of 
the natives if my words are true, and you will find 
that they will certify to what I shall now tell yon. 
Izoka is the daughter of a chief of Umane whose 
name is Uyimba, and her mother is called Twekay. 
One of the young warriors called Koku lifted his 
eyes towards her, and as he had a house of his 
own which was empty, he thought Izoka ought to 
be the one to keep his hearth warm, and be his 
companion while he went fishing. The idea be- 
came fixed in his mind, and he applied to her 
father, and the dowry was demanded ; and, though 
it was heavy, it was paid, to ease his longing after 
her. 

Now, Izoka was in every way fit to be a chiefs 
wife. She was tall, slender, comely of person ; her 
skin was like do\vn to the touch, her kindly eyes 
brimmed over with pleasantness, her teeth were 
like w^hite beads, and her ready laugh was such 
that all who heard it compared it to the sweet 



THE QUEEN OF THE POOL 43 

sounds of a flute which the perfect player loves to 
make before he begins a tune, and men's moods 

O 

became merry when she passed them in the vil- 
lage. Well, she became Koku's wife, and she left 
her father's house to live with her husband. 

At first it seemed that they were born for one 
another. Though Koku was no mean fisherman, 
his wife excelled him in every way. Where one 
fish came into his net, ten entered into that of 
Izoka, and this great success brought him abun- 
dance. His canoe returned daily loaded with fish, 
and on reaching home they had as much work to 
clean and cure the fish as they could manage. 
Their daily catch would have supported quite a 
village of people from starving. They therefore 
disposed of their surplus stock by bartering it for 
slaves, and goats, and fowls, hoes, carved paddles, 
and swords ; and in a short time Koku became 
the wealthiest among the chiefs of Umane, through 

O O 

the good fortune that attended Izoka in whatever 
she did. 

Most men would have considered themselves 
highly favoured in having such fortunate wives, 
but it was not so with Koku. He became a 
changed man. Prosperity proved his bane. He 
went no more with Izoka to fish ; he seldom 
visited the market in her company, nor the fields 
where the slaves were at work, planting manioc, 
or weeding the plantain rows, or clearing the 



44 MY DARK COMPANIONS 

jungle, as lie used to do. He was now always 
seen with his long pipe, and boozing with wretched 
idlers on the plantain wine purchased with his 
wife's industry ; and when he came home it was 
to storm at his wife in such a manner that she 
could only bo\v to it in silence. 

When Koku was most filled with malice, he had 
an irritating way of disguising his spitefulness with 
a wicked smile, while his tongue expressed all sorts 
of contrary fancies. He would take delight in 
saying that her smooth skin was as rough as the 
leaf with which we polish our spear-shafts, that she 
was dumpy and dwarfish, that her mouth reminded 
him of a crocodile's, and her ears of an ape's; 
her legs were crooked, and her feet were like 
hippopotamus hoofs, and she was scorned for even 
her nails, which were worn to the quick with 
household toil ; and he continued in this style to 

*/ 

vex her, until at last he became persuaded that it 
was she who tormented him. Then he accused her 
of witchcraft. He said that it was by her witch's 
medicines that she caught so many fish, and he 
knew that some day she would poison him. Now, 
in our country this is a very serious accusation. 
However, she never crossed her husband's humour, 
but received the bitterness with closed lips. This 
silent habit of hers made matters worse. For, the 
more patience she showed, the louder his accusa- 
tions became, and the worse she appeared in his 



THE QUEEN OF THE POOL 45 

eyes. And indeed it is no wonder. If you make 
up your mind that you will see nauglit in a wife 
but faults, you become blind to everything else. 

Her cooking also according to him was vile- 
there was either too much palm oil or too little in 
the herb-mess, there was sand in the meat of the iish, 
the fowls were nothing but bones, she was said to 
empty the chilli-pot into the stew, the house was not 
clean, there were snakes in his bed and so on and 
so on. Then she threatened, when her tough pa- 
tience quite broke down, that she would tell her 
father if he did not desist, which so enraged him 

o 

that he took a thick stick, and beat her so cruelly 
that she was nearly dead. This was too much to bear 
from one so ungrateful, and she resolved to elope 
into the woods, and live apart from all mankind. 

She had travelled a good two days' journey 
when she came in sight of a lengthy and wide pool 
which was fed by many springs, and bordered by 
tall, bending reeds ; and the view of this body of 
water, backed by deep woods all round, appeared 
to her so pleasing that she chose a level place near 
its edge for a resting-place. Then she unstrapped 
her hamper, and sitting down turned out the 
things she had brought, and began to think of 
what could be dyne with them. There was a 
wedge-like axe which might also be used as an adze, 
there were two hoes, a handy Basoko bill-hook, a 
couple of small nets, a ladle, half-a-dozen small 



46 MY DARK COMPANIONS 

gourds full of grains, a cooking-pot, some small 
fish-knives, a bunch of tinder, a couple of fire-sticks, 
a short stick of su^ar-cane, two banana bulbs, a 

O 

few beads, iron bangles, and tiny copper balls. As 
she looked over all these things, she smiled with 
satisfaction and thought she would manage well 

O O 

enough. She then went into the pool a little way 
and looked searchingly in for a time, and she 
smiled again, as if to say "better and better." 

Now with her axe she cut a hoe-handle, and in 
a short time it was ready for use. Going to the 
pool-side, she commenced to make quite a large 
round hole. She laboured at this until the hole 
was as deep and wide as her own height ; then she 
plastered the bottom evenly with the mud from 
the pool-bank, and after that she made a great fire 
at the bottom of the pit, and throughout the night 
that followed, after a few winks of sleep, she 
would rise and throw on more fuel. When the 
next day dawned, after breaking her fast with a 
few grains baked in her pot, she swept out all the 
fire from the well, and wherever a crack appeared 
in the baked bottom she filled it up carefully, and 
she also plastered the sides all round smoothly, 
and again she made a great fire in the pit, and 
left it to burn all that day. 

While the fire was baking the bottom and walls 

O 

of the well, she hid her hamper among a clump of 
reeds, and explored her neighbourhood. During 



THE QUEEN OF THE POOL 47 

her wanderings she found a path leading north- 
ward, and she noted it. She also discovered many 
nuts, sweet red berries, some round, others oval, 
and the fruit which is a delight to the elephants ; 
and loading herself with as many of these articles 
as she could carry, she returned, and sat down by 
the mouth of the well, and refreshed herself. The 
last work of the day w^as to take out the fire, 
plaster up the cracks in the bottom and sides, and 
re-make the fire as great as ever. Her bed she 
made not far from it, with her axe by her side. 
On the next morning; she determined to follow 

o 

the path she had discovered the day before, and 
when the sun was well-nio-h at the middle of the 

O 

sky, she came suddenly in view of a banana grove, 
whereupon she instantly retreated a little and hid 
herself. AVhen darkness had well set, she rose, 
and penetrating the grove, cut down a large bunch 
of bananas, with which she hurried back along the 
road. When she came to a stick she had laid 
across the path, she knew she was not far from 
the pool, and she remained there until it was 
sufficiently light to find her way to the well. 

By the time she arrived at her well it was in a 
perfect state, the walls being as sound and well 
baked as her cooking-pot. After half-filling it 
with water, she roasted a few bananas, and made a 
contented meal from them. Then taking her pot 
she boiled some bananas, and with these she made 



48 MY DARK COMPANIONS 

a batter. She now emptied the pot, smeared the 
bottom and sides of it thickly with this sticky 
batter, and then tying a vine round the pot she let 
it down into the pond. As soon as it touched the 
ground, lo ! the minnows nocked greedily into the 
vessel to feed on the batter. And on Izoka sud- 
denly drawing it up she brought out several score 
of minnows, the spawn of catfish, and some of the 
youiio- of the bearded fish which grow to such an 

/ o 

immense size in our waters. The minnows she 
took out and dried to serve as food, but the young 
of the cat and bearded fish she dropped into her 
well. She next dug a little ditch from the well 
to the pool, and after making a strong and close 
netting; of cane splinters across the mouth of the 

O J- 

ditch, she made another narrow ditch to let a thin 
rillet of spring water supply the well with fresh 
water. 

Every day she spent a little time in building a 
hut, in a cosy place surrounded by bush, which 
had only one opening ; then she would go and 
work a little at a garden wherein she had planted 
the sugar-cane, which had been cut into three 
parts, and the two banana bulbs, and had sowed 
her millet, and her sesanmm, and yellow corn 
which she had brought in the gourds, and every 
day she carefully fed her fish in the well. But 
there were three things she missed most in her 
loneliness, and these were the cries of an infant, 



THE QUEEX OF THE POOL .|i 

tlie proud cluck of the hen after she lays an egg, 
and the bleating of a kid at her threshold. This 
made her think that she might replace them by 
something else, and she meditated long upon what 
it might be. 

Observing that there were a number of ground- 
squirrels about, she thought of snares to catch 
them. She accordingly made loops of slender but 
strong vines near the roots of the trees, and across 
their narrow tracks in the woods. And she suc- 
ceeded at last in catching a pair. AVith other 

O J. 

vines rubbed over with bird-lime she caught some 
young parrots and wagtails, whose wing feathers 
she chopped oft' with her bill-hook. And one day, 
while out gathering nuts and berries for her birds, 
she came across a nest of the pelican, wherein were 
some eggs; and these she resolved to watch until 
the}- were hatched, when she would take and rear 
them. She had found full occupation for her mind, 
in making cages for her squirrels and birds, and 
providing them with food, and had no time at all 
for grief. 

Izoka, however, being very partial to the fish in 
her well, devoted most of her leisure to feeding 
them, and they became so tame, and intelligent that 
they understood the cooing notes of a strange 
song which she taught them, as though they were 
human beings. She fed them plentifully with 
banana-batter, so that in a few months they had 

4 



50 II Y DARK COM PA 



grown into a goodly size. By-and-by, they became 
too large for the well, and as thev were perfectly 
tame, she took them out, and allowed them to go 
at large in the pool ; but punctually in the earl} 
morning, and at noon and sunset, she called them 
to her, and gave them their daily portion of food, 
for by this time she had a goodly store of bananas 

/ O i/ 

and grain from her plantation and garden. One 
of the largest fish she called Munu, and he was so 
intelligent and trustful in his mistress's hands that 

o 

he disliked going very far from the neighbourhood ; 
and if she laid her two hands in the water, he 
would rest contentedly in the hollow thus formed. 

V 

She had also strung; her stock of shells and beads 

o 

into necklaces, and had fastened them round the 
tails of her favorite fish. 

Her other friends grew quite as tame as the fish, 
for all kinds of animals learn to cast oft' their fears 
of mankind in return for true kindness, and when 
no disturbing shocks alarm them. And in this 
lonely place, so sheltered by protecting woods, 
where the wind had scarce power to rustle the 
bending reed and hanging leaves, there was no 
noise to inspire the most timid with fright. 

If you try, you can fancy this young woman 
Izoka sitting on the ground by the pool-side, sur- 
rounded by her friends, like -a mother by her off- 
spring. In her arms a young pelican, on one 
shoulder a chattering parrot, on the other a sharp- 



THE yrEEN OF THE POOL 51 

eyed squirrel, sitting on his haunches, licking his 
fore-feet; in her lap another playing with his 
l>ushy tail, and at her feet the wagtails, wagging 
friskily their hind parts and kicking up little 
showers of dusty soil. Between her and the pool 
a long-legged heron, who has long ago been snared, 
and has submitted to his mistress's kindness, 
and now stands on one leg, as though he were 
watching for her safety. Not far behind her is 
her woodland home, well stored with food and 
comforts, which are the products of her skill and 
care. Swifts and sand-martins are flying about, 
chasing one another merrily, and making the place 

O i/ ' O J. 

ring with their pipings ; the water of the pool lies 
level and unwrinkled, save in front of her, where 
the fish sometimes flop about, impatient for their 
mistress's visit. 

This was how she appeared one day to the cruel 
<-ves <f Koku her husband, who had seen the 
smoke of her fire as lie was going by the path 
which led to the north. Being a woodman as well 
as a fisher, he had the craft of such as hunt, and 
he stealthily approached from tree to tree until 
he was so near that he could see the beady eyes 
of the squirrel on her shoulder, who startled her 
by his sudden movements. It was strange how r 
quickly the alarm was communicated from one to 
another. His brother squirrel peeped from one 
side with his tail over his b-ack like a crest, the 



.MY DARK COMPANIOXS 

parrot turned one eve towards the tree behind 

/ 

Avliicli Koku stood, and appeared transfixed, the 
heron dropped his other leg to the ground, uttered 
his melancholy cry, Jwa-le, and dropped his tail 
as though he would surge upward. The wagtails 

O O -L o 

stopped their curtseying, the pelicans turned their 
long bills and laid them la/ilv along their backs, 

' O 

looking fixedly at the tree; and at last Izoka, 
warned by all these signs of her friends, also turned 
her head in the same direction, but she saw no one, 
and as it was sunset she took her friends indoors. 

Presently she came out again, and went to 
the pool-side with fish-food, and cooed softly to 
her friends in the water, and the tish rushed to her 
call, and crowded around her. After giving them 
their food, she addressed Miinu, the largest fish, and 
said, " I am going out to-night to see if I cannot 
find a discarded cooking-vessel, for mine is broken. 

O 

Beware of making friends with any man or 
woman who cannot repeat the song I taught 
you, 11 and the fish replied by sweeping his tail to 
right and left, according to his way. 

Izoka, who now knew the woods by night as 

i/ O 

well as by day, proceeded on her journey, little 
suspecting that Koku had discovered her, and her 
manner of life and woodland secrets. He waited a 
little time, then crept to the pool-side, and repeated 
the song which she had sung, and immediately 
there was a great rush of fish towards him, at 



THE yrA'A'.V OF THE Pool. ;,;> 



the nuinber and size of wliicli lie was amazed. 
By this lie perceived what chance of boot}' there 
was here for him, and he sped away to the path 
t<> the place where he had left his men, and he 
cried out to them, "Come, haste with me to the 
woods by a great pool, where I have discovered 
loads of fish." 

His men were only too glad to obey him, and 
by midnight they had all arrived at the pool. 
After stationing them near him in a line, with 

O 

their spears poised to strike, Koku sang the song 
of Izoka in a soft voice, and the reat and small 

O 

fish leapt joyfully from the depths where they 
were sleeping, and they thronged towards the 
shore, flin^ino; themselves over each other, and 

O O 

they stood for awhile gazing doubtfully up at the 
line of men. But soon the cruel spears flew r from 
their hands, and Munu, the pride of I/oka, was 
pierced by several, and was killed and dragged on 
land by the shafts of the weapons which had slain 
him. Munu was soon cut up, he and some others 
of his fellows, and the men, loading themselves 
with the meat, hastily departed. 

Near morning Izoka returned to her home witli 
a load of bananas and a cooking-vessel, and after 
a short rest and refreshment, she fed her friends 
the ground squirrels, the young pelicans, the par- 
rots and herons, and scattered a generous supply 
for the wagtails, and martins, and swifts; then 



54 



DARK 



hastened with her bounties to the pool-side. But, 
alas ! near the water's ed^e there was a siidit 

O O 

\vhich almost caused her to faint there were 
tracks of many feet, bruised reeds, blood, scales, 

and refuse of fish. She cooed softly to her friends; 

i 




" MI'XU, THE PRIDE OK IZOKA, WAS KILLED/' 

they heard her cry, but approached slowly and 
doubtingly. She called out to Munu, "Munu-nu- 
ini, oh, Muim, Munu, Mumi;' 1 but Miiiiu came 
not, and the others stood Avell a\vay from the 
shore, gazing at her reproachfully, and they would 
not advance any nearer. Perceiving that they dis- 



THE yrXKX OF THE POOL 55 



trusted her, she threw herself on the ground and 
Avept hot tears, and wailing, " Oh ! Muuu, Mnnn, 
Munn, why do yon doubt me ? " 

When Izoka's grief had somewhat subsided she 

O 

followed the tracks through the woods until she 
came to the path, where, they were much clearer, 
and there she discovered that those who had vio- 
lated her peaceful home, had travelled towards 
Uniane. A suspicion that her husband must have 
been of the number served to answer her still more, 

O ' 

and she resolved to follow the plunderers, and en- 
deavour to obtain justice. Swiftly she sped on 
the trail, and after many hours' quick travel she 
reached Umane after darkness had fallen. This 
favoured her purpose, and she was able to steal, 
unperceived, near to the open place in front of her 
husband's house, when she saw Koku and his 
friends feasting on fish, and heard him boast of 

O 

his discovery of the fine fish in a forest pool. In 
her fury at his daring villainy she was nearly 
tempted to rush upon him and cleave his head 
with her bill-hook, but she controlled herself, and 
sat down to think. Then she made the resolution 
that she would go to her father and claim his pro- 
tection a privilege she might long ago have used 
had not her pride been wounded by the brutal 
treatment her person had received at the hands of 
Koku. 

Her father's village was but a little distance 



56 Ml' DARK COMPANIONS 

away from Umane, and in a short time all the 
people in it were startled by hearing the shrill 
voice of one who was believed to be lono- ao-o dead, 

o e> 

crying out in the darkness the names of Uyimba 
and Twekay. On hearing the names of their chief 
and his wife repeatedly called, the men seized 
their spears and sallied out, and discovered, to 
their astonishment, that the long-lost Izoka was 
amongst them once again, and that she was suffer- 

o *^> / 

ing from great and overpowering grief. They led 
her to her father's door, and called out to Uyimba 
and his wife Twekay to come out, and receive her, 
saying that it was a shame that the pride of 
Umane should be suffering like a slave in her 

O 

father's own village. The old man and his wife 
hurried out, torches were lit, and Twekay soon re- 
ceived her weeping daughter in her arms. 

In our country we are not very patient in pres- 
ence of news, and as everybody wished to know 
Izoka's story, she was made to sit down on a 
shield, and tell all her adventures since she had 
eloped from Umane. The people listened in won- 
der to all the strange things that were told ; but 
when she related the cruelty of Koku, the men 
rose to their feet all together, and beat their 
shields with their spears, and demanded the pun- 
ishment of Koku, and that Uyimba should lead 
them there and then to Umane. They accordingly 
proceeded in a body to the town, t<> Kokifs house, 



THE QUEEN OF THE POOL 57 

and as lie came out in answer to the call of one of 
them, to ascertain what the matter was, they fell 
upon him, and bound him hand and foot, and 
carrying him to their superior chiefs house they 
put him to his trial. Many witnesses came for- 
ward to testify against his cruel treatment of 
I/oka, and of the robbery of the fish ami of the 
manner of it; and the oreat chief placed Koku's 

O -L 

life in the power of Uyimba, whose daughter he 
had wronged, who at once ordered Koku to be be- 
headed, and his body to be thrown into the river. 
The sentence was executed at the river-side with- 
out loss of time. The people of Umane and 
Uyimba's village then demanded that, as Izoka 
had shown herself so clever and o-ood as to make 

O 

birds, animals, and fish obey her voice, some mark 
of popular favour should be given to her. Where- 
upon the principal chief of Umane, in the name of 
the tribe, ceded to her all rights to the Forest 
Pool, and the wood and all things in it round 

C^ 

about as far as she could travel in half a day, 
and also all the property of which Koku stood 
possessed. 

Izoka, by the favour of her tribe, thus became 
owner of a large district, and mistress of many 
slaves, and flocks, goats, and fowls, and all man- 
ner of useful things for making a settlement bv 

O O 

the Pool. There is now a large village there, and 
I/oka is well known in manv lands near Umane 



MY DARK C031PAXIOSS 



and Basoko as the Queen of the Pool, and at last 
accounts was still living, prosperous and happy; 
but she has never been known to trv marriage 



again. 



Kassim's storv was greatlv applauded, and he 
became at once a favourite with the Zan/ibaris. 




'' THE SKXTKNTE WAS EXECUTE!* WITHOUT LOSS OF TIME. 

lie was drawn towards the head niaii, and made 
to sit down by him. One Zanzibar! gave him a 
handful of roasted peanuts, another gave him a 
roasted banana, while a third touched up the fire; 
and the compliments he received were so many, 
that for the time, as one could see, he was quite 



THE Ql'EEX OF THE POOL 59 

vaiii. When a royal Dainvani cloth was spread 
out for inspection, and finally Hung over his shoul- 
ders, we saw him cast a look at Baruti, which we 
knew to mean, " Ah, ah, Baruti, other folk can 
tell a storv as well as you!" 

*/ / 



THE ELEPHANT AND THE LION 




T a camp on the Upper 

Congo, in 1877, 
Chakanja d r e w 
near our fire as 
story-telling was 
about to begin, 
and was immedi- 
ately beset with 
eager demands 
for a tale from 
him. Like a singer who always professes to have 
a cold before he indulges his friends with a song, 
Chakanja needed more than a few entreaties ; but 
finally, after vowing that he never could remem- 
ber anything, he consented to gratify us with the 
legend of the Elephant and the Lion. 

" Well," he answered, with a deep sigh, " if I 
must, I must. You must know we Waganda are 
fond of three tinners To have a nice wife, a 

O 

pleasant farm, and to hear good news, or a lively 
story. I have heard a great many stories in my 
life, but unlike Kadu, my mind remembers them 
not. Men's heads are not the same, any more 



THE ELEPHANT AND THE LION (\\ 

than men's hearts are alike. But I take it that a 
poor tale is better than none. It comes back to 
me like a dream, this tale of the Elephant and 
the Lion. I heard it first when on a visit to 
Gabuuga's ; but who can tell it like him ? If you 
think the tale is not well told, it is my fault ; but 
then, do not blame me too much, or I shall think 
I ought to blame you to-morrow when it will be 
your turn to amuse the party." 

/ .1. V 

Now open your ears ! A huge and sour-tem- 
pered elephant went and wandered in the forest. 
His inside was slack for want of juicy roots and 
succulent reeds, but his head was as full of dark 
thoughts as a gadfly is full of blood. As he looked 
this way and that, he observed a young lion asleep 
at the foot of a tree. He regarded him for awhile, 
then, as he was in a wicked mood, it came to him 
that he might as well kill the lion, and he accord- 
ingly rushed forward and impaled him with his 
tusks. He then lifted the body with his trunk, 
s \vuiio- it about, and dashed it against the tree, and 

o * o 

afterwards kneeled on it until it became as shape- 
less as a crushed banana pulp. He then laughed 
and said, "Ha! ha! This is a proof that I am 
strong. I have killed a lion, and people will 
say proud things of me, and will wonder at my 
strength.' 

O 

Presently a brother elephant came up and 
greeted him. 



62 MY HA/.'tL COMPANIONS 

" Sec," 1 said the first elephant, -t what I have 
done. It was I that killed him. I lifted him on 
high, and io, he lies like a rotten banana. Do vou 
not think that I am very strong '{ Come, be frank 

J o 

now, and give me some credit for what I have 
done/' 

Elephant No. 2 replied, " It is true that you are 
strong, but that was only a young lion. There are 
others of his kind, and I have seen them, who 
would give you considerable trouble." 

"Ho, ho!' : laughed the first elephant. "Get 
out, stupid. You may bring his whole tribe here, 
and I will show you what I can do. Aye ! and to 

4 

your dam to boot." 

"What ( My own mother, too ?" 

"Yes Go and fetch her if you like. 1 ' 

"Well, well," said No. 2, "you are far gone, 
there is no doubt. Fare you well." 

No. 2 proceeded on his wanderings, resolved 
in his own mind that if he had an opportunity he 
would send some one to test the boaster's strength. 
No. 1 called out to him as he moved oif- 

" Away you go. Good-by to you." 

In a little while No. '2 Elephant met a lion 
and lioness, full grown, and splendid creatures, 
who turned out to be the parents of the youngster 
which had been slain. After a sociable chat with 
them, he said : 

"If you go further on along the path I came 



THE ELEPITAXT AND THE LION 63 

you will meet a kind of game which requires 
killing badly. He has just mangled your cub." 

Meantime Elephant No. 1, after chuckling to 
himself very conceitedly, proceeded to the pool 
near by to bathe and cool himself. At every step 
he went you could hear his " Ila, ha, ha ! loh ! I 
have killed a lion ! v While he was in the pool, 
spurting the water in a shower over his back, he 
suddenly looked up, and at the water's edge 
beheld a lion and lioness who were regarding 
him sternly. 

"Well! What do you want?" he asked. 

/ 

" Why are you standing there looking at me in 
that way?" 

"Are you the rogue who killed our child? 1 
they asked. 

" Perhaps I am," he answered. "Why do you 
want to know ? ' 

"Because we are in search of him. If it be 
you that did it, you will have to do the same to 
us before you leave this ground/ 

t/ O 

"Ho! ho ! r laughed the elephant loudly. 
"Well, hark. It was I who killed your cub. 

t/ 

Come now, it was I. Do you hear? And if you 
do not leave here mighty quick, I shall have to 
serve you both in the same way as I served him/ 1 

The lions roared aloud in their fury, and 
switched their tails violently. 

" Ho, ho ! " laughed the elephant iraily. " This 

/ 



64 MT DARK COMPAKIOXS 



is grand. There is no doubt I shall run soon, 
they make me so skeery," and he danced round 
the pool and jeered at them, then drank a great 
quantity of water and "blew it in a shower over 
them. 

The lions stirred not, but kept steadfastly 
gazing at him, planning how to make their attack. 

Perceiving that they were obstinate, lie threw 
another stream of water over the lions and then 
backed into the deepest part of the pool, until 
there was nothing seen of him but the tip of his 
trunk. When he rose asrain the lions were still 

O 

watching him, and had not moved. 

" Ho, ho ! " he trumpeted, " still there ? Wait 
a little, I am coming to you." He advanced 
towards the shore, but when he was close enough 
the lion sire sprang into the air, and alighted on 
the elephant's back, and furiously tore at the 
muscles of the neck, and bit deep into the shoulder. 
The elephant retreated quickly into the deepest 
part of the pool, and submerged himself and his 
enemy, until the lion was compelled to abandon 
his back and begin to swim ashore. No sooner 
had the elephant felt himself relieved, than he rose 
to the surface, and hastily followed and seized the 
lion with his trunk. Despite his struggles he was 
pressed beneath the surface, dragged under his 
knees, and trodden into the mud, and in a short 
time the lion sire was dead. 



2 



A3 

M 




THE ELEPHANT AND THE LION 67 

The elephant laughed triumphantly, ;ui<l cried, 
"Ho, "ho! am I not strong, Ma Lion? Did you 
ever see the likes of me before? Two of you! 
YOUIIO- Lion and Pa Lion are now killed ! ( 1 <nne, 

o 

Ma Lion, had you not better try now, just to see 
if you won't have better luck? Come on, old 
woman, just once." 

The lioness fiercely answered, while she re- 
treated from the pool, "Rest where you are. I 
am going to find my brother, and will be back 

shortly.' 7 

The elephant trumpeted his scorn of her and her 
kind, and seizing the carcase of her lord, flung it 
on shore after her, and declared his readiness to 
abide where he was, that he might make mash of 
all the lion family. 

In a short time the lioness had found her 
brother, who was a mighty fellow, and full of fight. 
As they advanced near the pool together, they 
consulted as to the best means of getting at the 
elephant. Then the lioness sprang forward to the 
edge of the pool. The elephant retreated a short 
distance into deeper water. The lioness upon this 
crept along the pool, and pretended to lap the 
water. The elephant moved towards her. The 
lion waited his chance, and finally, with a great 
roar, sprang upon his shoulders, and commenced 
tearing away at the very place which had been 
torn bv lion sire. 



.]/)' DARK COMl'AMOXS 



The elephant backed quickly into deep water as 
he had done before, and submerged himself, but 
the lion maintained his hold and bit deeper. The 
elephant then sank down until there was nothing 
to be seen but the tip of his trunk, upon which the 




"DROVE ONE OF HIS TCSKS THROUGH HIS ADVERSARY 8 HODY. 

lion, to avoid suffocation, relaxed his hold and 
swam vigorously towards shore. The elephant 
rose up, and as the lion was stepping on shore, 
seized him, and drove one of his tusks through his 
adversary's body ; but as he was in the act, the 
lioness sprang upon the elephant's iifck, and bit 



THE ELEPHANT AND THE LION <;| 

and tore so furiously that he fell dead, and with 
his fall crushed the dying lion. 

Soon after the close of the terrible combat, Ele- 
phant No. '2 came up, and discovered the lioness 
licking her chops and paws, and said- 

'" Hello, it seems there has been quite a quarrel 
here lately. Three lions are dead, arid here lies 
one of my own kind, stiffening." 

" Yes," replied lioness, gloomily, " the rogue 
elephant killed my cub while the little fellow was 
asleep in the woods. He then killed my husband 
and brother, and I killed him ; but I do not think 
the elephant has gained much by fighting with 
us. I did not have much trouble in killing him. 
Should you meet any friends of his, you may warn 
them to leave the lioness alone, or she mav be 
tempted to make short work of them." 

Elephant No. 2, though a patient person gener- 
ally, was annoyed at this, and gave her a sudden 
kick with one of his hind feet, which sent her 
sprawling a good distance off, and asked- 

" How do you like that, Ma Lion ? " 

" What do you mean by that ? " demanded the 
enraged lioness. 

O 

" Oh, because I hate to hear so much bragging." 

oo o 

" Do you also wish to fight ? " she asked. 

" We should never talk about doing an impossi- 
ble thing, Ma Lion," he answered. " I have trav- 
elled many years through these woods, and I have 



70 MY DARK COMPANIONS 

never fought yet. I find that when a person minds 
his own business he seldom conies to trouble, and 
when I meet one who is even stronger than myself 
I greet him pleasantly, and pass on, and I should 
advise you to do the same, Ma Lion." 

u You are saucy, Elephant. It would be well 
for you to think upon your stupid brother there, 
who lies so stark under your nose, before you 
trouble with your insolence one who slew him. 11 

" Well, words never yet made a plantation ; it 
is the handling; of a hoe that makes fields. See 

O 

here, "Ma Lion, if I talked to you all day I could 
not make you wise. I will just turn my back to 
you. If you will bite me, you will soon learn how 
weak you are." 

t/ 

The lioness, angered still more by the elephant's 
contempt, sprang at his shoulders, and clung to 
him, upon which he rushed at a stout tree, and 
pressing his shoulders against it, crushed the 
breath out of her body, and she ceased her 
struggles. When he relaxed his pressure, the 
body fell to the ground, and he knelt upon it, and 
kneaded it until every bone was broken. 

While the elephant was meditatively standing 
over the body, and thinking what misfortunes 
happen to boasters, a man came along, carrying a 
spear, and seeing that the elephant was unaware 
of his presence, he thought what great luck had 
happened to him. 



a 
> 



^^'M>4jfelP ^.^^'J: J 

, .*^-Wl; ^5-'.~W^^-^-Sr- : V"J ^* ^* 

-i ^= .::aii'-w^^^-^te-' - ',.': 




THE ELEm.\XT .\ X D THE LION 73 

Said he, u Ah, what fine tusks he has. I shall 
be rich with them, and shall buy slaves and cattle, 
and with these I will get a wife and a farm," say- 
ing which he advanced silently, and when he was 
near enough, darted his spear into a place behind 
the shoulder. 

The elephant turned around quickly, and on 
beholding his enemy rushed after and overtook 
him, and mauled him, until in a few moments he 
was a mangled corpse. 

Soon after a woman approached, and seeing 
four lions, one elephant, and her husband dead, 
she raised up her hands wouderingly and cried, 
" How did all this happen \ r The elephant, hear- 
ing her voice, came from behind a tree, with a spear 
quivering in his side, and bleeding profusely. At 
the sight of him the woman turned round to fly, 
but the elephant cried out to her, " Nay, run not, 
woman, for I can do you no harm. The happy 
days in the woods are ended for all the tribes. 
The memory of this scene will never be forgotten. 
Animals will be henceforth at constant war one 
with another. Lions will no more greet elephants, 
the buffaloes will be shy, the rhinoceroses will live 
apart, and man when he comes within the shadows 
will think of nothing else than his terrors, and he 

O 

will fancy an enemy in every shadow. I am sorely 
wounded, for thy man stole up to my side and 
drove his spear into me, and soon I shall die." 



74 ] / >' DARK COMPANIONS 

When she had heard these words the woman 
hastened home, and all the villagers, old and 
young, hurried into the woods, by the pool, where 
they found four lions, two elephants, and one of 
their own tribe lying still and lifeless. 

The words of the elephant have turned out to 
be true, for no man goes now-a-days into the 
silent and deserted woods but he feels as though 
something were haunting them, and thinks of 
goblinry, and starts at every sound. Out of the 
shadows which shift with the sun, forms seem 
crawling and phantoms appear to glide, and we are 
in a fever almost from the horrible illusions of 
fancy. We breathe quickly and fear to speak, for 
the smallest vibration in the silence would jar on 
our nerves. I speak the truth, for when I am in 
the woods near the night, there swims before my 
eyes a multitude of terrible things which I never 
see by the light of day. The flash of a fire-fly is a 
ghost, the chant of a frog becomes a frightful roar, 
the sudden piping of a bird signalises murder, and 
I run. No, no ; no woods for me when alone. 

And Chakanja rose to his feet and went to his 
own quarters, solemnly shaking his head. But we 
all smiled at Chakanja, and thought how terribly 
frightened he would be if any one suddenly rose 
from behind a dark bush and cried " Boo ! " to 
him. 



KING GUMBI AND HIS LOST DAUGHTER 




E were all gathered 
about the fire as 
usual, when Safeni, 
the sage coxswain, 
exclaimed, "See 
here, boys ; do you 
not think that for 
once in a while it 
would be well to 
hear some legend 

O 

connected with men 
and women ? I vote 
that one of you who have amused us with tales 
of lions and leopards, should search his memory, 
and tell the company a brave story about some 
son of Adam. Come, you Katembo, have the 
Manyeina no legends ! " 

" Well, yes, we have ; but my ears have been so 
open heretofore that my tongue has almost for- 
o-otteu its uses, and I fear that after the smooth 

c? 

and delightful tales of Kadu, you will not think 
me expert in speech. However, and if you care to 
hear of it, I can give you the legend of Gumbi, 



76 J/>* D.\ifi\ 



one of onr kings in long-past days, and his 
daughter." 

"Speak, speak, Katembo," cried the company; 
"let us heai 1 a Manvenia legend to-night.' 

O O 

Katenibo, after this general invitation, cleared 
his throat, brought the soles of his feet nearer 

O 

the fire, and amid respectful silence spoke as 
follows : 

It was believed in the olden time that if a king's 
daughter had the misfortune to be guilty of ten 
mistakes, she should suffer for half of them, and 
her father would be punished for the rest. Now, 
King Gunibi had lately married ten wives, and all 
at once this old belief of the elders about troubles 
with daughters came into his head, and he issued 

O 

a command, which was to be obeyed upon pain of 
death, that if any female children should be born 
to him they should be thrown into the Lualaba, 
and drowned, for, said he, " the dead are beyond 
temptation to err, and I shall escape mischief." 

To avoid the reproaches of his wives, on account 
of the cruel order, the king thought he would 

o O 

absent himself, and he took a large following with 
him and went to visit other towns of his count TV. 

t/ 

Within a few days after his departure there were 
born to him five sons and five daughters. Four of 
the female infants \vere at once disposed of accord- 
ing to the kini^s command : but when the fifth 

O - 

daughter was born, she was so beautiful, and had 



KIM; a I'M I! I AM> II TS LOST DAUGHTER 



t 



such great eyes, and her colour was mellow, so like 
a ripe banana, that the chief nurse hesitated, and 
when the mother pleaded so hard for her child's 
life, she made up her mind that the little infant 
should be saved. When the mother was aide to 
rise, the nurse hastened her a way secretly by nio-ht. 

\l / / O 

In the morning the queen found herself in a 
dark forest, and, being alone, she began to talk to 
herself, as people generally do, and a grey parrot 
with a beautiful red tail came flying along, and 
asked, " AVhat is it you are saying to yourself, O 
Miami ? " 

She answered and said, " Ah, beautiful little 
parrot, I am thinking what I ought to do to save 
the life of my little child. Tell me how I can save 

t> 

her, for Gumbi wishes to destroy all his female 
children." 

The parrot replied, "I grieve for you greatly, 
but I do not know. Ask the next parrot you see," 
and he flew away. 

A second parrot still more beautiful came flying 
towards her, whistling and screeching merrily, and 
the queen lifted her voice and cried- 

" Ah, little parrot, stop a bit, and tell me how I 
can save my sweet child's life ; for cruel Gumbi, 
her father, wants to kill it." 

" Ah, mistress, I may not tell ; but there is one 

t/ 

comes behind me who knows; ask him," and he 
also flew to his day's haunts. 



78 



MY DARK COMPANIONS 



Then the third parrot was seen to fly towards 
her, and he made the forest ring with his happy 
whistling, and Miami cried out again- 



-,;, 
'/ . 




''DELIVER IT TO ME,' ANSWERED THE PARROT.' 

" Oh, stay, little parrot, and tell me in what way 
I can save my sweet child, for Gumbi, her father, 
vows he will kill it." 

"Deliver it to me,"' answered the parrot. " But 



KING GUMBI AND HIS LOST DAUGHTER 79 

first let me put a small banana stalk and two 
pieces of sugar-cane with it, and then I shall earn 
it safely to its grandmamma." 

The parrot relieved the queen of her child, and 
new through the air, screeching merrier than 
before, and in a short time had laid the little 
princess, her banana stalk, and two pieces of 
sugar-cane in the lap of the grandmamma, who 
was sitting at the door of her house, and said 

O 

" This bundle contains a sift from your daughter, 

o J o 

wife of Guuibi. She bids you be careful of it, 

/ 

and let none out of your own family see it, lest 
she should be slain by the king. And to remem- 
ber this day, she requests you to plant the banana 
stalk in your o-arden at one end, and at the other 

/ O 

end the two pieces of sugar-cane, for you may 
need both." 

"Your words are srood and wise/' answered 

o 

granny, as she received the babe. 

On opening the bundle the old woman dis- 
covered a female child, exceedingly pretty, plump, 
and yellow as a ripe banana, with large black eyes, 
and such smiles on its bright face that the grand- 

O o 

mother's heart glowed with affection for it. 

Many seasons came and went by. No stranger 
came round to ask questions. The banana 
nourished and grew into a grove, and each sprout 
marked the passage of a season, and the sugar- 
cane likewise throve prodigiously as year after 



SO MY DARK COMPANIONS 

year passed and the infant grew into girl- 
hood. AYhen the princess had bloomed into a 
beautiful maiden, the grandmother had become 
so old that the events of long ago appeared to 
her to be like so many dreams, but she still 
worshipped her child's child, cooked for her, 
waited upon her, wove new grass mats for her 
bed, and tine grass cloths for her dress, and every 
night before she retired she washed her dainty 
feet. 

Then one day, before her ears were quite closed 
by age, and her limbs had become too weak to bear 
her about, the parrot who brought the child to her, 
came and rested upon a branch near her door, and 
after piping and whistling its greeting, cried out, 
" The time has come. Gumbi's daughter must 
depart, and seek her father. Furnish her with a 
little drum, teach her a son 2; to sin<j- while she 

O O 

beats it, and send her forth." 

Then granny purchased for her a tiny drum, and 
taught her a song, and when she had been fully 
instructed she prepared a ne\v canoe with food- 
from the bananas in the grove, and the plot of 
susrar-cane, and she made cushions from grass-cloth 

O O 

bacjs stuffed with silk-cotton floss for her to rest 

O 

upon. When all was ready she embraced her 
grand-daughter, and with many tears sent her away 
down the river, with four women servants. 

(Jranuy stood for a long time by the river bank, 



KING GUMBI AXD HIS LOST DAUGHTER 



81 



watching the little canoe disappear with the 
current, then she turned and entered the doorway, 
and sitting down closed her eyes, and began to 
think of the pleasant life she had enjoyed while 
serving Miami's child; and while so doing she was 
so pleased that she smiled, and as she smiled she 
slept, and never woke again. 



, 







V ' 



SENT IIKI! AWAY Dn\VN THE UIVKR.' 



But the princess, as she floated down and 
bathed her eyes, which had smarted with her 
grief, began to think of all that granny had taught 
her, and began to sing in a fluty voice, as she beat 

her tiny drum 
o 



MY DARK COMPANIONS 



List, all you men, 
To the song I sing. 
I ma Gumbi's child, 
Brought up in the wild; 
And home I return, 
As you all will learn, 
When this my little drum 
Tells Gumbi I have come, come, come.' 

The sound of her drum attracted the attention 
of the fishermen who were engaged with their nets, 
and seeing a strange canoe with only five women 
aboard floating down the river, they drew near to 
it, and when they saw how beautiful the princess 
was, and noted her graceful, lithe figure clad in 
robes of fine grass-cloths, they were inclined to lav 
their hands upon her. But she sang again - 

' I am Gumbi's child, 

Make way for me ; 

I am homeward bound, 

Make way for me.' 

Then the fishermen were afraid and did not 

molest her. But one desirous of being; the first to 

~ 

carry the news to the king, and obtain favour and 
a reward for it, hastened away to tell him that 
his daughter was coming to visit him. 

The news plunged King Gumbi into a state of 
wonder, for as he had taken such pains to destroy 
all female children, he could not imagine how he 
could be the father of a daughter. 

Then he sent a quick-footed and confidential 
slave to inquire, who soon returned and assured 



KING GUMBI AND HIS LOST DAUGHTER 83 

him that the o-irl who was coming to him was his 

o o 

o\vu true daughter. 

Tlien he sent a man who had grown up with 
him, who knew all that had happened in his court ; 
and he also returned and confirmed all that the 
slave had said. 

Upon this he resolved to go himself, and when 
he met her he asked- 

" Who art thou, child ? " 

And she replied, " I am the only daughter of 
Gumbi." 

" And who is Gumbi ? r 

" He is the king of this country," she replied. 

" Well, but I am Gumbi myself, and liow canst 
thou be my daughter ? " he asked. 

" I am the child of thy wife, Miami, and after I 
was born she hid me that I mio-ht not be cast into 
the river. I have been living with grandmamma, 

o O 

who nursed me, and by the number of banana 
stalks in her garden thou mayest tell the number of 
the seasons that have passed since my birth. One 
day she told me the time had come, and she sent 
me to seek my father; and I embarked in the 
canoe with four servants, and the river bore me 
to this land.' 1 

" Well," said Gumbi, " when I return home I 
shall question Miami, and I shall soon discover the 
truth of thy story ; but meantime, what must I do 
forthee?" 



84 MY DARK COMPANIONS 

" My grandmamma said that them must sacri- 
fice a goat to the meeting of the daughter with the 
father," she replied. 

Then the king requested her to step on the 
shore, and when he saw the flash of her yellow 
feet, and the gleams of her body, which were like 
shining bright <nmi, and ^azed on the clear, 

O O O O 

smooth features, and looked into the wondrous 
black eyes, Gumbi's heart melted and he was filled 
with pride that such a surpassingly beautiful 
creature should be his own daughter. 

But she refused to set her feet on the shore until 
another goat had been sacrificed, for her grand- 
mother had said ill-luck would befall her if these 
ceremonies were neglected. 

O 

Therefore the kino* commanded that two swats 

O O 

should be slain, one for the meetiuo; with his 

O 

daughter, and one to drive away ill-luck from 
before her in the laud where she would first rest 
her feet. 

When this had been done, she said, "Now, 
father, it is not meet that thy recovered daughter 

-' O 

should soil her feet on the path to her father's 
house. Thou must lay a grass cloth along the 
ground all the way to my mother's door." 

V * 

The king thereupon ordered a grass cloth to 
be spread along the path towards the women's 
quarters, but he did not mention to which door- 
way. His daughter then moved forward, the king 



KINO GUMBI AND HIS LOST DAUGHTER 



85 



by her side, until they canie in view of all the 
king's wives, and then Gumbi cried out to them 

"One of you, I am told, is the mother of this 
girl. Look on her, and be not ashamed to own her, 
for she is as perfect as the egg. At the first sight 
of her 1 felt like a man filled with pleasantness, so 






- 




"MIAMI WAS ILL AND WEAK AND SAT AT THE DOOR." 

let the mother come forward and claim her, and 
let her not destroy herself with a lie." 

Now all the women bent forward and longed to 
say, " She is mine, she is mine ! ' hut Miami, who 
was ill and weak, sat at the door, and said- 

" Continue the matting to my doorway, for as I 



86 MY DARK COMPANIONS 

feel my heart is coiinected with her as by a cord, 
she must be the child whom the parrot carried to 
my mother with a banana stalk and two pieces of 
sugar-cane." 

" Yes, yes, thou must be my own mother," cried 
the princess ; and when the grass cloth was laid 
even to the inside of the house, she ran. forward, 
and folded her arms around her. 

"When Gumbi saw them together he said, 

O 

" Truly, equals always come together. I see now 
by many things that the princess must be right. 
But she will not long remain with me, I fear, for 
a Mug's daughter cannot remain many moons 
without suitors." 

Now though Gumbi considered it a trifle to de- 
stroy children whom he had never seen, it never 
entered into his mind to hurt Miami or the prin- 
cess. On the contrary, he was tilled with a glad- 
ness which he was never tired of talking about. 

O 

He was even prouder of his daughter, whose lovely 
shape and limpid eyes so charmed him, than of all 
his tall sons. He proved this by the feasts he 
caused to be provided for all the people. Goats 
were roasted and stewed, the fishermen brought 
tish without number, the peasants came loaded 
with weighty bunches of bananas, and baskets ot 

O i/ 

yams, and manioc, and pots full of beans, and 
vetches, and millet and corn, and honey and palm- 
oil, and as for the fowls who could count them ? 



KING GUMBI AND HIS LOST DAUGHTER 87 

The people also had plenty to drink of the juice 
of the palm, and thus they were made to rejoice 
with the king in the return of the princess. 

It was soon spread throughout Manyema that no 
woman was like unto Gumbi's daughter for beauty. 
Some said that she was of the colour of a ripe 
banana, others that she was like fossil gum, others 
like a reddish oil-nut, and others again that her 
face was more like the colour of the moon than 
anything else. The effect of this reputation was 
to brino- nearly all the youno; chiefs in the land as 

o / -' * ' 

suitors for her hand. Many of them would have 
been pleasing to the king, but the princess was 
averse to them, and she caused it to be made 
known that she would marry none save the young 
chief who could produce matako (brass rods) by 
polishing his teeth. The king was very much 
amused at this, but the chiefs stared in surprise 
as they heard it. 

The king mustered the choicest young men of 
the land, and he told them it was useless for any 
one to hope to be married to the princess unless 
he could drop brass rods by rubbing his teeth. 
Though they held it to be impossible that any one 
could do such a thing, yet every one of them 
began to rub his teeth hard, and as they did so, 
lo ! brass rods were seen to drop on the ground 
from the mouth of one of them, and the people 
gave a great shout for wonder at it. 



88 Ml* DARK COMPANIONS 



The princess was then brought forward, and as 
the young chief rose to his feet he continued to 
rub his teeth, and the brass rods were heard to 
tinkle as they fell to the ground. The marriage 
was therefore duly proceeded with, and another 
round of feasts followed, for the kino- was rich in 

o 

flocks of goats, and sheep, and in well-tilled fields 
and slaves. 

But after the first moon had waned and gone, 
the husband said, " Come, now, let us depart, for 
Gumbi's land is no home for me." 

And unknown to Gumbi they prepared for 
flight, and stowed their canoe with all things 

c5 O 

needful for a long journey, and one night soon 
after dark they embarked, and paddled down the 
river. One day the princess, while she was seated 
on her cushions, saw a curious nut floating near 

O 

the canoe, upon which she sprang into the river to 
obtain it. It eluded her grasp. She swum after 
it, and the chief followed her as well as he was 
able, crying out to her to return to the canoe, as 
there were dangerous animals in the water. But 
she paid no heed to him, and continued to swim 
after the nut, until, when she had arrived opposite 
a village, the princess was hailed by an old 
woman, who cried, " Ho, princess, I have got what 
thou seekest. See." And she held the nut up in 
her hand. Then the princess stepped on shore, 
and her husband made fast his canoe to the bank. 



KING GUMBI AXD HIS LOST DAUGHTER 89 

"Give it to me," 1 demanded the princess, holding 
out her hand. 

u Tli ere is one thins; them must do for me before 

O 

thou canst obtain it." 

" What is that ( " she asked. 

" Thou must lay thy hands upon my bosom to 
cure me of my disease. Only thus canst thou 
have it," the old woman said. 

The princess laid her hands upon her bosom, and 
as she did so the old woman was cured of her 
illness. 

" Now them mayest depart on thy journey, but 
remember what I tell thee. Thou and thy 
husband must cling close to this side of the river 

O 

until thou comest abreast of an island which is in 
the middle of the entrance to a great lake. For 
the shore thou seekest is on this side. Once there 
thou wilt find peace and rest for many years. But 
if thou goest to the other side of the river thou 
wilt be lost, thou and thy husband.' 1 

Then they re-embarked, and the river ran 
straight and smooth before them. After some 
days they discovered that the side they were on 
was uninhabited, and that their provisions were 
exhausted, but the other side was cultivated, and 
possessed many villages and plantations. For- 
getting the advice of the old woman, they crossed 
the river to the opposite shore, and they admired 
the beauty of the land, and joyed in the odours 



90 MY DARK COMPANIONS 

tliat came from the gardens and the plantations, 
and they dreamily listened to the winds that 
crumpled and tossed the great fronds of banana, 
and fancied that they had seen no sky so blue. 
And while they thus dreamed, 1<> ! the river 
current was bearing them both swiftly alone;, and 

O 7 O' 

they saw the island which was at the entrance to 
the great lake, and in an instant the beauty of the 
land which had charmed them had died away, and 
they now heard the thunderous booming of waters, 
and saw them surging upward in great sweeps, and 
one great wave curved underneath them, and they 
were lifted up, up, up, and dropped down into the 
roaring abyss, and neither chief nor princess was 
ever seen again. They were both swallowed up in 
the deep. 

"Is that all? 1 ' asked Safeui, who had been 
listening breathlessly to the story. 

"That is all/' replied Katembo. 

" Why, what kind of a story is this, that finishes 

/ / / 

in that way ? r 

u It is not mine/ 1 answered Katembo. u The 
telling of it has been according to the words I 
heard, and it is not good to alter a tale." 

" Then what is the object of such a story '{ v 
demanded Safeni, in an irritable tone. 

u Why, to warn people from following their incli- 
nations. Did not the girl find her father ( Did 
not her father welcome her, and pardon the mother 



KING GUMBI AND HIS LOST DAUGHTER 1 

for very joy ? Was uot her own choice of a hus- 
band found for her ? Was not the young chief for- 
tunate in possessing such a beautiful wife ? Why 
should they have become discontented ? Why 
not have stayed at home instead of wandering into 
strange lands of which they knew nothing ? Did 
not the old woman warn them of what would hap- 
pen, and point to them how they might live in 
peace once again '( But it was all to no purpose. 
We never know the value of anything until Ave 
have lost it. Ruin follows the wilful always. 
They left their home and took to the river, the 
river was not still, but moved on, and as their 
heads were already full of their own thoughts, 
they could not keep advice. But Katembo has 
ended." 



THE STORY OF MARANDA 




CASTER," said Ba- 
ruti, u I have been 
trying hard to re- 
call some of the 

t h e r legends I 
used to hear when 

1 was very small, 
and I now recollect 
one, which is not 
very 1 o n g, about 

Maranda, a \vife of one of the Basoko warriors, 
called Mafala/ 1 

Maranda's father was named Sukila, and he lived 
in the village of Chief Busandiya. Sukila owned 
a fine large canoe and many paddles, which he had 
carved with his own hand. He possessed also sev- 
eral long nets which he himself also made, besides 
spears, knives, a store of grass-cloths, and a few 
slaves. He was highly respected by his country- 
men, and sat by the chiefs side in the council 
place. 

* A Basoko Legend, republished from the "Fortnightly Magazine" 
by the courtesy of the Editor and Proprietors. 



THE STORY OF MAR AND A 93 

As the girl grew to be fit for marriage, Mafala 
thought she would suit him as a wife, and went 
and spoke of it to Sukila, who demanded a slave 
girl, six long paddles ornamented with ivory caps, 
six goats, as many grass-cloths as he had fingers 
and toes, a new shield, two axes, and two lield- 
hoes. Mafala tried to reduce the demand, and 
walked backwards and forwards many times to 

V 

smoke pipes with Sukila, and get him to be less 
exacting. But the old man knew his daughter 

o o 

was worth the price he had put upon her, and that 
if he refused Mafala, she would not remain loiiijf 

o 

without a suitor. For a inii like Maranda is not 

O 

often seen amoiiLj; the Basokos. Her limbs were 

O 

round and smooth, and ended in thin, small hands 
and feet. The young men often spoke about Ma- 
ra nda's light, straight feet, and quick-lifting step. 
A boy's arm could easily enclose the slim waist, 
and the manner in which she carried her head, 
and the supple neck and the clear look in her eyes 
belonged to Maranda only. 

Mafala, on the other hand, was curiously unlike 
her. He always seemed set on something, and the 
lines between the eyebrows gave him a severe face, 
not pleasant to see, and you always caught some- 
thing in his eyes that made you think of the glitter 
which is in a serpent's eye. 

Perhaps that was one reason why Sukila did not 
care to have him for his daughter's husband. At 

O 



94: .V )' DARK COMPANIONS 

any rate, lie would not abate his price one grass- 
cloth, and at last it was paid, and Maranda passed 
over from her father's house into that of her 
husband. 

Soon after the marriage Maranda was heard to 

O 

cry out, and it was whispered that she had learned 
much about Mafala in a few days, and that blows 
as from a rod had been heard. Half a moon 
passed away, and then all the village knew that 
Maranda had fled to Busandiya's house, because of 
her husband's ill-treatment. Now the custom in 
such a case is that the father keeps his daughter's 
dowry, and if it be true that a wife finds life with 
her husband too harsh to be borne, she may seek 
the chiefs protection, and the chief may give her 
to another husband who will treat her properly. 

But before the chief had chosen the man to 
whom he would give her, Mafala went to a croco- 
dile for it turned out that he was a Mganga, a 
witch-man who had dealings with reptiles on land, 
as well as with the monsters of the river, and he 
bargained with it to catch her as she came to the 

O 

river to wash, and carry her up to a certain place 
on the river bank where there was a tall tree with 
a large hole in it. 

o 

The crocodile bided his chance, and one morning, 
when Maranda visited the water, he seized her by 
the hand, and swept her onto his back, and car- 
ried her to the hiding-place in the hollow tree. 

O J- 



77/^7 STORY OF MAR AND A 



1)5 



He then left her there, and swam down opposite 
the village, and signalled to Mafala that he had 
performed his part of the bargain. 

On the crocodile's departure Maranda looked 
about the hole, and saw that she was in a kind of 
pit, but a long way up the hollow narrowed like 
the neck of a gourd, and she could see foliage and 




"SWAM DOWN OPPOSITE THE VILLAGE.'' 

a bit of sky. She determined to climb up, and 
though she scratched herself very much, she finally 
managed to reach the very top, and to crawl out- 
side into the air. The tree was very large and 
lofty, and the branches spread out far, and they 
were laden with the heavy fruit of which ele- 
phants are so fond.* At first she thought that she 

* The jackfruit. 



96 -Vr DARK COMPANIONS 



could not starve because of so many of these big 
fruit ; then, as they were large and heavy, she con- 
ceived the idea that they might be useful to defend 
herself, and she collected a great number of them, 
and laid them in a heap over some sticks she had 
laid across the branches. 

By-aud-by Mafala came, and discovered her high 
up among the foliage, and after jeering at her, 
began to climb the tree. But when he was only 
half-way up, Maranda lifted one of the ponderous 
fruit and flims; it on his head, and he fell to the 

O 

ground with his senses all in a whirl and his back 
greatly bruised. When he recovered he begged 
the crocodile to help him, and he tried to climb 
up, but when he had ascended but a little way, 
Maranda dropped one of the elephant fruit fairly 
on his snout, which sent him falling backwards. 
Mafala then begged two great serpents to ascend 

OO O -L 

and bring her down, but Maranda met them with 
the heavy fruit one after another, and they were 
glad to leave her alone. Then the man departed to 
seek a leopard, but while he was absent Maranda, 
from her tree, saw a canoe on the river with two 
young fishermen in it, and she screamed loudly 
for help. The fishermen paddled close ashore and 
found that it was Sukila's daughter, the wife of 
Mafala, who was alone on a tall tree. They waited 
long enough to hear her story, and then returned 
to the village to obtain assistance. 



TEE STORY OF MARANDA 97 

Busandiva was mucli astonished to hear the 

t/ 

fishermen's news, and forthwith sent a war-canoe 
full of armed men, led by the father, Sukila, to 
rescue her. By means of rattan-climbers they con- 
trived to reach her, and to bring her down safely. 
While some of the war-party set out to discover 
Mafala, the others watched for the crocodile and 
the two serpents. In a short time the cruel man 
was seen and caught, and he was brought to the 

O 7 o 

river-side, bound with green withes. His legs and 
his arms were firmly tied together, and, after the 
Basoko had made Maranda repeat her story from 
the beginning, and Sukila had told the manner of 

O O 7 

the marriage, they searched for great stones, which 
they fastened to his neck ; and, lifting him into 
the war-canoe, they paddled into the middle of the 
stream, where they sang a death-chant ; after 
which they dropped Mafala overboard and he was 
never heard of more. That is all there is of the 
story of Maranda. 

7 



THE STORY OF KITINDA AND HER 

WISE DOG 

3 another night Ba- 
ruti, whose memory 
was freshened by 
the reward which 
followed a story 
w o r t h y of being 
written in the Mas- 
ter's book, told us 
about Kitinda and 
her wise dog, so 
well indeed that by 
common consent he 
was acclaimed one 
of the best among 
the story-tell er s. 

But it was not so well rehearsed to me while I 
had my pencil in hand as he had delivered it at 
the camp fire. It bothered him to be asked to 
dictate it a little slower to me, and he showed 
marked signs of inattention when told to repeat a 
sentence twice over. All I can natter myself is 
that it contains the sense of what was said. 

Kitinda, a woman of the Basoko, near the Am- 




THE STORY OF KITINDA AND HER WISE DOG 99 

wimi river, possessed a dog who was remarkable 
for his intelligence. It was said that he was so 
clever that strangers understood his motions as 
well as thouirh he talked to them ; and that Ki- 

O 

tiuda, familiar with his ways and the tones of his 
whines, his yelps, and his barks, could converse 
with him as easily as she could with her husband. 
One market-day the mistress .and her dog agreed 
to go together, and on the road she told him all 
she intended to do and say in disposing of her 
produce in exchange for other articles which she 
needed in her home. Her dog listened with sym- 
pathy, and then, in his own manner, he conveyed 
to her how great was his attachment to her, and 
how there never was such a friend as he could be ; 
and he begged her that, if at any time she was in 
distress, she would tell him, and that he would 
serve her with all his misfit. " Only," he said, 

O / / 

"were it not that I am afraid of the effects of 
being too clever, I could have served you ofteuer 
and much more than I have done." 

" What do you mean ? " said Kitinda. 

u Well, you know, among the Basoko, it is sup- 
posed, if one is too clever, or too lucky, or too rich, 



that it has come about through dealings in 

CD O 

craft, and people are burned in consequence. I do 
not like the idea of beino; burned and therefore I 

O 

have refrained often from assisting you because I 
feared you could not contain your surprise, and 



100 MY DARK COMPANIONS 

would chat about it to the villagers. Then some 
day, after some really remarkable act of cleverness 
of mine, people would say, 'Ha! this is not a dog. 
No dog could have done that ! He must be a 
demon or a Avitch in a doiir's hide ! ' and of course 

O 

they would take me and burn me." 

" Why, ho\v very unkind of you to think such 
things of me ! When have I chatted about you I 
Indeed I have too many things to do, my house- 
work, my planting and marketing so occupy me, 
that I could not find time to gossip about my 
ilog." 

" Well, it is already notorious that I am cleA^er, 
and I often tremble when strangers look at and 

O 

admire me for fear some muddle-headed fellow Avill 
fancy that he sees something else in me more than 
unusual intelligence. What would they say, how- 
ever, if they really knew how very sagacious I 
am? The reputation that I possess has only come 
through your affection for me, but I assure you 
that I dread this excess of affection lest it should 
end fatally for you and for me." 

" But are you so much cleverer than you have 
already shoAvn yourself ? If I promise that I will 
never speak of you to any person again, will you 
help me more than you have done, if I am in 
distress ? " 

"You are a woman, and you could not prevent 
yourself talking if you tried ever so hard." 



THE STORY OF KITINDA AND HER WISE DOG 101 



" Now, look you here, my dog. I vow to you 
that no matter what you do that is strange, I wish 
I may die, and that the first animal I meet may 
kill me if I speak a word. You shall see now 
that Kitinda will be as 2;ood as her word/ 

~ 

" Very well, I will take you at your word. I 
am to serve you every time you need help, and if 
you speak of my services to a soul, you are willing 
to lose your life by the first animal you may 
meet." 

Thus they made a solemn agreement as they 
travelled to market. 

Kitinda sold her palm oil and fowls to great 
advantage that day, and in exchange received 
sleeping-mats, a couple of carved stools, a bag of 
cassava flour, two large well-baked and polished 
crocks, a bunch of ripe bananas, a couple of good 
plantation hoes, and a big strong basket. 

After the marketing was over she collected her 

O 

purchases together and tried to put them into the 
basket, but the biir crocks and carved stools were 

O 

a sore trouble to her. She could put the flour 
and hoes and the bananas on top with the mats 
for a cover very well, but the stools and the crocks 
were a sreat difficulty. 

o / 

Her dog in the meantime had been absent, and 
had succeeded in killing a young antelope, and had 
dragged it near her. He looked around and saw 
that the market was over, and that the people had 



102 31 Y DARK COMPANIONS 

returned to their own homes, while his mistress 
had been anxiously planning how to pack her 
property. 

He heard her complain of her folly in buying 
such cumbersome and weighty things, and ask her- 
self how she was to reach home with them. 

Pitying her in her trouble, the dog galloped 
away and found a man empty-handed, before whom 
he fawned and whose hands he licked, and being 
patted he clung to his cloth with his teeth and 
pulled him gently along wagging his tail and 
looking very amiable. He continued to do this 
until the man, seeing Kitinda fretting over her 
difficulty, understood what was wanted, and of- 
fered to carry the stools and crocks at each end of 
his lono- staif over his shoulders for a few of the 

o 

ripe bananas and a lodging. His assistance was 
accepted with pleasure, and Kitinda was thus 
enabled to reach her home, and on the way was 
told by the man how it was that he had happened 
to return to the market-place. 

Kitinda was very much tempted there and then 
to dilate upon her dog's well-known cleverness, but 
remembered in time her promise not to boast of 
him. When, however, she reached the village, and 
the housewives came out of their houses, burning 
to hear the news at the market, in her eagerness to 
tell this one and then the other all that had hap- 
pened to her, and all that she had seen and heard, 



THE STORY OF KTTINDA AND HER WISE DOO 103 



she forgot her vow of the morning, and forthwith 
commenced to relate the last wonderful trick of 
her dog in dragging a man back to the market- 
place to help her when she thought that all her 
profit in trade would be lost, and when she was 
just about to smash her nice crocks in her rage. 




" HE TURNED, AND RAN INTO THE WOODS. 

The dog listened to her narrative, viewed the 
of wonder stealing over the women's faces, 

O ' 

heard them call out to their husbands, saw the men 



104 MY DARK COMPANIONS 

advancing eagerly towards them, sa\v them all look 
at him narrowly, heard one man exclaim, u That 
cannot be a dog ! it is a demon within a dog's hide. 
He- 

But the dog had heard enough. He turned, 
and ran into the woods, and was never more seen 
in that village. 

o 

The next market-day came round, and Kitinda 
took some more palm oil and a few fowls, and left 
her home to dispose of them for some other do- 
mestic needs. When about half way, her dog 
came out of the wood, and after accusing her of 
betraying him to her stupid countrymen, thus re- 
turning evil for good, he sprang upon her and tore 
her to pieces. 



THE STORY OF THE PRINCE WHO 
INSISTED ON POSSESSING THE MOON 




IR," said Bartiti, one 
evening, " another 
story came to my 
mind to-day which 
was told to me a 
long time ago by an 
old man amonir the 

o 

Basoko. I d o u b t 
whether you will 
like it, but since 
you wish to hear 
another legend of 

O 

rny country you 
shall have the story as it was told to me." 

The country now inhabited by the Basoko tribe 
was formerly known as Bandimba. A king called 
Bahanga was its sole ruler. He possessed a house- 
ful of wives, but all his children were unfortunately 
of the female sex, which he considered to be a great 
grievance, and of which he frequently complained. 
His subjects, on the other hand, were blessed with 
more sons than daughters, and this fact increased 



100 MY DARK COMPANIONS 

the king's grief, and made him envy the meanest 
of his subjects. One day, however, he married 
Bamana, the youngest daughter of his principal 
chief, and finally he became the father of a male 
child, and was very happy, and his people rejoiced 
in his happiness. 

The prince grew up to be a marvel of strength 
and beauty, and his father doted on him so much, 
that he shared his power with the boy in a curious 
manner. The king reserved authority over all the 
married people, while the prince's subjects consisted 
of those not yet mated. It thus happened that the 
prince ruled over more people than his father, 
for the children were, of course, more numerous 
than the parents. But witli all the honour con- 
ferred upon him the prince was not happy. The 
more he obtained, the more he wished to possess. 
His eyes had but to see a thing to make him desire 
its exclusive possession. Each clay he preferred one 
or more requests to his father, and because of his 
great love for him, the kino; had not the heart to 

O o 

refuse anything to him. Indeed, he was persuaded 
to bestow so many gifts upon his son that lie 
reserved scarcely anything for himself. 

One day the prince was playing with the youth 
of his court, and after the sport retired to the 
shade of a tree to rest, and his companions sat 
down in a circle at a respectful distance from him. 
He then felt a gush of pride stealing over him as he 



STORY OF THE PRINCE AND THE MOON 107 

thought of his great power, at the number and 
variety of his treasures, and he cried out boastfully 
that there never was a boy so great, so rich and so 
favoured by his father, as he had become. " My 
father," said he, " can deny me nothing. I have 
only to ask, and it is given unto me." 

Then one little slender boy with a thin voice 
said, " It is true, prince. Your father has been 
very good to you. He is a mighty king, and he is 
as generous as he is great. Still, I know of one 
thing that he cannot give you and it is certain 
that you will never possess it." 

" AVhat thing is that which I may not call my 
own, when I see it and what is it that is not in 
the king's power to give me ? " asked the prince, in 
a tone of annoyance. 

" It is the moon," answered the little boy ; " and 
you must confess yourself that it is beyond the 
king's power to give that to you." 

"Do you doubt it ? r asked the prince. " I say 
to you that I shall possess it, and I will go now 
and claim it from my father. I will not give him 
any peace until he gives it to me." 

Now it so happens that such treasures as are 
already ours, we do not value so much as those 
which we have not yet got. So it was with this 
spoiled prince. The memory of the many gifts of 
his father faded from his mind, and their value 
was not to be compared with this new toy the 



108 MY DARK COMPANIONS 

inoou which he had never thought of before and 
which he now so ardently coveted. 

He found the king discussing important matters 
with the old men. 

" Father," said he, " just now, while I was with 
my companions I was taunted because I did not 
have the moon among my toys, and it was said 
that it was beyond your power to give it to me. 
Now, prove this boy a liar, and procure the moon 
for me, that I may be able to show it to them, and 
glory in your gift." 

" What is it you say, my son, you want the 
moon ? " asked the astonished kins;. 

o 

" Yes. Do get it for me at once, won't you ? " 

" But, my child, the moon is a long way up. 
How shall we be ever able to reach it ? '' 

" I don't know ; but you have always been good 
to me, and you surely would not refuse me this 
favour, father?" 

" I fear, my own, that we will not be able to 
give you the moon." 

" But, father, I must have it ; my life will not be 
worth living without it. How may I dare to again 
face my companions after my proud boast before 
them of your might and goodness? There was but 
one thing that yonder pert boy said I might not 
have, and that was the moon. Now my soul is 
bent upon possessing this moon, and you must 
obtain it for me or I shall die." 



STORY OF THE PRINCE AND THE MOON 109 

"Nay, my son, speak not of death. It is an ugly 
word, especially when connected with my prince 
and heir. Do you not know yet that I live only 
for vour sake? Let your mind be at rest. T will 

i/ / 

collect all the wise men of the land together, and 
ask them to advise me. If they say that the moon 
can l)e reached and brought down to us, you shall 
have it." 

Accordingly the threat state drum was sounded 

O ' ~ 

for the general palaver, and a score of criers went 
through the towns beating their little drums as they 
went, and the messengers hastened all the wise men 
and elders to the presence of the king. 

AVhen all were assembled, the kino; announced 

O 

his desire to know how the moon could be reached, 
and whether it could be shifted from its place in 
the sky and brought down to the earth, in order 
that he might give it to his only son the prince. 
If there was any wise man present Avho could in- 
form him how this could be done, and would 
undertake to bring; it to him, he would give the 

o o 

choicest of his daughters in marriage to him and 

O O 

endow him with great riches. 

AVhen the wise men heard this strange proposal, 
they were speechless with astonishment, as no one 
in the Basoko Land had ever heard of anybody 
mounting into the air higher than a tree, and to 
suppose that a person could ascend as high as the 
moon was, they thought, simple madness. Respect 



110 MY DARK COMPANIONS 

for the king, however, held them mute, though 
what their glances meant was very clear. 

But while each man was yet looking at his 
neighbour in wonder, one of the wise men, who 
appeared to be about the youngest present, rose to 
his feet and said : 

" Long life to the prince and to his father, the 
king ! We have heard the words of our king, Ba- 
hauga, and they are good. I even I his slave, 
am able to reach the nioon, and to do the king's 
pleasure, if the king's authority will assist me." 

The confident air of the man, and the rin^ of 

<z5 

assurance in his voice made the other wise men, 
who had been so ready to believe the king and 
prince mad, feel shame, and they turned their 
faces to him curiously, more than half willing 
to believe that after all the thing was possible. 
The king also lost his puzzled look, and appeared 
relieved. 

"Say on. How may you be able to perform 
what you promise ? " 

" If it please the king," answered the man, 
boldly, " I will ascend from the top of the high 
mountain near the Cataract of Paii^a. But I shall 

O 

first build a high scaffold on it, the base of which 
shall be as broad as the mountain top, and on that 
scaffold I will build another, and on the second I 
shall build a third, and so on and so on until my 
shoulder touches the moon." 



STORY OF THE PRINCE AND THE MOON HI 

"But is it possible to reach the moon in this 
manner ? " asked the king doubtiugly. 

" Most certainly, if I were to erect a sufficient 
number of scaffolds, one above another, but it 
will require a vast quantity of timber, and a great 
army of workmen. If the king commands it, the 
work will be done." 

" Be it so, then," said the king. " I place at 
your service every able-bodied man in the king- 
dom." 

" Ah, but all the men in your kingdom are not 
sufficient, O king. All the grown-up men will be 
wanted to fell the trees, square the timber and 
bear it to the works ; and every grown-up woman 
will be required to prepare the food for the work- 
men ; and every boy must carry water to satisfy 
their thirst, and bark rope for the binding of the 
timbers ; and every girl, big and little, must be 
sent to till the fields to raise cassava for food. 
Only in this manner can the prince obtain the 
moon as his toy." 

"I say, then, let it be done as you think it 
ought to be done. All the men, women, and chil- 
dren in the kingdom I devote to this service, that 

O 

my only son may enjoy what he desires." 

Then it was proclaimed throughout the wide 
lands of the Bandimba that all the people should 
be gathered together to proceed at once with the 
work of obtaining the moon for the king's sou. 



112 



MY DARK COMPANIONS 



And the forest was cut down, and while some of 
the workmen squared the trees, others cut deep 
holes in the ground, to make a broad and sure 
base for the lower scaffold; and the boys made 
thousands of rope coils to lash the timbers 
together, out of bark, fibre of palm, and tough 
grass ; and the girls, big and little, hoed up the 
ground and planted the cassava shrubs and cut- 



, r< 

/i# 




"THE WOMEN KNEADED THE BREAD.'' 



tino;s from the banana and 

o 

the corn ; and the women 
cooked the greens, and 
f < >r food for the workmen, 
people were made to slave 
that a spoiled boy might 



the plantain, and sowed 
kneaded the bread and 
roasted green bananas 
And all the Bandimba 
hard every day in order 
have the moon for his 



toy. 

In a few days the first scaffolding stood up as 



STORY OF THE PRINCE AND THE MOON H3 

high as the tallest trees, in a few weeks the struct- 
ure had grown until it was many arrow-flights in 
height, in two months it was so lofty that the top 
could not be seen with the naked eye. The fame 
of the wonderful wooden tower that the Bandimba 
were building was carried far and wide ; and the 
friendly nations round about sent messengers to 
see and report to them what mad thing the Ban- 
dimba were about, for rumour had spread so many 
contrary stories among people that strangers did 
not know what to believe. Some said it was true 
that all the Bandimba had become mad ; but some 
of those who came to see with their own eyes, 
laughed, while others began to feel anxious. All, 
however, admired the bigness, and wondered at 
the height of the tower. 

In the sixth month the top of the highest 
scaffold was so high that on the clearest day 
people could not see half-way up ; and it was said 
to be so tall that the chief euoiueer could tell the 

O 

day he would be able to touch the moon. 

The work went on, and at last the engineer 
passed the word down that in a few days more it 
would be finished. Everybody believed him, and 
the nations round about sent more people to be 
present to witness the completion of the great 
tower, and to observe what would happen. In 
all the land, and the countries adjoining it, there 
was found only one wise man who foresaw, if the 



114 



MY DARK COMPANIONS 



moon was shifted out of its place what damage 

-I- O 

would happen, and that probably all those foolish 
people in the vicinity of the tower would be 
destroyed. Fearing some terrible calamity, he 
proposed to depart from among the Bandimba 
before it should be too late. He then placed his 
family in a canoe, and, after storing it with 




'*IN THE MOHT FLOATED DOWN THE ABUWIMI." 

sufficient provisions, he embarked, and in the 
night he floated down the river Aruwimi and into 
the big river, and continued his journey night and 
day as fast as the current would take him far, 
far below any lands known to the Bandimba. 
A week later, after the flight of the wise man 



STORY OF THE PRINCE AND THE MOON 115 

and his family, the chief engineer sent down 
word to the king that he was ready to take the 
moon down. 

" It is well," replied the king from below. " I 
will ascend, that I may see how you set about it." 

Within twenty days the king reached the 
summit of the tower, and, standing at last by 
the side of the engineer, he laid his hand upon 
the moon, and it felt exceedingly hot. Then he 
commanded the engineer to proceed to take it 
down. The man put a number of cool bark coils 
over his shoulder and tried to dislodge it ; but, as 

o 

it was firmly fixed, lie used such a deal of force 
that he cracked it, and there was an explosion, the 
fire and sparks from which scorched him. The 
timber on which the kiusr and his chiefs were 

O 

standing began to burn, and many more bursting 
sounds were heard, and fire and melted rock ran 
down through the scaffolding in a steady stream, 
until all the woodwork was ablaze, and the flames 
soared upward among the uprights and trestles of 
the wood in one vast pile of fire ; and every man, 
woman, and child was utterly consumed in a 
moment. And the heat was so great that it 
affected the moon, and a large portion of it 
tumbled to the earth, and its glowing hot materials 
ran over the ground like a great river of fire, so 
that most of the country of the Bandimba was 
burnt to ashes. On those who were not smothered 



116 MY DARK COMPANIONS 

by the smoke, nor burnt by the lire, and who lied 
from before the burning; river, the effect was 

o 

very wonderful. Such of them as were grown 
up, male and female, were converted into gorillas, 
and all the children into different kinds of long- 
tailed monkeys. 

The old man who told me this story ended by 
saying to us, who listened with open mouth to his 
words : 

" Friends, if you doubt the truth of what I have 
said, all you have to do is to look at the moon 
when it is full, and you may then see on a clear 
night a curious dark portion on its face, which often 
appears as though there were peaky mountains in 
it, and often the dark spots are like some kind of 
horned animals ; and then again, you will often 
fancy that on the moon you see the outlines of a 
man's face, but those dark spots are only the holes 
made in the moon by the man who forced his shoul- 
ders through it. By this you will know that I have 
not lied unto you. Now ever since that dreadful 
day when the moon burst and the Bandimba coun- 
try was consumed, parents are not in the habit of 
granting children all they ask for, but only such 
things as their age and experience warn them are 
orood for their little ones. And when little chil- 

O 

dren will not be satisfied by such things, but fret 
and pester their parents to give them, what they 
know will be harmful to them, then it is a custom 










'A 
> 
2! 
O 



STORY OF THE PRINCE AND THE MOON 119 

with all wise people to take tlie rod to them, to 
drive out of their heads the wicked thoughts." 

o 

" But, Bartiti," said a Zanzibar! who believed 
the story, for had he not often viewed the dark 
spots on the moon, " what became of Bahanga and 
the little prince ? ' 

" Why, after the engineer of the works, the first 
who died were the king and the prince whose folly 
had brought ruin on the land." 

O 



HOW KIMYERA BECAME KING OF 
UGANDA-- 
ADIT was a native 
lad of IT of a n <1 a, 

o 

who having made 

O 

blood -brotherhood 

with a young Zan- 
zibari <>f his own 
age, asked permis- 
sion to join our ex- 
pedition of 1S74- 
77. He survived 
the perils of the 
descent of the Conoro, and in 1879 enlisted aimm, 

O ' O 

and served faithfully another term of three years 
in Africa. He afterwards joined Mr. II. H. John- 
ston on his visit to Kilimanjaro, and proved him- 
self as devoted to him as he had been for seven 
years to me. It was while road-making along the 
banks of the Congo, after becoming thoroughly 
conversant with the Zanzibar! vernacular, that he 
entertained us with his remarkable legends. Next 




f Republished from the "Fortnightly" through the kindness of 
its Editor and Proprietors. 



HOW KIMYERA BECAME KTN& OF UGANDA 121 

to his countryman Sabadu lie was the most enter- 
taining. 

One of the first tales he related to us was about 
Kimyera, a king of Uganda, who by his exploits 
in hunting deserves to be called the Nimrod of 

O 

that country. It ran as follows :- 

Many ages ago Uni reigned as king over 
Unyoro, a great country which lies to the north 
and west of Uganda. One day he took to wife 
Wanyaua, a woman of the neighbouring kingdom, 
who on the first night she had been taken into the 
inner harem manifested a violent aversion for his 
person. At that time a man named Kalimera, who 
was a dealer in cattle, was visiting the court, and had 
already resided some months there as an honoured 
guest of the king, on account of his agreeable 
manners, and his accomplishments on the flute, 
During his stay he had not failed to note the 
beauty of the young women who were permitted to 
crowd around him while he played; but it had long 
been observed that he had been specially attracted 
by the charms of Wanyana. It was whispered by 
a few of the more maliciously disposed among the 
women that a meeting had taken place, and that 
an opportunity had been found by them to inform 
each other of their mutual passion. However that 
may be, King Uui, surprised at the dislike which 
she manifested towards him, forbore pressing her 
for the time, trustfully believing that her senti- 



122 MY DARK COMPANIONS 

nients would change for the better after a more 
intimate acquaintance with him. Meantime he 
built for her a separate apartment, and palisaded 
its court closely around with thick cane. His 
visits were paid to her on alternate days, and each 
time he brought some gift of bead or bark cloth, 
or soft, furry hide, in the hope of winning her 
favour. 

In time she discovered that she was pregnant, 
and, fearing King Uni's wrath, she made a compact 
with him that if he would abstain from visiting 
her for one mouth she would repay his kindness 
with all affection. Uni gladly consented to this 
proposal, and confined his attentions to sending 
his pages with daily greetings and gifts. Mean- 
time she endeavoured through her own servants 
to communicate with Kalimera, her lover, but, 
though no effort on her part was wanting, she 
could gain no news of him, except a report that 
soon after she had entered the harem of Uni, 
Kalimera had disappeared. 

In a few days she was delivered of a fine male 
child, but as she would undoubtedly be slain by 
the king if the child was discovered, she departed 
by night with it, and laid it, clad in fur adorned 
with fine bead-work, at the bottom of a potter's 
pit. She then hastened to a soothsayer in the 
neighbourhood, and bribed him to contrive in some 
way to receive and rear her child until he could be 



HOW KIMYERA BECAME KING OF UGANDA 123 

claimed. Satisfied with his assurance that the 
child would be safe, Wanyaua returned to her 
residence at the court in the same secret manner 
that she had left it. 

Next morning Mugema, the potter, was seen pass- 
ing the soothsayer's dour, and was hailed by the 
great witch-finder. 

" Mugema," said he, " thy pots are now made of 
rotten clay. They are not at all what they used 
to be. They now crumble in the hand. Tell me 
why is this ? ' 

"Ah, doctor, it is just that. I thought to bribe 
thee to tell me, only I did not wish to disturb 
thee." 

"It is well, Mugema; I will tell thee why. 
Thou hast an enemy who wishes evil to thee, but 
I will defeat his projects. Haste thou to thy pit, 
and whatever living thing thou findest there, keep 
it, and rear it kindly. While it lives thou art safe 
from all harm." 

Wondering at this news, Mugema departed from 
the soothsayer's house, and proceeded to the pit 
where he obtained his clay. Peering softly over 
the edge of the pit, he saw a bundle of bark cloth 
and fur. From its external appearance he could 
not guess what this bundle might contain, but, 
fearing to disturb it by any precipitate movement, 
he silently retreated from the pit, and sped away 
to tell his wife, as he was in duty bound, and 



124 MY DARK COMPANIONS 



obtain her advice and assistance, for the wife in all 
such matters is safer than the man. His wife on 
hearing this news cried out at him, saying : 

" Why, what a fool them art ! Why didst them 
not do as the soothsayer commanded thee ? Come, 
I will go with thee at once, for my mind is trou- 
bled with a dream which I had last night, and this 
thing thou tellest me may have a weighty meaning 
for us both." 

Muo;ema and his wife hurried together towards 

O O 

the clay-pit, auel as her husband insisted on it, she 
crept silently to its edge to look down. At that 
moment the child uttered a cry and moved the 
clothes which covered it. 

" AVliy, it is a babe," cried the woman ; " just 
as I found it in my dream. Hurry, Mugema. 
Descend quickly, and bring it up to me ; and take 
care not to hurt it." 

Mugema wondered so much at his wife's words 

O 

that he almost lost his wits, but being pushed into 
the pit he mechanically obeyed, and brought up the 
bundle and its living occupant, which he handed 
to his wife without uttering a word. 

O 

On opening the bundle there was discovered 
the form of a beautiful and remarkably lusty child, 
of such weight, size, and form, that the woman 
exclaimed : 

" Oh ! Mugema, was ever anybody's luck like 
this of ours 2 My very heart sighed for a child 



HOW KIMYERA BECAME KING OF UGANDA 135 

that I could bring up to be our joy, and here the 
good spirits have given us the pick of all the 
\vorld. Mugema, thy fortune is made." 

" But whose child is it ? ' asked Mugema, 
suspiciously. 

"How cau I tell thee that? Hadst thou not 
brought the news to me of it being in the pit, I 
should have been childless all my life. The sooth- 
sayer who directed thee hither is a wise man. He 
knows the secret, I warrant him. But come, 
Mugema, drop these silly thoughts. What sayest 
thou ? shall we rear the child, or leave it here to 
perish ? ' 

" All right, wife. If it prove of joy to thee, I 
shall live content." 

Thus it was that the child of Wanyana found 
foster-parents, and no woman in Unyoro could be 
prouder of her child than Mugema's wife came to 
be of the foundling. The milk of woman, goat, and 
cow was given to him, and he throve prodigiously ; 
and when Mugema asked the soothsayer what 
name would be fittest for him, the wise man said : 

" Call him Kimyera the mighty one." 

Some mouths after this, when Kimyera was 
about a year old, Wanyaua came to the potter's 
house to purchase pots for her household, and 
while she was seated in the porch selecting the 
soundest among them, she heard a child crying 
within. 



126 MY DARK COMPANIONS 

" Ah, has thy wife had a child lately \ I did not 
observe or hear when I last visited thee that she 
was likely to become a mother." 

" No, princess,' 1 replied Mugema ; " that is the 
cry of a child I discovered iu the clay -pit about a 
year ago." 

Wan y ana's heart gave a great jump, and for a 
moment she lost all recollection of where she was. 
Recovering herself with a great effort, she bade 
Mugema tell her all about the incident : but while 

O 

he related the story, she was busy thinking how 
she might assure herself of his secrecy if she 
declared herself to be the mother of the child. 

Mugema, before concluding his story, did not 
fail to tell Wanyana how for a time he had sus- 
pected his wife of having played him falsely, and 
that though he had no grounds for the suspicion 
further than that the clay -pit was his own and the 
child had been found in it, he was not quite clear 
in his mind yet, and he would be willing to slave a 
long time for any person who could thoroughly 
disabuse his mind of the doubt, as, with that ex- 
ception, his wife was the cleverest and best woman 
in Unyoro. 

Wanyana, perceiving her opportunity, said : 

"Well, much as I affected not to know about 
the child, I know whose child it is, and who placed 
it in the pit." 

" Thou, princess ! " he cried. 



HOW KIMYERA BECAME KIXG OF UGANDA 127 

"Yes, and, if thou wilt take au oath upon the 
great Miizinm to keep it secret, I will disclose the 
name of the mother." 

'' Thou hast my assurance of secrecy upon the 
condition that the child is not proved to be my 
wife's. Whosoever else's it may be, matters not to 
me ; the child was found, and is mine by right of 
the finder. Now name the mother, princess." 

" Wanyana ! " 

" Thine ? " 

" Even so. It is the offspring of fond love, and 
Kalimera of Uganda is his father. The young 
man belongs to one of the four royal clans of 
Uganda, called the Elephant clan. He is the 
youngest son of the late king of Uganda. To him, 
on his father's death, fell his mother's portion, a 
pastoral district rich in cattle not far from the fron- 
tier of Unyoro. It was while he drove fat herds 
here for sale to Uni that he saw and loved rue, and 
I knew him as my lord. Dreading the king's 
anger, he fled, and I was left loveless in the power 
of Uui. One night the child was born, and in the 
darkness I crept out of the king's court, and bore 
the' babe to thy pit. To the wise man I confided 
the secret of that birth. Thou knowest the rest." 

" Princess, my wife never appeared fairer to me 
than she does now, and I owe the clear eye to thee. 
Rest in peace. My wife loves the babe, let her 
nurse it until happier times, and I will guard it 



128 MY DARK COMPANIONS 

safe as though it were mine own. Ay, the babe, I 
feel assured, will pay nie well when he is grown. 
The words of the wise man come home to me now, 
and I see whereby good luck shall come to all. If 
bone and muscle can make a king, Kimyera's future 
is sure. But come in to see my wife, and to her 
discretion and wisdom confide thy tale frankly." 

Wanyaua soon was hanging over her child, and, 
amid tears of joy, she made Mugema's wife ac- 
quainted with his birth, and obtained from her 
earnest assurance that he would be tenderly cared 
for, and her best help in any service she could 
perform for Kimyera and his mother. 

Great friendship sprang up between Princess 
Wanyana and the potter Mugema and his wife, 
and she found frequent excuses for visiting the 
fast-growing child. 

Through the influence of the princess, the potter 
increased in riches, and his herds multiplied ; and 
when Kimyera was grown tall and strong, he was 
entrusted by his foster-father with the care of the 
cattle, and he gave him a number of strong youths 
as assistants. With these Kimyera indulged in 

/ O 

manly games, until he became wonderfully dex- 
terous in casting the spear, and drawing the bow, 
and in wrestling. His swiftness exceeded that of 
the fleetest antelope ; no animal of the plain could 
escape him when he gave chase. His courage, 
proved in the defence of his charge, became a 



HOW KIMYERA BECAME KING OF UGANDA 139 

proverb among all who knew him. If the cry of 
the herdsman warned him that a beast sought to 
prey upon the cattle, Kimyera never lost time to 
put himself in front, and, with spear and arrow, 
he often became victor. 

With the pride becoming the possessor of so 
many admirable qualities, he would drive his herds 
right through the corn-fields of the villagers, and 
to all remonstrances he simply replied that the 
herds belonged to Wanyana, favourite wife of Uni. 
The people belonged to her also, as well as their 
corn, and who could object to Wany ana's cattle 
eating Wanyana's corn ? 

As his reputation for strength and courage was 
well known, the villagers then submissively per- 
mitted him to do as he listed. 

As he grew up in might and valour, Uni's re- 
gards cooled towards Wanyana, and, as she was 
not permitted that freedom formerly enjoyed by 
her, her visits to Kimyera ceased. Mugema sym- 
pathised with the mother, and contrived to send 
Kimyera with pots to sell to the people of the 
court, with strict charge to discover every piece 
of news relating to the Princess Wanyana. The 
mother's heart dilated with pride every time she 
saw her son, and she contrived in various ways to 
lengthen the interview. And each time he re- 
turned to his home he carried away some gift from 
Wanyana, such as leopard-skins, strings of beast 



13 MY DARK COMPANIONS 

claws, beads, and crocodile-teeth, girdles of white 
monkey-skin, parcels of ground ochre, or cam- 
wood, or rare shells, to show Mugema and his 
wife. And often he used to say, "Wanyana 
bade me ask you to accept this gift from her as a 
token of her esteem," showing them similar 
articles. 

His mother's presents to him in a short time 
enabled him to purchase two fine large dogs one 
was black as charcoal, which was named by him 
Msigissa, or " Darkness," the other was white as 
a cotton tuft, and called Sema-gi>nl>i, or " Wood- 
burr." You must know that it is because of the 
dog Darkness, that the Baboon clan of Uganda 
became so attached to black dogs, by which they 
perpetuate the memory of Kimyera, 

When he had become the owner of Darkness and 
Wood-burr, he began to absent himself from home 
for longer periods, leaving the herds in charge of 
the herdsmen. With these he explored the plains, 
and hills, and woods to a great distance from his 
home. Sometimes he would be absent for weeks, 
causing great anxiety to his kind foster-parents. 
The further he went the more grew his passion to 
know what lay beyond the furthest ridge he saw, 
which, when discovered, he would be again 
tempted to explore another that loomed in the 
far distance before him. With every man he met 
he entered into conversation, and obtained a 



HOW KIMYERA BECAME KING OF UGANDA 131 



various knowledge of things of interest relating to 
the country, the people, and the chiefs. In this 
manner before many months he had a wide know- 
ledge of every road and river, village and tribe, 
in the neighbouring lands. 

On his return from these daring excursions, he 
would be strictly questioned by Mugema and his 
wife as to what he had been doing, but he evaded 
giving the entire truth by rehearsing the hunting 
incidents that attended his wanderings, so that they 
knew not the lands he had seen, nor the distances 
that he travelled. However, being uneasy in their 
minds they communicated to Wanyana all that 
was related to them and all they suspected. 
AVanyana then sought permission to pay a visit 
to the potter and his wife, and during the visit she 
asked Kimyera, " Pray tell me, my sou, whither 
dost thou travel on these long journeys of thine 
to seek for game ? r 

" Oh ! I travel far through woods, and over 
grassy hills and plains." 

~ / -L 

" But is it in the direction of sunrise, or sunset, 
is it north or is it south of here ? " 

To which he replied : " I seek game generally 
in the direction whence the sun rises." 

" Ah ! '' said Wanyana. " In that way lies 
Ganda, where thy father lives, and whence he 
came in former days to exchange cattle for salt 
and hoes.' 1 



132 MY DARK COMPANIONS 

" My father ! What may be my father's name, 
mother ? " 

" Kalimera." 

" And where did he live ? r 

" His village is called Willimera, and is near the 
town of Bakka." 

" Bakka ! I know the town, for in some of my 
* journeys I entered a long way into Uganda, and 
have chased the leopard in the woods that border 
the stream called Myanja, and over the plains 
beyond the river many an antelope has fallen a 
victim to my spear." 

"It is scarcely credible, my son." 

" Nay, but it is true, mother." 

" Then thou must have been near Willimera in 
that case, and it is a pity that thou shouldst not 
have seen thy father, and been received by him." 

A few days later Kimyera slung his knitted 
haversack over his shoulder, and with shield, two 
spears, and his faithful dogs Darkness and Wood- 
burr, he strode out of the potter's house, and set 
his face once more towards the Myanja river. At 
the first village across the stream he questioned 
the natives if they knew Willimera, and was told 
that it was but eight hours east. The next day 
he arrived, and travelled round the village, and 

O / 

rested that nio;ht at the house of one of the herds- 

O 

men of Kalimera. He made himself very agree- 
able to his host, and from him he received the 



HOW KIMYERA BECAME KING OF UGANDA 133 

fullest information of all matters relating to his 
father. 

The next day he began his return to Unyorn, 
which he reached in two weeks. He told Mui;ema 

O 

and his foster-mother of his success, and they sent 
a messenger to apprise Wanyana that Kimyera 
had returned home. 




KIMYERA SETTING OUT FOR UGANDA. 



Wanyana, impatient to learn the news, arrived 
that iiio-ht at Musrema's house, and implored Kiin- 

O O -1- 

yera to tell her all that he had heard and seen. 



134 J/r DARK COMPANIONS 

u 111 brief, it is this," replied Kimyera. " I now 
know to a certainty where Kalimera lives. I have 
gone round the village, I know how many natives 
are in it, how many herds of cattle, and how many 
herdsmen and slaves he has. Kalimera is well. 
All these I learned from one of his chief herdsmen 
with whom I rested a nigvht. I came here straight 

O o 

to let thee and my foster-parents know it." 

" It is very well, my son. Now, Mngema, it is 
time to move," she said to the potter. " Uui daily 
becomes more intolerable to me. I never have yet 
mated with him as his wife, and I have been true 
to the one man who seemed to me to be the comeli- 
est of his kind. Now that I know Kalimera lives, 
my heart has gone to him, though my body is here. 
Mngema, speak, my friend." 

" Wanyana, my wit is slow and my tongue is 
heavy. Thon knowest my circumstances. I have 
one wife, but many cattle. The two cows, Namala 
and Nakaombeh, thou gavest me first, I possess 
still. Their milk has always been abundant and 
sweet. Nauiala has sufficed to nourish Kimyera 
into perfect lustiness and strength; Nakaombeh 
gives more than will feed my wife and I. Let 
Kimyera take his flute, his dogs, Darkness and 
Wood-burr, his spears and shield ; Sebarija, my 
cowherd, who taught Kimyera the flute, will also 
take his flute and staff, and drive Namala and 
Nakaombeh. My wife will carry a few furs, some 



HOW KIMYERA BECAME KING OF UGANDA 135 

of the spoils won by Kimyera's prowess ; and, 
lo ! I and my family will follow Wanyaua." 

" A true friend thou Last been to me and mine, 
Mugeina ! We will lience before dawn. In Willi- 

O 

niera thou shalt receive tenfold what thou leavest 
here. The foundling of the clay-pit has grown tall 
and strong, and at last he has found the way to 
his father and his father's kindred." 

And as Wanyana advised, the journey was 
undertaken that night, and before the sun arose 

O ' 

Wauyana, Mugema and his wife, the slave Sebarija 
driving the two cows, Namala and Nakaombeh, 
were far on their way eastward, Kimyera and his 
two dogs, Darkness and Wood-burr, preceding the 
emigrants and guiding the way. 

The food they took with them sustained them 
for two days ; but on the third day they saw a 
lonely buffalo, and Kitnyera, followed by Mugema 
and Sebarija, chased him. The buffalo was un- 
commonly wild, and led them a long chase, far out 
of sight of the two women. Then Mugema reflected 

O O 

that they had done wrong in thus leaving the two 
women alone, and called out to Sebarijo to hurry 
back, and to look after the women and two cows. 
Not long after, Darkness fastened his fangs in the 
buffalo, until Wood-burr came up and assisted him 
to bring it to the ground, and there they held him 
until Kimyera gave him his death-stroke. The 
two men loaded themselves with the meat, and 



136 MY DARK COMPANIONS 



returned to the place where they had left, but 
alas ! they found no traces of the two women, nor 
of Sebarija and the two cows. 

Day after day Kimyera and Mugema hunted all 
around the country for news of the missing party, 
until, finally, to their great sorrow, they were 
obliged to abandon the search, and came to the 
conclusion that it was best for them to continue 
their journey and trust to chance for the knowledge 
they desired. 

Near Granda another buffalo was sighted by 
Kimyera, and, bidding Mugema remain at the 
first house he came to, he went after it with his 
dogs. The buffalo galloped far, and near noon he 
stood still under the shelter of a rock. Kimyera 
bounded to the top, and, exerting all his strength, 
he shot his spear clean through the back of the 
animal. That rock is still shown to strangers as 
the place where Kimyera killed the first game in 
Uganda, and even the place where he stood may 
be seen by the marks of his feet which were im- 
pressed on it. While resting on the rock he saw 
a woman pass near by with a gourd of water. He 
called out to her, and begged for a drop to allay 
his thirst. She smilingly complied, as the stran- 
ger was comely and his manner pleasant. They 
entered into conversation, during which he learned 
that she belonged to Ganda, and served as maid 
to Queen Naku, wife of Sebwana, and that Naku 



HO W KIMYERA BECAME KING OF UGANDA 137 



was kind to strangers, and was famed fur her 
hospitality to them. 

" Dost thou think she will be kind to me ? " 
asked Kimyera. " I am a native of Unyoro, and I 
am seeking a house where I may rest." 




GJi 



KIMYKUA ASKIXO FOR WATER. 



To which the maid replied : " It is the custom 
of Naku, and, indeed, of all the princes of Ganda, 
to entertain the stranger since, in the far olden 
times, the first prince settled in this land in which 
he was a stranger. But what may that be which 
is secured in thy girdle ? ' 

" That is a reed flute on which I imitate when 
alone the songs of such birds as sound sweetest to 
me." 



138 MY DARK COMPANIONS 

"And art tliou clever at it ? " asked the maid. 

" Be thou judge," he said ; and forthwith blew 
on his flute until the maid marvelled greatly. 

When he had ended, she clapped her hands 
gaily and said : 

" Thou wilt be more than welcome to Nairn and 
her people. Haste and follow me that I ma}' show 
thee to her, for thy fortune is made." 

' Nay. I have a companion not far from here, 
and I must not lose him. But thou mayest say 
thou hast met a stranger who, when he has found 
his friend, will present himself before Queen Naku 
and Sebwana before sunset." 

The maid withdrew and Kimyera rose, and cut- 
ting a large portion of the meat he retraced his 
steps, and sought and found Mugenia, to whom he 
told all his adventures. 

After washing the stains of travel and refreshing 
themselves, they proceeded into the village to the 
residence of the queen and her consort Sebwana. 
Xaku was prepared by the favourable reports of 
the maid to receive Kimyera kindly, but when she 
saw his noble proportions and handsome figure she 
became violently in love with him, and turning to 
Sebwana she said : 

" See now, we have guests of worth and breed- 
ing. They must have travelled from a far land, 
for I have heard of no tribe which could boast of 
such a youth as this. Let us receive him and his 



KI.MYI-.HA BECAME h'TXG OF VGAXDA \;\\\ 



old friend nobly. Let a house close by our own 
be made ready for his lodging, and let it be fur- 
nished with abundance of food, with wine * and 
milk, bananas and yams, water and fuel, and let 
nothing be lacking to show our esteem for them." 

o o 

Sebwana gave orders accordingly and proceeded 
to select a fit house as a lodging for the guests. 

Then Naku said : " I hear that thou art skilled 
in music. If that is the instrument in thy girdle 
with which thou hast delighted niy maid, I should 
be pleased to hear thee." 

" Yes, Queen Naku, it is my flute ; and if my 
music will delight thee, my best efforts are at thy 



service." 



Then Kimyera, kneeling on the leopard skins 
placed for the convenience of himself and Mu- 
srema, took out his flute, and after one or two 

o 

flourishes, poured forth such melodious sounds that 
Naku, unable to keep her eyes open, closed them 
and lay down with panting breasts, while her 
senses were filled as it were with dreams of hap- 
pier lands, and faces of blighter people than ever 
she knew in real life. As he varied the notes, so 
varied the gladsome visions of her mind. AVhen 
the music gently vibrated on her ears, her body 
palpitated under the influence of the emotions 
which swayed her ; when they became more enliv- 
ened she tossed her arms about, and laughed con- 

* Banana wine. 



140 MY DARK COMPANIONS 

vulsively ; and \vhen the notes took a solemn tone, 
she sighed and wept as though all her friends had 
left her only their tender memory. Grieved that 
Naku should suffer, Kimyera woke the queen 
from her sorrowful condition with tones that soon 
started her to her feet, and lo, all at once, those 
who were present joined in the lively dance, and 
nothing but gay laughter was heard from them. 
Oh, it was wonderful what quick changes came 
over people as they heard the flute of Kimyera, 
When he ceased people began to look at one an- 
other in a foolish and confused way, as though 
something very strange had happened to them. 

But Naku quickly recovered, and went to 
Kimyera, smiling and saying: 

" It is for thee to command, O Kimyera. To 
resist thy flute would be impossible. Again wel- 
come to Granda, and we shall see if we cannot keep 
thee and thy flute amongst us." 

She conducted Kimyera and his foster-father 
Mugema to their house. She examined carefully 
the arrangements made by the slaves, and when 
she found anything amiss she corrected it with 
her own hands. Before she parted from them, she 
called Mugema aside, and questioned him further 
respecting the youth, by which means she obtained 
many interesting particulars concerning him. 

On arriving at her own house she called all the 
pages of the court to her, and gave orders that if 



HO W KIMYERA BECAME KINO OF UGANDA 141 

Sebwana told them to convey such and such things 
to the strangers next day, that none of them 
should do so, but carry them to the rear court 
where only women were admitted. 

In consequence of this command Mugema and 
Kimyera found themselves deserted next day, and 
not one person went near them. Mugema there- 
fore sought an interview the day after with Queen 
Naku and said : 

" The custom of this country seems strange to 
us, O Queen. On the first day we came thy 
favours showered abundance on us, but on the next 
not a single person showed his face to us. Had 
we been in a wilderness we could not have been 
more alone. It is possible that we may have 
offended thee unknown to ourselves. Pray ac- 
quaint us with our offence, or permit us to depart 
at once from Granda." 

"Nay, Mugema, I must ask thee to be patient. 
Food ye shall have in abundance, through my 
women, and much more is in store for ye. But 
come, I will visit the young stranger, and thou 

*/ O 

shalt lead me to him." 

Kimyera had been deep in thought ever since 
he had parted from Naku, and he had not ob- 
served what Mugema had complained of ; but on 
seeino- Naku enter his house, he hasted and laid 

o 

matting on the floor, and, covering it with leopard 
skins, bested Naku to be seated on them. He 

oo 



HT DARK COMPANIONS 



brought fresh banana-leaves in his arms, and 

O ' 

spread them near her, on which he arranged meat 
and salt, and bananas and clotted milk, and 
kneeled before her like a ready servitor. 

Naku observed all his movements, her admira- 
tion for his person and graces of body becoming 
stronger every minute. She peeled a mellow ba- 
nana and handed it to him, saying, " Let Kim- 
yera taste and eat with me, and I will then know 
that I am in the house of a friend." 

Kiuiyera accepted the gift with thanks, and ate 
the banana as though he had never eaten anything 
so delicious in his life. Then he also peeled a 
beautiful and ripe banana, and, presenting it to 
her on a fragment of green leaf with both hands, 
said to her : 

" Queen Naku, it is the custom of my country 
for the master of the house to wait upon his 
guests. Wherefore accept, O Queen, this banana 
as a token of friendship from the hands of Kim- 
yera." 

The queen smiled, bent forward with her eyes 
fixed on his own, and took the yellow fruit, and 
ate it as though such sweetness was not known in 

O 

the banana land of Gauda. 

When she had eaten she said : 

"List, Kimyera, and them, Mugema, hearken 
well, for I am about to utter weighty words. In 
Gauda, since the death of my father, there has 



NOW KIMYERA BECAME KING OF UGANDA 143 

been no king. Sebwana is my consort by choice 
of the elders of the land, but in name only. He 
is really only my Jcate-kiro (Premier). But I am 
now old enough to choose a king for myself, and 
according to custom, I may do so. Wherefore I 
make known to thee, Mugema, that I have already 
chosen my lord and husband, and he by due right 
must occupy the chair of my father, the old king 
who is dead. I have said to myself since the day 
before yesterday that my lord and husband shall 
be Kimyera." 

Both Kimyera and Mugeina prostrated them- 
selves three times before Naku, and, after the 
youth had recovered from his confusion and sur- 
prise, he replied : 

" But, Queen Naku, hast thou thought what the 
people will say to this ? May it not be that they 
will ask, 'Who is this stranger that he should 

O 

reign over us ? ' and they will be wroth with me 
and try to slay me ? ' 

"Nay. For thou art my father's brother's son, 
as Mugema told me, and my father having left no 
male heirs of his body, his daughter may, if she 
choose, ally herself with a son of his brother. 
Kalimera is a younger brother of my father. 
Thou seest, therefore, that thou, Kimyera, hast a 
right to the king's chair, if I, Naku, will it to 
be so." 

" And how, Naku, dost thou propose to act ? In 



144 MY DARK COMPANIONS 

thy cause ray arm is ready to strike. Thou hast 
but to speak." 

" In this way. I will now leave thee, for I have 
some business for Sebwaua. When he has gone 
I will then send for thee, and thou, when thou 
comest to me, must say, l Naku, I have come. 
What can Kimyera do for Queen Naku ? ' And I 
will rise and say, * Kimyera, come and seat thyself 
in thy father's brother's chair.' And thou wilt 
step forward, bow three times before me, then six 
times before the king's chair, and, with thy best 
spear in hand and shield on arm, thou wilt pro- 
ceed to the king's chair, and turning to the people 
who will be present, say in a loud voice thus : 'Lo, 
people of Ganda, I am Kimyera, son of Kalimera, 
by Wauyana of Uuyoro. I hereby declare that 
with her own free will I this day do take Naku, 
my father's brother's daughter, to wife, and seat 
myself in the king's chair. Let all obey, on pain 
of death, the king's word.' 

" It is well, Naku ; be it according to thy wish," 
replied Kimyera. 

Naku departed and proceeded in search of 
Sebwana ; and, when she found him, she aft'ected 
great distress and indignation. 

" How is this, Sebwana ? I gave orders that 
our guests should be tenderly cared for and sup- 
plied with every needful thing. But I find, on 
inquiring this morning, that all through yesterday 



NOW KJMYERA BECAME KING OF UGANDA 145 

they were left alone to wonder at our sudden dis- 
regard for their wants. Haste, my friend, and 
make amends for thy neglect. Go to my fields 
and plantations, collect all that is choicest for our 
guests, lest, when they leave us, they will proclaim 
our unkindness." 

Sebwana was amazed at this charge of neglect 

o o 

and in auger hastened to find out the pages. But 
the pages, through Naku's good care, absented 
themselves, and could not be found ; so that old 
Sebwana was obliged to depend upon a few 
unarmed slaves to drive the cattle and carry the 
choicest treasures of the queen's fields and planta- 
tions for the use of the strangers. 

Sebwana having at last left the town, Naku 
returned to Kimyera, whom she found with a sad 
and disconsolate aspect. 

" Why, what ails thee, Kimyera ? r she asked. 
" The chair is now vacant. Arm thyself and follow 
me to the audience court." 

" Ah, Naku ! I but now remembered that as 
yet I know not whether my mother and good 
nurse are alive or dead. They may be waiting for 
me anxiously somewhere near the Myanja, or their 
bones may be bleaching on one of the great plains 
we traversed in coming hither." 

*' Nay, Kimyera, my lord, this is not a time for 
mourning. Bethink thee of the present needs first. 

The chair of the king awaits thee. Rise, and 

10 



146 MY DARK COMPANIONS 

occupy it, and to-morrow all Gauda is at thy 
service to find thy lost mother and nurse. Come, 
delay not, lest Sebwana return and take vengeance 
on us all. 1 ' 

" Fear not, Naku, it was but a passing fit of grief 
which filled my mind. Sebwana must needs be 
strong and brave to dispossess me when Naku is 
on my side," saying which Kimyera dressed himself 
in war-costume, with a crown of cock's tail feathers 
on his head, a great leopard skin depending from 
his neck down his back, a girdle of white monkey 
skin round his waist, his body and face brilliantly 
painted with vermilion and saffron. He then 
armed himself with t\vo bright shining spears of 
great length, and bearing a shield of dried elephant 
hide, which no ordinary spear could penetrate, he 
strode after Queen Naku towards the audience 
court iii the royal palace. Mugema, somewhat 
similar!)- armed, followed his foster-sou. 

As Kimyera strode proudly on, the great drum 
of Ganda sounded, and its deep tones were heard 
far and wide. Immediately the populace, who 
knew well that the summons of the great drum 
announced an important event, hastily armed 
themselves, and filled the great court. Naku, the 
queen, they found seated in a chair alongside of 
the king's chair, which was now unfilled, and in 
front of her was a tall young stranger, who pros- 
trated himself three times before the queen. He 



IVfc; -^yr 

'* ?l - 




KIMYEBA CLAIMING THE THRONE OF GANDA. 



HOW KIMYERA BECAME KING OF UGANDA 149 

was then seen bowing six times before the empty 
king's chair. Rising to his feet, lie stepped towards 
it, and afterwards faced the multitude, who were 
looking on wonderingly. 

The young stranger, lifting his long spears and 
raising his shield in an attitude of defence, cried 
out aloud, so that all heard his voice: 

u Lo, people of Ganda ! I am Kimyera, son of 
Kalimera, by Wanyana of Unyoro. I hereby de- 
clare that with her own free will I this day do 
take Naku, my father's brother's daughter, to wife, 
and seat myself in the king's chair. Let all obey, 
on pain of death, the king's word." 

On concluding this address, he stepped back a 
pace, and gravely sat in the king's chair. A loud 
murmur rose from the multitude, and the shafts of 
spears were seen rising up, when Naku rose to her 
feet, and said : 

" People of Ganda, open your ears. I, Naku, 
the legitimate queen of Ganda, hereby declare that 
I have found my father's brother's son, and I, this 
day, of my own free will and great love for him, do 
take him for my lord and husband. By full 
right Kimyera fills the king's chair. I charge 
you all henceforth to be loyal to him, and him 
only." 

As she ended her speech the people gave a great 
shout of welcome to the new king, and they waved 
their spears, and clashed them against their 



150 MY DARK COMPANIONS 

shields, thus signifying their willing allegiance to 
King Kimyera. 

The next day great bodies of strong men were 
despatched in different directions for the king's 
mother and his nurse, and for Sebarija and the two 
cows, Naniala and Nakaombeh. If alive they were 
instructed to convey them with honour and care to 
Gaiida, and if any fatal misadventure had happened 
to them, their remains were to be borne with all 
due respect to the king. 

Sebwaua, meanwhile, had started for the planta- 
tions, and hearing the thunder of the great drum, 
divined that Naku had deposed him in favour of 
the vouno- stranger. To assure himself of the fact, 

v O O 

he sent a confidential slave to discover the truth of 
the matter, while he sought a place where he could 
await, unobserved, the return of his messenger. 
When his slave came back to him he learned what 
great event had occurred during his short absence, 
and that his power had been given to another. 
Knowing the fate attending those thus deposed, he 
secretly retired to the district that had given him 
birth, where he lived obscure and safe until he died 
at a o;ood old ao;e. 

O O 

After some days Sebarija and Mugema's wife, 
and the two cows Namala and Nakaombeh, were 
found by the banks of Myairja, near a rocky hill 
which contained a cave, whither they had retired 
to seek a dwelling-place until news could be found 



HOW KIM YE R A BECAME KINO OF UGANDA 151 

of Mugema and Kimyera. But Wauyana, the 
king's mother, while gathering fuel near the cave 
during the absence of Sebarija and the potter's 
wife, had been fatally wounded by a leopard, before 
her cries brought Sebarija to her rescue. A short 
time after she had been taken into the cave she had 
died of her wounds, and her body had been folded 
in such furs aud covering as her friends possessed, 
that Kimyera, on his return, might be satisfied of 
the manner of her death. 

Kimyera, accompanied by his wife Naku and old 
Mugema, set out from Ganda with a great escort 
to receive the long-lost couple and the remains of 
Wanyana. Mugema rejoiced to see his old wife 
once more, though he deeply regretted the loss of 
his friend the princess. As for the king, his grief 
was excessive, but Naku, with her loving ways, 
assisted him to bear his creat misfortune. A 

o 

period of mourning, for an entire moon, was 
enjoined on all the people, after which a great 
mound was built at Kas;oma over the remains of 

O 

the unfortunate princess, and Sebarija was duly 
installed as keeper of the monument. Ever since 
that day it has become the custom to bury the 
queen-mothers near the grave of Wauyaua, and to 
appoint keepers of the royal cemetery in memory 
of Sebarija, who first occupied that post. 

While he lived Sebarija was honoured wdth a 
visit, on the first day of every alternate moon, 



153 MY DARK COMPANIONS 

from Kimyera, who always brought with him a 
young buffalo as a gift to the faithful cowherd. 
During these days the king and Sebarija were 
accustomed to play their flutes together as they 
did in the old time, and their seats were on mats 
placed on top of the mound, while the escort and 
servants of the king and queen sat all round the 
foot of it, and this was the manner in which Wan- 
yana's memory was honoured during her son's life. 
Kimyera finally settled with Queen jSfaku at 
Birra, where he built a large town. Muo;ema and 

o O 

his wife, with their two cows Namala and Naka- 
ombeh, lived near the palace for many years, until 
they died. 

Darkness and Wood-burr accompanied the king 
on many a hunt in the plains bordering the Myauja, 
in the woods of Ruwambo, and along the lake- 
lands which look towards Bussi ; and they in their 
turn died and were honourably interred with many 
folds of bark-cloth. Queen Naku, after giving 
birth to three sons, died during the birth of her 

O 

fourth child, and was buried with great honour 
near Birra, and nually, after living to a great old 
age, the hunter king, Kimyera, died, mourned by 
all his people. 



THE LEGEND OF THE LEOPAEDESS 
AND HER TWO SERVANTS, DOG AND 
JACKAL 



T 



was 



as 



ila 




following legend 
also told by Kadu 
we approached Isau- 
cataract. 



Long ago, in the 



early age of Uganda, 
a leopardess, in 
want of a ser- 
vant to do chores 
in her den, was 
solicited by a 
jackal to engage 

him to perform that duty. As Jackal had a very 
suspicious appearance, with his ears drawn back, 
and his furtive eyes, and a smile which always 
seemed to be a leer, the Leopardess consulted with 
Dog, whom she had lately hired as her steward, as 
to the propriety of trusting such a cunning-looking 
animal. 

Dog trotted out to the entrance of the den to 
examine the stranger for himself, and, after close 
inspection of him, asked Jackal what work he 



154 J/T DARK COMPANIONS 

could do. Jackal replied humbly and fawningly, 
and said tliat lie could fetch water from the brook, 
collect fuel, sweep out the house, and was willing, 
if necessary, to cook now and then, as he was not 
a novice in the art of cooking ; and, looking at 
Leopardess, " I am very fond of cubs, and am very 
clever in nursing them." Mistress Leopardess, 
on hearing this, seemed to be impressed with the 
abilities of Jackal, and, without waiting for the 
advice of Dog, engaged him at once, and said : 

"Jackal, you must understand that my custom 
is to feed mv servants well. What is left from 

v 

my table is so abundant that I have heard no 
complaints from any who have been witli me. 
Therefore you need fear no starvation, but while 
you may depend upon being supplied with plenty 
of meat, the bones must not be touched. Don; 

O 

shall be your companion, but neither he nor any- 
one else is permitted to touch the bones." 

" I shall be quite content, Mistress Leopardess. 
Meat is good enough for me, and for good meat 
you may depend upon it I shall give good work." 

The household of Mistress Leopardess was com- 
pleted; she suffered no anxiety, and enjoyed her- 
self in her own way. The chase was her great 
delight. The forest and plains were alive with 

O 1 

game, and each morning at sunrise it was her cus- 
tom to set out for the hunt, and scarcely a day 
passed but she returned with sufficient meat to 



THE LEOPARDESS AND TIER TWO SERVANTS 155 

fatten her household. Dog and Jackal expressed 
themselves delighted with the luscious repasts 
which they enjoyed, and a sleek roundness wit- 
nessed that they fared nobly. But as it frequently 
happens with people who have everything they 
desire, Dog, in a short while, became more nice 
and fastidious in his tastes. He hankered after 
the bones which were forbidden him, and was 
heard to sigh deeply whenever Mistress Leopardess 
collected the bones and stored them in the interior, 
and his eyes became filled with tears as he eyed 
the rich morsels stowed away. His feelings at 
last becoming intolerable, he resolved to appeal to 
his mistress one day, as she appeared to be in a 
more amiable mood than usual, and said : 

" Mistress, thanks to you, the house is always 
well supplied with meat, and none of your servants 
have any reason to think that they will ever suffer 
the pangs of hunger ; but, speaking for myself, 
mistress mine, I wish for one thing more, if you 
will be so good as to grant it." 

" And what may that be, greedy one ? " asked 
Leopardess. 

" Well, you see, mistress, I fear you do not un- 
derstand the nature of dogs very well. You must 
know dogs delight in marrow, and often prefer it 
to meat. The latter by itself is good, but how- 
ever plentiful and good it may be, without an 
occasional morsel of marrow it is apt to pall. 



150 MY DARK COMPANIONS 

Dogs also love to sharpen their teetli on bones 
and screw their tongues within the holes for the 

O 

sake of the rich juice. By itself, marrow would 
not fatten my ribs ; but meat with marrow is 
most delectable. Now, good mistress, seeing that 
I have been so faithful in your service, so docile 
and prompt to do your bidding, will you not be 
gracious enough to let me gnaw the bones and 
extract the marrow ? ' 

" No," roared Leopardess decisively, " that is 
positively forbidden ; and let me warn you that 
the day you venture to do so, a strange event 
will happen suddenly, which shall have most 
serious consequences to you and to all in this 
house. 

" And you, Jackal, bear what I say well in 
mind," she continued, turning to that servile sub- 
ordinate. 

" Yes, mistress ; I will, most certainly. Indeed, 
I do hot care very greatly for bones," said Jackal, 
"and I hope my friend and mate, Dog, will 
remember, good mistress, what you say." 

" I hear, mistress," replied Dog, " and since it is 
your will, I must needs obey." 

The alarming words of Leopardess had the effect 
of compelling Dog and Jackal for awhile to desist 
from even thinking of marrow, and the entreaty 
of Dog appeared to be forgotten by Leopardess, 
though Jackal was well aware, by the sparkles in 



THE LEOPARDESS AND HER TWO SERVANTS 157 

the covetous eyes of Dog when any large bone was 
near him, how difficult it was for him to resist the 
temptation. Day after day Leopardess sallied out 
from her den, and returned with kids, goats, sheep, 
antelopes, zebra, and often a young giraffe ; and one 
day she brought a great buffalo to her household, 
and cubs and servants came running to greet her, 
and praise her successful hunting. 

On this day Dog undertook to prepare the 
dinner. The buffalo-meat was cooked in exquisite 
fashion, and when it was turned out of the great 

!_/ 

pot, steaming and trickling over everywhere with 
juice, Dog caught sight of a thigh-bone and yellow 
marrow glistening within. The temptation to steal 
it was too great to resist. He contrived to drop 
the bone back again into the pot, furnished the 
tray quickly with the meat, and sent Jackal with 
it to Leopardess, saying that he would follow with 
the kabobs and stew. As soon as Jackal had gone 
out of the kitchen, Dog whipped the bone out of 
the pot and slyly hid it ; then, loading stew and 
kabobs on a tray, he hurried after Jackal, and began 
officiously bustling about, fawning upon Leopard- 
ess, stroking the cubs as he placed them near 
their mamma around the smoking trays, scolding 
Jackal for his laziness, and bidding him hurry up 
with the steaks. All of which, of course, was due 
to his delight that he had a rare treat in store for 
himself snugly hidden away. 



158 MY DARK COMPANIONS 

Leopardess was pleased to bestow a good many 
praises upon Dog's cooking, and the cubs even 
condescended to smile their approval for the ex- 
cellent way in which their wants were sup- 
plied. 

Towards evening Mistress Leopardess went out 
again, but not before reminding Jackal of his 
duties towards the cubs, and bidding him, if it 

o 

were late before she returned, on no account to 
leave them alone in the dark. Dog smilingly 
followed his mistress to the door, wishing her, in 
the most fawning manner, every success. When 
he thought that his mistress was far enough, and 
Jackal quite occupied with the cubs, Dog hastened 
to the kitchen, and, taking up his bone, stole out 
of the house, and carried it to a considerable dis- 
tance off. When he thought he was safe from 
observation, he lay down, and, placing the bone 
between his paws, was about to indulge his craving 
for marrow, when lo ! the bone was seen to fly 
away back to the den. Wondering at such a 
curious event, furious at his disappointment, and 
somewhat alarmed as he remembered Leopardess's 
warning words, he rushed after it, crying : 

" Jackal, Jackal ! shut the door ; the bone is 
coming. Jackal, please shut the door." 

Jackal fortunately was at the door, squatting 
on his haunches, having just arrived there from 
nursing the cubs, and saw the bone coining straight 



THE LEOPARDESS AND HER TWO SERVANTS 159 

towards him, and Dog galloping and crying out to 
shut the door. Quickly perceiving that Dog had 
at last allowed his appetite to get the better of his 
duty, and having, truth to say, a fello\v-feeling for 
his fellow-servant, Jackal closed the door just in 
time, for in about a second afterwards the bone 
struck the door with a tremendous force, dinting 

' O 

it deeply. 

Then Jackal turned to Do;, oil recovering from 

O ' O 

his astonishment, and angrily asked, u Oh, Dog, 
do you know what you are doing? Have you 
no sense ? You came near bein^ the death of 

O 

me this time. I'll tell you what, my friend, if 
Mistress Leopardess hears of this, your life is 
not worth a feather." 

" Now don't, please, good Jackal don't say any- 
thing of it this time. The fright I have had is 
quite sufficient to keep me from touching a bone 



again.' 



"Well, I am sure I don't wish you any harm, 
but for your life's sake do not be so dull as to 

/ 

forget the lesson you have learned." 

Soon after Leopardess returned with a small 
antelope for the morrow's breakfast, and cried out 
to Jackal, as was usual with her on returning from 
the hunt : 

" Now, my Jackal, bring the cubs hither ; my 
dugs are so heavy. How are the little ones ? ' 

" Ah, very well, ma'am : poor little dears, they 



1GO -V)' DARK COMPANIONS 

liave been in a sweet sleep ever since you went 
out." 

A few days later, Leopardess brought a fat 
young zebra, and Jackal displayed his best skill 
in preparing it for dinner. Dog also assisted with 
wise suggestions in the preparation of certain 
auxiliaries to the feast. When all was ready, Dog 
laid the table, and as fast as Jackal brought the 
various dishes, Dos; arranged them in the most 

O O 

tempting manner on fresh banana leaves, spread 
over the ample plateau. Just before sitting down 
to the meal, Leopardess heard a strange noise with- 
out, and bounded to the door, growling angrily at 

' O O O i/ 

being disturbed. Dog instantly seized the oppor- 
tunity of her absence to extract a great bone from 
one of the trays, and stowed it in a recess in the 
wall of the passage leading from the kitchen. 
Presently Leopardess came back, and when the 
cubs were brought the meal was proceeded with 
in silence. When they had all eaten enough, the 

J O 

good effect of it was followed by commendations 
upon the cooking, and the juicy flavour of the 
meat, and how well Jackal had prepared every- 
thing. Neither was Dog forgotten by the mistress 
and her youno; ones, and he was dismissed with the 

*/ o 

plenteous remnants of the feast for himself and 
mate, with the courteous hope that they would 
find enough and to spare. 

In the afternoon Leopardess, having refreshed 



777.0 LEOPARDESS AND HER TWO SERVANTS 161 

herself with a nap, sallied out once more, enjoining 
Jackal, as she was wiiio; out of the den, to be 

O O 

attentive to her little ones during her absence. 

While his friend Jackal proceeded towards the 
cubs, Dog surreptitiously abstracted his bone from 
the cavity in the passage wall, and trotted out 
unobserved. When he had arrived at a secluded 
place, he lay down, and, seizing the bone between 
his paws, was about to give it a preliminary lick, 
when again, to his dismay and alarm, the bone 
flew up and away straight for the door. Dog 
loped after it as fast as his limbs could carry him, 
crying out : 

" Oh, Jackal, Jackal, good Jackal ! Shut the 
door. Hurry up. Shut the door, good Jackal. 1 ' 

Again Jackal heard his friend's cry, and sprang 
up to close the door, and the instant he had done 
so the bone struck it with dreadful force. 

Turning to the crestfallen and panting Dog, 
Jackal said sternly : " You are a nice fellow, you 
are. I well see the end of you. Now listen, this 
is the last time that I shall help you, my friend. 
The next time you take a bone you will bear the 
consequences, so look out." 

" Come, Jackal, now don't say any more ; I will 
not look at a bone again, I make you a solemn 
promise." 

" Keep to that, and you will be safe," replied 

Jackal. 

11 



K32 J/r DARK COMPANIONS 

Poor Dog, however, was by no means able to 
adhere to his promise, for a few days afterwards 
Leopardess brought a fat young eland, and he 
found an opportunity to abstract a fine marrow- 
bone before serving his generous mistress. Late in 
the afternoon, after dinner and siesta, Leopardess, 
before going out, repeated her usual charge to 
Jackal, and while the faithful servant retired to his 
nursing duties, greedy Dog sought his bone, and 
stole out to the forest with it. This time he went 
further than usual. Jackal meanwhile finding the 
cubs indisposed for sleep, led them out to the door 
of the den, where they frisked and gambolled about 
with all the liveliness of cubhood. Jackal was 
sitting at a distance from the door when he heard 
the cries of Dog. " Oh, Jackal, Jackal, good 
Jackal ! Shut the door (prickly. Look out for the 
bone. It is coming. Shut the door quickly." 

" Ha, ha ! friend Dog ! At it again, eh ? " said 
the Jackal. " It is too late, too late, Doggie dear, 
the cubs are in the doorway." He looked up, how- 
ever, saw the bone coming with terrific speed ; he 
heard it whiz as it flew close over his head, and 
almost immediately after it struck one of the cubs, 
killing it instantly. 

Jackal appeared to quickly realise the conse- 
quences of Dog's act, and his own carelessness, and 
feeling that henceforth Leopardess's den would be 
no home for him, he resolved to escape. Just 



THE LEOPARDESS AND HER TWO SERVANTS 163 

then Dog came up, and when he saw the dead cub 
he set up a piteous howl. 

" Aye," said Jackal. " You fool, you begin to 
see what your greed has brought upon us all. 
Howl on, my friend, but you will howl differently 
when Mistress Leopardess discovers her dead cult. 
Bethink yourself how all this will end. Our mighty 
mistress, if she catches you, will make mincemeat 
of you. Neither may I stay longer here. My 
home must be a burrow in the wild wood, or in the 
rocky cave in future. What will you do ? ' ; 

" I, Jackal ? I know not yet. Gro, if you will, 
and starve yourself. I trust to find a better home 
than a cramped burrow, or the cold shelter of a 
cave. I love warmth, and kitchen fires, and the 
smell of roast meats too well to trust myself to the 
chilly covert you propose to seek, and niy coat is 
too fine for rough _outdoor life." 

" Hark ! " cried Jackal, " do you hear that ? That 
is the mistress's warning note ! Fare you well, 

O t/ 

Doggie. I shall dream of you to-night lying stark 
under the paw of the Leopardess." 

Jackal waited to say no more, but fled from the 
scene, and from that day to this Jackal has been 
a vagabond. He loves the darkness, and the twi- 

O 

light. It is at such times you hear his yelp. He 
is very selfish and cowardly. He has not courage 
enough to kill anything for himself, but prefers 
to wait licking his chops until the lion or the 



104 My DARK COMPANIONS 

leopard, who has struck the game, has gorged him- 
self. 

As for Dog he was sorely frightened, but after a 
little deliberation lie resolved to face the matter 
out until he was certain of the danger. He con- 
veyed the cubs, living and dead, quickly within, 
and then waited with well-dissembled anxiety the 
coming of his mistress. 

Leopardess shortly arrived, and was met at the 
door by the obsequious Dog with fawning welcome. 

" Where is Jackal ? " asked Leopardess as she 
entered. 

" I regret to say he has not returned yet from a 
visit which he said he was bound to pay his friends 
and family, whom he had not seen for so long, 1 ' 
replied Dog. 

u Then you go and brin^ mv little ones to me. 

/ O t/ 

Poor little dears, they must be hungry by this, and 
my milk troubles me," commanded the mistress. 

Dog departed readily, thinking to himself, u I 
am in for it now.' He soon returned, bearing: one 

o 

of the cubs, and laid it down. 

" Bring the other one, quickly," cried Leopardess. 

" Yes, ma'am, immediately," he said. 

Dog took the same cub up again, but in a brief 
time returned with it. The cub, already satisfied, 
would not touch the teat. 

"Go and bring the other one, stupid," cried 
Leopardess, observing that it would not suck. 



^J ^ *lP^ :yLl7!5\I 









X*-!'-'- 4 '-.-'"" ' j.^'vJlii-J', -. -^sfeisX ' 'i li. 




02 

O 



Ed 
CQ 



CD 
O 

a 






THE LEOPARDESS AND HER TWO KER VANTS 167 

" This is the other one, mistress," he replied. 

" Then why does it not suck ? " she asked. 

" Perhaps it has not digested its dinner." 

" Where is Jackal ? Has he not yet returned ? 
Jackal ! " she cried. " Where are you, Jackal "i " 

From the jungle out-doors Jackal shrilly yelped, 
" Here I am, mistress ! r 

"Come to me this instant," commanded Leop- 
ardess. 

" Coming, mistress, coming," responded Jackal's 



s 



voice faintly, for at the sound of her call he had 
been alarmed and was trotting off. 

" Why, what can be the matter with the brute, 
trifling with me in this manner ? Here, Dog, take 
this cub to the crib." 

Dog hastened to obey, but Leopardess, whose 
suspicions had been aroused, quietly followed him 
as he entered the doorway leading into the inner 
recess of the house where the crib was placed. 
Having placed the living near the dead cub in the 
crib, Dog turned to leave, when he saw his dreaded 
mistress in the doorway, gazing with fierce dis- 
tended eyes, and it flashed on him that she had 
discovered the truth, and fear adding speed to his 
limbs he darted like an arrow between her legs, 
and rushed out of the den. With a loud roar of 
fury Leopardess sprang after him, Dog running 
for dear life. His mistress was gaining upon him, 
when Dog turned aside, and ran round the trees. 



168 MY DARK COMPANIO\s 

Again Leopardess was rapidly drawing near, when 
Dog shot straight away and increased the distance 
between them a little. Just as one would think 
Dog had no hope of escaping from his fierce mis- 
tress, he saw a wart-hog's burrow, into which he 
instantly dived. Leopardess arrived at the hole in 
the ground as the tail of Dog disappeared from 
her sight. Being too large of body to enter, she 
tore up the entrance to the burrow, now and then 
extending her paw far within to feel for her vic- 
tim. But the burrow was of great length, and 
ran deep downwards, and she was at last obliged 
to desist from her frantic attempts to reach the 
runaway. 

Reflecting awhile, Leopardess looked around and 
saw Monkey near by, sitting gravely on a branch 
watching her. 

" Come down, Monkey,' 1 she imperatively com- 
manded, " and sit by this burrow and watch the 
murdering slave who is within, while I procure 
materials to smoke him out." 

Monkey obeyed, and descending the tree, took 
his position at the mouth of the burrow. But it 
struck him that should Dog venture out, his 
strength would be unable to resist him. He there- 
fore begged Leopardess to stay a moment, while 
he went to bring a rock with which he could block 
the hole securely. When this was done Leopardess 
said, " Now stay here, and do not stir until I 



THE LEOPARDESS AND HER TWO SER VANTS 169 

return; I \vill not be long, and when I come I will 
fix him." 

Leopardess, leaving the burrow in charge of 
Monkey, commenced to collect a large quantity of 
dry grass, and then proceeded to her house to pro- 
cure fire wherewith to light it, and suffocate Dog 
with the smoke. 

Dos;, soon after enterino; the burrow had turned 

O' O 

himself round and faced the hole, to be ready for 
all emergencies. He had heard Leopardess give 
her orders to Monkey, had heard Monkey's plans 
for blockading him, as well as the threat of 
Leopardess to smoke him out. There was not 
much hope for him if he stayed loiio-er. 

J. / 

After a little while he crept close to the rock 
that blocked his exit, and whispered : 

" Monkey, let me out, there's a good fellow." 

" It may not be," replied Monkey. 

" Ah, Monkey, why are you so cruel ? I have 
not done any harm to you. Why do you stand 
guard over me to prevent my escape ? ' 

" I am simply obeying orders, Dog. Leopardess 
said, ' Stay here and watch, and see that Dog does 
not escape ; ' and I must do so or harm will come 
to me, as you know." 

Then said Dog, " Monkey, I see that you have a 
cruel heart, too, though I thought none but the 
Leopard kind could boast of that. May you feel 
some day the deep despair I feel in my heart. 



170 



11 1~ DARK COMPANIONS 



Let me say one word more to you before I die. 
Put your head close to me that you may 
hear it." 

Monkey, curious to kuow what the last word 
could be about, put his face close between the 
rock and the earth and looked in, upon which 
Dog threw so much dust and sand into his cun- 
ning eyes as almost to blind him. 

Monkey staggered back from the entrance, and 




"DOG FLED LIKE THE WIND.'' 

while knuckling his eyes to rub the sand out, Dog 
put his fore-feet against the rock and soon rolled 
it away. Then, after a hasty view around, Dog 
fled like the wind from the dangerous spot. 

Monkey, after clearing his eyes from the dirt 
thrown in them, and reviewing his position, began 
to be concerned as to his own fate. It was not 
long before his crafty mind conceived that it 
would be a good idea to place some soft nuts 



THE LEOPARDESS AND HER TWO SERVANTS 



\vithin the burrow, and roll back the stoiie iiito 
its place. 

When Leopardess returned with the fire she 
\vas told that Dog was securely imprisoned within, 
upon which she piled the grass over the burrow 
and set fire to it. 

Presently a crackling sound was heard within. 

" What can that be I " demanded Leopardess. 

" That must surely be one of Dog's ears that 
you heard exploding," replied Monkey. 

After a short time another crackling sound was 
heard. 

" And what is that ? " asked Leopardess. 

"Ah, that must be the other ear of course," 
Monkey answered. 

But as the fire grew hotter and the heat in- 
creased within there were a great many of these 
sounds heard, at which Monkey laughed gleefully 
and cried : 

"Ah ha! do you hear? Dog is splitting to 
pieces now. Oh, he is burning up finely ; every 
bone in his body is cracking. Ah, but it is a 
cruel death, though, is it not ? '' 

" Let him die," fiercely cried Leopardess. " He 
killed one of my young cubs one of the loveliest 
little fellows you ever saw." 

Both Leopardess and Monkey remained at the 
burrow until the fire had completely died out, then 
the first said : 



J/F DA^A' COMPANIONS 



" Now, Monkey, bring me a long stick with a 
hook at the end of it, that I may rake Dog's bones 
out and feast my eyes upon them." 

Monkey hastened to procure the stick, with 
which the embers were raked out, when Leopard- 
ess exclaimed : 

" What a queer smell this is ! It is not at all 
like what one would expect from a burnt dog." 

" Ah," replied Monkey, "Dog must be completely 
burnt by this. Of that there can be no doubt. 
Did you ever burn a dog before that you know the 
smell of its burnt body so well ? r 

u No," said the Leopardess ; " but this is not 
like the smell of roast meat. Rake out all the 
ashes that I may see the bones and satisfy mv- 

*' / / 

self." 

Monkey, compelled to do as lie was commanded, 
put in his stick, and drew out several half-baked 
nuts, the shells of which were cracked and gaping 
open. These Leopardess no sooner saw than she 
seized Monkey, and furiously cried : 

" You wretch, you have deceived and trifled with 
me ! You have permitted the murderer of my cub 
to escape, and your life shall now be the forfeit for 
his." 

" Pardon, mighty Leopardess, but let me ask 
how do you propose to slay me ? " 

" Why, miserable slave, how else should I kill 

vou but with one scratch of mv claws '. " 

j j 



THE LEOrAltltESS AND III-: 11 T\\'0 KEUVAXTS \\:\ 

" Nay, then, great Queen, my blood will fall on 
your head and smother you. It is better for your- 
self that you should toss me up above that thorny 
bough, so that when I fall upon it the thorns may 
penetrate my heart and kill me." 

No sooner had Monkey ended, than fierce 
Leopardess tossed Monkey upward as he had 
directed ; but the latter seized the bough and sat 
up, and from this he sprang upward into another 

still hio-her, and thence from branch to branch and 

~ 

from tree to tree until he was safe from all possible 
pursuit. 

Leopardess perceived that another of her in- 
tended victims had escaped, and was furious with 



rage. 



"Come down this instant," she cried to Monkey, 
hoping he would obey her. 

" Nay, Leopardess. It has been told me, and 
the forest is full of the report, that your cruelty 
has driven from yon Jackal and Dog, and that 
they will never serve you again. Cruel people 
never can reckon upon friends. I and my tribe, 
so Ions: servants to you, will henceforth be 

o J 

strangers to you. Fare you well." 

A great rustling was heard in the trees overhead 
as Monkey and his tribe migrated away from the 
district of the cruel Leopardess who, devoured 
with rage, was obliged to depart with not one of 
her vengeful thoughts gratified. 



As she was returning to her den, Leopardess 
bethought herself of the Oracle, who was her 
friend, who would no doubt, at her solicitations, 
reveal the hiding-places of Jackal and Dog. She 
directed her steps to the cave of the Oracle, who 
was a nondescript practising witchcraft in the 
wildest part of the district. 

To this curious being she related the story of 
the murder of her cub by Jackal and Dog, and 
requested him to inform her by what means she 
could discover the criminals and wreak her venge- 
ance on them. 

The Oracle replied, "Jackal has gone into the 
wild wood, and he and his family henceforward 
will always remain there, to degenerate in time 
into a suspicious and cowardly race. Dog has ned 
to take his shelter in the home of man, to be his 
companion and friend, and to serve man against 
you and your kind. But lest you accuse me of 
ill-will to you, I will tell you how you may catch 
Dog if you are clever and do not allow your 
temper to exceed your caution. Not far off is a 
village belouo-msr to one of the human tribes, near 

O O O 

which there is a large ant-hill, where moths every 
morning flit about in the sunshine of the early 
day. About the same time Dog leaves the village 
to sport and gambol and chase the moths. If you 
can find a lurking-place not far from it, where you 
can lie silently in wait, Dog may be caught by 



T11E LEOrARb-tiSH AXD HER TWO SERVANTS 175 



you iu an unwary moment while at his daily play. 
I have spoken." 

Leopardess thanked the Oracle and retired 
brooding over its advice. That night the moon 
was very clear and shining bright, and she stole 
out of her den, and proceeding due west as she was 
directed, in a few hours she discovered the village 

O 

and the ant-hill described by the Oracle. Near the 
mound she also found a thick dense bush, which 
was made still more dense by the tall wild grass 
surrounding it. In the depths of this she crouched, 
waiting for morning. At dawn the village wherein 
men and women lived was astir, and at sunrise the 
gates were opened. A little later Dog signalled 
himself by his well-known barks as he came out 
to take his morning's exercise. Unsuspicious of the 
presence of his late dread mistress he bounded up 
the hill and began to circle around, chasing the 
lively moths. Leopardess, urged by her anger, 
did not wait until Dog, tired with his sport, would 
of his own accord stray among the bushes, but 
uttering a loud roar sprang out from her hiding- 
place. Dog, warned by her voice, which he well 
knew, put his tail between his legs and rushed 
through the open gates and alarmed his new 
masters, who came pouring from their houses with 
dreadful weapons in their hands, who chased her, 
and would have slain her had she not bounded over 
the fence. Thus Leopardess lost her last chance 



17G 



Ml' DARK COMPAQ l(>.\s 



of revenging the death of her cub ; but as she was 
creeping homeward her mortification was so great 
that she vowed to teach her young eternal hostility 
towards Dog and all his tribe. Dog also, convinced 
that his late mistress was one who nourished an 
implacable resentment when offended, became more 



, I ; J 

jiiHi'rfi" ''); ,'V. h . ' 




"CAME POURING FROM THEIR llul'SKS WITH DREADFUL WEAPONS. 

cautious, and a continued life witli his new mas- 
ters increased his attachment for them. When 
he finally married, and was blessed with a progeny, 
he taught his pups various arts by which they 
mio-ht ingratiate themselves more and more witli 

O O 

the human race. He lived in comfort and affluence 



THE LEOPARDESS AND HER TWO SERVANTS 177 

to a good old age, and had the satisfaction to see his 
family grow more and more in the estimation of 
their generous masters, until dogs and men became 
inseparable companions. 

Leopardess and her cub removed far away from 
the house associated with her misfortune, but 
though Time healed the keen sore of her bereave- 
ment by blessing her annually with more cubs, her 
hate for Dog and his kind was lasting and continues 
to this day. And thus it was that the friendly 
fellowship which reigned between the forest ani- 
mals during the golden age of Uganda was broken 
for ever. 

For proof of the truth of what I have said con- 
sider the matter in your own minds. Regard the 
Ape who, upon the least alarm springs up the tree, 
and stays not until he has secured himself far from 
reach. Think of the Jackal in his cheerless solitude 
deep in the bowels of the earth, or in the farthest 
rocky recess that he can discover, ever on the 
watch against some foe, too full of distrust to have 
a friend, the most selfish and cowardly of the for- 
est community. The Leopard is the enemy at all 
times, night and day, of every animal, unless it be 
the lion and the elephant. As for the Dog, where 
is the man who is not acquainted with his fidelity, 
his courage in time of danger, his watchful care of 
his interests by night, and his honest love for the 
family which feeds him { My story is here ended. 
12 



A SECOND VERSION OF THE LEOPARD 
AND THE DOG STORY 



iRBOKO, who MUS 
originally from 
Unyoro, a country 
which lies to the 
north of Uganda, and 
had been employed as 
a page by ]\Itesa, kiii^- 
of Uganda, protested 
that his version of 
how the doo- became 

O 

estranged from the 

o 

leopard, his chum, was 
nearer the truth than 

that given by Kadu. Perceiving that he was in- 
clined to contribute to our amusement, fora reason 
of his own, we ranged ourselves around the camp 
tire in the usual way and prepared to listen to 
another version of a legend which is popular 
among most of the tribes dwelling in the Lake 
Region. 




LKOPARD AND DOG STORY, SECOND VERSION 179 



How THE DOG OUTWITTED THE LEOPARD * 

111 the early time there was a dog and a leopard 
dwelling together in a cave like chums. They 
shared and fared alike. Exact half of everything 
and equal effort were the terms upon which they 
lived. Many and many a famous raid among the 
flocks and fowls in the human villages they made. 
The leopard was by far the strongest and boldest, 
and was most successful iu catching prey. Dog 
lived so well on the spoils brought home by his 
friend that he became at last fat and lazy, and he 
began to dislike going out at night in the rain and 
cold dew, and to hide this growing habit from 
Leopard he had to be very cunning. He always 
invented some excuse or another to explain why 
he brought nothing to the common larder, and 
finally he hit upon a new plan of saving himself 
from the toil and danger. 

O 

Just before dusk one day, Leopard and Dog 
were sociably chatting together, when Leopard 
said that he intended that night to catch a fine 
fat black goat which he had observed in the near- 
est village to their den. He had watched him 
getting fatter every day, and he was bent upon 
bringing him home. 

* Republished from the " Fortnightly Magazine " with the permis- 
sion of the Editor and Proprietors. 



180 MY DARK COMPANIONS 

" Black is it ? " cried Dog. " That is strange, 
for that is also the colour of the one I purposed to 
catch to-niffht.' 

o 

The two friends slept until most of the night 
was gone, but when there were signs that morning 
was not far off they silently loped away to their 
work. 

They parted at the village which Leopard had 
selected to rob, Dog whispering " Good luck " to 
him. Dog trotted off a little way and sneaked 
back to watch his friend. 

Leopard stealthily surveying the tall fence, saw 
one place which he could leap over, and at one 
spring was inside the village. Snuffing about, he 
discovered the goat-pen, forced an entrance, and 
seizing his prize by the neck, drew it out. He 
then flung it over his shoulders, and with a mighty 
leap landed outside the fence. 

Dog, who had watched his chance, now cried out 
in an affected voice, " Hi, hi wake up ! Leopard 
has killed the goat. There he is. Ah, ah ! Kill 
him, kill him ! " 

Alarmed at the noise made, and hearing a rustle 
in the grass near him, Leopard was obliged to 
abandon his prize, and to save his own life, dropped 
the goat and fled. 

Dog, chuckling loudly at the success of his ruse, 
picked the dead goat up, and trotted home to the 
den with it. 



g^v V'^p'^^^^^^l^^^^iJfe^;;:- 




LEOPARD AND DOG STORY, SECOND VERSION 183 



" Oh, see, Leopard ! " cried lie, as he readied the 
entrance, " what a fat goat I've got at my village. 
Is it not a heavy one ? But where is yours ? Did 
you not succeed after all 2 " 

" Oh ! I was alarmed by the owners in the 
village, who pursued me and yelled out, i Kill him, 
kill him !' and there was something rustling in the 

O O 

grass close by, and I thought that I was done for ; 
but I dropped the goat and ran away. I dare say 
they have found the animal by this, and have 
eaten our meat. Never mind, though, better 
luck next time. I saw a fine fat white goat 
in the pen, which I am sure to catch to-morrow 
night," 

"Well, I am very sorry, but cheer your heart, 
You shall have an equal share with me of this. 
Let us bestir ourselves to cook it." 

They gathered sticks and made a fire, and began 
to roast it. When it was nearly ready Dog went 
outside, and took a stick and beat the ground, and 

O ' 

whined out : 

" Oh ! please, I did not do it, It was Leopard 
that killed the goat. Oh ! don't kill me. It was 
Leopard who stole it," 

Leopard, hearing these cries and the blows of 
the stick, thought to himself : u Ah ! the men have 

O 

followed us to our den, and are killing Dog ; then 
they will come and kill me if I do not run." He 
therefore ran out and escaped. 



184 MY DARK COMPANIONS 



Dog, on seeing him well away, coolly returned 
to the den and devoured the whole of the meat, 
leaving only the bones. 

After a long time Leopard returned to the den, 
and found Dog moaning piteously. " What is the 
matter, my friend ? " he asked. 

" Ah ! oh ! don't touch me ; don't touch me, I 
beg of you. I am so bruised and sore all over ! 
Ah ! my bones ! They have half killed me," 
moaned Dog. 

" Poor fellow ! Well, lie still and rest. There 
is nothing like rest for a bruised body. I will get 
that white goat the next time I try." 

After waiting two or three days, Leopard 
departed to obtain the white goat. Dog sneaked 
after him, and served his friend in the same way, 
bringing the white goat himself, and bragging how 
he had succeeded, while pretending to pity Leopard 
for his bad luck. 

Three times running Dog served him with the 
same trick, and Leopard was much mortified at 
his own failure. Then Leopard thought of the 
Muzimu the oracle who kno\\ s all things, and 
gives such good advice to those who are unfortu- 
nate and ask for his help and he resolved, in his 
distress, to seek him. 

In the heart of the tall, dark woods, where the 
bush is most dense, where vines clamber over 
the clumps, and fold themselves round and round 



l.l-:<iI'M,'l> AMI Don STORY, SECOND l7-;/,',s7OA' 185 



tlie trees, ami hang in long coils by the side of a 
cool stream, tlie Muzimu resided. 

Leopard softly drew near tlie sacred place and 
cried, " Oil ! Muzimu, have pity on me. I am 
almost dying with hunger. I used to be bold and 
strong, and successful, but now, of late, though I 
catch my prey as of old, something always hap- 
pens to scare me away, and I lose the meat I have 
taken. Help me, O Muzimu, and tell how my 
good luck may return." 

After a while the Muzimu answered in a deep 
voice, " Leopard, your ill-luck comes from your 
own folly. You know how to catch prey, but it 
takes a doe; to know how to eat it. Go ; watch 

o 

your friend, and your ill-luck will fly away." 

Leopard was never very wise, though he had 
good eyes, and was swift and brave, and he 
thought over what the Muzimu said. He could 
not understand in what way his good luck would 
return by watching his friend, but he resolved t< > 
follow the advice of the Muzimu. 

The next night Leopard gave out that he was 
going to seize a dun-coloured goat, and Dog said, 
" Ah ! that is what I mean to do too. I think a 
dun-coated goat so sweet." 

The village was reached, a low place was found 
in the palings, and Leopard, as quick as you could 
wink, was over and among the goats. With one 
stroke he struck his victim dead, threw it over his 



lg(j MY DARK COMPANIONS 



shoulders, and, with a flying leap, carried it out- 
side. Dog, who was hiding near the place, in a 
strange voice cried, u Ah ! here he is the thief of 
a Leopard ! Kill him ! kill him ! " 

Leopard turning his head around, saw him in 
the grass and heard him yelp, " Awu-ou-ou ! 
Awu-ou-ou ! Kill him ! kill him ! " dropped the 
goat for an instant and said, " Ah, it is you, my 
false friend, is it { Wait a l>it, and I will teach you 
how you may steal once too often." With eyes 
like balls of tire, he rushed at him, and would have 
torn him into pieces, but Dog's instinct told him 
that the game he had been playing was up, and 
bui'vino; his tail between his hind le^s, he turned 

' O O 

and fled for dear life. Hound and round the village 
he ran, darting this way and that, until, finding his 
strength was oozing out of him, he dashed finally 
through a gap in the fence, straight into a man's 
house and under the bed, where he lay gasping 
and panting. Seeing that the man, who had been 
scared by his sudden entry, was about to take his 
spear to kill him, he crawled from under the bed 
to the man's feet, and licked them, and turned on 
his back imploring mercy. The man took pity on 
him, tied him up, and made a pet of him. Ever 
since Dog and Man have been firm friends, but 
a mortal hatred has existed between Dog and 
Leopard. Dog's back always bristles straight up 
when his enemy is about, and there is no truer 



LEOPARD AND J)OG STOKF, SECOND VERSION 187 

warning of the Leopard's presence than that given 
by Dog while Leopard would rather eat a dog 
than a goat any day. That is the way as I heard 
it in Unyoro that the chumship between Leopard 
and Dog was broken up. 



THE LEGEND OF THE CUNNING TER- 
RAPIN AND THE CRANE 




HE following story of the 
cunning Terrapin and 
the Crane established 
K a d u ' s reputation 
among us, and the 
Zanzibaris were never 
so amused as on this 



evening. 

O 



"Master," began 
Kadu, after we had 
made ourselves com- 
fortable before a bright and crackling fire, " some 
men say that animals do not reason, and cannot 
express themselves, but I should like to know 
how it is that we perceive that there is great 
miming in their actions, as though they calculated 
beforehand how to act, and what would be the 
result. We Waganda think animals are very 
clever. We observe the cock in the yard, and the 
hen with her chickens ; the leopard, as he is about 
to pounce on his prey ; the lion, as he is about to 
attack ; the crocodile, as he prepares for his rush ; 



THE CUNNING TERRAPIN AND THE CRANE 189 

the buft'alo in the shade, as he awaits the hunter; 
the elephant, as he stands at attention; and we 
say to ourselves, how intelligent they are! Our 
legends are all founded on these things, and \\v 
interpret the actions of animals from having seen 
their methods; and I think men placed in the same 
circumstances could not have acted much better. 
It may appear to you, as though we were telling 
you mere idle tales to raise a laugh. Well, it may 
be very amusing to hear and talk about them, but 
it is still more amusing to watch the tricks of 
animals and insects, and our old men are fond of 
quoting the actions of animals to teach us, while 
we are children, what we ought to do. Indeed, 
there is scarcely a saying but what is founded upon 
something that au animal was seen to do at one 

O 

time or another. 

" Now the story that I am about to relate, is a 
very old one in Uganda. I heard it when a child, 
and from the fact that a Terrapin was said to be so 
cunning, I have never liked to ill-treat a Terrapin, 
and every time I see one, the story comes to my 
mind in all its freshness." 

A Terrapin and a Crane were one time travelling 
together very sociably. They began their conver- 
sation by the Terrapin asking : 

" How is your family to-day, Miss Crane ?" 

" Oh, very well. Mamma, who is getting old, 
complains now and then, that's all." 



190 J/T DARK COMPASIOXS 



u But do you know that it strikes me that she is 
very fat ? " said Terrapin. " Now a thought has 
just entered my head, which I beg to propose to 
you. My mother, too, is ailing, and I am rather- 
tired of hearing her complaints day after day ; but 
she is exceedingly lean and tough, though there 
is plenty of her. I wonder what you will say to 
my plan ? We are both hungry. So let us go and 
kill A T our mother, and eat her; and to-morrow, you 

V ' t/ 

will come to me, and we will kill my mother. 
\Ye thus shall be supplied with meat for some 
days." 

Replied the Crane, " I like the idea greatly, and 
agree to it. Let us go about it at once, for hunger 
is an exacting mistress, and the days of fasting are 
more frequent than those of fulness." 

The matricides turned upon their tracks, and, 
arriving at the house of Mrs. Crane, the two cruel 
creatures seized upon Mamma Crane, and put her 
to death. They then plucked her clean, and 
placed her body in the stew-pot, and both Terrapin 
and Crane feasted. 

Terrapin then crawled home, leaving Crane to 
sleep, and the process of digestion. But, alas ! 
Crane soon became very ill. \Yhether some qualms 
of conscience disturbed digestion or not, I cannot 
say, but she passed a troublesome night, and for 
several days afterwards she did not stir from her 
house. 



THE CUNNING TERRAPIN AND THE CRANE i;jl 



Terrapin, oil reaching the house of its mamma, 
which was in the hollow of a tree, cried out : 

" Tii-no-no-uo ! 11 upon which Mrs. Terrapin said, 
" Oh, that is my child/' and she let down a cord, 
to which young Terrapin made himself fast, and 
was assisted to the nest where the parent had 
already prepared a nice supper for him. 

Several days later, Terrapin was proceeding 
through the woods to the pool where he was ac- 
customed to bathe, when at the water-side he met 
Miss Crane apparently quite spruce and strong 



She hailed Terrapin and said, "Oh, here you 
are, at last. I have been waiting to see you for 
some time." 

"Yes," replied Terrapin, "here I am, and you 
-how do you feel now? My neighbours told me 
you were very ill." 

" I am all right again," said Miss Crane, " but I 
think my old ma disagreed with me, and I was 
quite poorly for some days; but I am now anxious 
to know when you are going to keep your part of 
the bargain which we made." 

"What you mean about the disposing of my 
old ma ? " 

" Yes, to be sure," answered Crane, " I feel quite 
hungry." 

" Well, well. Bargains should always be kept, 
for if the blood-oath be broken misfortune fol- 



192 MY DARK COMPANIONS 

lows. Your mother's death rests on my head, and 
I mean to return your hospitality with interest, 
otherwise, may my shell l>e soon empty of its ten- 
ant. Stay here awhile and I will bring her." 

So saying, Terrapin departed, and crept to where 
he had secretly stowed a quantity of india-rubber, 
in readiness for the occasion. After taking out 
quite a mass of it, he returned to the pond, where 
Miss Crane stood on one leg, expectant and wink- 
ing pleasantly. 

" I fear, sister Crane/' said Terrapin, as he laid 
his burden down, " that you will find my old ma 
touo'h. She turned out to be much leaner than I 

O 

anticipated. There is no more fat on her bones, 
than there is on my back. But now, fall to, and 
welcome. There is plenty there. I am not hungry 
myself, as I have just finished my dinner." 

Miss Crane, with her empty stomach, was not 
fastidious, and stepped out eagerly to the feast so 
faithfully provided, and began to tear away at 
what Terrapin had brought. The rubber, how- 
ever, stretched by the greedy Crane, suddenly flew 
from her foot, and rebounding, struck her in the 
face a smart blow. 

" Oh ! oh ! " cried Crane, confused with the blow. 
"Your old ma is most tough. 1 ' 

"Yes, she is. I suspected she would prove a 
little tough," answered Terrapin, with a chuckle. 
"But don't be bashful. Eat away, and welcome." 



THE CUNNING TERRAPIN AND THE CRANE 193 

Again Miss Crane tugged at the rubber to tear 
it, but the more it was stretched, the more severe 
were the shocks she received, and her left eye was 
almost blinded. 

" Well, I never, 1 ' exclaimed Miss Crane. "She is 
too tough altogether." 

" Try again," cried Terrapin. " Try again ; little 
bv little, it is said, a fly eats a cow's tail. You will 

a 1 t/ 

get a rare and tender bit in time." 

Miss Crane thus pressed, did so, and seizing a 
piece lay back, and drew on it so hard that when 
the rubber at last slipped, it bounded back with 
such force, that she was sent sprawling to the 
ground. 

"Why, what is the matter?" asked Terrapin, 
pretending to be astonished. "She is tough, I 
admit ; but loh ! our family are famous for tough- 
ness. However, the toucher it is, the longer it 

O o 

lasts on the stomach. Try aimin, sister Crane ; I 

/ o 

warrant you will manage it next time." 

" Oh, bother your old ma. Eat her yourself. I 
have had enough of that kind of meat.' 

O 

" You give it up, do you ? ' cried Terrapin. 
" Well, well, it is a pity to throw good meat away. 
Maybe, if I keep it longer it will get tenderer by 
and by." 

They thus parted, Terrapin bearing his share 
of rubber away in one direction, and Miss Crane 

sadly disgusted, striding grandly off in another, 
13 



194 MY DARK COMPANIONS 

but looking keenly about for something to satisfy 
her hunger. 

o 

When she had gone a great distance a parrot 
flew across her path, and perching on a branch 
near her, cried out, " Oh, royal bird, say since when 
has rubber become the food of the bird-king's 
family ? " 

" What do you mean, Parrot ? " she asked. 

" Well, I saw you tearing at a piece of rubber 
just now, and when you marched off Terrapin 
carried it away, and I heard him say because he 
has a habit of speaking his thoughts aloud Oh, 
how stupid my sister Crane is ! She thinks my ma 
is dead. Ho, ho, ho ! what a stupid ! And all 
the way he chuckled and laughed as though he 
was filled with plantain wine." 

" Is his ma not dead then ? " asked Miss Crane. 

" Dead ! Not a bit of it," replied Parrot. " I saw 
old Ma Terrapin but a moment ago as I flew by 
her tree, waiting for her son, and the cord is 
ready for his cry of l Tu-uo-no-no. Ano-no-no. 
We-no-uo-no ! ' 

" Ah, Parrot, your words are good. When we 
know what another is saying behind our backs, we 
discover the workings of his heart. The words of 
Terrapin are like the bush that covers the trap. 
Good-by, Parrot. When we next meet, we shall 
have another story to tell." 

On the next day, Terrapin observed Miss Crane 



THE CUNNING TERRAPIN AND THE CRANE 195 

approaching his house, and he advanced a little 
way to meet her. 

" Well, sister Crane, I hope you are all right this 
morning?" he asked. 

"Oh yes, so so, brother Terrapin. But you must 
excuse me just n<>\v; I've heard bad news from my 
family. A brother and sister of mine are suddenly 
taken ill, and I am bound to go and visit them- 1 ' 
answered Crane. 

"Ah, Miss Crane, that reminds me of my own 
brother and sister, who are much younger than I 
am, but very soft and tender. What do you say 
now to making another bargain?" asked Terrapin 
with a wink. 

"You are very good, Terrapin. I will think of 
it as I go along. I shall be back before noon to- 
morrow, and we will talk of a trade then." They 
were very civil to one another as they parted. 
Terrapin went for his usual walk to the pond, Miss 
Crane proceeded to visit her family, but muttered : 

" Ha, ha, Terrapin, you are great at a trade ; 
but you will not make another with me in a hurry 
till our first one is squared." 

After she had gone a little way she turned sud- 
denly round and came back to the foot of Terra- 
pin's tree, and cried, 

" Tu-no-no-no. Ano-no-no-no. We-no-no-no ! ' 

"Ah, that is my child's voice," said Ma Terrapin 
to herself,, and let down the cord. 



190 MY DARK COMPANIONS 

Miss Crane caught hold and climbed up towards 
the nest. Ma Terrapin craned her neck out far to 
welcome her child, but before she could discover 
by what means little Terrapin had changed its 
dress, Miss Crane struck Ma Terrapin with her 
long sharp bill in the place where the neck joins 
the shoulder, and in a short time Ma Terrapin was 
as dead as Miss Crane's own mother. 

The body was rolled from the nest, and it 
went falling down, and Miss Crane slid quickly 
after it. 

In a quiet place screened by thick bushes Miss 
Crane made a great fire, with which Ma Terrapin's 
thick shell was cracked. She then scooped out the 
flesh, and carried it to her own home, and stowed 
it in a big black pot. 

On the next day as Miss Crane was standing on 
one leg by the pond, with her head half buried in 
her feathers, who should come along but Terrapin, 
crying bitterly, and saying, " Ah, my ma is dead. 
My old ma has been killed. Who will assist me 
now?" 

Miss Crane affected to be asleep, but heard every 
word. When, however, Terrapin was near, she 
woke up suddenly and said, cheerfully, 

" All ! it is Terrapin, my little brother Terrapin. 
How do you do to-day I r ' 

Now as Terrapin had already slain his mother, 
according to his own confession, it struck him that 

o 



THE CUNNING TERRAPIN yO7) THE CRANE lj| 

it would not do to accuse Miss Crane of the mur- 
der, because by doing so he would expose liis 
breach of faith with her, but the scent of the 
roasted flesh of Ma Terrapin came strong just 
then, and he knew that it was Crane who, discov- 
ering his trick, had killed her. 

O 

He managed, however, to reply briskly : 

" Sissy, dear, I am but tolerable. Hut how is 
your family to-day ?" 

k ' My brother and sister are much improved, 
Terrapin. They are both as fat as tallow. Hy- 
the-bye, what about that trade you proposed to 
me ? " 

" I am ready, Miss Crane, for a trade any day. 
\Vhen shall it be ? " 

" No time so good as the present, and if you jog 
along to the other end of the pond, I will fix my 
house here, and soon catch up with you." 

Terrapin professed great delight, and toddled 
along ; but when he had gone a little way his bad 
habit of thinking aloud came on him, and he was 
heard to say :- 

"My poor nia ! my poor ma is dead ! O you 
wicked Crane ! I know by the scent of the meat 
that you have killed my ma. What can I do 
now ? " 

Miss Crane knew then that she had been dis- 
covered, and she began to think that it was time 
to remove to another district, far Terrapin had. 



198 J/r DARK COMPANIONS 

mauy friends iu the woods, such as rabbits, jack- 
als, lions, and serpents, and if Terrapin moaned 
so loud, all the people of the woods would know 
what she had doue, and many would no doubt 
assist him to punish her. Casting about in 
her mind for the best place, she remembered 
an extremely tall tree which was not far from 
Terrapin's house, a very lofty clean-shafted tree, 
on the top of which she would be safe from 
surprise. 

Thither she hastily removed her belongings, and 
soon established herself comfortably. She had also 
provided herself with a store of strong sticks to be 
used as weapons in case of necessity. 

Terrapin meanwhile crawled along, moaning 
loudly his lamentations. Suddenly Rabbit popped 
out of the woods, and stood in his path. He soon 
was made aware of Terrapin's bereavement, and 
strongly sympathised with him. Terrapin related 
the story in such a way that made Miss Crane 
appear to be a murderess, against whom the people 
of the woods should take vengeance. 

o 

" Then," said Rabbit, "that must be Miss Crane, 
who is building her house on the very top of that 
tall tree near your place." 

" Is she ? " asked Terrapin. " I did not know 
that. She was to have met me here; but I see 
she knows that she is detected, and is already 
taking measures to protect herself. But, Rabbit, 



THE CUNNING TERRAPIN AND THE CRANE 199 

you who are always wise, tell me how I may 
avenge myself ? r 

"There is only one way that I know of," 
answered Rabbit, dubiously. " Go to the Soko 
(Gorilla ?), but he is a hard dealer who will make 
you pay handsomely for his help. Soko is the 
king of the ape kind. If you pay him well, he 
will fasten a cord to Crane's nest, up which you 
can climb when she is absent, Once there, lie 
(|iiietly, and when she alights seize her." 

The plan pleased Terrapin immensely, and pos- 
sessing a comfortable property upon the loss of his 
mother, he thought he had sufficient to purchase 
Soko's assistance. 

Through the good offices of Rabbit negotiations 
were entered into with Soko, who agreed for a 
potful of good nuts, ten bunches of ripe bananas, 
one hundred eggs, and sundry other trifles, to hang 
a stout rattan climber to Crane's nest, long enough 
to reach the ground. 

The royal bird was soon informed of the con- 
spiracy against her by the Parrot, who loves to 
carry tales, and Miss Crane resolved to be absent 
from home while Soko was fastening the climber, 
but commissioned her friend the Parrot to observe 
the proceedings, and to report to her when Soko 
had completed his task. 

Soko performed his part expeditiously. Terra- 
pin tested the strength of the rattan, and had to 



200 MY DARK COMPANIONS 

confess that Soko had earned his pay, and Rabbit 
accompanied Terrapin and Soko to Terrapin's house 
to see the Soko receive his commission. 

As they departed Parrot flew to inform Miss 
Crane, who immediately returned to her house to 
await her enemy. 

Not long after Terrapin came to the foot of 
Crane's tree and commenced to climb up. He had 
nearly reached the top when Miss Crane stood up 
and delivered such a thwacking blow on Terrapin's 
back that it caused him to loose his hold and fall 
to the ground. When Terrapin recovered his 
senses, he heard Miss Crane cry out 

" Ha ! brother Terrapin, that was a nasty fall. 
You remember the rubber, don't you ? There is 
nothing like the advice you gave me. Try again, 
Terrapin, my brother. Try again." 

" You killed my ma, did you not ? " asked Ter- 
rapin. 

" I thought you told me that you had killed her 
according to agreement. Then how can you say 
that I killed her ? " asked Miss Crane. 

" That was not my ma I gave you. It was only 
a lump of rubber." 

" Ho, ho ! You confess it then ? Well, we are 
now quits. You induced me to kill my ma, and 
as you could not keep your part of the bargain, 
I saved you the trouble. My ma w T as as much to 
me as your ma was to you. We have both lost 



1PPP !> w^m^ty,. 




" KOKO i'KKKOK.Mi:!) Illy PART KXPKDITKtl'SLY. 



THE CUNNING- TERRAPIN AND THE CRANE 203 

our mil's now. So let us call it even, and be 
friends again. 1 ' 

Terrapin hesitated, but tlie memory of his ma's 
loss soon produced the old bitterness, and he be- 
came as unforffiviner as ever. Miss Crane must, 

o o 

however, be persuaded that the matter was for- 
given, otherwise he would never have the oppor- 
tunity to avenge his ma's death. 

" All right, Crane," he answered ; " but let me 
come up, and embrace you over it, or do you de- 
scend and let us shake hands." 

" Come up, by all means, Terrapin. I am always 
at home to friends," said Miss Crane. 

Terrapin upon this began to climb, but as he 
was ascending he foolishly began to think aloud 
again, and he was heard say in g- 

" Oh, yes, sister Crane. Just wait a little, and 
you will see. He, he, he ! ' 

Miss Crane, who was quietly listening, heard 
Terrapin's chuckle and muttering, and prepared to 
receive him properly. When he was within reach, 
she cried, " Hold hard, Terrapin," and at once pro- 
ceeded to shower mighty blows on his back, then 
laid the stick on his feet so sharply that, to protect 
them, he had to withdraw them into his shell, in 
doing which he lost his hold and fell to the ground 
with such force that to anything but a terrapin 
the great fall would have been instantly fatal. 

" Try again, Terrapin ; try again, my brother. 



204 MY HARK COMPANIONS 

Another time and you will succeed," cried Miss 
Crane, mockingly. 

Terrapin slowly recovered liis faculties from the 
second fall, and exclaimed, " Ah, Crane, Crane. If 
I heed you a second time, call me fool. Yesterday 
and to-day you triumphed, to-morrow will be my 
turn." 

" JTwa-le, kwa-le" Miss Crane shrilly cried. " My 
tree will stand to-morrow where it stood to-day. 
You know the way to it ; if not, your hate will 
nnd it." 

Terrapin toddled away upon this to seek the 
Lion, to whom, when he had found him, he pleaded 
so powerfully that the Lion pitied him greatly, 
and answered, " I may not help you in this matter, 
for I was not made to climb trees. Go you, and 
tell Jackal your story, and he will be able to 
advise you." 

Acting on the friendly advice, Terrapin sought 
out the Jackal, to whom he repeated his lament- 
able tale. The Jackal rewarded him with a sym- 
pathetic sigh, and said, " Friend Terrapin, my teeth 
are sharp and my feet are swift, but, though I am 
so happily endowed, I have no wings to fly. Go 
and seek Elephant. His strength is so great that 
perhaps he will be able to pull the tree down for 
you." 

Terrapin proceeded on his way to search out the 
Elephant, and, after much patient travel, disco v- 



' 




HOLD HARD, TERRAPIN!" 



THE CUNNING TERRAPIN AND THE CRANE 207 

ered him brooding under a thick shade. To him 
at once Terrapin unburdened his breast of its load 
of grief, and appealed piteously for his assistance. 
" Little Terrapin/' replied the kindly Elephant, 
" your tale is dour. But though I am strong, 
there are some things that I cannot do. Miss 

O 

Crane's house is built on one of the biggest trees 

oo 

of the forest, and it would require two score of 
elephants to drag it down. It is wisdom, and not 
strength, that you need. Go you and seek Serpent, 
and he will assist you." 

Thence Terrapin went to seek Serpent, and, 
after long seeking, found him coiled, in many shin- 
ing folds, in the fork of a sturdy tree. 

" Ah, Serpent," he cried, " you are a kinsman of 
mine, and I have long sought you. I am in dire 
distress, my friend," and he proceeded to inveigh 
against Miss Crane passionately, and concluded by 
invoking his assistance. 

" Help me this day," cried Terrapin, " and you 
shall be my father and my mother, and all my 
nearest relations in one." 

"It is well," replied the Serpent, in his slow, 
deliberate manner. " Miss Crane shall die, and 
here I make a pact with you. There shall be no 
enmity for all future time between your family 
and mine. Go now, and rest in peace, for the fate 
of Crane is fixed." 

In the darkness of the night Serpent roused 



208 



MY DARK 'COM PAX TOXS 



himself from his sleep and, uncoiling himself, 
descended the tree and glided noiselessly along the 
ground towards Miss Crane's tree. The tall clean 




"POOR MISS CRANE WAS FAST A.SI.KEP." 

shaft could not arrest those spiring movements, 
and the Serpent steadily ascended until he gained 
the fork. Thence, by an almost imperceptible 



THE CUNNING TERRAPIN AND THE CRANE 209 



motion, lie advanced towards the nest. Poor Miss 
Crane was fast asleep, dreaming of the fall of 
Terrapin, while the Serpent folded his extremity 
around a stout Branch and stood up prepared to 
strike. Quick as one could wink the Serpent 
flung himself upon the bird-queen, and in a 
moment she lay crushed and mangled. Then, 
seizing her body with his jaws, the Serpent slid 
down the shaft of the tree and sought Terrapin's 
house, and laid her remains before him. Terrapin 
was overjoyed, and invited Serpent to share with 
him the dainty feast which the body of Miss 
Crane supplied. 

From that day to this Serpent and Terrapin 
have remained close friends, and neither has ever 
been known to break the solemn agreement that 

o 

was made between them on that day that Ter- 
rapin solicited the help of Serpent against the 
bird-queen. 

14 



THE LEGEND OF KIBATTI THE LITTLE 
WHO CONQUERED ALL THE GREAT 
ANIMALS 

HAVE done my 
very best to trans- 
late tliis story as 
closely as possible 
in order to give 
the faithful sense 
of what was said, 
yet I despair of 

*/ -L 

rendering the little 

O 

touches and flour- 
ishes which Kadu 
knew so well ho\v to give with voice, gesture, and 
mobile face. 

" Friends and freemen," he said, when we were 
all in listening attitude, " if a son of man knows 
how to show auger, I need not tell you who are 
experienced in travel and in the nature of beasts, 
that the animals of the wilds also know how to 
show their spite and their passions." The legend 
of Kibatti runs upon this. 

On a day ages ago the great animals of the 




THE LEGEND OF KIBATTI THE LITTLE 211 

world, consisting of the elephant, the rhinoceros, 
the buffalo, the lion, the leopard, and hyena, 
assembled in council in the midst of a forest not 
far from a village on the frontier of Uganda, The 
elephant being acknowledged by general consent 
as the strongest, presided on the occasion. 

Waving his trunk, and trumpeting to enjoin 
silence, he said : " Friends, we are gathered together 
to-day to consider how we may repay in some 
measure the injuries daily done to us and our kin 
by the sons of men. Not far from here is situated 
a village, whence the vicious two-footed animals 

O / 

issue out to make war upon all of us, who possess 
double the number of feet they have. Without 
warning of hostility or publishing of cause, they 
deliberately leave their conical nests, day by day, 
with fellest intent against any of us whom they 
may happen to meet during the shining of the sun. 
Wherefore we are met upon common grounds to 
devise how we may retaliate upon them the wanton 
outrages the}' daily perpetrate upon our unfortu- 
nate kind. Personally, I have many injuries to the 
elephants of my tribe to remember, and which I am 
not likely to forget. It was only a week ago that 
a promising child of my sister fell into a deep pit, 
and was impaled on a short stake set in the bottom 
of it ; and but a few days before my youngest 
brother fell head-foremost into a horribly deep 
excavation that was dug, and which was artfully 



MY DARK COMPANIO.\H 



concealed by leaves and grass, whereby none but 
those, like myself, experienced in their guileful 
arts, could have escaped. Ye have all, I daresay, 
been similarly persecuted, and have deep injuries 
t<> revenge. I wait to hear what ye propose. 
Brother Rhinoceros, thou art the next to me in 
bigness and strength, speak." 

" Well, brother Elephant and friends, the words 
we have heard are true. The son of man is, of all 
creatures that I know, the most wanton in offence 
against us of the four-footed tribes. Not a day 
passes but I hear moan and plaint- from some 
sufferer. Not long ago, a cousin, walking quietly 
through a wood not far from here, caught his foot 
in a vine that lay across the path, and almost 
immediately after a hardened and pointed stake 
was precipitated from above deep into the jointure 
of the neck with the spine, which killed him 
instantly, of course. I have, by wonderful good 
luck, escaped thus far, but it may be my fate to fall 
to-morrow through some foul practice. Wherefore, 
I think it were well that we set about doin^ what 

O 

we decide to do iustanter. I propose that early in 
the morning, before a glint of sunshine be seen, we 
set upon the piratical nest and utterly destroy it. 
I am so loaded with hate of them, that I could dis- 
pose of the half of the rascals myself, before they 
could recover their wits. But if any of ye here has 
a better plan, I lend my ears to the hearing of it, 



THE LEGEND OF KIBATTI THE LITTLE 213 

iiiv heart to the approval of it, and my strength 
and fury t> the doing of it, without further speech. 
L have spoken." 

"Now, friend Lion," said the Elephant, turning 
solemnly to him, " it is thy turn, and say freely 
what thy wit conceives in this matter. Thy cour- 
age we all know, and none of us doubt that thy 
mind is equal to it." 

" Trul v, friend Elephant, and ye others, the 
business we are met to consider is pressing. The 
sons of men are crafty, and their guile is beyond 
measure. The four-footed tribes have much cause 
of grievance against me and mine. However, none 

o o 

can accuse me or my family of having taken undue 
advantage of those whom we meditate striking. 
We always give loud warning, as you all know, and 
afterwards strike ; for if we did not do this, few 
of even the strongest would escape our vengeance. 
But these pestilent, two-footed beasts by net, trap, 
falling stake, pit, or noose are unceasing in their 
secret malice, and there is no safety in the plain, 
bush, or rock-fastness against their wiles. For 
what I and my kin do there is good motive that 
of providing meat for ourselves and young ; but it 
passes my wit to discover what the son of man 
can want with all he destroys. Even our bones 
as, for instance, thy long teeth, O Elephant they 
carry away with them, and even mine. I have 
seen the younglings of mankind dangle the teeth of 



214 MY DARK COMPANIONS 



my sister round their necks, and my hide appears 
to be so precious that the king of the village wears 
it over his dirty black loins. Thy tribe, O Ele- 
phant, have not much cause of complaint against 
me, and thou, Rhinoceros, it would tax thy memory 
to accuse me of aught against thy family. Brother 
Leopard will hold me and mine guiltless of harm 
to him ; so also must my cousin Hyena. Friend 
Buffalo and our family have sometimes a sharp 
quarrel, but there is no malice in it, I swear. 
Whereas the son of man, friends, is the common 
enemy of us all it is either our flesh, or our fur, 
or our hide, or our teeth that he is wanting, and 

O ? 

his whole thought is bent upon destruction pure 
and simple. If ye would follow me, I would glory 
iu leading ye even now against the community, and 
I give ye my word that fe\v would escape my paw 
and claw. However, as our object is to destroy 
all, that none may escape, I agree with my friend 
Rhinoceros that niovht-tinie at its blackest is safest. 

O 

Wherefore believe me that I am so sharp set for 
revenge, and I feel so hollow, that nothing but the 
half of all of them will satisfy my thirst for their 
blood. I have ended my say." 

" Now, friend Leopard, thou hadst better follow 
thy cousin, and we will feel obliged to thee for the 
benefit of thy advice," said the Elephant. 

Leopard gave his tail a quick twirl, and licked 
his chops and spoke : 



THE LMiKXD OF A7/M 777 Till-: LITTLE ->1T 

" All that ye, my friends and cousin, have said, 
I heartily agree and bear witness to. The spite of 
the sou of man towards ns is limitless. It is re- 
markable, too, for its cold-bloodedness and lack 
of passion. We have our own quarrels in the 
woods as ye all know and they are sharp and 
quick while they last, but there is no premeditation 
or malignity in what we do to one another; but 
Man, to whom we would rather give a wide berth, 
if possible, pursues each of us as if his existence 
depended upon the mere slaying, though I observe 
that he has abundance of fruit, which ought to 
satisfy any reasonable being of the ape tribe. 
Wherefore, as I have many sharp reasons for re- 
taliation on him for his countless offences against 
me and my kin, I gladly attended this council, and 
I will go as far as any of ye, and further if I can, 
to return some of this spite on him and his tribe. 
I propose that night at its darkest is best for our 
plan. While the human folk are indulging in 
dreams of slaughter of us. I vote that we 'turn 

o 

their dreams into action against themselves. The 

o 

elephant, and rhinoceros, and buffalo are strong; 
let each lead his tribe to attack, overturn, and 
trample down their nests. We, with our families, 
will range round and slaughter every one that 
escapes them. Those are my words." 

"Now, friend Buffalo, what savest thou '." de- 
manded the Elephant. u Thou art a staunch friend 



DAKK COMPANIONS 



and stout foe. We cannot but listen with respect 
to such an one as thyself." 

"Ah, friend Elephant, and ye chiefs of tribes, 
every sentiment of hostility against the vile and 
spiteful sous of man that ye have expressed finds 
an echo in my inwards. If wrong has been done 
to any here, magnify that wrong tenfold in order 
that ye may understand the intensity of the hate I 
bear the remorseless destroyers of my kith and kin. 
Ask me not how I would slay them, my fury is 
so great that I am unfit to devise. Do ye the 
devising, and give the method to me. All I can 
think of now is the pleasure I shall feel when my 
horns are warmed in the bodies of the base and 
treacherous creatures who have murdered wife, 
brother, sister, and child of mine, besides a count- 
less number of my kindred by lance and line, spear 
and snare, sword and stake, trick and trap. I will 
lead my herd into the midst of the vicious com- 
munity with a joy that only my hate can match. 
That is all I have to say." 

*/ 

" Now, my good friend Hyena. Thou art the 
only one left whose sentiments are as yet unknown. 
Speak, and let us hear wisdom from thee in this 
matter." 

The Hyena uttered a mocking laugh, and said : 
" My kind friends and cousins : The night suits me 
well, for I am in my element then. I may say that 
I have a large family which is always hungry. It 



THE LEGEND OF KIBATTI THE LITTLE 



will be a lauo'hinir matter to them indeed to hear 

O O 

of your good purpose. It has been long delayed, 
this signal measure of just vengeance upon those 
who have outdone in cold cruelty all that genera- 
tions of the four-footed tribe of the fiercest kind 
have done. Bird and beast, from the smallest to 
the u'reatest, have fallen victims to man's lust for 

o 

destruction. True, my kind are often indebted to 
man for bones and refuse, but what we have eaten 
has been sorely against his good will ; and we there- 
fore owe him no gratitude. The young of the 
human community will be juicy morsels for my 
tribe, when the signal is given for the attack. 
With all inv heart I sav let it be to-uio;ht. I have 

i/ / O 

said my say.' 1 

The Elephant then said: "Friends, chiefs of the 
most powerful tribes of the forest, let it be to- 
night, as ye say. Let each go and muster his 
forces, and let the attack be in the following 
manner. Half-way betwixt dawn and midnight I 
will lead my troop from the Uganda side. The 
Rhinoceros will lead his from the Katonga side. 
The Buffalo will range his tribe along that side 
facing Unyoro. Behind my troop the Hyena and 
his families shall follow to finish those who may 
be but bruised by our heavy hoofs. Let Leop- 
ard place his fellows and kin in rear of the Rhi- 
noceros troop. Lion and his great tribe are 
needed in rear, of Buffalo's forces, for they are apt 



220 -V)' DARK COMPANIONS 

in tlieir fury to overlook the crafty bipeds. Our 
object is to make a complete job of it. The sooner 
we part now, the litter each will be for the perfect 
consummation of his long-deferred revenge." 

It was well past midnight when the four-footed 
forces were gathered around the doomed village, 
and, at the shrill trumpet-note of the King Ele- 
phant, the several chiefs led their respective troops 
at the charge. The elephants tore on resistlessly, 
trampling down the doomed cages of the human 
folk flat and level with the ground. The rhino- 
ceros and his host pushed on with noses low 
down, and tossed the human nests as we would 
kick an empty egg-basket ; the buffaloes bellowed 
in unison, and, closing their eyes, threw themselves 
upon the huts, and gored everything within reach 
of their horns. Then the fierce carnivora, all ex- 
citement at the prospect of the bloody feast, 
roared, snarled, and laughed as they tore the 
mangled victims piecemeal. Ah, poor village, and 
poor people ! In a short time the dreaming souls 
dreamed no more, but were gone past recall into 
the regions where dreams are unknown all ex- 
cepting one clever boy named Kibatti, and his 
parents, who survived the calamity. These hap- 
pened to live in a tiny hut close hidden by a grove 
of bananas on the edge of the forest, and Kibatti 
about midnight had been disturbed in his sleep 
by a pressure on his stomach which woke him, 



THE LEGEND OF KIBATTI THE LITTLE 



and denied him further sleep. He therefore sat 
sorrowing over the red embers of his fire, when 
he heard the hollow tramp of large animals, and 
pricking his ears, lie heard trampling in another 
direction ; whereupon his suspicions that some- 
thing mi usual was about to happen grew <>n him, 
so that he woke his parents, and bade them listen 
to the rumbling sounds that could be heard by 

O ' 

such experienced hunters all around them. 

" Father, come, delay not ! make mother rise at 
once. This night my sleep has been broken as a 
warning to me that mischief is brewing;. Let us 

o O 

ascend the big tree near by and observe." 

" Child, YOU are iwht " said his father, after 

v O 

listening a moment ; " the demons of the wilder- 
ness are gathered against the village, for human 
enemies make no such stir as this. We will ascend 

the o;reat tree at once." 
~ 

Thereupon he drew his wife out. 

Kibatti wriggled himself through the burrow 
under the milk-weed hedge into the banana-grove, 
and having gained its deep shadows, raced for the 
great tree, closely followed by his parents. A 
large vine hung pendant, and up this vine Kibatti 
climbed, his mother after him, the old man last. 
Not a moment too soon, for just then the trumpet- 
note of the King Elephant was heard, and after- 
wards such a concert of noises that neither Kibatti 
nor his aged father had ever heard the like before. 



; v )-j- v .I/)* UAJth' VOMI'AMOXN 

Iii the starlight they saw the huge forms of all 
kinds of furious animals pass and repass below 
them ; but clin<nni>; closely to the shelter of the 

o O i/ 

giant limbs of the tree, they, from their safe perch, 
witnessed the dreadful ending of their friends and 
relatives. 

When he fully realized the catastrophe and its 
completeness, Kibatti suggested to his parents 
that they should ascend to the very highest fork, 
lest they should be observed in the morning, and 
on climbing up they found a snug hiding-place far 
above, hidden all round by the thick, fleshy leaves 
of the tree. There they remained quiet until 
morning, when the boy's restless curiosity became 
so strong that he resolved to gratify it. Grasping 
close a great limb of the tree, he descended as far 
as the lower fork and looked down. He saw all 
the huts smashed, and the bones of his tribe white 
and gleaming, scattered about. The fences were 
all levelled, but the elephants, under their leader, 
were re-setting the poles round about. The lions 
were pacing watchfully around, the rhinoceroses 
and buffaloes were herded separately, gazing upon 
the elephants, the leopards were lying down under 
the trees in scattered groups, the hyenas were 
crunching bones, for these last never know when 
they have eaten enough. 

Kibatti kept his post all day. By night the 
poles fenced the village round about as before, and 



THE LK(iKXl) <>r KlllA'I'TI Till-: Ll'VTLK J>2o 

in the dusk lie saw the gathering together of all 
the creatures in a circle round the King Elephant, 
to hear his rumbling voice delivering; an harangue 

O O O 

to the motley allies. When it was ended the 
lions roared, the rhinoceroses snorted, the buffaloes 
bellowed, the hyenas laughed, and the shrill truni- 
petings of the elephants announced that the meet- 
ing was over. What occurred after, Kibatti did 
not stay to learn, but climbed aloft to give the 
news to his anxious parents. 

Said he, "It appears to me, father, that they are 
going to build the village up again, for they have 
already fenced it around even better, as I think, 
than it was before. Those animals have clever 
leaders, that is certain, but I am not a man-sou 
if Kibatti does not get the better of some of 
them." 

" Oh, you are clever, my child, that is true," said 
the old man. " Whatever you undertake to do, 
done it is. I have found out that long ago. If 
wit will get us out of this place of danger, I have 
a conviction it will be by yours, and not by mine, 
or by my old Avoman's." 

" I do not purpose to leave the tree just yet, 
father," replied Kibatti. " If we keep quiet, we 
could not find a safer place than here. The tree 
is so tall that they cannot hear us talk unless they 
set their ears to listen at the foot of it, and against 

O 

all that may happen we must provide ourselves." 



:};>4 My DARK COMPANIONS 

" Give your confidence to me, boy, and let me 
judge of your plan," said the father. 

" Well, my idea is this. To-night they will all 
start off, some to catch the lesser prey, others to 
graze and feed. The leaders, of course, will remain 
behind. I propose, after getting three or four 
winks of sleep, to go down to the gate and dis- 
cover how things are. If possible, I will try and 
get my net-ropes. They will be useful for my pur- 
pose. We may trap some game, you know.' 1 

"I see, I see, mv boy. That is a good idea. 
Shall I help you ? ' 

" Not to-night, father, except you keep watch 
until yonder bright star stands overhead.' 

t/ 

The old man agreed to keep watch until the star 
approached the zenith. A little after midnight 
Kibatti was waked, and having o-iven his father 

O O 

injunctions to go to sleep, he descended. He pro- 
ceeded straight to his house, and among the 
wreckage he found his strong nets and their ropes, 
and his sharp hunting-knife, besides his father's 
five speai's and his own quiver. These weapons he 
conveyed directly to the tree, and bore them up to 
the lower fork. This done, he re-descended the 
tree and crawled away to a bit of marsh-land not 
far off, where there was a crane's nest which con- 
tained some eggs. He took these in his hand, and 
went around through the bushes to the Unyoro 
Road. All this had been done very quickly, 



THE LEGEND OF KIBATTI THE LITTLE 225 

because, being a hunter, he knew the neighbour- 
hood well, and while watching the animals in the 
village, his mind had been busy forming his plans. 
Now when he came to the Uiiyoro Road, he stood 
straight up and strode rapidly in the direction of 
the village which had been that of his tribe. 
Arriving near it he crawled up to the gate and 
looked in, then traced the fence all around until 
he came back to the same gate. 

Kibatti now stood up and hailed the animals, 
crying loud, 

" Hullo, hullo there ! Are ye all asleep ? 
Will ye not let a poor benighted stranger in ? 
The night is cold, and I am hungry." 

King Buffalo, who was on guard, trotted up to 
the gate, and looking out saw a small boy who was 
naked, except for a scant robe which depended 
from his shoulders. 

" Who art thou ? " demanded the buffalo in his 
gruffest voice. 

Kibatti answered in the thin voice of a father- 
less and starving orphan. 

" It is I, Kibatti the Little, from Unyoro." 

" What dost thou want ? " 

" Only a little fire to roast my eggs, and a place 
to sleep. I am a forest-boy, and live alone in 
Unyoro. My parents are both dead, and I have 
no home. If you will give me work I will stay 
with you ; for then I shall have plenty to eat. If 

15 



226 



MY DARK C' 



not, let me sleep here to-night, and in the morning 
I will 




IT IS I, KIBATTI THE LITTI,E, FROM UNYORO. 



"What work canst tlioii do? 1 ' 
" Not much, but 1 can fetch water and fuel." 
" Wait a minute, I ^vill see if our people will let 
thee in. r 



THE LEGEND OF KIBA'lTl THE LITTLE :>>; 

The buffalo moved away and woke up the rhi- 
noceros, the elephant, the lion, the leopard, and 
hyena, and told them that there was a little forest- 
boy seeking a night's lodging. At first the general 

t/ O O O O 

belief was, that he belonged to the tribe which had 

O 

owned the village, but the buffalo denied that this 

O ' 

boy could have known of the country, as he had 

/ ' 

c-oine boldly up to the gate from the Unyoro road; 
besides, was it likely that a small boy, knowing 
what had happened, would ever have come back 
when those who had destroyed the village were 
in possession of it? This last remark settled the 
matter. King Elephant said, 

"As thou wilt, Buffalo. Even if the matter 
were otherwise, a small boy can do no harm. Let 
him in. AVe will give him plenty of work." 

Kino- Buffalo opened the gate and allowed 
Kibatti to enter, and introduced him to his friends, 
King Elephant and the rest, all of whom smiled 
as they saw his slender and small form, the only 
human amongst them. Buffalo took very kindly 
to his protege, and showed him around, while 
Kibatti amused him with his innocent unsophisti- 
cated prattle, which convinced the kingly bovine 
that little Kibatti was indeed a wild-wood waif. 

" And where do you all sleep ? " asked Kibatti 
of Buffalo. 

" I sleep here, near the gate, King Elephant 
rests near that big tree. King Lion prefers lying 



228 MY DARK COMPANIONS 

near that great log there, Brother Rhinoceros 
throws himself down on the edge of the banana 
grove, Leopard curls himself near the fence, and 
Hyena snores stupidly near his pile of bones." 

After a little while Buffalo lav down near the 
gate for a little rest. Kibatti stretched himself 
near him, but not to sleep. His eyes were quite 
open, and he soon saw Buffalo's nose rest upon 
the ground and his head sway from side to side. 
Kibatti then untied a cord, and stealthily passing 
it round the four legs of the buffalo, drew the 
other end round the neck in a slip noose without 
waking him. He then crawled off towards the 
elephant, and tied his four legs together, gently 
tightening the slip noose, and fastening the rope 
three or four times runnino- round, and brought 

O O 

them all together. To the rhinoceros he did the 
same. He then went out of the gate and brought 
his bundle of nets. He took one up, fastened one 
end to the fence, and drawing it lightly like a 
curtain over the form of the sleeping lion, just 
hung it on splinters and projections of the fence. 
In like manner he secured a net over the leopard, 
and another over the hyena. All this did clever 

* 

little Kibatti without waking any of them. He 

O */ 

then stole out of the gate a second time, and made 

his way to the tree where his parents were sleeping. 

"Come, father," he said, u the kings of the herds 

are trapped and netted. Bring down mother to 



THE LEGEND OF KIBATTI THE LITTLE 229 

the lower fork, and come, do you hasten with me 
with a bundle of spears, two bows, and quivers 
full of arrows, for we must finish the game before 



morning." 

O 



Completely armed with spears and arrows, 
Kibatti led his father to the gate, and stealthily 
entered the fenced enclosure, and they stood over 
the still-sleeping buffalo. Kibatti gave his father 
a sharp-pointed spear, and gently laying his finger 
on the vital spot, between neck and head, showed 
him where- to strike. The father lifted his right 
arm high up, and with one stroke severed the 
spinal cord. A shiver passed through King- 
Buffalo's body, and he rolled over stone dead. 

Then Kibatti and his father approached King 
Lion, Avlio lay lengthways near the loo- by the 

/ O t/ o mi 

fence, with his side exposed. Kibatti pointed to 
his own left side behind the shoulder-blade, and 
father and son drew their bows and drove two 
arrows into Lion's heart, who sprang up and threw 
himself like a ball into the net, which closed round 
him taut, and lie presently lay still and lifeless. 
In the same manner father and son despatched 
Leopard and Hyena. There then onlv remained 
Rhinoceros and Elephant. 

They chose to attack the first-named beast, who 
was still lying down on his side, unconscious of 
the tragic fate of his confederates. 

Kibatti 1 jointed to t lie enemy's fore-shoulder and 

J . 



230 



MY DARK COMPANIONS 



touched his father with his finger two inches below 
the shoulder-blade. His father understood, and 
launched his spear straight into the body with 
such force that the blade was buried. Kino; 

O 

Rhinoceros, feeling the iron in his vitals, snorted 
and struggled to stand, but in doing; so tightened 

oO O O 

the cords, and fell back rolling half over. Kibatti 
dre\v his bo\v and buried an arrow close to liis 




KILLING KFNG RHINOCEROS. 



father's buried spear. Meantime, King Elephant 
had taken the alarm, and, struggling with his 
bonds, had capsized himself on the ground. 
Kibatti gave vent to a war \vhoop and cried : 
" Never mind, father-, let the rhinoceros die. 
Let us away to the elephant while he is helpless." 
They sprang to the prostrate beast, and they 
shot their arrows first to every vital point exposed, 
and then launched their spears with such good 



THE LEGEND OF KIBATTI THE LITTLE :>;jl 

effect that before long the last of the kings of the 
beasts had ended his life. 

Kibatti and his father then flew to where the 
old woman crouched in the fork of the tree, and 
taking her with them, they left the ruined village, 

O v O 

and sought a home in another district, where, 
because of the terrible revenge they had taken on 
the forest lords, they were held by their fellow- 
creatures all their lives in "Teat esteem. 



THE PAETNEESHIP OF EABBIT AND ELE- 
PHANT, AND WHAT CAME OF IT 

N 187, while we 
were travelling to- 

O 

wards the Albert 
Edward Nyanza, 
Sabadu and Bu- 
jomba and others 
of our Wa^anda 

O 

escort would join 
us at our evening 

fire, and when thev 

t/ 

found what enter- 
tainment was to be 
had, they readily yielded to the invitation to 
contribute their share to it. Besides, Sabadu was 
unequalled in the art of story-telling : he was 
fluent and humorous, while his mimicry of the 
characters he described kept everybody's interest 
on the alert. To the Eabbit of course he gave a 
wee thin voice, to the Elephant he gave a deep 
bass, to the Buffalo a hollow mooing;. When he 

O 

attempted the Lion, the veins of his temple and 
neck were dreadfully distended as he made the 




THE PARTNERSHIP OF RABBIT AND ELEPHANT 333 

effort ; but when lie mimicked the Duo-, one almost 

O 7 

expected a little terrier-like dog to trot up to the 
fire, so perfect was his yaup-yaup. 

Every one agreed as Sabadu began his story that 
his manner, even his style of sitting and smoothing 
his face, the pose of his head, betrayed the man of 
practice. The following is his story: 

1 O */ 

In Willimesi, Uganda, a Rabbit and an Ele- 
phant, coming from different directions, met on a 
road one day, and being old friends, stopped To 
greet one another, and chat about the weather and 
the crops, and to exchange opinions on the state 
of trade. Finally the Rabbit proposed that the 
Elephant should join him in a partnership to make 
a little trading expedition to the "Watusi shep- 
herds, " because," said he, " I hear there are some 
good chances to make profit among them. Cloth, 
I am told, is very scarce there, and I think we 
might find a good bargain awaiting us." The Ele- 

O O O d? 

pliant was nothing loth, and closed with the offer 
of his little friend, and a couple of bales of as- 
sorted goods were prepared for the journey. 

They set out on particularly good terms with 
each other, and Rabbit, who had a good store of 
experiences, amused the Elephant greatly. By- 
and-by the pair of friends arrived at a river, and 
the Elephant, to whom the water was agreeable, 
stepped in to cross it, but halted on hearing Rabbit 
exclaim : 



:>:j4 MY 



u Why, Elephant, you surely are not going to 
cross without me ? Are we not partners ? " 

" Of course we are partners, but I did not agree 
to carry you or your pack. Why don't you step 
right in 2 The water is not deep, it scarcely covers 
my feet." 

" But, you stupid fellow, can you not see that 
what will scarcely cover your feet is more than 

V */ 

enough to drown me, and I can't swim a bit ; and, 
besides, if I get my fur wet I shall catch the ague, 
and how ever am I to carry my pack across ?" 

"Well, I cannot help that. It was you who 
proposed to take the journey, and I thought a wise 
fellow like you would have known that there were 
rivers running across the road, and that you knew 
what to do. If you cannot travel, then good-bye. 
I cannot stop here all day," and the Elephant 
walked on across to the other side. 

" Surly rascal," muttered Rabbit, " All right, 
my big friend, I will pay you for it some time." 

Not far off, however, Rabbit found a log, and 
after placing his pack on it, he paddled himself 
over, and reached the other bank safely ; but to 
his grief he discovered that his bale had been 
wetted and damaged. 

O 

Rabbit wiped the water up as much as possible, 
and resumed the journey with the Elephant, who 
had looked carelessly on the efforts of his friend to 

cross the riser. 



T11K PARTNERSHIP <>/' HMSHIT AXIJ A T />/;/'//. L\ 7' 



Fortunately for Rabbit, the latter part of the 
journey did uot present such difficulties, and they 
arrived in due time among the Watusi shepherds. 

Now at a trade Elephant was not to be compared 
with Rabbit, for he could not talk so pleasantly as 
Rabbit, and he was not at all sociable. Rabbit 
went among the women, and laughed and joked 
with them, and said so many funny things, that 
they were delighted with him, and when at last 
the trade question was cautiously touched upon, 
a chief's wife was so kind to him, that she gave a 
mighty fine cow in exchange for his little bale of 
cloth. Elephant, on the other hand, went among 
the men, and simply told them that he had come 
to buy cattle with cloth. The Watusi shepherds, 
not liking his appearance or his manner, said they 
had no cattle to sell, but if he cared to have it, 
they would give a year-old heifer for his hale. 
Though Elephant's bale was a most wekrhtv one, 

O . i/ 

and many times more valuable than Rabbit's, vet 
as he was so gruff and ugly, he was at last obliged 
to be satisfied with the little heifer. 

Just as they had left the Watusi to begin their 
return journey, Elephant said to Rabbit, " Now 
mind, should we meet anyone on the road, and we 
are asked whose cattle these are, I wish von to 

/ 

oblige me by saying that they are mine, because 
I should not like people to believe that I am not 
as good a trader as yourself. They will also be 



DARK COMPANION X 



afraid to touch them if they know they belong to 
me ; whereas, if they hear that they belong to yon, 
every fellow will think he has as good a right to 
them as yourself, and you dare not defend your 
property." 

" Very well," replied Rabbit, " I quite under- 
stand." 

In a little while, as Rabbit and Elephant drove 
their cattle along, they met many people coming 
from market who stopped and admired them, and 
said, " Ah, what a fine cow is that ! to whom does 
it belong ? " 

" It belongs to me," answered the thin voice of 
Rabbit. " The little one belongs to Elephant/ 1 

"Very fine indeed. A good cow that," replied 
the people, and passed on. 

Vexed and am.oyed, Elephant cried angrily to 
Rabbit, " Whv did you not answer as I told you '{ 
Now mind, do as I tell you at the next meeting 
with strangers." 

O 

"Very well," answered Rabbit, "I will try and 
remember." 

By-and-by they met another party going home 
with fowls and palm wine, who, when they came 
np, said, "Ah that is a fine beast, and in prime 
order. Whose is it ? v 

" It is mine," quickly replied Rabbit, " and the 
little scabby heifer belongs to Elephant." 

This answer enraged Elephant, who said, "What 



THE PARTNERSHIP OF RABBIT AND ELEPHANT 337 

an obstinate little fool you are. Did you not hear 
me ask you to say it was mine \ Now, remember, 
you are to say so next time, or I leave you to find 
your own way home, because I know you are a 
horrible little coward." 

" Very well, I'll do it next time," replied Rabbit- 
in a meek voice. 

In a short time they met another crowd, whicli 
stopped when opposite to them, and the people 
said, " Really, that is an exceedingly fine cow. To 
whicli of you does it belong ? " 

u It is mine. I bought it from the Watusi," re- 
plied Rabbit. 

The Elephant was so angry this time, that he 
broke away from Rabbit, and drove his little heifer 
by another road, and to Lion, and Hyena, and 
Buffalo, and Leopard, whom he met, he said what 
a fine fat cow was being driven by cowardly little 
Rabbit along the other road. He did this out of 
mere spite, hoping that some one of them would 
be tempted to take it by force from Rabbit. 

But Rabbit was wise, and had seen the spite in 
Elephant's face as he went off, and was sure that 
he would play him some unkind trick ; and, as 
night was falling and his home was far, and he 
knew that there were many vagabonds lying in 
wait to rob poor travellers, he reflected that if his 
wit failed to save him he would be in great 
danger. 

o 



DARK 



True enough, it was not long before a big blus- 
tering lion rose from the side of the road, and 




: 




: ' 



-~ f * 




. ' r 

''' """' '** 

. 

. .-'-- 



' 



"I AK PROUD TO HAVE MET YOU, RABBIT." 

cried out, " Hello, you there. Where are YOU 
going with that cow ? Come, speak out," 

' Ah, is that you, Lion ? I am taking it to 
Muirassa ( the deity), who is about to give a feast 



THE PARTXElttilllP OF RABBIT AND ELEPHANT ;>:jj 

to all his friends, and lie told me particularly to 
invite you to share it, if I should meet you." 

"Eh? What? To Mugassa' Oh, well, I am 
proud to have met you, Rabbit. As I am not 
otherwise engaged I will accompany you, because 
everyone considers it an honour to wait upon 
Mugassa." 

They proceeded a little further, and a bouncing 
buffalo came lip and bellowed fiercely. "You, 
Rabbit, stop/' said he. " Where are you taking 
that cow to 2" 

"I am taking it to Mugassa, don't you know. 
How would a little fellow like me have the courage 
to go so far from home if it were not that 1 am on 
service for Mugassa? I am charged also to tell 

O 

you, Buffalo, that if you like to join in the feast 
Mugassa is about to give, he will be glad to have 
you as a guest." 

" Oh, well, that is good news indeed. I will 
come along now, Rabbit, and am very glad to have 
met you. How do you do, Lion ? ' 

A short distance off the party met a huge rogue 
elephant, who stood in the middle of the road, and 
demanded to know where the cow was being taken, 
in a tone which required a quick answer. 

" Now, Elephant, get out of the way. This cow 
is being taken to Mugassa, who will be angry with 
you if I am delayed. Have you not heard of the 
feast he is about to give ? By the bye, as you are 



240 



.17 ) HAJfh' COJI/'AXJOXS 



one of the guests, you might as well help uie to 
drive this co\v, and let me get on your back, for I 
am dreadfully tired. 1 ' 

"Why, that's grand," said the Elephant, "I 
shall be delighted to feast with Mugassa, and 

O o 



^.. -^.-- : 




" A POWERFUL CROWD BEHIND THE COW." 

come get on my back. I will carry you with 
pleasure. And, Rabbit," whispered Elephant, as 
he lifted him by his trunk, " don't forget to speak 
a good word for me to Mugassa." 

Soon a leopard and then a hyena were met, but 
seeing such a powerful crowd behind the cow, 
they affected great civility, and were invited to 
Mccompany Rabbit's party to Mugassa's feast. 



THE PARTNERSHIP OF RABBIT AND ELEPHANT 241 

It was quite dark by the time they arrived at 
Rabbit's village. At the gate stood two dogs, who 
were Rabbit's chums, and they barked furiously ; 
but hearing their friend's voice, they came up and 
welcomed Rabbit. 

The party halted, and Rabbit, after reaching the 
ground, whispered to Dogs how affairs stood, and 
Dogs wagged their tails approvingly, and yauped 
with fun as they heard of Rabbit's wit. It did not 
take IOUQ; for Do^s to understand what was re- 

O O 

quired of them, and one of them bounded off to 
the village, and after a short time returned with a 

O ' 

pretended message from the great Mugassa. 

" Well, my friends, do you hear what Mugassa 
says ? " cried Rabbit, with a voice of importance. 

"Dogs are to lay mats inside the village by the 
gate, and the cow is to be killed, and the meat pre- 
pared nicely and laid on the mats. And when 
that is done, Mugassa himself will come and give 
each his portion. He says that you are all very 
welcome. 

" Now listen to me before I go in to Mugassa, 
and I will show you how you can all help to hurry 
the feast, for I am sure you are all anxious to 
begin. 

" You, Hyena, you must kill the cow, and dress 
the meat, and Dogs will carry it in and lay it on 
the mats; but remember, if a bit is touched before 
Mugassa commands, we are all ruined. 
16 



242 MY DARK COMPANIONS 

"You, Elephant, you take this brass hatchet 
of Mugassa's, and split wood nicely for the 
hearth. 

" Buffalo, you go and find a wood with a smooth 
bark and which burns well, and bring it to Ele- 
phant. 

"Leopard, you go to the banana plantation, and 
watch for the falling leaf and catch it witli your 
eyelids, in order that we may have proper plates. 

" Lion, my friend, do you go and fill this pot 
from the spring, and bring water that Mugassa 
may wash his hands." 

Having issued his instructions, Rabbit went 
strutting: into the village ; but after he had 2;one 

o o ' cj 

a little way he darted aside, and passing through a 
side door, went out and came creeping up towards 
an ant-hill. On the top was a tuft of grass, and 
from his hiding-place he commanded a view of the 
gate, and of all who might come near it. 

Now Buffalo could only find one log with 
smooth bark, and Dogs shouted out to Buffalo that 
one los; was not enough to roast or to boil the 

o o 

meat, and he returned to hunt up some more. 

Elephant struck the log with his brass hatchet, 
which was broken at the first blow, and there was 
nothing else with which to cut the wood. 

Leopard watched and watched for falling leaves, 
but failed to see any. 

Lion's pot had a hole in the bottom, and he 




o 
o 



O 

a 



03 

s 

H 
EH 



a 

Ed 



THE PARTNERSHIP OF RABBIT AND ELEPHANT 245 



could never keep it full, though he tried ever so 
many times. 

Meanwhile Hyena having killed the cow and 
dressed the meat beautifully, said to Dogs, " Now, 
my friends, the meat is ready. What shall I do ? " 

" You can help us carry the meat in, and lay it 
on the mats, if you like, for Mugassa must see 
it before anybody can touch it." 

" Ah, but I feel extremely hungry, and my mouth 
waters so that I am sick with longing. May we 
not go shares and eat a little bit ? It looks very 
nice and fat," whined the Hyena. 

" Ah, no, we should not dare do such a tiring. 

' O 

We have lousr ao;o left the woods, and its habits, 

O o 

and are unfit for anything but human society ; but 
if you were allowed to eat any, you could fly into 
the woods, and we should have all the blame. No, 
no, come, help us carry it inside. You will not 
have to wait long." 

The Hyena was obliged to obey, but contrived 
to hide in the grass some of the tripe. Rabbit, 
from behind his tuft of grass, saw it all, and winked 
in the dark. 

When the meat was in, Dos;s said, " It is all 

o 

right now. Just stay outside until the other 
fellows arrive." 

Hyena retired, and when he was outside of the 
gate searched for his tripe, and lay down quietly 
to enjoy it, but as he was about to bite it, Rabbit 



246 MY DARK COMPANIONS 

screamed, " Ah, you tliief, Hyena. You thief, I 
see you. Stop thief, Mugassa is coming." 

These cries so alarmed Hyena that he dropped 
his tripe, and fled away as fast as his legs could 
carry him, and the others, Buffalo, Elephant, Lion, 
and Leopard, tired out with waiting, and hearing 
these alarming cries, also ran away, leaving Rabbit 
and his dog friends in quiet possession. They 
carried the tripe into the village, and closed 'the 
gate and barred it, after which they laughed loud 
and long, Rabbit rolling on the ground over and 
over with the fun of it all. 

My friends, Rabbit was the smallest of all, but 
by his wisdom he was more than a match for two 
Elephants, Buffalo, Leopard, Lion, Hyena, and all. 
And even his friends, the Dogs, had to confess 
that Rabbit's wit could not be matched. That is 
my tale. 



THE ADVENTURES OF SAPJJTI 



HAVE a poor mem- 
ory for legends," 
said Bujomba, one 
night, wliile we were 
in camp at Benga : 
" but I remember 
what a young Mton- 
gole (colonel) named 
Saruti related to 
Mtesa after his re- 
turn from an expedi- 
tion to the frontier 
of Uuvoro. What a head that man had, and such 

/ 

eyes ! Mtesa was ever fond of a good story, and 
loved to question those whom he sent to distant 
countries, until you might say that there was 
nothing left in a man worth hearius; after he had 

O o 

done with him. But Saruti did not need any 
questioning. He talked on and on without stop- 
ping, until Mtesa could not sit up longer for sheer 
weariness. These are among the things he said 
that he had witnessed on his journey. You must 




248 MY DARK COMPANIONS 



not ask me if I believe all that he said. All I 
can say is that they might have happened, or been 
seen by many men, but I never could quite under- 
stand how it was that Saruti alone was so lucky 
as to see all the things he talked about. Anyhow, 
he was very amusing, and Mtesa laughed heartily 
many times as he listened to him." 

Kabaka, I think my charms which my father 
suspended round my neck must be very powerful. 
I am always in luck. I hear good stories on my 
journey, I see strange things which no one else 
seems to have come across. Now on this last 
journey, by the time I reached Singo, I came to a 
little village, and as I was drinking banana wine 

o O 

with the chief, he told me that there were two 
lions near his village who had a band of hyenas 
to serve as soldiers under them. They used to 
send them out in pairs, sometimes to one district, 
and sometimes to another, to purvey food for them. 
If the peasants showed fight, they went back and 
reported to their masters, and the lions brought 
all their soldiers with them, who bothered them 
so that they were glad to leave a fat bullock tied 
to a tree as tribute. Then the lions would take 
the bullock and give orders that the peasant who 
paid his tribute should be left in peace. The 
chief declared this to be a fact, having had re- 
peated proof of it. 

At the next place, which is Mbagwe, the man 



THE ADVENTURES OF SARUTI 249 



Buvaiya, wlio is ill charge, told me that when he 
went a short time before to pay his respects 
to the Muzimu (the oracle) of the district, he met 
about thirty J&okorwa on the road, hunting close 
together for snakes, and that as soon as they saw 
him, they charged at him, and would have killed 
him had he not run up a tree. He tells me that 
though they are not much bigger than rabbits, 
they are very savage, and make travelling alone 
very dangerous. I think they must be some 
kind of small dogs. Perhaps the old men of the 
court may be better able to tell you what they 
are. 

At the next village of Ngondo a smart boy 
named Rutuana was brought to me, who was said 

O ' 

to have been lately playing with a young friend 
of the same age at long stick and little stick (tip- 
cat ?). His friend hit the little stick, and sent it 
a great way, and Rutuana had to fetch it from the 
long grass. While searching for it, one of those 
big serpents which swallow goats and calves caught 
him, and coiled itself around him. Though he 
screamed out for help, Rutuana . laid his stick 
across his chest, and clutching hold of each end 
with a hand, held fast to it until help came. His 
friend ran up a tree, and only helped him by 
screaming. As the serpent could not break the 
boy's hold of the stick, he was uuable to crush his 
ribs, because his outstretched arms protected them ; 



250 



MY DARK COMPANIONS 



but when lie was nearly exhausted the villagers 
came out with spears and shields. These fellows, 




''RUTUAXA LAID HIS STICK ACROSS HIS CHEST." 

however, were so stupid that they did not know 
how to kill the serpent until Rutuana shouted to 
them : " Quick ! draw your bows and shoot him 



THE ADVENTURES OF SARUTI 251 

through the iieck." A man stepped forward then, 
and when close to him pierced his throat with 
the arrow, and as the serpent uncoiled himself to 
attack the men, Rutuana fell down. The ser- 
pent was soon speared, and the boy was carried 
home. I think that boy will become a great war- 
rior. 

At the next village the peasants were much dis- 
turbed by a multitude of snakes which had col- 
lected there for some reason. They had seen 
several long black snakes which had taken lodg- 
ing in the ant-hills. These had already killed 
five cows, and lately had taken to attacking the 
travellers along the road that leads by the ant- 
hills, when an Arab, named Massoudi, hearing of 
their trouble, undertook to kill them. He had 
some slaves with him, and he clothed their legs 
with buffalo hide, and placed cooking-pots on 
their heads, and told them to go among the ant- 
hills. When the snakes came out of their holes 
he shot them one by one. Among the reptiles he 
killed were three kinds of serpents which pos- 
sessed horns. The peasants skinned them, and 
made bags of them to preserve their charms. One 
kind of horned snake, very thick and short, is said 
to lay eo-o-s as large as those of fowls. The muba- 

t/ OO o 

rasassa, which is of a greyish colour, is also said 
to be able to kill elephants. 

I then went to Kyeugi, beyond Singo, and the 



252 MY DARK COMPANIONS 

peasants, on coming to gossip with me, rather up- 
set me with terrible stories of the mischief done 
by a big black leopard. It seems that he had first 
killed a woman, and had carried the body into the 
bush ; and another time had killed two men while 
they were setting; their nets for some small ground 

i/O o 

game. Then a native hunter, under promise of 
reward, from the chief, set out with two spears to 
kill him. He did not succeed, but he said that 
he saw a strange sight. As he was following the 

O O O 

track of the leopard, he suddenly came to a little 
jungle, with an open space in the middle. A large 
wild sow, followed by her litter of little pigs, was 
rooting about, and grunting as pigs do, when he 
saw the monstrous black leopard crawl towards 
one of the pigs. Then there Ay as a shrill squeal 
from a piggie, and the mother, looking up, dis- 
covered its danger, at which it furiously charged 
the leopard, clashing her tusks and foaming at the 
mouth. The leopard turned sharp round, and 
sprang up a tree. The sow tried to jump up after 
it, but being unable to reach her enemy in that 
way, she set about working hard at the roots. 
While she was busy about it the peasant ran 
back to obtain a net and assistants, and to get his 
hunting-dog. When he returned, the sow was still 

O o 

digging away at the bottom of the tree, and had 
made a great hole all round it. The pigs, fright- 
ened at seeing so many men, trotted away into the 



THE ADVENTURES OF SARUTI 253 

bush, and the hunter and his friends prepared to 
catch the leopard. They pegged the net all about 
the tree, then let loose the dog, and urged him to- 
wards the net. As he touched the net, the hunters 
made a great noise, and shouted, at which the 
leopard bounded from the tree, and with one 
scratch of his paw ripped the dog open, sprang 
over the net, tapped one of the men on the shoul- 
der, and was running away, when he received a 
wound in the shoulder, and stopped to bite the 
spear. The hunters continued to worry him, until 
at last, covered with blood, he lay down and 
died. 

One day's journey beyond Kyengi, I x?ame to 
the thorn-fenced village of some Wat u si shepherds, 
who, it seems, had suffered much from a pair of 
lion cubs, which were very fierce. The headman's 
little boy was looking after some calves when the 
cubs came and quietly stalked him through the 
grass, and caught him. The headman took it so 
much to heart, that as soon as he heard the news 
he went straight back to his village and handed 

O O O 

himself to a rafter. The Watusi love their fam- 
ilies very much, but it seems to be a custom with 
these herdsmen that if a man takes his own life, 
the body cannot be buried, and though he was a 
headman, they carried it to the jungle, and after 
leaving it for the vultures, they returned and set 
fire to his hut, and burnt it to the ground. When 



254 MY DARK COMPANION'S 

they had done that, the AYatusi collected together 
and had a long hunt after the young lions, but as 
yet they have not been able to find them. 

When the sun was half way up the sky, I came 
from Kyengi to some peasants, who lived near a 
forest which is affected by the man-monkeys called 
nzike (gorilla ?). I was told by them that the 
nzike know how to smoke and make fire just as we 
do. It is a custom among the natives, when they see 
smoke issuing through the trees, for them to say, 
" Behold, the nzike is cooking his food." I asked 
them if it were true that the nzike carried oft* 
women to live with them, but they all told me 
that it was untrue, though the old men sometimes 

O 

tell such stories to frighten the women, and keep 
them at home out of danger. Knowing that' I was 

o o 

on the king's business, they did not dare tell me 
their fables. 

By asking them all sorts of questions, I was 
shown to a very old man with a white beard, with 
whom. I obtained much amusement. It appears he 
is a great man at riddles, and he asked me a great 
many. 

One was, a What is it that always goes straight 
ahead, and never looks back ? ' ; 

I tried hard to answer him, but when finally he 
announced that it was a river, I felt very foolish. 

He then asked me, " AY hat is it that is bone 
outside and meat within ? " 




'TRIED TO JUMP UP AFTER THE LEOPARD. 



THE ADVENTURES OF SARUTI 257 

The people laughed, and mocked me. Then lie 
said that it was an egg, which was very true. 

Another question he gave me was, " What is it 
that looks both ways when you pass it ? '' 

Some said one thing, and some said another, and 
at last he answered that it was grass. 

Then he asked me, " What o-ood thins; was it 

o o 

which a man eats, and which he constantly fastens 
his eyes upon while he eats, and after eating, 
throws a half away V I thought and considered, 
but I never knew what it was until he told me 
that it was a roasted ear of Indian corn. 

That old man was a very wise one, and among 
some of his sayings was that " When people dream 
much, the old moon must be dying." 

He also said that " When the old moon is dying, 
the hunter need never leave home to seek o-ame, 

o 

because it is well known that he would meet 
nothing.' 1 

And he further added, that at that time the 
potter need not try to bake any pots, because the 
clay would be sure to be rotten. 

Some other things 'which he said made me think 
a little of their meaning. 

He said, " When people have provisions in their 
huts, they do not say, Let us go into another man's 
house and rob him." 

He also said, " When you see a crookback, you 
do not ask him to stand straight, nor an old man 

17 



258 MY DARK COMPANIONS 

to join the dance, nor the man who is in pain, to 
laugh." 

And what he said about the traveller is very 
true. The man who clings to his OW T U hearth does 
not tickle our ears, like him who sees many lands, 
and hears new stories. 

The next day I stopped at a village near the 
little lake of Kitesa's called Mtukura. The chief 
in charge loved talking so much, that he soon 
made me as well acquainted with the affairs of 
his family as though he courted my sister. His 
people are accustomed to eat frogs and rats, and 
from the noise in the reeds, and the rustling and 
squealings in the roof of the hut I slept in, I think 
there is little fear of famine in that village. Nor 

o 

are they averse, they tell me, to iguanas and those 
vile feeders, the hyenas. 

It is a common belief in the country that it 
was Naraki, a wife of Uni, a sultan of Unyoro, 
who made that lake. While passing through, she 
was very thirsty, and cried out to her Muzimu 
(spirit), the Muzimu which attends the kings 
of Unyoro, and which is most potent. And all 
at once there was a hissing flight of firestones 

O O 

(meteorites) in the air, and immediately after, 
there was a fall of a monstrously large one, which 
struck the ground close to her, and made a great 
hole, out of which the water spurted and con- 
tinued leaping up until a lake was formed, and 



THE ADVENTURES OF S A RUT I 259 

buried tlie fountain out of sight, and the rising 
waters formed a river, which has run north from 
the lake ever since into the Kaf u. 

Close by this lake is a dark grove, sacred to 
Miiziiio-eh, the kins; of the birds. It is said that 

o O 

he has only one eye, but once a year he visits the 
grove, and after building his house, he commands 
all the birds from the Nyanzas and the groves, to 
come and see him and pay their homage. For half 
a moon the birds, great and small, may be seen 
following him about along the shores of the lake, 
like so many guards around a king ; and before 
night they are seen returning in the same manner 
to the grove. The parrots' cries tell t e natives 
when they come, and no on., would care to miss 
the sight, and the glad excitement among the 
feathered tribe. But there is one bird, called the 
Kirurumu, that refuses to acknowledge the sov- 
ereignty of the Muzingeh. The other birds have 
tried often to induce him to associate with the. 
Muzingeh ; but Kirurumu always answers that a 
beautiful creature like himself, with gold and blue 
feathers, and such a pretty crest, was never meant 
to be seen in the company of an ugly bird that 
possesses only one eye. 

On the other side of Lake Mtukura is a forest 
\vhere Dungu, the king of the animals, lives. It is 
to Dungu that all the hunters pray when they set 
out to seek for game. He builds first a small hut, 



260 MY DARK 



and after propitiating him with a small piece of 
flesh, he asks Dungu that he may be successful. 
Then Dungu enters into the hunter's head, if he is 
pleased with the offering, and the cunning of the 
man becomes great ; his nerves stiffen, and his 
bowels are strengthened, and the game is secured. 
When Dim<m wishes a man to succeed in the hunt, 

O 

it is useless for the buffalo to spurn the earth and 
moo, or for the leopard to cover himself with sand 
in his rage the spear of the hunter drinks his 
blood. But the hunter must not forget to pay the 
tribute to the deity, lest he be killed on the way 
home. 

The friendly chief insisted that I should become 
his blood-fellow, and stay with him a couple of 
days. The witch-doctor, a man of great influence 
in the country, w T as asked to unite us. He took a 
sharp little knife, and made a gash in the skin of 
my right leg, just above the knee, and did the 
same to the chief, and then rubbed his blood over 
my wound, and my blood over his, and we became 
brothers. Among his gifts was this beautiful 
shield, which I beg Mtesa, my Kabaka, to accept, 
because I have seen none so beautiful, and it is 
too good for a colonel whose only hope and wish 
is to serve his king. 

I am glad that I rested there, because I saw a 
most wonderful, sight towards evening. As we 
were seated under the bananas, we heard a bisjr he- 

' <j 



THE ADVENTURES OF SARUTI 261 

goat's bleat, and by the sound of it we knew that 
it was neither for fun nor for love. It was a tone 
of anger and fear. Almost at the same time, one 
of the boys rushed up to us, and his face had really 
turned grey from fear, and he cried, " There is a 
lion in the goat-pen, and the big he-goat is fighting 
with him.'' Thev had forgotten to tell me about 

i/ O 

this famous goat, which was called Kasuju, after 
some great man who had been renowned in war, 
and he certainly was worth speaking about, and 
Kasuju was well known round about for his won- 
derful strength and fighting qualities. When we 
got near the pen with our spears and shields, the 
he-goat was butting the lion who was young, for 
he had no mane as he might have butted a pert 
young nanny-goat, and baaing with as full a note 
as that of a buffalo calf. It appears that Kasuju 
saw the destroyer creeping towards one of his 
wives, and dashing at his flank knocked him down. 
As we looked on from the outside, we saw that 
Kasuju was holding his own very well, and we 
thought that we would not check the fight, but 
prepare ourselves to have a good cast at the lion 
as he attempted to leave. The lion was getting 
roused up, and we saw the spring he made : but 
Kasuju nimbly stept aside and gave him such a 
stroke that it sounded like a drum. Then Kasuju 
trotted away in front of his trembling wives, and 
as the lion came up, we watched him draw his ears 



->,;> J/r DARK COMPANIONS 



back as lie raised himself on liis liiml i'eet like a 
warrior. The lion advanced to him, and he like- 
wise rose as though he would wrestle with him, 
when Kasuju shot into his throat with so true and 
fair a stroke, that drove one of his horns deep into 
the throat. It was then the lion's claws began to 
work, and with every scratch poor Kasuju's hide 
was torn dreadfully, but he kept his horn in the 
wound, and pushed home, and made the wound 
large. Then the lion sprang free, and the blood 
spurted all over Kasuju. Blinded with his torn 
and hanging scalp, and weakened with his wounds, 
he staggered about, pounding blindly at his enemy, 
until the lion gave him one mighty stroke with its 
paw, and sent him headlong, and then seized him 
by the neck and shook him, and we heard the cruel 
crunch as the fan^s met. But it was the last effort 

o 

of the lion, for just as Kasuju was lifeless, the lion 
rolled over him, dead also. Had my friend told 
me this story, I should not have believed him, but 
as I saw it with my own eyes, I am bound to 
believe it. We buried Kasuju honourably in a 
grave, as we would bury a brave man ; but the 
lion we skinned, and I have got his fur with the 
mmred hole in the throat. 

OO 

The singular fio-lit we had witnessed, furnished 

O O 

us all with much matter for talk about lions, and 
it brought into the mind of one of them a story of 
a crocodile and lion fight which had happened some 



THE ADVENTURES OF SARUTI 



263 



time before in the night. Lake Mtukura swarms 
with crocodiles, and situated as it is in a region 
of game they must be fat with prey. One night a 
full-grown lion with a fine mane came to cool his 
dry throat in the lake, and was quaffing water, 
when he felt his nose seized by something that 
rose up from below. 

From the traces of the struggle by the water's 




'FELT HIS NOSE SEIZED. 



ed<2re, it must have been a terrible one. The croc- 

O ' 

odile's long claws had left deep marks, showing 
how he must have been lifted out of the water, 
and flung forcibly down ; but in the morning both 
lion and crocodile were found dead, the crocodile's 
throat wide open with a broad gash, but his teeth 
still fastened in the lion's nose. 



204 MY DARK COMPANIONS 

Saruti had not half finished his stories when he 
felt, by seeing Mtesa yawn, that though his adven- 
tures were very interesting, and he was quite ready 
to continue, yet it would be to his advantage to 
dock his tongue for the time being. So he said, 
" Kabaka, the wise old man whom I met, told me 
one thing I had nearly forgotten to say. He said, 
' I know you are a servant of the king, and if ever 
you want the king's face to soften to you and his 
hand to open with gifts, compare yourself to the 
lid of a cooking-pot, which, though the pot may 
be full of fragrant stew, receives naught but the 
vapour, and the king who is wise will understand 
and will be pleased with his servant.' : 

"Very well said indeed, Saruti," cried Mtesa, 
laufhino-. " I understand. The lid must share 

o o 

with the pot this time. Steward," he said, turning 
to Kauta, " see that six head of cattle be driven 
to Saruti's cattle-pen;" and Saruti twiyanzied 
(thanked with prostrations) so often that his head 
swain. 



THE BOY KINNENEH AND THE GORILLA 




T is in such stories as 
the Fable of the 
Rabbit, the Leopard 
and the Goat, the 
Dog and the little 
Chicken, the Leop- 
ard, the Sheep and 
the Dove, the Crane, 
the Leopard and the 
Sheep, the Rabbit 
and the Lion, the 
Cow and the Lion, 

the Lion and his mane, the Rabbit and the 
Leopard, and the boy Kinneneh and the Gorilla, 
that Kadu, our accomplished relator of legends, 
shone. It is not with a wish to be unkind to 
Kadu that I say he showed only too well that 
according to him cunning was to be preferred 
to strength. Perhaps he was right, though cun- 
ning is a word in much discredit with us nowa- 
days, because we are accustomed to ally it with 
deception and fraud, but we will put the best 
possible construction on it out of admiration for 



DARK COJIPANIO\x 



and gratitude to Kadu, and claim that his cun- 
nino 1 , which was the moral of most of his stories, 

o' 

was a kind of illegitimate wisdom, or a permissi- 
ble artfulness. None of us, at least, but sympa- 
thised with Kadu's dumb heroes when, by a little 
pleasant cheat or sly stratagem, the bullying 
buffalo got the worst of an encounter with the 
sharp-witted rabbit, or when the dog got the 
better of his sour mistress the leopardess, or when 
rabbit put to shame the surly elephant, or when 
Kibatti conquered the kings of the animal tribes. 
The legend of Kinneneh and the Gorilla was 
another story which evidently was meant by 
Kadu and the unknown ancient of Uganda who 
invented it to illustrate that cunning is mightier 
than strength. He told it in this wise : 

In the early days of Uganda, there was a small 
village situate on the other side of the Katouga, 
in Buddu, and its people had planted bananas and 
plantains which in time grew to be quite a large 
grove, and produced abundant and very fine fruit. 
From a grove of bananas when its fruit is ripe 
there comes a very pleasant odour, and when a 
puff of wind blows over it, and bears the fragrance 
towards you, I know of nothing so well calculated 
to excite the appetite, unless it be the smell of 
roasted meat. Anyhow, such must have been the 
feeling of a mighty big gorilla, who one day, while 
roaming about alone in the woods searching for 



THE BOY KINNENEH AND THE GORILLA 267 

nuts to eat, stopped suddenly and stood up and 
sniffed for some time, with his nose well out in 
the direction of the village. After awhile he 
shook his head and fell on all fours again to 
resume his search for food. A^ain there came 

O 

with a whiff of wind a strong smell of ripe bana- 
nas, and he stood on his feet once more, and witli 
his nose shot out thus he drew in a greedy breath 
and then struck himself over the stomach, and 
said : 

" I thought it was so. There are bananas that 
way, and I must get some." 

Down he fell on all fours, and put out his arms 
witli long stretches, just as a' fisherman draws in a 
heavy net, and is eager to prevent the escape of 
the fish. 

In a little while he came to the edge of the 
grove, and stood and looked gloatingly on the 
beautiful fruit hanging in great bunches. Presently 
he saw something move. It was a woman bent 
double over a basket, and packing the fruit neatly 
in it, so that she could carry a large quantity at 
one journey. 

The gorilla did not stay long thinking, but 
crawled up secretly to her ; and then with open 
arms rushed forward and seized her. Before the 
woman could utter her alarm he had lifted her and 
her basket and trotted away with them into the 
deepest bush. On reaching his den he flung the 



MY DARK COJIPAX/OX* 



woman on the ground, as you would fling dead 
meat, and bringrinfir the banana basket close to him, 

O O 

his two legs hugging it close to his round paunch, 
he began to gorge himself, muttering while he 
peeled the fruit strange sounds. By-and-by the 
woman came to her senses, but instead of keeping 
quiet, she screamed and tried to run away. If it 
were not for that movement and noise, she perhaps 
might have been able to creep away unseen, but 
animals of all kinds never like to be disturbed 
while eating, so Gorilla gave one roar of rage, and 
gave her such a squeeze that the breath was clean 
driven out of her. When she was still he fell to 
again, and tore the peeling off the bananas, and 
tossed one after another down his wide throat, 
until there was not one of the fruit left in the 
basket, and the big paunch was swollen to twice 
its first size. Then, after laving his i>aw on the 

O -L 

body to see if there was anv life left in it, he 

i 

climbed up to his nest above, and curled himself 
into a ball for a sleep. 

\Yhen he woke he shook himself and yawned, 
and looking below he saw the body of the woman, 
and her empty basket, and he remembered what 
had happened. He descended the tree, lifted the 
body and let it fall, then took up the basket, looked 
inside and outside of it, raked over the peelings of 
the bananas, but could not find anything left to 
eat. 




HE LIFTED THE WOMAN AND HKB BASKET AND TROTTED AWAY. 



THE BOY KINXKXKII AM> THE GORILLA ^l 

He began to think, scratching the fur on his 
head, on his sides, and his paunch, picking up one 
tiling and then another in an absent-minded way. 
And then he appeared to have made up a plan. 

Whatever it was, this is what he did. It was 
still early morning, and as there was no sign of a 
sun, it was cold, and human beings must have been 
finishing their last sleep. He got up and went 
straight for the plantation. On the edge of the 
banana grove he heard a cock crow ; he stopped 
and listened to it; he became angry. 

"Some one," he said to himself, "is stealing my 
bananas.'' and with that he marched in the direc- 
tion where the cock was crowing;. 

O 

He came to the open place in front of the village, 
and SRAV several tall houses much larger than his 

O 

own nest ; and while he was looking at them, the 
door of one of them was opened, and a man came 
out. He crept towards him, and before he could 
cry out the gorilla had squeezed him until his ribs 
had cracked, and he was dead ; he flung him. down, 
and entered into the hut. He there saw a woman, 
who was blowing a fire on the hearth, and he took 

o 

hold of her and squeezed her until there was no 
life left in her bod v. There were three children in- 

/ 

side, and a bed on the floor. He treated them also 
in the same way, and thev were all dead. Then 

t/ / / 

he went into another house, and slew all the people 
in it, one with a squeeze, another with a squeeze 



272 - ]IY DARK COMPANIONS 

and a bite with his great teeth, and there was not 
one left alive. In this way he entered into five 
houses and killed all the people in them, but in 
the sixth house lived the boy Kinneneh and his 
old mother. 

Kimieneh had fancied that he heard an unusual 
sound, and he had stood inside with his eyes close 
to a chink in the reed door for some time when he 
saw something that resembled what might be said 
to be half animal and half man. He walked like 
a man, but had the fur of a beast. His arms were 
long, and his body was twice the breadth and 
thickness of a full-grown man. He did not know 

O 

what it was, and when he saw it go into his neigh- 
bours' houses, and heard those strange sounds, he 
grew afraid, and turned and woke his mother, say- 



u Mother, wake up ! there is a strange big beast 
in our village killing our people. So wake up 
quickly and follow me." 

" But whither shall we fly, my sou ? " she whis- 
pered anxiously. 

" Up to the loft, and lie low in the darkest 
place," replied Kinneneh, and he set her the ex- 
ample and assisted his mother. 

Now those Uganda houses are not low-roofed 
like these of Congo-land, but are very high, as 
high as a tree, and they rise to a point, and near 
the top there is a loft where we stow our nets, 



THE BOY KINNENEH AX/> THE GORILLA 273 

an<l pots, and where our spear-shafts and bows are 
kept to season, and where our corn is kept to dry, 
and green bananas are stored to ripen. It was in 
this dark lofty place that Kiimeneh hid himself 
and his mother, and waited in silence. 

In a short time the gorilla put his head into 
their house and listened, and stepping inside he 
stood awhile, and looked searchingvly around. He 

O / 

could see no one and heard nothing stir. He 

O 

peered under the bed-grass, into the black pots 
and baskets, but there was no living being- to be 

1 O O 

found. 

"Ha, ha," he cried, thumping his chest like a 
man when he has g;ot the bio- head. " I am the boss 

O O 

of this place now, and the tallest of these human 
nests shall be my own, and I shall feast ever}' day 
on ripe bananas and plantains, and there is no one 
who can molest me ha, ha! 1 ' 

" Ha, ha ! r echoed a shrill, piping voice after 
his great bass. 

O 

The gorilla looked around once more, among; the 

O O 

pots, and the baskets, but finding nothing walked 
out. Kinneneh, after awhile skipped down the 
ladder and watched between the open cane-work 
of the door, and saw him enter the banana-grove, 
and waited there until he returned with a might v 
load of the fruit. He then saw him g;o out ag;am 

O O 

into the grove, and bidding his mother lie still and 
patient, Kinneneh slipped out and ascended into 

18 



;>74 MT DARK COMPANIONS 

the loft of the house chosen by the gorilla for his 
nest, where he hid himself and waited. 

Presently the gorilla returned with another load 
of the fruit, and, squatting on his haunches, com- 
menced to peel the fruit, and fill his throat and 
mouth with it, mumbling and chuckling, and 
saying, 

" Ha, ha ! This is grand ! Plenty of bananas 
to eat, and all all my own. None to say, ' Give 
me some,' but all my very own. Ho, ho ! I shall 
feast every day. Ha, ha ! ' 

" Ha, ha," echoed the piping voice again. 

The gorilla stopped eating and made an ugly 
frown as he listened. Then he said : 

"That is the second time I have heard a thin 
voice saying, 'Ha, ha!' If I only knew who he 
was that cried ' Ha, ha ! ' I would squeeze him, 
and squeeze him until he cried, ' Ugh, ugh ! ' 

" Ugh, ugh ! '" echoed the little voice again. 

The gorilla leaped to his feet and rummaged 
around the pots and the baskets, took hold of the 
bodies one after another and dashed them against 

O 

the floor, then went to every house and searched, 
but could not discover who it was that mocked 
him. 

In a short time he returned and ate a pile of 
bananas that would have satisfied twenty men, 
and afterwards he went out, saying to himself 
that it would be a o-ood thino 1 to fill the nest witli 

O O 



THE BOY KINNENEH AND THE GORILLA 2 To 



food, as it was a bore to leave the warm nest each 
time he felt a desire to eat. 

No sooner had he departed than Kinneneh 
slipped down, and carried every bunch that had 
been left away to his own house, where they were 
stowed in the loft for his mother, and after enjoin- 
ing his mother to remain still, he waited, peering 
through the chinks of the door. 

He soon saw Gorilla bearing a pile of bunches 
that would have required ten men to carry, and 
after flinging them into the chief's house, return to 
the plantation for another supply. While Gorilla 
was tearing down the plants and plucking at the 
bunches, Kiuneneh was actively engaged in trans- 
ferriuo; what he brought into the loft by his 

~ O J 

mother's side. Gorilla made many trips in this 
manner, and brought in great heaps, but somehow 
his stock appeared to be very small. At last his 
strength was exhausted, and feeling that he could 

O O 

do no more that day, he commenced to feed on 
what he had last brought promising to himself 

O 1 O 

that he would do better in the mornino;. 

O 

At dawn the gorilla hastened out to obtain a 
supply of fruit for his breakfast, and Kinueneh 
took advantage of his absence to hide himself 

O 

overhead. 

He was not long in his place before Gorilla 
came in with a huge lot of ripe fruit, and after 
making himself comfortable on his haunches with 



276 - ] /r DARK COMPANIONS 

a great bunch before him he rocked himself to 
and fro, saying while he munched : 

" Ha, ha ! Now I have plenty again, and I 
shall eat it all myself. Ha, ha ! " 

"Ha, ha," echoed a thin voice again, so close 
and clear it seemed to him, that leaping up he 
made sure to catch it. As there appeared to be 
no one in the house, he rushed out raging, champ- 
ing his teeth, and searched the other houses, but 
meantime Kiuneueh carried the bananas to the 
loft of the gorilla's house, and covered them with 
bark-cloth. 

In a short time Gorilla returned furious and 
disappointed, and sat down to finish the breakfast 
he had only begun, but on putting out his hands 
he found only the withered peelings of yesterday's 
bananas. He looked and rummaged about, but 

o 

there was positively nothing left to eat. He was 
now terribly hungry and angry, and he bounded 
out to obtain another supply, which he brought in 
and flung on the floor, saying, 

"Ha, ha ! I will now eat the whole at once all 
to myself, and that other thing which says, l Ha, 
ha ! ' after me, I will hunt and mash him like 
this," and he seized a ripe banana and squeezed it 
with his paw with so much force that the pulp 
was squirted all over him. " Ha, ha ! " he cried. 

" Ha, ha ! " mocked the shrill voice, so clear that 
it appeared to come from behind his ear. 



THE BOY KINNENEH AND THE GORILLA 277 

This was too much to bear ; Gorilla bounded up 
and vented a roar of rage. He tossed the pots, 
the baskets, the bodies, and bed-grass about 
bellowing so loudly and funnily in his fury that 
Kinneneh, away up in the loft, could scarcely for- 
bear imitating liim. But the mocker could not be 
found, and Gorilla roared loudly in the open place 
before the village, and tore in and out of each 

O / 

house, looking for him. 

Kinneneh descended swiftly from his hiding- 
place, and bore every banana into the loft as 
before. 

Gorilla hastened to the plantation again, and so 
angry was he that he uprooted the banana-stalks 
by the root, and snapped oft' the clusters with 
one stroke of his great dog-teeth, and having got 
too;ether a larire stock, he bore it in his arms to 

O O 

the house. 

" There," said he, " ha, ha ! Now I shall eat in 
comfort and have a long sleep afterwards, and if 
that fellow who mocks me comes near ah ! I 
would- ' and he crushed a big bunch in his arms 
and cried, " ha, ha ! ' 

" Ha, ha ! Ha, ha ! " cried the mocking voice ; 
and again it seemed to be at the back of his head. 
Whereupon Gorilla flung his arms behind in the 
hope of catching him, but there was nothing but 

J- O O 

his own back, which sounded like a damp drum 
with the stroke. 



MY DARK COMPAXIOXX 



" Ha, lia ! Ha, lia ! ' repeated the voice, at 
which Gorilla shot out of the door, and raced 
round the house, thinking that the owner was 

O 

flying before him, but he never could overtake the 

i O 

flyer. Then he went around outside of the other 
houses, and flew round and round the village, but 

he could discover uauo-ht. But meanwhile Kinne- 

~ 

neli had borne all the stock of bananas up into 
the loft above, and when Gorilla returned there 
was not one banana of all the great pile he had 
brought left on the floor. 

o 

When, after he was certain that there was 
not a single bit of a banana left for him to eat, he 

O 

scratched his sides and his legs, and putting his 
hand on the top of his head, he uttered a great cry 
just like a great, stupid child, but the crying did 
not fill his tummy. No, he must have bananas for 
that and lie rose up after awhile and went to 
procure some more fruit. 

But when he had brought a great pile of it and 
had sat down with his nice-smelling bunch before 
him, he woidd exclaim, " Ha, ha ! Now now I 
shall eat and be satisfied. I shall fill myself with 
the sweet fruit, and then lie down and sleep. Ha, 
ha!" 

Then instantly the mocking voice would crv out 

*/ * 

after him, " Ha, lia ! " and sometimes it sounded 
close to his ears, and then behind his head, some- 
times it appeared to come from under the bananas 



THE BOY KINNENEH AND THE GORILLA 279 

and sometimes from the doorway that Gorilla 
would roar in fury, and he would grind his teeth 
just like two grinding-stones, and chatter to him- 




"HE WOULD ROAR IN FURY, AND RACE ABOUT THK VILLAGE." 

self, and race about the village, trying to discover 
whence the voice came, but in his absence the fruit 
would be swept away by his invisible enemy, and 
when he would come in to finish his meal, lo ! there 



280 MY DARK COMPANIONS 

were only blackened and stained banana peelings 
the refuse of his first feast. 

Gorilla would then cry like a whipped child, and 
would go again into the plantation, to bring some 
more fruit into the house, but when he returned 
with it he would always boast of what he was 
going to do, and cry out " Ha, ha, !" and instantly 
his unseen enemy would mock him and cry "Ha, 
ha! " and he would start up raving and screaming 
in rage, and search for him, and in his absence his 
bananas would be whisked awav. And Gorilla's 

/ 

hunger grew on him, until his paunch became like 
an empty sack, and what with his hunger and grief 
and rage, and furious raving and racing about, his 
strength was at last quite exhausted, and the end 
of him was that on the fifth day he fell from weak- 
ness across the threshold of the chiefs house, which 
lie had chosen to make his nest, and there died. 

AVhen the people of the next village heard of 
how Kinneneh, a little boy, had conquered the 
man-killing gorilla, they brought him and his 
mother away, and they gave him a fine new house 
and a plantation, and male and female slaves to 
tend it, and when their old kino; died, and the 

O 

period of mourning for him AVRS over, they elected 
\\ise Kinneneh to be king over them. 

u Ah, friends," said Safeni to his companions, 
after Kadu had concluded his story, " there is no 
doubt that the cunning of a son of man prevails 



THE BOY KINXENEH AND THE GORILLA 



over the strongest brute, and it is well for us, 
Mashallah ! that it should be so ; for if the ele- 
phant, or the lion, or the gorilla possessed but 
cunning equal to their strength, what would be- 
come of us ! " 

And each man retired to his hut, congratulating; 

~ o 

himself that he was born a man-child, and not a 
thick, muddle-headed beast. 



THE CITY OF THE ELEPHANTS 




ASTER," said Kas- 
sim, one of the 
B a s o k o boys, 
" B a r u t i's tales 
have brought back 
from among for- 
gotten things a 
legend I once 
knew very well. 
Ah, I wish I could remember more, but little by 
little the stories that I used to hear in my child- 
hood from my mother and the old woman who 
would come and sit with her, will perhaps return 
again into the mind. I should never have thought 
of this that I am about to repeat to you now had 
it not been that Baruti's legends seem to recall 

O 

as though they were but yesterday the days that 
came and went uncounted in our Basoko village. 
This legend is about the City of the Elephants 
that one of my countrymen and his wife came 
across in the far past time, in the manner that I 
shall tell you.' 



" 



THE CITY OF 'till-: ELEPHANTS 283 

A Buiigandu man named Dndii, and his wife 
Salimba, were one day seeking in tlie forest a long 
way from the town for a proper redwood-tree, 
out of which they could make a wooden mortar 
wherein they could pound their manioc. They 
saw several trees of this kind as they proceeded, 
but after examining one, and then another, they 
would appear to be dissatisfied, and say, " Perhaps 
if we went a little further we might find a still 
better tree for our purpose." 

And so Dudu and Salimba proceeded further 
and further into the tall and thick woods, and 
ever before them there appeared to be still finer 
trees which would after all be unsuited for their 
purpose, being too soft, or too hard, or hollow, or 
too old, or of another kind than the useful redwood. 
They strayed in this manner very far. In the 
forest where there is no path or track, it is not 
easy to tell which direction one came from, and 
as they had walked round many trees, they were 
too confused to know which way they ought to 
turn homeward. When Dudu said he was sure 
that his course was the right one for home, 
Salimba was as sure that the opposite was the 
true way. They agreed to walk in the direction 
Dudu wished, and after a long time spent on it, 
they gave it up and tried another, but neither took 
them any nearer home. 

The night overtook them and they slept at the 



284 MY DARK COMPANIONS 

foot of a tree. The next day they wandered still 
farther from their town, and they became anxious 
and hunory. As one cannot see many yards off 

O */ / J 

on any side in the forest, an animal hears the 
coming; step long before the hunter gets a chance 
to use his weapon. Therefore, though they heard 
the rustle of the flying antelope, or wild pig as it 
rushed away, it only served to make their anxi- 
ety greater. And the second day passed, and when 
night came upon them they were still hungrier. 

Towards the middle of the third day, they came 
into an open place by a pool frequented by 
Kiboko (hippo), and there was a margin of grass 
round about it, and as the}' came in view of it, 
both, at the same time, sighted a grazing buffalo. 

Dudu bade his wife stand behind a tree while 
he chose two of his best and sharpest arrows, and 
after a careful look at his bow-string, he crept up 
to the buffalo, and drove an arrow home as far as 
the guiding leaf, which nearly buried it in the 
body. While the beast looked around and started 
from the twinge within, Dudu shot his second 
arrow into his windpipe, and it fell to the ground 
quite choked. Now here was water to drink and 
food to eat, and after cutting a load of meat they 
chose a thick bush-clump a little distance from the 
pool, made a fire, and, after satisfying their hun- 
ger, slept in content. The fourth day they stopped 
and roasted a meat provision that would last many 



THE CITY OF THE ELEPHANTS 



285 



days, because they knew that luck is not constant 
in the woods. 

On the fifth they travelled, and for three days 
more they wandered. They then met a young 
lion who, at the sight of them, boldly advanced, 
but Dudu sighted his bow, and sent an arrow into 




DUDU AND HIS WIFE MEET A YOUNG LION. 

his chest which sickened him of the fight, and he 
turned and fled. 

A few days afterwards, Dudu saw an elephant 
standing close to them behind a high bush, and 
whispered to his wife : 

" Ah, now, we have a chance to get meat enough 
for a mouth." 



-j,si; MY DARK COMPAMoXs 

" But," said Salimba, " why should you wish to 
kill him, when we have enough meat still with us ? 
Do not hurt him. Ah, what a fine back he has, 
and how strong he is. Perhaps he would carry us 
home." 

" How could an elephant understand our 
wishes I " asked Dudu. 

" Talk to him anyhow, perhaps he will be clever 
enough to understand what we want." 



Dudu laughed at his wife's simplicity, but to 
please her he said, " Elephant, we have lost our 
way; will you carry us and take us home, and we 
shall be your friends for ever." 

The Elephant ceased waving his trunk, and nod- 
ding to himself, and turning to them said- 

" If YOU come near to me and take hold of my 
cMi's, von may get on my back, and I will carry 
you safely. 11 

When the Elephant spoke, Dudu fell back from 
surprise, and looked at him as though he had not 
heard aright, but Salimba advanced with all con- 

o 

fidence, and laid hold of one of his ears, and pulled 
herself up on to his back. When she was seated, 
she cried out, " Come, Dudu, what are you looking 
at ? Did you not hear him say he would carry 
you ? " 

Seeing his wife smiling and comfortable on the 
Elephant's back, Dudu became a little braver and 
moved forward slowly, when the Elephant spoke 



THE CITY OF THE ELEPHANT* 287 

again, "Come, Dudu, be not afraid. Follow your 
wife, and do as she did, and then I will travel 
home with you quickly." 

Dudu then put aside his fears, and his surprise, 
and seizing the Elephant's ear, he ascended and 
seated himself by his wife on the Elephant's back. 

Without another word the Elephant moved on 
rapidly, and the motion seemed to Dudu and 
Salimba most delightful. Whenever any over- 
hanging branch was in the way, the Elephant 
wrenched it oft', or bent it and passed on. No 
creek, stream, gulley, or river, stopped him, he 
seemed to know exactly the way he should go, as 
if the road he was travelling was well known to 

O 

him. 

When it was getting dark he stopped and asked 
his friends if they would not like to rest for 
the night, and finding that they so wished it, he 
stopped at a nice place by the side of the river, and 
they slid to the ground, Dudu first, and Salimba 
last. He then broke dead branches for t'hem, out 
of which they made a fire, and the Elephant stayed 
by them, as though he was their slave. 

Hearing their talk, he understood that they 
would like to have something better than dried 
meat to eat, and he said to them, " I am glad to 
know your wishes, for I think I can help you. 
Bide here a little, and I will go and search." 

About the middle of the night he returned to 



/'.>/.' /r ro.]//>.Lv/v).v,s 



them \vith something white in liis trunk, and a 

O 

young antelope in front of him. The white thing 
was a great manioc root, which he dropped into 
Salimba's lap. 

" There, Salimba," he said, " there is food for 
you, eat your fill and sleep in peace, for I will 
watch over you." 

Dudu and Salimba had seen many strange things 
that day, but they were both still more astonished 
at the kindly and intelligent care which their friend 
the Elephant took of them. \Vhile they roasted 
their fresh meat over the flame, and the manioc 
root was baking under the heap of hot embers, the 
Elephant dug with his tusks for the juicy roots of 
his favourite trees round about their camp, and 
munched away contentedly. 

The next morning, all three, after a bathe in the 
river, set out on their journey more familiar with 
one another, and in a happier mood. 

About noon, while they were resting during the 
heat of 'the day, two lions came near to roar at 
them, but when Dudu was drawing his bow at one 
of them, the Elephant said : 

" You leave them to me ; I will make them run 
pretty quick," saying which he tore off a great 
bough of a tree, and flourishing this with his trunk, 
he trotted on the double quick towards them, and 
used it so heartily that they both skurried away 
with their bellies to the ground, and their hides 



THE CITY OF THE ELEPHANTS 



shrinking and quivering out of fear of the great 
rod. 

In the afternoon the Elephant and his human 
friends set oft' again, and some time after they came 
to a wide and deep river. He begged his friends 
to descend while he tried to find out the shallow- 
est part. It took him some time to do this ; but, 
having discovered a ford where the water was not 
quite over Ms back, he returned to them, and urged 
them to mount him as he wished to reach home 
before dark. 

As the Elephant was about to enter the river, 
he said to Dudu, " I see some hunters of your own 
kind creeping up towards us. Perhaps they are 
your kinsmen. Talk to them, and let us see whether 
they be friends or foes." 

Dudu hailed them, but they gave no answer, 
and, as they approached nearer, they were seen to 
prepare to cast their spears, so the Elephant said, 
" I see that they are not your friends ; therefore, 
as I cross the river, do you look out for them, and 
keep them at a distance. If they come to the 
other side of the river, I shall know how to deal 
with them." 

They got to the opposite bank safely ; but, as 
they were landing, Dudu and Salimba noticed that 
their pursuers had discovered a canoe, and that 
they were pulling hard after them. But the Ele- 
phant soon after landing came to a broad path 

19 



200 J/r DARK COMPANIONS 

smoothed by much travel, over which he took 
them at a quick pace, so fast, indeed, that the 
pursuers had to run to be able to keep up with 
them. Dudu, every now and then let fly an arrow 
at the hunters, which kept them at a safe distance. 
Towards night they came to the City of the 
Elephants, which was very large and fit to shelter 
such a multitude as they now saw. Their ele- 
phant did not linger, however, but took his friends 
at the same quick pace until they came to a mighty 
elephant that was much larger than any other, and 
his ivories were gleaming white and curled up, and 
exceedingly long. Before him Dudu and Salimba 
were told by their friend to descend and salaam, 
and he told his lord how he had found them lost 
in the woods, and how for the sake of the kindly 
words of the woman he had befriended them, and 
assisted them to the city of his tribe. AVhen the 
King Elephant heard all this he was much 
pleased, and said to Dudu and Salimba that they 
were welcome to his city, and how they should 
not want for anything, as long as they would be 
pleased to stay with them, but as for the hunters 
who had dared to chase them, he would give 
orders at once. Accordingly he gave a signal, 
and ten active young elephants dashed out of the 
city, and in a short time not one of the hunters 
was left alive, though one of them had leaped into 
the river, thinking that he could escape in that 



277^ CITY OF THE ELEPHANTS 393 

manner. But then you know that an elephant is 
as much at home in a river, as a Kiboko,* so that 
the last man was soon caught and was drowned. 

Dud u and Salimba, however, on account of 
Salimba's kind heart in preventing her husband 
wounding the elephant, were made free of the 
place, and their friend took them with him to 
man)- families, and the big pa's and ma's told their 
little babies all about them and their habits, and 
said that, though most of the human kind were 
very stupid and wicked, Dudu and Salimba were 
very good, and putting their trunks into their ears 
they whispered that Salimba was the better of the 
two. Then the little elephants gathered about 
them and trotted by their side and around them 
and diverted them with their antics, their races, 
their wrestlings, and other trials of strength, but 

o o ' 

when they became familial 1 and somewhat rude 
in their rough play, their elephant friend would 
admonish them, and if that did not suffice, he 
would switch them soundly. 

The City of the Elephants w T as a spacious and 
well-trodden glade in the midst of a thick forest, 
and as it was entered one saw how wisely the 
elephant families had arranged their manner of 
life. For without, the trees stood as thick as 
water-reeds, and the bush or underwood was like 
an old hedge of milkweed knitted together by 

* A hippopotamus. 



294 MY DARK 



thorny vines and snaky climbers into which the 
human hunter might not even poke his nose with- 
out hurt. Well, the burly elephants had, by much 
uprooting, created deep hollows, or recesses, where- 
in a family of two and more mig-ht snugly rest, 

v O O / 

and not even a dart of sunshine mio-ht reach them. 

o 

Round about the great glade the dark leafy arches 
ran, and Dudu and his wife saw that the elephant 
families were numerous for by one sweeping 
look they could tell that there were more elephants 
than there are human beings in a goodly village. 
In some of the recesses there was a row of six 
and more elephants ; in another the parents stood 
head to head, and their children, big and little, 
clung close to their parents 1 sides ; in another a 
family stood with heads turned towards the 
entrance, and so on all around while under a big 
tree in the middle there was quite a gathering of 
bio; fellows, as though thev were holding a serious 

O . o 

palaver; under another tree one seemed to be on 
the outlook ; another paced slowly from side to 
side; another plucked at this branch or at that; 
another appeared to be heaving a tree, or sharpen- 
ing a blunted ivory; others seemed appointed to 
uproot the sprouts, lest the glade might become 
choked with underwood. Near the entrance on 
both sides were a brave company of them, faces 
turned outward, swinging their trunks, flapping 
their ears, rubbing against each other, or who with 



THE CITY OF THE KLEl'llAX'I's 



pate against pate seemed to be drowsily consider- 
ing something. There was a continual coming in 
and a going out, singly, or in small companies. 
The roads that ran through the glade were like a 
network, clean and smooth, while that which 
went towards the king's place was so wide that 
twenty men might walk abreast. At the far end 
the king stood under his own tree, with his family 
under the arches behind him. 

This was the City of the Elephants as Dudu and 
Salimba saw it. I ought to say that the outlets of 
it were many. One went straight through the 
woods in a line up river, at the other end it ran in 
a line following the river downward ; one went to 

O 

a lakelet, where juicy plants and reeds throve like 
corn in a man's fields, and where the elephants re- 
joiced in its cool water, and washed themselves and 
infants ; another went to an ancient clearing where 
the plantain and manioc grew wild, and wherein 
more than two human tribes mi edit find food for 

O 

countless seasons. 

Then said their friend to Dudu and Salimba- 
" Now that I have shown you our manner of life, 
it is for you to ease your longing for awhile and 
rest with us. When you yearn for home, go tell 
our kino-, and he will send you with credit to your 
kindred.' 1 

Then Dudu and his wife resolved to stay, and 
eat, and they stayed a whole season, not only un- 



j>9U MY DARK COMPANIONS 

hurt, but tenderly cared for, with never a hungry 
hour or uneasy night. But at last Salimba's heart 
remembered her children, and kinfolk, and her own 
warm house and village pleasures, and on hinting 
of these memories to her husband, he said that after 
all there was no place like Bungandu. He remem- 
bered his long pipe, and the talk house, the stool- 
making, shaft-polishing, bow-fitting, and the little 
tinkering jobs, the wine-trough, and the merry 
drinking bouts, and he wept softly as he thought 
of them. 

They thus agreed that it was time for them to 
travel homeward, and together they sought the 
elephant king, and frankly told him of their state. 

" My friends/' he replied, " be no longer sad, but 
haste to depart. With the morning's dawn guides 
shall take you to Bungandu with such gifts as shall 
make you welcome to your folk. And when you 

/ / / 

come to them, say to them that the elephant king 
desires lasting peace and friendship with them. 
On our side we shall not injure their plantations, 
neither a plantain, nor a manioc root belonging to 
them ; and on your side dig no pits for our unwary 
youngsters, nor hang the barbed iron aloft, nor 
plant the poisoned stake in the path, so we shall 
escape hurt and be unprovoked." And Dudu put 
his hand on the king's trunk as the pledge of good 
faith. 

In the morning, four elephants, as bearers of the 



THE CITY OF THE ELEPHANTS 297 

gifts from the king bales of bark-cloth, and showy 
mats, and soft hides and other things and two 
fHitmor elephants besides their old friend, stood 

^"> o i 

by the entrance to the city, and when the king 
elephant came up he lifted Salimba first on the 
back of her old companion, and then placed Dudu 
bv her side, and at a parting wave the company 
moved on. 

In ten days they reached the edsre of the planta- 

*/ / 

tion of Bungandu, and the leader halted. The 

O 

bales were set down on the ground, and then their 
friend asked of Dudu and his wife 

"Know you where you are?" 

u We do," they answered. 

u Is this Bungandu T 1 he asked. 

o 

"This is Bungandu," they replied. 

" Then here we part, that we may not alarm 
your friends. Go now your way, and we go our 
way. Go tell your folk how the elephants treat 
their, friends, and let there be peace for ever 
between us. 11 

The elephants turned away, and Dudu and 
Salimba, after hiding their wealth in the under- 
wood, went arm in arm into the village of Bun- 
gaud u. When their friends saw them, they 
greeted them as we would greet our friends 
whom we have loii" 1 believed to be dead, but 

O 

who come back smiling and rejoicing to us. 
When the people heard their story they greatly 



:>J,S 31 y 1>M(K COMPANIONS 



wondered and doubted, but when Dudu and 
Salimba took them to the place of parting and 
showed them the hoof prints of seven elephants 
on the road, and the bales that they had hidden 
in the underwood, they believed their story. And 
they made it a ride from that day that no man of 
the tribe ever should lift a spear, or draw a bow, 
or dig a pit, or plant the poisoned stake in the 
path, or hang the barbed iron aloft, to do hurt to 
an elephant. And as a proof that T have but told 
the truth go ask the Bungandu, and they will sax- 
why none of their race will ever seek to hurt the 
elephant, and it will be the same as I have told 
you. That is my story. 



THE SEARCH FOE THE HOME OF 

THE SUN 



'E had a man named 
Kauga with us in 
1883, which name 
seems to have been 
bestowed on him 
by some Islam- 
ised resident of 
Nyangwe by reason 
of some fancied 
suggestion made by 
some of his facial 
marks to the spots on a guinea-fowl. Kauga had 
not spoken as yet by the evening fire, but had 
been an amused listener. When the other tale- 
tellers were seen sporting their gay robes on the 
Sunday, it may have inspired him to make an 
effort to gain one for himself ; anyhow, he sur- 
prised us one night by saying that lie knew of a 
tale which perhaps we would like to hear. As 
Kanga's tribe was the Wasongora-Meno on the 
right bank of the Lualaba, between Nyangwe and 




300 MY DARK COMPANIONS 

Stanley Falls, the mere mention of a tale from 
that region was sufficient to kindle niy interest. 

After a few suitable compliments to Kanga, 
which were clearly mucli appreciated, he spoke 
as follows : 

Master and friends. We have an old phrase 
among us which is very common. It is said that 
he who waits and waits for his turn, may wait too 
long, and lose his chance. My tongue is not nim- 
ble like some, and my words do not flow like the 
deep river. I am rather like the brook which is 
fretted by the stones in its bed, and I hope after 
this explanation you will not be too impatient 
with me. 

My tale is about King Masama and his tribe, 
the Balira, who dwelt far in the inmost region, 
behind (east) us, who throng the banks of the 
great river. They were formerly very numerous, 
and many of them came to live among us, but one 
day King Masama and the rest of the tribe left 
their country and went eastward, and they have 
never been heard of since, but those who chose to 
stay with us explained their disappearance in this 
way. 

A woman, one cold night, after making up her 
fire on the hearth, went to sleep. In the middle 
of the night the nre had spread, and spread, and 
began to lick up the litter on the floor, and from 
the litter it crept to her bed of dry banana leaves, 



THE SEARCH FOR THE HOME OF THE Sl'\ 3Q1 



and in a little time shot up into flames. When 
the woman and her husband were at last awakened 
1>y the heat, the flames had already mounted into 
the roof, and were burning furiously. Soon they 
broke through the top and leaped up into the 
night, and a gust of wind i-ame and carried the 
long flames like a stream of fire towards the 




"TlIK VlU.ACiK WAS KNTIUKLY IH'I! XKIt. " 

neighbouring huts, and in a short time the fire had 

-j O 

caught hold of every house, and the village was 
entirely burned. It was soon known that besides 
burning up their houses and much property, sev- 
eral old people and infants had been destroyed bv 
the fire, and the people were horror-struck and 
angry. 



303 JfY DARK 



Then one voice said, " We all know in whose 
house the lire be^an, and the owner of it must 

o 

make our losses good to us." 

The woman's husband heard this, and was 
alarmed, and guiltily fled into the woods. 

In the morning a council of the elders was held, 
and it was agreed that the man in whose house 

O 

the fire commenced should be made to pay for his 
carelessness, and they forthwith searched for him. 
But when they sought for him he could not be 
found. Then all the voung warriors who were 

/ d? 

cunning in wood-craft, girded and armed them- 
selves, and searched for the trail, and when one of 
them had found it, he cried out, and the others 
gathered themselves about him and took it up, 

^ -i 

and when many eyes were set upon it, the trail 
could not be lost. 

They soon came up to the man, for he was 
seated under a tree, bitterly weeping. 

Without a word they took hold of him by the 
arms and bore him along with them, and brought 
him before the village fathers, lie was not a 
common man by any means. lie was known as 
one of Masama's principal men, and one whose 
advice had been often followed. * 

" Oh," said everybody, u he is a rich man, and 
well able to pay ; yet, if he gives all he has got, it 
will not be equal to our loss." 

The fathers talked a lono; time over the matter, 



/'///; HI-: MIC n FOR THE HOME OF THE SUN ;;<>;; 

aud at last decided that to save his forfeited life 
he should freely turn over to them all his prop- 
erty. And he did so. His plantation of bananas 
and plantains, his plots of beans, yams, manioc, 
potatoes, ground-nuts, his slaves, spears, shields, 
knives, paddles and canoes. When he had 
given up all, the hearts of the people became 
softened towards him, and they forgave him the 
rest. 

After the elder's property had been equally 
divided among the sufferers by the fire, the people 
gained new courage, and set about rebuilding their 
homes, and before long they had a new village, 
and they had made themselves as comfortable as 
ever. 

Then King Masama made a law, a very severe 
law to the effect that, in future, no lire should 
be lit in the houses during the day or night ; and 
the people, who were now much alarmed about 
fire, with one heart agreed to keep the law. But 
it was soon felt that the cure for the evil was as 
cruel as the fire had been. For the houses had 
been thatched with green banana leaves, the tim- 
bers were green and wet with their sap, the floor 
was damp and cold, the air was deadly, and the 
people began to suffer from joint aches, and their 
knees were stiff, and the pains travelled from one 
place to another through their bodies. The village 
was filled with i- 



304 MY DARK COMPANIONS 

Masama suffered more than all, fur lie was old. 
He shivered night and day, and his teeth chattered 
sometimes so that he could not talk, and after that 
his head would burn, and the hot sweat would 
pour from him, so that he knew no rest. 

Then the king gathered his chiefs and principal 
men together, and said : 

" Oh, my people, this is unendurable, for life is 
with me now but one continuous acnie. Let us 

O 

leave this country, for it is bewitched, and if I 
stay longer there will be nothing left of me. Lo, 
my joints are stiffened with my disease, and my 
muscles are withering. The only time I feel a 
little ease is when I lie on the hot ashes without 
the house, but when the rains fall I must needs 
withdraw indoors, and there I find no comfort, for 
the mould spreads everywhere. Let us hence at 
once to seek a warmer clime. Behold whence the 
sun issues daily in the morning, hot and glowing; 

O' O O 

there, where his home is, must be warmth, and we 
shall need no fire. What say you ( v 

* 

Masama's words revived their drooping spirits. 
They looked towards the sun as they saw him 
mount the sky, and felt his cheering glow on their 
naked breasts and shoulders, and they cried with 
one accord : " Let us hence, and seek the place 
whence he comes." 

And the people got ready and piled their 
belongings in the canoes, and on a certain day 



THE SEARCH FOR THE HOME OF THE SUN 3Q5 

they left their village and ascended their broad 
river, the Lira. Day after day they paddled up 
the stream, and we heard of them from the 
Bafauya as they passed by their country, and the 
Bafanya heard of them for a long distance up 
from the next tribe the Bamoru and the Bamoru 
heard about them arriving near the Mountain Land 

O 

beyond. 

Not until a Ions; time afterwards did we hear 

O 

what became of Masama and his people. 

It was said that the Balira, when the river had 
become shallow and small, left their canoes and 
travelled by land amonsr little hills, and after 

/ O 

winding in and out amongst them they came to 
the foot of the tall mountain which stands like a 
grandsire amongst the smaller mountains. Up the 
sides of the big mountain they straggled, the 
stronger and more active of them ahead, and as 

O 

the days passed, they saw that the world was cold 
and dark until the sun showed himself over the 
edge of the big mountain, when the day became 
more agreeable, for the heat pierced into their 
veiy marrows, and made their hearts rejoice. The 
greater the heat became, the more certain were 
they that they were drawing near the home of the 
sun. And so they pressed on and on, day after 
day, winding along one side of the mountain, and 
then turning to wind again still higher. Each 
day, as they advanced towards the top, the heat 
20 



300 MY DARK 



became greater and greater. Between them and 
the sun there was now not the smallest shrub or 
leaf, and it became so fiercely hot that finally not 
a drop of sweat was left in their bodies. One dav, 
when not a cloud was in the sky, and the world 

was all below them far down like a j^reat buffalo 

~ 

hide the sun came out over the rim of the moun- 
tain like a ball of fire, and the nearest of them to 
the top were dried like a leaf over a flame, and 
those who were behind were amazed at its burning 
force, and felt, as he sailed over their heads, that 
it was too late for them to escape. Their skins 
began to shrivel up and crackle, and fall off, and 
none of those who were high up on the mountain 
side were left alive. But a few of those who were 
nearest the bottom, and the forest belts, managed 
to take shelter, and remaining there until ni^ht, 

O O 

they took advantage of the darkness, when the sun 

' O 

sleeps, to fly from the home of the sun. Except a 
few poor old people and toddling children, there 
Was none left of the once populous tribe of the 
Balira. 

That is my story. AVe who live by the great 
river have taken the lesson, which the end of this 
tribe has been to us, .close to our hearts, and it is 
this. Kings who insist that their wills should be 
followed, and never care to take counsel with their 
people, are as little to be heeded as children who 
babble of what they cannot know, and therefore 




XOXK UK THOSK WHO WKRK HICI1 I'l' o\ Till: Mnl'VTMX SIHK \V1-.IM-: 

I.EKT A LI VK." 



THE SEARCH FOR THE Hi ).}//; OF THE SUN 309 

in our villages we have many elders who take all 
matters from the chief and turn them over in their 
minds, and when they are agreed, they give the 
doing of them to the chief, who can act only as 
the elders decree. 



A HOSPITABLE GORILLA 




IR," said Baruti, 
after we had all 
gathered around tlie 
evening fire, and 
were waiting expect- 
ant for tlie usual 
story, " Kassim's tale 
about tlie City of 
the Elephants and 
the peace that was 
entered into between 
tlie elephants and 
the Bungandu has 

reminded me of what happened between a tribe 

living on the banks of the little Black River above 

the Basoko, and a Gorilla." 

" AVallahi, but these Basoko boys beat every - 

hodv for telling stories,' 1 exclaimed a Zanzibar!. 

i) 

" I wonder, however, whether they invent them, 
or they really have heard them from their old 
folk, as they say the}' did." 

" We heard them, of course," replied Baruti, with 
an indignant look; "for how could Kassim or I 



A HOSPITABLE GORILLA ;}\\ 

imagine such things ? I heard something each day 
almost from the elders, or the old women of the 
tribe. My mother also told me some, and my big 
brother told me others. At our village talk-house, 
scarcely a day passed but we heard of some strange 
thing which had happened in old times. It is this 
custom of meeting around the master's fire, and 
the legends that w r e hear, that reminds us of what 
we formerly heard, and by thinking and thinking 
over them the words come back anew to us/ 1 

"But do vou think these things of which you 
talk are. true ? r the Zanzibar! asked. 

"True ! " he echoed. " AVlio am I that I should 
say, This thing is true, and that is false ! I but 
repeat what my betters said. I do not speak of 
what I saw, but of what I heard, and the master's 
words to us were : 'Try and remember what w r as 
said to you in your villages by the ancients among 
your people, and if you will tell it to me properly, 
I will give you a nice cloth.' Well, when our old 
men were in good-humour, and smoked their long 
pipes, and the pot of wine was by their side, and 
we asked them to tell us somewhat about the days 
when they were young, they would say, 'Listen to 
this now,' and they would tell us of what happened 
long ago. It is the things of long ago that we 
remember best, because they were so strange that 
they clung on the mind, and would not altogether 
be forgotten, If there is aught unpleasing in 



312 J/r DARK COMPANIONS 

them, it is not our fault, for we but repeat the 
words that entered into our ears." 

" That will do, Baruti ; go on with your story ; 
and you, Baraka, let your tongue sleep," cried 
Zaidi. 

" I but asked a question. Ho ! how impatient 
you fellows are ! ' 

" Nay, this is but chatter we shall never hear 

i/ ' 

the story at this rate. Hyah ! Barikallah ! * 
Baruti." ' 

Well (began Baruti), this tribe dwelt on the 
banks of the Black River just above Basoko town, 
and at that time of the far past the thick forest 
round about them was haunted by many mon- 
strous animals ; big apes, chimpanzees, gorillas and 
such creatures, Avhich are not often seen nowadays. 
Not far from the village, in a darksome spot where 
the branches met overhead and formed a thick 
screen, and the lower wood hedged it closely round 

O t/ 

about so that a tortoise could scarcely penetrate it, 
there lived the Father of the Gorillas. He had 
housed himself in the fork of one of the tallest 
trees, and many men had seen the nest as they 
passed bv, but none as yet had seen the owner. 
But one day a fisherman in search of rattans to 
make his nets, wandered far into the woods, aiid-in 
trying to recover the direction home struck the 
Black River hio-h ui>. As he stood wondering 

O -L ' 

" Hurry on, in God's name ! 



A HOSPITABLE GORILLA 313 

whether this was the black stream that flowed 
past his village, he saw, a little to the right of him, 
an immense gorilla, who on account of the long- 
dark fur on his chest appeared to be bigger than 
he really was. A cold sweat caused by his great 
fear beo;an to come out of the man, and his knees 

o 

trembled so that he could hardly stand, but when 
he perceived that the gorilla did not move, but 
continued eating his bananas, he became comforted 
a little, and his senses came back. He turned his 
head around, in order to see the clearest way for a 
run ; but as he was about to start, he saw that the 
gorilla's eyes were fixed on him. Then the gorilla 
broke out into speech and said : 

" Come to me, and let me look at thee." 
The fisherman's fear came back to him, but he 
did as he was told, and when he thought he was 
near enough, he stood still. 

O ' 

Then the gorilla said : 

" If thou art kin to me, thou art safe from harm; 
if not, thou canst not pass. How many fingers 
hast thou ? " he asked. 

" Four," the fisherman answered, and he held a 
hand up with its back towards the gorilla, and his 
thumb was folded in on the palm so that it could 
not be seen by the beast. 

" Aye true indeed. Why, thou must be a kins- 
man of ours, though thy fur is somewhat scanty. 
Sit down and take thy share of this food, and eat." 



314 J/r DARK COMPANIONS 

The fisherman sat down, and broke off bananas 
from the stalk and ate heartily. 

" Now mind," said the gorilla, " then hast eaten 
food with me. Shouldst thou ever meet in thy 
wanderings any of my brothers, thou must be kind 
to them in memory of this day. Our tribe has no 
quarrel with any of thine, and thy tribe must have 
none against any of mine. I live alone far down 
this river, and thy tribe lives further still. Mind 
our password, i Tu-wheli, Tu-wheli? By that we 
know who is friendly and who is against us." 

*/ O 

The fisherman departed, and speeding on his 
way reached his village safely ; but he kept secret 
what he had seen and met that day. 

Some little time after, the tribe resolved to have 
a grand hunt around their village, to scare the 
beasts of the forest away ; for in some things they 
resemble us. If we leave a district undisturbed 
for a moon or so, the animals think that we have 
either departed the country or are afraid of them. 
The apes and the elephants are the worst in that 
respect, and always lead the way, pressing on our 
heels, and often sending their scouts ahead to re- 
port, or as a hint to us that we are lingering too 
long. 

The people loaded themselves with "their great 
nets, and first chose the district where the Gorilla 
Father lived. They set their nets around a wide 
space, and then the beaters were directed to make 



A HOSPITABLE GORILLA 317 

a large sweep aiid drive all the game towards the 
nets, and liere and there where the netting was 
weak, the hunters stood behind a thick bush, their 
heavy spears ready for the fling. 

Well, it just happened that at that very time 
the Father of the Gorillas was holding forth to his 

O 

kinsmen, and the first they knew of the hunt, and 
that a multitude of men were in the woods, was 
when they heard the horrid yells of the beaters, 
the sound of horns, the jingle of iron, and the all- 
round swish of bushes. 

The fisherman, like the rest of his friends, was 
well armed, and he was as keen as the others for 
the hunt, but soon after he heard the cries of the 
beaters, he saw a large gorilla rushing out of the 
bushes, and knew him instantly for his friend, 
and he cried out " Tu-wJieli ! Tu-wheli! r At the 
sound of it the gorilla led his kinsmen towards 
him, and passed the word to those behind, saying;, 

/ O' 

" Ah, this is our friend, Do not hurt him." 

The gorillas passed in a long line of mighty fel- 
lows, close by the fisherman, and as they heard the 
voice of their father, they only whispered to him, 
" Tu-wJieli, Tu-wJieli" but the last of all was a big, 
sour-faced gorilla, who, when he saw that the pass 
was only guarded by one man, made a rush at him. 
His roar of rage was heard by the father, and turn- 
ing back he knew that his human brother was in 
danger, and he cried out to those nearest to part 



318 MY DARK COMPANIONS 

them, " The man is our brother ; " but as the fierce 
gorilla was deaf to words, the father loped back 

to them, and slew him, and then hastened awav 

./ 

as the hunters were pressing up. 

These, when they came up and observed that 
the fisherman's spear was still in his hand, and not 
painted with blood, were furious, and they agreed 
together that he should not have a share of the 
meat, " For," said they, " he must have been in a 
league against us." Neither did he obtain any 
share of the spoil. 

A few days after this the fisherman was pro- 
ceeding through a part of the forest, and a gorilla 
met him in the path, and said : 

" Stay, I seem to know thee. Art thou not our 
brother?" 

" Tu-wheli, Tu-wlieli!" 1 he cried. 

" Ah, it is true, follow me ; " and they went to- 
gether to the gorilla's nesting-tree, where the fisher- 
man was feasted ou ripe bananas, berries, and nuts, 
and juicy roots, and he was shown which roots 
and berries were sweet, and which were bitter, and 
so great was the variety of food he saw, that he 
came to know that though lost in the forest a wise 
man need not starve. 

When the fisherman returned to his village he 
called the elders together, and he laid the \vhole 
story of his adventures before his people, and 
when the elders heard that the berries and roots, 



A HOSPITABLE GORILLA 319 

nuts, and mushrooms in the forest, of which they 
had hitherto been afraid, were sweet and whole- 
some, they exclaimed with one voice, that the 
gorillas had proved themselves true friends, and 
had o-iven them much useful knowledge ; and it 

o O 

was agreed among; them that in future the gorillas 

O o O 

should be reckoned among those, against whom it 
would not be lawful to raise their spears. 

Ever since the tribes on the Black River avoid 
harming the gorilla, and all his kind big and little ; 
neither will any of the gorilla trespass on their 
plantations, or molest any of the people. 



CENTRAL CIRCULATION 

CHILDREN'S ROOM 



CHARLES SCRIBNER'S SONS BOOKS 
FOR YOUNG READERS 



A NEW BOOK BY KIRK MUNROE 

THE WHITE CONQUERORS OF MEXICO 



By KIKK MUNROE. With 8 full-page illustrations by W. S. STAGEY. lamo, $1.25. 

A powerful and fascinating historical story, the scene of which is laid in Mexico 
when Cortez made his famous conquests. The story possesses a peculiar interest 
in that it is related from the stand-point of the native races, the hero, Huetzin, be- 
ing not oneof the "White Conquerors," but a native, the son of Tlahuicol.aToltec, 
and a war chief of the Tlascalan race. In warring against Montezuma, King of 
the Aztecs, Tlahuicol is captured, and after a long imprisonment, is cruelly put to 
death. His son is also ordered to be killed, but effects a miraculous escape, and 
makes his way to the army of Cortez, which is advancing against Montezuma. 
Animated by a Toltec's hatred for the Aztecs, who have murdered his father, he 
effects an alliance between Cortez and his own race, and the united forces march 
against the Aztec King. In the various engagements he distinguishes himself by 
his valor, several times narrowly escaping death, and is prominent in the final over- 
throw of the Aztecs, and in the triumph that follows. The book is full of the life 
and color of a most interesting and romantic period, and the narrative fairly glows 
with thrilling battle scenes and incidents of exciting adventure. 



ROBERT GRANT'S 
TWO BOOKS FOR BOYS 

JACK HALL; 

OR, THE SCHOOL DAYS OF AN AMERICAN BOY. By ROBERT GRANT. Illustrated by 

F"RANCES G. ATTWOOD. i2mo., $1.25. 

"A better book for boys has never been written. It is pure, clean, and health), 

and has throughout a vigorous action that holds the reader breathlessly." Boston 

Herald. 

"A capital story for boys, wholesome and interesting. It reminds- one of Tom 

Brown." Boston Transcript. 

JACK IN THE BUSH; 

OR, A SUMMER ON A SALMON RIVER. By ROHERT GRANT. Illustrated by F. T. 
MEKKILL. 121110., $1.25. 

"A clever book for boys. It is the story of the camp life of a lot of boys, and is des- 
tined to please every boy rea/ier. It is attractively illustrated." Detroit !'> ce 
Press. 

"An ideal story of out-door life and genuine experiences." Boston Traveller. 



SCK/BNE1{-S 'BOOKS FOR THE YOUNG. 
NEW BOOKS BY G. A. HENTY 

For the season of 1893-94 Mr. Henty adds to his list of fascinating stories of adven- 
ture three new books THROUGH THE SIKH WAR, A TALE OF THE CONQUEST OF 
THE PUNJAUB ; A JACOBITE EXILE. BEING THE ADVENTURES OF A YOUNG ENGLISH- 
MAN IN THE SERVICE OF CHARLES XII OF SWEDEN ; and ST. BARTHOLOMEW'S EVE, 

A TALE OF THE HUGUENOT WARS. 

" No country nor epoch of history is there which Mr. Henty does not cover ', and 
ivhat is really remarkable is that he always writes well ami interestingly. Boys 
like stirring adventures and Mr. Henty is a master of this method of composition." 
NEW YORK TIMES. 

THROUGH THE SIKH WAR. A TALE OF THE CONQUEST OF THE PUNJAUB. 

By G. A. HENTY. With 12 full-page illustrations by HAL HURST, and a map. Crown 
8vo, handsomely bound, olivine edges, $1.50. 

Percy Groves, a plucky, high spirited boy, the son of an English officer, loses his 
parents at an early age, and joins his uncle residing on his estate in India, situated 
in the very center of the troubles that developed later into the Sikh war. The hero 
and his uncle become involved in the dangers and intrigues that surround them, 
and take active part in the war, passing through many thrilling experiences and 
adventures during the two notable campaigns that resulted in the conquest of the 
Punjaub. It is one of Mr. Henty's most interesting and powerful stories. 

ST. BARTHOLOMEW'S EVE. A TALE OF THE HUGUENOT WARS. By G. A. 
HENTY. With 12 full-page illustrations by H. J. DRAPER, and a map. Crown 8vo, 
handsomely bound, olivine edges, $1.50. 

A story of a lad of English birth but Huguenot parentage, who visits relatives in 
France at the time when the feeling between the Catholics and Huguenots was 
bitterest, and the country was disturbed by religious strife and dissension. His 
relatives being leaders in the Huguenot party, the hero devotes himself heart and 
soul to the Protestant cause, following it faithfully through the varied and exciting 
scenes that preceded and led up to the terrible massacre of St. Bartholomew's day. 
No boy could resist the fascination of this strong, vivid narrative. It is intense and 
absorbing, while presenting a true picture of the times, full of life and color. 

A JACOBITE EXILE. Being the Adventures of a young Englishman in the ser- 
vice of Charles Xll of Sweden. By G. A. HENTY. With 8 full page illustrations 
by PAUL HARDY, and a map. Crown 8vo, handsomely bound, olivine edges, $1.50, 

The events of the present story take place during the reign of William of Orange. 
The father of the hero is a Jacobite gentleman who, to avoid arrest, is compelled to 
tlee to Sweden. Here the hero, Charlie Carstairs, and a young companion, engage 
in the service of Charles XII, taking part in the wars between Sweden and Poland. 
The hero, acting as a scout, falls into the hands of Polish bandits. After numerous 
exciting adventures and hair-breadth escapes, he finally secures his release and re- 
turns to Sweden. Then he serves for a time under Marlborough in France, and 
distinguishes himself signally. A final return to England, where his father is par- 
doned, supplies a satisfactory close to a story remarkable for its thrilling adven- 
tures, its varied scenery, and its interesting historical pictures. 



SCR/BNE^'S "BOOKS FOR THE YOUNG. 

BERIC THE BRITON: A STORY OF THB ROMAN INVASION. By G. A. HENTY, 

With 12 full-page illustrations by W. PARKINSON. Crown 8vo, $1.50. 

" It is a powerful and fascinating romance founded on the Roman invasion of 
England, and abounds with the prowess of valiant warriors and the triumphs of 
magnanimous victors, with war and war-like scenes, and with women like Boadicea, 
as heroic as their brothers." Boston Post. 

IN GREEK WATERS: A STORY OF THE GRKCI \N\V\R OF INDEPENDENCE (1821- 
1827). By G. A. HENTY. With 12 full page illuscrations by W. S. STAGEY, and a 
map. Crown 8vo, $1.50. 

" It reproduces the spirit and describes many of the events of the Greek War. so 
that no boy can fail to remember considerable about it which is worth knowing. 
Moreover it is a stirring narrative, wholesome and stimulating." Congregationalist. 

CONDEMNED AS A NIHILIST : A STORY OF ESCAPE FROM SIBERIA. By G. A. 
HENTY. With 8 full-page illustrations by WALTER PAGET. Crown, 8vo, $1.50. 

''Godfrey Bullen, the young hero, suspected of Nihilism, is sent with convicts to 
Siberia. His final escape from prison life, afier many exciting adventures, affords 
material for a narrative absorbing and thrilling. The scenes of Siberian prison life 
give the book a peculiar value." Christian Advocate. 

REDSKIN AND COWBOY. A TALE OF THE WESTERN PLAINS. ByG. A. HENTY. 

With 12 full-page illustrations by ALFRED PEARSE. Crown 8vo, $1.50. 

" This book is said to be founded on the experiences of a young English friend of 
the author, and though it is full of hair-breadth escapes none of the incidents are 
improbable. It is needless to say that the English lad's adventures are well told." 
San Francisco Chronicle. 

THE DASH FOR KHARTOUM. A TALE OF THE NILE EXPEDITION. By G. A. 
HENTY. With 10 full-page illustrations by JOHN SCHONUERG and J. NASH, and 4 
plans. Crown 8vo, $1.50. 

" The author has provided a stirring book for young readers, and the episodes of 
battle, capture, rescue, deeds of daring, and other exciting features in which boys 
delight, are in great abundance.' 1 Boston Saturday Evening Gazette. 

HELD FAST FOR ENGLAND. A TALE OF THE SIEGE OF GIBRALTAR. By G. A. 
HENTY. With 8 full-page illustrations by GORDON BKOWNE. Crown 8vo, $1.50. 

" It is an historical novel, the siege of Gibraltar by the combined forces of France 
and Spain, in the latter part of the eighteenth century, being the foundation on 
which Mr. Henty's clever fiction rests. It is a story of pluck and adventure on sea 
and land." Newark Advertiser. 

*** The above are Mr. Henty's latest books. A full descriptive list containing 
all of Mr. Henty 's books now 41 in numbet will be sent to any address on appli- 
cation. They are all attractively illustrated and handsomely bound. 



SCRIBNE^'S 'BOOKS FOR THE YOUNG. 

RECENT STORIES 
BY FRANK R. STOCKTON 

THE CLOCKS OF RONDAINE AND OTHER STORIES. By FRANK R. STOCKTON. 
With 24 illustrations by E. H. BLASHFIELD, W. A. ROGERS D. C. BEARD and 
others. Square 8vo, $1.50. 

" His books for boys and girls are classics. In this one we have seven of the most 
delightful a'.es imaginable." Newark Daily Advertiser. 

"Short tales in Mr. Stockton's usual clever, distinctive style. They are all ex- 
tremely entertaining." 'J he Churchman. 

"Marked by that attractive originality which is the author's peculiar possession, 
and in which quaint and piquant humor and simple pathos are deftly and fascina 
tingly mingled. It is charming reading. It is beautifully printed and illustrated." 
Boston Saturday Evening Gazette. 

PERSONALLY CONDUCTED. By FRANK R. STOCKTON. With 46 illustrations 
by JOSETH PENNELL, ALFRED PARSONS and others. One volume, square 8vo, $2.00. 

" In Frank Stockton, the boys and girls have a cicerone skilled in the art of conver- 
sation, a traveler conversant with all the curious and characteristic things of the 
Old World, and a story teller renowned for the audacity of his stories." Critic. 



STOCKTON'S OTHER BOOKS 

The Story of Viteau. With 16 full-page illustrations by R. B. BIRCH. 12010, 
extra cloth, $1.50. 

"It is as romantic and absorbing as any boy could wish for, full of adventure and 
daring, and yet told in excellent spirit and with a true literary instinct." Christian 
Union. 

A Jolly Fellowship. With 20 illustrations. i2mo, $1.50. 

"We can think of no book published the present season which will more delight 
the wide-awake, adventure-loving boy. It is, to borrow the adjective from 'he 
title, just 'jolly.'" Boston Transcript. 

The Floating Prince and Other Fairy Tales. With illustrations Square 8vo, 
$1.50. 

"These tales are full of the quaintest conceits and the oddest fancies, and the 
strange adventures in which the different characters engage are just the kind to 
excite the intense interest of children." Philadelphia Bulletin. 

The Ting>A=Ling Tales. With numerous illustrations. i2mo, $1.00. 

"It would be difficult to find anything more dainty, fanciful and humorous than 
these tales of magic fairies, dwarfs and giants. There is a vein of satire in them 
too which adult readers will enjoy." TV. Y. Herald. 

Roundabout Rambles in Lands of Fact and Fiction. With 200 illustrations. 
Square Svo, $1.50. 

Tales Out of School. With nearly 200 illustrations. Square 8vo, $1.50. 

" The volumes are profusely illustrated and contain the most entertaining sketches 
in Mr. Stockton's most entertaining manner." Christian Union. 



SCRIBNE^'S 'BOOKS FOR THE YOUNG. 

HENRY M. STANLEY'S 
NEW BOOK FOR BOYS, NOW IN PRESS 

The volume consists ot legends and folk-tales communicated to the explorer by his 
native followersduring his long and perilous journeys through the great forests of 
the Dark Continent. They are fascinating stones of strange scenes and incidents 
among the tribes of Central Africa, and are narrated in the authors' well-known, 
graphic, picturesque style, and attractively illustrated. 

MY KALULU 

PRINCE, KING AND SLAVE. A story of Central Africa. By HENRY M. STANLEY. 
One volume, 12010., new edition, with many illustrations, $1.50. 

" A fresh, breezy, stirring story for youths, interesting in itself and full of informa- 
tion regarding life in the interior of the continent in which its scenes are laid." 
The New York Times. 

HEROES OF THE OLDEN TIME 

By JAMES BALDWIN. Three volumes, i2mo., each beautifully illustrated. Singly, 
$1.50 The set, $4.00. 

A STORY OF THE GOLDEN AGE. Illustrated by HOWARD PYLE. 

"It is redolent with the spirit of the Odyssey, that glorious primitive epic, fresh 
with the dew of the morning of time It is an unalloyed pleasure to read his recital 
of the adventures of the wily Odysseus. Howard Pyle's illustrations render the 
spirit of the Homeric age with admirable felicity." PKOF. H. H. BOVESEN. 

THE STORY OF ROLAND. Illustrated by REGINALD B. BIKCH. 

" Mr. Baldwin has culled from a wide range of epics, French, Italian and German, 
and lias once more proved his aptitude as a story teller for the young, while con- 
veying information for which many of their elders will be thankful." The Nation. 

THE STORY OF SIEGFRIED. Illustrated by HOWARD PYLE. 

" The story of ' Siegfried ' is charmingly told. The author makes up the story from 
the various myths in a fascinating way which cannot fail to interest. It is as enjoy- 
able as any fairy tale. The writer's style is simple and very attractive, and the book 
is in every way an excellent one for young readers.'' Hartford Courant. 

TWO JUVENILES BY EDWARD EGGLESTON 

THE HOOSIER SCHOOL=BOY. i 2 mo. With full-page illustrations, $1.00. 
"'The Hoosier School-Boy ' depicts some of the characteristics of boy life years 
ago on the Ohio. The story presents a vivid and interesting picture of the difficulties 
which in those days beset the path of the youth aspiring for an education. These 
obstacles, which the hero of the story succeeds by his manliness and force of char- 
acter in surmounting, are just such as a majority of the most distinguished Ameri- 
cans, including Lincoln and Garfield, have had to contend with, and which they 
have made the stepping-stone to their future greatness." Chicago Inter-Ocean. 

QUEER STORIES FOR BOYS AND GIRLS. 12010, $1.00. 

" A very bright and attractive little volume for young readers. The stories are 
fresh, breezy and healthy, with a good point to them and a good sound American 
view of life and of the road to success. The book abounds in good feeling and good 
sense and is written in a style of homely art.' ' Independent. 



SCR/BNE^'S 'BOOKS FOR THE YOUNG. 



TWO BOOKS FOR BOYS AND GIRLS 

Mr. Beard has added sixty new drawings to his "American Boy's Handy Book," to 
illustrate the new games, sports, and mechanical contrivances which he has 
incorporated in this latest edition. The Misses Beard's companion volume, "The 
American Girl's Handy Book," is reduced in price, all the features being retained. 
Both are profusely illustrated with hundreds of pictures and designs. 

THE AMERICAN BOY'S HANDY BOOK: OK, WHAT To Do AND How To 
Do IT. By DANIEL C. BEAKD. With over 360 illustrations by the Author. One 
volume, square 8vo, $2.00. 

"The book has this great advantage over its predecessors, that most of the games, 
tricks, and other amusements described in it are new It treats of sports adapted to 
all season; of the year ; it is practical, and it is well illustrated." N. }". Tribune. 

THE AMERICAN GIRL'S HANDY BOOK : OR, How To AMI-SB YOURSELF 
AND OTHERS. By LENA and ADKI.IA B. BEAKD. With over 500 illustrations by 
the Authors. One volume, square 8vo, $2.00. 

GKACE GREENWOOD WROTE : " It is a treasure which, once possessed, no practical 
girl would willingly part with. It is an invaluable aid in making a home attractive, 
comfortable, artistic and refined. The book preaches the gospel of cheerfulness, 
industry, economy and comfort " 

JULES VERNE'S GREATEST WORK 

THE EXPLORATION OF THE WORLD. The three vols. in a set, $7.50; 
singly, $2.50. 

" M. Verne's scheme in this work is to tell fully how man has made acquaintance 
with the world in which he lives, to combine into a single work in three volumes 
the wonderful stories of all the great explorers, navigators and travellers who have 
sought out, one after another, the once uttermost parts of the earth." New York 
Evening Post. 

Famous Travels and Travellers. With over 100 full-page illustrations, maps, 
etc., 8vo, $2.50. 

The Great Navigators of the XVIIIth Century. With 96 full-page illustrations 
and nineteen maps. 8vo, $2.50. 

The Great Explorers of the XlXth Century. With over 100 full-page illustra- 
tions, fac-sitnilies, etc. 8vo, $2.50. 
"The Prince of Story Tellers.' London Times. 

JULES VERNE'S STORIES 

Uniform Illustrated Edition, g vols., 8vo, extra cloth, with over 750 full-page illus- 
trations. Price, per set, in a box, $17.50 Sold also in separate volumes. 

Michael Strogoff; or, the Courier of the Czar. $2.00. A Floating City and 
the Blockade Runners. ,OD. Hjctor Servadac. .fo.oo A Journey to the 
Centre of the Earth. $2.-o. From the Earth ta the Moon Direct in Ninety- 
seven Hours, Twenty Minutes; and a Journey Around it. $200. Dick 
Sands. $2.oj. The Steam House. 2.00. The Giant Raft. $2.00. The Mys= 
terious Island. $2.50. 



SCRIBNE^'S BROOKS FOR THE YOUNG. 



OTTO OF THE SILVER HAND 

Written and illustrated by HOWARD PYLE. With 25 full-page and many other illus- 
trations. One volume, royal 8vo, half leather, $2.00. 

"The scene of the story is mediaeval Germany in the time of feuds and robber 
barons and romance. The kidnapping of Otto, his adventures among rough sol- 
diers, and his daring rescue, make up a spirited and thrilling story. The drawings 
are in keeping with the text, and in mechanical and artistic qualities as well as in 
literary execution the book must be greeted as one of the very best juveniles of the 
year, quite worthy to succeed to the remarkable popularity of Mr. Pyle's ' Robin 
Hood. " Christian Union. 

THE MERRY ADVENTURES OF ROBIN HOOD 

OF GREAT RENOWN IN NOTTINGHAMSHIRE. Written and elaborately illustrated by 
HOWARD PVLE. One volume, royal 8vo, $3.00. 

' ' This superb book is unquestionably the most original and elaborate ever produced 
by any American artist. Mr. Pyle has told with pencil and pen, the complete and 
consecutive story of Robin Hood and his merry men in their haunts in Sherwood 
Forest, gathered from the old ballads and legends Mr. Pyle's admirable illustra 
tions are strewn profusely through the book." Boston Transcript. 

TWO VOLUMES OF STORIES BY MR. PAGE 

AMONG THE CAMPS; OR, YOUNG PEOPLE'S STORIES OF THE WAR. By THOMAS 
NELSON PAGE. With 8 full-page illustrations by W. L. SHEPI-ARD and others. One 
volume, square 8vo, $1.50. 

" A captivating book of stories of the late war by Thomas N. Page, one of the most 
successful writers for youth of the present day. The book is very beautifully 
bound and illustrated, and makes a fine holiday present sure to be appreciated by 
any young person." Public Opinion. 

TWO LITTLE CONFEDERATES. By THOMAS NELSON PAGE. With 8 full-page 
illustrations by E. W. KEMBLE and A. C. REDWOOD. One volume, square 8vo, 

$1.50. 

" It tells the story of two Virginia lads left at home on a plantation while the men 
went to fight. The youngsters have many adventures, serious and humorous, and 
get into trouble and out of it again. The story abounds in stirring incidents, and 
gives a very picturesque view of home life in Virginia during the rebellion. It is 
an admirable juvenile took, teaching an excellent moral of self-reliance." The 
Boston Saturday Gazette. 

THE END OF A RAINBOW 

AN AMERICAN STORY. By ROSSITER JOHNSON. Illustrated, i2mo, $1.50. 

"It will be read with breathless interest. It is interesting and full of boyish ex- 
periences." The Independent. 

" Rossiter Johnson is one of the cleverest of our story writers, and this book will be 
thoroughly enjoyed by young readers everywhere. It tells the story of the ad- 
ventures of half a dozen lively boys for a year or two in the country." Boston 
Transcript. 

PHAETON ROGERS 

A NOVEL OF BOY LIFE. By ROSSITEK JOHNSON. Illustrated. i2mo, $1.50. 



SCRIBNE^'S VOOKS FOR THE YOUNG. 

THE BOY'S LIBRARY OF PLUCK AND 

ACTION 

Four volumes, 12010., in a box, illustrated, $5.00. Sold separately, price per 

volume, $1.50. 

A JOLLY FELLOWSHIP. By FRANK R. STOCKTON. 

HANS BRINKER; OK, THE SILVER SKATES. A Story of Life in Holland. By 

Mrs. MARY MAPES DODGE. 

THE BOY EMIGRANTS. By NOAH BROOKS. 

PHAETON ROGERS. By ROSSITER JOHNSON. 

In the " Boys Library of Pluck and Action" the design was to bring together the 

representative and most popular books of four of the best known writers for young 

people. The volumes are beautifully illustrated and uniformly bound in a most 

attractive form. 

ILLUSTRATED LIBRARY OF TRAVEL 

By BAYARD TAVLOK. Per set, six volumes, i2mo., $6.00. Each with many illus- 
trations. Sold separately, per volume, $1.25. 
JAPAN IN OUR DAY. 
TRAVELS IN ARABIA. 
TRAVELS IN SOUTH AFRICA. 
CENTRAL ASIA. 

THE LAKE REGION OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 
SIAM, THE LAND OF THE WHITE ELEPHANT. 

"Authenticated accounts of countries, peoples, modes of living and being, curiosi- 
ties in natural history, and personal adventure in travels and explorations, suggest 
a rich fund of solid instruction combined with delightful entertainment. The 
editorship by one of the most observant and well traveled men of modern times, at 
once secures the high character of the "Library" in every particular." The 
Sunday School Times. 

STORIES FOR BOYS 

By RICHARD HARDING DAVIS. With 6 full-page illustrations. One volume, 
i2mo, $1.00. 

CONTENTS: The Reporter who made himself King Midsummer Pirates Richard 
Carr's Baby A Football Story The Great Tn-Club Tennis Tournament The 
Jump at Corey's Slip The Van Bibber Baseball Club The Story of a Jockey. 
"It will be astonishing indeed if youths of all ages are not fascinated with these 
' Stories for Boys.' Mr. Davis knows infallibly what will interest his young 
readers." Boston Beacon. 

W. O. STODDARD'S BOOKS FOR BOYS 

DAB KINZER. A STORY OF A GROWING BOY. 
THE QUARTET. A SEQUEL TO DAB KINZER. 
SALTILLO BOYS. 
AMONG THE LAKES. 
WINTER FUN. 

Five volumes, i2tno, in a box, $5.00; sold separately, each, $1.00. 
* William O. Stoddard has written capital books lor boys. His ' Dab Kinzer,' and 
'The Quartet,' are among the best specimens ot 'Juveniles' produced anywhere. 
In his latest volume. ' Winter Fun,' Mr. Stoddaul gives free rein to his remarkable 
gift of story telling for boys. Healthful works ol this kind cannot be too freely dis- 
tributed among the little men ot America. New York Journal of Commerce. 



SCR/BNE^'S 'BOOKS FOR THE YOUNG. 
THE THIRSTY SWORD 

A SFORV OF THE NORSE INVASION OF SCOTLAND (1262-65). By ROBERT LEIGHTON. 
Wiih S full-page illustrations by ALFRED PEAKSE, and a map. One volume, crown 
8vo, $1.50. 

" Brimful of exciting incident, battles, duels, scenes of peril and daring adventure, 
and written with vigor." Boston Saturday Evening Gazette. 
"A stirring romance. It is vigorously told." Boston Journal. 

" It is exciting, is well told, and is a clear picture of a wild and picturesque life."- 
Tlie Congregationalist. 

THE PILOTS OF POMONA 

A STORY OFTHS ORKMEY ISLANDS. By ROBERT LEIGHTON. With 8 full-page illus- 
trations by JOHN LEIGHTON. One volume, crown 8vo, $1.50. 

"It is finely written and full of adventure, and the characters stand out clearly 
upon the canvas upon which they are drawn." Brooklyn Citizen. 

THREE BOOKS BY HJALMAR H. BOYESEN 

BOYHOOD IN NORWAY : NINE STORIES OF DEEDS OF THE SONS OF i HE VIKINGS. 
With 8 illustrations. i2mo, $1.50. 

AGAINST HEAVY ODDS : A TALE OF NORSE HEROISM. With 13 full-page illus- 
trations by W. L TAYLOR. i2tno, $1.00. 

THE MODERN VIKINGS : STORIES OF LIFE AND SPORT IN THE NORSELAND. With 
many full-page illustrations. i2tno. New and Cheaper Edition, $i 50. 

"Charmingly told stories of boy life in the Land of the Midnight Sun, illustrated 
with pictures giving a capital idea of the incidents and scenes described. The tales 
have a delight all their own. as they tell of scenes and sports and circumstances so 
different from those of our American life." .A/. Y. Observer. 

TWO STORIES BY ROBERT LOUIS 
STEVENSON 

THE BLACK ARROW: A T \LEOF THE Two ROSES. By R L STEVENSON. With 
12 full page illustrations by WILL H. Low and ALFRED BKENNAN. i2mo, paper, 
50 cents; cloth, $1.00. 

" If ' Ivanhoe ' be the most brilliant tale for boys which genius ever penned, ' The 
Black Arrow' certainly deserves to be mentioned next to it, as one which, without 
even suggesting an imitator, displays a master-hand in the same rield." Spectator 
(London). 

KIDNAPPED: BEING MEMOIRS OF THE ADVENTUKES OF DAVID BALFOTR IN THE 
YEAR 1751. By R. L. STEVENSON. 121110, with 16 ful'-page illustrations, $1.25. 

" Mr. Stevenson has never appeared to greater advantage than in ' Kidnapped.' ' 
Tiie Nation. 



SCR/BNE^'S "BOOKS FOR THE YOUNG. 

MRS. BURNETT'S FOUR FAMOUS 
JUVENILES. 

Uniform In Style and Illustrated By R. B. BIRCH. 

GIOVANNI AND THE OTHER 

CHILDREN WHO HAVE MADE STORIES. By FRANCES HODGSON BURNETT. With 
9 full-page illustrations by REGINALD B. BIRCH. One volume, square 8vo, $1.50. 

FROM KATE DOUGLAS WIGGIN : " Stories beautiful in tone, and style, and color." 
FROM THE PHILADELPHIA TIMES : " There is a tender pathos in these simple 
tales, and a gentle, loving spirit that gives the book a peculiar charm." 
FROM THE ADVANCE : " They are fresh, pretty stories, mostly about children 
whom the author has known. All of them are charmingly told. The volume is 
beautifully bound and illustrated." 

LITTLE SAINT ELIZABETH 

AND OTHER STORIES. With 12 full-page drawings by REGINALD B. BIRCH One 
volume, square 8vo, $1.50. 

FROM SUSAN COOLIDGE : " The pretty tale from which the book borrows its name 
has for its heroine a little French girl brought up in an old chateau in Normandy, 
by an aunt who is a recluse and devote. A child of this type, transplanted suddenly 
while still in childhood to the realistic atmosphere of prosperous New York, must 
inevitably have much to suffer. She is puzzled ; she is lonely ; she has no one to 
direct her conscience. The quaint little figure, blindly trying to guess the riddle of 
duty under these unfamiliar conditions, is pathetic, and Mrs. Burnett touches it in 
with delicate strokes. The stories are prettily illustrated by Birch." 

LITTLE LORD FAUNTELROY 

Beautifully illustrated by REGINALD B. BIRCH. One volume, square 8vo, $2.00. 
LOUISA M. ALCOTT WROTH : " In ' Little Lord Fauntleroy ' we gain another charm, 
ing child to add to our gallery of juvenile heroes and heroines ; one who leaches a 
great lesson with such truth and sweetness that we part with him with real regret 
when the episode is over." 

SARA CREWE : 

OR, WHAT HAPPENED AT Mi-s MINCHIN'S. Richly and fully illustrated by R. B 
BRICH. One volume square Svo, $1.00. 

FROM LOUISE CHANDLER MOULT >N : " Everybody was in love with ' Little Lord 
Fauntleroy,' and I think all the world and the rest of makind will be in love with 
'Sara Crewe.' I wish every girl in America could read it." 



SCR/BNE^'S HOOKS FOR THE YOUNG. 



STORIES OF LITERATURE, SCIENCE 
AND HISTORY 

By HENRIETTA CHRISTIAN WRIGHT. 

CHILDREN'S STORIES IN ENGLISH LITERATURE. Two volumes TALIESIN 
TO SHAKESPEARE SHAKESPEARE TO TENNYSON. i2mo, each, $1.25. 

" It is indeed a vivid history of the people as well as a story of their literature; and, 

brief as it is, the author has so deftly seized on all the salient points, that the child 

who has read this book will be more thoroughly acquainted than many a student of 

history with the life and thought of the centuries over which the work reaches."- 

The Evangelist. 

CHILDREN'S STORIES OF THE GREAT SCIENTISTS. With portraits. 

i2mo, $1.25. 

"The author has succeeded in making her pen pictures of the great scientists as 

graphic as the excellent portraits that illustrate the work. Brooklyn Times. 

CHILDREN'S STORIES OF AMERICAN PROGRESS. Illustrated. i 2 mo, $1.25. 

" Taken together they present a series of pictures of great graphic interest. The 

illustrations are excellent." The Nation. 

CHILDREN'S STORIES IN AMERICAN HISTORY. Illustrated. i2tno, $1.25. 

"A most delightful and instructive collection of historical events, told in a simple 
and pleasant manner." San Francisco Evening Post. 

KENT HAMPDEN 

A STORY OF A BOY. By REBECCA HARDING DAVIS. Illustrated by RUFUS F. 

ZOGBAUM. i2mo, $1.00. 

Mrs. Davis's story of the heroic lad, who by his courage, faith and persistency freed 

his father's g)od name from suspicion and overcame his enemies, is a valuable and 

entertaining study of life in West Virginia seventy years ago. Its types are racy, 

its spirit is American throughout, and its scenes are very real. 

"Sharply drawn incidents and a crisp narrative make the book interesting. "- 

Boston Journal 

MARVELS OF ANIMAL LIFE SERIES 

By CHARLES F. HOLDER. Three volumes, 8vo, each profusely illustrated. Singly- 

$1.75. The Set, $5.00 

MARVELS OF ANIMAL LIFE. With 24 full-page illustrations, $1.75. 

" Mr. Holder combines his description of these odd creatures with storiesof hisown 

adventures in pursuit of them in many parts of the world. These are told with 

much spirit and humor and add greatly to the fascination of the book." The 

II 'orcester S/>y. 

THE IVORY KING. A Popular History of the Elephant and its Allies. With 
24 full-page illustrations, $1.75. 

"The author talks in a lively and pleasant way about white elephants, rogue 
elephants, baby elephants, trick elephants, of the elephant in war, pageantry, sports, 
and games. A charming accession to books for young people." The Chicago 
Interior. 

LIVING LIGHTS. A Popular Account of Phosphorescent Animals and Vege- 
tables. With 27 full-page illustrations, $1.75. 

"Nothing could be better adapted to interest young people in natural history."- 
Philadelphia Record. 



SCRIBNE^'S "BOOKS FOR. THE YOUNG. 



A NEW SERIES FOR BOYS 

Bound in uniform style and sold at $1.25 each. 

THE BOY SETTLERS. A STORY OF EARLY TIMES IN KANSAS. By NOAH 
BROOKS. With 16 full-page illustrations by W. A. ROGERS. i2tno, $1.25. 
"A volume that all spirited boys will admire, its descriptions of frontier life are 
accurate and exciting. Boston Sat. Eve. Gazette." 

THE BOY EMIGRANTS. By NOAH BROOKS. With illustrations by T. MORAN 
and W. L. SHEPPARD. 12010, $1.25. 

" It is one of the best boy's stories we have ever read. There is nothing morbid or 
unhealthy about it. His heroes are thorough boys, with all the faults of their age.' 
The Cliristiau at Work. 

A NEW MEXICO DAVID; AND OTHER STOMBS and SKETCHES ON THE SOUTH- 
WEST. By CHARLES F. LI-MMIS. with 8 full-page illustrations. 12010, $1,25. 

" The author has in many thousand miles of walking through New Mexico acquired 
an astonishing amount of interesting data which form the basis of these stories." 
Christian Union. 

BRIC-A-BRAC STORIES 

By Mrs. BURTON HARRISON-. With 24 full-page illustrations by WALTER CRANE. 
One volume, 12010, new and cheaper edition, $1.50. 

" It is to be wished that every boy and girl in America, or anywhere else, might be- 
c >me intimately acquainted with the contents of this book. There is more virtue 
in one of these stories than in the entire library of modern juvenile literature. "- 
Julian Hawthorne. 

THE OLD-FASHIONED FAIRY BOOK 

By Mrs. BURTON HARRISON. With many quaint illustrations by Miss ROSI.NA EMMET 
One volume, square i6mo., $1.25. 

"The little ones, who so willingly go back with us to 'Jack the Giant Killer,' 
Bluebeard,' and the kindred stories of our childhood, will gladly welcome Mrs. 
Burton Harrison's ' Old-Fashioned Fairy Tales,' where the giant, the dwarf, the 
fairy, the wicked princess, the ogre, the metamorphosed prince, and all the heroes 
of that line come into play and action. The graceful pencil of Miss Rosina Emmet 
has given a pictorial interest to the book." Frank R. Stock-ton. 

THE BOY'S LIBRARY OF LEGEND AND 

CHIVALRY 

Edited by SIDNEY LANIER, and richly illustrated by FREDERICKS, BENSELL, and 
KAPPES. Four volumes, cloth, uniform binding, price per set, $7.00. Sold separ- 
ately, price per volume, $2.00. 

Mr. Lanier's books present to boy readers the old English classics of history and 
legend in an attractive form. While they are stories of action and stirring incident, 
they teach those lessons which manly, honest boys ought to learn. 
THE BOY'S KINO ARTHUR. 
THE BOY'S FROISSART. 
THE BOY'S PERCY. 

THE KNIGHTLY LEGENDS OF WALES. 

"Amid all the strange and fanciful scenery of these stories, character and ideals of 
character remain at the simplest and purest. The romantic history transpires in the 
healthy atmosphere of the open air on the green earth beneath the open sky."- 
Tlie Independent, 



170-32 
23-04 



S/* 
C-' 

