“A Converted Brahmin's Account of Himself
“A Converted Brahmin's Account of Himself”
“A Converted Brahmin's Account of Himself”
A CONVERTED BRAHMIN'S ACCOUNT OF HIMSELF.
A BRAHMIN named Narain Rao has been recently baptized by our
Missionary at Junir, in Western India, the Rev. C. C. Mengé.
The following account of himself will be read with interest. It
represents the state of many a poor heathen, labouring and heavy
laden under an uneasiness and distress of mind which he know not
how to account for, and tries in vain to still. It is the restlessness
of a man while a wanderer from God, from whom he was created, and
in whom alone he can find rest. How delightful is it when "the
day-spring from on high" visits such poor and needy sinners, to guide
their feet into the way of peace! Narain Rao was born in the year
1812 at Hindele, in the district of Rutnageeree. He writes&#8212;
My father was a respectable Brahmin, with whom I resided till
some time after my marriage. During that period I studied the
Brahminical law, and qualified myself for secular employment.
When I was about twenty-five years old, I resolved to go on a
pilgrimage to Benares, accompanied by my family. On my way I
passed through Nassuck, where my wife and child were carried off by
cholera. This bereavement affected my mind so much that I gave up
my intention to go to Benares, and returned to Bombay. However, I
could not forget the heavy loss I had sustained; and, being at last quite 
overcome with grief, I became melancholy. In this state of mind I
determined to spend my small earnings in visiting some of the most holy
places of pilgrimage in Hindustan, in order to obtain perfect righteousness
and peace. Among others I visited the celebrated places Rameshwar,
Kari, Prayag, Juggernaut, and Kartik Swamy. On the way to these
places I suffered severe hardships and privations. Notwithstanding all
this, I could not obtain that purity of heart and peace of mind which I
was in search of. Everywhere I could observe nothing but deceit, fraud,
and hypocrisy, and nothing to convince me of the truth and reality of
the Hindu religion. On my return from Rameshwar I made the
acquaintance of Suchitanunda, a famous religious teacher and devotee
in the city of Goomtoor. He convinced me of the vanity and unprofitableness
of idol-worship and every thing connected with it, and at the
same time directed me to worship the only invisible God. Although I
was now fully persuaded of the truth that there exists but one invisible
and supreme Being, still I had found no peace in my heart. About this
time I began to reflect on what I had heard from the Missionaries at
Mangalore and Bombay concerning the Christian religion. I remembered
that in the Christian religion was enjoined both the worship of the
invisible God and the necessity of leading a holy life; but, above all, I
discovered in it that one great truth, that God became man in Christ
Jesus to save sinners: further, that He made an atonement for the sins
of mankind and became their surety, and that, by believing in His name,
and trusting in His merits, we receive forgiveness of our sins and eternal
redemption at the hands of God. These truths occurring to my mind
from time to time, brought me to the resolution to embrace Christianity;
but as yet I did not reveal my intention to any body. Besides, I felt
very sorry for having lost so much time and strength and money by
going on pilgrimage, and determined in my mind henceforth no to
seek the favour of God by engaging in a vain and fruitless pursuit, but
to employ the ability and talents which God had given me in some
lawful occupation, in order to receive further instruction in the Christian
religion, and apply for baptism. With this object in view I arrived at
Ahmednuggur; and there, in conversation on the Christian religion with
several of the converts, my few remaining doubts were removed, and my
desire of becoming a Christian was confirmed. Being informed that the
Catechist Ram Krishna, whom I had met at Nassuck ten years ago, was
at present residing in Junir, I took an introduction to him from one of
his friends and went thither. I immediately opened my mind to
him, and applied for baptism. On Friday, the 8th of November 1850, I
came to live on the Mission premises, and made over to Mr. Meng&#8212; my
sacred string, rosary, and ladle, with the following words&#8212;I have given
up the performance of Brahminical rites, and cast myself at the feet of
Jesus." Having received fuller instruction about the nature and
importance of baptism, I was admitted into the Church of Christ by
Mr. Meng&#8212;, on Sunday, the 24th of November 1850, and my prayer to
God is that I may remain unto the end a living member of His Church.
Digital Publication Details
Title: “A Converted Brahmin's Account of Himself”
Creator(s): Anonymous; Narain Rao
Translator(s): -->
Publication Date: (1851) 2022
Project: “BIPOC Voices in the Victorian Periodical Press”
Digital Publishers: One More Voice, COVE
Critical Encoding: Kenneth C. Crowell, Cassie Fletcher, Jocelyn Spoor, Adrian S. Wisnicki
One More Voice Identifier: liv_026006
Rights: Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International
Cite (Chicago Author-Date): Anonymous, and Narain Rao. (1851) 2022. “A Converted Brahmin’s Account of Himself.” Edited by Kenneth C. Crowell, Cassie Fletcher, and Jocelyn Spoor. In “BIPOC Voices,” One More Voice, solidarity edition. https://onemorevoice.org/html/bipoc-voices/digital-editions-amd/liv_026006_HTML.html.
Accessibility: One More Voice digital facsimiles approximate the textual, structural, and material features of original documents. However, because such features may reduce accessibility, each facsimile allows users to toggle such features on and off as needed.
Source Article Details
Periodical: The Church Missionary Gleaner
Date: May 1851
Volume(s): 1
Issue(s): 14
Page(s): 165-66
Column(s): -->
Associated Region(s): India
Digital Repository: Adam Matthew Digital
Repository Link: 
Church Missionary Society Periodicals
