Disclaimer: This file is generated using OCR (optical character recognition) and/or HTR (handwritten text recognition), which are technologies that convert images of text into text. While the technologies are good at deciphering legible text, there are limitations and some text may not have been extracted correctly.
The Liberian War.
THE LIBERIAN WAR.,TO THE EDITOR OF 1THE TIMES.,Elr,-I am greatly astonished and regret to hear that there is a report in circulation cbargisg rne with tho brutal murder of Mlr. Solim Aga,' a British subject, then residod at Cape Palmas. I therefore feel myself called upon to apologize in the following statement:-,Thewhole of the Liberip% army attacked my big town on tho morning of the 10th of October last, at 5 o'clock am. My peoplo and myself were awakened by the tremendous noiso of their rifles and cannons; *nd after having seriously engaged with them in battle they wero routed by my soldiers. 3r. Selim Aga, whilo retreating with and in the midst of the Liborian army, was accidentally ahot and!killed. Hlis dead body was not found and recognized until a few hours aftetwards, being armed with a sword. This is a genuine, true, and only circumstantial account of tho event. Any statement or statements boyond or below this is a result of mero prejudice intoutionaUy fabricated for my scrious injury.,A wyord or two in conolusion.,Althongh I nm a heathen, yot I ayn neither such a savage nor cannibal at al. I have never heard that any of my pr'decessors or myself have ever killed, massacred, or brutally murdered any black or wvhite foreigner or foreignors. Weo have hero some foroigners in the midst of the Liberian settlement within our reach representing different civilized natioas by thoir respective tlags-viz., of thoGerinuan nation, Mlessrs. Lehman and Woerman; of French, 111. Verdire; of English, lessrs. Allou, Burton, and Hazoley, of Sierra Leone; oi America or U.S., Revs. Mlr. Davis and Fair. Those persons we have never troubled in the present war. H3ow could wo single nut aunl hrutally murder MIr. Selim Aga, and leave thin others as abovo mentioned unmolested ? lhow could I venturo to raise my puny arm against tho British Governmenit as to perpetrate, for tho hret time, sueb a nlack dce, d in murdering a British subject in defiance of tho British power, c,pecially wvhen I am at war with tho Arnerico.Liberins ? I deeply regret that my peoplo have thus accidentally killed lr. Selim Aga in the midst and Issue of the battle which could nut possibly be avoided.,I therefore do carnestly deprecate and crave the pardon and mercy of the British Goveriinment for the commission of the casualty in question.,I still do humbly implore the sympathy ^f tho Obristian -world in the present war wvith the Licrians, which they hlave unjustly declared ngaLiust mne.,I hsve the hoinour to be your most humblo sorvant.,ELNG WEBAI, O' THE GCEBO BE-U2:1TED,iKINGDOX.,Capo Palm."I Liberia, Jan. 24.