The following letter was read :-1.-Majwara' s Account of the Last Journey and Death of Dr. Livingstone.By F. HoLMWOOD, B.B.l\'I. Consulate, Zanzibar."J\,Iy DEAR SrR BARTLE,- "Zanzibar, March 12th, 1874."No doubt you will hear from several interested in Dr.Livingstone; but, as I do not feel sure that any one has thoroughly,examined the men who came down with his remains, I brieflysummarize what I have been able to glean from a careful crossexaminationof l\'Iajwara, who was always at his side during hislast days, and Susi, as well as the Nassik boys, have, generally,confirmed what he says. I enclose a small sketch map, merelygiving my idea of the locality, and have added a dotted line toshow his route during this last journey of his life."The party sent by Stanley left Unyanyembe with the Doctorabout the end of August, 1872, and marched straight to the southof Lake Tanganyika, through Ufipa, crossing the Rungwa River,where they met with natural springs of boiling water, bubbling uphigh above the ground. On reaching the Chambezi, or Kambezi,River, they crossed it about a week's journey from Lake Bemba,also crossing a large feeder; but, by Susi's advice, Livingstoneagain turned northward, and recrossed the Kambezi, or Luapula, ashe then called it, just before it entered the lake."He could not, however, keep close to the north shore of LakeBemba, owing to the numerous creeks and streams, which were.hidden in forests of high grass and rushes. After making a detour,he again struck the lake at a village, where he got canoes across toan island in the centre, called Matipa. Here th􀖷 shores on eitherhand were not visible, and the Doctor was put to great straits bythe natives declining to let him use their canoes to cross to the-0pposite shore. Be therefore seized seven canoes by force, andwhen the natives made a show of resistance, he fired his pistolover their heads, after which they ceased to obstruct him. Crossingthe lake diagonally, he arrived in a long valley, and the rainshaving now set in fully, the caravan had to wade, rather than

APRIL'13, 1874.J A);D DEATH OF DR. LIVINGSTONE. 24-5walk, constantly crossing blind streams, and, in fact, owing to thehigh rushes and grass, hardly being able to distinguish at times theland, or rather what was generally dry land, from the lake." Dr. Livingstone bad been weak and ailing since leaving Unyanyembe,and when passing through the country of Ukabende, atthe south-west of the lake, he told Majwara (the boy given him byStanley, who is now in my service) that he felt unable to go onwith his work, but should try and cross the hills to Katanga[Katanda ?], and there rest, endeavouring to buy ivory, which in allthis country is very cheap ( three yards of merikani buying a slave ora tusk), and returning to Ujiji through Manyuema to recruit andreorganise." But as he approached the northern part of Bisa ( a very large{}Ountry), arriving in the Province of Ulala, he first had to take toriding a donkey, and then suffer himself to be carried on a kitanda(native bedstead), which at first went much against the grain." Dming this time he never allowed the boy Majwara to leavehim, and he then told that faithful and honest fellow that he shouldnever cross the high hills to Katanda." He called for Susi, and asked how far it was to the Luapula,and, on his answering ' three days,' remarked, ' he should never seeJzis river again.'"On arriving at Ilala, the capital of the district, where Kitambothe sultan lived, the party were refused permission to stay, and-they carried Livingstone three hours' march back towards Kabende.Here they erected for him a rude hut and fence, and he would notallow any to approach him for the remaining days of his life exceptl.Vlajwara and Susi, except that every morning they were all desired-to come to the door and say ' good morning.'" During these few days he was in great pain, and could keepnothing, even for a moment, on his stomach. He lost his sight sofar as hardly to be able to distinguish when a light was kindled,and gradually sank during the night of the 4th May, 1873."Only Majwara was present when he died, and he is unable tosay when he ceased to breathe." Susi, hearing that he was dead, told Jacob Wainwright to makea note in the Doctor's diary of the things found by him. Wainwrightwas not quite certain as to the day of the month, and asSusi told him the Doctor had last written the day before, and hefound this entry to be dated 27th April, he wrote 28th April, buton comparing his own diary on arrival at Unyanyembe he found itto be the 4th of .!\fay; and this is confirmed by Majwara, who saysLivingstone was unable to write for the last four or five days of his

2 4 6 VALLEY OF THE ILI, AND THE [APRIL 13, 1 8 7 4 .life. I fancy the spot where Livingstone died is about 11 ·25° s. and27° E. ; but, of course, the whole of this is subject to correction, and ,although I have spent many hours in finding it all out, the Doctor'sdiary may show it to be very imperfect." I fear you will find this a very unconnected narration, but myapology must be that the Consul-General is not well, and the otherAssistant absent on duty, and there is much work for me to do. :Mr.Arthur Laing bas been entrusted with the charge of the remainsand diaries, which latter he has been instructed to hand to LordDerby." Trusting that you are in the enjoyment of good health, andwith great respect," Believe me, dear Sir Bartle," Your most obedient servant," FREDERICK HOLMWOOD.